

A
holidays are
the happiest
A“Kodak” means all the difference between
forgetting happy days and remembering
them in picture form —get yours now!
Kodaks are priced from 42/-
Box Brownies from 11/3
Folding Brownies from 47/6
v...
DEVELOPING and PRI]
[NG
KODAK
Same Day
SERVICE
Leave films before 10 a.m.
—get prints 5 p.m.
Hand your exposed films over
our counter —then you can be
sure the best possible result
has been obtained from every
exposure. The words “Kodak
Print” on the back of each
picture are your guarantee.
Jo
m
Jrt
Xi
if:
Of all Kodiak Dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney.
'
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane
and The Valley.
“The Block,” 284 Collins
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., 672 Hay Street,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Kambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellihgton, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2296.
Thursday, February 14, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


WRITE for our Library Catalogue, also
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney,
as
MAf/O/iOmt
ABIDING EFFICIENCY
is the chief characteristic of
Mangrovite Leather Belting.
This lasting quality of power-saving service has placed
Mangrovite Belting high in the esteem of experienced user;
who reckon on the cost of equipment, not by the first price
but by ultimate economy.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor, ’
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, GrenSi
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
&
n
A valuable, essential cereal, creamy
flavoured in its most delightful form,
is Ship Brand Cornflour,
Only the choicest, fully-mature,
white corn goes to its manu-
facture.
Sold Everywhere,
SHIP BRAND
v CORNFLOUR j
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
WOLFFS
n
e£ e l
pcn c,ls
BRITISH
MADE
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN'* HB
ml
B.S.A. Guns & Rifles
A Hall-mark
of Accuracy.
B.S.A. Guns and Rifles are British-made throughout,
being produced complete at the Company’s ex-
tensive and well-equipped works at Birmingham
(England). Sturdily designed, and machined to the same
fine degree of accuracy necessary for the service rifles
supplied by the Company to the Government, every model
is a perfectly-made weapon, guaranteed to give years of
thoroughly satisfactory service. Perfect balance with
great strength, crisp trigger pulls and graceful lines are
characteristic features of every weapon. Made for 2\'
2\" or 3” cartridges.
Send P.C, for full particulars post free.
dfdgfhj
B.S.A. 12 Bore Double-Barrelled Hammerless
Shot Gun, supplied in Non-Eiector, Ejector and
High-Grade Ejector Models.
D. Y. RENNlEAustralian Buildings, MELBOURNE
Representing The Birmingham Small Arms Company Limited, England.
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
dfdgfhj
RILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
• »
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE I/- tl
The Red Page
Lawson
Not in the small to-day, but when the years
Hide all these lesser souls beneath their dust
Shall his great worth be known: no feeble
gust . .
Can snuff this mighty flame that living sears
Hypocrisy and cant, and ever steers
Its glowing gleam to light the ways of men.
My rugged friend, it is not in my pen
To splash your name with easy conjured
tears,
Of praise the virtues that were never yours.
I only know you found the noble heart
Of this young land and bared it to the world,
So that the world gazed in upon its shores,
And whispered : “Lo, another people start!
Behold, their flag already is unfurled!”
N.S.W.
CECIL M.
Christianity and. World Politics
The Foreign Policy of the Labor Part ,
by J. Ramsay Macdonald (Cecil Palmer
will cause uneasiness amongst those who fea
British Labor not because it is predatory
but because it is visionary. Mr. Macdonal
presents its internationalist ideals unde
four headings, of which the first re
lates to the U.S. A. “The main objec
tive of a Labor Government,” he writes
“would ,be to disestablish militarism.... Tc
think of .an American alliance is both stupi
and dangerous ; to dream of American gooc
will and help is natural for any Governmen
honestly and disinterestedly pursuing
policy whidk the best: elements in America
East and West, must regard as good.” A
present the two great American parties ar
united on one policy which is the antithesi
of that fathered by th e British Labor part
—nationalism. It invc fives on the one ham
the business of “keeping the U.S. out o
Europe” (a formula fatal to Macdonald’
scheme of Anglo-America u co-operation in th
interests of Germany), and on the othe
the keeping of Japan out pf America, which
precludes the adoption of ft pacifist policy o
anything like one by Washington. It i
expected, apparently, that these ideals wii
be jettisoned out of love four Labor’s brigh
eyes:—
The memories which make America, suspicious, th
various racial grafts which make it rigorously deter
mined to keep away from European entanglements
cannot regard a Labor Government in the same way
as they . would any other Government.
It may be so—but only on the principle that
nothing succeeds in winning affection like
success. In the past that i Section of the
U.S. public whose opinions are> expressed by
the Hearst press have disliked and deridec
the English worker equally with the English
plutocrat and aristocrat, while the moneyec
classes, who are perhaps the most Conserva-
tive in the world, have not hitherto assimi-
lated fully the right of the workers to union-
ise, much less administer the business of a
great nation.
As to the European Continent!—
We ought not to shrink from our responsibility to
Germany, though that word and idea may seem
repulsive. Surely every recent event hass shown that
the victor has responsibilities to a late enemy. We
have to see that the German people are not crushed,
not enslaved, not turned into pariahs, because such
things are wrong and are a danger to Europe.
Again, as in its American plank, Labor
comes into conflict with the realities of the
situation. Whether or no there is any pros-
pect of the Germans being crushed and turned
into pariahs is a subject for argument. Ger-
many, with its mercantile marine back at
little short of pre-war strength, is trading
over all the seas; prosperity, in the sense of
work and wages, is far more widely diffused
there than in England, where over-taxation
and under-employment march together; and
the wealth of the German rich is so indecently
excessive that their Government, according to
recent cables, is at its wits’ end to camou-
flage the scandal. In any event, the French
have decided on a certain policy in respect
of Germany. They are as solid on the ques-
tion as the Americans are on their Japanese
exclusion issue. Every Government since
the Armistice has accepted the fact as one
of the imponderables of the European situa-
tion, for the French carry the weight of
metal, and are frankly prepared to fight
rather than see the hereditary enemy re-
stored to his old place in the European
family.
As regards fiscalism :
A British Labor Government would found itself on
the principles of Freetrade.... The greatest obstacle
to the carrying out of a Freetrade policy in the
immediate future will be the liberal creation of
political dams across the economic streams of Europe
owing to the setting up of new nations, each of
which began with excessive national zeal to overdo its
sovereign powers. That will pass.
But the old nations have shown as much
enthusiasm for fiscal armaments as the new,
and in no ease has a State abandoned Pro-
tection, though a few, as in Australia, have
dropped inter-State duties and combined fis-
cally against the outside world. For British
Labor to expect such , a hive of industrv as
(say) Belgium to go Freetrade, in face of
the progressive collapse of industrialism in
the United Kingdom since the abandonment
of Protection there, would be equivalent to
expecting to convince a man of the virtues
of cocaine by showing him a drug-addict.
British Labor’s last and most likely-looking
aim is to bring about a friendly understand-
ing with Russia.
The Moscow Government has taken root; it has
gone far away from its first hopes and policies;
Russia is part of the European group, and neither
politically nor economically can be cut off from it.
As against this, the Russian Government has
harbored “a belief in a world revolution on
Bolshevist lines; it spent money in foreign
countries —our own included—promoting such
a revolution; it used diplomatic privileges to
carry on conspiracy and propaganda I
have recently had a bundle of literature
attacking our Government, with all the marks
of a foreign Government’s embassy upon it;
and similar things, I am told, are being done
in America. That breach of diplomatic rec-
titude should be stopped, and neither Russia
nor any other Power allowed to pursue it.”
It has been said, with a good deal of f ruth,
that Britain’s idealists have cost her more in
blood and money than all her worldly states-
men put together. The cynical and doubt-
fully honest Walpole gave his country a
wonderful run of peace and prosperity. The
saintly Gladstone stopped the first Boer war
on a sudden point of conscience, and thereby
bequeathed to posterity the disaster of a quar-
ter of a century ago. It took a disillusioned
business man to beat the Boers, and another
to pacify them. Britain’s new foreign policy,
as set forth by the new Prime Minister, is a
thoroughly Christian affair. It would be
above criticism in an age actuated by prin-
ciples of equity and good-will. Unfortunately
it remains to be proved that the world of
to-day is materially different from that of
those reprehensible periods when history was
chiefly concerned with theft and bloodshed on
the grand scale.
J.B.D.
Henri Fabre, Poet
Fabre, in the first rank of the world s
naturalists, has been described by Maeterlinck
as “one of the purest writers, and I was
going to add, one of the finest poets, of the
century that is just past,” though “the in-*
sect’s Homer” never used metre as a vehicle
for thought. Born with the instincts of a
poet, the little Henri looked beyond the limits
of his humble peasant home at Saint Leons
and saw in the sky, the fields and their in-
habitants elements that fed those instincts.
The child had tapped an infinite source of
wealth, and later, when he wrote of his riches,
his prose was deeply tinged with poetry.
As a child of six he had discovered “the
dazzling splendor” of the sun, and was mute
with ecstasy before the wonder of a butterfly’s
wings. The fiddling of “the brown violinist
of the fields” was music to him. Long before
he went to school he had met science and
poetry “among the blue campanulas of the
hills, the pink heather of the mountains, the
golden buttercups of the meadows and the
odorous bracken of the woods.” The stone on
which he sat when first he heard “the mellow
peals of the bell-ringing frog” was immortal-
ised in his memory, which carried from Pro-
vence such an intimate knowledge of its flora
and fauna that decades later he could say
where the most insignificant plant held its
leaves towards the sun, or the humblest insect
fought out its little struggle for existence. In
the chiming of the frog lie recognised “the
simplicity of beauty and the strength of
repose.” In the tiniest details of an insect’s
wing he found “infinite grace, incompatible
with the brutality of uncontrolled forces.”
“De fimo ad excelja” was his motto —there
was nothing trivial in “the majestic problem
of Nature.” She was “a prodigious poem.”
His own struggle for existence forced him
“to conjugate verbs for a pack of brats”
in his native land, and, when the demand for
money exceeded the supply, he accepted a
more lucrative post at Ajaccio. Corsica deep-
ened his worship of Nature. There he felt
the charm and power of “the infinite, glitter-
ing sea,” and “among the chaos of rocks
heaped in frightful disorder” were marvellous
entomological specimens. “The infinitesimal
calculus of Leibnitz,” he wrote, “will show
you that the architecture of the Louvre is
less learned than that of a snail. The Eter-
nal Geometer has unrolled His transcendent
spirals on the shell of the mollusc.”
It was not only things as splendid as “the
ineffable festival of the awakening of life in
Spring” that roused the poet in Fabre; he
found in algebra “the most magnificent
flights,” and for him figures of geometry
“unrolled themselves in superb strophes.” In
dissecting “the infinitely little,” his scalpels
were “tiny daggers made of fine needles.” But
“life is infinite,” he told his pupils—“that is
why it escapes the scalpel of the masters
and the apparatus of the chemist. Death
cannot explain life.” Instinct, he taught,
was stable, genius flashed out at intervals,
yet their Source was the same. Though an
opponent of the doctrine of evolution, he
sensed unity in life, for “if we examine it
in the insect we examine it in ourselves.”
In Fabre’s Genesis the earth was at first
“an ocean of fire rolling its heavy waves of
molten porphyry and granite, then slowly
hardening into strange floes and bergs, hotter
than the red iron in the fire of the forge;
its universal sea a mineral sludge, veiled by
a chaos of smoke.” iEons after the evening
of the first day there came “such splendors
as those which accompany the birth of a
drop of water,” the sky, the green grass, and
“that fruitful current, that flowing flesh, that
vegetable blood,” the sap, and all the atten-
dant marvels of the “transcendental chem-
istry” of the plant world. There were ser-
pents in this Eden. The parasitic orobanche,
“with sombre flowers that wear the livery
of death, leapt at the throat of the clover,
stifling it, devouring it, sucking its blood.”
The mantis “made itself terrible and superb
for battle,” and two grey flies “with blood-
shot eyes and the stony gaze of knackers”
watched for prey. Beneath the soil death
was struggling with life. Side by side with
the beautiful was the terrible.
Clearly Fabre realised that the necessity
to live was the root cause of this relentless-
ness in Nature, and dreamt of a planet where
“sunlight sates the hunger of the blind.” His
Utopia was to be populated with people
“whose teeth no longer will attack sensible
life, not even the pulp of fruits; creatures
will devour one another no longer, will no
longer feed upon the dead; they will be nour-
ished by sunlight, without conflict, without
war, without labor.” As to our own planet,
he prophesied, “a day will come when, after
making progress upon progress, man will
succumb, destroyed by the excess of what he
calls civilisation. Too eager to play the god,
he cannot hope for the animal’s placid’
longevity. He will have disappeared when
the little toad is still saying his litany in
company with the grasshopper and others.
They were singing on this planet before we
came; they will sing after we go, celebrating
what can never change—the fiery glory of
the sun.”
The necessity to live made the element of
struggle prominent in Fabre’s own life. For
40 years proverty prevented him from possess-
ing his “laboratory of living entomology,” a
strip of land sacred to insects, birds and other
creatures. There he attended “the festival of
the fields.” In the sunlight a bird “garbed
(Continued on page 3.)


ClafyoagftQtdeffiS'Jtyt
Quality and Economy in Men’s Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
The value of Men’s Wear should be
reckoned in two ways. Firstly, there
is its appearance value, and there is
the intrinsic worth of its quality and
type —factors that will decide the
keenest judges of value that Anthony
Horderns’ is THE place to shop for
their needs. These offerings demand
the attention of every shopper inter-
ested in economy.
4fc
M
B
k
r*
innui^:
/
mm
M
111
' i £ /
6
x.i
X. 2
0
as
ir^
/TS
k
f*
m
i
m
w* i
E
■-r-
-y
%
F'
SI
'<>
X. 3.
5
W
X. 4
sV\W>Vt
EXCELLENT VALUE IN GOLF SHIRTS.
Made in our own workrooms and finished with double cuffs, detached collars, dressed
neckbands and V-cased front. All sizes.
Xl—Men’s Cotton Taffeta Golf
Shirts, in smart stripes on Cream
grounds.
Price 8/6 each.
Men’s Zephyr Golf Shirts;
woven stripes in Black, Blue or
on White grounds.
Price
smart
Helio
13/6 each.
MEN’S FUJI SILK SHIRTS.
Made in our own Workrooms.
X2—Men’s Striped Fuji Silk
Golf Shirts, made with double cuffs
and detached collar to match. In a
smart variety of stripe designs.
Price 24 / 6 each.
Men’s Plain Fuji Silk Golf
Shirts, with double cuffs and de-
tached collar to match. A firm, stoutly-
weaved silk.
Price
21/- each.
MEN’S SERVICEABLE PYJAMAS.
Made in our own Workrooms from dependable fabrics (X 3).
In White Mercerised Twill.
Price
In White Aertex Cellular.
Price
In Striped Flannelette.
Prices 8/9, 9/6, 11/6,
In Striped Silcea Serge.
Price
12/6 suit.
18/6 suit.
12/6 suit.
13/6 suit.
In Horrockses’ Striped Zephyr.
Price 16/6 suit.
In Striped Oxford.
Price 15/6 suit.
In Striped Mercerised.
Prices .11/6, 14/6 suit.
In Striped Tobralco.
Price 17/6 suit.
MEN’S SURFING COSTUMES.
X4—Men’s Knitted Woollen
Surfing Costumes, in Black, with
assorted colored facings, also Plain
Black. One-piece style—
Sizes 32in. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
Prices 8/9 8/9 8/9 9/9 10/6
Two-piece style—
Sizes 32ili. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
Prices 11/6 11/6 12/- 12/6 13/3
Men’s Knitted All-Wool Surfing
Costumes, in Black with various
club colored bands around chests. One-
piece style.
Sizes 32in. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
Prices 10/6 10/6 10/6 11/3 12/-
HIGH-GRADE SPORTS SUITS.
Made in our own Workrooms.
THE COAT has four patch
pockets, belt at back.
THE TROUSERS are made with
side and hip pocket, loops for
belt, cuff bottoms.
AUSTRALIAN TWEED, in Grey and
Brown effects, specially woven for our ex-
clusive use. (W 5.)
Price 69/6
Other values ... . 84/-, 95/-
Carriage Paid on Men’s Wear in
N.S.W., and to the Nearest '
Port on Interstate Orders, y/y
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
TELEPHONE
CITY 94^0


UD E BARER
Zs
m
PC
1
Studebaker LighuSix 5-Seater Touring Car
Australian Body —£4ss; Imported Body £475
Studebaker does not experiment
at your expense!
One-half million tests are
made annually in Studebaker
laboratories. All raw materials
are inspected in this division
before being permitted to
enter into the manufacture of
Studebaker motor cars. In
addition, research work is con-
stantly being carried on in an
endeavour to further perfect
the construction of the modem
automobile. Under no cir-
cumstances, however, will
Studebaker allow a change to
be made on its cars until the
proposed alteration has been
carefully tested, with the
safety and practicability of
the change conclusively estab-
lished.
The safety and practicability of each new feature
added to Studebaker motor cars must first be proved
through exhaustive tests in Studebaker experi-
mental laboratories before being adopted.
It is significant that these tests are made in
Studebaker’s own laboratories at its own expense,
rather than on the finished car at the expense of
the owner.
To the Studebaker owner such a policy is an assur-
ance of safety —from the standpoint of investment
as well as the service rendered by the car.
Backed by Studebaker’s 72-year-old reputation, the
thirteen Studebaker models all powered by six-
cylinder motors —offer safe, dependable transporta-
tion to those who do not wish to experiment.
dfdgfhj
Cayce-Paul Motors Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Turner Brothers
396-400 Swanston St., MELBOURNE
Adams, Limited
152*154 High St., CHRISTCHURCH
New Zealand
Corrick’s Central Garage
80A Brisbane St., LAUNCESTON
I
The Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agcy.
Hay Street, PERTH
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd*
42-48 Franklin St., ADELAIDE
Canada Cycle &. Motor Agcy.(Queensland)Ltd.
Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE
THIS IS A STUDEBAK E R YEAR


THE EVENT OF THE SALE SEASON.
DAVID JONES’
SA L E
SUIT CASES
At the Double Saving
The “Travelite” Vulcanised Fibre Suit Case on
strong steel frame, fitted with sliding locks,
leather handle and eight fibre-capped corners.
Size 20 xl2x 51 inches (61b.). Usually 217-
Sale Price 19/11
Size 22 x 1 3 x inches (71b.). Usually 22/6
Sale Price • • 21/6
Size 24 x 15 x 7 inches Usually 25/-
Sale Price 247-
Size 26 x 1 7 x 8 inches (8-|lb.). Usually 27/6
Sale Price 26/6
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash.
We Pay Carriage on Travel Goods
only to the extent of 5% of purchase price.
DAVID JONES’, opp. g.p.0., Sydney
like a Dominican, white-frocked, black-
winged, sat on the top of a stone singing his
short rustic lay. Chaffinch and siskin, sky-
lark and goldfinch, tiny choristers elaborated
their motets to the glory of Him who gave
them voice and wings,” and “the timid spider
.of the thickets suspended by an ethereal cable
the branching whorl of her snare, which the
tears of night had turned into chaplets of
jewels.” Among the stones scattered over
his laboratory he found insects’ eggs, “little
shining pearls which we might think were
stolen from the jewel-case of a fairy.” At
night he listened to “the matrimonial ora-
torio” of the toad, “with its slow, rhythmic
cadence,” while the horned owl “spat out its
cantata to the moon,” and glow-worms, “like
fallen sparks from a full moon, lit up their
blue lamps to complete the revels.” "The
infinitesimal telling its joys” made him forget
the splendid pageant of the stars.
De fimo ad excelsa!
IRENE WILKINSON.
The Theory of a World in Decay
On the question of the origin of human
culture the world of archaeologists is
divided into two camps. One holds that all
early human advances were made in the val-
ley of the Nile, and there only; the other
that early civilisation was sporadic, appear-
ing in many different places and among
many different races at many different
periods. To the Nile school belongs W. J.
Perry, of the University of Manchester,
whose fascinating The Origin of Magic
and Religion (Methuen) sums up the story
of the race as seen by him and his fellow
investigators.
Briefly told, the theory is that certain
cave-dwellers developed a belief in certain
things which were supposed to be “life
givers,” the first of these being the cowrie
shell. Egypt, with no stock-in-trade but this
belief, gradually evolved a culture based on
a religion of bringing life to the dead. Grain
was cultivated by irrigation, and certain
simple arts were brought more and more to
perfection, but always with the notion of the
life-givers in the background. Thus barley
was grown as a life-giver, not so much be-
cause it fed the living body as because its
grains resembled the cowrie shell in shape;
and beer was a life-giver, not because of its
effect on the drinker, but because it was
made from barley. Thousands of substances,
including gold and all the precious stones,
were added to the list of life : givers. Gradu-
ally, in an evolution on this basis, Egypt
came to acknowledge a priest-king closely
associated with the dead. By a trick of the
priests of Heliopolis certain people were
recognised as “children of the sun” —that is,
as men with a human mother, and the sun
for father —and these secured leadership and
became kings.
About 3000 B.c. the Egyptian State had
grown to great wealth and power. Systems
of writing had been in existence five or six
centuries; the Pyramids were built;
ships and the use of bronze were known;
and the children of the sun included a huge
circle of the nobles of the country. It was then
that the notion of going to look for the
Earthly Paradise got a grip on the leaders
of the State. This Earthly Paradise was no
such magic place as it became in legend,
but simply a place where life-givers were
very plentiful. The Egyptian culture then
spread all over the world. Wherever they
went these Egyptians carried the idea of
building stone monuments similar, to those
of Egypt, the growth of grain by irrigation,
the claim that they were children of the sun
and the business of seeking for life-givers—•
particularly in the form of gold, gems and
pearls. No explanation is offered as to how
they made their journeys, nor as to why
they made no attempt to keep up any line
of communication with Egypt. They simply
went; and we are left to infer that their
civilisation was of such a nature as to
make their going easy.
The story fits in with a large number of
known facts, but is not much more con-
vincing than the story built up in Genesis.
It implies that originality and invention have
hardly any place in human affairs; that only
in Egypt did any fresh ideas appear; that
the primal tribes were so peace-loving that
they accepted with open arms all stranger?
who might seek to take their country; that
the people who sought the Earthly Paradise
took with them their desire to build in stone,
but not their language nor —except in one
instance —their system of writing; and that
these wanderers were always overcome by
the inferior races around them when fighting
started. But a far graver issue is involved
in accepting such a theory; it means accept-
ing the belief that morally and socially the
world touched high-water mark about five
thousand years ago, and that the tide has
been going down ever since.
From the mass in Professor Perry’s book
one sentence stands out: “There is no par-
ticle of evidence, from any part of the world
outside the Ancient East, that suggests that
a fundamental element of efilture, such as
pottery-making, weaving, metal-working,
agriculture or any such art or craft, has
been independently invented.” But there is
no particle of evidence a? to where any of
the fundamental elements mentioned did come
to life. It may have been in the Ancient
East; it may not. Where all is guesswork
one guess is as good as another. This, how-
ever, is the plain fact. The Lake Dwellers
of Switzerland, who were Europeans in the
modern sense, possessed pottery, weaving
and comparatively good agriculture as far
back as we can trace them. The Egyptians
possessed pottery, weaving and compara-
tively good agriculture as far back as
we can trace them. So far there
are turn sections of the human race, utterly
unlike in their primitive culture, running an
equal race towards what we call civilisa-
tion.. That a lost primitive European civil-
isation—of which Rome and Persia were
but late manifestations—existed between
3000 and. 800 B.c. and influenced the world
from India to the Atlantic seems certain;
but beyond language and some customs there
is not much left to prove the vastness of
its sweep. We are on safe ground in con-
necting Rome with the Lake Dwellers and
asserting that its primitive culture has an
antiquity which the Egyptians cannot be
proved to have ante-dated.
But in the romantic story of the Children
of the Sun which Professor Perry advances
there is much that seems to carry probability
until it is closely examined. Take the case
of the Incas of Peru. These people look
like Egyptians : they call themselves Child-
ren of the Sun; they are gatherers of an-
cient life-givers, particularly of gold; they
cultivate the soil by irrigation; and they
are not indigenous to the country. But the
Incas stated to the early Spaniards that they
had held rule in Peru for only a couple of
centuries or so; and there are evidences that
their conquests were not complete when they
were savagely interrupted by Pizarro. If
these Incas, therefore, represent a search
for the Earthly Paradise which set out from
Egypt about 3000 8.c., they must have been
about 4300 years on the road ; and they had
on their journey lost their mode of writing,
while holding to their notion of government!
Again, there is nothing more remarkable in
the history of the human race, as we know
it historically, than the zeal with which new
varieties of food were carried from land to
land. We got even our peach from Persia
and our cherry from Asia Minor in days
when civilisation was at a comparatively
low ebb. Yet the Egyptians are represented
as taking their system of irrigation with
them to America and leaving behind their
barley and wheat!
A good story has been told, but it falls
far short of convincing. What Professor
Perry has proved is that there were certain
elements of human culture which, together
with certain extravagances of effort, were
held in common by people in the Nile Valley
and others in scattered parts of the globe ;
but whether the Nile was borrower or lender
there is nothing whatever to show.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Poetry and Revolution
Was Alexander Bloch, the greatest of con-
temporary Russian poets, a propagandist of
Bolshevism V The accusation has been
freely made on the strength of his “The
Twelve” and “The Scythians.” It was
stated in an Italian paper that a Russian
who had translated them into Italian had been
arrested on a charge of Bolshevik propa-
ganda. But this is probably incorrect; at
any rate, Ettore Lo Gatto, who had already
translated them, was not subjected to any
penalty. The two poems were widely cir-
culated in many languages throughout
Europe in 1920, and it was generally _ be-
lieved that the accusation made against
Bloch was true. Moreover, it is certain
that the Bolshevik leaders in Russia used the
poems freely.
In I Libri del Giorno (Sept., 1923) Lo
Gatto acts as counsel for the defence, de-
pending mainly on an article written by
Bloch, entitled “Russia and the Intelli-
gentsia,” and published in Berlin in 1920.
Bloch’s attitude was merely one of protest
against those who were crying out that Rus-
sia was dead. “I hear all round me,” he
wrote, “the cry ‘Russia is perishing’ : but
before me stands Russia, the Russia which
our greatest writers have seen in their por-
tentous and prophetic dreams; the Peters-
burg described by Dostoyevsky, the Russia
that Gogol called ‘the flying troika.’ . Rus-
sia is the storm centre. Russia is des-
tined to undergo suffering and humiliation
and dismemberment, but she will emerge
from these humiliations a new country, and,
in a new way,' great.” Bloch’s mind went
back to his feelings of anguish, horror and
hope in the days when the power of the
Czar was supreme; when Witte and Dur-
novo had throttled the revolution, and Stoly-
pin had wound the cord round his vigorous
hand. But in the course of time the cord
weakened and fell off, and power passed out
of the hands of the Czar and his Ministers.
Then Rasputin. And, finally, the days of the
European shambles. For a moment it
seemed as if the time of purification had
come. Bloch was opposed to the war, yet,
thinking over the past, he found it hard to
decide which was the more disgusting—the
shedding of blood or the preceding idleness,
weariness and trifling. He adds: “The tor-
rent which was flowing quietly along in the
depths of the earth is roaring again, and in
its roar we hear the sound of a new music.”
The poet sees the revolution in its epic
aspect. He looks at it with the eye of an
artist. And this probably gives us the key
to the controversy. “It is not the task of
the artist to see how his ideals are carried
out. Those of us who survive the storm
will be masters of incalculable intellectual
treasures. The duty of the artist is to see
the ideal, to hear the music which resounds
in the air riven by the wind.” But what
is the ideal? A complete change, a re-
organisation which will make all things new,
so that our lying, filthy, wearisome, monstrous
life shall become just, pure, joyful and beauti-
ful. Ideals like this have lain dormant in
the souls of men from time immemorial, and
when they are realised, when the chains of
slavery are broken and the torrent of free-
dom in its wild onward rush smashes all
barriers and drags the river banks along
with it, then we have revolution. Revolu-
tion is akin to nature. Woe unto those
who think to find in revolution merely the
fulfilment of their own dreams, no matter
how noble and lofty these may be! Revo-
lution, like a hurricane or a snowstorm,
always brings something new. something un-
expected. It cruelly deceives many, and
often drags into its vortex and destroys the
worthy, leaving the unworthy unscathed ; but
that does not alter the general course of the
torrent, or deaden its threatening and deaf-
ening roar. That roar always speaks of
something great and grand.
In its mad onward rush the Russian revo-
lution hoped to embrace the whole world;
it cherishes (or did cherish) the hope of
creating such a world disturbance that it
would carry its warm, life-giving breath to
countries still buried under the snow of
tyranny, and its cool northern breeze to
the sun-scorched steppes of the south.
“Peace and goodwill among nations” was
its motto, Bloch wrote, in its early stage.
Would he have written so a year later? It
is doubtful. He believed that the revolu-
tion was to be the realisation of his dreams;
that the torrent would wash away the past
and purify men’s minds. He pictured it
as a spiritual and intellectual movement.
Of politics and politicians he took little
heed:
I do not speak of politicians. Tactics and the
needs of the moment blind politicians to the things
of the spirit. I speak of those who are not poli-
ticians—of waiters, for example, who sin against
themselves if they take part in politics. He who
runs after two hares catches neither. Writers will
either make bad politicians, or they will lose their
influence as writers. The sound of the great music
of the future is now filling the air, and 1 hold that
it is not only the right but the duty of writers to
listen to it, and not to try to add their individual
shrill discordant notes to the majestic roar of the
world orchestra.
E. J. H.
Lo the Leader-writer
The critic, according to the embittered
Byron, is hated and caressed. The daily-
paper leader-writer, though there is no re-
cord of him being caressed —in his profes-
sional capacity-—has an equally mixed recep-
tion. As a butt for the humorist he runs
the mother-in-law hard. That “nobody reads
leaders” is a popular generalisation—the
answer to which, as given by the best leader-
writer I have seen during my long sojourn
on the job, is that if you stick a libel into
a leader you’ll soon find out. Newspaper
men themselves alternately sneer at the
leader-writer and want his billet.
Let the scorn drift aside as expressing
what a Maoriland editorial artist once de-
scribed as “the corroding poison of withered
envy,” and consider the alleged cushy job.
It is really the most enervating on the paper.
(I write of the hammered-out footrule edi-
torial, as perpetrated on the older dailies.)
The look of it appeals to people who don’t
know anything about these things. “So in-
teresting, you know.” Actually it is as fas-
cinating as a mile of dusty road and you
hoofing it. It wouldn’t be so bad if it were
not for the editors. These seem to arrive
by a process of unnatural selection. They
are often habituated to boasting that “they
have anchors down,” meaning that they hold
certain principles which nothing can shake.
True, too. They are anchored, one to a party,
another to a principle, yet another to a sub-
ject. The leader-writer has to also put
down his hook to this party or that policy
or whatever it may be that his editor is
fastened to, and drift within the narrow
radius of his rope. Day after day and year
after year he must go at the same old sub-
jects, "at best two or three, in number, and
ring them with the same old precepts, though
in varying words and phrases if he can-
happy man if he can.
Should the leader-writer see a new theme
the chances are that the anchored editor will
either bar it as not worth while, or rule it
out as too frivolous for the leading columns,
or push it aside because “there’s a more im-
portant subject”—the same being one of the
old ones with oysters growing on it. It is
true that, as one of Dickens’s philosophers
says, “there’s always plenty of subjects for
them as can put salt on their tails”; but
many an editor doesn’t use salt or approve
its use. In a long experience of the daily
press I met two who would rise to
something new. They were the youngest
and the ablest, and the receptivity of the
later one is perhaps accounted for by the
fact that lie is partly Scotch.
The monotony of subjects which have be-
come as worn as the potato that the rheu-
matic has carried in his pocket for years,
and the necessity of filling a long space
regardless of the topic, make the writer men-
tally conventional and methodically plati-
tudinous. Except where the fire of per-
sonality is unquenchable, and ‘to few great
Jupiter accords this grace.” That explains
why a comparatively young leader-com-
pounder once assured me that he could write
on any subject. As things were on his
paper, so he could. His job would be to
grind out a leader on the need for better
party organisation, or the necessity tor a
vigorous immigration policy, or the slowness
of closer settlement, or the country s de-
pendence on the British navy, or some such
triteness on which every old hand has writ-
ten miles. As he couldn’t say anything new
about them —and probably wouldii tbe let
say it if lie could—die gets down the old
stencils and perfunctorily goes to it. Easy
work! Oh yes, easy enough! But deadly,
damnably dull, and poisonous to enthusiasm
and ambition and originality of thought or
expression ! It is the worst work going on
some papers, where the leader-writer is regu-
lated as to matter and manner, and. though
seldom, if ever, asked to write anything to
which he objects as a matter of conscience
or principle, has to take second-hand opinions
and try to make them look new. trver the
portals of the trade might be inscribed the
motto which Northcliffe suggested for the
old Times : “All scope abandon ye who enter
true story shows what I mean by an
anchored editor. Tariff reform was being
discussed in England. Lord Rosebery de-
clared himself a Freetrader, yet open to con-
viction. “Show us that another policy is
better,” he said ; “we don’t claim that Free ;
trade is part of the Sermon on the Mount.
A leader-writer, thinking this a fine point ot
view, put it to his editor. The e_ditor was
a moored and grounded Freetrader. s He
heard the story with disgust. All, yes, he
snorted: “I always had my doubts about
that Rosebery!”
H. J. T
A Satchel of Books
~ „ /iii™ an( i Unwin). A
"of thrill.’and
, ' woul d not p r i n g the blush of confusion to the
row of t he chastest vicarage.
French Furniture in the Middle Ages, by Roger
q e Felice (Heinemann). The first instalment of a
series. Profusely illustrated with photographs of
Louis XIII settees, tables and euphoanls
be compared to Poe as a write,’
tales oi: horror, but these stories are not good
examples 0 f his art. His style will seem discursive
to rea( jers of Somerset Maugham and the author of
“The Monkey’s Paw,” and appears to better advan-
tage in his longer books, such as ‘ Uncle Silas,
The Modern Photoplay and Its Construction, by
Colden Lore (Chapman and Dodd) will be useful
to recru its of the great army which is writing scen-
ar-og With p e Maupassant’s “Happiness” as a
f oun( j a ti o n the author goes through every detail in
the construction of an emotional masterpiece. A
final chapter discusses the secret processes of
“Comedy, Mystery and Detective Stories,
Life’s Antagonisms, by Harry Tighe (Thornton
Butterworth). A study of the new rich—and, mci-
dentally, of the old poor and the new poor the lash
named represented by Tim Finch, who blows off
gteam froi £ a soap . box in Hyde Park. On the whole,
a g OOC j study; though we simply don’t believe that
good old Mrs. Jim Newbery would go on talking like
that to the end of her days.


feOAR'S HEAD ROCK
KATOOMBA
-\
■■ i
:
:
. .. -
ris
-:J
as
i
■
pi i
hi :■ ■ Bit.
i .■ . ■ I
: '¥
■BBt ■ KV.,I
i^P
HI 4 |
: :
iMSiasii
rap
T\
Ml
m
i fi jj
S
rants
■
:
i
By BiSi:?:
*
-
m m
CASE
1
"«•: V *
mm
■
m
■
.
:
in
■
■
■
■fi
i
iffPipi
H# ill §'!»>#
■■l
lill
■HI
EH
II fin ilf I
, 'Wsfrl
te f %
1
Jr
•x: .
Si'
Si
f J
■
1-1.
it
■III
vaßiararaij
■
.
£
M
mmm
m m
m
MH
-n m
iißiyii
-i
■1
■
. tj
■BV ;s
*
f,
t
. ...
■ 1 ; »1
m
V »•
■
.
■■M
H g
£•& s
2^12
rara
• ««9*g£. •* ...
:
H
'-... | ~
! «s?VS B
, / ’
Confidence!
CONFIDENCE makes motoring sheer delight. But
that confidence must be soundly based. To self-
reliance and boldness must be added a firm trust in the
mechanical power at command, an assurance of safety
which will create a confident mental attitude. Thus it
is that car reliability, durability, controlability and capa-
city for continuous performance are of vital importance.
It is these very features which are embodied in
CASE
MODEL X
dfdgfhj
MOTOR.
CARS
features which inspire confidence and ensure travel-
comfort at all times.
Consider a few of the factors that ensure confidence to
the owner of a CASE Car. Transmission is about thirty
per cent, larger than in cars of equal weight and power,
gears and shaft are nickel-steel, gears are ground after
hardening. Extraordinary braking capacity assures con-
fidence on steep gradients. One square inch of brake
band is provided for each six and seven-eighths pounds ot
car weight. CASE Cars are built to create confidence-
let ownership prove this to you.
Arrange for a demonstration «
Sole Australian Agents:
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
Box 674# G.P.O. Head Office: 53-57 Morphett Street, Adelaide. Phone, Cent. 6870.
Branches :
QUEENSLAND s Bowen Street (off Ann Street), BRISBANE. NEW SOUTH WALES : 114 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY. VICTORIA : Corner King & Flinders Streets, MELBOURNE.
Sole‘Distributors in South Australia : Eagle Motors Ltd., Corner Waymouth and Morphett Streets, ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents in West Australia: Westralian Farmers Ltd., 563 Wellington Street, PERTH.


il l o n
A Big Job in Every Business
PRICED
AS LOW
AS £5O.
ADDS
SUBTRACTS
MULTIPLIES
DIVIDES.
1.14. 6
ia 8
3.11. 3
ZU 0
16. 6
9,14 11 s
112. 4
3.16. 0
a a 7
15. o
a 17. o
21 3.10 *
dfdgfhj
Adding Figures to get totals is the everyday
occupation of thousands of people, and an
incidental occupation of practically everybody
in business. When done mentally, it is tedious
work in which errors are likely to occur, and
these errors cost you money.
Thousands of business men, in all lines of
business are saving time and money by using
Burroughs Adding Machines. These business
men will tell you that they wish they had
installed the Burroughs long before, because —
They are now able to list and add figures in
less time than previously taken to merely
write them with pen or pencil
They know that their work is accurate. The
Burroughs cannot make a mistake.
They are now able to obtain, without extra
expense, records that help them in managing
their business.
They know that their books are in balance
every day, because they prove each day’s
postings.
These are only some of the things Burroughs
users tell us. A practical demonstration of a
Burroughs Adding Machine on your own
work will convince you of its many ad-
vantages. Our representative will be
pleased to call and give you
this demonstration without
any obligation on your part
Sole Importers of
Burroughs Machines
IRA L. &A. C. BERK Ltd.
Challis House, Sydney.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
ROCKHAMPTON - BRISBANE
AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
4063


THE NEW BEALE PLAYER-PIANO
m
wamm
:
■
u-n
. i
■
©
r n
n:
r
V'7'
w..
a
n
t; \, v
'V/ v ; \ rr
nr
PW
y%
V-*
Z/57C
Ic-tke Universal of [ Civilisation
■-
There is much evidence to prove that the existence of music is
coeval with mankind. It has come, through a slow, slow process
of evolution, from the crude percussion or rhythmic state of primal
times, to the modern art we know. As man’s intellectuality increased,
so his finer feelings expanded. His emotions became more complex
and demanded a greater means of expression. Many formal struc-
tures of sound-concords were reared, only to be swept aside by advancing civilization as
circumscribed and unworthy. A high degree of intellectuality was reached before our
modern scales were evolved, but now music rests on a sure base. It is a universal tongue
of civilization, capable of expressing the most profound emotion of the soul.
The love of music is an age-old inheritance. It made possible the development and
manufacture of an instrument like the New Beale. Here is an exquisite technique, in a
golden-voiced instrument; an interpretative combination with which the heights of the
most lofty musical conception can be scaled. It enables anyone to release all those surges
aeons old that clamor in his being for outward expression. This interpretative qual-
ity of the New Beale is possibly its greatest attribute. It is certainly the feature which
appealed strongest to the many musicians who have so enthusiastically endorsed it.
Interpretation and Style !*'These are better than mere notes and rhythm. And it is because
the New Beale is capable of personal and individual expression to a greater degree than
is very often contained in a course of arduous manual effort that it so surely appeals to the
true music lover. Sold on a liberal extended payment plan; used instruments accepted
in partial exchange. Regular encasements include rosewood, mahogany and walnut.
Other rarer timbers such as sycamore and satinwood to order.
B EALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms: 340 George Street, Sydney.
Head Office and Factories: 41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BRANCHES N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle,Goulburn. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: Thomson’s
Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
See the
Beale 'Five-Three’
Player-Piano
This is the instrument
which was so enthusiasti-
C illy received that orders
could only be accepted
for future delivery. A
quality production at a
popular price. Photo-
graphic reproductions
and printed details
post free.
£l9B f.o.b. Sydney.
N6—ij*4


dfdgfhj
Superb!
is the exclamation of all who
smoke CHECK VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES. The enor-
mous quantity sold alone
makes it possible to sell such
a magnificent cigarette at so
low a price. Made by Mar-
co vitch of London, the
superlative qualities of
CHECK CIGARETTES are
the result of over 100 years
experience in the making of
high-class cigarettes.
Ligarettes
- Sole Agents for Australia:
Scott, Henderson and Company,
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents:
Vie.—Alexanders’ Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
B.A.— Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide.
0
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bumsu Australasian,
Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
m
?MWwe%
3
i
m
m
KSSS&
m
n
MEXICAN
That "Well-
preserved
Look"
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
tllen’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r a d i-
onte those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof. Harm-
less ! All Chemists.
Real Assistance.
The most valuable feature of Denyers’ Surgical Accessories is
that they are of REAL assistance to the maimed; they
emphatically help instead of hindering. Whether you require a
Crutch, Artificial Limb, Belt, or any other physical help, your
wisest plan is to consult this experienced, reliable firm. Let
us help you—that’s our business.
DENYERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfdgfhj
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
dfdgfhj
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
k Mich..U.S.A.
Ail Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Matlnc Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Eairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
25-37 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermatli Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.S.A.
Cable Address-KERMATH
m
¥
mm.
47c INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUfNTS UP TO £5OO AND
3 V/, ON ANY EXCESS TO £ I.ooo’
Cheque Accounts opened for Individuals, Chirms. Companies or Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED.
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in TAT.S.W.
i? N R&2
The Big Four Thousand Art Union
(By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
In Aid of Children’s, Royal Prince Alfred and Sydney Hospitals—
The Three Biggest Hospitals in Australia.
Ist PRIZE, 23/60-h.p. Vauxhall Motor Car £l2OO
2nd ~ Australian Six Motor Car .. £650
3rd ~ Columbia Six Motor Car .. £475
4th „ Emerson Player Piano .. £260
sth „ Indian Super Chief Motor
Cycle and Side Car .. .. £l9oi
3 Prizes, each 'Valued
3 ~ ~ ~
£lOO
£5O
To be Drawn as soon as Fully Subscribed.
1/- ONLY TICKETS 1/- ONLY
By Post 1/li. Three or more post free.
12 Tickets for 10/- 25 Tickets for 207-
Help the Hospitals to-day.
Tickets Posted Direct from
J. L. RAITH, Hon. Promoter,
495 a George Street, Sydiwey, N.S.W.
You might want their heilp to-morrow.
dfdgfhj
I
The morning •shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter hew wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
——Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set readj r for use. and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years rfree of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied, in two widths : jin. and jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Free.
kND AITKEN
■ORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
For Understanding.
If I should sing a stranger song,
It is not by design of art,
For 1 have wandered far and long
With a stranger heart.
If I should laugh where others weep,
It is not for the mirth I feel,
But I have wounds that are too deep
For tears to heal.
If I should ask for sweeter things
Than any mind but yours can give,
Know well that but as my heart sings
My soul can live!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The White Crane.
In Mallacoota’s sunset sky,
Above the inlet blue and pale,
I saw a white crane swiftly sail
And outward to the ocean fly.
Over the mountains, out to sea !
This bird that comes from far Japan
And artists paint on screen and fan,
What dream had he in memory?
What lure of sight had drawn him. down
This strange wild coast, which man has not
Yet made his own with garden plot
Or temple court or colored town?
One lonely fisher flings,his net.
With leads and corks that bob and float,
As ripples spread around his boat
Before the‘golden sun has set.
And little islands, green and gay,
Peep sliyly from the sunlit sea-
The inlet’s glittering jewellery—
And purple hills stretch far away.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
Sleep and Summer.
Summer sings a sleepy tune
Down the track of afternoon,
Under boughs that closer creep
Where the pools of quiet sleep.
Swan-white marble, mossy-cool,
Palely rims each drowsy pool,
Where in waters, pansy-dark,
Dimly gleams one golden spark.
Summer! She of amber sands,
Sapphire seas and sun-drenched lands—■
Summer of loose leaf-brown hair,
Fair as joyous youth is fair—
Happy summer steals away
From the azure-flaring bay,
Down where strange dark magic gleams,
Through a dusk of ancient dreams.
Down the afternoon’s green glen
Summer sings, heyond our ken.
Only Fancy follows on
To the bourne where she has gone
Through the veiling mysteries
Of the forest shrine of trees
That her lips strange tryst may keep
With the misty lips of sleep.
All the drowsy afternoon
Eros keeps their lips in tune.
Only Fancy hears them there—•
Lovers more than mortal fair.
None but dryads see them lie
While the hours like blossoms die,
There where quiet’s star-pool gleams—
Sleep and summer locked in dreams!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Fair Phyllida to Proud Corydon.
When you hear me go by singing,
My face bright, my free hand swinging,
Do not lift eyes and start and sav,
“There walks my fair ladye this fair, white
day.”
But when you see a still one lying
As white as a white bird killed flying,
Tell no one, sir. as you pass by;
For the fair still one, still fair—that shall
be I.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Gifts.
A wonderful walk we had to-day,
I and an artist friend;
On roads not fashioned by pick and spade,
Content to follow the wind, we strayed,
To take what the gods should send.
We left the smoke of the town behind,
I and this friend of mine;
And much of that town and its way we
talked,
For there want wandered, and there woe
walked,
But out on the hills ’twas fine.
’Twas fine the greeting the great hills gave—■
Rocks and bracken and trees —
To us who climbed them with springing feet
That knew no trammels: and ever so sweet
The scents on the morning breeze.
And good w r as the greeting the rivers gave,
Glossing their banks of green:
They bore no keels and they turned no mills,
As. voicing praise to the god-like hills,
They wound through the valleys between.
The thrushes outdid themselves in song,
Warbling their welcome strains;
And dew-wet blossoms, red blooms and blue,
They smiled and nodded, as we went through
Leaf-alleys and fronded lanes.
Now, these were the gifts the great gods
sent—-
Beautiful, lasting, bright;
And home we turned when the west grew
faint
My artist-friend with a scene to paint,
And I with a verse to write.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE DAWN OF A NEW
INDUSTRIAL ERA
IN AUSTRALIA
Production Plant at the Rosebery Engine Works.
The Rosehery Trade-
mark is the
Certificate of Quality.
“Made in Australia” is a slogan worthy of the noblest ambitions of every
true Australian. To be self-supporting, fully equipped and organised to
the highest state of efficiency is part of the first principles of modern
civilisation in any nation.
The slogan “Made in Australia in its true significance embodies this
aspiration of Australia, and well-organised effort established along these
lines is worthy of the utmost support from the whole of the community.
The Rosebery Trade-
mark is the
Certificate of Quality
The Genesis of Mass Production
From the simple production of a one-man effort to the complex but highly-efficient mass-production
methods of modern industry is in itself a mirror reflecting the growth of a nation. Mass production
has played a larger part in the development of long-established countries than is generally realised.
Probably the untiring efforts of organisations such as Henry Ford’s have done more towards the
realisation of the man-in-the-street’s worthy ambitions than any other form of industry in the world.
Australia has made tremendous strides in a short time. Comparatively speaking, greater than those
of other new countries, but the rate of progress was necessarily restricted while it depended upon the
importation of large quantities of products in every-day use.
Realising this, the Proprietors of the Rosebery Engine Works, Limited, Rosebery, Mascot, New
South Wales, set out to establish the first serious attempt at mass production of engines in Australia.
Now in the third year, having reached full production capacity and established the confidence of the
man on the land, the Rosebery Engine Works, Limited, seek the co-operation of those Australians
who believe that the nation should be self-supporting.
The result of this inauguration is so far-reaching that no man can estimate its effect upon the life of
the country. The high state of efficiency attained by the Rosebery Engine Works, Limited, in the
manufacture of a complete line of oil engines, pumping engines, centrifugal and power pumps,
working heads, pump cylinders, jetting outfits, hand and power spray-pumps has already had a
marked effect upon the life of the man on the land.
The whole of these manufactures are standardised, and irritating long delays and subsequent loss,
owing to difficulty of replacing parts, have disappeared.
The policy of the Rosebery Engine Works is to supply the require-
ments of machinery merchants and wholesale distributors only.
Order Rosebery Engines and Pumps through your nearest Supply
House. If you cannot obtain, we will place you in touch with the
nearest distributor.
Rosebery Engine Works Ltd.
Rosebery, Mascot,
N.S.W.
dfdgfhjdfdgfhj
ft


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1924.
Yol. 45. —No. 2290.
p™. bp.
IN THE LAIR OF THE BANDIT CHIEFS.
“The seven Treasurers met in Melbourne last week and agreed upon a plan for raising money without getting in one another’s way.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., -.14 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months , Is.
J'o ANY address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
f/ie Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
1 ohtical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches i those dealing with Australian subjects
end not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
j w °rds, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A l communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
in ;., ;LL !' :TIN w ill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
somai applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humormis or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Australia House, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entranee
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.lj: E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Ilotaling’s News Agency, 203 West 41st
Street. New York City; Washington: Liberty News
Co., Seattle, California; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and. Market Streets, San Francifco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.4-
U.S.A.— -J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id.: All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4os. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., id.
ffie'S&xilleix/n,,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1924.
PROPPING UP PRUSSIA.
Going on the principle that man should for-
give an enemy but never by any chance a
friend, the British Labor Government pro-
poses to begin its career by bringing press-
ure to bear on France, and posing to a
corresponding extent as the brother and
protector of Germany. In this it is merely
resuming a rather familiar attitude. Even in
the old days, when Prussianised Germany
was the tallest bully in sight, and when
it stood for monarchism, for the negation of
any real Parliamentary government, for
brutal militarism, for compulsory service of
the most uncompromising sort (as Soviet
Russia does now), for a rigid caste system,
land monopoly, high Protection, and the
minute regulation of the life of the subject,
Laborism in Britain and Australia had a ten-
dency to sit at the feet of dreary German teach-
ing, and take off its hat to verbose German
philosophy. Even in the worst of the war
days this mental attitude was maintained
in some quarters, and if Prime Minister
Macdonald did not occupy those quarters
he was at least a frequent visitor there. The
fact that the Hun country supplied the
human race with Karl Marx, founder of
international socialism, and has since main-
tained a large and varied output of social-
istic and Bolshevik literature, probably
accounts for this apparent anomaly. The
new British Government has already made
pronouncements about the necessity of main-
taining the intactness of the German
dominion, which means of necessity the
maintenance of Prussia’s supremacy over
the German territories which it annexed
with a high hand and a mailed fist in 1866
and previous years. The new Labor daily
in Sydney began with a similar confession
of faith, and in fact it seems to be a general
article of Labor doctrine that the Prussian
conquests in Germany must remain, and that
any idea of self-determination for the con-
quered should receive no sort of encourage-
ment. It is proposed also to re-open the matter
of reparations, which has almost ceased to be
a British question. There has been a tacit
abandonment of the idea that anything beyond
the damage to property can be collected from
the Hun ; and as Britain has practically no-
thing to gather in under this heading, the
Government would probably much rather
Germany kept the money and used it to
rebuild its “trade relations.” A pathetic
faith exists in some quarters that there is
much profit in having heaps of “trade rela-
tions” —Freetrade variety—with Germany,
though before the war an impression was
abroad that Germany made most of the
profit. And the new men tend to be rather
brusque in their demand that France should
evacuate the corner of Germany which it has
occupied as security for its bill, just as Ger-
many occupied a great part of France as
security for its bill in 1871, and remained
till the last farthing was paid. The Hun
ascribes the collapse of the paper mark to
the occupation of this small region, and some
important people in Britain now blame it
for the distress there. Yet the Ruhr occu-
pation dates only from January, 1923, and
already in 1921 the liabilities of English
bankrupts were 17 times heavier than they
had been a few years earlier.
* * * *
The carefully-nursed delusion that the
Ilun Empire, now the Hun republic-of-sorts,
is an old national institution like France or
Spain, and that its dissolution would be a
crime, has led to many quaint doings. So
has the theory that a solid Prussianised Ger-
many is necessary to the prosperity of
Europe and of the world. The Empire, built
to take the place, if possible, of the Western
Roman State, had many vicissitudes. It
Avas founded by a French king with the con-
nivance of an Italian pope, and Charle-
magne spread the power of the Holy Roman
Empire in German lands where even the ori-
ginal Roman Empire hadn’t reached. When
his race gave up the emperor business after
a century of excitement, and France went
out of the combine, German and other noble-
men took on the job, sometimes in a heredi-
tary and sometimes in an elective way. For
long the Empire was supposed to cover all
Central Europe, including Holland, Belgium,
Poland, Hungary and half Italy. It had its
nominal capital at Rome, where emperors
went armed and often at the risk of their
lives to be crowned. Then for a time each
emperor carried his metropolis about with
him, but when the Hapsburgs became a per-
manency and fixed the de facto capital at their
own city of Vienna, it was thought that
matters had settled down till Judgment Day.
Next the religious wars, which were very
heathen in their methods, made the subor-
dinate princes independent, and especially
tlie prince of Prussia, who became beastly
as well as independent. Thereafter Prus-
sia, a robber State of Slavs domi-
nated by a German aristocracy, ate all Ger-
many except Austria in three bites —a small
one in 1815, and two immense ones in 1866
and 1871—and imposed its Sovereign on
it, and created by violence a State which is
a great deal too new to deserve the respect
ir has received.
* * * *
Report has it that it was Lord Milner
who beguiled Lloyd George into the idea
that the empire which was got together by
brutal force must be treated as an inviolable
entity, and that the possible desire of some
of the coerced German States for “self deter-
mination” should on no account be encour-
aged or even alluded to. There Avas a possi-
bility that the vast Roman Catholic majority
in Bavaria and Baden might like to get rid
of their arrogant Lutheran masters at Ber-
lin, if allowed to form a new State by union
with their co-religionists in Austria, on
whose behalf Bavaria fought gallantly against
the Prussians in 1866. But any such idea
was vetoed in the sacred name of justice or
some such thing. Milner was a brilliant
product of Oxford, born in Germany, the son
of a lecturer at a Prussian university. Un-
kind friends identified him with Paul Ron-
delet, the super-prig in Besant’s “Monks
of Thelema.” An influence on the same side
was President Wilson, whose philanthropy
made him always rush to forgive the fellow
who had done some other person an injury.
A good deal was said about it being a duty
not to disrupt the unity of the German-speak-
ing race, which had been badly disrupted
already, when semi-Slavonic Prussia pushed
German Austria out of Germany in 1866. In
any case, the matter seems of no more im-
portance than the unity of the English-
speaking race which Washington so badly
damaged, or the reunion of the peoples who
discourse in Spanish. Another proposition,
strongly advanced by the same advisers, was
that a strong, prosperous, united Germany
would be better able to pay for war break-
ages than smaller States would be. The
result has proved that it is also more quali-
fied to refuse payment. The renuest of
France for a defensible frontier on the Rhine
(reckoned to be equal to 500,000 soldiers)
was met with the horrified remark that this
would involve putting a certain number of
Huns under French rule unless they chose
to leave, and that the subjection of white
people to foreign domination is out of date,
and an exploded relic of barbarism. But
Britain dominates white Frenchmen in
Canada. Dutchmen in South Africa, and
Irishmen and Maltese in their own countries,
and none of them came into the partnership
of their own volition ; and as for the French
and Spanish population in Louisiana, Florida.
New Mexico, Arizona, California and the
Philippines, no one can sav that it arrived
as a voluntary tenant of the Union.
TWO SIDES OF ST. GEORGE’S
CHANNEL.
Great Britain has supplied itself with a
reforming Government, though it is a Gov-
ernment which is bound to reform with
difficulty, having no majority of its own.
But it hopes by diligence, sobriety and a
well-cut suit of sheep’s clothing to improve
the shining hour, and meantime it has made
a beginning. Therefore it is interesting to
compare the position with that of the Irish
Free State, which is already reformed,
though not exactly along the lines indicated
by Ramsay Macdonald in his writings and
speakings.
Great Britain still retains its unpaid
Upper House, hereditary save for a few
Anglican archbishops and bishops. This
House lost its ancient veto in the course of
the squabble over the 1909-10 budget, and
it has been steadily losing its ancient dig-
nity for years through too promiscuous ele-
vation of people whose only virtue was that
they had acquired a lot of money by robbery
or otherwise. The Free State, on the other
hand, runs a paid Senate composed of 60
citizens, all aged 35 or more, “who have done
honor to the nation by reason of useful pub-
lic service, or who represent important
aspects of the nation’s life.” The Senators
have a 12-years’ run, one-fourth retiring
every third year, and the Senatorial electors
must be aged at least 30. So the Irish
Upper House, when chosen (there is a
nominee makeshift to go on with), is likely
to be no rash or headlong institution ; but
as the Constitution was the work of an Irish
Convention, and was no Sassenach device,
the body is presumably designed to repre-
sent mature public opinion. The Referen-
dum in a fairly liberal form is included in
the Constitution, and it is provided that the
initiative may be included. Britain hasn’t
reached that point yet. In Australia Labor
parties demand it volubly and dodge it acro-
batically. No Lord Tomnoddy or Earl
of Fitzdotterel could be more scornful than
orthodox Australian Labor about the idea of
letting the common herd express a straight-
out opinion about a McTiernan Profiteer-
ing Bill, or a Lang Land Confiscation Bill,
or even a Chapman Federal capital. In
England the Established Church still flour-
ishes, and sends 26 dignitaries to the House
of Peers. In Scotland a different Estab-
lished Church flourishes in a smaller way
(the Sovereign is an official Anglican in one
kingdom and an official Prebyterian in the
other, so that he has two good chances of
getting to Heaven), but the ministers have
no political standing. Wales and Ireland
have no established churches, and the Irish
Constitution provides that there shall be
none. Furthermore, the Free State stands
for Protection, though the Irish element in
England and Scotland was strenuously urged
by. certain leaders to vote for Ereetrade, as
being quite good enough for the Sassenach,
if not too good. As Ireland experienced
Freetrade. or the compulsory free admission
of English goods, long before England was
itself converted to its own pet doctrine, it
speaks with some experience. And it aims
at being, like France, Denmark and some
other countries which are sometimes quoted
as models, a land of small agricultural pro-
prietors. regarding the landlord who comes
round half-yearly for part of the produce as
in the same category as the rabbit, which
also colls regularly.
•r *■ *
But. despite all the dissatisfaction with
the old order that has passed away, the Bol-
shevik doctrines with which so many British
and Australian politicians are infected never
took much root in Ireland. The country
doesn’t sympathise with the Established
Atheist Church of Russia, or regard the
Soviet as an institution which dropped from
Heaven ; and the Irish demand for the w r orks
of Karl Marx is limited. The fact that big
landlords are an evil of great proportions
hasn’t beguiled Ireland into the craving for
“nationalisation,” otherwise confiscation, and
for One Big Landlord, and One Big Rent-
collector, which was the policy of Lenin,
and is supposed, from his writings, to be that
of Ramsay Macdonald. The leasehold idea
may work well in cities, but it has been no
striking success in attaching the small farmer
to the soil. Theoretically nationalisation
makes the country everybody’s property, but
there is always the feeling that some inac-
cessible bureaucrat or party boss is the
owner to all intents and purposes, and that
the individual’s undivided interest is no more
his own for any practical purpose than his
undivided share in Windsor Castle or the
Tower of London. Furthermore, the Irish
Free State has so far developed no party
which proposes to nationalise industries,
which is one of the theories that Trotsky
and Ramsay Macdonald hold in common.
At least the Trotsky' party appears to be
leaving, having found nothing but failure in
the policy of chasing experts off the premises
as capitalists and counter-revolutionaries and
replacing them with fanatics and sincere be-
lievers ; while the Macdonald party is arriv-
ing, or is due to arrive when it can secure
some more votes. There is always a risk
that Ireland’s old habit of hitting heads may
break out in new disturbances, and that
premature patriots may raise the question of
“Unredeemed Ireland” (i.c., the six north-
eastern counties) too violently; but given
peace and good government surprising things
may happen.
* * * »
Under Protection the island may develop
into a manufacturing centre, despite the
scarcity of iron and coal and the no great
abundance of water power. Italy has done
so under worse conditions. If a Macdonald
Government in Britain, or a Jack Jones
Government of later date-, shows signs of the
will and the power to live up to the Prime
Minister’s “Socialism and Society” and other
books. Ireland may begin to look like an
industrial haven of refuge, where the Brit-
ish manufacturer can have the run of the
protected local market and the unprotected
British one at the same time. The factory
magnate couldn’t bloom into a coal or iron
millionaire after the British fashion, unless
these minerals are found in unexpected quan-
tities. He couldn’t buy a great estate —unless
the Free State forgets its whole agrarian policy
—and start a. long line of Eldest Sons, and
purchase a perfectly new title, and a heredi-
tary job at law-making, and a left-off castle
in the Highlands, and the uncertain right to
wear a kilt. The quality of the Free State
Upper House precludes these flighty doings.
In fact, the advantages of secondary indus-
try may be secured with few of the disad-
vantages. With management the place may
be a lightly-taxed one. There is room for
more population. If any towns badly require
reconstruction to make them centres of
beauty and illumination, they are compara-
tively small -towns yet and easy of repair.
Altogether, then, it is possible to come to
the conclusion that Britain, weltering in a
troubled sea of experiment, and blotted all
over with red flags, may some day look
across St. George’s Channel for guidance
and a steadying influence, and not look in
vain.
AN IMMIGRANT’S HOME.
We only mention “immigrant” to-day with
fear and trembling. Indeed, we hardly dare
call him an immigrant—he is, if you please, a
“migrant,” regarded as something between
a fragile treasure and a high explosive—
to be handled carefully lest he either dis-
solves in the hand or “goes off” and upsets
a Government. Satisfied farmers and squat-
ters are dispossessed of their lands at vast
expense to the community, and newcomers
are set in their places amid prayers that they
make a “do” of it; vast sums are spent in
coaxing English town migrants to come and
take the farms thus readied up for them,
and in Victoria, at any rate, a model farm
has been provided on which the townies
will be turned for a few months that they
may “feel their feet” and learn to know a
mouldboard from a swingletree.
The quality of the migrant must be chang-
ing, or he is being spoiled by much propa-
ganda and coddling. They used to be
made of sterner and more self-confident stuff.
Twenty-two years ago I, one of them, friend-
less and without funds, was given a job on
his selection by another of them a few years
longer migrated. This year I revisited his
selection. This article describes what that
migrant of the older type has effected. He
has done it without any aid but his own. He
represents the migrant who asked and wants
no coddling. He represents the migrant we
still need. He represents perhaps the only
agricultural migrant we can afford to acquire.
Arriving in Australia with nothing
but youth, strength and the amount
of husbandry knowledge possessed by
a native of the English shires brought
up on a small rented holding, this
newcomer took whatever laboring work came
to his hand. Especially he learnt to shear.
It was blade-shearing only then, and he be-
came a “gun” at the craft. As soon as he
had funds enough he paid the necessary de-
posit on a 320-acre block of Crown land
under the N. S. Wales tenure which permits
a selector conditionally to purchase and
lease additional acres up to three times the
number in his first block. His total holding
was, therefore, 1280 acres. It was not the
sort of land men rush to acquire. It was
certainly not the sort of land a nervous Gov-
ernment of to-day would offer its assisted
friends from West Ham and Bromley-by-
Bow. It -was seven miles off a real road
and four off a track, tucked in a corner at
the back of a big station property, virgin-
timber land going about 500 sticks to the
acre. As land it was saved by a valley of
good country running across one end of the
1280 block and by a constantly running
creek and several springs. Alone he tackled
it and its myriad trees. His method was
to go out and earn money to pay men he
hired to improve his own selection. So he
gradually got his timber felled and his fences
up. Between jobs he himself stayed on the
selection and felled timber and put up posts
until he had a ring fence round the whole
acreage. With the land cleared the grass
began to shoot. So he got a few sheep on
terms, and put them on the land to pick
out the grass, to grow wool and bear lambs
while he went away to earn more money
with his hands.
So the years passed. Every one saw a
bit more timber off the land and a few more
head of stock on it, a few more fences to
assist in making the property workable and
the grass growth a little bit better, sweeter
and more remunerative. A succession of
newchums —like me—were given their chance
to put in a few fence-posts, knock down a
bit of scrub and rub the raw Englishness off
in readiness to face the big world and
acquire selections for themselves. When he
had surplus grass and little money he let
his paddocks to squatters and dealers in
worse circumstances. When he had both
grass and money he bought store stock and
fattened them. When a mining rush broke
out a few miles away lie took out a slaughter-
yard license and killed his fat stock to sell
to the miners. He imprisoned every penny.
He lived in a slab-and-bark hut, his own
building and admirably built. He built wool-
shed, liayshed and sheep-yards of similar
excellence of workmanship in the same
materials. Most of it he did unaided. He
cleared and ploughed small cultivation pad-
docks that he might have hay to see him
through periods when feed was scarce. He
cut every acre with a scythe in his early
years, and he carted the crop on a slide
made of a large tree-fork. Then he thought
of marriage. For this he prepared by clear-
ing ground for an orchard and planting trees.
He put his now substantial savings into a
good carpenter-built house, a model of its
kind. The builders were putting the last
touches of paint upon it when the 1903
bush-fires swept through the district and
wiped out everything—new house, fences,
yards, out-buildings and grass ! On the de-
vastated site he put up three cheap,
rooms—the limit he could go after the crash
—married and the two started all over
again.
Though it was costly in that buildings and
fences had to be replaced, the bush-fire gave
the selection a great clean-up and sweeten-
ing, and in a few years the owner felt he
could tackle more land. The adjoining 1280 of
even liillier country was idle, owned by a
speculator in encumbrances, eager to relin-
quish this one. The block was secured for no
more than the cost of the improvements on
it, and the new 'owner again set about the
old routine of thinning timber, clearing up
rubbish and running more fences. This gave
more land upon which stock could grow into
money. 'The rabbit menace, which was
driving bigger landowners off their holdings,
was met on this comparatively small block
by means of wire-netted ring fences, largely
erected by himself and a now well-grown
son. His downs-like creek valley, with its
excellent growth of grass, _ appealed as good
dairying country. Dairying is an acknow-
ledged means of making good money quickly.
He decided to add dairying, though dairying
so far from a railway—2s miles —was de-
clared to be impossible. He promptly did


the impossible. He built yards and bails,
bought a big separator, and, plunging into
the scheme with vigor, was soon milking 40
cows. Cream was driven twice a week to
the railhead. The time needed for this was
too exacting, so he invested in a Ford. Sur-
plus milk demanded pigs to use it, so pigs
were added to the selection stock, as many
as 50 being fattened in a year.
Two years ago fire and work had made
such progress in the clearing of the 2560
acres then held, and the family having
grown by seven, it was felt, that still more
land would be necessary to safeguard the
nine livelihood. So another block, ad-
joining the two, and with them making a
compact estate sufficient when fully improved
to assure comfort to any man, was selected.
It was not improved land, not even so much
improved as the second 1280 acres of pur-
chased land, but Crown land selected and
abandoned years before, hilly and heavily
timber-clad. The axiom of that country,
however, is that if land will grow good tim-
ber it will grow good grass. The ex;new-
chum and his sons are now tackling this
third block of hill and trees as he tackled
the first block nearly 30 years ago. They
will make good—they already have a netted
fence around it —and still the last thing
they would think of doing would be to ask
or expect help from a Government.
In my time there was one decent valley
of cleared land and good grazing, and one
tiny, hand-sown and -reaped patch of culti-
vation paddock, with acres upon acres of
scantily-grassed country littered thickly with
dead timber, cumbered with timber living
and timber half-killed, so little resembling
grazing land as to dishearten the stoutest.
To-day there is rolling, well-grassed country
as far as eye can see. Subdivisions are
ample and well planned. Fifty acres of cul-
tivation assure plenty of hay and oats for
stock. There is a complete plant. By means
of a pump the creek has been commandeered
to irrigate a garden patch which keeps the
home supplied with green food. Water is
laid on to the house from a rainwater storage
made in the hill above it, and from the same
source a slieep-dip is provided with water.
The selection was carrying 1300 well-bred
sheep, 30 head of horses and 150 head of
cattle, and about the homestead were the
fowls, geese, ducks, turkeys, pigeons and
other small deer of the well-stocked farm.
It represents a competence gained, not by
lucky speculations, nor from the start
a substantial legacy gives a man in the
race for wealth, but from steady work, the
worker living on his land in the old settled
English way. Every souare foot of the 3840
acres will have been literally carved out of
the green timber and made to grow grass aiid
feed stock where only bandicoots nibbled
before.
And no doubt in a few years’ time his
arand-children will be pilloried in Parliament
by some professional politician for having
“grasped with greedv hands 3840 acres of
land which should be the heritage of the
worker from whose fathers it was filched,”
and a clamor will be raised that it be taken
from its owners and divided into farms for
Oie landless—perhaps for assisted immigrants
brought from Petticoat-lane and given six
months’ intensive training at Werribee. to
acquaint them upon which end to plant, their
seed wheat.
COPABELLA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Do Tariffs Produce Wars?
After every great war the nations con-
cerned display an understandable horror of
another war. Freetraders are attempting
to make capital out of this just now, with
the argument that any nation which desires
to remain at peace will do well to abandon,
or at least modify, its Protective duties,
since “nothing is a more potent source of
international friction than a Protective
tariff.” This contention might carry weight
if any civilised country had ever tried
genuine Freetrade, to the extent of refrain-
ing entirely from taxing the products of
foreigners. Britain, the last refuge of what
papers of the Argus stamp call Freetrade,
has not made the attempt, and never can.
Year by year the Government has to subject
at least 15 per cent, of the nation’s total
imports to duties, some of which are exorbi-
tant. The Freetrader draws an odd distinc-
tion here: not only is it good economics
for a country to tax what it can’t produce
rather than what it can, but it is good ethics
and accordingly tolerable, if not actually
agreeable, to the nations adversely affected.
The first of these propositions is questionable
at any rate from the standpoint of the
British consumer: tea, which carries a heavy
duty and is correspondingly expensive, is
more necessary to most inhabitants of the
L.K. than typewriters, which come in free.
But it is the second claim which contains
the more glaring fallacy—in effect, that it is
pleasanter to be hanged by a tall, handsome
man than by a short, ugly one. Why should
Virginia (say) be enraged at a British duty
on woollens, which this American State
manufactures in a small way, when it has
never shown annoyance at the long-standing
tariff on its chief product—tobacco V Until
the late war a traditional friendship existed
between Britain and Turkey; yet Turkey’s
chief products (dried fruit and tobacco) were
high up in the U.K.’s list of dutiable articles,
l ortugal, whose staple article of export to
the U.K. is wine (it sent 4,593.144 callous
there, to the value of £2,392,355, in 1921),
has always had to face a duty which re-
stricts the consumption of port to a wealthy
1 yet the liking of the Portuguese for
the English is one of the accepted facts of
modern history. The truth is, tariffs appear
to have about as much effect on the creation
ot international wars as income taxation has
on internal revolution. The traders con-
cerned are indifferent as to whether the cut
s taken off their profits for revenue purposes
'f with the object of fostering a local in-
™‘‘Ary-, In , both cases they curse mildly, as
d ° Y hei l their mc °me-tax assessments
; a " d ,where practicable pass on the
impost.. And in each case there is a remedy
is not open to those who swell the
revenue from income taxation. The Chinese
mriff XPOrtGr - wll ° finds tllc British revenue
™ excessive can offer his wares in a
country where the duties on tea are lower,
and the British manufacturer who is ham-
pered by the Australian tariff can bring liis
industry here, as hundreds have done, with
the utmost goodwill, and to our great benefit
and their own.
+
The Cult of Being Unprepared.
Much “banzai” is reported to have gone up
in Japan when the news arrived that the
British Government will abandon the project
of a naval base at Singapore. It was natural
that applause should be numerous, for unless
Australia constructs a first-class base —a
thing most unlikely—no British warships of
size can come to the Pacific for fighting pur-
poses. In the words of a melancholy and dis-
appointed Anglo-Asiatic paper, “a fleet with-
out a base is about as serviceable as a car
without petrol.” So if a day arrives when
the fate of the world is put to the test in
the Pacific, the greatest naval Power will,
according to present arrangements, be almost
out of the discussion, and the way of a vigor-
ous secondary Power will be easier and
cheaper in consequence. Further informa-
' tion is to the effect that the British naval
and military estimates, already very much
reduced, will have another £11,000,000 or so
sawn off them, for the new Ministry wants
money on a large scale. It proposes to re-
duce unemployment, yet still admit freely
the foreign goods which are superseding the
products of British factories, so it necessarily
has large projects on hand. In any case it
is a lover of peace at almost any price, and
addicted to “brotherhood,” plain or colored.
Australia has now cut down its own Defence
estimates to about the level of those of the
Irish Free State, and its most distinguished
general has said that this particularly iso-
lated outpost is equipped for about one half-
day’s campaign. That is to say, it might be
good for the half-day if it had more stra-
tegic railways. It is a frequent assertion
that, if a great national danger impended, all
the manhood of the country would rush to
arms; but the manhood wouldn't rush to
ammunition, for there is practically
none, and of arms there are few.
For years before the last war “militar-
ism” cost a great deal, and during the
war the lack or insufficiency of it cost, pro-
bably, twice as much. When that historic
row commenced, the British Navy, on which
money and intelligence had been lavished in
peace-time, was ready. But for it neither
Australia and Maoriland nor Canada and
the United States would have got to the
war, though the war might have got to them
and cut everything short in the midst of
some futile and rudimentary preparation.
Britain also had 100,000 soldiers available,
and sacrificed them remorselessly to gain
time. The French Army was in as good a
state of preparation as could be expected
in the case of a nation whose purposes were
strictly defensive. The. isolated Serbian
handful was in gallant trim. Belgium was
half-prepared. Russia had many men and
about one rifle for each three. Even in
these circumstances an immensity of mat-
ters had to be improvised at enormous cost.
It was ten months before the first of the
new Australian and Maoriland troops got
on the scene. The British Fleet secured
them time for organisation—an advantage,
by the way, which few military improvisers
are blessed with. But the case of the
United States was a thing to marvel at. The
great disturbance was 32 months old when
an utterly-nnprepared United States joined
in, relying on the übiquitous British Navy
to prevent any enemy sailing across the
ocean and dynamiting its preparations. It
was 46 months old when the first United
States force went into its first real battle,
under French command, largely with French
equipment, and with its airmen doing good
service in French aeroplanes. When the
Republic took stock after its declara-
tion of hostilities it found that it
had only an ill-trained fragment of an army,
and not one up-to-date fighting airship. With
a vast pride in U.S. originality, months
were spent in perfecting the new “Liberty”
’plane, which was to mark a new epoch, but
didn’t. There was lack of rifles and of
machinery for making rifles. As a U.S.
writer complained in bitterness of soul, “the
War Department had made no plans as to
what type of motor-trucks, machine-guns,
aeroplanes and artillery should be adopted,”
and many months were spent in planning and
experimenting before construction could
begin. He added that “not a single new
American invention that was revolutionary
in character played a considerable part in
ending the war.” After spending the price
of two good wars before the troops started,
a very large force got across, half of it in
British ships; and then the trouble ceased
just as the Republic’s inventive genius got
into a position to do things. In two years
the Uncle Sam Government spent more than
all previous Uncle Sam Governments had
spent, in peace and war, since the Republic was
founded ; and with all this it was late. When
an unprepared but reputedly swift nation
requires 14 months, and all this money, and
an immensity of outside assistance in order
that it may “rush to arms,” it appears
cheaper and safer and less exhausting to be
always in arms, and practise all the mili-
tarism that may be necessary, and avoid the
rush. For, though the nation which takes
no thought for the morrow may not be long
dying, it is apt to be long dead.
♦
Wilson’s Worst Blunder.
The judgment of posterity on the late
Woodrow Wilson will be kinder, on the
whole, than that of his contemporaries. He
will be remembered in future ages, not as
the pacific philosopher who said after the
Lusitania business that there was “such a
thing as being too proud to fight” (he nobly
atoned for it in 1917), nor as the negotiator
who was outwitted at Versailles, but as the
ruler who led his nation into the war “to
make the world safe for Democracy,” and
who gave body and soul to the great idea of
a League to enforce Peace. On the other
hand he will certainly be condemned on the
score of his self-determination fad. It is
odd that so conservative a thinker should
ever have been taken in by so radically
destructive a theory. The fluent and flaccid
Kerensky made self-determination fashion-
able during his brief ascendancy in Russia,
and it crossed the Atlantic like the influenza.
On Feb. 11, 1918, the President declared at
a joint session of the U.S. Senate and House
of Representatives that “self-determination
is not a mere phrase, it is an imperative
principle of action which statesmen will
henceforth ignore at their peril.” When his
draft of a covenant for the League of
Nations was circulated at Versailles it was
found to provide for “territorial readjust-
ments. .. .pursuant to the principle of self-
determination.” Lansing, his Secretary of
State, prints a curious story that these
dangerous words, which were to apply to
the territories of all the associated nations,
were struck out at the instance of “the
statesmen who represented the British
Empire, in contradistinction to those who
represented the self-governing British
Dominions.” If that is true the members
of the British delegation showed far more
political sagacity than Hughes, Massey,
Borden and Smuts. But at least one of the
U.S. plenipotentiaries was of the same mind
as the Englishmen. In a private memoran-
dum Lansing wrote that “the phrase ‘self-
determination’ is simply loaded with dyna-
mite” :
When the President talks of “self-determination”
what unit has he in mind? Does he mean a race,
a territorial area or a community? Without a
definite unit which is practical, application of this
principle is dangerous to peace and stability.
Unfortunately, Wilson was too self-suffici-
ent to ask for Lansing’s opinion, and the
latter was too seared of him to volunteer it.
If self-determination is sound in principle
and of unlimited application, the Southern
States, as Lansing notes, were justified in
seceding from the Union in 1861. Similarly,
the black majorities in States like Missis-
sippi and South Carolina would be entitled
to vote themselves out of the LhS.A. and to
set up colored dominions, with colored presi-
dents, emperors or kings. Also, the French
cantons in Switzerland have the right to
separate from the German cantons, the
French-Canadian provinces from Manitoba
and Saskatchewan, the Boers from the Brit-
ish South Africans, the Irish from the Eng-
lish, the North Irish from the South Irish,
the Derry Sinn Feiners from the Derry
Unionists, and so on, world without end.
In point of fact, apart from the provocative
arrangements in Poland (the Poles were
allowed to thrust an indefensible province
between one part of Prussia and another),
self-determination was ignored in the Treaties
of Versailles and Saint-Germain. Wilson
himself sanctioned the. inclusion of millions of
unwilling Germans, Hungarians and Bul-
garians in Poland, Czecho-Slovakia and
Roumania, the cession of the Austrian Tyrol
to Italy and the transfer of the Shantung
Chinese to Japan. He even refused to let
truncated Austria join the German Republic
or to recognise the Republics—Esthonia,
Latvia, Lithuania and Finland —which
“self-determined” themselves out of Russia.
But he never disavowed the theory which
he found so hopelessly impracticable, or even
defined it. Which, in view of the proba-
bility that his name will be used for all it
is worth by the self-determination cranks
and trouble-makers, is a great pity.
—4— ——
A Policy of Patches.
Another isolated scrap of railway is mooted
in the Northern Territory, one end being at
the mouth of the McArthur River, which
falls into the Gulf of Carpentaria not very
far from the Queensland border, and the
other 220 miles away, at Anthony’s Lagoon.
The Territory, under Federal control, has
always been the Land of Makeshifts and
Expedients, and this looks like another of
them. It doesn’t say either yes or no to
the question whether the South-to-North line
which was paid for by South Aus. is to be a
fact or a swindle, and whether the Queens-
land Premier will get what he asks for —a
great railway built almost wholly with the
money of other States, through his property,
and called “national” and “transcontinental”
for the sake of appearances. The proposed
work, running fairly close to Theodore’s
border, is taken to be partly based on its
merits, and mostly a sop to tin; Theodore
interest. The first question which arises is
whether two isolated or unfinished frag-
ments of railway, one end of each on the
coast and the other on nothing definite, will
pay better than one, or whether two will be
twice as non-financial as one. The second
question is whether, seeing that one port at
the end of an unfinished fragment of railway
is steadily losing what trade it had (and it
really possessed a trade once), another,
under exactly similar conditions, will do the
same or differently. During the five months
July-November, 1923, the exporting business
of the Commonwealth was about £6 per head.
For the Territory it was under 95., though
there was a time when the Territory’s
figure was above the Australian average.
To furnish the place with two samples of
the policy under which these results have
been achieved, in place of one, may be wis-
dom, and again it may be something else.
The McArthur River-Antliony’s Lagoon enter-
prise, like the one from Darwin to the
Katherine, will have no strategic value, save
to the fellow who arrives from oversea and
captures the shore end of it. Then it will
carry his troops and even his colonists into
the interior of the country, but it won’t carry
any of our troops from the more settled
regions to put him out of the country. The
more scrappy works of the sort are con-
structed the more promising will be the way
of the possible invader. Yet the Territory’s
rational construction programme is simple
and obvious: in order to develop it from
the southern or cool end, work must be re-
sumed with vigor on the South Australian
fragment of the transcontinental line, witli
the railway to bring up all necessary sup-
plies. and big white cities in the rear to
furnish labor. Anthony’s Lagoon and the
McArthur River, as well as Darwin, could
be reached that way in good time; likewise
the central tableland, which the present
scheme ignores. The other way—the mad
way—is to bring materials by the long sea-
route round the coast, establish an isolated
camp on the beach, and begin work with the
most expensive labor on the continent. The
isolated new port, like the isolated existing
one, will presumably have the Federal Gov-
ernment’s small, hired, auxiliary craft as its
link with the outer world. The seas are
large in the North, and they look rather
lonesome with nothing on them save a small
auxiliary craft; but the provisions of the
Navigation Act, combined with the lack of
goods and people to carry, have caused
casual ships to drop Darwin from their
itinerary. Whether they will similarly drop
the new outlet of Borroloola (or Port
McArthur), or simplify matters by never
taking it up, is a moot point. An over-
land train, covering the distance from the
nearest city to the northern coast in three
days, not in need of any Navigation Act to
stave off the competition of cheap foi-eign
trains, and not liable to be six weeks behind
its time-table, might begin to make the Terri-
tory a place of habitual resort, which it has
never been yet, and after that anything in
the way of development might follow. It
is hard to explain the craze for isolated plan-
less scraps of “development," all begun at
the remote, hot, expensive end of things, so
that all visitors approach that way, take one
glance at the low, hot shore, and nee. It
the idea was to join the Territory to the
Dutch Indies the policy of scrappy connec
tions with the North Coast, and no connec-
tions at all with the big Australian cities
of the South, would have some visible mean-
ing. Otherwise it looks like a mere post-
ponement of the day when something will
have to be decided on.
*
The Endless Pre-selection Trouble.
The A.L.P. in Sydney elects an executive,
and then, to pacify the defeated and make
the honors go round, it elects a second or
alternative executive, which is to nil the
vacancy if the first executive falls over a
precipice. Tired of waiting for the crown,
the second crowd has rounded on the first
crowd, and has issued a manifesto declaring,
among other things, that “the use of faked
roll-books, faked tickets and faked pence-
cards has become so common that it is pos-
sible for a candidate in a pre-selection ballot
to poll more votes than in a general elec-
tion.” “The evidence over a period of years,”
said the letter of accusation, “shows that
the system has been adroitly misused ever
since its inception,” and that was 33 years
ago. The public ballot being as pure and
crook-proof as anything mundane can be.
the early fakers devised the plan of practi-
cally superseding it by a private ballot at
which every kind of scoundrelism was pos-
sible, and they have been allowed to con-
tinue doing so ever since. The attitude taken
up has been that it is the party’s business
how it chooses its own candidates, and that
it is its own affair if its methods give the
best chance to the worst scoundrel. Unfor-
tunately the party is also choosing the
nation’s law-makers and putting the scoun-
drels in the nation’s Ministry, and that
makes the matter everybody’s concern. A
hackneyed saying is to the effect that the
only way that the party can be reformed is
from within, and it is likewise best for the
burglar to be reformed from within; but,
as a rule, any little reformation that may
be effected is commenced by the policeman
from without. In this connection the public
has two carking suspicions, and it is hard
to say which carks most. One is that many
of the. reformers in the party are just as bad
as the unreformed, only more disappointed.
It is difficult to imagine how genuine reform-
ers can get in under such conditions. The
other suspicion is that, even if .the party was
mended ever so beautifully by its own efforts,
it wouldn’t stay mended without strenuous
and constant outside supervision. Where-
fore it behoves the Government, some day
when there is a Premier who is something
more than a polite reed waving in the wind,
to take up the question as a matter of public
concern. Most of the other kinds of corrup-
tion that can agitate a politician are affairs
of minor importance by comparison. Some
alternative suggestions for dealing with the
case follow:
That the pie-selection ballot be conducted under
the same strict ofiicial supervision as the election
ballot. Corruption of any serious nature to be
punished by the disqualification of the corruptionist,
as member and elector, for any period from five
years to life.
That all pre-selected candidates be disqualified
for any period from five years to life.
That any person holding, or professing to hold, a
pre-selection ballot, at any time or place, or on
behalf of any party, or conniving at the same, or
aiding and abetting the same, or making apparatus
for the same, with or without sliding panels, or
false bottom or top or sides, or with or without
bogus inside or sham outside, or any person being
cognisant of the same and not informing the police
within 24 hours, to be, in the same manner, disquali-
fied for not less than five years, and not more than
life.
That disqualified persons who resume business
under false names and descriptions be fined a large
sum and imprisoned for a long time in default.
Pre-selection was invented, ostensibly at
least, to prevent a multiplicity of candidates
and a splitting of votes. The preferential sys-
tem has made it of little importance bow
numerous candidates may be. But pre-
selection lingers because it is a most valuable
aid to the rich crook who can buy votes,
and the ingenious crook who can manufac-
ture votes. It is not the least use to the
kind of man whom the country wants, but
for helping in the kind of man whom the
country doesn’t want, and wlio would other-
wise have no chance, it is a wonder, and it
can hardly be hit with too much emphasis.
>
Fifty-bushel Crops.
The average Australian wheat yield, year
in and year out, is a trifle over 11 bushels
per acre. Only twice in 57 years has it
shot beyond 16 bushels per acre: in 1866,
when the area under crop was less than a
million acres, there was a return of 16.35
bushels, and in 1020, a post-drought year,
16.08 bushels. At Longerenong, the Govern-
ment Agricultural College in the Wimmera
(Vic.) district, an average of 53.02 bushels
has lately been obtained from 120 acres
sown with Federation wheat. A 99-acre
paddock, in which Federation (the inven-
tion of Faerer, one of Australia’s unappre-
ciated geniuses) was also the variety, gave
48.2 bushels per acre; another, of 48.4 acres,
produced 36.2 bushels p.a.; and 54.8 acres,
in which Wannon was the strain, returned
46.8 bushels p.a. Including small field
areas and half-acre seed plots, 371 acres
were cropped for an average yield of 47.4
bushels. The rainfall for the year was 15.85
inches, 11 inches being registered between
June 1 and November 30. If 53 bushels
p.a. can be got on that rainfall from 120
acres of cultivation, how is it the general
average for the continent is so low? Pos-
sibly the heavy black soils of the Wimmera
are better for wheat-growing than the stiff
red clays and sandy loams in other parts, but
they can’t be three or four times more fer-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
FUNDS EXCEED £875,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT and PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, J.P., Governing Director.
t Representatives wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
tile. That certainly is not the explanation.
Nor is Longerenong a lone exception, an
isolated patch of productiveness; yields as
high, and higher, are reported from Dookie
and other Victorian districts. In the main,
these rich returns are attributable to sound
farming. The principal of Longerenong
ascribes his 47-bushel average to “good culti-
vation with suitable appliances, the using
of the best selected strains and a heavier
dressing of superphosphate,” and is confident
that “the already high average obtained in
the Wimmera can be still further increased.”
It is noteworthy that all his plots were
manured with 1401 b. of super. The scratch-
it-in cocky, who cultivates the same ground
year after year, and whose scanty crops
are foul with weeds, is satisfied with 401 b.
There are too many such cockies fool-
ing around unpayable farms. Practically
all of them lean heavily on the Government
for grants or loans or contributions in kind.
It ought to be made a condition of all such
advances that the beneficiary should adopt
Wimmera methods or get out of the busi-
ness, Wimmera methods comprising well-
worked fallow, pure seed and heavy applica-
tions of manure —mainly super., in the manu-
facture of which thousands of flour-consum-
ing Australian workmen are employed.
♦
Cotton Growing in Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —Besides the question of
ratooning, that of ginning deeply interests the
Australian cotton-grower. llow should that
operation be done—by large central nests of
gins or on the farms? Certainly the grower
is under an obligation to the co. which has
stepped in and provided ginning facilities;
but it is equally certain that the industry
must seek the cheapest methods, otherwise
it cannot last. My information is that a 70-
saw 10-inch Eagle cotton-gin, supplied with
a standard drive, feeder and condenser com-
plete, landed in bond at an Australian port,
costs less than £l6O. The cotton-gin is no
more complicated than most of the agricul-
tural machinery the farmer uses every day
of his life, and one of this size can be run
off the farm tractor that is fast displacing
Dobbin. Neither its costs nor its mechanism
is likely to worry a group of cotton-growers
looking for cheap ginning. Last season’s
Queensland crop worked out at 3505 tons
of cotton seed and 1752 tons of lint. The lint
cost the grower l|d. per lb., or £20,440. for
ginning. He also lost the seed without
being consulted, and he was encouraged—or
was not discouraged—in the belief that it
had little value. The monthly report of the
Soudan Government gives the average price
in Hull and London during October and
November last as £lO 11s. 9d. per ton, while
freight on wheat from Australian ports to
United Kingdom and Continent was 325. 6d.
per ton. So that, taking what he lost, and
what he was charged, and allowing the odd
505 tons for planting this year, and assuming
that cotton-seed would be carried at the same
rate as wheat, this is how it looks:
3000 tons cotton seed at £lO 11s. 9d. per ton £31,770
Less freight at 325. 6d. . . . . £4875
Less 5 p.c. for incidentals.. . . 1588
6,463
Net return for seed. . .. ..£25,307
Paid for ginning last year’s lint . . .. 20,440
Total ginning cost to grower.. .. £45,747
This works out at 2.8 d. per lb.; and the
average of 675 tests in the United States
ginned 321 b. of lint for lOd. Taking an
acre, that cost —over the above number of
tests —ss. Id. for ginning in America. The
Australian pays 235. 9d. Regarding the
policy of the big central ginnery owned by
a separate interest, against the farmer-
owned and controlled community one, A. O.
Cook, Bionomist in Uncle Sam’s Agricul-
tural Department, says:—
The public (central) gin system, which gives each
farmer an admixture of his neighbor’s seed, is
largely responsible for bringing the cotton industry
to the present condition, that cattle or other live
stock might reach if the pastures were not fenced,
or if all of the herds were run together in the
breeding season.
On the above ginning costs the shares of the
British Australian Cotton Association
should be good buying; but the agreement
between it and the Queensland Government
expires in July, 1926, and though the co. will
naturally work hard to secure a renewal, the
growers will by that time have learned some-
thing more about the business, and a harder
bargain will certainly be driven by their re-
presentatives.—Yours, etc., Cleveland.
♦
New Bosses.
When the Commonwealth Parliament re-
turns to work next month the operations of
the Tariff Board, as disclosed in its own an-
nouncements and in the legitimate protests
of Australian manufacturers, will have to be
seriously reviewed. More especially the ex-
traordinary proceedings of this excrescence
on the Constitution regarding the Sydney
Harbor Bridge. When the N. S. Wales
Government invited tenders for the bridge
(the Act says that Australian material must
be used wherever practicable) there were
duties of 45 p.c. on IT.S. eyebars—huge hunks
of steel which some bridge-builders use and
others won’t have at any price—and of 48s.
per ton on unmacliined British steel plates.
Taking it for granted that these duties would
be enforced, an Australian company pre-
pared designs in which eyebars and wide
plates were discarded in favor of material
which could be made in Australia. The first
shock arrived in September, when the Cus-
toms Department, at the instance of the
Tariff Board, lowered the duty on eyebars to
10 p.c. and placed unmachined British plates
over 30in. wide on the free list. By these
ordinances it removed a great deal of the
protection on which the Australian company
was counting, and gave a corresponding
advantage to foreign tenderers; and it was
then too late for the former to alter its very
expensive designs. In another rush of Free-
trade sentiment to the head the Department
removed the 35 p.c. duty on wide British
plates machined to finished sizes. This
ukase was issued in December, only a month
before the closing of tenders. The effect may
be that a considerable portion of the material
to be used in the bridge will be bought from
Germany. In a thoughtless moment it was
decided that the British preference should
be extended to foreign goods imported into
Britain and re-exported to Australia, pro-
vided 25 p.c. of value is added in British
factories or workshops. In planing to
size it would be easy to put 25 p.c. of value
on steel made in Germany or from German
ingots; hence the duty-free concession may
go to material 75 p.c. of which is German.
Replying to criticism of its astounding re-
commendations the Tariff Board asserted
that “the first and only request for tariff
concessions was made by the N. S. Wales
Government, and the only tenderer that
approached the Board was the English Elec-
tric Co.” Fuller, the N. S. Wales Premier,
promptly declared that no application for
tariff concessions had been made by his Gov-
ernment. The company referred to (it is
English only in name) retorted that its only
communication with the Board had not, as
might be inferred, been a request for favors,
but a protest against the removal of the pro-
THE FIGHTER.
“On the ere of his departure for America, Mr. Hughes was entertained by 200 Sydney business-men
at a two-guinea dinner. Acknowledging that he had always been a fighter, he strongly criticised what
he called the Government’s policy of borrowing and drift.”
tection granted by the Australian Parlia-
ment to the Australian manufacturer.
There the matter stands at present, but
Parliament must probe further if it has any
regard for its own rights. It will be un-
worthy of its position if it allows smashing
blows to be delivered at Australian indus-
tries by a Board created expressly to help
them. Above all, the Legislature should de-
mand to know why, under the administra-
tion of Austin Chapman, an advisory body
has practically been permitted to assume
executive functions, and, in some cases, to
become an unconstitutional court of appeal
in which the decrees of the people’s repre-
sentatives are ruthlessly set aside.
♦
Fetiches and Filth.
From Dr. Nil ;
“Another Health Officer” (B. 24/l/’24), re-
ferring to the handling of meat at State or muni-
cipal abattoirs, accuses me of “decrying the import-
ance of one measure of food supervision which is
effective.” Certainly I decry, not the importance
only, but the efficacy of it. The abattoir system of
the metropolitan area of Adelaide is excessively ex-
pensive and cumbersome. The meat is delivered by
the half-carcase to the retail butchers, after much
delay, in slow-going motor-waggons, after travelling
from six to ten miles with no practical protection
from flies and road dust consisting largely of horse-
manure. Each carcase is handled by many more
persons in succession than those coming from pri-
vate slaughter-yards. I admit the possibility of
tuberculous and even hydatid disease occurring in
occasional carcases from the private yards. But I
deny that these diseases are more likely to be
spread through private killing than through
abattoir killing. Bovine tuberculosis and the
possibility of its being communicated to humans
is—or, at all events, was until recently—the subject
of considerable dispute. But that does not affect
my main argument, which is that the much greater
handling by many more persons and over a much
longer time, and the lengthened exposure to ordure
off the roads, and the long delay in delivering (so
that absolutely fresh meat never reaches the con-
sumer), constitute a graver danger in the case of
abattoir-killed meat than we are exposed to from
meat killed privately, handled by one or two persons
and to a much less extent, and delivered fresh, and
cooked and eaten in that condition. I quite agree
with “Another Health Officer” that it would be
better to disinfect knives in private slaughter-
houses ; and it would also be better to disinfect the
abattoir slaughterers and all the tail of meat-handlers
that come after them. It is more than probable
that some of them are tuberculous or subject to some
even worse disease, and herein lies a real danger to
the housewife who handles the raw meat last, in
its infective condition. And the more people handle
it, and cough on it, the greater the danger. So
much from the medical point of view.
I have already indicated that a “lightning strike”
is possible where a small number of men are work-
ing together in a “key” job which absolutely con-
trols a whole business. In the country towns
(some of them quite fair-sized places) there was no
word of a strike in the slaughter trade when the
Adelaide abattoir drivers cut off the supply of raw
meat without a word of warning. The men were
given what they asked for just like any burglar,
and we may have another strike whenever the gentle-
men want another holiday or a few more shillings a
week.
Lastly, on the general question of the filthy
handling of food, I have, as it happens, had experi-
ence of definite fruit-poisonings—from strawberries—
of a severe ptomaine type, in my own home; and
my late brother, medical officer in a market-garden-
ing district for 20 years, knew of many such cases,
and also of the grave dangers arising from mixing
market stuff with dung.
$
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., of to-day is paying
for the sins of Sydney Ferries, Ltd., of
yesterday; and so are the passengers. While
things were going well the directors, careless
of the future, issued bonus shares wholesale;
and to-day there is a desperate struggle to
pay both the heavy demands of labor and fair
interest on this improperly watered capital.
Had there been none of this stock-watering
there would be no difficulty in paying even a
10 p.c. dividend. It is interesting to com-
pare what a 10 p.c. div. throughout on actu-
ally-paid capital would have cost compared
with what the erratic dividend on the watered
capital has actually cost: —
Amount Amount
Required for Required for
10 p.c. div. on 10 p.c. div. cn
Capital Actual . Capital Actual
Actually Div. Actually Div.
Paid. Paid. Paid. Paid.
1904.. £14,000 £14,000 | 1914.. £30,015 £34,222
1905.. 14,000 14,000 | 1915.. 30,029 32,666
1906.. 14,000 17,000 | 1916.. 30,029 28,000
1907.. 15,986 17,998 | 1917.. 30,029 28,652
1908.. 16,999 23,499 | 1918.. 35,029 38,750
1909.. 18,000 20,000 I 1919.. 35,029 38,750
1910.. 19,960 28,121 | 1920.. 39,747 50,502
1911.. 24,389 28,125 I 1921.. 42,296 47,141
1912.. 26,219 30,417 I 1922.. 45,695 48,733
1913.. 27,500 32,499 | 1923.. 45,695 49,867
Total .. .. £554,646 £622,942
Yet the whole of the blame cannot fairly
be thrown on the directors of former times.
The investing public was to blame, too, for
pushing up the market price of shares until
at one time the dividend was giving a return
of under 3 p.c. p.a. In .other words, the in-
vestor could only get a fair return by extract-
ing bonus shares. And the brokers were not
wholly blameless in that matter —they cer-
tainly should have warned investors that the
price was too high: a thing, by the way,
that most of them seem always much too
little disposed to do. The practical question
now is, Who ought to pay the penalty?
Ought the public to be stung? For the mis-
management—at any rate, the misjudgment
—of former directors? Why should the
public suffer.
*
Woodrow Wilson was one of Sam’s several
accidental Presidents. In 1912 the devices by
which Taft snatched the Republican nomi-
nation from Roosevelt were so outrageous
that the party split. Wilson, the Demo-
cratic candidate, crept in between them with
1,300,000 less votes. In 1916 he was only
re-elected by the vote of one State (Cali-
fornia), and it was the last vote to come in.
The fact that the local party boss had a
grievance against the Republican candidate,
Hughes, was said to have led him to manipu-
late the situation. Anyhow, it was a paltry
majority which gave California’s vote to Wil-
son. The German and pro-German influence
went mightily to his aid. It was on May 1,
1915, that the Huns began to sink United
States ships with all on board, and as the
President was still standing it well on in
1916, the Hun element said he would stand
anything, and was an ideal ruler. When he
was driven into war at last, it was probably
as much to his own surprise as that of his
friends. It is curious to reflect that but for
the friendliness of a British naval officer it
might have been the United States’ war, and
not Britain’s at all. The Kaiser couldn’t
decide whether to let the U.S. take the
Philippines from Spain or not, and the fleet
he sent to hang round looked big enough to
blow the victorious Yankees out of the
water. It hung round so offensively that
the U.S. admiral informed the principal sea-
Hun that if he wanted a fight he could “have
it right now.” And but for the fact that the
British commander said he would join battle
also, which reinforcement made it, for the
heated Hun, a case of declaring war on two
Great Powers at once, he really seemed as
if he would gladly “have it right now,” and
as if he had come for the purpose. Save
for the British captain’s lack of the blessed
gift of silence the Great War might have
been fought to a finish, and to the exhaus-
tion of both parties, on United States soil,
with this episode for a basis instead of the
Sarajevo one. It can’t be said that Britain
earned any gratitude by its act.
- ♦
“Sierra” ; From time to time, almost with
the regularity of the seasons, come reports
of wreckage being cast ashore on some gen-
erally remote and inaccessible part of the
Australian coast. Then follows a period of
anxiety for those connected with shipping,
while a highly-paid official makes an expen-
sive trip to the spot and attempts to divine,
by the size of hatch-covers, color of fittings,
etc., from what ship the flotsam has come.
The result is often mere guesswork, and the
public may be kept in suspense for weeks or
months. This difficulty of identifying wreck-
age might be obviated by having the vessel’s
official number stamped on hatch-covers and
other movable fittings, as well as on her main
beam, A ten-bob branding-iron on each ship
ivould save the community a lot of anxiety
and expense.
♦
“Ivalua” : The Vic. Education Department
is once more crying out for country teachers.
Many of the one-teacher schools out back
are vacant, and have been for a long time.
There are good reasons why. After spend-
ing at least three years at a high school a
young man or woman is appointed as a
junior teacher on a meagre salary, and after
another three years is generally qualified
sufficiently to take up the head teachership
of a bush school. The salary offered is
£156 for males, £l2O for females. Taking
the case of the male, he finds himself deprived
of pleasures, and in enjoyment of a salary
of less than £3 a week. At the same time
he must continue his studies, in itself a
costly thing. After four years of service
as a classified teacher, he receives about £4
per week. He has completed, roughly, ten
years’ apprenticeship for it. He sees others,
unskilled, enjoying city lives and basic
wages, and not called on to spend one brass
farthing on advancing themselves. It be-
comes apparent to the young male that if
he put his energies into some other job he
could earn double the wage. What is he
going to do? In scores of cases he gives up
liis job. Certainly there is a future in the
Department. He may soar to £6OO a year—
after 30 years. He remembers there is a not
so distant future in other walks if he uses
his energies. Thus the Department finds
itself short of teachers, especially males,
and sends out its SOS. It will no doubt
get some females, who will presentlv marry.
The males it will get and keep will be for
the most part decrepits who cannot do any
good at anything else. Another feature is
that progress is not governed wholly by
merit; much depends on satisfying the whims
of idiosyncratic inspectors. And one who
can use the “dirty paw” of the local member
has a great advantage over his fellow-
teachers.


STRAIGHT THROUGH BLOW
uuunvuuuu
& r~S
Type of Many Letters Received.
“Please supply “Jan., 1924.
“One 1 Vz in. Gun-metal Everlasting Valve, Screwed Ends.
We purchased one of the above over twelve months ago, and they are easily the
best valve we have ever used, ordinary or any other make, and we have tried
them all with our Boiler Feed Water. The ‘Everlasting’ has never given a scrap
of trouble, and is simplicity itself.”
GUARANTEE.
The knowledge of what the Everlasting Valve has done warrants us in
giving this guarantee:—
Should any regular Everlasting Valve in boiler blow-off use develop a leak, and not give perfect continuous service for TWO
YEARS after installation, it will] be repaired or replaced without charge, or money refunded, as buyer may choose.
In addition to Blow-off Service, the Patent, Leak-proof, Everlasting Valve is unequalled for any service where a straight-through passage is required
it is made for quick or slow opening and closing, and in any kind of metal.
Our Valve Book cannot fail to interest you.
Reference may be made to some of the largest plants in the Commonwealth.
MANUFACTURERS— GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney
dfdgfhj
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Various big Australian contracts are likely
to go out of the Commonwealth; and if they
do three or four millions of money which
Australian Governments should collect in
State and Federal income-tax in 1925 and
subsequent years will be lost to them. Nowa-
days any sort of Freetrader can crawl into
a Ministry by saying that, Protection being
the accepted policy of the nation, the fiscal
issue has ceased to count. And they se.em
to be crawling freely.
The hearty curse which ex-Prime Minister
Hughes threw back over his shoulder as he
left for his lecturing tour in the U.S. had
much to do with his successors’ alleged mis-
management of the finances. In the first com-
plete year of peace Hughes added, roughly,
£55,000.000 to the Federal debt; next year,
£20,000,000; third year, £14.000,000. Then
Bruce and Page took a hand, and paid off
£5,000.000 to begin with, and no wet hen
could be madder than William at this reflec-
tion on his methods.
In the last year for which there are records
Uncle Sam imported about 441,000,000 dol-
lars more gold than he parted with, and some
people wonder how long his striped pants
will hold out through sitting on so much
bullion. Meantime his sales of merchandise
fell off —probably through exhaustion on the
part of his customers. The loss of the drink
revenue has made a hole in the finances, the
national income is growing smaller, and the
cost of pursuing the bootlegger passes all ex-
pectations. Incidentally, it is reckoned that
there are now 14 million motors in the Re-
public, and in the craving for a time when
every bricklayer will possess his own auto-
mobile and his own skyscraper the simple
ways of the Pilgrim Fathers are being for-
gotten. Rumor has it that the scarcity of
the best hotel accommodation in London is
due to Yankee billionaires who keep their
suites all the year round, so that they may
run across now and again and have a drink
that isn’t poisonous. In fact, TJ.S. existence
threatens to become gilded and artificial —
as it did, somebody remembers, in Rome be-
fore the bottom fell out
A favorite recreation of the Queensland
Labor Government is appointing Agents-
General. Within 18 months or so it had
three —Robinson, Hunter and Fihelly. Now
Fihelly is supposed to be coming back to
nurse a House of Reps, constituency, and
Iluxham may take his place. And if the
Fihelly plans go awry, Jones, who sits for
Paddington, Jack’s old Assembly seat, will
be in the way, wherefore it is already sug-
gested that Jones may succeed Huxham. It
costs about £l5OO to carry a dissatisfied
or superfluous Minister and hjs belongings
to London, for these things are done on
the grand scale. Something might be saved
by making a contract job of it.
Ex-Priminister Hughes will arrive in the
U.S.A. just too late to put them on to his
brilliant scheme for settling trouble in coal-
mines : he appointed a Commission to in-
crease the wages, and then authorised the
owners to take that much and a bit more
out of the public’s pocket. President
Coolidge has already stolen Hughes’s thun-
der. At his suggestion the Governor of
SAFETY FIRST.
“Liberals and Farmers, having contested the Dalhousie by-election on Party lines and presented
the seat to Labor, have again made friends and declared a truce.”
THE COUNTRY PARTY: “We can’t scrap properly while we’ve got to hold on with one
hand, can we?”
THE LIBERAL PARTY: “Yes, and the branch isn’t too safe cither. Let’s knock off and
climb up the tree and have some more fruit.”
Pennsylvania undertook to negotiate a settle-
ment in a big local strike. He disposed of
the task by proposing an advance of 10 p.c.,
which was probably as much as the miners
had any idea of winning; and though the
owners kicked for a few days they soon
yielded, “feeling that they could not assume
the responsibility of refusing to supply coal
after being relieved of responsibility for in-
creasing the price.” Unfortunately, the
effect doesn’t stop there. In the U.S.A., as
in Australia, high coal prices mean high
prices for producing almost everything else;
and then there is trouble if somebody else’s
selling priees are lower.
The first news of the British Labor Gov-
ernment’s work on the unemployed problem
suggests nothing more ingenious than alms-
giving, after the fashion of Dooley at Broken
Hill. Poplar (London) has a Socialist
Board of Guardians, which supplemented the
Government aid so lavishly that people with
a “pull” found it more profitable to be out
of work than in it. Wherefore rates (which
are a burden on the tenant in J. Bull’s
country) rose. The Poplarite whose rent
was 40s. per week paid another 275.
4d. a week rates in 1918; in 1921 he found
himself paying 465. per week rates. When the
rates went on rising higher even than that, the
late Government dug out some regulation by
which it put a limit on the size of the weekly
dole; but the new crowd has abolished all
restrictions and told Poplar to go ahead.
Some Sydney business men are beginning
to find that congestion has its disadvantages.
Property values, in Sydney are those of a
million city ; but, whereas most cities of a
million have a country population of about
20 millions to work on, Sydney holds one-
half of the entire population of the State.
So there is cursing and gnashing of teeth
over the tremendous increases just an-
nounced in municipal valutions; for increase
in alleged value isn’t worth tuppence to the
man who doesn’t v’ant to either mortgage
his premises or shift out of them. Some, of
course, are driven to do it—Sydney Tele-
graph Co., for instance, which is consider-
ing whether it couldn’t produce itself just
as well and far more cheaply on premises a
bit further out of the heart of the congestion.
Prom the Gallery
One of Bruce’s objections to the Hughes regime
was its profusion of motor-cars. When he became
Prime Minister he reduced the fleet and shut up
the Government garage, ordering, moreover, that the
cars were to be used on “business only.” Though
this Spartan ukase was not relished by Hughes’s
former end-men who had been retained in the new
Cabinet, it was duly approved and passed for publi-
cation. Things went all right until Bruce travelled to
England; then the old joy-riding spirit had an
enthusiastic revival. Page was compelled to ignore
or tacitly approve of alleged tours which made a
vague pretence of being in the public interest,
although joy-riding relatives were included. Latterly
the squad of cars which Bruce considered adequate
for the Ministry’s needs has been increased by
two high-powered vehicles, with chauffeurs and every-
thing complete. They will probably add another
£lOOO a year to expenditure on “Contingencies,
a comprehensive term. It may not be difficult 10
bluff Bruce over the joy-rides, but these two
limousines will take a lot of explanation.
Uncle Sam stolidly refuses to recognise
the Red Russian Government until it
acknowledges its debts (the revolution was
financed in part with U.S. loans issued for
totally different purposes) and abandons its
propaganda against American institutions.
Comrade Bull’s recognition of the blood*
smeared institution was unconditional.
The results so far are (1) continu-
ance of the brisk Communist propaganda in
Britain, (2) a statement that the Soviet
Government will “need big capital for a
lengthy period of investment,” and (3) a
cheeky suggestion that the debt due to “the
British bourgeoisie” should be offset by
“the damage done by the White armies in
Russia.” In short, recognition without con-
ditions is interpreted as weakness and
arouses contempt, whereas the resolute atti-
tude of Samuel extorts the respect every-
where paid (and by none more than the
criminal classes) to strength.
Dr. Stopford, a N. S. Wales M.L.A., is
thus reported:—
Where the criminal is sub-normal, the lash; where
he is normal, a surgical operation.
And Bagnall, M.L.A., asked the Premier if
he would “take steps to see that the
judiciary imposed more severe penalties in
such cases” —referring to assaults by sexual
perverts. So Dr. Stopford would lash the
feeble-minded into mental virility, apparently.
In his practice does he flog the cripple till he
can walk as other men? Bagnall’s suggestion
that Judges should be influenced by politi-
cians is scarcely less revolting. It may be
idle to expect politicians to keep abreast of
modern thought. But they might at least
find out why forgery, burglary, sheep-stealing
and many other crimes are far rarer than
they were when they were punished with
hanging or the lash.
Damaging stories of immigration methods
in Westralia are being told at Port Adelaide
police court by batches of stowaways who
come along from Fremantle, and plead they
had to get away because they were starving.
The yarn of Howard Potter, 24, fitter’s mate,
is typical:—
Boot salesman in England, enticed by the stories
told, and came as assistant migrant. Was found
work with a bush-clearing contractor, although pro-
mised farming work. Job finished in three weeks,
and tramped back 160 miles to Perth. Took up
work with a pal on a bush-clearing contract;
about two months away, making practically nothing,
and tramped back 200 miles. ’At a Salvation Army
home, was given for five weeks two meals a day,
bread and dripping. Latterly, had been sleeping out,
on the beach. Got on board the Baradine. The
meal received on the ship was the first for 58
hours.
The Port Adelaide police find work for
these newcomers. But it is not surprising
that the S.M, remarked: “These stowaways
from the West are getting too frequent. It
can’t go on like this.”
Circumstances have forced the Lawson
Government (Vic.) to appoint a special
Board, consisting of Judge Wasley, Robert
Gibson and Thomas Lyle, to inquire into the
train derailment at Canterbury on Christ-
mas Eve. One railway tribunal found that
the mishap (a big smash was narrowly
averted) was due to excessive speed ; another
held the enginedriver guiltless. Now a body
representing the owners of the railways is
to have a say, through a body specially
qualified in law, business and science.
The new Under-Secretary of Health for
Scotland has been talking at Glasgow about
a supply of cheap houses which will leave
the State with a burden of £40,000,000, pre-
sumably meaning that if the houses which
are in view cost 140 millions the odd 40 mil-
lions will be written off to allow of cheap
rents. The schemes are many and difficult
to follow, but if they get under way the Mac-
donald Government should be able to show a
diminution of unemployment for a time.
Then will be the hour for a new election,
and an effort to capture the 116 extra seats
which will bring the levy on capital and
other things within reach.
There surely never was a Avorse loser than
William Morris Hughes. His last few hours
in Australia before leaving on his U.S. lec-
ture tour he spent in snarling at Bruce and
his colleagues, though Bruce was the man
he himself chose for the Treasury, while
most of Bruce’s colleagues are men who stood
by and put up with Hughes for years. He
was particularly bitter about the finances,
though Page has established a sinking fund,
has paid off some of the old Hughes debt out
of revenue, and is now struggling to meet
liabilities which Hughes incurred for no
better reason than that he wanted to get
back to power and pay. Yet there was a
gleam of truth here and there in his grouch.
He declared there was nothing in the Bruce-
Page programme which hadn’t been on his.
It is hardly possible for a Government to
promise (mj/thing which Hughes didn’t pro-
mise at some time or other.
Ramsay Macdonald, in his new book on
“The Foreign Policy of the Labor Party,”
says: “A British Labor Government would
found itself on the principles of Freetrade.”
A misprint, of course, for “founder.”
MARCHING SOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are you listening, Australia ? They are marching
through the din ;
Marching southward from the strange lands and the
war they went to win;
Marching in their grey battalions; marching down
the distant main ;
Marching southward on the oceans; marching home-
ward once again.
Empty are the graves of Flanders, where they slum-
bered yesterday;
Silent are the gentle meadows, where the laughing
poppies play;
Down the rugged slopes of Anzac, and from out the
desert plain,
Come a thousand ghostly columns marching south-
ward, home again.
For the honor of a nation and a fickle country’s pride,
To the northward marched the young men, and their
calls were strange and wide;
For they marched for bold adventure, and they
marched to clean a stain,
And they marched because they loved you and
they’re marching once again.
Are you listening, Australia ? They are marching
for you now,
And the hot blood of adventure pulses not on any
brow;
They are cold and grim and silent from the earth
where they have lain,
And they’re marching with a purpose, marching
homeward once again.
They have wakened from their slumbers with a
vision in their eyes,
With a vision of their country that they did not
recognise ;
And they’re marching with their vision, and a will
that cannot wane—
But the songs they sang are silent where they’re
marching south again.
Marching southward, marching homeward, marching
hard across the seas,
Marching down to guard their country from her
waiting enemies;
Marching for the things they vision, for the things
that stir no brain
Of the living in Australia, they are marching south
again.
Are you listening, Australia? They are marching
down the deep,
With the vision that came to them till their spirits
could not sleep ;
With the vision of a south war, and an unprotected
plain,
And the knowledge of a north war, they are march-
ing home again.
Are you listening, Australia ? They are marching
down the seas,
For their women and their children, and their other
memories:
For the ignorance of statesmen, for the prize with-
out a stain ;
For the unprotected country, they are marching south
again.
N.S.W.
C. MAC.


Telegraphic and Table Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under tiie Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. .T. TONI OY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-CLAJiCOW EXPLOSIVES.
.
The Standard of *Quality throughout tho Empire •
Mono bo I
iamsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safe*;/ Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield Sy 6tem of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the; Largest Steel Koundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings land Forgings of the same Hig;h Quality
that has made the w orld-wide reputation of Hadfiejlds, Ltd.,
Sheffield.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1913. . £33,087 10 p.c. = £32,499 £5BB £119,135
£116,373 of reserves transferred to
capital 2,762
£293 apparently paid as cash bonus .. 2,469
1914.. 34,415 74 p.c. = 34,222 193 2,662
1915.. 34,039 7 „ „ 32,666 1,373 4,035
1916. . 28,018 6 ~ ~ 28,000 18 4,053
1917.. 30,650 6 „,, 28,652 1,998 6,051
1918.. 45,590 74 „,, 38,750 6,840 12,891
1919.. 44,548 74 „ „ 38,750 5,798 18,689
1920.. 52,981 94 ~ ~ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 ~ ~ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922 62,872 8 „„ 48,733 ( Qr>ll ins
Special depreciation, £4628.. I J ’ JLI dd ’ lUS
1923.. 58,413 8 p.c. = 49,867 / orAP ~ ~r .
Special depreciation, £7449.. j 41,6j4
The directors are contemplating the tragic
position of the co. when, the harbor bridge
having curtailed services, portion of the fleet
may be out of work. “In addition to the
usual depreciation for the year,” the directors
siiy in their latest report, “a special sum of
£7449 has been written off the three steamers
recently constructed at Walsh Island and
used on the Milson's Point services. This
provision becomes necessary because the ap-
proaches to the bridge site are now actually
being made. Further provision will be re-
quired when a contract is entered into for the
building of the bridge.” In the previous year
£4028 was similarly taken from profits for
“additional depreciation.” The North Shore
bridge has been talked of for almost
half a century—land subdivisions were
selling. on the North Shore in the
’seventies with the bridge to bait the hook —
ami _ its construction sooner or later was
inevitable. Consequently the necessity for
this ferry management to make provision for
the protection of shareholders’ capital against
loss of business which might be caused by the
bridge was as necessary at the commence-
ment of its career 24 years ago—when it
took oyer the North Shore Steam Ferry Co.
as it was last year or will be next
year. The co. has been in precisely
the same position as any other con-
cern whose continuance in' business de-
pended upon a leasehold or upon rights
which would be lost at some time or other.
By their announcement that only in the last
year.or two has provision for this contin-
gency been made, those now in control sup-
ply the most damning indictment of their
predecessors’ policy of treating profits. The
co. has had wonderful opportunities of accu-
mulating a lay-by sufficient to protect every
penny of shareholders’ capital. In the years
when handsome divs. were paid, the fleet was
steadily built up out of profits, and those
accumulated profits, instead of being held as
an insurance against contingencies, were con-
verted into scrip on which divs. had to be
paid. There were three issues of shares
from profits £20,000; 1910, £30,000;
1913, £116,373. Divs. on these bonus shares
have taken approximately £154.000.
Had the affairs of Sydney Ferries been
conducted with due regard to the probable
effect the bridge would have on the business,
the co. would now be in a position to pay
good rates of divs. on approximately £457,000
of cash-paid capital, and would have had it
supported by £276,000 of visible reserves,
even if 10 p.c. p.a. divs. had been paid
for the past 20 years. At December 31
last £107,000 was in shares in a subsidiary
not directly engaged in the passenger-carry-
ing traffic, landed property had a book value
of £92.276, and the surplus of liquid assets
over and above all liabilities amounted to
£36,079. That left approximately only
£222,000 of cash-paid capital to be covered by
ferries, wharves and waiting-rooms, with a
written-down book value more than twice
that figure. Put another way. at least half
of the written-down book values of those
assets could have been lost and not a penny
of the capital put into the enterprise would
have been endangered. But having capital-
ised or distributed the surplus profits, the co.
now apparently expects the public to pay for
the indiscretion. Besides seeking at the last
moment to protect the bonus-inflated capital
against possible losses, the directors are also
certain to attempt to make the curtailed ser-
vices pay high rates of divs. on that capital.
That opens up a cheerful prospect for passen-
gers when the bridge is open.
A point which must not be overlooked, of
course, is that the original shareholders who
skimmed the cream have in many instances
been displaced by newer comers who, in the
belief that the co. would indefinitely con-
tinue to pay handsome divs., were misled
into paying three times its face value for the
original scrip, and heavy premiums even for
bonus scrip. They may eventually be vic-
tims of the policy of the earlier Boards if
the bridge does seriously affect the business.
However, the question arises as to the extent
to which the ferry services.will be curtailed;
the highly-profitable vehicular traffic and
much of the northern suburban train- and
tram-traffic will certainly be diverted; but a
large and steadily-expanding field will still be
available. The co.’s biggest problem will
be to maintain efficient services during the
period of bridge construction —only recently
the directors found it necessary to order a
new vehicle-steamer. It is questionable,
though, whether when the bridge is open the
fleet will be too numerous for the traffic
offering; many of the steamers now in com-
mission are rapidly qualifying for the scrap-
heap, and their value in the books should
be only trifling.
The directors cannot expect their pub-
lished accounts to be taken seriously.
For the past 12 months the disclosed net
profit was £3Bl less than the amount required
for the 8 p.c. div. But earnings had already
been drawn upon for “usual” and for
“special” depreciation, and for public risk,
insurance and etceteras. ' To ascertain the
true net profit it is necessary to be acquainted
with actual requirements for specific reserves.
In the introductory table visible additions to
reserves are included with profits. An ex-
amination of the liquid position on this occa-
sion, however, tells a story very different
from that presented by the directors. Here
are the balance-sheet figures;—
1922. 1923.
Liquid assets ..£76,575 £77,805
Liabilities . . 69,746 41,726
Surplus .. £6,829 £36,079
Deducting the 1922 final div., last year’s
accounts opened with an excess of liabilities
amounting to £18,104; taking in the interim
div. paid during the period, operations for
the past 12 months resulted in a surplus of
£61,012. So there was an improvement of
£79,116 during the year after paying for re-
pairs, renewals, etc. Only £4 of new capital
was raised, and apparently there were no sales
of assets of any consequence. There is a
wide discrepancy between the £49,486 “net
profit” announced by the directors and the
£79.112 improvement in the liquid position,
and a statement of the allowances for “usual”
depreciation, and also an independent expert
opinion of actual requirements under that
head, would be of great interest to, among
others, regular passengers whose subscrip-
tions were increased in September because
wages were lifted by Court awards,
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.,
wholesale book- and news-agents, paper and
printing-machinery merchants, advertising
contractors, etc.; —
t Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Ended. Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., 22. .t 0,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Gordon and Gotch’s is a very old business,
but the co. has been in its present form only
since 1919. The public is more interested
than it used to be, considerable outside funds
having been got in to finance the expansion
of trading and to provide new and larger
premises. The outstanding feature of the
co. Is the amount which was paid for good-
will (£116,574). In the introductory table
that intangible asset, whose value depends
entirely on the management continuing to
produce profits which will warrant that pur-
chase price, has not been taken into consider-
ation. Not treating it as ffti asset, after pay-
ment of the half-year’s div., the September
accounts showed £67,112 of capital repre-
sented by intangibles. That leaves material
assets with a book value of 16s. lOd. to
earn divs. for eaeh £1 of capital. The posi-
tion has been altered since the balance by
the sale of 77,130 remaining ordinaries,
which were over-subscribed—the issue was
underwritten by the Baillieus and share-
broker John May—and which will make the
whole half-million of nominal capital fully
paid by the end of March this year. On total
capital the amount of goodwill not covered
by reserves will approximate 2s. Bd. per
share. The 100,000 of prefs., by the way,
are preferential only as to divs. of 8 p.c. p.a.
cumulative.
The need for the new capital was disclosed
by the balance-sheet figures :
Liabilities.
„ . , . , Sept.,’22. Mar.,’23. Sept., 23.
Paid capital .. . . £398,600 £422,870 £422,870
Mortgages ... .. 30,500 30,000 31,500
Sundry creditors . . 116,074 108,074 143 718
Bank overdraft .. 195,779 291,173 317,873
Total outside liabilities £342,353 £429,247 £493,091
Freeholds .. .. £70,455 £89,771 £114,598
Leaseholds . . . . 20,787 23,426 24 381
Plant, fixtures, etc. .. 23,302 28,366 39,735
D °? k , ; 1 • • • • 281,405 368,536 375,472
Book debts .. 254,658 282,317 316 075
Other liquid assets, etc. 20,291 12,713 11 154
Tangible assets . . £670,898 £805,129 £881,415
At September 30 the co. owed £493,091
against its own total funds , (capital and re-
serves) of £472,332. Even when all the
new capital is in, on the basis of the figures
in September, the management will be work-
ing on 19s. 2d. of outside money 7 for every
£1 of the co.’s own funds represented
by tangible assets. Trading on the pre-
sent basis depends a lot on another good-
will item—the goodwill of the co.’s bankers;
but as the overdraft is amply covered by
liquid assets (£702.701 of stocks, book debts,
etc., to protect £317,873 overdraft as at Sep-
tember 30), and the values of stocks are
equally as dependable as those of the highly-
competitive softgoods trade, probably the
bank will continue to oblige with necessary
funds provided the management continues to
conduct the business satisfactorily. Never-
theless, such dependence on outsiders is not
always satisfactory; practically all the big
smashes in recent years have been due to
managements having been dictated to by
creditors who suddenly cut short the supply
of cash, and thus restricted operations at a
critical moment w 7 hen more latitude in buying
and the averaging of prices might have saved
a collapse.
Balance-sheets prior to 1922 are not avail-
able, but, like other traders, G. and G.’s had
a reverse during the period of falling values.
For the September, 1921, half-year a loss of
approximately £35,000 was registered; for
the March half of 1922 the net profit was
only £6660; and no div. was paid on ordi-
naries in the second term of that year.
Lately a good recovery has been made; for
the past 12 months £13,696 lias been laid
aside after £33,497 had been taken by 8 p.c.
divs. The same rate on the enlarged capital
will require £20,000 per half-year. The man-
agement reports “continued expansion in all
departments,” so with the new warehouse in
commission and additional capital at work
better profits than hitherto should be ex-
pected : but. unless a big improvement is
made, shareholders should not expect more
than 8 p.c. until the co. becomes less depen-
dent on outside funds, and until capital at
present represented by goodwill is replaced
by assets which will assist earnings. The
widespread operations—the co. lias branches
throughout the Commonwealth and Maori-
land —are a feature of tlie business; and its
successful conduct is dependent always on a
live and watchful control from headquarters
and efficient management at branches.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland:—
Dividends.
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1913. .109,915 23,336 5 p.c.= 32,718 20,000 291,111
1914. .139,553 49,460 5 ~,,41,716 —339,48 S
Further profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land 1
Association £160.571 j- 446,194
Written off premises and stores.. 59,865
1915. -136,387 49,460 5 p.c.= 41,716 491.405
Further profits N.Z. Land Association 7
liquidation . . ... . . £6,353 I rfu
Profit on realisation of old co.’s assets 84,180 f
Written off premises and stores .. 20,533 J
1916. .137,131 49.460 6 p.c.= 50,059 10.000 589,017
1917. .184,978 49,460 7 ~ ~ 58,401 30,000 636,1^4
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 ~ ~66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,228 49,730 8 ~ ~75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 61 „ ~65,000 48,593 723,491.!
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 „ „ 20,000 518,448
Profit.
1923. .'92,583 50,000 4 ~ „ 40,000 521,031
This old co., which has extensive interests
in the Commonwealth, though its title sug-,
gests that Maoriland is its principal field,
has been re-assorting some of its inner re-
serves. An overhaul of the Dominion busi
ness by a new manager in the 1922 financial •
year brought weaknesses to light which the
Board decided to patch ; £65,009 was struck
off the book value of some securities. A
little of the profit made in tlie 12 months,
covered by the latest accounts was also taken
to reinforce the weaker links ; but the busi- :
ness has made so good a recovery from the
slump which followed the war-boom in Maori-
land that the directors now consider that
some of the losses they half-expected may ;
not, after all, be experienced. However,
they are taking no risks; they propose to
continue to store all the provisions in con-
tingency accounts. The extent of these funds
is, of course, not visible to outsiders. Tlie
year’s disclosed profit was only a couple of
thousands more than was required to give
prefs. 5 p.c. and ordinaries 4 p.c., which is
a very mild return considering that £521,000
of visible reserves are assisting assets writ-
ten down to two millions. Even the S p.c.
of the boom war-years was nothinjg to write
home about. However, for many years the
N. Z. Loan and Mercantile had been suffer-
ing a recovery from the bad buffeting it had
in the ’nineties, and two reconstructions
were necessary to re-establish the <jo. on its
present basis a dozen years ago.
Though profits have been -slender* in rela-
tion to funds, the co.’s position generally lias
been fairly comfortable in recenl years.
Features of balance-sheets have been the
large holdings of Government securities and
cash ; for instance, the 1922 accounts showed
£1,487,740 held in that way. To some extent
that explains the small profits, but besides
the reserves assisting the million of ordinary
capital, the management also has the use of
£1,700,000 of 4 p.c. debentures (a million
redeemable at 1024 p.c. on six months’ notice
from the co. and £700,000 perpetual), and
in addition there are 5 p.c. prefs. for a mil-
lion. Having all this cheap money at com-
mand the co.. should be able to' do much
better for ordinaries provided old and recent
wounds have healed. Lately the directors
have been seeking a profitable investment
for some of the spare funds, and a big hold-
ing has been acquired in Gollin and Co., Ltd.,
general merchants, importers, etc., who have
headquarters in Melbourne and branches in
several capital cities of the Commonwealth
and in Maoriland. Here are balance-sheet
figures for the past three years:—
Liabilities.
1921. 1922. 1923.
Debentures . . £1,700,000 £1,700,000 £1,700,000
Other liabilities . . 097,003 690,688 640,531
Assets.
Advances . . .. 3,944,599 3,000,361 2,883,285
Property . . .. 4,377 4,617 1,804
Premises . . . . 269,774 280,290 297,247
Merchandise . . 173,282 144,255 188,755
Shares in other cos. 36,986 36,873 245,686
Liquid assets . . 630,291 1,487,740 1,309,783
Big changes have taken place since the tight
squeeze in 1921. Advances, bills, secured
loans and sundry debtors were reduced
£1,061,314 in two years, and it was in that
group that losses were expected when mar-
kets were dull and land values were unrea-
sonably high. When last year’s final divs.
had been paid there were Government securi-
ties and cash exceeding all floating debt by
£600,000-odd.
Mookbell's, Ltd., who run a string of
coffee and light-luncheon rooms in Sydney.
The co. began with a deficit of £1317, made
up of goodwill £lOOO and preliminary exes.
£317:--
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit,
v, £1317
Dec.,’2o. . £1659 15 p.c. = £1303 £356 961
June,'2l.. 932 10 „ „ 875 57 904
Dec. ,’21.. 1650 15 „ ~ 13 1 3 33 7 567
June,’22.. 1719 15 „ ~ 1406 313 25-c
T?pof»rvpt
Dec.,’22.. 2010 15 „ „ 1750 260 6
June,’23.. 2126 15 „ „ 2062 64 70
Dec., ’2B . . 2846 15 „ ~ 2062 784 851
Sargents, Ltd., the biggest Australian con-
cern running teashops, was built up on Mrs.
Sargent’s reputation for pies; Mockbell’s,
which has steadily developed a big light-lun-
luncheon trade, won Sydney recognition with
good coffees, which patrons sipped whilst work-
ing out chess and domino problems. Kabell
Mockbell’s old business was taken over by
this co. as from May 1, 1920, the proprietor
taking 10,000 fully-paid £1 shares and £5OOO
cash, the purchase price including £lOOO for
goodwill. The public subscribed £lO,OOO.
and thus provided £5OOO additional working
capital. Mockbell gave the public a 10 p.c.
preference for four years. So, far the busi-
ness has done so well that, except in one
term when 10 p.c. was paid, both classes of
shares have had 15 p.c. regularly. Early
in 1922 the directors decided to purchase a
freehold property, and the 10,000 ordinari";
offered to finance the deal were oversub-
scribed. These new shares are called to 155..
and paid capital is now £27,505. The new
■ capital did not nearly cover the outlay on
; premises, and the co. lias gone outside for
the necessary funds ; at first it was working
on a £15,000 mortgage, but that has been
replaced by a bank overdraft. Balance-
sheet figures since the first accounts w 7 ere
issued have moved this way :—-
Dec., Dec., Dec., June, Deo.,
1920. 1921. 1922. 1923. 1923.
£ £ £ £
(Capital .. .. 17,500 17,500 25,075 27,505 27,505
.Creditors . . 1,607 1,123 16,477 1,146 1,288
1 Overdraft .. 765 15,602 11,239
Freeholds . . —.— 23,684 27,606 28,112
Leaseholds .. 2,290 4,115 3,699 3,563 3,283
'•urniture .. 8,218 7,689 7,511 8,101 7,833
.Stock . . . . 4,552 3,309 3,756 4,376 3,358
Sundry debtors 189 227 300 272 433
Public securities
and cash . . 3,662 4,179 4,508 2,767 28
A feature of operations to date has been
that, though divs. on several occasions have
absorbed practically all the profit disclosed,
the, co. has now reserved 4s. for every £1 dis-
tributed. Consequently, after having writ-
ten off preliminary exes., there are reserves
of £854 over and above the £lOOO required
to offset the intangible goodwill item.
Nevertheless, in view of the extent of float-
ing debt (£14,589, including the final div.),
the directors would, have made tlie future,
■especially in these days of high and increas-
ing interest rates, much more secure, if less
had been distributed among shareholders.
Incidentally, the accounts show 7 £1477 as
liaving been written off leaseholds, giving
them a present value of £3283. Nowadays
04 p.c. of all assets is freehold property.
The business continues to expand, a couple
of new’ branches having been opened lately.
The future, of a business of this nature de-
pends almost entirely on efficient control of
details, which is hardly possible without
smooth-running management; at times
Board meetings have not been as harmonious
as they should ibe.


NOW ON SALE.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JANUARY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Aerated Bread Co.
Austral Timber & Patent
Box Co.
Australian Mercantile,
Land and Finance.
Australian Mont-de-Piete.
Bank of N. S. Wales.
British Australian Cotton
Association.
Canterbury Frozen Meat
and Dairy Produce
Export Co.
Carlton Hotel.
Clifford Love & Co.
Colonial Mutual Fire.
Country Freezing Co.
Dalgety & Co.
East Greta Coal Mining.
Eastern Traders, Ltd.
English, Scottish and
Australian Bank.
Federal Building Society.
Fourth Victoria Building
Society.
Invincible Colliery.
Kauri Timber.
Langridge Mutual Perma-
nent Building Society.
National Mutual Life.
Producers and Citizens’
Co-op. Assurance.
Prospectuses.
Queensland Deposit Bank
and -'i-vr Society.
Queensland Probate
Insurance.
Regbtr ; . New.
Sydney Cold Stores.
Tasmanian Wool-Growers’
Agency Co.
Victoria Malay Rubber.
W. E. Smith.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe, on account of its wonderful
adaptability recommends itself for use in many cases
where metal pipe would be impracticable. Without
any ill effects to itself and without harm to its con-
tents, Pioneer Wood Pipe will carry acids, alkalies,
tan liquors, heavy fluids such as sewage, mine culm,
fruit-pulp, etc., as well as water for irrigation and
domestic supplies. Write for our book of reliable
information. It will indicate many opportunities to
save. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray,
V ictoria. — Advt.
Premier Gas Engine Plant For Sale. —2 Units
each 4-cvlinder direct coupled 200 k.w. General Elec-
tric Generator. 1 Unit, consisting 2 Engines each
4-cylinder, with British Houston 375 k.w. 517 k.v.a.
Generator between. Together with Producers, Scrub-
bers, Switchboard, etc. The Plant is in good order.
Good reason given for selling. Further particulars
and specifications can be obtained on application to
The Secretary, Adelaide Cement Company, Limited,
Brookman Buildings, Adelaide. — Advt.
A. E. Broue, Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt,
“Foden” Steam Waggons, “Robey” Steam Road
Rollers and Traction Engines, “Multimix” Concrete
Mixers. Road Graders. “Robey-Leplastrier” Road
Making Machinery, including Rock Crushers, Steel
Moulds for Concrete Pipes, etc., etc. Supplied by
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Macquarie
Place, Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne; 21 Mor-
phett Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington Street, Perth.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Roristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grim wade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Efficient trusteeship is essential
to the safeguarding of your estate.
Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W. Ltd.
offers a service ensuring absolute security and careful
administration.
The whole Capital of the Company—over one million pounds—
is security for the protection of clients.
The Company cannot speculate—its powers are clearly defined
by its Special Act of Parliament.
All the disadvantages associated with an individual trustee are
eliminated—the Company cannot travel, disappear or die.
As Agents for Absentees or Attorneys under Power this Com-
pany will appeal to those who wish to travel, or those who
wish to transfer their responsibilities.
Estates under control exceed £8,000,000.
Make an appointment or write for Booklet.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
25 O'CONNELL, STREET, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building;).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong:,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
8 Great Georg:e Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Catheart House,
11c Castlereagrh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
The discovery of the very promising
Mount Isa field (N.Q.), in which
leading geologists and engineers see pros-
pects of a second Broken Hill, has been
rollow’ed closely by another important
■ ?>. n ? ar Barrow’s Creek, 500 miles north
or Oodnadatta (S.A.). Dr. Basedow “can-
didly admits that the formation is the most
promising virgin lode he has seen and exam-
ined during the whole of his career as a geo-
logist. Two parallel lines of lode have been
traced; the principal ore-body was followed
for 480 ft., showing from 4ft. to 25ft. width
of rich carbonates of copper and lead and
high silver values. At the eastern end the
body recurs after a break of 75ft., and aver-
ages 2ft. wide of “very massive and rich
carbonate of lead, mixed with blue and green
carbonates of copper” for a further distance
ol 120 ft.. The parallel lode to the south
outcrops in two places, and looks like living
down. So far no work whatever has been
done on the formations, but Basedow has
seen enough to encourage him to predict
that, “at comparatively shallow depth, the
mine will reveal some phenomenally rich
ores of copper, lead, silver and, in all pro-
bability, gold.” Assays of samples taken
from the main body went 50 p.c. lead and
18oz. silver to the ton.
* * * *
Hercules was the only Bendigo Amalga-
mated pup to mkke a good showing for the
half-year to December 31. It crushed 5209
tons drawn from all parts of the mine for
and tributors weighed in with
16940 z. from 166 tons. During the period
£oooo was paid in divs., and since the books
closed 6d. per share more has been distri-
buted, making £4500 paid on £6250 capital.
Prospects are very bright: pay-stone is still
showing in the stopes above 1380 ft.; there
is pay-stuff at 1475 ft.; and in the south
level 65ft. below 1520 ft. 4oz. stone is being
broken, and workings both ways show full
faces of quartz. Meanwhile, the shaft has
been put down to 1648 ft. Besides paying
the divs., Hercules has wiped off its debt to
Amalgamated.
* * * *
Carlisle, Bendigo, has stumbled on some
rich spurs above the 1264 ft. level. About a
score of tons per week from them has been
giving the co. practically all its gold, running
into an average of about 950 z. per week
since the New Year. This soz. stuff should
soon wipe off the £3OOO-odd owing to Ben-
digo Amalgamated. That debt has kept the
shares stagnant. A west crosscut should
enter spurs 20ft. below these workings, and
as the gold is going strongly underfoot, there
is a good chance. It is certain that a short
rise will be in gold ; this projected rise will
also increase output from the at present
“unhandy” workings.
* * * *
Four in the old Bendigo group. Constella-
tion, Koch’s Pioneer, North Ulster and
Monument, are gasping for breath. Opera-
tions have been suspended in three of them
until calls flow in or forfeited shares are
sold, and the fourth, Koch’s, will soon fall
into line with the others if the directors
can’t place the forfeiteds. The Constellation
has lost all its glitter. Tributors last half-
year pulled out 872 tons for 2700 z., but
values went so low that towards the end
they all left the mine. The co. put through
165 tons for 260 z. on its own account, and
then shut down because funds gave out. At
December 31 Profit and Loss was £4438 to
the bad. and £1659 was owed to creditors.
North Ulster followed the Ulster reef, but
failed to find pay stone. It shut down owing
£909, and with a debit of £1866 at P. and L.
Monument hauled 84 tons from the 600 ft.
south level, then ran into unpayable stone
and crashed like the others with £266 of
debts and an accumulated loss of £2726.
Koch’s Pioneer tributors won 5090 z. from
880 loads, giving an average of llfdwt., and
three parties are still at work. The co.’s
operations were confined to driving south on
the west leg at 1700 ft. and north on the
east leg at 1740 ft., and though nothing of
value turned up, the latter has shown symp-
toms of improvement, and the directors are
whipping up calls to prospect further. Man-
ager Almond Williams is anxious also to
tackle the Pandora back at 1940 ft., where
tributors got rich returns, in the hope that
the shoot has gone west in the slide to the
Victory back and spurs. At December 31
funds had given out; the co. was owing £llO3,
and P. and L. was on the wrong side for
£4121.
* * * ‘ i •
The Ironbark, Bendigo, is being re-opened
and a shaft is to go down in search of the
Hercules’ big 1380 ft. reef. The new co. is
tackling a formidable task, as 400 ft. of sink-
ing, perhaps a year’s work, is involved. The
only chance of refreshment on the way is at
about 100 ft. down, where a smallish saddle-
reef, worked at the Hercules 1200 ft. level
with disappointing results, should be met. It
is quite possible that this reef will be more
genial in the Ironbark ground, and lighten
the burden of subsequent sinking. AVhat
work has been done on the Hercules 1380 ft.
reef southward, towards the Ironbark
ground, was less profitable than to the
north. Nearly all the gold is now coming
from north of the shaft, and believers in the
“good-piece-of-ground” theory point to this as
a repetition of what happened with the pre-
vious best in Hercules, the Central Blue
reef at 840 ft. In the Ironbark the most
profitable results were got south of the
shaft.
* * * *
At Inglewood (Vie.) a syndicate is giving
the Wild Rose another trial. This show
shut down 40-odd years ago, and was never
looked at again until recently, when Charles
Martin, late of the Ulster mine, Bendigo,
commenced to unwater it. Reaching the
bottom (140 ft.) the party entered the drive
and found 25 drills, two hammers, a rock-
hammer, pick and shovel, all of which, with
the exception of the shovel, were in a per-
fect state of preservation. The mine is in
the vicinity of the famous Thompson’s Gully.
The objective of the syndicate is to reach
the dip and investigate the reef.
* * * *
The uncovering of some specimen stone
at 380 ft. in the Golden Lily at Aberfeldy,
Walhalla (Vic.), has heartened the few sur-
vivors at that faded mining camp. They are
reminiscing of the days when Wilson owned
the Lily, made a fortune, and built the Palace
Hotel in Bourke-street. The present find
is in a winze from No. 2 tunnel, and at a
spot which prompts the old hands to con-
sider prospects in a possible 300 ft. of backs.
* / * * *
A little development co. with a capital of
£4OOO, in 32,000 half-crown shares, is being
formed in Sydney to test the Tumblong pro-
position, Gundagai district (N.S.W.).
Mining-engineer A. P. Penman, whose good
opinion prompted the float, joins the co. in
an advisory capacity. Penman describes the
deposit as a massive formation of ironstone
and quartz, with small bands of slate, which
forms a hill-crown rising 100 ft. Sufficient
evidence is available to establish the width
of the formation at two chains, with a length
of “several chains.” A shaft is down 25ft.
Assays of the gossany-ironstone and open-
quartz formations go from to 3oz. gold
per ton in places, and the general lode-body,
apart from the enrichment, assays sdwt. On
these figures Penman strikes an average of
Bdwt. to lOdwt. for the full width. E. O.
Neve, the prospector and owner of the pro-
perty, is surrendering a 35-acre lease for
20,000 paid shares, and 30 acres more have
been secured by the promoters. As neither
vendor nor promoters receive any cash, the
£l5OO received from the issue of 12.000 eon-
tribs. will all be available for prospecting
and development, and that is considered suffi-
cient to ascertain whether the show is worth
further attention.
* * * *
C. R. MacKenzie, whose good opinion of
Vimy Ridge (N.S.W.) assisted the flota-
tion of the co., has had another look at the
mine. The tunnel has been driven 100 ft.
or so since his previous visit, and No. 3
shaft has been deepened to 60ft. The reef
in the tunnel is the full width of the drive
for most of the distance, with no wall show-
ing on the hanging-wall side. In the shaft,
which is 450 ft. ahead of the tunnel, the reef
averages 3ft. A new find 400 ft. east of the
main lode is also impressive; it is a foot
thick, and shows gold freely. Six bulk
samnles taken from the tunnel and No. 3
shaft averaged 2oz. Sdwt. Approximately
1000 tons of ore are stacked ready for the
10-head battery, which should soon be drop-
ping its stampers. As the ore is free-milling
and the gold fairly coarse. MacKenzie
reckons that the battery should give a 60
p.c. recovery. A slimes plant will go in
later.
* *■ * *
Bribbaree (N.S.W.), 311 miles from Syd-
ney, on the Stockinbingal-Forbes line, is the
latest Sydney gamble in gold shares. The
contribs paid to 2s. have been hoisted to 3s.
9d., but reports do not justify the price.
The shoot is apparently not more than 70ft.
long, and, although an average width of about
20in, is maintained in the winze, which has
now been discontinued, the formation gives
no sign of yielding big tonnages. No. 3 shaft
has been cut down to 100 ft. and has been
sunk 20ft. further in solid country. The
5-head battery run by the prospectors has
not been reouisitioned by the co., which is
seeking another second-hand plant.
N. S. Wales Mines Department’s Bulletin
No. 5 gives a comprehensive review of the
State’s resources and production of anti-
mony, arsenic, bismuth, molybdenum and
tungsten.
* * * *
Giving evidence in the Lake Eva (W.A.)
“oil” conspiracy case, a Mines Department
official declared that “there was as much
chance of finding nectarines on a gum-tree
as of striking oil at Lake Eva.” “Why,
then,” retorted the accused’s solicitor, “did
the Department issue a license to prospect
for oil in such country?” That raises the
whole question whether a Department is
justified in issuing licenses in respect of
areas which are, in its opinion, utterly hope-
less. On the one hand there is the con-
sideration that even a Mines Department
has been known to make a mistake; on the
other, to license a party to pick nectarines
from gum-trees opens the way to fraud and
imposition, which does harm to real mining.
The difficulty might be met by giving the
Department the right to require that every
financial deal in connection with a license
should be submitted to it for approval.
* * * *
More options have been taken over old
shows at the north end of Kalgoorlie, and an
attempt is being made to work up a north-
end boom in Adelaide. Reference to Mines
Department records and an inspection of the
ore-dumps on the leases do not justify hopes
that operations will furnish any bet-
ter results than they did in the past. Adel-
aide appears to be obsessed with the idea
that testing derelict shows is a good move,
but the old hands did not let many good
things slip, and Adelaide would be well ad-
vised to spend its cash on trying new fields.
The percentage of old shows which have
proved payable on a second trial has been
very small.
* * * *
Contrary to anticipations, the decline of
Westralia’s gold yield continues : the January
output w’as the lowest on record for that
month, and only a little more than the Lake
View mine turned out every four weeks in
the boom days. However, returns are ex-
pected to buck up a little, especially as lower
wages and cheaper water and supplies should
encourage production.
* * #
Victor Leggo and Co. are making prepara-
tions to resume work on the Transvaal, at
Southern Cross (W.A.). The ore averages
16 p.e. arsenic and 30s. gold. The original
owners, wearied of separation difficulties,
sold out to Bewick, Moreing and Co., who,
in turn, passed the show on to the Leggos
some years ago. They mined to a depth of
400 ft. and railed large quantities of arseni-
cal concentrates to Melbourne for treatment,
but later on shut down. As an arsenic pro-
ducer it is doubtful if the Transvaal deposit
is surpassed anywhere in the Commonwealth,
but the Leggos have been the only people
who hive tackle' 7 treatme^ 4 - successf” 7 ly.
Lami Rookh, ulias the Rook” (vV.A.),
has turned out quite the reverse of what the
unwary expected from its assay sheets. They
indicated that there was very little poor ore
in the mine, but so far the eo. has been un-
able to get along without calls, much to the
disgust of Perth shareholders who, on the
strength of early reports, had expected good
returns for a srr>Ml outlay
. •* :« K
The old Empress of Cooigardie (W.A.) is
again producing a little gold. This show
was floated in London in 1894, was recon-
structed twice, first in 1896 and again in
1898, and was abandoned in 1912. The pre-
sent owners have been in possession for about
a year, and have done fairly well.
* * * *
The Lewis Prospecting Syndicate, which
obtained some lOoz. specimens near the sur-
face at Mitchelton (W.A.), is preparing to
sink in the hope of unearthing riches such
as have been won in operations on the neigh-
boring Mitchell's mine.
» o a 36
Manager J. Andrew’s opening up or Round
Hill (Tas.) at 80ft. has so far not been
rewarded with payable lenses. Nevertheless,
the show is said to be paying its way. Driv-
ing is proceeding to the west on several
small veins of pyritic ore assaying up to
IOOOoz. silver and loz. gold per ton, but the
seams are very small. Present output is
around 56 tons concentrates per month going
about 66 p.c. lead, 50oz. silver and a little
gold. Good patches of ore are available for
stoping between levels, but Round Hill’s
trouble is that too much mullock has to be
handled to get the rich stuff. Shareholders
have stuck to the show well; and their
hopes lie in the discovery of bigger lenses.
Driving is proceeding in two directions in
the new level, but some months’ dead work
will be necessary before the level reaches the
spot where the downward continuation of
the rich ore-body worked by tributors higher
up can be expected.
« * » e
The improvement in the tin market and
the prospect of a continuance of good prices
are prompting another effort to begin pro-
duction on the Federation, Heemskirk
(Tas.). Most of the plant and equipment
required were purchased a couple of years
ago, but when the tin market collapsed
shareholders failed to put up the balance of
funds needed to make a start. From £20,000
to £25,000 more is wanted, and probably a
prof, issue will be offered to raise the money.
At present prices good profits are assured
on the reserves onened up by J. B. Lewis.
» * « »
Castlemaine Thompsons’ 12in. suction-
cutter dredge is ready for its trial run at the
Lampeli, the Southern Siamese tin proposi-
tion in £lOO,OOO £1 shares, all fully paid, in
which Melbourne is heavily interested. The
co., with the contractors’ help, has put up
a good record: the dredge has been ordered,
built and assembled at the mine within 16
months of registration. Thoinnsons promise
a minimum production of 100,000 yd. per
month at a working cost of 3d per yd., so,
if the plant operates to expectations, Lam-
peh should make a good start in the present
tin market with its ljlb. ground.


QUEERING THE PITCH.
"Dr. Page, the Federal Treasurer, pointed out to the States Financial Conference the heavy loan commitments falling due, and said that, in view of the hardening money market, the absurd competition between the Commonwealth and the States should cease,
PAVEMENT ARTIST PAGE (to the otl.ers): “Here, you’re overdoing it. You’ll never get any sympathy while you’re all cutting in on each other like this. Besides, there’s no room for me!”


A good, washing Dtist-coat
of dark fawn, light-weight Crash,
21/-
Made with Raglan shoulders, open front, side
pockets, belt around body, apd roomy skirt. An
ideal coat for Summer roads. Does not soil
readily, yet launders easily and perfectly. A coat
of most excellent value.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (opposite Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
'
ns
I
Graceful Charm
conveyed by fragrance
A suggestion of delicate charm is the
only perfume tolerated to-day by the
cultured class.
LEPIT
Face Powders
and Perfumes contain the virgin
extract of the famous flowers of Italy
—culled and treated under peculiar
conditions to retain the subdued note
of old-world charm that is so desired
From all Perfumers. at present.
FREE SAMPLES of Acgua-di-Colo nia and Lepit Face Powders will be
gladly sent that you may try these enchanting products.
Write direct to the wholesale dis-tributors: —
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Centurion”: The disciplinary rigors of
the Earl of Cassillis when a town, . major
in France (B. 31/l/’24) recall some treat-
ment a Light Horse squadron-leader was
once subjected to by outraged Imperial
authority. He was in the lounge of Shep-
lieard’s hotel in Cairo, and, feeling somewhat
the worse for strong waters, plumped heavily
down on a sofa, in one of the dim recesses of
that famous house. To his horror he found
himself beside two red-faced, irascible-looking
British generals, who blasphemously ordered
him to attention. “You’re drunk, sir,”
roared the two old gentlemen in . furious
chorus. “Considselfunarrest. Escort, .march
the prisoner off. Left t’n. • Q’tnfircli.”
The Digger marched obediently off towards
the entrance, sobering rapidly as he went.
Suddenly it occurred to him to look back.
There was only one general on the sofa,
and he was fast asleep. A great light dawned;
on the prisoner. He had been drunk enough
to see two generals' where only one was, . but
the general had been drunk enough to see
three majors, and had taken the spectral
pair for a prisoner’s escort. Under the cir-
cumstances the major decided to as-you-
were, and nothing more was heard of the
matter.
“The Deacon”: Don Mulligan’s hoarse
whisper to “Say whin, yer riverence” (B.
31/l/’24), reminds me of the request old
Hannah made the day she broke one of the
Dean’s most cherished possessions. His
beautiful gold watch, the apple of his eye,
the pride of his declining years, was lying
CHANCES MISSED.
LITTLE DARLING (who has been studying
the English illustrated papers): “Oil,
mumma, if you had had me before you
were married I would have picked you
a lot better husband.”
open on the table when the housekeeper in a
dreadful moment swept it from under his
very eyes, and it fell with a crash to the
floor. But the cause of the calamity got in
first. Before the old gentleman could open
out she flopped on her knees howling:
“Yerra, yerra, yer riverence, turn me into a
pillar of salt 1 .”
“E.V.R.” : As a domestic the Island “boy”
possesses one virtue at least—-a surprising
frankness of thought and expression. Back
on a young island in the Yvestern Pacific
last year a crowd ot
us dropped in, per
schooner, on one of
his Britannic Ma-
jesty’s colonial ser-
vants, round about
kai-kai time; and the
official, in accordance
with British tradi-
tions, dragged forth
the best his larder
could provide for us,
including a fine York-
shire ham, all the
way from his father’s
baronial halls, on
which the crowd, after
a surfeit of tinned
tack, browsed enthusi-
astically. No one
needed urging to try
a second issue; but
the dusky butler,
when the question was
put, replied, .emphati-
cally, “No more.” A
repetition of the re-
quest brought the
same reply, whereat
our host burst into
blasphemy. Of course
there was more —it
couldn’t possibly have
all been . consumed.
After wrestling with
emotion for a minute
or two, the native ex-
plained : “Too much
humbug along cuttem
this feller pig-pig,
marster. Plenty feller
fly ’c kai-kai ’im first
time. Now too much
small-feller snake he
stop.” Which' was
simply his way of con-
veying that the task
of separating ham
from larvae was too lab-
orious a proposition
to be tackled twice in
the same day.
AUSTRALIAN ETIQUETTE.
“Easy with the rough staff , Teddy! Either behave properly or
not at all.”
“Macquarie Street” reviews recent cables:
As far as one can judge at this distance, there is
no excuse for the assertions, of U.S. yellow journalism
that ex-President Wilson's family and physicians
concealed the fact of his hemiplegia, / and that he
was signing documents before he left the White
House with “a trembling and palsied hand.” He
signed documents with nis right hand, which was not
palsied. Even his leit leg must have been anything
but useless, since long after his stroke he was able
to walk with the aid of a stick, and could attend
theatres with a little assistance. Another canard is that
Dr. Wilson had a retinal haemorrhage - and was blind
in one eye, as , the result of Bright’s--disease, while
he was President of Prine'etcn:-Univergity (1902-11).
Bright’s disease, undoubtedly,: is ofteri revealed to
the eye doctor, with his ,ophthalmoscope, long before
tlie general practitioner ge'tswiijdf-ofyit, but when
it is "diagnosed by flame-shaped'hemorrhages .and a
peculiar degeneration of the retinal tissue, the usual
lease of life will be no more than ( three or four
years. Dr. Wilson may have had the ocular mani-
festations of Bright’s disease during the campaign
in 1919, or even at Versailles in 1918, but not while be
was President of Princeton. The one statement that
may, be accepted is that he developed facial paralysis
while in the Middle West in 1919 ; this was a warn-
ing. that sclerosis of the cerebral arteries was
advancing. All the attention and care of his doctors
could not ward off the catastrophe that shortly
followed and made him from then' onward a
“broken machine.” That he lived for more than four
years after that is a tribute to the skill of bis
meuical attendants.
* -v- * *
“Skipper”: “Spare Corp.” (B. 17/l/’24)
mentions some queer army orders, but surely
the quaintest of all was that issued bv the
Anzac Corps on Gallipoli. Every
attempt to deal with the
parasites that prey upon
human beings had proved un-
successful. Sulphur bags, dis-
infectant powders and other
remedies had been tried in vain.
At length the A.D.M.S. gave up
the unequal struggle, and Corps
weighed in with the following:
“Efforts to cope with the body
louse having failed, all ranks
are advised to follow the practice of the Indian
troops, and pick through the seams of their
garments twice daily.”
" “Kip”: I don’t know at what age they
admit junior porters into the Vic. rail-
ways, but some of Clapp’s ticket-punching
juveniles look as if they’ve just graduated
from the kindergarten. A particularly un-
sophisticated, baby-cheeked, youth made his
debut at our station some months ago. I
felt sympathy for the child, for his absurd
“long ’uns” and his cap falling down well
over his ears occasioned much , ribald com-
ment. Particularly fearful was I lest he
should be overwhelmed by the evening rush
at the barrier; but soon in his innocent eyes
I began to detect a gleam of authority as he
stood his ground like a man. I watched
with interest his increasing proficiency in
door-slamming, milkcan-juggling and slogan-
pasting. Gradual mastership of these im-
portant duties soon wrought a transforma-
tion; a butterfly collar and a bow-tie re-
placed his former soft neckwear, his cap
was tilted at the angle of assurance, and
when lie spat it was with the brusque em-
phasis of officialdom. For some time he has
been tapping the end of his cigarette on his
match-boi*-, in the manner of the true fag-
addict, but it wasn’t till yesterday he con-
vinced me that his education is complete.
As I emerged through ,the barrier, he button -
holed me, and whispered in my ear: “The
S.M.’s got Snowdrop good. If you put any-
thing on, have it both ways for safety; but
with Tieli up I reckon he’ll muck it in—
straight six or no straight six,” They take
’em young; but verily it’s a fine forcing
school for men of the world.
“P.P.”; One of the worst nuisances on
the Sydney surfing beaches is a woman who
must have been “res-
cued” at least 50
times. She may have
become addicted to the
habit as a means of
getting acquainted
with eligible males,
or for the sheer joy
of feeling the arms of
chivalrous athletes
about her, or for the
mere thrill of being
the centre of a sensa-
tion ; but, anyhow,
there are surf men
who reckon she has
overdone the business,
and on one or two
recent occasions the
work of salvaging her
has involved such a
number of duckings
or the way back that
she has reached safety
looking more like a
drowned rat than an'
interesting heroine.,
The other week, after
one such experience,
the lady rounded on
.her rescuer as an in-
competent' 'b'lrn g l e i
who had nearly
drowned her; but the
surf captain merely
interposed with a
THE RIVALS.
MEDICAL STUDENT: “Of course, nobody wants to say that all
lawyers are crooked.; but you must own up that practising
the law doesn't make.angels of men."
LAW STUDENT: “Quite right. Doctors have the advantage over
lawyers in that respect.”
caustic remark that a woman who required
.rescuing half a-dozen, times in a season de-
served to be drowned.
* * . * *
“Schnorrer” : That quaint sect which be-
lieves that the British are the lost ten tribes
of Israel has been holding a British Israel
Congress in London. Their creed enables
the British-Israelites to claim that Britain
has a divine appointment as overlord of the
earth, and quite a number of Britishers, in-
eluding many with titles, like to think that
way. The “fulfilment of the Covenant/'
according to these, is manifested in Britain’s
predominant position in the world, and in the
fact that out of 30,000 missionaries sent out
to convert the heathen, all but 1900 are
British or American. But such theories are
derided by Jews, whose theologians maintain
that no political domination is implied in the
Biblical passages which give their race the title
of the Chosen; they regard themselves as
the bearers of a religious faith —“a light to
lighten the Gentiles” ; and, \vhile they believe
in the moral effect of maintaining their faith,
they distinctly do not believe iri missionary
effort. Their attitude is that the missionary
effects conversions by working on the emo-
tions, whereas a right appreciation of reli-
gious truths will cause the convert to seek
rather than be sought. Actually, therefore,
difficulties are placed in the way of the
admission of proselytes to the Jewish con-
gregation.
“Runic”: I question “Sammas’s” asser-
tion (B. 31/l/’24) that Gentiles have some-
thing to learn from Jews in humane and
hygienic methods of slaughtering animals
for food. Under the present system at the
abattoirs a sharp-pointed steel stake is driven
into the animal’s brain, and in about 89
per cent, of cases death is practically instan-
taneous. Even should a second blow be
necessary the amount of conscious pain
which the animal undergoes is practically
negligible. The Jewish technique, which
“Sammas” appears to consider exemplary,
involves slitting the animal’s throat and
leaving it to die from loss of blood. Until
the cerebral anaemia induced by such loss of
blood produces unconsciousness, the animal
must suffer considerably.
“A.J.8.” on the same subject:—
The wholesomeness claimed by “Sammas” for
“meat killed under hygienic supervision of Jewish
specialists” (B. 21/l/’24) is purely legendary. There
is not a Jewish specialist in Melbourne or Adelaide
with a certificate of competency for meat inspection—l
don’t know anything about Sydney. The Hebraic exami-
nation of meat is primitive and perfunctory. In sheep
they merely glance at the carcase and examine the
organs. In the case of cattle, the lungs are palpated,
and if any abscesses are visible the carcase is rejected.
The abattoirs inspector not only palpates the lungs
of sheep as well as cattle, but he incises all glands :
tuberculosis may be hidden 'in a deep-seated gland.
If only on the ground of cruelty to animals, the
Jewish method of killing ought to be prohibited.
The animal is dragged to earth with ropes after
long struggling, the head pulled back and the knife
drawn across the throat.
* * * *
“8.V.E.”: “Clicked,” by “William James
Digger” (B. 31/l/’24), reminds me of some-
thing I witnessed in a crowded Brisbane
tram 12 months ago. An attractive young
woman, arms full of parcels, stood near one
of the rear seats which was occupied by two
ladies and. a rough-looking man. Presently
there hopped aboard a cove with a Digger’s
badge whose chivalrous instincts were awak-
ened by what he saw. “Take a tumble to
yerself,” he exhorted the seated male; “we
ain’t livin’ iri; America”; then, truculently,
“Get up and give the tabby a seat.” Get-
ting no answer except a muttered invitation
to transfer himself to the infernal regions,
the Digger grabbed the reluctant one and
pitched him off the tram; still chivalrous,
even quixotic, he followed, and a merry box-on
was in full swing as we rounded the corner.
The lady sank into the vacated seat with a
sigh and said, “I guess my husband will be
wild when he gets home.” “Your husband?”
somebody asked. “Yes,” she explained, “that
was him the soldier pitched off.”
(Continued on page 19.)
THE BALLADE OF A GREAT RENOVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, Heaven was quite out-of-date —
’Twas sufficient the cultured to scare.
Small wonder true zeal should abate!
But there lately died one with a flair
For putting old homes in repair ;
And each angel now urgently cons
The styles with an up-to-date air
’Mid the flowers that bloom on cretonnes.
The place is no longer just “Whaite” ;
There is color enough and to spare.
There’s a cubist design on the gate
And St. Peter has tailorings rare ;
While, a bit further in, one’s aware
Of seraphs, as haughty as ’ swans,
Who pose in sweet attitudes there
’Mid the flowers that bloom on cretonnes.
The newest arrival, elate —
With a cherub marcelling her hair —-
Her holiest longings can - sate;
For none now in Heaven would dare
Mere sheeting and halos to wear.
’Tis le dernier cri that one dons —-
Oh, salvation is quite an affair
’Mid the flowers that bloom on cretonnes.
Envoy.
But, Truth, you'll be kept in your lair
By super-celestial Johns ;
You’d be more than the blessed could bear
’Mid the flowers that bloom on cretonnes.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


ra<z> N>2>.W-
dfdgfhj
Tb<z. pavSSo xxffocvs wwgfki ba. xj&ce. csf
Ca.r tswiioly -ib r <2> oonclu <ftor s will \xz.
Ard doraly C omml6Sioia«(r 6
MORE CITY IMPROVEMENTS.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£266 4 1
Gal Weaver . Cloneurry, Q. .. .. 10 6
G. Chisholm, Lancaster, Vic. .. .. 5 0
£266 19 7
Contributions should be addressed to Tu
Bulletin Oflice. Sydney, and endorse
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
" 1
333
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.. LONDON.
“Shed Hand”: In the days before the
0.1. D. took charge of all reported losses on
the Westralian railways a Perth goods-shed
employee detected the presence of two bottles
in a case of fruit, and at once informed the
correspondence clerk. Scenting a breach of
the regulations the 0.0. ordered the case to
be opened, when the bottles were found to
bear the brand of a local brewery. Leaving
instructions to place the contraband goods
under lock and key, the 0.0. rang up the
Chief Traffic Manager, detailed the circum-
stances, and asked for guidance. Over the
’phone came a surprised voice: “1 >o you
mean to tell me that Perth Goods found two
bottles of ale and did not drink it?” “Why,
certainly, sir.” “Dear me—u-um —-well, fol-
low the usual procedure—sell the beer.” Ten
minutes later the C.C., investigating his find
more closely, found that the bottles merely
contained sea-water. Promptly he got in
touch with the C.T.M.’s office again. “I
regret, sir,” he said, “that the contents of
the two bottles mentioned earlier by me
appear to have been drank, and water sub-
stituted.” “Ah,” came the complacent reply,
“that sounds more like Perth Goods!”■
* * * *
From an Australian at Yale (U.S.A.) :
Professor Gregory, of this University, lately arrived
from the Pacific Congress in Australia with the
news that he was pessimistic about the intellectual
future of the Commonwealth. lie accounts for
PROVING BOTH QUALITIES.
“I know I said I like strong men. But I like brains
as well. Are you clever?”
“Well, I ran that boat aground on purpose.”
Australia’s cultural backwardness by the fact that ’t
is populated largely by descendants of people who
sought its shores primarily to better themselves in
the material sense, and who consequently have be-
come lotophagi, unlike the Yanks, whose Puritan
forebears sought a new world to satisfy their spiritual
needs. Australia isn’t any better in this matter
than it ought to be ; but, after making careful com-
parison, I don’t believe it is a bit worse than
Professor Gregory’s own Republic. Yankee intellectu-
al ism is seen at its best at Yale, where the mental
cauldron is seething so briskly that 80,000 people
recently parted with $240,000 to see the ’Varsity
team push Princeton up and down a small enclosure.
(It was a wise man who made the remark that an
American University is an institution attached to
a football team.) Among other startling Connecticut
achievements is the recent sale of 15,000 bogus
medical diplomas to barber, carpenter and sales-
man “graduates” of the “Kansas City Medical Col-
lege” ; while Columbia has just announced its in-
tention of abolishing examinations, since the latter
“interfere with athletics and lead to widespread loaf-
ARMS AND THE MAN.
“Well, what do you think is the best time for a girl to marry ?”
“The moment the man is willing .”
ing and cheating on the part of the undergraduates.”
Can any Australian ’varsity beat this in the cultural
line?
“The trustees of the Art Gallery in 1916
commissioned the English sculptor Gilbert
Bayes to execute two statues for erection
in front of the Gallery,” the S. M. Herald
says. “It is thought that the cost will now
be about £2300 each. Each statue weighs
six tons.”
On polished stone our eyes may feast.
What matters Art, all said and done,
Since, in the Herald’s mind at least,
We buy our statues by the ton?
* * * *
“Lex” in defence of a maligned race:—
The police have their faults,
but they are not so incompetent
as circumstances often make them
appear. There is the lady who
has had her jewels stolen. Some-
times she is a limelight-hunting
actress, but more often she is
merely in need of an excuse to
account for their disappearance.
The detectives never find the
thief, for the good reason that
the complainant has disposed of
the things herself. Sometimes
they are driven to make an ex-
posure, as in a recent Sydney
case in which a husband com-
plained that his place had been
burgled and his wife’s watch and
rings taken. He told a story of
sounds heard in the garden by
night, and indicated a burst
window-catch; and then the
police pointed out to him that,
though it had rained recently,
there were no footmarks in the
garden. He had appropriated the
jewels himself. The combative
youth who gets into an affray and
emerges damaged usually goes <o
a police-station and complains
that he has been set on by larri-
kins. This accounts honorably for
his black eye. And about four-
fifths of the complaints lodged
by girls against men are based
on imagination—the passing re-
sult of certain changes. In such
circumstances the detectives are
naturally unable to find the cul-
prit, But in order to save the
maiden’s face it has to be as-
sumed, even by a doubting not to
say sceptical family, that there
was a culprit, and the force
smiles wryly when it hears itself
damned for not apprehending
him.
“Gylandah” : A few years ago a convicted
murderer was duly hanged in a M.L. city;
in the next morning’s paper appeared a death
notice intimating that the departed citizen
had “died suddenly,” to the profound grief
of several near relatives. And ever since, on
the anniversary of an event which one would
have thought the family might desire to be
forgotten, there appears a liberal selection
of “In Memoriam” doggerel of a quality per-
haps no worse than the ordinary tributes of
devoted mourners. In the most recent out-
burst the subject is feelingly referred to as
having been “cut off in his early prime,” and
there are pathetic references to “a loving voice
that has been silenced,” and “a true heart
that has ceased to beat.” It looks as though
no man can earn immunity from coffin verse.
“Ex-Dig.”: Signs that people regard the
war as well over continue to multiply, the
latest being a hint that Canonbury, at
Darling Point, may close. Canonbury was
an enthusiastic effort of the Australian
Jockey Club, which bought the fine old house,
and has maintained it as a rest-home for
ex-soldiers who have been discharged from
military hospitals but still need some treat-
ment, as well as for those who have disabili-
ties adjudged not due to war service, and
who are, therefore, shut out from Repatria-
tion relief. The home is not half-full, and
the A.J.C. does not feel inclined to go on
unless there are more people to attend to.
Most of the Red Cross hostels in N. S. Wales
have been closed, following the Repat.
decision to provide a subsidy for ex-soldiers,
and take over the entire expense of one of
the homes for all such cases as it considers
merit further attention.
* * * *
“Flicker”: “Herodot’s” Yankee film-pro-
ducer (B. 24/l/’24) who made Botany Bay
a convict station in the year 1919 was
nothing out of the way. Pick up almost any
American magazine and you are quite likely
to find a story dealing with blackbirding
around the coasts of Canberra, or reckless
doings in the cabarets where the Adelaide
beche-de-mer miners gather to discuss the
Saturday closing of hotel bars. Nor has
New York a monopoly of this preposterous
stuff. In the October number of the Pre-
mier Magazine, a London production, I
noted a story entitled “The Devil Ship,” by
one H. D. Couzens. The chief character
of the yarn, the mate of a schooner, is made
to say: “Kanakas is full of fool tricks like
that [they had been pouring cold water on
small-pox patients], and it makes ’em unre-
liable as seamen; I’d sooner have Chinks or
even Tasmanian convicts for’ard.”
A pint of teafs from the Dry Country:—
It was the best news we had heard since the war.
Take out your map and I’ll explain. Truro to
the north, Balkville somewhere about the middle,
and Clinton to the south —all connected by railway
line. Truro was wet. Balkville and Clinton suffered
under prohibition, which meant that they had to
pay twice the money for worse hooze.
We sat with our tongues out in the only boarding-
house in Balkville, hoping for nothing, but talking
about what we could do with long pints if they
poked their heads in range.
Bob Duggan brought us to life. He was night
clerk at the railway station, and before knocking off
for the supper adjournment his ears had picked uo
a message trickling through on the Morse from the
night clerk in Truro to the night clerk in Clinton —
if the night clerk at Clinton inspected an empty
truck on the late goods, he would find something to
his advantage, to wit, one three-gallon keg containing
beer.
Bob Duggan didn’t have to suggest anything.
Harry Miles and I volunteered. Though there was
two hours to go we took over front-line duty, and
prepared to save the night clerk in Clinton from
making an ass of himself.
When it began to rain in the shrieking way it
can rain down South Otago, our enthusiasm would
have got damp but for the burning thirst inside.
Harry told me of a time he’d been in clink and an
Army Service man said he felt dry enough to drink
beer out of a Chinaman’s boots. Harry reckoned
he understood that sentiment now.
By and bye the goods groaned in for a quarter
of an hour’s stop before she passed on to the
south. The engine-driver took the engine down to
the shed and then we began the search. It was
one of the longest trains that has ever gone over
points. There were K trucks and J trucks and big
meat-waggons and double-decker sheep-cages. Half
of them were empties, but there wasn’t a keg or a
jar or a bottle or a cork in any one of them. At
the finish my hands were raw with feeling under
tarpaulins. When the goods pulled out we hadn t
a spare curse left.
Back in the boarding-house the boys had been
sitting up full of faith and hope. Until they smelt
our breaths they didn’t believe the raid had failed.
They agreed then we had come a crash, and the
verdict of the court before turning in was “a
blasted hoax by that greasy loafing cow in Truro. ’
And they all swore they’d get one on to him some
day.
Next week-end I landed on the truth. It hadn t
been a hoax. The telegram from Truro had been
genuine. The only trouble was that the night clerk
at Walton, 10 miles north of Balkville, was as wide
awake as Bob Duggan that night. He and his
mates made their raid first.
* * * *
“The R.” : Our house was the centre of a
big, scattered Bananaland district, and was
used for all sorts of functions, being the
stopping-place of doctors, politicians, clergy-
men, etc. Once, after the bi-annual visit of
the parson, Mum was bidding farewell to
three newly-wedded couples, five mothers with
newly-christened babies, and some hatter-wow-
sers, when Alf Blank came driving along the
road like mad. With him in the sulky was
the girl he wanted to marry, and breathlessly
he explained how the vehicle had broken
down. When he heard that the man who
tied the marriage knots was gone, he became
so despondent, and the prospective bride wept
so much, that Mum’s heart was torn with
pity. “Unharness and come in,” she said,
“and I’ll marry you myself!” And she did,
too.
* * * *
As told by the conductor :■ —-
Although she couldn’t have been much under 18st.,
•she and her friend had both been allotted top bertr.s
in a four-sleeper compartment, and, inconsiderately
enough, neither of the women who had the lower
berths would swap with her. Half an hour after
the train left Albury she asked me how she
was to “ascend.” I drew out the tiny step-ladder,
and said that if that- - wasn’t sufficient she could
ring for me to help her. At bedtime the tinkle
came. Clad in nightie and kimono she asked me
to “give her a lift,” and I did. Next morning she
told me she had slept “like a top,” but the occupant
of the under berth declared that she had “lain
awake all night.” Then I remembered a remark
made in a stage whisper by her friend in the
opposite top-berth as to what might happen during the
night if the supports gave way. They had settle!
their score against one of the under-cats, anyway.
* * * *
“Haka”: I wish to enter my neighbor's
boy for the strategy championship. He was
sent to the store for a dozen eggs, and on
the way back he encountered another and
a bigger boy who “owed” it to him. He
reckoned that he couldn’t make a bolt with-
out jettisoning the eggs, and that would
mean trouble when he got home. On the
other hand, he reasoned that if his enemy
got to close quarters with him it would be
all up with the hen-fruit, which event would
qualify him for a walloping when he got
NOT HER FAULT, YOU SEE.
“Are you married ?”
“Yes, but—but Eve got a frightful memory .”
home, as well as one on the spot. So, re-
moving an egg from the bag, he stood his
ground, and when the attacking force came
within range he opened fire. Then while
the enemy was separating his face from the
egg-juice, the budding Napoleon retired in
good order. His explanation of the missing
egg was received with silent admiration.
A SENSATION IN WOOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Woop is almost upside clown;
Fear on many faces shows ;
Whispers through the little town
Stalk about on fearful toes.
Shaken is all public trust ;
Nothing in the place seems right :
Half the town is on the bust—-
Soake refused a drink last night!
Most things thought impossible
Now may happen any day—
There may really be a hell;
Solid earth may pass away.
Yet some pleasant hopes are set:
Bilke his debts may pay all right,
And its railway Woop may get—
Soake refused a drink last night l
Woop’s historical event
We’ll recall in future years,
Croaking, wrinkled, grey and bent,
As we chuckle o’er our beers.
Now about the bar we group,
Fearless of the usual “bite”
From the greatest “lium” in Woop—
Soake refused a drink last night!
x.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 GrenfeU
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 0 Bolton Street.
White Horse Ale
THE BEST THAT
MONEY-
7a
Ss
£
£
G- SKILL CAN
PROVIDE
Tboth c? Go. Brewer u
SYDNEY 9
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“O.K.’s” reflections beside a grave:—
The death of John Swanson after a period of
“breakdown” in healtli came as another reminder
that mayoring in Melbourne is an unhealthy occupa-
tion. Swanson was the third within a year or so
to die before his time —Weedon, Hennessy and Swan-
son. In each case there were three years or more
of office to impair a strong constitution, so it
appears that any Gaud Mayor of Melbourne who
hangs on to his job unduly is looking for trouble.
The eternal round of “functions,” many of them
associated with refreshments on the higher scale, wears
out my Lord’s internal works. He is too frequently
compelled to attend to his private business when he
ought to be concentrating all his energies on the
process of digestion and the cooling of his heated
brain. Doubtless they all start the municipal game
with the idea of being strictly moderate in their
appetites, but instead of overmastering the game
they become its slaves, and the path of civic glory
is a short cut to the tomb. And the absurdity of
it all! The Gaud Mayor’s so-called work is mostly
the sheerest waste of time. He ought to be protected
against himself. Years ago Malcolm McEacharn,
who perhaps was of rather finer fibre than his suc-
cessors, candidly bemoaned the foolishness which
had animated him in his striving for three years of
mayoralty and a knighthood. He “did himself in”
at the age of 51.
“Sixenate”: J. P. Slieridan, who becomes
a N.S.W. Acting-District Court Judge, was,
as chairman of Wages Boards, associated
with the most important wages jump in Aus-
tralian history—one that was reflected im-
mediately in practically all industries, and
JUSTICE EWING, who is a sort of day-
labor Governor of Tasmania.
was the chief cause of a steep rise in the
cost of living. Arthur Griffith, Minister for
Works, had introduced the day-labor system.
A Wages Board over which Sheridan presided
was considering the conditions of navvies on
railway and water-conservation works at the
time the change was made; and consequently
the Board’s finding, according to the under-
taking- of the Government to observe wages
laid down by Wages Boards, was of interest
to the Works Department. The “employers’
representatives” on the Board were really
representatives of the contractors who had had
their work taken from them by the day-
labor system, and they immediately agreed
to concede all the union demands, which
meant a general rise of 2s. per day and
many increases of much more. Sheridan,
regarding the agreement as something re-
sembling a conspiracy, refused to sign the
award for a few days, while he laid the
position before the Government, but the
award was duly made, Cabinet deciding that
it was powerless. The employers’ idea that
a big increase in costs would discredit day
labor was not altogether verified by events;
but practically every other employer had to
pay dearly for the trick, with far-reaching
consequences.
Vic. Premier Lawson is not sorry that
Arthur Baillieu, Big Bill’s brother, is going
to Europe for a few months. As chairman
of the finance committee of Melb. Hospital
Art hu r Baillieu
has been a thorn
in the side of the
Government for
the last three
years. II e ha and
got well on
McPherson’s nerves
before the latter
threw up the sponge
three months ago,
and since then
Lawson, as tem-
p o r a r y purse-
minder, has been
persistently prod-
ded for not shell-
ing out more lib-
erally for Vic.’s
principal charity.
E. ,7. Stock, the
diplomatic actu-
ary, has taken
Baillieu’s place
as head of the
finance committee,
and he__is expected
to show Lawson
how to get round
all difficulties in
the way of a more
generous hospital
subsidy.
J. H. PROWSE,
Country party
M.H.R. for
Forrest (W.A.).
Henry Harper, son of Robert, and for many
years a director of the business which Robert
founded in Melbourne, survived his wife only
a few days. But whereas her death was
unexpected, he had been in ill-health for
months, and had lately retired from the
Board. Henry, most capable of the Robert
Harper sons, concerned himself chiefly with
the family business, but was an enthusiastic
civilian soldier, and when he was turned
down for other service in the Great War, did
first-rate work as embarkation officer. A son
and a daughter are left.
When Ramsay Macdonald visited Aus-
tralia in 1906 he was accompanied by his
wife (since dead), who was regarded by most
Labor men who met them as the brains of
the partnership. The same thing was said
about Macdonald’s colleague, Sidney Webb,
who also visited Australia. Probably the
statement was a libel in each case, although
undoubtedly both ladies w r ere well supplied
with intellect. Mrs. Webb, under her maiden
name of Beatrice Potter, had made a reputa-
tion for herself as a writer on social subjects
before she married and collaborated with her
husband in compiling monumental statistical
histories of British industry and trade
unionism.
Gone west at 67, James Blanksby, native
of Burwood (Vic.), where his father, one
of the pioneers of the suburb, owned the
village smithy. As a Primitive Methodist
minister he expounded the Word in the
Newcastle district for some years, then re-
signed, and in the Labor interest contested
a Newcastle seat in the Leg. Assembly, but
was defeated. As a solace the Reid Govern-
ment in 1895 appointed him to the Upper
House, but he resigned in 1901 to become
Sec. of the Miners’ Accident Relief Board,
a job from which he retired at 63. Two
sons were killed in the war —Leslie, who was
a 8.A., and Plarold. also a 8.A., who was
a professor in a S’African school when
he enlisted.
The wife of Sanderson Furniss, the blind
professor of Ruskin College, Oxford, who
is now visiting Australia, is her husband’s
right hand and both eyes. She is herself
a keen student of social economics, and was
sec. of the British Labor party’s housing
inquiry of 1918-19. Mrs. Furniss brings a
sheaf of personal introductions from Dr.
Marion Phipps, a Melbourne girl, who has
become a bright star in British Labor poli-
tics, and collaborated with the Professor s
wife in writing a book on the housing
problem.
South Aus. has appointed a youth of 22
Public Actuary. Leslie Melville (who is
to succeed R. R. Stuckey, moved up to
Under-Treasurer in place of Peacock, re-
tired) comes from Sydney C. of E. Gram-
mar and Uni., where he won numerous
scholarships and prizes. He has been on
the staff of the N.S.W. Government Actuary
for two years.
The Salv’army celebrated a birthday on
February 5, when the 43rd anniversary of its
establishment in Australia was honored with
much banging of big drums. Adjutant John
Gore was the first Salvationist to arrive,
and he organised the pioneer branch. That
was in Adelaide; but the movement quickly
spread in spite of the jeers of the ungodly
and some actual rough handling by larrikins.
Gore is now 78, a hearty veteran, living in
Sydney.
T. Hayes, a militant railwayman, has
been chosen by Labor to run for Melbourne
at next general election for the Leg. Assem-
bly, as Alec Rogers, the party Whip, is
standing down because of frayed nerves.
Having got the nomination Hayes is practi-
cally certain of success, as Wealth, recog-
nising that it has no show against watchmen
and lodgers, prefers to reserve its votes for
Conservative-Liberals in the suburbs where
it sleeps and has its breakfast. The Assem-
bly polling-day may be May 1 or any date
thereafter up till Sept. 15, which is about
the limit, as the present Parliament was
Xiicked on August 30, 1921.
Edward Mills, just dead at Warragul
(Vic.) at 89, was a bluejacket on the
man-o’-war which took Florence Nightingale
to her nursing work in the Crimea.
Dead in Adelaide, at 72, C. A. Unbehaun,
who was chosen in Sydney by the late
Charles Todd as electrician for the infant
telephone system of S.A. in 1877. He had
gained his experience as a youth with the
Bell Telephone Co. in the U.S.A., and re-
mained till his retirement one of the chief
authorities on electricity in the middle State.
Made his last deal, Charles Mulry, one of
the best-known stock-buyers of Central and
Western Bananaland, who was found dead
in his bed at Emerald recently. He was a
typical Australian, hard-faced and convivial;
and a great judge of stock —he had been buy-
ing for Denham Bros, for years. Like the
rest of his clan, he had more than a passing
interest in horse-racing, and some fair horses
had sported his colors on C.Q. courses.
The late Thomas Bragg, of Mungeribar
station, one of the pioneers of Trangie
(N.S.W.) district, was the pioneer of wheat-
growing west of Dubbo (N.S.W.). In the
late ’seventies he raised the first crop by way
of experiment. The success made many of
the Trangie district squatters think of giv-
ing up jumbucks and going in for wheat.
Bragg was a keen student of agriculture and
cattle raising, and judged at many country
shows.
T. D. O’Hagan, who is to be executive
sec. for Queensland at the Empire Exhibi-
tion, is at present Chief Clerk of the Justice
Department. He has been 22 years in the
service, and during that time has private-
secretaried Attorney-General Blair and Pre-
miers Ryan and Theodore —he had a trip to
England with Ryan in 1919. He sports the
1914-15 star, and is popular enough to have
no one grudging him his present jaunt.
“Enoch Blumpf”: Billy Hughes almost
forgave David Low for the pictorial satire
of himself for the sake of the cartoons in
which Woodrow Wilson was smitten. Billy
was particularly enamored of a picture
wherein Wilson was shown as a coy figure of
Peace to whom the Allies were presenting a
mandate over Germany in recognition of his
concern for savage and backward races. He
was also keen on a little study of Woodrow
having some music with his wife in the domes-
tic drawing-room. The tall Peacemaker is
singing, and his missus is turning around on
her seat at the piano to inform him that he
has dropped a note. His reply to the effect
that it was an unfortunate habit of his
immensely tickled Hughes, who, entirely for-
getful of his own claims, pronounced it the
best joke of the war.
“Riverina”: There is a good chance of
Maoriland’s Bill Massey—like Wellington
and Blucher —winning lasting remembrance
through boots. The hob-nailed footwear of
M.L. soldiers were known throughout the
Division as “Bill Masseys” and the title is
gradually becoming universal in the Shivery
Isles for the heavy metal-studded and plated
hoof-envelopers that bush-workers pull on.
From a Parliamentary corridor: —
The ushers at Federal Parliament House miss the
pince-nez and Marcel wave of Brother Michael Con-
sidine. Michael has hoisted the white flag over the
red at his poultry farm at Blackburn (Vic.), there
being nothing in the business of fattening chooks
for the capitalists’ table. He sees brighter pros-
pects in returning to Broken Hill, where he has
become sec. of the local branch of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, now re-affiliated with the Labor party. It is
not difficult’ to guess the tribune’s ambitions. The
Miners’ Federation will have a big say in the pre-
selection for the Darling seat at the next election,
and if Considine wins its approval the chances of
his wresting the official endorsement from Blakeley
are far from hopeless. What Blakeley fears most
is the extent to which Considine may influence the
militants of the A.W.U.
Lawyer J. H. Hewison, of St. Kilda. a
former chieftain of Vic. A.N.A., who died
suddenly after attending the mayoral hop
at Melbourne Town Hall in August, left
£5358. Swanson, his host on that occasion,
is now also under a mound.
AUSTIN CHAPMAN thinks of the trouble
the Tariff Board is going to give
him when the Federal Parliament re-
assembles.
On Feb. 8 William Archer, of Burwood
(N.S.W.), reached his 93rd milestone. He
was a member of the local municipal council
for 47 years, represented the district in the
Leg. Assembly 1898-04, and by running a
good horse or two acquired merit in the
eyes of an older generation of punters.
Hector Ross, who has given up the job of
Sheriff of the Speck, is a confirmed vegetarian
and humanitarian. His worst hours as Sheriff
came some years ago when there was a citi-
zen to be hanged, the first for a long time,
and no volunteer in sight to do the job.
Failing anyone else the Sheriff has to act,
and Ross was mortally afraid. However,
bunches of carrots were vigorously waved,
and a prisoner came forward who was able
and willing to take on the job.
Andrew M. Wooldridge, old-time squatter,
now residing at Goodwood Park, near Adel-
aide, claims to have been the first to strike
water by boring in the Gawler Ranges
(S.A.). That was at Paney in 1865, the
year he travelled 3000 sheep from Buckland
Park via Port Augusta to Streaky Bay.
Wooldridge was so elated at finding the
water at Paney—a permanent supply—that
he rode 90 miles into Streaky Bay to tell
his partner, John Hirst, who was on the
point of sailing for England.
Having spent 18 years in the Eastern
New Guinea Mission of the Society of the
Divine Word, Father Kirsehbaum is having
his first holiday, and is spending it with the
Marist Brothers at St. Joseph’s College,
Hunter’s Hill, Sydney—they are trying to cure
him of malaria. He is a noted anthropolo-
gist, and in pursuit of his science has done
a good deal of exploratory work in New
Guinea. With him from the same mission
is Father Schafer, seriously ill after 10 years
of trying to put the wild and woolly Papuan
on the narrow path.
“Sucre”: There’s a youngster living at
Flaxton, Blackall Range (Q.), just turned
87, who insists on chopping a bit of wood
for his son’s kitchen fire. This terrible
example of Queensland’s vile climate is Sam
Harding, a Somerset native who drank goat’s
milk in Melbourne at the age of three years,
and followed up that pastime by becoming a
cross-country rider. In 1874 lie led in the
winner of the Melbourne Cup—Haricot.
Then he took to farming and met Ned Kelly;
but Ned was in a quiet mood that day. The
cheery old chap swears he will be the first
foot-passenger across the North Shore bridge.
W. A. N. Robertson, Yic.’s chief vet. offi-
cer, who has returned from W.A. satisfied
that rinderpest has been eradicated, threw
himself into the fight with characteristic
stubbornness, and might have scotched the
disease even sooner if he had had around
him at first a full staff with whose capacity
he was familiar. The Vic. Agricultural
Department is now puffing out its chest be-
cause one of its units made good in a crisis
when lent to another State. S. S. Cameron,
the permanent head, is a vet. himself, and
his letters and wires helped to sustain
Robertson when critics were most caustic
over the drastic measure he w'as game enough
to use.
MORNING EXERCISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Prince of Wales, wearing a sweater and
breeches, arrived at Epsom at 8 a.m., accompanied
by the jockeys Duller and Beary, for morning exer-
cise.”
His thoughts are far from sceptres and from crowns,
No fashionable duds his movements fetter ;
In doeskin pants he heads for Epsom Downs,
Swathed is his princely torso in a sweater.
On either hand, diminutive and cheery,
Duller and Beary.
What is’t to them that Baldwin’s shot his bolt
Or Ramsay Mac.’s in office, willy-nilly,
Beside the problem if the chestnut colt
Gan show himself the master of the filly
Whose gallops make to glow with pride and color
Beary and Duller ?
Should shaking hands with Bolshies leave him vexed?
Or seeing navigated from the steerage
The ship of State? What odds to Ned the Next
Whether or no Jack Jones receives a peerage?
The mere discussion of such things would weary
Duller and Beaiy.
Ah! these are safer mates than Mad Prince Hal
Possessed in Falstaff gingerful and pepsome;
There’s scant resemblance ’twixt that roistering pal
And just a brace of wizened jocks at Epsom,
Each, by his name, of calking care a luller,
Beary and Duller!
N.S.W.
I FORD.


Uou •
k
'
■
a
jH
toochebimeidd
ale
Sbang&uwA
«]*jj


dfdgfhj
Deafness Increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
« omcnn Store f o 102 Dakmg House,
LamSOU Servicc Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N Z —John Proctor. 200 High St.. Christchurch
w A.—H. Little &■ Co.. 851 Hav St., Perth
“KING GEORGE IV WHISKY
Acknowledged to be
99
A
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
WJ
dfdgfhj
THIS is
JACK WIENEKE,
in his prime years ago!
He is now making saddles
BETTER than EVER.
Write for new book free.
Cut this out and
post
C/o John Brush,
371 George Street,
Svdney; or
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“FY7”: Since “Biltong” (B. 24/l/’24)
wrote about the Albury youth, Clifford Seholes,
who had been bitten four times by a snake within
a month, the young gentleman is reported to have
been bitten again, and has now been removed to
Sydney for safety. He and his friends claim that
one particular snake which has a “derry” on him
has done all the biting, waiting about, like the Devil
in Holy Writ, seeking liis opportunity to devour.
As the worm has done his work in the paddock, at
the stocks, in the farmyard, on the house verandah
and in the stables, it will be seen that it is an
intelligent if misguided reptile, with a fine eye for
country and a good system of intelligence. To
me the most significant feature of 'the case is
the statement by the Albury medicoes who attended
the youth that not once had they seen the actual
“bites” —these have always been cut about and
otherwise given “first aid” treatment. Further, no
snake has been seen about the farm by anyone
bar the lad. Finally, the young gentleman reports
that he has been offered £5 a week to appear at
a Sydney show. The turn will be dull without the
snake as side partner; but it is possible that the
super-intelligent reptile may follow his enemy down
from Albury.
* * * *
“The Bush Lawyer”: This talk of bush
surgery reminds me of old Jim Chalker, formerly
well known in the Goulburn district (N.S.W.).
When 1 first struck him he was plugging away at
a posthole in one of the back paddocks of Caraga-
bal station. “’Ad a bad time with toothache for
the last week,” he said, indicating an angry swell-
ing on one side of his face. “Couldn't stand it
last night, so 1 got hold of th brace-an’-bit ’n’
jammed me head under th’ branch o’ that wilga
over there, ’n’ bored a hole in that tooth till I
bust the abscess. She’s pretty right this mdrninV’
He sank 40 postholes that day and cut out that
particular line with GO postholes the next. The
day after he was in at the station, looking as fit
as a fiddle.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: The other day the press re-
ported that a man, C. League, had been seized
by a 13ft. crocodile at Five Mile Creek (N.Q.), and
that shortly after the monster was shot and the
man’s body found whole inside its tummy. I, like
the rest of the Abo. Council, was always under
the impression that crocs, carried their prey to a
secluded sand-spit to season it before making their
repast. Now, by the grace of the daily press 1
know they don’t, and that, incidentally, the Council
hasn’t a leg to stand on.
* * * *
“Parama”: Tell “Bouragi” that the
gamada I spoke of (B. 20/12/’23> is not “the
famous kava” he seems to think it is. I saw kava
made 25 years ago in Fiji, and drank some too;
and since then I’ve sampled it in several other
places. Gamada is no more like kava than it’s
like lager beer. I’ve seen the soft-leaved, nettle-
like plant growing, seen it gathered, and chewed,
and spat into cocoanut bowls and gourds, and hung
up in lengths of bamboo and left to ferment (for
48 hours); seen and smelt the filthy mess at the
end of that time, when, according to those ‘most
interested, it was right for drinking. Gamada sica
is the Piper methysticum “Bouragi” alludes to.
That is a climbing vine; but there is as much dif-
ference between that and the gamada plant as there
is between a gooseberry-bush and a grape-vine, or
gooseberry wine and champagne.
“F.A.”: “Yoyang” asks (B. 31/l/'24)
“just how much do we owe to American sheep-
breeders?” At the latter end of last century some mis-
guided sheepmen imported a number of stud jumbucks
from Yankeeland, following upon certain sophistries
preached to one of them during a visit to the
other side of the Pacific. The result was disastrous, for
the Vermont breed, as it was called, caused more bad
language, shed strikes and newspaper talk than any-
thing previously connected with the staple industry.
The Vermont sheep was an animal with a poor
physique, a yolky fleece and as many wrinkles as
a bush lawyer’s argument. He was bred by the
Yanks with the sole object of producing an animal
with twice the normal area of wool on a normal
frame. In the western parts of N.S.W., where
duststorms are prevalent, the task of relieving the
jumbuck of his topcoat was invariably accompanied
by much bad language, and not infrequently by
strikes. Stations known to have the Vermont strain
were fought shy of by shearers who would not take
them on even at enhanced rates. The result
was that thousands of pounds were lost to the
sheepbreeders, and the good-framed sheep were de-
teriorated by the crossing with an animal of poor
construction. Fortunately there is left only a small
trace of the Vermont blood; but old hands will
never forget the innovation.
* * * *
“Gamu Gamu”: Following on “Cobba
Cobba’s” instance of the endurance of' Binghi (B.
17/l/’24), let me give a sample of what the natives
of Malaita can put up with. At Su’u, Middle
Malaita, a lad of about 15 offended the proprieties
with one of the lassies of his village. After his
brother villagers had done with him he would have
been useful as a harem guard if they hadn’t cut
the sinews of both wrists and taken a circular piece
of bone about l lin. in diameter out of each shoulder-
blade. After the operation he walked a mile to
the plantation I was in charge of, and he hardly
winced when I poured the iodine on his wounds.
During the night he cleared out of the hospital
and walked to another village fully 15 miles away.
In about six weeks he was about again, not quite
so gay, but cheerful. P.S. —The lassie was killed,
and, I believe, eaten for her share in the episode.
“F.L.H.”: A very grim suspicion has fas-
tened to a dog in North Queensland. The other
day his boss, while out shooting, sat down to rest,
and laid his loaded gun beside him. The tyke began
pawing the weapon, and it went off, the discharge
lodging in the man’s body. Companions in the
vicinity hastened to his aid, but death came soon
afterwards. Now it is recalled that the same .dog
was out with an abo. servant on a shooting trip
three years ago, and Black Brother was found dead
from a gunshot wound, with the canine sitting by.
Suicide was the verdict at the time, but people
are doubting the truth of (hat finding, and are
looking sideways at the dawg.
* * * *
“The Overlander”: Some drovers have
comical peculiarities. There was Donald Hogarth,
who used to gallop over a likely-looking camping-
place with his ear turned towards the ground, and
if it happened to sound thundery he sought a firmer
spot. And there was old Johnny cake, who always
found some fault or other with the camping-ground
THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE.
MRS. SIMMS (as the new schoolteacher passes): “Yairs, I told ’er all about Simms
clearin’ out with Mother Smith, an about me bein’ took be permonia, an’
about us bein’ sold up last Chris’mus, an’ everythin’ about meself, and would
yer believe it, she didn’t even tell me ’er age! Depend on it that woman’s
got a past.”
when he left it to others to select. Once the cook
took infinite pains to have everything just right,
and reckoned he had Johnny beaten. The old chap
sniffed round, but couldn’t find anything to com-
plain of, and it looked as though the “poisoner” had
scored. Then suddenly the boss grabbed the pole
and turned the buggy right round, saying, “There!
Why can’t you have it pointing the way we are
going in the morning?” One of the oddest of
bovine conductors was old Speargrass, who never
directly sacked a man. When he wanted to dis-
pense with a chap’s services his plan was to put
his cheque in the undesirable’s boot.
* * * *
“FY7”: “W.H.K.” recently asked for
information about a 10ft. 3in. “brown snake” be
killed in the Gilbert (N.Q.) country, and wonders
if it was a record worm. If it was Queensland’s
ordinary poisonous brown snake, it would be. But
tnere is a not-too-common Bananaland python which,
because of its black head, bears the second name
of nigrocephalus, and is usually colored a deep rich
brown. The size of “W.H.K.’s” worm inclines me
to think that he has happened upon one of these
big fellows.
“Fitz” : How’s this for Young Australia?
Jesse Bird, better known as “Mick,” went along
the other day to Wingham (N.S.W.) railway station
and trucked 39 pigs for Sydney. He signed up,
drafted the pigs—did everything necessary, in fact.
And he wasn’t born when they stormed Lone Pine!
NO SATISFYING THESE TENANTS.
MRS. CHELMONDESLEY (to rent-collector ):
“Y’orter be ashamed o’ this room — it’s
full of rats.”
REND COLLECTOR: “Well, what do you ex-
pect for 5s a week—white mice?”
“Akran” : “Austral Yank’s” careful cocky
(B. 17/l/’24) reminds me of one I worked for here
on the North Coast (N.S.W.) when I was gaining
experience at 10s. a week, about nine years ago.
I was turning the separator one morning when I
heard a splashing and bumping in the cream-can
under the wash-up bench. (We always left the
night’s cream under this bench in the dairy with
the lid off.) Looking down 1 saw the head and
neck of a whopping carpet-snake sticking out of
the can. I yelled for the boss to fetch a brush-
hook or something, and he sprinted up with the
required weapon. He made one wild swipe, and
the top piece of the snake lobbed on the cement
floor on the other side of the dairy, the remainder
sliding back into the cow-juice. Blood was every-
where, and I had to put my arm up to the shoulder
in the can and pull out the slimy body, which was
still wriggling. It had a big rat inside when we
opened it up. Did Cowbails throw away that
cream? No fear! I was ordered to stir it up, and
it went along to the factory. For a long while
after that dripping was good enough for my morn-
ing toast.
* * * *
“FY7” : “Broome’s” migrating birds which
were flying so low that they nearly ran into the sails
of his schooner (B. 24/l/’24) must have been very
near land, or running out of petrol. The chief
obstacle to the close study of bird-migration is the
great height at which the travellers fly, and at only
a few places, such as the great lighthouse on top
of Heligoland, has anything like satisfactory observa-
tion been possible. Sleep on the wing is not pos-
sible, and, in any case, it has been observed that
the units of the vast flocks keep up a continual
calling to each other, which is hardly possible :n
sleep. Many migrants, especially quail, land in
such exhausted condition that they may be caught
by the hand, and “Broome” probably ran into such
a party.
* * * *
“Jarrah”: “Walimac” (B. 10/l/’24)
mentions sheep-dogs with bells on. The most curious
group of juinbuck-ehasers I ever saw was on the
Warren River, in South Westralia. A settler had
trained a young ’roo to run with the dogs, and it
often accompanied him when he went round muster
ing. For its own safety he put a leather collar and
a bell ojr it. In course of time it made excursions
into the bush, and everyone was pleased when it
produced another of its species. As the young on-
grew, it too was belled, and when I passed the plate
in 1922 I was knocked sideways to sec one dog
and two kangaroos rounding up a mob of sheep.
“Bad Australian” : “King Kurrajong” (B.
13/12/’23) has me with him when he claims that
the biggest wild dogs in Australia are to be found
in the Australian Alps. About 20 years ago, while
prospecting the country between Mount Howitt anti
Mount Cobbler (Vic.), I shot an immense black-and-
white slut, which appeared to be a cross between
a St. Bernard and a kangaroo-dog. Pure-bred dingoes
have been very rare in that section as long as 1
remember, but black-and-white and multi-colored
hybrids have always been as numerous and costly as
society wedding presents, and calf is as acceptable
to them as sheep or lamb. The hybrid is ten times
more destructive than the pure-bred dingo, and he
hunts over much wider stretches of country, where-
fore the cockies in the foothills pursue him with
maledictions and strychnine. Also the pelt-hunter
lifts up his voice in lamentation what time the
predatory mong. makes the fur fly from one end of
his line of traps and snares to the other.
(Continued on page 2Jf.)
MOTHER HOGAN’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it’s snug at Mother Hogan’s,
This eyrie perch that far
Upon a jagged headland
Gleams like a wild, lone star.
No agent’s boat approaches
Unseen to try the dope;
For hawk-eyed Mother Hogan
Peers through her telescope.
And up at Mother Hogan’s,
When stormy nights begin,
There’s dancing in the firelight,
There’s song and fight and sin;
And good strong grog for fishers
When once their boats come in.
To-night at Mother Hogan’s
They’re shouting, every breed—
Monaro boys, Gippslanders,
And Dutchies, Finn and Swede —
Who’d cross the Devil’s ocean,
Nor care for chart or log,
To drink tier fill, p.y golly,
Of Mother Hogan’s grog.
Oh, up at Mother Hogan's
They lift a noisy song!
Sometimes a big knife flashes,
And fights are often long ;
For up at Mother Hogan’s
The grog is fierce and strong.
MORE URGENTLY REQUIRED.
THE WOLF: “Now, if you vos me, vot vould
you do if you had these peautiful diamont
rings?”
THE, LAMB: “I’d sell them and buy a mani-
cure set.”
Old Chris is doped, but Peter
Has challenged him to fight.
They lurch like yawls; then, haunted,
Chris reels out through the night.
They trace him to the cliffside;
No track or sign is found —
His dazed mate stares, and mutters,
“Py Gott, ole Chris is trowned ! ”
But up at Mother Hogan's
Drunk fishermen are set
To save old Chris’s body—
They know they’ll find him yet.
They always fish for bodies,
And catch them in a net.
They climb to Mother Hogan's—
A lurid guiding-star
Above the damned old ocean—-
And scramble to the bar.
Spurred bushmen from the ranges,
Sprayed fishers from the sea,
They meet at Mother Hogan’s
For one almighty spree.
Oh, up at Mother Hogan's
There’s dance and yarn and song.
If some get drowned, what matter—
Life’s better short than long!
And up at Mother Hogan’s
The grog is fierce and strong.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS FSSON.


Five Reasons Men Give
When They Ask for a Rise
WHY do some men receive
large promotions without
asking, while others must
argue for tiny salary increases?
Day after day, in every kind
of business, the phrases quoted
on this page are used by men as
reasons why their remuneration
should be increased.
With a kind of pathetic faith
they quote them; and frequently
their employers—rather than in-
cur the expense of employing a
new man —are moved by them
to grant them small increases.
Meantime the great prizes of
business go unasked to other
men —often no older; often
apparently no more hard-work-
ing. And the men who ask for
rises and receive pittances, look
and wonder and feel aggrieved.
Have you learned these two
business truths?
OF course, the explanation
lies in these two funda-
mental truths:
First: the man who, by train-
ing, fits himself to produce more,
will inevitably receive more.
Second: executive ability is
a quality so rare in the business
world, that if one concern does
not recognise it and reward it at
its full value, there are scores of
others that are sure to do so.
Practical training that has
proved its power.
In the past fourteen years
250,000 men decided to get the
training for which the demand
always outruns the supply; they
have enrolled themselves in the
Alexander Hamilton Institute’s
These are five phrases that
employers hear again and
again:
1. “I have been here a year
(or more) and have
had no increase.”
2. “My work is satisfac-
tory.”
3. “It costs more to live.
I must have more
money.”
4. “No man likes to feel
that he is standing still.”
5. “The business is mak-
ing money; and you can
afford to pay more.”
Modern Business Course and
Service.
The Institute has only one
Course. Its purpose is to take a
man who has made a start in
business —he may be a salesman
or auditor, a superintendent or
manager or engineer—and, by
leading him successively through
all the different departments of
modern business, train him to
direct the work of other men.
The divisions of this Course
that treat of sales and credits;
accounting and merchandising;
advertising; factory and office
management; company finance
and all the rest —are each the
work of experts. They give, in
systematic, pleasant reading, the
best knowledge and practice of
the most successful business
men.
By serving years in each of
these departments, the average
man could, if he chose, gain this
training by practical experience.
It is the business of the Insti-
tute to save these wasted years;
to provide a more direct path to
success.
Men like these have enrolled.
Among the 250,000 who
have enrolled, we find 40,000
managing directors, 35,000
managers, 30,000 men of purely
technical training—the balance
including men of literally all
kinds of occupation and of every
grade in these occupations.
“Forging Ahead in Business.”
IF you are the sort of man who
wants to lift yourself forever
out of the class of which
there are too many into the class
of executives of which there are
too few, the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute’s training is for you.
For your information a free
book has been published, called
“Forging Ahead in Business.’’
It is not for drifters, not for
boys; it is for men, already
started, for men who are asking
themselves seriously, “Where
am I going to be ten years from
now?’’ If you are such a man,
send for your copy now.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
of Australia, Limited,
42 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Send me “Forging Ahead in
Business,” which I may keep without
obligation.
Mode
ufin*
Name
Print here.
Business Address
Business Position
8.18
Victorian Representative . Box 726 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Queensland Representative ... Box G.P.O., Brisbane.
Western Australian Representative Forrest Chambers, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
New Zealand Representative Box 422 G.P.0., Auckland.


m
m .
W
m
M
m
I
H
■
:
3
m
i
iP
H
H
■
■a
m
■' ■; ■
I
a
i.
■
;
m
■
m
■
: <®
H
SYDNEY.
Management
J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Courtesy and Homelike Atmosphere.
Bed and' Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Wedding Breakfasts, Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas Catered for.
Private Dining-rooms, Spacious Drawing-room.
Your Patronage Solicited.
PERFECTION OF SERVICE & COMFORT.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Svdnev.
Telephone 86141 (10 lines'!.
“Hamer”: “Professor” Morissey, the sur-
vivor of a platoon of snake-men, is now in the
N. S. Wales State Hospital at Lidcombe. Morissey
was prone to the exhibition of snakes in pub bars,
and sometimes forgot them, a dramatic episode be-
ing tlie evacuation of a city hotel which was taken
over for a time by a troupe of snakes that had
wriggled to liberty. Another stampede was caused
in a Sydney police-station when the snake-man
emptied a bagful of wrigglers on to the floor. Moris-
sey made some good money out of his shuddersome
game, and at one time lectured in N.S.W. public
schools; but he has fallen on hard times.
Putting some heads together:—
“Nitric”: “Te Kurri’s” case of two bullocks with
interlocked horns (B. 3/l/’24) is not unique. I
once came across the skeletons of two beasts whose
horns were intertwined ; and I separated two billy-
goats at Dalby (Q.) who had made a thorough
success of getting their headgear firmly interlaced.
Both had apparently been fasting for a considerable
period and duly returned good for evil, like “Te
Kurd's” bullocks, for as I was picking up my
gun after releasing them a double assault from the
rear brought me to the ’shun position with painful
promptitude.
“Belyando”: Some years ago I saw 7 a big bullock
and a smallish cow in a queer fix. The bullock
had his horns round the cow’s neck, which, judging
by its condition, had been embraced for several
weeks. The pair could eat and drink quite well,
and had learnt to get over the ground and logs
and through underbrush at considerable speed. Jt
was necessary to break the bullock’s horns to effect
a release, and this from a distance owing to the
force and accuracy of the heels of the pair.
“Bung Eye”: At Mossmqn (N.Q.) last March I
saw 7 two cows locked together. One had horns
projecting straight forward from the head, w 7 ith the
HE HAD HIS SUSPICIONS.
BOORI: “Funny sheep them new-phella, loss —Mack longa head,
black longa leg; wool like it 'nother sheep."
BOSS: “ They're Suffolk sheep, Boori — purebreds.”
BOORI: “ Baal pure-bred, boss! Mine bin tinkit them phella half-
casks!”
points turned inwards, and she had evidently charged
the other, forcing one horn over and the other
under the latter’s neck, whereupon the turned-in
points made the lock deadly and with no hope
whatever of release. Several men attempted to
part them, but eventually they had to tie both
beasts up to a tree and saw off the gripping horns.
This is the only case of its kind I have seen in
a lifetime among cattle.
* * * *
“Parama”: “X2X” (B. 10/l/’24) evi-
dently hasn’t tried live coral as a wound-inflictor.
A cut in the sole of the foot almost invariably spells
serious trouble, chiefly because minute fragments be-
come broken off and remain in the wound, from
which they are extremely difficult to remove. I
have known “boys” lame for weeks through gashing
their feet while working trochas shell along the
coral reefs off New Guinea and elsewhere. I once
cut the heel of my hand against a ragged clump
of blue-coral. That hand was useless within an hour,
and remained off duty for over two months, during
wnich time my entire system was out of gear and
my skin covered with eruptions of varying shapes,
shades and sizes.
A PLEASANT SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
“Just been listening to Brown's organ recital.”
“Didn’t know he was musical.”
“He isn’t. It’s about his liver and his lungs and his kidneys and his stomach troubles
I’ve been listening to.”
“Spinifex”: I quite agree with “Colub”
(B. 24/l/’24) that there is a bond between domestic
fowls and snakes. In fact, if the fowl happens 10
be small enough for the snake to swallow, they be-
come quite attached —not to say inseparable. 1
once saw a brown snake under a hen; but there
was a brood of tiny chicks under her also. The
principal reason why “snakes are frequently found
in henhouses” is that eggs are also frequently found
in henhouses. “Golub’s” fowls that did not show
any fear of a wriggler that trespassed on their
domain were most unusual. In my experience of
such incidents —and it covers a number —my atten-
tion has been attracted by the peculiar frightened
(lucking and chattering of the birds, especially
the roosters. They make a somewhat similar
(though not half so agitated) noise when they see
a big centipede; but in the latter case they waste
no time in tailing on his neck and making a meal
of him.
* * * *
“Shep” : I never realised what was meant
by the kingly look of an eagle until I came upon a
huge wedgetail caught
in a wire fence near
the Bunyip Swamp
(Vic.). Wedge was
perching on a tree-
stump when he was
disturbed by our
motor-car, and, lot
having sufficient room
for his great spread of
wings, he fluttered
down and got tangled
up in the fence. The
other chaps in ■the ear
jumped out with sticks
and wanted to kill it;
but I insisted that the
bird should be given
a chance. When I
approached him be
looked at me as Marius
must have looked at
the slave sent to kill
him —utterly without
fear. He made no
attempt to strike at
me while I was releas-
ing him, and when he
was free he stood look-
ing at us for several
seconds. Then, rising
in circles, he soared
round our car three
times before flying off.
“Centre”: “Ko-i-Noor” (B. 31/1/T4)
nominates the centipedes of the South Coast as being
the largest in the world with the exception of those
of Burmah. They must be whoppers if they can
beat the chaps I’ve met among the tall timber north
of Gympie (Q.). I’ve seen ’em Bin. long, with
heavy, yellow-green-blue to pinkish bodies that spelt
“poison” as plainly as print. The bodies were a
full half-inch across, apart from the spread of their
legs. There is a red and blue centipede in Mexico
which is supposed to be as deadly as any snake.
Not as long as the Queensland chap by over an inch,
it. yet makes one treat it with respect until a boot
or stick is available. It is about the quickest-
running insect in the world, not counting the silver-
fish, who, as a sprinter, stands alone.
* * * *
“Colub”: Imagination can go a good deal
further than to make an unwounded man believe
that he has been lilt, as described by “Akran” (B.
10/1/’24). Some years ago a ploughman near
Moama (N.S.W.) disturbed a tiger-snake. In the
confusion his blucher-shod foot and the head of the
snake came into contact for a fraction of a second,
and he conceived the notion that he had been bitten
above the ankle. lie began to show symptoms of
snake-poisoning, and became semi-conscious. When
the doctor arrived, six or seven hours later, the usual
stimulants were administered, but that night the
patient died. The autopsy revealed no trace of
snake venom (its action on the heart and other
parts is always well marked) or of a bite. The
victim was an elderly man with a heart already
weakened, and imagination did the rest.
“Spinifex II.”: Will some of these people
who make a practice of running down dingoes by
motor-car (B. 6/12/’23 and 24/l/’24) tell me how
it is done? Do they have specially obliging dingoes
that stick to the road when closely pursued, or do
they go in for a special make of cross-country car?
Or is theirs a special kind of country where there are
no trees, stumps, logs, antbeds, creeks or fences?
* * * *
“Nitric”: My entry for the snake-killing
competition is a big tomcat at Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.). He recently fought a 4ft. green snake
for over half an hour, and refused any assistance.
The wriggler finally took the count after puncturing
the puss twice; but the winner showed no after
effects whatever. The same cat had lately brought
four expiring snakes to the house ; but this was the
first killing actually witnessed. His collection
includes a brown snake, two blacks (one about sft.
in length) and a young tiger-snake (between 2ft.
and 3ft.). Is that a record assortment?
* * * *
“Mag” : The season for cane-beetles is now
open at Proserpine (N.Q.), and the method of de-
struction is simple and nocturnal. The beetlers work
in pairs, armed with a carbide lamp, a tin, a bag
and a long stick with hook attached. A variety of
fig-trees growing on the river bank are the beetle-
carriers, and under these the beetlers light the
lamp and commence business. With the hooked
sticks the branches are vigorously shaken, where-
upon there is a buzzing like seven hives of angvy
bees, and in myriads the beetles dash to the lamp,
where they are bagged in handfuls. As much as
201 b. of beetles have been taken from one tree in a
few minutes, and upwards of 501 b. in a shift. The
price is 9d. per lb. delivered, and planters levy
themselves 3d. a ton of cane, which is subsidised by
the Government —it pays 10s. to the £l. The beetles
after delivery are weighed to check accounts, and
then boiled.
* * * *
“Te Pana” : Hori Tuparaoa, the champion
beer-shifter and billiard player of the kaianga, had
come under the spell of the local branch of the
Salv’army. Within a month Hori was at work and
accumulating an air of respectability. He swore
off everything; and it was a red-letter day in the
Capting’s life when the native signed the pledge.
Then came the deluge. For days it rained, and the
Waikato was a sodden swamp. To balance the dismal
things Hori had one or two. I met him in the
afternoon, rip-roaring drunk. “Kianora, Hori,” 1
greeted, sadly, “so you have broken the pledge!”
“Py corry, no, ehoa,” he retorted. “Te prurry t’ing
washed away.”
“Jeridi”: Shepparton (Vic.) claims a
horned milking-machine with an unbroken run of
16 years. She belongs to a family noted throughout
Australia for its iron waterearts. Perhaps one of
the tanks has crept into her pedigree.
* * ■*- *
“N.C.”: I always imagined Nullarbor
(plain) was a native South Aus. name; but it has
recently been suggested to me that it has a Latin
derivation. Eyre was the first white man to travel the
treeless district, making along the coast to the south
of the plain, while Giles (1874) skirted the north-
ern end ; but, though I have read the latter’s account
of • his trip, I cannot recollect his making any
mention of the plain by name. Can the Abo.
Council throw any light upon the matter?
* * * *
About an expeditious barber
“Riverina”: Like most hot-headed debaters,
“1.J.3” gets badly off the track when he accuses me
(B. 10/l/’24) of saying that the 321 sheep of Jack
Howe’s shearing record were “selected and even
bellied.” If “1.J.3” will carefully re-read my par.
—or get some cooler person to read and interpret
it for him —he will see that I was merely quoting
another man when using those words in my conten-
tion that the argument is never-ending. He will
also notice that I said “there were others his
LHowe’s] equals for consistency.” In misquoting
me “1.J.3” omits the last two words, which, of
course, alters the statement altogether. If it is any
solace to “1.J.3” he can rub his bruised feelings
with my confession that, in common with my brother
shearers, I believe in the genuineness of Howe’s 321.
Why not? Every game produces outstanding figures,
and Howe was the champion with the blades.
Finally, let “1.J.3” ask returned Diggers, and he
will find that the evergreen argument was thrashed
out round camp- and estaminet-fires on every front
where Aussie soldiers fought; so it seems likely that
even “I.J.S’s” fiery remarks will not finally lay the
dust.
“Goolbrai”: I knew Howe intimately for 40 years
and shore with him in sheds all over W.Q., on more
than one occasion as pen mate. I was at Alice
Downs (.Q.) in 1892 when he made his record score
of 321 with blade-shears in the usual week-day run
of a 48-hour week. Five minutes before the bell
Howe asked the time, and when told that he had fi\ e
minutes to go said: “Four and a catch for the odd
score.” He did better —during the last five minutes
he shore five sheep and had No. 6 on the stand
when the bell rang. After his record, and before
putting on his coat, he danced a breakdown. There
were other good blade-men on the board that day
and some good tallies shown. The nearest man to
liowe had 229, followed by a N.S.W. gun with 219.
This bird was a mighty man with the tongs in
N.S.W. sheds, and came over to Q. that year speci-
ally to cross blades with Howe. They met at
Alice Downs, where the Waler lost his laurels. No
assistance was given to Howe or any other man that
day 7 by way of either picking the sheep or belly-
wooling them. The sheep were just ordinary Alice
Downs-bred jumbucks of the time —young flock sheep
nine and ten months old, well grown; no bare bellies
and no wrinklies. They were extra-clean sheep in
perfect shearing order. Howe, who was a sft. lOin.
native of Warwick (Q.), was one of the most punc-
tual of men at his work. He was always on the
board waiting for the whistle, and never left till
after the bell. His keen blade, coupled with his
fine physique and a good automatic style of shear-
ing entirely his own (he never seemed to be on his
top), made him the greatest blade-shearer the world
has ever known. Howe never camped half a mile
away from the shed —he always camped with the
crowd. Only once did I know of his wife accom-
panying him, and that was to Alice Downs, 12 miles
from his home at Blackall. I doubt if Power or
Livingstone ever met Howe with the blades; if they
did they were not in the same class. Livingstone
and Power were both champion machine-men, none
better. Harry Dunn, still alive at Blackall, shore
pen-mate with Howe at Alice Downs when he made
his record. Dick Lane, of the same place, and still
going strong, was overseer at the time, and with
TWO OF A KIND.
IRRIGATTIONIST: "Ah, this paper's got the
right idea —let the thirsty places drink!"
STRANGER: “Bet your life! I am with you."
IRRIGATIONIST: “So you are an irrigationist,
too ?”
STRANGER: “The lest of ’em, sir — I’m a
brewer.”
others stood by watching the world’s record fleece-
peeling event during the final run of the day.
Knowing that a big record was going to be made I
stood by for the last two hours of the run and
watched Howe. Present-day shearers and shedhands
owe more than a little to the memory of Howe. He
was one of the first of the genuine old brigade to
move in starting a shearers’ union, that eventually
helped to bring the wages of western workers up
to the present-day standard.
CASSEES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Earl of Cassillis, who is visiting Sydney,
recalls with interest that the town of Cassilis in
N. S. Wales was named after a great-uncle of his,
who retired from the Navy and took to farming.
The Earl, however, pronounces his name Gassels.”
Upon the map I’ve run it down
In letters faint and smudgy,
It’s E.N.E. of Dubbo town
And N.N.E. of Mudgee.
Here, where they raise their wheat and maize
With gorgeous silken tassels,
They think they live in Cassilis—
I wonder yvill it mar their bliss
To learn they sound the word amiss
And ought to call it Gassels?
I feature them plain-spoken chaps,
Straight-spelling, too, with steady
Contempt for frills. (That’s why, perhaps,
They’ve dropped one “1” already.)
Some force ’twill take such men to make
Eccentric fashion’s vassals.
They’ll keep their simple faith, 1 wis,
And still proclaim with emphasis
That they reside in Cassilis—-
Whereas, of course, ’tis Cassels.
Withal this rural hamlet thanks
To Heav’n might render freely
It wasn’t called Mar-jo-ri-banks
Or even Chol-mon-de-ley.
How these are spoke there's many a bloke
His brainbox racks and rastles
To find. Meanwhile the point is this:
Who think they live at Cassilis,
Nor know its noble genesis,
Cherish a false hypothesis—
They really live at Cassels.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The only
hand-finished
£5
suit to order
in
Australia.
m
Standardised methods, a large clientele, buying
in enormous quantities with its attendant big
savings, are the reasons why Lowe’s can make and
maintain this offer. Without fear of contradiction,
it is claimed that the workmanship is better, the
material is better, and the style is better than can
be obtained elsewhere at the price. Easter is
only nine weeks away. Order now for delivery at
your own convenience.
Materials comprise Fox’s famous No. 99 Indigo
Serge, guaranteed fast dye, and the latest English
and Australian Tweeds and Worsteds. Tailored in
any style. Price £5
Call or send for patterns to Dept. FS.
The Leading Tailors.
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney,
Stores all over Town,
dfdgfhj
ART METAL CEILINGS
■
\ r , , ~ . | , |
.
Jr 7J|
II
■■
*
■
I
OEJ)
£/TTr
Permanent Beauty.
THE artistic value of the Wunderlich Metal Ceiling
makes it an ornamental feature in the home. Such
a ceiling is non-porous, never shrinks, cracks nor
stains; has no weakness of structure jir material, and
retains its beauty permanently. Light in weight, freight
charges are low, and there is no risk of breakage in
transit.
Send for handsome illustrated catalogue, just issued,
which contains examples from the hundreds of distinctive
designs in which the Wunderlich Metal Ceiling is made.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Head Office: BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, N.S.W.
Showrooms: Baptist St., Redfern, & 53 Hunter St., Newcastle.
Melbourne—243 Collins St. Brisbane: Amelia St., Valley.
lerth-Lord Street. Adelaide: 113-119 Currie St.
Hobart: 139 Macquarie St. Launceston: 11 St. John St.
COPYRIGHT
DOUBLE
•' f
1
GRIP
PARIS
CARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
You’ll like these double-grip
PARIS if you’re on your feet a
lot —at work or play.
Lovers of sport and men of
action prefer them for their
double security and extreme
ease.
Whichever of the styles illus-
trated you prefer, be certain to
get the genuine PARIS. They
will hold your hose put, set your
mind at rest and give your legs
real evidence of ease efficiency.
" 3,000 Hours of Solid Comfort”
Obtainable Men’s Stores Everywhere
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
326 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
SINGLE
mm
m
m
u
GRIP
HOLEPROOF
SILK SOCKS
Sold by Leading Mercers Everywhere.


Charles
Vintage 1914
GMrtMW
NE PLUS ULTRA
K T'M
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
SILVER PRESENTATION SETS.
Useful Articles in Ster-
ling Silver, suitable for
Christening and Birthday
Gifts, including Cups,
Bowls, Spoons and Forks,
Serviette Rings, etc., at
Reasonable Rates.
Goods forwarded on
approval.
I
w
m
k
Also an Incomparable
Stock op Silver Cups
and Bowls in the newest
designs. Designs and
Prices submitted on
APPLICATION.
Special Discounts to
Presentation Committees.
Solid Silver Engine-turned Mug, £ 5 0
WILLIAM FARMER &C 9 IT?
<Jewelters. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
2%e * ‘NUGGET”
Tan, Dark Tan and Nigger Brown
BOOT POLISHES
Are as Good ns the Famous Black,
WATERPROOF
Polish
Unequalled
TRADE
REGIS
MARK
TERED
Leather froW^
Patent, Glace Kid, Box,
.Calf AND OTHER Leathers,
WEIGHT WHEN PACKED
KOZS.NET
Which is Better than Ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
forfumos
Soaps
[?]ders
February, month of hot days and languor-
ous nights, has brought a new diversion for
jazz-fevered limbs. The craze now, with the
near-young and the not-quite-old, is to dine,
play a hand or two of bridge, drift on to a
dance, swing an active shoe till the small
hours, then motor to the nearest beach, and
keep tryst with the seventh breaker in the
hour preceding dawn. It is, of course, only
for the rich, who save thousands a year by
running a stud of motor-cars, and are not to
be emulated by the working-class, who thrift-
lessly ride in tram-cars all the year round.
One of the biggest tea-cup assemblies of
the week was held at the Mary Elizabeth in
the interests of the Royal Hospital for
Women. After the good old brew had gone
coursing through Everybody’s veins, and
Everybody’s brain-cells had been tittilated
into action, a brilliant campaign for another
year’s hold-up of the public was mapped out.
“When the tannin is in, the wisdom is out,”
as Mrs. Hemans said; so the air fairly
crackled with suggestions for matinees and
fetes and “weeks.” A nutty effort in the hos-
pital grounds is the day-dream of Matron
Clarke, with firemen, policemen, girl guides
and other uniformed personages joining forces,
and with the simplicity of little children pluck-
ing the defenceless visitor of his last three-
penny bit. Mrs. Pitt Rivers has promised
to again, if possible, disguise herself as
Sarah Siddons or Mrs. Patrick Campbell in
the interests of the institution ; failing this,
the G.-G.’s lady has given her bond to con-
jure up a ball or something such. The new
Viking is to be roped in to launch an appeal,
and that good old standby, a ball at the
Palais, is scheduled for May.
Between the freshening showers of an
evening last week Margot Cowan, of North
Sydney, and James Sewell Symington were
made one in the old North Shore Church of
St. Thomas. A verger who looked like an
Oxford don waved friends of bride and ’groom
to their respective sides of the aisle. The
organ thundered and wailed through a
lengthy repertoire. The sisters of the bride,
Theo and Ethel, in old-fashioned frocks of
rose and lilac, bouqueted and black-liatted,
took their places in the front pew. The last
guest arrived. Half-past seven, the appointed
hour, passed. Twenty to eight came. The
organ stopped pealing. The quarter struck.
Then the Voice poured out its flood; and
Margot, looking rather like a magnolia,
trailed her blushing georgettes and tulle veil-
ing up to the altar steps, the arm that wasn’t
linked through her brother’s steadying a
sheaf of white roses and carnations.
There were no bridesmaids, but Mrs. Allard
sang while the principals were putting their
marks to the lines in the vestry. Afterwards
Theo and Ethel hostessed the cake-cutting at
the Lido, where about 50 intimate friends
jazzed the night away, breaking off to shower
bushels of rose leaves over the newly-weds
as they tried to soar unobserved from terra
firma to the honeymoon. Their particular
camp on this delectable estate is pitched in
Leura. Gavutu, in the Solomon Islands, is
the home address on the bride’s cabin-trunk.
Gordon, ex-soldier son of the medical
Studdys, of North Shore, is going to have
his bit of Australia, outside Gunnedah,
turned into Eden before the year is out by
Jean Colwell, the slim daughter of the
Rozelle padre.
Another brother of Dr. Isabel Ormiston
extended his neck cheerfully for the yoke the
other day. He is the second of the family
to marry in a fortnight; and again St.
Philip’s was the scene. The principals of
last week's event were Young Ormiston, who
grows wheat at Gunnedah, and pretty Elsie
Cobley, of the same district. She wore cool
sand-colored crepe Romain while promising
to be Ruth to her ’groom’s Boaz, and had
stalwart support in the person of Joan Ellis,
of Mosman. Young’s sister best-manned.
Another bride of the week was Eileen
Mayor, of Cremorne. Midway through the
period she married Dixon Rand, of a well-
known Forbes clan. After a wedding trip to
Eastern Asia, Mr. and Mrs. Rand will make
Rockhampton the depot for the household
gods and their romance.
Much sympathy has been felt for Lilian
Turner (Mrs. F. Lindsay Thompson), who
has just lost her husband. Her seven or
eight books, amongst which are “Stairways
to the Stars,” “Betty the Scribe” and “Peggy
the Pilot,” have a large and loyal following
of young readers. Of her two sons the elder,
Douglas, has inherited his mother’s writing
talent. In his first term at the Uni. he was
awarded the Adrian Consett Stephen prize
for fiction. He lately joined the staff of
the Sun. The younger, Eric, who has just
left the Grammar School, has a mechanical
bent, and has won several prizes from Lon-
don for original models. Lilian herself
started her career by winning, as a young
girl, first a fifty- and then a hundred-pound
prize offered in London by Cassell’s for a
story.
Winifred Moore is visiting Sydney. She
pushes a forceful pen in Brisbane for 49
weeks of the year, and in the other three
takes a slice of Sydney fun. She is spending
a few days at Exeter with Lucy Heney, the
clever elder daughter of the Telegrai>h’s
new editor. Lucy, by the way, has just
finished her first novel.
Mrs. Ramsay and daughter Isabel poured
a large pot of Pekoe at the Garrick on Mon-
day, and were the guests of Sydney press-
women on Tuesday at the Mary Elizabeth.
Mrs. Ramsay sails for Europe with Isabel
on Saturday by the Osterley, and after a
short stay in London the popular Sydney
pair will settle in Isabel’s Paris flat.
Sydney’s Dean Talbot is on his way home,
but his Titian-haired wife, who is something
of a musician, remains in London to com-
plete her lessons with Sammons, the great
violinist. Mrs. Talbot’s sister, Bernice Vere,
has left the movies and is now working at
legitimate drama in the U.S.A. with the Sam
Harris stock companies. The lot she is
with changes its bill every week, and each
week carries 11 performances. Bernice has
been appearing in small parts on the same
bill as Frank Keenan. In her last letter
she tells of being in the cast of “Mary,”
playing the part taken in Sydney by Madge
Elliott.
Gladys Owen came back to Sydney by the
Mooltan, a much plumper Gladys, with her
travels and adventures mellow upon her.
Lady Novar—Lady Helen Munro-Ferguson
of a few years ago—was one of her English
hostesses. And Marjorie Mort and Gladys
saw France and Italy in each other’s com-
pany.
This nice girl is Lena Hammond, one of
Brisbane’s favorite songbirds. Possessor of
one of those mezzo-contraltos whose notes
drop honey and balm of Gilead in addition
to cream,
her rOle is
u n d oubtedly
oratorio, and
in this class
of work has
Joseph Brad-
ley presented
her to Syd-
n e y audi-
ences. In her
home town
she is justly
famed for her
interpretation
of folk songs
and ballads:
it was in
these that
Steffani pre-
dicted a Lon-
do n success
for her. Stef-
fani’s pro-
, ' phecy in re-
gard to two other pupils, Florence Schmidt
(now sculptor Wood’s wife) and Ethel
Dargo, came true, but Miss Hammond never
went in search of fame “across deep water,”
as the fortune-tellers phrase it. Lord
Chelmsford, then Governor of Bananaland,
gave her her first Government House com-
mand. Sir Matthew Nathan is another Gov-
ernor whom singers like to see in the audi-
ence—he’s an appreciative listener, and not
just a seat-warmer. The songstress has also
a speaking voice so rich in fascination that
it might charm the birds from the bushes.
On Saturday Daphne Dean, of Truth.
and Abbey Clancey, of the Labor Daily,
secretaried a monster farewell to May Mat-
thews, of the Child Welfare Department,
who goes off to England this week-end. The
big room of the Cavalier overflowed with
this good Australian’s friends—even a few
men insisted on coming—.and the two secre-
taries had shown something little short of
genius in their issuing of cards. Women
representatives of all the movements Miss
Matthews has served were present; Mr.
Piddington was there, and made a speech;
Dr. Arthur came, even though, as he cheer-
fully admitted, he hadn’t been invited. Mrs.
Trefle, who was president and brought her
pretty Kathleen, said the appropriate things;
and S. A. Rosa and Captain Brough
(of the Y.A.L.) added to the flow of
wit. Fifty Y.A.L. lads travel by the - same
vessel as May; and their captain warned
her it would be a case of “Once aboard the
lugger the girl is ours,” for they have
sworn an oath wide and deep to form a
guard of honor for her through the voyage.
When the guest rose to reply appiause
filled the room like a mighty wind—unfor-
tunately on that melting afternoon its
volume was not equalled by its coolness.
She thanked everybody, and then admitted,
somewhat sadly, that she was taking a risk
in going, because so far the Department had
not O.lv.’d her leave of absence.
Ellis Silas, the young man with a Velas-
quez head and a taste for exploring, is back
in Sydney, having left the lagoons and the
languors of his beloved Trobriarxds behind
him. But if he has renounced the realities
he has brought back on his canvases the
villages, the belles, the piccaninnies and the
palms of the unfrequented outpost of New
Guinea. He has lived in the Trobriands
for about three years in all, and has por-
trayed the tropic color, the dazzling blues,
the sun-glares, the delicate tracery of th<
palms, the seductive lagoons with a lusciou;
richness of tone. His native girls are petu
lant or coquettish damsels, and one pollen-
dusted maiden against a yellow background
might euphemistically call herself an Amber
Belle in a Saffron Dawn. Mr. Silas built
himself a studio 25ft. high, the timber
plaited and thatched with pandanus leaves.
It’s a good hut standing staunch against
the tropic storms, for its postholes are cut
in solid coral. During the day the artist
painted hard and long, and has brought back
enough work for an exhibition in London
in two months’ time. In the evening he
entered his journal or visited the fires of the
village chiefs, where he was kept up to
date in all the local scandal; for the Tro-
briands love a dish of gossip. One curious
thing about the models is that they will sit
only once. After that they are bored. Mr.
Ellis’s nearest port of call was Samarai, and
that was 160 miles away; but as long as
his supply of tobacco hung out he could buy
anything from the native larders —tobacco
is money. The season in the Trobriands, as
in London, lasts three months. For three
moons the inhabitants glorify their god, who
is evidently a jolly one, by dancing, paying
calls and spreading roast-pig banquets. At
the end of the season the god is beaten out
with sticks and loud noises. He is told
plainly to get back to his celestial perch, and
allow his people to get on with the job of
planting and weaving and reaping till the
date of the harvest-home is due again.
At the christening of a Lithgow infant
the other day a historic mug re-emerged
from seclusion. Captain Collins was amongst
the officers who came to Australia with Mac-
quarie; and the day after arrival his wife
gave birth to a child. The mug was the gift
of Macquarie at the christening; and it was
passed on to the latest descendant of that
early Australian at the other day’s cere-
mony.
A trifle under £2OO was the net result in
filthy lucre of the testimonial concert
arranged for Mrs. Trcfle at the Conserva-
torium in the last days of December. The
cheque was handed over to her at the Aus-
tralia a few days ago to the clash of tea-
cups. May Matthews, who had secretaried
the venture, made an apt speech of thanks
to the committee for making the concert
such a success.
Zora Cross is busy on an anthology that
Angus and Robertson are publishing in the
interests of Young Australians between 12
and 14. And Hutchinson’s, the London pub-
lishers, from whom her first novel may be
expected any day now, have been asking
about an English edition of “Songs of Love
and Life.” ?
Glen Carron, the Garden School, should
produce Australia’s future Fanny Durack,
or that poet who shall do justice to Sydney
Harbor. With Balmoral Beach for its door-
step, a view that stretches out to the Heads
and 50 young Aussies, ranging in age from
3 to 19, the school, so the visitor on
an afternoon of last week felt, must give
something exceptional to this wide continent.
Dame Mary Hughes, in Puritan garbings
and a pair of vampire ear-rings, blessed the
school’s new residence, and read a speech of
goodwill to lawns-full of briglitly-frocked
mothers and sisters and aunts. But the new
smallest boy got weary of the felicitations,
and with a longing look towards the orna-
mental lake piped out: “Mother, give me a
pin and a bit of string, an’ I’ll go an’ catch
you a goldfish.”
“The Banner,” by Judge Beeby, will be
the next Playbox production. It is listed
for April 14 to 17 (inclusive). The
play has already been published in a group
entitled “Concerning Ordinary People” and
reviewed with enthusiasm in Tiie Bulle-
tin’s Red Page.
A committee which is going to make the
City of the Plains gay with a “Back to
Bathurst” week has officially decided that
Mrs. Hannah Lamond, born 95 years ago,
is the oldest living local-born citizen. The
old lady lives at Glebe now, and will be the
guest of the celebration committee if she can
muster courage to face the journey.
Just pegging out his claim in Macquarie-
street, after three years’ study of eyes in
London and Vienna, is Dr. Burge, well re-
membered as an honorary at Prince Alfred,
the Royal Hospital for Women and the
Children’s Hospital. The new brass plate
bears a string of letters after the name,
among which D. 0., Oxon., will be as good
as a faith cure to the man from Snowy
River whose sight is not what it used to be.
While in London Dr. Burge held the post of
house surgeon at the Royal Westminster
Ophthalmic Eye Hospital.
The young man with the Clabby jaw
follows the peaceful calling of art-dealer. He
is Basil Bur-
dett, and at
the New Art
Salon, at the
corner of
Phillip and
King streets,
he moves about
among the an-
tiques and
priceless glass
and china with
a tread as soft
and light as a
pedigreed Per-
sian. He has
run some suc-
cessful and in-
teresting one-
man shows in
his rooms, and
last year man-
aged the Soci-
ety of Artists’
_ Exhibition in
the Education Department’s Gallery. lie is
a Queenslander by birth, knows a good deal
about music, and between shows writes plays
Judith Fletcher made this picture of him.
When Arthur Mason was city organist
ne failed up his spare moments manipulating
the manuals and choirmastering at St.
James s. There he discovered among the
choristers one Reg Massey with a rare
soprano, and, developing the voice, starred
him on the concert platform. Many will
remember the youngster’s beautiful bell-like
Angels Ever Bright and Fair” at the old
Gentenary Hall, then the headquarters of the
Methodist Mission. Later the voice broke
d ultimately, at Carr-Smith’s suggestion!
the lad went to Bananaland, and at St.
Jrancis Theological College, Nundah, studied
tor Holy Orders under Philip Micklem, now
rector of St. James’s. Massey was ordained
priest in 1915 by Archbishop Donaldson,
and at Mieklem’s special request h e came
to Sydney as assistant priest to his old
warden, in the church where he had origi-
nally served as a boy-chorister. Recently
he has distinguished himself at Sydney ’Var-
sity in philosophy and psychology—but
where, oh where, is the angelic voice of yester-
year?
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matthew sheltered beneath the hospitable roof
of Rathdonnell at Toowoomba, and on the Bth he
had luncheon at the Club Hotel with the Mayor and
aldermen.
His Ex. shed the vice-regal light upon the Stan-
thorpe Show, whereat the Nathan Hall was dedicated,
and J. Henderson, who designed it, got a life mem-
bership badge from the committee.
Mrs. John Reid and her daughters were farewelled
by the C. M. Overall and Alfred Ward dames, amid
asters and carnations, at Lennon’s. Dancing and
competitions were on the programme. Other guests
of honor were B. and M. Ward; and they all went
south by the Levuka.
The small Mary—only her name was Ethel —who
went to call the cattle home at Gympie the other
day very nearly shared the fate of the historic Mary,
for all alone went she into the rainy night and tile
cruel scrub swallowed her up for three days. She was
found unconscious among some 4ft. bracken, and is
now in hospital and on the road to recovery—in the
true Australian way.
There was not a great roll-up to the complimentary
race meeting given to L. E. Walker—curmudgeonly
weather kept many women from airing race frocks.
Miss O’Shea risked white marocain; Nancy Echlin
was in a pretty pink linen, and Mrs. Isaac Moore in
navy.
Many tea-drinkings have had for their star Nancy
MacNaughton, who is to be married on the 20th.
One was given by Beres Corrie at her home. Jean
Graham also poured the cup for the late member of
“The O’Brien Girl” cast; the Horstmann girls
gathered more purple asters to adorn their home for
the bride-elect, and Hilda Walsh also spread the
traycloth and tennis-net at Killara.
Recent farewell teas have included a big one given
to Mrs. Gillies at the Bellevue, where real grapes,
violet asters and pink roses were features of the
decorations, and felicitous speeches were part of the
programme.
Nundah the other day lioorayed Father Jordan,
who is off on a twelvemonth holiday in Ireland after
14 years at Nundah. Archbish. Duhig handed the
departing one the hefty cheques which the parishion-
ers had collected for the priest’s little spell.
Holy Trinity saw the tying of the knot betwen
Hazel, J. A. Philp’s daughter, and Alex. Junner, a
nephew of skipper Junner, of the old Otter. Canon
Garland did the job, and an arch of frangipani and
roses pretended to ignore the pouring rain. Ross
Philp gave away the bride, who was in organdie and
silver tissue. Lorna Barrett, in lemon georgette,
bridesmaided; Moray Junner was best man, and the
Blue Mountains and Sydney provide the honeymoon.
Pretty Millicent Genevive Dinsdale has accepted
a diamond hoop from Frank Houston (ex-Lieut.
A.T.F.). Millicent is the second daughter of the
T. H. Dinsdales, of Sandgate, and Frank’s mother
lives at New Farm.


HarcUj Bros
\ __ LimUod
Toilet Sets in Tortoiseshell.
GENUINE. Tortoiseshell of superlative
quality, graceful designs and workman-
ship of the highest possible standard
combine in making these attractive Toilet Sets
unapproached for exquisite beauty and finish.
Five per cent. Discount allowed for cash. Goods forwarded
throughout Australia on approval.
The Company’s new illustrated booklet posted free anywhere.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJieuj&lle.rs <&> Silversm-it/Ts.
“The House of Exclusive Jewellery
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St. f
BRISBANE,
LONDON-
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE
Sfcl
tcrru
r* m Is
i
DRY 6 s LIQUID DRESSINGS
For Black Suede Shoes
Will restore the original density
of color and will not lay rhe nap.
Fashionable Footwear retains its
charm and freshness when these
high-grade dressings are used.
At all good Shoe Stores.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91, Haymarfcet, Sydney.
dfdgfhj
dfdgfhj
You can
Onoto
Dress
dfdgfhj
Ihangai
over a
Shirt
Onoto
SEIF-FILLING SAFETY
|h«P©l!
Whenever you see
a Pillar Box think
of an Onoto.
**? y° ur I* n en and it will not leak.
Hie self-filling safety Onoto only gives ink when you'want it. Foil
control the ink flow, you shut it off by a twist of the finger and thumb.
. *"® Onoto fills itself by an original method. It is the best type of
telf-nlling safety pen on the market. It holds more ink than other pens.
Thomas De La Rue & Co., ltd.,
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
ft*pr<nnutlTea: KORMAN BAKER k tONGHURST LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne k Wellington (N.Z.).
Onoto Ink
Best for all Pens
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless _
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
Previouslv
dfdgfhj
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Raker & Longhurst
6O York Street. Sydney.
A Camera Suitable for All Requirements.
The Regular Ensign
No. 3i
takes
pictures
4i x 3|
(i-plate).
British Made.
No. 3iA
takes
pictures
5* x 3i
(Postcard).
It has a full range of movements and is simple to operate.
Daylight Loading Films or Plates may be used—one Single
Metal Slide being supplied with each camera.
The Ilex-General Shutter works at Time, Bulb and exposures
from 1 -sth to 1-100th of a second, and the Ilex-Acme at
Time, Bulb and exposures from 1 second to 1-300th part.
Model. Lens.
G.C. Plutar Rapid Apianat, FB.
G.W. Aldis-Plano Anastigmat, F 7.7.
G.L. Cooke-Luxor Anastigmat, F 6.8.
O.M. Ross Homoeentrie Anastig., F 6.3.
C.M.M. Ross-Xpress Anastigmat, F 4.5
Prices.
Postage 1/6.*
lIP
The House for
GOOD
Cameras,
386 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba, N.S.W.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
10 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
1-10 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
K
Golf
Clothes
Golfers are particular
about their clothes. They
demand roomy comfort
and also a certain style
distinction that will place
their clothing in a class
apart from ordinary sport-
ing wear.
Gowings’ Golf Apparel
combines this comfort
and style with dependable
materials that will give the
utmost in long service.
Golf Knickers
in smart Donegal Tweeds and English Fawn
Gabardine. Exceedingly well designed, roomy and
comfortable.
35/-
Golf Shoes
of Tan Willow Calf, with thick crepe rubber soles
and heels. In broad, comfortable last.
35/-
Golf Coats
in stylish All-Wool Donegal Tweeds. Smartly cut
with three patch pockets. In shades of Grey, Lovat
and Fawn mixtures.
55/-
Write Section B Gowing Bros., Ltd.
Carriage paid on all goods throughout Australia.
COWING BROS. LTD.
486 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.


72'-
dfdgfhj
NEW STETSON HATS
The new season’s Stetson " Assembly ” hat is featured
by Farmer’s, in pearl, zinc, and slate; extra fine
quality, silk lined. Price, 72/-. Box 497, G.^.O.
Farmer’s— " The Store for Men”
SEEDED
RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and
Seeded - Ready for Use
Obtainable
All Grocers
£
m
m&ia
-&8M
:;:: *;■:■£/•.:: v».».v-.* - '.’• »!v.v.y-iM»«.v. , >*■•'■•■'
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins Sr. Melbourne
After the silly season Melbourne is crank-
ing up for a 10-months’ run of social activi-
ties. These threaten to exceed the speed limit
in Fleet Week, which starts on St. Pat.’s
Day. To judge by the official programme
the brass-bound officers will be jazzed off
their feet—and the poor dears have already
worn down their dance-soles by strenuous
exercise at every port of call. Like many
other distinguished visitors they will pro-
bably take away the impression that Vic-
torians live on the jazz floor. The Forsters
are to unpack their Cup Week Ball (pushed
out of its date by the police strike) as a
welcome to the sailormen; the Stradbrokes
will stage a little dinner and dance at Ston-
ington, besides a big reception and jazz at
St. Kilda’s dance-palace, AVattle Path; and
the Australian Club is to give a ball on
the grand scale. Judging by the size of the
building, the whole visiting-book list may
expect invitations to the State vice-regal
affair at St. Kilda. It seems rather pathetic,
though, that George Rex’s representative
should be driven by lack of floor space at
the official residence to hire a public jazz-
liall for his entertaining. The Arthur Stan-
ley pair combined official dignity with hos-
pitality by holding a reception in the Public
Library. An excellent function, too, although
in one busy food-room some of the waiters
did sell fizz to the highest bidders.
The jazz fare served up for the naval men
will not be all of the complimentary sort.
The officers have been guilefully roped in
as the star attraction for the ball in the St.
Kilda Town Hall for the Queen Vic. Hos-
pital on the night of their landing. As Lady
Forster is helping to engineer the thing,
Uppah Suburbia is, of course, throwing in
its whole weight. At a meeting of the ball
promoters at Government House the other
day it was agreed to plant Priminister
Bruce’s other half in the presidential chair
directly she gets back from England. One
thousand tickets at a guinea will be puj: on
the market. There is bound to be a flapper
rush on these, seeing that a dozen committee-
women will band together to introduce the
blue-coated strangers round. Mrs. Harry
Emmerton is paying the hall hire, and will
also take control of the decorations. Mrs.
Philip Russell will foot the orchestra bill,
while Mrs. Fred Payne will pay for the
programmes. The Edward Miller dame
promptly handed in her cheque for £25, Mrs.
James Russell one for £2O, Anne Russell a
tenner and a Manifold matron a fiver.
Oscar Asche had at least two lots of dis-
tinguished visitors to the King’s on Satur-
day. The!G.-G.’s party made a festive dis-
play of sequins and chest decorations in one
of the circle-tier boxes, while Melba and Mrs.
George Armstrong, gowned respectively in
unmitigated cerise and remorseless blue,
beamed from the box opposite. Melba, who
had quizzical Henry Russell and Cochrane
called Thomas in attendance, changed her
seat in the pen when Desdemona’s bedroom
scene came due. She was evidently look-
ing for business points. Previously she had
paid a visit to the Forster reserve and
burbled with animation.
Lady Forster, in silvery marocain and
flowered hat, went along to the Masonic Hall
for the re-assembling of the Soldiers’ Wives
and Mothers’ Friendly Union. A musical
menu, compiled by Theophilus Roberts, was
dispensed with the teacake. The Chauvel
lady occupied the presidential chair, and
Mrs. Musther, who is again hon. secretary,
was kept busy all the afternoon. The star
item on the programme was a duet from
“Hansel and Gretel,” sung by little Zoe Alli-
son and Nancy Horne, with a piano backing
by Yvonne Descliamps.
An ethical point spoked the wheels of a
wedding the other day. The prospective
bridegroom had divorced his first wife. She
died the night before he was to take a second
one; and the question arose whether the wed-
ding, which was to be an elaborate affair,
should be postponed. The man insisted
warmly that he saw no reason for any altera-
tion : he had no grief over the event, and
refused to pretend any. But this view
of the case struck the lady as evidence of a
callousness she had not previously suspected
in her suitor, and the upshot of it was that
she called the whole arrangements off.
Rosalind (otherwise Linda) Phillips, the
musical girl whose compositions have been
patted on the back by the critics, starred at
a picturesque ceremony in the St. Kilda
Synagogue the other evening, with Adolph
Kauffmann as her leading man. She enacted
the role in needle-run lace flouncings, hemmed
in with seed pearls on to a pink foundation.
Orange-blossoms were scattered over the
skirt, which swayed from wires springing out
over the hips, and her Limerick-lace veil was
coroneted with pearls. A quartette of
maids—cousins Miriam Phillips and Muriel
Boldt, and the bridegroom’s nieces lima and
Beryl Levi —looked after the bride, in full-
skirted frocks of pink taffetas, while two
smaller Phillips cousins, Reva Rudin and
Margot Polack, in a paler rose shade, held
up the bridal train. All six had pink tulle
floating from floral headbands, and each one
brandished a floral posy. Victor Marks had
the assistance of Leo and Albert Phillips m
supporting the bridegroom. The cheerio was
held in the St. Kilda Town Hall, where Mrs.
Phillips and Mrs. Feodor Kauffmann re-
ceived the guests in rival brands of black.
Artist Septimus Power and his popular
wife, who are steaming off aboard the Oster-
ley for a further five years of Europe, have
been engulfed in a whirlpool of farewell
shivoos. Little Mrs. Monty Grover spread
her good-bye tea to the lady in the Quamby
Club dining parlor, where the guests
gathered about a round table heavily decked
with pink heath. The hostess, in black silk
with tangerine entanglements and a Frenchy
yellow hat brim, extended the hand of wel-
come over an embankment of pink and white
water-lilies, given by Mrs. E. V. Richard-
son, who was further responsible for the blush
of pink roses screening the ivory and golden
brown lace of the star guest’s frock. Mrs.
Teddy Dyson was there, brimming over with
the double pleasure of a delightful Colombo
trip and an equally joyous homecoming; also
Mrs. Fordyce Wheeler, who had snatched an
hour from her packing to join the cheerful
gathering. She is in the throes of trans-
ferring from the medical Hornabrooks’
Toorak house to the Mcßean widow’s South
Yarra property, Harbury.
From a girl in those parts:—
Old chief Labata of the Solomon Isles has just
got his daughter home after an absence of some
years in England, where she has been at a fashion-
able school. Labata took exception to the skimpi-
ness of the dresses the young lady brought with
her, and ordered them to be burnt, with a good
deal of other fashionable frillery. Whereat the
young lady’s laments were loud and tearful; but
one case in particular she has implored her Royal
father to spare her—it shelters a bulky consignment
of face powders and toilet cream! The dusky
belle speaks English and French fluently and is
a fair musician, pleasing her dad mightily by her
performance on the cottage grand that takes up
most of the room in her leafy boudoir, hung round
with Madras muslin and silk. Pointing to a portrait
of a pretty white girl in that same boudoir the
other day she said to a visitor, “When Labata
dies she will come and visit me.” “Why not be-
fore?” she was asked. “Oh,” replied the daughter
of her father, “because I’m afraid he’d want to
marry her.”
Meet Dawn Assheton, the little golden-
haired soprano who starred so scintillatingly
in the Rigo production of “The Barber of
Seville.” Little
Dawn —i t is
her very own
name—who is
fresh from two
years of the
N. S. Wales
bush with her
ex-Anzac hus-
band, A. H.
McKell, roused
every Mel-
bourne critic
with the artis-
try of her well-
groomed voice
when she
opened as Ro-
sina in “The
Barber.” But
the stage was
no new terri-
tory to her.
She has had
plenty of pro-
fessional training and experience to polish
up her natural talent both in musical
comedy and revue in London, and she
further starred in a Folies Bergere produc-
tion in Paris. But “The Barber” is her
first grand-opera venture. Sydneysiders
will soon hear her for themselves, as the
Rigo co. is preparing to test the harbor vil-
lage’s appreciation of locally cast opera.
During the war years Dawn, besides doing a
lot of concert work for the boys on the French
front, once filled the bill as stage manager
at the Alhambra for the Sunday concerts for
soldiers. Talma took this picture of her.
Medieval hangings of one of the new
velvety materials, clasped on the offside with
a paste ornament, draped Gwen Ivellow's
charming person, under an encompassing
tulle bridal veil, when she met Juki McMil-
lan at the Melbourne Grammar Chapel a
few evenings ago. Water-lilies lying “as if
asleep along her bended arm” strengthened
the picturesque effect. Sister Winifred and
Cousin Thirza Coles ’maided, in silver bro-
cade, its shining folds ballooned at the hips
under mauve patternings. Mauve ribbons
fluttered from floral head circlets, and sweet-
peas and roses were posied in their hands.
Harry Le Roux and Russell Botherill looked
after the bridegroom; Charlie Kellow handed
liis daughter over, and his elder girl, Hope,
afterwards helped her father —-a widow r er —
to stage the wedding feast at Menzies.
The Jim Fairbairn pair, having found their
Queensland acreage too far from home and
the world, unloaded the property on another
cattle-grower, and have now unpacked in
the Mount Elephant homestead, lately
acquired from the Alan Curries, who have
in turn bought Ercildoune. Some of the
land round the Western District run has been
taken over by a group of ex-Indian Army
officers, who are trying to make a do of wool-
raising, and things are fairly cheery in those
parts. Mrs. Fairbairn’s parents, the Charlie
Forresters, are whooping with delight at get-
ting their Peggy back again. By the way,
Jim Fairbairn’s arm, which was in splints
for four years after being damaged in the
war, is now working well.
Yvonne Descliamps, the gifted Young Aus-
tralian pictured herewith by Lafayette, wins
music from her piano, her fine old violin and
her sweet singing voice. She has grown up
since we saw her last, as for the past four
years she has been having her three talents
polished by European experts under the wing
of a devoted
mamma. Last
year she was
ordered back
to Australia
because the
Belgian cold
and Continen-
tal food were
affecting tin
little lady’s
weight. On
the singing
side Yvonm
had her voice
shaped by
Laurent
Swolf, late of
the Paris
Opera House
who now
directs the Ant-
werp Conser-
vatoire ; and
she also had
some study with Mary Rosenberg in London.
Both these predicted a “future” for her.
Fattorin, who directed her fiddling studies
in Rome, and her second master, head-
teacher at the Brussels Con., wanted her to
drop her other studies and head for the pro-
fessional boards as a violinist, while Emile
Bosquet was equally insistent that she should
forsake all other things and stick to the
piano. Her father’s interests are chiefly in
steel—-he is managing director of liadfield’s
(Australia), Ltd., into which the Australian
Electric Steel blossomed a while back in
Sydney—-but music is an inherited complaint
on both sides of the clever girl’s family.
Two unconventional-shaped water-colors
by De Wint stand out .as best of the recent
Felton Bequest purchases for our National
Gallery. The artist’s “Richmond” is cer-
tainly one of the few gems of the collection.
Painted in a high key, with due attention to
light and shade, it excels in its reality. The
feeling of space and limpid light, together
with that of the various textures —water,
foliage, sky and masonry—is' remarkable.
Though broadly handled, the unconscious
technique is always unobtrusive, each “daub”
of paint being subservient to the patch of
light or shade it records. This is technique
as it should be —a means to an end, not, as
many “modern” artists use it, an end in
itself. The other example has excellent
passages in it, but is not as even and con-
vincing. The color of both calls for men-
tion. Sargent’s likeness of Birdwood is dull
and flat, without any sensation of light and
shade. His crayon sketch of Monash is at
any rate “slick.” In selecting Courbet’s
“Wave” it seems that the selector considered
more the artist’s name than his work. The
theatrical “Rescue” by Millais would make
a fine colored supplement for “The Girls’
Own Annual.” A river scene by F. Hayes
completes the lot. Criticism of it is unneces-
sary—there are plenty just as bad.
Inky Wayfarers who fly the badge of the
A.J.A, are spreading a lunch in the Anzac
House dining-room to-day (Thursday), at
which Dame Nellie will be the star guest.
Opera-director Henry Russell has also been
beckoned in. These A.J.A. luncheons have
now become regular affairs, with some per-
son of note in the chair on the l’ight of the
president.
Nicholas Lockyer’s younger daughter,
Ellis, steamed off to the Federated Malay
States last month under the wing of her sis-
ter, Mrs. Roddy Alsop, to keep a date with
her rubber-growing fiance, Howard Bagnall,
at the Singapore Cathedral. She defied
superstition by meeting her young man at the
altar in almond-green organdie under a
white hat supporting red roses on an em-
bankment of gold lace, and carried a bouquet
of orchids. Keith Bonn led her to the sacri-
fice, and Mrs. Keith, in mauve organdie and
white hat, looked after her as bride’s matron.
Mrs. Roddy Alsop afterwards hostessed a
health-drinking at the Raffles Hotel.
The Queen is dead; long live the Queen:
Lady Talbot’s pet charity, the Milk Insti-
tute that carries her name, has been in
almost chronic difficulties since its founder’s
reign ended at Stonington. This year the
Government said it simply couldn’t afford the
£3OO a year which it has been giving so
that the Institute might distribute free milk
to necessitous mothers; hence the work
wasn’t done this summer until February
arrived. Of course the Institute still pur-
sued its other work; but while that is philan-
thropic it doesn’t bear the charity stamp.
Automobile Club members have frowned
down the suggestion that owners should not
only place their cars at the disposal of offi-
cers of the visiting British Fleet but also
serve as chauffeurs. One member drew a
fearsome picture of car-owners lurking round
the wharves, yawning by city, kerbs or out-
side the mansions Of the Best Gilded from
midnight till cock’s-crow, waiting for their
gold-laced freight. In the long run the com-
monsense view was taken that, while it is all
very well and right to spread hospitality for
the visitors, it is still allowable to look
upon them as neither paupers nor demi-gods.
The Austral Salon’s lion, sec., Mrs. Quin-
nell, pushed her projected Tasmanian trip
down the calendar the other day when a fire
which swallowed up portion of Hardware
Chambers gulped down the Salon rooms.
The widow, who is the livest wire connected
with the institution, is now trying to secure
a fresh suite of apartments in wliieh to
shelter. She is finding it hard to locate a
place with a large enough floor-space to
stage the fortnightly receptions, at which the
guest-lists frequently run into hundreds.
News comes from Maoriland of the death,
at Tauranga, of Peter Grant, aged 88, Who
came to Vic. from Aberdeenshire as a young-
ster, and was for a time engaged in their
racing stable by the Chirnside family. When
Col. Pitt was sent by the Maoriland Govern-
ment to Melbourne to recruit troops for the Ist
Waikato regiment, at the time of the Maori
War, young Grant was one of the first to
join up at Geelong. On the disbandment
of the troops he was many things;
but his only riches were his big-
ness of heart and his geniality—every-
thing else slipped through his ever-open
hands. They laid him away in the little
military cemetery overlooking the harbor of
Tauranga, where lie buried the 105 soldiers
and sailors who lost their lives in the great
fight at Pukehinahina (Gate Pah). Among
those at the graveside were Sergeant George
Davoren, who was also recruited at the Port
Phillip Club at Geelong in the early ’sixties.
Adelaide drops a line or two :
The Leverhulme visit certainly had variety in it—
lunch (and speeches) with the Chamber of Commerce
and the Kotarians; the opening of King’s College, a
joint effort of Baptists and Congregationalists (and
more speeches) ; Sunday morning service at Stow
Church, the stronghold of Congregationalism, plus a
sermon, and a dance at the Osborne Hall, with local
soap-kings as hosts. Even at the last festival the
saponaceous peer, after exhibiting his silk stockings
arid ’buckled shoes, made a speech thanking the ladies
who’d been kind enough to dance with him. He
left by the Moldavia.
The Moldavia, by the way, had a big list of Adel-
aide passengers, among them Mrs. W. Pope, whose
home in future is to be in England. The Pope
house, one of the show places of North Adelaide, with
a sweeping view over the northern and western park-
lands, is to be turned into flats.
Grace Watson, who used to be the Liberal party’s
organiser in this State and Victoria, has been lately
working up the Royal Northern Hospital’s finances
in London. A dinner at the Mansion House, with
the Duke of Northampton as host and Lord Beatty as
one of the speakers, overflowed to the Savoy Hotel
and raked in £11,600-odd from its 650 guests.
The younger set will have a hectic time while the
British squadron is here —-a mayoral ball and another
at Government House (the latter for junior officers
only, owing to the limitations of.the.ballroom), and a
dance for the men and another for the officers, with
a committee of 41 hostesses. The two-score and
one, however, have wisely delegated' most of the
responsibility to four, and the frivols will be mostly
run by the Mayoress and the H. 0. Cave, H. H.
Dutton and A. A. Lendon dames. Mayor Glover, who
is president of the Navy League, is lunching the
senior officers at his own home on; the day that the
juniors are to dance at Government House.
There was a birthday party at the H. L. Ayers
home on -East-terrace the other day, the principal
guest being the hostess’s aunt, Miss Marianne Fisher,
who was born in England 97 years ago and came
here in the Buffalo with Governor Hindmarsh. She
lives at Glenelg, but every Christmas Day and her
own birthday she motors up to town to be with Mrs.
Ayers, who has a great gathering of the Fisher and
Morphett clans to meet her.
Adelaide Uni. talks gratefully in its annual report
of the new Act which abolishes the limit of £lO,OOO
for the annual subsidy paid by the Government on
endowments. It was reached two years ago. The
limit has now been doubled. The State gives
also about £25,000 in direct grants. Fees last
year came to £22,000, and income from investments
to £lO,OOO. A new Engineering building has been
started by the Government, a new wing for Geology
provided, and arrangements made for Mining to be
housed by the School of Mines next door. Club-
rooms for both men and women are the next want.
The suburban estate of Peter Waite, Urrbrae, has
fallen into possession, and some sort of agricultural
Research Institute is to be installed there.


Exclusive Jewellery.
8138.
A. Saunders’
double-out Diamond
Ring, 18<t. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£l5.
Da rger Diamonds,
£2O.
8122.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
8148.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Button Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
8154.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£5/10/-
8166.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£BO.
8214.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold plain half-round Armlet, 30/-
Wider, £2; Narrower, 25/-; loot. Gold, £4/10/-
B2U.
A. Saunders’ Real Pearl Necklet, Diamond
Cluster Snap, £75.
Larger Pearls, £lOO. £l5O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding Watch
Bracelet, jewelled lever movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
8126.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£2O.
ism
8137.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Marquise Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
8174.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diarnond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Teal Platinum set,
£B.
8129.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
8210.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Bloodstone Signet
Ring. 35/-
Special Table Appointments.
8563.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand pierced and burnished, 30/-
8598.
A. Saunders’ Luncheon Cruet, pure
Silver-plated, Al quality, Cut-glass
Bottles, 70/-
8542.
A. Saunders’ Sugar Basin and Sifter,
pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
15/6.
13449.
A. Saunders’ Honey Jar and
Spoon, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, Yellow Glass Jar,
10/6.
8458.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish and Knife,
pure Silver-plated, Opal Glass lining,
8447.
A. Saunders’ Preserve Dish and Spoon,
pure Silver-plated, English China
Dish, 20/-
9
Kindly mention name and number
of article when ordering.
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
*O5-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue.
We Pay Postage on all Orders.
r/.
m
m
'>**
1
WM!
Ml
'Vv
IjrfifS
a
ns
m
=^\Jjm }
77
' a s»
Si-!
Mdi fcWiii “
S
iraifwnrajmrs
y
•.:.w.
35»
iO*
lw
IJiISSi
HfUip!
Baa
m i
P2z*is/ocr’a/tc Pionee
rs
j HARDY’S WINES OF TIN TARA 1
dfdgfhj
The Genuine Sparking Plugs
are chosen when absolute dependa-
bility under the severest conditions
is essential. They require NO
ATTENTION and will give 100 per
cent. Efficiency.
dfdgfhj
BOSCH Sparking Plugs were used in the
following RECORDS:—
Adelaide—Melbourne (Essex).
Hobart—Launceston—Hobart (Essex).
Melbourne—Sydney (Essex).
Perth—Sydney (Vauxhall).
As Everlastingly Dependable as the Genuine Bosch Magneto.
MELBOURNE: —Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co., Ltd.,
140 Flinders Street. ’Phone: Cent. 975.
SYDNEY: —Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagli Street.
ADELAIDE:—Duncan & Co., 101 Pirie Street.
BRISBANE: —Elphinstones, Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street.
WARNING.—Our Genuine Bosch Goods are not
made in America, but at the original works of
Robert Bosch, A. G., Stuttgart, and are marked with
the name of ROBERT BOSCH and this trade-mark.


VA
mm
wmm
m
m
ISM
r /
E
'
¥
1
A'
HUDSON’S HEART
is the cs?ce of
In the late Autumn of 1915 came the
announcement of the Super-Six motor,
which marked a new era in motor
design.
Through the use of principles exclusive
to Hudson, chiefly the famous Hudson
Patented Counter-balanced Crank-
shaft, the Super-Six motor developed
7 6 brake-horsepower, where previ-
ously 46 horse-power had been the
maximum. This increased efficiency
involved no added size or weight.
The success of the Super-Six was
instantaneous —the public 'Were quick
to recognise its advantages. More than
150,000 Super-Sixes have been sold,
and the satisfaction expressed by
owners is conclusive proof of Super-
Six performance, quality and value.
Since the advent of the first Super-Six motor many
refinements and improvements have, of course,
been made. But the basic Super-Six principles
remain unchanged, and every purchaser of a Hudson
can rest assured that in performance, power, appear-
ance and all-round excellence his car will be without
a peer.
6 ‘There are many sixes, but only one
Super-Six.”
The patented Hudson compensated crankshaft, showing the
scientifically-designed balance weights—exclusive to Hudson
and Essex Motor Cars.
The Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan,
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN, LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
HUDSON
SUPER/
SIX


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary Live Stock)
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
CM^
WHEN A MAN
PACKS ~
THE FIRST THING
ME MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS-
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
RESCH'S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP M CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special”whisky
Sole Agents; RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTINS
Punters who have picked Polytheist and
Berrinbo for the Newmarket-Australian Cup double
got no thrill of hope from the running at Williams-
town. Polytheist, starting at 7to 4, showed no
eagerness to quit the barrier in a six-furlongs flutter,
and as this was his second time of slow-starting
within a fortnight the backers of Eric Connolly’s
horse began to doubt his disposition to do the Ros-
trum and Sunburst trick. Berrinbo, saddled up for
the last race of the day, ran nowhere in the market
or on the course. Nor was The Cypher’s failure to
overhaul Warwickshire and Crimson in the Wyndham
Handicap (11 furlongs) encouraging to Cup backers.
He was beaten by only a head and a half in all, but
“ ls ™ ll had been respectable rather than brilliant,
j ° me< ly Star was only a few inches behind the
third horse. Still, it was The Cypher’s least un-
promising display this season. His trainer, Paddy
Guinane, did not live to see the race. Vagrant, a
two-year-old, also owned by Eeeles, won the second
event of the day, and whilst Guinane was discussing
the victory with jockey Sleigh he sank to the ground
and was dead when the doctor arrived —heart failure.
Tears ago Paddy was a successful jockey, over the
sticks as well as on the flat, and for Bradfield.’s
stable, among others, he won some good races at
tempting prices.
Melbourne’s autumn campaign gets fairly
going at Caulfield this Saturday, and for the next
three weeks the best horses in local stables, as well
as a few visiting cracks, will be under general obser-
vation. The Oakleigh Plate, usually a very open
race on paper, is likely to be reduced this time to a
question of whether Heroic can do better than any
two-year-old has done of recent years. Two or
three solid reasons might be advanced in favor of
Heroic’s chance, notwithstanding the failures of a
dozen smart youngsters who were expected to stay
the 51 furlongs as easily as their elders. The possi-
bility of the colt getting first away and staying ahead
of the field looks almost a probability at time of
writing. Talk of Little Flower is a repetition of
hist year’s Oakleigh predictions. She was going to
do it then, and time should have brought new force
to the tip. All the same, Heroic looks a better bet.
* * * *
Alfred Von Doussa has retired from the
secretaryship of the Oakbank R.C. in S.A. after
close on half a century of work. The club’s Easter
Monday fixture started as a mere picnic, but now
draws all Adelaide into the hills. From a dozen
applicants, S. J. Pullman has been chosen. He is
also secretary of the go-ahead Port Adelaide body,
and proposes to run both from an office in the
city. Under Pullman’s secretaryship the Port Adel-
al«e dub added £2500 to its Cup, as a result of
the S.A.J.C. announces an all-round increase in
stakes. The Adelaide Cup is now to be worth
£2500, the Goodwood Handicap £lOOO, and the
S.A.J.C. Handicap £6OO, while the S.A. Stakes (for
two-year-olds) and the Leger are also to be enriched.
As long- ago as 1884, when Malua unexpectedly beat
Conjecture, the Adelaide Cup was worth £2600,
but in those days all the minor events were starved;
also entrance fees were high.
“Linklater”: How is this for stiff luck?
A Townsville (N.Q.) hotelkeeper, who very seldom
bets, was induced to put £2O on a horse called
Rabbitpunch in a race at Brisbane. Half an hour
before starting time his adviser burst in with the
information that the Rabbitpunch crowd had changed
their plans; but the bookmaker refused to cancel
the bet unless the same’ amount was wagered on
another horse. “All right,” said Bung, after con-
sultation with his ally, “shove it on Skipjack in
the Fourteen-two at the ponies.” Rabbitpunch won
in a walk at 20’s; Skipjack was beaten by an eye-
lash at 10’s.
“Flicker”: Two-up is one of the games
played on Adelaide’s parklands (B. 7/2/’24),
but the police ft-equently swoop down on the Sunday
“schools.” They do not have to prove actual playing';
the mere fact of being in the vicinity is enough for
a conviction, Unless the arrested citizen has a cast-
iron excuse for being there. A gent, gathered
up in a recent raid pleaded that he had a cow graz-
ing near the“schopl.” The animal, he went on, was in
an interesting condition, and he had been awaiting
the result when he was grabbed by the Law. For
once the Bench was sympathetic, and the tender of
kine was discharged. He is going to name the calf
after the John who pinched him.
* * * *
“Hayband”; The most definite tip I know
occurred in coursing. A two-day stake was to be run
off at Warwick (Q„). A Toowoomba man wired to a
friend there: “Sending dog this evening; win stake
and return after meeting.” The dog won five courses,
including the final, and was returned as per schedule.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: Punters are superstitious,
as “Riverina” says (B. 7/2/’24). A Sydney man
who until recently was an enthusiastic supporter of
Jack Wren’s Little Flower for the Oaldeigh Plate
has been eagerly un-
loading his liabili-
ties, declaring that he
got the “office” from
Queensland. It seerhs
that a big storm
shook things up in a
Brisbane suburb, and
the R.C. Church of
the Little Flower, just
newly erected, was
swept to tlje ground.
In the welter slight
injuries were sustained
by some ladies deco-
rating the altar,
among them a Miss
Wren. That was
enough for the
bookie’s meal-tiokdt.
He could see the
cropper Wren and the
mare were going to
come.
HARRIS
HORDER, crack
N.S.W. cyclist.
An outstanding feature of the amateur
athletic championships at Hobart was the success
of the Queensland representatives in the sprints.
They monopolised the final of the 100 yards, L. C.
Parker winning by two feet from H. V. Seouller,
with Norman Grelian only inches away. Parker, a
tall, slim youngster, ideally built for speed, ran
his hundred in lOsec., but he has done a yard better
in Queensland. Seouller was likewise second to
Almond, the Victorian, in the 120 yards hurdles, run
in 16 ,l-ssec., and in the 220 yards (23sec.) Grehan
beat a. fine runner in Tracey, the Maorilander, who
collected the 440 in 50 3-ssec. N. S. Wales’s best
men were R. J. Honner, winner' of the running broad
jump (23ft. 9in.) and the 440 yards hurdles (57
2-ssec.), and Ernie Austen, whose mile walk was
accomplished in 6min. 45sec. Bailey failed badly in
the three miles, won in 14min. 54sec. by Rose
(M.L.), and has either gone off or is not so good
as was supposed. D. V. Duigan did splcnlidly for
Victoria in the Decathlon events, and his State
wound up the meeting with six wins and nine
seconds. But if Wilspn, the title-holder, hadn’t frac-
tured a kneecap in the second heat of the 120 yards
hurdles, M.L. would probably have gained the shield ;
despite that handicap and McKenzie’s inability to
start in the mile walk, the Maorilanders finished with
six wins and two seconds. Five wins and five
seconds was the Ma State’s record.
* * * *
“Tren” : Ches. Brown, of Collingwood, is
in the Victorian XI at last. Seventeen years ago,
when he was the ohampion batsman of the champion
school, all who saw him making his hundreds and
two hundreds in the style of a veteran predicted an
international future for him, but somehow it never
materialised. Yet year after year Ches. has supplied
the most spectacular knocks of the Melbourne pen-
nant season. The two innings he played in the
last two matches gained his inclusion in Mavne’s
mob. Against Carlton he hit up 110 in 87 minutes;
against Northcote his tally was 116 n.o. in 80
minutes. On each occasion he reached the century
with a sixer.
* * * *
“Trekle”: Despite avoirdupois and lack
of practice, Warwick Armstrong is still in a class by
himself. Playing for Melbourne against Prahran,
premiers for the past three years, he won the match
almost singlehanded. With his team scratching for
runs he made a perfect 55 in an hour, and then
skittled seven of the champions for 69. On the fol-
lowing Saturday, against St. Kilda, he showed a
new facet of his versatility. When Herring, the
’keep, left to catch a country train, the big fellow,
to the joy of the spectators, donned the pads, and
kept faultlessly for 40 minutes. Warwick gave up
big cricket years too soon. Matt. Ellis, one of the Vic.
selectors, holds the opinion that the leviathan should
still be leading the Vies. If he were he would be
a certainty to captain the next Australian XI.
“Sammas”: Argument in recent Bulle-
tins as to the correctness of the term “thrown out”
recalls a match at Kalgoorlie. The batting side
needed five to win and nine wickets had fallen.
Came a fast ball which missed the wicket by
inches. “You blasted fool.” roared the wicket-keeper
to first slip and long-stop, “why don’t you keep
your feet together?” Being a trusting cove, the
batsman set off down the pitch, only to have his
bails whipped off the instant he left his crease.
UP went the umpire’s hand, and the words “bluffed
out were registered alongside the crestfallen one’s
name. There was some glorious stoush in Kalgoorlie
that night.
* * * *
“Tron”: In my judgment Ben Dunlop (B.
7/2/’24) plays cricket even better than he plays
tennis. Victoria has had some prolific schoolboy
batsmen, notably Herring, Ransford, Park and Hart-
kopf, but B( n has outseored them all. In school
matches he has made 2113 runs, average 48, and has
scored a century against each Victorian college,
against St. Peter’s, Adelaide, and 99 against the
Sydney collegians. His one chance against pennant
bowling stands out as his most meritorious perform-
ance, for, playing for College boys against Univer-
sity* on such an impossible wicket that the seniors
were all out for 46, he made his century in 90
minutes. There has been much speculation as to
which sport will eventually claim him, but he has
now decided to follow the family tradition (his
father, Alf Dunlop, is the old Davis Cup player) and
give his soul to tennis. Occasionally he may unbend
at the wicket.
“Bail” : My pick for the next Australian
XI would include Collins, Kippax, Ponsford, Old-
field, Kelleway and Macartney as inevitables. Gregory,
if available, would also be certain for the fast
bowler’s job. Liddicutt I would put in because,
next to Kelleway, he is the most reliable length
bowler we have; moreover his batting is not to be
despised, though he hasn’t been very successful this
season. Many argue that Mailey ought to be the
slow bowler, but 1 agree with “Merri Creek” (B.
7/2/’24) that Hartkopf has equal claims, and, regard-
less of his failures recently, I am sure that the
Victorian is a better bat. Also, his fielding is un-
impeachable. The other two places are difficult to
fill. As we don’t appear to have a left-handed
bowler good enough to be selected for his bowling
alone, we shall have to fall back on Macartney for
that phase of the attack, and we know that he is
capable of effecting surprises on perfect wickets.
Well, let us have another batsman, preferably
Tommy Andrews, because he is so brilliant in the
field. The other should be an all-rounder, and my
vote is for Arthur Richardson, of South Australia.
He is a more solid batsman than Ryder, and his
bowling can’t be trifled with. Ryder occasionally
hurls a good ball, but he exhausts his precious
energy by his ridiculous run, which is too long for
a bowler of his pace. Anyhow, with Ryder sub-
stituted for Richardson, the batting strength of my
Eleven would still be tremendous, whilst the trund-
ling would remain as good as one could expect in
the circumstances. If we can’t knock out the Eng-
lishmen with our bowling, we have good reason to
assume, at least, on paper, that our bats will break
their hearts.
“Adelaide”: It looks as if the long domina-
tion of Australian cricket by N.S.W. is at an end.
There must be a reason. But even now it is diffi-
cult to decide which of the old lot have ceased
to be worth their places. Put it this way. In
the last Australian XI there were 10 men from
Sydney; also Kelleway was picked to go. True, of
those 11 two were alternative wicketkeepers; if
Carter has since retired, there are still 10. Well,
it looks as if six men from other States must play
for Australia next November, and Kippax makes
seven. Which six of the old champions from N.S.W.
can be dropped?
“J.H.” (London) : Apropos of Scotland’s
boycott of the All Blacks, the Morning Post, which
stands for Diehard sport as well as Diehard politics,
predicts that the difficulties will be adjusted, and
that the Maorilanders will appear at Inverleith or
Glasgow. I hope they will do nothing of the sort.
I have seen the letter addressed to the English
Rugby Union, whose guests the All Blacks will be,
by Simson, secretary of the Scottish Union ; it merely
states that “my committee do not wish to have
any matches with the M.L. team allotted to the
Scottish Football Union.” Asked for an explana-
tion by a Manchester Guardian man, Simson refused
to oblige, saying that “English papers are un-
friendly, and their criticism is gratuitous.” He
has adopted the same attitude to Scottish newspaper
inquiries. Meanwhile Scotland is beginning to realise
that its Rugby autocrats have landed it in a nice
mess.
“Jacky Roo”: According to a private let-
ter, R. L. Raymond, the last N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar,
who went to Oxford with an internaticn il reputation
as a winger, was played as a centre-threequarter
in his first ’Varsity trial. The result was a hopeless
exhibition which will jeopardise Raymond’s chances of
ever gaining a blue. The same experiment was
tried during a Maori-
land tour, and a
N.S.W. winger told
me that “Pup” was
pathetically at sea in
the unfamiliar posi-
tion. But Oxford will
regret excluding Ray-
in' ni from the Dark
Blue XV if he joins
up with Blackheath or
the London Scottish.
There are precious few
wingers of his calibre
in Britain, and I’ll
wager a new hat that
Scotland has him next
year.
D. V. DUIGAN,
( Vic.), successful
in the Decathlon
events at Hobart.
“15-30” : Another Anderson controversy is
imminent. The other day J.O. announced that he
couldn’t go after the Davis Cup this year as he
had to attend to his business. Which was precisely
what he said and kept on saying 12 months back
until various boosters convinced him that his absence
would be a national Calamity. Presumably he is
open to be convinced The same way now, but the
persuasion will have to be heavier, and may even
have to take the form of a deputation headed by
the Governor-General, the State Governors and the
various Ministries, before he will consent to neglect
his little shop in Sydney. Anyhow, O’Hara Wood,
who naturally wants to go with Patterson, hints
that Anderson’s decision to remain in Australia is not
irrevocable, and since Wood is probably acquainted
with the true position of affairs there is a chance
that Anderson may yet be dragged from the busi-
ness which he has already deserted for three years
in succession. Interesting fellow, Anderson! One
cannot speak without emotion of his reluctance to
leave work for play, except at the call of patriotic
duty.
“Linesman”: Of the 10 best tennis men who
appeared in America in 1923 Johnston is still ranked
second to Tilden. R. N. Williams has beaten Vin-
cent Richards for third place, and the hard-hitting
P. T. Hunter is considered superior to the ex-South
African, B. I. C. Norton, who has played wonderfully
well in England. Norton is placed eighth, presum-
ably on account of his achievements in various IJ.S.
tournaments, though the Spanish champion, Alonzo,
who was also flashing about in the white oblong, isn’t
considered worthy of a position. American tennis
writers reckon that he is better than Richards, and
at his top is capable of beating Hunter or Norton,
so his absence from the list is probably due to some
technical disqualification that has not been published.
The fact that Anderson and Hawkes are not included
is nothing to worry about, for the form in Davis Cup
matches, to which our players practically confined
themselves in America, is not studied for ranking
purposes. If it were, Anderson should be running
neck and neck with Johnston for second, and Hawkes
ought at least to be tenth, instead of R. Kinsey.
The list is, however, of interest to us in demonstrat-
ing that there has been no marked change in form
among the first half-dozen Yanks in the last two or
three years. Tilden and Johnston are still a long
way ahead of the rest. If one or other dropped out —
and Johnston has been threatening retirement, while
Tilden is up against the new rule forbidding players
to write for the newspapers—Australia would have a
great chance of regaining the Cup.
* * * *
“Ribcracker”: All going well, Brancourt,
the Bankstown (N.S.W.) giant, is to exchange
straight lefts and right crosses with the pick of
the world’s lilywhite heavyweights at Paris. Others
recommended to the Olympic Federation are Sinclair,
a very good Queensland lightweight ; Jones, the
Vic. middleweight; and Boynton, the N.S.W. bantam:
they will all make the trip if funds are available,
but Brancourt is first choice, the others following in
the order named. Some ringside critics are of
opinion that Brancourt can’t fight. My idea is
that he has never been seriously pushed. Being a
good-natured man-mountain, he has played light
with his much smaller opponents (some of them
have tried to give him five stone), and been satis-
fied to win on points. They have rarely been able
to get past his long left. When Brancourt reaches
London he ought to take a course of lessons from
Jim Driscoll or some other master of the Mace school.
An instructor like our old friend Johnnie Summers
would make him a certainty for the heavyweight
competition by completing the education of that
driving left. In any case, the young man from
Bankstown is likely to get more newspaper publicity
than Charlton, Carr, Ooppins and the rest. For he
is taller, if not weightier, than any heavy in the
business: he measures 6ft. lOin. and scales nearly
17 stone.
* * * *
Tommy Fairhall was giving Plees, the
Belgian lightweight, a torrid time in the second
round of their disagreement at Sydney Stadium
when a right uppercut landed low, and the Newcastle
youth was disqualified. It was the second successive
Saturday-night fight to finish in that way, and the
penalty should be more drastic than the mere loss
of a decision. Life disqualification for the next
offender would encourage the bruising brotherhood to
“keep ’em up.”
* * * *
Arne Borg’s hollow defeats of Beaure-
paire and Christie at Hobart demonstrated beyond
all doubt that when the Swede met Charlton at
Sydney he was only half fit. In the mile champion-
ship of Australia the lean stranger finished 140yds.
ahead of Beaurepaire in 22min. 45 3-ssec. ; in the
half-mile his advantage was 55yds. and his time
lOmin. 57 4-ssec. On these performances it would
be folly to include either Beaurepaire or Christie
in the Olympic contingent. One is a light of other
days; the other has not trained on. Nor is anything
to be gained by selecting a rather ordinaiy sprinter
like Herald. Charlton should be accompanied to
Paris by Henry and Coppleson (both boys, and,
barring accidents, certain to improve), together with
Dick Eve, great diver and good free-style swimmer,
and Soussari, the Queensland fisherman, a possible
world-beater in the breast-stroke department.
* * * *
“Machete”: The next excitement in the
swimming world will relate to the attempted estab-
lishment of Charlton’s times as recognised world’s
records. At present matters are in a very mixed
ccn lition. The original English rule was that no
record not made in an absolutely enclosed bath could
be recognised; this barred some of Barney Kieran’s
best times. Then the International Federation of
Amateur Swimmers agreed to accept records made in
tidal water, if the referee certified that neither wind
nor current had aided the record-maker. Under
this ruling Norman Ross’s half-mile record of llmin.
24 l-ssec. was admitted, though made in “tidal
water” —the Domain baths. But endorsement of
Charlton’s llmin. 5 l-ssec. was refused. There can be
little doubt that “Boy’s” latest records will suffer
the same fate. The reason for the discrimination is
not very obvious, beyond the fact that Ross is an
American and the Americans have a big say in the
International Federation.
* * * *
The Murray Bridge (S.A.) crew, which
has been provisionally selected to row against the
best eight-oar boats from other continents at Argen-
teuil, on the Seine, next July, has received several
challenges, notably one from the Old Launcestonians,
now champions of the Speck. Another has gone in
from the Swan River. In the last inter-State eight-
oar race the Westralians, who affect a short, rapid
stroke, got up top speed very quickly, and impartial
judges are of the opinion that they can beat the
Murray Bridgers over the Olympic distance. Any-
how, there will be a fine sporting flavor about the
challenge race if crews from Perth, Melbourne, Laun-
ceston and Sydney take part.
THE BOWLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nothing occurred to mar the perfect harmony of
the Country Week Bowls Carnival at Sydney.”
I love to see those amiable and mostly portly souls
Who pasted sixes in their day, belike, and booted
goals
Bending their slightly stiffened frames beneath the
spell of bowls.
No sweat-drops gather on their brows, no scowls are
in their eyes;
They never mutter words profane or let their pas-
sions rise,
Each sunny hour goes by for them as cloudless as
the skies.
It may be that they never know those glad, tem-
pestuous throbs
That younger chaps accumulate at ping-pong or at
bobs,
Or when the willow-blade connects with yorkers or
with lobs.
Ah! not for them the ecstasies, delirious and keen,
The golfer feels who finishes his stroke to view
serene
His ball a-soaring high in air and heading for the
green.
There’s no such scope for animal exuberance, ’tis
true,
No opportunity for loud, uproarious halloo.
Yet compensations I discern —and crowded moments,
too.
No ill-conditioned barrackers assemble to destroy
The players’ equanimity. No bickerings annoy.
The bowler from his game extracts a calmer, holier
joy.
And when the globe that he has aimed with guile
and artifice
Elbows its predecessors out, the precious jack to
kiss,
A fellow’s Ego, I surmise, must be suffused with
bliss.
Beyond the grave no games there’ll be involving
sweat and yell,
I take it that the bare idea our preachers would
repel.
But bowls may come into its own—on lawns of
asphodel.
And I shall leave, for those who will, celestial choirs,
methinks,
And head for where the angels range the newly come
in rinks.
If any part of Heaven’s wet, ’tis here they’ll keep
the drinks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SSS*®
m
«ie
Split- PuHpu
KS
POWER TRANSMISSION.
Speed, Safety and Economy Service.
With these three essentials accounted for in “transmission” the
manufacturer can be confident in securing maximum production
from his plant.
SPLIT BELT PULLEYS
combine each of these essentials, being of a
unique construction that allows the safe carry-
ing of maximum loads at highest speeds, be-
cause of their combination of light weight with
great strength
SKF Split Pulleys are also distinctly economical
in wear and tear on belts, machines and bear-
ings, because of their perfect oalance.
No keyways are necessary; Rims and Bushes
are interchangeable.
Can be fitted to any shaft in five minutes —-
by one man.
Gardner, Waern &, Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street.
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street,
ADELAIDE—Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 157 Way-
mouth Street.
PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
377-391 Murray Street.
HOBART—Charles Davis. Ltd.
S.P.—6/23.
□□dee Brothers
COMMERCIAL CAR
Merchants are growing more and more
particular about the appearance of the delivery
cars they send to their customers’ homes.
The reason is perfectly clear to anyone who
has ever analysed his impressions on seeing a
handsome, dignified delivery car draw up in
front of his own or his neighbor’s door.
Good appearance is one of the three foremost
attributes of Dodge Brothers Commercial Car.
The others are low upkeep cost and long,
dependable service.
Douse Brothers,Detrost
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor
00. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
14/2/’24.
THE INKY WAY.
“Adamascus”: Brisbane Daily Mail thinks so well
of the world that it has chanced £45,000 in the
purchase of premises it now occupies and those next
door. The block has a frontage of 60ft. to Queen-
street, in the heart of the city, just opposite the
G.P.O.
“Uramao”: Died at Wellington (M.L.) J. J.
Gamble, aged 80. He learned the printer’s trade
in his native island of Guernsey, where he set type
for Victor Hugo, who in the ’fifties, after the
eruption in France, lived in exile on the island. At
the time of his retirement in 1904 Gamble was super-
intendent overseer at the Government Printing
Office.
“Iford”: There must be a temporary shortage of
Scots in those departments of the dailies where sense
is knocked into the cablegrams. The S.M.H. made
Ramsay Mac., glowing with pride of birthplace,
declare: “In Lossiemouth is my heart. At Lossie-
loon was I born and in Lossieman shall I die.” The
D.T. also depicted the Labor leader as broadcasting
that he was born “at Lossieloon.” Of course, what
Ramsay Mac. did say was: “A Lossie loon was 1
born and a Lossie man shall I die.” Didn’t the
McLurg family consist of “three loons and a lassie?’'
“Bison”; Two members of the Federal Ministry
are now newspaper proprietors. Half-Priminister
Page has the controlling interest ir* a sheet in
his electorate, and is understood to draw revenue
from some smaller publications. P. G. Stewart,
Minister for Works and Railways, whose large farm
in the Mallee enables him to bank something more
than his salary, is the head of a small syndicate
which has acquired the Sunraysia Daily, of Mildura.
This paper, which commands a wide area, was
founded by the industrious C. J. De Garis, and was
handed over to its new owners for something like
£12,000.
“J.H.” (London) : The latest London newspaper
deal is rumored to be the transfer of the control of
the Morning Post from Lady Bathurst to a central
Conservative group headed by Colonel F. S. Jackson,
the great international cricketer of other days, who
is now the chairman of the Unionist party and is
also connected with the Yorkshire Post. The Morn-
ing Post, the recognised organ of the “Diehards,”
conducted a fierce vendetta against Lords Rother-
mere and Beaverbrook for their conspiracy to smash
Baldwin in the recent election campaign. Its attacks
were ignored by Rothermere, but were taken up with
alacrity by Beaverbrook, and the daily interchange
of pleasantries between the Daily Express and the
Post was one of the minor distractions of the
elections.
“G.R.”: According to the Newspaper World, 75
journalists have seats in the new British
Parliament. Among them are a son .of Hall
Caine and a nephew of the late Lord North-
cliffe. The doyen is rT. P. O’Connor, who has
been turning out copy for 57 years. But the
term journalist seems to be used rather loosely
when it includes J. J. Astor, chairman of the Times,
and F. S. Jackson, the sometime international
cricketer, who is a director of the Yorkshire Post.
F. W. Pethick Lawrence, who defeated Winston
Churchill, was at one time editor of the Echo. Sir
Edward Grigg, Lloyd George’s secretary, was on the
staff of the Times, and first came to Australia in the
interests of that paper. George Lansbury is general-
manager of the Daily Herald, and Ramsay Mac-
donald himself has been a freelance for years.
“O’South” : C. J. Dennis’s home at Toolangi (Vic.) is
a great attraction for the tourists who during the
summer months infest those mountainous parts. Though
the nearest railway is a matter of 14 miles over an
abominable road, Den.’s fence is often lined by people
armed with cameras waiting for a glimpse of the
Sentimental Bloke, though what there is to see from
the road only Allah knows, as Den. has rigged about
his house a tall inner fence of lattice-work. Some
of the hero-worshippers go boldly to the house and
ask for billies of water, or directions to some place
or other. Others take short cuts through the grounds
—to such disorganisation of Den.’s vegetable patch
that he was recently compelled to erect a warning,
“Trespassers will be crucified.” One party the other
dav asked if they could see through the house, to
which Denj replied heartily that he wasn’t dead yet.
“Sturt” : Adelaide has been learning how rickety
even first-hand evidence can be. Schafer, the militant
Prohibition parson, remarked in a public controversy
with Premier Barwell that the latter admitted not
reading the newspapers. Barwell promptly replied
that he would give £lOO to any charities Schafer
named if such an admission could be proved. Schafer
thereupon produced three witnesses, two men and a
woman, all well-known citizens, who had heard
Barwell say to a deputation: “I rarely read the
newspapers.” On which the reporters of all four of
Adelaide’s daily papers obliged with certificates
(including in the Register’s case a transcription
of the shorthand notes) that the Premier said merely :
“The last few days I have not had time to read
all of the letters that have appeared in the press.’
So the- “charities” Schafer nominated —which in-
cluded an Inebriates’ Retreat, and a new Saturday-
Noon Bar-closing League —are not likely to profit.
“Oxmead”: A quaint feature of the foreign cables
nowadays is the desperate eagerness to put the preux
“M.” in front of the names of all persons of conse-
quence in countries like the Balkan States, Russia
and Japan. Of course the necessity doesn’t arise if the
celebrities have titles or military rank, and as most
prominent Japs seem to be either marquises oi
viscounts, just as all leading Greeks are admirals oi
generals, the “M.” is not being overworked yet,
although it begins to intrude everywhere. I have
a theory the practice began through the cable-
editor’s dislike of seeming to take liberties with
the names of politicians by printing them as plain
“Smith” or “Jones.” Plainly they weren’t “Mister,
since they didn’t belong to any of the English-speaking
peoples, so what more obvious than that they must
be “Monsieur”? The Turks, certainly, have escaped
being “M.’d” so far, because it is easier to put
“Pasha” after their names, and the Chinese and
Persians have also managed to evade it, but their
immunity cannot last for ever. ~
“Ricardo”: One playful eccentricity of John
Norton remains to be noticed. Whenever his beer
hadn’t agreed with him —and it seldom did —lie had
a habit of sacking his staff, or as many of them as
came in his way. Those w-ho were tired would turn
up to work as usual next day, and John generally
let it go at that. On one occasion, however, the
literary staff of one of his Truths made a collective
protest against these periodical dismissals; they
further asserted that the next time the proprietor
indulged in this objectionable propensity they would
go on strike in a body. John was on one of his
bouts at the time, and was crying drunk when the
ultimatum was delivered. “You are a lot of de-
serters,” he sobbed. “That’s what you are, de-
serters. After all I’ve done for you, too.” This
was too much for one old henchman. He stepped
forward and put his hand gently on the shaking
shoulders of his boss. “No, Mr. Norton,” he said—
“no- I’ll call you John —I will never desert you.
John broke with a fresh burst of sobs. “I know
you won’t, vou blanker,” he hiccoughed through his
tears, “and that’s what breaks me up.”
“Xox”: Trial by newspaper has gone so far in
Melbourne that the young man charged with the
massacre in the Botanic Gardens, had he been taken
alive, would have been lucky to have escaped the
gallows. Originally it was assumed, on such evidence
as there was, that he was a lunatic, a paranoiac
of the deepest dye.’ But as the supposition obviously
absolved the murderer from moral responsibility,
after a week of fruitless search the press begin
to color public opinion against him by anything
that would pander to morbidness or make sensational
copy. One theory advanced was that Norman List
was not an innocent student, but suffered from a
complaint that “makes him hate women” (three
out of the four* victims were females), and'thus the
populace was asked to swallow the wholly unproved
assumption that he was a man. of unpleasant habits.
On top of this came the equally unreliable opinion
of a super-detective that the wanted man wasn’t as
mad as he was said to be. The same sort of catih-
penny propaganda was employed in the Colin Ross
case’ and whether Ross was guilty or riot it is
unouestionable that he was condemned by sedulously-
cultivated mob prejudice before he reached the dock.


r ' .
saEflk y
, 3$
*&-*—^4i
MB
WH
sSW
V
IX
X
4kys /tf?.
;.^Cvl»\f > ' i «v
>,-->V-» ''* *~>
The happiest people on the
road own a B.S.A.
I HE owners of B.S.A. Motor
A Bicycles are the happiest people
(TT) on the road. They know from
experience that they cannot obtain a
finer mount, or one that will provide
so much pleasure with so little trouble.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are built
to give thoroughly reliable and trouble-
free service under all conditions, and
the thousands of satisfied B.S.A.
owners throughout the world afford
convincing proof of the manner in
which these machines fulfil their
purpose.
D
n
n
Q
e*
Motor Bicycles
For Solo and Sidecar
Illustrated Catalogue obtainable from 8.8. A. Representative —
D. Y. RENNIE, AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE,
dfdgfhj
Look for the
“T h r e e Piled
Rifles” on every
B.S.A. product.
This trade-
mark is the sign
of perfect work-
in ans h i p and
high-quality
materials.
or on application to 8.8. A. Agents-
N.S.W.—BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284
Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA—FINLAY BROS., 322 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—J. N. TAYLOR & CO.,
LTD., 121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND —CANADA C. & M. AGENCY,
LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
LAUNCESTON—SIM KING, Brisbane Street,
Launceston.
HOBART—JAMES BILYARD, Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
BURNIE—A. OSBORNE.
Do You Use a B.S.A. Gun?
Why Teeth Discolor
Now millions make them glisten
Men who smoke, in particular, know
that their teeth grow dingy. But all
others know this equally as well.
Millions of people have now learned
hew to combat that trouble. You see
the results in glistening teeth wherever
you look to-day.
Make this free test —a delightful test —
and you will know what they do.
The cause is film
You feel on your teeth a viscous film
which clings and stays. No ordinary
tooth paste can effectively combat it.
So smoke stains and food stains discolor
it, then it forms dingy coats.
When you see men with teeth they
don’t like to show, they are most likely
clouded by that film.
Film also holds food substance which
ferments and forms acid. It holds the
acid in contact with the teeth to cause
decay. Germs breed by millions in film.
They, with tartar, are the chief cause of
pyorrhea.
Now we combat it
Dental science has now
found ways to effectively com-
bat that film. One
disintegrates the film, the
other removes it without
harmful scouring.
•>. K
. 'V «
A new-type tooth paste has been cre-
ated to apply those methods daily. The
name is Pepsodent.
These discoveries have brought to
millions a new era in teeth cleaning.
And in two other ways they bring pro-
tection which teeth rarely had before.
Watch the change
Send the coupon for a io-Day Tube.
Note how clean the teeth feel after using.
Mark the absence of the viscous film.
See how teeth become whiter as the
film-coats disappear.
The test will be a revelation. No man
will ever clean teeth in the old ways
when he knows what this new way means.
Cut out the coupon now.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use
a film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
Made tn Australia
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm MARK f
TRADE mil lII NUB mu ——
The New-Day Dentifrice.
A scientific tooth paste based on modern
research, now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Two sizes.
Price: 2/- and 1/3
AB 1314
A 10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube 10 a tamily.
m
mSs
m
jp,
u
m
4
fr
T m
The
Critical Smoker
always smokes PRINCE
CHARMING CIGAR-
ETTES, because the blend
(of 16 growths of finest
Virginia leaf) from which
they are made ensures a
palatable smoke right
through. In the Old
Country Critical Smokers
demand them.
\0h970M6
also in in vacuum tins & in 100*
in boxes. On sn/e everywhere.
fuficc Cfuvuninc
CIGARETTES'
by fMoustafa Ltd., 165 Piccadilly, London, W. /. England


Att Alston’ Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and IMustrated Catalogue free
on application.
Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
1
: I
I
|> J ~v
»•»»
J H.C %
Cool & Refreshing as
a Summer Breeze
“ Jho Beer
Without a Riifa!"
ABBOT'S
LAGER
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Sybil”
Criterion “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans”
Royal “De Luxe Annie”
Grand Opera House “Rockets”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty's “Aladdin"
Royal “Sally”
King's “Othello’’
Princess's “Little Nellie Kelly”
Palace “Mother Goose”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
A condensed “Othello,” at Melbourne
King’s, staged with the seasoned artistry
of Oscar Asche and not encumbered with
superfluous scenic detail, should attract all
that is best, as well as most pretentious, in
local patronage. Though the tragedy has
been more adequately played, there is suffi-
cient force in the performance to hold one
deeply interested. If Asche is an unduly
conspicuous central figure, the robustious-
ness of his method serves in a measure to
“carry oft” his physical excess. He is ex-
ceptionally effective in the final scene, where
he is great in both senses of the word, and
the slow rich basso notes of despair seem
to issue from a breaking heart. Isn’t there
special pathos in the spectacle of a very fat
man denouncing himself as a colossal fool
before stabbing himself with a blade long
enough to reach his vitals? You feel that
one cannot have too much of an Othello who
gives utterance to such memorable remorse.
His early struggles against the poison which
lago crudely pours into his ear are subtly
suggested, and his death scene, as aforesaid,
is a masterpiece. The fault, now as hereto-
fore, is an occasionally rapid gabble where-
with he lashes his fury. Utterance outruns
voice inflections. Excited comments lack
the dignity of his slow verbal paces. He
sounds like an angry Oscar flinging studies
in elocution to the winds.
* * * *
But what of Anew McMaster, who pre-
sents Anew Iago? This red-eyed son of
melodrama never gets inside the character
of the bluff antient, whose air of frankness
and worthiness have deceived everybody save
his wife. His fitful, spasmodic style ranges
from that of a fiery novice in dissimula-
“MR. PIM PASSES BY," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Georye Marden ( C. M. Hallard ) is upset by
Mr. Pim (Dion Boucicault) and his
untrustworthy memory.
tion to that of a commonplace, sophisticated
crawler. At first the world’s supply of
villainy is evidently insufficient to meet his
requirements, but anon his hypocrisy is offen-
sively pretentious. He starts with 20th-
century military salutes and ends with futile
snarls. To paraphrase Goldsmith :
Each night with weak and unimpressive art
lago feigns to play the Devils part:
Lies from his lips prevail with feeble sway,
And none are duped by what he dares to say.
Greenaway, as a matured Michael Cassio,
is a pattern of suave proficiency to many
members of the co., especially Mason Woods
as Roderigo; for, whereas Cassio earns
genuine applause for his unaffected, cheery
drunkenness and subsequent lamentations,
Woods makes vain bids for laughter without
being humorous. Frederick George is a well-
spoken, though tame, Dodovico; and Eardley
Turner, as an amiable Duke of Venice, gives
the tragedy a promising send-off —his part-
ing words to Desdemona’s irate pa are pun-
gently delivered. Of the ladies, Doris Cham-
pion is no more than a passable Desdemona,
commanding little sympathy for her fate, but
putting a fair amount of realism into her
terror of sudden death. The necessary gentle-
ness and simplicity are wanting in Braban-
tio’s daughter. Jegsie Page, in the more
grateful character of Mrs. lago, a matron
who means well but knows how many beans
make five, is always likeable and keenly in-
cisive of speech. In the bedroom scene she
is so thoroughly
satisfactory that it
was surely a mis-
take to clock her of
the famous lines
concerning hus-
bands and wives,
lines which bring
the strong-minded
married woman of
Shakspeare’s day
right up to date in
her morality.
“Othello” is for 12
nights only.
** * *
Other Melbourne
shows are changing
their location in
the city or going
to forjign parts,
with t)>b exception,
of course, of “Little
Nellie Kelly,”
which will stay at
the Princess’s until
further orders.
Helen will have a
special matinee to-
day (Thursday).
Melbourne Tivoli.
Julian Levinsky
Rose, who was last
here 13 years ago.
“Aladdin” and Ada Reeve leave Melbourne
Majesty’s next week for touring purposes,
and on the 23rd “Sally” will be transferred
from the Royal to the vacated home of the
panto. Then will Laurence Grossmith saun-
ter into the Royal for brief revivals of
“Applejohn” and “The Silver Fox.” Mean-
while nothing has happened to the panto
aforesaid, bar a temporary indisposition of
the gigantic Emperor, whose No. 10 shoes
provided capacious accommodation for the
feet of Herbert Walton. Also a permanent
change of cast in “Sally” is the appearance
of Thelma Burness, a dainty blonde with
music in her little voice, in place of Gracie
Lavers, who has left “w. view to above.”
a* V
At Melbourne Palace the panto, known
as “Mother Goose” is departing in a hurry
after this Saturday, so the rush for bargain
matinees is wilder than ever. Seymour Hicks
has arrived, and that much talked-of com-
edian is to be housed at the Palace from the
23rd inst. onwards.
“The Barber of Seville,” now at Melbourne
Olympia, will continue for as many last
nights of the season as a professedly musical
world demands. With a view to calling
attention to this interesting matter, Miss
Dawn Asslieton recently bearded a lion in
its den and stroked an elephant on its trunk,
thus proving herself an operatic prima donna
of iron nerve, as well as a silvery soprano
and golden personality on the stage. If the
lion-taming incident fails to draw further
Melbourne attention to Rigo’s plucky operatic
venture, the management must try again
when the city is six months wiser.
* * * *
Dick Turpin, alias Matheson Lang, who
looks like an addict to chess and bowls, is
repeating his famous ride to York at Mel-
bourne Majestic this week. In the course
of the adventure the highwayman brings a
glow to the Ii icording Angel by helping a
pair of discons date lovers. The shadow of
Doris May’s smile in the supporting trifle,
“Boy Crazy,” makes many a lad in the audi-
ence yearn to buy her chocolates. An Ameri-
can amalgam of Buttercup and Little Nell
is Hoyt’s recipe for turning hard hearts
to mush. An effective demonstration of this
sunshine cure is presented in “A Chapter
in Her Life.” For the rest of the entrance
fee Hoyt’s customers get the farce of “The
Brass Bottle,” which was never as funny
as it hoped to be. A strong taste for the
classics takes many film fanciers to the
Gaiety, where the reigning tragedy depicts
the hero parted from his weeping bride at
the altar by blushful accusations anent his
past. “Prehistoric Hayseeds,” in which
Beaumont Smith has parked all his notions
of knockabout comedy, is doing a week at
the Melba. Should a man marry lus model
is a test question settled in the affirmative
at the Britannia.
“De Luxe Annie,” with Emelic Polini as
the blameless young married woman who was
hurried into criminality by a crack on the
head, is again on the bill at Sidney Royal.
It is a highly ingenious and, at times, absorb-
ing piece of American stage fiction, but there
are curious lapses into absurdity. For in-
stance, on the third day after the operation
which restores Annie to the domestic virtues,
the devoted husband informs her, with a view
to assisting her recovery, that she has been
out of her mind for years. Also, the doctor
who performs the operation relates her crimi-
nal history to a party of time-killing railway
travellers, and, the patient arriving at the
close of the narrative, introduces her all
round. In real life devoted husbands and
doctors behave rather differently. However,
the thing is very interesting, and Miss Polini
does it extremely well. Her work is intelli-
gent always and very effective in tense situa-
tions. Frank Harvey is a thought too solemn,
though vigorous enough, as the sentimental
crook. The supporting parts are capably
played by Maurice Dudley (very amusing as
the billygoat-bearded storekeeper), Gerald
Kay Souper, Kenneth Brampton, Vivian
Edwards, J. B. Atholwood, John Fernside,
Katie Towers and Lettie Paxton.
“Sybil,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, pre-
sents a riot of color and a revel of melody.
A reminder that the scene of the gorgeousness
is the Russia of the “Pre-Revolution Period”
seems hardly necessary, in. view of the glit-
tering uniforms, the seductive ballet-dancing,
the interiors of palaces and grand hotels and
the collection of imposing and beauteous
beings who whirl around. If there ever really
was a Russia of that sort there is nothing
left of it except the feathery snow that is
seen falling with commendable attention to
detail outside the windows. The plot, or
what there is of one, seems to be vaguely
concerned with an operatic singer who mas-
querades as a grand duchess to save the life
of a young officer who is passionately attached
to her; it is the sort of thixjg that might
form the fabric of a dream after a caviare-
and-cliampagne supper. But the plot really
matters nothing; “Sybil’s” appeal jg to the
eye and ear, not the reasoning facul|ies. The
music is gay and stimulating, the singing is
sometimes notably good, and the principal
comedians are unflaggingly exuberant.
* * * *
Gladys Moncrieff is a sparkling and allur-
ing Sybil. Her part gives equal scope for a
fine voice and a dainty figure; her stage
talent hardly needs stressing. Clarice Ilard-
wicke, as Margot, is rogujshly effective. Byrl
Walkely plays the grand duchess —of musi-
cal comedy—in a spacious and satisfying
manner, with a train for special occasions
that peacocks might envy. Claude Flemming
of the massive features is always stately
and imposing. He warms up as he goes
along, and becomes reasonably human for a
grand duke; his duets with Sybil have fire
and force. Arthur Stigant, as Spreckles (the
impresario), keeps the house merry: broad
or subtle, his fooling is as admirable as his
stagecraft is easy and polished. Leslie Hol-
land, too, again wins favor in his pompous
burlesque of the Governor of B>omsk; the
pair make the best of foils for one another.
Robert Chisholm brings to the part of Cap-
tain Paul Petroff a handsome figure and a
voice of undeniable quality. The piece is
staged with lavishness above the ordinary,
and the minor parts are capably handled.
** * *
At Sydney Cri. “Mr. Pim Passe,s By” gives
way to “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans” on
Saturday night. This three-act comedy, with
its quaint atmosphere, will present Irene
Vanbrugh and Dion Boucicault at a new
angle with an attractiveness all its own.
“Rockets” is preparing for its final gust
of pyrotechnics. Saturday night sees the
Grand Gala Farewell Performance of as
rollicking a show as ever packed Sydn.ey
Grand Opera House.
Sydney Tivoli is for the moment the court
of Harry Claff, who in a scarlet robe, ermine-
trimmed and jewel-adorned, masquerades as
Henry VIII. The newcomer has a hearty
manner, and even if some of the secret his-
tory he imparts is going to bewilder humor-
less students, his impersonation of Bluff
King Hal makes one forget the gas lull and
the income-tax for a few minutes. Will Hay
is cheered by an uninterrupted flow of
chuckles as the dominie of the Fourth Form
at St. Michael’s; Rebe Kesslova fiddles ex-
pressively, to the delight of the discriminat-
ing ; and the joyous .Toy and Juan are a
symphony of graceful limbs in rapid motion.
Alec Regan and Ronald Stafford grow toler-
ably tuneful over Uncle Sam’s colored breth-
ren. There doesn’t seem to be a solitary
warbler with sufficient courage or imagina-
tion to burst into melody about our own
brack brothers.
“Can a Woman Love Twice?” Sydney
Lyceum asks; and although the scenario-
writer has gone to great pains to probe the
question, most male movie-fans don’t seem to
bother their heads to return a verdict —appa-
rently they reckon that, if what they are
“OTHELLO,” AT MELBOURNE KING’S.
lago (Anew McMaster) makes Othello
( Asche) feel peevish.
getting from their ladies isn’t the real thing,
it is a very serviceable substitute. “The
Great Moment” is also on view. “The Net,”
at the Strand, is a tangled affair with a
butchered artist supplying the morbid in-
terest. There must be great openings for under-
takers at Hollywood judging by the death-
rate in Screenland. “The Woman He Loved”
is competing against the before-mentioned
dead artist and liis slayer for popular favor
at the same house. “Lawful Larceny,” at
the Globe, is a sort of celluloid “Law with-
out Lawyers,” with a hot bit of love-making
thrown in. “Little Johnny Jones,” at the
Empress, is a weird Yankee notion of the
habits and manners of the British peerage.
“The Huntress,” at Hoyt’s, is a determined
Juliet who, feeling the need for a Romeo,
abducts the first she set. eyes upon—he is a
camp cook at the opening, but for happy-
ending purposes is something quite magni-
ficent. “If Winter Comes” will be spoken
of in the past tense at the Crystal Palace
after Saturday, and a D. W. . Griffiths pro-
duction, “The W T hite Rose,” will be the new
interest.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal the versatile Nellie
Bramley continues her season on the old
stock-company plan. She switches with
ease from farce to sentiment, and from that
to tragedy. Lately she has been giving Tit-
tell Brune’s' old success, “Leah Kleschna,”
which perhaps set the note for a recent flood
of American reforming-crook plays. Fitzher-
bert and Guy Hastings give her strong sup-
port. Billy Maloney and Elton Black are
still at the Williamson Garden Theatre,
which is strong on the musical side. Moon
and Morris give hearty opposition, also
under the starlight, at Austral Gardens.
Jolly Wesley Barry’s freckles are at West’s;
but all these American pictures are well held
by the Italian “Nero.” Seldom has one
heard such a roar of applause in a picture-
house as when the big Christian is strangling
the murderous lion with his bare hands,
while in simultaneous flashes the rebellious
army is seen galloping down on Rome to
make things uncomfortablissimo for Nero.
* * *
London Studio on black-and-white at
the Australian Art Show in London: —
The great development of the graphic arts which
has taken place in Australia incontestably had its
origin in the standard of good illustration set by
the Sydney Bulletin, which fostered the genius of
Phil May and David Low. In this section, the
quality of the work shown was uniformly high, the
woodblocks of Margaret Preston striking a modern
note which was absent from the sound etchings and
drawings of Sydney Ure Smith, Napier Waller, Lloyd
Rees, Gayfield Shaw, Victor Cobb, Henry Fullwood
and Lionel Lindsay. Even the technique of Norman
Lindsay, strongly individual as it is, is based almost
entirely upon the older tradition. To say this is
by no means to under-rate either the originality or
the versatility of an artist who is reminiscent of
Rubens in the best of his compositions and of
Hogarth and Phil May in his character studies,
of which, by a regrettable error in judgment, none
were included in the recent exhibition.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Jupp, the Gaiety door-
keeper, asserts in his book of reminiscences
that Melba was told in 18S6 by Arthur Sulli-
van that her voice was not then good enough
for Savoy opera. The great man kindly
added that if the lady studied hard for an-
other year he might be able to give her a
small engagement. Within 18 months Nellie
was singing with Lassalle at the Grand
Opera, Paris; within two years she was at
Covent Garden.
THE ETERNAL MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though darkly the shadow at noonday falls
And the music of life goes wrong,
Men shall weary of building walls
Before they weary of song.
The ages of steel may redden with rust
And the ships fail from the sea,
But the music in which a man may trust
Is hidden in melody.
For how shall a brave heart cease to sing
In a brave green world like this
When the Autumn turns at a touch to Spring
And the lips are red to kiss?
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


L
□
zS(
&&
2
nr
tH
dfdgfhj
REXONOLA No. 4-
In Golden Oak, Mission Oak and Mahogany.
Those who have comparatively limited space, but prefer a
cabinet model on account of its attractiveness as an article
of furniture, will find the Rexonola Number 4 the design par
excellence. The Rexonola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber
gives this model a wonderful quality and beauty of tone.
CABlNET.—Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark Maho-
gany, full French polished, brilliant finish, or Selected Oak,
Golden or Mission finish. Size, 41 x 19J x 17 inches. Curved
Lid, Detachable Motor Board, giving easy access to Motor.
Fretwork front to Sound Chamber, and doors to Record Cabinet
which is fitted with shelves for record storage. Patented Reflec-
tor Sound Chamber, giving a reproduction of magnificent volume
and beautiful tone quality. Automatic Lid Support; Nickel-
plated Needle Cups.
MOTOR.—Double-spring, highly finished worm-drive Motor of
finest Swiss manufacture, playing about three records with
one winding.
TONE-ARM.—Swan neck with tapering arm.
TURNTABLE.—TweIve-inch, nickel-plated and polished.
SPEED INDICATOR. —Numbered Speed Indicator.
SOUND BOX.—Rexonola Grand Aluminium.
Price £l5.
IS
REXONOLA No. 18.
In Golden or Mission Oak.
The most inexpensive Rexonola, in which, however, quality of
construction has not been sacrificed. Sturdily built, and having
tne Rexonola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber, which ensures
excellent tone quality.
i-V 7 ' 6 ’ « x ll x 7| inches. Swiss Motor. Rexonola Nickel
Grand Sound Box.
Price £3/7/6
What is Lacking
in this Home?
Typical of hundreds of Australian homes here is
a room beautifully furnished with practically all
that comfort and refinement can suggest. Yet
there is something lacking. For homeliness depends
upon more than beautiful externals, however
attractive they may be. There must be something
to appeal to the mind and the heart as well as to
the eye. Music makes this appeal and harmonises
the soul of things with the beauties of nature
and of art.
Music in the home awakens all that is highest and
noblest in human nature, gives a wider outlook to
the mind, emphasises kinship, and lifts life from
the sordid and the dreary.
In these modern days Music finds its highest
expression in the Rexonola—an instrument that
reproduces with singular clarity the beautiful tone
and distinctive expression of the most famous
artists.
Every home can possess a Rexonola, whether the
furnishing indicates wealth and luxury or the
simple homeliness of humble folks —there is a
model to fit every circumstance.
All models, the least as well as the most expensive,
are fitted with the Rexonola Patented Reflector
Sound Chamber—the secret of the superb tone of
the Rexonola.
The highest quality of materials and workmanship
are used—the finest Oak specially imported and
thoroughly seasoned characterises the cabinet work,
and all fittings are accurately adjusted.
The Rexonola plays all makes of disc records—and
plays them as the artist intended.
Rear this in mind—you need no technical or
musical skill to ensure the highest enjoyment from
the Rexonola.
Ask your nearest dealer to demonstrate, or fill in
the coupon below.
REXONOLAS
Top Tone
Rexonolas and the Rexoport are sold by hundreds of talking-machine
dealers throughout Australia.
Table Models are priced from £-3/7/6 to £l9; Cabinet Models from £lB
to Period Models from £35 to £62/10/-, and the Rexoport (the
portable Rexonola), £5.
Use this Coupon if there is no Rexonoia
Dealer near you. Post it To-day.
Messrs. JACKSON d- MACDONALD,
Kent Street,
Sydney.
Please send to the undermentioned address catalogues and full particulars
of the Rexonola talking-machines.
NAME , )
.4 DDR ESS


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
REENER
Y m
m
m
wm
wMm.
m
wz,
r
w. w. mm#.
CUNMAi.ERS, BIRMINCHA
Australian RepresentativeS (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO* PTY. (
LTD.. T'
DJ>HU> CM
3DJ>HO) IN
FOR OVER 200 YEARS
□
1
a household word in
sickness and in health
“ Martell’s for Age and Quality ”
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service ft la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
1
fill
ATIOH
ss.
A)
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caf6 and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
POVERTY
POINT
Grand opera and high finance: —
The Sydney afternoon papers invite me to become
savage because the Melba Grand Opera Co. intends
charging £2 ss. 9d. for a reserved seat in the
stalls or circle on the opening night of the tour,
and £1 3s. on subsequent first nights. I have no
intention of paying £2 ss. 9d., but I should like
to wager the Gratuity-bond Loan against a gutter
rag’s monthly profits that every seat will be sold
at that price, mostly to the unmusical herd who
would rather have appendicitis than not be there
when the Smythe-Brownes are going. Doubtless tile
promoters of the enterprise are calculating on, and
intend profiting by, the devouring social ambitious
of this class ; and why shouldn’t they ? Who wouldn’t
do the same in their situation? As for the £1 as.,
it costs £1 Is. Bd. (sometimes £1 12s. 6d.) for a
ringside seat at the Stadium, where the class of
scrappers is very poor compared with what it used
to be, but I haven’t seen any complaint in the p.m.
press. Neither has there been an outbreak of fury
because the proprietor of a new cafe is asking £1 ss.
for a Saturday-night jazz feed. After all, Melba and
J.C.W. are submitting a line of goods, like the boss
of the Ambassadors. If their charges are too
high, the fact will be recorded on the remorseless
barometer of the box-ofiice; but why squeal in
advance when the public has the privilege of refusing
to buy ? There is too much squealing and snarling
in Australia at the expense of eminent Australians
like Melba and Asche: it is a very paltry mani-
festation of the provincial spirit.
“Second Murderer”: As to the naked
truth in the matter of stage legs, it was
George Marlow who gave us our first really
liberal display of hoseless ladies. That was
in his pantomime of “Dick Whittington,”
with Carrie Moore as Dick (1915-16).
Owing to the war there weren’t enough
tights in Australia for the legs of all hands,
so to speak. So the girls had to trip on
wearing talc instead of tights.
“Gowrie”: “Tuart” says that Oscar
Asche “will always be heavily handicapped
in Australia by being an Australian” (B.
7/2/’24). This is unkind alike to Mr.
Asche and liis patrons. For Australians do
not slight their own prophets. Witness a
row of top-liners from Nellie Stewart to
Gladys Moncrieff and Josie Melville. Be-
sides, Mr. Asche is not an Australian actor
in training, outlook or experience. Because
of his reputation abroad he has been most
tenderly treated by the press of Australia,
and his productions have not been sneered
at. As to the “bedroom plays” that have
outed him, the most risque play we have
had for a year or two is “Iris,” played by
Mr. Asche himself. The plain, unvarnished
truth is that Mr. Asche is a great producer
of spectacles, but is now quite unconvincing
in sympathetic roles.
“Norbell”: We follow London slavishly.
Because the revival of “The Merry Widow”
is successful at Daly’s Theatre, up it goes
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The Widow
first glad-eyed Danilo in Australia at Melb.
Majesty’s in May, ’OB, when it ran for three
months. Carrie Moore, Florrie Young, Vic-
tor Gouriet, Higginson, Percy, Roberts,
Fred Leslie, Edmund Sherras, Arthur
Hunter, Connie Milne and Dan O’Connor
were in the cast.
“O. Blin”: O. Asche’s Othello, now on
view at Melbourne King’s, is convincing in
facial coloring. He looks an Oriental, where-
as Allan Wilkie, who played the part in
Melbourne a while back, was a burnt-cork
counterfeit who reminded me curiously of
Will Whitburn in the old Harry Rickards
days. Bnrnt cork has always been the
means whereby pale stars in the “smalls”
have turned themselves into Moors. I recall
an Othello in a Yic. rural town who con-
vulsed an audience by his parsimony in the
use of the medium. Anyhow, he appeared with
one ear unblacked, and the grotesque sight of
the large organ in its natural skin started a
titter that only died when he repaired the
omission at the first curtain. I sympathised
with the actor, for he was a trier, and
thought it was a bit over the odds when the
local paper put up over its notice the cross-
head : “The White-eared Kaffir.”
“Abbot Park”: “Andrea Chenier” is the
only new work to be introduced by Melba
and her Italians. A couple of others were
originally listed, and the diva herself
promised “The Love of Three Kings,” by
Montemezzi, but they have somehow disap-
peared. The inclusion of “The Barber of
Seville” and “Tales of Hoffmann” is not
a matter for enthusiasm, and “II Trovatore”
and “Rigoletto” might have been spelled in
favor of fresher fare. Most people would
rather have “Lohengrin” than any of that
rather faded four. And what about reviv-
ing “Norma” or “La Gazza Ladra”?
“Gnarek”: Percy A. Scholes, musical critic
of London Observer, has been taking Flor-
ence Fawaz Austral to task for not giving
the words in her Wagnerian solos their full
syllabic value. Percy, who owns an Oxford
degree, and is a Uni. Extension Lecturer on
Music, was so concerned about this defect
in Florence’s equipment (he admits her voice
is glorious) that he prospected for an ex-
planation in an encyclopaedia which deals,
among other things, with abo. dialects. There
he found that “the Pikumbal, Kingki and
Wodi Wodi tongues contain no sibilants
or aspirates,” and that “g, b and d are seldom
met with.” At last we know why nearly
A REAL ART SHOW.
THE VETERAN SPOTLINGHT ( being engaged for the production "Did She Fall or Was
She Pushed?") : “What is the salary, might I ask, sir ?”
THE NEW MANAGER: “Don’t let us talk of salary. Is it not enough that in the last act
real beer and cheese are placed on the table?”
all our young singers and actresses enun-
ciate so badly. Their blessed aboriginal
nurses—Pikumbals, Kingkis and Wodi Wodis
—are to blame !
“Santander” : Ben Fuller said in London
the other day that Australian youths were
too independent to follow in the footsteps
of their fathers. Yet his only son, Ben, jun.,
is treading industriously in dad’s spoor, and
threatening to add to the Fuller reputation
for theatrical management. Prior to taking
to the business, in which he had to start at
the bottom, he had tried his hand at the law,
but couldn’t muster enough enthusiasm to
go far in his studies.
“Gnarek”: Although Dorothy Brunton is
recognised in Australia as a musical-comedy
star of some radiance, London could not be
induced to endorse the verdict when she
appeared there in ’lB and ’l9. Certainly
Dot was unfortunate in being associated with
“Bantam, V.C.,” but she got a good start by
succeeding Winifred Barnes as Marlene de
Launay in “Soldier Boy,” a play that had
run six months. And the circumstances
were unusually favorable, the Diggers having
made the going good. Australians have been
eminently successful in grand opera, Shaks-
peare, modern drama, concert work and
vaudeville, but we have not supplied the
Smoke with one acknowledged front-ranker
in the musical-comedy w r orld. Why is it?
“Cashel” : An item from the “Fifty Years
Ago” column of Lyttelton (M.L.) Times
should interest The Bulletin’s Oldest In-
habitant :
Yesterday morning (28/l/’74) Mr, W. Hoskins
and Miss Florence Mary Eice, popularly and favorably
known as Miss Florence Colville, were married at
the Church of St. John the Baptist, which was
densely crowded. Sir Cracroft Wilson gave the
bride away.
Hoskins was the Shakspearean actor who
is supposed to have coached Henry Irving
in 1856, the year in which Henry went on
the stage and Hoskins emigrated to Aus-
tralia. The latter’s first wife was Julia
Harland, who died in Maoriland, where her
husband managed the Christchurch Royal.
He was 58 when he married Florence Col-
ville, and before the finish in 1886 he had
entered into a third venture, with Miss Bow-
man. Cracroft Wilson, who gave Florence
away, was an Anglo-Indian Judge who
visited Maoriland on sick leave in 1853 and
returned as a settler after the Mutiny. Dur-
ing that disturbance he played a distin-
guished part; Canning, the great G.-G., has
left it on record that “by his obstinate
energy and perseverance he saved more
Christian lives than any man in India.”
“Mancam”: “Pomposity” corrects me (B.
7/2/’24) as to the date of the first produc-
tion of “Patience” in Australia, with Alice
Rees in the title-role. He says it was in
Sydney 1 ' in ’Bl. I was referring to the Mel-
bourne production ; it was the first splash of
the new firm of Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove, and occurred at the Theatre Royal on
July 1, 1882. On that occasion Andrea
Navarro was the Lady Jane, although I saw
Maggie Moore in the part subsequently.
Fannie Liddiard was also in the cast. The
first London production of “Patience” was
announced as happening in April, ’Bl, so the
Sydney production which “Pomposity” refers
to must have got off the mark with surpris-
ing promptitude.
“T. 0.1.”: Robert Si da why (B. 31/l/’24)
was a First-Fleeter exiled for seven years.
He became a Government contractor, baker
and storekeeper, with a leasehold at the rear
of the Commissariat Stores, which stood
in High- (now George) street, near what is
Margaret-street to-day. On this lease he
probably built his theatre. He died in or
about 180 S, and all his property reverted
to Government, as he had no relatives in
Botany Bay. Saunders’s News Letter, of
September 12, 1797, mentioned that Sidaway
was living in a “state of great respect-
ability,” and that he “had a contract for
serving the colony with bread, and a free
grant of several hundred of acres of land,
which he cultivated.” The waybill on
which he was listed dcosn’t mention w-liat
he was transported for or wdience.
“Simplon” r The most advertised young
woman in Melbourne is Mamie Watson, now
at the Princess’s. To me Mamie is not in
the race with Maude Fane as an actress,
and her voice is certainly inferior, yet
hundreds of youths dream of her, while
hardened theatrical pressmen, who should be
ordinarily immune to feminine graces, pour
out their admiration in interviews and para-
graphs. And it isn’t press-agent stuff either.
Mamie has the charm that reminds people of
pale flowers, angel choirs and gentility.
There is something about her that suggests
innocence and refinement and the habit of
saying her prayers at mother’s knee. Per-
haps that is why sinful men adore her,
her beauty being enhanced by her remote-
ness.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Perhaps the cruellest ex-
perience that ever befell an actor happened
to a colleague who was playing the stutter-
ing Freddie in “The Guv’nor.” He was in
the habit of providing himself with a quart
of draught beer. This Nancy brought to him
in a jug, and, having some “business” with
drinking, he consumed the lot during a some-
what lengthy scene, always emptying the ves-
sel at a breath when he drank the lady’s
health. But one night some malignant ruf-
fian changed the jugs, and, instead of good
beer, Freddie swallowed a pint of stage stingo
-—water, with an infusion of cloves. Whilst
he fought with himself to contain the
nauseating stuff, and at the same time look
as amiable as his part demanded, he saw-
in the wing a'sight that engendered thoughts
of murder —another member of the co. toast-
ing him with his own beer.
“Actdrop”: I was in Wagga (N.S.W.)
with a tent show when the local campanolo-
gist sent in his card. He followed it —a
gaunt elderly man with a magnificent growth
of grey hair and whiskers. “Ever seen my
‘lmpersonations of the Great’?” he asked.
Then with the aid of his abundant hair and
a couple of hats he did some amazing imita-
tions of General Booth, Henry Parkes and
other hirsute celebrities now gone aloft.
“Haven’t I seen you before?” I queried. “Very
likely,” replied the ancient; “I used to do a
protean turn at the old Melbourne Alhambra,
but perhaps you were going to school
then.” I was, but I recollected him, along
with Frank M. Clark, Harry Shine, Billy
Emerson, Val Vousden, Will Whitburn, Mons
Provo, Priscilla Verne, T. C. Callaghan,
Florrie Forde, the Anderson Sisters, the Per-
mans and the Leslie Brothers. Oh, memories
of the ’nineties, and the fine, honest shows
we used to see for sixpence! There is
nothing like them to-day.
“8.V.E.” : When on Blighty leave I visited
the London Coliseum, and heard a song which
caught my fancy. On the strength of my
uniform I infiltrated myself into the artist’s
room and asked permission to sing the ditty
in Australia. “Strike me, soljer,” he pro-
tested, “I’ve on’y bin singin’ that song for
a cuppla years rahnd London, an’ I ain’t done
the provinces yet. It’ll take me a cuppla
years to do them, an’ then there’s America
to foller. An’ I might go to Horstralia
after that. ’Ow would I get on in Hors-
tralia if I found you’d bin singin’ the bleedin'
song all over the country?” I haven’t seen
the gentleman in Horstralia yet; perhaps he
and his inexhaustible lyric will arrive dur-
ing the next war. !
“Pilgrim”: Award an honorable place
among the “smalls” to Mortlake (Vic.).
Thorpe McConville and his buckjumper.s
were billed to give a show, but a gale blew
all day, and at night the ring tent couldn't
be pitched. A suggestion was made that
the performance should proceed without a
tent, the box-office working as usual. “All
right,” said McConville, “w T e’ll give it a fly."
Result: a full “house” and not more than
half a dozen deadheads.
“Wurry Murry” : I was a next-door neigh-
bor of Emily Soldene, mentioned in recent
P.P. pars., at Feltham, near Hounslow.
Emily’s husband, Powell, a quiet, unassum-
ing chap, took little part in her Sunday-
afternoon symposia, famous in those days.
The kings and queens of comic opera were to
be seen at Emily’s caravanserai, and the air
resounded with song and popping corks. The
two Powell daughters took after their vivaci-
ous mother. One, a very pretty girl, went
on the stage at 16, but I haven’t heard of
her for many a year.
“Lond.” : Nelson Keys tells a London in-
terviewer that “most of the music halls are
playing second fiddle to the picture theatres,”
and the only way he sees out of it is for
them to amalgamate. As a matter of fact,
mixed programmes have been often tried,
and in London, at any rate, have never
been popular. One of the big troubles with
the “halls” is the enormous salary that men
like Keys demand, with the inevitable result
that three-fourths of the programme has to
be starved to make ends meet.
“Cyrano”: A writer in the Manchester
Guardian has been complaining that Eng-
lish characters in IJ.S. photo-plays are made
to do impossible things. Heroes step from
an English countryside on to the footboard
of American trains; parties of tourists climb
mountains in Oxfordshire or gaze from the
top of Ben Nevis on sea surf breaking down
below; the Tower of London and Big Ben
are set side by side, and the Cornish eat
tropical fruits all the year round. All
these absurdities are exhibited to Australians
as well as Americans. The impression is
also conveyed that the English live either in
vile slums or in huge ancestral homes “rich
in armor and palm-trees.” It is not the least
harmful result of the American film
monopoly that Young Australia is growing
up with grotesquely false ideas of J. Bull
and his country.
MAT. AND MUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Kind-natured Young Man, 24, musical, graml
piano, like correspond refined young lady, possible
chance for teacher, 21 — 25, view above.” — Argus.
I am a kindly-natured man;
I seek a tuneful missis
Who’ll warble over the frying-pan,
And do-ray-me with kisses,
Who’ll tra-la-la at the sewing-machine,
And scrub to a lively ditty,
A musical girl
Whose head’s awhirl
With “Boheme” or “The Holy City.”
She’ll pipe like another Philomel
As 1 punch my grand piano,
Or I’ll listen to her melodious yell
As I dig-in the garden guano.
And life will be one grand, sweet Song,
As we play on the pipes and tabors
And an angel throng
Will hurry along
To watch the effect on the neighbors.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


INSIDE or OUTSIDE
there is no paint
more economical
or satisfactory than
Obtainable from Oil
and Color and Hard-
ware Merchants and
Stores throughout
Australia.
PS
2:
V— !>
□
a
ES
P/2
IS
does away with friction
between one part
and another
because LISTER design provides for a more
thorough and more positive system of oil
distribution to all moving parts. Thus the
main spindle in the LISTER handpiece runs
in a long oil bath —there is no friction, there-
fore no running hot, and only a minimum of
wear. Further, the oil-returning grooves on
the spindle keep the oil from running out the
tail of the shear, so that lubrication is certain
and waste is cut out. On the overhead
bracket a siphon-feed to the friction-arm
bearing—instead of the more usual needle-
feed —not only ensures that oil does get
through, but also that only clean oil gets
through.
between shearer
and expert
because LISTER Handpieces are easier to keep
up to the mark. Perfectly level tension—
seldom obtained with other pattern Crown
Plates, and the source of constant trouble
between shearers and expert—is automatically
guaranteed by the LISTER Patent Crown
Plate. Tension Nuts give no trouble when
the LISTER Adjustable Split Lid-Bush is
fitted, and so with many other parts of the
Handpiece. LISTER Combs and Cutters take
a keener edge and hold it longer than any
others. Apart from the grinding, shearers
using LISTER machines very rarely have to
trouble the expert from first blow to cut-out.
between manager
and owner
because the shearing expenses and the annual
repair bills are ever so much lower with
LISTER than with other machines. Shearing
costs less because LISTERS are on the job the
whole time—no vexatious or expensive delays
because a stand is out of action every now
and then. Shearers are kept in good humor
and work quicker and cleaner. Repairs are
less because, firstly, LISTER Machines are a
British-built product of the highest standard,
both in material and workmanship. That is
a guarantee of longer life. < Secondly, the
LISTER design allows for so many more “on-
the-spot” repairs than other machines that
the expense of sending work away hundreds
of miles is avoided.
&
Altogether, LISTER is the “one best bet” for anyone needing shearing machinery, whether
of the standard overhead type or for a portable outfit. Our Bulletin 145 will remove any
hesitation you may have about the value of LISTER machines. Write to the nearest of us
for a copy.
Chief Distributors for Australia:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Q’land: Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Vic.: Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd., West Footscray.
W.A.: Malloch Bros., Perth.
Tas.: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.


0
V
V
i
>
p
0
Si
ft
dfdgfhj
dfdgfhj
The name tells
When you buy tyres you want those
that give you maximum mileage at
minimum cost.
If the tyres you buy bear the name
GOODYEAR you are sure of these
things.
To-day the name GOODYEAR is
on a better tyre than ever before—the
new Goodyear Cord Tyre with the All-
Weather Tread.
Embodying highest-grade long-staple
cotton, improved and long-wearing
rubber, heavier, stronger ply-unions and
you everything
other advantages—this new tyre is find-
ing favor everywhere.
With its reinforced All-Weather
Tread it runs more quietly and smoothly,
while preserving in full its celebrated
skidless traction.
It is the tyre for long, reliable,
economical mileages, whether on big cars
or small.
When you buy tyres, buy those whose
known excellence has made them the most
popular in the world. In other words,
buy Goodyears.
Service Stations and Dealers Everywhere.
dfdgfhj


Legal Notice.
notice TcT 'beneficiariesT
TO MICHAEL AMBROSE MARTIN and OWEN
MARTIN.
T) L RSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court of
South Australia made in the matter of the
Estate of Thomas Martin late of Largs Bay in rhe
State of South Australia Farmer deceased Michael
Ambrose Martin and Owen Martin nephew and half-
brother respectively of Thomas Martin late of
Largs Bay in tile State of South Australia formerly
of Hornsdale in the said State Farmer who died at
Largs Bay aforesaid on the 3rd day of October
1914 and being persons beneficially interested under
the W ill of the said Thomas Martin deceased are
required to communicate forthwith with the under-
signed. In default the executors will be authorised
and will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
Thomas Martin deceased having regard only to those
claims against his estate of which they shall then
have had notice, and the Executors will not be
liable to the said Michael Ambrose Martin or Owen
Martin for the said assets or any part thereof so
distributed.
Dated this 9th day of January, 1924.
BAKER, GLYNN, McEWIN & NAPIER,
Solicitors, Morialta Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
NOTE.—-Any person having any information likely
to assist m ascertaining the whereabouts or circum-
stances of the death of the abovenamed Michael
Ambrose Martin or Owen Martin is requested to com-
mumcate with Messrs. Baker, Glynn, McEwin and
JNapier.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances e,feeted 011 aii classes ot
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. llents also assured
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise
" Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIOH. fisnorsl
Supreme
where quality
counts.
/
tnm&m
THEPEREE(rf'RIMciL
//
/ & c hardtmuth,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Agent: J. MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. IGS, SYDNEY.
Factory—Czechoslovakia.
Wentworth Falls Hotel,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Overlooking the finest view on the
Blue Mountains, 3000 feet above sea
level.
Every possible modern convenience,
also Tennis Court and Garages.
Golf Links—Special Cars, 2/- return.
Milk, Eggs, Poultry and Vegetables
from Own Farm.
Tariff, apply Manager.
’Phone: W. Falls 2; Kat. 7.
A ROYAL
smokeH
iSBS
nn
*4*
Ch
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each. ,
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post,
free.
CraiggAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
LAKEMBA.—SeIect Comfortable Home.
Land 56 x 176, 2 bedrooms, dining, breakfast rooms, kitchen, glassed-in sleep-
out, laundry, bathroom, bath heater, gas stove, gas heater, electric light and power,
hedges, lawns, gardens, summer house, buildings suitable garage, telephone fruit
trees, etc., well ventilated (no flies). Leaving State; must sell or lease
immediately. 35 minutes from City. £875.
U 4923. “INGLENOOK,” WILLEROO STREET, LAKEMBA.
THEY COME AS A BOON S A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Need an
American
FLASHLIGHT
♦
The Super
CIGARETTE
Fine Old
Oval
nia.
20 for 2/-
R. TOVVjVS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. L. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
R&J.HILLL to LONDON.
Ideal) ,
FouhtaniPeri,
Three Types: Sel'-Ffl'ing (with Patent 1|
B xed-in Lever), Safety and Regular. \
Gold Nibs to suk all hands.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAV, ! TO. Kincswav. London, Enouno.
Australia: COLLINS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
105 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Wffvud.
fneatAs,
fmndL
HERE IT IS SIR!
OVERDO 00
tickets only ONE SHILUNGs
Authorised by the Hon. the Attorney-General of New South Wales.
YOUR. GREATEST CHANCE:
THE LIMBLESS AND MAIMED SOLDIERS’
GREAT AUSTRAL ART UNION.
Positively the Biggest Art Union Ever Held.
Every Ticket has a chance to win 210 Prizes and 210 chances to win prizes from £1250 to £5.
Ist Prize, Studebaker Car, Big Six Sedan, especially fitted £1250
2nd Prize, Australian Six Motor £6OO
3rd Prize, Dodge Car.... £4OO. 4th, Foster Player Piano.... £252
210 Prizes in all, valued at £4016.
Drawn as soon as fully subscribed and prepared, closing not later than April 25. Results
published Sydney Dailies May 10, Interstate papers about a week later. Please enclose stamped
and addressed envelope for result slip. Result slips sent wherever required.
DON’T FORGET! BUY YOUR TICKET NOW. Only One Shilling, from all branches
New South Wales Bookstalls, Tobacconists, Newsagents, etc., in New South Wales; or
direct from the Secretary, C. Drysdale, 10 Bligh Steeet, Sydney.
This, the Biggest Art Union ever held, is organised by the Limbless Soldiers for the Limbless
Soldiers - AGENTS WANTED.
Soldiers
dfdgfhj
Amusements.
g VI>N K VS CIIIIS l' XIIISAX K IS 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SYBIL.
CRITERION:
MISS NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
ROYAL: DE LUXE ANNIE.
Q HAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
HUGH J. WARD Presents LORNA and TOOTS
POUNDS and CHARLES AUSTIN, together with
complete New Company, in
ROCKETS.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
,1 C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
ALADDIN.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SALLY.
DKINCESS’S THEATRE. M EI.ISOURNE.
r Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY OF RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen’s.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
OSCAR ASCHE in
OTHELLO.
PAI, A C E TIIEA T R E, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
THE MAN IN DRESS CLOTHES.
Plans at Glen’s.
Li OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Also SYDNEY. \
A CHAPTER IN HER LIFE.
A UNIVERSAL SUPER JEWEL.
BARBARA LA MARR in
THE BRASS BOTTLE.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDA;t NEXT.
BETTY BRAY in
TRUTH ABOUT WIVES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
TIIE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA IvS PEA REA N
1 PRODUCTIONS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN TOUR:
Prince of Wales Theatre, Adelaide ; Feb. 16 to March S.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batvn.
Missing Friende.
W ANTED address of JOHN W. PARSLOW,
W formerly of Hume Street, North Toowoomba,
Queensland, Tailor, and subsequently Albert Street,
Maryborough, Queensland. Reward. Apply to J. YV.
BALCHIN, 418 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
EDGAR B. IJLPH (last heard of at
Cairns, Queensland), in 1904, will much
oblige by communicating with his brother.
Inquiries from England.
W. ULPH, Waihi, New Zealand.
IF CHARLES FULLER and HENRY
COLIN FULLER, brothers of Susannah
Harriet Harrison, who died at Auckland on
2/9/’22, will communicate with the District
Public Trustee at Auckland, N.Z., they will
learn something to their advantage.
JOHN SHARP.
WANTED address of JOHN SHARP, if
alive, or date and place of death;
formerly resided at Fairlie and Albury,
South Canterbury, New Zealand; is sup-
posed to have left for Coolgardie, Australia,
about January. Was a stonemason.
TRIPP & ROLLESTON, Solicitors,
Timaru, New Zealand.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If yon are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comtorlably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street, Melbourne


CrdVf _
\ Wt' >*¥/ r 1, HI
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
There is an enormous demand from News-
papers, Magazines, Advertisers, etc., for
strong, forceful illustrations, and they pay
high prices for work that suits them.
Why Not Learn Drawing?
You can! Easily, rapidly and thoroughly,
by the
WESTON METHOD
It takes you step by step from the rudiments
of sketching to the very highest branches of
this fascinating and lucrative profession. The
lessons are so simple that you cannot fail to
make rapid progress, and, remember, we
teach to draw, not to copy.
Enclose 3 stamps, with your name and
address, and we will post you a copy of onr
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.” It
explains all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
286 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
“Fine Feathers/’
THINGS, sir, are not always what
they seem.
Men and cigarettes must not
be judged by exteriors.
We put plenty of buttons on the
pageboy because the little imp
wouldn’t be worth anything without.
Kensitas Boxes aren’t very showy—
it isn’t necessary. A gaudy box
couldn’t make Kensitas smoke any
sweeter or mellower—the quality’s
inside.
With the page-
boy it’s outside —
but fancy me in
buttons!
dfdgfhj
Kensitas
CujaA&t&i SVt
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20forl|6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6.
Of all High-elass Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Sons. Ltd., London.
WHOLESALE:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD,
Box 64 G.P.0., Sydney.
' CORNEL/L, LTD., Adelaide.
Missing; Friends.
tF HENRY SMITH (son of Henry Smith, late of
J- Punt Road, Prahran, Victoria, deceased), for-
merly of Toowoomba, Queensland, and subsequently
trading as “Smith’s Symplex Systems” in Sydney,
will communicate with THE TRUSTEES EXECU-
TORS AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, of 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, he will learn something
to his advantage. The Company will be glad to
hear from any person having knowledge of the said
Henry Smith since 1915.
High-Grade Guns Sent on Trial.
PRE-WAR PRICES. Avoid retailers’ huge profits. Send direct to importer.
We have just landed a shipment of Guns made by one of the largest gun-
makers in the world to our own specification, as follows: Nitro-proof steel barrels,
bored for either 2Mn. or 2fin. cartridges. The right barrel is modified, the left
fully choked, 12-bore. It has solid bar steel rebounding locks, fitted with Greener
crossbolt Anson and Deeley’s patent push fore-end, hammers below the line of
sMit box spring triggers, matted rib, beautifully figured walnut stock, half-pistol
o-rlp ’weight from 7to 71 pounds, according to your choice. This gun is equal to
anv’sold in Melbourne at£lo, and we feel sure it will thoroughly satisfy you. Our
price is £6/17/6. It is sold under the “Mercurv” hrand. These are beautifully
‘Mercury’
finished «- U ns and great killers. If you are not satisfied after fortnight's trial,
return grin. We will return your money. Out of last shipment (100 guns) only
two returned. We are sole distributing agents for the famous Ithaca hammerless
g uns __ use( j by the leading trap-shots of the world. Special catalogue forwarded.
Reference Bank of Victoria, Collins Street, Melbourne. Parcels post anywhere,
4/6 • two guns sent post free. Send cheque or money order ;if notes, please register
letter JOHN TAVLOR & CO., Importers, 531 Collins Street, Melbourne; and
• 406 Queen Street, Brisbane. Specially licensed by the Victorian Government.
SMOKE
• • • •
EDGEWORTH
Will Not Bite the Tongue.
MUCILINE
S/'/ie £Per/ec£
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST.
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
Cowan & Sons, Ltj?
" Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
>~v
r
7
a- <8
\
For Lasting Fragrance
Use Cuticura Talcum
There is nothing better than
Cuticura Talcum for powder-
ing and perfuming the skin. It
appeals to the most fastidious
because of its fine, smooth tex-
ture and delicate fragrance.
Soap 1 s.,'Talcum 1 s. 3 d.,Ointment 1 s.and 2 s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
tgf 1 Shave with Cuticura Shavina Stick.
ong
<2
Once you own a Nupoint you
have a pencil that is sound in
principle, strongly constructed
and exquisitely finished —a life-
long friend! Its lead is firmly
held by a spring clutch, cannot
rotate or jam, loads at the point,
smoothly efficient in use. Its
captive cap, an exclusive feature,
contains rubber and a plentiful
supply of leads. Sizes from large
with clip, to Midget —thin as a
match. Gold filled, sterling, and
silver-plated.
Obtainable at all high-class jewellers,
stationers and departmental stores.
Sole Australasian Agents:
PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD.
56 Market St., Sydney.
JVupoint
The World’s Best Pencil
JJoIITK ORG *£5
)
SECOND TO NONE
mERANG
I ■ 41 <■
000
TEMPOS CD
This Size — 40 Reeds 5/* Postage 3d.
Other Types 2/“ to 12/6
J. ALBERT & SON
[~Tradg Supplied
Dept. IS
137/139 King Street, S Y D N E Y.
294/8 Lit. Collins St., MELBOURNE
H3MOW
HOIOW
3IAVHO
Simple,
Reliable,
Efficient
THE BEST
YET.
Sizes: 12in., 14in., 16in.
Price 18 in
, £7B
GRANT S VICKERY,
BARNSTABLE ROAD. FIVE DOCK,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Nc
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
Silver D.: But because nothing has been
done to keep Northern Australia white, why do
something that will effectively keep it from ever
being white? Suppose you wanted to marry a girl,
and your suit made no progress. Would you then
try to get married to somebody else, and kill your
own chances for ever?... .G.D.VV.: Guess you '.an
take your pick. Webster says it’s pres-sure; but as
he pronounces it presh-ur, his division is at least
doubtful... .O.M. (Narrabri) : Can’t say till we bee
the work... . S.C.M.: Even a poem should be
under suspicion of meaning something... .Four Aces:
Can’t undertake to return rejected paragraphs.
(The fact is they are often cut to ribbons in an
ineffective effort to make them printable.)... .R.C.:
Hardly worth the space.... Roy B.: You leave out
words through not reading over your copy; but the
last line makes it all impossible. Try again....
W.M.8.L.: One has a chance. But why do you repeat
the old things when you must have something fresh to
say?... .W.E.L.: The living touches are not there.
....Spindrift: Poor sort of stuff, poorly done....
T.1.C.: Rather wooden... .Bill L.: No use, William.
. ...E.J.G.: It’s a flimsy yarn and the dirt at the
beginning was quite unnecessary.. . .E.M.C.: Doesn’t
go anywhere near... .Paddy: Clumsy and gets to
nothing.... F.M.8.: The color is good; the yarn is
poor. . . .Elmsell: Can’t find the “poetic merit.”
... .W.M.F.: Doesn’t say anything more than a copy-
book heading. .. .Ripponlea: There have been sonnet?
and sonnets, but never one like this:—
1 used to discuss sweet discourse,
When ambitious were my hopes;
Fruitful were my resources,
For I used to know the ropes;
As onward I struggled up
Parnassus’ slippery slopes.
For my shoon were kidskin sandals,
On my brow a laurel strand;
And my lyre could I handle
With the best of the Immortal band,
For the game was worth the candle,
As sjde by side and hand in hand
With Calliope I’d trip, but she let go her gri
And this is where I did land.
....One Interested: You bury your ideas under an
avalanche of words.... Forerunner: Not up, but by
no means dreadful... .E.H.F.: The verse is pretty
lumpy, and, after all, it only says that it’s a nice
little dog... .S.H. (Gunnedah) : “Slave” won’t do. ...
Will C.: The ant can’t cavort in that language....
P.O’H.: Highly moral advice written mostly in blots.
. ...R.5.8.: Doesn’t move us to either cheers or
tears... .T.W.8.: You call it “Human Nature under
the Lens.” We’d call it sniffling commonplace....
M.H. (Woollahra) : Poor yarn in bad verse. . . .A.H.K. :
Rubbish... .Harold R.: Far, far away... .H.W. (Rose
Bay) : The sort of things they try to sing in very
bad pantomimes... .E.H.F.: As rough as a cocky’s
chin on Saturday morning. .. .Ee Cee Tee: Pee Dee
Bee.. ..R.8.T.: The verse needs to grow up....
W.T.S/: As- palatable as parboiled sawdust. .. .F.II.
(Mornington) : “The moon sinking into the east to
rise no more” should have more startling effects than
you supply. .. .Faceplate: They won’t work....
T.11.R.: Not enough there to judge by... .P.C.F.:
Not enough in them.... K.M.: The lamentation must
go back. . . .Marguerite P.: In your fierce struggle to
get the rhymes, you leave holes in the sense... .
Magela B.: Misses the target. But it was a close
shave. .. .T.W.D.: Far too slight. .. .Epsilon : A lame
sorrow.... Mombak: Not enough blood, but still it
has a hint of something doing:—
As the villain softly creeping
Towards the heroine quietly sleeping,
She turned, and something muttered,
And the hero’s name she uttered
In a dream.
One spring, and he had grabbed her
1, And he drew his knife to stab her,
But she twisted in affright,
And in the murky night
Did she scream.
On the floor the knife did tinkle,
But he grabbed it in a twinkle;
One blow, and he had felled her,
And on the ground he held her
As he fumbled for the knife.
Through the skylight hero dropped,
With villain soon was locked,
And he grabbed the villain’s throat
And slowly did he choke
Out his life.
. ...H.R.C.: No use sending us stiff parodies....
Harry P.: Not the right nuts for this cage. .. .W.L.
(Milson’s Point) : The verse is very young, and, like
most very young verse, says only very old things. . . .
R. 5.8.: Doesn’t draw blood. .. .D.F.L.: There’s some-
thing in them both ; but this is a poor market for
the goods. .. .Admirer: It misses; but how can you
approach daintiness and still rhyme “saw” with
“more”?... .1.C.5.: You ask for criticism. A state-
ment that Iceland poppies are “like little frilly
skirts” doesn’t really call for criticism; and you
say nothing else... .Harold P.: Not up... .D.E.W.:
“Unity” misses by a mile and a quarter... .A.L.H.:
Not well enough upholstered... .G.V.K. : Gets more
rugged as it goes 0n... .5.1.5.: Not very startling.
....Marjorie E.: The verses jump like grasshoppers,
but say nothing... .A.L.S.: All of it falls far short.
....P.D.R.: Very creaky at the joints... .Newt:
Heavy sort of fooling.... G.W.P.: You contrive to
make it pretty hard leading. .. .E.C. (Wellington):
“Adolphus” won’t do. . . .H.N.N.: It is only an imi-
tation of a poor kind of verse. And the thought has
no freshness.... McJ.: The fact that a razor was
blunt doesn’t in itself make a thrilling yarn....
J.C.W.: The verse bumps and tumbles all over the
place, and always misses the mirth it grabs for so
violently... .C.M.L.: Not well enough told. ... J.L.
(Maryborough) : “Fuji-Yama” is thin and weak; the
other is beaten by a nose or two... .Keith A.: Flops
heavily on every fourth line. .. .11.N.D.: But it
doesn’t get to anything. .. .Alice J.: Sorry the flood
of contributions on the subject compels us to send
yours back... .T.A.C.: Nothing new in it.... Face
P.: Material in it for a couple of good pars. But
you'Teave such a lot of tangled rubbish among your
good timber... .Edward C. (M.L.) : The work will
pass, but the thing itself is stbdge.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.: You have original ideas about women’s
feet... .N.F.S.: Twin-brother of an old Bulletin
gag... .P.L.L.: Let off under the First Offenders
Act....G.8.: Some promise, but drawing very hic-
rocky in spots... .J.E.N.: You’ve overworked your
ruler... .G. 0.8.; In the infants’ class yet... .K.8.L.:
That extremely immodest young lady has been pushed
out the d00r...-R.G.M.: Are those penmarks or
finger-prints? D.V.: Treatment too stiff
J.V.W.; One old ; the others not worth while....
E.M.: “Where there’s a will there’s a way”—
correct; but that way will get you nowhere....
8.L.P.: Very old—and smells like it.


Just Like a Man
(By “Phlox.”)
44 JOHN, I want to speak to you.”
• I “Yes, dear.”
“Don’t dear me! You ought to be
ashamed of yourself! The idea of a middle-
aged man like you giving a dinner-party for
a young actress. But old fools are always
the worst.”
“Surely you wouldn’t call me old, dear?”
“You’re older than I am. But you’re get-
ting away from the point in question. What
have you to say for yourself?”
“Nothing.”
“Then I’ve got something to say to you.
I’m simply not going to stand for you giving
dinners to actresses while I sit at home and
gaze at four walls.”
“But, Blanche, you don’t like Bohemian
nights, and as a pressman I simply can’t get
out of attending them sometimes.”
“Yes, but there’s no need for you to carry
on with a woman young enough to be your
daughter. I heard all about you and Miss
Fortesque in the conservatory.”
“Ha, ha, ha! He, he he!”
“What are you laughing at, you idiot?”
“I’m laughing at you saying that Miss
Fortesque is young enough to be my daugh-
ter. You’ll be surprised to know that she’s
two years older than you are, my dear.”
“Nonsense ; she only looks a girl.”
“She may look one, but she isn’t. Fancy
accusing me of carrying on with poor old
Bertha!”
“Well, all I can say is that the way she
makes up is shameless.”
“As far as I know she doesn't make-up.”
“John, you’re a bigger idiot than I thought
you were.”
“Thank you very much, Mabel. But I
must be going. I’ve got an appointment.”
“Why, John, you promised to take me to
the pictures to-night.”
“Then I’m very sorry, for I simply can’t.”
“I suppose you’re going to meet Miss For-
tesque.”
“How absurd you are, Mabel! Anyway,
Bertha always looks nice, and she’s rattling
good company. Ta, ta !”
About half-an-liour later the maid an-
nounced Miss Oliver.
“How are you, Mrs. Forbes?” she began.
“Just dropped in to see if you’d come on
the committee of the new Free Kinder-
garten. Just met Mr. Forbes in the hotel
lounge with Miss Fortesque, who was look-
ing lovely in a royal blue panne velvet
evening-gown, which showed up her glorious
complexion.”
And before Mrs. Forbes could get in a
word edgewise the voluble Miss Oliver was
gone. Later, however, Mrs. Warden, the
clergyman’s wife, called. Mrs. Forbes wel-
comed the pretty, tactful little woman as a
friend in whom she could confide. She told
her of her husband’s neglect, and of how he
was paying attention to Miss
“My dear Mrs. Forbes,” began Mrs. War-
den, “you are quite mistaken about your
husband’s attentions towards Miss For-
tesque. As a pressman he must meet and
make himself agreeable to star actresses. I
know Miss Fortesque to be a good church-
woman.”
“That’s what my husband says, but it’s
hard for me to be left alone evenings. Be-
sides, he accused me of being dowdy and
withered-looking. I notice, Mrs. Warden,
that you always manage to look bonnie.”
“Well, yes, dear; even a clergyman’s wife
needs to take pains to keep her looks. Good
looks help one im any walk of life. But if
you’ll pardon meg dear, you’ve not quite kept
yourself up to the mark. If, however, you'll
use the same faoe-cream as I do—Mercolized
Wax —you’ll soon have a new, fresh skin.”
“Oh, I’d use anything that would make my
skin decent. But look at my hair, it has
become brittle and faded, and is fast grey-
ing. You must be my age, and you haven't
a grey hair.”
“No, because I keep off old age as far as
my hair is concerned by using Stallax as
a shampoo. To restore grey hair I make a
preparation of my own at home. I get two
ounces of Tammalite concentrate from the
chemist, and mi:x it with three ounces of
Bay Rum, and after a few applications the
grey hair is reshored to its natural color.
Miss Fortesque bold me about these prepara-
tions in London, years ago.”
“How comforting to know of them. I’ll
get the MercOlized Wax, the Stallax and the
Tammalite straight away. I’m delighted
you called, Mrs. W r arden. When John
comes home I’ll tell him what a pleasant
evening we had.”
“And don’t worry when he tells you that
you are dowdy. That is just like a man.”
Next morning an excellent interview with
Miss Fortesque appeared in the paper.
“How good this interview is, John,” re-
marked Mrs. Forbes.
“So glad you like it, dear; I wrote it.”
“So that’s why you were with Miss For-
tesque; but why <ever didn’t you tell me?”
“Because professional etiquette forbade
me.”
“As Mrs. Warden says, ‘just like a man,’”
2] —Advt.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson &. Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills &. Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
'StuislicM&aOeVKu&ti:
v xufiateoet sAe q&el
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
'wefgƒhgh
* Jo
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY Nation),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TKICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6. , „
PAIILOU THICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-. ,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
Make r Ups nS ' o f All Kinds-GREASE PAINTS
WTGS. REMITIS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
FUNNIEST FOUR
FAUCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents —April
Fools; Who Is Who;
Ici on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage t/6
N.S.W.
FIRE BRIGADES’
HOSPITAL
ART UNION
PRIZES £3OOO PRIZES
Proceeds in aid of the Public Hospitals
of N.S.W. Tickets, 1/- each, can be
obtained from all Fire Stations and
Hospitals, or from Hon. Secretary.
FIRST PRIZE —WOLSELEY DE
LUXE Motor Car. . £llOO value
SECOND PRIZE —SIX-CYLINDER
STUDEBAKER Motor Car —
£475 value
THIRD PRIZE —10-h.p. Twin-
cylinder HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Motor Cycle and Side Car —
£l9O value
FOURTH PRIZE —BEALE PIANO
and STOO L £l3O value
And 114 other valuable prizes, rang-
ing in value from £lOO down to £3.
BUY A TICKET, 1/- (by post 1/14),
and help the Hospital ART UNION.
Drawn on 27th March, 1924. Buy
four or more. tickets, Postage Free,
and result slip will be forwarded to
any address. WINNING NUMBERS
advertised 29th March, 1924.
.T. .T. Neville. Hon. Sec.,
Fire Station, Circular Quay, Sydney.
PAIGE-JEWETT
SPECIAL
Built for the Long-Hard Climb
SINCE one cannot cut down the hills or go
around them, the only alternative is to
purchase a motor car that will climb them
easily without strain on the engine.
The builders of the Paige Jewett have con-
trived to combine the extra power which
makes hill-climbing easy and natural with the
ruggedness of constitution to withstand any
road hardship.
The Paige Jewett Special stands ready for
the road without first making necessary the
purchase of any extra equipment. There are
double spring bar bumpers, front and rear;
a nickeled radiator with motometer and bar
cap; nickeled parking lamps as well as head
lamps, an automatic windscreen cleaner, a rear
view mirror, a touring trunk with rack and
cover, a metal sunshade, a stop light and a spare
cord tyre complete with tube, rim and drum
tyre cover, black to match the hood material.
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.,
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.,
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'jv— «vwa\\\\W\\^' '*
n
!tt
iM
y
ffla
ill 7 ]
I


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
fihi b r»o I ■
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior wails, in-
tenor walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, una-Tected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 33 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Building's, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide—Hobart.
dfdgfhj
Weight
and
Quality
That is certainly a factor in the
sale of all classes of stock. But
good work in selling at the
yards, like good feed and good
blood, is also a decided influence.
For top values —
Consign Cattle, Sheep and Lambs
to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The “COMPORT” (self-heating) Iron.
dfdgfhjdfdgfhj
Simple, safe. Lights
in half a minute. Costs
3d. for four hours.
C 1 e a n, beautifully
nickelled. Double-
pointed. Finest iron
made.
Price, 42/-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOLDER TOP
Shaving Stick
FOR nearly a century
Williams’ Shaving Soap
has been making it easier and
pleasanter for men to shave.
Its effect upon the skin is ex-
traordinary. It does more than
thoroughly soften the beard,
it tones up and prepares the
skin, makes it flexible and
supple, so that the razor glides
smoothly over it. The result
is a glove smooth face and one
that is kept in perfect condition.
That is why so many people say:
“Just notice the fine skins
of the men who shave
with Williams’. ”
The Holder Top Stick is “the
stick in the holder that holds’.’
The original box is good for
an indefinite number of Re-
Loads, which always cost less
than the complete package.
Sold by all Chemists and good Shops
everywhere.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY,
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
dfdgfhj
vJI'NW. *
8^
For
CAKES
or
FRUIT
This
Beautiful
Comport
in high-grade
Electroplate
60/-
The start of the Fruit Season emphasises the importance of fresh
fruit as part of our daily diet.
The Comport illustrated is of exceptionally good quality, being
very heavily plated on hard white metal, and is ideal for either
Fruit or Cakes. Di rreter of Dish is 8/i inches.
Many useful and attractive articles in high-grade electroplate and
sterling silver are displayed at Fairfax and Roberts’ Showrooms.
Those seeking the most expert optical service should consult
Mr. Gardiner, M. 1.0. who is in charge of our Optical Dept.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
FAIRFAX&ROBERTS L T f
Z5&2.5 Hunter Streel Sydney
TELEPHONES for STATION OWNERS.
Model F 2898. Government approved
Model for country service. 1000-ohm
Ringer, 5-Bar Generator, Long-dis-
tance Transmitter and Receiver.
Supplied from Australian stocks.
KELLOGG
APPARATUS
of quality and 25 years’ experience. Approved
by all Governments.
If you are not on the Government circuits
why not construct your own private line? We
will furnish you with guaranteed apparatus
and full information and estimates.
Will give continuous and uninterrupted ser-
vice. Non-breakable. Withstands hard and
severe usage.
KELLOGG RADIO EQUIPMENT
has been pronounced as the most efficient and the most attractive apparatus ever
put into a wireless receiving set.
USE IS THE TEST. _
Good results are only obtained with good equipment. Variable Vernier Con e r ß s ? rs ’ c ,„ w-
meters, Vario-couplers, Head ’Phones, Plugs, Jacks, Fixed Condensers, Choke Coils, ’
Dials, Cords, Transformers for Audio Frequency, Terminals, etc. .
Send for Booklet and Price List to the agent in your btarce.
Victoria:
JAMES CHAMBERS & CO., Pty., Etd
371 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne
N.S.W.s
BUKGIN ELECTRIC CO.,
353 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
AMICO LTD.,
Aniico House,
Queen Street. Brisbane.
S.A.:
NEWTON McLABEN LTD,
Eeigh Street, Adelaide.
W.A.:
C. I>. ENAPTON,
935 Hay Street, Perth.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sturt”: Two of the leading implement
factories of South Aus. have combined.
J. H. Horwood founded his business in 1842,
J. S. Bagsliaw in 1837, when S.A. was only
a few months old. The latter business has
been mostly in agricultural implements,
with motor-bodies lately. Horwood’s have
specialised in boring plants and engineer-
ing. They now become Horwood Bagsliaw,
Ltd., with a capital of £250,000; W. j.
Barker, managing director. The co. pro-
poses to give every employee the chance of
becoming a shareholder.
* * * *
“Sierra”: The Barcoo, once the crack
steamer of the old Queensland Shipping Co.,
had her career ended a few days ago when
she was towed through Sydney Heads by
the R.A.N. and sunk by gunfire. Under
Captain Morris, who left the Archer to take
command, she made her maiden trip from
Sydney to Cooktown in January, 1886.
After years of service in the A.S.N. and
A. cos., she became an Admiralty coal
hulk in Sydney Harbor. Her end recalls
the naval funeral given by the Portuguese
to the clipper Thermopylae in 1907. In order
to save her from the shipbreakers the little
vessel, bedecked with flags, was towed from
the Tagus to the open sea and ceremoniously
torpedoed.
* * * *
“0.K.”: It is assumed by “Twb Seas”
(B. 24/l/’24) that I make the mistake of
concluding that, fruitgrowers are on a good
wicket. I did not suggest that growers were
responsible for the, exorbitant prices charged
for fruit in Melbourne. I said that the grow-
ers’ demand for a Government subsidy on
exports was absurd as long as Melbourne
was charged 3d. and 4d. apiece for oranges.
The purchaser in the Australian city or town
wishes well to the fruitgrower; but he wants
the retail prices to be a lot lower ere he
will see any justice in the growers’ claim to
Government assistance in export. Let them
agitate intelligently for inexpensive Govern-
ment assistance against the conspiring
middlemen and the thieving Dagoes who
somehow have been allowed to get their
greasy hold on the fruit and oyster trades.
* * * *
“Tauwarra” (Port Moresby) : There was
a mild boom in the Moresby copra market
the other day when it was announced that
an overseas vessel had been chartered to lift
1000 tons of Papuan copra, on a through
freight to London of 60s. per ton. Copra,
which had been practically unsaleable at £l3
per ton, immediately found purchasers at
£20 —a price reminiscent of the boom days
of 1920—and for a time it looked as though
Papua’s most pressing problem had been
solved at last. But the Possession’s rotten
luck stuck to it; for the vessel is hard and
fast on Natarah Reef, within sight of Port
Moresby, and the London market and Lon-
don prices are as far away as ever. It is
becoming increasingly evident that Papua
can only be saved by adopting the co-opera-
tive methods of the Australian cocky. The
Navigation Act’s application to Papua is
deadly; and coastal freights are nearly as
fatal.
* * * *
“Warra”: Crawford Vauglian as a bar-
racker for the anti-ratooners of cotton (B.
3/l/’24) is tragic. For that matter all anti-
ratoon advocates are tragic from the point
of view of the growers, who are, after all,
the first and most important consideration.
His allegation that the ratooning of the plant
at once creates a “throw-back” is entirely
without substantiation from the experience
of Queensland growers. On the contrary, 70
p.c. of the shipments that first brought our
product favorably and prominently under
the notice of British spinners was ratoon
cotton. The statement that annual cotton
sold for a higher price in the Australian
market than that branded “ratoon” is an-
other futility. Before this ratoon cotton
was offered for sale intending purchasers
were solemnly warned by the seller that (1)
the fibre was weak, (2) the staple was un-
even, (3) the cotton had been infested by
injurious insects, (4) the wastage in spin-
ning was enormous, (5) no reputable Euro-
pean cottonspinner would touch the stuff.
After these and a few more points had been
rammed well home the sale was proceeded
with. If Crawford Vaughan doesn’t think
that statements uttered by public men on the
above lines would not adversely affect the
sale of the ratoon crop, let him experiment
along similar- lines with the next lot of
B. shares placed on the market. South
America, the largest producer of ratoon-
cotton, receives a higher price for the pro-
duct of her shrubs than does U.S.A. for that
of her annuals. Over 80 per cent, of the growers
of Queensland, having carefully listened to
the. arguments of both sides, and aided by
their own practical experience of local condi-
tions, are solid for ratoon. And we’ll get
it yet.
BALLADE OF THE PRODUGE MARKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
| “Local potatoes still are very dull.”—S. M. Herald.
A grin divides the watermelon’s rind,
The trim tomato simpers roguishly ;
Ponderous pumpkins, stolidly aligned,
Brood o’er the scene in calm benignity.
Yet in this vegetable Arcady
Are some whose hopes dark clouds of woe annul,
Who dwell apart in grim asperity—
Local potatoes still are very dull.
The caterpillared cabbages, enshrined
With deadly cucumbers in amity,
Beam on the efforts of the sweating hind
Who calls upon the populace to see
How fresh and succulent his viands be,
Yet for the buyer all the “specks” doth cull;
While, sullen-eyed and musing bitterly,
Local potatoes still are very dull.
The bloomy grape is cheerfully inclined
Unto the apple, smiling rosily;
Onion and garlic,' fragrantly entwined,
With poignant sighs proclaim their ecstasy:
While up and down the markets jollity
Flits to and fro, as flits the blithesome gull
Upon the shore; yet, wrapped in misery,
Local potatoes still are very dull.
Envoy.
Pan! God of mirth and gardens, prithee try
To fill with joy our clay-stained Murphy’s skull,
Till we no more shall hear the bitter cry:
“Local potatoes still are very dull.”
N.B.W.
J. B. H.


JElAnnnAanjii
e
sib
ijj;
rrm
piiiiiii&’ii'ffiiii ii
COMPARISON *SPT«H}
REVEALS: NO
lis s -lit
LIVING ARTIST
ERENCE
DIE
At last a phonograph
can be an artist
Here is the phonograph that will give you real music—not a pale reproduction, but
music itself in all its freshness and charm and wonder —exquisite, genuine, magnetic.
It is real music, indeed; indistinguishable in public test from the artists actual
performance. We can say no more.
If your love of music has prevented you from buying a “talking machine” —then
hear “The New Edison” —the phonograph that becomes an artist.
Demonstrations and Catalogues at
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE—WiIIs & Paton Pty., Ltd., 238 Colltns Street.
ADELAIDE —South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., 7 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen Street.
PERTH —Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only: Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
dfdgfhj
Hupmobile
The important thing to you is not what an
experienced demonstrator can do with a motor
car, but what you can do with the same car
when you are 4 4 on your own, and far front
expert advice and assistance.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-71 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED. 112-20 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Aus.
VENTURA MOTORS, LIMITED, 873 Hay Street. Perth, West Australia.
EVERS MOTOR CO., LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Queensland.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport. Tasmania.
N Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.. Christchurch. New Zealand.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, New Zealand.


CAUTION!
Danger lurks in con-
stipated bowels. They
poison the whole
system and start
many organic diseases.
To keep yourself in
perfect health keep your
bowels regular. It is easy
to do this if you take
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Every Tablet a Live one—Brim
Full of Health and Happiness.
Easy to take. Pleasant in effect.
dfdgfhj
D. 0. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
A
There’s a good deal of common sense about
the man who wears an Indian Pith Helmet
—’Tis tropical Headwear. Light, cool, and
of good appearance —This model is Khaki
quilted with self Puggaree All
Sizes.
25/-
Pike brothers
LIMITED
In 2)ueen Street, Brisbane
“K.L.G.”
SPARKING
PLUGS.
For perfect ignition and long
service.
A type for every Engine.
Smith, Sons 8 Rees
Limited,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
THE BUSHMAN'S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
RTEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
m
%
/
W
4
m
V
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60/-
For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
makes it dust and damp proof.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Two Sydney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
412 George Street, Strand Corner
; *STW*
<ts
'V
$
6?
IP
ANZORA
>)VIOLA
©
a
-v
' Agents for Australia :
Ly all Willis SCo.Lta
Melbourne.. Baldwin & Slattery.
Sydney .... Jones & Joseph.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane. .. .Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullin & Co.,
1-3 Selbourne Chambers,
Howard Street.
Every man
should use
ANZORA for his hair, because
it is the only preparation that will
effectually keep the hair neat and
in position throughout the day.
Just rub a little into the scalp each
morning and brush the hair well.
Gently yet firmly refuse proffered
substitutes. There is nothing “as
good as” ANZORA.
Anzora Cream is suitable for greasy
scalps & Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers,
Stores, or from any of our Agents.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Manufactured, by the
ANZORA PERFUMERY CO. Ltd.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
iYiotherhood
WKile Students of La\>?,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Mothers are learning dieir
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
Aft er all, experience is die
best teacher, and that’s why ,
thousands of Mothers who
ha\>e reared large families so
strongly recommend
r.
Fluid M BB8 *®
OThis faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal both, for Nursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia is particularly valuable
during {he trying period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
Don’t try to do without KRUSE’S during the hot Summer months, but
the genuine, ■vJith our name, Felton, Grim-wade & Co. Pt?. Ltd. on e a .
BOTTLED IN THREE SIZES.
“Sucre”: Captain Peter Barker, men-
tioned (B. 31/l/'24) as the oldest Odd-
fellow in Australia, was one of tlie li-ureka
Stockade sentries. He came to no harm
there, and was one of the first on Canoona
goldfield—Queensland’s first yellow streak.
That was in ISSS.
“Nitric” : Hauled down the flag at 71. Dan
MacTaggart, known as Commodore of the
Royal Queensland Yacht Club, and for 11
years chairman of the Wool Selling Brokers
Association of Brisbane- —he headed the firm
MacTaggart and Sons, hide and skin dealers.
A great rowing enthusiast, lie stroked a
famous Maryborough crew to victory several
times. His son inherited the enthusiasm, and
gained a rowing blue at Brisbane ’Varsity.
“Flicker”: “Merlin” (B. 17/1 /’24) exag-
gerates the legal difficulties created by the
death of Gordon, ,T., in Adelaide. In cases
where the late Judge withheld his decision
till death prevented him from giving it, there
will, of course, be new trials unless litigants
are willing to compromise rather than en-
dure the necessary delays. This is what a
great many people did after Chief Justice
Way’s death.
“50-50” : On entering the top flat of the
Eastern Market (Melb.) I was confronted
with a basket of assorted toothbrushes going
at Id. each. I asked the lady in charge the
reason of the alarming sacrifice. She ex-
plained without turning a hair that they
were second-hand. Inspection revealed the
names and the A.I.F. unit numbers of the
late owners scratched upon the handles of
some of them. And somebody says Austra-
lians are wasteful!
“Pervicax” : H. L. Heron, general-manager
of the Commercial of Australia (B.
24/l/’24), entered that bank after he had
acquired considerable experience in the Aus-
tralasia. Which recalls what a goodly com-
pany of general-managers the ’Asia has
trained for rival banks. The following come
to mind: James Kell (Acting-Governor
Commonwealth), O. M. Williams (London),
Frank Grey Smith (National), Henry Gyles
Turner (H. L. Heron’s predecessor as g.-m.
of C.8.A.) and E. It. Drury (Q.N. in the
year of the crash).
The just-dead Jago Smith, M.L.C., was
an acquaintance of “Gobo,” Bathurst’s bell-
ringer and bill-distributor, whose great rival
was “Maori Jack,” of Orange, with whom
there was a frequent exchange of hot chal-
lenges for bell-ringing matches for £5O aside
and the championship of Australia. Jago
Smith was annoyed one day at the failure
of a new policeman to recognise him, and
Gobo sought to make things easier for the
M.L.C. “I wouldn’t take any notice of that
bloke,” he said. “He didn’t even recognise
me.”
Just-dead R. A. Wakeford, head of an old-
established Townsville (Q.) firm of auction-
eers, was a son of the contractor who built
the first section of the Great Western
(N.S.W.) railway. As civil engineer he
helped his dad in the construction of the
Cooktown-Maytown (Q.) line, then he started
auctioneering in Cooktown in its early days,
and 30 years ago opened up ,in Townsville,
which was destined to claim him as its hand-
somest citizen. A daughter, Mrs. Cardew,
is the wife of the Administrator for Papuan
Native Affairs at Rabaul.
“Sucre”: The general manager of a big
“bargain” barn in a southern Australian capi-
tal has lost faith in coffee-beans. For many
months it had been his habit as soon as the
sun topped the yardarm to slip out un-
obtrusively for a refresher at the corner
house. Close contact with the managing
director 10 minutes later never raised any
inquiring sniff. One day, however, beans
were off, and he took an onion into his con-
fidence. “Look, Mr. Nip,” said the boss, “I
don’t mind the smell of -whisky and coffee-
beans, but, damme, whisky and onions are
over the odds.”
“Oliver Overproof”: My experience o*
absinthe was that it was sold quite openly
in some French towns, notably Doullens, the
place of the historic meeting which made
Foch Generalissimo. It was not a favorite
gargle with the Diggers, who mostly imbibed
it out of curiosity. To a throat inured to
whisky it seemed a drink more suited for
a tea-party; but the unwary soon found then-
mistake. By comparison of after-effects
Ilenare’s favorite tipple of methylated spirits
flavored with raspberry was mild as mother’s
milk alongside the French dream-juice.
“Retro” : An Adelaide wholesale firm has
lost a good customer through the vagaries of
Pitman’s shorthand. The outlines for the
words “amazement” and “amusement” are
very similar, which accounts for a junior cor-
respondence typist having written to a coun-
try storekeeper: “We note with amusement
that you were two bottles short in a case
of pickles forwarded recently, and think the
loss must have occurred in transit.” The
client replied by return mail: “It will
probably cause further hilarity in your office
to learn that I am closing my account with
you.”
“Bob Sawyer” on doctors and lodges:—
“Thurdex” reckons club work pays a doctor. It
may (1) indirectly, because half a loaf is better
than no bread, or because it enables the doctor to
keep abreast of his work and secure public attention;
(2) directly, where the whole practice is a club one,
as in colliery and other mining districts. In the
latter case, as a rule, the population is concentrated,
and, in consequence, easily worked, and horse or car
upkeep is nominal. But in an established mixed
practice my experience shows that the net receipts
are in no way commensurate with the time and
labor expended. In these cases a man buying the
practice will throw off the lodge work as fast as he
can. The principal object of all aspiring medicces
is, therefore, to get off the sub. and on to the
10s. 6d. tariff. “Thurdex” found a “bluff old doc-
tor” who said that “one-quarter of his patients he
had never seen, and another he just knew.” What
about the remaining two quarters? No doubt he saw
too much of them. This section consists partly of
married members with large and sickly families, the
necessary attendance upon whom would about balance
the advantage of the two former classes. A fourth
class (whom he might have referred to as “never
out of his sight”) cause all the work, irritation and
friction between meds. and lodge officials. It is com-
posed of members who appear determined to squeeze
as much out of the medical benefit’ as possible. In-
cluded are some who can well afford ordinary fees,
but, having risen from the ruck, cling to the lodge
(and, incidentally, the medical benefit). One such
I remember who, in addition to other properties,
owned the local paper and held a mortgage over the
doctor’s residence. He was a constant attendant.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
W rite for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Vosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities. .
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 5.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —-M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 84
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,266
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Make Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Todjian ;
Duncan Carson ; 11. It. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiel Inspector for N.SJV.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. IT. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYXYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Jenolan Caves
for an Enjoyable Holiday
Three Days:
£4/17/6.
Four Days:
£5/15/6.
Five Days:
£6115/6.
Six hours’ delight-
ful journey by train
and automobile
through gorgeous
mountain scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout, accom-
modation at Oaves
H o u s e—replete
with every modern
comfort, dancing
and entertainments
at night and daily
inspections of the
far-famed caves.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:, Ac.
Canadiati-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA (18,000 tons disp.) MAR. 13
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) APRIL 10
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ran be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Tails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) FEB. 28
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) MAR. 27
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION -STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TO URS
mm -
W&
m
Hm
m
WBM-
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHI UP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
BOOK your passage to LONDON for the
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924, with our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
We offer the following attractive tours: —
(1) TO JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent Steamers “MAUELLA” and “MONTORO,”
sailing’ from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane every month.
7-weeks trip for £9O Ist-class return.
(2) SYDNEY TO COLOMBO (Ceylon), £65 Ist-class return.
(3) SYDNEY TO HONOLULU, via N.Z. and Fiji.
£B5 Ist-class return.
Special round Eastern Tours, calling JAVA, SINGAPORE,
CHINA, JAPAN, MANILA. BORNEO and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
From £129 Ist-class return throughout.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
I y\yy
:
two
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
14,500
14,500
10,000
NESTOR
ULYSSES
.ENEAS
Tons.
ANCHISES . . 10,000
ASCANIUS . . 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT . . 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11.100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12.500 tons
SUEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Fassengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up .Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, EC.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Shipping?.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne ior Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poit> .
•and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for ontport-U.
I *Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
I fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLjM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 .Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m. ; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars appiy:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1982
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income ..
£1,826,924
£3,000,000
£50,000,000
£7,500,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


i a
SR*
Lead by
the ‘Drums
Sitting with ease on
his proudly mettlesome
horse, he rolls out a
martial rhythm on his
kettledrums a sound
that calls us out to see
them pass, crowned with
the glory of success in
many battles these
famous “ GREYS ”
NOW, whether it be on horseback, or afoot, a
"GREYS” Cigarette puts us at ease. Particularly
good and wholesome Virginian Tobacco has
crowned " GREYS ” Cigarettes with success. Hence
their better smoking and outstanding popularity.
GREYS
Silk Cut Virginia
GREYS, 20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Manufactured by MAJOR DRAPKIN Si CO., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Limited
s n*
CUT
V ®cn«u
This reduced reproduction shows
the famous pale green packet of
20 "GREYS”
(/NICHEO
£
lip
tftfCHEON
vv//'
72
The Stenographer says:—*
u ßound about 1 p.m. I’m really famished
—ready for a really nourishing lunch to
keep me going until knock-off time.
“It’s then I welcome my Rex Luncheon
Cheese sandwiches — they’re so sustaining,
and far more beneficial than the hurried
pie and cup of tea that was once my regu-
lar mid-day meal.
“I like Rex Luncheon Cheese very much.
Its delightful piquancy gives an added zest
to sandwiches, and being so economical is
a regular favorite in our home.
“Most certainly I recommend it—it is so,
dainty and appetizing.”
At all Grocers in hygienic tins •
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
npY luncheon
KLA cheese
M. S. Sport Equipment.
“Made for Better Service.”
SPORTING RIFLES
Mick Simmons’ can supply all your needs. Our selection of
Sporting Firearms, chosen from world-renowned makers, is
unrivalled in Australia.
(Illustrated Shooting Catalogue, Post Free.)
dfdgfhj
dfdgfhj
Steven’s Little Scout Single
Shot Rifle.
B 2 Of 22-calibre, with 18-inch round steel barrel, open
and knife-edged front sights. Weight about 2-Alb.
“A marvel at the price.”
26/-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
Sxs
The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle.
B 1 Fitted with plain V-back sight, and designed for 22 short,
-long or long rifle cartridges; rim-fire. It can be taken apart easily
and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located under-
neath the forearm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is exceedingly simple.
The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled with the same care as the
military weapon, and guaranteed accurate. Weight about 31b. Price
Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
25/-
dfdgfhj
Winchester Single-shot Rifle.
1904 Model.
810 Designed for short or long lim-fire cartridges ; 21in. heavy
round steel barrel; plain trigger; bolt action; ladder rear sight;
length of rifle over all, 371 in.; open front sight;
weight about 41b. Price
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
47/6
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
dfdgfhj
Winchester Repeating Rifle.
1906 Model.
A good all-round small 16-shot calibre rifle, for target or small-game shooting.
Has round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, adjustable rear sights and sliding forearm
action. Bored and rifled to do accurate shooting. Handles 22 short, £ C/lfl/
long or long rifle cartridges. Weight about sflb. Delivered A”
dfdgfhj
Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle. Model 16a.
J 528 One of the hardest-hitting 22-calibre rifles on the market; take-down
action; adjustable ladder rear and bead front sights; American Walnut straight -
grip stock; 22in. steel barrel; length over all, 39in.; weight sflb.
Price, delivered
£9
dfdgfhj
Savage Hi-Power Repeating
Hammerless Rifle.
832 Remarkably accurate and hard-hitting, with plenty of range and power; 22-calibre ;
6 shot; 20in. round tapered barrel; take-down system. Muzzle velocity, 2800 ft. seconds,
may be used up to 350 yards without changing from point-blank adjustments of sights;
soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70 grains) are used, giving a striking r i O/l A/
energy of 1206 ft. pounds. Weight about 71b. Delivered J. V//“
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
id
r IC
9 9.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter, St. Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St., Brisbane.


Did You Ever Hear of a More
Wonderful Cure than This?
v
■
m
*
m
3/r. IF. ,/. tfPJF/l/eDS (from, a photo).
I felt it my duty to send yon
a testimonial for the way in
which your wonderful Rexona
Ointment cured me of Trench
Feet. lam a returned sol-
dier, and served in the 27th
Battalion, A.1.F., France, and
whilst abroad I got what is
known as Trench Feet or Frost
Bite, which causes decay. 1
was sent to England, and was
for 18 weeks under electrical
treatment to restore life back to
my feet, until my feet decayed
that much that my toes dropped
oft’, and my foot was almost
eaten away, and they decided
to amputate the left foot and
the toes on right foot. For
weeks I was lying in hospital
not making the slightest head-
way, when they decided to send
me' back to my own climate,
while my feet were decaying all
the time. I had to have two
more operations.
I arrived in Adelaide on the
12th April, 1918, was sent to
Kerwick Hospital, and was
there six months, in which time
I suffered terribly. I was an
experiment for the doctors, for
they tried everything, all with-
I had four more operations, and was finally discharged as
out success.
incurable. .
For weeks at home I tried all sorts of Ointments and different things,
until at last it worried me so much that I decided to go and have my left
leg amputated. I told my parents what I intended to do, and they got me
to give your Rexona Ointment a trial, so I gave it a trial, and by the time I
had used six small tins of Rexona my feet were completely cured, and.
saved me from losing my leg, and from that day I have never had the
slightest trouble, and am able to walk with the next one, and w r hen I went
for my artificial foot they asked me where I got cured, and w lien I told
them they were greatly surprised and would not believe me.
So, trusting you will use this testimonial as you wish, and if requiring
further particulars I shall only be too willing to give y°** fhcm*
Yours truly, (Sgd.) W. J. EH WARDS,
00 Ashley Street, Torrensville, Adelaide, S.A.
REXONA, THE KING OF OINTMENTS.
Rexona the Rapid Healer is a necessity in every home. It is the most Avonderful
Ointment of the as the above illustration and heals even long-standing,
obstinate sores and skin diseases.
Rexona at once exerts its antiseptic, soothing and healing powers, causing a
new. healthy skin to grow, and soon all trace of the wound has disappeared
Remember, Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at 1/6, and
in a large size, holding nearly four times the quantity, a t 3/-.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
m
%
ilfi
i 3
m
k
l US
Ml
. HI
™§g§^
.
i
311
HUS
►
■
m
u
‘jr £fl
i
■Hi
i
■■ j •
raßw JT'r
jf:
I
JSfc:
r;j
$ -
H
'" -• ... ■
;
...
H
■R-Dl^^y
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
OneSt ttiiticA
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
The Thorn Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOUNG Reilly was in Connaught born;
And when he cleared the farm
He planted there a fairy thorn
To keep the house from harm.
With crooked stem and branches fair
That took the winds with mirth,
The seed that formed in Irish air
Grew in Australian earth.
Young Reilly had an open hand,
Though coarse with many a stain;
He put good sweat into the land
And reaping golden grain
Gave of his plenty to the poor.
Nor had he much annoy;
Though sorrow darkened oft his door,
It passed again in joy.
The thorn-tree flourished, glossy-leaved,
And from the quiet sod
And charitable skies received
The providence of God.
The hurrying years in labor spent
Enchantment seemed to bear;
They took young Reilly as they went
And left an old man there.
An old man moving wearily,
With sad and halting tongue,
Who sat and dreamed beneath the tree
He set when he was young.
Life and he parted, as a bough
The ripened fruit lets fall —
There’s scarce a soul around there now
That speaks of him at all!
But still its watch the thorn-tree keeps,
Though years his name bedim ;
And all the golden Spring it weeps
White tears, remembering him.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
The Match-makers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN a mood of doubt and gloom Bill Putti-
foot, butcher at Denny Deneen’s store,
decided to put his case before Mrs.
Cleghorn’s uncle, the Quart Pot bellman. He
had heard tales of Uncle’s social successes from
Uncle himself, and he hankered for an expert
opinion on the best method of ensuring a
smooth run for the course of true love. Putti-
foot approached the subject at his heart on
ingratiating lines.
“You know a lot,” he began.
“I do,” agreed Uncle. “Y’ see, I’ve tra-
velled.”
Puttifoot abased himself. “Travelled
everywhere, I s’pose?” he said.
“Everywheres,” said Uncle, forgetting the
Poles, America, Africa, Asia, and all of
Europe excepting a fragment of England.
“One place to another. Just one place to
another.”
“S’prises me y’ never married,” said Putti-
foot approaching the subject near to him as
the emu approaches her nest after leading
the horseman a mile away from it.
“Well, I never did!” said Uncle. “Rovin’
an’ rovin’ ” —and, with a pitiful attempt at
a Juanesque off-handedness, “like a bee from
flower to flower.”
“My word,” said P'uttifoot, “y’ must have
been a fair terror !”
“Oh, not so much —not so much,” said
Uncle, deprecating the accusation in a way
that confirmed it. “There wus a gel in ther
Mile End-road. Very ’igh class she wus;
’er father ’ad a beef an’ ’am shop. Wouldn’t
let her marry me because I wus below her
stytion. So I come to Horstralia.”
Mr. Puttifoot was greatly impressed by
these English niceties of class. He opened
his mouth, but said nothing, waiting for
further words of wisdom from this Uncle
who had seen men and cities and knew the
ways of woman.
“I orter got married when I come to
Horstralia,” continued Uncle. “But travel-
lin’ —always travelling Never thinka gettin’
married y’self?”
Puttifoot dived for the opening. “Yes.
In a way—a lady ’ere.”
“Mrs. Choqwundy?”
“Mrs. Choquindie, y’ mean? Yes; but
there’s a hitch.”
“Go on! An’ that hitch is what?”
“Accidents. There’s an’ understandin’
between us, an’ I was gettin’ on fine. An’
then the night of the dance I takes her for
a walk out to the crik. An’ just beside the
fence o’ Mr. Deneen’s paddick I arsts her to
sit down, an’ we near sit on a swagman that’s
camped there. So home she goes in a huff.”
“Take her out agen,” said Uncle with an
air of cunning. “Take her out agen. Alone.
Quiet. Find a place where no swaggies go.”
“So I did —lars’ night. Took her out,
over Deneen’s orchard ways. An ’I was just
goin’ to word her, cornin’ through the bracken
in the starlight, an’ we fell over a cow.
My cripes, I nearly broke me arm. An’, my
cripes, she did go off pop! She wouldn’t
speak this mornin’.”
“Arst her to nyme the d'y, then.”
“I ain’t got the pluck. Y’ see, I don’t
know much about wimmin. Y’ see, you do.”
“Tell y’ what,” said Uncle, adding a new
duty to his life as a public man, “I’ll go
an’ see her an’ esplain.”
“Will y’, though? Will y’? Go to it,
then—an’ if it’s right I won’t forgit y\”
So Uncle departed on his mission as go-
between, his motive partly reward but mostly
vanity—the desire to put his fingers in other
people’s business, and get himself talked
about, and win such other proofs of a great
man’s greatness. But when he reached Mrs.
Choquindie’s house and was admitted to the
presence, he quailed before the' gimlet ('yes
and the sharp face and the nose that gave
Mrs. Choquindie the suggestion of a starved
hawk. She listened to him only as far as
his firstly. Shortly she resented the inter-
ference, not of an Uncle and a man generally
but specifically of the town bellman—as ’if
she were Mary Pickford or an auction sale
of furniture or pigs! She further remarked,
as not closing the door on further diplomatic
negotiations, that Mr. Puttifoot might speak
for himself.
. Puttifoot gave the message a mixed recep-
tion-gladness that Mrs. Choquindie had left
the door open, and sadness that he did not
dare to enter, knowing that he did not know
his part, and fearing that he might be ridi-
culous in his stage fright.
Uncle departed, seeing Denny Deneen
approaching, and fearing the storekeeper s
tongue as he feared whips of scorpions. Put-
tifoot, bending over the butcher’s block,
stayed his soul with sawing off short ribs,
and comforted himself with filleting steak;
for he was sick of love and the yearning
for it.
So Denny found him, almost cheerful
again as he sawed and cut and chopped and
occasionally thrust a greasy finger on the
day-book for luck and information.
“What was that ould loafer bellman doin’
here, Bill?”
“Helpin’ me in a bit of private business.’
“Il’mm—li’mm—he was, was he? Public or
privit, your business will be gone to the pack
if Uncle have annything to do wit’ it, then.
Why don’t you get married. Bill Puttifoot?”
“Well, Mister Deneen, it’s trouble between
me an’ her.”
“What’s it about? Mrs. Chookwanday
went off pop t’roo you leadin’ her t’ought-
lessly to fall over a cow, was it?”
“Good ’eavens!” exclaimed Bill Puttifoot.
“Who told you?”
“The editor of the Scandalmongers’
Herald tould Mickey, an’ Mickey tould the
sargint, an’ the sargint tould me.”
“She blames it on me ! The cow blames
it on me! Everybody blames it on me. But
’oo’s the editor? I never ’card of the paper!”
“ ’Tis Uncle, the loafer bellman. Why did
you thrust that fellow, Bill Puttifoot, tell
me that ?”
“I wanted a friend to see her —an’ he
offered.”
“Did he, then? He would offer you the
crown of glory of the’ blessed saints, an’ the
Pope’s t’rone, an’ the Southern Cross that
was the brooch of the Angel Michael dropped
from his necktie to the shkies. I’ll be your
friend. Bill Puttifoot.”
“Will y’, though, Mister Deneen? Will
y’ ?”
“I will that. You’re a good man, an she’s
looky to get you; an’ if she won’t know how
leoky she is we’ll thry to make her. I want
to see you married, Bill, because you’re a
good felly; an’ —an’ when you’re married
you’ll be oftener at your work.”
“Oh, Mister Deneen, I never”— —
“Quiet, you ! Bone the sirloin you’re on
for Misthress Deneen, an’ send it over to
the kitchin. An’, Bill, whin you’re married,
crack the whip. God have made the man
master of the woman for her own good. Whin
they’re good they’re like mothers; an’ whin
they’re naughty they’re in their thrue image
-—an’ that’s just children that have not
grown up. You see the happy woman
in the house where the man is mas-
ter, an’ she a tender shuckin’ fcwl that
doesn’t crow when the cock is rehearsin’ his
early-mornin’ voice. I’ll see Mrs. Chook-
wanday, Bill Puttifoot. You have a fri’nd
in me.”
It was not coincidence but design that sent
Mrs. Choquindie from her home in the Upper
Settlement to walk in the main street; and
it was design that stopped her with a mes-
sage from Denny Deneen at the store before
she could reach the butcher’s shop and give
Mr. Puttifoot the opportunity of speaking
for himself.
Mrs. Choquindie, on the message of Denny
Deneen brought her by the long grocer,
climbed the steps to the store, and -was
shown into Denny’s office, Denny proving
the importance of the occasion by abandoning
his literary studies in the ledger.
“Sit you down, sit you down, Mrs. Chook-
wanday,” said Denny, arising to offer her
a chair, and speaking so kindly that she de-
cided to let her correction of liis pronuncia-
tion go, but for this occasion only.
The lady accepted the chair and sat up in
it as rigidly as if a sergeant had shouted
“ ’Tention” to her spine.
“Now, Mrs. Chookwanday,” continued
Denny, “I have a matter of exhtreme deli-
cacy to bring to your koind notice —where it
is well housed already, I doubt not. ’Tis
the case of Willyam Puttifoot, a foine, good,
tinder, baldy-liead little butcher-man wit’
a koind heart an’ a head of grreat shimpli-
city. To a great extint he suffers from un-
necessary fears that he is not good enough
for you, an’ maybe he’s not your ayqual in
s’nociety or in book-readin’, and the loike o’
that. But he is a grreat, shplendid, foine
man, an’ I’m his fri’nd ; an’ I wish you to
give me the harrd worrd to say to him that
all is clear an’ life complete, an’ that the
choir can begin to practise ‘The Voice that
Breathed o’er Eden’ —though, from all that
I know of Eden, the on’y shtrange voice that
breathed there was the voice that told Adam
and Eve to get out, and left a bailiff at the
gate to see that they didn’t come back ag’in.
However that maybe—enshrouded in mys-
tery it is for me, because it was before my
toime, an’ all T know is ('earsay —there’s
the wan outshtandin’ fact that Bill Putti-
foot, a good man an’ thrue, is too timid to
ask you what he should, an’ ”
“It’s very painful to me,” interrupted
Mrs. Choquindie, “to talk of such a delicate
matter with a third person. I do not so
much resent it from you, Mister Deneen,
because you are Mr. Puttifoot’s friend, and
I appreciate your kindness.”
“More than you did the day I beat Putti-
foot wit’ the oxlitail and the kidney ho was
stealin’ for you,” thought Denny, his eyes
twinkling at the memory.
“But, really,” continued Mrs. Choquindie,
“these intermediaries are embarrassing to any
lady with self-resnect. This morning a
fraiglitful person, the towm bellman, came to
see me on the same business.”
“Uncle the Loafer! Ma’am, I congratu-
late you on freezin’ him. Whin f saw him
a bit ago his whiskers were just thawin’,
but his heart was shtill sliixty degrees below
zero. Ye did right, ma’am; but I’m not
Uncle the Loafer, bellman an’ ater of
childer’s bread. I’m Denny Deneen,, the
thrue fri’nd of Bill Puttifoot, an’ I ask of
you to give Bill a good hearin’.”
“I can certainly promise to do that,” said
the lady, with great dignity ; “but I cannot
discuss the matter with a third party.”
“You’ll have to discush it a bit or you'il
never discush it at all, Mrs. Chookwanday.
Luk here, madam. You don’t know the kind
slioul of Bill Puttifoot. Butcher he is, an’
smallgoods man, cuttin’ up t’ree bodies an’
twelve sheep a week, an’ runnin’ a sossige-
machine day in day out, year in year out.
But he have a tinder, froightened heart in
(Continued on next pafjeA


of
Danger
the
Realise
Do
You
a
i
c
Apply ZAM-BUK Promptly to {
any Cut, Scratch, Burn or Bruise. .
fh
//
Avoid the dangers of blood-poison and serious skin
disease, which are often caused through neglect of the
most trivial cut, scratch or break in the skin. A sure
way to prevent all dangerous complications is to keep
a box of Zam-Buk always handy, and immediately dress
your injuries with this great herbal healer.
If you already have a poisoned sore, a festering cut,
or any skin trouble too obstinate for ordinary treatment,
Zam-Buk, by reason of its wonderful antiseptic and
germicidal powers, will quickly kill all infection, and
ensure healthy healing.
Zam-Buk is unsurpassed for the treatment of sores,
eczema, ringworm, piles, burns, cuts and bruises and all
skin trouble. Zam-Buk is compact —always ready for
instant use —always reliable: therefore a box should be
kept handy in every home and workshop.
“A Surgery in Your Own Home.”
1/6 and 3/6 per box of all Chemists and Stores .
8 MONTHS WITH A
POISONED SORE.
WONDERFUL ZAM-BUK HEALING.
“Some time ago I slipped and
badly gashed my forearm,” says
Mr. J. D. McCormack, of Egan
Street, Newtown, Sydney. “Blood-
poison set in and 1 had a bad
time. My arm became so swollen
and inflamed that I could not get
my coat on. For eight months I
tried one thing and another, but
in the end my arm was as bad as
ever. I then decided on trying
Zam-Buk, and this splendid balm
soon drew out the pus and
cleaned the wound thoroughly,
and then healed it up, and thus
enabled me to resume my work
of carpentry and joinery. My
great thanks are due to Zam-
Buk.”
FREE SAMPLE BOX .
To obtain a free sample of Zam-Bvk,
write to C. E. Fulford (A/sia), Ltd.,
Sydney, mention!.,y The Bulletin,
1412 m.
HO
MIMA',
OIV
»o«
o# u °
£2
I
B
cu^s
KK
‘jS
sts
RIU)
SORtS
tcitw
\.t&s
tu
MMISM
SCIMItV
nM»o»
SORE
HE/VOS
BIkCtVS
CR/CKETERS
UN E QUA
LLED
PLAyERS
FOOTBALL
cycL
TS
rs
GENERALLY
SPORTSMEN
math
S*a«>
ftS
AN
OCK
R
am-Buk
HR
*v
the prisince of a woman. You mustn’t think
lie’s a bould bushranger of a man because
he uses a chopper, an’ a knife, an’ a meat-
saw, an ’the sossige-machine. Manny a man
is not made a rude man by his occupation.
Why, 1 knew a man once, an’ he was a
undertaker, yet good to his mother, an’
wouldn’t kill a man, riot even whin buishi-
ness was slilack. So I tell you, ma’am, if
you don’t move in Bill Puttifoot’s direction
he will be too frightened to slipeak his heart
whin he comes to see you. But if you’ll
let me tell him that it’s all right an’ that
you’ll be Mrs. Puttifoot whin he axes you,
back I go to him an’ give him the harrd
worrd; an’ let him sind to the little watch-
maker—that couldn’t make a watch in a leap
year of Shundays an’ broke me mainshpring
lasht toime I gave him me watch to reg’late
—let him shend to the watcli-shpoiler’s for
the ring. Now, thin, say the worrd!”
“You have put the case very fairly, Mister
Deneon—l may say, judicially. But that,
of course, is due to your training as a justice
of the peace.”
“T’ank you, ma’am.”
“The gratitude is mine, Mister Deneen.
xou have, opened my eyes, Mister Deneen, to
a condition of affairs such as I did not
imagine could exist in the masculine mind.
But we are all faulty and imperfect crea-
tures ; and as it is the right of the weaker
vessel to give way, I will take your advice.”
“Mrs. Chookwanday, ma’am, you’re a lady,
an’ I m proud to shake hands wit’ you. Now,
ma’am, I am to say that you’re ready to
marry Bill Puttifoot, but he has to ax you
first?”
“I’d scarcely put it that way. I wish you
to say to him these words —these exact
words, if you please.”
“’Twill be done, ma’am.”
“Say, then, to Mr. Puttifoot, that after a
year’s careful watching of Mr. Puttifoot’s
career and appreciation of his invariable
kindness to . one and all—most pronounced
in the case of Mrs. Choquindie herself —Mrs,
Choquindie authorises their mutual friend,
Mister Deneen, to say to Mr. Puttifoot that
Mr. Puttifoot’s good qualities are not entirely
indifferently regarded by Mrs. Choquindie.”
Denny rose and took his hat. “I’ll give
that to him worrd for worrd. Shtay here,
ma’am, an’ I’ll shend him to you.”
He ran the 50 yards between the butcher’s
shop and store, burst through the back door,
and gave Puttifoot the love message: “She
says she loves you, Bill. Just go over there,
grab her hand an’ take the measurement of
her finger, an’ there you are, then-—home an’
dhried!”
“But what’d she say?” demanded Putti-
foot, nervously untying the strings of his
apron.
“She says she lies awake at nights won-
dering if you’re shtono blind that you can’t
see she’s dyin’ for you.”
“Did she say that?”
“She did so, in so manny worrds she did.
An’ she says she’s a ripe plum waitin’ to
dhrop into your mout’, if you’ll get some
damn sense an’ put y’r face under the
three.”
“Good oh!” said Puttifoot cheerfully—
almost bravely. “I s’pose I might’s well go
an’ get it done with.”
“Shtay away half an hour, Bill. Take her
for a walk if you will, but I think me office’d
be better for kissin’ wit’out exshitin’ interest
in tlie main shtreet among the populace.”
“Oh, kissin’ ! Ivissin’!” protested Putti-
foot. “Tork sense.”
He then departed on that business which
he had styled foolish.
Denny waited over the half-hour for Putti-
foot. So- also Uncle, who, seeing Mrs.
Choquindie go into the store and remain so
long a time, and then Denny replacing Putti-
foot in the butcher’s shop, concluded that
business was to be effected, and that he
might participate in profits ; on the lines of
those agents who do nothing and claim com-
mission where the owner has made the sale
direct.
At last Uncle saw Mrs. Choquindie and
Puttifoot leaving the store, witnessed the
nature of their parting, and knew that tint
golden morning of love had arrived and all
the wooing was done.
Mrs. Choquindie walked up the street
towards the Upper Settlement, and Putti-
foot, whistling and with his hat on one side,
came back to the butcher’s shop. At the
corner of it he was stayed by Uncle.
“I see we done it,” said Uncle.
“We done it?” echoed Puttifoot, his new
courage surging. “Mr. Deneen done it. You
didn’t fix it.”
“I ’elped to. Don’t I get nothin’?”
Puttifoot felt that, being now possessed of
all the world, meanness would be a blas-
phemy. “Oh, well,” he said, “here’s five
shillin’s.”
“Five shillin’s !” said Uncle, disappointedly
counting the coins. “Why, you guv me ten
shillin’s for gettin’ you that blue cattle-
pup!”
“That was a good pup,” said Puttifoot.
“Five bob’s enough for this.”
“But look what I done!”
“What did you do, then?” broke in Denny
at the shop door, he having overheard the
demand for cumshaw. “You nearly frightened
the duck out of the swamp!”
“Orlright,” whined Uncle, going on his
way. “I’m always done. Somebody’s always
gettin’ on ter me.”
“It’s all right, Mister Deneen,” said Putti-
foot. “You gave her a good opinion of me,
an’ I thank yer.”
“Good oh, Bill, me man. I tould her the
truth then. An’ whin is it to be?”
“Three weeks Thursday,” said Puttifoot,
blushing furiously as he attacked a sheep
that could not say him nay.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Sometimes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Sydney during the early ’nineties the
lower end of George-street was a lane
packed with Chinese, smells like smoulder-
ing waste and bird, monkey and fishing-tackle
shops. Here Jim Watson ran a pub. His
customers were a cosmopolitan lot: they in-
cluded man-o’-warsmen and sailormen of all
nationalities; tourists of every class; casual
droppcrs-in and an occasional magsman.
Confidence-men were as much a part of the
life of the city then as the picture-show is
to-day; and the swagmen out back had
many eye-blinking tales of their feats. Even
the wood-and-watcr joey on the station would
fire a parting injunction at the jaekeroo just
off to Sydney for a holiday to “look out for
any flash cove wot wants to tell you about
his rich uncle in Fiji.”
One morning three men strolled into the
George-street bar. Two were remembered
customers whom Watson had not seen for
months. A cursory glance at the third told
the publican volumes. His rigout bespoke
the limitations of some wayback store.
Hands, face and neck were tanned by the
blazing sun of the west. His type was as
familiar to the Sydney of those days as the
pushite, his slouch and his bell-bottomed pants.
As to his friends, Robert Harris was tall,
handsome and debonair —one who from his
carefully-trimmed beard and brown bowler hat
to his shining little boots looked the country
mug’s conception of a perfect gentleman to
the life. Fagin was a much rougher dia-
mond. He had graduated from a boxing
school, and did the spade work for Harris.
This pair of craftsmen had a peculiarity of
which Watson was aware. They worked to-
gether, and had never been known to have
an accomplice. Meanwhile, their business
was as obvious as the moon at full. There
was a lamb to be shorn, and they were on
the job.
The bushman shouted; and true. to type,
yanked out a wad of notes. Harris sipped
liis sherry languidly, and then, “Excuse me,
Mr. Fogarty,” he lisped, “could you lend
me five pounds for a few minutes? I want
to give it to a man who is going away, and
the bank doesn’t open until 10.”
“Er-course, Mr. Harris, ’ere y’ are!” The
smiling rustic wrenched the roll out of his
pocket again and peeled off five singles with
almost childish alacrity.
“Thanks awfully, we’ll be back in 10
minutes ; don’t go away.”
“Right!” said Fogarty, dropping on to a
form at the end of the bar and speeding
the pair through the door with a wave of
his enormous hand.
Jim Watson whistled softly to himself as
he saw Harris’s felt hat vanish into a han-
som cab at the kerb. There were races that
day at Randwick. Then he glanced at the
lamb—and marvelled. Truly one of them
was born every minute! He Was wiping
the last glass when Fogarty, blowing clouds
from his pipe, espied an almanac picture of
Carbine on the opposite wall and left his
seat for a closer view.
“Good ’orse that,” he observed with a side
twitch of his head.
“Yairs, good horse,” agreed Jim.
“ ’Ad a quid on ’im when he won that
Cup!”
“Yairs.”
Watson decided suddenly to interrupt
Fogarty’s racing meditations.
“Do you know the men you were with
just now?” he queried.
“Yes, met ’em on the Manly boat yester-
day! Wondering what that snowy place
was up on the hill. Arsked these chaps and
they told me it was an ’ome fer bust punters.
That’s ’ow I got to know ’em.”
“Yes- —I see,” nodded Jim.
“Found ’em fine coves. ’Ad a great time
yesterday—going to the races to-day!”
“Yes, oh yes,” said Jim, in a manner
which indicated that further details were
unnecessary. He was well acquainted with
the time-worn modus operandi.
“Think you’ll ever see them again V” lie
ventured presently.
“Course I will! Two fine gentlemen!
Out with them all day yesterday: hardly
let me spend a bob!”
The man’s gullibility passed Watson’s
understanding. Diving his hands into his
pockets he strode along the bar and faced tin*
dupe by way of emphasis.
“Look here,” he commenced, “these men
said they would be back in 10 minutes,
didn’t they?”
“Yes, and they will, too ! Bet a quid on
that!”
“Well, I’ll bet you twenty quid,” said Wat-
son, tapping the bar with the flat of his
fingers, “that they don’t come back at all'.''
The wayback’s faith in his friends was, if
anything, strengthened by the slur on their
honor. He flopped his roll on the bar and
counted the bet. Jim went over to his
safe and returned with four fivers just as
Joe Connors, a tea-traveller of his acquaint-
ance, walked in.
“There’s a bet- on, Joe,” said Watson.
“And you can stand witness.” The £4O pile
was stacked at the end of the bar, and
weighted with a water-bottle, and Connors,
smiling anticipatively, settled down on the
form beside Fogarty.
A couple of customers came in, but Wat-
son had his back to the bar at the moment.
He swung round at the sound of a suave
voice saying: “Thanks very much, Mr.
Fogarty; I’m deeply obliged. Sorry to have-
kept you waiting.”
The refined tones were those of Robert
Harris, and Watson was stupefied to see the
man of fashion hand Fogarty a spanking
new five-pound note. That sunburnt hero
was already in action. With a nodding
glance at Watson and Connors he said: “I
win !”
“Er-yes, of course,” agreed Connors.
The wayback shifted the bottle off the
pile with his right hand, slipped the fingers
of his left under the wad, bent, it double
over his thumb, and landed it in his hip-
pocket with one dexterous sweep. Simul-
taneously he looked at Fagin and pointed
his right forefinger invitingly at the bar.
“No, sorry we haven’t time for another
drink,” said Fagin. “I’m due up town for a
game of pool.”
Whereat the three filed into the street.
As the spring-hinged leaf of the bar screen
banged, a cold feeling crept over Jim Wat-
son. He stood, glaring streetwards, rooted
to the floor. The devastating fact was slowly
being revealed to his numbed senses that,
after all, Harris and Fagin did employ an
accomplice—Sometimes.
WILLIAM G. CARTER.


~V-'v
'v .Y •
s
.
WESTI N GH 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 JTeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
KTCCf
TW
ptTRO 1 -
f4OV^ B
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants,
12C Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
rvV
The Steel that will
give you Service—
**An Eagle on a Globe”
Best Warranted Crucible Cast Steel for
Taps, Reamers, Circular Cutters, Cold
Setts, Chisels, Drills, Punches, Screwing
Dies, etc.
This famous Sheffield Steel is the result of generations of
experience in producing the best grade. Discriminating engineers
the world over accept “An Eagle on a Globe” as Standard
Our Best Warranted Crucible Cast Steel maintains its enviable
reputation for satisfactory and efficient steel service.
Inquiries invited for all Tempers.
Ask especially for “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,” post free.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital, High-Speed Steel.
Sydney 379-381 Kent Street
Melbourne 342-348 Swanston Street
Newcastle Haul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
Brisbane ... John Beid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Adelaide ... Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Hobart B. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
i A TUFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
j ir ?, m 6 /\ and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
t 0 The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed . think of
z
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool 8c Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dfdgfhj
Wetproof Shotgun Cartridges
“Never mind the weather”
UNIFORMLY GOOD during the rainy
season or when it’s hot and humid.
Climatic changes do not affect Reming-
ton Cartridges.
No swollen cases to spoil sport by “jam-
ming” at a critical moment.
Remington’s patented exclusive wet-
proof process seals and protects the car-
tridges; they are air and water tight.
JS
Examine the head for REM-UMC
It means factory loaded .
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
tin c\s
G
AFamtw
FairJfy Mediant
OOD HEALTH, no doubt, is often a heritage, but
it is just as often a matter of cultivation.
Many healthy families have not been endowed
with exceptionally strong constitutions and the fact that
their members keep remarkably free from disease and
live to a good old age is largely due to the sensible way
in which they attend to questions of health.
They keep their digestive organs in good order. Any
sign of stomach trouble or constipation is immediately
dealt with by means of the World’s Family Medicine.
Keep a box of Beecham’s Pills in the house and
make use of them whenever your health or that of any
member of the family needs attention*
9
9
Sold in boxes, labelled
110|d, and 2s-9d i
(original English prices).
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
Prom Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: BC2T6 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
dfdgfhj
Telegrams & Cables:
"THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Q
1 Jc.‘J
M
»
iillpll
fslsfiifi
: !.: i : ::
*. • I
. »
n
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating Set.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co- Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Hay don.
Francis Chapman Son
LONDON:
Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.


The Spirit of
SUCCESS
Success is the finest tonic
in the world. Broader and
broader grow the fields of
a man’s vision as Success
takes him higherand higher.
Success makes life very
sweet, and so does
Bttoar's
DEWAR’S
