

to
s
a
to
••A..
to
2t
a
■
i
to
il
s»
1
to
«:->V
mm
a*
mm
■■
m v
:\; i
ii
im
fm
i
m
ms
$ ?
&
mm
5 ■
a*
Pi
MB
m
68
v
in
■
m
Q) AS
-- : ‘
CP
i a.
;.- : -
I* ■■■
*fs
SB
:«?" \
s
fe
,P 5
\
sSMSWX*
None Genuine
without the
Brand - v'*
%
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2345.
Thursday, January 22, 1925.
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Library Catalogue and full terms
and particulars and lists on all subjects.
Post free to any address.
DY MOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
George Street , SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
'fMAMGftOMTE /
SERVICE and ECONOMY
recommend the installation of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
to far-seeing buyers. It lasts longer, costs less to maintain,
and gives greater efficiency than any other transmitter.
Uur engineers are experts on all belting matters. Let them
advise you.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD,,
OH ARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Dlreotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
™ CA . S S Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
nitT?£ wo F a 1-r\ A L Id, G 1 bb 8 ' Bri S ht & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND - Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
E A/to^t?/r^r'» Mann > 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Ureuteil
Street, Adelaide.
20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA : W. k G. Genders Pty., Ltd.. Launceston & Hobart.
U>
'O'O
9
POLIFLOR is the latest thing, in
Sanitary o Floor Polish. It was
made with a view to improving
on any 0 existing means of polishing
Furniture, Floors and Linoleum, and
it has succeeded. Tdie fact that it is
made by the “Nugget” Polish people
is enoug,h to warrant you a trial of
it. Get a tin to-day and be done with
the old laborious methods of polishing
FLOORS, LINOLEUM,
FURNITURE, ETC.
Made in Australia by the
NUGGET POLISH COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
PROP. LTD.
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube . Obtainable Everywhere.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDI
11
sw
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES, Price 1/-
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
America and Art
A good example of unscientific criticism is
“C.B.M.’s” article (R.P. 11/12/’24) on
American art. Neither “C.8.M.” nor Mus-
solini, whom he quotes, is accurate in-his
observations. The former says anent the
Americans: ''Here we have all the emotional
eagerness of the adolescent” ; and the latter
talks of their “refreshing childishness.” The
quality they both aim to describe is the
American’s plain, unvarnished frankness, a
most charming characteristic.
Naturally America will become, some day,
the leader of civilisation; but when Musso-
lini suggests “that cannot be for another 35
or 40 years,” he is not interpreting historical
implications. The Teutonic peoples of Europe
are only just out of their adolescence, and
must have centuries in front of them as
leaders of civilisation.
When a new country is a melting-pot, like
America, into which flow dozens of millions
of illiterates of diverse nationalities, a cer-
tain equilibrium must be established before
art can become creative. This takes time—
a long time. National mobility has to be
evolved through long, strenuous and restless
activity in material pursuits before the
country’s consciousness can grasp the fact
that art is necessary to the healthy growth
of a national spirit. Looking at things from
this angle it will be impossible for America
to fulfil Mussolini’s prediction that in' the
near future she will “give the world the
greatest art of all time.”
“C.8.M.” does _not understand why the out-
burst of energy in America does not express
itself equally in art and industry, as in Eng-
land. But England was older than America
is to-day when she had a Renaissance. The
national consciousness had had time to evolve
into a clearly-defined entity and become
capable of clear expression. Beauty in art
is the ■scintillation from the promise of per-
fection, and the nation must be an hlealiser
of progress, or on the high road to perfection,
in order to draw enough inspiration for crea-
tive purposes in art. The word “progress”
here does not apply only to things material.
Another reason Why America might logi-
cally lag behind in art is that its genius is
essentially scientific and its conceptions are
expressed in terms of the colossal. The
driving force of the nation is devoted to har-
nessing mechanically the power to do big
things in a material sense. In a less concen-
trated young nation what might have been the
artist became, in this mechanically strenuous
country, the inventor—the artist-creator of
machinery. In an older America an Edison
would probably be a musical composer;’ and
its best art when it comes will probably ex-
press itself in architecture, thus giving an out-
let for that old Egyptian sense of the colossal
which is inherent in the American character.
English ambition and genius run more into
Pp.ptics, and politics and art are more closely
a lied than mechanics and art, as was exem-
plified in the Athens of Pericles and Phydias.
Ihe character idealised by the average
American is that of the very successful man.
IBs composition might be put into a formula
thus: Positiveness, extreme; an optimism in
, e firmament of which his star shines ,so
dazzlingly that the power of his discriminat-
ing eye is partially paralysed; a strong blend-
ing of patriotism or altruism; the power to
build on the ruins of many a fallen scheme: a
fanatical energy and faith in the pursuiti of
objective. “Rather than surmount the
difficulties of music, they listen to it at long
range, says “C.8.M.” This is hardly a fair
judgment. No country in the world has so
many well-attended classical concerts. Every
season there are at least one hundred times
more first-class concerts in America than in
England. If “C.8.M.” means they don’t
study music,, he is mistaken. In my rela-
tions with a New York Musical Celebrities
office—which, by the way, manages the
Baltimore Morning Musicals”—l have been
associated with Elman, Ysaye, Titta Ruffo,
Codowsky, Isolde Menges, Alda and many
other stars, and my visits to small and large
cities proved to me that the American music-
teacher is dreadfully overworked. There are
symphony orchestras even in grade-schools
aaa hl i scaools > andconservatoriums in over
bUO colleges and universities. The big city
sj mphony orchestras ; opera during the season
m New York, Chicago and on tour; the
thousand and one musical activities in which
the participants have a practical knowledge
ot music; the “music weeks”; the “music
page m the dailies; the music weeklies and
nonthnes; the efficient and nation-wide
propaganda; the music patrons like Otto
lvahn and McCormick, who subsidise, to the
extent of millions of dollars annually, musi-
cal activities—all these and many other
analogous factors have forced the conserva-
tive hands of many of the university authori-
ses to treat music no longer as an extra.
Ihere are approximately 1000 classical con-
certs in New York and environs every season,
and most of the audiences are crowded with
amateur and professional musicians. I have
lersonally handled over 150 concerts, given
by a world celebrity, solely for grade-school
children.
As regard the movies taking the place of
books, that seems to be pretty universal just
now; yet ten-cent copies of Shakspeare’s
and other poets works are still being printed
editions of a million. The number of
illiterates sons and daughters who attend
universities is astonishing. Every High
School—and every small town has one—is
full of students from 12 to 18 years of age.
t Reasons ago there were no fewer than
tour bhakspearean productions at the one
° n Broadway. There are at least five
permanent Sliakspearean cos., and innumer-
able spasmodic productions. Every High
dSffiJ ?‘H° nt f^. ed was k n the habit of pro-
, Ham i et annually. Important also
Phnni res Pect are the endless Lyceum and
bv thE iW Clrauits > where lecturers literally
at, 1® thousands offer their wares. From
J- ‘ y t° September hundreds of university pro-
fessors join in this whirl. For two seasons
I was caught up by White’s (IrcuTt and
spun through the Eastern States, givTng red
tals of “Hamlet,” alternately with lectures
on art and psychology. Audiences wSe
most congenial. Their critical facultv
seemed to be held in abeyance, in spite of
their analytical tendency, and on the whole
it is rather a good thing, as it makes for
constructiveness. Most critics are retarders
of growth; and, anyhow, they are usually
unqualified for their job. Their dogmatic
omniscience discourages effort.
One of the most eminent workers in this
immense proletariat field, one who embodies
in a high degree the spirit of the American
educator, is a practical idealist and apostle
of success who has grown poor making
others rich. He has earned over $4,000,000
with his one lecture, “Acres of Diamonds”
(delivered over 5000 times), every cent of
which —over expenses—has gone to help poor
students. He founded a university for the
workers, and built a temple in Philadelphia
where he speaks to over 3000 persons every
Sunday. Dr. Conwell started life as a poor
boy; educated himself; made and makes mil-
lions* with his fine brain and silver tongue;
but spends it all in good works for his fellow-
men. With such hustlers (and the type is
common) America can look forward to
“astonishing the world” with her energy and
fascinating the romantic with her dynamic
deflections into constructive channels.
HOWARD EDIE.
Henry Lawson
It is the 12th of December, 1924, a day
all green and gold in Mallacoota, reminding
me of others 14 years ago when Lawson was
down here with Tom Mutch; but, curiously,
bringing to mind more vividly the day on
which I first met him. I had heard a
good deal from Billy Lane —“Paraguay”
Lane —about Henry. They had been work-
ing on the Brisbane Boomerang together,
and I had also been reading and liking his
radical verses. At the time I was strenu-
ously editing, with all the revolutionary
assurance of twenty-one and a half years, a
weekly Labor paper called the Workman,
under the auspices of Sydney Trades and
Labor Council. I occupied a small, untidy
cubicle adjacent to a more untidy composing
den in the nether part of an arcade which
opened on to George-street, Brickfield Hill.
The editorial salary was £3 per wrnek and
find yourself; but who thought of salaries
in those glorious days! “The Cause” was
the consideration.
The sub-editor was an old hand named
Scissors, well known in newspaper circles;
and the chief-of-staff a person named Paste,
who has stuck to the business since time
immemorial. With the help of these two I
bfted a recent thing of Henry’s called
The Cambarocra Star” without author’s or
publisher’s permission, and reprinted it
bodily in the Workman. I was sitting in
shirt sleeves one sunny morning meditating
over a new Fabian essay of Bernard Shaw’s,
which I intended to steal, when a lean, tall
young man entered the cubicle, a lonesome-
looking person about two years older than
myself. He examined me with reflective
brown eyes, and inquired with a curious
lisp if I was the editor. After I had proudly
acknowledged the fact he informed me that
lie had come to thank me for the honor I
had paid him in stealing “The Cambaroora
Star” for the official organ of Labor I
removed my feet from the table, locked' the
drawer in which I kept girls’ photographs,
anarchistic literature and a loaded bulldog
revolver of English pattern, and coated
myself.
“I cabe id to arsk you,” he said.
There was an adjacent hostel, patronised
by contiguous friends of the Cause, where
they gave you long sleevers of colonial for
threepence, and customers were free to
broken ship’s biscuits and small squares of
cheese. We talked—politics, poetry and
plans. Australia was the glittering cupola
of the whole religious structure—the Aus-
tralia that starves its poets and erects
statues to their memories. We neither knew
nor cared! The more cruel his mistress the
more a man loves her.
. r j ea K ng Time t( ? adjust certain differences
oi detail regarding the future destiny of our
un-federated continent, we parted reluctantly
what time the sun was -warming the western
aspect of the Town Hall. A friendship of
a lifetime had been appropriately cemented,
thereafter we met frequently, according to
the customs and conveniences of our day.
►some months later I was living in
ground-floor room of an umbrella-repair shop
m Regent-street, Redfern, writing hard
mostly for John Norton and Archibald, anc
postponing the turkey and champagne for
future occasions. I do not know where
Henry was living, but he arrived at my cara-
vanserai of an early morning in one of his
blackest moods. It was before either of us
had acquired sufficient experience of life to
protect our sensitive souls with the Ned
Kelly armor of outlawed cynicism. We
walked down to the old Bulletin office in
Pitt-street, and went upstairs to the editor’s
office. Archibald, keeping his hand on the
copy he was revising, screwed partly round
in his chair, and regarded us with what I
thought was an uncivil eye. Henry found
occasion to go downstairs about something.
Still keeping his hand on the MSS. before
him, Archibald suddenly wheeled right round
and asked me to sit down. Then this kindly,
black-bearded, fatherly arbiter of a hundred
Australian literary ambitions demanded:
•Whats the matter with Lawson?”
I sparred for wind. “He’s all right” I
began. & ’
“No,” said “J.F.,” “he is not all right:
he is coming here in the morning with
tobacco-juice running down his jaw, smelling
°t s l<™, beer ’ and be bas begun to write
about The Rocks.’ The next thing he will
be known as ‘the Poet of the Rocks’
and” ’
«T l Ts°^ l ”* l T Cried ’ seized by an inspiration.
I think if Lawson got away to the bush
he would be all right.
Archibald turned back in his chair and
regarded the MSS. thoughtfully. “Why
doesn t he __ go back to the bush?” he de-
manded over his shoulder.
“No money,” I ventured.
(Continued on page S .)


k
a
Anthony Horderns 5 Genuine Sale
is Unique Among Savings Opportunities
Wonderful
[anchester
Bargains
Horrockses’ White Calico, 36in. wide.
Usually
Reduced to
9/6 doz.
13/11 doz.
17/3 doz.
19/6
22/9
17/6
19/6
maximum
doz.
doz.
doz.
doz.
the
GO
22 and AA
Usually
1/1 yd.
1/4 yd.
1/7 yd.
1/8 yd.
wide.
Reduced to
11/9 doz.
14/3 doz.
16/6 doz.
17/6 doz.
White Sheeting;, 54in. wide.
Plain and Twill.
Usually .. 1/9 2/4 2/9 3/- yard.
Reduced to .. 1/7 2/2 2/6 2/9 yard.
Unbleached Sheets, Splendid
Wearers.
r>4 x OOin. 70 x9O in.
To clear at .. 5/6 7/3 each.
(Manchester —First Floor.)
Dress Goods Savings.
Heavyweight White Crepe, 30in. wide.
Usual Price, 1/3 yard. 1/-
Reduced to.
Bark Indigo Print, 31 in. wide, in
Spots, Stripes and Floral Designs,
Usual Price, 1/3 yard.
Reduced to
17-
Plain Colored Sponge Cloths, 3<Sin.
wide, in Fuchsia, Magenta. -I’/fi
Raspberry. Reduced t 0... . I/O
Plain Cotton Crepes, 30in. wide, Heavy-
weight. Colors: Pink, Sky, Coral. Nat-
tier, Saxe, Grey, Helio, /-| ‘| 1
Black. Reduced to 2
Silk Mixture Marocains, 38in. wide.
Colors: Navy, Helio, Saxe, Pink. Sky,
Cream, Grey, Mole, Fawn, Brown,
Puttv. Usual Price, 7/6 yard >l/1 1
Reduced to * 1
Silk and Wool Brocades, 42in. wide.
Colors: Almond, Saxe. Brown, Fawn,
Grey, Mole, Navy, Yieux Rose, Nigger,
Eau-de-Nil. Usual Price, 14/6. Q/1 1
Reduced to ** *
All-Wool Hopsac, 54in. wide, in Navy,
Black. Grey, Fawn. Dark Saxe and
Kingfisher Grounds, with White
Stripes. Usual Price, 14/11 Q/1 1
yard. Reduced to
(Dress Material —First Floor.)
Fashionable Millinery Reduced
Hs4—Soft Yedda Straw Sports Hat, in Cream
only; trimmed swathe. This hat is light m
weight and, very serviceable. Q/1 1
Reduced to x A
H 57 —Smart Droop in Georgette, close-fitting
shape, trimmed strapping of ribbon over
crown, finished with loops at each side.. lhe
colors include Navy, Nigger, Mastic and
Black. 1 e/1 1
Reduced to * A
Hs6—Smart Hat, in Granite Satin, swathed crown,
droop brim, trimmed flat flowers. In fashion-
able shades of Navy, Nigger, Saxe, 10/1 1
Mole and Black. Reduced to A *
H 59 —Girl’s Hat, in White Pedal Straw, droop
brim, which has double edge; trimmed wide
corded ribbon. 1 lf"l/££
Reduced to
(Millinery—Third Floor.)
The capacity for economy that
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
offers is multiplied indefinitely by
the range of its activities. Sixty
departments are included in the
sweep of Sale Reductions, and
every necessity of existence is
made available at prices that are
generously reduced.
Sale Catalogue posted free.
It is a complete Guide to a thousand-and-one
Bargain Opportunities.
Fashion Salon Bargains are Irresistible
ATTRACTIVE FROCKS.
D 6414 —White Cotton Voile
Frock, with hemstitching and
fine insertion as trimming on the
round neck and sleeves, and on
bodice and hem. Sizes: S.W., W.,
O.S. Usual Price, 21/- i A/'\ 1
Reduced to
DlOS —Heavy-weight Crepe de
Chine Frock, contrasting stitch-
ing adorns the neck, giving quaint
yoke effect; also trims the full
length sleeves. The skirt shows
three narrow flounces. Colors :
Fawn, Mastic, Kingfisher, Grey,
Putty. Sizes: S.W., W., 0.5.,
tTsual Price, 97/G. off/
Reduced to 03/ "
BLOUSES AND JUMPERS.
3/11
House Blouses, in striped zephyr.
Usual Price, 4/6.
Reduced to
DS3o34— Natural Fuji Jumpers,
Magyar style; three-quarter
sleeves, Peter Pan collar, into
band at waist. Usual Price,
Reduced to 14/11
DSso77— White Voile Jumper,
Magyar style, trimmed filet lace
and pin tucks, beaded with
narrow black velvet at neck.
Usual Price, 19/11. 17/11
Reduced to If/ll
GABARDINE RAINCOATS.
1X4446 —Useful Gabardine Rain-
coats, Raglan cut, designed with
patch pockets and belt at waist.
The colors include Fawn, Mole-
Navy, Black. Usual Price,
57/6. CO/C
Reduced to O
1X4619 Imported Woollen
Gabardine Raincoats, hali’-
lined shot Union S9k. These are
well-cut coats with wide inset
sleeves, belt and pockets and
smartly tailored collar, which
fastens close to throat if desired.
In fashionable shades of Mole.
Navy or Fawn. Usual
Price. 95/- Q 7 /C
Reduced to O / / O
FASHIONABLE SKIRTS.
DSs9l—Suzanne Tennis Skirts;
wrap round style; white ground
with colored stripes. Usual
Price, 18/11.
Reduced to
16/6
DSlS6—Combination Pleated
Skirts, in All-Wool Marocain,
Black and Navy ground with
colored stripes. W. size. Usual
Price, 45/6. qq//j
Reduced to «30/ O
DSI35 —Stylish Skirt in Striped
Marocain ; combination pleated :
Cinnamon, Brown, Grey and
Mole. Usual Price, 55/-
Reduced to
49/6
(Fashion Salon —Third Floor.)
Save Money on Umbrellas.
Black Umbrellas, Cotton Taffeta Covers,
201 in. frames, 8 ribs, Table Top and Crook
handles. Usual Price, 5/6. A./ft
Reduced to “ **
Useful Black Umbrellas, 201 in. frames, durable
covers, Table Top and Crook handles. Usual
Price, 6/6. R/Q
Reduced to
“Militaire” Umbrellas, 23in. _ frames, strong-
wearing covers; wide variety of handles.
Usual Price, 6/11. £ ,/jC
Reduced to O' O
Reliable “Militaire” Umbrellas, 23in. frames.
8 ribs, good selection of handles. Usual
Price, S/6. T/1 1
Reduced to ■ ' A A
Practical Black Umbrellas, 23in. frames. 8 ribs.
Taffeta covers, “Chubby” and “Militaire”
handles. Usual Price, 10/6. Q/jC
Reduced to **
(Umbrellas —Third Floor.)
Hosiery Half Price.
Plain Art Silk Lee Hose, with seam at
back, reinforced lisle heels, toes and
soles. Colors are Black, White or
Nigger. Usual Price, 3/11 1/11
pair. Reduced to
r>i *llll p.Ytra Fine Mercerised Lisle
Hose, full fashioned, high spliced heels,
double soles. Colors: Assorted Tans or
Nigger Brown. Usual Price, 9/3
4/6. Reduced to
Plain Black or White Art Silk to knee
Hose? seamed leg, fine even weave;
heavy lisle toes, heels and soles, double
lisle suspender tops. Usual A
Pair* A 2/3
Reduced to
Plain Assorted Tan Cashmere All-
Wool Hose, extra soft yarn.fully
fashioned, high spliced heels, double
soles. Usual Price, 5/o. 0/11
Reduced to
Fine Mercerised Open-stitch Lisle
Hose, full fashioned, lustre finish,
British make, double heels, toes and
soles. Colors: Black, White or Nigger
Brown, Usual Price, 5/9- Q/1 1
Reduced to %J' l x
( Hosiery—First Floor.)
Footwear Half Price.
Special Clearance of Women’s White
Footwear: all high-grade Shoes, in-
cluding “Harkness” and “Paragon
Brands. Usual Prices, 45/-, 50/-, 52/6,
63/-, 65/- pair. O 1 /_
Women’s White Nubuck Tie Shoes,
finest grade. Usual Price, IC/
37/6 pair. Reduced to
A Special Clearance of Women’s Nu-
buck and Canvas Shoes, in a large
variety of styles. Usual Prices, from
21/- to 35/- pair. 1 A/
To Clear at IV// ■
Women’s Fine Quality “Paragon”
Silver Tissue Court Shoes, real hand-
sewn. Usual Price, 79/6 pair. Ofi/
Reduced to m
Women’s English-made Satin Court
Shoes, in a variety of colors. Usual
Prices, 32/6, 38/6 pair. 1 rt/
Reduced to
Women’s Black Satin Court Shoes,
pump soles, Louis heels. Usual Price,
35/- pair. OK/
Reduced to m
Women’s Black Satin Court Shoes,
hand-sewn, with smart beaded buckles.
Usual Price, 50/- pair. Qfl/
Reduced to O\Jf m
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Maids’ Frocks
Bargainised
FXIB5 — Maids’ Smart Striped
Fuji Frocks, inset sleeves, novelty
pockets, collar and cuffs; Natural Ground Saxe, Brick,
Rose, and Navy stripes; bindings of Natural Fuji.
Lengths 42, 44, 46. Usual Price, 37/6. OC/
Reduced to
FXIO5 — Maids’ Dainty Heavy Quality Cotton
Georgette Frocks, well cut, plain style, relieved on
bodice with pretty two-tone braid to tone. In
shades of Apricot, Saxe, Flame, Cinnamon and
Kingfisher. Lengths 46 and 48. Usual Price,
29/6. -I Q/1 1
FXI31 — Maids’ Silk Marocain Frocks, cut on
newest lines, round neek, elbow sleeves. Oriental
trimming finishes the bodice. In fashionable shades
of Putty, Navy. Cinnamon. Length 4S only.
Usual Price, 59/6. /lE*/-
Reduced to Hr*//
FX6967— Girls’ Reliable Quality Hoyle’s Navy
Print Frocks, made in pretty plain style, suitable
for school wear, finished pockets. Lengths, 27in.
to 39in. Usual Prices, 10/11, 11/6. /£t
Reduced to # / v
We Pav the Carriage on Fashion Goods, Family Drapery and Footwear in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
& Sons Limiied.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


Something New in Tyre Materials
“Supertwist”— a Goodyear Contribution
Cords, not rubber, is the
material which gives motor-
car tyres their strength.
Recognising this fact, Good-
year started experimentation
to improve cord material.
Success attended the work,
and out of the endeavor
emerged the remarkable new
cord material called “Super-,
twist.”
“Supertwist” is a balanced
cord material, of great endur-
ance and of much greater
elasticity.
“Supertwist” is unmistakably
an impressive advance in tyre
construction.
Its superiority takes on added
significance by reason of the
strong tendency now toward
thin - sidewall low - pressure
tyre building.
Certainly all tests made so far
show that, ply for ply, it renders
a tyre body incomparably ser-
viceable.
“Supertwist” is an exclusive
Goodyear development. It is
built into Goodyear Balloon
Tyres of both types—to fit new
small diameter wheels, or the
wheels on the majority of cars
now in use if with straight side
or 30 x 3’ beaded edge rims.
Goodyear Means Good Wear
BALLOON TYRES


I
m
firzisoff
JQDJC&pfI
STYLE No. 2200.
THE LOVELIEST OF ALL FULL-FASHIONED HOSE
THE BETTER-CLASS RETAIL STORES EVERYWHERE are
now offering this beautiful Holeproof full-fashioned hose m a full
twenty-inch pure thread silk leg in all the latest fashionable colors.
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
Wholesale and Indents through 50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“Well,” lie said, “you go to him and speak
to him. If Macleod or I speaks to him he
will think there’s something behind it.”
So I went downstairs, picked up Henry,
took him over to the First and Last, walked
around smellful Circular Quay and put it
to him. And as a result Henry Lawson,
dulv financed by Tiie Bulletin, went away
to Bourke; and Australia got “Steelman and
Mitchell.” “When the Union Buries Its
Dead.” “Lake Eliza” and much of the im-
perishable matter contained in “While the
Billy Boils.” It was a good morning's work,
and although Archibald and Lawson are
otherwhere, none of us have any occasion
to be ashamed of it, I think.
After a time in Bourke, his mind soaking
impressions like a newly-leafed blotting-pad,
Lawson and his mate started out with
Matilda up to pad the hoof across to Bris-
bane. As far as I can remember, they got
to Hungerford and turned it in. It must
have been a hot, dry expedition, for even
now, after 30 years and more, I get thirsty
recollecting graphic descriptions of the jour-
ney which Henry gave me when he turned
up again at Regent-street, perhaps 12 months
later. . , .
In those days Rod Quinn, Lawson and
subsequently Victor Daley and myself had a
habit of reading our new-laid verses to one
another when we met —“trying it on the
dog,” as it were. Among other things Law-
son read me “Lake Eliza” and shortly after
“When Your Pants Begin to Go.” The latter
he declaimed as we sat together on a seat in
old Belmore Park. Nowadays, although I
may be dashing in to E. W. O’Sullivan’s
monumental railway terminus in a taxi-cab
to catch the Limited Express, I still think
of those historical trousers and their sombre,
cynical, eternal, world-wide threat of shame.
If this were a biography and not a casual
discourse about a dead genius who was very
near and dear to me, I would like to tell
many stories, pathetic and humorous, about
Henry Lawson. There is one thing that .I
treasure. It is an unexpected telegram which
came to Mallacoota a few weeks before lie
died —the only wire he ever sent to me. It
is laconic, Lawsonian; and it reads: —
E. J. Brady, Mallacoota, Vic.
Thanks for the Swede, Ted. — Henry Lawson.
I had “muted my Muse,” as Quinn put it,
for 10 years (owing to the exigencies of the
case), and then I broke out. The first thing
I wrote was “The Swede,” and The Bulle-
tin had just printed it. Henry Ilertzberg
Lawson was of the Scandinavian breed. The
thing had appealed to him. I was pleased,
and proud.
Lawson was then crippled and coming to
the end. The end came very shortly. An-
other telegram, laconic, informative :
Parliament House, Sydney, 4th Sept., 1922.
Walter Hegarty, hearing of Lawson’s death on
Saturday, had a stroke, became unconscious, and died
on Sunday.— Tom Mutch.
The chapter had closed. I was a long way
off. Not much to do. Nothing mufch to say.
What is there to say, anyhow?
Express it in State and Federal funeral
and a belated statue? That is the accus-
tomed way. For myself I sent what wires
I had to send, then solemnly poured full liba-
tion, faced square to the setting sun, alone,
and drank safe passage Westward to the
soul of Henry Lawson, one of Australia’s best.
E. J. BRADY.
Criticism and Disparagement
“Thackeray rather resembled a prize-fighter
who had gone flabby. Trollope, with his
paunch and massive beard, suggested the
country squire As a historian of the
later Victorian upper middle-class life in
England, Galsworthy is the legitimate suc-
cessor of Anthony Trollope. He is as true
a realist as Trollope without the reticence
imposed on the Victorian writer by his
period; but Trollope’s style was exuberant,
slipshod, obese like himself, and Galsworthy’s,
like himself, is lean, subdued, direct, chary
of displaying emotion; he observes a close
economy in the use of words, despite the
length of his books.”
So lately spoke the English critic Mr. A.
St. John Adcock while discussing John Gals-
worthy. And he spoke unwisely, for surely
there can be no right in the process which
praises one work by the disparagement of
another. It is a negative method and cannot
be capable of any educative or constructional
effectiveness. In one who assumes to in-
struct others this is a grave fault. Negative
policies should be the exclusive possession of
Governments with precarious majorities.
The art of criticism is a difficult one and
exacting, for there are strict duties and re-
sponsibilities attached to it in that justice
must be done to both subject and reader.
Many methods are adopted, but none should
be employed unless the user is satisfied of
its suitability to the occasion. And surely
the excellencies of Galsworthy as a novelist
do not require the disparagement of Anthony
Trollope to heighten them.
One so placed in regard to any portion
of his subject as the present writer sub-
jects himself, no doubt, to the charge of
personal feeling; but if a critic adopts
disparagement of the person in the pursuance
of his task, he actually deserves a personal
reprimand. Furthermore, his wrong methods
will lead him to wrong conclusions. One
might suppose from the extract I have quoted
that Anthony Trollope was gross in both
person and works. He may have been
portly of figure in his later years and he was
always vigorous, but obese he was not either
in his person or in his literature. No one
reading his novels intelligently could be
other than impressed with the refinement
and reserve of his character sketching or
his method of narrative. He may have been
betrayed by his age into “long-windedness”
and heaviness, but this arises from prolific
detail rather than ponderous diction. It was
the habit of the day to demand a super-
abundance of incident, and, naturally, a habit
of the day to yield the supply. The fact
that Trollope’s novels almost created the
permissibility of novel-reading round the
domestic hearth of England should disen-
title them to the implication of grossness
conveyed in the phrase “exuberant, slipshod,
obese like himself.” And the contention is
amplified by the recollection of how little
offence he gave to the clergymen of the
Church of England while writing so much
concerning them.
Whereon, then, is the judgment based?
Surely not on the unequivocating honesty ot
the autobiography? That work,. so monu-
mental in its candor, should be prized by the
whole literary world for its act of tearing
down the veil of hypocrisy which had till
then so largely covered the methods and
motives of writers.
GORDON TROLLOPE.
The Red Kinema
How to evolve order out of chaos is the
task Leon Trotsky has set himself to de-
scribe in Problems of Life (Methuen). This
book, published in Russia in the early part
of last year, has now been translated into
English, and is one of the most illuminating
documents that have come out of that
mystery-bound country since the days of the
Revolution. It is a frank admission that
revolution is wholly destructive, and holds
in it no constructive element. Having de-
stroyed the instruments of national pros-
perity, the nation is now told complacently
that its re-establishment rests on an evolu-
tionary process which involves a practically
limitless period of individual culture. The
Russian of to-day must be content with the
fact that he has swept clear a space upon
which, after many decades of “State con-
sciousness,” will arise a wonderful city of
dreams. “In spite of occasional cruelty,
says Trotsky, “and the sanguinary relent-
lessnesS of its methods, the revolution is
before and above all the awakening of
humanity.” Having thus awakened human-
ity, it is left to stew in its. juice till it
helps itself out of the cauldron.
“Where,” the poor dupe asks, ‘are the
fine things of your promises, the plentiful
food and the richly-furnished houses?” And
the Dictator —or the late Dictator, it would
appear, for one even more cynical than Trot-
sky now rules —replies: “No one actually
imagines that the Soviet Government is
going to create admirably furnished houses
—communes provided with all sorts .of com-,
forts—and invite the proletariat to give up
the places where they now live, and to move
into new r conditions.” These things are not
of revolution ; they must evolve, and if you
only put some ginger in the movement your
children, or your children’s children, may get
something out of it! As comrade Trotsky
sapiently remarks: “People cannot be made
to move into new habits of life —they must
grow into them gradually, as they had-grown
into their old ways of living. Or they must
deliberately and consciously create a new life
—as they will do in the future.” He starts
on the evolutionary march at the kitchen.
Why not do away with all your little kit-
chens and have one big one? And it . is in
the kitchen, which is the heart, the arterial
pump, of the home that comrade Trotsky
comes against a wall —indeed, four walls.
He may change many things, but apparently
the home has got him nearly beaten.
“In the domain of economics,” he says,
“we have but recently emerged from the de-
structive period and begun to ascend. Our
progress is still very slow, and the achieve-
ment of new socialistic forms of economic
life is still very distant. But we are de-
finitely out of the period of destruction and
ruin. The lowest point was reached in the
years 1920-21.” But “the first destructive
period is still far from being over in the
life of the family. The disintegrating process
is still in full swing.” Domestic life is more
conservative than economic life, and is less
conscious. “In politics and economics the
working class, as a whole, pushes on ; but in
domestic life it is split into cells constituted
by families.” Change of political regime and
the economic order of the State has only an
indirect and external influence on family con-
ditions. To establish the political equality
of men and women in the Soviet State w 7 as
easy; “but to achieve the. actual equality of
man and woman in the family is an infinitely
more, arduous problem.” Then comes this
frank confession :
In the first four or five years we have passed
economically through a period of terrific breakdown.
The productiveness of labor collapsed, and the products
were of an appallingly low quality. Enemies saw,
or chose to see, in such a situation, a sign of the
rottenness of the Soviet regime. In reality, how-
ever, it was but the inevitable stage of the destruc-
tion of the old economic forms, and of the first
helpless attempts at the creation of new ones. In
regard to family relations, and forms of life in
general, there must also be an inevitable period of
disintegration of things.
The reorganisation of the family is such
a critical operation for the Soviet surgeon
that the possibility of death under the knife
is more than glimpsed. It is admitted that
the process “lasts very long and assumes
morbid and painful forms.” So much must
go that little is left. The very first step
is to oust the priest with his baggage of
vestments and furniture of altars and ikons.
Comrade Trotsky describes the eviction. The
Communist State decrees that every loyal
comrade shall take away the ikons hanging
in his house. “He is quite willing to obey,
finding it but natural. For his wife it is
a catastrophe. .Tust such a small occurrence
exposes the abyss that separates the minds
of husband and wife. Relations are spoiled.
The family is broken up.” But Comrade
Trotsky does not despair. He puts the
wife in touch with a Communist
women’s organisation. “A new 7 world opens
before her eyes. Her energy finds a new
and wider object. The family is neglected.
The husband is irritated. The wife is hurt
in her newly-awakened civic consciousness.
The family is broken up.” Priests must go
and kitchens must go, and the wife and
mother must go to her meetings, and rites
and ceremonies of a religious nature such
as baptisms, weddings and death services all
must go, and Comrade Trotsky pronounces
that “Life sits in judgment on its (family)
conditions and does it by the cruel and pain-
ful condemnation of the family. History
fells the old wood —and the chips fly in the
wind.” It will take a little time and per-
haps a little bloodshed to do all this, but the
ex-Dictator says it will have to be done:
and his successor, being a still more fanatical
Communist, will nrobably add “at once.”
Now what is the constructive programme
for the new Communistic family? Apparently
all the parents will have to do will be to
produce the infant members. Then the
Workers’ State —“when it becomes wealthier”
—will “tackle the public education of child-
ren and the releasing of the family from the
burden of the kitchen and the laundry.”
Washing will be done by a public laundry,
catering by a public restaurant, sewing by a
public workshop; crfeches will be provided
for infants, and eight hours’ work per diem
for everybody. Then shall there be no more
cooking of eabbage in the home, no more
infants crying in the night—they will do one
communistic cry in a communistic asylum.
No more priests or ikons, no more baking of
wedding or funeral meats —but meetings and
debating societies for everyone!
And there will be “the Red Kinema.”
This, “a weapon excelling any other,” is to
replace the craving for vodka and repress
any sighs for the old-fashioned home. It will
take the place of priest and snuff out the
ikon. The State will monopolise it, censor it
and find revenue in it. “This weapon, which
cries out to be used, is the best instrument
for propaganda. .. .Any kind of propaganda
you please, a propaganda which is accessible
to everyone, which is attractive, cuts into
the memopy and may be made a possible
source of revenue. The kinema competes not
only with the public house, but also with the
Church. And this rivalry may become fatal
for the Church if we make up for the separa-
tion of the Church from the Socialist State
by the fusion of the Socialist State and the
kinema.” So much, indeed, is salvation by
this means regarded that a league has been
formed to promote it as a powerful revolu-
tionary institution, “with the ulterior motive
of influencing what we call the national char-
acter.” The projected title to be given to it
is the “Society of Friends of the Red
Kinema.”
Exit the priest, enter the showman !
T. B. C.
Australian Production
Randolph Bedford replies :
The foaming at the mouth of “Stan W. Grist
(late Bristol University, Eng.)” amuses me. He
says that my belief in Australian production
is “venomous . muck.” Although interesting, this
is not relevant.
My statements were, shortly, that Australia should
not give Customs preference to Britain or any other
country, and that it should have a rigorous Aus-
tralian copyright law, not only for the protection
of such 'of its writers as are worth it, but to
discourage the flood of Garvices and Ethel M. Dells
and Marie Corellis, whose free admission now dis-
cc unts the higher education of Australians. England
is a semi-illiterate country measured by Australian
educational standards, and if Mr. Grist objects to the
fact it is his business ,to alter it a little by
learning that “venomous muck” is not good literary
construction.
The amusing cuss saj’s: “They tell me, to my
great surprise, that this man Bedford is actually a
member of Parliament out here.” Out here! Out
where? That is the immigrant .note at the height
of its impudence. To us Australia is home ; Home,
or Mother Country or Fatherland, or any other
perfervid description anyone pleases. To the immi-
grant it is “out here,” until he becomes Aus-
tralian.
I said “Australia isn’t British”; and it isn’t—
it’s Australian. The hand of Britain in anything
worth while in this country can not “be pointed
to”—not with accuracy, anyhow. Australia has
scrapped much British law, and made for itself other
laws which Britain had not even thought of; and
Britain did not invent universities and medicine
and many other things as cu which Mr. Grist claims
British discovery, it not British monopoly.
There is no proposition to sow the seeds o »■
content” and “hatred of British rule,” because there
is no British rule in Australia, and Australian rule
is the only rule we know. For this reason the
attempted parallel of Australia with German hast
Africa is merely stupid, German East Atnca (« en
it existed as such) being a Crown Colony, almor,
exclusively populated by niggers who had suffer .-a
conquest. These facts cannot be altered even by one
who has lived over 20 years in Europe (with a
University course there), and also had the advantage
of living in three parts of the Empire.” Millions
of conceited dullards have lived 20 years in Europe,
and thousands of narrow fools have had University
courses As to “the advantage of living in three
different parts of the Empire” (separately or at once
what?), it all depends on which three different
parts they are. If they were the Crown Colonies of
India and Sierra Leone and Malta, it is not sur-
prising that Mr. Grist objects to Australian
thought in Australia, which ceased to be “colonies
and became united States long ago.
In his list of twentieth-century litterateurs, Hardy,
Kipling and Wells are acceptable, with Chesterton
and Shaw as excellent journalists; and Barrie the
pap-merchant and Benscn the prattler are rejected.
But even taking all of them and the 50 more Mr.
Grist “could name offhand,” and doesn’t (but pre-
sumably including the authors of “The Sheik ’ and
“If Winterbottom Comes”), it isn’t a great showing
for a nation of 46 millions. *
The statement that “Australians would sit back
and applaud the men who are commencing work on
the Singapore Base and then go off to the
is very English and very stupid. When Britain’s
Freetrade had helped Germany to get sufficient money
to embark in the crime of 1914, Australians put
up more than their share of the fighting. Australians
hadn’t time to “go off to the races” during the
criminal error of Gallipoli—arranged by the criminal
vanity of Churchill, descendant of that other great
Englishman who accepted bribes and. robbed his
soldiers of their pay. The only races for Australians
at Gallipoli were races against the Turks —re-taking
trenches originally taken by Australians, handed
over to English troops, and lost by them.
When the hysterical Mr. Grist translates my
statement that “Australia isn’t British” into his
own statement that I “hate England” he is even
more foolish than usual. I don’t hate England, but
I hate English stupidity being maintained in Aus-
tralia. The English habits of trade are still German-
ised. Even after the war its commercial bosses
persist in Freetrade; they close its factories and'
handle German manufactures; they lift the embargo!
against the employment of German sailors in the,
British mercantile marine, so that British ship-
owners may cut wages; they roar at Australia as
“disloyal” because Australia begins to look like
closing down on imports of German pianos and steel
and other manufactures which Australia can make
for itself.
The fact that Australians see the danger of the
Freetrade that the English commercial bosses strive
to maintain is one of the reasons why Australia
isn’t and shouldn’t be British. Happily for it, it
is Australian. The superior conditions of Australia
better all imported types in a generation, and so
little does Australia wish to be British that it
cares nothing for a citizen’s descent so long as
he is a white man. For the protection of Aus-
tralia’s higher education it must have a rigorous
copyright law discouraging the worst of the ‘litera-
ture” of more illiterate countries than itself. The
good books of all countries will find their way in,
anyhow.


I Iff
, ■■■-.'■
111 HHf |
ffiiiii
111(11
■ : ■ : - : . ;:; : ; : ■:■ -'i; ?■■:■■■■,:
illilii
ilia&fcri sfWut-
JUST as a Master Key combines the
individual features of many other keys,
so does Shell combine all the points
of superiority found in Motor Spirit.
Nature herself has made Shell
Motor Spirit cleaner, purer, more powerful,
more uniform, and more perfectly combustible
than any other Motor Spirit in the World.
And the vast Shell organisation is the Master
Key which has unlocked these superior forces
of Nature for the use of every Motorist.
The World's Fastest Speed
at rate of 146.16 M.P.H. was
made on Shell Motor Spirit
and Shell Lubricating Oil.
The Spanish Grand Prix.
First, Second and Third
places were all won on
Shell Motor Spirit
15 New World's Records
were all made on Shell
Spirit by J. G. P. Thomas
in less than six weeks.
/ \
200-Miles Light Car Race.
Here also First, Second
and Third places were won
on Shell Motor Spirit.
These 22 first-class successes—demanding the
utmost limit in speed, power and dependability—
again prove the all-round superiority of Shell.
S 26 F
The BRITISH IMPERIAL Oil
Company
Limited
K
A A


S'... :
P
Hill,
7//
1
Hello, Australia!
Greetings from us who live
under the shadows of Aorangi, the Cloud
Piercer.
Every moon-showing, Aorangi, master of wonders
casts a new spell over our hearts. We, who see him daily,
know.
Now he is the kindliest of great gods, beautiful in a blue world; he
broods abstracted in a heavy black cap; he gathers the wildest '
storms in his hands and flings them over a cataract of mountains and
scurrying valleys.
In Aorangi alone there is endless charm. But we offer you even more than
Aorangi’s charms. ...
We offer you days of eternal sunshine in cool valleys ; adventurous excursions to ice rivers
that loou/wonderingly out of dim, dark ages. We offer you motoring along roads that open
un an endless panorama of mountain beauty; riding and picnics and alpine climbing
with delightful companions from the two hemispheres. AVe offer you a hospitality which
includes every conceivable delight that an Epicurean holiday-maker could devise. Lveiy
day an enchanting swiftness of happiness, laughter and romance.
We want you to come and spend a few wonderful weeks with us here in New Zealand,
here where eternal snows and sunshine work a mysterious change in the lieai tof y
visitor. „
Come to NEW ZEALAND
and realise this holiday of your dreams. £5O will cover all exnenscs. .
SIGN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Send me fullest details about the above-mentioned trip, which can
be made for £5O.
Name
N.B.—Mail coupon to Mount Cook Motor Co., Ltd., Tiniaru.
New Zealand; Thomas Cook and Son, any branch of the
N.Z. Govt. Tourist Bureau, or the White Star Tourist
services. Ltd.
I HE gracious luxury 0 of a perfectly 0
I appointed home —ffie alert yet unob-
trusive service of a well-trained staff —£he
cuisine of an artiff in food —such are the
material comforts which ffheOriental offers.
Juif out of the noisy o area of the city 3 yet
within two minutes walk of the fheatres and
the bife stores, this hotel combines something
of old-world quiet with the laff word in
modern equipment and efficiency.''^
WHERE
I there
famous Oriental Band discourses.
is music; there is wireless;
are Supper-Parties where the
ffhe Oriental offers homely 0
comfort allied wifh joyous, wholesome
amusement in juil the proportions Austra-
lians love.^c)
Tariff : From 26/- per day° Inclusive
Director: JOHN V. 'PERRIN. CnJltC?!Lines)
Supper Parties
Saturday o Evenings
Oriental Band.
Afternoon Tea
3 to 5.30
Oriental Orchestra.
Suites de Luxe
Banqueting
Halls
Wedding
Breakfasts and
Suppers
From 17/- Bed and Breakfast.
Chef: SALVATORE de CESARE.
£
oiIENTAC
m
m
€ M
y
&p,
»u
o'
k'kivf
übt
nu
<}>
lA '
J?:
-a
AA
% V
r
e?
u
*a
0
•£<•. Si
vx
paton


I
II
-
1
><
Averting Coup
Ayeaiugr, Glca
Eastern Grey,
Malmesbury, Wilt#.
Where the house lighting is "taken for granted
Many Australians visiting the Mother Country have enjoyed the
sumptuous hospitality of some English or Scottish ancestral hall.
Here, in spite of comparative isolation, every comfort is provided for
guests and regular household alike. The lighting system is electric,
with all its attendant cleanliness and comfort. Yet in
the majority of these "stately homes" no fuss is made of the fact that
the electric current is always available, that no mechanical trouble
disturbs, even for a minute, the efficient appointments of the mansion
—it is just taken for granted. In such cases it will be found that the
generating plant is a Lister-Lite.
Australian homesteads, however far out back, are gradually
acquiring all the comfort and convenience that modern invention has
made possible. In those where discriminating taste is most evident,
the lighting outfit is a Lister-Lite. Its Rolls-Royce" qualities appeal
to the practical Australian men on the land—and to their practical
womenfolk. Simple, steady, silent running, the Lister-Lite is always
on the job with its upkeep an absolute minimum. Users of many
years experience write and say that the thought of mechanical
trouble never enters our heads."
Lister-Lite plants cover a very wide range of sizes, so that
your initial outlay, as well as running expenses, can be kept on a most
economical basis. Write to your State agent for full particulars of a
plant to suit your needs.
In N.S.W.: Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., Sydney
In Vic.. . . A. P. Sutherland, South Melbourne
In Q’land: Winchcombe, Carson Ltd., Brisbane
In S.A.: Harwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., Adelaide
In W.A.: Malloch Bros Perth
In N.Z.: Levin & Co Wellington
QUILT


—lO
Powder With Cuticura
Talcum After Bathing
After a bath with Cuticura Soap and
warm water Cuticura Talcum dusted
over the skin is soothing, Cooling
and refreshing. If the skin is rough
or irritatedi anoint with Cuticura
I Ointment to soothe and heal.
Soap I*., Talcum 15. 3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W”
•IW"* Try ©tlr nev Shoving Stick.
Firth’s "Speedicut”
Engineers’ Tools.
The efficiency of “SPEEDICUT”
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS, MILLING
CUTTERS and REAMERS is pri-
marily due to tile steel from which
they are made,
The carefully-selected steel is free
from the slightest defect, and Thos.
Firtli & Sons control the whole of the
manufacturing processes from the
ingot to the finished tools. Each one
must pass through stringent inspec-
tions after all stages of manufacture.
That is why “SPEEDICUT” Tools
are the finest it is possible to obtain,
and why they are adopted as standard
in so many cases.
All standard sizes are carried in stock
for immediate delivery.
Thos. Firth § Sons
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
814 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
Sim*
, i
3
nk
m
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p e r in a-
netitly and
harmlessly—your ageing Urey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
"mmsM (tM
n
MEXICAN I
1 WALNUT STAIN 1
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3(1.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
By Appointment to
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales
SnouqJyJ
a£ar
HALF an inch—
that’s all you need
on your Toothbrush
when you’re using
KOLYNOS DENTAL CREAM
This extraordinary
economy is made possi-
ble because KOLYNOS
is very highly concen-
trated and contains no
superfluous ingredient
to add bulk. For this
reason also KOLYNOS
is the most inexpensive
preparation of its kind
—one tube easily out-
lasting two of any
other make. Moreover,
THERE IS NO GRIT
OF ANY KIND IN
t
• :. - s ’ - '
|:&^®rSV' v; S
*1 .••:.v.' .\a \. *'. \
,0 v \
CREAM
Made ih ehcland
»OMBESrSHE,f, EL o 5 "®
THE
plum
n
IS
-PLUM
■razor
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Heal Ivory Handle . . ... 21/- »
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and Jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
To My Soul.
How hast thou, O my soul, escaped from me,
Who held thee in the bondage of my flesh
>So long? My lonely spirit is not fresh
As thou art, and my heart beats wearily!
Oh, radiant one, more blithe than the first
bee
That sipped the first wild honey, winds may
thresh
The wheat, and spiders in a silken mesh
Hold death, but you are still wild, bold and
free!
Hover above me air-like. I shall go
The way of all flesh, but your wings shall
dart
Lighter than lightning over bush and bough,
Flash like a scimitar, flit to and fro,
Tireless, tumultuous.... Leap, my poor
heart!
We may be idle then—not now, not now!
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Creek in the Scrub.
At the edge of the sea the song I seek
Is the husky voice of a little creek.
In the heart of a tangled way it hides,
With a thread of honey amid its tides.
To the tumbled browns of its shadowed bed,
Like golden hairs on a pillow spread,
Comes a trickling light that a way will burn
Through the lace-fringed leaf of the shielding
fern;
Where the touch of fancy in memory gropes
Is a slim liana, swaying ropes,
All ribboned green where it clasps the tree,
And the whip-bird lashes the mystery.
The cat-bird echoes an elfin jest
Where blown leaves eddy to earth’s cool
breast,
To blaze the quartz-white figs between
In lacquer red and enamel green.
Ban pipes unseen as the songsters come
To feast in the shade of the flooded gum,
Where a darting wing and a beak can find
Brown chestnuts glossy in tawny rind.
While chattering finches and magpies sleek
Have swelled the chant of the little creek.
Oh. I know what the moon is on the sea
And the brilliant stars in their witchery!
I know, when the sun is westering, ‘lf
How a bright sail slants like a swooping
wing;
I know how the shore grows fuclvsia-pale
When sunset beats with his blood-rbd flail
The billowing gold from the fields of blue ■
To lead the gleaners of twilight through;
And I know that the noon lias clasped the
bay
With an opal chain on a silver spray.
I see at morn how the samphire strays
Till a streak of jade through the turquoise
plays,
How the dawn strings pearls for the breast
of night.
And the south wind laces the waves with
white.
But I also know that my heart must seek
A spice-sweet scrub and a bouldered creek,
Where a tree-fern leans like a link across
Tlie orange fungi, the emerald moss.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Last Man.
i.
He stood erect and master of the field
In the great silence, while the tubes of
doom,
Sweating in thin, oiled order, filled the
room,
Still ready at the lever’s touch to yield
The flaming agony their mouths concealed,
And all the subtle force that broke the
gloom
Of battle with the fitful glare and bloom
Of poisonous hate that never could be healed.
The smile of victory was in his eyes.
He set a sudden trumpet to his lips,
And cried aloud by every land and sea.
The sound went out along the reeking skies
To the earth’s limit, brawling victory. ...
But silence answered from the world's dead
lips.
11.
He stooped upon the last peak of a land,
Withered and desolate and wintry sear,
Unheeding the grey waves that smote the
sheer
Cold bastions of rock or died on sand,
Sobbing their strength away on either hand.
It was the frozen summer of a year
Hard-bitten to the inmost heart with fear
Of that no living thing could understand.
A pale green sun shone in a far white sky
Trembling to jewel-points that were the
stars.
While, crouched and lonely, crooked fingers
bent
To snatch the air of life, caged by the bars
Of the great trust of living, all tlie spent
Dead atmosphere grew thinner than his cry.
111.
He rose in thought above the middle ways
Of trembling star and system till he stood
Watching a great new sun bring forth his
brood
Of bubble worlds set in a fiery haze
Of magic light and shadow—nights and days
Sweeping with dancing steps—and a soft
hood
Of cloud about the youngest. It was good
To see his new creation bloom and blaze.
Not lonely nor oppressed, he touched the keys
Of all the fathomless void and felt the song
Of his own making swell the infinite,
Atom by atom, to full ecstasies
Of color, sound and form. To him the long
Eternities were moments of delight.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


9
mm
wm
m
*
■■ '
IBM "if
J
■W:
fig ■
■ Hi
r v
«Wi^jS»»»Sa»MpiBip»MpraPpiMPPP|MMppMMOT&»S;
■■V*--,v '
' ;|i| ,;\ v


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46 No. 2345.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 1925,
Price 6d.
THE DREAM OF THE COMMUNIST.
THE WALSHEVIK: “What are you holding that up for, you fool? Drop it, I say; drop it and smash the - thing!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd:, at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2,
, PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
IS months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7 ».
To ANY address Overseas.- 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.: S months. Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3060 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
wild be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable. MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
'To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be redrawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Croniinnn. Australia House, Strand,
W L tL3 1 Bulletin” ran lie ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons. Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, llolerlh Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban :
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House. Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4H Hastings
Street. Vancouver. B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: lirentano’s, sth Avenue and 2~th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and, 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 04 Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perei-a, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: 11. B. Perera and Co.. 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
I’apua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 4°z. , Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4 0Z - or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
Sie'Si&x'rflelxtfi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 1925.
WALSH AND HIS WAR.
Walsh, the anti-Australian president of the
Seamen’s Union, was arrested in Perth last
week on a Melbourne warrant charging him
with having incited the AVaterside AVorkers’
Federation to strike, contrary to the Com-
monwealth Arbitration and Crimes Acts.
On the same day Walsh’s “definitely revolu-
tionary” organisation was called upon to
show cause why it should not be deregistered
for wilful and persistent defiance of the
Arbitration Court, its specific orders and
statutory rules. An obvious inquiry excited
by these proceedings is why they were not
taken six or seven weeks ago. The case
for action was strong enough early in Decem-
ber, when, on the authority of McCallum,
the Westralian Labor Minister of Works,
AA'ALSH proposed that the Minister should
enter into a conspiracy to paralyse the port
of Fremantle, and, according to Barker,
secretary of the Trades Hall Disputes Com-
mittee, a wicked hold-up occurred —“a hand-
ful of men,” led by Walsh, “made war on
the Labor movement and expected Labor to
prevent the processes of the law from taking
their usual course.” Had the Commonwealth
authorities moved at that juncture they
would have had the whole body of “consti-
tutional” Laborites on their side. An ex-
tension of the strike to other ports might
have resulted, though this is by no means
certain ; but even a regular work-stoppage,
with the issues clearly defined—Law and
Australia on the one side; Lawlessness and
Moscow on the other—would have been pre-
ferable to the knavish tricks and acts of
brigandage which occurred almost daily dur-
ing the subsequent six weeks, and which had
almost the effect of a general shipping strike,
together with the more serious consequence
of bringing the supine Government into con-
tempt. In any case, a thousand or more
people from the mainland would not have
been marooned in Tasmania, nor would the
matter of sending essential supplies to iso-
lated parts in ships manned by naval ratings
or volunteer crews have been delayed until
stocks had run perilously low.
* * * *
Now that the Government has tardily
taken up the challenge flung at the Austra-
lian people by Walsh and other foreign-
born bosses of the Seamen’s Union, some of
the Laborites are changing their tune. The
Sydney Worker, which hadn’t a good word
to say for Walsh when Curtin, of the
Westralian Worker, was declared “black”
by that person or his myrmidons, has since
discovered that “the insolent shipping com-
bine” is to blame for the whole trouble, since
it is “waging war on the seamen and the
waterside workers.” “There are no ships
hung up,” the Worker alleges, “save those
for which the shipowners and the
dandy of Flinders-lane have haughtily
refused to pick crews. Every vessel
now idly gathering barnacles at the
various ports could have been sailing the
seas to-day had the shipowners and Beau
Bruce condescended to get the men required
at the union offices, where hundreds were
waiting to be engaged.” The truth is that
the engagement of seamen at Communist
halls and similar places was insisted on by
the union bosses as part of their job-control
campaign. The question was referred to the
president of the Arbitration Court, who
decided against the union, only, as usual, to
be boisterously defied. The rest of the
Worker’s fustian may be disposed of by a
plain narration of facts which even Labor
editors should know -
The s.s. Volumnia, under charter to the Common-
wealth Government Line, arrived at Fremantle on
October 23 with 7000 tons of cargo (Walsh’s
estimate) for Australian ports. It is still there,
the British crew having been inspired by the Walsh-
eviks to refuse duty unless they received Australian
rates and conditions. The master was told by the
branch secretary of the Seamen’s Union that his
organisation “objected to the Government charter-
ing a British steamer when it had vessels of its
own laid up’’; and between October 23 and Jan.
14 the “objections’’ of the Seamen’s Union super-
seded the law.
The s.s. Clan Monroe, also under charter to the
Commonwealth Government, arrived at Fremantle
on November 21, and was likewise declared “black.”
The same reception awaited a third chartered vessel,
the Baron Maclay, and is presumably in prepara-
tion for a fourth. According to the Prime Minister,
these ships were chartered, not with any idea of
breaking down Australian rates of wages, but to
“preserve the line’s connection in cases where no
suitable tonnage of its own was available.” In
any event, German, Asiatic and other foreign ships
in which seamen work long hours for low wages
are never interfered with by the maritime unions.
That distinction is reserved for Australian steamers,
Government- and privately-owned, and for ships on
the British register.
The strike against the Westralian Labor Ministry
involved the State steamer Bambra; also the State
steamer Kangaroo. Both have been placed out of
commission. It was specified in the settlement that
“there shall be no stoppage of work in the pilot
service without permission of the Harbor Trust
Commissioners for any cause or reason whatever.”
Yet when the Baron Maclay arrived outside Fre-
mantle, the crew of the pilot steamer Lady Forrest,
who are members of the Seamen’s Union, refused to
take her out, and the Baron Maclay had to anchor
in the Roads.
The A.U.S.N. steamer Wyandra was held up
at Brisbane on November 15, with disastrous results
to portion of the cargo, owing to a dispute about
overtime. The owners appealed to the Arbitration
Court, which, on November 28, directed the Sea-
men’s Union to find a crew within seven days. The
order was flatly disobeyed, and the Wyandra, with
several other Australian steamers, is still idle at
Brisbane.
Further, there have been numerous cases
of vessels being prevented from sailing by
members of the crew deliberately absenting
themselve's at the last moment. The s.s.
Moeraki, registered in Maoriland, was de-
tained at Melbourne because the Seamen’s
Union suddenly objected, for the first time,
to Maoriland wage-rates and the M.L. man-
ning scale. (As aforementioned, it has
never been known to question the Japanese
wage-rates or manning scale.) The Com-
monwealth lightship Kyogle was declared
“black” because a union crew took her to
Fremantle for the customary rates of pay,
whereas the job-controllers had demanded
£5O per man. Another steamer was delayed
because some of the men wanted to see a
prize-fight; still another because ham and
eggs were not served often enough to suit
the fo’c’s’le; and dozens more because the
wharf-laborers had a quarrel with the ship-
owmers and Walsh wanted to be in it. In
short, any pretence suffices when the Sea-
men’s Union wants to lay a vessel up, and
the more insolent it is, and the greater the
damage it is calculated to do, the better.
* * * *
It is not as if Walsh’s organisation had
any substantial grievance against the coun-
try which it has blockaded in its lawless
fashion, which fashion is reminiscent of the
Hun and the Rocks Push. Australia has
been pretty good to the members of the mari-
time unions. The seamen of no other nation
are treated so well. A.B.’s and fuel trimmers,
for instance, are paid £l6 16s. Id. per month ;
boatswains get £l7 16s. Id., firemen and
greasers £lB 16s. Id., and donkeymen
£l9 16s. Id. p.m. All this for an eight-hour-
working day, in addition to victualling
and accommodation. First-saloon stewards
draw £l5 10s. p.m. (tips are extra), second-
saloon stewards £l7, barmen £l5, pantry-
men £l6, butchers £l6 Bs. 6d., bakers
£lB 18s. 6d., and cooks from £l4 Bs. 6d. to
£22 18s. 6d. Such are the legal minimum
rates fixed by the Arbitration Court which
the heads of the Seamen’s Union hold in
such utter contempt. Then the maritime
unions are protected against low-wage com-
petition by the reservation of the coasting
trade for ships on the Australian register.
And the Navigation Act, which establishes
this monopoly (and a lot it has done for the
Tasmanians, the Westralians, the North
Queenslanders and the inhabitants of. New
Guinea and the Northern Territory!), con-
tains elaborate provisions for their well-
being as regards food, sleeping places, venti-
lation, baths, sanitary arrangements and so
forth. Again, the field of employment has
been extended by the building, regardless of
expense, of Hughes’s “Bay” liners, which
vessels, young as they are, have made such
a name for them'selves on the high seas that
a voyage without a hold-up is regarded as
an accident. Largely for that reason the
expenditure on the Government ships ex-
ceeded earnings by £2,797,000 in the last
two recorded years. And, in common with
other members of the community, the
men of the maritime unions are pro-
tected by Employers’ Liability and
Workmen’s Compensation Acts, have votes
for the State and Federal Parliaments,
and may, if they marry, be assisted by the
Government to build, send their children to
free State schools, and receive an invalid or
old-age pension. Few, if any, of them contri-
bute anything to the revenue in the -way of
direct taxation—the income-taxes, State and
Federal, are so framed nowadays that the
vast majority of wage-earners are exempt.
There is nothing in this treatment to justify
the outrages which have been committed at
Australia’s expense just when brighter times
were in prospect, thanks to the high price
and the good yields of wool and wheat. The
public is fed up with this wholesale banditry,
and the Prime Minister will be past praying
for if he does not adopt vigorous measures
(in addition to his tardv proceedings of last
week) to prevent a repetition. Such
measures should include the sale of the Com-
monwealth steamers, the re-admission of
British steamers employing white labor to
the coasting trade, and amendments of the
industrial and criminal laws to equip the
Arbitration Court with machinery for en-
forcing its rulings and protecting peaceful
unionists now intimidated by shouts of
“Scab!” and to provide for the deportation
of foreign-born persons who manufacture
revolutionary strikes.
WANTED, A RAJAH BROOKE.
The recommendation in favor of Asiatic
labor for New Guinea, made in a report to
the Commonwealth Government by Colonel
John Ainsworth, an official of the
Colonial Office, opens up a question of very
considerable moment to this country.
British “colonial” officials have had long
experience of the value of imported China-
men and Indians in the development of their
backward possessions. In the days when
British rule only hovered round the fringes
of Malaya, and foreign trade was confined
to the ports, it was the Chinese Tclongtong,
with his pack on his back, who spread a
passion for European razors and underwear
amongst the naked tree-men inland. The
pioneers of Borneo were the blue-trousered
Chinamen who, at the risk of their lives,
paddled up the great waterways in hollow
logs, unloading at the villages on the way
the “trade” obtained by credit from the store-
keepers of the coastal towns. Arrived at
the headwaters, they exchanged their last
box of shaving mirrors for a raft, and, float-
ing down, collected at the depots they had
passed the raw stuffs of the jungle, which
British steamers would eventually convey to
the factories of Europe. In countries where
civilisation is a little more advanced it is
the Indian chetty who acts as the financial
go-between for British banks and native
farmers; and it is the Chinaman who is the
small capitalist and the retail merchant.
But the Chinaman does not stop at pioneer-
ing. He takes unto himself a daughter of
the native race —an excellent amalgam he
makes of it—and it is not long before he
becomes a captain of industry. The bulk of
the trade of Java is in Chinese hands, and
Malayan rubber is largely the product of
Celestial enterprise and coolie labor. The
indigenous proprietor is protected by humani-
tarian legislation, and soon loses the desire
for work, which is usually followed by a re-
luctance to have offspring and the eventual
extinction of the race. By these means
British Malaya and most of Borneo are
gradually becoming, except in matters of
mere administration, Chinese colonies.
* * * *
Colonel Ainsworth, of the Colonial Office,
gratefully recalling what has made his path
smooth in other corners of the Empire,
claims that the Chinaman is indispensable
for the development of New Guinea. There
is at least one example available to show
that he may be wrong. James Brooke, of
Devon, first Rajah of Sarawak, by his lone
hand, and without assistance from foreign
capital or Asiatic labor, changed a race of
bloodthirsty headhunters, on the same plane
of savagery as the natives of New Guinea,
into a community of industrious, prosperous
and contented peasants. “Has a just and
liberal European Government ever civilised a
backward native race?” he asked himself in
his journal, written nearly a hundred years
ago, when he stood unarmed amongst a
dozen hostile tribes. And he proceeded :
National independence is essential to the first
dawn of political institutions, and that can only be
effected in two ways; first, by the amalgamation of
the two races, the governing and the governed; or,
secondly, by the expulsion of the former. In the
ease of the dark races, the latter is the only alter-
native ; and anybody who may not like this philosophy
must go to the “Penny Cyclopedia,’’ and look for one
suited to his taste.
Brooke’s practical method of answering his
own question was to establish a benevolent
autocracy, which aimed at keeping the
foreign exploiter, whether European or
Asiatic, at arm’s length until the heathen
indigene could be induced to abandon his
sanguinary habits and set his hesitating feet
on the path of moral progress and wholesome
toil. His nephew—also a Brooke of Devon
—inherited the task, and Sarawak had the
exceptional good fortune to have two genu-
inely benevolent despots in succession. The
upshot was that the savage Dyak, removed
from the stress of outside interference, learnt
the art of self-government—or as much self-
government as he has capacity for —and of
peaceful industry—or as much industry as
his leisurely temperament allows. Since oil
and coal have been discovered in Sarawak
there are indications that the present ruling
representative of the Brooke dynasty is
straying from the straight and narrow path
laid down by his predecessors; but that is
the normal history of autocracies, and, any-
hoy, the Dyak has got a useful start. He
has been encouraged to develop his native
arts, and his primitive manufactures and
simple agriculture have been fostered and
enlarged. There are only 600,000 of him,
but in 1921 his revenue was £331,000, his
expenditure was £272,000 and his public
debt was nil; and his foreign trade has
reached the respectable figure of exports
£1.788 000 and imports £1,501,000.
* * * *
The problem with regard to Australia’s
island mandate is both political and moral.
Australia, with her policy of an all-white
continent, has no interest in fostering on her
own doorstep a Chinese or Indian outpost.
The situation in Kenya, whose Indian immi-
grants are used as pawns in the argument
between the British and Indian Govern-
ments, illustrates the political consequences;
and so does the presence of 121,000 Japanese
settlers in Hawaii. The moral aspect is a
question of what w T e consider our obligations
to our tropical heritage are. If it is to
lead the aboriginal inhabitants up towards the
light of Rajah Brooke’s idealistic vision,
then our moral object and our political aim
are the same. The example of Sarawak
shows that there is no insuperable obstacle to
the development of New Guinea even with-
out the importation of overwhelming quan-
tities of Asiatic labor; and given the power,
there is little doubt that an administrator
with the personality of a Rajah Brooke
could do as much for Australia’s dusky be-
quest as that fine Englishman did for Borneo.
We have plenty of Brookes in embryo, but
their activities are overshadowed by man-
dates from Geneva, departmental instruc-
tions from Melbourne and interference by
ignorant humanitarians and political parti-
sans. Their opportunity to carry out a con-
sistent policy in the interest of the natives
or anybody else is strictly limited. There
is something, therefore, to be said for the
proposal of Colonel Ainsworth to vest the
administrator with the power, subject to
approval by the Minister, of initiating legis-
lation on the spot. The notion that this
would necessarily lead to the exploitation of
the native is as* vain as the delusion that a
mass of departmental regulations emanating
from a capital produces a spirit of abstract
justice in a tropical jungle 2000 miles away.
SPEED.
Alexander the Great prohibited wrestling
in his army, on the ground that the ponder-
ous sport meant loss of speed to his men,
and that speed was of far greater import-
ance in military movements than sheer
strength could ever be. Speed was, in point
of fact, the secret of victory in almost all
the great campaigns of the ancient world.
It was the astounding way in which Cassar
covered distance that made his operations
memorable; and the Roman Power, recog-
nising this, created straight roads in every
part of its dominions to facilitate the light-
ning stroke which meant success. Modern
warfare, particularly the wars of the
Napoleonic struggle, further proved the
truth of the old idea. Just those undertak-
ings which were ponderous in movement and
hesitant in action failed, while others, like
the sudden dash across Spain by Sir John
Moore, accomplished their purpose in
the face of enormous difficulties. In the
recent major disturbance lack of suddenness
was the secret of many “wash-outs.” Had a
dash been made at the Dardanelles without
previous warning and a force landed there
when the warships first appeared off Cape
Helles, the story of Gallipoli would have been
written to a different tune. So, also, the
first German rush through Belgium and
France nearly achieved success by its rapid-
ity. To strike more rapidly than the enemy
believes you can strike is to strike unex-
pectedly ; and the unexpected is the key to
successful military operations. The alert
soldier of Alexander’s time made such suc-
cess possible; the good marching roads of
the time of Agricola gave additional value
to the soldier’s alertness; the modern rail-
way system was the chief nerve of an army
on the German border in 1914. It was just
the lack of such a railway system which
made Russia so slow in the attack that might
have meant so much. But it was the Boer
columns in the South African War which
gave the world its most picturesque example
of the way in which speed might be used to
counterbalance numbers. The wiry Boer
horses got from point to point of the veldt
so rapidly that a few hundred men were for
long able to do the work of thousands. Simi-
larly in the Irish guerilla warfare of a few
years ago, it was the speed of small bands
of men who knew every inch of the country
that rendered the great military forces help-
less.
* * * *
In any consideration of Australian defence
speed is the quality upon which all the stress
must be laid. Owing to the length of coast-
line which we may be called upon to defend,
rapid communication along the seaboard is
essential; but admitting‘that in our present
condition, with a small population and huge
areas unpeopled, it might be impossible to
prevent an enemy landing, speedy transport
is the one and only means by which such
an enemy could be prevented from gaining
anything by his landing. In other words,
the small potential garrison of white men
now in Australia can only be effectively
employed if its full weight can be rapidly
thrown at any point which might be en-
dangered. In the actual case of a landing
in force on our shores a war of waiting must
of necessity be fatal to us. We could not
allow the occupation of a region as large
as France and then hope to regain it by
forces slowly prepared and trained in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Such a war would
necessarily be prolonged to such an extent
that the enemy would make settlements be-
hind his advanced lines, sow crops, reap har-
vests, and prove that he was in effective
occupation of the region in a way that Aus-
tralians had never been. For the speed
necessary for such military operations as
might save us we have now three possible
lines of preparations: (1) railway connec-
tions, (2) military roads, and (3) aeroplanes
and airships. The aeroplane is beyond ques-
tion the swiftest means of reaching any
point aimed at; but the flying-machines are
not yet sufficiently developed to allow them
to operate over the whole continent in large
enough numbers without preparation of bases
at a score of spots. Military roads fit for
heavy traffic would be enormously costly, to
make, and to keep in repair; and our rail-
ways are by no means sufficiently complete


to enable us to get AA’ithin a reasonable dis-
tance of the danger-point in time to allow
us to strike an effective blow. Our poli-
ticians have had the facts before them for
a generation; yet the most important of all
our strategic lines has not been constructed,
our gauges have not been made uniform,
and the encouragement given to flying has
been very meagre. The military authorities
seem to be baffled by the magnitude of their
task; and no suggestion has been made by
them for our future defence which has led
to anything definite in the way of prepara-
tion.
* * * *
But the main business of Australian de-
fence is not a matter for the expert in its
present stage; it is open for anyone with
a map and a little imagination to see the
broad lines Avhich an effective scheme must
take. Our object clearly must be to pour
the whole weight of our men and machinery
at the point of invasion in the quickest time.
That we have the men to form a very reso-
lute little army of defence needs no saying.
Gallipoli and all the fields of Flanders and
France proved that beyond all question.
Though the possibility of a successful land-
ing cannot be disputed, our task would be
to confine the enemy to a single point and
to there hammer and starve him by every
means in our power. To do this we should
have railways to take us with all our heavy-
weight goods and baggage to some point not
unreasonably distant, road communication
beyond that point, and flying-machines in
great number to take up the first job of
confining the enemy to the trap he has
chosen. Our aeroplanes should be attack-
ing from the moment of the landing, or be-
fore ; our first troops should be at the base
within three days; and our army in strength
should be preparing for its great bloxv within
a fortnight. These may be taken as the
broad conditions necessary for the saving of
Australia; and the map shows that over two-
thirds of the continent such a programme
could not be attempted. But the case is
even worse than at first glance it might seem.
Not only is our only effective Avay of meet-
ing an enemy impracticable, but it must take
at least ten years of sincere effort to make
it practicable. The East-West railway might
be of use for rushing troops across to West-
ralia; but the North-South railway is still
little more than a dream. Yet the latter
is in every way the more vital. We are
fairly well prepared to meet an attack at
the point xvhere an attack is least likely
to develop; we have not made any real
movement towards preparation for resist-
ance at the point where an attack is most
likely to develop. Our first need for speed
is in our preliminary arrangements. We
must learn to think quickly and teach our
politicians to think quickly if we are ever
to act quickly in the time of trial. What
we need to realise, and make every political
leader realise also, is that Australian de-
fence is a highly scientific matter depend-
ing upon solid preparations for acting at
high speed. We can wait neither for the
growth of population nor for the growth of
political intelligence at its present rate of
travel. The business must be forced by the
people of Australia, and forced now.
AUSTRALIA’S FARTHEST NORTH.
It is rather more than 125 years since the
symbol of British sovereignty was first
hoisted in the northernmost part of Aus-
tralia’s possessions, in the Torres Strait.
Cook, of course, planted it on Possession
Island, not very far from what is now the
gateway to and from “the East.” If he had
stopped a few hours longer to do a bit of
pick-and-shovel work the northern goldfields
would probably have been cradled before
Ballarat, and the history ,of Australia’s
early settlement might have been very dif-
ferent. The colors were hoisted by quite
an independent party some few years later
—to be precise, on July 10, 1793 —at Darnley
Island, a hundred miles or so further north,
by Bampton and Alt. To make quite sure
that the flag would not be overlooked by the
“Indians” occupying the island (and also
perhaps that the neighboring islands _of
Murray and Stephens might know something
of what was going on in the way of momen-
tous events), they put a firestick to over
160 houses and gardens, and destroyed all
the big 70-foot canoes which the owners had
not taken with them into the bush in their
hurried retreat.
Various other English ships sailed through
the Strait in due course, not to speak of a
good many Malay proas, which had indeed
been running down to the islands for one
doesn’t know how long, searching for beclie-
de-mer. There were also a few French ships
and a Dutchman or two. Some of these did
not get back again, as rotting hulls on the
reefs testify; and those that did apparently
didn’t think the islands or the people much
chop, until some delicate white nose smelled
out the grey and black sea-slug on the bottom
of the Strait, and brought schooners full
of South Sea men (largely “blackbirded”)
to help them obtain full holds for the Chinese
larder. Following the bgche-de-mer fishers
came the pearling-men, after some of the
former had discovered what a rich mine of
shell the waters held.
The missionaries landed in the early
’seventies and started schools; Captain
Moresby, in the Basilisk, followed hard be-
hind to take a hand in the forced-labor
question. The Queensland Government
thought there might be a picking in it, too,
and brought the islands under its jurisdic-
tion in ’79. Later, the schools established
by the mission were taken over by the Gov-
ernment (with the exception of the indus-
trial establishments, which were allowed to
lapse), a system of local self-government
being introduced under the direction of the
Government Resident at Thursday Island.
The people, partly as the result of Private
Enterprise and partly through missionary
inspiration (but without any assistance from
the Government), bought and paid for out
of their earnings a fleet of cutters and lug-
gers, and contributed also (at Government
suggestion! to an island tax; and the Gov-
ernment, in order that the importance of
its job might be recognised, put. its island
policeman into blue serge trousers and tunic
with gorgeous red facings, also giving him
a pound a year and some tobacco as salary.
Governors and Ministerial parties discovered
that the islands required periodic personal
visits in well-appointed steamers with the
usual picnic accessories; scientific expeditions
found they had an interest in the islanders’
welfare; and trade representatives preached
the gospel of work. With all this the edu-
cation of the islander proceeded apace, and
he began to think there might be something
in the flag-hoisting incident, after all.
A few weeks back the islands received two
important visits. One was from an inspec-
tor of the Department of Public Instruc-
tion of Queensland, the first of its kind;
the other from the Chief Protector of Abo-
rigines, after a lapse of eight years. The
result will probably be a move forward and
a fuller recognition of the importance of
Australia’s tropical possessions. In the
schools, which have been allowed to get along
as best they might, better equipment is being
provided. A move is also being made in the
direction of appointing qualified teachers:
in the past training was not a requisite,, and
of late the teacher was expected to impart
instruction to over a hundred youngsters,
with results satisfactory to no one. A scheme
of providing for a staff of assistants will
have to be set in operation. Native assist-
ants would do, if they were properly trained,
and there is no reason why they should not
be just as efficient here as in Fiji or the
Philippines. At present there is no provi-
sion for higher education and ho provision
for instruction in technical work, such as
carpentry, boatbuilding, etc. The islands
should by this time have produced their own
native clerks, qualified to make up boat re-
turns ; should have turned out their own
boatbuilders, instead of allowing the Jap
to grab all this work; should have given us
artificers in metal, wood and pearl-shell. As
it is, probably not one “boy” in twenty can
read the weighing-machine on which his
trochus and fish arc deposited at market;
he cannot compile a decently-composed letter,
since most of his schooling time is devoted
to reading about haymaking and snowstorms
and copying out English proverbs, instead of
being directed towards subjects bearing upon
his ordinary conditions of life. The visits
of the inspector will probably be made regu-
larly, which promises well. But there are
other factors to be considered; and probably
if teachers were relieved of much of the
pettifogging business of running round look-
ing for crews, counting cocoanut-trees
and doing odd jobs which should be and
could be done by native officials (thereby
adding to the efficiency, self-respect, self-
reliance and greater contentment of the said
native officials), it would be much for the
better. Anyway, the islanders are entitled
to as good a chance as, say, the Samoan
or the Maori, whose blood they have.
Incidentally, it does not help the native
much to be told by his Jap boss, who visits
the islands to recruit him in order that the
cash exportation to Nippon may be increased,
that “if this were Japanese Government you
have plen’y big jobs all same us.”
Another probable effect of recent official
visits will be to give the islander more free-
dom in certain directions. Although a free
man, the tendency in some official quarters
is to regard him as somewhat on a par with
those living in penal settlements, or even
to class him with the wandering aboriginal
of the mainland. The time has come for a
definition of his rights as regards owner-
ship of land and property, and his status
as a British subject. It should no longer
be practicable to compel “boys” (even though
it be by bluff! to go to work on boats away
from home under alien captains, and it is
certainly not in the fitness of things that
threats of punishment should be made if
they do not thus “sign on.” The large fleet
of island-owned, Government-trusteed boats
working fish and shell absorbs a good deal
of the home-labor now, but even more could
be done, especially in the way of training
islanders as dress-divers to do what the Japs
are doing. Of course, too, there will be the
question of the franchise later on—some of
them already get the maternity bonus, which
is a step on the way! In matters pertain-
ing to marriage, registration of births and
deaths, and so on, they already come under
the same laws as their fellow-citizens of
European extraction. A large number of
them possess their savings-bank accounts.
All this points to a change in the manner
of administering, and the necessity for re-
cognising that they stand upon a different
footing to the nomadic abo. of the mainland,
even though they be loosely classed now as
“aboriginals.” A partv of Strait islanders
in their own lugger called in the other day
at Townsville, and when a Customs official
went along to interview the Jap who he
imagined must necessarily be in charge, he
was met by a muscular individual who ex-
plained that “we are not aliens, please; we
are British subjects, and belong to Queens-
land.” Queensland must see that it gives
every encouragement to this important sec-
tion of its colored community.
TORRES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Saying, Peace, Peace: when There Is
No Peace.”
Federal Labor-leader Charlton, back from
Europe, lately spoke a lengthy fragment on
his experiences, and Avas a great deal more
consoling than convincing. In that respect
he resembled many of his tribe nowadays,
especially Lang, of N. S. Wales. He spoke
much about disarmament, a matter which
would make good conversation in Russia,
Turkey, Germany or even the United States.
The last-named country, with 145,000 perma-
nent Federal troops, some half-million State
troops, and nearly 500 warships, large and
small, might like to hear Charlton. But
his objective, of course, was Australia’s piti-
able regular army, 1700 strongj for so long
as there is one man or boy under arms to
oppose the bloodstained revolution which
many people well known to the Labor-leader
preach with fury and prophesy with con-
fidence, there are cranks, to say nothing of
traitors, who will profess to groan under the
burden of our own “militarism.” The
orator’s absolute faith in the harmlessness,
not to say benevolence and philanthropy, of
the other fellow’s militarism was shown in
words like these :
Speaking of the White Australia policy he said
that the generally believed view that the acceptance
of the protocol would endanger this policy was
entirely false, and that instead of proving a menace
the protocol would be of material "assistance in the
fulfilment of the White Australia policy. Before
leaving London he had an interview with Sir Ceciii
Hurst, Avho had assured him that Australian immi-
gration would be treated as a matter of domestic
concern. Why, then, was this bogey of the danger
to the White Australia policy continually raised ?
Japan was not at all opposed to the AVhite Australia
policy, but was only resentful of the tyrannical
action of a certain country in allowing a number
of Japanese to be lynched without niakiiig an effort
to bring the perpetrators of the outrage to justice.
He did not in any way fear the Asiatic menace.
Now, the bogey of an Asiatic menace is not
“continually raised.” If it Avas there would
be more than 1700 troops for the defence of
a whole continent, and some islands. But a
variety of politician has developed who
pretends that it is being raised, so that he
may haA r e an excuse to drag in the tale of
the spotless integrity of his heavily-armed
brown friends, and his Bolshevik friends
with their great compulsory-service army,
and his other dubious and warlike acquaint-
ances, and urge the destruction of the last
little obstacle in the road of the promised
revolution. Despite Charlton, who is a
very new diplomatist and statesman, Aus-
tralia Avill therefore go on believing the cloud
of Avitnesses who hold tljat the insertion in
the protocol, at the instance of Japan, of a
clause permitting the League of Nations to
meddle Avith dispute.s arising out of a coun-
try’s immigration laws, wasn’t intended to
help along the White Australia policy. White
Australia was getting along quite well with-
out outside assistance of that sort. And
despite the lone and isolated Charlton,
Australia will go on accepting the testimony
of its senses, and of practically everybody
except Charlton, that the U.S.-Japanese
coolness is because of the specific bar put
by the republic on the people of a very proud
race, and that the lynching yarn is premedi-
tated moonshine. Further, however proud
Charlton may be of having met Sir Cecil
llurst, that gentleman’s alleged assurance
that Australia can sign the protocol Avith
a light heart is of no more value than an
anonymous cheque.
Uncle Sam’s Mosquitoes.
A recent modest publication by a be-
knighted but apparently reliable person
named Foavler contains some information
Avhich is of acute, even if generally unappre-
ciated, interest to Australia. During the
construction of the Big Ditch through the
Panama Isthmus, the American methods of
eradicating and preventing the tropical fevers
Avhich had defeated the previous attempt by
De Lesseps became justly world-famous by
reason of their thoroughness and efficiency.
Certain British authorities pointed out at
the time that these methods would require
to be kept up if the canal Avas not to serve
as a passage for the admission of yellow-fever
into Asia and the Pacific. The American
promises to keep them up were profuse and
loud. But, according at least to the obser-
vant Fowler, it now appears that since 1921
Uncle’s sanitary activities have been limited
to such as are necessary for the protection
of the health of the American employees in
the canal zone. A huge area in and adjoin-
ing the zone is occupied by colored settlers,
formerly employed on the canal works, but
now settled on the land. Nothing is done
for these people, who live in insanitary
shacks, without any effective supervision.
There has been a very large increase in cases
of malaria amongst them during the last
few years, and the health of the actual canal
Avorkers is also suffering from the same cause.
Foavler also gives some disquieting details
of the canal system of quarantine, which
he describes as “quarantine made easy,” and
not at all efficient. So far there lias been
no yelloAv-fever in the canal zone since its
eradication some 18 years ago, but, as
Foavler points out, many countries have
been suddenly and severely smitten by this
very insidious and treacherous disease after
much longer periods of freedom, and the
insanitary negro shacks provide an ideal
home for it in close proximity to ships pass-
ing to all parts of Asia and the Pacific. If
YelloAV Jack were to gain entrance to the
swarming coastal cities of Asia, the results
Avouhl be more appalling than a world war.
Moreover, it would not be long before Aus-
tralia would become infected. The yellow-
fever mosquito is an excellent traveller on
board ship, and can live whilst in an infec-
tive condition, according to the American
authorities, up to nine weeks or more. It
is also the commonest of domestic mos-
quitoes all round our northern coast, from
the Tweed to Broome. The ToAvnsville Tro-
pical Institute has vouched for its identity
with the genuine yellow-jack spreader of
Central America, and, possibly to cheer up
the superior southerner by assuring him of
a share in the fun, states that specimens have
been identified from as far south as Mel-
bourne. With yellow-fever in full blast in
Hong Kong (which is rather nearer to
Thursday Island than Melbourne isl or in
Manila (about the same distance from our
northern outpost as Sydney is), Australia
Avould have a very big problem on her hands.
For years past the scientists have been shout-
ing the warning into dull ears, but with
the sanitation of Uncle’s canal run on
“economic” lines, it may not be very long
noAv before the buzz of an infected mosquito
will make their owners sit up and take
notice. Then, of course, it will be too late
for anything except political lioaa t ls as to who
Avas responsible for letting the disease in.
It is only a little over three years since
Queensland concealed the existence of plague
in Brisbane until practically the Avhole east-
ern and southern seaboards of Australia had
been infected, resulting in a substantial toll
of deaths and great interference with traffic
and commerce. Yet there are thousands of
influential Bumbles who don’t reckon that a
little thing like a skeeter or a flea could
reely ’urt yer, no matter what them scientific
blokes say. And there are thousands more
AA r ho would fight to the death before they
would voluntarily allow a penny to be spent
on rat-extermination or mosquito-control,
even in the ports which are open to daily risk
of attack by plague or yellow-fever.
“Six-bob-a-day Murderers.”
In an ex parte account of the wharf-labor
situation some odd statements were made at
the Melbourne Socialist Hall recently by a
speaker named Ellis. Comrade Ellis is
a member of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, and was a delegate to the Sydney con-
ference which, in the effort to get rid of
the Digger wharfies of the Sydney Shipping
Labor Bureau, decided upon the “overtime”
strike, in the course of which scores of Aus-
tralian and British steamers were held up,
but not one German or Asiatic ship. That
conference, according to Ellis, was need-
lessly protracted; “it was made the occasion
for a holiday jaunt, and the expenses of
the three Melbourne delegates alone ran into
£l3o”—there were representatives from all the
States. Nevertheless the gentleman claimed
that, whereas the W.W.F. had failed during
seven years to get the bureau abolished by
Arbitration Court proceedings costing
£BOOO, it had “achieved its object in a few
weeks by direct action.” Seeing that the
“abolished” Diggers immediately established
a State Waterside Labor Exchange, with the
backing of the N. S. Wales Government,
which pledged itself to the strict enforcement
of the Returned Soldiers’ Preference Act, the
claim was a trifle premature. Moreover,
Ellis neglected to mention that the overtime
strike, with its Walsiieviic extensions, had
involved the W.W.F. in heavy losses as
regards wages and strike pay? which losses
are still accumulating: witness the state-
ment of the Fremantle branch secretary that
348 of his lumpers were out of w r ork in the
first week of January, which, but for the
strike, would be the busiest time of the year.
On other phases of the subject, however, the
Melbourne speaker was unusually frank.
Referring to the Diggers’ Bureau, he said
that “the rotary system obtained there, with
the result that the work was more evenly
distributed” ; and in this a condemnation of
the casual-labor system favored by the
W.W.F. is implied. The rotary system, as
Tiie Bulletin has already mentioned, Was
recommended for adoption on the Brisbane
water-front by a special committee reporting
to the Queensland Labor Government. Again,
the Bureau men had “wireless sets, billiard-
tables, cheap meals, and waitresses to serve
the food.”. And something had been wanting-
in the attitude of the federated union to the
men who enjoyed these advantages, together
with a guaranteed weekly wage:—
If the W.W.F. had done something on the lines
of organising the returned soldiers, the Bureau
would not have lasted as long as it did. Such
tactics would have been more successful than calling
the men “six-bob-a-day murderers.”
Very much more successful! And “six-bob-
a-day murderers” was not the only en-
venomed gibe that was hurled at the soldier,-
wharfies by the bellicose pacifists of the
water-front and their friends. The following
appeared in the Sydney Labor Daily of
January 12 in an unsigned article next to
the leader:—
The plight of the ex-Bureau wharf-laborers is
tragic in one way, and comic in another. When
these men came back from the war, they knew
something about “sordid trade wars,” such as the
one in which they had recently taken part.
Trade wars have no morality. They originate in
the bandit idea:—
“The good old rule, the simple plan,
That he shall take who has the power,
And he shall keep who can.”
In that frame of mind, the men who formed the
blackleg Bureau came back from the last trade war.
All had the cunning of men who for four years
had been trained and disciplined in every department
of treachery. .. .But men need more than cunning to
carry them through this world.
The paper from which this unspeakable stuff
is taken is claimed to be the mouthpiece of
the N. S. Wales State Labor party. A. 0.
Willis, president of the A.L.P. executive
and prospective candidate for Macquarie, is
its chairman of directors, and J. T. Lano,
leader of the Parliamentary Labor party,
Avas prominent in the formation of the com-
pany that took the thing ovfir from its pre-
vious owners. These two men, to name no
others, are responsible to the public for what
appears in the paper. It is possible that they
lia\ T e not read the blackguardly libel on the
A.I.F. and its 59,000 dead; but if they don’t
repudiate it, the public will know how to
deal with them when their time comes.
♦
The Satisfaction that the Manufacturer
Gqits.
A certain amount of guff is talked (and is
supposed, for incomprehensible reasons, to
be consoling) to the effect that there was a
great and artificial expansion of the Austra-
lian woollen industry during the war, where-
fore the present slump is merely the reaction
from a boom. Some fool wrote that, and
another ass copied it, and subsequent mules
took up the song. Even if it were true there
would be no joy in it, for at the height of
their prosperity the mills of this wool-
growing country manufactured only a small
portion of the community’s pants and vest,
so the boom should have. grown and multi-
plied and consolidated. But it is not true.
The Commonwealth’s woollen, cotton and
tAveed mills (the statistics lump them to-
gether) numbered 22. with 3290 employees,
the year the war broke out. There were
25 of them, Avith 3817 employees, four years
later, when the Avar ended. That was no
boom, but very ordinary progress. Four
years of peace, however, raised the number
of factories to 40, with 6928 employees, and
things began to look up. Then came depre-
ciated European currencies and the manu-
facturing revival in cheap-labor countries, and
the flooding of Australia with French and
German goods, brought here under a reduced
tariff as “British,” because they had passed
through .T. Bull’s island, and had a gloss
put on them there, or a button sewn on.
The Tariff Board, as in duty bound, reported
that there Avas need for a higher tariff and
less silly preference for “British” goods that
were 75 per cent. Hun. But a Cabinet
consisting of a lawyer with importing con-
nections, one or two more lawyers, a doctor
who is a great landowner, a great landowner
who isn’t a doctor, a one-time union organiser
and the other customary ingredients couldn't
see that there was any need for haste when it
wasn’t a question of borrowing money to put
somebody on the land, or obliging some influ-
ential State with a Federal railway, or fixing
up a preference job for Canada, or doing a
hustle at Canberra. With senseless cruelty
the Ministry let a year pass in idleness.
When it moved at last it was so much more
careful of the interests of the importer and
the British trader than of the Australian
manufacturer and artisan that it a
Avhole six months’ notice of the proposed
limitation of the preference to foreign goods
thinly disguised as “British,” so that the
importers might load up with two years’
supplies in advance. The precise dimensions
of the disaster which the laAvyers and land-
owners and the ex-organiser and the rest
have brought down on a promising Austra-
lian industry will be knoAvn, in part at least,


The Ideal of Individuality
THE expression of a distinct individuality in any sphere of activity is only reached
after scrupulous and expert attention to every detail—just those details which are
too often overlooked in cheaper mass-production. In the building of
SMITH & WADDINGTON DE LUXE BODIES
this rigid rule of treating every detail as an important factor and every body produced
as a separate and complete piece of craftsmanship, results in that distinctive character
which places Smith & Waddington bodies on a plane so infinitely above the ‘quantity-
first' productions. . Every body fashioned by Smith & Waddington craftsmen carries
with it this atmosphere
—it is built of finest
quality materials, not as
one of many, but as one
separate unit expressing
the Ideal of Individuality.
We cordially invite all actual
and prospective motor owners
to make a visit of inspection
to this splendidly-equipped and
efficient Factory.
SPECIAL RETAILERS
COMPLETE ROLLS-ROYCE CARS.
41-61 Parramatta Road, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE: L 2731 4 LINES
m
Wl
-dJ
If
BE3
£
when the next volume of Federal statistics
comes out; but enough is known in a general
way about insolvent factories, closed fac-
tories and half-time factories to make melan-
choly reading. The misfortune of the manu-
facturer is that this kind of Government
seldom thinks about him till it has quite
finished thinking about everybody else. Just
now, thanks mainly to the foregoing fact,
the remarkable position exists that the banks,
in most cases, won’t lend to an Australian
manufacturer even a small sum on good secu
rity, while they will lend liberally to an im-
porter who wants to buy goods in England.
They have lots of money abroad, thanks to
the floating of profligate loans there, to the
crazy policy of sending the gold output there,
and to other causes; and as it can’t be
brought here except in the shape of goods
(other nations being less casual with their
gold), the importer gets the glad hand and
the warm welcome. On the other hand, finan-
cial institutions have very little spare money
in Australia, the export of gold being one
material cause, wherefore the manufacturer
gets the glassy eye and the cold shoulder.
♦
Men Thirty Feet High.
“M.G.S.” on the punishment of mental
defectives:—
“Professional Homicide’s” discourse (B. 8/l/’25)
amounts to the advocacy of hanging for the weak-
minded ; which is the same as the old notion, since
exploded by “science” (in inverted commas to
placate “P. Homicide”), that epileptics ought to
be flogged. In Central Africa a goat was tried,
sentenced to death and executed for killing a dog;
and a sow, which killed a child and, with the
assistance of its family, ate it, was tried and executed,
though the young pigs were released under the Juven-
ile Delinquency Act. An old Irish law ordained that
if a bee caused blindness by stinging a man, the
hive should be punished for it; and even Plato
believed that if an animal killed a man, it should
be tried and, if guilty, executed. The idea that an
animal was a responsible being died eventually ;
but there has never been any question until recently
about the responsibility of human beings. As weak-
mindedness is largely due to defective gland secre-
tions, perhaps “P.H.,” in his passion for retributive
justice, would recommend the cutting out and public
flogging of organs which are not functioning
properly.
If the standard yard were reduced to six inches,
“P. Homicide” would soon get used to men 30
feet high; but it is much harder to realise that
an adult may have the moral sense of a child of
seven. A smart cut on the stern will sometimes
instil a sense of responsibility even into a child of
seven; but society doesn’t think it worth while to
administer correction to its weak-minded members
until they commit some atrocious act, which involves
the moral ruin or bodily injury of some innocent
person: even tnen it usually releases them, after a
brutalising term of imprisonment, more dangerous
than ever. Not only that, it encourages them to
propagate their kind by means of charitable relief,
minimum wage and other devices for making life
easier for the inefficient at the expense of the
ordinary person.
In his efforts to suppress crime, Henry VIII.
burned, boiled or disembowelled 70,000 people out
of a population of 5,000,000 without causing any
conspicuous diminution in the criminal record. In
1769, 160 offences were punishable by death, and
in 1788 a woman was burned for counterfeiting
coin. In 1833 a child Of nine was sentenced to
be hanged for breaking into a patched window and
taking twopence; but even in those days it was
realised that the method had failed and the sentence
was commuted. During the era of public executions
in England, of 177 persons condemned to death
only three had not been present at other executions.
The trouble about sentimentalists like “Profes-
sional Homicide” is that they waste their tears on
the immediate effects— i.e., the murdered victims—
instead of trying to do what “science” (still in
inverted commas) is aiming at, i.e., getting at the
cause. Some day we will be humanitarian enough to
sterilise our morons and segregate the worst ones
in institutions where they will cease to be a
charge Upon the State, but will be made to pay
for their upkeep in honest work. Aleantime there
is something to be said for a suggestion of J. O.
Squire, the poet, who proposes that everybody in
the community, including bishops, should be liable
for service as public hangmen, just as they are
liable to be called up as jurymen. The final
slipping of the bolt is a simple operation requiring
no technical skill, and if society considers hanging
is an honest and efficient method of -dealing with
crime instead of a barbarous survival whose in-
effectiveness has been demonstrated, it should have
no objection to seeing the thing right through.
“Professional Homicide” says that he doesn’t
feel in himself any subconscious predilection for
violence. When, however, apropos of nothing in the
argument, he describes me as the sort of person
who believes (1) that the colored man is always
right as against the white man, and (2) that any
otiier nation or race is always right as against
our own, he is displaying a predilection for offen-
sive assumption which is possibly the newspaper con-
troversialist’s “sublimation” of the same instinct.
*
The Labor Government of Queensland.
“Solomon Mialaprop” in response:—
I suppose it is necessary to say something in reply
to Bedford (B. 15/l/’25), though 1 have doubts
about his status as the always inaccurate and
always violently uncivil mouthpiece of Queensland.
He seems to think he is Queensland.
In his first roar (accompanied by a remark about
any increase in the ratio of my foolishness being
impossible) he objects to my statement that “progress
[in cotton-growing] would seem to be slowing
down again.” The increase in cne year (1922-23)
was 31,284 acres. The estimated increase in two
years (1923-25) is 20,000 acres. The pace of
increase is slowing down. I didn't say the industry
itself was slowing down. That is just Bedford's
manufactured roar.
In his next outbreak (“mean and false” are his
adjectives this time, also “cranky” and “fraudulent”)
he is wild because I said certain figures “suggest
that these two States, S.A. and N.S.W., pay their
women better than Queensland does its men” (grown
women, to wit). I made the proposition because
these two States employ a larger proportion of
females in their factories than Queensland does, and
yet they pay better wages all round than Bedford's
State, where the pay is below the average. Bed-
ford replies with figures showing that the two
States don’t pay their females better than Queens-
land does its males. But the proportion of female
workers who are not women is much greater than
that of males who are not men. In one State,
anyhow, the female factory worker under 16 is
more numerous than the male one of the same age,
though she has such a habit of leaving (probably
with a view to marriage) before she qualifies for
full pay that the whole mass of female workers
is less than one-third that of male workers. The
under-age female worker keeps down the feminine
TWO SIDES OF THE CASE.
“Strikes, always an occasion for financial hardship and poverty for the rank and file, enable the
Union bosses, whose salaries still go on, to bask in the limelight of notoriety.”
THE UNION BOSS : “Stick it, hoy, we’re puttin’ up a grand fight. Remember, you an
me have goiter stand solid.”
THE MUG STRIKER (as he takes up another hole in his belt): “Icon look solid enough;
but I'm feeling pretty hollow mys elf.”
financial average. The fact that I offered a specu-
lation about the woman worker is no reason why
anybody should forget his manners.
The table from which Bedford quotes shows at
least these two things: The Queensland female
factory-worker (girl and woman) is the worst-paid
save one on the mainland (£9 13s. sd. per annum
below the Commonwealth average). And the Queens-
land male factory-worker, who is much more import-
ant, he being so often a family breadwinner, is the
worst-paid on the mainland (£ll ss. sd. per annum
below the Commonwealth average).
Bedford’s other scream (“falsifies by insinua-
tion” is his language here) is because I drew atten-
tion to the falling off in the yield per head of
the State taxes in Queensland, and inferred that it
might mean a drying up of prosperity, through ex-
cessive burdens and bad government in other ways.
He says it doesn’t suit me to give the figures.
Well, I don’t mini giving the figures:—-
State Tax Yield per Inhabitant.
1920-21. 1922-23. Increase.
S. Australia ..£3 6 1 £3 10 10 £0 4 9
N. S. AVales . . 3 10 8 3 11 9 1 1
Victoria . . 2 10 4 2 11 3 11
Decrease.
Tasmania ..3 6 7 3 6 6 1
AVestralia 2 17 8 2 17 6 2
Queensland . . 418 1 4 4 6 13 7
Bedford's reply is a meaningless shout: “Shocking
difference of a shilling or two!”
Aly idea is that something might be done to
improve Queensland, which is really the best of
all the States, and to help along Tropical Aus-
tralia, which is so largely Queensland, if the people
were persistently informed of the need of improve-
ment. Bedford’s idea, on the evidence, is that
nothing should be done to improve Queensland,
because under the Government which he serves it is
already perfect. Any hint to the contrary rouses
his anger to a remarkable degree. No other State
Government possesses a Bedford, and I think
the other States are better without one. His bound-
less inaccuracy and his remarkable modes of expres-
sion arouse a mass of well-grounded comment which
might not otherwise happen.
♦
“T.P.”: “Country Ped” mourns (B.
l/l/’25) that children no longer play spon-
taneously the old games. * Personally, I re-
joice that basket ball, tennis, hockey, cricket
and football have superseded kiss-in-the-ring,
marbles and the other old-time recreations.
Certainly the boys still honor tradition by
playing marbles at a certain season, but
soon abandon it for some more healthy exer-
cise which doesn’t necessitate crouching in
the dirt with a cramped chest. In Vic-
toria Director Tate is largely responsible
for the gradual dying of the old games. His
regime brought ventilation, light and backed
seats into schools; equipped commodious
playgrounds, regularly alternating play
periods, organised and free; kindergarten
games, folk-songs and dances ; sane teaching ;
abolition of the cane; an honest effort to
fathom the psychology of the child; doctors,
dentists and Miss Rosalie Virtue; swim-
ming and Miss May Cox. We may have
lost twos-and-tlirees, kiss-in-the-ring, marbles
and cigarette-cards, but haven’t; we got some-
thing much better?
*
An old scandal was given a fresh airing at a
recent sitting of the Port Melbourne Court,
when W. G. Smith, P.M., who had been
over-ruled in a certain case by a majority
of the J’s.P. on the Bench, expressed strongly
his conviction that the charge (one of illegal
betting) had been sustained. The J’s.P. hav-
ing been asked their reasons for refusing to
convict, this is what happened:—
Mr. T. Testro, J.P., said the police had not
proved the cases to his satisfaction. He happened
to know that the business carried on in the shop
was a proper one, and that it was conducted well.
Air. J. P. Crichton, J.P., said his reason was
the same as Air. Testro’s.
Air. A. Tucker, J.P., said he had known the
locality, and Cooke, too, for many years. The
police evidence did not warrant convictions.
Mr. M. Quinn, J.P., also declared the police
evidence did not warrant convictions.
On their own admission the honorary jus-
tices were pre-judging the case, taking less
account of the evidence submitted by the
police, which had convinced the mind of the
legally-trained P.M., than of opinions tliev
had previously formed about the man charged.
At the best the justice administered by the
minor courts is very crude, but the intrusion
of konoraries who profess sufficient private
knowledge about an alleged lawbreaker to
enable them to decide he wouldn’t do what
he is charged with doing tends to make it
almost farcical.
0
“Bouragi” : According to Prime Minister
Bruce, the expropriated enemy properties
in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea
are shortly to be taken out of the hands of
the Expropriation Board and offered for
sale. The method of sale may have an im-
portant influence on the future of Australia’s
dependency. In England recently the British
Government offered for sale at public auc-
tion the expropriated German properties in
the Cameroons. It was announced that buy-
ers might employ agents, who need not give
their principals’ names. The properties sold
were plantations splendidly developed, and
paying golden dividends before the war,
cocoa being the principal crop cultivated.
The sale was not largely attended, and the
bidding, obviously among professional agents
who had previously come to an understand
ing, was quiet. The highest price paid,
£22,000, was for a plantation which had re-
turned that amount annually before .1914.
No names were disclosed, but it was not
doubted that the properties had been bought
back by their former German holders or
their friends. It is almost certain that,
unless steps are taken to prevent it by the
conditions of the sale, a good many of the
former German owners of New Guinea pro-
perties will land back in them again. The
sentimentalist may approve, but the prospect
of a powerful enemy-colony re-establishing
itself in the Mandated Territory is not re-
assuring to those who desire Australia to
make a success of her job there. From the
day of the military occupation of Rabaul
the German element gave the Australian
administration serious trouble; and if under
the severe restrictions of martial law it
could make itself such an unpleasant nuis-
ance, what is it likely to do when it returns
triumphantly re-instated? The effect on the
native mind, for one thing, will not do the
Australian administration any good or make
its job easier.
.A.
Australian newspapers during the Egyp-
tian crisis reiterated the obvious truism that
Asiatics are impressed by a dispjay of force.
They forgot the equally obvious fact that it
was by a display of force that Japan im-
pressed the Western Powers to the extent
of being admitted as an equal into the coun-
cils of Europe. That fact is an inspiration
to all the tribes of Asia, and Japanese propa-
gandists have not failed to take advantage
of it. In India they posed recently as de-
liverers of Islam; and the claim was received
with serious respect by the leaders of Mo-
hammedan thought. The search for common
ground between the triumphant people of
the Rising Sun and the subject races of
Asia is ceaseless, and has more to do with
various recent movements than appears on
the surface. Much has been made of “the
revolt of Islam.” Actually Islam is by no
means a happy family; but that fact does
not stop various sections of Islam from
making trouble. It is possible, for instance,
that the example of Japan has a great deal
to do with uprisings like that of the Riffs
against the Spaniards.
Dear Bulletin, —With deep grief I read
“Solomon Malaprop’s” unkind retort to
Mr. Bedford (B. l/l/’25), because the re-
torter is obviously unaware of a lot of con-
vincing figures that Mr. Bedford would have
used if he could have known of them. They
utterly refute “Solomon Malaprop’s” con-
tentions (having been compiled for that
purpose), and, though unofficial, they can
be taken for granted until Mr. Bedford
finds time to compile a new set of figures to
suit himself. On consulting the “Caucus
Year Book, 1925,” I find, on "page 1179, that
Queensland has 790 bookmakers to each
10,000 of population, as against a Common-
wealth average of 41 per 10,000. Coming
to our great natural racehorses, I find in
the same authority (page 1432) that Queens-
land has 334 days’ racing per annum, as
against the Commonwealth average of 90
days; while (page 1444) Queensland has 22
“Golden Caskets” per annum (against the
Commonwealth’s nil), 14,748 “goose-clubs,”
and 79.649 legalised “art-unions” per annum,
as against 170 and 4688 respectively for the
rest of Australia. “Solomon Malaprop”
and Mr. Bedford cannot explain away such
remarkable evidence of our progress and pros-
perity since 1915 ; but, even if they attempt
to do so, how will either, or both, of them
explain away our predominance in beer-
consumption?—Yours impartially, Saul
Wright.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers nil classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A Special Value at Peapes’!
Exclusive Shoe or Boot, Black or Tan
Although so moderately priced, these Boots and Shoes possess those features of style comfort and
quality which have made Peapes’ Footwear the choice of so many particular men all over Australia.
Dai k Tan AVillow Calf or Black Box Calf Oxford Lace Shoes, medium welts, canvas lined, neatly
perforated caps. .Made to Peapes’ own specifications, with elongated toe. Very distinctive model,
1 superior make and finish.
Sizes: 5 to 10.
30/-
The same last in smart Boots,
Dark Tan AVillow Calf or
Black Box Calf.
30/-
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size and colour.
PEAPES g CO., Lid.,
Men’s and Boys’
Outfitters,
George Street
(opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
i ®
Usher’s Hotel Lid
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUH J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bowden having resigned the Defence port-
folio, in which he has been no better, and
perhaps no worse, than his undistinguished
predecessors, Neville Howse, V.C., lias been
appointed Minister of Defence and of Health,
the latter instead of the overburdened
ten. To further relieve Pratten, and to
gratify South Aus., or something of the sort,
Wilson" has been promoted to the Cabinet
with the title of Minister of Markets and
Migration. Marr, hitherto _ Government
Whip in the Reps., succeeds Wilson as Hon.
Minister, and is also to be “Secretary to the
Cabinet,” whatever that may be. In the
result, Australia will have to provide one
more Ministerial salary, and no doubt an-
other will be provided for the ‘ Secretary to
tin* Cabinet” —this or the next —when the
going looks good. Australian politicians are
like that.
N.S.W. Treasurer Cocks, who has started
to pack up his cigars and other baggage for
the Agent-General’s office, lias given ms
views about the exchange difficulty. He
thinks we might borrow in London on con-
dition that we got gold. But the sending
of gold doesn’t rest with the lender: it rests
with J. Bull’s Government. _ The only gold
we can be dead-sure of getting is the gold
we have got. For a year or more The
Bulletin has been urging the Federal Gov-
ernment to prohibit the export of gold
almost every other country in the world does
it —and to buy with our own paper the
current production at the current price. It
isn’t very much, it is true; but if we had
started when the plan was suggested we
should by now have had about £5,000,01K»
more gold than we have got, and against it
would have been issued probably £0,000,000
of perfectly secured paper. It wouldn t
wholly solve the problem of how to relieve
London of its accumulation of Australian-
owned money; but it would go a long way
towards supplying Australia with the cur-
rency it badly needs.
The Prime Minister declares firmly that
he “will not hesitate” to call Parliament to-
gether and tackle the industrial situation,
possibly including amendment of the Naviga-
tion Act. If lie had stopped hesitating some
weeks ago Parliament might have been to-
gether, and finished, and separated. Cer-
tainly Tom Walsh has been arrested, on a
charge which would have justified his arrest
three weeks before Christmas —and let out
on modest bail. The explanation of every
lingering Government in such cases is that
it wanted to exhaust all other methods
before resorting to the law. oven though the
community may lose a million' or two in
the process. A diseased idea prevails that
when the building is on fire there is some
merit in using up every possible expedient
before resorting to the fire-engine.
The last word in pusillanimity came from
N.S.W. Labor-leader Lang:—
In disputes of this character I think it is best
for politicians to keep out of the way, and leave
the parties to solve their difference either in the
Arbitration Court or in conference.
“The parties” in this case are three —the
seamen and watersiders, the shipowners (or
at least the people who manage ships, for
the mass of shareholders is never seen in the
matter), and the nation. The last-named,
being wholly unorganised and too scattered
and multitudinous to go to the Arbitration
Court or to sit in conference, pays politi-
cians like Lang a great deal more than they
are worth to protect its interests at times
like these. Lang has the bright idea of
making it an outstanding virtue to take the
pay and not give the protection.
E. K. Bowden has resigned his Federal
portfolio on account of ill health; and in the
consequent Cabinet changes Marr becomes an
Honorary Minister: —
His creaky Cabinet beyond a doubt
Bruce aimed to mend when Bowden ambled out.
A change save for the better might be hard,
But how can that be mended which is Marred ?
When the N.S.W. Fuller Government was
struggling with the appointment of a suc-
cessor to Senator McDcugall, in whose seat
J. M. Power was fated not to sit, it laid
A LIMB OF THE LAW.
CITIZEN: “ Officer, officer, these dreadful doings have Icon going on for days, and this
is your heat! Why haven’t you done something?"
POLICEMAN BRUCE (with deep emotion) : “I have, I have! To the very last minute
I waited in the hope that a compromise might be effected between the parties,
but action became imperative. I have applied to have the ruffian deregistcrcd.
down the absurd proposition that any such
vacancy must be filled by a member of the
same party as the deceased. Confident that
the Government will not recede from this
position, the Labor people propose that the
job should be given to a mob-orator from the
Sydney Domain. Since J. M. Power was
nominated there has been a series of revolu-
tionary strikes. It is on the cards that even
the polite Bruce-Page Government will be
obliged to bring down salutary anti-strike
measures providing, among other things, for
the deportation of Communists not of Aus-
tralian birth. There is already a fairly
strong Labor delegation in the Senate, and
Fuller will look supremely foolish if such
measures are defeated by the vote of lxis
nominee, as is quite possible.
Lang, the alleged political Labor-leader in
N. S. Wales, says that “the danger of politi-
cal intereference [in industrial troubles] is
illustrated in the action of George Fuller in
reviving the Bureau after the shipping cos.
and the union had mutually agreed upon its
abolition.” In short, the shipowners and the
union met and agreed to the abolition of a
third party, the shipping bureau, which
wasn’t consulted. That legally-established
institution declined to commit suicide to
oblige anybody; and even if Bavin and
Bailey “mutually agreed” on Lang’s aboli-
tion, that estate agent would probably do the
same.
Referring to the N. S. Wales section of
“the present industrial upheaval,” Lang, the
clumsy State Labor-leader, declared that
“had a Labor Government been in power
at the beginning of the trouble no serious
dislocation of industry would have occurred.
Well, Labor Governments have been in power
in other States throughout the campaign of
blackguardism and destruction. In Queens-
land, where Theodore is supposed to rule,
there is a squadron of idle steamers, and a
colliery has closed down ; in Tasmania, where
Lyons is called Premier, a legion of travel-
lers has been marooned and thousands of
the inhabitants have suffered cruel losses;
and in Westralia, where Collier is the figure-
head, the crews of the Government steamers
and small craft joined in the hold-up which
Walsh organised: indeed, after three months
of Walshism Fremantle is in such a plight
that many of the wharf-laborers, who, if
left alone, would be eairning substantial
cheques, are on the bread-line. Lang must
have a low opinion of his electors to tickle
their ears with that stuff.
A pleasant pre-selection party: —
At the Fitzroy (Vic.) Labor pre-selection there
was an array of iron ballot-boxes with welded seams
and double combination locks, and still the familiar
pleasantries occurred. Thirty-one candidates took the
field, and most of them fought fair; the rest didn’t.
Every rule for the conduct of these ceremonies was
shattered before the ballot opened. A few doors
from one booth a barman was pulling beers and
advising each thirsty customer how and where to
vote, and for whom. “Vote thus” cards, things
strictly barred, were scattered freely on one candi-
date’s behalf. Another aspirant announced his inten-
tion of stoushing a returning-officer if certain creden-
tials were questioned. The local vendetta push
turned out in force to vote for a third gent, j allega-
tions were rife that some people were voting twice
on different credentials; and a disgusted returning-
officer decided to wash his hands of the whole busi-
ness when the ballot was only half through. During
the count a block ticket was detected, and there were
hot assertions that it was a sectarian ticket. After
midnight a candidate exclaimed that a representative
of pony racing and other important interests was
“a member of the Black Hand” ; and the two began
a fight in the main street, boots being used spiritedly.
When this diversion was over a man who had polled
astonishingly well, considering he was almost unknown
amongst Laborites, gathered his disappointed fold
and adjourned to a sly-grog shop. Thfough it all
Maurice Blackburn fought square, and emerged vic-
torious, which is a pity in a way. He is far too
straight and honest to be a success in such slippery
company.
A Chief Justice will have to be appointed
within a few weeks by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment. The only real question at issue is
whether the Government dare _go beyond
precedent in this State and Victoria, and
appoint a Puisne Judge. The old idea was
that a Judge shouldn’t have anything to
look forward to in the way of advancement;
but as against the very remote possibility
of any such consideration affecting a Judge’s
conduct on the Bench —affecting it for evil,
anyway—ought to be set the fact that, if
a man has shown conspicuously good quali-
ties as a Judge, it is a fool of a precedent
which passes him over in favor of a man
who has never shown that he would make
even a moderately good Judge. Further,
the setting aside of the Chief Judge’s wig
for the Bar, instead of making it available
for a Puisne Judge, offers a premium to the
leaders of the Bar to decline Puisne Judge-
ships, until, at any rate, they are far past
their prime.
Cocks, the N.S.W. Treasurer, is to go
to the London office in place of T. A. Cogli-
lan, who has been there for nearly 17 years
off and on ; and a very good Agent-General,
too. The change should suit Coflks, who has
not seemed at all happy as the Trea,-
surer of a heavy-borrowing and free-spend-
ing Government. His retirement, Oakes’s
poor health, the possibility of Bavin’s ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court Bench, and
other uncertainties about Carruthers and
Ley have set hopes beating in numerous
Nationalist breasts. The Government is cer-
tainly in need of new blood, being over-
suppiied with old stagers who take the line
of least resistance always.
“Growler”: I pay income-tax on £lOOO
a year in Queensland, and have just received
my "State and Federal assessments. The
Commonwealth Government, which has war-
interest and sinking-fund payments to meet,
and which has also provided funds for the
State Governments to lose on land-settlement,
charges me £l3-odd. My State Government,
which had nothing to do with the war, has
posted me a bill for £3O. I suppose the
£2O difference is a levy imposed on me for
the privilege of being governed by Labor
bosses.
Prime Minister Bruce isn’t half so good
at being early as he is at explaining how
it was impossible to avoid being late. It
will require till sometime near the. end _of
the month to bring about the deregistration
of the Seamen’s Union, whatever that may
be worth. It looks rather like striking a
bushranger off the electoral roll. And it
wouldn’t have taken till the end of last
month if the work had been started in time.
The English Board of Education, accord-
ing to Sir "Robert Blair, an ex-officer of the
L.C.C., is budgeting £1,000,000 less to-day
than in 1010 for per capita subsidies to
primary schools. By 1932, he thinks, there
will be 2,000,000 fewer workers in Britain.
This suggests that Mrs. John Bull, tired of
waiting for Protection, is beginning to apply
it personally and solve the unemployment
problem in her own way.
'The Commonwealth Government recently
reduced its terminal rate on cable messages
by one penny a word, but London Daily
Telegraph is far from satisfied. It com-
plains that a high terminal rate is a tax on
business and knowledge, bears heavily on
inter-imperial trade, is obnoxious from the
social standpoint and hampers newspapers
in their efforts to promote the solidarity of
the British people. Wliat the English paper
ip cans really by all this is that it is a form
of Protection that won’t work because a
country can’t manufacture foreign news on
the premises or conduct an international
correspondence with itself. There is therefore
something to be said for a further reduction
in the terminal rate provided the cable rate
is reduced by the same amount. The Maori-
land Government exacts one penny from a
full-rate total of 2s. 3d., and undertakes all
the costs of receiving and delivering mes-
sages. The Australian Government leaves
the cable offices to handle their traffic them-
selves, which is probably a good thing; but
in return for the services it doesn’t perform
it mulcts- the cable user to the extent of
4d. a word in a total charge of 2s. 6d.
Some people would call it blackmail.
THE SPELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Miss Wilkinson, Labor M.P. for Middlesborougn,
said that Labor women felt ‘pretty sick’ when they
read Mrs. Snowden’s declaration that the Royal
Family had endeared itself to Labor and that the
Throne was established for ever. Mrs. Snowden
wanted slapping. She had lost her head because
the King had happened to say to her How d ye
do?’ ”
The King said “How d’ye do?” to her.
Sue h regal grace was new to her,
The condescension flew to her
Once democratic head.
She thought to earn a clap or two,
A loyal cheer, mayhap, or two
By talking thus —a slap or two
They deem her due instead.
His Maj. 'was so all right to her,
So winningly polite to her,
It penetrated quite to her
Heart’s very inmost strings;
In palace and patrician hall
She shed the abolitional
Dislike anu hate traditional
That Labor has for kings.
At dinner and lev fie with her
Liege lord, he’d words to say with he...
He passed .the time o’ day with her
.In oh! such glorious tones.
It vanished with velocity
'That ancient animosity
Expressed with such ferocity
By Socialists for thrones.
Those ultra-courtly bows of his!
Those beaming royal brows of his
Trained full upen the spouse of his
Exchequer’s Chancellor!
What if they made her blink a bit,
Her old ideals shrink a bit?
Say, when you come to think a bit,
What else is Royalty for?
IFORD.
N.S.W.


SUMMER PASTIMES.
“The seven Parliaments of Australia having gone into recess, members of the three parties are now engaged chiefly in explaining to their constituents, through the press and elsewhere, how much better they are than their opponents."


/
nn
m 991
Hi
m
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto.
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
SHAVING
CREAM
Hygeia Shaving Cream is
absolutely pure. It yields
a fine creamy lather in
either hot or cold water,
and makes shaving a
pleasure.
UEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
f/5
, ft
P\
Syr-
ia
HAVING
CBEAtf
HY-10
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wai-hoi”: Years ago one of the Fether-
stonhaugh clan was clerk of courts and
official poo-bali at Hall’s Creek, Kimberley
(W.A.). “Fetliy,” as everyone dubbed him,
though likeable enough, was a bit drawly and
swellish in his talk, possibly in keeping with
YOU KNOW ROBINSON.
“What sort of a fellow is Robinson?”
“Well, he is one of those fellows who always grab the stool when
there's a piano to be moved.”
his patronymic. One morning an old over-
landing prospector, Paddy Dooley, blew in
and received a cultured “Good morning,” and
a request for the nature of his business.
Paddy stared at the toff in white and came
back at him in a lovely brogue with “Good
day to ye, good day; and who may ye be?”
"My name is Fetherstonhaugh”—with full
emphasis on the concluding syllable. “Is it,
now?” said Paddy. “Then I’ll have ye to
know my name’s Dooley-lioo-hoo.”
# * * *
A mar, long in the detective business offers
some hints to refugees :
In the matter of the much-advertised De Garis, and
his stay at a little hotel on the Parramatta River,
and his disguises, and the suspicions he aroused,
and his subsequent retreat by sea, and the ill-success
thereof, there are a few simple rules which an
escapee should learn by heart. His difficulty may
be about money, or a breach of promise, or a dead
body, or a fixed resolve not to give evidence in
a bigamy case, or he may simply have stage-fright,
but the regulations are the same.
He shouldn’t be anything more unusual in point
of nationality than is necessary, especially if the
character requires living up to. In other words.
If he is an Australian, he shouldn’t be an Armenian,
or an Abyssinian, or even an American, if being -a
plain Australian will do as well. One of the minor
tragedies of history was that of a half-caste Hindu
who, when he fell in trouble, tried to get out
of it by explaining that he was the Dauphin of
France.
He shouldn t fish for approval. It is better to
be a morose individual drinking in a corner than
a centre of popularity and a lavish distributor of
tips. „ . . .
He shouldn’t “present a striking aspect m his
disguise. Next to spurious money it is the worst
thing he can present.
He shouldn’t have extraordinary habits that he
can be remembered by, such as going to bed at
sunset and getting up before the rooster. The ideal
escapee has no habits and is so colorless as to
be practically invisible.
He shouldn’t be feverishly anxious to explain his
business. If a man talks his own shop he is
leaving a clue to his identity, for people remember
the affable stranger who discoursed fruit or fish
too much when they hear that a fruit or fish
practitioner is missing. And if he talks foreign
shop, he may seem irrelevant, like a conversational
gentleman who puts up in a suburb of a great city
because he is a journalist and interested in the
destruction of prickly-pear.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: Such romance as lingers in
smuggling still hangs about the coast of Tas-
mania ; but the contraband is not brandy or
tobacco or lace or anything to waken
memories of the Ingoldsby Legends—it is
just crayfish. Hence the' game seizure by a
water bailiff, one William Challenger, with
a single assistant, of the fishing-ketch Daunt-
less after a spirited resistance by the crew
of four. Challenger pounced an hour and a
hair after midnight, and, catching the fisher-
men with their pots out, announced _ that
the ketch was under arrest. The skipper
was willing to make a fight of it. Sail hav-
ing been set, after some difficulty, by the
crew, which was heart-and-soul with the Old
Man, there was a final struggle for the wheel.
The skipper tried to push the bailiff over-
board, but the latter hung on to his assail-
ant and the pair toppled together into the
dinghy. After that the outnumbered “excise-
men” submitted under protest to be rowed
ashore and contented themselves with
“arresting” the vessel when it arrived. The
upshot of it all is that the skipper-owner lias
had his craft forfeited and been heavily
.“shot” for costs; and he and his crew have
also to face serious charges of assaulting
the Law. There seems to be some excellent
“movie” material going to waste in this
lobster-smuggling business.
# # # *
“Bouragi”: In the story of ministers of
the gospel who have been something else
(B. l/l/’25), the case of Bendigo, the prize-
fighter, might have been mentioned. His
questionable tactics
when fighting Ben
Caunt for the
championship of
England earned
him the disap-
proval of the none
too punctilious fol-
-1o w ers of the
Fancy in those
days. “B end y”
thereupon turned
Methodist preacher,
and made good in
his new vocation.
One day he met
George Payne,
gambler, wit and
sportsman, and
Payne, spotting the
orthodox “blacks”
and white choker,
asked an explana-
tion. “I am in an-
other ring now,
sir,” said Bendy,
“fighting the
Devi 1.” “Then
good luck t’ye,”
said Payne; “only
see ye fight him fairer than you fought Ben
Caunt.
* * * *
“Rctsam”: The homing-pigeon may not
have been a vast success in the war (B.
8/l/’25), but at Bullecourt on April 11,
1917, the birds did ns a good turn. We had
hopped over without any artillery support,
and, owing to the Hun machine-guns, tele-
phone lines could not be laid. The jiigeon-
carrier went over with us and I managed
to get a message back that the Hun was
massing in Reincourt for a counter attack.
Afterwards, when I was in hospital, the
Brigade-Major told me that through this
message and another that came by the same
agency our artillery got a big bag of Huns
in Reincourt. The artillery barrage cer-
tainly helped what was left of us out of
a tight corner; incidentally, our comnany of
three officers and about 200 other ranks mus-
tered only 26 men after the stunt.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: I think the hardihood
of Melbourne’s much-advertised criminal
classes is over-rated. Recently a “desperado”
with a revolver held up a house in which two
not particularly robust schoolmarms lived by
themselves, and when one of the ladies made
a swipe at the intruder with the feather-
duster she happened to be using, he fled. In
another case a lady, disturbed in bed,
announced (as a subterfuge) that she recog-
A MISS IN THE HAND IS BETTER THAN A MILE IN
THE BUSH.
“But they can easily see there is nothing between us.”
“Yes, and not being able to see anything between us will make
them talk.”
nised the burglar; whereupon lie offered her
money to let him go and say nothing about
it. Possibly the intrusion of these amateurs
and faint-hearts into the ranks of sturdy
crooks is due to the incessant advertisement
of the crimes committed and the inability of
the police to deal with the perpetrators.
* * * *
“Wai-hoi”: In Darwin the half-caste off-
sider of one of the local business serangs
makes out the monthly butchers’ bills, two
at a time, writing with both hands simul-
taneously. What is more, he never makes
a bloomer in bis figures; you can’t get off
with less than Bd. a lb. for worn-out bullock
or venerable cow. Can anyone show me
a similar curiosity, a clerk capable of using
both flippers and separate compartments of
his brain-box without getting things tangled
up? This one is a neat and rapid writer, too.
“8.5. A.”: It was after a South Australian
by-election, and the defeated candidate was
looking very glum over the loss of the seat
he had held so long. A well-meaning friend
bustled up, smacked the bereaved person on
the back and cast about for something con-
soling to say. Presently it came, in the
soothing tone suitable to the process of tem-
pering the the shorn lamb “Never
mind, old man, you’ll still be a J.P.”
* * * *
“T.P.”: In old Jim Crow diggings, now
Daylesford (Vic.), we were nearly all Cousin
Jacks with a vast capacity for prayer.
Brawther Trewinnick was our star artist;
he would rub his forehead against the floor,
and then with lighting-like rapidity reverse
his devout frame to bang the back of his head
against the boards. “Looard, save ’en awl!
lio would reiterate-, amidst howls of “Glowery,
brawther ! Glowery !” from scores of kneel-
ing co-churchmen. One Sunday Californian
Taylor, a Yankee revivalist, came along, and
Trewinnick screwed himself up to establish
a record. He was in the middle of his con-
tortion act, and the introductory howls had
been negotiated, when our ’Murkan visitor
knelt upright and stared quizzically at
Trewinnick. “Say, brother,” he drawled,
while the lcneelers cut their first “Glowery”
short, “the dear Lord ain’t deaf, and this
ain’t a circus neither.” Trewinnick was
never quite the same exhorter again.
# * * *
“FY7”: There were harrowing circum-
stances attending a recent Queensland queer
accident. A youth coming down from
Charters Towers to a band contest in Bris-
bane was looking out of the window of the
carriage, which was full of his fellow-bands-
men. At last it occurred to his mates that
he had been there long enough, and he was
urged to sit down. Getting no answer,
they pulled him in —and found his head had
been smashed to pulp.
“Trapper”: In the A.I.F. any member who
had a younger brother in another unit could
claim to have that brother transferred to
his own. The rule was responsible for
a glorious two
months I spent in
France. When my
unit was near
Armentiferes early
in 1916, I was in-
structed to report
to battalion H.Q.,
my elder brother
having demanded
my transfer there-
to. Reluctantly,
for it meant part-
ing with a host of
cobbers, I set out
for Fleurbaix, only
to find that my
new unit had just
mo ve d on to
Estaires. My first
idea was to return
to my old unit and
plead inability to
find the new; but
I had a fat roll of
notes in my pocket
and a friend at
Fort Rompu, so I
decided to give the
latter place a spin.
And a great two
months (nearly) I
had there! It
wasn’t till the
A.I.F. began to
move to the Somme
that I set out in
pursuit of it, and
fi nail y reported
back to my old
C.O. just before
the assault of
Pozieres. The old
Colonel nearly had
apoplexy when I
represented myself
as having been
searching vainly
for my brother’s
unit for two
months. But the
court-martial he
threatened never
eventuated.
One of half-a-hundred notes on tne Sura-
feud affair —from “Deiran” :
I was camped in sight of Wink’s “village” (B.
8/l/’25) before, during and after its elimination:
actually it was no village, but a Bedouin encamp-
ment, and there was no doubt at all that the
murderer of the Maorilander belonged to it. He
was chased, not merely tracked to it, and seen to
enter. A guard was placed around the village
before that wanted man or anyone else could leave.
A thorough investigation was held and a decision
arrived at, but sentence was deferred to give Allenbv
a chance of acting. He did nothing but talk, so
the sentence was. carried out by representatives of
every unit on the spot, Aussies, Maorilanders, Scotty
artillery and one or two oddments. Some of our
officers borrowed troopers’ tunics for the occasion.
I have heard it said that women were injured.
“ALL SILENT AND ALL DAMNED .”
“Henry, surely there's no need for you to sit
by yourself looking miserable. Couldn't
you find something to say to somebody ?”
“I did. I said ‘Whisky’ and I got lemonade."
This was not so. Old men, women and children
were collected and a guard put on them. The
murderer was a young man, and only young men
were dealt with. One woman was accidentally
injured, but slightly only. After that it was safe
for a man to leave camp at night by himself.
(Continued on page 16.)
HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
With “Pardon!” to those ladies fair,
And fair in mind as well as face,
Who (lucklessly they are too rare)
Lend to their husbands’ lives a grace—
Who, reading men’s intents aright,
To careless faults are gently blind—
A man is never happy quite
Till he has left his wife behind.
I meet my best friends with their wives;
Their faces wear the signs of strain.
Nought of that merriness survives
That, unattached, they’ll show again.
They feel the marriage reins drawn tight,
And qualms and fears they bear in mind.
A man is never happy quite
Till he has left his wife behind 1
The sailorman the woman’s smile
Catches wherever he may go.
She likes his free-and-easy style,
His manners debonair; but, oh,
Does she reflect why he is bright,
Without a worry on his mind?
A man is never happy quite
Till he has left his wife behind.
Come, who the grievous fault will own?
But yesterday a casual friend
Buried his wife, with due gloom thrown
Upon proceedings. To the end
His foot moved slowly ; but, last night!....
Put out the light and draw the blind!
A man is never happy quite
Till he has left his wife behind I
VICTORIA.
HAMER.


f
<L
%
p-/ t
.U 0&
C* /
om
STSTE(XPiSSS
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist.
V 6
MADE IN
LONDON
“S.T.S.”: A really considerate highwayman
has come to light in South Aus. lie held
up two men in a car at revolver-point, but
before driving away in his machine solved the
question of how to secure himself from imme-
diate pursuit without subjecting his victims
to serious inconvenience. “I have taken your
distributor brush,” he explained, “but will
leave it five miles down the road. I will put
it on a kerosene-tin so that you can’t miss
it.” And in something under that distance
it was duly found.
“Herodot”; There is nothing over-imagi-
native in the picture of people being elec-
trocuted by the electric cable which crosses
the Middle Harbor (Sydney) Suspension
Bridge (B. 8/1/’25). Some years ago, in
a Sydney suburb, a woman was found dead
over a laundry washtub. The fatality was
ROUGH ON THE KID.
“Who is Clara's baby like? The father is good-looking and the
mother's brainy.”
“Well, then, she’s like the mother to look at and the father to
talk to.”
at first attributed to sudden heart-failure,
but presently it was discovered • that along
the outer wall of the house there was a
high-tension cable swinging loose and badly
insulated, the covering having worn off in a
number of places. A sti’ong wind had car-
ried the swinging cable across until it touched
a galvanised-iron pipe running down from
the guttering of the house. The current tra-
velled along this pipe until it reached the
laundry and entered the zinc-lined tub _at
which the woman was washing, passing
through the water into the victim’s body.
Examination showed that the spot at which
the actual contact was made between electric
cable and house was nearly a hundred feet
from the place where the woman was killed.
* * * #
“Thurla” : I was returning from the Syd-
ney Domain Baths after Saturday’s swim-
ming contest when the wild strain of the bag-
pipes near the Art Gallery broke on my ears.
Investigating. I was surprised to find that
the author of the disturbance was a Lascar
seaman, and that among the audience was a
crow’d of the piper’s shipmates. In rhe fore-
ground gloomed an elderly Scotchman, appa-
rently full of resentment at the outrage on
national sentiment contained in the per-
former’s color and garb. A casual critic
sought to pacify the aggrieved Mac by ven-
turing the opinion that the piper was a
dinkum member of the Black Watch, but
Scotty only snorted.
* * * *
. “Chancery Lane”: North Sydney residents
were not the only folk to secure large grants
of land in the early days (B. 8/1/ 25). In
1840 the Colonial Office extended to the Port
Phillip district the “special survey” conces-
sion which had been initiated in South Aus.
This meant that payment of £5120 into the
British Treasury entitled the payer to as
many acres, or eight square miles, in the
Port Phillip district. The first to take
advantage of the offer was Henry Dendy, a
Surrey farmer, who raised every pehny he
could in England and got an order on the Port
Phillip authorities to permit him “to select
5120 acres of land as near as possible to
Melbourne or Geelong.” Arriving in Mel-
bourne he promptly presented his order to
Superintendent Latrobe, “who could not have
been more startled if the newcomer had pre-
sented a pistol” at him. The only restric-
tions were that the land must be in one
block, and not more than twice as long as
it was broad. On the very day of his arrival
Dendy refused an offer of £15,000 for his
scrap of paper. Latrobe referred the matte r
to Governor Gipps, who refused to honor the
order until lie had communicated with the
Colonial Office. Ultimately the latter re-
scinded the regulation, but it couldn’t break
faith with Dendy and six others who had
already taken advantage of it; in their case
it could only stipulate that the lands should
be not less than six miles from the, centre of
Melbourne. Dendy promptly selected a block
that is now comprised in Melbourne’s popu-
lous suburb of Brighton.
“AdeL”: Here in my camp, three good
months from Tiie Bulletin office, a par. has
reminded me of my introduction to an
admiral. A French squadron, accompanied
by a flotilla of destroyers, sailed out of Port
Mahon, in the Mediterranean. A sou’-westor
was raging, the
sun blurred by
thick clouds of grey
sand blown off the
African coast, and
a nasty cross-sea
miserably buffeted
the heavy ships,
while foaming waves
lashed over their
forecastles. Up flew
the signals to the
flotilla to make for
shelter and to the
big ships to “batten
down” and rough
it. I was on duty
on the forecastle
of the flagship
when a comber
tossed me over-
board, and I re-
member no more
until I bumped
against the legs of
the Admiral on the
stern-deck balcony
—a small balus-
traded enclosure on
some French war-
ships, and reserved
to the O.C. Evi-
dently no one had
seen the occurence,
for, my explana-
tions being found
unsatisfactory, I
was led away by the
warrant-officer, who
certainly expected
that I was going
into solitary con-
finement. Luckily,
my request to see
the doctor being
granted, I went to the casualties room in-
stead, with a disjointed shoulder and a
broken wrist.
• * * «
“Akran”: He was a Digger burning
with the conviction of having received a
poor spin from Repat. Emerging from the
departmental building he was stopped by my
friend the Salv’army officer. “Ah.” said the
latter, after a few breezy words, “remember
always who it was that pulled you through.”
He pointed above, adding: “And you will
surely still need His help—l expect you’d go
to the Front again if ever another war broke
out.” “Yes, I’d go,” assented the fed-up one
—“me and four others.” “What four?”
asked the Salvo. “The four that it’d take
to drag me there.”
* * * *
“Borom” : Whatever spectral craft it was
that the crew of the Bacchante saw while
en route from Melbourne to Sydney (B.
8/l/’251, it wasn’t the Flying Dutchman.
Vanderdecken’s job is to round the Cape of
Good Hope in punishment for having cursed
the Deity for sending strong head-winds;
his beat is thousands of miles away from the
coast of Australia. What the Bacchante’s
men probably saw was one of those electrical
disturbances which bear some resemblance
in form to the masts and spars of a ship, and
are the origin of about nine-tenths of the
maritime superstitions in existence.
“The Deacon”: While there is turmoil both
here and in the Cold Country regarding the
COULD HAVE IT BOTH WAYS,
“I want to know if I can get a divorce.”
“Long married?”
“Seven years.”
“Then I should say you had—or if you haven't your husband has.”
retention of the “obey” in the Anglican mar-
riage service, the R.C. Church neatly side-
steps any such unpleasantness. Holding
that mutual consent is the essence of the
contract, and that the parties themselves
and not the performing minister supply that,
the R.C. service, lasting scarcely three
minutes, makes it clear that the Church is
merely acting as a witness to the mutual
transfer of bodily dominion.
* * * *
George Meudell on a mattei of history
Despite all that has been written to the contrary
the Hentys were not the first settlers in Victoria
at Portland. In his “Memorial History of Mel-
bourne,” Isaac Selby prints two letters showing that
Henry Reed preceded Henty, Batman and Fawlcner
in 1830. Thos. L. Umphelby, father of late Colonel
Charles W. Umphelby, who was killed in the Boer
War, knew Henry Reed in Tasmania and wrote a
letter in Sept., 1877, stating that Reed sent the
ship Burrell from Launceston to Westernport (Vie.)
to chop and load wattle-bark for London. This
was in 1830 or 1831, when Umphelby was a boy
of 13 in Henry Reed’s employ. Reed had whaling
parties at Portland Bay and Kangaroo Island in
1831, and he sent the schooner Henry to take men
and stores to those whaling stations from Launceston.
His “Black Store” near the wharf at Launceston
in 1831 was full of whale oil: On Ist October, 1877,
Henry Reed wrote from Launceston to Umphelby
confirming the latter’s statements. “You are right
about my whaling at Kangaroo Island and up
Spencer’s Gulf, also at Portland Bay, before the
NOT LOST BUT GONE BEFORE.
DEAR OLD LADY: “How sad to see so young
a widow! Tell me, dearie, how did you
lose your husband?”
THE WIDOW: “Oh, we were staying up at
the mountains when his wife dropped
in!”
arrival of the Hentys, to whom I afterwards sold
the station, and I have no doubt you are right
about my sending men to Westernport for bark; 1
think the vessel’s name was ‘Burnell.’ I also
preached the first sermon in Melbourne in the Spring
of 1835; there were only two huts. Batman’s
and Fawkner’s, and I think a shepherd’s. My
congregation was Henry Batman (Batman’s brother),
Buckley and three Sydney blacks.
* * * #
“R. A. Crouch” : Among some recent pur-
cnases at London
bookstalls were two
old atlases. One,
published at Bos-
ton, U.S.A., in
1805, showed a
“Ne w South
\Y ale s” on the
south western
shore of Hudson’s
Bay, and a “New
North Wales” on
the north-western
shore. Previously
I had always
thought that the
name w r as a Cap-
tain Cook coinage,
and at first I was
inclined to regard
the Hudson’s Bay
nomenclature as
plagiarism. But in
the second atlas,
“published by Mr.
Tindal in connec-
tion with Rapin’s
history,” the same
names appeared in
the same places.
There was no date
of publication, but
notes on some of
the maps went to
show that this
atlas was issued be-
tween 1715 and
1770 at London.
Can anyone tell me
(1) if Captain
Cook knew that he
was labelling New
Holland with a
name already in
use; (2) whether
attention has ever
been drawn to the
duplication of New
South Wales as a
n ame ; and (3)
whether the origi-
nal one is still
found on any maps?
* *
“,T.G.”: The old-time dances arc not by
any means dead, even in the country dis-
tricts comparatively close to Melbourne.
Near where I live, within 30 miles of the
metropolis, is the usual public hall, where the
dancers periodically gather, and the reso-
nant voice of the M,C. calling the figures can
be heard by everyone in the neighborhood.
Even the waltz is not a back number, nor
is the polka, nor the varsovienne. There are
other signs that a hop is on; the slopes
around the hall look as if they are inhabited
by wills-o’-the-wisp, but these are merely
couples dodging the stumps and holes in the
paddocks with the help of swinging lamps.
Sometimes there is a sprinkling of visitors
from town, devotees of foxtrots and bunny-
hugs. Generally they look on with disdain
for a while, but it is not long before they
are joining in the fun.
DULCIFICATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The British IJndertfikers’ Association is desirous
ol replacing the name ‘undertaker’ by ‘mortician.’ ”
What’s in a name? Why, rather more
Than Juliet suspected;
For in the subtle glamor lent
By elegant advertisement,
Harsh tacts are disinfected.
A cultured person, when he goes,
Disdain? to just turn up his toes,
Snuff-out, or chut k a seven ;
On his demise he is interred.
Entombed —or some such precious word—
En route, first-class, for Heaven.
“Inhumed” has a much softer sound
Than simply “planted underground.”
We used to call the doctor: now
We summon a physician.
And when lie’s done his worst, or best,
Bereaved relations leave the rest
To the refined mortician.
(An undertaker’s just a bloke
Mho puts the lids on common folk.)
lie speaks not of a coffin —
A “handsome casket” is the thing
His decorous assistants bring
To bear one gently off in.
Oh, how consoling ’tis to feel
That Death is growing so genteel!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
THE NEW PRODIGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Would grandma write or call on Josie; dad ill
and worried and would like to see you.”—Age
Agony column.
Did grandma put her bonnet on,
Some ten years gone or more,
And, with her reckless eyes a flare,
Dance giddily adown the stair.
And vanish through the door ?
To make sheer joy her one pursuit,
Did grandma go upon the scoot ?
Oft doth the giddy prodigal
Provoke the pleading ad.
From relatives bereft of joy,
In grief about their erring boy—
A bright and merry lad
Who through a bitter world may roam
Without a friend, without a home.
But (let sob-music softly rise)
A sadder case is here!
’Tis grandma sought the hectic glow
Of lights where careless pleasures flow.
Ah. each young grandchild’s tear
Is spilled as she asks wonderingly
“Where can our wandering grandma be?”
Oh. can they get her home in time
To see her grey sons die?
Or will she unrepentant roam
Far from the one-chair-vacant home,
All heedless of the cry
Of grandsons by deep mourning riven;
“Come home, dear grandma ; all forgiven” ?
VICTORIA.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
MKBHSK
..
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin®
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
.... Easy Instair
Death Benefits. ,
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CO
Easy Instalments.
LTD.,
24 Bond Street,
Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Parbury House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, from the time it absorbed the London
Bank of Australia and purchased the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania: —
Proflts on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ j -
1921 202,976 4519 10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,440,041
1922 330,474 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 • • L 619,240,
1923 395,348 6004 124p.c.=178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 124 ~ „ 187,500 67,500 2,012,602
They were rather slow in making a start;
but things have been going very definitely
this bank’s way during the last few years.
For one thing, in addition to its fine metal
business, the “Scottish” has always _ had
a large country connection, especially in S.
Australian and other agricultural districts;
and S. Australian farmers have had nearly
a dozen from fair to very good years running.
Further, though it would probably repudiate
any suggestion that it is at all speculative,
this bank has been prepared to back its
judgment in taking risks that a good many
others wouldn’t look at; and though it has
made some substantial losses conditions have
enabled it to also make fat profits. It is
particularly well placed to make profits, any-
way; for at June 30 it had these perpetual
stocks: —
Debenture stock . . . . £983,547
Preferred inscribed stock .. 889,419
Deferred inscribed stock . . 400,000
Total .. .. £2,272,966
The average interest paid on this lot of fixed
capital is a trifle over p.c.; and if it can
make only another 2 p.c. for itself it means
over £45,000 a year. But this old clump
money, which represents deposits with the
bank at the date of the Great Smash of the
early ’nineties, is worth more than that:
it is first-rate security for further borrow-
ings, because new liabilities come in ahead
of these old debts. Realising all this, holders
of this stock have made bitter remarks of
late, protesting that it is not just that
they should be held to an old bargain in view
of the great change in the value of their 3
and 4 p.c. ¥et there W'as a time when both
the E., S. and A. and the London, now in-
corporated with it, were thought to have
handicapped themselves by the comparative
liberality of their compromise with old credi-
tors. Certainly there is no likelihood of any
variation in the terms now. The time may
again come when matters won’t seem so one-
sided. A far sounder complaint is made by
Australian shareholders, who find that they
have to pay income-tax on the Australian-
earned divs. of this bank, while the British
shareholders get their dividends tax-free.
Since the E., S. and A. took over the two
banks mentioned above its progress has been
extraordinarily rapid. This is illustrated by
these figures:—
Gross 1921. 1922 ' 1923 - 1924,
profits . . £835,720 £1,094,689 £1,251,197 £1,304,455
Expenses .. 405,065 566,326 557,039 616,279
Taxes . . 163,679 182,885 223,311 185,674
Net profit £267,976 £345,474 £470,848 £502,502
And before being thus declared the gross pro-
fits have been cut into for provision for con-
tingencies. There is a substantial internal
reserve apart from anything that may have
been built up in that way. Every year, m
accordance with the final scheme of recon-
struction, a fixed percentage of profits has
to be used to buy up deferred stock; and the
first table shows the profit made on these
transactions. For many years the practice
has been followed of writing off the amount
of stock thus purchased. Last year £59,498
bought £67,500 face value. Besides that
amount written off, £25,000 was struck off
the book value of premises ; so that through
this channel alone over £90,000 went last
year into internal reserves.
Put some balance-sheet figures in the box
next to give further evidence of progress:—
Liabilities.
1922. 1923. 1924.
Notes . .. £1,328 £1,287 £1,185
Bills, etc. . . 1,736,144 1,755,056 2,013,871
Deposits at in-
terest . . 12,621,395 13,382,621 14,251,220
Free deposits. . 11,152,026 11,820,159 11,445,535
Total . . £25,510,893 £26,959,123 £27,711,811
Liquid assets. . £11,145,259 £11,673,711 £12,119,058
Advances . . 18,950,421 20,313,043 20,720,840
Premises .. 807,652 792,933 804,980
Total . . £30,903,332 £32,779,687 £33,644,878
Of the outside liabilities no less than 43.7
d c was represented by cash and public
securities; the balance, £15,592,751, had the
backing of £20.720,840 of advances, etc., and
the premises, written down hard to £804,. 8
From the depositors’ point of view the posi-
tion is therefore strong. From the borrower s
point it is good, too. He wants a lender w m
isn't up to his lending limit, because he never
knows when his salvation may depend on
getting a few pounds more: and not only did
this bank hold as much as 43.7 of its liabili-
ties to the public liquid on June 30, but it
was just then arranging to get in from
shareholders another £750,000 (150,000 £o
shares, £3 paid, at a premium of £2). lbe
shareholder, for his part, will note
that whereas net business profits.m the past
four years have amounted to £1,40b,30U, a
loit p. c div throughout would have called
for only £678,949. That makes a high rate
of dividend look secure. All the same, the
£750,000 of new capital is going to call tor
another £93,750 p.a. if the 124 P.c. is main-
tained, and it can hardly earn half ot that.
As for security of share capital, the reserves
are now very solid; but so they ought to be
with over £20,000.000 of advances. As sug-
gested up above, that cheap debenture money
is a good profit-maker; but the share capital
has to secure its integrity.
The new 150,000 shares are to be offered
to present shareholders, one to four; pre-
mium £2. The £300,000. instead of being
pasked to reserves, is to be used to pay up
the other 600,000 shares also to £3: all will
then be paid to that figure. The payment
of calls on some shares out of a premium re-
ceived on other shares is a novelty, and not
one to be generally recommended.
* * * *
The Producers and Citizens’ Co-op.
Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd., which
began with a deficit of £14,000, being the
amount paid fin shares) to the promoters:—
Added to
July, Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Deficit.
£14,000
1921.. £33,098 Nil £54,492 £21.394 35,394
Towards
Reserves.
1922.. 84,390 £1561 78,381 4,448 30,946
1923.. 115,986 4076 88,563 23,347 7,599
• N ommal
Reserves.
1924.. 137,672 10,187 96,394 31,091 23,492
This young co. is a hustler: in four years
it has written £7,191,514 of assurances, and
during the 1923 term only the A.M.I ~
according to the Government Statist s figures,
completed more whole-life business in N. S.
Wales. But, as the big American offices
found out 20 years ago, fabulous new-busi-
ness figures are not by any means everything.
An office can pay claims only with the money
it holds on to: hence the importance of a
moderate expense rate. Since it is the forc-
ing of business which.costs the big moiiey,
the American offices were eventually limited
by law as to the amount of new business
they might take.
Certainly this co. has advantages. It. is
working in with the farmers’ co-operative
concerns: A. K. Trethowan, the leading man
in that field in N. S. Wales, has become
chairman in succession to Dr. Dan Kelly,
who is off for a spell. The comparatively
good years the farmers have lately had has
been a great help, too: not only lias this
made new business-getting easy, but it has
given the co. an exceptionally fine renewal
rate —it is claimed that there have been
only 16 p.c. of lapses for each of the past
two years.
But, notwithstanding all this, capital has
been cut into deeply to bring the co. where
it is. True, the table at. the head of these
remarks now shows nominal reserves; and
that ought to mean so much net assets in
excess of capital. But unfortunately in this
case it doesn’t. The larger the total of
policies the larger the amount the co. ought
to have laid by to meet claims that are
on the road to maturity; and how much
that reserve ought to be won’t be known till
next year, when the actuary makes his valua-
tion. ” It will then certainly be found that
a considerable amount of capital is still not
represented by tangible assets. “It is a
pleasure to report,” file directors say, “that
as a result of the year’s operations there
is a net surplus of £37,091, which added to
the balance brought forward from the pre-
vious year, brings the total assurance fund
up to £62,391.” If, however, the assurance
fund is £62,391, then, giving the office credit
for £3OOO in an investment fluctuation fund,
£38,900 of the capital of £107,186 is unrepre-
sented by tangible assets ; and to that deficit
must be added whatever amount the £62,391
is short of the required provision to meet
policy liabilities.
The future of the office depends very
largely upon the success the co. has in reduc-
ing expenses. In the Ordinary branch it is
making good progress. In 1923 new busi-
ness cost 141 p.c. of first-year premiums ; last
year 116 p.c.—still high, but the movement
the right way is very encouraging. (In
both cases it is assumed that new busi-
ness costs 10 times as much as old.). In the
Industrial branch the cost is still high—229
p.c., against the previous year's 272 p.c.
“Splendid results have been shown in this
department throughout the year,” the direc-
tors say. But the fact has to be faced that
the department worked out this way:—
Claims .. .. .. £lO4
All other outgoings ... £22,667
Total outgoings .. .. .. £22,771
Total premiums. . .. .. 9,884
Year’s deficit .. .. £12,887
And that deficit for the year is apart from
anything which should be put by to meet the
liability which is all the time accumulating
under policies.
Policy-holders are .so far anytly protected
by share capital; and it is fair to assume
that -a substantial annual surplus will now
be shown in the Ordinary . department.
Shareholders will have to wait. Queerly
enough, the prospectus dated May 1, 1920,
does not disclose the manner in which profit
was to be made for them; presumably it will
be chiefly through a percentage of the profit
which in the purely mutual office goes wholly
to the policy-holders. When the time comes
that this and similar life offices take their
cut out of the profit, they will be faced with
this question from actual and prospective
policy-holders: What are you giving us in
return? They can give something: it is quite
conceivable that four-fifths of the profit in
one type of office may be worth more than
five-fifths in the office* of the purely mutual
type. But it can only be so through
superior management—through a lower ex-
pense rate or a better selection of risks or
better investment of funds, or some of all
three. And as among the purely mutual
offices are such as the A.M.P., the other
type, to which the Producers and Citizens’
Co-op. belongs, will have something pretty
good to even equal, let alone surpass.
* * * *
North Buli.i Colliery, Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
, —Dividends—To-
Prefs. wards Re- Re-
Loss. 8 p.c. Ord. serves serves.
1915 .. £357 £2,720
Profit.
1916 .. 2,172 £B2O £1,352 4,072
1917 . . 2,417 469 1,948 6,020
1918 . . 5,236 470 4,766 10,786
1919 .. 852 470 382 11,168
Loss.
1920 .. 2,765 470 7,933
Profit. 5 p.c.
1921 .. 10,845 470 10,000 375 8,308
Loss.
1922 . 1,823 470 6,015
1923 .. 2,823 470 - 2.722
Deficit.
1924 . . 5,239 2,517
In the past year it was the four months’ strike
of the cokeworkers. In other years, it has
been other strikes. And still the directois
are not altogether down-hearted. With
formal “pleasure” they reported that de-
velopments towards the 6ft. seam stabbed
bv a bore in 1922 are encouraging. Work
is “being vigorously pushed on,” because pro-
duction costs will become lighter as the seam
thickens. Something certainly ought to be-
come lighter. The co. has a mine of
fine coking coal: but, unfortunately, de-
pendence upon coke sales means dependence
upon three lots of labor—(1) coalminers,
(2) coke-burners, (3) metal miners and
smelters; and there is rarely a time when
everywhere the whole three are at peace with
themselves and the world. Further,, metal
markets are erratic: the collapse in the
copper division and the less demand for coke
from Mt. Morgan and Kembla must have
had a serious effect on recent earnings. There
may have been some socking away of re-
venue to- provide for wear and tear and waste
at mines and works; but there doesn’t. appear
to have been much of it. Look at this com-
parison :
1915. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Debentures . . £32,000
Overdraft .. £7,870 £11,252 £lO.llB
Sundry creditors . . 8,338 8,999 9,611 5,869
Mining property,
coke works, plant 231,915 207,846 205,391 206,637
Stocks . . . ■ 3,446 9,825 10.538 10,052
Book debts . . 10.284 12,005 13,363 H,53t
Cash, War Loan.. 3,223 1,000 16< 160
But while £32,000 of debenture debt has
been paid off. capital has been increased
from £205,809 to £214,912. Apart from
fixed assets the position has thus moved since
1915:
1915. 1924.
Assets .. .. £16,953 £21,746
Liabilities .. 40,338 15,987
Excess liabilities £23,385 —~
Surplus assets .. £5,759
There is an improvement in nine years of
£29,144; and new capital accounts for
£9103 of it. This, on paper, makes the co.
only £20,041 better off than it was nine
years ago. though during that period the
£200,000 of ordinary capital has had but one
poor little 5 p.c. As suggested before, the
directors may have written off more than
necessary to cover depreciation; but. in the
circumstances it is highly improbable. The
co. hasn’t been a money-spinner; and this
Column can see nothing to suggest that there
has been a violent change in conditions to
make it one in the near future.
* * * *
Cox Brothers, Ltd., drapers and mercers,
which took over the business of Cox Bros.
Pty., Ltd., as from January 31, 1923. ihe
deficit consisted of preliminary expenses
£1459 and goodwill £3BCO: —
, Dividends— N
Prefs. Ords. Towards
Profit. 9 p.e. 8 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1924.; £9,610 £2,457 £1,941 £5,212 £127
This co., formed to take over a drapery and
tailoring business in Fitzroy (Melb.), paid
£20,800 in ordinaries (£16,920 for surplus
assets and £3SSO for goodwill), with £5OOO in
9 p.c. cum. prefs. in exchange for a deben-
ture which had been issued on the security
of the old business. The only issue to the
public was of £20,000 in 9 p.c. prefs.: £6OOO-
- of this was to go in purchase of the co.’s
freehold premises—it was owned by Dr.
Embling, managing-director B. J. Cox’s
father-in-law (the old gentleman, who was
chairman of the co., died during the year,
and was followed in the chair by sharebroker
S. B. Bagley). The capital in the business
for seven years prior to the arrival of the
co. returned 3.8, 12.7, 10.7, 39.6, 16.3, 13.3
and 16.6 p.c. p.a. The capital now in the
business won’t have to earn quite 5 p.c. to
pay the pref. div. They ought, therefore, to
be pretty sure of their interest —unless, of
course, the directors go Unwisely into debt,
and the new creditors come in ahead of the
prefs. At present the co. owes only £9798;
but, since it carries on a time-payment busi-
ness, it will be lucky if it doesn’t have to
lean on creditors for more than that. Nearly
everything depends, of course, on manage-
ment. The prefs. may lose everything if
the business doesn’t thrive, and they won’t
get more than 9 p.c. no matter how it may
thrive. Apart from a possible participation
in future share issues, their only direct
interest in big profits is that the directors
may leave some of them in the business to
better the prefs.’ security. In that respect
a fine start has certainly been made : the
ordinaries leave in the business nearly three '
times as much as they take out.
» * * >
The Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd., formerly
the Sydney Ice Skating Eink and Cold
Storage Co.: —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Divide'ds. Off. serves, ser'-es.
1915. .£10,734 10 p.c. = £7,000 £3618 £ll6 £16,276
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO . . 6,276
1916. 10,018 10 p.c. = 7,500 7700 1.094
1917.. 13,513 12i „ „ 9,375 4130 8 1,102
1918.. 13,486 124 „ „ 9,375 4105 6 1,108
1919.. 18,122 15' „ „ 11,250 4120 2752 3,560
Co. reconstructed. Visible reserves capitalised,
and assets written up by apparently £71,000
and capitalised.
1920*. 7,879 10 p.c. = 7,500 379 379
1921.. 13,466 61 „ „ 9,375 3280 811 1.190
1922.. 10,124 3} „ „ 5,625 3280 1219 2,409
1923.. 14,141* 6i„„ 9,375 3988 778 3,187
1924.. 9,639 3J „ ~ 5,625 3275 739 3,926
*Six months.
Sydney Cold Stores was the name Sydney Ice
Skating Rink and Cold Storage Co. took after
a reconstruction in 1920. The old co. bought
the freehold of the Sydney Cyclorama Co.,
which had paid a few divs. while teething
and none afterwards. The new fad, which
looked as if it, too, might have a short reign,
developed into a habit with enough people to
justify the Glaciarium in opening its doors
every winter. A cold-storage business had
been established to give the plant something
to do in the summer; and the co.’s premises
—alongside the railway and handy to Dar-
ling Harbor —were soon found to have special
advantages for handling this business. Pres-
ently what was the tail became the dog, and
the name of the co. was altered accordingly.
Last year, however,, it was a poor dog: the
N.S.W. butter country had a drought, and
this so affected the quantity of stuff put into
cold store that profits also dried up. This
spring hasn’t been a good time for cheap pro-
duction of cold-store goods either; and dear
grains and millers’ offal make things awkward
for the poultry-farmer in particular and the
dairy-farmer to some extent. Consequently
the directors can’t see any reason why the
current year should be much better than the
last; so they decided to cut down the div. and
conserve their resources. But the position
is by no means uncomfortable:—
1916. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Liquid assets .. £11,427 £23,655 £15,674 £15,619
Liabilities (i nc.
divs) . . . . 22,896 26,182 12,081 7,962
Excess liabilities £11,469 £2,527
Surplus assets.. £3,593' £7,057
In addition to these belongings there are the
fixed assets —land, £35,000 and buildings and
plant, £124,378, less £13,110 in a deprecia-
tion account. Depreciation provided out of
revenue is a matter of importance; last year
£3275 net was added —that is to say, that
much revenue was set aside to provide for
renewals and was not reckoned as profit.
Whether it was enough to balance wear and
tear the Wild Cat doesn’t know: it certainly
shouldn’t be very inadequate. But in view
of the over-strenuous writing up of assets and
capitalisation in 1920, nothing but moderate
divs. can be expected.
(Continued on page 19.)


MONKEY-GLAND REJUVENATION.
"A determined effort to Nationalism in Victoria is being made. The party has embarked on a State-wide campaign of intensive propaganda and organisation in an effort to regain lost prestige and popularity.”


“WHAT CAN I DO WITH
MY CAPITAL?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Buu.etin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/G per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.— Advt. '
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., >s
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & C’o., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
For permanent construction at lowest outlay
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the up-to-date water conduit, is
unsurpassed. Light, clean and durable, it will safely
carry all classes of fluids, including the strongest
acids and alkalis. In addition Pioneer Wood Pipe
gives greater volume of flow than any other piping.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.
* * * *
Inventors.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, -Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Mui/miix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. — Advt.
Babcock Ic Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered bv
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
A. AUBREY,
General Manager.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
narv. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \ 2/6 1/3 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN I 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end 7£d. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
Nil
2/6 1/3
CANADA . . 2/- 1/. 7d. (minimum
11/S, 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,2owords)
U.S.A. . . 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2'4
NEW
ZEALAND. . 4|d.
f N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum 'charge
] 3/- for 20 words and
I 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen’s House. Queen street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
r
&
YG
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM__
%
DT
A
■ Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26 60 Clarence St.. Sydney
The First Duty a Man Owes to Himself and His Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second Only in Importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve himseif of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.),
which has had over thirty-eight years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet, 33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Manager.
W.A. Standard Eucalyptus, Ltd. —The
vendors have the right from the W.A. Gov-
ernment to take all the eucalyptus oil they
can squeeze from 172,600 acres of malice
country near Pingrup, alongside rail, 176
miles from Albany. They estimate to get
from a first cut two tons of leaf and 601 b.
of oil per acre, ..nd more from the subsequent
sucker growth. On a first year’s expendi-
ture (capital and otherwise) of £23,011 they
expect a revenue of £7OOO and a profit of
£1271: in the second year a revenue of
£42,000 and a profit of £9634, and in the
third year a revenue of £70,000 and a profit
of £17.666. They think they can get an
average of Is. 3d. per lb. for the oil; and
in the third year they figure on an output of
500 tons. They offer 50,000 £1 shares to the
public, and take 10,000 shares and £lOOO
cash for themselves. The prospectus looks
thoroughly honest; but it should have been
more definite about the demand. By far
the greatest part of this must be expected to
come from users of the flotation process of
metal-recovery. The prospectus says: “In
this regard the oversea export would be a
main soux-ce of revenue. Broken Hill require-
ments are never satisfied by the distillers at
present operating in Australia, and recently
an order was placed in Australia from
America for 1000 tons which could not be
supplied.” Something might, however, have
been said about prices—wliat have the B.H.
axxd other cos. using the process been paying?
Certainly C. G. Hylton, superintendent of
the Zinc Corporation, who knows as much
about the flotation process and its require-
ments as anybody in the world, is one of the
directors; and that looks well. Half a dozen
lines from him might have been worth all the
rest of the prospectus put together—even in-
cluding the table showing that the oversea
export of the oil has grown from £21,000 in
1914-15 to £107,000 in 1920-21.
The prospectus of the Western Austra-
lian Bank’s new share issue is out: the
directors have sold 100,000 in London, and
offer 50,000 in Australia (with the right to
allot another 50.000 if applied for). They
are £1 shares ticketed at a premium of 305.,
and the directors think they will have no
difficulty in paying 16J p.c., which would
mean 6# p.c. on the sale price. The reserves
as at Sept. 29 were almost exactly £2 per
share; so that the premium asked for is not
excessive. As a matter of fact, assuming
that the London issue is also at 505., the
reserves will, if the whole 200,000 are issued,
amount to 38s. per share. As for divi-
dend prospects, the co. has in most recent
half-years paid at the rate of 20 p.c.; but
it has had to cut things very fine to do it.
One thing further has to be kept in mind:
this bank, following the law in Westralia,
is not entitled to oiler new shares to share-
holders only at pai\ Valuable scrip bonuses
cannot therefore be counted on.
A. E. Broue abandons the West:—
During my recent trip to Europe and America I
found that the Anglo-Persian Oil Co,, the Royal
Dutch and Shell, the Standard Oil of New Jersey,
the Vacuum Oil Co. and the Standard of California
were not in the slightest degree interested in
my Westralian proposition. Such men as Jeffries,
Major Bird, Major Watson, White, Eastlake, Wel-
bergen, Colonel Warfield, McGee, Frederick G. Clapp
and Dr. Gesters challenged the value of the con-
cessions, notwithstanding the favorable report which
had been made on the areas. Dr. Gesters in par-
ticular suggested that the lack of impervious shales
and the presence of immense porous sandstone beds
would eventually prove that whatever oil may have
existed in the area would surely be lost. And since
the porous sandstones of the Fitzroy basin are
proven to be from 10,000 to 13,000 feet thick, assum-
ing that they are underlain by impervious shales,
it would render the oil, even if present in vast quan-
tities, entirely uncommercial. 1 would like to call your
attention to one feature of the report made by Dr.
Wade. He said that three bores should be put
down to determine the question of the oil occurrence
once and for all. Did Dr. Wade advise the Federal
Government to contribute towards the cost of 'such
bores? I make no apology for Frederick G. Clapp
He knows his business and is quite able to look
after himself. I content myself with saying that,
after holding faith in the issue for so many years,
the report came as a keen disappointment; but I
accept, without reservation, Dr. Clapp’s findings,
and have already returned the whole of the options
and abandoned entirely my quest in Westralia. 1
feel sure that a less tenacious man than myself
would have abandoned the enterprise within 15 days
of its commencement; and should any “Wild Cat”
readers care to examine my files, I believe I
can convince them that the last pirate did not
disappear with the hanging of Captain Kidd. Some
of the things which were done to my expedition
and some of the impositions attempted and practised
on my party are almost unbelievable.
* * * *
Star Explorations, which has about
£30,000 invested in shares, principally Lake
View and Stars, states that the book value
of its holdings is less than current market
quotations, and that it is prepared to unload
some of them if anything good requiring capi-
tal comes along. At the annual meeting
held in London last month chairman Collier
said that two or three likely propositions
were under consideration. The co. was
formed in 1910 to acquire from the Hannan’s
Star Co. certain options over mining pro-
perty, a big pile of tailings with treatment
plant, and £lO.OOO cash and other assets.
The mining options and tailings proved un-
profitable and a financial business has since
been carried on.
* * ' * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) reports that
from August 31, 1923—from the birth, that
is, of the reconstructed co. —to
30 last receipts amounted to £370,285 and
profits totalled £34.942. Two interim divs.
of 3d. on priority shares were paid during
the year. On September 30 the co. had,
apart from mine plant, etc., over £13,000
worth of stores, £28,000 cash, £lo,ooo worth
of investments and was owed £4686. A
further div. of 3d. on priority shares was
paid on January 1.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) made a profit last year
of £298. Investments, principally Canadian
gold and silver mining shares, are valued
at £106,354. An official circular states that
the new co., to be formed to take
over Associated’s Westralian interests,
which include holdings in Associated
Northern and Wiluna Development, will
have a nominal capital of £120,000 in
600,000 shares of 4s. each, and that of the
new co. to be formed to acquire the Canadian
interests wall be £300,000 divided into
750,000 of Bs. each. The effect of the scheme
will be that each holder of 100 shares in
Associated will receive 100 shares in each of
the new cos., 25 dollar shares in Keeley silver
mines, and the same number of dollar shares
in the Vipond Consolidated.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Development, which
holds some doubtful leases and a large num-
ber of low-priced Westralian and S. African
shares, issued a report in London the other
day that, although prospects are not bright,
they may improve. Meanwhile shares are
practically unsaleable.
* * * *
Tom Laurie is to break into the N.T.
Never-Never from Hall’s Creek. His job is
to examine the country west of the Macdon-
nell Ranges to the Westralian border. Prime
Minister Bruce guarantees payment for 12
months’ supplies. In return for equipment
Laurie is to supply a report to the Federal
Government. If Ivlug or Colin Fraser or
any other of the Broken Hill chiefs were
aslied even to motor over the country it would
be a question whether they would go. If
they did, their fee would be something to
dream about. All Laurie’s knowledge of the
wilds and the risks of the trip only count up
to a grant of £2OO for food and necessaries
for a year’s work in the nastiest corner of
Australia. For the last year or two he has
been rooting around Tanami, winning coarse
gold and loving the life.
* * * #
Vimy Ridge (N.S.W.) resumed crushing
last week, about a foot of rain having fallen
in the Bega district. But water is not
everything. The driving of the lower tunnel,
for which Government aid has been obtained,
should simplify ore handling to such an
extent that further reasons for non-payable
yields should be .difficult to rake up. It
seems to be a case of now or never with
Vimy Ridge.
* * fr *
Cautious A. P. Penman examined a 49-
acre gold-mining area near Stuart Town
(N.S.W.) in December, .and his report states
that the only possible gold-bearing body is
the n.-w. and s.-e. vein. A winze sunk off
the reef 20ft. below the upper-tunnel level
at 100 ft. “has just reached the main reef,
but has not penetrated it. The gold values
here are exceedingly rich, much of the ore
being in the form of specimens. The reef
contains so much coarse gold that, being
only partly exposed, it was considered in-
advisible to sample. A very rich reef has
been located, but practically no development
work done to prove width or extent of these
values.” Penman says of this: “The appa-
rently unkindly quartz in the reef carries
pay values in fine gold, while the face is in
specimen ore. The type of deposit is not
generally favorable to permanent values.
However, the presence of the high-grade ore
renders it advisable to prospect the occur-
rence. It is recommended that the winze
be sunk a further 50ft. and the reef tested
by drives.” Promoter McFadzean, however,
wasn’t out after a development co., and his
reply to the expert was an elaborate pros-
pectus for a £45,000 co. with an Orange
directorate. The document mentions 80,000
vendors’ shares fully paid to 55., and 100.000
contribs. paid to 2s. on allotment. The show
will bear the title of the Manna Hill G. M.
co.. N.L. McFadzean forecasts dividends
during the first six months “if crushings
make them possible.” Which is a safe
enough promise.
* * * *
Peak Mines. Cobar (N.S.W.), reporting to
Dec. 31, says that, the Conqueror shaft
having been renovated, 81 tons of ore have
been hauled, grab samples averaging 14dwt.
gold and soz. silver. Chairman W. 8.
Curteis tells shareholders that the policy
has been to justify the prospectus, and that
in accord therewith the development scheme
is to open up the east and west lodes above
water level. Thus the main north drive at
226 ft. was continued over 100 ft. in an effort
to pick up the downward continuation of
four known ore shoots which had been worked
down to slides and left there. Two of the
shoots have been located, the core of the
first being 20 feet long and 15 inches wide,
giving assay values of 3500 z. silver and 91
dwt. gold to the ton. The second shoot
averaged loz. gold and 3oz. silver where
driven through. The west lode offered the
best results; the eastern was disappointing.
* * * *
Frnest Bails, superintendent of Mt. Isa,
has submitted a long report covering the
period from the start in April last
to Dec. 31. Summarised —
Development was directed mainly to the four
main ore bodies: Black Star, Black Rock, Rio
Grande and Mt. Isa. Every foot of the 5565 ft. of
development work was sampled. The existence of
zinc in the sulphide zone was verified. Prom the
extreme bottom of No. 10 shaft, a sample gave
30 p.c. lead, lOoz. silver and 19 p.e. zinc. An
average as high as that could not be expected; the
result is taken as indicating that the zinc will not
displace the lead, but will be additional to it. The
lead appears to hold its average in the deeper
ground. In the Black Star, as well as in every other
tested ore body, the silver contents improved when-
ever more galena occurred in the ore, which points
to a higher silver average when the sulphide ore
has been opened up.
Bails calculates the tonnage of ore for 100 ft.
of vertical depth thus: —
, —Grade N
Lead. Silver.
Length. Width. Tons. p.c. oz.
Black Star.. 800 100 690,000 12.30 3.30
Rio Grande.. 050 35 200,000 15.03 5.00
Black Rock.. 550 30 165,000 28.00 15.00
Mount Isa . . 600 12 64,000 12.20 2.50
His total is 1,119,000 tons of 15.09 p.c. lead
and 5.280 z. silver. The lodes in the sulphide
zone are to be tested as soon as necessary
machinery lias been installed, and the matter
of sinking the main shafts will come up for
consideration shortly.
* * * *
From one of the old hands: —
It docs not come as a surprise to those who know
Misima to learn that a local syndicate is making a
success of things. 11l luck and bad management
seemed to be the lot of the Block 10 Co. from
the start. When treatment operations commenced
it was found that the semi-oxidised high-grade ire
above the “Tunnel” level could not be treated by
cyanide. This considerably reduced the value of
the ore sent to the mill, and also reduced the
number of stopes from which suitable ore could be
obtained. Mainly owing to lack of money, stones
and levels were allowed to get into a bad way, and
ore often had to be handled two or three times
before being shovelled into the shoots from which it
was trucked to the plant. The total result was that,
although there was a staff and plant capable of
handling 7000 tons a month, not much more than
half that quantity went to the mill. Power costs
were high owing to dearness of fuel, although there
is sufficient water available at a distance of three
or four miles to supply 3-400 h.p. It would be
interesting to know the value of the residues by the
present method of working. The future of Misima
depends on the development of the mine at depth.
There are strong indications that it will turn into
a lead-zinc proposition, probably with some copper.
It is problematical whether the gold and silver
values will hold —lumps of galena-blende show very
little silver and practically no gold on assay—but
whether this will be so with the finer mineral re-
mains to be seen. In the oxidised ore the silver
content was four to five times that of the gold, and
rerussite and pyrpmorphite were fairly common ; the
bullion had a value of very little over 20s. in
gold, the balance being nearly all silver. When
Block 10 ceased operations, the shaft had been sunk
100 feet below the “Tunnel” level, but no work was
done to prove what was there.
• * * *
The Kawarau River gold-mining scheme
has gripped Maoriland. Most of the shares
of the several cos. concerned were subscribed
in a few days. The scheme is to dam the
Kawarau River (Otago) at Lake Wakatipu
and the Shotover River 25 miles from its
mouth, reducing the Kawarau to a mere
trickle. This will enable the cos. to get at
the bed of the river. Years ago .Tulius Vogel
wrote a futurist yarn detailing how enough
gold to pay several war debts was found on
the bed of the Kawarau. This book, .coupled
with the co-operation of the present M.L.
Minister for Mines, has done the trick, and
the Rickety Isles are lusting for the truck-
loads of nuggets that are to be gathered
when damming operations commence next
winter. It is a very fair gamble.
*.* * *
Taranaki Co.’s No. 1 well rig at Tarata
(M.L.) is nearly ready, and No. 2 at
Moturoa is under construction. Drilling
will probably commence at the end of the
week. The Baillieu group never felt surer
about any gamble.
* * * *
Rawang (F.M.S.) announces that the
bucket dredge should be running in March.
The 14-inch electric sluicing plant is to be
kept in commission. The practice has been
for the sluicing plant to run about 10 weeks
before cleaning up. and then spend other
weeks in shifting site. The dredge will be
electrically driven, fitted with .iig classifiers,
and capable of turning over 120,000 yards a
month. Official estimates present the con-
cern with 200 tons oxide for the first half-
year. For the sake of those who are holding
"the co.’s paper at 3s. 6d. on a 2s. Bd. market
it is hoped that yet another estimate will not
be shattered by results.
* * * *
Austral Malay’s new area consists of 320
acres at Puchong. Depth is 59ft, and the tin-
oxide content is reported to average two-
thirds lb. Those measurements represent
over 30 million cubic yards of dredging
material, and, in the opinion of the Board,'
would warrant two large dredges, for which
it would provide 10 years’ work. A large
area of swampy land, probably of lower
grade, is to be prospected.
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor, the property which held
the lamp 15 years ago and guided Australian
capital into the tin-dredging business in Siam
and thereabouts, has got another concession
from the Siamese Government. Chelong
Bay, an adjacent coastal indent, will be ex-
ploited over an area of 1100 acres, No. 6
dredge being requisitioned for the purpose.
Another new area of 440 acres at Bidon, in
the F.M.S., is also mentioned. For this
area Nos. 2 and 3 dredges will be shifted
and the magnitude of the job may be assessed
from the fact that Bidon is 250 miles south
of Tongkah. The reserves of the co., which
have been stated at from £70,000 to £BO,OOO,
will be effectively eaten into under the new
arrangements; but if the new areas are in
any way comparable with the old, share-
holders will not need anybody’s sympathy.
The 150,000 20s. shares in the co. have re-
turned £4 10s. in dividends, and have seen
as much as 70s. in the market. The current
price of tin and the narrowing margin be-
tween supply and demand are favorable fac-
tors which were not present during Tong-
kah’s working history.


IT IS YOUR BANK
BECAUSE
IT is founded on Australia for Australia, is guaranteed by your
own Commonwealth Government, and its interests are your
interests.
It has Branches in the principal towns and its Savings Bank
service extends to every Money-Order Post Office.
In your own Bank, therefore, you have absolute stability and
highly efficient service.
Cemmomraltl.'
&nfc* ( 3ustraKa
0
Oil
"KING GEORGE IV.” WHISKY
Acknowledged to be
99
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
CajQQMQQQQSSIDQ
m
WtfM
□cua
&w
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Just-dead Senator Power first came into
prominence in the Labor movement in 1916,
on W. M. Hughes’s return from England.
Recognising that Hughes intended to advo-
cate conscription, Power formed the Anti-
Conscription League in association with
C. C. Lazzarini, W. J. O’Brien (now*
M’s.L.A.) and others. An office was taken
in Rawson Chambers, Sydney, and from
there the first shots were fired in the cam-
paign that was to divide Australia into two
camps. Afterwards the league was absorbed
by the No-Conscription Council, the office
was removed to Macdonell House, and
Power became joint-secretary of the larger
organisation. Many people will disagree
FRED JOHNS, leader of the Parliamentary
Hansard staff, South Aus., and author
of “Who’s Who in Australia.”
with Power’s views and the stand he took
during the war years, but no one in close
association with the man ever questioned
his sincerity. He was the first secretary of
the industrial section of.the A.L.P., anil he
and Arthur Rae were mainly responsible
for the anti-war resolutions carried at the
inter-State Labor Conference at Perth in
1918. Power later edited the Labor News,
and conducted the negotiations for the acqui-
sition of the now defunct Daily Mail by
the Labor movement and its subsequent issue
as the Labor Daily. He was to have been
secretary of the new paper, but already the
White Plague had gripped him too firmly.
John Goodwyn, who died in Sydney a
few days ago, was just about the most bril-
liant man any English insurance office ever
sent to Australia. But he shouldn’t have
left his head-office: he was a man whose
plans and schemes ought always to have been
passed to some trusted sobersides for an
aye or a nay. He hadn’t been long in Aus-
tralia before he became manager for the
Ocean Accident Corporation. Practically
nothing had been done here up to that time
in accident assurance; and many of the
agreements, etc., now in use were drafted
by Goodwyn. Later again he was first In-
surance Commissioner in Queensland, and
did the foundation-laying in that office; and
when he retired from that he joined the
A.P.A. in Sydney. That service failing him,
he tired of insurance, and went into a motor-
sales business. Kidney trouble had been
threatening him for some years, and he died
untimely at 51.
Cabled that a London firm will presently
publish Dame Nellie Melba’s reminiscences.
They go back over half a century, for the
Dame was born in 1863, and at 10 years of
age she recited at “Penny Readings” in Rich-
mond (Vic.). She was married at 17.
The addition of Dave Gordon gives S. Aus.
IS knights. The oldest are Langdon Bony-
thon, Dr. Cockburn, Josiah Symon and
Lancelot Stirling. Of the 13 others Keith
Smith. 34, is the youngest.
John McWhae, ex-Agent for Vic., may
have a shot at the
South-Western Pro-
vince seat for the
Dreary House if
Austin, who is ill,
decides not to re-
nominate in May.
Some previous en-
voys, notably Mur-
ray Smith, Berry
and Gillies, secured
re-election to the
Assembly on their
return. So there
are precedents if
this useful citizen
wants any.
C. J. DE GARIS,
of the frenzied
finance, the
report of whose
suicide, written
by himself, proved,
to he exaggerated.
Robert William Spence, the gentle old
archbishop who looks after the R.C.’s in
Adelaide, has just brought up 64 on Time’s
scoring board. A native of Cork, he sailed
at an early agfe to Spain, where he entered
the Dominican Order, and, returning to Ire-
land, put in 12 years giving missions through-
out the distressful country. Twenty-six years
ago he came to the Holy City and was Prior
of his Order when veteran Archbishop
O’Reilly laid down the crozier; and the
parish priests of Adelaide archdiocese de-
clared for the little Dominican.
The appointment of J. Mcßae, M.A., as
chief inspector of the Vic. Education Depart-
ment was received gleefully by hundreds of
back-block teachers, girls and men. Jock, as
they call him, was a fountain in the wilder-
ness to students of the Never-Never. A line
to him from a girl-teacher in educational
trouble meant her name being inscribed in
a well-filled pocket-book, and ever-recurring
eyclostyled hints, notes and what-not would
find their way to her. Director Tate warned
him at one time to take a pull, for if he
went out through overwork, with no pen-
sion rights, the Department could only rule
a red-ink line through his name and write
a letter of consolation to his widow. As
principal of the Teachers’ Training College
he followed each ex-student up. urging
further effort. His rise has been quick, and
the whole service chants “Good luck” in
unison.
S.A.’s new Agent-General will be the
twelfth of the line. Of the eleven four sur-
vive—Dr. Cockburn (75), A. A. Kirkpatrick
(77), Fred Young (49) and Edward Lucas
(07).
“Seebee” : It must have been with mixed
feelings that Dr. Deeper, president of the
trustees of Melbourne Public Library, ap-
peared before Dr. Argyle, Chief Sec., the
other day to ask for a grant for repairs.
Deeper was warden of Trin. Col. when the
revolt of students, of whom Argyle was one,
occurred. An inquiry by an Anglican com-
mittee followed, and Argyle went to Eng-
land to complete his training as a medical
man. On his return he took action which
forced the effacement of the disciplinary de-
cree made against him when a student. So
far as the close friends of Deeper and Argyle
know they had not met for 30 years till
they shook hands as deputationist and Min-
ister. Probably the ex-warden is secretly
proud of his old pupil, and Argyle certainly
admires the grand old educationist. I won-
der if Deeper and Federal Minister Atkinson
(another of the Trinity “rebels”) have
“made it up” yet.
Greenwood, Vic.'s high priest of Cold Tea,
is not living up to the expectations of his
Methody friends. In 1920, when he had
been three years in the Leg. Assembly, he
laid the foundation stone of a chapel at
Mornington, and he was described on it as
the “Hon. E. W.” Since then we have had
six Ministries, but Greenwood, though doubt-
less willing to join five of them, has not been
given a chance to earn the “Hon.” prefix.
Still, the stone keeps on prophesying.
M. P. Hansen, Vic. Chief Inspector of
Secondary Schools, whose status is second
to that of Frank Tate. Director, has had
his screw raised from £BOO to £lOOO a year.
Tate will probably get a lift from £1250 to
£l5OO, and then he will be on a level with
Smith, of N.S.W., who used to be £l5O
below him.
John Gray, who departed for Shadowland
the other day, was 13 years in the Vic. Leg.
Assembly as member for Swan Hill, and was
honorary Minister in the second Watt and
second Peacock Governments. For two years
before being defeated in 1917 he was Whip
of the reconstructed Peacock Ministry. It
was P. G. Stewart, now M.11.R., who shifted
Gray. Sjtewart was one of the first Cocky
batch ot four in the Assembly, When
Stewart got into the Reps, he turned the
Swan Hill seat over to fellow-worker Old,
who still has it.
Maoriland’s “recipients of royal favor”
at the New Year are all native-born. Lawyer
Christopher Parr, Minister of Education,
first cried for comfort at Cambridge, Auck-
land, in 1869; Frederick Truby King, M.L.’s
great baby-saver, was born in New Plymouth
in 1858; and Frank Milner, rector of Wai-
taki High School, near Oamaru, saw his
first dawn at Nelson in 1875.
Major Shillington, who until last Parlia-
ment represented Western Suburbs in the
N.S.W. Assembly, and then lost his seat to
Ness, of the Protestant Brotherhood, because
he wasn’t sufficiently yellow, didn’t pine long
over, his defeat. Although he’d reached an
age when men begin to take things easy, he
qualified for the Bar, and is at present hard
at work compiling a legal text-book dealing
with motor-cars.
N. S. Wales lost one of its veteran wool-
buyers when F. R. Hawke died. The busi-
ness he started at Inverell (N.S.W.) 27
years ago expanded under his direction into
a company that traded all over the middle-
and north-west. With all his activities he
still found time to indulge in sport, and some
Randwick Noses have vivid memories of the
time Old John took out five of seven hurdle
races on the occasion of his first descent on
Metropolitan courses.
Queensland police have lost a friend with
the retirement of Commissioner “Paddy”
Short, a grey-bearded gentleman, who knew
when not to he just a policeman. His kindly
nature endeared him to the force, and the
fact that he rose from the ranks, which he
joined in 1878, proved him to be the right
stuff.
Recently A. S. Dunsmore Cribb, of the
great Crihb and Foote family, of Ipswich
(Q.), died suddenly at the close of a Con-
gregational Church meeting at Milton, Bris-
bane. Fifty-one years ago his brother, Benja-
min _ Cribb, shocked the congregation of
Ipswich’s Independent Church by expiring
in its back yard.
Bob Solly, Labor member for Carlton, suc-
ceeds the late J. W. Billson as chairman of
Vic. Parliamentary Committee on Railways.
He is to hold the job for six months, and
then each of the other five is to have a turn
for a half-year. The chairman’s pay is
£3OO a year, and the other five members of
the committee draw £240 each —in addition,
of course, to their pay as legislators. Solly
has been in the House for nearly 21 years,
and has had nothing but a seat on the Rail-
way Committee for a few years and the
unpaid job of Deputy-Chairman of Com-
mittees.
S. E. Fay, son of Sir Sam, who was secre-
tary of the Royal Commission appointed to
inquire into N.S.W. and M.L. railways, is
to be chief of the Operations Branch of the
M.L. tracks. He was a schoolboy in Eng-
land, and a student at McGill University in
Montreal; accompanied railway commissions
to Germany, Austria, Canada and America;
and was deputy assistant-director-general of
movements and railways in Paris during the
war. The London division of the Great Cen-
tral Railway, the San Paulo railway in
Brazil and the Canadian National railways
are amongst some of the jobs this useful
nomad has been on.
State-school teachers all over N. S. Wales
had their holiday robbed of some of its plea-
sure when word passed round that big, good-
hearted W. M. Kennedy had suddenly an-
swered to the call. Beginning as a pupil-
teacher, he worked through bush appoint-
ments till he finished up as a metropolitan
inspector. During the Big Clash lie got
busy with Red Cross activities, and proceeded
overseas at his own expense and on his holi-
day leave to further the interests of the
Digger.
The man who
had slipped lost a
sane and finder-
standing champion
the other day when
C. E. Matthews,
M.L. Under-Secre-
tary for Justice
a n d Controller-
General of Prisons,
passed out sud-
denly. His book,
“Evolution of the
New Zealand Pri-
son System,” con-
tains the result of
a lifetime’s experi-
ence.
TATE, Vic.
Director of Edu-
cation, on his way
to Maoriland to
act as chairman
of a Commission to
inquire into inter-
mediate and second-
ary education.
When Walter E. Wearne, N.S.W. Minister
for Lands, was first elected, in 1917, the volu-
bility of many of the younger members so dis-
gusted him that after he had finished a short
declaration-of-faith speech he told the House
that henceforward he would be a silent
member. He kept his word more or less by
working rather than talking his way to the
front. At nearly 60 he has energy enough
to don cricketing flannels and take the out-
field ; nevertheless he declares that the next
Parliament, if he is in it, will be his last.
Squatter A. A. Austin, who is ill, will not
stand again for the South-Western Province
in Vic.’s Dreary House. Donald Mackin-
non and John McWhae, ex-envoys to U.S.A.
and London, won’t contest, the seat. Ritchie,
Mayor of Geelong, is therefore going to have
a shot at it, and he will have arrayed ag’in
him one or two Cocky candidates. Under
the F.U. rules there is nothing to prevent
any number of Hayseed aspirants going to
the poll. Even Allan, the leader, is not
immune to attack from his own crowd.
About a .statesmen’s hoodoo :
AVhat a harvest the Grim Reaper has garnered
from the personnel of the Federal Parliament since
its inception! The death of Senator Power furnishes
the second instance of a Federal member going wes\
before he had taken his seat or been sworn in. In
the other case the late C. R. llowroyd had just
emerged from the 1917 elections as the chosen of
Darwin (Tas.) when he was called. Holder
(S.A.), during a boisterous all-night sitting,
fell from his seat and never spoke again. E. A.
Roberts (S.A.), after delivering an impassioned
speech, walked from the chamber and dropped dead.
Senator Guthrie (S.A.) disputed the right of the
road with one of Melbourne’s cable trams. Jemmy
Hutchinson (S.A.) was on his way to attend a
meeting of the House when he was stricken down
and died. E. L. Batchelor (S.A.), one time Minister
for Home and Territories, dropped dead whilst out
on a walking excursion with some friends. Senator
Adamson (Q.) was. cut to pieces by a train, and
G. B. Edwards (N.S.W.) was killed by an acetylene
gas explosion. The youthful ex-Postmaster-General
C. E. Fraser attended a race-meeting at Caulfield
on a Saturday, and on the following Tuesdaj' his
body was lying in State at Parliament House. Big
Jim Page (Q.) passed away in his sleep after a
turbulent sitting of the House of Reps. E. Lons-
dale'(N.S.W.) was killed in a motor accident, and
T. J. Ryan died whilst out on an electioneering
campaign. The body of R. Howe (N.S.W.) was
found in one of Sydney’s streets, and first Prime-
Minister Barton died in his bath.
Though he was always a dignified and cul-
tured speaker and a ready and effective debater
in Parliamentary controversies, the late Staf-
ford Bird’s early training as a Congrega-
tional parson accounted for a gentleness in
his speech and demeanor which rather dis-
advantaged him among political fighters like
Edward Braddon, John Dodds, A. I. Clark
and other keener (and perhaps less scrupu-
lous) contemporaries. But he was always
a prominent man of affairs until he quietly
dropped out of his safe Leg. Council seat
a year ago, because of increasing physical
infirmities. Twenty-five years ago he put
up a great lone-hand fight against Tasmania’s
acceptance of the Federal Convention scheme,
and lived long enough to see his prophecy
that Tasmania would find herself in financial
trouble if she accepted the Federal terms
come true. But the old man’s triumph was
tinged with melancholy, for of all his dearly-
loved front-rank opponents of those strenu-
ous days not one remained to congratulate
him.
HEROES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The barrackers forget to talk,
Ringed round the shaven green;
Each fieldsman —an expectant hawk —
Hovering, bronzed and keen,
Awaits the batsman’s drive. Two more
Will make a century his score.
From ground and pav. a strangled cry—
The bails are scattered wide!
Smiling disdain on sympathy,
He hides his hurt with pride.
He missed his century by two,
But fought defeat and put it through.
The waiting weeks are done at last—
The numbers posted up.
One scans the lucky list of “Passed,”
And finds; “Allowed a supp....
In March to 99 in Hist”....
He reads it through a blinding mist.
No solace from the cheering Grand,
No press to gild his name;
The lists in which lie hoped to stand
Are not the lists of fame.
But his lean jaws are firmly set —
“Ploughed am I? Well, I’ll do it yet!”
There’s Billjim on his block of land
Ten leagues from anywhere,
Locust and rabbit, sun and sand
Smiting his acres bare.
He broods upon his lumpy bed
Within his sweltering iron shed.
Most bitter are the thoughts of Jim,
Salt sweat is on his brow.
“A Land for Heroes” landed him—
Well, where you see him now.
But, seasoned in the fires of France,
He yields no inch to circumstance.
Merit denied the envied bays,
Defeat that scorns to yield !
Here stand my heroes; theirs the praise
Who take anew the field.
The felon days they yet shall spoil
And guerdon grace their burning toil!
VICTOHIA.
WAWHERESH.


Ills the flavour you’ll favour
■
¥<'»***'
Tobacco Competition
£lOOO
IN PRIZES
SAVE THE COUPONS.
Save the Coupons placed in each tin or packet of “Main-Top” Tobacco;
each of them entitles you to send in a forecast for the Competition.
For each of the Five Test Matches played in December, January and
February, £2OO is being given in prizes to those who send the correct
or nearest forecast of the respective results.
FULL DETAILS ON EVERY COUPON,
Here are the remaining Test
Match dates—be sure your Coupons
are posted in time to reach the
Company on the day before each
match is commenced. The dates of
commencement are as follow:
Played at
3rd Test—January 16 .. Adelaide
4th Test—February 13.. Melbourne
sth Test—February 27. . Sydney
The £2OO prize money for each
Test Match will be distributed as
follows:
1 st Prize . , . . ..£lOO
2nd Prize . . . . . . £5O
3rd Prize . . . . . . £2O
10 Prizes each £2 . . . . £2O
Tobacconist’s Prize . . . . £lO
£2OO
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
. '


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service ft la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
Pii
MiOii
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
“UNIVERSAL”
Electric Home Needs,
manufactured by .
Messrs. LANDERS, FRARY & CLARK,
have for over 50 years served to banish drudgery
and bring new comforts to thousands of homes.
Ranges
Stoves
Cookers
Toasters
Coffee Percolators
Coffee Mills
Teapots
Kettles
Urn Sets
Samovars
Hot Plates
Griddles
Vacuum Cleaners
Laundry Washers
Irons
Water Heaters
Washing Machines
Soldering Irons
Immersion Heaters
Heating Pads
Glue Pots
Curling Tongs
Radiators
Chafing Dishes
Meat Choppers
Grinders.
Waffle Irons
Ovens
Grillers
Urns
‘‘UNIVERSAL”
wrinkle-proof iron, one
of the latest products
of the great “Univer-
sal” line.
UNI\ ERSAL ’ Home Needs will return their cost many times over in honest worth and good
service.
Distributors and Factory Representatives:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.,
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and NEWCASTLE.
XMAS GIFTS
Tae Famous Browning F.I.X. .22
’Cal. Automatic Rifle. Fires 11 ordinary
Short Cartridges as fast as you can pull the
trigger. Easily taken apart and cleaned from
the breech end. Wonderfully accurate. 80/-
Also the same Model, to fire 8 ordi-
nary .22 Cal. Long Rifle Cartridges.
Accurate up to 200 yards 95/-
Single-shot Rifle, .22 Cal., by same
makers A splendid, reliable and accurate
rifle. Take-down model. The cheapest good
rifle obtainable 25/-
SPECIAL CATALOGS OF GUNS, RIFLES,
TENNIS, FISHING TACKLE, HUNTING
KNIVES, ETC.
“AP” Freshlv-loaded Gun Cartridges give best
results, it will pay you to get out list
JUST OUT. —New English Air Pistol, by Web-
ley and Scott, very reliable. Write for par-
ticulars 57/6
GUN AND CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 Ijittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGINALITIESM
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Parama”: Re camouflage in fish, men-
tioned by “Te Whare” (B. 18/12/’24). The deadly
stonefish practises the trick, changing in color from
a light sandy shade to a greenish bronze. The
change is rapid, taking place within a few minutes.
His trick of digging in, and partly' covering himself,
makes it doubly difficult to spot him, even when
the water is still and glass-clear. There is a fish
haunting the northern portion of the Barrier Reef
that sports a brilliantly colored overcoat worked in
jazz patterns. When cornered or frightened he
fades out, taking on a dull greyish appearance that
enables him to escape easily amongst the disturbed
mud and sand in the coral pools. Caught quickly
in a net, and landed on deck, he lies without a
wriggle, his bright coloring vanishing almost im-
mediately'. One of New Guinea’s smaller tree-frogs
has the knack of assuming the color of whatever
it happens to be squatting on. Singing its evening
song while clinging to the brown tree trunk, it is
brown-skinned; disturb it, and it springs to some
broad green leaf, becoming as green as the leaf
almost as soon as it lands. As a quick-change
artist this chap will take a lot of beating.
“Bouragi”: “R.B.’s” aboriginal account of
how man got fire, etc. (B. 25/12/’24), somewhat
resembles a legend prevalent along the Gulf of
Papua. There the Prometheus was a lady in “the
altogether,” who suddenly descended from the sky
and told a gentleman, busy eating raw fish, that she
had come to be his wife. He demurred, explaining
that he already had a wife at his village some dis-
tance away. The heavenly visitor, however, would
take no denial, and, bringing fire, hitherto unknown
to mortals, taught him how to cook his fish. She
also brought eocoanuts, sago and other strange fruits
to the earth. Later, becoming bored of his com-
pany, she told him to go back to the bosom of his
lawful family, and then she returned whence she had
come. Realising that if he took home the eocoanuts,
bananas, etc., a satisfactory explanation of how he
got them might be difficult, the returning wanderer
buried them before entering his village. In time
they grew and bore fruit, the first seen on earth.
How the prodigal explained his knowledge of fire I
never heard.
* * * *
“Dry” • i watched a black snake making
towards a green toad. The wriggler anticipated an
easy catch. The toad saw the enemy coming, but
made no effort to escape. When the crawler was on
the point of grabbing its breakfast, the toad spat a
mouthful of slime into his enemy’s eyes, and it
wriggled off so fast that it missed the caress of
my most affectionate waddy. As a child I was told
that if a toad spat in one’s eyes it would mean
blindness. Is there anything at all in that old wheeze?
* * * *
“McSlc.”: “Coral’s” fear that the light
recently placed on Bramble Cay will scare away
any turtles intent upon egg-laying does
not seem to be well founded. Two years
ago Frank Hurley and a mate spent more
than a week encamped on that same cay,
making pictures of its rich coral gardens
by day and ot turtles on the beach by’
night. A powerful benzine lamp hung
from the ridge-pole of their tent at night
as a beacon for the master of their
cutter, except when they had it on the
sand to study the extraordinary process
of digging-in, of several nesting turtles.
The ladies were so intent upon their jobs
that the glare of the brilliant lamp did
not disturb them, even when placed in
front of, or to one side of, the nester.
It was anticipated that the blinding flash
of magnesium explosive when photograph-
ing would scare mother greenback some-
what, but evidently the urge behind 150
eggs was sufficient to discountenance any
fear. She went right ahead, digging
two huge pits in succession, from each of
which a cartload of sand was shifted, and
then, apparently dissatisfied, moving on to
clear out a third. In this a small well
was sunk by extraordinary manipulations
of her hind flippers, and when completed,
was filled with soft-shelled eggs. Then
she covered all traces of her labors with a
barrage of sand thrown back from her big
front flippers, and moved forward in such
a way that the exact location of the nest
was completely camouflaged. When the
neighboring beach was levelled off with a
layer of thrown sand, Mrs. Greenback
made off to the sea in a scries of slow
and laborious jerky strides.
“Walga”: “Yarram” (B. 1/3/’25) met a
different brood of grasshoppers from those that
lately cleaned up the Central West (N.S.W.) if
they let lucerne alone, as this has been the first
green thing they have gone for about Coonanible. 1
had a patch which I proudly showed one morning.
When I got home that afternoon only bare stalks
were left; the hoppers had not then started on
grass or vegetables, which they have since eaten
right out. They have greatly increased the risk
of bush fires, for where the long and abundant grass
was more than half green, they have eaten the
green, and what they spared is drying quickly,
and would burn almost everywhere. I travelled
about 1 0 miles a few days ago, and saw them in
millions all the way. The only growth not touched
appears to be saltbush. Incidentally, in the town
they have invaded many houses and played havoc
with carpets, curtains and upholstery.
* * * *
“Wessel”; What is the world’s record for
deep diving without a dress? It has been claimed
for the 56 feet put up (or down) by a native of
the island of Santa Catalina, off the coast of Cali-
fornia, named Adargo. He has stayed under water
three minutes, but longer spells than that are
claimed for some of the native divers of Torres
Strait and for the pearlers of the Persian Gulf
and the Paumotus.
“Wai-hoi”: Can anyone put me on to bet-
ter ant-resisting wood than the Northern Territory l
cypress pine and ironwood, or the raspberry jam-
wood that rules the roost far and wide through
W.A.’s agricultural belt? You can still find in
the Territory survey pegs of pine or ironwood
put in by l South Aus. surveyors back in the ’sixties
SHORT CIRCUIT.
“My dear boy, you’ll never do any good with wireless until you
wash your face.”
“Why, Dad?”
“Well, when you put the ’phones on you’ll get a dead earth.”
as sound as the day they were driven. At Toodyay
(W.A.) I lately saw jamwood posts that had
stood in the ground for 50 years without showing
a sign of ants or dry rot. Jarrah w'on’t last a wee.i
when it comes to a scrap with the Territory white
ant, but there’s something in both cypress and
ironwood that gives the wily termite the eolly-
wobbles. Though the ironwood is invaluable from
a timber point of view, its foliage plays old Harry
with stock. When camels or goats have had some
of the young leaves for breakfast, things happen.
In from Wyndham, where the Afghans still carry
most of the gear for inside stations on their camels,
care is taken to avoid any spot where ironwood
bosses the forest show.
* * * *
“Fitz”: How’s this for a record? A. J.
Lyndon, of near Wingham, N.S.W. North Coast,
has a Muscovy duck that has just celebrated its
23vd birthday. It is full feathered, and- looks
good enough for another 23 years. To what age
can the Muscovy duck live? Cockatoos carry on for
100 years; can ducks do the same?
* * * *
“Up Top” : What curious sense is it that
makes men when perishing of thirst dispense with
all clothing? In a wandering bush life I’ve been
present at the finding of 18 men who had died of
thirst. In every case their poor torn bodies were
stripped of clothes. It almost seems as if the
mind reverts to its first state. Why lost men should
invariably travel in a circle is another hard thing
to understand ; there are very few men who, if
without bushmanship enough to pick out landmarks,
will not travel in the unavailing circle. Most
people lose their heads completely when “bushed,”
but this does not explain the fatal circling.
* * * *
“Munjong”; The starling hereabouts
(Sou’-West N.S.W.) threatens to rival the rabbit
for the title of “most undesirable immigrant.” The
birds are increasing at an alarming rate, and all
appears to be grist which comes to their mill. Last
year I dug out a burrow in a small paddock of
water-melons, killed and skinned about 10 rabbits,
and threw them in a heap outside the fence. AVhilst
I was away at dinner a large flock of starlings
visited the paddock, and, after eating all the ripe
melons, picked the rabbit bones clean and then ad-
journed to an adjacent paddock and took about half
a bushel from- each of the top bags of a load of
wheat. What was left of that top layer had to
be re-bagged, as the original sacks were pulled
almost to pieces.
* * * *
“1.L.1.”: I think the native gains un-
earned credit in the matter of superior eyesight.
It was wonderful to note in the Desert campaign
how in a couple of years the eyesight of the
Aussie troops developed. At the outset an Arab
would contemptuously point out to us smeary
brown things creeping among smeary brown hills
on a smeary brown horizon, and count correctly
their number and give their names, to the confusion
of the white soldiers. In two years the white soldiers,
if still alive, could do exactly the same. It was
simply a matter of the development of the vision in
open-country fighting, where if an outpost’s eyes were
not continually alert their owner was likely not
to want them any longer.
“Dr. Nil”: I don’t
know whether mango-trees
bring fleas (B. 18/12/’24),
but I do know that, when
we came to Ooonabarabran
(N.S.W.), in 1879, I
assisted in building our
dwelling-house of “colonial
pine,” cut and sawn in the
neighboring bush, and ha:!
a lively experience. We
had not moved into it
many days before we dis-
covered we were not the
only residents, the others
being Norfolk-Howards in
thousands. In justice to
the family I must state
that we did not take
them in, nor, I think, did
the other builders. We
were told at the time that
tlie insects came from the
bush with freshly-cut pine
I certainly used to smel!
them when riding through
pine scrub. But there may
be a fallacy in this, be-
cause the diamond-backed
May-bug was common in
the district, and it has
the same sickening odor.
Also, 1 have found the
pests in old shanties unin-
habited for years. My
daughter, who was nursing
at Salonika during the
Rumpus, told me that
some newly-built hutments
immediately swarmed with
them, the only remedy
being to burn the places
down. Many years ago
there was a plague of fleas
in the lower north of S.
Aus., during which th.y
were so numerous you
could sweep them into
heaps. They disappeared
as suddenly as they cam. 1 .
“S.C.” : One of the richest finds in the
tucker line a northern abo. can light upon is an
egg mound of the jungle-fowl ( Megapodius, i. s.,
great foot). More than one hen bird lays in the
nest, and therefore the large eggs are found to oe
in various stages of incubation—some fresh, others
containing fair-sized chicks surrounded by the “white,”
which serves the embryo as food prior to its exit
from the shell. Binglii sucks out the white as a
first course and then removes the chick, which is
eaten entire after a preliminary grill on hot coals.
The lyre-bird, by the way, after being classed first as
a bird of paradise and then as a “giant wren,” was
placed by Swainson among the megapodes, which
was nearer the truth. But the freak-tailed fowl is
now placed in a special order —the menvruhe.
NO MORE FINGER-PRINTS FOR HIM.
District Worker (to gentleman who has
just completed a term for burglary): “I
hope your sad experience will teach you
a lesson.”
“It has, Miss — I’ll never do another job with-
out gloves.”
“T.K.T.” : Re fancy hairdressing. One of
the most valued articles of barbers among bush
niggers in Central Australia is hair string. Burning
off is far too wasteful —the barbering is done witli
broken glass or sharp stone. A nigger just rid
of his seven-inch locks looks like the learner’s first
sheep. Sunstroke doesn’t seem to trouble them.
(Continued on page 2Jj.)
THE ROAD TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In the day’s round, drab and brown,
Golden moments have their being;
And each time 1 go to town,
I see something worth the seeing.
Forry-farers, girls and boys,
Voung and old, and grave and merry—
Is it not the joy of joys
Gliding townward on the ferry?
many winding highways call,
Gleaming ways of grass and gravel;
But above, beyond them all,
Is the azure way we travel.
Left and right are hill and cove,
Sunny nook and shining highland;
Gull and gannet swoop above,
. Here a reef and there an island.
Velvet breezes from the heights
Set the ripples gleaming, glancing,
Like so many merry sprites.
On the silken surface dancing.
Port and starboard sways the boat
To the rhythm of the ocean ;
Sure the gayest thing afloat
With her soft and leisured motion !
In the brilliant morning light
Polished brass and glass are winking;
Trails her long wake, broad and white,
Like a fair road rising, sinking.
Plodding in with rusty sides,
By a pilot boat attended,
Comes some monarch of the tides,
Glad to know her journey ended.
ELEVEN LIVES IN BETWEEN .
“Are you two relations?"
“Only very distant. I’m the first and ’e’s the
thirteenth.”
For a thousand roads go forth
From the Harbor gateways questing
East and west, and south and north,
Never ending, never resting.
Rods athrob, or sails unfurled,
Down these ocean roadways heading,
Come the ships of all the world,
Through the Harbor gateways treading.
Then behold ! awake and kissed
To a sense of daytime duty,
Lifting up her veil of mist—
Lo, the city shows her beauty!
Though the sun at noon, aloft,
Line of street and square may harden,
In the morning she is soft
With the softness of a garden.
Though her touch may sear and line,
Making pale her sons and daughters,
On her brow is Beauty’s sign,
At her feet the Pearl of Waters.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Choose Carefully
Your Tennis
> 'V
\
£
to
jpwi
CHOOSE a racket which you find exactly right in weight,
balance, size and shape of handle. Then confine yourself
exclusively to this make of racket, and thus avoid reducing
the effectiveness of your strokes by having to accustom yourself to
the differences in various makes of rackets. You will find at Mick
Simmons’ the widest assortment in Australia of dependable makes
of rackets, on any one of which you can standardise with advantage.
Masterstroke, 77/6
Unusual strength is a feature of this racket.
The throat is reinforced both inside and
outside with raw hide, and bound with gut.
Lee Monogram, 85/-
The Lee Monogram racket has a patented
slotted throat. This absorbs crashing, smash-
ing jolts.
Haymarket Extra
Special, 70|-
This racket, made from well-seasoned ash and
first-quality gut, affords excellent value.
Mick Simmons’
Specials
M.S. Wonder Racket, 25/-; M.S. Standard
Racket, 30/-; C. 8.8. Quadruple Centre
Racket, with cork handle, 25/-; C. 8.8.
Double Strung Racket, 27/6.
Tennis Balls
1925 shipment of all lines of Tennis Balls, in-
cluding Ayres’, Slazenger’s, Barnet Glass’s,
Wisden’s.
Tennis Shoes
Tennis Shoes of white canvas with crepe rubber
soles, per pair 16/11, 10/11 and 9/9.
Racket Covers
Rackets Covers, waterproof, at prices varying
from 7/6 to 1/9.
Racket Presses
Strongly-made Racket Presses, 10/6, 6/6, 4/6
and 3/6.
Tennis Nets
Steam Tarred Tennis Nets, priced from 70/-
to 25/-
Oxford Co.’s
Rackets
Britannic Rackets .... 45/
Oceanic Rackets .... 55/
Titanic Rackets, with
concave throat .... 65/
Cyclonic Rackets, well
recommended .... 80/
Children's
Competition
Prizes Value £ 75
Prizes to the value of
£75 are to be given
by Mick Simmons’ in
a Children’s Essay
Competition. Secure
full particulars at
Headquarters, Hay-
market, or any
branch.
Gut Reviver
“Classic Racket Gut Reviver,'*
to help gut retain its elasticity,
1/9.
CARRIAGE PAID.
We pay carriage on tennis
goods. Complete price list of
tennis requisites sent on request.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.


Cbe
Equitable
Eife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Predli. Levy, Managing Director.
NOT THE SAME .AS OTHERS.
PABCOLIN
LABOR-SAVING
FLOOR
RUGS
HARD-fr EARING ENAMEL PAINT SURFACE.
ATTRACTIVE, DURABLE, BRIGHT, DEPENDABLE, SANITARY, DUSTPROOF, DAMP-PROOF.
DISTRIBUTORS: GREIG BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PARAFFINE-COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
ar,c
■ < 34L?N?m.
fs tfw
ONLY
NONSCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
Tyfic Creed
Toti Dal Monte obt&mo.bl<?
s^s,t, s 'nAKvmovs' °™, LV
Home Recreations | d
388 George St. Sydney,
(opp Bea-rd Watson’s )
“Dawapia”: From time to time New
Guinea travellers talk of tailed men, whom they
have heard of from coastal and near-coastal tribes,
hot one authentic case of a white man having seen
one of these missing links has yet been reported. I
think the explanation of the tails is simple. On
the heights of the far hinterland mountain ranges
*he climate is intensely cold (on Mt. Hagen, -west of
:he Rainu River, 13,000 ft., there is eternal snow),
And the natives garb themselves in animal skins and
bark-cloth, different tribes adopting different fashions
in clothing. In certain parts the males, on attain-
ing the full status of manhood, by age and by suc-
cess in inter-tribal warfare, are permitted by custom
to put on the skin of a full-grown wallaby, which is
worn with the tail hanging from the back, low
down, the front legs serving as braces to meet a
half skin across the chest. These men are almost
pigmies in stature, but are fierce fighters, and have
no peaceful relations -with tribes of the lower plains.
“Munjong” : Tell “Saaedi” (B. 4/12/’24)
that Bunny is not learning to live without water, but
is discovering that netting fences may be climbed and
drink obtained from other sources than the obvious
one. Even in the driest times grass roots and
other subterranean growths contain sufficient moisture
to keep rabbits thriving. Certain small yams which
THE CRITICS.
“Mister, yeh getting on on the wrong side!”
“ Shurrup! Canchor see the poor bloke’s left-legged!”
grow in profusion everywhere in seasons when sur-
face water is plentiful are conspicuously absent
directly after a drought, for the reason that the
tubers have been dug up by rabbits for their liquid
contents, which is considerable. Numbers of other
plants of this description appear onlv after several
good years, and for the same reason. '
• * #
«/-< , ~ c •
Centre . Surveying m the bush, between
Deo. 2 and Dec. 21, we had our attention called
to the fact that the usual summer orchestra of
the cicadas was missing. Not a sound of them was
heard from sun-up to sun-down. As we were
loading Lizzy on the morning of the 22nd they
turned out en masse to wish us good-bye. Hundreds
seemed to be coming from the ground in every direc-
tion, crawling up the stems of saplings and suckers,
while as many more, who had evidently started a
bit earlier, were shrilling to the joy of the sun
on their bright-colored backs. Is it usual for their
advent to be so sudden and general ?
* * • #
“Pick”: The black swan has the biggest
job of any bird in the Outback when she takes on
n st-building. T h e
chosen spot is in the
still water of a lake or
dam, among growiug
rushes or water-lilies
to which the bungalow
may be securely
moored. The material
is green reeds, and
great strength has to
be expended in pulling
them. They look
loosely thrown together,
but inspection proves
them to be cleverly
interwoven, thus pre-
venting portions be-
ing drifted away by
the wind. As the con-
tract proceeds, the
structure submerges,
and great quantities of
reeds have to be added
before the building De-
gins to rise above the
water level. It is then
buoyant enough to bear
the weight of a man.
The finished nest mea-
sures at its base about
10 to 15 feet, and,
cone-shaped, rises to
three feet in height. At
the top is a shallow
cavity lined with
fuzzied waterweed. De-
composition of the
green stuff below gene-
rates sufficient warmth
in the hatchery to
admit of prolonged
absence by the setter.
Up to 15 eggs are
apparently reckoned a
suitable clutch. They
are a shiny white, and
consequently an attrac-
tion to hovering swamp
hawks. Mother swan,
however, is a fierce
fighter for her rights.
“Troophorse” : The niggers of North Aus-
tralia have a system of broadcasting and listening-in
that makes the white man marvel. I think the
natives round the mouth of the McArthur
River (N.T.) take the bun at it. Recently
we were waiting for some rations per
steamer, when suddenly one old man
jumped up at the chirping of a willy-
wagtail and reckoned that “one steamer
him come up alonga sundown—new-fella
steamer this one; gottem plenty tucker
and white fella.” The old nigger was
correct; just on sundown the steamer
pulled up at the landing. A little boy
came to me one day with a yarn that
my pater had met with a mishap “alonga
that one country belonga him.” Several
weeks later I received word that my father
had been knocked down in the street
and injured. How this kid, some two
thousand miles distant from the occurrence,
could possibly glean the news beats me.
His timing of the occurrence, by the way,
was quite right.
* * *
“F.1.N.” : “Cartot” (B. 4/12/’24),
in his surmise that the high wages to
be earned near picture shows and city
racecourses are the cause of the scarcity
of sheep shearers, misses the true reason,
which is the contract shearing system
Shearing is now done by contractors all
over Queensland. These men do not
encourage learners, and, though supposed
to employ a learner to a certain number
of sheds, they seldom do so. The con-
tractor who shears our sheep has his
home in Sydney. He is a first-class man
with a first-class team, but I have seen
only one learner on the board in five
years. The contractor starts in April
and has a nearly unbroken run till Novem-
ber, and the same men, with an occasional
change, come year after yqir. We get
a good cut and don’t worry about learners,
so why should the contractor do so?
• s N s vV.L. i w
, W asN. S. Wales is having.
~M l - *-„ . ™ * *
. . iXlltrlc • lllel ' e IS a disease among grapes
" ich is very prevalent now in Southern Queensland
coastal districts. The unripe grapes develop sunken
dark-colored spots and circular black greyish-centred
ones. It has been diagnosed as anthracnose and
schwarzbrenner, and is caused by a fungus named
Glacosporium ampelophagv.m. The malady is some-
times called “black spot,” but is not connected with
the well-known tomato disease of the same name,
Here is the treatment, preventive and efficacious.
Burn all season’s prunings as soon as removed; rub
down the older stems with sacking to remove the
loose bark, and swab the surface with sulphate of iron
solution (51b. of ferrous sulphate and 41b. commercial
sulphuric in one gallon of water). In summer
it is best to spray the vines with properly neutralised
Bordeaux mixture. This treatment is also a pre-
ventive measure against downy mildew.
* * * *
“Jim Domino”: Herewith my nomination
for the Queer Request Stakes. With a friend I was
enjoying the lemonade of the Lyceum Hotel, Long-
THE DAILY MENU.
THE BOSS: “How is it, my boy, you make a perfect hash of every-
thing I give you?”
OFFICE BOY: “Well, sir, I don’t know, sir. Unless it’s becos me
mother keeps a boardin’-’ouse.”
reach (C.Q.), when a voice bellowed in my left
ear, “Hello, Mr. Blank!” Turning I was soon grasp-
ing the massive paw of an old acquaintance of
Eremeran station (N.S.W.). Recollecting that I had
once presented him with a cattle-dog, I asked about
the tyke’s health. To my surprise his eyes filled,
anu he answered rather huskily: “Some poisoned
him in Cobar.” The next few minutes I was busy
facing a barrage of questions. Suddenly he burst
out; “What about putting me in Tiik Bulletin
Mr. Domino?” I grabbed his hand in farewell,
answering simultaneously, “Mick, me bhoy, consider
yourself in” ; and I got my reward in his grin. Thus
my nomination goes down to the request of Mick
Lahey, whose hands have erected innumerable posts
in the improvement of out-back Australia.
* * * *
“Gee Upi<”: Loitering in Downey’s smithy
one day our conversation turned to the bot-fly. I
asserted that the bot would live in hydrochloric acid
for 24 hours, but, failing the production of proof,
some doubt (to put it nicely) was cast on my
veracity. However, fortune favored me to some ex-
tent, for a mare was brought in for shoeing and
presently passed a bot in her droppings. We at
once decided to immerse our subject in a strong acid
used by the smith in his calling of farrier. None
of us could wait while the clock did a couple of
rounds, but after an hour the bot left the bath
invigorated, if anything, by its rest in the burning
liquid. Can any Abo. tell us more about it?
* * * *
“F.1.N.”: I’m one of those who say that
straight-grained posts last much longer than cross-
grained ones. We have fences up 45 years, built
originally by Marathon station. The timbers were
boree and gidya. Animals will rub themselves
against horse-paddock fences, and it is noticed that
if they break a post it is invariably one of the
cross-grained kind. Also, on the woodheap, cross-
grained boree that has been on the ground for, say,
15 years, will break at every hit of the axe, even
up to four-inch timber, whilst straight-grained boree
takes a sharp axe to cut it through. The cross-
grained is stronger when green, but gets brittle
with age.
* * * *
“Ledraw”: Tlie season of feasting reminds
me of some of the strange dishes I have tried in the
course of a lifetime. ’Possum roasted is not bad.
Emu steaks and kangaroo wrapped in a fat flap of
mutton and roasted are first class. Porcupine, ibis
and all kinds of fish rolled in clay and baked are
delicious. Bandicoot, stewed, and paddymelon, stuffed
and roasted, are good. I have also tried carpet-
snake, croc., turtle eggs, dugong, nardoo and lily
roots. Away from home I have eaten hippo, meat,
monkey, tortoise, elephant’s heart and feet and the
flesh of more kinds of buck than I can remember. I
struck Yalpunga, on the N.S.W.-Q. border, on a race
day and paid 9s. for two rashers of bacon and four
eggs. But, then, I paid 30s. for a tin of bully-beef,
Mb. of biscuits and two bottles of beer in Fort Salis-
bury, in South Central Africa, and in the circs,
thought it was fairly cheap.
* * * *
“Bos': “T.V.T.” (B. 25/12/’24) cites a
supposed ease of the offspring of a pure bred Ayrshire
bull having certain Jersey traits, after the sire
had been for two years master of the Jersey harem.
He also states that he has heard of a female
animal “throwing back” to a male. As to :he
latter, though its possibility is still affirmed by
many breeders, the “Penycuik experiments” con-
ducted by Ewart proved conclusively that it is un-
tenable ; and experiments conducted by Baron de
Parana, and by the U.S. Government, confirmed
Ewart’s conclusions. The infection of the male ’s
just as untenable: all the Mendelian experiments so
far conducted show that there is no ground for the
belief. If, as stated by “T.V.T.,” these reputedly
pure-bred Ayrshire calves show Jersey characteristics,
then “T.V.T.” must look elsewhere for the solution
of his riddle.
*•* * *
. “Nitric”: After galloping, one of my light
horses bleeds badly at the nostrils. When this first
occurred I had the prad examined, and was told
the bleeding was a result of local pressure, and
was not serious. But it has become serious, be-
cause as soon as any pace is put on the copious
blood-flow ensues. I have heard of it occurring
among racehorses, where too tight girthing was
alleged to be the cause, with consequent strain on
the nasal cavity, resulting in the bursting of small
blood vessels. Can any Abo. reader give me a
cure? lie need not nieritioi'i an enema of alum
solution, as it has been tried and has failed.
•***■*
“Up Top”: On Cape York Peninsula
the milk tree, at the period when its new twigs
are forming, exudes a substance which the
sandalwood-getters swear by as a sure cure for
corns, and it is with this tree that Professor Campbell
has been experimenting to obtain material for the
chewing-gum people. The Professor told me the
gum was equal to the best from South America, and
wanted me to undertake its collection. The trunks
were to be tapped like the rubber-tree. But
although Campbell is known the world over as a
scientist,- his financial theories do not appear to be
worked out with the same precision. And I, not
being a seiintist, would not take on the job. But
the tree is there, and may be a sleeping Australian
industry.
“Mag”: My belief in the theory that only
non-venomous snakes laid eggs lias been rudely
shattered in so far as the brown variety is concerned.
When dissecting a large brown snake the other
day, Mr. Longman, director of the Brisbane Museum,
disclosed 23 eggs. This is a definite record of
how many young this variety can produce at one
sitting.
“Gouger” : In some of the few dry parts
of N.Q. there is a frog that puts by a little for a
droughty day. He lives in the claypan water-
holes. As the water dries up he tunnels into the
clay, and hollows out a home that will just enclose
his body. Then he fills his body with water, dis-
tending it to its utmost capacity. This self-contained
tank may have to last him 12 months—until the
next rainy season. The claypan finally dries up com-
pletely, choking the tunnel with mud, which in
turn dries hard in the sun. The frog is thus com-
pletely encased within solid, hard-baked earth, with
VIA DOLOROSA.
THE COOK ( after a misunderstanding):
“Well, ma'am, I've bin to get the par-
son’s advice, an’ ’e sez as 'ow I’m on
no account to give you notice, but to
consider you as my cross an ’ learn to
bear it!”
only his own thoughts and a full reservoir for com-
pany. When the rains finally come and soften the
earth, the frog hops up and begins the business of
life afresh. I’ve seen improvident niggers play a
low trick on him. They dig the claypans, squeeze
the frogs, and drink the streams of crystal-clear
■water.
NORTH-EAST WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Joy has made a sweet returning through a white
rift in the year;
Distance bends for man’s discerning, musical and
very near.
AIL the fragrant airs are winging from a maze of
yellow days
With a sound of mystic singing down the gleaming
waterways.
Comrades of the lonely places, wonder-moments we
have found
Where the snow of Silence graces pinnacles of ruggeo
Sound ;
We, in patience here abiding, felt the zephyrs fault
and fail,
Marked the pallid winter striding blindly north
from gale to gale.
Hope and love were for our keeping, cloistered in the
quiet mind,
Like the fragrant hours of sleeping in the hush
behind the wind.
Mingled with the winter’s flowing all our tide of
living thought,
Gleams of Fancy dimly glowing on the lonely coasts
of Thought.
Now, with touch of quiet healing, wakes a trembling
through the year,
’Neath the halting rains revealing all the jewelled
hemisphere;
Past all striving or denying, thi'ough the silence to
the south
Murmurs low the mellow sighing from the Summer’s
scented mouth.
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


#
Good.
i
Tl
€ £
/
'
u
i
8
/<
1
*S
V
0
D
'sZ>
m
%
3&
-*TS7V,
/
:
r t
■
The Greatest Value offered in Motor Tyres
Motorists can now purchase the best tyres on Australian roads
at a figure that represents the utmost economy in tyre upkeep.
Compare our prices of
DU
LO
u
m
m
o
m
m
m
WWW
which stand unequalled for long and satisfactory service on Australian
roads with those of other makes—and you will realise that its
a payable proposition to fit these dependable high-grade tyres.
REDUCED PRICES OF POPULAR SIZES:
STRAIGHT SIDED
BEADED EDGE
Size
30 x 3|
31 x 4
32 x 4
32 x4| -
33 x 4k -
34 x4k -
Size
30 x 3!
31 x 4
760 x 90
815 x 105 -
820 x 120 -
880 x 120 -
895 x 135 -
DUNLOF •UTILITY'’ TYRE
30 x3| - Cover, £3 12 0 - Tube, 14/-
★ ★ *
BALLOON TYRES
We make these in Interchangeable and Full Balloons —in many sizes. Send for our latest Motor
Tyre Price List, which gives all details as to measurements, etc., of our low pressure tyres.
★ ★ ★
Your garage can supply, but be sure and get “ Dunlop ” Cords, and thus ensure value,
long mileage and economy. Remember —no tyre gives better service. Fit them, it pays!
ALL STATES
★ ★ ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
AND N.Z


V -
*. •
M»rv
SI
lilllill
■lll
m
s
■
1
WB
wm
m*
U
■
■1
I
■
■
>•• :
111
.
I
fc'v
■
I
M
■
hi
$
Hi
■
I
B
111
n
■
1
li
H|
*
■
■
■H
m
U i 1
■
■
■
■
I
I
HI
■
r
■HI
■ ■
; ■
■
i
never lose hope when
patients have Penfolds”


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
Melbourne
The question of “where to stay” when
you plan to visit Melbourne is besu
answered by Scott’s —Melbourne’s most
central hotel.
The Newly-completed Extension
makes this modern hotel more attractive
than ever, by providing an Enlarged Dining-
room, Spacious Lounge, Bedrooms with Baths
attached, and all modern comforts.
These new innovations, together with the
constantly maintained high standard of com-
fort, cuisine and service, are features that
firmly sustain Scott’s pre-eminence.
There is No Better Hotel
at Which You Can Stay.
RATES ON APPLICATION.
Telegrams:
Scott’s, Melbourne.
Telephone: 9012
(4 Lines).
m
nms
dejwt
e
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?] [?]
MISSED MONK & DOVLE
Phones Cen[?] 1522, 1533.
If the naval architect hadn’t known his.
job the decks of the Orama would have
buckled under the 2000 guests who stood on
them one night last week when the Orient
Co. offered jazz and hospitality aboard their
floating palace. The night was jewelled with
stars and glittering lanterns, and little waves
prattled aloi-g the steamer’s mighty sides.
The dancers danced in a soul-disturbing
fuchsia light; but if Romance did venture up
the gangway, the strident, roar of an put-
size in jazz bands, like “Abe My at
grips with the Moonlight Sonata, must have
driven her to seek refuge in a lamp locker.
Manager Arnold Johnson and his wife, the
latter a rosy vision in pink georgette _ with
ostrich fronds feathering the hem, heroically
shared skipper Staunton’s hand-shaking
watch on deck. The efficiency of the Orama s
commissariat staff was evidenced when surg-
ing hundreds, instead of having to battle for
their food, were hand-fed on chicken salad
and ice-cream.
The air was thick with welcomes and fare-
wells, and dozens had come aboard, armed
with flowery tributes, in the mistaken belief
that the ship would cast off at midnight.
Half the legal intelligentsia were there to
cheer Justice Schutt on his English
another group had gathered to wish God-
speed to the popular Gillespie pair. He has
been looking after Persian oil affairs. The
Ernest Poolmans, with their two small
chicks, had their cabins de luxe overflowing
with floral offerings. Most of the feminine
inviteds were walking wardrobes trying not
to look too self-conscious in the latest
dress-thrills from overseas. These, by the
way, did not feature the ultra-short skirts
we had been led to expect. One sweet young-
ster was sheathed nearly to the ankle in blue
under a knee-length tunic which flared at the
hem like an old-time lampshade, Some of
the local lassies had rushed half-way to meet
the abbreviated skirt, and provided aw’ful
revelations of silken hose w’hich ran to cotton
about the knees. A few of the most gilded
damsels had grappled their partners to them
by satisfying their inner man at little dinners
beforehand. “It is the only way,” mourned
the mother of one pretty but partnerless
daughter. “Only champagne feeds are so
horribly expensive, you know.”
Admiral Hall Thompson brought daughter
Valerie, looking like a flame in red georgette.
A mighty gathering of our local knights and
dames was headed by General White and
his wife. The Bob Knox couple climbed the
companionways together, and Mrs. E. A.
Hughes, from Sydney, armored in silver
tissue, was seen ensconced at the end of the
mile-long lounge. Percy Alderton, manager
of the Melbourne branch of the P. and 0.,
squired his wife, "whose frock shone like the
steamer’s brasswork. And the snowy locks
of ex-member Norman Bayles and brother
Willie gleamed under the electrics. The
crowd had hardly thinned before _ the band
God-saved the remnant to the special drawn
up alongside the pier. Every girl floated
down the gangway consumed with a burning
desire to cross the ocean in no other grey-
hound but the Orama.
An overflowing audience, socially weighted
by both vice-regal heads, filled the King’s on
Saturday night to cheer the arrival of “Tre-
lawmy of the Wells.” Irene Vanbrugh re-
captures all her youth as actress Kate. Never
has she looked more charming or hidden
herself in' more becoming frocks than when
she put on the tempestuous crinolined petti-
coats of great-grandma’s day. Even the
shingled flappers were moved to doubt
whether, after all, the sophisticated modern
miss could be as alluring to the other sex
as the belle of former days with her funny
affectations and her chevaux de frise of
barrel hoops. Even an absurd little white
bat mounted on Irene’s dark locks seemed
to add to the attractiveness. Ethel Welles-
ley got the big laugh of the night when she
dashed in wmaring the blue velvet tunic and
pink tights of a pantomime boy of the day.
Little Phyllis Best earned a slice of the ap-
plause with tender green silk-hooped skirts,
and Janet Eccles looked her best in
green flouncings under a little tight-fitting
velvet jacket, an ermine tippet and muff
and a little bonnet tied under the chin.
Lady Forster and Miss Carleton —the former
in misty blue—sat with his Ex. and Help
Lawrence; and Lady Helena Rous, in apple-
green. with her head bandaged with red, was
with her State-Governor father. Admiral
Creswell and his dame, just back from
S’Africa, where they parted with daughter
Noel to her Africander fiance, were stalled;
the Best dame and daughter Margot
were there to see how little Phyllis acquitted
herself; and Littleton Groom came late with
a bunch of fellow Pai’liamentarians. Mrs.
Geoff. Syme and a trio of daughters made a
domestic portrait-group in a lower box, and
the Charlie Taits saw the show from the pen
opposite.
The vestibule resembled a Parliamentary
refreshment room during a debate. The
House, it appeared, had decided en masse to
seek sux-cease there from the worries of the
shipping strike. H. E. Pratten was doing it
by talking animatedly to pressmen on the
prospects of a settlement, and new Minister
Marr and Senator Wilson were restfully
holding forth on the same absorbing topic.
Fate plotted carefully the death of H. K.
Walker, of Belgrave, in an accident which
should move the traffic authorities to. a
greater care in the issue of motor-driving
licenses. Mi’. Walker, with his son and daugh-
ter, had just missed by seconds the train to
Belgrave, and, after making inquiries about a
late train to Ringwood, whence they could
motor home, he had decided to visit a theatre.
He was waiting at a busy evening hour for
the permission of the police pilots to cross
Swanston-street at the Flinders-street inter-
section, when something went wrong with
a car in charge of a woman. Out of control,
it dashed on to the pavement, knocked several
people down, killed Walker, and narrowly
missed doing a lot more damage before it
was brought to a stop, with the driver in
a state of collapse. The red roll of motor
accidents in Melbourne is becoming horrible;
and angi-y citizens are demanding that
women should be precluded from driving in
the city streets. In any case, so should many
men who at present are given licenses. Appa-
rently a man only has to drive an obliging
traffic official around a couple of quiet lanes
and shout a drink to get his “ticket” ; with
women a bright smile is substituted for the
drink. And over both the drink and the
bright smile floats the spirit of Tragedy.
The hand of sympathy goes out to Mrs.
Walker and her family. Her husband was
one of our most brilliant scholars. He took
his first degree at 20, and got his experience
as a teacher at different public schools,
chiefly Melbourne Grammar, where he acted
for over six months as headmaster between
the departure of Mr. Blanch and the arrival
of Mi\ Franklin. When Grimwade House
prep, school came into being, he was estab-
lished as its chief, and put up a record which
his successoi’s will find hard to beat. Prime
Minister Bruce headed the large group of old
Melburnians who followed the dead head-
master to the grave.
Here is Lady Helena Rous, youngest
daughter of
the vice-regal
S t r a dbrokes,
snapped while
she was in-
specting the
Guides en-
camped at
Mountain Ber-
wick as deputy
for her mother.
Lady Helena
is artistically
gifted, and
might have
made a name
for herself as
a landscape
painter if she
had been
pushed by
necessity. The
picture was
made by the
Sun photo-
grapher.
A squad of police may be seen during what
Melbourne knows as “peak” pei’iods at the
Flinders and Swanston streets intersection,
directing the yarded public how and
when to cross the stream. But the
situation is steadily getting worse. Sug-
gested remedies include overhead bridges
and subways, which would cut niches
out of each corner; and one corner displays
a cathedral, whilst the other holds a pub that
is nearly as sacrosanct. The intersection is
claimed by some to be the busiest in the world.
There was a note in The Bulletin recently
about the continuous chain of motor-cars
which rush over Prince’s Bridge towards the
city, all of them passing this spot; but apart
from this, and the trains and ’buses heading
for St. Kilda, Toorak and Prahran, there
are the flocks of people who use the Flinders-
street and Prince’s Bridge stations to be
reckoned with. On a recent normal day
238,000 passed the Flinders-street barriers,
and 44,000 those at Prince’s Bridge. The
daily number has increased, in pedestrians
alone, by 28,000 in two years. Something is
going to burst if improved methods of dealing
with the crush are not devised.
A full house assembled to see the curtain
go up on the duologue staged by Bessie Black-
well and Jack Dunne, of the “Good Morn-
ing, Dearie,” co., at St. Peter’s. Bessie made
up for the absence of a spotlight by the
silver glitter of her garments. Ivy Bel,
Thelma Burness and little Josie Melville, in
georgette frocks of different colors, supplied
the chorus that walks on; and Addie Crane
furnished the harmony with a vocal rendering
of “Love’s Coronation.” The bride’s mother,
who had crossed from Sydney, provided the
supper at the Occidental, in Tuttishly-
patterned marocain and a black hat; and
Norman Lane, in the absence of Dad, bowed
the daughter to the sacrifice.
Broothorn scored this parting glimpse of
artist Jessie Traill before she farewelled
her native gum-trees the other day in search
of overseas’
ideas and
laurels. A re-
cent show of
her painting
and etching
bore testimony
to the strides
she has made
in her art
since graduat-
ing from the
National Gal-
lery. Brang-
wyn initiated
her into the
mysteries of
the etching-
needle, and
now she has
added that
weapon to her
artistic armory
with fine re-
sults. The war
caught Jessie somewhere in France. She
donned her painting blouse for a nurse’s
apron, and her pencil for a clinical ther-
mometer, and helped to tend the wounded
in a Rouen hospital.
Wartime bitterness was forgotten, and
sympathy for Archbishop Mannix was gen-
eral, when the news arrived in Melbourne
that his mother, who was in her 95th year,
had died at Charleville, near Cork. The
Archbishop hadn’t seen her since he left
Ireland, 12 years ago, to become coadjutor
to the late Dr. Carr. He was stopped
from visiting Erin when he went overseas in
1920, but got even by describing his “cap-
ture” and landing at Plymouth by a naval
launch as the greatest victory of the British
Navy since the Battle of Jutland. He also
snubbed Lloyd George, then Prime Minister,
for offering to bring his mother from Charle-
ville to London as the Government’s guest;
and an offer by the Sinn Feiners to smuggle
him to Ireland to see the old lady was like-
wise rejected. In the last three years the
“docthor” has lived down much of his un-
popularity with his former critics. His
silence is the only thing that worries some of
them now.
There were more princes in Russia before
the Great Eruption than ,T’s.P. in Australia,
and when that seismic disturbance occurred
untold dozens of them were spilled over
Europe. One even came down in Maoriland,
where he started a ham-and-beef shop.
Hobart is at the moment thrilling to a
coo-ee from overseas to the effect that the
youngest of the “Tattersall” Curran family
has made a date with the second son of one
of these fragments of aristocratic pumice,
by name Peter Melikoff, and his princess,
w'ho appears in the cabled information as
the Baroness D’Osten Sacken. Pauline
Curran, the bride-elect, is a dashing brunette
wmll known in Melbourne: her dad made his
pile by helping to set up Tatt.’s as a tower
of financial strength to the Tassy Govern-
ment.
Members of the Tasmanian branch of the
Victoria League, which was the first sprout
in the Commonwealth, have been welcoming
their president, Mrs. Sturtan, back fx-om her
overseas trip; and in return the lady has
been telling her sister-Leaguers how, thanks
to their united efforts, English country school
children can pick out the Apple Island quite
easily on the map of the world, and know
all about its weather, crops, people, indus-
tries and institutions —though she didn’t
mention Tatt.’s. Mrs. Sturtan was charged
with the special mission of handing prizes
to children attending schools with the same
name as schools in Tassy with which they
had been corresponding.
If it is domestic helps the Tassy house-
wives are looking for they are hereby warned
against getting too uplifted. England is
suffering hideously from a shortage of domes-
tic workers, while thousands of out-of-work
women are reposing on Government doles.
In cold truth domestic work for both mistress
and maid is out of joint with the age of
jazz. With the renaissance of home life,
perhaps, will be reborn the good housewife
and the capable maid.
When the clever woman at the head of
the Victorian Neglected Children’s Depart-
ment takes her furlough this year, one won-
ders if the powers that be will find time at
last to give the department a better title.
The Favored of the Gods would be a fitter
name, considering how Madeleine Murray,
the tireless head, has mothered the young
things. Her experience in the job goes
back more than a dozen years, and extends
to children’s welfare centres abroad, especi-
ally in America. Even earlier she was in a
Government department, at one time being
the only woman employed in the huge Trea-
sury building. She knows all about the slug-
gish serpent that abides there. Knows when
it can be broken and when cut. Red Tape
is its name. Her countless friends might
use some miles of it in tying up letters for
her board-ship mailbag when she starts on
her holiday travels this month.
Married recently in the Bishop’s private
chapel, Perth, Edward Wittenoom, knight,
President of the Legislative Council and
director of the W.A. Bank and other fat
institutions. The bride was Isabel de
Boulay, youngest bud of the musical Dq
Boulay family, of Perth, formerly of Gerald-
ton. This is the second matrimonial Ven-
ture of the veteran politician, who can give
points to most young men in respect of pri-
vate and public activities (he has just passed
his 70th milestone). “Ten Foot Ned" was
Minister for Mines under the late John
Forrest, and earned his sobriquet when he
issued a regulation confining the opera-
tions of alluvial miners to a depth of 10ft.
When Thackeray wrote his ballad of
Little Billee,
Oh, land I see!
There’s Jerusalem, and Madagascar
And North and South Amer-i-kee,
he was almost outlining the travels of High
Court Judge Higgins in 1924. For Mada-
gascar substitute Ireland and the rest may
stand. He took Sicily and Italy in his
stride, mopped up the British Islands, and
then voyaged to America. Not content with
looking at the Land of Liberty, he crossed the
Andes by way of the Argentine. When he
returns via Maoriland this month, he should
be able to claim a certificate of wide travel.
Since he came here from Dublin half a
century ago, this is his third visit to nearly
everywhere else.
The Geoff Symes have broadcasted invita-
tions for the wedding of daughter Hilaria
and her English fiancg, Kenneth Peacock, at
Kew Parish Church, Holy Trinity, on Feb.
18. The after-jollo will be at the Syme home,
Blytheswood. Mrs. Geoff, who is now finding
life worth living again after some painful
weeks on the casualty list, is pointing to
a scar on her shapely neck as an awful
warning to her sex against taking risks with
a spirit-lamp. The Syme pair will wait to
cool down after the fussifieation of a wed-
ding in the family before taking another
plunge into Mrs. Geoff’s native fog to intro-
duce their two younger daughters, Joan and
Felicity, to their maternal grandparents.
Adelaide goes to the Test:—-
The procession to the Oval started before the
echoes of breakfast washing-up had died. Once
arrived, it settled itself into place with a firmness
and persistency that only lunch baskets and cushions
made possible. Vice-royalty, both Federal and State,
was there to cast an eye on falling Australian
wickets and a sympathetic one on English injuries,
and every Englishman who has taken up land in
this State within the last half-century seemed to
find urgent business to bring him to town. Town
houses have temporarily pulled up their blinds
and shaken themselves out of dust-sheets, and it is
the country and seaside that are the deserted
villages. At lunch-time the whole Oval resolved
itself into a vast picnic ground—seats won by
hard and patient sitting before play begins are
too precious to risk losing. Bakers knew what they
were about when they put up the price of bread
the week before the Test began.
His Federal Excellency is to have a flutter in
the Rymills’ Tortoise hydroplane before he returns
to the East.
Clement, fourth of the Charles Stokes sons, of
Westralia, has promised to save Edith, only daughter
of the Frank Stokeses of this village, the in-
convenience of changing her name.
The coming winter will see half Adelaide or
thereabouts on the other side. The Chief Justice
Murrays go in early February, leaving the Pooles
in their shoes while they are away; and the
Moulden lady, who goes with her husband, is
packing an honorary commission to inquire into
hospital workings in Europe and America.
Many a soldier will feel the lonelier for the
death of Mrs. George Bagot, one of the most inde-
fatigable of war-workers, who inspired all she did
by personal thought and interest that made her a
very real friend to the men. She was one of the
first supervisors of the Keswick recreation hut, and
one of the first to organise and arrange motor runs
for the disabled. When she went to England for a
holiday trip about three years after the war ended
the wharves were thick with Billjims waving her
good-bye; but while away she had the ill luck
to be in a bad motor accident from which she
never properly recovered. She was staying with her
brother at ICeyneton, near Angaston, when she died.
Gone west, too, Robert Lawrence, eldest son of
the Vinrace Lawrences, and a welcome singer to
a former generation.
General Pau left £lOOO in Australia on his 1918
visit to found a University scholarship for the
children of soldiers killed in the war. Each ’varsity
gets the award in turn, and gives it to a student
who has shown unusual merit. Our first Pau
Scholar is G. L. Woolnough (son of A. H. Wool-
nough, of the 27th), who worked up from a State
school to Scotch College and the Adelaide Uni. on
local scholarships, and at 17 has just concluded
a brilliant first year in Engineering.


NOVELS THAT THRILL.
The Famous Bookstall Series of Novels hold the Reader. They are virile, they
tell of
ADVENTURE, LOVE, TRAGEDY AND HUMOR,
Every Writer of Bookstall Novels gives of his best. That is why they are
best sellers.
5,000,000 Copies Have Been Sold.
A POPULAR SELECTION FROM THE CATALOGUE.
Queen Vaiti . . . Beatrice Grimshaw
The Coral Queen, Beatrice Grimshaw
White Savage Simon
Beatrice Grimshaw
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest
Bert James
Double-Beil Dialogues
James Henry James
A Curate in Bohemia
Norman Lindsay
Dawson’s Uncle George
Sumner Locke
Mum Dawsou, Boss. .Sumner Locke
Übique Clarence W. Martin
Pagaloa’s Daughter. .Jack McLaren
Feathers of Heaven. . Jack McLaren
Oil Seekers Jack McLaren
Red Mounl ain .«. . . Jack McLaren
Savagery of Margaret Nestor
Jack McLaren
The Skipper of the “Roaring Meg”
Jack McLaren
Hack’s Brat A. lan McLeod
At Holland’s Tank. Edward Meryon
Yellow Silver .... Edward Mery on
Harry Dale’s Grand National
Jack North
Son of the Bush Jack North
Black Opal Jack North
Bodger and the Boarders
E. O’Ferrall
The Mount Marunga Mystery
Harrison Owen
The Plantation Manager
Ernest Osborne
The Copra Trader. .Ernest Osborne
Shantykeeper’s Daughter
Vance Palmer
The Boss of Ivillara . . Vance Palmer
Mystery of Wall’s Hill
Sydney Partrige & Cecil Raworth
A Maker of Pearls. . . . S. W. Powell
Great Jade Seal S. W. Powell
Hermit Island S. W. Powell
The Pearls of Cheong Tah
S. W. Powell
Trader of Kamelco. . . .S. W. Powell
Dan Kelly—Outlaw. . Ambrose Pratt
Price 1/-; Posted 1/1-J
If the Bookstall Series is not procurable from your Bookseller, writ
Complete Catalogue, comprising 150 titles, post fr
That Technical Book you want
ite direct to us.
•ee.
(Spooner)
Dunn)
Applied Mechanics (Low)
Machine Design and Construction
Mechanics’ Own Book (Spoil)
Sugar Machinery (Wallis Taylor)
Storage Batteries (Vinal)
Furniture Making (Cassell)
Modern Practical Joinery (Ellis)
Building Construction (Mitchell)
Reinforced Concrete Manual (Marsh and
Modern Practical Carpentry (Ellis)
Hot Water Supply (Dye) . .
Mechanical Refrigeration (Williams)
Carburation Theory and Practice (Brewer)
The Farmer’s Handbook (Dept, of Agriculture)
Official Year Book (Commonwealth of Australia)
Pigs and their Management (Potts)
Balance Sheets: How to Read Them (Tovey)
Office Desk Book, with Tables and Reckoner
The Stable Manual and Horse Doctor (Hamilton)
Electric Wiring Diagrams, all leading cars (Codd)
Dyke s Automobile and Gasoline Encyclopaedia, Thirteenth
Edition, the best book for the Garage and Motor
Owner ever published . .
v/ii- XAyvilfllvaJU JL>UUIVO,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
85
St
Fiuest-quality Diamond, Sapphire and Pearl Bar Brooch set.
in Platinum.
Handsome and Distinctive
Silk Vanity Case, with
enamelled panel, £6/10/-
The firm’s stock is fully replete
with articles eminently suitable for
Gifts. Many choice pieces will be
found in Jewellery of newest de-
sign and finest workmanship. A
selection of Gem-set Brooches is
especially up to date and attrac-
tive. Ladies’ Handbags and
\ unity Cases, in finest leathers,
also in silk, of all colorings, similar
to those showing in Bond Street,
London, and at the Rue de la Pax,
Paris, especially merit attention.
The diversity of gifts available and
the wide range of prices ensure the
complete satisfaction of every indi-
vidual requirement. An inspection
is invited with the assurance that
no obligation is incurred.
l ull'' i’luktratod Watch Ring or General Catalogue will be
sent post tree to any address. Five per cent. Discount will be
allowed on all Cash Purchases.
W^ 1 ©rtnti in o n 4 & 6
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
COLD AS CHARITY!
EVEN IN THE HOTTEST CLIMATE
That’s ISKO Automatic
Electric Freezing Machine
FACTS WORTH STUDYING!
ISKO can be attached to your own refrigerator oi
ice box.
ISKO is absolutely foolproof.
ISKO does not require expensive engines, as it is
simply connected with the house current.
ISKO entirely eliminates the buying of expensive,
melting ice, at the same time making 50 cubes
of ice each day.
ISKO will give you the greatest service at a very
low cost.
ISKO is absolutely automatic, switching itself on and
off as required.
Your Money runs down the drain when you buy ice!
By installing ISKO you convert this liability into an asset.
ISKO HAS MANY SATISFIED USERS
Including—
City Tattersall’s Club, Sydney.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney.
Hotel Toronto, Toronto.
State Parliament House.
Hotel Metropole, Sydney.
Barley Mow Hotel, Sydney.
I HS
1
m
mi
Vm
1
, ■*
, * ! 'SS
1 a f
wmi
■ ■-.. : ■ ..;
■■'■■•" 1
;
When in Town, Call and See it Working, or Write for Literature to
IsKo Distributing
Telephone: City 2355.
Depot
412 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
We are also Manufacturers of Refrigerator Cabinets.


tinder
r Royal
ToH.M.
George V
Vintage 1914.
CH AMP\a 'I i
muxs
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
OiariesHeidsieo^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney
~W r 4Mlu>&d ACa^
MONDAY NEXT, THE 26th,
ANNIVERSARY DINNER DANCE
to honor this—OUß DAY.
Special Anniversary Menu, Novelties and Cabaret numbers to commemorate
the occasion. Dancing till 1 a.m.
SPECIAL TEA DANCE AND CABARET, 3.30 p.m.
’Phone City 9931.
Summer Season at
irammis
POPULAR SUMMER EVENINGS.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY.
There will be delightful
Dining and Dancing from 7.30 till
12 each evening.
For the very modest sum of
106
(Evening Dress Optional.)
Nothing in any way in value approaching this
has ever been before possible in Sydney.
Tuesday and Thursday, 21/-
Suppers. from 0.30, 12/R
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 10/b.
Luncheons, daily, 12.30 till 2.30, 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 till 5.30, 5/-
with the privilege of two hours delightful
dancing to the most enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone K 13666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
Bowral’s gay week had the curl taken out
of it by deluging rains. Every summer,
when Tirranna puts up the shutters, Bowral
displays its line of race festivities and Bong
Bong nets all the flatterers from the Goul-
burn course plus the sleepy town s own
summer visitors. This year’s fixture opened
with a ball to jolly up the funds of the
local golf club; but instead of the jazzers
heel-and-toeing it in the flicker palace, the
School of Arts was the scene of action,
literally; for the boy and girl who wanted
to sit out had to seek the marquee run up
for that purpose, or else, in the good old well-
tried way, find cover in the family Lizzie.
But everything is decorous these days.
With the passing of the squattocracy the
intimate character of these entertainments
among the leaders of social life is gone.
There is a story in Picnic Race annals of
one well-known squatter who had a per-
fectly gorgeous ribbon-garter made —it was
large enough to have gone round a heavy-
weight’s thigh—and in an interlude between
dances at the ball he solemnly climbed the
stage, struck the drum, and when every-
body’s eye was riveted on him held up the
preposterous article and asked the loser to
step forward and claim her property. And
it was in the days wdien skirts were worn
trailing and the jazz-garter unknown !
The vice-regals motored over from Sutton
Forest for the first day of the Rong Bong
meeting, Lady de Chair very smart in navy
silk tailorings in spite of the bad weather.
Daughter Elaine and second son Somerset
were with them, and Captain Coote was in
attendance. Premier Fuller, up on one of
his historic week-ends, put in an appearance
with a musquash-wrapped wife and a
squirrel-embraced daughter. Macs and top-
coats were the general wear, and all the
Nobs were tea-ed by the F. G. White couple
—he’s president of the club; and her smart
blue silk was topped by a flower-wreathed
blue hat. Lorna Sly was in riding kit; and
surgeon MacCormick’s daughter Morna wore
one of the triggest outfits in navy and
white. The newly-engaged Valerie Braddon,
Enid and Barbara Westmacott, two E. J.
Tait girls, Mrs. Pat Osborne, Mrs. Tony
Hordern, the Denis Allens and just-down-
from-New Guinea Mrs. Dyson Iloare were
among the enthusiasts.
At both the Golf Club Ball on the Thurs-
day and the Race Ball on the Friday the
vice-regals were present. The Golf Club
Ball was not so crowded as usual, but on
the Friday night, though the day’s sweeping
rains had made racing impossible, the roll-
up was a record as to numbers and frocking.
At the Golf Club Ball the vice-reine flashed
Lorelei green and pearls, while daughter
Elaine cheered black georgettes with a rosy
shoulder scarf. For the final flutter Elaine
wore green, and bound her fair tresses with
a chaplet of gold leaves; and her Ex. was
impressive in black velvet illuminated with
diamonds.
Not content with his wings of imagination.
•Tames Edmond, of The Bulletin, called
into use the pinions of an aeroplane on
Monday and flew from Sydney to Adelaide.
Being a thoughtful man. Mr. Edmond first
furnished this Letter with an epitaph:—
How can man die better
Than falling from a cloud,
With curious folk collecting
Around him in a crowd,
The blue sky for a canopy
And green grass for n shroud?
However, the worst that befel was that,
owing to a super-abundance of cricketers
and cricket enthusiasts, the inn of Adelaide
at which he had oftenest bed-and-breakfasted
couldn’t find room for him.
How the winged machine does trample on
distance! On Monday, a few minutes before
11, Mr. Edmond was in Sydney discussing
his plans for an exploration of the finances
and prospects of S. Australia on The Bul-
letin’s behalf. He slept comfortably at
Mildura, made an early start from there,
had a look at that marvel of fertility, the
Adelaide plains, from a height of 4000 ft.,
and was breakfasting in the city before 9.
The society wedding of the w r eck was the
linking-up of Surgeon-Lieutenant Paradice
to good-looking Kate Houston. She is the
middle one of three tall sisters who with
their mother now inhabit Gladswood, the
Spencer Brunton home at Double Bay. The
ceremony, staged in St. Mark’s, was directed
by Padre Howard Lea, and made sonorous
by a full complement of choristers. uncle
J. B. Milne, managing director of Gilchrist,
Watt and Sanderson, escorted liis niece to
the altar, her ivory georgettes and tulle
train being followed by her own two sisters
and ’groom’s sister Dorothy, the _ three a
study in lavender and lace. Lieutenant
Taylor, R.N., best-manned, and Lieutenants
Hutcheson and Wheatley wore ushers. The
wedding jollo made the halls of Gladswood
ring. There were over 100 guests, nearly
all belonging to the King’s Navee. The
’groom’s father is one of the chiefs of the
A.M.P., and Surgeon-Lieutenant William
Edward John Paradice is a citizen of Chats-
wood when he is not aboard JLM.A.S.
Geranium.
Dr. Marjorie Ellerkor, who looked after
the new arrivals at St. Margaret’s for a
time, linked up the other night with Dr.
Leslie Tunley. Padre Bryant riveted the
gyves at Wesley Chapel within the Uni., the
customary anaesthetic of roses, palms, white
satin and shimmering tulle rendering both
parties resistless. Two pretty bridesmaids,
Muriel Fclstead and Edna Tunley, flashed
delphinium blue and rose and silver frocking
in the bride’s wake, and brother-in-medicine
Frank McCredie and Robert Stephen stood
by the ’groom. Bride’s mother glad-lianded
nearly 100 guests later in the Common room
of the College. After a honeymoon on the
South Coast, the two take up joint practice
at Gulgong.
Another wedding within the Uni. took
place in St. John’s Chapel when Lee Grant,
of Mandurama, became Mrs. B. F. Maguire,
of Ashfield. The Bishop of Bathurst, with
Father O’Keefe, of Carcoar, as A.D.C., saw
to the ceremonial part of it; and guardian
Peter Lynch handed over the bride, who
mixed time-mellowed Chantilly and Honiton
laces with a result as soft as silk floss. A
sister of the bride and one of the ’groom
’maided, and Jack Maguire stood by liis
brother in the hour of his triumph. The
Wentworth housed the reception.
Doris Goninan, second daughter of R. W.
' Goninan, of the big Newcastle firm of iron-
workers, has announced her engagement to
R. S. Colqulioun, son of Percy 8., of Mosrnan.
The young man found his fate whilst digging
in the steel furnaces of the Broken Hill
Prop.
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Miss Walsh, hos-
tessed her first function the other morning;
and if a pretty smile and a way mean suc-
cess, Miss Walsh will win it. Mariesehen
Wehselau, the water nymph, from Olympia,
was the cause of the tea-drinking; and
Mayor P. V. Stokes did the healthy-looking
girl proud in a flowery speech, which Mrs.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, as cliieftainess of the
Women’s Swimming Association, abetted.
That the Town Hall attendants qre not witli-
out a touch of
sentiment was
evidenced b y
the scattering
of hibiscus
bloom on the
tables before
the visitors
, mm Honolulu.
Mariesehen and
her chaperone,
Mrs. Fullard-
Leo, wore the
Stars and
Stripes in a
neat design on
the lapels of
their correct
cream tailor-
mades ; and a
gay embroi-
dered shield on
the coats
brought back
to mind John McCormack’s journey alone to
Italy in search of voice tuition. John, now
a first-rate Italian scholar, could not then
speak a word of any but his own language,
so his friends in England printed his
name and the address of the Italian destina-
tion on a luggage-label and stitched it
under the lapel of the Irish lad’s coat. May
Moore made this picture of Miss Walsh for
you.
Marieschcn Weliselau has been the storm-
centre of the big Sydney parties during the
week. A day at Palm Beach arranged by
the Swimming Association found the laugh-
ing “Squeaky” in her element. You should
have seen the magnificent-looking girl shoot
the breakers on a surfboard —it belonged
to Adrian Curlewis, by the way! If Aphro-
dite had started to rise from the waves in
opposition she wouldn’t have drawn an eye.
Besides, there was a civic reception, and a
party at the Australia given by the Ladies’
Swimming Association, with Mrs. Hugh D.
Mclntosh, as president, doing the honors.
Vera Pawley and Clare Cauldwell, who will
compete with the Hawaiian visitor on the
filst, came in for a spot or two of the lime-
light ; but, on the whole, sea-nymphs are
modest creatures —to see them in public
you’d think they could scarcely keep their
heads above water.
Mrs. Fullard-Leo, who keeps an older
sister’s eye on visiting sea-nympli Marie-
sclieu Weliselau, is something of a wonder
herself. The quiet-voiced lardy is British
by birth, and, though long resident in Hono-
lulu and married to an American, she has
never conceded to much as a vowel to the
United States. Her chief work in Australia
is to interest us in the Pan-Pacific Women’s
Conference of 1928, which will be held amid
the several hundred varieties of hibiscus
that flourish in Honolulu. Mrs. Fullard-
Leo knows all about the hibiscus because
she is one of the heads of the society there
that is equivalent to our town-planning
organisation. When anybody puts up a
stone wall around his garden in that city
the town-planners say: “Please let us take
away your wall and put a flowering hedge
in its place.” Poor man, beggar man and
thief are thus joint eye-owners of the rich
man’s vineyard. Mrs. Fullard-Leo was for
many years in South Africa, where she suc-
cessfully worked to achieve the first muni-
cipal swimming baths and earned lots of
jam for her bread by being a chartered
accountant.
Herewith pretty Essie Acid and, an Aus-
tralian even to the third generation, and
one of the most pleasing contraltos ever
heard in Syd-
ney. Indeed
this city has
been so charm-
ed by the voice
that it is
bent on mak-
ing a record
gate for
Essie’s testi-
monial con-
cert at the
Town Hall
on March 7.
She studied
for four
years in the
studio of
Roland Fos-
ter, a n d
lately has
been absorbing
oratorio from
the store of
veteran Joseph
Bradley and lieder from Emily Marks.
Further study in Europe is now the ambi-
tious girl’s objective, and music-lovers are
intent on giving her a chance to fulfil the
destiny predicted for her by Clara Butt and
Melba.
’Cellist Bessie Griffiths is coming back to
her native land with homing song-bird Elsa
Stralia, and before there’s any more argu-
ment on the subject Elsa Stralia is another
name for Elsa Fischer, a daughter of the
famous Minna. Bessie was in Borne when
the cable offer of this tour reached her. She
had been giving a series of recitals in the
Eternal City, Monte Carlo and Cannes prior
to going on to Vienna, where she had been in-
vited to play. With Suggia she is in the
first rank of women ’cellists.
It is through Broadcasters, Ltd., that
Kate Rooney’s contralto is being wirelessed
throughout her native land. By the time
this appears in public the lady will have
sung two or three times.
Lady Patricia Blackwood, who shone in
the spotlight of the Australian stage for a
limited season, has been given the small part
of the. V.A.D. in Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinder-
ella,” now- at the London Ilaymarkct. Her
sister, Lady Ursula, has gone into trade, and
is in charge of a department at General
Traders, a store just behind Londonderry
House.
Many years ago a black-haired, dark-eyed
youngster came to The Bulletin office to
learn how to be a good publisher. But Fate
had another plan for Alfred O’Shea. The
young Australian of those far-off days had
such an exceptional voice that the stage was
a foregone conclusion, and he presently made
his debut under the ,T. C. Williamson banner.
Then war service took him to Europe, and
he found the singing masters of Italy. One
of the oldest and greatest of these taught
him that a “tenor, even as an army, marches
on his stomach,” and that “fourteen stone
is the right weight for a grand-opera tenor.”
They taught him many more things, and
after Nevin Tait had heard him in Italy he
was quickly engaged for a London season
at the Queen’s Hall. Here the tenor gave
four recitals in six weeks, and finally came
back to Australia as one of the principals
of the Melba Grand Opera Co. He sang
“Boh&me” with Melba, the first Australian
tenor to sing a great rede “opposite” Dame
Nellie. On the 31st of this month he com-
mences a series of recitals at the Conserva-
torium under the E. J. Carroll r. • lagement.
From Sydney Telegraph :
During last year 641,531 people visited Sydney
Zoological Gardens, and 227,885 called at the Art
Gallery.
A monkey is so much more interesting than
an artist’s masterpiece!
Campbell Galbraith’s death plunges Mrs.
Roy Buckland, among many others, into
mourning. The Galbraiths are one of the
oldest families about Edgeeliff, and there’s
a lot of sympathy for Mrs. Galbraith and
the son and daughter who are left.
There’s a pretty little story of the great
Conder in the archives of the Gallery. When
the Gallery trustees bought its first Conder
(it hangs in the Australian Court, near a
beautiful lady by Tom .Roberts) they sent
the cheque by hand to the artist’s studio.
It was in William-street, above one of the
shops that have been pulled down in the
widening process. The room was about 12ft.
square, and bone-poor. When the ambassa-
dor from the Gallery arrived he found Con-
der down on his knees scrubbing the floor.
In reply to agitated inquiries Conder ex-
plained that such extreme cleanliness was un-
usual, but that Lord and Lady Carrington
were coming to view his pictures in the
afternoon, lie fell upon the cheque (it was
for a whole 20 guineas), mopped up his floor
and dashed out to buy flowers and some
bowls to stick them in. He must have made
a hole in the cheque, for in the afternoon
the studio was unrecognisable.
Out of the pleasant greenness of a sum-
mer morning—such another morning as
this—-a tall, elderly man with a snow-white
beard walked into the Sydney Art Gallery,
and stepped back into a hell he had known
nearly 40 years before. Victor Mann, Direc-
tor of the Art Gallery, was arranging his
papers for the morning’s work when his visi-
tor walked in, and, after a few words, asked
to be shown the picture of “Rorke’s Drift.”
He was a quiet man and he gave his name as
Smith, adding that he had known some of
the officers who had posed for the De Neu-
ville masterpiece. Together the two men
walked in silence down the gallery till they
came to the record of that immortal South
African tragedy, when 80 English soldiers-
kept a force of 4000 Zulus at bay. If you
know the picture you have seen the agony of
those faces that were looking unflinchingly
into the eyes of death. You have felt horror,
but it has been the horror of the far re-
moved ; and you have noted, perhaps idly,
the tall figure of the chaplain with the red
beard handing out cartridges. But this
morning the tall visitor seemed peculiarly
distressed. Motionless he stood before the
picture, his hypnotised gaze seeming to look
through and beyond the canvas. Victor
Mann, suddenly looking, realised that his
quiet, elderly visitor was the stalwart Red
beard of the picture, thundering his immor-
tal exhortation to the blaspheming 8014161*8:
“Don’t swear, boys! Don’t swear! Shoot
the .”
Alarming looking ad. in a Sydney daily:—
WHY KILL YOUR WIFE ?
Let electricity do it for you! We will help.
These Bolsheviks again, no doubt.
The lure of London has caught Professor
Anderson Stuart’s widow, whose juvenile
appearance is the wonder of Aussie friends
visiting the other side. Her youngest son
recently joined her. Shortly she will drag
herself away from the joys. of London, and
settle up business matters in Sydney, after
which she will make her home in the Big
Smoke.
Sister Brisbane unsheatlis her nib: —
Marguerite daisies dressed up the Women’s Club
rooms at Warwick for Mrs. Sterne’s party to the
Hollands, of Sydney. Mrs. Holland talked of the
women justices of the harbor city, and askpd Banana-
land to be represented at the women’s conferences.
She named the Fairfax, Wonderley and Sterne ladies
as likely starters. Music and song were part of
the proceedings.
There is some local stir over the wedding of
Greek Consul Freeleagus and his tall dark Ariadne
Kocones, from Ephesus. P'ather Kocones lost his
all when Abdul swooped upon the Christian
in Asia Minor. Refuge was sought on Mytelene,
and later on in Australia. Freeleagus looks after
Brisbane’s Fresh Food and lee.
The Ken llalzells have sold Yolande station, and
sojourn in Brisbane for a space.
Lulu Philpott, of the Colane Philpotts, took Owen
Harris for better an’ worse in the drawing-room at
Colane. After wedding breakfast on the verandah,
an aeroplane called, and the bridal couple fled to
their honeymoon by way of the clouds.
A party was given at Sandgate croquet lawn to
champion Mrs. Dinsdale. A fitted dressing-ca.se
was handed to the lady to take cn her travels to
the Cold Country.
The Urquharts are in town. The Administrator has
left the Northern Territory to a deputy or its own
devices for a space, on account of ill health. He
goes on to Melbourne for special treatment.
Society has not yet officially returned to Bris-
bane, though it occasionally pays flying visits to
the capital. Most of it is getting brown cn sea
beaches, or wet at Tambourine. The Theatre Royal
and His Majesty’s continue to keep closed doors, and
there is a rumor that Cremorne Diggers go north in
March and that MeCallum builds an up-to-date new
theatre on the site. Maidie Scott is at the Winter-
garden, and Con Moreni at the Empire.
Eric MacTaggart, of Hamilton, marries Maisie
Rylance in Sydney on Feb. 3.
Nurse Helen Campbell, of St. Helen’s, said “I
will” to Bob Raph in All Saints’ the other day.
Parson Free tied the knot; C. H. Biscoe gave the
bride (she was in cream crepe de Chine), Esther
EsAe (in mauve) ’maided, and T. Armstrong bes*--
manned. The wedding breakfast was eaten, etc.,
at the Gresham, and the Northern rivers reflect the
honeymoon.


cu
m
m
Longest Range,
Greatest Killing Power.
Those are two of the big
reasons why you should select
Climax Cartridges.
Climax Cartridges are loaded with
Dupont Smokeless Powder and CORK
TEX WADS. Cork Tex Wads ensure
less recoil, smoother action, more uni-
form distribution of shot.
TRY CLIMAX in the field or at the
traps.
Obtainable at all leading Stores.
UNITED STATES CARTRIDGE CO., New York.
Wholesale Distributors:—
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.,
104 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
One sort of fielding was easier at Rose-
hill (N.S.W.) on Saturday than was another sort in
the Test match at Adelaide. Peeka (4’s) in the
first division of the Three-Year-Old Handicap, An-
esete (5 to_2) in the second division, Janitor (9 to 2)
in the Flying Handicap, and Male Siccar (3’s) in
the Two-Year-Old Handicap were the best Winners
for punters, but so many horses were backed to
beat them that the layers had no cause to repine.
For the rest, Royal Bardolnh took the Jumpers’ Flat
at 12’s, Goldbeater the Carlingford Mile at 12's,
and Ignition the January Handicap at 6’s. There
were only seven runners in Ignition’s race, and four
were at shorter odds than the Eudorus—Gouda bay,
who, highly thought of in his younger days, but
a disappointment when heavily backed, as he was
time and again, seems to have come good at last.
The Wild Goose, Glen Song, Farceur and Green-
dale were among those behind him, and young
Hunter was seen to advantage in the saddle. Three
horses came down in Peeka’s race, and Royal
Crown (Cooltrim —Royal Cush) had to be destroyed.
Anese'te’s win was the easiest of the day—she
cleared right away from the field and was six
lengths ahead of Hemisphere when little Hillier
stopped riding, the time (lmin. for seven
furlongs) being the fastest of the day. Anesete is
one of the Buckwheats, and may turn out the best
of- them, but they are not a thrilling lot.
* * * *
The Hawk lias figured in numerous doubles
on the Challenge Stakes and the Anniversary Handi-
cap, the first of which races is to be run at Rand-
wick on Saturday and the second on Monday.
Although the sturdy little Maorilander has lOst.
31b. in the Challenge, he won with the same weight
over the same distance (six furlongs) at Moore-
field on January 3, and he looks nice and bright
again. However, it will bother him to concede
261 b. to Friarsdale, if it is decided to start the
handsome English horse. Friarsdale is a good one,
and tote punters, will do no harm if they follow
him in his next two or three races. For the 12-
furlongs affair Confusion (7st. 51b.) reads as well
as anything, and if a muscular boy is engaged he
will be backed with confidence. Failing Confusion
Eudorean (6st. 131 b.), who won meritoriously at
Canterbury Park, and is in excellent fettle, may do
it again.
* * * *
Punters had a happy time at Caulfield on
Saturday, or so McShortodds maintains. Certainly
there were hundreds who failed to pick Broad
Check (12 to 1), Hampden (100 to 1) and Lady
Warwick (12 to 1), but the man behind the bag
insists that Sailing Home (7 to 4) and Polytheist
(5 to 2) took the glint off the gold, and he is
renowned for his veracity in these matters. Frank
Dempsey, who went sailing “Home” on Tuesday,
had his last winning mount in this land on the
imported Bay d’Or—Water Baby horse in the
Anniversary Handicap. Sailing Home gave the
emigrant an easy ride ; he was a comfortable length
in front of the V.R.C. Leger hero Sandringham and
The Lance at the deciding point, and Dempsey could
have made it four lengths without any great exer-
tion. Polytheist gave his new owner, “All Sunshine”
Masterton, a Newmarket notion when he came from
the ruck in the Tooronga Handicap and beat Pale-
light (7’s) by a head. Now a five-year-old. and
perhaps better than ever before, the son of Poly-
melus —Cranbrook will run a merry six furlongs next
month if the V.R.C. handicapper doesn’t overburden
him.
* * * *
“Hamer”: My friend the hardcase trainer
was discussing a rival. “’lm know about ’orses!”
he snorted disgustedly. “I was getting into the
sulky one day and ’e comes up to the gelding that
was in the shafts an’ says “Ullo, boy.’ The blarsted
’orse got so proud of ’imself that ’e bolted with me.”
* * * *
Allan, the Vic. Premier, is now inclined to
support the tote as a revenue-raising device. In
August, 1922, he voted against Morley’s bill for
legalising the machine, plus the odds-screamer, but
since then his own measure for taxing McShortodds’
turnover by 1 p.c. was rejected. Of the nine
Assembly members of the Compo Cabinet (in-
cluding the whip), Argyle, Bourchier and Downward
voted for Morley’s bill, and Allan, Peacock, Eggles-
ton, McDonald, Mackrell and Groves against it.
(The division was; For, 15; Against, 41.) As
Allan knows, there is a majority of nearly three
to one against the tote in the present Assembly, and
the only hope of pushing through a bill is for
a Ministry to make it a general-election issue, and
then to win a majority.
The Onkaparinga
(S.A.) Racing Club
has done the handsome
thing by Alfred von
Doussa, who lately re-
tired from the secre-
taryship. He had been
the only holder of the
position since the
Easter Monday steeple-
chasing started as a
sort of picnic meeting,
nearly half a centui v
back and had a big
share in working it up
to one of Adelaide’s
chief sporting fixtures.
The club gave him 100
guineas at parting and
has now added a re-
tiring allowance of
£3OO a year.
JAMES BARNES,
chairman of Sydney
Tattersall's Club.
A horse called Benry, by Earlston —King's
Fancy, has given the Westralian system of having
10s. straightout and place (equal-division) totalisators
another striking advertisement. In the Trial Stakes,
six furlongs, at Helena Vale on Jan. 17, Benry won
at 20 to 1 in the ring, his tote dividends being
4112 15s. s.o. and £3 for a place. Saddled up
again in the Bellevue Purse, seven furlongs, he was
kept at 8 to 1 by the bookmakers, but when his
tote punters went to the “Collect” windows for
the second time they received £8 4s. for a win
and £3 3s. for a place—ls 2-sths to 1 in one case
and 5 3-10ths to 1 in the other. It is rare for
the winner of a double to be at outside odds in the
second event, even in the history Of the tote. If
a Randwick bookie were asked to lay 15 2-sths to 1
in like circumstances, he would take a fit.
* * * *
“Nikko” : Regarding signs and omens fol-
lowed by punters (B. 15/l/’25), the agitation of
“D.M.’s” hero was as nothing to the tribulations
of a clerk I knew. His boss had a wife with a
decided cast in her eye, and it was her custom
to appear in the office on race days to collect a few
pounds to see her through the meeting. The clerk,
himself a punter, invariably had to interview the
lady, which he did gazing fixedly into space to
escape the ill-fortune of her glance, following up
with the additional safeguard of a series of gyra-
tions. Naturally the lady took a violent dislike to
him. “There’s something queer about that ypung
man,” she confided to her husband. “I never trust
anyone who can’t look me straight in the face.”
“Well, 1 haven’t noticed that,” replied the boss,
“but if I catch him waltzing by himself in a corner
any more he’s going to look for another job.” Some-
one reported this to the clerk, who speedily altered
his ways. But his luck remained about the same.
* * * *
Moss Christie, a good but not a great
swimmer, did rather better than was expected in
the N.S.W. swimming championships at Sydney
Domain baths. Sam Kahanamoku beat him in the
220yds. (2min. 27 3-ssec.), but the paleface reversed
the positions in the 440yds. He was always in
front and had a dozen yards to spare at the end.
The time was smin. 31 2-ssee. (Charlton won the
race last year in smin. 11 4-ssec.), and Owen
Griffiths, a promising youngster, was dose up,
third. In between. Christie got away with the
mile championship in 25min. 14 3-ssec., with Cor-
mack (Vic.), P. Smith (N.S.W.) and H. Taylor
(W.A.) in the places. Dick Eve, the Olympic
champion, retained the diving honors, and Joe Soussari
(Q.) annexed both breast-stroke titles —220yds. in
3min. 9 2-ssec. (State record) and 440yds. in
6min. 4 l-ssec. (Australian record). It is rather
a pity the Queenslander wasn’t taken to Paris;
he couldn’t have been his best at Melbourne when
the selectors turned him down.
* * # *
“Past Grammar”: George Parker, the
“walking policeman,” is going to have a shot at
the world’s record for a mile during the tea interval
at the fifth Test match on Feb. 27. The S.C.G. is
the only ground in Sydney which would give the
walker a chance, and the management is willing.
The mile-walk record, 6min. 25 4-ssec., stands to
the credit of the Canadian George Goulding, in com-
petition, while Parker did 6min. 28 2-ssec., unpaced,
in December. If he can get anyone to lead him
along next month, there will be plenty of money
against the Canuck’s figures standing.
* * * *
“J. Roo”: Cooma (N.S.W.) is to see a
championship fight on Anniversary Day. The match
is for the N.S.W. lightweight title, the holder being
Stan Love and the challenger “Bunkas” Mayne,
light- and feather-weight champion of the Speck,
whence comes Algy Daniels, a very good Digger
middleweight. Love is a Cooma boy with a pretty
and effective style, as his record shows. He lias
beaten some good boxers, and stayed 20 rounds with
Harry Collins, who is at least 101 b. heavier. But
not being in the charmed circle, and having no
American-negro, Mexican, Hindu, Filipino or
Malay blood on the father’s side, he never gets a
Stadium date.
* * * *
The All Blacks won the 30th and last
match of their European tour by beating France
again, this time by 30—6. Toulouse, the scene of
■Wellington’s last victory in the Peninsular cam-
paign, was the venue, and history repeated itself
before a crowd of 50,000. The Frenchmen had
changed their team and adopted the M.L. forma-
tion, but could not stay the visitors, who scored
consistently from whistle to whistle. Nepia, the
Maori full-back, rose from a sick bed to make good
his record of having played in all the matches of
the tour. The Maorilanders have scored 751 to 102
in their 30 matches, as against the 812 to 44 of
the original All Blacks in their first 30 games.
The difference probably represents the improvement
in English form since 1905. The present team, how-
ever, can claim an undefeated record, and would
no doubt be even better pleased if they had been
able to include Scotland in their list of victims.
“Kicker”; Newspaper reports quote Nepia as hav-
ing played in every match, 30 altogether, of the
All Blacks’ tour, and suggest that the feat is with-
out precedent. In point of fact, Tom Ellison, a
member of the first M.L. team to visit England, and
the finest forward of all time, in my opinion, played
in 66 games, the total being 75. Writer himself
took part in 65. To us of that 1888-89 side SO
matches would have been like a picnic trip. It
can be easily imagined that training was unneces-
sary in 1888-89 ; -what might in other circumstances
have been considered excessive hospitality alone kept
the fellows from going stale. Sherry Wynyard, one
of the best forwards of the team, is now living at
Drummoyne (N.S.W.) ; to look at him now it is
easy to remember him as I do—always on, the ball,
and Heaven help the man in front of him.
* * * *
In the third Test match at Adelaide, as in
the second game at Melbourne, the Australians had
a rough time during the first 90 minhtes
before lunch. Gilligan having called wrongly again,'
Collins took Arthur Richardson in with him (Bards-
ley had been dropped), but returned to the pavilion
in Tate’s second over, clean bowled. Gregory, who
followed, made a few vigorous strokes and was then
dismissed by Freeman, and Taylor was l.b.w. r.o
Tate before he had scored. Three for 22 on a per-
fect pitch. Ponsford helped Arthur Richardson
to carry the score to 114, when the Victorian, who
was never quite at his ease, was snapped up by
Strudwick off Gilligan. Then the luck turned against
England. An inflamed big toe compelled Tate to
retire for a time, and he did little bowling during
the remainder of the innings. A strained muscle
so disabled Gilligan that he was unable even to field.
Nevertheless, Kilner, playing in his first Test against
Australia, got Arthur Richardson, who had made a
priceless 69, and Vic Richardson (4) for 18 runs,
and it looked as if the Australians would be lucky
to reach 250, since six good men were down for
119. It was Ryder and Andrews who saved the
situation. Batting splendidly, they put on 134
runs in 112 minutes, when Andrews was bowled by
Kilner for a delightful 72. With Kelleway (16),
Oldfield (47), and Mailey (27) to help him, Ryder
mastered the English bowling, which was further
weakened by Freeman stopping a powerful d'rive
with his left wrist and having to receive hospital
treatment, it being at first thought that a bone
had been broken. It was the Victorian’s only
chance, and he carried on until the last wicket fell
at 489, his own share being 201 n.o. He was in
for 382 minutes, and his driving was the finest
feature of a great innings, during which the selec-
A J. RICHARDSON, whose "batting and
bowling hare been of great service to
Australia in the Test matches.
tors, who left the man out of the Sydney and Mel-
bourne teams, must have thought deeply. Kilner,
pegging away pluckily, sent down 448 balls for
127 runs and four wickets. Tate took two for 43 ;
Gilligan 1 for 17.
The Englishmen started badly by losing Whysall
and Strudwick for 18. Chapman (26) and Tate (27)
shaped better, but both were out at 69; as at
Melbourne, the invaders gained nothing, and prob-
ably lost a good deal, bv changin'* thp order ef
yie e idedon ng - • The Hobbs-Sutclfffe partnership
whirn + 9 r S ? n , 145 mln utes, at the end of
i lff n'T 5 ? enod . SutcliffG "’as caught by Old*
h lfn 8 *'' , f , or an inexhaustibly patient 3.3. Cer-
tamly the weather was hot and the side was in a
bad way, but this sort of thing makes the icono
clast long for the time to come when the rules will
be so drastically altered, in one way and another
n ata criGke j match will be decided in one day as
all other field sports are. Woolley, whose knee was
bothering him, did not stay long, but Hendren battint-
much moi'e freely than the others, Chapman excepted S
fe d H °, bbs t 0 add 117 the seventh wicker
Hobbs, was missed by Gregory, off Mailev
before he had scored 10, was out for lig * which’
occupied 291 minutes. It was the slowest ’ceS
?•" haa ever made, but the crowd cheered him
f °- r bIS grlt ' None of the others did mucn
nnti e i] £ osed for 365, Hendren having
ontributedla valuable 92. A. Richardson (2 for 4“>)~
| xor mvidVd
chronicle haT Kelrokß. England when
“F. Dropshort” : How many people know that Jack
T learned his marvellous slip-fielding in Eng
' ,- 1 was at the same artillery-officers’ school
with him in 1918, and we were billeted in the
famous pavilion at Lords. Gregory was in great
" lt l i 4110 Tommy-officer instructors, who
carted him about to Aldershot and other places with
their own special cricket elevens. Several of ,s
to Poetise at the nets every morning; in
days Jacks batting impressed us much more
than his bowling. But T noticed that he would
spend hours practising at the slip-catching machine
before ° Ur was over - The Saturday
before we were to depart, the long Cornstalk was
taken to play against Shoeburyness, where he came
to light with a century, several catches in the
®’P. S a P d a lot °f wickets. By Monday mornings
post there was an official memo from the C 0
to the C.O. Lords: “Kindly see that
camp’’ ° goly com P letes his training at this
or ooo ntur j on ” : R - vder > 201 n.o. is the third score
Sni mi °Y er . Inac^e by Australians in these fixtures
Billy Murdoch began it with 211 at Kennington Ovai
in 1884, and Syd Gregory came along just 10 years
“ er . ln o Sydney with 201. R. E. Foster, ‘with
28, at Sydney in 1903, is the only Englishman to
top the 200. Ryder’s success will please a lot of
his supporters who think, with him, that he received
an unsatisfactory spin from Armstrong on the last
English tour. The Collihgwood man was not given
a if 1 the Tests, though he finished fourth in
the batting averages with 36.85, totalling 1032 runs
in the supplementary tour in South Africa he
showed fine form with bat, ball and in the field.
Machete”; All this talk about the necessity for
finding a new bowler for the Australian Test side
leads us to wonder why on earth Grimmett has been
passed over, especially for the match in his own
State Grimmett has been by far the most con-
sistent home-grown bowler in Australia this season.
He has got English, N.S.W. and Victorian wickets
cheaply on all pitches. As a relief to Mai ley
he would be invaluable, and he is a really good
bat and a fine field, at mid-off. In the Ma
State s first innings at Adelaide last week, Clarrie
got, Kippax and two others for 43 ; in the second
knock he skittled 6 for 103, including Gwynne,
Ratcliffe, Kippax and Punch. He, Gun, Rymill and
Pritchard were the leading factors in S.A.’s success—
the first it has had in the Sheffield series in 11 years.
“C'Cnturion”: Allan Kippax, in making 122 against
■South Oss at Adelaide, completed his fourth century
against the Croweaters in three years. The others
were 170 at Adelaide in 1922-23, 248 at Sydney
last season, and 127 at Sydney in this season's
first match. Kippax. has had hard luck in missing
Tost cricket this time, but he seems almost a
certainty for the next Australian XI to cross the
water, a side which already promises to contain
much new blood. Kippax is in the very first rank
of run-getting batsmen, and is a stylist withal, while
he is also a high-class fieldsman in the country.
* * * *
“Oxmoad”: Some people seem to think
cricket selectors ought to be infallible, whereas, of
course, they are as liable or as certain to err as
any other class. But I suspect the most fallible and
blundering of all the tribe have been Oxford and
Cambridge captains. Consider some of their mistakes.
The Hon. L. H. Tennyson, who was deemed the
right; man to captain England in three of the Test
matches of 1921, never got his blue at Cambridge,
though he went up there in 1908 with an Eton
reputation. I have read somewhere that his Univer-
sity never realised how much it had missed till he
made a century against it for the M.C.C. after he
had gone down. Even “Ranji,” one of the most
brilliant batsmen of his generation, failed to get
into the Cambridge XI his first year, though he
managed it in his second (1893). In his case
there was some excuse for the captain, for the dark-
skinned gent.’s previous reputation was purely an
Indian one. But P. F. Warner, who was destined
to captain two English teams in Australia, both
of which won the rubber, had to wait until his
third year at Oxford (1895) before he was picked
to play against Cambridge, although he had gone up
with all the prestige of an ex-captain of a public
school (Rugby). And these are only a few instances.
Hearts up, you young cricketers who fail to get
your transcendent merits recognised at once!
* * * #
“Wink”: The average all-rounder would
rather make a century than take a bag of wickets.
George Giffen, South Oss’s best cricketer, was
different. Against McLaren’s XI at Adelaide, George
was batting well on a wicket so soft that every
delivery left its mark on the pitch, but he didn’t
attempt to pat down the bumps. Dicky Lilley, Eng-
land’s ’keep, noticed this, and with one wish to do
Giff. a good turn, and 50 to have the pitch smooth
for England’s innings, he began stamping down the
ridges with his heel. George angrily stopped him.
“Leave ’em alone,” he called ; “I want ’em to bowl
on.” He took 13 wickets for 93 in the match.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; An odd point in Adelaide
cricket; batsman half stopped the ball, found it
coming on into the stumps, pushed it away, and
somehow flicked it straight into the wicketkeeper's
hands. There was an appeal for a catch; but the
not-out decision was clearly correct, since the first
stroke—the only one really to count —had sent the
ball on to the ground.
THE DAYS THAT ARE NO MORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“In a published monologue, Jo.vnton Smith, the
Sydney pony-racing knight, laments ‘the good old
days’ of ponv-racing when owners cheerfully paid
£6O in entrance fees to compete for five £lO
prizes, thus ensuring the proprietary a clear profit of
£lO before the gates opened, and a persistent
general demand that ‘no race’ be declared always
followed the defeat of a hot favorite.”
Oh, a chap might well be gladder when he’s climbed
the social ladder
And won his way into the haute noblesse
Than when first his foot he planted on the bottom
rung, and panted,
Ever onward, ever upward, to success.
Vet, albeit I sense life’s savors to the full and
fortune’s favors,
Though I've all 1 want of envy and of praise,
Still my heart grows soft and tender in the midst
of all my splendor
At the memories of the good old pony days. i
Oh, the pleasant recollections of the absence of
objecticns
With which eager owners ante’d up their fees!
’Twas a tenner prize enticed ’em —nothing more—
but it sufficed ’em
To display the speed (or slowness) of their gees.
Sure and certain was the profit waiting the promoter,
off it,
Ere the punters passed the turnstiles in relays;
One might sit him back contented with the patrons
who frequented
Any courses in the good old pony days.
Still I see the prads careering, hear the fierce
exultant cheering—
And the swearing and the discord and the din,
And the instant application for a “no race” declara-
tion
When, as sometimes happed, the favorite didn’t win.
7 rom a thousand lungs it thundered ; someone, it was
clear, had blundered,
And the backers bent on me a wistful gaze,
Sure no crook could work a point on such a referee
as Joynton
In the fair and square and rare old pony days.
Aye, since then I’ve prospered highly—you mav doubt
if Rose O’Reilly
To greatness so dramatically riz—
But there’s nothing quite as thrilling in the jobs
that now I’m filling
As my triumphs in the pony-racing biz.
Still, in dreams, I rake the oof in where the gallant
prads are hoofin’
Down the course, and still I hear the wild hoorays
And the bellowed acclamation and the yells of pro-
testation
Of the mad old, glad old, good old penv days!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Fancy-shape Lever Watch, Silk Ribbon
Wristlet, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO, Gold Mounts and Buckle.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls, 35/,
Set Aquamarines and Pearls, 3Q/.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Button Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Cold,
real Platinum set,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, real Platinum
set, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Open-face
Lever Watch, 3-plate non-magnetic lever,
30/-; Higher Grade, 407-
Extra jewelled, 50 /-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links,
engraved “Ribbon”
design, 25/-
Heavier, 30/-
15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, jewelled lever movement, £3/10/-
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-. £B/10/-. £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Flat Band Armlet, £2; wider, £2/15/-
Silver-lined, 15/-, 20/-, 30/-, 40/-, according to size.
SEND YOUR ORDERS DIRECT TO
A. SAUNDERS’ POST FREE
DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL CATALOGUE
FORWARDED FREE.
H
m
m
&
©
'>.'ol
4. Saunders’ Gent.’s Square Cushion Shape Nickel
Lever Watch, £2/10/-
Extra Jewelled, in Silver Case, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
IZ
Q 3
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold, Rectangular Shape Silk Wristlet, £5.
Chased, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/- and
£lO.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Aquamarine
or Ruby, 25 /-
15ct. Gold, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Bloodstone
Signet Ring,
35/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’. 9ct. Gold
Links, flat, concave or
convex, 20/-; heavier,
25/-, 30/-, 35/-
15ct. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
Ssf:
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunting
Keyless “Imperial” Lever, £2/10/-
Guaranteed 10 years. Special value.
Do This—To-day
Learn how millions get
whiter teeth
This offers a delightful test which
will bring a new conception of what
clean teeth mean.
It means whiter, cleaner, safer
teeth, such as millions now enjoy*
See what it brings to you.
The war on film
Dental science is now fighting film
—the cause of most tooth troubles.
Film is that viscous coat you feel.
It clings to teeth. Under old methods
of tooth brushing, much of it remains.
It becomes discoloured, then forn s
dingy coats. That is why so many
teeth look cloudy.
Film also causes most tooth
troubles. It holds food substance
which ferments and forms acid. It
holds the acid in contact with the
teeth to cause decay. Germs breed
by millions in it. They, with tartar,
are the chief cause of pyorrhea.
These troubles became almost
universal when that film was left on
teeth.
Modern research has discovered
two effective film combatants. One
disintegrates the film at all stages
of formation. One removes it with-
out harmful scouring.
Tests have proved that these
methods mean a new era in teeth
cleaning. A new-type tooth paste
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel Never use a
film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
has been created to apply them daily.
The name is Pepsodent.
Now the use of Pepsodent has
spread the world over, largely by
dental advice .
Look at what Pepsodent
does
The use of Pepsodent will bring
at once a conception of clean
teeth.
It does more than fight film. It
multiplies the alkalinity of the saliva
which is there to neutralize mouth
acids. It multiplies the ptyalin in
saliva, which is there to digest starch
deposits on teeth.
These combined effects will be a
revelation to you.
Send the coupon for a io-Day
Tube. Note how clean the teeth
feel after using. Mark the absence
of the viscous film! See how teeth
become whiter as the film-coats
disappear.
Compare the new way with the old,
then decide for yourself what is best.
Cut out form now.
Made in Australia
Pepsadaßl
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold in two sizes.
Prices : 2/- and 1/3
A 81536
10-DayTube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family
a; w
©
m
o
«==k
©
r 1
1
I
'i 1...
?..-- \ k* "1!
I
SMI
*3
N=*
Established
1575
ajffaur tinjes
pot stillproduct
'
ni i
|| ;ij;
: 11
&v-'


i m *
«lsaLvs
V.* ‘ . * <
e ler
Keeps Face Young
If every woman knew of the
wonderful rejuvenating and
beautifying qualities of pure
Mercolized Wax, chemists
would hardly be able to supply
the demand for this remark-
able product. Just think! You
apply the wax to a faded,
withered skin, and that skin
gives way to one of youthful
loveliness, clear, soft, deli-
cately tinted as a rose petal!
The new complexion is a per-
fectly natural one, not to be
compared at all with make-up.
How Is This Accomplished?
By actually peeling of? the defective
cuter skin which covers up the true
skin underneath. This is a painless
process, for the thin veil of outer
skin has no nerves.. Nature renews
complexions in exactly the same way,
constantly shedding tiny particles of
the surface covering, or scarf skin.
But in time this process slows up.
Then Mercolized Wax comes to the
rescue, and hastens the skin shedding.
This is the secret of its marvellous
success.
So if your skin is old-looking, sal-
low, over-red, blotchy, parched, rough
—the stubborn scarf skin—just peel
it off.
Have you Freckles,
moth patches, liver spots? Peel them
olf! It’s the sensible thing to do.
And simpfe. Just apply Mercolized
Wax at bedtime, as you apply cold
cream; wash it off in the morning.
Fine, almost invisible, skin particles
are flecked off with the wax. No
harm. No detention indoors. No
trace of the treatment itself is in
evidence.
The lively, young, healthy under-
skin is brought gradually to view—
and you have the exquisite com-
plexion of robust girlhood—the kind
Women Envy and Men Admire,
and you look years younger!
Obtain a package of Mercolized
Wax from your chemist or depart-
ment store, use as directed—and you
will bless the day you made the
acquaintance of this wonder-working
treatment.
Mercolized Wax
M
Note the Difference
Marking Ink often causes annoyance apart
from disfigurement. But You’ll be delighted
with the Plensureable Advantages derived by
Marking Linen with
HMlfcMMflfl
Any Name clearly Woven in Past Colour
“A Few Stitches and They’re Cn."
Be sure and ask for CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
minimum
Actual Size, Name Style No. 6 <
Sold by All Best Drapers.
Prices: 12dz. 7/6; 6dz. 5/-; Sdz. S/6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH ZVo.
85 Oubitt street, Kichmond, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
«s
C <-£ Ot* ►
Cheaper Steel Tools!
The life of a cutting tool is increased when
it is made of steel prepared especially to give
the particular service required.
“An Eagle on a Globe’’ Brand Crucible Cast
Sheffield Steel is supplied in the tempers best
suited to various types of cutting tools. With
correct heat treatment, “An Eagle on a
Globe’’ Brand Steel will ensure that tools pre-
serve their keen cutting edges for maximum
periods on the most difficult work.
Write for a copy of the book “Hints to Practical
Users of Tool Steel.” Ask also for information
about the best steel for the tools you use.
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO., LTD.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE . 342-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Raul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 34-30 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R- L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
STEWART DAWSON’S
Defiance Lever
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case
15 Jewels, Plate Nickel Movement
-^5
ill
s
rHggjSj||^
© •'"s
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically
and Soundly
Constructed and to
Keep Accurate Time
Special Price:
65/-
Fop Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled
POSTAGE FREE
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 187! N.s.w. ltd.
Two Sydney
Establishments
(41 2 George Street, Strand Corner
iISS-IS7 Pitt Street, near King St.
TkeTcmks of War
become tkelanks of Peace
a
Ff
WA
1
'■"Mi ),J
x::
m
m
M
/*
Cletrac gathers in the harvest
The marvellous deeds of the Tanks
during the Great War are still fresh
iu the memory of most of us, their
immense strength and ability to go
anywhere, under any conditions, cre-
ated a new era for traction. CLETBAC
TANK-TYPE TRACTORS are built
on the same lines as regards strength,
and they embody the same self-laying
Steel Tracks which enable them to go
anywhere in any weather no matter
what the state of the ground may be.
AT HARVEST Cietrac's particular
task is to pull the reaper and binder
at a steady, even pace for days on
end, haul in and thresh the grain; and
that it does so, at the same time saving
time, labor and money, is evidenced by
the favorable comments of their
numerous owners throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Get the Best Tractor first— “Cletrac.’
Literature Post Free with Pleasure.
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
083 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 469 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.,
371=73 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
THE INKY WAY.
“Eve II.”: You don’t often hear of editors compos-
ing songs. But at Bowraville (N.S.W.) the boss of
the local Guardian lias recently leapt into the rallies
of harmonists with “What Shall I Render to Thee?”
And there’s nothing in it about overdue accounts,
either.
“Oxmead”: One of the quaintest cable errors I
have met appeared in a Perth (W.A.) weekly three
or four years since. It was when Ned the Next was
touring India. The message recounted how the
daughter of some Indian rajah had personally taken
charge of manoeuvres executed by native troops for
the royal visitor’s delectation, and had “given out
the words of command in clear, ringing tones.” The
wrestler with oversea news represented the lady us
having “given the ‘Out swords!’ command,” etc. In
my eye there still lingers a picture of serried lines
of our dark-skinned fellow-subjects extricating their
skewers from their scabbards like one man.
The Argus continues to be a training school for
other journals, particularly the evening sheets. Fol-
lowing Dumas, chief of staff, who became, first, editor
of the Morning .Sun and then editor of the Evening
Sun (Melb.), E. G. Bonney, a leader-writer, has gone
over to coadjute with him as news editor. There
was a time when it was not so easy to outbid the
Wilson-Mackinnon proprietary, but now even its
white-haired boys yield to the lure of bigger pay.
But it doesn’t seem to matter; the Mackinnon sheet
comes out just as regularly as ever, and is seldom
scooped.
“G.G.R.”: “Claude de Tropic’s” 60-year-old news-
paper press (B. 18/12/’24) is decades younger than
the treasured heirloom of the Adelaide Register.
A brass plate attached to this pioneer baekbreaker
testifies that on it were printed the first number of
the Register and the Proclamation of South Aus-
tralia, which latter was read by Governor Hind-
marsh under the Old Gumtree in 1836. Invented by
Lord Stanhope, this ancient device works by a
system of weights and levers, and its round-headed
bolts belong to a period before the coming of the
square variety.
“Uramao”: One of the daddies of newspaperdom in
Auckland had a “diamond-wedding” lately, and the
group photographed to commemorate the occasion is
perhaps unique. When young Henry Brett began to
find his feet on the Inky Way, after being taken off
the case and promoted to shipping reporter, he forth-
with sent for his sweetheart in England to come to
him. They were married, and his friend Mr. Wil-
liamson (for many years manager of the now defunct
Southern Cross) acted as best man; the bridesmaid
later became Mrs. Williamson. All four smile out of
the wedding group again after 60 years; they are
neighbors nowadays on the shores of Lake Takapuna.
Mr. Brett is proprietor of the Auckland Star.
“Naumai”: Brisbane Telegraph seems to be a
healthy paper to work on. George Woolnough, editor
from 1885 to 1916, is still a reader of the journal
in his 91st year. James Cowlishaw and F. T.
Brentnall, ex-chairmen of directors, both passed the
ninetieth mile-post last year; Mr. Brentnall died
only a few days ago. Two members of the
staff, W. H. Taudevin and W. Hurman, have been
in harness since the first number came from the press
52 years back. J.R.H. Lewis, who died last year,
had been wielding the blue pencil and putting the
steam roller over other people’s copy for 36 years.
There are other veterans about the show who look
good for decades yet and may break some of the
existing records.
Among the candidates for Labor selection for
the North Sydney State seat is S. A. Rosa, editor
of Common Cause, the miners’ official journal, in
future to be published as a weekly supplement to
the Labor Daily. Rosa is a present to us from
Uncle Sam (that was in the ’eighties). He has
been a canvasser, a fellmonger and a navvy as well
as a freelance journalist. His socialism • earned him
a violent attack from Sydney Truth, but in a sub-
sequent court case Rosa won, and presently, impressed
by the ' vigor of his adversary, N orton offered him
a job on the paper, which he ran for tinny years.
When the Federal Constitution was framed he
published a pamphlet entitled “Ungrammatical
Statesmen” ; and Dr. MacLaurin, then Chancellor of
Sydney Uni., backed up Rosa in a second edition of
the pamphlet.
“P.X.”: J. Y. Mills, who died in Sydney the
other day, was, among other things, a newspaper
proprietor once. It was in the days when Mills and
Pile, the land salesmen, flourished exceedingly in
Sydney. Henry Fenton, who had been foreman
printer of The Bulletin, and Syd. Knight, “father
of the chapel” at the S. M. Herald, had pooled their
not very numerous pence and ventured on an after-
noon paper at Broken Hill, then a dusty infant.
Prospects of their Barrier Miner were good enough,
but prospects weren’t filling, and in desperation one
of the partners was dispatched to find a capitalist.
He roped in Mills, who helped a younger brother
into the business. It tided the little paper over its
troubles ; and then Fenton and Mills went out and
a new partnership was formed which lasted until
J. E. Davidson bought them out five or six years ago.
“Lao-dah”; Maoriland is on the whole a thirsty
desert for the Inky-Wayfarer. The struggling scribe
or artist with literary goods to sell is usually greeted
with the question, “Is it a freewill offering?” The
editor of one leading journal got over the unpleasant
necessity of paying for a two-column article by this
insignificant person by publishing it as an interview:
he forgot to cross out the expression “the writer ’
which occurred here and there, so that the effusion,
when printed, had an unusual element of humor in it.
An oasis in the aforementioned desert is, however,
provided by the Christchurch Sun. That bright
evening clarion is so uncautious as to invite con-
tributions and thriftless enough to pay for them.
It has in consequence gathered around it quite a
respectable circle’ of indigenous poets and 1 ; storywriters,
and its Christmas number this year will more than
bear comparison with the special issues of the dailv
papers on this side. It is one of the few hopeful
signs at present showing on the Shaky Island’s
literary horizon.
The Los Angeles Examiner served up some hot
copy to its readers, over the Douglas Mawson busi-
ness. The name of the wrecked vessel has become a
trifle mutilated in transmission—it appears as the
Daniel Dawson—and the feast of horror begins with
the full-page headline: “Her Baby Eaten Before Her
Eyes By Cannibals.” The letterpress tells of the
fate of an Australian crew shipwrecked in Arnheim
Land and the tragic ordeal of the captain’s wife. It
is supplemented by pictures of an alarming and san-
guinary nature, one of which presents a white woman
bound to a palm-tree while two gins are roasting her
child. Apparently, however, the chronicler was re-
luctant to end his story too harrowingly, or else he
reasoned that nobody would have known exactly what
happened if there were no survivors; anyhow, the
mother finally eludes her captors and is picked up
strapped to a native raft in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
All of which is pretty much what might have been
expected of Los Angeles enterprise; and the series
of incidents may have been dished up in film form
to U.S. movie patrons before this
THE SMALL SINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Man, I ha’e written wi’ ma hairt’s best bluid
Of simple human things that gar it beat;
No ribald stories for the unco’ guid,
Nor lays incomprehensible, though sweet.
Plain, common songs of sorrow and of joy,
Of things I ken aboot an’ ye ken, too.
Nae subtle craft I’ve ventured to employ ;
Jla songs juist sang themsels, for they were true!
An’ so the humble folk ha’e read an’ smiled.
An’ maybe, whiles, the tears cam’ tae their een;
Some thinlcin’ lang for bush homes, far an’ wild,
Others juist wearyin’ for Aberdeen!
So, when some poet hoots ma rhymes awa’
An’ writes ma leeterary aipitaph,
The thocht comes tae ma mind that, after a’,
A’d rather mak’ some simple body laugh
Or greet at things the great man finds ower sma’
Than be a hi-falutin’ phonograph!
S. A.
C. H. S.


Sn * ■
i ■
ip
IBS II
ur.
/
' ■ ■
;
V.>
f'“. ; r '#?
Ita- MHiM
jv. ■ -.-. - I
In
Ml
8
M
:*.i
.
-•-
** *. -j i * * \ M % *. *. % p
.pit® .. 1 111 4 LfeS
.%t " .a?' ..-V •■:
5«8BBk ~A T ~ &S .... I
c
§fj§
MHEiili
**%
ifS^XCV'Vw'
11
l
a
- . -• ■
m
.
H*
g ?!
~ a. - *-.,
REUTERS
"s'i<Wßi
—w.—srt
3, b >
* *:
V“®>
m
.-«/
lz*/w»sy
plus*
Show a pessimist the silver lining of a holiday on
wheels, and immediately his outlook is overshadowed
by leaky tubes, punctures, blow-outs and a hundred
other tyre troubles rolled into one big black thunder-
cloud. But give friend Pessy—he who knows, and
has troubled trouble until he has come to equip him-
self with trouble as a SELF-STARTER—
Pv
GLASS
CORD TYRES
Lo and behold —the vista becomes crowned with a
brilliant bow and fleecy clouds in azure skies. Barnet
Glass Cord Tyres assure easy going at all times.
Get the 8.-G. easy-going feeling.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO., LTD.,
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND,
“Paved the way for the ear of to-day.”
Pioneers of the Rubber Industry in Australia.


The World Famous oa-
Auto Strop Razor A
You know the 25/- “Valet” Razor —with the self-
stropping device which keeps its blade as sharp as a
blade can be for 40 or 50 days?
Here—for three and six—is a new model of this
famous razor. It works on exactly the same plan as the
25/- model—ten seconds to strop —ten seconds to clean
—blade and razor never parted either for stropping or
cleaning.
Your chance has come to-day to start shaving with
the speediest, most efficient and economical safety razor
in the world.
“VALET”
A^uJb
Safety Razor
THE ILLUSTRATION
SHOWS THE NEW
NUMBER 99 SET
containing the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the
razor, blade and strop in neat
case. If your dealer does not
stock it, the agents will send it
post free on receipt of a postal
note for 3/6.
British made. Of all dealers.
Autostrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia:
Phipson & Company, Ltd., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
it
SB H
rrr,
Wt,
Hr)
m
7
/Il'S
U
IS FATHER TIME
YOUR ENEMY?
In the days of boyhood it seemed an eternity from one Christmas to another. Father
lime then walked on leaden feet.
But the years now pass rapidly. Every day the old gentleman with the scythe
grows faster and faster.
Apart from turning your hair grey, and perhaps encouraging your circumference to
develop, what change has he worked in you?
No doubt your income has increased during the past ten years. But is the increase
sufficient to cover the extra cost of living?
There is one thing, however, in which you can be the master of your fate.
m
V
It h
paying rent, Father Time has been your enemy.
If you are still
vnn 'i! 5 !, ' V i?, a i l V l<> J )aS i ad £ ed i to - yo ! ,r burdens. Every year he lias wasted a substantial portion of your earnings. Think of the money
you have handed to the landlord m the past ten years !
Some, profiting by experience, have taken steps to get their own homes, and thus escape the penalties of thriftlessness.
To those with foresight Time is a Friend.
He builds up their savings. He strengthens their assets. He sets them on the Road to Independence.
\a hat will 1925 mean to you? Further servitude in the toils of rent —or a determined effort to keep for yourself the money which
you have been putting into your landlord’s pocket
* ou . < r an -i 0 ” 1 the tens of thousands who are purchasing home sites, and thus securing themselves against the constantly increasing
rentals which are a characteristic of every developing city.
As an investment suburban land is second to none. It is not only safe but profitable, because its value is always rising.
„ , Another excellent feature is the easy terms available to our purchasers—a small deposit and payments equivalent to only a
tew shillings per week.
... Time the enemy of the thriftless—is therefore ready to be your friend, not only by increasing the value of your allotment, but by
helping you to pay for it.
T. M. BURKE PTY., LTD., Land and Estate Agents.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
19 Castlereagh Street
... 310 Collins Street
BRISBANE .
ADELAIDE
Queen and Albert Streets
Albion House, Wa.vmouth Street
And at Bendigo, Geelong, Ballarat and Newcastle.
‘ J kk.
H
FATHER TIME AND HIS WORKS.
The average length of life is 20 years greater
than it was SO years ago.
Does that mean 20 years more rent to pay —
or 20 years more to enjoy your savings?
In 1921 f there were more than 12,000 new
buildings erected in Sydney and 10,000 in Mel-
bourne who benefited by the higher land values
which this development created.


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R, TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
A&OTS
/V
X
7143
A
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall Amy Castles’ Concert
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Criterion "The Green Goddess’*
Royal “Wildflower”
Palace “So This Is London”
Grand Opera House .. “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly”
Hippodrome “The Bunyip”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Filler's Theatre Vaudeville
lion s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Good Morning, Dearie”
Royal “The Outsider”
King’s “Trelawny of the Wells”
Princess’s “Cinderella”
Palace “The Midnight Frolics”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
«
“Trelawny of the Wells,” as presented
at the Melbourne King’s on Saturday,
failed to produce that enthusiasm which every
right-minded audience is prepared to yield
on a first night. The inability of some of
the performers to realise the spirit of
Pinero’s comedy was mainly responsible.
Roland Ward as Arthur Gower has the re-
sponsibility of rising above the initial fop-
pishness of the character; otherwise the
audience can hardly be interested in the love
story of himself and Rose Trelawny. At
no time during the performance would any-
one have cared tuppence if Gower had gone
out and been run over by a funeral. There
were other failures ; but for an audience to
feel such apathy regarding the lover of the
story is disastrous to any production. And
it is rather shocking, in a high-grade pro-
fessional show, for the voice of the prompter
to be repeatedly heard. Generally the play
was a well-trained and well-dressed represen-
tation of the manners and customs of the Vic-
torian era, when mutton-chop whiskers and
stiff conventions prevailed; but too many of
the long cast were prepared to leave it at
that and neglect the comedy.
* * * *
The rise of the curtain gives an introduc-
tion to a festivity amongst a group of Crum-
mlesian thespians gathered to say good-bye
to Rose Trelawny, who, engaged to the
socially well-placed Arthur Gower —a pioneer
in the matrimonial linking of Society and
Stage—is to stay with his people so that her
manners and conduct may be inspected.
Under that ordeal in the house of Gower’s
“THE OUTSIDER,” AT MELBOURNE
THEATRE ROYAL.
Mr. Frederick Ladd and Mr. Jasper Sturdee,
M.S. (Nat Madison and Kay Souper),
Fellows of the Royal College of Sur-
geons, discuss the ethics of unqualified
practitioners.
grandfather, Vice-Chancellor Sir William
Cower, and under the latent disapproval of
the old man and Aunt Trafalgar (Mrs.
Brough), Rose’s desire to follow her mother’s
advice and seek safe matrimony wilts.
Finally she rebels and returns to her thes-
pian associates. But she has really fallen
in love, and lovesickness spoils her as an
actress. Gower himself seeks a stage career
in the hope of a re-union with Rose; and
a way is found for a happy ending when
Sir William Gower begins to recall his old
theatrical enthusiasms, the story finishing
with the old man financing a show in which
everybody’s best hopes are likely to be
realised.
* * * *
Dion Boucicault’s Sir William Gower can-
not bear comparison with his other charac-
ters; his inclination to over-act was accen-
tuated, and the study was not convincing.
Irene Vanbrugh made a likeable Rose 'lre-
lawny, with a subdued representation of the
passions of a girl of the period which was
artistically correct. Maggie Moore made the
best of Mrs. Mossop, Mrs. Brough was
adequate as Aunt Trafalgar, and Janet
Eccles’s cattish Imogen Parratt was excel-
lent. Of the others C. M. Mallard made Tom
Wrench, the “utility” actor with the dog-
like devotion for Rose, very appealing, and
Henry Latimer (although more could have
been made of the part) had in James Telfer
a Crummies who went very well.
The Josie Melville co. is busy rehearsing;
but the box-office indications are that “Good
Morning, Dearie” is likely to continue for
some time to come at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne.
ifc % v
With the aid of a Cockney “buttons” and
an intelligent cat, “Cinderella” goes on her
way to happiness as the Prince’s bride at
the New Princess’s Theatre, Melbourne, and
the crowds which pay the piper give no indi-
cations of petering out.
* si: sjs sfc
The way in which the Melbourne populace
is supporting “The Outsider,” at the Royal,
is an indication that there is ample room
for “serious” drama —if it is the sort of
serious drama that no thinking person could
take seriously. So there is no sign of any
change.
** * *
At the Melbourne Athenaeum the Hawaiian
Troubadours are as bright as ever, and
the houses they attract give them no cause
for sorrow.
*!* ''fi ❖ '!'
Changing its acts regularly, the “Mid-
night Frolics” co., at the New Palace, Mel-
bourne, still commands the patronage of
those suburbs that like to feel they have
gone really gay for at least one night in
the week.
* 5;: Si: *
“The Breath of Scandal” has been let
loose at the Majestic, in Melbourne, with
Conan Doyle’s story, “The Hound of the
Baskervilles,” as serious support, and a real
laughter-raiser in Larry Semon’s “Horse
Shoes.” At Hoyt’s de Luxe the main show
is “Open All Night” (morning and after-
noon session apparently being overlooked),
and Wanda Hawley shows “Bobbed Hair”
to advantage. Here, too, Jack Dempsey
runs into the third of his series of “Fight
and Win” pictures, showing how he earns
the princely salary he is alleged to be paid.
:|c :[• * *
A show of two pictures:—
The Mclnnes Portrait of a Lady (Felton Be-
quest) and Longstaff’s portrait of surgeon Syme (lent
by the 8.M.A.), at present on exhibition at Mel-
bourne National Gallery, cause no stir in the artistic
atmosphere. In its slickness the Young Lady is
typical of the Young Artist. Despite the sim-
plicity of the black-velvet figure the canvas lacks
unity. The head is flat and rowdy, and much more
“worked up” than the rest of the model. It
misses as a record of an arrangement of light and
shade, and is purely cheap illustration. The glass
no doubt covers a multitude of sins. Longstaff’s
effort is more manly, and has no doubt caught some-
thing of the character of the sitter. But the canvas
lacks animation; it also is flat and almost devoid
of the essential planes. This is evident at the
knees, where there is a total absence of projection.
Owing to the want of tonal quality in the work, the
collar and cuffs look dirty ; the hands lack character ;
and in the painting of the robes the artist seems
to have lost himself. Longstaff has “scumbled” to
a result.
Frames for civil-servants :
The ideas of a multitude of architects about the
administrative building in which the Federal civil
servants will garter up their cuffs at Canberra have
been considered by the adjudicators, and the 11
plans which have been given prizes are now exhibited
at the New Gallery, over Robertson and Mullen’s, in
Melbourne. The first prize of £5OO goes to G.
Sydney Jones, of Sydney, who pockets £5OO for a
drawing and plan which seems to combine economy
with a certain amount of magnificence. The second
prize (it is also £5OO, but apparently does not
carry a probable commission like the other does) is
won by K. A. Henderson and P. Scott, of Melbourne,
with a design which is attractive, but would probably
run into much more money ; and if a prize for
meticulous care in the preparation of design and
drawings as well as magnificence of conception were
given, it should go to Anderson and Hillier, of Gee-
long. Artistically, the plans of Stephenson and
Meldrum are also appealing. Obviously many of the
architects were moved by a desire to express magni-
ficence without regard to cost; and George Sydney
Jones’s set doubtless made its appeal to the adjudi-
cators through its sweet reasonableness. The winner,
who was for years president of his Institute in
Sydney, is a son of that Dr. Philip Sydney Jones
whose work for the University and Sydney Hospital
won him a knighthood in days when N. S. Wales
knighthoods meant a little more than they do to-day.
** * *
“The Green Goddess” continues to exhibit
Himalayan scenery, vibrating emotion and
Guy Bates Post at Sydney Cri.
“Wildflower” diffuses its sweetness on the
Italiun air at Sydney Royal as riotously as
ever. Also, it establishes Marie Burke more
firmly in popular favor.
At Sydney New Palace, “So This Is Lon-
don !” pursues its task of bridging the Atlan-
tic and making a large-stomached gentle-
man in breeches and topboots and a lean
chap with a goatee and a _ rare aim for a
spittoon better acquainted with one another.
“SO THIS IS LONDON!” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Sir Percy Beauchamp ( Reginald Carring-
ton) as Hiram Draper imagined him,
and Hiram Draper (Thurston Hall) as
Sir Percy expected him to he.
The utter impossibility of keeping a good
girl down is still being demonstrated at byd-
ney Opera House in “The Rise ot Rosie
O’Reilly.”
“The Bunyip” will cease its gambols at
Sydney Hippodrome and flop back into its
mythical lagoon after another four nights.
Sydney Tivoli is slightly overloaded with
practitioners of the juggling art whose quick-
ness deceives or delights, as the case may
be; nevertheless Oswald Williams, Van Ceilo
and Rupert Ingalese all deserve honorable
mention. Hilda Glyder is a pleasant change
from the average vaudeville comedienne;
not only are quite three-quarters of her dit-
ties recognisable as English, but the words
are distinctly audible, whereas some of the
alleged million-dollar voices this Showman
lias encountered lately might have been sing-
ing in Czecho-Slovak or Choctaw tor any
perceptible evidence to the contrary. F.S.
Harry Weldon is just the soft of entertainer
to make visitors from the Backblocks dig
one another in the ribs rapturously.
The Four Ortons tumbled on to the Mel-
bourne Tivoli stage last Saturday. They
include three more or less serious-minded
persons who do amazing feats on the tight
wire, and a fourth, a wild comedian, who,
with the aid of a goose, provides comic relief.
One of the wire-walking stunts is done by
two of the Ortons with the third standing
on a pole carried on their shoulders. It is
a slick act, which struck prompt public
approval and adds embellishment to a pro-
gramme on which the Six Brown Brothers
are still welcome items.
❖* * ❖
The quality of Fullers’ Sydney programme,
which is still head-lined by Wee Willie
Lancet, sagged last Saturday, and only the
arrival of Eileen and Marjorie saved the
bottom from falling out. They are an
astonishing little couple, and one is almost
persuaded, after watching their twisting,
that they are made entirely of politicians’
backbones. The strain of turning out a new
sketch every seventh day is telling on the
Phil Smith Revue Co.; and Alex. Regan
should give jazz a holiday and use his voice
in serious song.
“The Passionate Adventure,” at Sydney
Lyceum, is really a sermon for wives—a
bored husband is driven by his wife’s ice-
cliest manner to seek excitement in the slums.
"The Chechahcos” (you pronounce it “cliee-
chaw-koz”), camped at the Lyric, is claimed
to be the finest picture ever made in Alaska.
It may be; but it isn’t the newest story.
In “Lily of Dust,” sprouting at the Em-
press, Pola Negri, a demure library assist
ant, is taught by a few of her friends how
to throw the glad eye. As an apt pupil she
hooks most of the brass-hats of the local
garrison, and has a wild time before the
end comes. “Honor,” at Hoyt’s, was made
by Englishmen from a French story with
Eastern settings and Swedish actors, and
the result is very good. “The Ten Com-
mandments” have reached their ninth week
at the Prince Edward, and Mary Pickford is
galloping along the top of a castle wall at
the Crystal Palace.
** * *
“Lao-dah” on a queer London show: —
There is nothing new in the cult of the Sunray
Club, whose members, according to the cables, pro-
pose to. assemble in Hyde Park, London, undress
near the Marble Arch and march stark-naked to
bathe in the Serpentine. Nude dinner parties were
quite fashionable in Berlin before the war, and, if
I remember rightly, Austin Harrison, one-time editor
of the English Review, records his dismay—the
embarrassment of the English gentleman who finds he
hasn’t dressed the part—-when he turned up at
one of these functions in full evening “formals.” In
Sweden, people are only too glad during the short
summer to discard their clothing as long and as
often as possible. Steaming along the canals, one
passes family groups having their luncheon an
naturelle on the banks, and at the big watering
places costumes are seldom worn. There are separate
divisions for the sexes, but in many places
they are extremely latitudinarian divisions
with large holes in them seaward through which
the bolder swimmers can emerge. Glorious Nordic
giants stand naked on rocks and wave to passing
excursion steamers without causing any perturba-
tion ; but the sexes at yachting parties divide and
seek separate beaches. Sunny Australia is a land
of wowsers in comparison with this cold northern
land. There is nothing particularly heroic in the
business once you get used to it. Staying in
native inns in Japan, one soon gets accustomed to
having the company of one’s fellow-guests of both
sexes at the evening bath. It isn’t a mark of a
higher civilisation either. Some savage races re-
gard nudity with the same horror as a Randwick
Town Councillor, while others quite high in the
scale, like the Balinese, think nothing of it. Some
consider the nose as an unseemly organ and covar
that up, while indifferent about other portions of
the anatomy. It seems to be a matter of taste,
like having salt or sugar with one’s porridge.
“Hamfat”: Thespians are fond of using
the words “faux pas” to describe moral lapses
on the part of brother and sister mummers.
The habit dates back to a circular issued
by Charlie McMahon to boost a production
of “East Lynne” by a co. lie was managing.
Charlie’s style was inimitable. He told the
story of Isabel’s flight; and then: “Bereft
of her home and husband, abandoned by her
relatives, deserted by Levison with the in-
fant that is his, Isabel begins bitterly to
regret her faux pas.” The phrase delighted
the company, which promptly adopted it;
and the use spread throughout the profession.
Now anything from a kiss at the stage-door
to a diamond ta-ra-ra may be a faux pas.
“Nikko” : The dear old lady behind me at
"The Green Goddess” was telling the other
dear old lady of the splendor of the drammer
in the good ole days gorn by. “This sorter
thing’s all right,” she admitted, “but did
yer ever see Bland ’Olt? Didn’t yer? Well,
yer dunno wot yer missed. ’E was somethink
like a nactor. All ’is shows was true ter
life. I remember one night one of the
actors ’ad come on and was admirin’ the
scenery an’ sayin’ ’ow ’e loved a country
life, w’en a goat come along be’ind ’im an’
butted ’im right over. ’E fell with a norful
“CINDERELLA ,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
June Mills us one of the Ugly Sisters.
Harry Angers as Buttons.
thud. An’ w’en ’e got up ’e kicked the goat
orf the stage. Now that’s wot I call reel
life. Yer don't see it on the stage nowa-
days.” As Bland Holt was noted for the
menagerie which he kept behind scenes, and
as most of his company suffered from then-
unwelcome' attentions on occasion, I can
imagine the fervor with which the outraged
actor did seize the opportunity of kicking
the property goat.


>k aaaa a avara s basa »■ a
n
ALL BRITISH SPRINGLESS SCALES
Estab li sh
confidence
in trade by their name
alone. A reputation
for superlative accuracy
in weighing which has
been maintained for well
nigh two-centuries
since 1730.
"Avery” accuracy
is permanent.
Every Sca 1 e is
entirely springless.
There is a special
"Avery” Scale for
every class of trade.
It will pay you to
see an "Avery”
before you invest
in a Scale.
Write nr call to our
nearest Sho-wroom.
barm i rrrrr)
wurxja
jvsaurfxmtj
\
V£K
-T
H
SI
a
ji
L-Z-X-&?
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
*./7-219 THOMAS STREET. MAYMARKET SYDNEY
BRANCHES
2 H NeWGABt’if EET SSS-7 WILLIAM STREET
NEWCASTLE MELBOURNE
122-4 CURRIE STREET 389 GEORGE STREET
, _ t ? L ‘ AIEiE BRISBANE
SS VElfiNrTnM I L^ ET SB ' 6l CUSTOMS ST. EAST
WELLINGTON. NZ. AUCKLAND. NZ.
Asco- A i
141
Leather
the
Foot
Rubber to
the Ground
I mm
■
■
llir
m
mmm
i
n
i
;-v.^
By
ryy
m
TLF
Leather to the foot Rubber to the Ground
THEY RE real lasted shoes—for men and
women—properly built—like leather
shoes, with comfort in them, and long
service.
You may choose plarn, rubber soles or plan-
tation crept rubber. When they become worn
they can be re-soled like new.
Carubo Shoes mean joyful feet.
Get a pair! They fit the foot and
grip the ground.
AT ALL GOOD SHOE STORES.
ms
msmi
9
O
o
O
O
HUMMER stocks must go! The
wonderful success of the first week
is eloquent testimony to the sensa-
tional nature of the price reductions
to ensure speedy clearance.
95/- Suits for Men
hO
I . >
pm
wnji
ft a
i
KB#
i
I#
79/9
A SPECIAL RED SPOT
BARGAIN— Men’s
high - class English
Worsted Sac Suits, in a
choice range of Grey and
Brown Shades in a large
variety of the season’s most
fashionable patterns and de-
signs. Cut and fashioned by
Murdoch experts, ensuring per-
fect fitting. Suit comprises
Coat, Vest and Trousers, Ready-
to-wear (as illustration).
Usually 95/-
RED SPOT PRICE 79/9
MEN’S TWO-PIECE SPORTS
SUITS, fashioned from English
Tweeds of seasonable weights in
attractive Grey and Fawn shades,
with neat unobtrusive designs.
Yoke and Ilalf-Belt at back, Four
Patch Pockets. Ideal for Summer
wear. Ready for immediate service.
Usually 75/-
RED SPOT PRICE 65/3
Thousands of Bargains.
Usually,
19,6
23/6
35/-
to 40/-
32/6
MEN’S AUSTRALIAN-MADE SOFT
FELT HATS of selected Fur Felt. Smart-
est shapes and pleasing color tones. All
regular sizes.
MEN’S BLACK, TAN or NIGGER CALF
BOOTS, smart Balmoral style, with long,
square toe-last. Genuine welted soles, all
Solid Leather. Also Calf Oxford Shoes as
above.
BOYS’ COTSWOLD SUITS, in English
Woollen Tweeds, smart mixed colorings.
Knickers are lined and have plain knees.
Sizes 4 to 2, Fit Boys 6 to 16 years.
“VOLLEY” TENNIS RACQUETS, an
excellently designed rent ash one-piece frame,
made by Syd. Maurice, London. Oval throat,
ash over-lay. Strung with high-grade
British gut.
ETC., ETC.
Red Spot Price.
10/7
17/11
22/6
23/6
POSTAGE PAID ON ALL SALE GOODS TO ATHJR DOOR.
Write to DESK R. for Bargain Catalogue—it costs you nothing
and will save you pounds.
ill
m*
■
SMftfSi
MS
£
A
In Park Street, Ltd., Sydney.
‘The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


iii:
m
' I
Quality Riding Boots
for Men and Women
SPECIALLY made for lightness, durabil-
ity and comfort. An ideal boot for
week-end or holiday Riding Parties.
Made with two-buckle top and very light,
close welt for stirrup work.
Women’s—Black, 35/-; Tan, 39/6
Men’s— „ 37/6; „ 39/6
Any style of Riding Boot will be made to
your special order.
We pay postage.
Macnaught
Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 PITT STREET -SYDNEY 135 KING STREET
fverybody Appreciates **
Viffi
t
» Obtainable
Grocers
*fc
ss*
*7
'sos
#1 5£
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Flaming Youth”: There is talk of an
actors’ strike to enforce preference to union-
ists ; and the minor people, without whom
the stars could not shine,' are so well organ-
ised that it is a possibility. There may be some
disadvantages about theatrical unionism, but
the advantages are obvious. The Musicians’
Union has been strong enough for years to
uphold preference, and though it insists that
everybody with whom its members work shall
be unionists, the public is never inconveni-
enced thereby. The J.C.W. Firm itself saw
to it that the fees of the instrumentalists
imported for the grand-opera season were
paid ho that they might become members of
the Musicians’ Union directly they landed
in Australia. It was a fair thing, anyway—
the union had made musicians’ conditions in
Australia good, and it had a preference
award, but it put no untoward objections in
the way of the engagement of specialists. The
Actors’ Union naturally aspires to get what
the organised musicians enjoy.
“(t.Y.” : Since her legal argument with pianist
Moiseiwitscli, once her Benno, Daisy Ken-
nedy, of the Titian locks and the Paquin
frocks, has been little in evidence on the
concert platform. She occasionally fiddles
for the 8.8. C. radio people, but her only
public appearance for a long time was at a
Henry Ainley charity affair at the Palla-
dium. John Drinkwater, her new husband,
disdains the flowing hair, the black sombrero
and the velvet coat of the Chelsea poet. He
needs none of these etceteras to give him
distinction. Nature was kind to him. Pie is
easily the best-dressed English poet in the
Bond-street meaning of the term, or drama-
tist either, for that matter. An insurance
clerk, and then an actor, before he became
a dramatist (incidentally, lie once played
Banquo to J. K. Hackett’s Macbeth at the
Odeon, Paris), John is rising 43.
“Harnfat”: Alec Carroll, old identity of
Melbourne stageland and now in charge of
P’uller’s Bijou, has met many quarrelsome
tliespians, but he remembers only one occa-
sion on which a feud led to a duel. It was
two members of the Gonsalez Opera Co. who
got into holts. The sound of angry voices
attracted Carroll, and, dashing into the office,
he saw the combatants, standing a couple of
paces apart, with their faces thrust forward,
literally spitting hate at one another. With
an overture of language which implied that
the other man’s derivation was full of bars
sinister, Spaghetti registered a bull’s-eye on
Poloni, who, after removing the evidence
with his handkerchief, retaliated in kind.
The coats and shirt-fronts of both contest-
ants bore copious marks of a prolonged en-
counter, and the characters of numerous
females had been injured irreparably, when
a disgusted staff separated the engaging pair.
“Flaming Youth”: Long runs make no
appeal to Dion Boucicault. Pillars of the
commercial theatre marvel at his anxiety to
shelve a piece and get on with something else
before receipts have begun to shrink —“it
may be Art, but it isn’t Bithness,” they
grumble. “Aren’t We All?” might have run
well for another month in Melbourne but
for Boueicault’s impatience, which would
have substituted “The Truth About Blayds”
weeks earlier if given its way. For the suclv-
ing of “The Truth” there was more excuse.
Another peculiarity of Boucicault’s is his
objection to onlookers at a rehearsal, even
a dress rehearsal. The leading lady of
another show dropped in one day expecting
no objection to her presence. She was an
amazed and annoyed dame when told that
it was ag’in the rules.
“Tickets Please”: As the late Edmund
Fisher was talking to some friends in the
vestibule of a Melbourne theatre, a mummer
who was making a ’busman’s holiday of a
night off came up and secured an introduc-
tion. Presently he volunteered the story of
his life. “I was only on the stage for two
years before I came to Australia,” he said.
“Originally I studied for the law ; but after
going through my course, I decided to be-
come an actor.” “Well, I hope you will
succeed,” said Fisher heartily.
“Topee”: “Lud’s” eulogium of Arthur
Roberts (B. 15/l/’25) reminds me of my
only meeting with the old comedian. It
was in the bar of the Holborn Cri., London,
and as he had known my people we were soon
in an interesting conversation. This, however,
was constantly interrupted by a venerable
mummer whose breath was redolent of all
the Scotch distilleries. After refusing several
invitations to have another, Roberts finally
turned round and remarked suavely: “My
dear X, but that we are engaged in an
important business discussion my friends
and I would be charmed to split a Condy
with you!”
“The Deacon”: Another who has returned
to a game from which lie had been absent
for years (B. 15/l/’2s> is George Holbourn,
sometime concert director for Nicholson’s
and manager of many noted musical people
before the advent of the Taits. Holbourn
is to “present” Elsa Stralia. Naturally there
was wailing among the heads when it was
known that the old-timer had landed the
big fish.
“Nikko”: Be the effect of stage violence
on an audience (B. 8/l/’25), has anyone
noticed the strange effect of screen violence?
In any ordinary altercation there is a certain
amount of noise, and the stage quarrel is
accompanied by vocal explanation. But on
the screen, except for music, and unless the
tliunder-man gets in his abominable work ; the
tragedy is, of course, soundless, and the effect
is curiously sinister. I have met several
people who confess that they cannot look at
scenes of violence on the screen without ex-
periencing a most uncanny sensation. Per-
haps if they analysed it they would find
themselves with a fierce yearning to murder
the producer.
“Ancient Prompter”: Cosmo Hamilton,
the British-born author who has made his
home in America and whose bright but some-
what risque plays, “Scandal” and “The
Silver Fox,” are remembered here, has just
had a new comedy staged in N’Yark. The
novelty—if such it can be called, for in it
the old bedroom scene once more has a place 1
—is entitled “Parasites,” and two actors
well known on this side of the world play
the principal male parts. One is Cecil Hum-
phreys, who appeared in “Cairo” and “Julius
Caesar” with Oscar Asche; the other, Max
Figman, who, when lie brought his American
comedies along during the war period, was
billed here as M. G. Figman.
“Extra Turn” : A slightly-blithered gentle-
man was among the audience at a Melbourne
vaudeville show recently. The star item was
“The World’s Wonder Act: Sawing Through
LINKS WITH THE PAST.
BAĜS. JUN. : “It’s wonderful ’ow far hack
you can go in two generations. D’you
know, my father told me ’e once ’card
Shakspeare in London!”
a Woman.” With one eye closed the sozzled
gent, managed to read the announcement on
the programme, and, turning to his next-door
neighbor, who had brought his wife along to
the show, observed thickly; “Yesh, you c’n
saw through ’em ash mush as y’like. But
I’m daihed if you c’n see through ’em.”
“Charlik” harks back: —
The revival of “A Night Out,” the musical ver-
sion of Pinero’s farce, “The Magistrate,” reminds
me. W. S. Gilbert added lyrics to his comedy,
“The Wedding March,” and produced it in London
under the title “Haste to the Wedding.” The late
George Grossmith had composed some catchy songs,
seme of which are well known to-day, for his one-
man entertainment, so Gilbert entrusted him with
the composition of the music for these interpolations.
Meeting Frank Cellier one day, Grossmith said: “I
say, old man! How do you orchestrate?” Cellier
gasped, but saw the joke. The little chap was
going to score the music himself, so Cellier obliged
with elementary information about the treatment
of the strings, and was going into further particulars
when G. G. interrupted: “Thanks, old chap. Quite
easy, isn’t it?” “All right,” thought Frank, “go on
with it”; and he did. At the first orchestral re-
hearsal, Grossmith arrived with a large parcel of
music which he distributed on the various stands.
Some of the bandsmen loked puzzled, and a horn
player said: “Beg pardon, Mr. Grossmith, but what
crook do we use?” “Crook? Crook?” answered G.G.
“Oh, the—er—the usual crook.” The band sniggered,
and was still sniggering when George hopped into
the conductor’s chair and tapped his stand. Down
came the stick. Imagine the effect of a number of
wood and brass instruments, to sa}' nothing of the
LETTER-PERFECT.
“I want you to do the landlord in this new
play. Think you can manage it?”
“Well, I ought to. I’ve keen rehearsing for
the last twenty-five years.”
strings, being played all at once at their loudest
in different keys! The composer stopped, horrified.
“I think, Mr. Grossmith, you have forgotten the
transposing instruments,” ventured Orellano, the
leader. “Transposing instruments?” replied G.G.
“What do you mean?” “Oh, well!” said Orellano,
“if you will dismiss the rehearsal, I will take the
parts away and —er—-fix them up.” Which he did.
But he needn’t have bothered. “Haste to the Wed-
ding” ran only three weeks, and a piano would have
been quite adequate.
“Schnorrer” : “Munjong” (8.8/l/’25) has no
need to go back seven years for a Yiddish per-
formance in Sydney. The Jewish Dramatic
Society makes a regular feature of Yiddish
drama at the Maccabean Hall. Last year it
gave at least- three performances, and each
one was crowded by the faithful —in fact,
some who were not faithful were present.
There are Jews that never attend Synagogue
who yet have an abiding affection for what
was the vulgar speech of their race.
“De Oriel”: My favorite among all the
old-time brine-bringers had this haunting re-
frain :
She has fallen by the wayside:
She has gone beyond recall.
There are tears on her grave,
For she did not behave,
But a man was the cause of it all.
Peerless, I maintain.
“Tickets Please” : George Palmer is a Mel-
bourne youth who may yet upset some orbits
in the film firmament. At the age of 16,
unaided, he has brought out a one-reeler
which is as distended with excitement as a
Wild West picture, and no cruder than
some of them. His story is his very own
and concerns a railroad holdup. For one of
his situations the enterprising youth in-
duced the guard of a train at Box Hill to
hold up his caravan and hand over a dummy
mailbag; and he lay “stunned” across the
rails on a switch line near some points
whilst a train thundered by. Even although
there was no likelihood of the train jumping
the points it must have taken some nerve.
The young self-made film star’s picture is ex-
pected to have a showing next week —and
deserves success.
“Eno”: Touching the controversy about
Lauder (B. l/l/’25). I saw Harry as a
very minor turn, and Charlie Cliaplin as one
of the Eight Lancashire Lads, on the same
bill —r was at the Paragon Hall, London, in
1899. Chaplin, by the way, appeared with
Irene Vanbrugh, now in Australia, in “Sher-
lock Holmes”—he was Billy, the page. That
was at London Duke of York’s in 1905.
“Pariee”: Relache is the French word
indicating that a theatre is closed. Harry
Musgrove is said to have made a long journey
to a theatre that advertised it, thinking it
was the title of a new play; and the same
yarn is told about the German word of simi-
lar meaning. But the name has been really
given to a new ballet in Paris. . When the
paper that makes up most of a French first-
night audience arrived, it found the house;
really was closed, and it struck the dead-
heads as a singularly poor joke. But when
they learned that it was because of an acci-
dent to the principal performer, they said
“What would you? The name is to tempt
Providence!”
“Cott”: Lightening up the usual stodginess
of the Commonwealth Gazette there was
in a recent issue an intriguing list of songs
and musical works the copyright owners of
which cannot be discovered. They bear such
varied titles as “Everybody Loves My Baby” ;
“Sister Hasn’t Got a Chance Since Mother
Bobbed Her Hair” ; “8011-weevil Blues” (this
sounds like one of Railway Commissioner
Clapp’s slogans) ; “You’ll Never Get to
Heaven with Those Eyes”; “Wasn’t Scared,
but I Thought I’d Better Go” (perhaps a
sequel) ; “I’m Just a Ragged Newsboy” ; and
“Where Have Those Old-timers Gone?” The
obvious reply to the last, is that the Vic-
torian selectors have put them in the State
cricket eleven.
“Hamfat”: If you gauge your audience
there is always a way to awaken its enthusi-
asm. One Fitzgerald, with our show,
was going very badly with a Timartt
(M.L.) “house,” the reason being that he
had let the booze get into his voice and was
somewhat foggy on his lines. He took a
front-scene chance to put himself right. “I
may be a bit off to-night,” he announced,
“but my great-grandfather was a nephew of
Robert Emmet!” After that he got a round
on every entrance, and a section of the audi-
ence was inclined to object when lie was
killed in the last act.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Regarding the person
who is prepared to pay for the privijege of
being an actor, my most painful experience
was with a man who had long been associated
with the mechanical side of the business,
chiefly for the love of it. He would rather
set the scenery on the stage for a moderate
screw than enjoy prosperity in a less roman-
tic calling. Hearing that I was taking a
star co. out to Cow Flat, Bunkumville and
such places he made me an offer. For a
chance to play good parts he would pay hall-
rent; printing and all advertising expenses
and expect no salary. He felt confident that,
once given his opportunity, he would make
good as an actor —“prove my worth,” was
the way he put it. I resolved to oblige the
aspirant, even if he acted like a cow; but I
did not expect that he would be the sort of
cow he proved. After I had torn out half
my hair during my efforts to get something
from him that would not incite even
uncritical Bunkumville to shy eggs at
us, I broke the news to him softly that I
thought he was excessively nervous. _ He
manfully admitted it. “But, then,” he
added, “it is always the greatest artist who
is most nervous.”
“Nikko” : The young Australian who turns
desperado after a course of Hollywood pic-
tures is not the only victim of the rubbish.
Three Samoan half-castes, who have arrived
at Auckland to serve sentences in the local
gaol, confess that they got their inspiration
from the fillums. They stole the 15-ton
ketch Fetu Ao and set out to see the world.
But they knew nothing of wireless, and a
call at Tonga resulted in a speedy return
home, though not until £lOO found on the
boat had been spent. Each of the men got
five years—this is the second escapade of
the kind within a few months —and was sent
to the Samoan gaol. There, still picture-
ridden, they planned wholesale murder—of
gaolers, Judge and Administrator —escape
and further adventures ; but the authorities
got wind of the scheme and had them re-
moved to Auckland, where they will be
looked after properly. I only wish the pos-
turing degenerates who inflame the minds
of children and savages could be consigned
to the same secure retreat.
“Gouger”: I had a showman friend who
travelled with one of Noah’s films ; subject,
an old-time car-race. Long wear had so
scratched the celluloid that the multitudinous
streaks made it almost impossible to see the
cars, but to the intelligent audience it was
explained that “the world-famous Continen-
tal car-race was taken in blinding rain.”
In large country towns my pal would go
round to the storekeepers, haul them and
their assistants on to the footpath, and
solemnly take their photos with a filmless
camera. The pubs invariably gave the best
advertisement. Out of them would come the
publican, the giggling waitresses, the yard-
man and the inevitable drunk, solemnly brand-
ishing a beer bottle in face of the lifeless
camera; and the proceedings would close
with “Now, ladies and gentlemen, be sure
and come round to the famous racing film
to-night, and you’ll all see your photos in the
cinema.” The tour was a great financial
success, but I think it requires something
more startling to catch the Outback these
days.
THE CHAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A mouth-organ championship will be a feature
if next year’s South-street competitions. Competitors
are to play a test piece, ‘Listen, Ye Gods.’ A first
prize of £25 is offered.”
Listen, Ye Gods, and say what’s that
Remarkable noise from Ballarat—
A squeak}' buzzing, in anguished tones,
That shuffles and jigs and jerks and moans
Its dolorous way from sharp to flat!
’Tis the minstrel boy, now a fact’ry rat,
In Sunday clobber, with test piece pat,
Beefing out to the cloudy thrones,
“Listen, Ye Gods.”
Apollo may wonder what man is at;
But, paused (in a part to tear a cat),
Sweet bully Bottom, delighted, owns
It far surpasses the tongs and bones.
Off it goes at a rousing bat!
Listen !... .Ye Oods !
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Amusements.
UY CASTLES’ GRAND OPERA CONCERTS.
ASSOCIATE ARTISTS :
SIGNOR CAPPELLI (Tenor),
Mr. A. C. BARTLKMAN (Baritone),
MAESTRO E. KOST (Musical Director), and
Miss EILEEN CASTLES.
Sydney Town Hall, 21st 24th, 26th and 28th Feb.
Y I) N E Y’S C 11 I E F T II E A T It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION: THE GREEN GODDESS.
ROYAL: WILDFLOWER.
PALACE: SO THIS IS LONDON.
DI€KAIt I) S’ TIV O L 1 THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
pUX, L E It’S TIIEA T K E, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
EVENINGS AT 8. Matin6es, Wed. and Sat., at 2.15.
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
H IPPODIIOME
■ ■ Direction Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
EVENINGS at 8, and AFTERNOONS at 2.30.
The Gorgeous Pantomime,
THE BUN YIP.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAREAN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
LAUNCESTON : January 19 to 24.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: •). V. lie Uatyn.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S:
GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MAURICE MOSCOVITCH in
THE OUTSIDER.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ "The Theatre Beautiful.”
Every Evening at 8. Matin6es Daily at 2.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
THE GORGEOUS LONDON FAIRY PANTOMIME
CINDERELLA.
A Feast of Delight for Young and Old.
P ALACK THEATRE. MELBOURNE
* “The House Exquisite.”
Every Evening at 8. MatinSes Daily at 2.15.
WHITE and EDGLEY Present,
By Arrangement with
Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.,
THE MIDNIGHT FROLICS.
The Show of Speed, Spice and Sparkle.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
TRELAWNY OF THE WELLS.
U OYT’S THEAT It E S. MELBOURNE.
* 1 Also SYDNEY.
ADOLPHE MENJOU and VIOLA DANA in
OPEN ALL NIGHT.
WANDA HAWLEY in
BOBBED HAIR.
Prices as usual.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVA NOVAK in
THE CHECHAHCOS.
A Master Picture.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8
qg
SUPER CIGARETTE'
Jpitlft
FLneOld Virginia (Ovals)
Cork Tipped
Sweet s Soothing' as the Soft,Delicate
loncs of the Melodious Spinet of Old- / j
Suggestive of Old English Charm //
and Romance
tU.Klll.trv., (ISTC, ijjs) lONDOX
K TOWNS & CO. Sydney.
X. Z. L & ,\I. A. CO., JLTI) . Melbourne.
av Ti®
Li
Made f rom p”re sugar, English farm butter,
and rich, thick cream, MACKINTOSH’S
TOFFEE DE Luxe simply cannot help
being del cious and good ! Just taste it for
yourself and see !
Purity and Quality guaranteed by
JOHN MACKINTOSH & SOU Ltd., Toffee Town, HALIFAX, England.
By Appointment
A
/ " "
&&&*&****
1
For stocks apply to Australian Agents—
H. DAWSON & CO., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE & PERTH, or Local Distributors.
D
WESTINGHQUSE
ELECTRIC .
se
The Human Element
Back of a Works
W ESTINGHOUSE is
” * of its workers.
a firm built upon the combined efforts
It is the human element behind the research; it is the care and
precision that marks the individual endeavor of each particular
worker that have made Westinghouse products the world’s standard.
Whether it is a coffee percolator, a fan, toaster-stove or railway
locomotive, the electric elements are equally correct.
Westinghouse workers are as proud of their work and their
product as users are in their results. If it bears the mark of
Westinghouse, it is right.
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Westinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company, Ltd.,
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Yorkshire House,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne.


Tin Tin Tin
ECHO TIN NO LIABILITY.
MOORINA, TASMANIA.
CAPITAL: £30,000 in 60,000 Shares of 10/- each.
25,000 Shares are now offered to the public payable 3/- on application, 3/- on allotment, balance in
c alls not exceeding 6d. per share per month. It is not anticipated that more than jour c.
be made before the mine is returning profits.
Alluvial tin-mining is to-day the most profitable of all industrial enterprises, and where, as in, the
..resent case, the ground has been carefully proved by boring, it ceases to become a speculation am
ranks high as a medium for investment. The Echo is a sister mine to the famous Bnseis and
Tin Mines, which have returned hundreds of thousands in dividends to their shareholdeis.
For many years the present owner has been steadily developing his property with such uniformlj
satisfactory results that in November last he was able to submit it with confidence for the e. a
of experts, who have proved their skill and judgment in connection with many of the Eastern t
that are enjoying such popularity on the Stock Exchange by reason of the regularity and s z
dividend distributions. The result of extensive boring tests conducted by the well-known boring P
and mining engineer, Mr. R. W. Hallett, fully confirms the claims made for the property by the owner.
The property, which consists of an ancient river drift, will be worked by gravity sluicing, the cheapest
of all forms of mining. Although 40 sluice heads of water will be employed the life of the mine can
be less than 30 years, and it may well be profitably worked for twice that period.
At the present price of tin the mine may easily return 7/- per share annually in dividends, and aa
tin seems destined to appreciate the profits may be much larger than the figure stated. models ana
investors are invited to write for full prospectus. Seize the opportunity to join in this profitable industry.
Applications for Shares will be received through any Sharebroker, or may be made direct to the manager,
.TOHN W. RARRETT. 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$1,050,00
f,o,b, Detroit,
Mich,,U,S,A.
111 w
IWlasq
UMcnM
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Fairbanks-.Uorse Company (Australasia), Rtd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit, Michigan, U, S. A* Cable Address, Kermath
Made in Australia
The ROSEBERY KEROSENE ENGINE
The Mark of
Efficiency.
This silent-running engine gives constant,
steady power at minimum cost.
It features our new and improved Throttling
Governor and Heavy Fly Wheels.
Easy to start and efficient in operation. Using
cheap kerosene it is also very economical to
run.
Specially adaptable for use on Farms or in
Shops, Elevators, Mills, Electric Light Plants,
Creameries, etc.
Made in sizes, 3, 5 and 7 h.p.
Prices are uniform in all Australian Capitals.
ROSEBERY ENGINE WORKS, LTD.,
Rosebery, Waterloo, N.S.W., Australia.
Sales Office —204 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal and Power
Pumps, Cylinders, Hand and Power Sprayers. Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and we will put you in touch with the nearest distributor.
N? OV
RIPOLIN
THE PAINT THAT
LASTS LONGEST
It pays better to paint once with the best paint
than several times with inferior paint or paint
and varnish.
WHITE and 100 harmonious colors available.
Write for Color Card, Booklet, etc.
L. A. CORM A C K,
Factory Representative,
4 UNDERWOOD STREET,
SYDNEY. Telephone 83284.
Lower Prices for
THE
DECCA
PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
PRICES:
JUNIOR - -£4lO O
No 1, Leather Cloth 6 6 0
No. 2, Fibre -880
No. 3, Solid Leather 12 O O
All Phonograph Dealers or
Of ITTONS 290-292 Bourke St., Melbourne
PTY LTD Ballarat Bendigo Geelong Sydney
Everything Reduced
excepting a few proprietary lines.
3LWIJL
010
n ntwah
• mr
Fibre Attache Cases,
1/10/J
Attache Cases, good strong fibre, one
lock.
Sizes— Min. 16in. 18in.
Usually 2/9 3/6 3/9
Sale Price .. 1/10*6 2/3 2/6
Attache Cases, good fibre, with cor-
ners, one lock and clasps.
Sizes— 12in. Min. 16in. ISin.
Usually 3/9 4/3 4/9 5/9
Sale Price . . 2/9 3/3 3/9 4/3
Suit Cases, strongly made, with corners, one
Size— 20in.
Usually 7/11
Sale Price 5/6
lock and two clasps, in strong frame.
22in. 24in. 26in.
8/9 9/6 10/9
5/11 6/3 6/11
m
.
MM
r
PQ
EH
3/11 Vacuum Flasks Reduced to
2/11
Y 7 acuum Flasks, strong and reliable.
Price ....... 2/11
Set of Stag Carvers. Usually 18/6. .. ._
Sale Price 10/o
Stainless Carvers. Usually 20/-. „ /n
Sale Price 13/9
Xylonite Carvers. Usually 11/6.
Sale Price 7/6
Mail Orders are Promptly Despatched.
Stainless
Table
Knives, 30/6 Now 24/- dozen
Stainless Table Knives, keen edged. Usually 30/6 dozen. Sale Price . . 24/6
Stainless Dessert Knives, reliable quality. Usually 27/6 dozen.
Sale Price 21 / o
Mail Orders must include cost of freight.
NOCK & KIRBY’S
186-194 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Cowboy Breastplate
Ornamented.
Profusely Studded, 72/6 posted.
Ornamented Bridle to match Breast-
plate, with fancy gunmetal bit, 75/-;
without bit, 57/6.
COWBOY SADDLES.
“Texas Ranger” £l2/15/-
“Western Hero” £lB
“Pride of the Prairie”. . £lB/15/-
CHAPARAJOS.
No. 70, Chaps, with fringe. ... 82/6
No. 71, Chaps, with fringe and
conchas 87/6
TEXAS SPURS.
No. 1513, Gunmetal Spurs, with
nickel spots, 25/-; Straps, 4/6.
Post, 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF TEXAS
AND AUSTRALIAN SADDLERY.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
VENUS
V PENCILS
*“Jhe largest selling
quality pencil
in the world
m
m
17 degrees Black
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
For ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere
Narooma, N.S.W.
M OOROOMA Guest House, in best
position, overlooking ocean and
inlet and alongside the best swimming
pool in Australia, which is protected
from sharks and 500 yards long. Large
garage. Excellent menu, in jl-dii j the
famous Narooma oysters. Beautiful
scenery on all sides, perfect climate
and no trouble from mosquitoes.
Boating, Fishing, Golf, Tennis
and Surfing.
For terms apply to the Proprietress.
“The Woman’s Mirror"
Published every Tuesday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Do that
Within i] out means
This wondrous trip cf over 3600 miles —via some
of the loveliest scenery in the w r orld —-is now
easily within the reach of most Australians, for
the fares are really most moderate-
The Canadian Pacific Railway
has a service that is unequalled. Trains that arc
havens of comfort and relaxation—hotels that are
the latest in luxury—steamships that combine
speediness in transport with every modern con-
venience that you could desire. And you can book
all accommodation prior to your departure.
Remember that you can obtain through tickets in
connection with the Canadian Australasian Royal
Mail Line, whose New Quadruple-screw Motor
Passenger Liner “Aorangi” (22,000 tons displace-
ment) and the favorite s.s. “Niagara” afford an
unequalled service to and from Vancouver, B.C.
WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Apply to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.,
any Tourist Booking: Agency, or J. Selater, Repre-
sentative, Canadian Pacific Railway Company, Union
House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
PPO«0-
POLICE!!!
uie’re after shillings
for the
MEW SOUTH WALES
POX
art union
over £3200 in Prices
TICKETS 1/-
Ist Prize VAUXHALL MOTOR CAR .. .. .. valued £1250
2nd „ STUDEBAKER “Light Six” Car .. .. „ £525
3rd „ Beale “MAESTRO” PLAYER PIANO .. „ £258
4th „ Suite Furniture (Inlaid Sycamore) .. .. „ £2OO
sth „ “INDIAN CHIEF” Motor Cycle & Side Car ~ £175
6th „ Beale No. 8 Model Piano .. .. .. „ £l3O
7th „ Linen Chest full of Household Linen .. „ £lOO
And 93 other values ranging down to £5.
Drawn 29th April, 1925.
TICKETS may be purchased
at any Police Station or Hos-
pital in the State, ,or on
application to A. Lendrum,
Police Headquarters, Sydney.
TICKETS 1/- each, postage
on one ticket lid-, postage on
five or more tickets free. To
secure result slip send ad-
dressed envelope.
A. LEXDRCM, Hon. Sec., Police Headquarters, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
ROWLANDS
SODA WATER
The Best
for7ol(ears
tl(
#]»
/
V
dts
4 Plates
r ~Manufacturec}_ by'" s
CLIFFOR-D LOVE £r CO LTD
SYDNEY
CEGISTKM9
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN ROLISH
has a. finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHERiJOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
111a&tsgwn*
atrz
£ * g *-6*
Australasian Representatives:—
Nonnan Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Curlew: Very well—“ Centurion” is hereby
told that the Golden Hind was Sir Humphrey Gil-
bert’s boat, and not Francis Drake’s, and is reproved
accordingly.... Curl: Knights may have once had
the privilege of being hanged by a silken cord, but
it is only Peers of Parliament who can claim it
nowadays. .. .R.A.M.: Offering of flowers declined. .. .
J.M.S.D.: Life is not all gloom. Like bacon, it is
streaky. Hang on and you’ll get your share of fat
. ...P.L.; “He would never see her again. Never!
Never!” Then we’ll be a good friend and help
him to forget her... .W.M.W.: Your sheep has suffered
a tragedy... .C.S.W.: Good fight, good man; but
there were no stamps to send him home.... J. 0.15.:
It doesn’t suit... .Yalta: As musical as an ungreased
axle. ...Roy C.: Dealt with cn similar lines not so
long ago... .H.F.S.: Thanks; but let them fight it
out themselves.... G.M.P.; Must be a lot brighter
than that.... Vang: The hard-hitting doesn’t block
it; but there are two in that ring already. Glad
to hear from you, nevertheless. .. .Asaf: We went to
sleep on the third page.... Jes; One of the things
that make us sorry we don’t run to twice as many
pages. (And, by the way, when we do add another
dozen, many people growl at the bulk.) E. D.
Cooper: Why, it is as good as a visit to the Tower of
London:—.
WINE AND DEW.
A ruby hides between her lips,
Treasure from king who sailed the ships ;
Pearls at night on each cheek hover,
Tears for last kiss of first lover.
. ...R.H.W.: Those initials didn't have anything
to do with banking ; they stood for British Journalists’
Association.... Two Flags: You lose y'our story too
often. Best tie it on to your pen.... Adam: The
“Water” is too thin... . H.M.G.: Both miss, but
not by much....M.D. (St. Kilda): “Blisses” is too
slight. . . .G.J.0.: Not up. ... J.S.D.; The verse doesn't
get near... . A.L.R.; Cut out with a saw... .U.K.L.:
No good at a 11.... D.E.H.: No use as a parody, no
use as anything... .Outcast: Very rugged verse with-
out any life... .One Mile: Make your plans first.
You spoil your work by simple lack of method....
Jack W.: The wireless confusion doesn't make a
yarn... .Clare: A tender little yarn, but too artificial
in construction. The verse is poor. .. .Telopea Boy:
Not much promise. Try to write something real...
L.L, (Killara): You don’t make the connection
between the lady and the robbery clear.... A.W.
(Manly); Violent and not convincing... .W.W.L.: A
slight variation of a .yarn that has been too often
told. .. .H.G.8.: Your argument is that, because
British people shirk the tropics, settlement there
should be handed over to another cold-coi niry people
of a slightly inferior type E.S.H.P.: Doesn’t con-
vince us that it’s true. .. .W.H.L.: Nothing in it. .. .
Adrian M.; The bald statement of a mechanical
scheme of retribution doesn't make a yarn. Any-
how, the vindictive father is a worse rotter than t'c
nasty son... .Wladimir M.: “Joint Together” has all
the surge and thrill of a good deed done in r.
thick fog:—
We faint together into one soul, my dear!
We came together to meet New Year.
We must meet New Year on the train’s movcm i
It will be problem of the world’s improvement.
It was dusky and in the rain,
They go to find an empty train.
They have light luggage of the beer
And few soft drinks to meet New Year.
They see at darkness of the night
The train is ready, they are all . right.
....C.C.J.; They don’t get near... .C.H.L. (or some
other initial): “Peace” is a riot of hysterics and
commonplace E.M.S.; It flutters feebly Bud:
You must do better to flower in this garden. . . .Helen
H.: Has some quality; keep 0n... .W.D.F.; An
impossible yarn, but pleasantly enough written....
Gerald D.; Not much of a yarn as told; but there
are possibilities in it Lone One: You never heard
that nightingale and never picked up its quivering
body. .. .A Mac. (Neutral Bay) : The lunatic is quite
without interest... .Cyril T.: Both tedious. .. .P.E.R.:
Not enough in it... .5.R.8.; We don’t find the cards
very thrilling.... Paraparap: “And ’tis no longer
day” says all you have to say Mick S.: Bad verse
on a poor subject.... F.C.M. • Not enough marrow in
its bones. ... D. 8.0.; Rather crude. .. .Billy S.:
“Surfing” is too conventional and commonplace....
Frances T.: They don’t knock hard enough. ...Mum:
Sorry; but the “modern youth” is poor stuff in
worse verse. .. .C.E. (Berrigan): The lines are full
of old phrases and say nothing new.... Madame L.:
As weak and thin as curate’s tea. .. .Leo M.; But
who could be persuaded to sing a chorus like that?
G.L.S.; Sorry to have to say it’s rubbish....
Warren D.: The “whispers” don’t carry far enough.
. ...H.P.S.: Hopeless stuff of that kind is not im-
proved by microscopic handwriting. .. .Thomas D.:
You write verse like a draught-horse trying to climb
a tree... .Deeda: No, it w-on’t d 0... .R.C.E.A.: Both
miss... .Roy C.: Not a bad skit; but our space
won’t run to it E. 8.: “Ledger” is well enough
done; but how many hundreds have dene it already!
....Faro; Utterly unmusical.... Tab: Quite good of
its kind. But thousands of men can write about
those things. Why not tell of the things you know
about and the others don’t ?... .L.S.G.: Get down
to earth. Nobody talks like that—or, if he does,
nobody but his wife listens to him, and she can’t
escape. .. .W. 8.8.; We don’t know whether it had
to, but it certainly did. .. .Second Mortgage: That’s
not an investment—it’s a gamble. .. .A.D.M.: An-
other lately took off a crop from the paddock you
plough in “Humor.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Agnes R.: We know so many' of those original jokes
ourselves that we suspect other people know the rest.
L.T. : Can’t judge from a copy of a photograph.
. ...L.McR.: Your wash drawing won’t wash and
your baldhead joke first occurred to Eve when Adam’s
thatch began to fail F.P. : The drawing misses,
but not by much; the gag misses by more than a
million miles. ... D.A.C. (N.Q.) ; Sorry the drawing
isn’t up; would like to print your sturdy wenches
as an advertisement for the North. .. .E.11.T.: Labori-
ous effort, but lacks a foundation of sound drawing.
J.R.S.: Three duds Fiemes: A man and a
woman who might be saying anything so long as it
was dull and uninteresting.
“Rolls Rattletrap”: In addition to the
excitement of navigating the worst roads in
the world, Queensland autoists sometimes get
thrills almost as “superb” as Yank fillum
episodes. The other day a touring car was
skimming the shore at Burleigh Heads, bound
for Southport along the hard wet sand,
when an errant wave dashed up, stalled
the engine and destroyed the solidity of the
track. A rising tide compelled the hasty
abandonment of the machine after it had
been stripped of everything removable. It
had a damp evening, and was pulled out by
bullock team at low tide, not a great deal
the worse.


BILLABONG ENCASED-GEAR
WINDMILLS.
All “BILLABONG” Windmills are
s °und m construction, and everything
which enters into their manufacture is of
Australia’s best. In the New Eneased-
S ear BILLABONG” you have the
world s most modern windmill, and you
will find it a mill in which the first cost
will be about the only outlay. It is un-
doubtedly the one real serviceable wind-
mill for the Australian farmer. Working
parts are quite protected from all
weather influences, and all parts running
in an oil bath reduces friction to the least
possible minimum. It is extremely
silent in running, and needs oiling but
once a year. Send for Billabong Book.
INSIST ON HAVING
BILLABONG
BRAND.
BILLABONG TKOUGHING.
BILLABONG CENTRIFUGAL
corns.
For irrigation and other purposes
“BILLABONG” Centrifugal Pumps are
especially suitable. They are constructed
to stand hard and continuous service, and
designed to meet the demand for a high-
grade pump at a reasonable price. The
materials and workmanship throughout
are of our usual high standard, and the
“BILLABONG” is acknowledged by ex-
perts to be a most efficient pump. Illus-
trated folder post free.
If you are looking for the very best Troughing, write for full, particulars
of a make that will give you years of extra service. It’s name is “BILLABONG,”
and only high-grade material and workmanship enter into its construction.
“BILLABONG” TROUGHING is set in two or more heavy angle-steel frames,
which form a most rigid bed, and enables “BILLABONG” Troughs to with-
stand rough usage and hard wear. This Troughing is easily assembled, and is
made in styles to suit cattle, calves and sheep, and also a very heavy type
is made for pigs. “BILLABONG” TROUGHING is really worth your full
consideration. Illustrated folder post free.
Wrought, Cast and Malleable
Pipes for Gas, Water, Steam
and Hydraulic Use.
All Pipe Fittings in
Wrought, Cast and Malleable
Iron.
PIPES AND FITTINGS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Brass and Copper Tubes and
Fittings in all sizes.
Pipes and Fittings for Irriga-
tion a Specialty.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.
3"
o.
....
For Every Occasion
the Autotone Player Piano excels in providing the music needed,
especially for dancing—it is a perfect orchestra. Young and old
alike find delight in playing the “Autotone,” it has such a beautiful
Tone, is so easy to operate, and the expression devices help ALL
to express themselves just as the mood dictates. The Autotone
Player Piano is
SOLD ON EASY TERMS & FULLY GUARANTEED
Answer the impulse and obtain particulars to-day!
?she
AUTOTONE
Player Piano
The Perfect Accompanist
For accompanying vocal or instrumental
solos —the same unvarying blending of
tone and expression which forms a
perfect background to either, is always
at hand on ~the “AUTOTONE.”
There are exclusive features embodied
in the “Autotone” not found in other
Player Pianos which make this glorious
instrument supreme as e?n accompanist.
Visit Paling s and inspect this beautiful
Player Piano.
Catalogue and Price List free for the asking.
Quality our Keynote
since 1853,”
338 George Street,
SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE <& ROCKHAMPTON


WINCH COMBE, CARSON
A
\ X
X!
The Name Attracts.
That is not surprising. The firm’s good work in
selling FOX, RABBIT and all other skins at top
values is a consistent inducement for owners to
forward consignments to market.
Send Your Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. & J. DICK, INC.
The “BARRY” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest anti strongest metal
pulley made. Its tubular construction
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded =
there are no screws or rivets to work I
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARRY” Steel 1
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for I
your requirements at the most favorable I
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD., 1
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & YVynyard Streets 1
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St. 1
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street 1
HOBART 97 Collins Street I
Monarch
A ROYAL
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each, i
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Nature's Loving “Proxy —
OKe
Watchful Moth er
and watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who v?on’t
take nsks v?i{h “His Ro>)al
Highness”— the babj)—but
keep him healfhp and bonns
b\J Swing small doses dail^
of
Fluid
* Bottled, in three sizes.
Oliis safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises 4te dis-
tress caused b$ teefhing and
vaccination, besides checking
&e development of
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
Coaling in Summer—Reliable Always
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {Kan ever, because
it does all {Kat is claimed
for it —and more.
See that >?ou get {He genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwode & Co.
Pr?. Ltd., on tHe label.
t
r
m
Your income is the amount you save rather than the amount
you earn.
There sre thousands of ways to spend money, but the best way
to save money is a fixed determination to bank a certain
amount each week.
The Government Savings Bank offers every facility for saving.
Interest at the rate of 4% up to £5OO,
and 3%% on any excess to £lOOO.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
oX N.S.W.
Head Office t 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
With 167 Branches and over 500 Agencies.
m
* QJU.C*-
DETROIT WUCHUM
Illustration shows
i-h.p. Engine,
Wico Igniter.
our
with
CAILLE
‘Perfection” Marine Engines.
For Service—Economy—Reliability.
Caille Engines are obtainable in
any horse-power from 2 to 20.
All Single-Cylinder Engines, complete
with Wico Waterproof Igniter.
Spare Parts always carried in stock.
Send for Catalog and Price List.
Sole Agents—
Benson Brothers, Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Topee”: Some months ago (B. 7/8/’24)
I deplored the re-appearance of advertising
craft on Sydney harbor; now we have a new
form of atrocity in the kite-swung sky sign.
On New Year’s Day one of these (extolling
blacking or something about as exhilarating)
hovered between Milson’s Point and the ruins
of that other abomination, the P.F.A.’s late
building at Kirribili. Surely somebody must
exist with power to compel the abatement of
what threatens to become a permanent
nuisance.
“G.M.": In the manufacture of syrup a
means of utilising surplus wine-grapes has
apparently been found. The grapes are
crushed and their juice reduced in vacuo,
and it. is claimed that the product is cheaper
and more suitable for confectionery and jam
than cane-sugar is. A firm of wine-makers in
Griffith (N.S.W.) is experimenting in the
manufacture of the goods, and is backing its
faith by buying all the surplus wine-grapes
on the Murrumbidgee irrigation area (about
2000 tons) at last year’s wine prices.
* * . *
“Simon”: Constant watching of piano-
removers propping up the lids of the instru-
ments, and tearing out the front and any-
thing else that is movable, has given me an
idea. Ahy not abandon the piano case alto-
gether and let the instrument more closely
approximate its original parent—the harp?
Is there any more reason for covering the
action of a piano than that of a typewriter?
W ith the “boxing” removed the added light
and air would be fatal to moths that now
play such havoc with the felts. Other advan-
tages would be accessibility of parts (as
motor-car men say), lightness, compactness
and cost reduced by half.
* * * #
“G.A.M.”: A local dairy-farmer recently
carried out a test to establish the import-
ance of regular hours for feeding and milk-
ing cows. He took six cows and divided
them into two lots as near alike in condi-
tion as to age and length of time in milk
as possible. One lot was fed and milked
regularly at 5.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m.; the
other lot was fed and milked Irregularly any
time from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 4 p.m.
to 6 p.m. This was kept up for three weeks.
Ihe amount of food given was the same for
each lot. Those fed and milked regularly
increased their milk production 5.9 per cent.,
while the other lot’s fell away 4.4 per cent.
This difference of about 10 per cent, in three
weeks emphasises the value of regular
feeding.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Ralph Nickleby, who
made his start in the money-lending business
by lending pence to his school-chums, was a
type of many who are in the same line in
Melbourne. One of them began on the
trams. A fellow worker offered him twice
the amount of his week’s wages for the loan
of it; and he couldn’t deny the poor fellow,
it was an easy matter to let his landlady
wait a week for his board; and the
habit grew. His affluence runs a big
mansion and a motor-car to-day. Another
financier advertises himself as an “ex-rail-
wayrnan”; and I know a third who started
by coming to the rescue of improvident
tact ry ands. A quite ordinary transaction
IS a ,, r^, a P’ 1° b e repaid within six
months. This is a mere 60 per cent, p.a.,
but as monthly repayments are permitted
to suit the. convenience of clients ” the
actual rate is probably nearer 100 p.c. The
bedrock honesty of simple human nature is
the philanthropist’s collateral, and if he
keep a thousand pounds or so busy in
this way he has a good income with very
little risk. J
* * * #
“T.H.”: Vance Palmer (B. 25/12/’24),
talking of the Italian community of North
Queensland, says that “a man who
is making money on the land nowa-
days may live in a tin hut, but must own a
ca f ae kold his head up among his
neighbors.” However true this may be of
some districts, it is wrong in the case of the
Aorta to attribute the large number of cars
to the vanity of their owners. Here a
car of some kind is practically a necessity.
Mr- Palmer gives the idea that the majority
of the Italians own Fords. Let me assure
him that trying to sell a Ford to an Italian
is like trying to sell an electric fan to an
Lskimo. Foolishly, they sink hundreds of
pounds in heavy Fiats and other brands iost
as unsuitable for the North. Recently two
heavy Italian cars were sold in Ingham
within a week. The vanity lies in buying
such cars when the lighter kinds would be
more suitable. I would also differ from
his statement that Italian immigrants seem
soon to be initiated into the mysteries of
two-up. Where they congregate in large
numbers on Saturday nights, e.g., at Halifax,
their own games of chance almost always
have preference. The commonest is la morra,
a kind of hazards played with the fingers as
dice.
_ * *
Sierra”: If the alleged performances of
Mettners rotor-ship Buckau are substan-
tiated, Australia will soon see many of that
class of vessel. With rotating cylinders 60ft.
high and 9ft. diameter, the Buckau, on a
squally day, kept up a good speed, tacked to
wmdw-ard, and steered without using her
rudder. The Hamburg-America line is re-
ra)r.t(;'l to have ordered ten rotor freighters
ot 10,000 tons each, and Flettner estimates
they will save 35 per cent, in oil fuel be-
tween Hamburg and New York and 40 per
cent, on the Hamburg-Rio run. On longer
passages, where prevailing winds may be
utilised, he estimates the saving at 60 per
aen .t-. . A , license to use the patent on a
British ship will cost 10 per cent, of the
tonnage value. The action of the rotating
cylinders causes the air stream to flow with
accelerated motion off the side turning in
the direction of the wind. This creates a
\acuum, which exerts a suctional pull at
right angles to the wind. Naturally a beam
wind is the most advantageous- but it is
c aimed that the rotor-ship can sail much
closer co the wind than the ordinary sailing-
vessel. Running before the wind she would
presumably, get the best results by alter-
quartersaklllS * ° Ver her port aud starboard


Surfing Time
is
Rexona Time
Miss Eugenie Gilbert, leading lady for
Jack Hoxie, and pronounced by
Rodolph Valentino to be the most
beautiful of all Movie Stars in Holly-
wood, says: “Nothing eases and re-
lieves the burn of a day at the beach
like Rexona Soap.”
' ;
mm
■
“Amongst my girl
friends I find more
and more of them
using Rexona every
day, and I am glad
to write and tell you
what excellent pro-
ducts Rexona and
Rexona Soap are for
surfers.”
(Miss) .
BERYL
FERGUSON
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the roaring breakers on a
Summer’s day is indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands
and scarlet face are painful realities. This distress can be avoided by the
application of soothing, cooling, healing Rexona, the Rapid Healer, to
the face, hands and arms.
Try the following treatment after your swim, and you will be
delighted with the happy results. First bathe the face, hands and arms in
fresh water, making a good lather with Rexona Soap. Massage with this,
then softly dry and apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer, gently to the skin.
If this is done there will be no after-effects from exposure to the sun, no
regrets after a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the wonderful
influence of Rexona the Rapid Healer, will quickly regain its normal
temperature and comfortable coolness.
You will find Rexona Skin and Facial Soap ideal
as a shampoo for the hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the Rapid Healer, in
its dainty pot, should stand on the toilet table of all
who indulge in outdoor sports.
“No other soap does for
my skin what Rexona
Soap will: it keeps it so
soft and lovely. Once a
week I always shampoo
my hair with Rexona Soap,
and find there is nothing;
its equal for keeping the
hair in perfect condition.”
Miss GWEN FOOT,
9 Kellett Street.
Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
“I am an enthusiastic
surfer, and every morn-
ing after my dip in
the surf I always use
Rexona Soap for my
shower. It keeps the skin
and hair in the pink of
condition.”
Miss LILIAN OWEN,
Thornton Street.
Manly, N.S.W
REXONA the Rapid
Healer, 1/6 $ 5-
REXONA SOAP,
lj- per Tablet.
'' 'jm
k
m
A,
%
*
\ -
“Rexona
Soap is a
wonderful soap
lor keeping the skin and
hair in xierfeet condition.”
Miss EDITH PICKUP,
Orange Street,
Eastw'ood,
N.S.W.


Ghamberiains Tablets
>MmrI[YER
OricE
1/6
Chamberlains limited,
SYONCV.N.S.W * WEtUNOTON.N.I
a
Vim, Vigor and
Vitality result
from the use of
Chamberlai n’s
Tablets. They
cleanse and stim-
ulate stomach,
liver and bowels,
helping produce
perfect health.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
BRITISH EVERY STITCH'^
British
Every
Stitch .
C
B
CORSETS
A completely New and Clever
Idea in Corsets, which gives all
the advantages of the Wrap-
Round or Elastic Corset without
any of their disadvantages.
The Best Corset yet designed.
TRY ONE.
From all up-to-date Drapery
Emporiums and Stores at price's
ranging from 10/11 per pair.
Should you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining the correct
C.B. Model, write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO., LTD.,
Macdonell House, Pitt St., Sydney,
for name of nearest agent.
BRITISH EVERY STITCH”
Akk AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, ol High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS ‘‘CABIN- OF 15,000 TONS.
rate s t. 0 England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S.Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Janies Love, Esq.; W. H Hart Esn •
A. C. Luya, Esq. ;M. J. Ryan, Esq. ’ * *
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland nU
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all genera
banking business. s al
52-
e
■Si
WeedDeLuxe.
Thecrosschaln
links are rein-
forced with an additional
link as shown. This arrange-
ment makes four points of
contact with the road in-
stead of the usual two. Re-
sult: double strength where
it is needed.
With this Lever-Locking
Connecting Hook the side
chains are drawn together
and locked securely with lit-
tle effort. On or off in almost
no time.
Make
every ounce
of power count
YOUR motor car should be able
to travel the roughest roads if nec-
essary or climb any hill. It will—\f
you equip it with Weed Tyre Chains.
With Weed Chains on your tyres,
the wheels will not slip in sand and
mud. They will “grip.” Every ounce
of power will count.
Note particularly the improvements
on the new Weed De Luxe Tyre
Chains; besides added traction, they
make petrol economy possible.
Have your accessory dealer show
you the Weed Tyre Chains. Either the
original Weed or the new improved
“De Luxe” will give you satisfactory
service, as your needs require.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Building
New York. U. S. A.
Representative: Edward G. Vaughan
P.O. Box 845, Sydney, N.S.W.
EX-8-24
T ___ “De Luxe"
WEEL) Tyre Chains
Weed tyre chains also obtainable for semi-balloon and balloon tyres.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
m o t o r-t rips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
4K
*&■ \
ft .
>
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent by
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000-ton Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOUTMAN.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. D ALGETY & CO., Brisbane.
a
033
/ J
, ''Manufactured by>
(CLIFFORD LOVE £r CO. LTD
SVONEY*>
Taundrena
THE DAINTY WOMANS
FAVOURITE STANCH
Invaluable for fine fabrics
Potter, head of Victoria’s has been
put on his mettle by being asked to supply a
scheme for reorganising the ’tecs and plain-
clothes Johns. Waiting till Nicholson had
fone on furlough, Argyle got into touch with
'otter—perhaps he wanted to find out more
than how to reform the C. 1.8.
“Harvib”: The simplest method of settling
a sailor on the land was that adopted by
Captain Surrey, at Bourke (N.S.W.), when
ho brought his steamer, the Wave, ashore for
a dwelling. “The Darling River trade was
just anyhow,” confided the old man. “So
when the ’2l flood hit Bourke I copied old
Noah and made the highest possible landing.”
Maoriland’s first skirted lawyer was Miss
Ethel R. Benjamin, who graduated and com-
menced practising as long ago as 1897. She
was an Otago Uni. student, and topped the
list for the Rickety Isles in Roman law,
jurisprudence, constitutional history and law
and equity; she tied for first place in criminal
law and that dealing with real and personal
property. Her home town was Dunedin, and
that's where she started to pursue the wily
McClient.
At the “Back to Sale” (Vie.) celebrations,
which incidentally netted £5OO for the Gipps-
land Hospital, Governor Stradbroke, declar-
ing the borough a “town,” congratulated Tom
Cullinan on having been mayor six times.
Tom is one of the most popular men in Gipps-
land, has a better stage presence than most
actors, a gift for oratory, no end of tact,
and an intimate knowledge of the Local
Government Act. What more can any new
“town” want?
“Sierra” : The loss of the brigantine Jean-
nette on Manomana early in December
marks another period in the vanishment of
sail. She was the last true brigantine to
sail the Pacific. Some of her contemporaries,
like the Rachel Oolien, became auxiliaries in
their old age, but the Jeannette trusted to
canvas till the end. Built in California 32
years ago, the wrecked vessel of late years
sailed under the British flag, with Suva as
her port of registry.
Captain G. H. Wilkins, who has been con-
ducting exploratory work and collecting
specimens for the British Museum, obtained
some good results in Queensland. He diverged
little from his original plan of examining
the western slopes of the Dividing Range
from northern N. S. Wales to Cape York, the
country being worked in a circle with a 30-
mile radius, from a chain of “stations” 250
miles apart. He has already collected 10,000
specimens and discovered that the peninsula
north of Charlotte Bay is a “mammalian
desert,” devoid even of the ’roo and the rab-
bit.
From the N.S.W. State Gallery:—
The most regular frequenter—and sleeper—in the
Assembly is Theodore Hill. When awake nobody
follows the debates more closely, his right ear fun-
nelled in his hand. But the all-night sittings play
the mischief with him, and after the tea hour he
soon begins to nod, then stretches out on the front
Government bench, props his head with the right
hand, and becomes oblivious. In between he blamei*
the trade-unions element for the prevalence or
murder, and attends deputations urging on vhe
Premier the abolition of capital punishment. An
ex-banker, Hill is reputed to be the shrewdest Stock
Exchange operator in the House.
“Oxmead”: When you tire of cricket re-
cords, which is easy nowadays, run your
eye over Winston Churchill’s Ministerial
one; there is nothing like it in British his-
tory. Between ’OB and ’22, during which
term he was continuously in office with one
brief spell, this amazingly versatile person
was Under-Secretary for the Colonies, Presi-
dent of the Board of Trade, Home Secretary,
First Lord of the Admiralty, Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster. Minister for Muni-
tions,Minister for Air. Minister for War and
Colonial Secretary. Then he was two years
out of Parliament. Now he has returned to
become Chancellor of the Exchequer, the job
his father held 39 years ago.
Colonel C. E. Hughes, officer-in-charge of
the Imperial War Graves Commission on
Gallipoli, will have a much bigger job next
March, when he will take charge of all the
war graves in the “Near East,” including
Gallipoli, Egypt, Palestine, Persia and Iraq.
The job looks big enough to justify the pro-
motion of the Tassy engineer to the crossed-
swords brigade. Hughes was in the first
Australian Field Engineers Squadron (Light
Horse), and went to Gallipoli as a lieu-
tenant when the 7th A.L.H. and the Canter-
bury Rifles garrisoned Anzac after the
Armistice. He and Lieut. James (Ist
A.L.H.) had the job of locating graves and
collecting trophies. When the others left
for home Hughes carried on his delicate
job of establishing large Christian burial-
plots, with their emblems of the accursed
cross, amid a fanatical Moslem people. His
conspicuous success is reflected in his well-
won promotion.
“Foochow” on a. Celestial troublemaker:
The present unseemly disturbance in China reminds
one that to Australia belongs the discredit of having
produced the instigator and guiding spirit of the
Chinese Revolution. Born of Chinese parents in
Sydney in 1872, Tse Tsam Tai had his young
enthusiasm fired by his father’s recital of the per°
fidy of the Manchu Tartars. At the age of 12 he
promised his father, who was leader of the Chinese
Independence Party of Australia, that he would
return to China and make things as unpleasant as
possible for the Manehus ; the Manchus might well
have slept uneasily that night. Tsam. Tai arrived in
Hong Kong in 1887 and got busy without loss of
time. He entered Queen’s College and started what
the Bolshies call a “cell,” enlisting the sympathy
of Chesney Duncan, editor of the Hong Kong Tele-
graph, and Thomas H. Reid, editor of the China
Mail. After a couple of abortive attempts to capture
Canton, he joined hands with Sun Yat-sen, although
he hadn t much use for that vacillating person, but
considered it expedient to let him do the scrapping.
The ramifications of the business were extraordinary
—propaganda was carried on amongst, and assistance
received from, Chinese all over the world, and a
steady hammering was maintained in the British
papers in Hong Kong. Chesney Duncan was actually
reprimanded by the then Colonial Secretary for
fomenting strife in a country with which Britain
was on friendly terms. The final upshot we all know.
It makes one think—the next time you buy the
humble cabbage from “John” you can reflect that
Y°u ma y be paying your contribution to a world-
shattering bust-up that will make your grandchildren
regard your memory with extreme disrespect.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
,n»AMA 20.500
, O »ONSAY .. 20.500
, O TRANTO .. 20.500
nBMOXDE .. 14.853
‘ORCADES .. .
Tons.
•ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12,133
OSTEKLEY . . 12.129
ORSOVA 12,036
... 10,000 tons.
‘First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
OF
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
ANY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981
(3 lines). 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANU MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY. 10
p.m. ; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply ; „
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH. 624-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital ... .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,618
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,435
Directors: Sir Mark. Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J, Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector jor N.S. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 160 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (2G4 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Cornel- GEORGE and WIN YARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Mew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also. Fremantle, VV.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. ■ 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 750,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,625,000
875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies erf over .. »• .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. •• •• £7.865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H- W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping;, Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
MARAMA, from Sydney, January 16, connecting with TAHITI, from
Wellington, January 24, for Vancouver and San Francisco, via Auckland.
MAKURA 13,000 tons disp. FEB. 12 for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI 11,350 „ „ FEB. 26 „ San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ MAR. 12 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
j# ,, fLWtSam I
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO TIIE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STE4M SHIP CO P ni ° n H ° USe ’ 247 Ge ° rge Stre6t> Sydney '
UNION SIEAM SHIP co., | William street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUBXS. I*HI lit* & CO., LTD.,
Sydney. Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
*
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
m
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA. CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA" or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip front Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Tliomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.E.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Mdnaper: OSCAR T.TXt'S.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
\trents and Corresnondents throughout the world.
’ ” Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. T etters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World,
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP ----- £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,700,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Sir WILLIAM VICARS. C.B.E.
General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE. —18 Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Huddart ParkerLgl
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for tha
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER ANI) MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Hlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Business Announcements.
“BETTER THAN TATTS”
£4ooofop I|=
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General oi N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p, Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published “Daily Telegraph.” June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/1!. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets for 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizea
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Prouds
Ltd. and Lassetter's, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
RUPTURE:
A FREE TRIAL.
If yen am troubled with the complaint, write ua and
we will aend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO VOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing, it is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all. .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
Queen Street. Melbourne


m
%
I — -1 £h
I I &3R
> - -\v > A» lift *l3o'ft
i
—lk : - Jjifiii
__i
*£*§l
ns---
-S--«g
“T*
Kir
li-
ft
? ,-1 ■£
rn
v \e
SKSSSSS"
PftTOWWWOT
The first Buick and the
1925 sport model Buick.
In each of the other Gen-
eral Motors cars there has
been the same impressive
progress in appearance, as
well as in utility.
What makes motor car value?
1. Appearance
is the outward stamp
of a good motor car.
So General Motors, by uniting many
long established automotive companies in-
to a family, has doubly assured beauty of
line and durability of finish in the cars
which its divisions build.
For example: The Fisher Body Cor-
poration has been foremost in developing
the coachmaker’s art as applied to the mo-
tor car. As a member of the General Mo-
tors family, it contributes of its skill and
knowledge to the rest.
Again: General Motors was first to give
motor car users the benefits of Duco, the
new colorful and wear-proof finish which
is rapidly displacing the sombre enamels
and delicate body paints.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The motor vehicles made by General Mo-
tors are listed below. They include a car
for every purse and purpose; and each
car, by reason of the great resources of
General Motors, represents the utmost in
value at its price.
Further information regarding General Motors may be had by writing to General Motors
Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers , 160 Castlereagh StSydney; or General
Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Bourke Sr 1 Russell Sts., Melbourne,
GENERAL MOTORS
BUICK
OAKLAND
CADILLAC
OLDSMOBILE
CHEVROLET
GMC TRUCKS


Here’s the Remedy for Eczema:
Rexona-The Rapid Healer.
Mr. H. RICH (from a photo).
What a plague Eczema is! It
creeps on slowly at first, almost un-
noticed until it has a hold; then it
takes some moving. Don’t give
Eczema a chance, but at the first sign
of the trouble apply Rexona, the Rapid
Healer.
Eczema is easily amenable to treat-
ment in its early stages. Later, if
allowed to run on unchecked, it will
be a trouble hard to bear.
Intelligent treatment with Rexona
will always get the best of Eczema.
Rexona promptly allays the irrita-
tion and itching,, taking away the
desire to scratch the parts affected.
Rexona quickly dries up any pus or
exuding matter, and eases the ache
and pain.
Rexona promptly destroys all dan-
gerous germs and bacteria, for it is a
germicide of the highest order.
At the same time Rexona builds up
new skin tissues and cells, so that in
the end a new and perfect skin is
formed where the disease formerly
existed.
There is no better treatment for
Eczema than cleanly dressings with
Rexona, the Rapid Healer. You will
notice the improvement in only a few
days, and persistent treatment will
always bring its reward.
Rexona Gives Prompt Relief.
“Mine was a very obstinate case of Eczema—l suffered with it for nine years,
and spent pounds on many remedies which gave me no relief. I was often unable
to rest for quite long periods, owing to
the distress occasioned by my com-
plaint.
“At last, about two years ago, I used
Rexona Ointment, and it effected a
complete cure. I have not had any
Eczema since, and would never be
without this really wonderful remedy.”
(Sgd.) H. RICH,
5a Oxford Street,
Newtown, N.S.iV.
Rexona—=T he
Rapid Healer o
/r Cooling
W'joothing —ls
f— Healing '
Antiseptic Oinlmenl
1/0
r /
5 £/
i.
Pun* ,es •? Absolutely
" Heals DfliiaKia
Reliable
3!
mw^i.grrawii
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions >i
and Irritations of Ihe Skin. Eczema. Sores. Cuts.
Burns. Bruises, Sores. Sciatica, Piles. Stings of Insects
and aiJ kinds L^flammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG CP L T PSYDNEY
CHOCOLATES
i ■
.1
H
wm
1
V
ms>,
■
7
I
I
li
Si
3>
*<*
m
1/ >:
f X.. .
W
Mag
J -3, li
mm
S
H
& :
■ mm
hi
m
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Gm&4JJ£Uu\
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
The Uninvited.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
m HE room was bright with rosy lamps
And desert-peas in bloom ;
Outside a hidden shepherd-bird
Was singing in the gloom,
When softly through a door thrown wide
Fate stepped into the room.
No name he gave; announced by none
He mingled witli us there —
Brown men, tall men, men young and old,
And women soft and fair,
M’et for a night of song and dance,
A night unfraught with care.
He entered, as he comes to all
We know not where or when,
Or how or why : came silently,
Came softly in, and then
On three who smiled he fixed dark eyes—
A woman and two met.
Where western stars burn large and bright
They tell the story still,
How Fate fixed eyes upon those three,
And kept them fixed until
One heart grew grey, and two began
With strange new bliss to thrill.
What brought him down the western tracks
Upon that festive night?
Was there no trackside camp for him
On saltbush plain or height
With mulga crowned —no other home
In which to quench the light?
Betwixt the men, hands toying with
Bright desert-peas in bloom.
The woman sat; her lustrous eyes
With radiance filled the room;
The beauty of a flame was hers
That leaps up in the gloom.
When rich metallic lustres paint
The west at set of sun.
And folk recall that festive night
At times, their labors done,
’Tis told of how the husband lost,
And how the lover won.
In spite of what the world might say
. ’Twas ordered thus by Fate;
For while the shepherd-bird sang on,
Sang softly to his mate,
Two riders riding side by side
Sped through the sliprail-gate.
Above them midnight stars burned bright,
About them, still and wide,
The saltbush plains, dew-moistened, spread ;
Yet ever, stride for stride,
Unseen by them, unknown to them,
Fate galloped by their side.
There is a homestead in the West
No more guest-sought, as when
Love walked its rooms; a homestead where
Joy ne’er shall bide again ;
For there Fate fixed with hateful eyes
A woman and two men.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Magnolia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
....there can be no doubt that one of the prin-
cipal objects for which the sense of smell is given to
us is to enable us to detect atmospheric impurities,
rnany of which are of a most noxious character, and
give rise to the most serious forms of fever.”— “The
Sense of Smell/’ London, 1861
§ 7! UODIE CAVERSHAM leaned forward
§lj with her customary impression of
careful grace.
“Your orchids are beautiful, Dora,” she
said, her voice a shade over-expressive, as
her eyes, her hands and her smile.
Mrs. Ellis glanced down at the tumbled
purples and browns and yellows sitting sul-
lenly in the centre of the white and silver,
the high lights of the glasses, the general
subdued glitter of the table.. She was proud
of the orchids; Jim's small glass-house
always settled her occasional decoration
difficulties.
“They are good, aren’t they?” she said.
"It’s a shame they don’t smell, isn’t it?”
Jim Ellis blinked and cleared his throat.
“The dendrobians,” he began, and stopped
as the lion of the small party lifted his head.
_ “It’s a jolly good tiling they don’t some-
times,” the lion said, his easy, balanced voice
Hi curious contrast with the brown granite
of his face. He looked round the listening
group at the table. “That sounds silly,
doesn’t it? You people sitting softly in civi-
lisation, year in year out. have an idea that
civilisation owes you the utmost out of
everything: if a flower is beautiful it must
be perfumed too; if a bird is beautiful it
tnust sing too; if you eat, it must be richly
and pleasantly, with wine, perhaps with
triusic.” He looked round the little group
again; and laughed, the harshness of his
tnouth softening a little. “On the trail you
dock the trimmings. When you eat, you eat;
and that’s all. You come to mistrust all
trimmings.” His voice dropped a semi-tone.
"Sometimes to fear them,” he added.
. Mrs. Caversham’s caressing voice slipped
into the short silence.
“Tell us, Mr. Holt,” she said sweetly.
tir Brydon Holt looked abstractedly at her.
.'There’s not much to tell. And there’s noth-
Dig to show- —now. Where a village was, where
C*oo people lived” —he shrugged liis shoulders,
bis eyes still abstracted and expressionless—
"there may be some bones left under the
s crub. Otherwise, there’s nothing. Forty
bflles up a just-distinguishable tributary of
the Labuk in Borneo.
“I was camped on a tableland about two
biiles west of the village. For three days
9.nd nights a heavy, sluggish breeze had
been just stirring the air, a breeze laden
With a perfume sweet and rotten —like violets
steeped in opium. A beautiful corruption—
beautiful! I couldn’t work—l was ‘geologi-
cal’ for Beresford and Knight—just sat in
biy tent or on a rock and let this languorous,
Caressing tumult soak into me through my
bostrils. I didn’t even smoke; I wanted
every breath of it. I said ‘tumult’: that
w-as the undercurrent. Beneath the slow
sweetness a sort of fiery disturbance dislo-
cated the mind —like the first resistance to
’Chloroform. You wanted to get up and stamp
L - ’-bout, biting things. To prove that you were
b god. Sins of blood it whispered all the
time, while you sat there listening, spell-
bound by its dragging beauty. I—l hated
*t, yet”
For a moment he looked down at his
plate.
“While it lasted there was a steady row
among my men, and two were killed. /
didn’t care. But the tourth morning the
breeze dropped; and the perfume lifted. The
camp came to life. With two of my Elopura
men I went down to the village for a couple
of bearers to replace the dead men.”
Holt shifted slightly his heavy shoulders,
and went on in his ordinary, pleasantly-
reticent manner.
“It wasn’t a village—it was a shambles.
And there was no beauty in the smell. A
horrible old woman—literally the sole sur-
vivor, I think—whispered hoarsely for live
minutes to one of my men, sweeping her un-
broken arm round towards the little knots
of dead, the smoking ruins of huts, the
reeking desolation. On the track up to
the camp the man told me. It was the
sweet murder—that is the nearest I could get
to it in English—a brown, fleshy flower
shaped like the human heart and about 15in.
across. Every eight or nine seasons it
blooms for a week or so after the rains,
and then shrivels and dies on its long,
lania-like stem. If a village or any native
community is near it or gets into its tide, it’s
—well, it’s dog eat dog till there are no dogs.
I can believe it: I nearly went on a —on a
blood-scoot myself.”
He stared heavily at the orchids.
“So perhaps it’s just as well they don’t
all smell, Mrs. Ellis,” he added.
“Ilow horrible!” Mrs. Caversham mur-
mured. “And how thrilling it must be to
go through such things!”
Dick Hayter laughed sheepishly and shook
himself.
“No good to me,” he said. “Sydney and
an occasional shark’ll do me.”
Dora Ellis’s motherly—young-motherly—
eye rested affectionately on him for a moment.
“Why, Dickon?” she asked. “Doesn’t the
long trail say anything to you?”
He smiled back at her, but before he could
reply Mrs. Caversluim’s smooth voice slid in
again, gently acidulated.
“Why should it, Dora? He has a glorious
voice, a tame accompanist and composer with
the most —er —tractable husband in the
world: ail in Sydney. What’s the good of
the long trail to him? Now, Covent Garden
or the Opera”
She smiled tenderly at the company and
at the sudden slight flush beneath Dora
Ellis’s eyes. Ellis coughed and emptied his
glass.
“Er —the dendrobians,” he began again;
but Elodie Caversham’s merry, overstressed
laugh interrupted him.
“You’re incorrigible, Jim,” she told him.
“When you find yourself left, don't say I
didn’t warn you, will you?”
“No.” he answered, staring blankly at her
through his glasses. “Have some more
coffee?” And lie wondered what on earth the
fool had been driving at.
“No, thank you, Jim dear; Mr. Holt is
going to take me on the river, and I’ll prob-
ably want all my nerve. He might find it
pleasant to murder me, you know,” she
whispered very audibly.
The slight flush was still on Mrs. Ellis’s
cheek-bones as she went through the door
Hayter held open. —>
“Elodie’s captured the lion for the evening,
Dickon,” she whispered hurriedly. “So come
into the drawing-room as soon as you can,
and we’ll run over ‘Renouncement’- —I
finished it this morning.”
* * * *
So, presently, James Ellis, of the solid in-
dent firm of Ellis and Colyer, sitting in the
dining-room with his mauve and yellow den-
drobians and the tumbled white and silver of
his table, was the odd man out. He didn’t
mind that; he was used to it. When you’ve
followed your father into a solid indent firm
created by him ; seen to it that the firm’s range
and position developed adequately with Aus-
tralian needs in indent; put in all your
years between your solid Clarence-street office
and your solid Lane Cove house, all your
interests in life bounded by these two, the
little occasional hiatus of odd-man-out isn’t
going to bother you much. And if, in the
stress of these importunate interests, you
have left it a bit later than usual in life' to
get married, you must expect to be high and
dry sometimes. You can't have everything.
Forty per cent, on a ten per cent, principal
—the tributary terms of a complicated Jap-
anese contract —-kept running through his
mind. Forty was too much rake-off for a
fourth party. But the deal was big, and
promising—promising in a hitherto untouched
quarter; the volume might make the forty
payable in time. A murmur of subdued
music pushed gently over the edge of his
thoughts. That was young Dora playing
one of Dick’s new songs: clever girl, Dora —
picking out bits of poetry and setting them
to music she composed herself for Dick to
sing. And Dick certainly could sing. Both
poetry and music—Jim glanced round the
rich room, a shadowy smile appearing for a
moment behind his thick glasses. He dropped
his cigar-butt into his cup, and stood up, the
trailing purple and brown blooms catching
his eye again and bringing the smile back as
he walked out to the verandah.
A hot night—hot and sticky. Forty per
cent, on a fourth rake-off. Elodie Caversham’s
carrying laugh echoed over the still silence of
the garden, the clatter of oars in the row-
locks, and the explorer’s deep voice accom-
panying it. Fool of a woman—cattish, too:
Dora was narked by something at dinner;
probably this vamp’s fault. Presently the
swish of the oars in the water whispered in
the stillness, and the murmur of music rose
again from the drawing-room, a little louder
for the open doors. Jim grinned. Odd-man-
out.
Under the magnolia he found the long
chair full, of books and papers. Too hot to
hump them inside; he dropped on the turf
beside the chair and lay full length, staring
up at the ghostly blossoms shimmering in the
tree for a moment before he rolled over on
liis elbow. The heat was over the odds.
This Brydon Holt was used to the equator;
but Jim wouldn’t take the Queen of Sheba
on the river to-night. He’d drop a line to
Eddie Poole in Nagasaki; Ed. could give him
the strength of
A shadow drooped heavily past his eyes
and lapsed half furtively to the grass. A
magnolia-petal; big as your hand, fleshy,
thick, like clotted cream. The perfume stole
subtly up into his nostrils. Eddie was in
(Continued on next page.)


YOU May Have
Kidney Trouble!
Picture
Every
Story
Tells
•a*
I
f/A
m
i!ju
y//.
n
m
ss
I
%
There is good cause to suspect your kidneys if
you have any stubborn pain in the small of the
back; for that is just where the kidneys are.
Heavy, throbbing backache
and sharp twinges when you
stoop or give your back a sud-
den twist tell you of inflamed
kidneys; kidneys sore, over-
worked and tired.
The kidneys have enough to
do when you are in good health
to filter the blood free of uric
poisons. Colds, fevers, over-
work or excesses of any sort
congest and overwork the kid-
neys. Unless promptly relieved,
what was at first a simple inflam-
mation will turn, in time, to
gravel, urinary trouble, dropsy,
lumbago, sciatica, rheumatism,
or some chronic form of kidney
disease.
If your kidneys are weak, take
Doan’3 Backache Kidney Pills,
the remedy that has been used
for over fifty years and is so
well recommended by people
from all parts of Australia.
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S.
SYDNEY RESIDENT
CURED.
Mr. A. Bartle, No. 3 Gladstone
Street, Bexley, Sydney, says:—“Off
and on for years I suffered with dis-
ordered kidneys, the result being that
I was tortured with backache. When I
had a bad attack my back used to be
so stiff and lame that I could not even
turn in bed without suffering agony.
The kidney secretions were affected, be-
ing thick and cloudy with a red sedi-
ment. I was also subject to dizzy
attacks, and generally speaking felt far
from well. One day a friend, hearing
of a cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, urged me to try them. I bought
some without delay, and used them with
excellent results. The first bottle gave
relief, and five bottles made a complete
and perfect cure.”
Eight years later Mrs. Bartle says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
my husband of backache and kidney
trouble over eight years ago, and he has
had no return of the complaint since.”
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
DOANS
Backache Kidney' Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured.
Mrs. Horwitz, Etlielwood, Hayward
Street, Kensington, Sydney, says :—“I
sent for a pot of Doan’s Ointment, and
used it for Eczema on my little girl’s
forehead. The rash covered the brow
and it was around the eye as well. The
itching was frightful, and it made her
very fretful and kept her from sleeping.
I had used several preparations previous
to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none of
them gave more than passing relief. I
am pleased to tell you that this remedy
cured her completely. We have since
used it on another little girl with
equally good results. Doan’s Ointment
is splendid, and I advise its use in all
itching skin diseases.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Horwitz
states :—“My daughter has not suffered
with Eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured her eighteen years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons Road,
Five Dock, Sydney, says :—“Three years
ago I used Doan’s Ointment for a bad
attack of Piles, and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previous to
trying this ointment I tried all kinds of
remedies; but they gave me little or no
relief. I was suffering terribly when I
first applied Doan’s Ointment, and had
little hope of it doing me any good; but
its soothing and healing effects were
noticeable almost at once, and by the
time I had used one pot I was com-
pletely cured. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment, and consider it the
best Pile remedy known. It cured me
after other remedies had failed.”
Four years later Mrs. Brown says:—
“I have had no return of my old com-
plaint since Doan’s Ointment cured me
about seven years ago.”
KEEP
At all chemists and stores at 2/9 per tin.
A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
* with all these buyers; he could give him the
straight tip. Eastern business was always
ticklish w T hen you first broke in—too much
damned diplomacy, too many fine points. A
man on the spot. Idly he prodded the mag-
nolia petal. Business could do with a litt;
he could probably hang the thing up till he
heard from Ed. A winish, loaded sort of
odor came heavily up from the petal, furtive
and yet drugging. He looked down at the
yellow shadow on the grass. Intangible and
grossly palpable, tlie honey-colored shape
seemed to be mocking him, but imperturbably.
Like the East. Too much darkness—too
many things hidden and looking like some-
thing else. If you slipped a cog you went
to the pack for good. Or you sat like a fool,
seeing nothing, while the crowd played you.
A wave of the wine-laden scent drifted up as
Dick’s great voice pealed royally out into
the darkness—
“l must not think of thee; and, tired, yet strong,
1 shun the love that lurks in all delight—
The love of thee.”
Bonzer voice; with a sort of dreamy huski-
ness behind it that only made it more bonzer.
Sometimes this odd-man-out stunt —tcha! He
was the boss of this show. He picked up the
petal, crushing it gently in his fingers, a
mist of swooning perfume rising gorgeously to
his mind. Poetry and music—Dick’s voice
came softly throbbing out again, clear of the
husky sweetness, but full of romantic
charm—
“Oh, just beyond the sweetest thoughts that throng
This breast, the thought of thee waits hidden yet
bright.
But it must never, never come in sight;
I must stop of thee the whole day long.”
Jim sat up, the clotted scent hanging heavy
round his head, a scent full of indefinable
chicanery and mistrust tugging at the heart
of its languorous beauty. That vamp—she
had said, “the most tractable husband” ; and
“don’t say I didn’t warn you.”
On a drifting minor phrase the voice
crept out into the hushed trees again:—
“And all my loads I needs must loose apart,
, Must doff my will as raiment laid away”
A subtle violence descended upon Jim’s
heart, a violence of unscrupulous craft hidden
somewhere at the core of this rich, ineffable
smell. Like a cat, he slipped easily and pre-
cisely to his feet, and stood watching, cold
and implacable, under the magnolia : tree.
The last lines sighed gently out into the
waiting night:—
“With the first dream that comes with the first sleep
1 run, I run, I am gathered to thy heart.”
Three soft chords followed and trailed
into the silence. Jim stood, alert and watch-
ful, his haggard face grim in the shadow of
the tree, the deep scent drumming in his
brain. Soon the murmur of speaking voices
broke the silence, and Dora and Dick came
out on to the verandah and down the steps.
As they reached the grass Jim leapt from
his shadow, a catapult of insensate rage.
An apotheosis of anger possessed him, cold,
bitter anger, with only one thought at its
heart. Twice he felt the triumphant, savage
impact of his fist on Dick’s head and neck
before the other’s youth answered out of
his appalled surprise. He stood off for a
second from his dynamic assailant, conscious
of the sharp pain and of a surging fury for
the indignity. The thought that Jim had
gone mad didn’t cross his mind; he felt
nothing but the shock and the rage, the blind
rage of pain-mad insult. Feinting and guard-
ing, watching like a cat, he shot one through
to Jim’s jaw, knocking his glasses off. The
weight of the blow heartened him; every
ounce was behind it. Subconsciously he was
glad his evening shoes were thin and the
grass dry; he might almost be at the gym.
Ellis was heavy and soft; a couple more like
that should settle it.
But Ellis felt nothing—saw nothing but
red. He came crowding in, indifferent to the
heavy punishment, oblivious of everything.
He wanted the swine’s throat, that throat
where the damned piping came from, the
husky dreams that were not for the odd-man-
out. Blood pouring from his cut forehead
into his eyes was nothing, a heavy dizziness
pounding in his head was nothing; it was
the slim, smooth throat he wanted, where
the swagger collar fitted so snug. Covent
Garden ? He’d see to that! Dick was light
on his feet and as fit as a ballet-dancer, and
his punch was solid and quick; but it was
all mosquito-bites to Jim. His blood-smeared
face and bleeding fists came back and back,
hungry for the throat, the singing throat.
His breath came in short, strangled sobs,
broken and labored ; his back and shoulders
ached beyond belief; and every now and
again the garden and this dancing pup,
Dora’s rigid, horrified figure and the whole
night, swung drunkenly out into space. But
grimly, implacably, imperturbably, he carried
on for the throat. Once he got that!
At last Dick’s shoe, worn smooth, slipped
on the dry grass, and he dropped to one
knee. Quick as he was, Ellis was through
before he could rise, the throat locked hard
in one bleeding hand. The world swung
away to nothing again, but .Tim held on, roll-
ing over and over on the lawn, shaking—
shaking and crushing with every last whisper
of strength his soul could find.
But, on the edge of triumph, two brown
hands, hard as iron, grabbed his shoulders,
and he felt himself hauled up as if he were
a kitten—to look dizzily into the shocked
face of Brydon Holt. He smiled crookedly
with his split and swollen lips, sighed and
rolled over, outed.
At length sparks came crackling in mil-
lions from the end of the world to light a
dull fire in his head. Someone was wiping
his face with an icy cloth. He sighed again,
half-clioked, and opened his eyes. Dora was
bending over him, wiping the blood from his
forehead with her wet handkerchief. He
looked vaguely behind her.
“Where’s the bunch?” he asked thickly.
“They’ve gone, darling—just now. I sent
them.”
“Dick all right?”
“Quite. Knocked about, but—all right.”
She looked down into his battered face, im-
mortal tenderness in her troubled, compas-
sionate eyes. “Oh, Jim, darling,” she whis-
pered, “what is it? Oh, what is it?”
But Jim’s head sagged feebly back.
“All in,” he muttered; “all—all in.”
She stood up.
“Yes,” she said quietly. “I’m forgetting.
We must get you to bed, dearest. You can
tell me to-morrow. I’ll call Harris to help
you.”
Waiting passively for Harris, Jim was
conscious of a clammy, shrivelled substance
under his hand. He lifted it, and looked
at it. A magnolia petal, dull and mottled,
scentless and withered —dead,
HILARY LOFTING.
A Scientific Burglar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ip IFE,” said the Scientific Burglar
I J mournfully, “is full of disappoint-
ments. I’ll tell you about mine.
My people wanted me to be a grocer. It
was too commonplace for me, and I decided
to embark upon a career of crime. But I
would do the thing scientifically. I classi-
fied burglars into two orders: (1) the mugs
who burgled without using the brains God
had given them, and were put in prison;
(2) the wise chaps who thought before they
stole, and kept out of prison. I included
myself amongst the latter, because, for one
thing, the idea of prison was repugnant
to me. I summoned science and psycho-
analysis to my aid, and read books on the
subjects. In one volume I learnt that the
only way to succeed in life was to have a
definite sub-conscious object. ‘Find your
definite object,’ said the book, ‘and keep on
striving for it until you obtain it.’ I based
my enterprises on that advice.
“At first I experienced many setbacks.
With the definite object of burglary before
me, I found my way into several houses. I
did it discreetly, of course, but somehow I
was always disturbed before I could steal
anything of value. Once, indeed, I succeeded
in getting hold of a silver toast-rack from a
house in Darling Point. It was really a
lovely thing, but as I never liked toast it
wasn’t much use to me.
“Then the great opportunity came. In
Pitt-street I noticed a Yale latchkey lying
in the gutter. In a flash I had transferred
it to my pocket. Here, I told myself, was
the real definite sub-conscious object of my
life. I argued the whole thing out. That
latchkey fitted the front door of some house
in Sydney. It was my business to find that
house, purloin the contents and keep out of
prison. I went to the Public Library and
discovered that there are, roughly, 100.000
residential homes in Sydney. Good. If I
tried that latchkey in thirty different houses
every day, by the indisputable law of .aver-
ages I was bound to find the right one in
the course of ten years. With luck I might
find it within a week. It was a gamble, as
you can perceive, but I had confidence in
the nature of my reward. What if the key
led me, unquestioned, into the mansion of a
millionaire?
“So I began my quest. Day after day I
combed the suburbs. Here again I was
scientific. I started on the more wealthy
places like this: Bellevue Hill, Monday;
Edgeeliff, Tuesday; Darling Point. Wednes-
day ; and so on. It was a fascinating adven-
ture. and I enjoyed every minute of it. Cer-
tainly I had rebuffs. Once an irate lady
found me fiddling with the lock on her front
door, and I had to convert myself into a
land agent and talk about ‘choice lots’ and
‘unique opportunities’ to pacify her. Once
a man set his dog on me. A big dog, too.
But I shall murder it some day—scientifi-
cally, of course.
“Five years passed, and still I had not
found a home for my key. Then one day I
awoke with a strange feeling that my quest
was at an end. I started off to Ivillara (I
had got to the North Shore line by then)
with my heart bursting with optimism. Just
before lunch I found myself walking boldly
up the path towards the door of an expensive-
looking bungalow. I whistled blithely and
inserted the key into the lock. It fitted!
I stemmed the mounting shouts of joy on
my tongue, looked stealthily over my shoul-
der and passed silently into the house.”
The Scientific Burglar stopped speaking;
and a look of pain crossed his face. (I found
out afterwards that during that moment of
sorrow he removed a watch and chain from
my waistcoat pocket.)
“Yes?” I asked. “What happened then?”
“Nothing,” said the Scientific Burglar
mournfully. “The damned house was empty!”
GILBERT MANT.
Intruders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Here in this dim, rich garden, sweet with
shade,
There lingers yet the peace of yesterday,
As though the tender-fingered years had laid
Its loveliness in lavender away.
Here bloom all old-world flowers that make
me think
Of little cottage-gardens in the dusk —
Pale four-o’clocks,
And hollyhocks,
Old-man geranium and musk!
And weaving arabesques from tree to tree,
The intricate moon-faced convolvuli!
Slender and tall, the cool sparaxis shake
Their thin, jade bells above the patterned
grass.
Sweet-alyssum and clove-warm pinks that
break
Too soon stray where they will; no foot-
steps pass
Down tangled ways where every leaning rose
Breathes of far, sunny lanes, and gorse-
gold hills.
Only the bee
Booms lazily,
The shaken pollen spills
And sighs of drifted blossom faint with death
Sound like some quiet sleeper’s gentle breath!
Oh, come away! This is no fitting place
For you and me, who have been through
the night,
And met the rain and lightning face to face,
Exultant in the wind’s unbridled flight!
Our souls are rocked about with storm and
stress!
Our ears have heard the clamorous world-
songs beat!
Now as we staud,
Hand clasping hand,
Here in the garden dreams pale yesterday!
The earth-dust still besmears our feet!....
Ah, Love, disturb it not! Come, come atvay!
Victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let 7 BM 414.
TINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Bents—IIOJL.MISS & CHUItCH, Hrisbane. ..... „„
S-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
—O9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
TUMASTIC
ENAMELS
ualled as a protection against Rust.
properties of Elasticity and
Tenacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented.
SOLE AGENTS—
'ILDRIDCE S SINCLAIR. LTD..
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
sest for the hair on
vll occasions
° r a will master the most un-
a ‘ r and keep it in place all
j Auzora Cream for greasy
,P S > Anzora Viola for dry
lp s ci, 3
oold by chemists, bair-
ers , stores or from our agents
iPUSE
all substitutes
asters the hair
for Australia:
i 1 Willis & Co., Ltd.
Pt!, 1 ' o—Baldwin 0 —Baldwin & Slattery
VvL\ Ltd -
'la{.i Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Arthur Glover,
tbJit G regary & Collins.
M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
PERFUMERY Co., Ltd.
1 Eohc, London, England.
IfTi
i
CREAM
masters the hair
An tors Otrfumory Co \td
LONDON N W 6
U!
Remington. =
NITRO CLUB Wetproof
Shotgun Cartridges
JjARD HITTING—UNIFORM—is the
judgment of the army of sportsmen
si n g Nitro Club either for game or at
he traps.
hand loaded cartridge can be expect”
to compete with Remington’s
loadin g —precisely and uni-
r t b e mos t modern auto-
tic machinery
proof of a cartridge
is the shooting!
ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
P* O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
rr«\
m
£
A
1
%
'XA
Beecham’s Pills
worth a guinea
a
ss
“ But everything teem* to
different now, Mother.”
“Of course, my dear girl.
And yet I brought up all
of you, preserved my good
looks, have eaten well, slept
well, simply by taking
Beecham’s Pills,
Points on
Cheerfulness .
Happiness: quiet habit-
ual confidence amidst
life’s difficulties depend
upon a good digestion,
which in turn is the re-
sult of the liver, kidneys
and other vital parts of
of the body performing
their Natural functions
regularly. Helped by
BEECHAM’S PILLS the
system is kept cleansed
and purified, and the
mind and disposition
free from forebodings,
“broodings,” and un-
pleasant fears.
A dose at night will
keef you right
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELESSOD lAMOND
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL 1
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT jfc* 'HZ
f&l '^lhz
WOLFFS wau^'^i
0
fii
J^fils
pci*
fv BRITISH
|Y MADE
“ ROYAL SOVEREIGN’* HB
r c7&tej/~ w* &U ( ~fyor6^
For
all engines
in
all climates
under
all conditions
there is no sparking plug equal to a
hOOGE
The name LODGE on a sparking
plug is a definite guarantee of its
inherent high quality and efficiency.
Made in different models, and obtainable
from all accessory dealers, garages and
stores. State make of engine when buying.
Illustrated in standard model ( CS)
for nearly all engines screwed metric.
PRICE 5/6.
LODGE rLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
if
f.
In'
#T
i n i
II I WI
ismuM


p
Vi
nn
I
w ''
%
m
t
JJ.
X
22
J
22
/
morJj?~ v'/IK* J!
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT IRRESISTIBLE
The sea has a charm all its own, and so has Dewar’s Whisky. As invigorating
as the winds that blow from out of space, Dewars, like a well found ship, brings
content ; boundless and satisfying.
