

V
C
£
0
o
Mi
0
U
i'V’:
[CIRIC
,1
c
I '.I * ,! , - ! - .•!' ,
WhyYouNeeda Electric Range*
1. Keeps utensils and kitchen clean and spotless.
2. Convenient to operate, ever-ready heat.
3. Better cooking with the even, perfectly-controllable
heat.
4. Safety from fumes, over-heating and lighted matches.
5. Economical, cooked largely on stored heat.
6. Keeps kitchen cool and pleasant.
7. Requires less attention, correct temperatures main-
tained automatically.
8. Turns on and works without watching—more freedom.
9. Prevents burning or under-cooking.
10. Retains food values and stops waste from shrinkage.
ELECTRIC COOKERY IS BETTER COOKERY.
You will be interested in seeing for yourself just how completely a flotfcoinL Electric Range accomplishes
these results, lightens housework, and assures perfectly-cooked meals and becomes a necessity m every house o .
Come in and inspect our varied line of range models, which offer a stove ideally suited to your in ivi ua requiremen
flot/gipL Depot in your suburb will supply further particulars, or call at the Sydney showroom to our free
cooking demonstrations every Wednesday and Friday afternoon of each week at 3 o clock each day.
Booklet A mailed free, together with our easy monthly-payment plan.
Australian General Electric 0 ltd.
c cr»" yzr&'sx: zltts.,
ss
AGENTS:
Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd., cdrner Edward
and Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.
Clias. Atkins &
Oliver & Oliver
Co., Ltd., Perth and Adelaide.
Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46. —No. 2351.
Thursday, March 5, 1925.
Price 6d®
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Library Catalogue and full terms
and particulars and lists on all subjects.
Post free to any address.
BYMOCKS BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
42S George Street, SYDNEY.
L.YSAGHT
O
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
MANG/rOrITE 11
INTEGRITY OF MANUFACTURE
, has made
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
the first choice of experienced engineers throughout Australia
Tanned by experts from the highest quality raw materials
rigorously tested before it leaves the factory, it is unequalled
for long life, consistent power saving and dogged resistance
to wear. #
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
. York Btreet(Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co.. Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA - : Oibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND; P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, hulimna Chambers, t.reuieJl
Street, Adelaide.
: " ‘ Tolle ?, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. k G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston k Hobart.
THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
STEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
fTsr?
• com
a
a
w
■m,
V
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60 /-
For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
makes it dust and damp proof.
■ V l '
'JEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTD.
i wo ayaney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
412 George Street, Strand Corner
Oil*
(By permission of The Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
J- e Help Foe,
Consumptives
ART • UNION
“BIGGEST
and BEST”
IstPrizie, F.I.A.T. Limousine . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan ... ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car „ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car £4OO
sth Prize, Player Piano ~ £250
6th Prize, 3 Rooms of Furniture „ £2OO
200
PRIZES
IN ALL
Tickets 1/-
By post 1/IJ, 3 or
more, post free.
Five tickets ... 5/-
Every ticket drawn
replaced in barrel.
Each ticket has 200
chances of winning
prizes.
Sale of tickets closes 20th May.
1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney,
3rd June, 1925.
Results published all Sydney
Dailies, sth June, 1925.
T'ckets obtainable from all newsagents and tobacconists, and from the
Secretary, GEO. H. WHEELER, 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
•Ti;
■s
6056
FOR
¥
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE”
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitos.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, if- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Tbe House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
Showing th»
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adhere
hill
THAT FLV
The Red Page
The Australian Artist
There are artists, those who think them-
selves artists, and other people; for our sub-
conscious memories are in varied states of
preservation. These memories when ex-
pressed are labelled inspiration, bias, instinct,
faith or prejudice, representing a summary
of racial or ancestral experiences; the ve
diet without the evidence. The artist tran
lates these preconceptions into pleasural
shapes, colors, sounds, motions or words
those with like or less vivid memories. Th
art is relative and reminiscent; it may
cultivated in the individual, but not taugi
Raphael at 16 was at the height of' 1
powers; Mozart a composer at six. No
mally the growth of reason in the individua
slows down imaginative expression. T
mental giant Leonardo da Vinci, in 1
maturity, took years to execute where t
boy Raphael took days; - exemplifying th
conscious thought must be dormant for ar
with-magnificence to exceed the speed lim
The artist himself is a by-product
leisure. Man on a wallaby diet had to
constantly on the hop to fill his larder. T
stone axe, spear and boomerang were brea
fast tools, utilities without ornament; on
when more than one meal was assured hac
he leisure for self-decoration and sesthel
promptings originating in sex. Thus Bingl
always on the ’possum line, got no furth
in art expression than the decoration of h
person with clay, or the theatricals of t
oorroboree. Probably from a like cause t
bower-bird, with easily-acquired, easil
digested food, and protected from emcmics
the big scrub, and so having leisure, evolvec
a pleasure in art for art’s sake.
When primitive man had domesticated ti
sheep, the horse and the cow, and thu
acquired a bank account of tucker to dra
cheques on, his leisure increased. E
decorated his axe or spearhead, and dre
freehand designs on cave walls. Accuin
lation of tucker led to monopolies and
luxuries by the monopolists. One of the
luxuries was art as provided by the arti
for a dole; what had been a recreation wa
made a profession, and his product expressef
less and less himself and more and mor
what would please the paymaster —the kin
noble or church.
In its expression art evolves with a peopl
culminates with their decadence, loses sim
plicity in detail, and expires in convention
The process is repeated in the mental growt
of the child. Thus fairy stories originatec
as the literature of primitive adults. Lift
Red Riding Hood and Jack the Giant Kille
are prehistoric, and still welcomed at th
camp-fires of savage men. Folk-lore gav
birth to music, the chant of the bard takin
shape in the time and measure of the prim:
tive dance—the modem sonata is tracec
back, step by step, to this origin. Th
beautiful art of Japan wilted and died afte
contact with the mass-production of th
West; The yellow man, losing his own art
could not embrape that of a stranger. Tha
is to say, we can walk in strange clothes bu
not with strange ancestors. It is doubtfu
how long a migrating people in a new en
vironment can maintain their original art
promptings. In its search for what dollar
would buy, U.S.A. students have crowdec
Europe’s art schools. But so far there i
no American art; for how can a patchwor
of souls have a unity of design ?
The casual, precious quality in Britisl
art is traced to the Celt and his dual vision
of the child, seeing and living in two worlds
Can the soul of Ireland, Wales and the High
lands be re-born under the Southern Cross'
Can the Italians, swarming to our canefields
give birth to Michael Angelos? Or our
Greek vendors of fish and fruit re-parent the
great ones of Athens? The biologist shakes
his head. For the inspiration that is deac
there is ho resurrection. Art summarises
long emotional contact of special minds with
a special environment, and so reflects a spe-
cial report that appears once, for a period, in
the history of a race. The one-time art of
Greece and Rome is dead in the living Dago.
Incidentally, art when it reappears is not a
development but a new expression. Sculp-
ture has not evolved since Phidias; nor have
later architects approached those of the
Alhambra, or portrait painters the Mona Lisa.
But late inventions may aid previously sup-
pressed art expression, so that modern instru-
ments make the magic of Beethoven and
Wagner possible.
Inevitably Australian art—an inspiration
special to this continent—will be another
child of Nature, the mother of all arts; her
whisper in wild places, the bush, the plain,
the hilltops and great solitudes; the love com-
ing with our dearest associations till it is
wrapped in the fibres of our being: the Aus-
tralian land, its moods, storms and calms, the
murmur of its trees, the voices of its life, the
gaiety of its sunshine and the mystery of its
darkness. And that love, overflowing, will
find expression. Already the magic is weav-
ing its spell; our hinterland., a desolation to
the blind eyes of explorers, has often to their
children an irresistible attraction; the call of
the vast spaces with its cult of mateship,
tolerance and friendliness; its courage, re-
sourcefulness ; its clear vision as to what
really matters. Thus our art, the vision splen-
did of the new land, will come. Bean
glimpsed it on the Darling; Mrs. Gunn re-
ports it from the Never Never—that great,
throbbing heart.
And with such a teacher calling, the embryo
artist is ordered oversea: “Only in Italy can
you learn to sing; or in Paris to paint; to
play an instrument you, must be re-made in
Germany; to write or speak good Aus-
tralian, go to Oxford.” And. answering the
call, so far as they succeed these Australian-
born become foreign artists, their real
appreciators and paymasters foreigners.
HENRY FLETCHER.
Business Men and Windbaggery
Public Speaking for Business Men (Mc-
Graw-Hill, New York) puts to flight the
“strong, silent man” tradition by demon-
strating that talk is part of the work of
business, and that the modern business man
who neglects it is out of step with commer-
cial evolution and soon will be an anachro-
nism. The author is W. G. Hoffman. Asso-
ciate Professor of Public Speaking, Boston
University.
It is, I think, unlikely that many business
men will read the book —it is too big and
“heavy” for most of those whose preference
in their leisure from dollar-ehasing is for
lighter fare. I wish, however, that Mr.
Angliss, a Victorian -JVI.L.C., would read it.
He is reported as saying that “the'ability
to speak was not a great asset. If they took
more notice of those members who talked
least they would get better legislation at less
cost.” Apparently Mr. Angliss fails entirely
to see that he is inferentially complaining of
the prolific Parliamentary inability to speak.
With the art more to the fore in Parlia-
ment he would assuredly find better quality,
with word-wastage eliminated. The ability
to speak must not be confounded with wind-
baggery, the next worse affliction to
stony silence, but at heart more human than
sepulchral inarticulation. Of assumptions
gigantically erroneous none is so overworked
as that the lesser the talk the greater the
toil. Better legislation will be the fruit of
competent public speaking and debate. That
is why Professor Hoffman's work is a some-
what significant sign of the times.
I have been reading books on speaking for
30 years, and find this work one of the most
practical, eschewing as it does the highbrow
and emphasising the commonsense of the sub-
ject. Preachers, politicians, professors have
all been specially catered for in volumes
multitudinous, but hitherto not business men.
“Speaking for Business Men” does more than
merely dish up all the old teaching-‘-it lives
up to its title. Students will find it service-
able, but business men will perceive imme-
diately that it has a special relation to them
and their peculiar psychology.
To the Professor the demand for trained
speakers in business is because Business is
deliberately attempting to get back from the
“soulless corporation” attitude to more social
and intimate man-to-man conditions:—
Business is a much more comprehensive matter
than it used to be. Politicians wait upon it;
peace conferences anxiously seek its advice —and
disregard it; domestic and international affairs re-
volve about it. The business world, directly or in-
directly, includes everybody in civilised countries.
Business talks are more numerous than any other
kind, and the ever-increasing complexity of society
will bring its members together more and more for
counsel and inspiration.
And if that is not sufficient to explain the
connection between two big aspects of life,
we are bluntly reminded of the obvious: —
Public speaking is now so common in business
that it has joined those other speech arts, advertis-
ing, salesmanship and letter-writing, as a subject for
systematic study. The executive who cannot speak
with confidence and skill in a conference, before a
group of associates or a Board of directors at a
dinner or convention is failing in a major respon-
sibility. He is unable to get a satisfactory hearing
for needed changes and policies, or is missing oppor-
tunities for expanding the goodwill of his company
and of advertising it in a dignified and effective way.
The book, illustrates the principles of
public speaking in “the more practical and
familiar types of address that prevail to-
day.” It is too often forgotten—and in this
matter, says the Professor, all speakers are
remiss—that the political, forensic and ora-
torical types •of a generation ago are re-
mote in content and style. Our author says
that the ideal speech is practical in purpose
and technical in means. The speaker must
have a vocational skill. He must be steeped
in the best methods and devices of current
practice. A practical speech is always remi-
niscent, a part of your inner life—“where
you live,” not the result of a few days’ cram-
ming. “Leadership must first express itself
in speech.” Chauncey Depew is cited as an
example—his formula is disclosed. Nor can
you get along without writing. “Seldom do
you hear a good off-hand, impromptu speech,
one that is made without previous prepara-
tion. -Chesterton tells of a gardener who
overheard his master declaiming: ‘Mr.
Speaker, had I for one moment thought of
the possibility that you would call upon me
this evening,’ etc. Chesterton adds: ‘lt takes
a long time to prepare an impromptu.’ If
a man is called upon unexpectedly, and does
well at a moment’s notice, it is usually be-
cause he has faced'the same kind of situa-
tion before, and may use appropriately the
same ideas and illustrations that were accept-
able at that time. He is giving in reality a
prepared talk.” One is reminded that Web-
ster once heatedly'said, “Young man, there
is no such thing as extemporaneous acquisi-
tion.” Complimented on his magnificent
reply to an attack made on short notice,
Webster said, “I have been preparing for
that speech for 30 years!”
The author’s hints are terse and quaint.
To retain a good position “keep the neck
pressed against the collar.” (What a
wrinkle—almost the whole technique of de-
portment in it!) You are helped if you can
find something to do before an audience.
“The man who lacks any fear of an audi-
ence often lacks imagination and sensitive-
ness.” In home training “Begin by doing
a thing as nearly as possible in the way it
is eventually to be done.” Inscrutability is
often remarkably effective. Do not memorise.
(“Memory is a woman—if I don’t run after
her she will come of her own accord,” as
Lawyer Haslett says in Mason’s “The House
of the Arrow.”) Do not read the speech.
Notes compel the eye to leave the audience
and seek the paper. “Now, the eye is the
most eloquent part of the speaker.” “Do
not stress every other word: it is a sign of
lazy, hazy thinking.” Lightness of touch
must accompany the heaviest of blows. “You
bow from the waist and not from the neck.”
And so it goes smartly on and on. As a text-
book all is here, and everything is bold.
R. S. ROSS.
The Yellow Book
How well some of us remember taking
home from the library or bookstall a thick
yellow volume, dipping into it with excite-
ment on the way, and feeling with every
line we read that the Victorian age had
crumbled and that a newer, more vivid one
had risen from its dust. There seemed to
be a Parisian sparkle in the air, and remote
things became near and real. Never before
had the visible world been cut into such clear
(Continued on page 3.)


w aae
Impressive Value in Men’s Clothing
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Smart Suit Styles.
THE “HORDERNIA" SAC
SUIT
is made in our own workrooms
from materials imported direct from
the mills.
The Coat is smartly fashioned with
a two-button front, outside breast
pocket, no vent. The Vest has a
medium opening and four pockets.
The Trousers are designed with
side and hip pockets and cuff bot-
toms.
All-Wool Tweeds, neat dark de-
signs.
Prices: 59/6, 84/-, 95/-
Dark Grey Fancy Worsteds.
Prices: 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
Fine Serge, Indigo Dye.
Prices:
105/-, 119/6, 126/-, 147/-
Z'J'K
Jt A '-W
'
r ./
m
~X\V.
N 2
THE “HORDERNIA JUNIOR” SAC SUIT.
Dark Fancy Tweeids. Price 57/6
Fancy Tweeds. prices 63/-, 78/6
(Clothing—Ground Floor.)
Men’s Needs would
be most satisfac-
torily chosen at
Anthony Horderns’
whatever the indi-
vidual tastes and
whatever the limit
of expenditure
might be. Such a
wide range is cov-
ered in Clothes of
the most attractive
Style and Quality.
Faultless Footwear.
Men’s Box Calf Bace Shoes, with
welted soles. Smart shape.
Price 18/11 pair
Men’s Tan Willow Calf Bate
Shoes, with welted soles. Smart ex-
tended last. „
Price . 19/11 pair
Extra Fine Quality Blaek Box Calf
Cace Shoes, stocked in two shapes;
extended or pointed last.
Price 27/6 pair
Stout Black Box Calf Brogue
Shoes; ideal for walking or golf.
Price 32/6 pair
Tan Willow Calf Bace Shoes, smart
Paris last, welted soles. Stocked in
half sizes. _ . . _
Price 24/6 pair
Men’s Good Grade Box Calf
Blucher Cut Bace Shoes, with
broad toes, welted soles. Stocked m
half sizes.
Price 25/9
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
.’?!■ Kkiir
. !■ >bs
zm fU-
i .C G/
v.. •-•
£
G
Distinctive
Headwear
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats,
(as illustrated). Colors: Slate,
Steel, Grey, Fawn* Cuba.
Prices . . . 3T7/6, 45/-
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats,
with bound-edge brims, in
fashionable shades of Slate,
Steel, Light Grey.
Prices .... 25/-, 32/6
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats,
with 2Hn. boundi-edge brims,
Colors: Slate, Steel, Grey,
Fawn.
Prices . . . 2?1/-, 28/6
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats,
with 2§in. plaint-edge brims.
Colors: Slate. Steel, Grey,
Fawn, Brown, Black.
Prices:
15/6, 19/11, 25/-, 32/6
(Hats —Ground Floor.)
The
"Palace” Lever
Made in Switzerland
especially for
Anthony Horderns’
The “Palace” Lever is
a reliable timekeeper, and
ideally suited for hard
wear. The following
features will appeal to
“Watch-wise” men.
I
/
N
■
16 Jewels in Gold Setting.
Cut compensating balance and
Brequet hairspring to correct
differences in temperature.
Special Dust Ring surrounds
the movement.
Patent Micro-metric Regulator
for exact timing.
Nickel Plates with Damascene
finish, which gives the whole
movement the necessary
rigidity.
In English Gold-filled Case
(guaranteed 10 years),
Or in Silver Case,
PRICE 75 1- each.
(Jewellery—First Floor.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on Men’s Clothing,
Watches and Footwear
N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
Harvard
Working Shirts.
With collar and pocket attached.
In Striped Harvard, with yoke
shoulders.
Price 5/6
In Striped Harvard, with six-
inch double back.
Price 6/3
In Striped Best Bolton, 9
inches double back.
Price 9/6
In Plain Navy Drill, reliable
dye.
Price 9/6
In Striped Navy Drill, reliable
dye.
Prices 8/6, 9/6
Men’s All Black Shirts, with
collar and pocket attached. In
Black Mercerised Twill.
Price 7/6
Men’s Pyjamas.
MEN’S PYJAMA SUITS,
made in our own workrooms,
well and comfortably cut.
finished, and strongly-sewn
seams.
In Striped Flannelette.
Price 9/6
In Striped Bradford Twill.
Price 12/6
In Striped British Oxford.
Price 13/6
In Striped Poplin de Luxe.
Price 25/6
In White Aertex Cellular.
Price 18/6
In Striped 4 ‘Permacola”
Zephyr. , _
Price 12/6
(Mercery—Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
G.P.O. Box 27/12.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
iiiiiiiiiiiiinniitni
Telephone: City 9440.


STORAGE
BATTBRY
You may travel far and wide if your battery
is a genuine Threaded Rubber Willard.
The sense of perfect security will always be
the same no matter how far you may be from
the nearest Battery Station.
Willard Service records show that this
superior battery seldom requires any minor
repairs and serves longer than any battery
you can buy.
The reputation of the is world
wide. More fine cars are equipped with
Willard Batteries than any other make,
which testifies to the satisfaction these bat-
teries are giving.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A,
STORAGE
BATTERY
■ ll•■■■■■■■■■ ■i ai ||i (la|( l, lß||
Him ■■■•!■


V
n
mm
:::::
::::
::::::::::
::::
:::::::
::::
5
-vS ; i
:::
ffoleprcof ffosierc/
Style No. 2200.
THE LOVELIEST OF ALL FULL-FASHIONED HOSE
THE BETTER-CLASS RETAIL STORES EVERY-
WHERE are now offering this beautiful Holeproof full-
fashioned hose in a full twenty-inch pure thread silk leg
in all the latest fashionable colors.
Wholesale and Indents through
Messrs. WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
shapes as by Beardsley’s lines; no one had
written with such an elfish wit as Max Beei-
bohtn. The light that shone from these two
men covered a host of others with its glon •
Had there ever been short stories m Bnglis-i
as good as Hubert Crackanthorpe s and Ella
D’Arcv’s? Surely not! Here were people
who had read Flaubert and Maupassant and
learnt that writing was a craft in which even
the gifted have to serve a hard apprentice-
bh -Hn Paris,” said Whistler, “they teach you
which end of a brush to put in your
month. In England it’s all a matter of
taste.” The writers of the Yellow Book
were quite clear that the individual taste
of the man in the street was not the sole
criterion of letters. They had come to set
a standard, and in those days it was easy
to accept it. There was something intoxi-
cating in that yellow volume, something that
went to the head. It was even possible
to believe that the nightingales that sang in
the thicket of Richard le Gallienne s heart
were genuine birds with a thin, sweet note
of their own ; and if his prose fancies seemed
like the trickling of some fruity syrup from
the neck of a bottle, there was, for com-
pensation, a solid story or two by Henry
James, in which every sentence was. shaped
with artistry and every paragraph given the
hardness and polish of marble.
Looking over volumes of the Yellow Book
now, it is hard to trace the source of. that
first, line, careless rapture about it. Where-
in lay its charm, its effect of originality ?
Beardsley still retains a sharp edge that
cuts into the attention, but it is not en-
livening to see a small, decorative talent
experimenting with things unsuited to it for
the sake of piquancy. The piquancy passes
so soon, for we get used to a merely decora-
tive treatment of anything, and there only
remains an effect of bad taste. Bad taste in
a book that was to teach people which end of
a brush to put in their mouths! Then there
is Max. Did we once think “The Happy
Hypocrite” a dazzling, unaccountable bubble
from the very springs of genius? Did we
wonder where Max got his style, that impish,
personal style, so different from any other
man’s? “The Happy Hypocrite” seems a
little labored and precious now, not so
spontaneous as some of Max’s later studies,
not even so filled with whimsicality. Max’s
style is no longer a mystery, and we no
longer think of him as a magic mixture of
Puck and Beau Brummell.
As for the stories, most of them, alas,
have form without substance. Ido not take
into account Henry Harland’s light adven-
tures with Ruritanian princesses that occupy
so much space. Henry Harland was . the
patron who made the Yellow Book possible,
and there is evidence that the other con-
tributors regarded him as a heavy burden to
carry, with his fur coat and stucco romance.
But their own romanticism was of almost
as cheap a kind. France was the Ruritania
for most of them. If a story was sprinkled
with Chelsea French and had some Pierre
or Raoul of the Foreign Legion for its hero,
who could doubt its literary quality? Not
any reader of the Yellow Book. We have
had a surfeit of such romanticism since
then, though, and have come to know the
writer who seeks borrowed settings as an
amateur or a non-creative mstliete.
But here is the “Yellow Dwarf” tilting
at the popular gods of the day. They were
Hall Caine and Du Maurier then:
now they are Ethel Dell and E. M. Hull
(Dull as Hell, one person transposed it).
Perhaps it was once necessary to explain
that Hall Caine was a literary charlatan,
and to analyse some of his pages. If so, it
throws light on the state of English criticism
when the Yellow Book appeared. The
London Mekcuky would not devote any at-
tention to Ethel Dell and E. M. Hull now.
or even to the author of “If Winter Comes.”
But, on the other hand, the “Yellow Dwarf”
did not restrict his criticism to mere stockish
comment of the modern kind. He was really
concerned with the art of writing; he was
always on thl warpath against whatever was
“silly, vulgar find slipshod,” his favorite
trinity of adjectives. And his dry wit has
still a flavor, even though there seems some-
thing outmoded in the Savile-rowt affectation
of his style.
What does it amount to, this Yellow Book
that excited us in our youth and seems so
barren now? Perhaps in re-reading it we
take a false view. We look for absolute
achievement, and forget that the history of
literature is not an unrelated succession of
masterpieces; that it is a history of experi-
ment as well. If the orchardists had not
tried different grafts we would not have such
varied fruits. These stories that look like
faint copies from French models are not
quite so bad, after all; we know that they
led to a sharper sense of form and a general
widening of range among writers.
It is a fact that the Yellow Book was as
daring and stimulating as we once thought
it, even if it remains so no longer. These
pale stories and paler poems are merely the
corpse from which the blood has gone. Per-
haps that is why the collectors are paying
such large sums for first editions, for it
is generally the mummy-odors that attract
them from afar.
VANCE PALMER.
Communism at Home
In November, 1923, Arcadius Polownine
was arraigned before the Criminal Court of
Lausanne charged with having been an acces-
sory to the murder of a Bolshevik emissary.
The accused was defended by Maitre Aubert,
a member of the Bar of Geneva. His ad-
dress to the Court, now produced in an Eng-
lish translation, Bolshevism’s Terrible Record
(Williams and Norgate) makes in its con-
cise form and explicit statement of facts one
of the most poignant indictments of the Bol-
shevik rdgime ever circulated. It is pub-
lished under the auspices of VEntente Inter-
nationale, of Geneva; and as the book is sold
at a shilling, it is heartily to be desired that
it will have a wide circulation, bringing home
to scores of people now uninformed what the
present outbreak of “Communism"’ really
means.
The position in Russia is that a popula-
tion of 120 million people is dominated by a
body of unscrupulous and blood-stained dic-
tators drawn from no more than dOO,OUO_ Com-
munists. There is no real representation ot
the people by the people, the local Soviets
being controlled by the machinery ot govern-
ment. The French Revolution had some ele-
ments of construction in it, but Bolshevism
has been wholly destructive and designedly so,
that it may build a new society on the com-
pleted ruin of the old. With this end in
view it has spared neither man, woman nor
child, and has been repelled by no considera-
tion of suffering, torture or sacrifice of human
life. Lenin in cold blood declared that # t
per cent, of the Russian people can perish,
provided the remaining 10 per cent, survive
at the moment of the World Revolution, and
it is the “World Revolution” that bv propa-
ganda, emissaries, and. money the Commu-
nists are seeking to bring about. Their in-
fluence is to be found at the root ot ncai ly
every industrial disturbance abroad and m
our midst to-day. “There must be a pitiless
repression, banishing all sentiment, de-
clared Lou natch arsky ; and it has indeed been
pitiless. At the head of the Terrorist ad-
ministration was Dzerjinsky, who had a coips
of subordinates whose acts are so inhuman as
to rank them lower than the beasts. Authen-
tic accounts are given of wholesale massaoies
and almost inconceivable cruelty. in •>>
cases the victims' skulls had been smashed,
so that the heads dangled like lumps ot wood
on their trunks.” “Victims had been wounded
bv bayonets, their entrails torn out, the bones
of their arms and legs broken. Fitty-six
prisoners were taken to a common Sjav e.
“They first shot tho women. One of them
tried to escape, fell wounded, so the. assassins
dragged her by her feet into the pit. hive
of thorn lumped on her and trampled on her
until she died.’’ At Maga several thousand
people were executed. At Kasan and es<-
where “they crucify and throw the living
into burning pitch at the factories. Ihey
cut up one victim and burned him in dun.,.
At. Tashkent 2500 people were massacred dur-
ing one night. At: Blagovestchensk they
thrust gramophone needles under the nails ot
the officers and soldiers and tore out then
eyes." All this not by a blood-frenzied rabble
but under the direct rule of the Soviet ad-
ministrators! At Voronej “they pierced out
their victims' eyes, cut off their noses
and ears, dislocated their joints, and
tore off their nails.” “Other victims were
plunged, wholly or partly, into boiling water.
After these baths, the skin peeled off
from the boiled parts, and these poordying
souls were then thrown out of doors Melted
lead was forced down the throats of others.
And so on. horror upon horror, before which
all the tortures of the Inquisition pale.
Such are the deeds of the directors of the
“World Revolution” with whom the Gardens
and Walshes of our own self-governing com-
munity arc co-operating.
T. B. C.
An Imperial Granary
L St Clare Grondona, who has recently
written a book descriptive of Anstrnhan life
and industries, under the title of Ihe kan-
garoo Keep* on Talking, formulates an
ambitious proposal for securing to all »ood
Britishers a nome-inade loat from home-
grown wheat. Within . the confines of the
Empire we shall have bread to eat though
the foreigner starve. If, however, the latter
have any good, cheap wheat for sale, we will
buy it and store it for ourselves in the
Imperial granary. Whatever may happen
to the Czechs, the Bulgars and the rest,
John Bull and his children will have plenty.
Mr. Grondona points out that during the
period 1919-22 inclusive the United king-
dom imported 358 million hundredweights of
wheat, 61 per cent, of which came from
foreign sources, and the balance from, the
dominions and colonies. “The average price,
he says, “paid over the four years to foreign
suppliers was 20s. sd. per hundredweight.
The average price paid to the suppliers with-
in the Empire was 17s. sd. Thus the
foreigner received 3s. more, on the average,
per hundredweight.” From this it. would
appear that John has not been giving his
children a fair deal. To offset this! impression
the author points out that “the old man is
hurting himself at the same time, for had
he secured his full requirements in wheat
from within the Empire, over these lour
years, “at the average price in each year
which was actually paid for the quantity
which did come from Empire sources, over
£23,000,000 would have been saved.
Control and price fixation would, of course,
be possible only as applied to Empire pro-
ducts. To endeavor to' control foreign
sources of supply would be “to aim at the
clouds without the prospect of hitting the
tree tops.” The scheme would be for the
Imperial and Dominion Governments to come
to an agreement “whereby a minimum price
would be fixed over a period of, say, five
years.” That done, old Egypt would be
revived. Huge national granaries would be
established throughout Britain. “Such re-
serves would be as valuable as battleships,
one of the primary functions of which is to
protect transport of food in time of war.
The fixed price would depend upon the result
of a conference of “representative Home and
Dominion farmers with Imperial officials and
representatives of shipping companies.’
“What would be aimed at would be not
nationalisation of wheat production, but
merely stabilisation of the market. If
foreigners set about under-selling the price
fixed, they would be contending against an
economically united Empire, not against
isolated disorganised groups of growers. The
people of Great Britain would gladly avail
themselves of the cheaper wheat which would
be bought up by the Government and pooled
with the Empire product. But the Imperial
grower—at Home and abroad —would be safe
in extending his enternrise; and if the new
order savored of the Government’s subsidis-
ing him, let the consumer think back to
pre-control days.” The writer does not think
it would be necessary to bring any coercion
to bear on the growers, for the fact of such
fixed price being guaranteed for five years
would give a great impetus to Empire grow-
ing
There is the same fascination about this
pool idea as there is about “the community of
o-oods,” and the socialisation of national effort,
and it is all based on the assumption that
man so loves his brother of the same nation-
ality that he is prepared to make a market
sacrifice and abandon the ancient sin of com-
petition in order to see him flourish. Is he?
Mr. Grondona means well. There can be no
doubt of that. But when we face brutal
facts we find that the wheatgrower is as keen
as the rest of humanity, including the wage-
striking unions, to get the best price lie can
for what he has to sell. Australia has had
some experience of wheat pools, compulsory
and otherwise, and it is such as to make us
lack in enthusiasm for a great Imperial pool
with stuffed granaries on John Bull’s soil —
and under the “expert” management of the
Public Servant.
C.
A Satchel of Books
The Relation of Wealth to Welfare, by W. A.
Robson (Allen and Unwin). It is no exaggeration to
say,” remarks the author, “that the most important
assumption underlying the capitalist system is the
belief that human welfare, if not happiness, is closely
correlated to money income or real income.” He
challenges this assumption and analyses some of the
fundamental elements of human welfare. The four
chosen are health, art, work and education. The
power of private income to increase the welfare of
its possessor in each of these elements he claims to
be comparatively small, whereas the power of collec-
tive action and public expenditure to do so is often
comparatively large.
Avemits, by Mary Bligh Bond (Basil Blackwell).
In this devastating story we find that the “trailing
clouds of glory” with which mortality came hither,
according to Wordsworth, are but soiled garments
befouled by the sins of our grandsires and our
gran’dams. One can sight the avid reader pausing at
long intervals for a hasty drink and then with horror-
distended eyes pressing on and on. The author ex-
presses the “earnest hope that this strange an 1
terrible tale will not be dismissed as a mere symbolic
relation, or as a product of the nebulous occultism
so prevalent to-day.” She need not be afraid, it
cannot be taken for aught else but itself, since it .is
like naught on earth and, we hope, like naught in
Heaven.
What Education Has the Most Worth f by Charles
Franklin Thwing (Macmillan). In this book the
Professor asks a question to which he endeavors to
give an answer. The conclusions reached are that
the first result of the education of most worth to
the individual is “reasonableness,” and the next in
value “eomplete-mindedness,” which may be called a
form of personal resource, or of personal wealth.
The results of the education of the highest worth to
the community are presumably a sense of relationship
and a capacity for self-realisation through self-
development. “A leading English statesman I once
asked regarding the chief element in Ox-ford as con-
stituting its influence over him. His answer was
‘Not the teacher, but Oxford itself.’ ” A thoughtful
book with a catholic outlook.
My Long Life in Music, by Leopold Auer. Auer
got away from Russia during the Revolution, after
living nearly half a century in “the city they now
call Petrograd, a name meaning nothing to me who
lived in St. Petersburg.” Full of pathos is Auer’s
story of all his life preserving records to some day
fashion into a book, and then leaving them behind, to
escape with his Stradivarius violin and barely enough
besides for his summer needs. Now in America, and
appreciative of its hospitality, Auer thinks that, given
the opportunity, the people of the great republic
“will soon develop a generation of artists second to
none in the world.”
David Copperfield’s Library, by J. Brett Langstaff
(Allen and IJJiwin). “My address,” said Mr. Micaw-
ber, “is Windsor-terrace, City-road. I —in short, I
live there.” Perhaps Mr. Micawber had reasons for
not disclosing the true address to which he piloted
David: anyway, the author has identified No. 13
Johnson-street, Somers Town, as the house in which
Dickens undoubtedly lodged during the Copperfield
part of his boyhood. Preserved in a cupboard of this
house was a collection of the literary treasures of
young Charles—works of Defoe, Smollett and Fielding.
A dreary three-storeyed Georgian house in a squalid
neighborhood, it was about the last place one would
associate with romance. After Dickens’s boyhood
and the removal of the family it drifted further into
disrepair and disrepute. When Mr. Langstaff and a
group of associates set to work to rescue it, they
f oU ni it in a condition of rum that almost defied
their efforts, and it was not till a large sum had
been expended that it was rehabilitated. In this
home of the first bookshelf of the great novelist has
now been established “David Copperfield s Library
for the use of the children, a movement following tnat
in vogue in the United States, where numerous such
libraries exist. . .
Letters of James Boswell, collected and edited
by C B Tinker (Clarendon Press). The corres-
pondence assembled in these two ample volumes
supplies the largest amount of information regard-
ing Dr Samuel Johnson’s biographer to be lountl
outside “The Life,” and is only a shade less remaik-
able and instructive than the Diary of Pepys or the
“Confessions” of Rousseau. To the Temple letters
the compiler has added nearly a hundred others not
printed before. Professor Tinker (of Yale, by the
wav) remarks “that the collection ot his letters
would please Boswell I cannot doubt.... 1 am
convinced that he who gave to the world the most
intimate biography yet produced by man could not
long resent the attempt to bring his own personality
into the fuller light of day.” Certainly, if any
man blushed, it would not be Boswell.
The Church’s Ancient Bible, by S. F. Pells (Pells).
This volume, of value to theological students, gives
the history and traces the sources of the texts from
which the English Bible lias been compiled. Theie
are three Bibles of Christendom —those ot the Greek,
Roman and English churches —not to mention an
Armenian version ; and there are variations ot reading
in all of them. What the author suggests is that an
attempt should be made to secure a more authentic
English Bible than we have. The Bible now used
is ” lie says, “a Party Bible that no scholar to-day
can defend, and that no revision can improve, tor
the simple reason that it has already been revised
and re-revised so many times that it is neithei
more nor less than a jumble of translations and
revisions from all sorts of unreliable sources.
Ghosts, Helpful and Harmful, by Elliott O Donnell
(Rider and Son). The writer asks us to treat, liis
wraiths as demonstrable facts. “It is my aim, hi.
writes, “to show that certain spirit .entities take .so
keen an interest in what goes on in this material
world that they not. infrequently intervene, either
directly—that is to say, by adopting some auditor.!
or visual phenomena —or indirectly, through tin
medium of a dream.” Doubtless scores ot people
have made compacts with each other that the one
first “passing over” should communicate to the sur-
vivor at least sufficient to assure him of the reality of
another, if not better, world. A lady had a brother
in the Navy. They frequently discussed the ques-
tion of a hereafter. A compact suchi as that stated
was made between them. One day the lady with a
party of visitors went to look over York Minstei.
She and a friend became separated from the others
and were standing together chatting, when a young
naval officer approached them. The lady s face
became ghastly white, “her lips twitched, while an
expression of ' terror completely metamorphosed her
eves.” It was her brother’s ghost—the family re-
ceived news of liis death h few days latei and it
had whispered in her ear, “There is a future state.
The book whilst not recommended as a bedside com-
panion for nervous ladies, is interesting to those who
have a taste for occultism.
»
“Pollio”: Re the occurrence on old-time maps of
a pre-Cook “New South Wales,” Pinkerton’s “Modern
Geography,” published in 1802, admits both a
“New North Wales” and a “New South YVales” on
the western shores of Hudson’s Bay. The compiler,
however, considers these names, like that of New
Britain for “the regions around Hudson’s Bay, a
miserable compliment to the parent country.... not
admitted in French or English maps.” Pinkerton,
by the bye, knows nothing of our New South Wales
as such; the eight pages he devotes to it (mainly
cribbed from David Collins) discuss it under the
general name of New Holland.


m
m
Pi®
m
Pv
■
I < I
11
>•
..
■
m
y ->g#& <w • - jrtfe-yf' •■.«s§
#* „ * .v
® . <
4±2
______
Interior View of
BOURKE HOUSE, Cr. Bourke & Russell Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ARCHITECT—LesIie M. Perrott, Esq,, A.R.V./.A.
CONTRACTORS— Messrs. Thompson <& Chalmers .
Reinforced on B.R.C. System.
Concrete
This view shows the interior of a portion of the cop floor of Bourke House,
after a recent explosion. Considerable damage was done to the hollow tile
partition wall, and all windows were blown out. The force of the explosion
was so great that shattered glass was blown a distance of more than 300 feet
in all directions, the steel window frames being in some cases completely
wrenched from their positions; but no other structural damage was done.
This building is of Reinforced Concrete, constructed on the B.R.C. System,
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA. Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
N. S. WALES. . . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND. . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd,, Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA .. Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND .. A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnstone Street,
Wellington.
rrrrrrrmTrrrrrnn
mrrrrmrrrm


ry This Burroughs
It WiU Protect
Your Profit!
a
If all the pennies lost to business through under-adding
and over-adding were counted up, they would amount to a
tidy sum. And once such money is lost, it is lost forever!
More than 400,000 business men are today protecting this
money—this PROFIT—by using Burroughs Adding
Machines.
Follow their lead and buy this Burroughs for your
protection! It will give you the correct answer to problems
of addition, subtraction, multiplication or division. It will
give you the figures you need to make more money. It will
save time because it gives answers quicker than you can
write down the figures or run up a column.
It will pay you to telephone our nearest office. Or, if
you prefer, mail the coupon and learn how this Burroughs
has helped others in your own line of business and how it
will help you, too. There is not the slightest obligation.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk, Limited
Challis House, Sydney.
Forty years ago William
Seward Burroughs invented
the first practical adding and
listing machine. Today,
Burroughs is recognized as the
standard for figuringmachines,
and the Burroughs Adding
Machine Company extends to
all quarters of the globe.
Factories are maintained at
Nottingham, England; Wind-
sor, Canada; and Detroit,
U. S. A.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN , - CHRISTCHURCH
ROCKHAMPTON
WELLINGTON
PRICED
AS LOW AS
£5O.
3
D
□
v
□
Adding-'
Machines
Bookkeeping*
Machines
BETTER I
FIGURES
MAKE
BIGGER
PROFITS]
Calculating"
Machines
Duple-
Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk,
Limited
Sydney, N. S. W.
I would like to learn how a
Burroughs Adding Machine will
help me protect my profit.
Name
Business
Address
4746


SPECIFY—
INDENTED BARS-
FOR ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE
WORK
The T. S. Building, Biigh Street,
Sydney.
ARCHITECTS:
Messrs. J. E. <& E. R. Justelius,
Sydney.
Contractors:
Messrs. McLeod Bros.,
Sydney.
\
till
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
New Premises—2nd Section.
ARCHITECTS:
Messrs. Kent & Massie,
Sydney.
Contractors:
Messrs. Stuart Bros.,
Sydney.
INDENTED BARS ARE
ROLLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM AUSTRALIAN
MATERIALS TO BRITISH
STANDARD SPECIFICATION.
The Astor Flats.
ESTIMATES AND
QUOTATIONS FURNISHED
ON REQUEST.
LET US QUOTE YOUR
NEXT JOB.
ARCHITECTS:
Messrs. Esplin & Mould,
Sydney.
Contractors:
Messrs. Concrete Constructions, Ltd.,
1 Sydney.
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY, LIMITED,
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. PERTH. ADELAIDE.


llet Rid Of Dandruff
By Shampooing With
Cuticura Soap
At’night lightly anoint the scalp, espe-
cially spots of dandruff and itching, with
Cuticura Ointment. Next morning sham-
poo with a suds of Cuticura Soap and
hot water. This treatment does much
for dandruff and itching scalps, the cause
of thin and falling hair.
Soap ls.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
3KM6F 1 Try our new Shaving Stick.
3SS
£5%
MSS
m
r **TJ IHVP*-
s**MwoTiwyU
%
"***MK( Q)l tfC***
SSsSK®"^
> »
t *
/malted milk
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
. Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S W
\ In 4 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores. /
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKC*
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
“ BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofor I|-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General ot N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p, Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th. i 925
Results published “Daily Telegraph. June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/1 i. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets lor 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizes
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), ail Hairdjessers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Proud*
Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chamber*, Katoomba, N.S.W.
3
■n
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
• —p e r m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied-
waterproof. All Chemists.
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
IKQISTIRIt
TRAOE MARK
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
hap a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Lonphurst
6O York Street. Sydney.
ISO
(A»u.e
wmq MNn
illustration shows
i-h.p. Engine,
Wico Igniter.
our
with
CAILLE
“Perfection” Marine Engines.
For Service —Economy—Reliability.
Caille Engines are obtainable in
any horse-power from 2 to 20.
All Single-Cylinder Engines, complete
with Wico Waterproof Igniter.
Spare Parts always carried in stock.
Send for Catalog and Price List.
Sole Agents—
Benson Brothers, Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
i
in® (o®
=U©
S?
UNEQUALLED
asms
iniTjgjg-jog
\rt» OlaceKid BckCalt
WVPatint LiatmersX
Your extremity is
budget's” opportunity
'/ IT
d
m
i
%Ww_r.
Lower Prices for
THE
DECCA
PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
PRICES:
JUNIOR - - £4 lO O
No 1, Leather Cloth 6 6 0
No. 2, Fibre -880
No. 3, Solid Leather 12 0 0
All Phonograph Dealers or
BUTTONS
PTY. LTD.
290-292 Bourke St., Melbourne
Ballarat Bendigo Geelong Sydney
Sy^o
Guaranteed
in order for two years free.
CRAIG &
I
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
sJUJYTHIS RAZOR and sharewith thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-1
.jess brings to usersofTHEPWMRAZOR. I
Presentation Case!
| is/Post Free |
[Throughout
s>
S'
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Singers.
I.
Within the winter garden of my heart
We drink strange liquors under bending
green
Of palms that over marble ledges lean,
Aching for desert wells. An alien art
Has written arabesques above the mart
Of purchased pleasures; and the shades
between
Are jewel flashes through a blue haze
seen—
Lost stars that tremble from the world apart.
Here is the gathered color, scent and sound
Of traffic in the east and in the west
Down the long waters of a thousand books
Brought to a restless quiet, soothed and
drowned
In nectared memory; the worst, the best
Crowded in conversation’s window-nooks.
11.
Some song there is that gathers theme and
lilt
Out of the thronging places of the mind.
Far sunset lights upon the alleys blind, _
Steeped in high colors to the doors of guilt,
Is footstool for the tall cathedral built
With turrets soaring through the clouds to
find
A river of great purpose, clear and kind,
Where planet worlds are but as silver silt.
A hundred dreams pluck at one string of
thought
To make a music of confused desire,
Misted in echoes of all dead songs sung,
Yet, like an opal, with one clear spark caught
In its swift changing beauty. Heart of
fire!
The song within all songs is ever young.
111.
Morning has set a banner on a hill.
The flowing wind is all a melody,
A thousand colors flame in every tree;
My mind is marching and my 1 heart is still.
All that men ever wrought of good or ill
Or hoped or dreamed is walking here with
me;
A passionate life within my blood leaps
free —
It is the morning of my singing will.
I have forgotten every pen that wrote
A sweetness on the open book of time.
There is no singer in the world but I
And that grey bird that to his single note
• Makes all the wilderness a single rhyme,
As my own soul is rhyming with the sky.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Music’s Spell.
Music enthralls me, lifts me to the skies;
Even beyond. But when its harmonies
Are ceased I fall to earth again with wings
Down-drooped, grown weary with vain flut-
terings.
Oh, is it wrong such journeyings to dare,
To strive the veil ’twixt life and death to
tear,
And on emotion’s cresting wave to rise?
Or docile to remain, were that more wise?
There is a shadowed church remembered
well,
Where incense rose and a great organ s
swell.
My mother took me there, a wond ring child,
With a quick fancy, easily beguiled.
Ah, how I wept and would not be consoled!
All my short life seemed as a vain tale told.
To-morrow vowing I a saint would be,
I spent the hours in prayerful reverie.
Upon this thought such wondrous peace was
mine;
In that tranced moment music seemed
divine!
What was that exaltation? Was it joy?
Pure, unpollute, or blended with alloy?
Was it mere sensuous love of melody
Or a fine, paradisial ecstasy?
There was a ’cello singing on the night
Such honeyed tones, sweet’ning the pale
moonlight.
Anon a violin commingled, too,
With the rich ’cello; thus the music grew,
Weaving a lovely pattern on the wind—
O joy, with the keen dame of youth en-
twined !
A story old. fashioned by master hand,
That all who lived might hear and under-
stand.
I understood and found myself astray
Beyond the walls of Time in some dead day.
There was a bride w r ho looked not for her
’groom—
I saw her steal from out the cloistered room
To that old garden where she, trembling,
knew
The kisses that Love claimed were long its
due.
Sweetest is such unhallowed love, I thought,
For music in my soul this havoc wrought.
The singing strings are muted, hushed the
sound;
Thus I awaken to the world around.
Where have I been? Alas, where strangely
strayed?
Will such divergence from the path be
weighed?
But ere the answer comes, a lilting air
The violin begins, gay, debonair;
The merry waves of sound wash oyer me
And all the past dies to my memory.
I know not whether ’tis for good or ill;
I only know that music rules my will.
Sweet mistress, sway me to such joy or woe!
Where’er she beckons me, there must I go 1
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.




The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2351.
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1925.
Price 6d.
DROPPING THE PILOT.
“The Federal Government has decided to sell the Commonwealth Line of Steamers.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tile White Man.”
I’nnted and published by Wili.iam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Postei* to ANV address in Australasia, weekly:
months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 8 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months , 15s. 6d.; 8 months. Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
77ie Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
Vncn not exce cding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black nn<l White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction. or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative In London is
T„ St, C. Grondonn, Australia House, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” ran he ob-
tained from him or the seller at tile entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Go tch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
IJf.C.i: E. T. Hole, llolerlh Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 5S Gracechurck Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
lfhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27 th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West jlst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California ;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brevier and Co., SI Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo ; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. ( Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising; Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotcli, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.Ip
U.S.A. — J, Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/ to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz. or part thereof,
Id. Elseivhere, 20z., Id.
'illeizn,
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1925.
CAUCUS AND THE BENCH.
The plum-tree was shaken vigorously last
week by the section which captured the
Queensland State Parliament in 1915, and
which has contrived to hang on for the
whole 10 years in spite of its disastrous
defeats at the Commonwealth elections in
1917, 1919 and 1922, the franchise being the
same as in the State. There was a numer-
ous gathering under the branches, and opera-
tions were conducted with the usual secrecy.
When they were over it was given out that
Gillies, the Minister of Agriculture, had
been named Premier instead of Theodore,
retired; that McCormack, the Minister of
Lands, would succeed Gillies as deputy-
leader of the party; and that Brennan, the
Minister for Public Instruction, would be
raised to the Supreme Court Bench, a
vacancy having been left there by Justice
Shand. For a variety of x-easons the judi-
cial nomination is causing a great deal more
talk than the change of Premiers; and in the
course of the discussion previous Labor ap-
pointments to, and legislation respecting, the
judiciary have naturally been recalled.
* * * *
When the Continuous Governmentwas onlya
month or two old it made Thomas O’Sulli-
van a Judge of the Distinct Court. There
was no political partisanship here, for O’Sul-
livan had been Attorney-General in a non-
Labor Goveniment for nearly seven years,
and a member of Parliament in the same in-
terest since 1903. Moreover, as a K.C. for
four years and a practitioner for 37, his
qualifications could scarcely have been dis-
puted even had he been given something
better than a minor judgeship at £lOOO p.a.
The cry of partisanship was, however,
raised when Thomas William McCawley
was appointed president of the Arbitration
Court. It was said that McCawley was a
protege of the late Tom Ryan, then Premier,
that he was ridiculously young for the
job (lie was 35), that he had never
practised on his own account at the
Bar, and would be out of his element
on the Bench. The topic was kept alive by
a dispute as to whether the president of the
Arbitration Court ranked as one of the
brethren of the Supreme Court, a dispute
which resulted in McCawley being gazetted
a puisne Judge after Ryan had got a deci-
sion in his favor from the Privy Council.
Five years later, on the retirement of the
late Pope Alexander Cooper, the fortunate
young man was elevated to the Chief Justice-
ship. The way had been made clear for him
by a special Retirement of Judges Act which
compelled the resignation first of Real, the
senior puisne Judge, and then of the C.J.;
but in spite of this extraordinary piece of
legislation there was no repetition of the
1917 clamor, or none to speak of. In the
intervening period McCawley had won gen-
eral respect for his attainments, which are
very considerable, and for his high char-
acter. He had satisfied unprejudiced obser-
vers that he had been a success as Judge,
and was very unlikely to be a failure as
C.J.; nor has he been a failure. To one of the
vacancies caused by the enforced retirement
of aged Judges James William Blair was
appointed. In his case, as in O’Sullivan’s,
no charge of political bias could lie, for
Blair had been Attorney-General in three
non-Labor Ministries and Secretary for Pub-
lic Instruction in another, and it was no
secret that he could have had a judgeship
years before he accepted one from his politi-
cal opponents. Again, Blair, like all his
colleagues and nearly all his predecessors, had
baristerial experience to recommend him. He
had practised for 28 years, Siiand, J., for
24 years, Real, J., for 10 years, and
Lukin, J., for 20 years. Even McCawley,
bitterly as he was criticised on the score of
inexperience, had been a barrister for just
on 10 years as well as being Crown Solici-
tor from November, 1910, t ; U Januarv 1917.
* * » *
In the appointment of Frank Tenison
Brennan the unwritten rule and precedent
have been left out of the argument. It is a
clear case of political jobbery, defensible only
on the ground that to the victors belong the
spoils. In the first place the gentleman
was only admitted in August last to the
branch of the legal profession from which
judges are, as a rule, drawn. Before that he
was an obscure country solicitor for eight
or nine years and a town solicitor of no
greater eminence for three or four. Nor did
he cut much of a figure in Parliament, to
which he was sent as Labor M.L.A. for Too-
woomba in 1918, until two men tried to bribe
him to transfer his vote —it was a time
when the Government was in a majority of
one, apart from the Speaker—and were
nabbed in melodramatic circumstances. Skil-
ful use was made of the incident in Parlia-
ment and at the general election which fol-
lowed not long after; and, grateful to the
man who had been the means of effecting a
diversion when the Government was hard
pressed, the caucus gave him Ministerial
rank. For 12 months he was called Assistant
Home Secretary; _ for seven months he was
Minister for Public Instruction, with a seat
in the Cabinet. Being the only lawyer in
the party, it was thought that he would be
made Attorney-General, but his claim to that
portfolio was apparently adjudged inferior
to that of the layman Mullan —a circum-
stance which excited remark. During his
not very distinguished political career he
failed to show any aptitude for the judicial
calling. On the contrary, he gave the im-
pression of being an emotional, unreasoning,
explosive person with a fondness for becom-
ing involved in furious arguments with such
small fry as . aldermen— : a hectoring con-
troversialist. stiff in opinions and often in
the wrong. But Toowoomba is a doubtful
seat and a judgeship is lucrative and safe.
It had been known for months that the mer-
curial Brennan was ambitious of succeed-
ing Shand, J., and it was common talk that
a majority of the caucus was bent on oblig-
ing him, some from motives of friendship and
others because they were ravenous for office.
According to the new Premier “the party
ratified the selection of Mr. Brennan for
the judgeship.” From this it may be in-
ferred that the party had the deciding voice—
the Government is kijown to have been sharply
divided—and would have declared for Bren-
nan whether or not. In the same circum-
stances it would probably have appointed a
bottle-gatherer were bottle-gatherers eligible
for the Bench—and they may be some day
if the r "'>oils system goes or
* * * e
What Queensland thinks of the scandalous
business was indicated in advance if John
Arthur Fihelly, sometime Labor Treasurer
and Agent-General, is to be believed. Speak-
ing two days after his Municipal Labor party
had been routed at the Greater Brisbane
election (nearly 30 p.c. of the Queensland
electors voted) and two days before the
Brennan “joke” was consummated, Fihelly
he’d forth as follows :
The rumors, uncontradicted, regarding the judge-
ship had a depressing effect. If a person who was
not considered qualified for the Attorney-Generalship
had the appointment in his pocket we should have
been told so, and candidates could have justified the
appointment and criticised it at their pleasure. This
should not have been an issue, but it was.
The candid friend might have added that
it will be an issue at the State and Federal
elections as well. And, since the incident
affords startling evidence that the Austra-
lian Labor party, for all its alleged ideals,
contains a powerful group which is simply
American Tammany over again, it is likely
to have political effects in everv part of the
Commonwealth.
EUROPEAN PILLS FOR AUSTRALIAN
PAINS.
During the war the people of Australia were
directed by law to put their clocks on one
hour because similar • legislation had been
passed in Britain. There were good reasons
for the adoption of “summer time” in a cold,
(lark island in the North Sea, especially in
1917, when every bit of daylight saved meant
an increase in the output of munitions. But
the same reasons did not apply to this sunny
southern continent, with its flood of daylight
winter and summer; so after a brief experi-
ence the whole nation voted the experiment
a nuisance, and at the end of one summer
it was abandoned for ever. A little reflec-
tion would have shown that the thing was
unworkable in a country like Australia, but
the little reflection was not forthcoming: the
innovation was accepted without debate in
Parliament and without a murmur from
the people.
* * * *
From this absurd experiment Australia
might have learned how mad a thing it is
to fly to other countries for expedients, doc-
trines and systems regardless of the differ-
ence between foreign and Australian condi-
tions. But the lesson was lost on one poli-
tical party and large sections of the others.
The tendency so ridiculously illustrated is
always at work; whereas Australia once had
constructive political thinkers it is the
fashion nowadays to contemplate Australian
problems through European spectacles and
to proclaim some Euronean device or other
as the only solution. Just now a parcel of
Foreign-trade legislators and employers are
demanding what they call “a substantial re-
duction of the tariff.” the distressful condi-
tion of many insufficiently-protected indus-
tries notwithstanding. If they got what they
are after they would shut three-fourths of
the factories in Australia and utterly ruin
the growers of sugar, bananas, maize, hops,
broom millet, stone fruits, raisins and cur-
rants; but Bright and Oobden said that
Freetrade would be a good thing for Eng-
land in the hungry forties of the nineteenth
century, so the Manns and Hazelthorns
say it would be a good thing for Australia
in the second decade of the twentieth. Simi-
larly, because there was once a German Jew
who wrote ponderous books, two trades-union
congresses have laid it down that it is the
duty of Australian wage-earners to “unite
in one class-conscious organisation and seize
the means of production by revolutionary
industrial and political action.” A union
dominated by foreign-born Marxian social-
ists has recently made the latest of several
attempts to advance their fatal doctrines “by
revolutionary action,” with results damaging,
as usual, to the community of which it forms
a part, but thrice damaging to its members
and their fellow-unionists. On the other
hand, we have just witnessed the spectacle
of the organised iron and steel workers join-
ing with the employers to ask the Govern-
ment for effective import duties. According
to the Marxian theory, “the working class
and the employing class have nothing in com-
mon,” but tile iron and steel workers have
found that they have solid interests in com-
mon with those who pay their wages, and
that their common interests are assailed by
German “comrades” who toil 60 hours per
week for the equivalent of 80s. Again, the
hostility of the Australian unions to the in-
flux of proletarians from Southern Europe
is oddly in conflict with the exultant cry of
a Labor leader who was president of one of
the trades-union congresses aforesaid: “The
Australian workers have resolved to accept
rfie_ Marxian slogan, ‘Workers of the World,
Unite.’ ” For Marxian socialists to suggest
that Mediterranean workers should be for-
cibly prevented from uniting with their
fellow wage-slaves in this bit of the world
is enough to make Marx turn in his grave.
Further, the noisiest advocates of exclusion
are professed pacifists, who haven’t renounced
their pacifism although they rail bitterly
at the polite Bruce-Page Government for
not resorting to measures which might sooner
or later result in war.
* * # *
From these confused theorists, whose prac-
tice is so grotesquely at war with their pre-
cepts, there have been roaring cataracts of
denunciation of “the capitalistic system
under which we live,” and there will
doubtless be more. The “capitalistic” sys-
tem is far from perfect, but it has one sur-
passing merit—it works. The plight of Rus-
sia. after seven years of repudiation,
nationalisation, class-war, terror and men-
dicity, shows that Marxian socialism, which
fools and madmen would impose upon Aus-
tralia “by revolutionary industrial and poli-
tical action,” does not work. Commonsense
suggests that Australians of goodwill should
make the most of the political and economic
institutions they have grown up under, im-
proving them where possible by methods
suited to the genius of the race and the
special circumstances of the Commonwealth,
and cleaving always to the White Australia
doctrine, which the Communists repudiate.
The pity of it is that so few Australians
endeavor to clear their minds of the cant
of European doctrinairism.
THE UNMARRIED MOTHER.
A hundred and more readers offer their
opinions about Rita Coghlan’s demand (B.
19/2/’25) for the right to become a mother
without marriage. The three abbreviations
that follow cover most of the ground:—
Alice Jackson :
It takes two to make a mother, married or un-
married. Society might be prepared to extend sym-
pathetic encouragement to the woman, backed by a
promise to support her during pregnancy and lacta-
tion, and to assist her “to rear the aforesaid national
asset.” There would remain for her ‘‘chercher Vliomme.’’
Hers is not the case of the average unmarried mother
as we know her—a woman who surrenders herself
to a man she loves overpoweringly, and whose moti-
vating impulse is certainly not the desire for a child.
With this other woman “it is the child she wants,
not the father; he is simply a means to an end.”
Well, how is she going to procure her means?
While endowing woman with a maternal instinct.
Nature endowed man with a corresponding paternal
instinct. The man who has overcome his moral
scruples and consented to make a woman a mother
from purely philanthropic motives will pretty cer-
tainly find himself tugged so hard by his own instincts
that he will desire his rightful share In his child.
When two people have begotten a child, and each
wants the child, though they cannot face the idea of
a lifelong toleration of each other, then the sum of
the world’s happiness has not been greatly increased.
Suppose, however, the father cedes the child un-
questioningly to the mother. The rights of the infant
still remain to be considered. It is highly probable
the child will not feel any special gratitude to the
mother who, purely for her own sake, has provided
him with so indifferent a father. If a boy, he cannot
be included in the same class as the son of an im-
poverished widow. The widow’s son almost invariably
has a high ideal of fatherhood set before him. He
is certain his father was an exceptionally noble man.
Ilis mother sees to that. Also, the natural, happiest
and morally healthiest environment for a child in-
cludes a father’s influence.
1 inally, suppose that, with the best of intentions
on the part of both would-be parents, the expected
child fails to materialise. Barren unions are fairly
frequent. How, then, will it fare with the woman
who has made a loveless mating ? Since the cause
of barrenness may have nothing to do with her, is
she justified in trying again? To what limit?
Marriage laws, divorce laws, illegitimacy laws and
human nature are all imperfect. Personally, I believe
that few normal women of child-bearing age are
quite certain they prefer to remain single. But
while we await the Millennium, there are chousand*
of homeless children upon whom the childless women
might profitably lavish their surplus affection and
energy.
“Horlick Malthus” :
If to remain single is what Rita Cogiilan really
desires, what “consolation” does she need for that?
But what I most want to know is, if a man is
good enough to be the father of one’s child—intelli-
gent, healthy, decent enough—why isn’t he good
enough to be one’s husband ? Conversely, if he
isn’t good enough for a husband, how can he be good
enough for a father ? If one can’t “tolerate” a man
why should one seek to perpetuate him? There
appeared during the war a proposal to replenish the
earth with homuncules begotten by a hypodermic
syringe; but as she expressly refers to fathers, she
evidently doesn’t contemplate any expedient of that
sort.
A\ hen women have the right to become mothers
without encumbering themselves with husbands, will
men have the right to become fathers without encum-
bering themselves with wives? At present the man
who seduces or is seduced by a girl is liable for
the maintenance of her child. He is also liable to
collide with the unwritten law as administered by
her male relatives. The unmarried mother’s claim
to these rights should be indisputable ; but how can
it be if she is to be regarded no longer as the
victim but the aggressor? You can’t have it both
ways.
Then, too, surely the child who is to be bom
must have a say in the matter as well as the man
who is bidden to beget him. Wouldn’t the small
son of Rita Coghlan’s hypothesis yearn for a father
just like the next-doors have who plavs cricket with
them in the evenings ? When a mother comes up
for that inevitable judgment, how will she answer
her child’s charge of having failed to give him a
father? “I wanted you, not him.” “But can’t you
see how much I’ve wanted him ? Didn’t you ever
think of all I would have to miss ? I never asked
you to make sacrifices for me; but what about the
sacrifices you’ve demanded of me?” A child is a
human being before he’s a “national asset,” and the
happier and completer he is as the former, the
more valuable he is likely to be as the latter. A
straitened and embittered childhood isn’t the best
foundation for good citizenship, and that’s what a
child certainly risks who chooses to be born to a
mother who never could tolerate his father.
If Nature cared about such an idea at all, she
would have run our affairs on parthenogenetic lines,
so that women, or whatever they would have been
then, needn’t have encumbered themselves with a
vestige of a husband at all. Why not? She makes
it work all right for water fleas and plant lice and
such-like that we go out after with sprav-pumps and
insecticide. No! Whatever Nature thinks of the
legal form of marriage, she certainly recognises the
supreme necessity of having a man about the house
when there’s a family to be brought up. And Nature
is a wise old lady. Rita Coghlan says so herself.
And finally this rare confession :
I am one of those unmarried mothers of whom
Rita Coghlan writes (B. 19/2/’25). The reason I
have not married is simply the lack of that quality
of toleration for a man over a lengthy period, or for
life.
I have not found the obvious irregularity of my
motherhood place me at very great social disadvan-
tage. Society is outgrowing its Victorian prudish-
ness, and bastardy carries little more reproach nowa-
days than in those past centuries when the Pizarros
rose to fame and power in spite of their bar sinister,
and the illegitimate children of Cortes could inherit,
equally with their legitimate brothers, riches and
respect through their famous father.
The disadvantage of the unmarried mother is the
financial one, shared with all other women who have
to earn their living—“women’s pay for men’s work.”
I myself am more capable in my branch of highly-
skilled industry than any man I have ever known or
heard of; yet the highest pay I have ever received
was only a couple of shillings more than the wage
of a street-sweeper or window-cleaner. I have to
pay a great deal to have my girl well cared for,
and the expense of looking after her present well-
being deprives me of the means to provide for her
future education to the standard to which she is
entitled by my ability and hard work.
Equal pay for equal work would crowd out those
w'men who are less fitted for industrial than for
home life, but are tolerated by employers because
of their cheapness. And so room would be made for
the skilled men and women who require, and deserve,
adequate pay for their competent service. Then
the women so crowded out would find it to their
advantage to become trained houseworkers, to be
trusted, employed and married by those better fitted
to earn their living in specialised industry.
REVERBERATIONS OF THE
RUBBER BOOM.
This New Year two Anglo-Dutch rubber
plantations celebrated the occasion by invit-
ing 200 guests to sit down to a dinner pre-
pared by the famous chefs of the Hotel des
Indes in Batavia. Oriental magnificence
could go no higher; but one remembers with
niore poignancy little New Year functions on
struggling British plantations in their primi-
tive beginnings in Kedah or Negri Sembi-
lan, when half a dozen planters from neigh-
boring estates foregathered in the manager’s
bungalow over whisky stengahs while the
gamelang from Penang tinkled and brayed
outside, and the paid ronggeng shuffled and
turned in a circle of half-naked coolies, moon-
smitten dumb; while from the jungle, half a
mile away, an elephant trumpeted or a tiger
snarled over a pig.
Many of those early ventures have gone
under. They were floated on a wave of
extraordinary optimism which not only sub-
merged the caution of old maids in Chelsea
and Potts Point, but swept all the coasts
of Asia from Bombay to Shanghai. In Singa-
pore, where people ought to have knowm
better, bank clerks bought up little patches
of soil and spent their week-ends planting
rubber shoots. Baffles and the Adelphi were


full of obscure adventurers with romantic
names and dirty collars who had just arrived
from Sarawak or the Toradja country of
the Celebes. They had cured sultans of
appendicitis by doses of fruit-salts, and the
grateful potentates had bestowed on them
the half of their dominions. Or they had
shambling native wives who looked like Sin-
gapore amahs, but were really princesses
with dowries of huge rubber lands. They
wrote their prospectuses on the backs of
wine-cards after dinner at the Tingle Tangle,
an 1 filled up their subscription lists before
bedtime. They showed their confidence in
their own promises by taking only half the
vended price of their concessions in cash;
and they disappeared mysteriously when “the
thousand acres of flat and fertile land”
proved to be under water at high tide. Some
of them had a monopoly of wild rubber in
territory of such vast extent that nobody
knew whose flag drooped oyer it. One com-
pany was floated to exploit the latex of a
native vine whose only rubber-like quality
was its infernal stickiness that no amount of
acetic acid ever succeeded in coagulating.
The world budded rubber experts, and “com-
petent managers,” the sons or poor relations
of directors, came of age every day in
London.
I remember the arrival on the scene of
one of these prehensile youths. He was
shown a rubber-seed, but failed to identify
it. He asked where his estate was, with its
promised bungalow, its servants, sanitary
system and ice-making plant, and was pointed
to the long dark line of the distant mainland
of Borneo, without settlement or habitation.
He asked where the nearest club was, and
was told 400 miles over a rentis of slippery
tree-trunks in the direction of Sandakan.
He was landed from a surf boat on the in-
hospitable coast, that showed no break in
its barrier of mangrove backed by untrod
mountains for hundreds of miles; and civili-
sation, represented by the little island settle-
ment 40 miles from the theatre of his ainbi- •
tions, drew back and left him to his fate.
Six months later the s.s. Darvel took back to
Singapore a gibbering lunatic in a strait-
waistcoat who had been salvaged from the
depths of the Bornean jungle by a tribe of
tamed head-hunters. It had been the mirage
of whisky-sodas at the club 400 miles across
that had lured him on to the rentis away
from his plantation. A native follower, har-
boring revenge, had pushed him off the path
of slippery logs 30 feet into the jungle below.
That plantation ate up one more white
man’s reason and another white man’s life
before it was allowed to relapse into its
primeval mother’s arms and its glowing pros-
pectus was removed from the enchanting
pages of “The Rubber Investor’s Handbook.”
Nevertheless, the white man’s greed,
energy, self-sacrifice, lust of conquest or
whatever it is that drives him to convert
an unaggressive tropical island, busy with
self-slaughter amongst bird, beast and flower,
into a battleground for big own competitive
enterprises, will not be denied ; and splendid
roads now enable the planter to go for liis
whisky-soda by motor to the nearest city.
Loud-speakers instead of elephants awake
the jungle echoes, and a planter in the wilds
of British North Borneo recently reported
that he had picked up the banjos of the
Savoy Hotel band, and heard London’s Big
Ben striking on his radio-set. In Gavu re-
cently I was the guest of an Australian
planter whose bungalow had a marble swim-
ming-bath. The greatdays of coffee, which made
heroic figures of plantation princes, seem to
be returning for the Java rubber-planter.
This is one result of the voluntary restric-
tion of rubber-production in British Malaya,
which brought greater production and higher
prices to the Dutch possessions, where plant-
ers refused to join in the scheme of main-
taining prices by artificially shortening sup-
plies. Some of the British companies operat-
ing in non-British territory patriotically
joined the movement, but most did not; and
as there are big English investments in the
Dutch islands, too. the situation has become
highly complicated. The whole, restriction
policy has come in for severe criticism lately,
mostly from manufacturing interests in Eng-
land, although the Singapore Chamber of
Commerce has just passed resolutions very
dubiously endorsing it. The economist of
the London Times has gone so far as to say
that its effects wrnre uniformly bad for the
British planter, inasmuch as it helped Dutch
planters to get bigger prices and extend their
planted area, thus threatening renewed com-
petition in five or six years’ time, and that
its influence on home industries was to re-
tard development. The newspapers on the
spot reply that, while large stocks remained
unabsorbed, restriction was the only way
prices could be maintained at a figure which
■would make it worth while to go on tapping.
They point to the fact that the price has
risen from Bd. to round about Is. 6d., and
promises" to go higher. The opponents of
the scheme claim that this is not due to
restriction but to increased demand. In any
case restriction will probably go or be pro-
foundly modified shortly. It has done one
good thing. The tremendous vicissitudes
rubber has gone through have combed the
industry out. Many widows’ stockings have
been emptied in the process, and good .Aus-
tralian money has melted too. But higher
efficiency has resulted, and the survivors are
on firmer ground.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tom Walsh’s Fleet.
The Commonwealth shipping line is to be
put on the market at last, the belated
and fogged returns having shown that it is
still losing money at Mhe rate of £491,000
per annum, to say nothing of depreciation.
In its usual unsatisfactory way, however,
the Half-and-Half Government proposes to
tie conditions to the sale which may either
prevent it coming off at all or reduce the
price to zero, and yet do no good to any-
one. The handful of ships is to keep running
on the old route; the charges are not to be
increased : and the buyer is to keep outside
the shipping combine, which the Common-
wealth itself failed in some degree to do, and
be a small lamb among big wolves. Amid
these conflicting emotions the Walsh-Johan-
son crowd, which makes a mock of the Gov-
ernment, is sharpening its teeth to give an
even more nasty reception to the fleet under
private ownership than , the ill-starred. con-
cern received as a public property—this by
way of protest against the sale. The threat
is presumably intended to scare off buyers;
and as everybody knows by now that the
Administration is more a wet rag than a
tower of strength when dealing with these
people, their attitude will probably either put
a finishing touch to the process of deprecia-
tion, or leave Bruce witli the ships and all
the further losses on his hands and another
failure to his account. Supposing the ships
are sold for a song, by reason of the useless
and burdensome conditions attached to them,
it will very likely be found that the loss was
quite gratuitous. The chances are that the
little herd of liners and slow cargo boats will
disappear out of Australian waters, and go
into some cheap-labor trade in other seas,
and that all the law at command will be in-
sufficient to drag them back. Even if it was
possible to hold them or recapture them the
benefit to Australia is imperceptible, for the
vessels are few, and they are wearing out,
and the agreement will die with them, and
they have never been any noticeable benefit
in any case. A clearing sale of softgoods
isn’t conducted on these lines, and when it
is a matter of getting rid of unprofitable
stock Prime Minister Bruce might do well
to remember that one dead stock is not un-
like another. If the slightly marked-down
frock is offered on condition that it is worn
regularly along certain routes, that the buyer
doesn’t raise her prices or reduce her servant
girl’s wages, and that she doesn’t associate
with wearers of frocks from rival establish-
ments —well, that frock sale is going to fall
flat. Possibly, through much backing and
filling, the fleet will still be on hand when
Labor comes into power, and Labor is as
likely as not to enlarge the job by the pur-
chase of two or three additional fleets.
«
Trade Union Funds and Elections.
In Great Britain the trades unions make
levies, as they do here, for political pur-
poses, with this difference —a unionist there
may “contract out,” and declare himself non-
political, and not pay. “Moral suasion” is
employed to discourage this. Now it is pro-
posed that, instead of being born in and “con-
tracting out,” he should be born out and
“contract in” if so inclined, thereby making
him less liable to pressure, and giving Jiim
more freedom of choice. It is also proposed
to stop the illegal diversion of ordinary union
funds for election purposes, and make the
political fund a separate and voluntary affair.
The fact that a man must belong, to a union
in order to get a chance of work is no reason
in Britain or anywhere else why he should
be compelled to pay part of his wages to-
wards the support of a Freetrade-crazed
aggregation which believes in giving every
foreign enemy and clieap-laborist an equal,
or more than equal, chance with him at
British work. The infraction of the toiler’s
personal freedom would not be a bit worse
if the employer deducted a few pence from
the workman’s wages in support of the Pro-
tectionist candidate. Such a thing would,
of course, not be tolerated. It would be
denounced as robbery—and The Bulletin
would join in the denunciation. When, how-
ever, the man is robbed in the alleged in-
terests of his own “class,” we are asked to
believe that it isn’t robbery. That, anyhow,
is the position to which we have been rapidly
moving of late. In Australia there is no
sign of any serious attempt at resistance,
but there is this welcome sign that Britain
is realising that a principle of democratic
government is being undermined —that, in
short, men are being compelled to assist in
winning a majority for a party of which
they may heartily disapprove. The very
foundation of democracy is the exercise of
individual, personal judgment. If a member
of a trade union can be compelled to con-
tribute to a party fund, whether he approves
of that party or not, it is really quite absurd
to require him to record his personal vote.
Let us be logical, and do the thing properly:
if we give the trade union power to compel
a member to contribute money to the “party”
election fund, let us also compel a member
to vote the way his union directs. It won’t
be democratic government, of course: but
it may help us to see that what we have isn’t
democratic government either.
*
The Troubles of Yanko.
Five years ago the Yenda portion of the
Murrumbidgee irrigation area was made
available to returned soldiers. It was then
thickly timbered virgin country. To-day it
is a beautiful panorama of crops and
orchards, irrigation canals conveying prac-
tically unlimited supplies of water to every
farm. Hundreds of previously inexperi-
enced men have so adapted themselves to
the conditions that they have literally made
the desert “blossom as the rose,” with the
result that these baby orchards have pro-
duced hundreds of tons of fruit from four-
year-old trees and vines. The State has sunk
£7,000,000 in the Murrumbidgee scheme, and
unless it immediately begins to take a prac-
tical interest in the disposal of the
produce grown, other than the fruit
sent to Leeton canning factory, there
is going to be written a tragic story
of deserted farms and broken settlers
in the near future. Already the exodus has
begun, and the Commission is working the
deserted farms and charging up the cost to
anyone foolish enough to take over an enor-
mously over-capitalised block. The Leeton
canning factory is apparently working to
full capacity, and the grower who is so un-
fortunate as to be 40 miles from it has very
little chance of getting his fruit to this
market. On that account scores of tons of the
best peaches and apricots are being fed to
pigs. There are hundreds of tons also of
grapes rotting on the vines, as individual
growers cannot dispose of them: the only
market is the winery, and that is over-sup-
plied. Unless there is to be a crash the
Government must take a hand. These
orchards were planted under the supervision
of experts with a view to exploiting the pos-
sibilities of the export market for dried
fruits —prunes, apricots, peaches and sultanas
predominating. But the Government, through
the Commission, has not made the slightest
attempt to dehydrate the fruit by putting
down the necessary plant, and it is quite, im-
possible for individual settlers to give the
lime tor effective fruit-drying, even if they
had the capital and experience. A dehydrat-
ing plant, controlled by the Commission, and
large enough to treat the crop grown on the
area, is an urgent need, as each year’s ton-
nage will be doubled for the next four years.
The first crop of citrus grown on the soldiers’
area will be picked during the coming season,
and here also the Commission must do some-
thing if disaster is to be averted. The orchard-
ist cannot store winter-ripening fruit till the
warm weather creates a demand. Cold,
storage at Yenda or Griffith will, however,
meet the needs of hundreds of hard toilers
and may possibly save them.
«
“Opening” Addresses.
“Bill o’ Costs” : The witness for the defence
who complained that eminent counsel hadn’t
told him what to say (B. 29/l/’25) must
have been out of court when that learned
man “opened” the case. The opening speech
is one of those usually needless survivals of
legal practice, clung to with leech-like
tenacity by the Bar, and smiled at indul-
gently by Benches which should know better.
It serves two purposes, both more or less
discreditable. Firstly, it is designed to soak
into the Judge or jury the “facts,” as coun-
sel narrates them, with his own coloring and
all the extravagant adjectives at his com-
mand, as if they were the evidence. As a re-
sult it often happens that towards the close
of a trial doubt arises as to where some fact
was established; then it transpires that it
was not in evidence at all, but merely the
confident assertion of one of the hired men
in horsehair. After the 12 good men and
dull have survived the cataract of opening
and other addresses of Mr. Brass, K.C.,
and Mr. Poynter, with the usually accom-
panying welter of dispute and contradiction,
they must feel as if the “facts” had been
pumped into them by two broadcasters and
a gramophone. In the second place, the open-
ing, in the hands of one skilled at the game,
is a shrewd device for instructing the com-
ing witnesses. Listen to Mr. Brass bel-
lowing: “We. shall call evidence to show so-
and-so. My client will say this. The
accused will tell the Court that. The wit-
ness Smith will say the other.” And all the
while, of course, “my client*” or “the ac-
cused” (and the witness too., if not ordered
out), is listening to this indirect instruction
of what is expected of him. Every
solicitor can tell of the times when his client
has materially varied or colored his testi-
mony as bridfed after listening to his coun-
sel. It would be strange if he did not.
Occasionally Judges interpose to limit this
preliminary cantering over the course, but
all too rarely. I recall old Judge Boucaut,
of S.A., who could convey a hint as tersely
as a boxing instructor, listening for a few
minutes to the opening of a confident advo-
cate, then stopping him with: “Have you got
witnesses to prove all that?” “Oh, yes,
y’r ’Onor, that and more.” “Then call them
before they forget,” fired back the kindly old
Rn adamant hits. As with all privileges,
the higher the standing of counsel the
greater the abuse of it. While the
youthful performer is often pulled up
with a curt “Call your evidence,” with
the bigger gun it usually takes the form of
“Of course I don’t wish to stop you, Mr.
Brass, but” And Mr. Brass replies,
with great dignity, that the Court may rely
upon him not to transgress the limits of pro-
priety and to uphold the traditions of the
profession, and so on. After which he pro-
ceeds on his designed course with undis-
turbed composure. One eminent K.C. not
long since occupied two solid days in his
opening effort, and if he ever got so much
as a hint to hasten or limit the disclosure,
it fell so gently that not even the great
man himself heard it. Judges who permit
counsel to talk at length in anticipation of
their evidence have no right to complain (as
they sometimes do after the event) of the
waste of time. But litigants and the public
have, and if the Judges won’t help them,
Parliament should take a hand. •
«
The Dread of the Bush.
Sydney, well wooded once, is now one of
the treeless cities of the world. The pro-
scribed things are exiled to the gardens
on the other side of Macquarie-street, which,
lovely as they are, are almost inaccessible
to busy workers in most parts of the t6wn.
It may be that in new cduntries a race
memory of pioneering struggles with the
bush persists. To the first settlers the wild
woods are an enemy harboring hostile
natives and denying foothold. As the bush
gets beaten back it ceases to affright, and
when it has been completely subjugated, if
not entirely destroyed, men begin again to
look on it with friendly eyes, and allow it
to invade their streets again. In Europe,
which has lost its horror of the woods, the
street is a place to live in, and is generously
lined with trees. In this country, even when
we have ideal boulevards, like King William-
street in Adelaide, we decorate them with
tramway standards and electrio-light poles,
and leave them otherwise naked to the dust-
storm. The public indifference to the beauty
and utility of trees naturally finds an echo
in political life. The. politician who takes
up a cause about which nine-tenths of the
people don’t care a tinker’s dam ceases to
be a politician. He goes baqk to auctioneer-
ing or boot-blacking for lack of votes. The
report of the Forests Compiission of Vic-
toria. which has just come to hand, illus-
trates this political laissez-faire. The past
year it claims as a very successful one. Re-
venue was £166,556 and expenditure
£160,372, leaving a credit balance of £6,184.
Viewed as a business undertaking, the iridus-
trv of looking after trees already pays. But
what of the future? The most optimistic
experts of Canada and the. U.S.A. declare
that their available stocks will be used up
within 25 years, even allowing for an in-
creased rate of reafforestation. This means
that Australia’s chief source of supply
will be closed to her. Yet all the
Victorian did in 1924 was
to plant 1431 acres, which was less than
the area of Crown lands and forest reserves
badlv damaged by fire. It is the same story
in all the other States. While the citizens
continue to regard trees as intruders, poli-
ticians can continue safely to treat forestry
commissions as beggarly outsiders.
More Wild-dog.
As was prognosticated, reports from the
Wild West of N. S. Wales, the enraged North
and other infuriated points of the compass
indicate that, while the Fuller Govern-
ment has temporarily ceased to labor, the
wild-dog hasn’t, but is busy propagating his
swift-footed kind in more corners of the coun-
try than ever. The S. Australian Govern-
ment has saved its pastoral industry from
the devastating pest by a successful measure
of co-operation, but the efforts of the pas-
toralists of the Western District of N. S.
Wales to get the Fuller faction interested
in their problem have ended, after many seemly
promises, in disheartening failure. The de-
mands which this distant tribe (who are
believed to be white and alleged to be Aus-
tralians) made were of a reasonable and con-
structive nature. They only asked their
Government to advance the money for enclos-
ing each threatened group with a dog-proof
fence, and the lessees pledged themselves to
strike a rate to repay the loan (with in-
terest) in 21 years. The Sydney Govern-
ment preferred to tackle the problem of the
wild-dog birth-rate by offers of bribes for
dingo-scalps; and it expresses itself to-day
as satisfied with the results. The results so
far are that in 1921, when the Wild Dog
Destruction Act, which was going to exter-
minate the dingo, was put upon the Statute
Book, the total of scalps brought in was
1252, and in 1924 it was approximately 800.
The figures for two districts were consider-
ably reduced, but this was due to the border
fence being in the neighborhood. Many
settlers, lured by the promises of Fuller’s
Lands Minister Wearne, commenced re-
stocking their properties with sheep, with
generally disastrous results. Some ingenious
person once calculated that the present value
of a penny invested 1900 years ago at 5
per cent, compound interest would amount
to-day to 75 billion trillion pounds. The
dingo’s rate of multiplication in a suitable
environment is not exactly known, but it
is quite large enough to make the mere exist-
ence of a single couple a menace to Aus-
tralia. Quite recently the sheepowners of
Beetaloo (S.A.) considered the presence in
their district of two half-breed specimens
sufficiently dangerous to justify collective
action. The shirking terrors had disposed of
over 100 sheep. The fact that in the Wil-
cannia district (which is one of the areas
declared dog-infested under the N. S. Wales
Act), 260 dogs were killed in 1921 and 234
in 1924, and that in the Menindie district
the number has only been reduced from 346
to 247, while the damage amongst the flocks
still proceeds, shows that the piecemeal
method of extermination has failed. After
watching the eagerness of politicians to reach
recess, this paper some time ago said that
the Fuller Government would shelve the
wild-dog menace until after Christmas. The
latest indications are that, the Western Dis-
trict being a remote region invisible from
even the highest point in Sydney, 'its in-
terests will receive no consideration during
the forthcoming short session either. And
meantime the most profitable industry in
N. S. Wales —and, incidentally, the industry
chiefly responsible for the present prosperity
of Sydney—is going literally to the pack over
nearly half the total area of the State.
«
Immigration and the Greek.
From W. A. Lloyd, an Australian lately at
work in the U.S.A. (he was an English
newspaper correspondent with the Greek
Army in Asia-Minor and Thrace, 1919-22) :
“What is a White Man?” (B. 26/2/’25) makes
good reading, but it leaves more than a suspicion
that the Greek protest against racial discrimina-
tion is more than justified. Recently a French liner
arrived at Fremantle with immigrants from Southern
Europe. According to the reports, certain immigra-
tion restrictions were lifted in the case of the
Italians on board. After diligent search, I have
been unable to fix responsibility for this attempt to
make the law conform to the immigrant, instead of
the immigrant conform to the law. Why are
the compatriots of Mussolini and the “victors” of
Cyrenaica, Caporetto. and Corfu given privileges
denied to other nationals? Italy either can’t or
won’t pay her debts, but she can lend money to
the Little Entente.
In the case of the Greeks it has apparently been
decided, without consulting Parliament, to apply race
discrimination, and to limit the number of Hellenes
entering Australia. Immigration is purely a domestic
matter, and Australians are entitled to say who
shall, and who shall not, enter the country. But
if we are to have race discrimination it is a little
difficult to discover the grounds for favoring Italians
as against Greeks. Is it because Italy is one of
the (so-called) Great Powers, while Greece is not?
According to the report issued by the American
War Department on intelligence tests in the army,
an impartial and unimpeachable authority, Italian
units in the American draft were the lowest in intelli-
gence of all the white races serving in the American
forces in the World War, coming next to the negro.
In those States publishing statistics the Italians
possess the distinction of heading the list in major
crimes. Official figures give more crime in Chicago
than in the whole of Britain, and in Chicago the
Italians are first in criminality. On the other
hand, the Greek, industrious and possessing a posi-
tive genius for commerce, ranks among the most
law-abiding section, with a far lower percentage of
criminality than even the native-born. Recently, in
Rochester (N.Y.), I was informed by the police that,
although there was a large Greek community in the
city, no Greek had come before the courts on any
charge for a period of 10 years. The
Bulletin’s remark, “The chances are that, in
spite Of the often-repeated statement about his
decadence, the modern Greek is a better man than
any of his classic ancestors,” may not be quite
true; but at least it is welcome after the systematic
misrepresentation of Western historians generally,
which reflects the centuries-old enmity between Old
and New Rome.
Where does Australia come in, and what
has all this to do with the question of immi-
gration? Well, hundreds of thousands of Greeks,
mostly agriculturists, if we except Smyrna, are to-
day, owing to the bankruptcy of the European diplo-
mats and the perfidy of the politicians, homeless
refugees, depending on the charity of the world to
keep body and soul together. Most of them would
make excellent immigrants. Naturally, as an Austra-
lian, I would like to see Australia populated by
British stock. Apparently that is impossible; but if
we are to discriminate-—and I am not in favrr of
indiscriminate immigration—there seems to be no
valid reason for discriminating in favor of Italians
and against Greeks.


*3?
vn
v,is
«sga
n
$
r&
«. •% A <
H
‘ ‘ l‘l
The Ideal of Craftsmanship
TO reach perfection in motor-body construction, the ideal of craftsmanship
is of equal importance with finest quality materials and an efficient and
modern plant. In the production of
SMITH & WADDINGTON DE LUXE BODIES
all these essentials are found in a superlative degree. In this Company’s magnificent factory
(the largest Custom-built Body-works in Australia), 250 Specialist Employees, specially
selected for their .outstanding
technical skill, co-operate' in
striving towards the Ideal of
Craftsmanship—that perfection
of the human element, in indus-
try which is the secret of manu-
facturing success.
tcL.
MOTOR-BODY BUILDERS AND SPECIAL
RETAILERS COMPLETE ROLLS-ROYCE CARS,
■ Motor Owners and prospective owners
invited to make a visit of inspection,
prove of undoubted interest.
are specially
which would
4J-6X Parramatta Road, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE: L 2731, , . . . . . . . . 4 LINES
The Bandar Tog.
Having stopped pulling each other’s tail for
a moment, the Bandar Log of the Indian
Nationalist movement have drawn up a for-
mal demand for a self-governing Indian Com-
monwealth. That pitiable figure, Annie
Besant, is a prime mover in the affair, and
someone (unnamed) has been found who will
introduce the scheme into the British Parlia-
ment when it has been turned into a bill.
The scheme begins by demanding the grant-
ing of adult suffrage to both sexes. To
make that practicable, the purdah, the rigid
seclusion of all respectable women, which has
been one of the fundamentals of Hindu social
life for 5000 years, is to be invaded at a
moment’s notice. The Mohammedans are
scarcely less wedded to the observance,
though, in their case, the tradition is not so
old, since Mohammed cribbed the idea from
Persia and India. This will mean that only
the women of the lowest caste—or of no
caste at all—will be able to vote. And
caste intrudes again with the Hindu males.
The Brahmin will have to rub shoulders
at the polling-booths with the sweeper,
whose very shadow is a desecration. There
is to be a central Parliament of two Houses,
with the Viceroy as head, the Provinces re-
taining their minor Legislatures. The
Indian Council in London is to go, and the
Secretary for India will become a mere
Colonial Secretary. Trial by jury, an Indian
Supreme Court, an independent gold cur-
rency and power to borrow are also asked
for. So is freedom of conscience for the
practice of religion. Whose religion is not
stated. Yet this is important, for most of the
hard work of British troops in India con-
sists in quelling murderous riots between
Hindu and Moslem. For the same reason
Indian native regiments other than Sikhs
are made up in equal proportions of Moslem
and Hindu. If one section turns nasty,
the other can be depended on to help the
accursed sahib “put the boot in.” Last and
not least, India wants to run her own de-
fence force, officered by Indians. It is a
laudable ambition and a vaulting one. But
India’s age-old history has proved con-
clusively that in the mass the Hindu is an
easy prey for any invader; and his incapacity
for high command has been shown again and
again. In the Mutiny the revolting troops
outnumbered the whites everywhere. They
had vast reserves of ammunition and
weapons, they were fighting on their own
terrain and among their owy kin. Supplies
were abundant, and climatic conditions a
fearful handicap to their adversaries. There
was no railage to aid the scattered enemy’s
concentration. The native troops and offi-
cers had been splendidly trained for the mili-
tary needs of that day, and in all arms.
They had every possible advantage save in
national fibre. And they failed dismally. It
is only 68 years since the outbreak in Meerut
cantonment began the terror that was
drowned in blood at Delhi, Cawnpore and
Lucknow. If the Indian leopard has been
able to change his spots in those few years
he has done something unheard of in the
world’s history.
«
“Hambone” : The Bulletin criticism of
the Australian telegraph service (19/2/’25)
is substantiated by the experience of sub :
editors of Sydney morning newspapers.
Rarely is a telegram from Hobart, Adelaide
or Fremantle lodged in the late afternoon
or early evening received in time for the first
edition, which is generally ready for Mr.
Printer between 11.30 p.m. and midnight.
They drift in between 1 and 3 a.m. next
day, when, the news being stale, they are
either heavily blue-pencilled for use in the
later editions or shot into the w.p.b. It is
such an obvious waste of newspaper pro-
prietors’ money that the wonder is the man-
agements have not long before this started
an intensive campaign to force the Depart-
ment to right the abominable slovenliness of
its service on the lines suggested by The
Bulletin. They might even urge the Fed-
eral Government to alter that clause of the
wireless regulations which forbids the adap-
tation of wireless to news service, whether
foreign, inter-State or intra-State. I
shouldn’t be surprised to learn that Iceland
or Lapland makes more use of Marconi's
gift to humanity than Australia does.
“Special despatch by wireless” is quite a
frequent feature of American, English and
Continental papers. Here, if a newspaper
exploits the air, it is leaving itself open to
a minimum fine of £lOO.
e
“Hasen” : The par. (B. 19/2/’25) concern-
ing the Melbourne Customs launch’s tailing-
np of departing vessels that might possibly
dump opium came my way very opportunely,
for I had just travelled down the coast on
a boat from “the East” and had seen what
may happen at a northern port. Only, in
this case, it was not a dummy parcel that was
dumped, nor was it a Customs launch that
picked it up. In short, it was no comedy,
but the real business. It happened in broad
daylight, too, with no attempt at conceal-
ment. From the time we cast off our lines
the receiving motor-boat followed quite
openly in our wake, with not the smallest
pretence of having any other business than to
pick up the buoyed package that was heaved
over the stern within a mile or so of the Cus-
toms House. The cool effrontery of it made
me gasp, and I wondered if the Customs
officers of the port had never heard of this
method (Lord knows, it’s ancient and dis-
honorable enough), or if they lacked a launch
speedy enough for effective pursuit, or if
they were just so muddy-eyed as to miss
THE GOOSE STEP: 1915-1925.
Germans may enter Britain, S’Africa, Canada, and U.S.A. as immigrants, and it is understood that
the Federal Government will soon decide that they are desirable emmigrants for the Commonwealth.”
what was obvious to an untrained and un-
suspecting outsider. There is at least one
other explanation, but it is so unsavory that
one would prefer even plain stupidity.
The Japanese have always shown a genius
for what they call ‘‘shadow Governments.”
Before the Restoration the Emperor was a
picturesque puppet, while the Shogun acted
“from behind the sleeves of the Sacred
Dragon.” To-day the Elder Statesmen, who
are either heads of ancient clans or retired
politicians who have led two administrations,
rule Emperor and Diet; which is like
Joseph Cook, Andrew Fisher and W. M.
Hughes continuing to run this country by
edict through the Governor-General. The
Elder Statesmen at present consist of two
old clansmen who are over 70 and a poli-
tician who has been Premier twice. They
are not responsible to anybody but them-
selves. One of the clans “owns” the army
and the navy belongs to the other. The
Diet is dissolved by edict of these three
w'hen it gets too noisy: and the system is so
well entrenched that Japanese Radicals do
not regard the proposed enfranchisement of
10,000,000 more male voters as bringing real
democracy appreciably nearer.
>
“W.8.L.”: Let me recommend to R. S.
Ross a visit to the British West Indies: it
will cool his worship of “the gab.” There
it is not uncommon to see niggers fighting
like starved dogs for the scraps from a
tramp steamer’s galley slush-tub, and a few
moments later carrying on a vigorous debate,
in an affected Boston speech, using words
that, though they sound beautiful, are only
words, and get the nigger no nearer to decent
working conditions. The average nigger’s
idea of Heaven there is to get into some
place—a Court for preference—where he
can talk and be listened to. It seems to me
that here in Australia we have his affini-
ties in modern Radical and Labor leaders.
I personally prefer the Australian spirit, as
instanced a. few years ago in Sydney, when
a lad, after being nearly disembowelled by a
shark, was carried out conscious to the beach
and uttered the golden words: “I gave the
cow a go for it!” No utterance of any of our
intellectual elite has ever been half as
expressive or grand.
+
“Caractacus” : How far the intellectual
woman is from being emancipated lias been
disclosed in the case of Mrs. John Jones,
wife of the vicar of All Saints’, East St.
Kilda. A cultured Englishwoman whose
lifelong hobby had been education and femin-
ism, on arrival in Melbourne she caught the
attention of women eager for politics in a
genteel way. They helped her to form the
Women Citizens’ Movement and, undeterred
by the fate which has befallen every woman can-
didate for Parliament in Victoria from Vida
Goldstein to Mrs. Katz, decided to run their
founder for the Federal Parliament. To
choose as lighting ground the electorate of
Fawkner, held by the blind Maxwell, pro-
tagonist of Reform-Nationalists and possessor
of the biggest sympathy-vote in Victoria, was
bad enough tactics; to pit against him the
wife of the vicar of a church which has F. C.
Hughes, champion of Conservative anti-
Labor and husband of the founder and almost
perpetual-president of the A.W.N.L., as a
vestryman, was blunder epic enough to get
an A.I.F. colonel a major-generalship at the
Home base. Of course the vestry squeezed
the vicar, the vicar squeezed the vicar’s wife,
and the Women Citizens’ Movement and its
Parliamentary candidate were no more.
Never are man and woman more truly one
than when they are a vicar and vicaress. It
is one of the crosses of clergymen’s wives
that when a parish or congregation employs
the one it expects to get the active services
of both at a single salary. If wives do serve
they may expect a life lived meekly under
the peckings -of a hundred hen-parties; if
they dare to be original, even with the hus-
band’s blessing (or, at any rate, without his
disapprobation). they may be brought to heel
by vestries and the like through their loyalty
to him. If a parson has sons and daughters
they, too, are expected to be workers included
in Dad’s £250 a year “and manse.” This
probably accounts more than anything else
for the “clergyman’s daughter” who cuts
loose, and the “son of the manse” who turns
Bolsh.
■ ♦
Dear Bulletin, —Now and again an Arbi-
tration Court Judge leans back on the bench,
and, wiping the beads of perspiration from
his horsehair, asks dejectedly: “What do
the workers want?” Well, for one thing they
could do with fewer prophecies from the
Bench in the department of industrial
affairs. A while back McCawley, C.J., of
Queensland, prognosticated a slump in the
wool industry. The occasion was one upon
which the shearers and shed-hands were ask-
ing for a rise on the score of unprecedented
prosperity in the sheep industry. McCaw-
ley largely disallowed the shearers’ claim
on the plea that a slump in wool prices was
imminent. But the only slump that has
happened is the slump of McCawley as a
prophet: the prices of wool have been sky-
rocketing in a most amazing manner. If
his Honor expects the men to accept a reduc-
tion of wages when a lapse of wool prices
is on, surely their reasonable demands should
have been listened to while wool prices were
in the skies.—Yours, etc., 7 P.N.
+
“Troophorse” : Tropical fisheries on our
northern coasts, after years of war and post-
war depression, are looking up again. Dur-
ing 1923 Westraliu had boats employed to
the value of £107,373; they obtained ap-
proximately £174,617 worth of m.o.p. shell
and £29.151 worth of pearls. There were
employed 737 Japanese, 265 Malays, 106
whites, 37 Chinese, 33 Manilamen and 20
aboriginals. During 1912, when costs were
much lower and prices much higher, W.A.
• mployed—mostly at Broome—27lB men.
The harvest of m.o.p. shell was estimated
at £42] .609, and pearls at £lOO,OOO. Yet
whilst W.A. is on the up-grade again the
poor old Northern Territory’s trade has
slipped back to the working of six boats, with
28 men, mostly coastal natives. During 1921
seven tons of m.o.p. shell, valued at £llO6,
were shipped from Darwin, with
mer valued at £2049, and tortoise-shell worth
only £2OO. Last year only two luggers
worked m.o.p. shell, and only abojit three
old hands were trying to get a living from
beche-de-mer. A counter-attraction for the
natives is provided by some of the mission
stations along the coast: several of these
have their own beche-de-mer camps, run by
natives. The men are given so much flour,
tea. sugar and tobacco for a week, and have
to keep up a fair average of “fish,” or the
ration scale is lowered. The product is
shipped to Hongkong. In this matter the
missions have done far more harm than
good. They have taken away from the
natives the incentive to work systematically,
and, while depriving the old, experienced
hands of their labor supply, produce only a
miserable total of trade in return.
♦
“Wingella” : When will these authors begin
to write about the Northern Territory as it
really, is? I have just happened on a yai*n
wherein the writer, dealing with what is evi-
dently. to him. a terra incognita, mentions
that all Darwin women are heat-dried and
sun-soured, languid of step and white of
cheek, and that the mercury usually hovers
in the neighborhood of 120 deg. in the shade.
Well, after 17 years in the N.T., mainly in
the coastal districts, I have yet to see the
shade temperature go over a hundred. In
point of fact. Melbourne has more trying
heat-waves, and the statement about our
women is simply a dashed lie. On New
Year’s Day a neighbor of mine had 30 people
to dinner. The meal was cooked by her
two daughters. Incidentally, the two girls
and their mother had danced the old year
out the night before; coming home at 3 a.m.
they were up at 6 for a morning swim, and
cooked all the morning, not with electric-
stove. or gas-oven, but an old-fashioned wood-
burning stove. And next day was washing-
day—pile upon pile of white clothes to be
washed and boiled and blued and starched,
for in the Territory no one wears a white
dress more than once. Nor are there any
patent washing-machines, set-in troughs or
copner. The wash-boiler stands out in the
open, over a trough, the tubs are on a bench on
the verandah, and the water is carried by
hand from a near-by tap or from a well.
Yet these people are just average Territory
folk, who in the intervals of cooking, wash-
ing, ironing, scrubbing, sewing and what
not, can still find time to dance and picnic,
and keep happy-hearted as well as healthy.
Of course, there are a few drones every-
where, and I don’t say you can’t find women
who excuse their disinclination to work by
complaints about the climate. Yet these
are the exceptions. Meanwhile, the average
southern author, knowing nothing of the
real life of the Territory, not only goes on
drawing his distorted caricatures, but mnn-
ages to get them printed and paid for. The
one consolation we have is that The Bulle-
tin won’t allow us to be libelled in its too-
few pages.
Our Holy Places.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When with a pilgrim staff some heart shall
turn
Back to the holy places of this land
He shall tread deep on deserts as of sand,
Past the low lights where trade-built
churches burn
Ashes of memory for oblivion’s urn,
And no man loves or seeks to understand.
Leaving the gilded tombs on either hand,
To other shrines his eager soul shall yearn.
And he shall find, obscured by hedge or wall,
The spot where first Australian soil grew
bread
And where the grapes first ripened on the
vine;
There on liis proud knees shall the pilgrim
fall
And, holding sacrament with our first dead,
Believe and tremble with his eyes asliine.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers an classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
All “Alston’ Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil. v; . ;
Over 50,000 Alston Mills' now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft, diameter, and have, the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole- attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
Windmills
JAMES ALSTON § SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
~
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Gillies, the new Queensland Labor leader,
is Treasurer, Chief Secretary and Vice-
President of the Executive Council as well
as Premier. Therein he is keeping alive
a tradition established by Mcllwraith in
1893, and followed by Philp in 1901, by
Kidston in 1906, and by Philp again in
1907; the heads of most other Queensland
Governments were much more lenient to
themselves. It is not in the nature of a
Premier whose forebears came from the
Land of Cakes to loaf on the job.
Prime Minister Bruce opened the New-
castle show the other day with the usual
words of uplift:—
They should be able to sink all political differences
upon the question of what was the best policy for
the general development of Australia, and to work
in unison towards this object. . . .“Let us try to go
forward as a united people, divided on small questions
if we must be, but united on the one great question
of the development of our country, and the determina-
tion to make it a great nation, which we are all
assured it will one day be.”
Meanwhile a largely alien crowd, which
scoffs at Bruce’s courts and Parliament and
laws, and which is busy on the small ques-
tion of destroying Australia’s whole scheme
of civilisation, was holding up more of his
ships. And hearing of his threat to sell the
job-controlled fleet the imported leaders of
the insurrection guffawed joyously, and said
they would stop any nonsense of that sort,
and show who was master.
One of the Bruce-Page Government’s wor-
ries concerns the election prospects of its
two Ministers in the Senate who will have
to face the music next year. Westralia has
given unmistakable signs that it is weary
of Pearce, and prospective Ministerial can-
didates in Jarrahland are anxious to avoid
being led by so palpable a dud. There have
been stray hints that the gentleman would
condescend to change Houses if a safe seat
were placed at his disposal, but the rest has
been silence. Wilson’s difficulty is with the
S. Aus. Cockies, who may refuse to endorse
him on the ground that he is too thick with
the Nationalists. Still, unlike Pearce, Wil-
son has a big personal following, and even
if the Cockies officially cast him out they
are hot likely to run a candidate of their
own. A group with only two men in the
State Assembly wouldn’t stand a ghost of a
chance for the Senate.
Realising that it has little chance of win-
ning the N.S.W. general election without the
public-service vote, the State Labor party
is making the most brazen bids for the
article. Great was its delight therefore
when, Premier Fuller having refused to sub-
stitute compulsory arbitration for the salary-
committees system in the departments, the
Public Service Conference debated a proposal
to fix things up with the A.L.P. executive.
But a section of the delegates thought better
of the nasty business before the irrevocable
step was taken, and the motion was lost by
four votes. Maybe the public-service vote
will sock the Government all the same. If
the vote were segregated, as it should bo-
und as in the end it will have to be, with
elective Ministries tacked on as a safeguard
—there could be none of this abominable
threatening and bargaining.
Resenting the criticism of the W ee Frees
of their party who object to Composite Minis-
tries, the Cocky members of the Allan-
Peacock Coalition (Vic.) say that a group
comprising only one-fifth of the State Assem-
bly would look foolish trying to plough a lone
furrow. The two factions are to have it
out at the F.U. Conference in Melbourne on
March 10, 11 and 12. A certain nervousness
is visible in the Federal Parliamentary
lobbies, for the Wee Frees have no more use
for the Bruce-Page arrangement than for the
alliance between Allan and Peacock.
It is within the bounds of possibility that
Britain may disqualify the whdle tribe of
Communists and apostles of destruction as
members of Parliament, if not as voters.
Some might still enter the House, no doubt,
disguised as High Anglicans, but a Com-
munist who has to talk and vote and behave
like a High Anglican in order to avert sus-
THE NEW BRAND OF JUSTICE.
“There is great indignation in the West (N.S.W.) over the absurdly light sentences inflicted upon
some persons recently convicted of abominable offences.”
HIS HONOR: “You poor man! How badly society must have treated you to drive you
to such a deed as this! We can never sufficiently atone for the wrong we have
done you. I am sorry all I can do for you is to give you 20s. out of
the poor box.”
picion and expulsion would cause little
trouble. At different times Britain disquali-
fied for the M.P.’s jab persons without a solid
landed estate, R-C-H Protestants who dis-
sented from the Established Church, infidels
and Jews. It would be a small thing by
comparison to disqualify red, mad revolu-
tionists. Incidentally, it 'would be a blessed
relief to Ramsay Macdonald if a lot of his
worst supporters were pushed out (provided
someone else did the pushing), and their
constituents had to replace them by men
whom a moderately slane Labor leader could
get on with.
The N.S.W. Government let it be known
that seven appointments would probably be
made to the Upper House to carry the Mar-
riage Amendment Bill, and the shoal of early
applications numbered between 200 and 300.
Yet, apart from the enjoyment of some old
men’s society during a few months of the year,
the ostensible reward) of the M.L.C. is a free
pass, which is no usse on a ’bus, or a ferry-
boat or an airplane, or in a cab rank. And
there is much the same intense demand for
the position of Sydney alderman, which
doesn’t even carry a pass. It almost looks
as if some people think there is a living in
the business somewhere.
Tas. liop-growers don’t think much of
Prime Minister Bruce or his Board of Trade
these days. For his (or its) offer to advance
the State Government £Bl,OOO for the use
of the farmers who have gone to the ex-
pense of growing and harvesting a crop
which importations have rendered unsaleable,
they say “Thanks for nothing.” Premier
Lyons is now asking the Federal Govern-
ment to call a meeting of Australian brew-
ers’ representatives aiid let him loose on
them with a fresh proposition or appeal or
something. It looks like a last and rather
forlorn resort, but Lyons is a persistent
person, full of hope. Why can’t Austra-
lian beer-drinkers insist upon Australian
brewers using home-grown hops,. anyway ?
A parting remark of the Queensland Min-
istry before it went away to be reconstructed
was to the effect that the State stations and
meat canneries would have to be written
down. When the figures were made up in
1923 the Government owned 15 stations
with 218,413 cattle on them, and in a land
where the beeves number between six and
seven millions these operations were hardly
big enough to be worth while. One station
in 1923 had 226 animals on it, which looks
more like a siding than a station. The loss
isn’t stated, but if the amount, whatever it
may be, is taken out of the station account
and put into the general loan account, so
that the people will owe it the same as
ever, it won’t be a real writing down, but
a fake or camouflage. In that respect there
is a sameness about borrowing Governments
and their loan enterprises. A company may
make a call on the shareholders to pay off
the loss on a rotten spec., but never a
Cabinet.
A Maorilander who was determined to dis-
cover the truth about Angel Island, San
Francisco, the Ellis Island of the Pacific
Coast, called round there one day lately to
interview any of his countrymen who might
be awaiting deportatiop. He found 18 of
such (allegedly), and after a few inquiries,
which several answered with a marked nasal
accent, made the interesting discovery that
a number of them had not the remotest idea
where Maoriland was, but, being informed
that deportation was their fate, had selected
that country merely on reputation. The one
or two genuine Maorilanders complained that
mental defectives and gaolbirds, unwanted by
the U.S. authorities, were being shipped with-
out inquiry to Maoriland. Uncle allows
anyone to leave his country, but is quite
fussy about who shall come in.
Now it is the Westralian soldier-settlers
who are asking the Government for a revalu-
ation of their properties. The request was
made at a Perth conference, at which a
grape-grower stated that 80 p.c. of his fel-
lows might have to get off their holdings, a
dairyrfarmer that men in his district were
quitting every day, and a market-gardener
that Digger vegetable-growers were being dis-
placed by foreigners who lived on raw onions.
And even while the tales of lamentation were
being told, one of those Oockies known as
St. George’s-terrace farmers —a Freetrader,
of course—was assuring the Higgs Commis-
sion that “the solution of the Westralian
problem created by Federation lay in the
encouragement of primary production of all
classes.” What Westralia really needs is a
lot more enterprises like the worsted mill
that has just been established at Albany.
In short, the development of the home market
by Protection instead of its destruction by
Freetrade.
Even the depressing record of the Ma
State in the matter of soldier settlements
is seriously threatened by Queensland, which
had a much smaller job to handle. The
soldier-settlement re-valuations up north
have induced the State Government to write
off £91,787 against improvement values and
£250,000 interest. In some cases unpaid in-
terest is being written off up to the end
of last year, and to the end of this year in
others. Interest on the Beerburrum advances
has been wiped out to the end of 1927.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners state that
amongst the unremunerative services ren-
dered by the' railways last year were £5992,
free passes to members of the Leg. Council
and £lOl9, free carriage of corpses. There
seems to be an unnecessary distinction here.
Dr. ,T. W. Springthorpe, giving evidence
before tbe Federal Health Commission in
Melbourne, said that between 1918 and 1922
Australia lost through death 122,47?! child-
ren under the age of live —more than the
total net immigration for those years.
Although the figures for infantile mortality
of this country are good, there is room for
improvement; they are not nearly so attrac-
tive as those of Maoriland, where Truby
King and others have grappled with the
problem, and proved themselves the best of
all immigration agents.
How friendly nations respect the rights of
other nations when those rights are not
backed up by an adequate reserve of punch
is seen in Article 4 of the Russo-,Tap.
Treaty, against which China has vainly pro-
tested. That article declares that the two
high contracting parties shall respect each
other’s interests in China under the old
Portsmouth Treaty. It is the same as if
India and Ceylon agreed that, provided India
were left in quiet possession of the Northern
Territory, Ceylon could carry on in tropical
Queensland.
Frank Foster, once a northern N.S.W.
member, laid the foundations of another
political party the other day. They will be
described as the Oners. Their scheme in-
cludes one one-House Parliament, one vote
for each citizen over 18 (over 21 would be
more harmonious), one Governor, one local
Government system, one national landlord,
one universal providery in each city or sub-
urb or town, one currency (which we seem to
have already), one method of dealing with
drought (perhaps by pouring one jug of
water on it), one tax, one uniform wage,
one bank and insurance office, one system of
education, and various other ones. The pro-
gramme would be nicely rounded off if it was
provided that members should be paid £1
per week, and be disqualified after one Par-
liament; also that preference should be given
to one-legged candidates.
From S’Africa comes the news that a
party of British waiters who celebrated their
arrival by working up a pretty little strike
were incontinently deported by the Dopper-
Labor Government. Canada has an Immi-
gration Act by virtue of which
Any person other than a Canadian citizen who
advocates the overthrow by force or violence of
the Government of Britain or Canada, or other British
dominion, colon}' or possession, or of any consti-
tuted authority or association in the countries men-
tioned
may be expelled by the Immigration Depart-
ment without reference to the Courts. Even
our own Immigration Act, mild as it is, em-
powers the Minister to deport any person,
not an Australian nat,'e nor a resident for
more than three years, who advocates assas-
sination, the unlawful destruction of
property, or the overthrow by force or vio-
lence of the established Government in Aus-
tralia or any civilised country. These facts
are collected for the benefit of Marr, the
new “Secretary” to the much-too-urbane
Cabinet, who appears to imagine that Aus-
tralia must suffer the presence of any ill-
conditioned incendiary so long as he calls
himself a British subject.
The Vic. Railway Union has lost the latest
game of poker with the Commissioners. The
railway men asked for a rise of no less than
2s. lOd. a day—from 18s. lid. to 16s. 9d.—
in the basic wage. Clapp replied to that
bluff with some of his own—he suggested
either a differential rate (13s. 4d. in the
city and 12s. 7d. in the country) or a flat
rate (13s. 2d.). Of course they couldn’t
agree, so it went to the Classification Board,
which, by tossing for it or otherwise, arrived
at a flat rate of 13s. 8d. —a reduction of 3d.,
which means £37,500 less for Clapp to pay
out this half-year.
THE MATTER OF SUNSHINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The food of Britain suffers from lack of sun-
shine. It might be wise to import Australian milk
in powdered form.” —Cabled statement oj a scientific
expert.
When Henry fought at Agincourt
And drove a very hefty lance,
He paused a moment to deplore
The sunshine that they had in France.
Although he killed so many men
At such a very modest price,
He felt that sunshine now and then
Might nerve his arm to kill them twice.
The gloom of Britain age by age
Has spoiled her chance of doing things,
And tamed her very noble rage
And spoiled her best imaginings.
Though Shakspeare through the river fog
Of Avon often sang quite well,
It must have been old Spanish grog
That helped the tale he had to tell.
If he had eaten frozen meat
That tasted west of Darling sun
His dramas had been more complete,
His clever sonnets better done;
And Bacon if he had been fed
On piglings cured in New South Wales,
Might well have had his name instead
Of Shakspeare’s printed on “Lamb’s Tales.”
Old England in the northern gloom
Languished amid her ale and beef;
Her nationhood could never bloom
While darkness fell on stem and leaf;
And though her ships went east and west
And half the world was at her feet,
She never really did her best
For lack of sunny food to eat.
But wiser counsels now prevail,
A newer, brighter day has dawned ;
Her arm grows strong, she cannot fail,
Although her future may seem pawned.
Kill all the cows that Berkshire breeds,
Burn all the dairy farms of Kent l
The sunshine that she really needs
Is milked upon our continent.
Ho, Strawberry ! your chance is great I
Rise to your splendid destiny,
And face the ever-glorious fate
Of pouring milk in Britain’s tea!
John Bull beneath his skies is glum,
For all his ancient pride and pelf;
But why the deuce does he not come
And milk the blessed cow himself?
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


THE EARBITERS.
“The Prime Minister has sufficiently recovered from the operation to his ear to be able to resume his public duties."


ul *«?-
X 1
%
mi
w//
Sm
333
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist.
20
for
VS
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“E.8.X.” : How’s this for infantile tough-
ness? Raymond St. John Weston was
charged in the Perth Police Court with
being a neglected child and committed to the
care of the State. Said Raymond was dis-
covered about five weeks previously upon
the railway track near Westonia, newly born
and minus clothing, having presumably been
jettisoned from a train about 24 hours pre-
viously. His skin was severely blistered
by the heat, and he had a compound fracture
of the leg. He had also, from indications,
been bitten by a dingo. Having survived
this almost incredible experience so early in
life, the waif should have a future ahead of
him.
* * * #
“Vaselino”: The enemy air-raid had left
30 victims in the horse-lines, and imme-
diately on the “All clear” signal the work
of burial began. The Jordan Valley heat
soon began to have its effect, not only on the
casualties, but on the fatigue party en-
trusted with the job of interment. Pre-
sently the lieutenant in charge asked his
corporal how he was getting on with the
grave-digging. That worthy, wiping the
sweat from his brow and glancing at the
OH, THAT'S DIFFERENT!
SNOWY : “Can yer tell a feller ’ow to teach a girl to swim?”
DARKIE : “Well, yer goes up to her, takes her 'and gentle, puts
yer arm round her waist”
SNOWY: “Er, cut it out — she’s my sister!”
DARKIE ( disgustedly): “Yer sister! Oh, yer just shove ’er in!”
carcases, now visibly swelling, shook his
head disgustedly: “Not too good, I’m afraid,
sir—the blankards are gaining on us.”
» * * *
“A.M.J.”: During the outbreak of pneu-
monic ’flu in 1918-19 my faith in omens got
a jolt from which it has never recovered. A
girl friend of mine contracted the malady
in its most serious form, and the doctor had
just broken to her mother the news that
there was no hope of the sufferer’s recovery.
While the mother remained on the veran-
dah fighting for self-control, a lorry-load of
coffins approached. Exactly opposite her
gate one coffin dropped off the stack. The
distressed mother fainted. The daughter
recovered.
* * * *
“Toonooba” explodes some figments:—
There are no traces of nor any evidence to suggest
that there ever was a Spanish settlement at Port Cur-
tis, Central Queensland (B. 15/l/’25). The story
seems to have arisen out of a brass cannon with the
words “Santa Barbara, 1596,” cast on it, the alleged
wreck of an unknown vessel, on Facing Island, and a
clearing with ruins of a house and two wells slabbed
with sawn timber on South Trees Point. But the
Santa Barbara gun was brought to Gladstone in 1859
by the crew of the
Marina, wrecked on
the Barrier Reef near
Raine’s Inlet. The
800-mile trip to Port
Cuntis was made in
two of the ship’s boas.
En route the mariners
called at an island
where they found a
wrecked English vessel;
the Santa Barbara
cannon was one of two
that had been removed
from it and left above
high-water mark. Both
were taken aboard the
Marina’s boats as bal-
last. This is the story
told by the late Capt.
J. Jrnsen, pilot at
Port Curtis, who was
one of the crew of the
Marina. Later the gun
was shipped to Sydney,
but has never since
been located. It was
in good condition when
found, and its presence
on the English vessel
was natural enough, for
most merchantmen
went armed in those
days, and their artil-
lery was often second-
hand. No Spanish
wreck was ever seen on
Facing Island. The
traces of occupation
(all of which have no>v
vanished) were relics
of Colonel Barney’s
North Australia Settle-
ment, abandoned after
four months in 1317.
It is known that Bar-
ney did make a clear-
ing and sink wells in
the locality. In all
the records of Port
Curtis there is no
reference to the dis-
covery of Spanish
relics. The story was fabricated after Cardinal Moran
had claimed Port Curtis as the spot where De Quiros
landed.
* * * *
“Mako”: Here’s another entry for the
Quick-change Welter. When a loaded troop-
ship was about to
depart from Auck-
land the melan-
choly news flew
round that no
shore leave was to
be granted. One
youngster, who had
made an appoint-
ment with a lady
under the G.P.O.
clock, rushed down-
stairs, slipped into
civvies, borrowed
the cap and apron
of the ship’s second
cook, and walked
ashore. As the
cooks were not
under military con-
trol the sentries
allowed him to
pass, and though
the waiting lady
received a shock
she was induced to
withhold her com-
ments until the
masquerader had
bundled her into a
taxi and removed
his disguise. At
11 p.m. lie walked
on board again.
Nothing further
was heard of the
matter, except from
envious pals who
had not thought quickly enough.
* * # *
“Iford”: The Sydney morning papers an-
nounced to a stunned public on Friday that
four hares and a number of guinea-pigs
which had been inoculated for scientific pur-
poses with certain unspecified but highly
contagious diseases had been removed by
some marauder from a small wire-netting
enclosure at the rear of Prince Alfred Hos-
pital. Also it was hinted that, whether the
pest-loaded animals were stolen to be eaten
or for any other purpose, the theft might
have dreadful consequences—which is obvi-
ous enough. I never heard of anyone eating
guinea-pigs, and one would imagine the
market for them to be strictly limited, but
the hares may have been jugged and con-
sumed with red-currant jelly before the item
got into print. But the amazing thing to
most people must have been the disclosure that
animals in this state—incubators for h iv
the hospital experimentalists know what hid-
eous bacilli —are kept in a place which any
evil-minded person can raid with no more
trouble than is involved in scaling a back-
yard fence or wall and cutting a hole in
wire-netting. It is likely that the thief had
WORSE AND WORSE.
“Oh, darling, what, a horrible suit!”
“Yes, dear. And now my bally tailor tells me it’s one of lose
indestructible tweeds.”
a very bad quarter of an hour when he
learned from the press—if he has done so—
what his nocturnal bag contained; but what
of the consciences of these laboratory investi-
gators? The law decrees that dangerous
mineral explosives must be kept jealously
guarded at all times; can animals capable
of spreading disease through a community
be packfed away for the night with no more
precautions than if they were pet canaries?
* * * *
“0.C.C.”: On the morning after the expul-
sion from Eden, Adam found Eve in tears
and a freshly-picked figleaf. “Don’t weep,
dearest,” he said; “I shall not lose any time
in looking for work.” “It’s n-not th-th-
that,” sobbed Eve; “it’s th-that horrid Ser-
pent again.” “Why, what’s he done?” asked
Adam, slightly alarmed. Without a word
Eve pointed to the entrance to the cave they
had slept in during that awful First Night.
Over the top ran the mocking sign:—
Eat More Fruit.
They wept in unison.
# * * *
“Bay Webb”: In a Bulletin par.
(13/11/’24) I stated that natives of the
high seas born under the Union Jack are
registered at Stepney Church, London. Some
contradictions which followed led me to in-
vestigate further. One of the dissentients
declared that children born in a ship bound
for Australia had been registered at Hobart.
In reply to my inquiry the Registrar at
Hobart writes me that children born upon
the high seas may be registered there within
IS months of birth. After reading The
Bulletin cuttings, the rector of Stepney,
London, sends me the following, under date
January 12, ’25 :
In the early part of last century the guardians of
Stepney successfully resisted the demands of indi-
gent persons who, having been born at sea, sought
the Courts to support their claim for relief at the
cost of the ratepayers of that parish. Calling of
banns of those born at sea as residents of the parish
of Stepney was continued until 20 years ago. Then
the ecclesiastical lawyers took up the position that
the custom was not immemorial, and the Bishop
ordered cessation of the practice. Nevertheless,- we
still maintain some of the tradition. Any chaplain
who baptises children at sea usually sends us the
record, and we enter it in our Baptism Register. I
fancy that the Navy also still adheres to the tradi-
tion of the high seas being in our parish....lt is
only two months since a lawyer told me that the
usage is still followed in writs. When one wants to
get at a British subject at sea, the writ is made
out to him as in the parish of St. Dunstan, Stepney.
The origin of it all, of course, is that we arc the
Mother Church of East London, the one church on
the river here when the marine greatness of England
began. We were evidently used as the Port of
London Church by those who came and went to and
from the first docks at Ratcliff and a link was
maintained between us and all who had gone to sea.
I fancy that in certain documents people on Navy
boats at sea are still described as of this parish.
I may add that the information so obligingly
supplied was at the request of the vicar of
my parish in Melbourne, who generously
put me in touch with the Rev. B. F. Simp-
son, the Stepney rector.
» ♦ * *
"Thursday Island”: Some time ago The
Bulletin said something to the effect that
"one Japanese is more like any other Jap-
anese than he is like himself.” There is
at least one man in this part of the world
who will, endorse that statement. Our visit-
ing dentist had just removed an obstinate
molar from a Jap patient, and left him in
the chair to revive while he himself took
a breath of fresh air on the verandah. Re-
turning he found Jappy still in the chair,
with his head on the rest and eyes closed.
Thinking that the patient was feeling the
effects of cocaine, the dentist mixed a pick-
me-up ; after the Jap had disposed of it. he
asked him how he felt. “Oh, me all right,”
was the reply. “Open your mouth,” said the
tusk-tugger, desirous of having a final look
at his handiwork. The Jap did so. and dis-
played two complete sets of ivories. The
dentist gasped. “Where is that tooth I ju t
pulled out?” he demanded. “No pull tooth
for me,” returned the alien imperturbably.
“You pull tooth belong ’notlier man. Him
go out back door, me come in.”
* * * *
“Alpha”,: At four o’clock tea talk it was
decided that tiger-skin fashions were alto-
gether too catty-looking for this feminist
age, and then conversation turned on the
smartest and best-preserved lady of the set,
who was absent. “Yes, she really is a
marvel—perfectly wonderful considering her
age!” “Why, just how old is she?” de-
manded Miss Matter-of-Fact. “How old is
she?” snorted Anti-tiger Fashions —“so old
that she knitted Adam’s bootees.”
* * # *
“Tren” : Feminine modesty in “the East”
is a queer thing. While Light Horsemen
and Cameliers lounged on the banks of Lake
Timseh, near Moascar, Egypt, before and
after their official weekly dip, hosts of
Gyppo matrons and maidens —and not hus-
sies either—would mingle with them, selling
orangees, cigaras, matcliees and other wares
utterly unaffected by the sight of hundreds
of white men in the altogether. But if a
solitary nude Gyppo appeared the whole
crowd would flee as if pursued by Mahomet’s
ghost. The Palestine women were just the
same. When we could afford a pannikin of
water for a sponge bath a host of orange
bints would stand around and gaze curiously
at us. In our embarrassment at being in-
timately examined and discussed we tried
many ruses to keep females away while we
bathed; all unavailing, until the ladies them-
selves showed us the way. They had caught
a glimpse of a Gyppo under medical treat-
ment who was being smeared all over with
If I STAKE SOME WHERE.
NEW ARRIVAL: “How often do the fashions
change here?"
PETTER: “Never. Same robe, halo and harp
all the time.”
NEW ARRIVAL : “Oh, beg pardon, I thought
this was Heaven.”
sulphur ointment, and with one unanimous
shriek they imshied. Thereafter, whenever
Arab women became a nuisance, Mahomet
Ali Basha would begin to disrobe before
them, and the camp would be clear instantly.
Why we whites were regarded as neuter
gender has always puzzled me.
(Continued on page 16.)
ELUSIVENESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s just a kiss, and then good-bye 1
So runs life’s fleeting story.
Whilst gladness smiles within her eye
A moment gleams Love’s glory;
And then a dull ache holds the heart,
For lovers only meet to part.
’Tis thus with all for which we care
And would for some space treasure;
Our raptures lightly melt in air
Ere we have had their measure.
(How swiftly does each dear quid fly—
It’s just a kiss and then good-bye!)
’Tis truth that many tales move on
To finish at the altar ;
The husband finds the lover gone—
A wife now holds the halter
Which, planning love’s, swift flight to check,
He helped to fasten on his neck.
He learns the kiss was but a snare
By which, on high hope carried,
Life trapped him for a life of care—
Chained, manacled and married 1
’Tis best to know swift bliss and fly—
So just one kiss and then good-bye !
VICTORIA.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


m
m
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto.
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
srt&rdb
U queub
/ nr//f>L
f V -i..
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
# * * *
“11.J.J.”: At Heliopolis in ’l(> a Digger
was detailed to tlie star job of groom at the
Aussie hospital. The morning he left to
take up his much-coveted position one of the
lads shouted out after him: “If you meet
Sister Bridge over there remember me to her.
I knew her when she was nursing at Pern-
bank Hospital.’’ The newly-appointed groom
assented, but a few days later, when he was
driving Sistgr Bridge, he played false, and
sought to substitute himself for the other
fellow. “You ought to remember me, Sister,”
he said ingratiatingly. “Why, I was a
patient at Pernbank Hospital for six weeks.”
Nurse smilingly apologised for not recollect-
ing her old patient. The groom persisted,
however, although presently it began to
dawn on him that every allusion to his
sojourn at Pernbank Hospital served to
amuse rather than impress the nurse. It
was not till a fortnight later he learned that
Pernbank Hospital was a receiving depot
for the Stork’s little bundles.
* * • »
“AV.P.M.”: A few hundred miles is no-
thing for a N.T. policeman to travel on
official duty (B. 12/2/’25). How is this for
a jaunt? An old N.T. identity was charged
by the police at Roper River with a number
of offences against the Aboriginal Act. The
cases were handed over to the District Pro-
tector, who, to give the man every chance,
decided to prosecute only on a minor charge,
and summoned him to appear in a month’s
time before a J.P. 150 miles distant, where
THE COMFORTER.
“She had the audacity to say I 'paint.”
“"Never mind, sweet one. If she had a complexion like you she'd
paint, too.”
the accused would at that date be working.
To collect evidence and obtain witnesses
the Protector, accompanied by a policeman,
rode 200 miles before reaching the place of
trial, to be then advised that the wanted
man had long since gone on, leaving a state-
ment to the effect that if he was particu-
larly wanted he could be well fol-
lowed. As he was wanted he was
followed, taken south of the Powell,
brought back to Borroloola and tried there,
his offence and his rudeness costing him £2O.
As he had no money the fine was paid by
the policeman! The Protector and the
policeman then returned to Boper River with
the colored lady, the cause of all the trouble.
li. this circuit the policeman had travelled,
with low tucker-bags and knocked-up horses,
1100 miles, and the Protector 800 miles.
But it was all in the game, and no one was
put out about it except the offender; although
it happened years back I am told he is still
grumbling.
* # » *
“Quack”: The wind had swung from N.
to S.-E., and the ship was beginning to lift
to the head-sea
that was piling up.
Before this the
Sydney girls had
been hauling their
full weight on the
tow-lines, in a man-
ner of speaking;
but now the pros-
pect of a quick
passage and arri-
val in time for the
port doctor was
less certain, and
the looks of the
little group on deck
became increas-
ingly gloomy. The
usual Job’s com-
forters were there
with the usual in-
stances of how
other vessels had
been “knocked
back” in the same
latitudes by just
such wind and sea
as now threatened.
One of the mates
recalled a likely
record trip that
had finished a day
and a half late, so
much had this
same head-sea
slowed the steamer
down. Then up
spake the fourth-
engineer, a man
whose experiences
were only less won-
derful than his
accounts of them.
“Why,” said he, “I
remember one trip
when I was on the
Melinda. It started
just like this. We’d
been doing 14, too,
but knot after knot
came untied, and
when Smoky Cape
reported us his tele-
gram read this
way: ‘Sighted steamship Melinda. Cannot
say which way she is going. ” #
A Castlemainc (Vic.) chaff
merchant pulled a roll of notes out of his
pocket to pay a bill, and absent-mindedly
placed the residue on the hay he was putting
through the chaffcutter. Subsequently, when
he realised what had happened, his entire
family was set to work to sort out the frag-
ments and paste them together on sheets of
paper. It took three days to work out the
unusual jig-saw puzzle, but the labor was
reckoned worth while when the bank paid
full value for all the notes.
* * * *
“Akran”: I remember one shell fired by
the enemy on Gallipoli which was regarded
as a godsend by the Diggers. The iron
ration came from Beacliy Bill; a little boat,
the Marsden, poked lier carcase in the road
of it and became a casualty. .She was
loaded with onions, and Abdul’s missile scat-
tered the cargo in
every direction. As
all lines of eating
material were ex-
ceedingly scarce
the onions were as
acceptable as the
manna which came
to the Israelites in
the wilderness
when tucker was
running short.
With one or two of
these succulent
vegetables even the
Fray Bentos bully
beef became nego-
tiable. The appe-
tisers floated about
on the ilgean
waters for weeks,
and every morning
the swimming parties defied Beachy Bill in
order to secure a day’s supply.
• » # *
“Flicker” : The recent collapse of a portion
of Government House wall during heavy
rains in Adelaide resulted in the grounds
of his Majesty’s representative being utilised
for purposes uncontemplated by the Con-
stitution. The gap is near the stretch of
lawn which runs down to the banks of what
Adelaide calls the River, and these lawns
are favorite dallying-grounds for lovers who
have not the time or cash for a ride to the
beach. Curiosity led some of these couples
to explore “Guvmint ’Ouse,” where many
sheltered spots were discovered, and the
august silence o i the vice-regal gardens be-
gan to be shattered by giggles, squeals and
slaps. Furthermore, a disgusted staff was
apt to find the secluded bowers littered with
chocolate-wrappers, ice-cream cones, empty
beer-bottles, the remains of crays and
other accessories of al fresco courtships. The
result is that a wire-fence has gone up to
prevent further trespass. Further, an effi-
cient police patrol lurks “softly on sandalled
SUPERFLUOUS.
“When father first heard someone wanted to marry me, he "began
talcing boxing lessons .”
“And note he has seen me?”
“'He says they're not necessary .”
feet” in the vicinity, and Mary Jane can no
longer boast to her friends that “she was in
at Guvmint ’Ouse lars night.”
* * * *
“Macann”: When a bullet found its man
in a roundabout way on the other side it was
said to have had his name on it. But a
bullet which killed a trainee at Richmond
(Vic.) the other day was actually so in-
scribed. Taken to a clearing-station by a
wounded Digger, it was souvenired from his
haversack by a medical orderly. He handed
it over to another Digger Who had been in-
valided to Blighty, after engraving the reci-
pient’s surname on it with a deal of flourish.
The new owner clung to it as a memento.
He returned to Australia, left the cartridge
at home and drifted away. His young
brother, on being issued with a trainee’s rifle,
fitted the souvenir into it, and was walking
to the back of the house, probably to try
the new weapon in the yard, when a small
doormat slipped on a freshly-polished floor
and let him down. The rifle went off and
the youngster collected his final issue through
the forehead.
» # # #
“Ex-Dig”: Artist George Benson, in the
days when he was attached to lI.Q. at Gal-
lipoli, sallied forth one morning to obtain a
s?* itch. The dry weather of months had
turned the soil of the hillside to greasy sand,
but all of a sudden torrential rain began to
fall. Benson, hurrying back through the
deluge, slid and slithered until Providence
was good enough to lead him to a forked
stick, which he used as an alpenstock. A
number of Diggers had huddled themselves
under oil-sheet shelters. As Benson picked
his way past in the deluge a head poked out
from one of the retreats. “Gor’blime!” its
owner remarked, “there goes a bloomin’
water-diviner.”
* * # *
“W. J. Digger” sees some fine adjustments:
Mrs. Skinaphleigh directed her chauffeur to drive
to the establishment of Angus Macdothem, the Cut-
price Grocer. A dress of late Victorian pattern en-
veloped her attenuated frame, while the hat which
surmounted her iron-grey hair had been classified as
Early Edwardian. Despite her three thousand a year
Mrs. Skinaphleigh was not happy: she lived in con-
stant dread of dying in poverty, and she strove by
rigorous economy to avoid that disaster. She alighted
with all the dignity of a mediaeval princess. “May
I inquire, Mr. Macdothem, what you are paying
for new-laid eggs to-day?” she asked. “One-thrip-
pence-’a’penny, Mum.” “I understand, then, that is
the market price. But this morning your man paid
me only one-and-two-pence-hal’penny, so you owe
me, let me see, four dozen at one penny—ah, four-
pence.” Macdothem was quick to perceive that she
carried no handbag, so, flinging open the cash regis-
ter, he withdrew a shilling and held it aloft. “I’ll
trouble your for eightpence change, Mum.” Mrs.
Skinaphleigh’s dignity would not allow her to
return to the car for her purse; so, ignor-
ing the proffered shilling, she made a swift inventory
of the shelves. “Perhaps I could take payment in
goods?” “Clothes-pegs?” he suggested. “A quarter
of cooking butter? Peanuts?” She paused irreso-
lutely, and then: “Matches, of course; cook told me
we were short of matches only this morning.” He
wrapped half a dozen up with elaborate care and
the lady departed. But suddenly she reappeared and
her flashing eyes held him captive again. “I see by
the card in your window, Mr. Macdothem, that
matches are now sevenpence-halfpenny the dozen, so
we're not quite square, are we?” It takes some-
thing to rouse a cut-price grocer, but Mrs. Skina-
phleigh had done it. Removing the stopper from a
glass jar he thrust in his hand and withdrew a quaint
sweetmeat. “Take it, Madam,” he cried with heavy
sarcasm. “They sell at twa a penny tae th’ childer ;
but I’m nae here tae make a profit out o’ ye.”
* * * *
“Caractacus”: Melbourne’s move to put
towers on 50-year-old St. Paul’s Cathedral
illustrates the leisureliness with which con-
gregations complete projects started in a fine
frenzy of enthusiasm by their forebears. St.
Paul’s has a mate up-street in St. Patrick’s,
which is lacking just as many spires as its
rival, and has lacked them as long. Close
to these two shrines are West Melbourne
and Cairns kirks, each a tower or spire
short. The former is so little likely ever
to have a tower that its fence is beginning
to fall down. Cairns is a memorial to an
early “meenister”—there is something speci-
ally slipshod about a “memorial” unfinished.
A little further on the Wilson Hall, at the
University—the beautiful gift in 1875 of
Samuel Wilson —ends at the rear in raw
edges. None of these places has been touched
for generations. Victoria’s next-oldest town
• —Geelong—is as unfinished ecclesiastically.
Two leading Presbyterian churches and an
Anglican tabernacle are each short an ambi-
tiously-planned tower or spire. . The It.C.
parish church is two towers short, and ends
about half-way down the nave in a weather-
board wall.
* * * *
“Harold Ilardupp”: The amateur crimi-
nals of Melbourne had quite an outing during
a recent week-end. One of them held up
four women in succession and secured a
whole 9Ad. from the one purse he managed to
get his hands on. The other three were dis-
inclined to hand over their wealth, and the
desperado fled from their screams. Another
beginner, after effecting an entry into a house
during the absence of the owners, injudici-
ously left his hat and boots in the hall before
starting to prospect for valuables. When
two male members of the family returned a
few minutes later, they naturally regarded
the exhibits as indicating the presence of an
intruder. And then the novice made a worse
mistake; he hid himself under the dining-
room table instead of escaping through a
conveniently open window. But the carni-
val of futile crime brought to light at least
one chivalrous brigand. Having relieved a
woman of her purse he paused to hear a tear-
ful story about her husband’s lack of employ-
ment. Then, extracting two shillings from
his loot, and expressing the hope that she
might be able to spare that, he handed back
the purse and the remainder of its contents.
It seems a proper ending to the story that
the woman was “unable to give a description
of the robber.”
EASILY FIXED.
DOCTOR: “If, as you say, you wake yourself
up through snoring, why don’t you sleep
in another room?”
“Der Tong”: The decision of the African
Parliament to petition the King to refrain
from conferring titles on his African sub-
jects is in accord with Dutch precedent.
Yet, like the American, the Boer dearly loves
his own equivalent of a handle. Even in
private life Eandrost de Yilliers, Predikant
Van der Merwe and Veldt Cornet Cloete
expect to be addressed by their titles and
the rule holds good of all jobs and profes-
sions. And many a flea in the ear has the
writer acquired by forgetting this social
law when accosting Vrouw Predikant Svart-
vark or Tantje Commandant Fourie.
BLACK BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Hobart waterside workers have declared beer
black until such time as the breweries shall reduce
prices. The hotels are being picketed.’’
The wine is rosy-red all right
In Hobart —when it isn’t white,
Or purple, held against the light,
Or whatsoe’er the shade is
The connoisseur may label it.
But all the beer is every bit
As black as Erebus—the pit
Between the earth and Hades.
The gin is still of crystal hue;
The eau de vie is amber, too,
And amber still the mountain dew.
But men on wharves who yacker
No longer blow the froth apace
Off pints and pots with careless grace—
In their embittered eyes the ace
Of spades is hardly blacker.
The Bungs are sagging at the knees;
The sun that shines on sparkling seas
And shipping tied aside the quays
Must dimmer seem and duller; ,
No longer the “October brown”
Of English poets gurgles down
Receptive throats. In Hobart town
It’s gone another color.
No more upon the board they bump
The long ’uns. Demos has the hump ;
All idle stands the bar-room pump
And stilled the jovial shout is.
The beer that cheers (and sometimes stings)
Is black as tar or ravens’ wings,
Or soot that to the chimney clings—
I wonder what the stout is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
| in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
lCKers
CO- LTD
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle. Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
Death Benefits. Eas J' Instalments.
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CC., LTD.,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Pirbury House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914.. £15,865 5 p.c. = £9,025 £6,840 £57,039
1915.. 11,644 6J „ „ 11.282 362 57,401
Law costs written off, £4690 . . 52,711
1916.. 11,871 44 p.c. = 8,287 3,584 66,295
1917.. 11,606 5 „ „ 9,025 2,581 58,876
1918.. 7,450 24 ~ „ 4,513 2,937 61,813
1919.. 877 31 „ „ 6,769 55,921
1920.. 18,764 10 „ „ 18,051 713 56,634
1921.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
1922.. 7,101 6i „ „ 11,282 65,822
1923.. 7,142 6) „,, 11,282 61,682
1924.. 20,369 10 „ „ 18,051 2,318 64,000
Shareholders who retained their scrip rather
than let it go at the market’s low —and cor-
rect —valuation in recent years get their first
decent div. since 1920 and the second since
1012. The co. is improving its position;
but, although it is a vastly different proposi-
tion from what it was when its creator, J. D.
Williams, left it in 1912, it still has a long
way to go before its scrip will be attractive.
J.D. was a hustling Yankee who hit Aus-
tralia when the continuous picture-show was
almost unknown outside his homeland. Filled
with the enthusiasm of the pioneer—or the
company promoter—he threw himself into
the “movie” business, formed himself into a
co., formed another co. to take himself over,
then formed Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment to take over the second co. This last
had a nominal capital of £200,000 in £1
shares, of which £180,506 was paid in 1912,
when, after internal trouble, the directors
received the resignation of “J.D.” and ap-
pointed Barrington Miller to the Board and
to control. The picture combine was being
hatched at the time, and this saved the co.
when the rocks were so close that the roar
of the breakers could be heard. The next
year’s balance-sheet saw the old goodwill
items of £63,700 displaced by “shares in
Union Theatres and Australasian Films,
£395,000.” There was probably more good-
will in the later entry, inasmuch as the
Combine’s capital is represented mostly by
intangibles, but at least the Combine earned
money. Australasian Films does the hiring
and Union Theatres the showing, and
Greater J. D. Williams, Ltd., the Taits,
Wests and Spencers are the controllers of
both concerns. It was a lucky escape for
J.D.W. shareholders, and particularly for
those who came in at the height of a boom
in the scrip on Sydney ’Change. Here are
the co.’s assets, apart from the shares in
other cos.:—
1917. 1923. 1924.
Freeholds, leasehold ... £34,862 £34,442 £34,442
Advances to Combine cos. 36,869 32,315 40,986
Furniture, etc. .. 1,196 3,454 3,106
Cash, book debts .. 6,171 5,077 3,810
£79,098 £74,288 £82,344
The debt is not great:—
1917. 1923. 1924.
Mortgage .. .. £28,000 £lB,OOO £lB,OOO
Debentures .. .. 4,800 4,800 4,800
Sundry creditors .. 1,904 1,506 1,427
£34,704 £24,306 £24,227
The shares in the two Combine cos. are in
the books at £195,000, and there is £4500 in
“other companies,” Out of the assets shown
must be taken the final div. of £11,282. Even
allowing that the Melbourne freehold is
worth more than the figure at which it
appears in the books, all of the reserves and
most of the £180,506 of capital must be re-
presented by water and hot air. However, if the
Combine cos. can- send along fair-sized divs.
regularly to assist rentals and interest, then
the scrip will come into favor with investors
who are not particular whether their money
is represented by things you can tap with a
walking-stick. Certainly, the competition in
the business is being curbed; it still is easy
to put lip a picture-theatre at the street
corner, but the matter of film-supplies keeps
newcomers out —or limits them. And the
big established concerns, Of which Union
Theatres is oiie, are getting the pick
of the business. Slow but steady improve-
ment seems, therefore, probable, and this
should assist the Greater J. D. W. Co. to
pay a better average div. Net rentals have
been over £ll,OOO p.a. for the past
four years, and interest has been approx-
imately £2OOO p.a. since 1922; but about
half of this is consumed by exes., including
interest on the co.’s own borrowings. A
7 p.c. div. from the Combine cos. must be
added to the co.’s other net earnings to
enable it to pay 10 p.c.; and over the past
four years the water-logged Combine cos.
have averaged only 4 p.c. Somebody has
to go short to allow those Hollywood people
to lead the gay life.
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
POWEB CO.:- Written To Re- He-
Dec Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1914 £11641 8 p.c. = £9,000 £2368 £273 £25.141
1915“ 10’175 7„ „ 7,875 2287 13 25,154
1916“ 10 037 6 . 6,750 1260 2027 27,181
1917“ 9*945 6 , „ 6,750 799 2396 29,577
1918.. 11'129 6 „ ~ 6,750 4379 33,956
1919.. 1CL698 6 ~ ~ 6,750 3948 37,904
’ Profit from sale of assets .. 4183 42,087
1920.. 10,504 7£p.c.= 8,438 2066 44,153
1921 11,854 74 ~ ~ 8,470 3384 4i,53i
1922 11 905 7| 9,298 2607 50,144
1923. . 10 415 8» ” 9,600 815 50,959
1924.. 9*492 7 ~ „ 8,400 1092 52,051
Progress has tramped heavily on Sydney
Hydraulic for a decade and gave it an extra
kick last year: the profit disclosed —and in
this case there are no grounds for suspect-
ing that any was hidden —is the smallest
since the ’nineties. Electricity has largely
displaced hydraulic power for operating lifts
—passenger-lifts in particular—and avenues
for expansion are limited.. In 1922. a second-
ary station equipped with pumping plant
was constructed at the Woolloomooloo
wharves to meet the demand for power for
wool-dumping: but although this has pro-
vided a valuable addition, it was an isolated
development. The hope which once existed
that the Sydney City Council would use its
authority to purchase the undertaking at
stated periods (two have passed and the next
occasion is 1929) was dissipated long since.
Working costs have been cut down, but not
in proportion to decreased earnings:—
Ex- Ex-
Revenue, penses. Revenue, penses.
1895.. £20,950 £14,399 1920.. £36,441 £25,088
1900.. 40,589 23,843 1921.. 43,495 30,642
1905.. 23,902 10,562 1922.. 52,636 39,231
1910.. 23,112 10,812 1923.. 43,791 31,876
1915.. 24,074 13,898 1924.. 41,158 30,666
In 1915, with revenue of only £24,074, £10,176
was left (apart from taxation) after ex-
penses had been met; last year, with revenue
of £41,158, the difference between the two
items (£10,492) was practically the same.
Whether it is that working costs are unduly
heavy or that renewals and repairs are the
trouble cannot be ascertained, as expendi-
ture is grouped in one all-covering entry in
I*, and L. Here is the liquid position with
comparisons:—
1910. 1920. 1923. 1924.
More or less liquid
assets (inc. stock) £11,307 £25,264 £28,745 £27,861
Liabilities.. .. 1,113 3,272 13,125 15,385
Surplus . . £10,194 £21,992 £15,620 £ 12,476
And that amount is less the final div. of
£3600 and taxation provision (£1000). Pros-
pects are not bright. The 7 p.c. seems as
much as shareholders can expect; and even
that depends on the calls that are made for
renewals and replacements. The shares are
not popular. The market declines to take
the £52,051 of reserves seriously, nearly all
of the capital and other funds being in plant,
mains, installations and properties which re-
fuse to show a fair return on cost. Hence
there are no buyers for the fully-paids at
16s. 3d., nor for the contribs. (12s. paid)
at Bs.
* * * «
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill. M.L.) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915. . £24,382 10 p.c. = £6,828 £17,554 £65,039
1916.. 23,004 10 „ „ 6,828 16,176 81,215
1917.. 20,265 10 „ „ 6,828 13,437 94,652
1918.. 17,076 10 „ „ 6,828 10,248 104,900
Transferred to capital, £45,522
Cash bonus, “A” and “B” shares, £22,761
1919.. 76,136 8 p.c. = 9,083 67,053 110,004
1920.. 17,818 8 „ „ 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 „ „ 9,083 112,251
1922.. 14,635 8 „ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19.696 10 „ ~ 11,354 8,342 126,145
1924.. 9,249 10 „ ~11,354 124,040
All is not smooth sailing in the meat-export
trade, even when the moat is of the high
quality of Canterbury and Southland mutton
and lamb. Since 1919, when the welter of
war profits ended, trade has been in and
out and the profits of this co. are a fair
barometer of conditions. Last year the dis-
closed profit was over £2OOO short of the
dividend. But the fact that the Board kept
the rate at 10 p.c. indicates that it viewed
the future with confidence. Not that the
10 p.c. should offer much difficulty, for re-
serves amount to more than capital, and less
than 5 p.c. on total funds would provide the
10 p.c. div. Those reserves are a tribute to
the caution of past Boards which, profiting
by the bitter experiences of the early ’nine-
ties, kept divs. at very low levels while build-
ing up assets. It was not until 1910 that
the rate was lifted to 8 p.c. In 1912 sharehold-
ers^ —mostly the meatgrowers themselves —
got their first reward when £22,761 of re-
serves were capitalised. The war was a
“great” war to the Southland as to other
meat cos., and —doubtless after Verra mature
consideration —the div. was lifted to 10 p.c.
The Board baulked at going further, although
from 1915 to 1918 inclusive £57,415 was
added to reserves, while £27,312 was paid
out in divs. In 1919 a cash bonus of £22.761
was made to “A” and “B” shares (the differ-
ence has since disappeared) and £45,522
capitalised; but as the profits for the term
were £76.136. reserves were stronger after
the distribution than before. Such a tre-
mendous profit—it was equal to 67 p.c. on
the inflated capital—-did not cause the Board
to lose its head. Instead it dropped the div.
rate two points! But that was worth more
than twice as much to old holders —a reward
for their earlier abstinence. The position is
very solid:—
1915. 1920. 1924.
Liabilities .. .. £35,832 £97,634 £40,587
Works .. .. 123.848 153,915 121,946
Stocks .. .. 11,691 32,467 22,861
Book debts, cash, in-
vestments, etc. .. 43,350 150,156 139,037
After accounting for liabilities and deduct-
ing the final div., there are liquids and semi-
liquids equal to £4 Bs. 4d. for each pref.,
or just over 20s. for each £1 of share capital,
leaving the. fixed .assets in the books at a
value —probably well written down —equal
to a further 21s. 6d. per share. And there
rnay be something additional hidden in “con-
tingent liabilities.”
# * * *
The Newcastle Coal Mining Co., Ltd.:
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1923 .. £7,667 5 p.c. = £5OOO £2667 £11,627
1924 .. 11,190 10 „ „ 10,000 1190 12,817
That is the best distribution shareholders
have had for a long while; and it was won
in the face of two months' interruption at
the co.’s Whitburn pit, caused by the activi-
ties —or inactivities —of Mr. Thomas Walsh’s
subjects along the Australian coast. Com-
parable divs. of recent times were in 1917
and 1907. Beyond that is ancient history, which
in the case of this co. stretches back to 1877.
It was in that year it started to win coal
from the Borehole seam, at Merewetlier,
Newcastle, on 1386 acres leasehold, with an-
other area under the green Pacific. The
royalty was a penny in the shilling on the
selling price of coal won from under land,
and sixpence under sea. The co. has never
been over-generous to its shareholders, for
the paid capital of £lOO,OOO is to-day what
it was in the ’nineties; there have been no
bonus issues, and divs. have been small —
although 30 p.c. and 25 p.c. were paid early
in the current century, in the main the rate
has been around 5 p.c. p.a. Operations at
“A” pit, near Merewetlier Beach, ceased
finally on July 15. 1921, as working was un-
profitable, the pit-screens and some of the
plant being used for the working of the
Victoria Tunnel near by. Much of the rest
was removed to Whitburn colliery. Nearing
the end of the life of “A” pit the co. cast
its eyes on the Maitland field, and on 555
acres of freehold and leasehold at Greta,
beyond Maitland, started Whitburn. But
although the move gave the co. a new lease
of life, no great improvement resulted to
shareholders. In fact, in addition to the
usual ups and downs due to industrial
troubles, Whitburn colliery has been rather
a storm-centre. The pit did not work from
December. ’22, to August, ’23, owing to
strikes, which eventually extended over the
entire Maitland field. That accounts for
the meagre earnings of 1923. almost the
whole of the profit being won in the second
half. Here are balance-sheet movements
over the past three years
1922. 1923. 1924.
Sundry creditors .. £2,645 £4,040 £5,373
Overdraft.. .. .. 2,305
Mining property, etc. ~ 85,880 84,836 81,144
Book debts . . ~ 15,151 24,399 19,425
Stores .. .. •« 6,267 7,075 8,054
Coal on hand .. ~ 7,113 358 3,590
Public securities .. 2,000 1,000 6,000
Cash 2,999 4.977
Against liabilities of £5373 there are £42,046
of liquid and semi-liquids, less the final div.;
and the excess, plus mining property and
plant valued at £81.144, is equal to £ll
ss. for each £lO paid share. But book value
and real value of mine property are not
always the same thing. Victoria Tunnel and
Whitburn are not eternal by any means;
and unlike other Newcastle cos. this one has
not been able to lay aside enough to flit to
the Cessnock district or thereabouts. The
accounts don’t suggest that there are hidden
reserves, nor does the market quote, which,
despite the 10 p.c. div., is buyer £6, seller
£6 10s., for the £lO paid shares.
* * * *
The North Shore Car Co. (Sydney) :
r —Dividends —,
To Re- Re-
Profit. “A” “B” Total, serves, serves.
£.. £ £ £
Dec., 1915.. 31,164 6i% 6% 29,912 1,252 3,506
Dec., 1916.. 32,178 6J „ 6 ~32,320 3,364
Dec., 1917.. 24,962 5„ 5 ~26,283 2,043
Dec., 1918. . 48,592 8 „ 8 ~42,054 6,538 8,581
Premiums on shares, £257 .. 8,838
Shares consolidated.
Dec., 1919.. 46,118 8 p.c. = 43,757 2,361 11,199
Dec., 1920.. 43,620 8 „,, 44,054 10,765
Dec., 1921.. 46,294 8 „ ~44,054 2,240 13,005
Dec., 1922.. 58.988 8 „ ~44,054 14,934 27,939
Dec., 1923.. 46,543 8 „ ~44,054 2,489 30,428
Premiums On shares, £3445 .. 33,873
Dec., 1924.. 48,664 8 p.O. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
The co. had the advantage of a twopenny
increase during most of the term (the price
was raised to ss. 3d. on February 2, 1924),
but increasing costs offset most of the
advantage
1§23. 1924.
Goal, etc £100,551 £105,560
Taxes „. .. 6,325 7,666
All other exes. ~ 107,826 108,711
Revenue from gas .. 232,981 239,093
Revenue from residuals 40,029 48,863
Other revenue .. 2,818 2,916
The narrow margin between profits and div.
requirements, however, is of little import-
ance so long as provision for depreciation is
sufficient, for the Gas Act fixes the maximum
div. at 8 p.c., with increases permitted when
the price is brought down to low levels —
conditions not likely to be attained by the
average N.S.W. gas co. The competition
of the City Electric supply limits the co.’s
field, chiefly in the matter of lighting; never-
theless expansion in home-building has made
the co. send its mains far afield and in-
creased the number of consumers. Last year,
in addition to subsidiary mains, a high-
pressure trunk was laid from the works
to Lane Cove. Larger workshops and offices '
were also under construction, the old place
being in the resumption area of the North
Shore Bridge. This, plus general progress,
has called for money. During the year 30,000
£1 shares were sold in accordance with the
Gas Act; they brought in premiums aggre-
gating £3444 —about 2s. 3d. per share. A
further 30,000 shares were to be auctioned
on March 2. The Board estimates that the
amount raised will finance construction for
the current year, for, although the amount
expended on caDital account has varied, the
average has been around £30.000 —-1021,
£3l 012 : 1022. £24.233 ; 1023, £44,204 ; and
1024. £38,757. The special purposes and
depreciation fund is £llB2 less than it was
a year ago; £6878 was transferred from
revenue and £BO6O expended on replacement
of plant. The fund stands at £75,645, which
is less than the 10 p.c. the Act allows on
the £BOO,OOO of capital and borrowed funds.
The price in 1014 was 3s. Od., in 1018 45., in
1010 4s. lid. and 1020 ss. 3d. going to
ss. sd. in 1022. From that point it declined
at the end of that year to ss. 3d., and to ss.
Id. two months later. The Board found,
however, that it could not carry on at the
price, so in February of last year it obtained
permission to replace the tv«bpence. Costs
seem to have steadied, so ther» is no imme-
diate likelihood of further increase.
The co.’s position has moved as follows: —
1919. 1923. 1921.
Debentures .. . . £160.000 £200,000 £200,000
Temporary loans .. 13,57.*5 300 13,250
Consumers’ deposits .. 16,007 18,380 19,213
Bank overdraft.. .. 8,233 4,495
Other debts . . . . 28,431 36,041 29,529
Total liabilities . . £226.246 £259,216 £261.992
Liquid assets (inc. stocks) 82,402 72,082 72,113
Excess liabilities . . £143,844 £187,134 £189,879
The final div. increased that excess to
£213.106. Fixed assets were in the books
on December 31 at £905,849, as against
£867,092 a year previously. Management
appears to be sound, and, without vouching
for the distant future, the 8 p.c. div. seems
sure enough.
# * * *
East End Market Co. (Adelaide), whose
capital is £33,125 :
Divi- Divi-
Profit. dends. Profit, dends.
June, ’l4. . £1345 £1325 I Dec., ’l9. . £1528 £1250
Dec., ’14.. 1483 1325 June, ’20.. 821 1250
June, ’15.. 1418 1325 Dec., ’20.. 2124 1250
Dee., ’15.. 1145 1325 June, ’21.. 1052 1250
June, ’16.. 1043 1325 Dec., ’21.. 2151 1750
Dec., ’l6. . 1439 1325 .Tune, ’22.. 992 1750
June, ’17.. 1066 1325 | Dec., ’22.. 2026 1500
Dec., ’17.. 1471 1250 | June, ’23.. 529 1250
June, ’lB.. 1066 1250 | Dec., ’23.. 1753 1500
Dec., ’lB.. 1507 1250 I June, ’24.. 1006 1250
June, ’19.. 1015 1250 | Dec., ’24.. 2446 1500
This co., formed a half-century ago. has
been a steady profit-earner. The variation
in the figures in recent years has been due
largely to taxation payments. Profit for
June, 1923, for instance, was reduced to a
record low figure of £529 by a re-valuation of
the co.’s land by the Federal Taxation De-
partment, which demanded £lOO6 additional
tax for the two preceding years. The co.
appears to place all its cards on the table;
the only item as to which there is any doubt
is the valuation of the co.’s principal asset,
the freehold. This and the premises are not
being written down at all; in fact, small
improvements are charged from time to time
to capital. Nor is much being put by other-
wise :
1912. 1922. 1924.
Liabilities .. .. £17,000 £14,000 £14,000
Liquid assets .. 1,779 2,213 2,43 4
Excess liabilities .. £15,221 £11,787 £11,566
Payment of the final div. would reduce the
liquids to £934. The co.’s only liability, as
in previous terms, was the mortgage of
£14,000. No doubt the property is worth
more than it stands at in the books; but,
as the dividends are close up to net earnings,
and as these are not growing much, share-
holders are getting just about all they can
expect.
* * * *
The solid little Australian Traders’ In-
surance Co. is to lose its name. A new co.,
the Commonwealth Traders’ Insurance, will
shortly leave the slips carrying the business
of the Australian Traders and the fire and
marine business of the Commonwealth
General, while a couple of Knights from the
C.G. and the two Carpenters, H.B. and
W.R., w’U be on the bridge. Albert Gould
will probably ornament the chair, while
H. B. Carpenter will try to do for the new
co. what he and his brothers did for their
(Con tinued on page 19.)


The Slumber folk
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
will j\/[ y room is like a lanthorn hung
Ifl Above the window-ledge of night,
wM. And motes of darkness lurk among
The flowing, glowing beams of light;
And one may think it is the breeze,
And yet the lighter tread will find
The slumber-folk with huddled knees
All jostling ’neath the window blind.
They wait until the teeming bales
Are moved from off the wharves of
thought,
And slumber-ships with old-world tales •
Fling mooring-lines that must be caught;
And when the crates of rare romance
Are safely stored upon the shore,
A-patter, patter comes the dance.
Of fairy feet across the floor.
Then over the pillow and over the sheet
Come the slumber-folk with the velvet feet;
And they seal the eyes and they seal the
lips
With their daintily delicate finger-tips;
Silently bustling here and there,
Treeing the mind from the zuebs of care;
Busy and quizzical faery bands,
Bearing away in their tiny hands
The rags of noise from the winding street
Tattered and draggled by hurrying feet;
And they tidily fill in hole and hole
That the stamping feet beat into the soul,
And one bides there with a feather the
while
To tickle the mouth to a fairy smile.
Nor is the fairies' work complete
Till they take away from the throbbing feet
Hard travel-memories of the track
Well worn by the journey of There ana
Back,
And they leave you there in a darkened
place
With a quiet brain and a smiling face,
To hurry away with a frolicking rout,
For another late candle,
A wearisome candle, $
Another late candle has just, gone out. t\
N.S.VV.
BOYCE BOWDEN


Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One o( the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY, A. AUBREY,
Governing Director. General Manager.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of tlie estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in nil States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Ollice. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/G per anniin:,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.— Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, m
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * * L
The unique durability of Pioneer Wood Pipe is
aptly illustrated in this report from the manager of a
large sugar mill. “We have 1550 ft. of 4in. as a
discharge from our (waste acid water) pump, against
a head of about 15ft. It has been in use about
41 years, part of it is underground, and part
above the surface, exposed to the sun and weather,
and it is still as good as the day it was put down.
Actually, it would not pay us to put in iron pipes
again if we had them given. Freight, cost of laying
in labor and joints, and a shorter life, more than
equals the cost of wood pipe.” The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Slel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrieu & T Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * » •
Babcock Si Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
r
&
OOQ RD SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Be
DT
j
*Ls\vift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney J*
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office irv Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary. Guarantee, Live Mock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AXD EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
own show. The Australian Traders was
one of the few insurance cos. able to pay divs.
in their first year. That was because busi-
ness was shrewdly selected and the co. was
started off in an inexpensive couple of rooms
without flourish and frill. The Common-
wealth General, on the other hand, is strug-
gling. Its business has been as expensive to
win as that of most young cos., but there
are possibilities in its marine branch: it
handles some good business. Not that it is
flourishing; it showed a deficit of £6488 m
the fire, marine and accident branch on
Dec. 31, 1923, and then there was no reserve
for unexpired risks, which, on the usual
basis of 40 p.c., called for £11,138. But the
co. is said to have had bad luck in its first
years with what ordinarily were safe things.
The Australian Traders found that a co.
with a nominal capital of £50,000 and a paid
capital of £24,750 was passed over by big
firms with business to place. The fact that
it was a regular div.-payer and had surplus
assets was not sufficient: it was not big
enough. Hence this development. A pros-
pectus is to be issued this month.
* * # #
“O.B.” ; A bonus was suggested by a Perth
witness to the Federal Disabilities Commis-
sion as a sure means of reviving Westralia’s
gold-mining industry. The same suggestion
was made years ago, but came to nothing.
Someone in Johannesburg first put it forward
in 1918, and. becoming enamored of the
proposal, the Perth Mining Association re-
quested the British Chancellor of the
Exchequer to grant a bonus on gold pro-
duced within the Empire. The Westralian
Chamber of Mines thought a bonus would
prove neither a boon nor a blessing to the
industry, and, instead, urged rebates or re-
moval of duties on mining requisites, and, if
possible, a reduction in the cost of labor.
The Victorian Chamber of Mines supported
the Perth Mining Association, but. stipulated
that only those who were working at a loss
should participate in the bonus. About the
end of 1918 Lord Inchcape’s committee
decided against any bounty or subsidy as a
means of stimulating the Empire’s gold pro-
duction; gold, it said, being the standard of
value, not more could be paid for it than its
value in currency. The Johannesburg
Chamber of Mines endorsed this decision. A
little later an Australian Gold Producers’
Conference sat in Melbourne and afterwards
presented the case to then Prime Minister
Hughes. The only reference made to a gold
bonus on that occasion was a remark by
Westralia’s chief spokesman, Lloyd Bloxome.
that such assistance was not likely to be of
any permanent value and was not wanted.
Higgs, president of the Disabilities Commis-
sion, was a Queensland delegate to that con-
ference. and presumably is well aware why a
bonus did not form part of the case. A hard
nut to crack by those who claim that a bonus
would do all that is claimed for it is that,
although the very substantial bonus of
£3.700.000 was distributed in the form of
gold premium among Australian producers
between 1919 and 1924, of which about 70
ner cent, came to Westralia, the gold yield
has steadily fallen and the number of men
engaged in the industry has diminished.
* * * *
Empire Syndicate (W.A.) announces that
its chairman, Dorrie Doolette, endeavored a
few months ago to form a co. to acquire and
work leases held by the syndicate and others
on the Edjudina goldfield, but failed owing
to a Melbourne firm not placing a block of
shares it had undertaken to An
effort is now being made to get London
capital.
* * * #
The Bulletin remarked some time ago
that big odds were offered against the Monte
Carlo Bank Co. (W.A.) getting anything
worth having on the site of its Cue option,
and now 7 comes wrnrd that it has pulled out
and is looking for an option elsewhere.
Towards the end of last year about £7OOO
w r as taken from a rich patch at Cue, and on
the strength of this an option was hurriedly
obtained by the Monte Carlo Co. Backed by
a bag of specimens—the last remains of the
patch—a short market-flutter was engineered ;
and that was the end of it.
* * # •
Development work on Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.,
■since Christmas, mostly between 100 ft. and
160 ft. levels, has been more than satisfac-
tory, and a continuance of similar assay
values and ore widths for a couple of hun-
drew feet deeper would go far to justify St.
Smith’s original optimistic utterances, which
suffered some disparagement owing to the
leanness in silver of considerable quantities
of the carbonate ore. Every assay of galena
is coming back to higher silver values, and
the sulphide is becoming increasingly pre-
ponderant with every foot travelled dowm.
For instance, the Rio Grande shaft has been
characterised by more galena than any other
shaft-on the field, and has been in high-grade
ore all the way. The assay from the bottom
(at 155 ft.) is 39 p.c. lead and 30oz. silver
for the width of the shaft, the total width-of
this grade being not yet proved. The Black
Rock is keeping up its high contents, and the
level being driven from No. 25 towards No.
10 is averaging 42 p.c. lead and silver.
Recent work on the Crystal looks like sup-
porting Corbould’s judgment in acquiring
Mt. Isa South holdings, as the north drive
from No. 5,, after starting in barren stuff,
is in heavy galena and’carbonate. The
ging ore on the Crystal averages 62 p.c. lead
and 70oz. silver, and this new make will
probably pan out about the same grade. Two
samples from the top shoot in the C rystal
assayed 19600 z. and 20900 z. silver before it
faded out. Bails thinks they have the same
shoot, but it is too early to pronounce.
Crosscutting on the Black Star has revealed
23ft. of low-grade ore, outside the 100 ft. of
lode proper, which goes 11 p.c. lead and 4oz.
silver. Even without further sinking Bails
will probably within a couple of months be
able to point to an extra million tons of
reserves between 100 ft. and 170 ft., averaging
about 20 p.c. lead and carrying a consider-
able increase in silver values above that
stated by him for the first 100 ft. of sinking.
The field is developing in vertical zones as
follows : (1) a thin crust of galena at the
surface, with good silver values from which
the bulk of bagging ore has come; (2) a
zone, usually from 20ft. to 150 ft. in depth,
mostly carbonates, medium to lean in silver;
(oi 150 ft. to 170 ft., only just probed but
making into mixed sulphides of lead and
zinc with a marked recovery in silver values.
Isa looks t 0 be definitely on the silver-lead
map of the world.
* * * *
Apart from the boring now in progress
cl ief interest in Mt. Isa Prop, centres in
development work in tin l lower level of the
Ibus, where assays show up to 10 p.c. zinc,
without depletion of silver and lend values;
and it is the same with the Black Star shaft
alongside. When this shaft bottomed tem-
porarily at water the ore was going I*9 p.c.
zinc, in addition to 20 p.c. lead. The Props,
recognise that advance information as to sul-
phide reserves may be worth thousands dur-
ing the next month or two, and are spurring
Rodda on. At the same time Geo. Beard is
hurrying on the No. 10 Black Star shaft.
* * # *
There must have been a feeling of mild
amazement in the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment on February 17, when Ravenswood
Gold Mines with a cheque for £BOO com-
pleted the repayment of Government loans
and grants (in all £1800) received some
years ago when things were anything but
bright. This action suggests that Ravens-
wood has been making a hit of money lately.
It has: a battery (£1765) and other plant
(£1000) have been purchased in the last 12
months. A credit balance in the bank of
£2500 and another £3IXIO worth of ore and
concentrates produced but not sold make
the present position quite pleasant. During
last half-year 500 tons were raised and
treated for a net result of £10.828, or over
£2l per ton. One can almost hear the div.
coming.
* * * «
The old No. 4 Phoenix at Gympie (Q.)
is engaged on the stiff task of draining the
field in order to continue its own exist-
ence. Miles of underground galleries are
waterlogged, and all connected; and Jim
Brown, who has had 42 years’ management
of No. 4, is at his wits’ end to keep the
fluid down. In his current report he remarks
that “water bailed during the two weeks was
1.592,360 gallons. The water rose 18 inches
in the mine.” As most of the quartz is
being raised from 844 ft., the water has to
be kept well below that point. Several nar-
row faces are on payable stone thereabout.
The Argentum, the principal mine on the
Nightflower lode, near Chillagoe (N.Q.), has
left the ore and is sinking straight through
porphyry splashed with galena. The shaft is
now down 115 ft., and will be continued to
150 ft., where a crosscut will be put into the
lode to test the sulphide ore. The co. expects
to see a fair body of zinc as well as lead,
but the former, despite high spelter
prices, will probably be worth nothing to the
co., there being no zinc separation plant in
the North. Free zinc deposits are, however,
commanding attention up there, and this
class of ore is being shipped in fair quanti-
ties.
* * * *
George Dickenson’s Morning Star (Vic.)
has been no better than a tallow-dip during
the last six months. Not a ton of payable
dirt was found outside the known reserves
of ore. Of course, that did not mean that
no stone could be sent to the battery; actu-
ally 8870 tons were crushed for 53300 z. But
the management has been driven into such a
corner that until something turns up yields
will be spotty both as to tonnage treated and
as to results. A stray gleam of light is to
be found in the winze below the 700 ft. level,
where some pay-dirt has been broken; but
the extent of it is uncertain. Things also
are not altogether cloudy above 400 ft. at
the contact of the dyke and the western
slates. Stoping has been done at the 700 ft.
intermediate, but the end can be seen in
most directions there. If the run of stone
on the western side of the winze would only
take a turn for the better there would at
once be a solid addition to reserves. Man-
ager Godden intends to set apart five head
of stamps to work on this stone in the hope
of obtaining some profits from it. There
are 45 head on the mine, and the new
battery is not yet in commission, so it will
be no hardship to carry out the experiment.
While it is going on sinking will be the
order of the day. It is believed that this
will bring to light a couple of fresh floors.
Although nearly £20,000 went into the till
from the mine during the six months, a shil-
ling call had to be made; and as work will
be costly while the sink is in progress, it
is not likely that Dickenson can get through
without calling in more.
* * # #
A. 1., Gaffney’s (Vic.), will go to the
hammer without a regret from the punters,
because of the bear squeeze of a while ago.
It represents the deepest mining done on the
big mountain dyke formations of the Wood’s
Point district. So poor have been recent re-
sults that the last crushing campaign gave
only 1970 z. gold. For long the market has
known how things were shaping, _ but the
memory of the corner kept bears idle, and
the show goes to its death very quietly.
Holders of nearly 11,000 shares dropped out
of call-paying in view of a loss of over
£4300 for six months’ work. As things stand,
about £2300 is owed; but the plant is good,
and after debts are met there should be a
crumb for shareholders who have stuck to
the show r while calls have been made. It is
sad to see all these hill claims dropping out,
but it is the old story of gold not going down
to great depth in the dykes.
* * * *
“Pasquino” :
R. Waley Cohen, the English chairman of the
British Imperial Oil Co., made some amusing mis-
statements about the search for oil. It was entirely
unnecessary for him to tell his audience that lie
“was speaking in defence of the concentration of
the oil-supply in the hands of a few suppliers. - ’
That is generally accepted as the reason why petrol
is tenpence a gallon in ’Frisco and 2s. 3d.
in Sydney, and why kerosene is four times dearer
here than in America. Cohen said: “In Mexico one
successful hole is drilled for io unsuccessful.” Actu-
ally E. L. Doheny’s Pan-Mexican Co. brings in 80 pro-
ducing wells for 20 “dry” holes. Cohen told his
hearers that oil-wells are going down a mile and
a half (7020 ft.). There is only one well in the
United States as deep as 7316 ft., and it was merely
an experiment. All wells do not cost from £20,000
to £200,000 to drill. In the three latest and greac-
est. oilfields in California —Signal Hill, Long Beach
and Santa F6 —the average cost of a producing
well is about £lO,OOO, and the average depth in
these, the deepest of all American oil-wells, is now
about 4000 ft. There are a few, but very few, holes
pumping oil from 5000 ft. Further, it does not take
ten years to develop an oilfield. In Wyoming,
Texas and California, oilfields with from 100 to
1000 wells have heeomp big producers in ten
weeks, not years. Cohen declared that no oilfield
ever gave out. Wrong again! In the Tuxpam and
Tampico oil region, in Eastern Mexico, many of the
biggest gushers, raining 100,000 barrels a day, ran
to salt water inside two years. The whole speech
of this champion of the foreign oil companies is
indeed about as reliable as his final statement that
his co. only makes a profit of three farthings a
gallon. It all seems to be prepared propaganda
intended to discourage Australians and their Gov-
ernments from the search for oil.
A co. carrying good local support is being
floated to develop an arsenic mine on the
Macleay River (N.S.W.), 52 miles from
Armidale and 65 from Ivempsey. According
to a report by mining-engineer J. Murray,
there are five lodes on the 320 acres; and
the arsenic content runs from 28 p.c. to 43
n.c. Metallurgist W. H. Wesley, late of Mt.
Morgan, supplies figures estimating produc-
tion for a start at 100 tons a month, giving
83 p.c. white arsenic, worth £45 a ton.
Against the £I4SS of market value he sets
£825 as cost of production, leaving £660 a
month profit. Later, when the co. gets into
its stride, Wesley fixes the net return from
200 tons a month at £14,500 a year. If
these calculations are not upset the co.
should prove a good proposition for share-
holders, as there will be only 20.000 shares
of £1 each, of which 10,000 represent the
vendors’ cut. Should demand increase, the
sponsors of the Macleay River Arsenic
Treatment Works, N.L., anticipate the rosy
price of £65 a ton, and nvofits running into
£30.000 a year with a £3599 treatment plant.
That price-anticipation wall probably prove
over-optimistic, but there is no doubt that
on the moderate capitalisation the proposi-
tion may give a good return.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.), following a
report*from its Ardlethan mine, fell to Is.
6d from 4s. The manager stated that the
west pipe had “fallen away again, and looks
very poor’’; and that the eastern pipe, though
looking “much the same,” had become “very
low grade.” At the Hough shaft work has
been discontinued. The only glimmer comes
from Smith’s workings, where No. 2 pipe
at 150 ft. level is of good grade, but small.
* * * *
Bribbaree (N.S.W.), which is mining
under a wheatfield on the Stockinbingal-
Forbes line, continues stoping on goo'd ore.
To this the battery bears witness. With
80 tons for 200 oz. to February 20, the mill
has reduced 559 tons all told for 12200 z.
The co. has £2OOO in hand, the price of a
6d div.. which should be forthcoming soon.
It is time some N. S. Wales gold-mining
bantling acted the giver after such a record
of receiving.
A small co., Mt. Warning Coal and Min-
eral, Ltd., has been formed to take over a
coal property at Tyalgum, on the Tweed,
about 18 miles from Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.). The 4ft. 2in. seam has been
driven on by a tunnel, and the product an-
swers to analysis and working test. Mur-
willumbah Council is under contract to take
25 tons a week. The co. is in 20,000 £1 shares,
7500 of which go to the vendor as well as
£lOOO in cash, 7500 being offered to the
public. Nothing is said of the extent of the
deposit and the possible volume of local
demand. If these are satisfactory the pro-
position is worth local attention.
* * * #
Malim Nawar (P.M.S.), the first pup of
the Alluvial Tin group, announces that its
120,000-yard capacity dredge will commence
eating dirt about the end of June. Tacked
on to this forecast is the statement that
boring is proceeding assiduously in front of
the dredge site, and that the plant will
start in Jib. ground. The double-barrelled
announcement looked exactly like market
propaganda; and this view was strengthened
when scrip values immediately jumped 3s.
to 33s.—a very tidy premium on the 100,000
20s. shares on the register.
* * * *
Part of the plant purchased in America
for New Guinea Oil, Ltd., is on its way to
Papua, and the balance is to go next boat.
The co.’s Sydney-built launch arrived safely
at Port Moresby, having averaged seven
knots for the whole distance. Arthur Moore,
who will take charge of drilling operations,
accompanies the plant, and will supervise its
erection.


ARE YOU ONE OF THE MILLION
People who have Savings Bank Accounts in the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia?
Surely there must be good reasons for such big
figures.
THERE ARE!
The main reason is of course appreciation by the People of the
value of a Savings Bank Account as an aid to Thrift and
Accomplishment. The other reason is the efficient service provided
at 77 Branches and 3355 Post Offices by the
Commonwealth
Banfc«2uotralia
101
w
to
016
Longest Range,
Greatest Killing Power.
Those are two of the big
reasons why you should select
Climax Cartridges.
Climax Cartridges are loaded with
Dupont Smokeless Powder and CORK
TEX WADS, Cork Tex Wads ensure
less recoil, smoother action, more uni-
form distribution of shot.
TRY CLIMAX in the field or at the
traps.
Obtainable at all leading Stores,
UNITED STATES CARTRIDGE CO., New York.
Wholesale Distributors:—
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.,
104 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays :
Frederick Flowers (N.S.W. Leg. Council Pres.), 61,
and A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. Argus), Cl, on Ist;
Canon Archdall (Armidale), 39, on 2nd; Justice
Powers (High CquiA), 72, and G. C. Klug, 50, on
3rd; Edward Dyson, 60, Archbish. Mannix, 61, and
Prof. Brailsford Robertson (Adel.), 41, on 4th; ex-
Vic. Premier Lawson, 50, and H. Lipson Hancock
(S. Aus.), 68, on sth; D. G. Stead (N.S.W.), 48, on
6th; Rev. James Colwell, 65, on 7th; painter Tom
Roberts, 69, and Col. F. A. Hughes, 51, on 9th;
Walter Bennett, M.L.A., 61, Dr. E. S. Simpson
(mineralogist, W.A.), 50, and H. P. Beaver (Adel-
aide's Town Clerk), 57, on 11th; J. R. Collins (of
the Treasury, Commonwealth), 56, and F. G. Clarke
(Pres, Vic. Leg. Council), 46, on 14th; Bishop Hay-
den (Wilcannia), 57, and Prof. Gibson (Melb.), 56,
on 15th; Dr. J. A. Leach, the ornithologist, 55, on
17th; Prof. E. R. Holme (Syd.), 54, and S. Aus.
ex-Surveyor-Gen. E. M. Smith, 78, on 18th; Brig.-
Gen. Lassetter, C. 8., 65, on 19th; Jas. Mitchell
(N.S.W. Inspector-Gen. of Police), 60, on 20th;
Geo Fairbairn (Vic. Agent-Gen.), 70, C. W. Marr,
M.H.R., 45, and author Roy Bridges, 40, on 23rd;
Bishop Anderson (Riverina), 66, and ex-W'.A. Premier
Lefroy, 71, on 24th ; Vice-Admiral Gaunt (b. Beech-
worth, Vie.), 60, and Lieut.-Col. Bruxner, M.L.A.,
43, on 25th; Rear-Admiral Wm. Clarkson, 66, on
26th ; Walter James, K.C. (W.A.), 62, J. A. Norris
(Vic. Auditor-Gen.), 53, and S. J. Jacobs (Adel.),
72, on 28th; Prof. T. G. Tucker, 66, Prof. Jethro
Brown (S. Aus. Industrial Court), 57, and W.A.
Agent-Gen. Colebatch, 53, on 29th, and Prof.
Lawrence Bragg (b. Adel.), 35, on 31st.
John Saxton takes the Assistant Chief
Inspector’s chair in the Vic. Education De-
partment. For a quarter-century he has
been the most popular inspector in the field,
a big man in every way, with a heart to
match his frame, and that runs up well over
six feet. The Backblocks girl-teacher re-
verences him, and
when he addresses
a congress the
whole crowd gets
up to boom a wel-
some to “Square
Jack,”
S. W. BAVERY,
head of Savery's,
Ltd., Adelaide, and
chairman of South
Aus. Grand
Opera Co.
William Neal Gillies, who succeeded Theo-
dore last week, is the 29th Premier Queens-
land has had in 66 years of Responsible
Government. The first Ministry—that of
Robert George Wyndham Herbert —was the
longest; it lasted from Dec. 10, 1559, to
Feb. 1, 1866. The Theodore Ministry held
office for four years and four months; so,
curiously enough, did the Ryan and Nelson
Administrations. Andy Dawson’s first Labor
Government . holds the brevity record; it
was in and out within six days.
Ned Hogan, the Vic. Labor party’s new'
first mate, who sits for a constituency where
he was born, made more than one attempt to
secure Labor nominations in W.A. before the
path to celebrity opened in his own State.
For many years, when the century was
younger, Hogan was union secretary of the
Ivurrawang woodcutters who supplied the
Golden Mile with more than half its firewood
—a very rough-cut sleeper himself in those
days. In his off-time he aspired to the
Ivalgoorlie State seat, but rival strategists
like Texas Green (now M.H.R.) carried
too many guns for him. Then came a day
when Hogan returned to his native Warren-
heip for a holiday, just when a Labor vacancy
had opened there, and although all his organ-
ising activities had been exercised on the
other side of Australia, the community
proved willing to take him on trust. It
was a rarely lucky holiday trip for Long Ned.
Dr. Averill is the new M.L. Primate. An
Englishman from Stafford, he came from
Oxford to Christchurch, where he shepherded
the flock at St. Michael's for 15 years. From
1009 to 1913 he was Bishop of Waiapu, and
since tlieh has worn his gaiters in Auck-
land. A vigorous debater, he mixes religion
and patriotism judiciously. Two sons shoul-
dered the gun safely in the Big Scrap.
Sixty years ago on March 1 the poet
Adam Lindsay Gordon was elected to S.
A us. Parliament. He headed the poll for
the district of Victoria: Gordon, 378: John
Riddoch, 370; and R. I. Stow, 367. Goi'don
was daily chronicled in the press at that
election as “J. L. Gordon” —he was quite
unknown as a poet in those days.
Ridden ahead, Alexander Oliver, commit-
teeman of Melbourne Stock Exchange, one
of the best liked of the sharebroking frater-
nity, and a fine Australian. He had been a
pastoralist in Queensland until lured to the
Exchange by the Broken Hill share boom.
A. L. Morrison, who died in Svdnev the
other day, was one of Australia’s greatest
studmasters. He got his big chance when
shrewd old Sam
McCaughey estab-
lished him on his
sheep properties in
the West (N.S.W.).
Later he trans-
ferred to other
owners with his
reputation made.
He finished at Had-
don Rig, after an
unsuccessful spell
as a business man
in the city.
DR. MOLLISON.
Vic. Government
Pathologist—the
man who gives the
breathless evidence
at inquests.
Passed out, at 53, John Barkell Holman,
Labor member for Forrest in the Westralian
Assembly. Migrating to Cue (W.A.) from
c toria, he became secretary of the local
Workers’ Union. Then with an eye on pro-
paganda he started a barber’s shop. It an-
swered : he was returned for North Murchi-
son in 1901, the seventh Labor man to enter
the W.A. Parliament. He was Minister
for Railways and Labor in the Daglish Gov-
ernment from August, 1904. until June, 1905,
when he was succeeded by Paddy Lynch, now
a Federal Senator. Murchison ‘dropped him
later, but Forrest adopted him on the death
of Peter O’Loghlin. The Timber Workers’
Union, of which he was general secretary,
owes him a lot.
Peter Murphy, who died in Brisbane last
week, at the age of 72, was a well-known
sport and business man. He came to Aus-
tralia in ’7l, was a rail-splitter, a bul-
iocky, a policeman, a dispenser of beer and
a brewer of it. then president of the
Licensed Victuallers; finally a racehorse
owner and an M.L.C. Mrs. Jack Fikelly
is one of his four daughters; and four sons
also survive him-.
Aiistralia lost its oldest home-grown
Jesuit when Donald McKillon joined up
again with Ignatius Loyola. Born 72 yea»*s
ago at historic Portland (Vic.), of old High-
land stock, at 19 ho entered the pioneer
Jesuit community of Seven Sills, in S. Aus-
tralia. Nearly 40 years of his life was
spent showing Black Brother the errou of
his ways at Daly Waters (N.T.).
“P.C.” : Arrived in Christchurch (M.L.)
last week from the lonely Chathams, Tami
Solomon, last of his race. Tami is the only
pure-blooded Moriori living to-day, and appa-
rently he finds life pleasant enough. He
weighs fully 20st., and has a laugh that
would shake a ferro-concrete bungalow on
its foundations. In the Chathams, at Te
Awapatiki, he owns 2000 acres of sheep
country, but he makes an annual break for
the mainland to see a little life. There
are five young Solomons and their Maori
mother waiting for him at Te Awapatiki.
The Morions were persecuted by the Maoris
until a mere handful remained. Many of
Tami s ancestors, doubtless, were served up
as Ragout do Moriori, sauce Muttonbird
at huis and tangis.
H.1.K.”: Recently I had a chat with an
old stonebreaker at Sassafras (Vic.) who
obtained some celebrity through his associa-
tion with W. M. Hughes when the latter
lived in the locality. It appears the little
man occasionally gave the veteran a hand at
stone-knapping, and when I mentioned that
the ex-Prime Minister had recently taken up
golf the old chap commented: “If he don’t
play golf better’n he breaks stones he won’t
earn much.’’
“Black J." :To those w T ho remember Cliid-
ley, in his pseudo-Grecian garment of Assam
silk, stalking the streets, carrying a shabby
brief-bag with "The Answer” printed on it.
it is quaint to see him epitomised as “the
most original and remakable figure that has
ever appeared in Australia.’’ This is how
Havelock Ellis tickets him in his book, "The
Dance of Life,’’ adding that he was versed in
all the philosophic literature that he could
lay his hands on, only the world was not
ready for his own particular brand.
Mrs. Annie O’Brien, who died recently,
made her mark in the Labor movement of
Victoria as secretary of the Trades Hall
Unemployed Relief Committee in the 1010
strike. She was stout, friendly, earnest and
common-sensible, and it may further be
placed to her credit that she was a rather
appallingly poor speaker.
Died the other day, a very old
W.A. goldfields identity, Jonathan Morris,
whose attempt to corner Kalgoorlie’s stock
of threepenny-pieces when he was running
an admission-by-silver-coin picture-show was
mentioned in a recent Poverty Point par.
Born in Lancaster (Eng.), Jonathan
migrated to Victoria as a young man, and
worked as a carpenter. After some pros-
pecting in India and other countries, he
arrived in W.A. in the roaring raid-’nineties,
built himself a pub in Han nan-street, and
became one of the pioneers of goldfields
roller-skating rinks and moving pictures.
Very canny in money matters was Jonathan,
but very straight, too; there are many who
will miss him.
“Oaractacus”: Similarity of names is an
embarrassment in Melbourne just now. For
years Fred Knight, of Toorak and many influ-
ential cos., has owned a name representative
of all that is conservative, conventional and
correct. He stood for a class which in Eng-
land “wrote to the Times” when it had a
wrong to right. Now has come bounding in,
like a shell from one of the naval guns he
used to direct, another Fred Knight, of Trak,
Ivintrack and other motor-’buses. He, too,
criticises Governments, but at the top of his
voice. He addresses meetings of protest, but
in the yard of his garages, where he flagrantly
enlists in his cause proletarian employees.
He starts a political party—actually against
a Nationalist Government—and proposes to
dispute a Leg. Councillor’s return to a family
seat. Only a Victorian can appreciate the
Radicalism of an action like that. The worst
of it is that all Melburnians do not grasp that
this Fred Knight is not that other Fred
Knight; in fact, many are saying in admiring
wonder, “My word, this ’bus business has
liyened him up!” Already Fred Knight the
First has published disclaimers, explaining
with some piteousness that he is not Fred
the Second, but the confusion remains.
“Trevdee”: Melbourne has its Sydney
Harber, too. He is a dentist in Balaclava.
An Adelaide mystery has been cleared up.
Captain J. W. Walsh, 88, went for a walk
on the beach at Semaphore one evening last
September and never came back, a search of
sandhills and shore failing to yield any sign
of him. His body has just been found, in
two pieces, on a great mass of seaweed further
along towards the Outer Harbor, a deposit
so huge that it was dry enough to catch fire
before Christmas and was extinguished only
by the recent flood. Capt. Walsh was born
in Belfast in 1836* and did good work as a
Port Adelaide pilot for many years before
he retired in 1906.
“Keystring”; Charles Stuart Currie, who
died recently at 84, held two records for
Casino (N.5.W.).. The first was that he
was its only blue-blooded bullocky—he
claimed direct descent from the royal Stuarts
—and the second was that he drew the big-
gest cedar-log ever brought in there by ox-
team. The stick contained 4500 ft. super,
feet.
“The Deacon”: John Hall, who goes
abroad shortly, was Australia’s first Vincentian
missionary. A Balrhain native, he has been
connected with St. Stanislaus’ College,
Bathurst, for 32 years. A brother, Mark,
was the second Australian to become a Vin-
centian, and a sister was the foundress of
the now flourishing order of the Sisters of
St. Joseph. From beginnings in a small
stable in S.A., 60 years back, that order has
spread all over Australasia. A movement
is afoot to have this woman—Mother Mary
of the Cross —canonised, and the long and
expensive process has begun.
Sir Clifford Allbutt, just dead in the Cold
Country at 89, was not the fabricator of
chewing-gum. nor did he devise the pepper-
mint, life-saver; but most people have put
his little contribution to humanity’s welfare
in their, months at one time or another. The
short clinical thermometer was his invention.
Just-dead Swedish Premier Hjalmar Brant-
ing met the Diggers in France in July, 1918,
when they were preparing for Monaslfs vic-
tory stunt that opened on August 8. Like
most political big guns, Branting was a re-
mote and fleeting visitor, but the little
Swedish socialist, with the big moustache and
head of stiff hair, saw enough to make him
exclaim to his British brass-hat guide: "Thev
are splendid, those Australians! They are
the flower of democracy, showing the profes-
sional soldiers of Germany how to fight."
Lady Ivellett, who has recovered £lBOO in
an action against the Melbourne Tramway
Roard for the loss of her husband, who was
killed in a colli-
sion at Kew, told
the Court that
what her baronet
ea,r n e d as an
estate-agent \v a s
her only means of
subsistence. He left
estate worth only
£9OO. There have
been many well-
endowed baronets
in the Cold Land
who have been not
nearly such good
citizens as Henry
de Castres Ivellett.
He served for years
as a member of
Kew Council,
Metro. Board of
Works and Metro-
Fire Brig ad e s
Board. 1 n hi s
younger days lie
was a doughty fire-
fighter. though he
was not the kind of
figure one would
take for the hero
of a novel or a five-
reel film.
W. O. MAHONEY.
Labor M.H.R. for
Dailey.
A sturdy old naval veteran was John
Sparkes, of Willoughby (N.S.W.), who an-
swered Davy Jones’s bellow the other day.
He entered the Navy in 1868, and his first
ship was the Minotaur. He served off the
coast of S. America, in Natal, the East
Indies and the Persian Gulf until Australia
and a billot with the Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board beckoned him ashore. The
Boxer rebellion took him afloat for one more
voyage with the Australian force which
reached Peking.
Captain W. A. B. Greaves, who recently
died at Bondi (N.S.W.), at 96, outlived a
younger brother by six months—the other
died at 91. The elder man surveyed the
boundary line on the severance of Queens-
land from N. S. Wales, and laid out Law-
rence and Maclean on the Clarence River.
Acquiring Newbold station, on the Upper
Clarence, he purchased the first double-Derby
winner Loup Garou, as a sire, but the angu-
lar horse made a poor ancestor. Newbold
acquired fame, however, with Eugene, Sir
Hercules, Carthage and others. Captain
Greaves’s hobby was the Royal Agricultural
Society.
No one in Australia knows more about
the byways of the older scientific literature
than Tom Iredale, who has just been given
the job of looking after the shells at the
Australian Museum, Sydney. He has at his
fingers’ ends references to all the old-timers
who wrote about Australian natural history,
and has dug up a lot of interesting stuff
in the earliest accounts of our birds and
beasts. An Englishman by birth, Iredale
spent some time in Maoriland, and it was
while he was in those parts that he played
Robinson Crusoe on the Kermadecs for 10
mofiths while he studied bird life.
“lan C.”: Passing along Spring-street,
Melbourne, the other day I saw Alec Pea-
cock, Minister for Education, parting from
an acquaintance with whom he had been
chatting, and he smiled audibly. It flashed
across my mind that it was just 33 years
ago that he, when Minister for Education
for the first time in the Shiels Ministry,
helped to suspend Speight, Ford and Greene,
the then Railway Commissioners, be-
cause they would not carry out the economies
the Age and the Government had demanded.
The same night the Cabinet edict was issued
Peacock, Outtrim (then Minister for Mines,
who is still above ground) and Graham
(then Minister for Agriculture, and now
under the sod) went to the Victoria Hall,
Bourke-street, to see the minstrels. So
boisterously did Alec laugh at the antics of
Will Whitburn that the comedian with simu-
lated gravity assured the audience that there
was no partnership between them. By the
way, Alec got £5O a year more then as a
minor Minister than- the £1340 he now draws
as joint head of the Government and master
of three departments.
SNARLEY-VOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bruce said that Mr. Hughes would serve the
interests of the people better by assisting the Gov-
ernment to sell the Commonwealth steamers, or
to find means for running them without heavy loss,
than by newspaper criticism which contained no
constructive proposals.’’
Since old associates said “Get henre,’’
-My genius disallowing,
My lurk’s to sit upon the fence
And slang the chaps who’re ploughing.
Achilles grumbled in his tent,
So for a space did llustam.
Think not, like those, that I’ll relent.
Not me! I'd sooner bust ’em.
They sent me out upon my ear;
No wonder it’s inspired me
To do mj' little best to queer
The pitch of those who fired me.
Let Laborites their metier find
In face-to-face invective;
The kick directed from behind
Is often more effective.
Diogenes secured a log,
’Tie said, for his location,
Vet stayed a' philosophic dog
For all his isolation.
In my retreat i nurse my rage
in .carking mood and gnarling,
And take it out of Bruce and Page
By . snarling—snarling—snarling !
N.S.W.
IFORD.


£ '<
m
miauuUUD
.
-•fswssa
'jm
:■ -j
fIK
’
*V>
8'«
■ .V j
;
... . «
V
. ' / ,
iSSIMSii!
iiipilpfi
V’v m S k* .
’vi.i t..' '•■
■
V
It* >
■ km
■f:
r S
■nisi
mi
iiillll
.
■A
V i ' '
. v> , 'i'” '
"V- V...' ■.,; - ■ , ,: . ,
m*
;*V-
- >j
SBK :*£ &i. .. - 4>
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


Cbe
Equitable
JTssurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Brancher:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
Stir up .;
a. breeze
with a
Sole Agents for
New South Wales:
THE month of March, with its
hot, humid days and nights, can
be made much more bearable —
even nearly enjoyable—if you possess
a “Century” Electric Fan.
Simply attach the plug to any conveni-
ent power-point and stir up a cool,
refreshing breeze in a moment.
Running expense is extremely small,
and its low first cost makes it a neces-
sity in every home.
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and NEWCASTLE.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
PATHEORAMA
7- Rested 7s Films I 9 ea.
Jjome Kbcreafions£
588 Georee St,Sydney
[ opp. Heard Watson's J
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
* * * »
“Sierra”: A sea-serpent of the usual type
—6oft. long, finned back, turtle-shaped head, long,
graceful neck, etc.-—was recently sighted by the
French steamer St. Francois Xavier snoozing in the
sun about a mile off Port Stephens (N.S.W.). Awak-
ened by the noise of the passing vessel, the cseature
extended its head several yards out of the water,
and after a while disappeared. Apparently it was
not considered worth while to stop the ship for a
closer investigation. It was different with our sea-
serpent. We sighted him in the Southern Ocean, a
few miles off on our lee beam. He was rearing him-
self 20ft. out of the sea and lashing the water into
foam when we put our helm up and ran towards
him. The passengers crowded on to the forecastle-
head for a better view, and our artist, steadying
himself against the anchor-stock, made a life-like
sketch of the monster. Ten minutes later we rounded-
to, and had a ringside seat at the greatest of all
sea-fights—a thrasher beating a whale. It was a
wonderful sight indeed; but no more wonderful
than the artist’s representation of a writhing, coil-
ing, 50-fathom sea-serpent.
“C. Coral”: The Torres Strait islanders
used to dispose of their dead in two ways—by
mummifying the bodies and keeping them in their
houses for a period of two or three years, and by
burial. In the latter case two coconuts were gen-
erally planted on the grave, one at the head of the
body and one at the feet, so that frequently in pass-
ing through the village gardens or coco nut-groves
the visitor is told: “Dead man he buried that
place.” In the early days one visitor to Darnley
got a shock: rounding the point at Medigee Bay lie
saw a man standing in the doorway of one of the
houses, and put a question to him. Receiving no
answer to his second and third attempts, he went
close up and discovered he had been talking to a
mummified body I
* » « *
“Simon II.”: Is the hare as timid or lack-
ing in courage as it is reputed to be? I was jog-
ging along a bush road with a companion recently
when a hare ran across into a ploughed paddock.
It had got well into the open when a hawk ap-
peared high up and hovered over it. The hare evi-
dently sighted the bird, for it paused in its run, and
then slowed down. The hawk nose-dived at terrific
speed, and the hare crouched. When the bird reached
within about 6ft. of the hare the animal sprang
straight into the air and met the hawk with its
head. There was a flurry of fur and feathers for
a second; then the hawk crashed, and had to run
some distance before it could take to its wings again.
When it did so it promptly left the scene of its
downfall. Meanwhile the hare went on its way
at a steady lope, as if butting a hawk was a mere
incident in the day’s events.
* * * «
“Plummet”: From “Sax’s” remarks re
allowing mosquitoes to bite him unmolested, I con-
clude that he is dark-haired and -complexioned. The
buzzers seem to have a particular affection for fair-
haired people, whose skin is, as a rule, rather
tender, and therefore easily pierced. In this camp
there are four of us, and only one seems to be the
real object of the mosquitoes’ attack —he is fair.
At times, though, they go for us all, and if we three
dark hairs have nothing particular to do we allow
them to have their fill, as “Sax” did.
* * * •
“Up Top”: I think pretty well all over
Northern Australia there breed caterpillars that ma,;e
enormous parchment-like nests in the branches of
trees. “Boree-moth” I’ve heard the things called.
A man who knows will
never camp under cne
of these caterpillar-
community trees.
Should the wind blow
a nest down and its
beastly contents burst
on the sleeper’s face,
he stands a very good
chance of going blind.
The bags are full of
yellow powdery stuff
and very fine hairs. I
know a new-chum who
chopped one of the
trees down and broke
open the nests out of
curiosity. A week
after his arms were
covered with a horrible
itching rash that neces-
sitated hospital treat-
ment. A bush mate,
who should have had
better sense, lashed a
nest open with his
stockwhip. He didn’t
take much notice of
part of the stuff falling on the horse’s neck near
the saddle. But very shortly after he did, because
the horse went mad and smashed its rider’s knee
against a tree.
* * * »
“Six-and-Eight”: If “Jesmond” (B.
5/2/’25) is keeping those white rabbits in N. S.
Wales he is unwise to advertise the fact in The
Bulletin. The rabbit inspector, who borrows my
copy of the paper every Sunday (damn him!), says
keeping rabbits in confinement is against the law.
He alleges that for doing so without the permission
of the Minister a couple of common beaks can,
under the Pastures Protection Act, “make a man
cough up a hundred bloomin’ quid.”
* * * *
“Lester”: Has any of the Council ever
heard of a plant sending out SOS calls? There
is a beautiful fern, variously known as the ice and
New Guinea fern, which is in great demand for
hanging baskets in North Queensland. It has most
exquisite, lacy foliage, of a cool, pale-green, with,
long hanging fronds, at certain times changing
color to almost white. It is subject, to attacks by
voracious, thin, green caterpillars. At the first on-
slaught the plant gives out an overpowering, sicken-
ingly-sweet perfume, which it keeps up until it is
rid of the last of its persecutors. The fern at ordi-
nary- times is quite without a scent, even if one
crushes a leaf. It is also very sensitive, and a
frond will turn brown and die almost at a touch.
Left alone and carefully watered it grows luxuri-
antly.
“Boori”: Let me support “Gouger” (B.
i/i/>25) in his statement that the dingo pulls down
the emu by the neck. I saw one tradesman do the
tric-k.near Nindy Gully (Q.). I hurried to the rescue,
but the wolf-bite in the neck, plus the fall, had
settled the argument. I knew two ’roo dogs that
learned to do the job in the same way, “FY7”
notwithstanding. A trained ’roo dog. when first set
the task, invariably tries to throw by the thigh—and
MEMORIES OF FRANCE.
“Three bags, mum? Right. Will you have it a la carte or coal dc sack?"
always fails. I tried for two days to get a good
dog to catch an emu, as a friend wanted a skin.
He tried the thigh grip every time, and at last
gave it up. At the next outing, a few days later,
he surprised me by throwing a big bird by the neck.
He ha.d evidently thought the matter out, and decided
that the neck was the only vulnerable spot. He
rapidly lost interest in ’roos, and thenceforth special-
ised in einus, they were so easy. I had to get rid
of him, as he taught the other dogs the bad habit,
and I didn’t care to see the emus destroyed.
* * * *
“Iford”: An angler with an ecclesiastical
prefix to his name tells Melbourne Age readers how
to prevent fish from going bad on their hands: —
Fish have a thin membrane above the upper lip,
on both sides of the nose. Make a hole in each of
them, put a string through them, and knot it at
the nose; then fasten the other end of the string
to any object, giving the fish sufficient length of
string to get to the bottom of the water to rest,
and to move a few yards about. I have often kept
fish thus tethered, alive and in good condition, for
a fortnight, and have known one to have been so
kept for three weeks.
Presumably the reverend gent, is among those who
assume that fish have no capacity for pain worth
troubling about, even though tethered for a few
weeks by delicate membranes. Still, it might be
worth while directing the attention of the S.P.C.A.
to the method indicated: that is, if the society
thinks that even fish are entitled to provide for
man’s needs with no more torture than is necessary.
* * * *
“Fitz”: You can’t give a practical bush-
man much start when it comes to dealing with a
difficult problem. J. P. C. Dalton, of Wingham, was
up the river recently. In company with Gilbert
Holmes, of Mt. George, he was fording the river
at Rock’s Crossing, when Gilbert’s big car stopped
right in the centre of the stream. Holmes and Dal-
ton, of course, had to get out and endeavor to push
the vehicle to shore. This was not easy, and very
little progress was being made when P. McMahon
appeared on the scene. Paddy was riding and lead-
ing a pack-horse. He took the situation in at a
glance. Then he connected both steeds by their
tails to the car, cracked his whip, and the cuddies
pulled, the car out. There was no harness available,
but Paddy McMahon’s horses had been blessed with
pretty : tough appurtenances.
* * * *
From an Australian at King’s College,
Cambridge:—
The other day I mentioned “croweaters.” Then
someone asked me the why, what, how, etc., of that
and other names applied to residents of the different
States, and I’m dashed if I knew. Will the Council
please tell me?
* * * *
“Toby C.”: Shod with a pair of sandals
made out of two empty herring-and-tomato-sauce tins,
1 met him nearing the home turn on the 110-mile
stretch between Georgetown and Croydon (N.Q.).
Certainly the swag he carried was of cigarette dimen-
sions, but his step was unusually brisk for one who
had just covered that journey under four days. The
nondescript dog trotting in his wake showed unmis-
takable signs of travel, for the weather had been hot.
When the tourist met me he pulled up to sample
my weed and “air” his feet. He casually remarked
that his old “daisies” were a bit on the stiff side for
a long tramp. I thought so, too.
“Longo”: The mention by “Moe” (B.
5/2/’2o) of green trees burning and remaining alight
for days reminds me of the fate of the giant “teak”
trees in the Big Scrub, Richmond River (N.S.W.),
when it was being cleared by the pioneers to pro-
vide a home for paspalum and Strawberry. The
“teak” trees (crow’s ash, Q.), monarchs of the
scrub, were left standing when the smaller timber
was felled and after the lapse of a few months
burned. In the “scrub burn,” often a veritable in-
ferno, it was not uncommon for a rotten limb on a
teak to ignite, and the fires would burn inwards
and downwards on the green free until extinguished
by heavy rain. I have known a giant burn for
four weeks. In later days, when felling this timber
for milling purposes, we often saved a deal of
cross-cut saw work by building a small fire against
the tree, which would slowly burn through without
the fire travelling any appreciable distance up the
trunk. When the tree fell we were thus free to
use the cross-cut on the solid portion of the trunk.
* * * *
“Mako” : The Bay of Islands (M.L.),
playground of deep-sea fishermen from all over the
world, was once famous for its kingfish, but recently
these have been quite overshadowed by the sword-
fish and the mako shark. Wealthy Englishmen return
season after season to chase the sporting swordfish,
which, once hooked, will tow a small launch six
or seven miles before it begins to tire, leaping
spectacularly in its efforts to get free. The sword-
fish weighs up to 3501 b., carries a sword about
2ft. long with which it occasionally pierces a hole
in a launch or boat, and with its fins carefully tucked
away in their little grooves looks like a long, grey
NO TIME LIKE NOW.
THE MISTRESS: “What a big baby for six
months old! Tell me when he has a
birthday, Mary, and I’ll give him a
present."
MARY: “My word, Miss. Mine tinkit this
pfella have birthday longa sarf’ernoon.”
torpedo, and so equipped can back out of an un-
pleasant situation without resistance from the water.
The mako shark is also a great fighter. Once ashore
he is rushed by the Maoris, who prize his big,
triangular teeth for decorative purposes; after the
swordfish is photographed and weighed he is not at
all in demand.
(Continued on page 2!f.)
THE SILVER WEDDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, it is good to be camping
IVhere dry grass smells sweeter than musk,
The tent looking snug and inviting
When shadows are deep in the dusk!
For this is our silver wedding
In the bush—we two are its own—
A river beach shimmering beside us,
And we sharing the glad daj r alone!
Sing me a song, my old sweetheart;
But not of days that are past.
Have never a thought of the future,
Though old age is nearing us fast.
We’ll try to forget our old sorrows;
And you must not think for a while
Of that little grave on the sandhill
Far out on the Seventy Mile.
But hear where the jackass is laughing—
A sound that you always loved well ;
The old horse is coming to water,
I know by the sound of the bell.
Clearly the coach horn is blowing—
Sweet music its hum to our cars;
Always we’ve eagerly hailed it
With pleasure for twenty-five years.
Out on the rim of the desert,
Where sandhills appear in the sky
And swarthy Afghan with his camels—
Lean phantoms—go silently by,
We’ve battled through it together;
We did what we reckoned was right—■
Give me a kiss, my old comrade,
It’s our silver wedding to-night.
There’ll be no visitors calling,
So we’ll let the feasting begin;
The smooth hard ground is our table,
Our plate is enamel or tin.
Put on the black battered billy
And see that the bran bag is spread.
The brownie is hot in the oven;
’Twill cool ere we’re ready for bed.
“HANG ON, DAD HE CAN’T DRAG YOU FAR!"
Twenty-five years in all weathers,
With many a long, long, tramp !
In tilted cart or the waggon
We’ve shifted from camp to camp.
You came with me just a youngster—
Twenty years old and a wife—
And now it’s our silver wedding.
God, what a battle is life!
Halting and rough when you’re speaking—
For our neighbors always were men—
Chatty and bright when I wed you;
Your laughter was musical then,
daughter, I said, and you’re crying;
I thought I had talked you to sleep—
Come, mum, the billy is boiling;
It makes my heart ache when you weep!
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


r
0
m
8
f
*
I
/
/
0
8
9
%
8
9
9
0
%
*
£
£
g
>
/
g
/
/
A
p
e
/
>
/
*
#
/
0
m
g
9
9
9
9
9
0
9
?
*
.1
«
9
g
9
g
X
9
9
9
9
p
g
9
9
w
f
g
9
/
\ im
d_ -
“ at
'. v:M *:
_____ 1 * !
mmmm. ? sai
11,200
IMEI:’'
** V' ' '■’ '•'
SnlmitaMe
OAe itfuAfaatUm.
a CAatietifc oak ccaJt
Aeiding 11,200qal&mi
(Dive lAvuMmd jix Aufidtedca&eA,
of £Tbnj£o4dA 7f&ie.
OhUii one
outlet
inffynArfU* Tftnetite
OAe CAaxente ouh
corner fxom thefamous
fotedb of the Chwi&nte
di&thicU instance
OAe tong fwiiotl of
yeaftA jwteedvntheM
high date eotUain&M
mat&ualCu atei&fo to
jowduce Mat inbmitr
•a&te ''CfaifoCd''ftcuwi


QfflQ#;QSQ#fflHPHfflMPQ#QQEtg(3Ci
“KING GEORGE IV’WHISKY
Acknowledged
to be
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
030032
» 7 i
DISTRIBUTORS—
Holdsworth, Maepherson & Co., Sydney.
John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Sydney.
Temple Roofing Co., Sydney.
Briscoe & Co.,
James McEwan & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
J. Murray More Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Brookes, Robinson & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Ltd., Melbourne.
MALTHOID
“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS."
A GENERAL WATERPROOFING FABRIC.
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Millars’ Timber & Trading Co., Perth.
Chas. Davis, Ltd., Hobart.
J. & T. Gunn, Ltd., Launceston.
W. S. Friend & Co., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & M. A. Co., Ltd.,
New Zealand Loan & M. A. Co., Ltd.,
Rockhampton.
New Zealand Loan & M. A. Co., Ltd.,
Townsville.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
* * # •
“Api”: Without being rude, may I tell
“Bodge” (B. 15/l/’25) that what “Nitric” (B.
f>/'2/’25) has to say re ammonia syringes replacing
the old smokers in apiaries is mostly bosh? 1 have
been a beekeeper for many years, and know many
large apiaries, and I have never seen any effective
substitute for smoke in practical working.
THE LEG-PULLER,
“ Wha’s matter with thy foot, maister?”
“Got a hunion on un. Do 'ee knaw a good cure for un?”
“Yes, maister. Goest along up chemist shop, and ask for
shillun’s worth av Runyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress.”
“Gecko”: Tell “W.W.D.” (B. 29/l/’25)
it is quite safe to assert that echidna ( Tachyglossus
aculeatus) lays but one egg during the annual rut.
From personal observations, as a monotremologist, or
platypoditudinarian expert, I have ever found it thus,
and there is only one authentic record to the contrary,
to my knowledge. In his book, “In the Australian
Bush” (page 160), Semon states: “Among sixty preg-
nant females which I examined, I found one carrying
two young.... These, however, never attain perfect
maturity. Similar freakish instances apply also to
occasional mammy ’roos, etc.
“1.L.1.”: It’s lucky for birds and animals
that the abos. don’t Qften go to the trouble oi
making pets of them. But sometimes they do. In
North Queensland I’ve seen birds tied by a long
string to a nigger’s gunyah, and piccaninnies dragging
a clawing young goanna tied by the tail with a
piece of fibre. The niggers never think to feed the
pets. The poor things just linger until they starve.
A VICTIM OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
DEFENCE: “It is true my client admits 'killing his father and mother; but, then, con-
sider that he is a poor orphan.”
A great pet of the piccaninnies is the fat green frog.
Him they do to deatli with toy reed spears. Young
wallabies sometimes manage to live despite these
hostile surroundings. As they grow older, they feed
around the camp. The mongrels all know such a
pet, and, though leaving it alone, regard it sulkily.
The only pet the niggers have any real time foi
is the young cassowary. They will feed this bundle
of meat and carefully rear him to maturity. He
then follows the camp in all its wanderings. Several
times I’ve met a mob of niggers on the hunt, and
been momentarily startled to see a big, business-like
cassowary stalking conceitedly among the warriors.
“Gouger”: The bush was
one sheet of flame, with the black
smoke in wall-like volumes rising
to the sky. The flames roared
as they leaped over the sun-dried
grasses towards the Palmer. Pac-
ing towrds sanctuary were the
wild bush creatures —kangaroos,
wallabies, emus, squealing wild-
pigs, kangaroo-rats, doomed snakes,
high-headed goannas, travelling
as if a million devils were pitch-
forking at their tails. All with
their heads the same way—ani-
mals, crawlers, birds, insects; a
dinkum race for life, with the
red devil for the hindermost, all
carving it out to where the Palmer
takes a boomerang bend. Here
the river is half a mile wide, and
there are deep waterholes, sandy
beaches, granite boulders and
bushes. The advance guard of
’roos thudded thankfully on (o
the broad sandpatches where there
was no grass to burn, and made
straight for the waterholes. From
the long lines of scattered bushes
they were met by a yelling semi-
circle of niggers. The ’roos stag-
gered on their tails, and the first
flight of spears was in among
them. They turned and tore back
to where the slower ’roos and
wallabies were thudding towards
them; then turned once again,
with the fresh mob, and bounded
afain towards the blacks. It was
a great slaughter. It was a great
feast, for the nigs tried to eat
all that game before time should
turn the meat bad. In the small
hours I heard frightful groanings
from the bend, and strolling
across to see what was the matter
saw the bucks rolling one another
on the sand to try to relieve the
pain.
“Gouger’s” frog (B. 22/l/’25)
has a full brother in the W.A. desert. When drought
comes he fills up with water; and so tightly does
he cork himself that no amount of squeezing will
produce a drop from him. He may have to remain
thus sealed for anything from two to five years,
but no matter how long the period, he will survive
it. I have often found him in dust-dry sand-drifts
far away from any claypans. Placed in a bucket
of water he draws the cork in about ten minutes
and kicks around as lively as ever.
“Golub”: A full-grown pig lately owned*
by a Bathurst (N.S.NY.) farmer died suddenly,
whereupon an autopsy was held and a 12-in. black
snake was discovered in the animal’s stomach. The
reptile was alive and vigorous. There seems to be
little doubt that the pig died as the result of
being bitten by the reptile; but how did the reptile
get into the interior of the pig? It could not
have been there long - , and so could not have been
swallowed when much smaller. One possible explana-
tion is that it was coiled up inside something which
the pig bolted. Incidentally, the fact of the ani-
mal’s death disproves the assertion of some that
pigs are immune to the effects of snake venom because
of a physiological protection. Actually, the protec-
tion they possess is due to the presence of the fat
layer which surrounds their bodies, and which, being
non-vascular, cannot absorb poison when it is
injected into it by means of a bite. In the present
case the pig died because, probably, it was bitten in
parts of its interior which would quickly convey
the venom into the blood stream, where it could
exert its toxic effect.
“Nitric”: Apropos “W.E.W.’s” inquiry
(B, 29/l/’25) as to the number of eggs the echidna
lays. The rule is one, though I have found a porcu-
pine with two. The eggs are white, about fin. long
by iin. in diameter. The platypus generally lays
two eggs, and possesses two nipples in the pouch;
the echidna has no distinct nipples, but pours out
the milky secretion through numerous openings in
the skin. There are three well-known species of
this porcupine ant-eater — Echidna setosa, of Tas-
mania; E. hystrix, occurring in Australia (it is* very
plentiful here in South Queensland) ; and E. bruijnii .
of North-East New Guinea. The early stages of
development of the Monotremes (echidna and platy-
pus) is still the biologist’s enigma.
* * * *
“Fana”: Throughout the tropics there is
a belief that to sleep in the light from a full moon
is to risk paralysis of the facial muscles; and
although the idea is scoffed at, some puzzling cases
have been reported. One instance occurred at
a plantation near Faisi, in the Solomons. A youth-
ful overseer slung his hammock on the bungalow
Verandah so that the light of the full moon shone
on him for some hours. The next morning the
whole of the right side of his face was twisted and
contorted, so that he appeared to be grinning sar-
donically, and it stayed like this all the following
day, when the muscles became relaxed and assumed
their normal position. Recently I heard of a similar
case from the Dutch East Indies, where the same
idea prevails.
* * * *
“28”: “Nitric’s” black cockatoos (B.
29/l/’25), although regarded by some as infallible
prophets of wet weather, are not unerring. Years
spent among their haunts satisfies me that they are
oftener in evidence after the rain has set in. The
one good bird-tipster found right along the eastern
coast, from Tasmania to N. Queensland, is the swift,
a migratory bird, seen from December to April.
When it flies high and circles in a desultory fashion,
rain may confidently be expected.
* * » *
“Dry”: This is what I think of that
“fatal circling” (B. 22/l/’25). I have been
“slewed” a few r times in the bush, a couple of times
at night. Analysing my movements over every-day
walks, I found that, whenever I come to a tree or
log, I go round that obstacle on the right side.
When one is lost, that turn round the obstacle is a
change of course, each succeeding obstacle making
that course more and more into a circle. When a
lost one has become tired with walking, it becomes
more difficult to lift the feet, and a small tussock,
or a bump in the ground, or anything which makes
one lift the feet slightly higher becomes an obstacle
to be avoided ; hence a frequent shift to the right or
* left, whichever is the peculiarity. A lost one meets
thousands of such obstacles, and so makes the fatal
i circle. Knowing all this, I have tried to correct the
course without an object ahead —this at night-time—
and found it exceedingly difficult. I have tried the
stars and moon, and find the stars best; but at the
least wavering of the mind the straight line is lost.
Once, taking the moon as guide, I started with it
on my right side, intending to keep it there, but
time after time I found it on my left, although I
was trying hard to keep my mind on direction.
Anyone can find which way he would circle by
noticing which side of an object he usually takes.
The battle is half-won by checking the tendency to
go the one way.
“Coogan” : “Sax” (B. 5/2/25) could not
find a safer or better place than Rockhampton (Q.)
to test his mosquito theory, as the mosquitoes,
though many, are not malarial. I came up here from
the South at Christmas, and for the first fortnight
the Scotch Greys had a great time, raising weals
over an inch in diameter. I tried letting ’em fill
up, but found no difference, and preferred the psy-
chological satisfaction of the smack method. After
this period the reaction almost disappeared, and itch-
ing was not prolonged. Apparently an anti-body to
their poison is produced within 14 days, which is
about the time most toxins take to produce an anti-
toxin. The capacity seems to vary a lot with the
individual. Twelve months’ steady biting has pro-
duced no improvement in some other persons.
“Troophorse”: I know one native well
that is easy to find (B. 5/2/’25). On Millingimbar,
one of the Crocodile islands that lie clustered off the
mouth of the Goyder River (N.T.), is a large rock-
hole about 30ft. deep, surrounded by tamarind-trees.
This hole is used by the natives (or, rather, was used
by them before the Mission people went there last
year), to clean the “munja” nuts taken green from
the zamia palm. The nuts after being picked arc left
soaking in the water for four days to take the poison
out, and if one happens to be away to leeward of the
hole stocked with this fermented mush, he will work
to windward p.d.q. The stink is a perfect stink. The
mush is beaten into a pulp, rolled into nice paper-
bark serviettes, to be baked in the ashes like
johnny-cakes. When cooked it looks like a good
old blackfellow’s flour-sod. The sickly smell is still
around; but I have tackled, the stuff when nothing
else was about, and have lived on it with fish, turtle
and dugong as backing. The water goes very black,
and the only way we could drink it was to make
very strong black coffee of it. If one added milk it
would turn blue. Still, the natives would drink the
water without any noise at all.
“Wai-hoi”: Inside the big fringing reef
on Houtman’s Abrolhos Islands, 50 miles west of Gerald-
ton (W.A.), arc many comfortable little anchor-
ages which you can make for when nor’-westers or
southerly busters hit things up outside. A Gcrald-
ton fishing lugger, with two chaps aboard, had
made snug for the night in a small bay, the
entrance to which was practically locked by small
reefs off-shooting from the main fringe. The two
were trying to take one 1 another down at cards in
the cabin, when one reckoned he heard wind coming
up, and went out to see what was doing. The
breeze turned out to be the blowing of a whale
that was raising the devil at his apparent inability
to double back over the track that he’d followed in
through the reefs. He did a few laps round the
bay, putting on steam all the time, but in taking
one corner a bit fine he got foul of the lugger’s
anchor-chain. Going round the mulberry bush was
a fool to the capers of the craft for a few short
but lively minutes; then, luckily, the cable parted.
It’s a toss up which of the three got the biggest
fright.
NOT WHAT A GENTLEMAN WOULD
EXPECT.
“I tried to borrow a tenner from him, and
he asked me what security I had.”
“What did you say?”
“The word of an honest man. And he said,
‘Well, fetch him along.’”
“Pick”: There is good reasoning in the
suggestion (B. 5/2/’25) that a slut recovered from
snakebite may have pups Immune to the venom. At
Central Tilba (N.S.W.), just before having a big
litter of pups, Madge, a well-bred pointer bitch
belonging to the local cheese-factory manager, was
paralysed for weeks by bush-ticks. With veterinary
aid and unceasing attention she was pulled through.
Her pups when old enough for the hunt we fre-
quently found spotted with ticks, but they never
seemed to suffer evil effects therefrom. And in that
locality other dogs were seldom reared beyond the
days of puppyhood.
CAT-LIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is midnight’s quiet hour,
And a hush holds everything—
Leaf and blade, and vine and flower,
Padded foot and shining wing.
In the palm-tree’s fronded crown
Rustles now no passing breeze;
Long ago the moon went down
Gazing palely through the trees.
Shepherd birds no longer call,
Neither owl nor mopoke stir 9;
Only waiting, watching all,
Like a cat the ocean purrs.
Under dim and misty stars,
Skirting headlands bleak and grey,
Prowling round its tide-washed bars,
Reef and shoal it seeks for prey.
Save that purring on the shore,
Not a note sounds, sweet or harsh;
E’en the green frogs croak no more
Up and down the reedy marsh.
Limbs outstretched beside a Are,
Head on arm, and for a span
Dreaming not of tasks that tire,
Sleeps a worn-out fisherman.
Softly, slowly, as he breathes
Lost in sleep, ahd lost to care,
Up and up the blue smoke wreathes
O’er him in the stirless air.
Up and up, wraitli-like and dim,
From the fire it rises slow,
Wreathing she-oak tress and limb,
Hesitant of where to go.
Motionless stand oak and palm,
Weird and silent in the gloom—
Can it be that in this calm
Fate sits weaving at her loom ?
Through the trees a coldness creeps,
Burns the camp-fire sullenly—
Can it be the sleeper sleeps
Unaware of what shall be?
Cat-like in its clefts and caves
Purrs the sea ; the sleeper stirs—
Does he dream of whelming waves,
And of dead, drowned mariners?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


In future buy
Dunlop Cords!
£
%
r .Ji
A
M
/
'SJ
*
\C>
«*
&
\
VV
m
osy
<<
m
m
V
111
\\\
111,
Wi
0
'A
f'
vVV
y//
(a
>o
X
7
Motorists
make a
substantial saving
when they fit
LOP
TYRES
V.
0
The service these high-grade tyres give on Australian
roads is remarkable —so is their price. You save \
pounds in their initial purchase and yet obtain ,<
covers and tubes unsurpassed for quality and
free from trouble long service. Fit “Dunlop
Cords and check their mileage. Available
in Standard type and .Balloons.
★ ★ ★
Send for reduced price list.
★ ★ ★
Garages can supply.
Look at these
Reduced Prices!
Dunlop Beaded Edge
Size Cover Tube
30 x • £4 4 0 - 15/-
31 x 4' • 5 12 6-20/-
760 x9O 4 66- 16/-
815 x 105 6 6 6-21/9
820 x 120 7 3 6 - 24/3
880 x 120 816 9-25/6
895 x 135 916 0-27/6 |
Dunlop Straight Sided |
Size Cover Tube !
30 x 34
31 x 4
32 x 4
32 x 4h
33 x 4^
34 x 4^
£4 14 9 - 15/-
6 2 0 - 20/-
6 5 0 - 20/6
7 0 0 - 22/-
7 3 6-22/6
7 7 0 - 23/*
Dunlop “Utility” Tyre
Size Cover Tube
30 x 32 - £3 12 0 • 14/-
Balloons for Existing Rims
(Rim» they fit in Brackets)
Size Cover Tube
31 x 4.40(30 x 3i b.e.)£s 10 3 -16/6
31 x 4.40(30 x3i s.s.) 5 16 0 -16/6
32x 4.95(31 x 4 s.s.) 6 12 9 - 21/-
33x 4 95(32x4 s.s.) 616 0-21/-
33 X 5.77$ 9 5 0 - 26,
34 X 5.77 $ * Jj !si 9 9 3■26 6
These prices apply only in Australia.
BUY YOUR TYRES FROM GARAGES
They exist to render motorists service,
and are entitled to your support.
Specify “Dunlop” Cords and accept no others!
★ * ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES
*ND N Z.


A BEST SELLER.
STEELE RUDD’S
latest laughter-giving Book,
ME AN’ TH’ SON.
ME AN’ TH’ SON.
Cloth Library Edition, with artistic, three-color Picture Jacket.
Price 3/6. Posted 2d. extra.
PROCURABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
Twenty Best Books on Technical Subjects.
Postage
Price, extra.
1/6
I/O
1/6
1/-
6(1.
1/-
lOd.
6d.
4(1.
25/-
24/-
WRITE FOR LISTS.
, , . , AUTOMOBILE.
Dykes Automobile Eneyelopa'dia, 13th Edition «*n / ’
M . r> . , CABINET MAKING & JOINERY. /_
Modern Practical Joinery (Ellis)
, T > . , CARPENTRY. V“’ 7 ‘
Modern Practical Carpentry (Ellis) o rt/
CONCRETE «n/-
Concrcte Engineer’s Handbook (Hool & Johnson 1 /
, _ SHEEP & WOOL. 7 '
Australian Sheep & Wool (Ilawksv/orth) ««,
l 3 . . „ PERFUMES. /m
l eitumes & Cosmetics Synthetics (Poncher)
, T , . „ RECIPES FOR ALL TRADES,
formulas, Recipes & Processes (Henly)
Q . CHEESE MAKING.
Cheddar, Swiss, Limberger, etc. (Dicker) I^/
■p * »■ . .. BUNGALOWS. /_
Book of Australian Bungalows k ,
Modern I ractice of Coal Mining (Trewayne) .... 15/-
T 1 OILS, ANIMAL & VEGETABLE. postea.
I lxed Oils, hats, Butters & Waxes (Wright) . ' 67/ft
Wl „ , . . MACHINE DESIGN. 7
Handbook for Machine Designers, Shopmen and Draughtsmen 45/-
T, . . . _ . , mechanical engineering.
Mechanical Engineer’s Handbook (Marks)
„ .. . ■ , TELEGRAPHIC CODES. /_
Bentleys Complete Phrase Codes, Numbered .... 115/
Haw kins Electrical Guide, 10 vols HQ/
„ .. . m . , TELEPHONES.
I ractical Telephone Handbook (Poole) ... Ifl/
, , ... T .. IGNITION, STARTING & LIGHTING
Automobile Ignition, Starting and Lighting (Hayward) 24/
tv . OIL ENGINES.
Hiesel & Oil Engineering Handbook (Rosebloom) 0 0/
r , . ._. t BRIDGES. /_
Design of Highway Bridges (Ketclnim) .... 45/
. . .. , ACCOUNTANCY.
Australian Manual of Accountancy and Commercial Law (Morley
Lait & Collins) ’
1/7
1/6
1/-
1/6
1/6
10(1.
1/-
10(1.
10(1.
1/6
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Happy
Moments
YES, sir, I’ve enjoyed a long
and happy life with many
pleasant experiences, but
the happiest incident of all was
my discovery of the Kensitas
cigarettes.
It is a pleasure to me to be in a
position to introduce Kensitas
cigarettes to a gentleman like
yourself, sir.
I know you will enjoy many happy
moments smoking Kensitas—my
discovery.
STANDARD
c t 7P
VIRGINIA
20
for
V 6
SO for 3/9
100 for 7/6
Of all High-class
Tobacconists
Kerfs ita
ine preferred ciqarette
MANUFACTURERS: J. WIX & SONS LTD . LONDON
mm
wm
o
. v . '• . '>■
Q DAY LACQUER CLOCK
Sirfc-ri"x6"
i o ph
wf>
m
handsome "LOUiSXV"
5 U li L
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Beautifully Inlaid
and Mounted
l4h?
£ 20
Fancy Inlaid
BUfIL
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Gilh mounfs. Stakes fhe
half-hours & hours on jjong
heigh!- IS"
£2!
WM •DRUMMOND s CO.
344.346
Whiter Teeth in 10 Days
Make this free test. Combat the film
This is how countless people get the
whiter teeth you admire. They com-
bat the film that makes teeth cloudy.
Millions do it daily. And so will
you when you make this test and see
what it means to your teeth.
It hides the lustre
Film is that viscous coat you feel.
No ordinary tooth paste can effec-
tively combat it, so much of it remains.
Soon it becomes discolored, then
forms dingy coats. That is how
teeth lose their beauty.
Film also ruins teeth. It holds
food substance which ferments and
forms acid. It holds the acid in con-
tact with the teeth to cause decay.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a
film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
Germs breed by millions in it. They,
with tartar, are the chief cause of
pyorrhea.
Few escape such troubles when they
brush teeth in the old ways.
Dental science has now found two
ways to fight that film. One disin-
tegrates the film, one removes it
without harmful scouring.
Able authorities have proved these
methods effective. A new-type tooth
paste has been created to apply them
daily. The name is Pepsodent. Lead-
ing dentists everywhere advise it.
Now careful people of some fifty
nations use it every day.
Watch it act
Send the coupon for a io-Day
Tube. Note how clean the teeth feel
after using. Mark the absence of the
viscous film. See how teeth become
whiter as the film-coats disappear.
You will always be glad that you
made this test. Cut out coupon now.
Made in Auttrafio
Pflpsaflgjfvi
trade
The New~Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold in two sizes,
Price: 2/- and 1/3
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to


UNSCENTED
sr>s
5°
arenV
You can see the purity of
' r-|— 'RANSPARENT
ISO A P
Any impurity would cloud its beautiful trans-
parency. Hold a tablet up to the light and you will
see why Pears is matchless for the complexion.
A. 8C F. PEARS, Ltd.
P- 93
•M'XvXvvXvKj
The Place to Stay
in Melbourne, -whether you go for a holiday or on
business bent, is
Mi
Met bourne
Melbourne’s Most Central
Hotel.
The location of Scott’s is equally conveni-
ent. to Steamers, Trains, Trams, Leading
Theatres, Stores and the City’s Business
centre.
The Newly-Completed Extension
to Scott’s is lavishly appointed on the same scale of completeness
as the original building, and includes a greatly-enlarged
Dining-room, spacious Lounge, Bedrooms with private Bath-
rooms attached, and public Telephones.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and Breakfast Bate.
Suites on Application.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?] [?]
Misses HONK & DOVLE
Phone[?] Centrus 1532, 1533.
It was a fashionable crowd armed with
enthusiasm, flowers and streamers for the
usual hectic proceedings which mark the
farewelling of musical-comedy stars; but the
sternly artistic Boucicault permitted .no
stepping “out of the picture” at the last night
at the King’s. Janet Eccles, bowing to the
front-of-tlie-stage plaudits, forgot she was on
the point of discovering two lovers, but
that was the only break; and ententes cor-
dial between actors and audience Avere
pushed to their proper place, at the end of
the proceedings, when they had a flower-
littered stage as a background.
The Governor-General and Lady Forster
had Mrs. Pitt Rivers with them. When
Guy Bates Post, who, with his Avife, was
boxed with the Charles Taits, arrived, a
liouse from which feAV of the pillars of the
templd were absent gave him a fervent
advance on future drafts of appreciation.
Dion Boucicault’s farewell speech was cor-
rect but cold; neA’ertheless, there was more
than mere politeness behind his words when
he hoped for a return to Melbourne next
Cup time with a clutch of Barrie plays.
An overflowing house cheered Guy Bates
Post back to Melbourne on Saturday night
at the King’s Theatre. Little Marie Tait,
looking like a Spanish beauty in a silken
embroidered shawl, sat in a box with Mrs.
Bates Post, whose smile and golden locks
shone just as brightly as they did six years
ago. At her other side was Mrs. Frank Tait,
while another of the same tribe sat in the
rear. The benign-looking John O’Hara, who
was front-stalled, helped to lead the applause.
After the final curtain Rajah Guy was
dragged forward to express his gladness.
The Rajah’s white and silver suitings quite
overshadowed the heroine’s three nicely-hung
frocks, but the Green Goddess, in nothing
but a necklace of skulls, overshadowed them
both.
Promenaders on Saturday placed the soft
footprint of approval and recognition on the
lawn at Flemington, restored to almost all
its former glory, and astonishment was
voiced that the committee should ever have
dared to tamper with the social world’s
parade-ground. During race intervals the
feminine attachments and friends of the
members flocked from the sacred fenced en-
closures to mix with the lesser worshippers.
The new members’ stand is now practically
complete, and its splendors are manifold.
Hardly anything necessary for feminine em-
bellishment is absent from the rooms where
the wives, daughters and friends of the mem-
bers may repair the ravages of wind and
sun—even powders and a delightful variety
of scents are there. Humble womenfolk who
are debarred from these refinements have
less heartburning about their male relatives
paying for them now that some of their
own privileges are restored.
The sympathy of the Avhole community
goes out to the vice-regal Sti’adbrokes in
the loss of their younger son. Christopher,
who went oA’er the Great Divide on Sunday
after four painful months on the sick-list.
The child, who Avas nine last month, was
the idol of the whole household. He was a
beautiful little felloAV, with a happy and
courageous nature, which never faltered even
when he suffered most. Lady Stradbroke
was seldom away from the sick child during
his long illness. At the memorial service
in the Cathedral, which was attended by
the vice-regal Forsters, few women’s eyes
were dry as the sorrowing parents, she
closely veiled, passed up the aisle, followed
by the family, household and domestic staff.
They were also present at the evening
memorial service in the Malvern Anglican
Church. St. George’s. On the Allowing day
little Christopher Avas pat temporarily to
rest in Australian soil, byit the body will
be transferred to the family vault in Suffolk
Avhen his parents return to their homeland.
No one outside the household attended the
burial. Captains Keppel Palmer and Bur-
chell, Avith some of the domestic staff and
Constables Smith and Clarke, were the pall-
bearers.
Last week the squatters came down like
a Avolf on the fold, and their cohorts were
gleaming in goAvns which had less silver and
gold than effects in black, blue and broAvn. The
meat in the sandwich is, of course, the
V.R.C. autumn meeting, and the polo week
is the mustard thereof. Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side and Mrs. E. W. Austin were the host-
esses at the Moonee Valley polo grounds last
Friday, and entertained a crowd from the
fattest pastures of at least three States,
mingled with the bearers of some noted poli-
tical and commercial names. lliere was
sunshine on the gathering; but a suggestion
of chill in the air brought forth some hea\y
cloakings. Lady Forster found a suble fur
wrap a grateful addition to her leaf-brown
maroeain.
St. Kilda added bunting and carnival
dress to its jazz balloons last week, and went
gay in the cause of charity. The eight days
of hilarity included a real wedding, an oblig-
ing bride and bridegroom having offered their
services to the carnival committee. But
apparently the committee was not careful
about the character of some of the volun-
tary philanthropists. Crooks found that per-
mission to run stunts from which cunning
might extract lawless profits was amazingly
easy to obtain. On Thursday the police,
having decided that most of the prizes
were being won by confederates of
the crook showmen, sw’ooped, and seven
of the gamesters were arrested; but that
was only a trivial percentage of the men
suspected. The carnival officials were, of
course, terribly upset, and everybody is now
engaged in blaming everybody else.
A big group of our leading squatting
families are in mourning for V.R.C. commit-
teeman Fred Fairbairn, of Logan Downs
station, Queensland, youngest of the hand-
some Fairbairn brothers who wrote their
names large in the sporting annals of
Geelong Grammar School and Cambridge
University. The quartette all stood a few
inches over six feet, and Fred only differed
from his brothers in being, fairhaired. Much
sympathy goes to his widow —she was a
Queensland girl, Rhoda McLean —and the
family. Gordon Fairbairn, who maintained
the family’s sporting traditions across seas
as one of the finest amateur cricketers in
England, a number of State and Federal
members, and a big gathering of public and
business men attended the service in Collms-
street Scots’ Church, and the after-service at
Springvale Necropolis, where the body was
cremated.
The Fitzroy Gardens Kiosk and its en-
compassing lawns echoed to joyous shrieks
when the “Cinderella” pantomime infants were
entertained with games and ices by Kitty
Reidy. The baby of the company, Valma Clarke,
emerged triumphantly from the races with
a decorative powder-puff. The elder winners
got manicure-cases, while the also-rans were
comforted with consolation prizes. Finally
hostess Kitty told her small guests the real
story of Cinderella, which is not so very
different from the panto, version; and her
hearers listened open-eyed.
Melbourne Grammar Chapel saw the join-
ing of Jean Nicholas and young Fred Knight,
and Mrs. Sam McCaughey lent her South
Yarra House, Waveney, for the health-
drinking. The bi’ide, who is a daugh-
ter of the J. W. Nicholases, of
Monaro Vale, Cobram, farewelled her
spinsterliood in white satin embroidered
with gold that was reminiscent of an altar-
cloth. Michael McCaughey and the ’groom’s
small niece, Laurie O’Brien, in yellow satin,
like twin nuggets, guarded the floating train.
Sisters Mildred and Meg Nicholas, with
Em Falkiner, ’maided, qnd Roy McCaughey
best-manned. Mrs. Nicholas how-d’ye-doed
her 200 guests in magpie effects, and Mrs.
Knight stood by in autumn tones.
Bendigo is proud of its very first legal
lady. Lallie Jones, who looks at you from
this picture.
Eighteen
months back
she took over
her dad’s busi-
ness, and has
made her-
self probably
the only
skirted autho-
rity on mining
law in Aus-
tralia. She
prefers the
office side to
b u 1 lyragging
reluctant wit-
nesses in
court. Still she
made a trium-
phant success
of a case in
which she was
briefed for the
defence.
The St. Kilda Beach Pageant Committee
struck misfortune when it decided to adopt the
new idea of insuring against bad weather. The
committee had rain in mind, and paid a
premium of £B5 to be insured for £3OO
against 10 points of the unwanted moisture
falling. Its luck was out, for, though the
water only fell in rare drops, a wind arose
which tore tents to pieces, made rags of
flags and beat down decorations; and as the
aquatic sports had to be postponed, people
naturally stayed away. Last week the car-
nival had better weather, but it Avas hardly
possible to recoup the loss sustained on the
first day.
Exhibition tennis drew the best-dresseds
to the Albert Ground on Thursday. Lord
Forster was there with Mr. Dubs, Miss
Carleton and Mrs. Pitt Rivers, whose fair-
ness successfully withstood the ordeal of an
almond-green hat. Mrs. Pat Osborne, or
N.S.W., was the Pearly Queen in ivory but-
tons, and the Clapperton sisters, back from
a globe-trot, looked as if they had been cut
out of the pages of Vogue.
Several people hurriedly blue-pencilled
their engagements last week on hearing of
the vice-regal bereavement, only to find that
other people were carrying on as usual.
Even the G.-G. and Lady Forster attended
the theatre the night after the pathetic
little burial ceremony, and it was noted that
Lady Forster wore colors.
It is wonderful how kindly Society takes
to religion when it is decorated with gold lace
and topped by a coronet. Lord Forster
fronted a packed house when he mounted
the pulpit of St. Paul’s Cathedral one day
last week to set the midday Lenten services
going. Softly let it be murmured that his
Ex. knows more about jibing a 32-footer
than preaching a sermon; nevertheless, he
contrived to utter some pious aphorisms
which got mixed, somehow or other, with
regrettably numerous references to sport.
The energetic British Music Society made
the Clarke scholarship winner, W. N. McKie,
returning heavy with musical pollen, the
excuse for getting together on Mrs. James
Dyer’s carpets. All the most notable of
Melbourne’s musical enthusiasts critically
masticated two songs composed by the guest
of honor and sung by Viola Morris. The
hostess —she it was to whom Dr. W. G.
Whittaker dedicated his work which won the
Carnegie award for 1924 —announced that
she had made arrangements with the pub-
lishers for all new English music to come
to her so that members can decide what of
it is best fitted for public hearing. A society
bent on training the taste of the public to
a British preference has to be careful regard-
ing the goods it offers.
This is Beryl Zichi-Woinarski, the Judge’s
niece who.
overlooking the
fact that she
was dragging
a Communist
into an otlier-
wi s e irre-
proachable
bourgeois
family, said
she would to
Eric Asche at
Melbourne
Grammar
School Chapel
the other day.
Beryl’s mother
is the doctor’s
widow who
runs the Chau-
cer Library in
Queen’s - walk.
A big crowd
turned up to
see the knot-
tieing and join in the health-drinking at 11
Otira-road, Caulfield.
Small Sister says a word about her paying-
guest season :
Despite the shipping, hold-up and the absence of any
very long heat-waves in Sydney and Melbourne, wan-
derers in Tasmania report that most of the favorite
summer resorts have this year attracted more visitors
than ever. This is particularly the case with places
like Kingston Beach (Brown’s River), Roaring Beach
(South Arm), Port Arthur and Eaglehawk Neck,
Woodbridge, The Snug, Cygnet, Shipwrights’ Point,
Geeveston and a dozen other havens on the Hucn
River and the picturesque D’Entrecasteaux Channel.
In regard to the Scamander and other East Coast
bream-fishing spots, there has been a falling olf
in the number of mainland visitors —probably because
early reports indicated poor sport amcng the black
bream. It appears that the commercial fishermen got
in through a recently discovered hole in the Fisheries
Act, and netted the tidal feeding-grounds. They
apparently got some big hauls, too, for fine four-
pound bream were sold in Hobart suburbs for
eighteenpenee apiece. Along the Northern Coast —
Burnie, Devonport, Deloraine, Launceston, and at
inland or less accessible places like the Gordon
River, Florentine Valley, Hartz Mountains and Great
Lake—mainland visitors were not so numerous.
That popular, summer resorts near Hobart, such as
Kingston Beach and the, Channel ports, were all as
crowded as usual, may be accounted for by the
fact that Tasmanians are using their own beauty spots
more and more every year. The motor-car helps,
of course. At Kingston Beach, for instance, though
bungalow accommodation has trebled since the War,
there are no vacant dwellings in the summer season
(the best family camps are generally booked a year
ahead for the school-holiday months), and not very
many even in the depth of winter. Apart from modern
improvements in the shape of fine golf links and
electric lighting, the sheltered quiet of the place is
an attraction. The tramless silence of the bush-
lined streets, broken only by the occasional soft
hoot of a mopoke and the long wash of Derwent
Estuary seas on the silver sands, is by an increasing
number of city business men reckoned excellent
sleeping value for the 30 or 40 minute motor run
from the capital—to say nothing of the facilities
for an early dip while magpies and thrushes and
Derwent Jacks carol thanks for the sanctuary of the
big timber of the beach-belt, and the long-tailed
wattle-birds play noisy hide-and-seek amid the sun-
shot foliage of the native cherry-trees.
Then the spin to town! There is always a spice of
speculation in the journey’s beginning: whether a
motor-engine with less than a mile of level going in
which to assimilate its breakfast can surmount the
Bonnet Hill on top gear. It is a toss up with most
runabouts; the task even makes Lizzie breathe hard.
A laden motor-’bus coughed itself to a standstill on
the steepest pinch, and immediately started to run
backwards. The brakes refused duty and the
momentum carried her over the embankment at a
sharp turn. An awful smash! But that was years
ago. No serious accidents happen nowadays on that
road, though an occasional joy-riding party achieves
a spill and a little healthy walking exercise. From
the top of the Bonnet to Hobart is a descent of pure
delight to motorists. Only eight miles or so, but
eight miles of scenic loveliness unsurpassed in Aus-
tralasia ; and, moreover, as to at least five miles
of it, the only masterpiece of Nature within half an
hour’s journey of any State capital that remains
practically untouched by the hand of the advertiser,
and unmolested by the jerry-builder.
Gregan McMahon assures this Chatterer
that he never did put on a play of Barrie’s
“without permission, forwarding the author
a cheque afterwards.” “I would hate,” the
Repertory producer writes, “to incur the
everlasting wrath of those on whose grace
I depend. Piracy is, rightly, the unpardon-
able sin with playwrights; and if I had been
guilty of it I shouldn’t expect Sir J. M.’s
forgiveness, even if he wasn’t a Scotchman.”
The South Yarra branch of the Children’s
Hospital Auxiliary declared the close season
for threepences over last week at a meeting
held in the Poolman sisters’ drawing-room.
The Ghauvel dame smiled from the presiden-
tial chair. Mrs. Jim Ainslie, as lion, sec.,
reported on past workings, and Edith Pool-
man, as lion, treasurer, pointed to the
branch’s rich vein at the bank. The Walter
Coldham, Lionel Hood and Cecil Finch
matrons were recruited as hospital canteen-
helpers. After tea and teacake members
filtered out, grasping parcelled cot-quilts or
sheets, to be worked up before the March
gathering.
The Blind Institute’s good-looking superin-
tendent, S. W. Hedger, and Mary liuppe were
turned into husband and wife with the
least possible noise on Saturday at St.
Kilda All Saints’. The bride, in neatly-
tailored navy cloth with a ribbon-trimmed liat
and a skunk fur stole, the gift of the Insti-
tute’s matron, was given over by cousin
Claude Sobey. The bride has side-tracked a
nurse’s course to make the hard-working
superintendent happy.
The Rev. and Mrs. W. McKie had an even-
ing frivol one night last week at St. Neots,
South Yarra, for their musical son, back
from Oxford after seven years. Harmony of
special quality was released by Mrs. Steele,
Madame Ellis and Jessie McMichael, who
were accompanied by the young man himself.
Mrs. Glencross, the militant of Mel-
bourne’s feminist circle, is now in hot pur-
suit of the baker, vice the tomato-grower,
who was well and truly squashed before his
season began. She makes the naive an-
nouncement that her bread-supplier has not
raised his price. It would be a hardy pro-
vidore who would raise the price of anything
on the redoubtable Mrs. Glencross.
It is to be hoped that the clever young
Maoriland water-colorist, Betty Gilfillan,
won’t give up her painting-brush entirely for
the scrubbing-brush when she marries
Leonard Delph, of Cambridge, in the Cold
Country. Besides being one of Auckland’s
most popular girls, Betty is well known in
Melbourne, haying studied her art here under
McNally.
Miss Adelaide’s statement:—
Cecily, widow of the late Captain R. B. Lucas,
R.A.M.C., said she would to Colin, only spn of the
E. S. Kekwicks, of Adelaide. She said it in pink
georgette and with the assistance of one brides-
maid, a small cream-clad niece, Mary McKail. The
guest-list was cut to relatives and intimates, and
not too many of them, and toasts were drunk at
the McKails’ home on the hill, where Mrs. McKail
stood up in grey and black.
Dr. Gertrude Halley, who came here from Tas-
mania long since as medical inspector of State
Schools, is to be P.M.O. under the Government’s new
medical scheme for the Education Department. Four
doctors —three of them women—and three nurses will
be her staff, and lecturing and examining at the
Teachers’ College and inspection trips to her sub-
ordinates’ districts will be her job. There is to
be a dental clinic, too, and provision for dealing
with backward children.
Captain Hambleton steps into Captain Duncan’s
pumps as Private Secretary at Government House.
The Duncans left last week for Sydney, America
and England.
Mrs. Allen drew a good house for her League of
Nations lecture —no mean achievement in our dog
days—and infected a good many sceptics with her
own enthusiasm for the League.
In an effort at condensation, this letter mixed
the Floating Palais—-a Noah’s ark erection on the
River Tofrensr—with the Glenelg 'Palais, which
doesn’t float. The floating Palais says that far from
being the same palais it wouldn’t even bow to the
other if they met in the street.
Veteran James Ashton, the seascape painter, has
been spending a month in Ceylon. He got material
for 50 or 60 oils or water-colors, sold a lot locally,
and has brought thiy rest back for exhibition.


A. Saunders Cake Basket, pure silverplateu, hand-
pierced and burnished, 25/.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish and Knife, silver-
plated, opal-glass lining, 5/6,
A. Saunders’ Preserve Dish and
Spoon, pure silverplated English
China bowl with floral border,
12/0.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
pure silverplated mounts,
crystal-cut barrel, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS' EXCEPTIONAL VALUES
A. Saunders' 32-pieee Dinner Service, English China, assorted
designs, £3/10/-. Others, £4, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Basin and Sifter, Eng-
lish China Bowl,
silverplated mounts
and sifter, 10/6.
A. (AUNDCRS
mtmm
SUlmi
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Mahogany Clocks. Strikes hours and
half-hours, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Honey Jar and
Spoon, pure
silverplated
crystal-glass
jar, 7/6.
SEND YOUR ORDER DIRECT TO A. SAUNDERS’
POST-FREE DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL CATALOGUE FORWARDED FREE.
r SVDNEY :j
I: MAOt:INSHLFFIktD
RUSTLESS a |
lini in,.?r A m.yfri ■.
A. Saunders’ Stainless Knives, Sheffield manufactured, Square Xylonite Handles. TABLE or
DESSERT size, 14/6 per half-dozen.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER—JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
silverplated crystal-cut bowl, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure silverplated, guaran-
teed quality, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Silverplated Teapot, highly
burnished, plain design, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
silverplated crystal-glass bottles,
30/-
BEAUTIFUL
GRAND PIANOS & GRAND REPRODUCING PLAYER
PIANOS AT PALING’S
SOLD ON EASY TERMS AND FULLY GUARANTEED.
BEHNING GRAND.
The Tone quality of these Grands is wonder-
fully full. Musicians love the Behning. Call
in and try the tone for yourself.
BECHSTEIN “A.”
An exquisite Boudoir Grand with a remark-
ably full Tone and responsive Touch. A
delightful instrument indeed for a musical
home.
“B.”
Beautifully proportioned in Sheraton Design.
Its magnificent Tone and perfect Touch, to-
gether with its exceptional Durability, make
its purchase a splendid investment.
BEHNING (Electric “ART ECHO.”
behning electric
“ART ECHO”
REPRODUCING PIANO.
The latest and most wonderful of all
reproducing’ Pianos. Played by electric
power or as an ordinary Grand Piano,
requisite tone-quality and perfect plaver
mechanism. Full particulars for the
asking.
AUTOTONE GRAND
PLAYER PIANO
(Foot Pedalled).
Handsome in its Sheraton Design, beauti-
fully proportioned, its excellent tone-
quality at once appeals to cultured
musicians. The Autotone adds charm and
dignity to the most refined homes.
CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST Free on Request.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba,
Lismore and Rockhampton.
AUTOTONE GRAND
PLAYER PIANO.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1914.
c:h \ vi? \a >i £
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
■
CHAMPAGNE
OjarksHeidsico^
HEIMS
>
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian A grants—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydrray.
'WfAillO&Sl CoM.
F.vprv F.veninv from 7.30 - - - tir
Every Evening from 7.30 - -
DINNER DANCE.
Each Afternoon from 3.30 - - -
TEA DANCE AND CABARET
'Midst environs of perfect harmony and delightful cool, the superb band
and wonderful floor comprise an ensemble
IRRESISTIBLE AND INIMITABLE.
’Phone: City 9931.
The Coolest Spot in Sydney.
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 12.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 217-
Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons. 12.30 to 2.30. 3/6 and 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-, with
the privilege of two hours’ delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
CLOVES
Foor woman —temptation assails her from
every side! Eve had but one serpent to
sow the seed of discontent, but time has mul-
tiplied the serpent’s progeny, and we of this
generation know not wherein lurks the voice
of the betrayer. From out the air, from
suburb to suburb, on ether waves comes
2FC calling, and a cooing, cultured feminine
voice says something thiswise: “To-day I
would tell you of our wonderful coats and
wu-aps.” That does it. Father once again
dines on something cold collected at the small-
goods shop on the listener-in’s way home.
Word comes from Nice, in the South of
France, of the death of one of this State’s
most famous daughters. Dr. Lillias Hamil-
ton. The most remarkable event in her
career was her four-years’ service as Court
Physician to the shifty Abdur Rahman,
Ameer of Afghanistan: her experiences she
put into a book called “A Vizier’s Daugh-
ter.” Qualifying in Edinburgh in 1890, she
presently went to Calcutta and was on the
staff of the Dufferin Hospital—for some
time she was in charge of it. After her ser-
vice in Afghanistan she practised in London
and in 1907 became Warden of the Studley
Horticultural College for Women in War-
wickshire. During the Great War she got
leave to go on foreign work, and was given
charge of a hospital in Montenegro. She was
a great traveller, a rare linguist and a
writer of numerous books. Her health failed
her last year.
“Trelawny of the Wells” and “Mr.
Battling Butler,” which had their first-
nights in Sydney on Saturday, one at the
Criterion and the other at the Opera House,
offer much interesting dress study. There
is food for reflection in the abbreviated
though charming frocking of the feminine
leads of the musical comedy and in the flow-
ing crinolines of the period of the Pinero
play. Dorothy Brunton, clad according to
Parisian dictates of the moment in long,
tight bodice of silk, allied to a knee-flounce
of flower-adorned lace, is a startling contrast
to Rose Trelawny (Irene Vanbrugh) in her
rose-pink frilled hoop-gown, or in the de-
lightfully innocent frock of blue-sashed white
muslin. Merc man could not resist the at-
traction of the old-world dress and poke
bonnet of bottle-green silk, with ermine-
trimmed velvet jacket, worn by Janet Eccles
(Imogen Parrott). There is not the insidi-
ous charm about the apparel of 1925 that
there was in that of 1860 and thereabouts.
What the lady of the latter period did not
know about the allurement of millinery or
frill is not worth the price of a shingle
to-day.
Memory swings back. One forgets the
plump and comely woman who has been
warbling love ditties from operas, with
Capelli as a sympathetic tenor in hearty re-
sponse, and sees again a slim shy girl with
dark curls on either side of her face. On
this grey winter morning she was sitting in
a parlor in Pfahlert’s Hotel, looking timidly
out at lowering skies. Amy Castles of that
chrysalis era showed the same diffidence
which still afflicts her. So nervous was the
Bendigo soprano on that first night of her
Sydney season that she said to her confidant:
“I feel as if I shall never sing again after
to-night.” The public does not realise what
a simple and sincere temperament this too-
modest artist owns.
Eileen Castles is going to make New
Orleans, with its picturesque French and
Creole colonies, and its quaint iron gates
leading into old courtyards of the French
regime, her future home. She has not men-
tioned for publication the name of the lucky
man who has persuaded her to say “Yes.”
Talking of New Orleans, Dr. Grace Boelke,
who stayed there last year, considers it the
most' fascinating, if not the most sanitary,
city she saw in the United States. “But
they’re draining the cemeteries,” she added
in professional parenthesis.
St. Stephen’s is in mourning for the Rev.
John Ferguson, to whom legions of young
couples flocked to be linked, and who had
probably seen more orange blossoms and con-
fetti thrown than any three other Sydney
clergymen. For over 30 years liis eloquence
packed his kirk, and a sermon by John
Ferguson was always regarded by the seri-
ous minded as an intellectual treat. He was
a commonsense cleric of broad sympathies,
who interested himself deeply in social and
economic conditions. During the war he
was a senior chaplain in the A.I.F.
He was 73 when they laid him to rest at
South Head, witli three sons—representing
the Church, the Law and Medicine —to mourn
for him.
Sydney presswomen are cultivating the
tea-giving habit. Following on the Amy
Castles 4 o’clock, of last vreek, invitations
are out for a rally. at the Mary Elizabeth
at the end of the month to welcome Elsa
Stralia and Bessie Griffiths home again. The
dramatic soprano during her many years of
absence has gained rare laurels in at
Co vent Garden and Milan, has collected
posies in the concert centres of England,
S’Africa and the U.S.A., and lifts her voice
in a thousand gramophone “parlors.” Bessie
Griffiths stands about the best ’cellist of her
sex of the dav. Supported by Arthur Jordan,
an English tenor, and Bindley Evans, our
own superb accompanist, they will show their
perfections to Sydney audiences on Easter
Saturday and a few following dates.
Constance, daughter of Edward King, of
Craigend’s broad acres in Bananaland, re-
ceived her bread-and-butter ticket from Dr.
Sydney Iceton, Of Picton, on Shrove Tues-
day, at St. James’s. Her wedding finery
was of white georgette with clouds of white
tulle. The three bridesmaids, studies in
autumn tones, allied dull gold frocks to sun-
set veils.
On the eve of Ash Wednesday, at St.
James’s, Frances Madeline Armstrong
accepted the permanent role of Mrs. James
Arnold Croker, of Mackay (Q.). The bride
dressed the part in white georgette sprinkled
with silver and pink roses. Sisters Joan
and Doris bridesmaided in georgette shaded
from flesh to rose hue, with early-Victorian
headgear in the same tones. The Armstrong
family, now Sydneysiders, came here from
the northern State.
There were many blessings of Holy Church
upon the marriage of the Federal representa-
tive for Capricornia, Francis Michael Forde,
and Veronica Catherine O’Reilly, of Wagga.
The ceremony, with Nuptial Mass celebrated
by Dr. Dwyer, Bishop of Wagga, took place
at the Wagga Cathedral. Archbishop Duhig,
of Brisbane, and Bishop Sliiel, of still fur-
ther north, wired their congratulations.
There was no spectacular display when
pretty Phyllis Walford became Mrs. Rupert
Moses last Thursday at St. Mark’s. Given
away by her father, the bride made her pro-
mise in a travelling gown of ottoman of
the newly-minted penny tone, with tunic in
Oriental shades belted in suede and gold,
topped by a felt hat. Linda Moses, also favor-
ing apparel that caught its inspiration from
the sere and yellow season, attended her new
sister-in-law. The luncheon at the Australia,
for relatives only, was hostessed by the
bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Samuel Hordern.
The bobbed hair and merry smile pic-
tured by Bernice Agar belong to Dorothy
Ryan, one of our own, who is gather-
ing laurels at the Royal Academy,
London, where she is working out scholar-
ships for voice
and piano.
T r a vellers
from Sydney
to Wembley
last year, look-
ing in upon
concerts of the
students at the
Academy,
found Dorothy
right in the
front of the
vocalists there,
her voice,
which was
guided in Syd-
ney by Mrs.
Constance
Roberts, being
wonderfully at-
tractive. Lots
of application
and genuine
ability charac-
terise this student.
The John Drinkwater-Daisy Kennedy wed-
ding in London was one of the matrimonial
sensations of the year, the reception being
attended by half the aristocracy of brains
and culture, also by a good sprinkling of
social lions and politicians, prominent among
the latter being Ramsay Macdonald. The
bride’s ex-husband, pianist Benno Moisie-
witsch, sent her a congratulatory wire, and
gave her the custody of the two girleens.
Another wedding of interest to Australians
took place in London recently, the bride being
Pat, only daughter of General Sir Herbert
Money, and the bridegroom Thomas Money-
Coutts, heir to Lord Latymer. The bride’s
mother was well known in S. Australia in
her girlhood days, being an accomplished
amateur violinist and singer and a social
beauty. She is a niece of the late Jack
Whear Roberts and Mrs. Roberts, of
Summer Hill.
Essie Ackland, who has her trunks let-
tered, gives her farewell concert at the Town
Hall on Saturday night. Godfrey Smith,
Cyril Monk and Vern Barnett are among
the additions to the programme. The con-
tralto is well endowed for a star career with
a fine voice and mental equipment. Yet
there is no “Behold in me the vocal genius of
Australia!” in her make-up, which no doubt
accounts for the unusual number of tea-
drinkings to wish her luck. When her pro-
fession does not claim her she finds her
recreation in a cookery-book.
Daisy Douglas Dowse, whose picture you
have here, has a flair for pottery and china
painting and makes the designing of jewel-
lery a side-line. She has had much travel
abroad, with
four yea r s’
training i n
decorative
work at the
Cooper Union
for the Ad-
vancement o f
Science and
A r t in New
York. (That
money - making
is not the
American mil-
lionaire’s only
joy is illus-
trated by the
fact that “the
Cooper” was
founded and is
maintained by
such a one.)
Miss Dowse, a
Bananalander
by birth, is a
daughter of Colonel Richard Dowse, D.S.Q,
At last year’s Arts and Crafts Exhibition
she showed some coffee-cups decorated in
enamel and raised gold, the color scheme in-
spired by a visit 'to the Church of Notre
I)ame at Lyons. The illumination of ancient
religious works by monks suggested it, and
the china itself is of vellum tone. Adapta-
tions of the merely modern appeared in log-
fence and gum-tree adorned china, and our
own lyre-bird was conventionalised for a
plaque. The artistic little lady’s latest work
has not yet been publicly shown —a set of
dessert-plates suggestive of the finest Doul-
ton, delicately ornamented with bits of
Sydney.
Maurice Moscovitch, his wife and son (Nat
Madison), also tenor Maxim Brodi and Mrs.
Brodi, were the very good excuses for a recep-
tion on Sunday night at the Carlton, given Dy
the Council of Jewish Women. The tribes
rolled up in great strength, displaying much
elaborate frocking. Maurice Moscovitch, very
much the insider, told of the loyalty of his
people one to another all over the world,
and he found Sydney not wanting. During
a lull in the chatter Dr. Fannie Reading,
president of the Council of Jewish Women,
collected a farewell platinum and diamond
wristlet watch from her fellow councillors.
She journeys to America next week as a dele-
gate to the Quinquennial Conference at
Washington of the N.C.W, Ella Goodman,
Montague Phillips, the C.J.W. Girls’ Choir
and some other melody-makers provided a
musical programme.
The claims to recognition and financial
support of the Boy Scout and his sister-by-
adoption, the Girl Guide, were submitted at
a meeting at the Royal Naval House last
week. Premier Fuller’s lady presided, and
had Kelso King for aide. Harold Jaques
gave testimony that the Empire’s future lay
in the hands of these young followers of
Baden Powell; and the gentle David dame
announced that the Girl Guides stood for
all the best characteristics of womanhood.
After which, for the good of the nation and
the overthrow of the Bolshie, it was decided
to have a night’s enjoyment. Tuesday of
Easter Week (April 14) is earmarked for
the jazz at the Town Hall, and the G.-G.’s
and the de Chairs will be there. Subscrip-
tions of £lOO were handed in towards ex-
penses.
The Wentworth proffered a golden even-
ing to patrons last Thursday. Beneath rays
of lemon hue diners toyed with foods colored
to tone, but unsuggestive of biliousness. After
the coffee came human goldfish—seven
maidens, divinely fair and more divinely
slim, who trailed around the ballroom an
immensity of train from sheathed gowns of
cloth-of-gold radiating rainbow hues. A
bunch of varicolored tulle where th;e gown dis-
played a shapely leg suggested that the finny
species were Japanese. No, the glowing
parade was not a Lenten call to “Eat more
fish” or a glorified new version of the famous
picture, “To-morrow will be Friday.”
J.C.W. and the Taits have permitted their
brightest stars to shine for St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital in its campaign to make Mrs. John
Tansey queen of the police carnival in aid of
Sydney hospitals. The Firm has also given
the Theatre Royal for a matinfie on March
23. Irene Vanbrugh, Boucicault, Mosco-
viteh, Marie Burke and Zoli are to be in
the great entertainment. Did any queen
ever boast a finer troupe of entertainers?
To give those with tubercular tendencies
a chance, citizens are at last moving to do
the right thing in demanding a grant of land
for an open-air village. Wliat God's sun-
light and fresh air can accomplish has been
demonstrated at Wentworth Falls, the home
of onr T.B. soldiers. Premier George Fuller
promises to assist the appeal for £50,000
to give new hope and life to many a suffer-
ing brother. Secretary Geo. H. Wheeler (4
Bridge-street) can tell you all about the
splendid project.
Presswomen found themselves made a fuss
of by members of the Women’s Country Club
last Friday. It was a sort of introduction
tea sipped at the new headquarters in Bligh-
street. Monologues by Marie Cramp and
dances by Maureen Foster provided further
entertainment. Posies of pink carnations
made the lady Moseses feel really truly
guests of honor.
A dinner jazz at the Ambassadors’ on the
,16th will serve two purposes—add a bit to
Dorothy Brunton’s bank-account for St.
Margaret’s Hospital and say an revoir to the
cheery little actress, Bosie O'Reilly, alias
Mrs. Battling Butler, has a few dollars yet to
get before she reaches the £5OO she promised
for the babies. Mrs. Stewart Dawson will
help engineer the function.
Vera Keogh favored the knee-length frock,
carried out in black lace and satin, in her
capital characterisation in the name-role of
“The Mollusc,” at St. James’s Hall last
week, by the Players’ Club. A ntglipe of
pink georgette and a perfectly fetching
boudoir-cap dressed the final lines of the
palatable comedy.
They who like their musical entertainment
pure and unspotted by radio sets and static
and long travel upon moist clouds may attend
the weekly concerts arranged by Broadcasters,
Ltd., for a small consideration. At the third
of such fixtures at Adyar Hall last week, a
programme of good stuff was excellently
handled by _ the studio instrumental trio
(Dulcie Blair, Bryce Carter and Horace
Keats), pianist Henry Penn, and violinist
Gerald Walenn, with songs by Alice Prouse,
Myrtle Hobbs and Hyson Taylor.
The Linen Committee of the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street, will give Marie
Burke, the hospital’s Queen candidate, a
cabaret at the Wentworth next Tuesday.
Mrs. K. T. Bourne and May Mitchell are
secretarying the tea-jazz.
It is a cute ’possum that knows its own
skin these days, the furriers’ art so disguises
things. Imported model coats and wraps for
the autumn feature a soft, fluffy fur, first
cousin to fitch in coloring, which is but good
old ’possum all dyed up and come a long
way.
Mrs. Tom Ryan, widow of Queensland’s
one-time Premier, is holidaying in Sydney.
She deserted her motor business in Brisbane
for a few weeks to put her boy Jack at
school at his late father’s alma mater, St.
Xavier’s, at Kew.
In days when business is suspended to dis-
cuss cricket scores, it. is a treat to find some-
one who doen’t know L.B.W. and the per-
sonnel of either teams that have been defying
sunstroke to secure but ashes. Neverthe-
less, it must have been a wee bit hurtful to
the English captain’s pride when the charm-
ing artist of a hundred of this Letter’s
photographs addressed him as Mr. Callaghan.
Brisbane’s note, with perspiration marks:
His Ex. dined the Fullertons, Kayser Barnes, the
medical Robertsons and daughter Joan, Chris Dixon
and G. S. Colman at Government House. Sir Matthew
also watched the speed boats whip the Brisbane
into froth on Saturday from aboard the Doomba,
with H. M. Saunders to look after him.
Mrs. Willie Collins, who has been staying at
Government House, is off to the Cold Country
shortly to place her youngest girl at school in France.
Charlie Chauvel told the Authors and Artists’
Association how films are made in Yankeeland and
in Australia —when permitted. Professor Stable put
in a word. The Readings, Symes, Campbells and
Kathleen Forrest were amongst the listeners.
Eight horses and five voters dropped dead in the
terrific heat of Saturday week, the day when the
United party swept the polls for Greater Brisbane.
Twenty head of cattle at Enoggera yards and innumer-
able domestic fowls and household pets were numbered
among the slain. New Mayor Jolly had a hot time
of it for his initiation and differences about a greater
or a smaller Brisbane were sunk in united prayers
for a cooler one.
Nevertheless, 107 in the shade did not keep the
filmy frocked from the Ascot Races. Mrs. Glynn
Connolly was sheathed in pink, Mrs. Cecil Palmer
in daffodil, Mrs. Ken Dalzell in white, and the
landscape generally in waves of heat.
The Press Institute fed Littleton Groom at the
Ritz. P. J. Leahy presided and C. E. Sligo of the
Mail said nice things.
Mary Murray Boyd, who died this week at Kangaroo
Point, was a great-granddaughter of that Donald
Stewart who captained some of Bonnie Prince Charlie’s
men—Colonel Stewart, of the Buffs, Acting-Governor
of N. S. Wales for a while, was her father’s cousin.
Neil Stewart, her father, came to Australia in 1837
and settled near Bathurst.
The Bush Nursing Association, with a credit
balance of £2OO, had its first pow-wow in the Q,
W.E.L. Buildings, Mrs. E. S. Jackson warming the
chair. Captain Pike was there explaining the
merits of his plan for the proposed nursing cottage
at Julia Creek ; and the Lands Department has given
a cottage at Beerburrum. The Dirranbandi Centre has
to be abandoned, more’s the pity.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
A Strong Riding Boot.
Macnaughfs "Wombat.
THIS Emperor riding boot ; s ideally constructed
for comfortable and enduring wear to suit the
man on the land, and is made with strong,
sewn soles, narrow for the stirrup, for the horse-
man. Lasting leather insures solid wear. Sizes:
5 to 7’s.
Black Calf
Tan Calf .
257-
Writ e for yours today.
We Pay Postage.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
189 PITT STREET SYDNEY 135 KING STREET
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A good three-year-old is always danger-
ous in the Newmarket, and Valiard (Valais —Poinard)
proved exceptionally slick in the V.R.C.’s big six-
furlong handicap on Saturday. After his third to
Adrift and Skirling in the V.A.T.C. Hawlcsburn
Handicap he went back in the betting, but a
great gallop on the track—six in 124, with tips on
restored him to favor, and the money kept
coming for him till the barrier rose. It was Sydney
money, for the most part, but crowds of Melbourne
punters would have nothing else but the Randwiek
colt. At the close of operations it was 3’s Valiard,
6’s Adrift, 9’s Mercian King, 14’s The Night
Patrol, 16’s Prestongrange (heavily backed during
the week), 20’s Lausanne, Validus and Whittier, and
25’s to 200’s the others—there were 38 all told.
Valiard got away well, and his rider soon took
him from about the middle of the field to the
extreme outside, for which offence the youngster
was afterwards reprimanded by the stewards. In
that, the position favored by jockeys who have
ridden in many Newmarkets, the colt had things
all his own way. When positions could be deter-
mined, Valiard had the lead from Last Drop, with
Whittier, Adrift, Lausanne and Perspective well
up, and, finishing stoutly, the half-brother to Poitrel
won by two lengths from honest Adrift, who was
a bit unlucky at the start, w T ith Lausanne, another
Sydney three-year-old, third, Mercian King, also a
three-year-old, a fast-finishing fourth, Quintus, last
year’s winner, fifth, and Shanky, Valiant and
Quixotic following. Valiard is trained by Frank
Marsden for P. Tait and C. Maclean, and was ridden
by Reg. Marsden, Frank’s nephew. He ran the
six furlongs in lmin. Ilf see., fsec. worse than the
race record established by Quintus. It is very
uncommon for a stud matron to throw’ a champion
stayer and a crack sprinter, but that Poinard has
done.
Punters waited for the Heroic commission in the
Essendon Stakes, and when McCramp hurriedly
jambed the price from 3’s to 2’s there w 7 as a rush
to get on. But the commission must have been
small, if any, and when The Hawk (13 to 8 on) had
done with him, the chestnut looked to be worth a
lot less than the 16,000 guineas C. B. Kellow paid. Back-
w’ood, Bold and Bad and Heroic were in line at
the half-distance, with Pike vainly trying to get
through on the rails again. Presently Jimmy took
the Maorilander to the outside and the race was
over. Heroic was second, three lengths away, and
Backwood another couple of lengths further back.
It was a good day for backers on the whole. Spear-
felt’s St. Leger wdn at 2 to 1 on (McShortodds
refused to take any risks with him, although the
son of Spearhead had failed badly “down the line” on
the Wednesday) and Poetaster’s victory in the
Sires Produce Stakes at 5 to 4 on were profitable
to the multitude, and many were on Llanthony
(s’s), who led all the way in the Brunswick Stakes
and just beat Lough Ailbe and Drongo—the latter
an early winner and a Sydney Cup possibility.
A solid pace was set in the St. Leger, and Spear-
felt reached the box, easing up, in 3min. If sec.—
very fast time for a 14-furlongs classic. The
opinion is here ventured that he will always beat
Heroic over a distance.
Valiard was coupled in doubles with most of
the 17 starters in the Australian Cup. One of the
exceptions was Answer, an obscure country horse on
the 6st. 71b. mark, and the rank ousider came to
the rescue of McShortodds, amidst boisterous cheer-
ing from that party. Aecarak (first last year) was
second and Suomi third. It was a great ’ boil-over,
for Answer went out at 50 to 1.
Favorites crashed with ghastly monotony
at Canterbury Park (N.S.W.). Dialogue, heavily
hacked to evens for tlie Jumpers’ Flat of 11 furlongs,
finished well back. Started again in the Canterbury
Handicap, over the same distance, he went out at
10's and just beat an even-money favorite in Mount
Erin. The drop in the weights' from lOst. 91b. to
6st. 121 b. doubtless helped him, although the company
was much better the second time, but the demon-
stration against the Demosthenes gelding and his
connections lasted till long after the weight-flag
had been hoisted. Another even-money fancy in
Itock Dove went down to the useful Yerrubil (10’s) in
the Flying Handicap. Kenmare (15’s) knocked out
two heavily backed ones in Irish Melody and Vermont
in the Three-Year-Old Handicap. But for Prince
Sandy’s victory in the concluding Welter —he was
favorite at 7 to 4—many punters would have gone
home broke.
“Tuart”: It was the first race Prince Sandy had
won since the A.J.C. Trial Stakes in October, 1921.
The Prince was a good horse that season—after a
close second in a Novice Handicap to Cupidon, pre-
sently the A.J.C. Derby winner, he was runner-up
in a very good Metropolitan—and if, as seems pos-
sible, he has recovered his old form, he will make
things lively for the other middle-distance horses now
in the business. Though turned seven, he had very
little racing as a two-, three- and six-year-old ; he
is a gelding, moreover. lie ran prominently in a
couple of races at the A.J.C. Anniversary meeting,
but the boy on top was not strong enough to do him
justice over the final furlong. Cracknel! had the
mount on Saturday.
PERCY RUSSELL, the N.S.W. Swimming
Association’s starter.
An unusual sort of presentation was that
made by the Adelaide jockeys to Nat Campbell, who
has been S.A. Jockey Club starter for nearly 20
years, but is now going on the land in N.S.W.
Hopwood made the presentation. Campbell said, in
responding, that he had been blamed for undue
leniency at the post, but he found best results were
got by his method. “In only one instance do I
remember a lad deliberately trying to beat me at
the post; and that was a visiting rider.”
The Onkaparinga (S.A.) steeplechase on
Easter Monday, the Great Eastern, celebrates its
50th birthday this year with a stake of £2105. The
second, third and fourth get £4OO, £2OO and
£lOO, the winner the balance, including a 100-guinea
gold cup,
* * * *
George Dempsey, who turned pro. after
the trip to the last Olympic Games, proved himself
a fine cyclist opposed to the experienced Arthur Spencer
and others at Sydney Sports Ground. He defeated
the American in the second heat of a so-called “alter-
native” match, \yon the fourth heat, and was second
m the third. He will probably go to the U.S.A.
at the end of the Australian season,
'****
Neither Jamito nor Spargo is as good as
he used to be; but those who saw them swap punches
at the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night had no
complaints to make. There w 7 as plenty of ginger in
the fight, with Jamito the aggressor for the most part
and Spargo the clever tactician. The paleface’s
superior skill earned him referee Quirk’s decision at
the end of the 20 rounds ; but he was very groggy in
the 16th, and couldn’t have gone much longer than
the 60 minutes. He would be well advised to retire
before he meets a strong young fellow who will
punch the reason out of him, a fate which has over-
taken more than one Australian pug.—more’s the pity.
An entertaining match at the Albert
Ground, Melbourne, between the 1924 Davis Cup
team (Patterson, O’Hara Wood, Kalms and Schles-
mger) and the Rest of Australia (Anderson, Willard,
Hawkes and Hone) resulted in a win for the Rest:
five rubbers, 19 sets, 197 games to four rubbers,
16 sets, 188 games. The culminating feature was
a tussle between Patterson and Anderson, who had
defeated O’Hara Wood in straight sets. Playing a
standard of tennis which he has rarely reached of
recent years, Patterson triumphed at last over the
man who had beaten him so often : B—6,8 —6, 2—6, 6 3
6 —4. Hone, though beaten on the last day by
Schlesinger, showed flashes of fine form during the
tournament, especially in the doubles, in which, linked
with Willard, he overcame Kalms and Schlesinger.
J. B. Hawkes fought a great five-set match with
Patterson, the latter winning 6—4, 3 —6, B—6, 4 6
6—4. Then the Geelong youth accounted for O’Hara
Wood, 7—5, 6—4, I—6,1 —6, 7 —-5. This really decided
the tournament, and Hawkes’ friends were in raptures
over his showing.
The Davis Cup selectors have chosen Anderson,
Patterson and Hawkes to go to the U.S.A. this
year. Hitherto there has been a fourth member
of the annual expedition, but the last trip was not
a financial success, and the authorities protest that
they can’t send four next time. If that is so, it
is doubtful wisdom to pick Hawkes, well as he
played last week, instead of O’Hara Wood, indis-
putably one of the best doubles men in the world.
“Ex-Englishman” : The death of C. G.
Allen, reported from London, brings back a lot of
pre-war tennis memories. The Allen twins, from
their Cambridge days on, were never quite good
enough for the very best—the Dohertys, for ex-
ample—but were too good for any others. They
appeared at the Wimbledon championships only once,
but spent every summer together in winning pots
at the countless seaside and country tournaments.
The crowd always loved them, for their complete
resemblance to each other, their fat and jolly per-
sonality, and the astonishing “personalities” in
the other sense which they hurled at each other
when doubles partners. They were a devoted
pair of brothers, and C.G., having satisfied him-
self that E.R.' was the better of the two in a
single, generally scratched when they were drawn
against each other.
» * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The M.L. eight which is
to meet N.S.W. on the Parramatta on Saturday week
arrived in Sydney on Tuesday, and lost no time in
getting to work. The Maorilanders arc a much
heavier lot than any crew here, though the K.S.W.
reps., the Mosman senior eight, average 12.5. The
visitors have had some weeks’ work together in
Maoriland, where they are rated high. Though their
experience has largely bom gained in the four-oared
races usual in M.L., and though they are using a
borrowed boat, the visitors are expected to give
N.S.W. a shakeup on March 14.
The Murray Bridge rowing crew has re-
established its position as South Australia’s best.
It won from 1920 to 1923 inclusive, but was ham-
pered last year by Olympic training, and Mannum
—another River Murray boat —won. This time the
Bridge VIII, which included five men and the cox
from the crew which went to Paris, won anyhow
from Mannum, which beat all the city crews, though
the race was rowed in the salt water of the Port
Adelaide River. It was promptly selected, as a
whole, to be the South Aus. crew for the champion-
ship in Melbourne at the beginning of May.
* * * *
“Chiron”: I can’t believe all I’ve read
about the construction of Tassie, winner of the Forster
Cup (B. 19/2/’25), but the scribes haven’t said too
much about the skill of the Batt crew, which is
almost uncanny. Before Tassie was thought of, the
Batts were famous among Australian yachtsmen for
their expert handling of Weene, champion “A” class
vessel. In 1923 there Were only three boats of this
class in the Speck, and after Weene had won five
races in succession, despite enormous handicaps,
interest in their performances flagged. Crews were
changed for the next race. The Batts took charge
of the Canobie, and Weene didn’t get a look in.
* * * *
For a change, the ball had a bit the
the best of the bat in the fifth Test at Sydney.
Although Gilligan lost the toss for the fourth time,
the home side failed to secure the advantage first
knock had always left them with previously. For
a batting side with runs right down to “the end
of it, 295 was but a mediocre total. Ponsford (80i)
and Kippax (42) did most to swell it; Ryder,
Gregory, Andrews and Oldfield all got into the ’2o’s,
but failed to get out of them. Kilner and Tate,
with 4 wickets apiece for 97 and 92, did most of
the damage. Yet, comparatively poor as Australia’s
showing was, England; was destined to make a very
much worse one. Trouble started early, when
Hobbs was splendidly caught by Oldfield in Gregory’s
first over, and Sandham, the next man in, was soon
run out, thanks to Grimmett’s swift pursuit of the
ball and Gregory’s clever work at the bowler’s end.
Sutcliffe, who never seemed at home, only managed
22. Woolley looked as if he might stem the tide of
disaster if he could find anyone to stay with him,
but he went fifth, after making 47, beaten by a
trimmer from Grimmett, and after that only some
plucky batting by Kilner (24) and some'breezy
slogging by Tate (25) saved the side from utter
collapse. Grimmett’s bowling -was the feature of
the innings. Given his first chance in Test cricket
when 4 wickets had fallen for 89, he dismissed five
of the remaining batsmen (his victims included,
besides Woolley, Hearne, Whysall and Kilner), for 45
runs. It was a remarkable performance, and places
Grimmett definitely in the front rank of Australian
bowlers. Yet the man, though a serviceable bat
and a safe fieldsman, unusually fast on his feet,
wasn’t reckoned good enough for the Vic. XI by those
incomprehensible Melbourne selectors. The innings
closed for 167, and England’s chance looked blue.
Followed two days of batting that, for the most
part, was as dull as the weather. Ryder and
Gregory were the opening batsmen, Collins having
hurt a finger, but, apart from Andrews (80), the
display was very ordinary, and when five wickets
had fallen for 152, the captain w T ent in himself.
Kippax fell cheaply, and it was 6 for 156, but
Collins (27 n. 0.) and Kelleway (22 n. 0.) made a
stand which was very useful to the side, though
inexpressibly dreary to watch. They had put on
47 in 75 minutes when stumps were drawn at
5.35 p.m., Collins having appealed against the
light. The skipper was dismissed next day with
only a run added to his score, but Oldfield (65 n. 0.)
came off again, and Kelleway kept going until he had
laboriously compiled 73. The last wicket fell at
325 (Tate, 5 for 115), and the Englishmen had to
get 454 in the fourth innings of a trying match in
muggy March weather, with rain predicted. A
formidable contract, and when Gregory had bowled
Sutcliffe for a duck, and Grimmett had got Hobbs foi-
ls and Sandham for 15 (one was stumped and the
other l.b.w). it seemed to be merely a question of
what Australia would win by.
* X- * *
“Wink”: Grimmett is no chicken. He played
cricket in Maoriland before the war," and in 1914
was a topnotch Sydney grade cricketer, in one match
taking 14 wickets for 115. Then he went to Vic.,
and, with Prahran, became eminently successful. Yet
he never got a real chance in Shield games. True,
after much public outcry he was given a game against
• S. Males in 1918. but he only sent down six overs,
and was then dropped. By contrast, Wallace, play-
ing his first season in club cricket, was selected for
inter-State matches in 1921, although his figures were
no better than Grimmett’s, and that year visited
N. S. M ales, South Oss., W.A. and the Speck with the
Victorian team. He is still a permanency, though
after that first, year his average never approached
Grimmett’s. Clarrie got his chance at last in the
final inter-State match of 1923-24, at Adelaide, when,
with the Shield won, Victoria found it difficult to
muster a team. He made the most of the opportunity
by taking 1 for 12 and 8 for 86. Then he joined
South Oss, for which State he has been easily the
most destructive bowler this season, and that goes
for all the States. It is a coincidence that as soon
as Bean stepped down and Ryder slipped into the
position of 1 ietoria’s Test selector, “Grimmo” got
a game.
We entered into conversation on the
Hill while Kelleway was playing the rock. “Ever
thought whatta lotta cricketers they’s bin,” said my
neighbor, “’oose names begin with haitch? They’s
’Endren an’ ’Obbs an’ ’Owell an’ ’Endry and ’Earne.
Then they’s ’Ornby and ’Avward an’ ’list. ’ltchin’s,
’Umphries, ’Ardstaff, ’Ayes,' ’lll, ’Opkim, ’Azlitt an’
’Artigan of Queensland’ An’ cripes!” he added after
a moment of deep thought, “I was nearly fergettin’
ole Lord ’Awke.”
“Straight-hit”: In his desperate hunt for synonyms
the cricket chronicler sometimes gets into slippery
places. 1 saw Woolley described the other day—all
in the same column—as (1) the tall man of Kent,
(2) the graceful lefthander, and (3) the aggressive
Kentishman. There is no questioning his stature,
grace or aggressiveness, any more than his left-
handedness, but the deep-cut, centuries-old difference
between a man of Kent and a Kentishman was
impressed on me so vehemently once by a steeped-in-
tradition native of the hop county that I’ll
swear a man can’t be both. A Yorkshireman may
be a man of Yorkshire, no doubt, but it’s different
m the shire where J. Csesar landed.
“Past Grammar” : It was fitting that Sandham, the
Surrey crack, should come back to his old county
form in all the glory of a double century against
N. S. Wales, including that real snag to batsmen,
Mailey. Though he has been a heavy scorer in
England, Sandham’s 137 and 104 against the Ma
State is his first double century. Up to the last
Test, he was the ninth batsman to score the double
on Sydney Cricket Ground. The others were: J.
Mackay, A. C. Maelaren, M. A. Noble, W. Rhodes,
J. M. Gregory, F. O’Keefe, W. H. Ponsford and
Vic. Richardson.
“FY7”: The plea put up by “Trekle”
(B. 26/2/’25) for the Queensland lefthand bowler Iron-
monger, who has been playing in Melbourne for
years, with a short interval in Sydney, is ruled
out by anno domini —lronmonger is now too long in
the tooth to be considered as an Australian XI
possibility. Australia a few years ago had one of
the most promising lefthand bowlers she has ever
seen in P. Hornibrook, a greater bowler than Iron-
monger at all points and on all wickets. On his
last visit in 1920-21, Wilfred Rhodes, than whom
there is no finer judge living, was astonished that
the youngster’s claims for inclusion in the Australian
XI were never even considered. In the Yorkshire-
man’s opinion, Hornibrook would have been another
Jack Ferris on English wickets. Sent to Maoriland
that season with an XI from Australia, Hornibrook
established record bowl-
ing figures. Since
then, non-recognition
and hard work —he has
put his dental course
in front of cricket am-
bitions—have had their
effect on his bowling,
and when he came fresh
from an illness into
cricket this season, it
was evident that a lot
of the fire had gone
out of his deliveries,
though a season’s rest
would probably put that
right. Had he accepted
any of the offers made
him to come south,
Hornibroolc would have
been a Sheffield Shield
player long ago ; as it
is, he remains a Queens-
lander and is outside
the Shield ring.
F. R. SPOF-
FORTH, the
"demon bowler ”
of many Australian
teams, who was
present at the
Test match. He is
a native of Balmain.
For Sydney C.E.G.S. v. High School B. M.
Salmon, who is evidently destined to take Bardsley’s
place in the N.S.W. XI, made 385 out of 804. ' A
great score, but not the greatest in G.P.S. cricket:
0. H. Deans (also of C.E.G.S.) got 412 v. Newing-
ton m 1904. And Melbourne voungsters have done
even better; witness J. C. Sharpe’s 506 n.o. for
Melb. C.E. Grammar v. Geelong in 1914. and J. C.
Pront’s 459 for Wesley v. Geelong in 1908.
* * * »
“FY7”: Toowoomba (Q.) has been con-
vulsed by a quarrel among the sports who play League
football, and the resignation of the League’s presi-
dent has added a flavor of tragedy to a really serious
situation. The row arose over the division of the
season’s cash profits. The custom had been to divide
these among the senior clubs, but the representative
players, rightly considering that fame is *a dying
e ™ber and glory a story told, have been demanding
that the profits on representative matches, at least
should be split up among themselves. The governing
body, realising that the gladiator who fills the
arenas has some claim to extra bread and oil, has
capitulated, and paid £lOO as the nucleus of a
fund for recompensing its stalwarts for their toil.
THE NEWEST SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Oxford Union debating team of three will
arrive next month to engage in a series of contests
with the representatives of Australian universities.”
\ ou’ve walloped us at cricket. And your paeans
Of triumph thereanent the welkin split.
What show have we against Antipodean>
At Rugby football? Clearly not a bit.
Still there’s a game whereat we yet may biff you ;
We come with highest hopes at any rate,
Trained to the hair, withal. I wonder if you
Can whack us in debate?
You knock the stuffing out of us at tennis,
And there is little to content our souls
Though evidence forthcoming now and then is
We keep the upper hand at golf or bowls.
We’ve no aquatic prodigy for winning
The laurels Charlton knows the way to grab.
But see! our hat into the ring comes spinning.
We challenge you—at gab !
’Tis true there is no blue beside the Isis
Awaiting fluent intellectual birds
Whose forte is oratorical devices,
Whose speciality is burning words.
Rut there’s a hall that’s hallowed with traditions
Where nascent democrat and future duke
Indulge their controversial ambitions
And learn, in short, to spruik.
Bring out your champs 1 Your Deakins in the making,
Your Pitts and Burkes, as full of diction’s flowers
As Kippaxes of runs! We’re simply aching
To see your Ciceros confronting ours.
Prom right across the seas we come to test your
Mettle, but not in fields where bats are swing.
Just jaw to jaw, with gesture countering gesture
And tongue defying tongue.
Bring out your threes! And if your seats of learning
No foemen worthy of our yap contain,
Say, we’ll have no reluctance in adjourning
Some Sunday afternoon in the Domain.
We come to fight where eloquence is spouted
And wit and wisdom chucked from off the chest.
Not till at that accomplishment we’re outed
Will England give you best.
N.S.W.
EXON OXON.


□□dee Brothers
TOURING CAR
The surplus power of Dodge Brothers
Touring Car is one great source of
unusual satisfaction in driving.
There is ample power for stubborn
grades—there is no worry over the
difficulties of bad roads nor the con-
stant necessity of shifting gears.
Dodge Brothers owners travel com-
fortably and confidently with mini-
mum effort.
After all, this is the true basis of
economy in driving.
tir
CXI
"V
\ <>»
I I,
□□
*\'
;>/
. »'} 'V
n
544
V\
\ V.
/
$ }
tirin'
'
•"w
l '
>v
n
ft
f\!l
f>
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
27G Castlereagh Street.
Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide, Australia.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.
334 Latrobe Street.
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
896-898 Hay Street,
Perth.
6/3/’25.


This ENAMEL PAINT is largely used
for Yachts, Motor Cars, Hospitals, and all interior
and exterior house decorations.
White and (olors procurable.
R
I
P
O
L
I
N
is
D
U
R
A
B
L
E
J!L
mm
(\JpOLIN
i
R
I
P
O
L
I
N
is
P
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
Procurable almost everywhere.
Write or telephone for Color Card, Booklet,
etc., to
L. A. CORMACK, Factory Rep.,
4 Underwood St. (off 35 Pitt St.).
SYDNEY.
Telephone: B 3284.
MOI RALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY - BRISBANE
OVERLOOKING RIVER. MRS B. KENNEDY,
Handy to Trams and Proprietress
Trains phone cent. 5112
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK Of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
5W e
7#
Urn
ACTUAL 5121
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
AH Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box.
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
fit
o
\=
PAT On
B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. L. & M A CO.. LTD., Melbourne.
Jit) met
The SUPER CIGARETTE
Wherever- people of ta&e
fore&afher, “Spinet” Ci&ar'
ettes are in favour. Their
cool mellowness appeals to
£hose who recognise a good
cigarette.
Cork-Tipped.
Ovals
Bi/ Appointment to
H.RM. The Prince of Wale*
c hLL
AKE note of
*- the tales your
teeth are telling,
but do not be
deceived by the
speedy results
obtained from the
use of gritty pastes
and powders.
GRIT IN YOUR
DENTIFRICE IS
DAN G E RO U S!
It whitens the
teeth at the
expense of the
enamel which is
Natures defence
against decay.
There’s NO GRIT
of any kind in
v.'vaw.w.wvuv. 1
1 ;; ? ?! I * I
J •' %$) r on
i '* ■’ dw
%&mH ml
i n
M-
ta\, im
f£3
ikv
ii
ftl u
;; •■><.,
f/fcrf
•>
Of?
!«1N
I*llB
Mi
'%///////
'///////////////#
|* tu/////s//m
O
*
/0
'/////////////////////#*
m in
>
/y// /v//////<' //
7 / // /
THE INKY WAY.
The crossword-puzzle craze hasn’t gone so far in
Australia as it has in Britain, where free hhranes
are shutting thair dictionaries and the British
Museum its doors against the fanatics, but it is
getting on that way. Although a man and a woman
had walked over the Gap the night before, Sydney
newsbovs were shouting “Crossword Puzzle as
their star sensation for the evening editions the
other afternoon.
“Coot”- One of Melbourne’s oldest inky-wayfarers
is the Rev. Michael .1. Watson, of St. Pat.’s College
East Melbourne, who recently celebrated the 52nd
anniversary of his association with the college, in
1887 he founded the R. C. Messenger, and edited it
for 31 years. In 1897 he launched the Madonna,
and still rules that quarter-deck. He has issued
several small volumes of poems, too; but lor these
he has long since sought forgiveness.
Country people are great believers in decentrali-
sation —if it costs them less. The County Council
on the Clarence River (N.S.W.) spent close up to a
quarter of a million on a hydro-electric scheme.
There are two well-equipped printing works in the
town, and the proprietors were induced to discard
their steam and oil plants and instal electricity as
motive power. Then when a big quantity of job
printing was required for the Council the order went
to Sydney.
Melbourne Labor Call has sold out to the National
Progress Newspaper Society, Ltd., which proposes to
issue a weekly newspaper in the interests of the
A.L.P. and the Trades Hall Council, and to
do the party’s printing. The directors of
the new paper will' include H. E. Foster, E. J.
Holloway, R. Elliott, J. H. Scullin, M.H.R., M. B.
Duffy, A. Lewis, D. L. McNamara, M.L.C., E. A.
Painter and A. Stewart. Shares will be allotted to
trades unions and the A.L.P.
Died, the other day, aged 74, William Blake
Odgers, K.C., Recorder of Bristol, two of whose
legal works —-“Odgers on Libel and Slander” (1881)
and “An Outline of the Law of Libel” (1897)—have
been consulted oftener in newspaper offices all over
the Empire than any of the more ponderous com-
mentaries on jurisprudence that lawyers regard as
standard works. No legal writer was ever more
highly regarded as a specialist than Odgers on
his pet subject. Curiously, his first published
work, before the law drew him away from litera-
ture, dealt with “King Arthur and the Arthurian
Romances.”
Twenty-five years ago 11. E. Riemann, a young
Bananalander, submitted to The Bulletin a short
story, the climax of which was contained in the
last sentence, where all good denouements should be:
“And with a great cry he fell back dead!” This
was quoted in “Answers to Correspondents ’ with an
addendum which suggested that it mightn’t be a bad
line for the author to follow. But the author was
not discouraged; he went into the distant spaces of
the continent, used up pints of ink on pars and
yarns which The Bulletin accepted, and the result
is a book of short stories, “Nor’-West o’ West,” with
a Percy Lindsay colored jacket. Riemann knows what
he is writing about; and there ought to be a strong
pulse in his book.
“Quero”: Australians who have met best-seller Gena
Stratton Porter, killed in a car accident last month,
describe her as a delightful and interesting woman,
w|ho had. a unique training for the special work she
took up. She was editress of the camera section of
Recreation before going on to the natural history
staff of Outino. After some years on one of the big
annuals, she began to write of what she had observed
so minutely during her apprenticeship, and her work
had a tremendous vogue. A farm-born girl herself,
most of her stories are the result of her own experi-
ences and intense love of outdoors, with a slender
thread of story woven through to add the human
touch. Incidentally, there should be a big opening
for a clever Australian who will attempt something
in the same line here.
Died at Perth the other day, at 64. T. 11. Wilson,
who was an occasional contributor of verse to The
Bulletin about the time Henry Lawson was beginning
to find himself. There was something reminiscent
of Lawson, too, in Wilson’s careless philosophy as
well as in the easy swing of his rhymes. Kentish-
born, he came to Australia young and began by
being a surveyor; before he finished he had tackled
most jobs that a bush-worker can get a living by.
He enlisted with the Soudan contingent in ’B5, but
as he had to take 15 years off his age to get
accepted for service at Kalgoorlie in ’l4, it became
necessary for him to suppress the record of his
previous soldiering, officially at all events. His
journalistic work in W.A.. prose as well as verse,
mostly appeared in the Kalgoorlie Sun under the
pen-name of “Crosscut.” The few months he spent
on Gallipoli provided him with vivid material for
copv when he returned; his “Simpson and the
Donkey” was easily the best bit of war verse pub-
lished in Westralia.
“D.F.”: It is hard to picture a newspaper proprietor
borrowing money from a Judge nowadays, but in
a dispatch by Governor Gipps dated Feb. 4, 1843.
reference is made to a transaction of this sort. Fawk-
ner, then proprietor of the Port Phillip Patriot, had
raised a loan on mortgage from that stormy petrel,
Mr. Justice Willis, then Melbourne’s sole Judge,
and trouble arose thereover. The enemies of Willis
asserted . that it was the reason why the Patriot
spoke kindlv of him while the rival Gazette was
attacking him tooth and nail. Gipps, however,
wrote that he had no Teason to suppose that Willis
had lent Fawkner the money in order to obtain an
influence over his paper, nor did it seem to him
that it was necessarily any knowledge of the money
transaction which had led Kerr, the editor of the
Patriot, to defend Willis. That newspapers were
much the same then as now is suggested by the
Governor’s dry remark that “the mere fact that the
editor of a rival paper was violently opposed to the
Judge might have been a sufficient reason for Mr.
lverr to side with him.” That Willis charged 20
per cent, interest shows that the loan was not a
matter of philanthropy. Incidentally, what a vast
number of disturbances in this country seem to
be aroused over persons bearing the name of Willis!
There is Justice Willis, Willis of the land cases,
Speaker Willis, and now A. C. Willis.
EX FUMO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Viennese doctor has expressed the opinion that
no woman would smoke but for the opportunity the
habit gives of making graceful and alluring gestures.”
Thanks, but the match myself I'd rather strike,
For otherwise you boys might never observe
My fingers tapering and fairy-like,
My soft and dimpled arm’s seductive curve.
A Spanish senorita needs a fan
If all her charms she’d to advantage set;
To light the fire of passion in a man
There’s equal virtue in a cigarette.
Admit your admiration I provoke,
Veiled —oh so lightly ! —in this scented smoke.
1 am a radiant vision. That I know.
My luscii us, red-ripe lips were framed to kiss.
But any mouth more like a Cupid’s bow
When did you ever gloat upon than this?
How piquantly it opes, faint wreaths to puff
(Some girls, who’re more adept, can manage rings) J
Come, tell me, sweetheart, isn’t my pose enough
To fluster saints and win a smile from kings?
These limpid eyes that the long lashes cloak,
Say, don’t you find them dreamier through the smoke t
I hold it now in dainty fingertips.
You watch it passing—as I mean you should —
With graceful flutter to receptive lips,
And find the tableau vieant wondrous good.
You envy, 1 suspect, the luck that brings
Tlie Gianacli or the Florador
As close to me, or closer than the things
The Tennysonian miller’s daughter wore.
You’re not the first it’s dragged beneath my yoke....
The only thing that narks me is the smoke.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


GeL acauauvucL WiUv
PLUME
cuhL note the Cmf>r*n)emen£
A
Motor,
i
Highl
ble
Z
VAC UU
f
C*i
You will find that PLUME has an individuality, a character
of its own. This will be a revelation to you as it has
been to tens of thousands of satisfied motorists, who are
daily enjoying the quick responsiveness of their engines in
easy starting, rapid acceleration, and full smooth power.
Get acquainted with PLUME and note the improvement
Your local reseller can supply your requirements
7%
a
Motor Spirit
Easy.Starting-Sweet Running-More Miles
For the correct lubrication of your car, use the grade of
Gargoyle Mobiloil as specified in our Chart of Recommendations
Make the Chart your Guide
5 PI 6
VACUUM OIL COMPANY. PTYUP


Set No. 99. 3/6.
SET No. 101. 7/6.
iS*
\WaKs
€S
I,M Ik'
: ‘VALET
SET No. 50. 25/-
The Big Three of the
‘Valet’ Razor world are:-
SET No. 99:
The New Three and Sixpenny
set, illustrated here, contains the
essentials for a perfect “Valet”
shave—the Auto-Strop Razor, one
Blade and Strop,
imckcd in a neat
eatherette case
Q I £•
O O
SET No. 101
contains self-stropping “Valet”
Auto-Strop Razor, three tested
“Valet” Blades and a leather strop
of good quality, the whole in com-
pact and durable black
metal case, complete as
illustrated
7/6
SET No. 50:
The Set de Luxe contains every-
thing of “the best possible”—
triple silverplated “Valet” Razor,
12 blades, strop of specially selected
shell horsehide, in
highly polished nickel
case
25/-
“A Set to Suit Every Pocket.’’
ALL these have the same working plan with that wonder-
** ful self-stropping device—a few seconds up and down the
strop and the blade is ready for the next shave. Day after
day, week after week, the same trusty blade does its work
well and truly—forty, fifty, or even more perfect shaves for
an infinitesimal cost. That’s the Valet Auto-strop Razor.
BRITISH
MADE
“"\7AT T7T"
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mirai nun
Made in Australia
is best for Inside and Outside Use
For EXTERIOR Surfaces use " UNITED ”
PREPARED FINISHING PAINT. For
INTERIOR Surfaces use “UNITED”
Flatkote, each is the most durable of its class.
TOT BROWN
*1 ,
Obtainable from leading
Oil , Colour and Hardware
Merchants throughout
Australia.
&
'H
VEiV[J BROWN
ranq


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service & la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
V'Cs
m
Nil,
Tarifi—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address. Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Listen In
t/t Jbetteficiat Jbevyrage
ABBOTS
7 52>7
*A
0 O
o
000
P
m
m
Direct from the Manufacturers.
500 YARDS RANGE.
CHEAP and ACCURATE SHOOTING
Franeotte Cadet Rifle, 297/230 cal.
Owing to the supply of Government cadet
rifles, which have been recently for sale on our
market with new and used barrels, becoming
exhausted, we have made arrangements for a
supply of new cadet rifles direct from the fac-
tory, exactly the same as supplied to our Gov-
ernment, every one of which is guaranteed per-
fect, as they are proofed, sighted and tested be-
fore being sent out. This rifle is well and
favorably known as being easily the best small-
bore rifle to be obtained for long-distance shoot-
ing, it is accurate at 500 YARDS, and on
account of its power and penetration, is quite as
reliable and effective as the larger-size rifle,
over which it has a great advantage m cost of
cartridges. It fires CENTRE FIRE, BOTTLE-
NECK cartridges. Martini action, adjustable
ladder sight, marked in 50 yards up to 500
yards. Weight, about 51b. Barrel, 24m.
Price, £4/17/6. Cartridges, 7/6 per 100.
;GD. .
i&lct
Always Leaders in Up-to-date Firearms,
318 Little Collins Street',, 31elbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Hf.r Majesty’s
Criterion “Trelawny of the Wells
criterion ;; “The Outsider”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Grand Opera' House “Mr. Battling Butler”
Tivnll Vaudeville
Fcller’s"Theatre
ME! IKHJRNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “So This Is London”
H,s Majesty’ 8 ..••••••• •• •• • ’Green ’ Goddess”
&e 8 8’V::. ;*r“ Ci " d^
Athen*cji Cap p y Ricks
. Vaudeville
H lolJ * * * ’. Vaudeville
M a jesti’c ’.’.’.’ ’ ’ Moving Pictures
This Sundry Showman lias an affectionate
regard for that period in the history of Eng-
land when women went about in lobster-pots
and men in whiskers like Angora goats. It
it quite a mistake to imagine that the crino-
line lacked expression: under the expert
impulsion of the knees it could be made to
threaten like a howitzer, to simper and
cajole; and lovely woman, like a prisoner
buried to the waist in sand, knew how to
charm her executioners with what of her
body remained above the hoop. Pinero may
be thanked and forgiven for “Trelawny of
the Wells,” resurrected by Irene Vanbrugh
and Dion Boucicault at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday. He may be thanked for being
so faithful to his period and forgiven be-
cause his humor is not thoroughly up-to-date.
Also his crew of 20 passengers were too
heavy for the boat, and were not all equally
skilful with the oar; and the vessel ran
aground occasionally on the sandbars of a
complicated plot.
Rose Trelawny is the star of a suburban
theatre that flourished near London in the
’sixties, and, incidentally, still subsists. She
is lifted out of the freedom and glamor of
the footlights by her lover, Arthur Gower,
and transported to the gloomy mansion of
his grandfather, who rules with ferocious
tyranny over a household of intimidated
lioops in Cavendish-square. Rose pines for
her gipsy life, where crinolines are some-
times exchanged for tights, and finally
escapes back to her friends, the mummers.
Reconciliation comes when the fiery despot,
“THE TEN COMMANDMENTS ,” AT
PRINCE EDWARD THEATRE ,
SYDNEY.
Conductor Will Prior putting music into the
silent oration of Moses.
ill search of his son, who has also taken
to the stage, smells greasepaint. Recollec-
tion of his own well-spent youth softens him
towards the lovers. Arthur, whom massed
crinolines have effectually shut off from the
public gaze through most of the piece, is
produced hurriedly in time for the happy
finish. The setting of the scenes is exact
and interesting.
* * * *
Some of the players may be thanked and
some forgiven, too. Dion Boucicault, as Sir
William Gower, was a barbarous old aristo-
crat who swept the crinolines before him
like a flock of captive balloons. The Van-
brugh was a practised but not a very light-
some Rose. C. M. Hallard, as Tom Wrench,
a playwright, in love with Rose, concealed
his love from its object, and from the audi-
ence as well. An element of pathos hung
around our old friends Maggie Moore, Regi-
nald Roberts and Mrs. Brough in then-
appearance in a play dealing with the stage
and the tragedy of its ephemeral. Janet
Eccles, as Imogen Parrott, and Ethel Wel-
lesley, as Avonia Bunn, wielded their hoops
with energy, but suffered from a flatness of
the voice.
*$ * *
The favorable reports which had preceded
“Mr Battling Butler’s” arrival at Sydney
Opera House were borne out on. Saturday
night. There is good fun in this musical
sketch of a gilded youth who poses as a
celebrated pugilist, the toast of the Eclipse
Sportiflg Club, in order to get away from
the tedium of life in Little Puddleton (or it
may be Little Thatchley) ; and Charles
Heslop is always a diverting figure as the
shr.bruiser. Particularly when he is wait-
ing in the club vestibule for his summons to
meet the Dixie Murderer, and learning from
Jack McGowan (a good old ring-name) that
the Murderer’s last opponent had changed
his profession from boxing to music, his in-
strument being the harp. Heslop has some
catchy songs, and dances cleverly. His
chief helpers among the men are John Kirby,
who plays a sillay-beggah part very amus-
ingly ; Lesjie Pearce, the baritone, who
looks as if he could knock both Battling
Butlers out in the same ring; Victor Haines,
George Willoughby and John Robertson.
And Dot Brunton is as seductive as ever as
the false Battler’s wife, who refuses to leave
Little Puddleton for fear the rhubarb may
die, while winsome Mary Gannon justifies
her promotion to- a good speaking part with
a decent song or two, and Addie Leigh is
very droll as the pug’s catty missus. The
show is strong on the dancing side, Eddie
Russell, Elsie Parkes and Phyllis Small
being conspicuous here.
$* * *
Hawaiian music, as rendered at the
Palace, has a simplicity and quivering wist-
fulness that Sydney rapidly discovered to
be irresistible. The steel guitar, with its
sweet, loitering notes and undertone of sad-
ness, is the voice of the native Hawaiian as
he feels himself being gradually blanketed
by a commercial civilisation. With this in-
strument and with ukuleles and banjos the
troupe astonished the first-night . audience
by the haunting charm and quality of its
music. Especially effective were the en-
semble numbers, in which the strumming of
the whole company merges into a suave
rhythmical droning, with interludes that sug-
gest the ripple of water on a beach and wind
sighing through trees. For solo work the
guitar is a poor instrument, and the per-
formers showed discretion in restricting these
turns. Vocally, the troupe is below par.
Queenie Kaili is a notable exception; and
there is David of the same surname, too—
a tenor with some fine high notes. And
native dances —and in the second half of
the bill jazz, a surfeit of it.
% jfc #
The return of the Two Rascals (Charles
O’Donnell and Eddie Field) to Sydney Tivoli
last Saturday, resembled the triumphant
homecoming of a man who had wrenched a
large fortune out of Chancery. In return
they pelted an enthusiastic audience with a
diversity of character songs, jazz and pungent
jokes. Yet it is not a turn to take your
grandmother to see, even if her hair is
bobbed. After hearing you laugh at some of
those jokes the old lady would certainly cut
you out of her will.
** * *
The large cavity made in Sydney Fullers
bill when Phil Smith left has been well filled
by the George Wallace Revue Co. They are
a blithesome team of merrymakers, consisting
of numerous good-looking. well-frocked
maidens who supply an abundance of merri-
ment and melodies suitable for singing under
the morning shower. Conspicuous amongst
them are George Wallace, Marshall Crosby
and Marie Nyman, a dainty little toe-tripner
whose feet twinkle with a captivating
rhythm.
** * *
Of late the picture-show public has shown
a disinclination to patronise the more gaudy
and vulgar American films, and Hollywood
producers, obviously scenting a reaction, are
delving into European history and digging
up long-forgotten novels to furnish the “fans ’
with something different. Three examples
the new fashion are now in Sydney. “The
Sea Hawk,” at the Crystal Palace, deals
with the time when England was beginning
to get its sea-legs: it is overcrowded with
scenes that have the appearance of being
thrown together merely to impress audiences.
“A Boy of Flanders,” at Hoyt’s, features
Jackie Coogan, and at the Emptess the
scene shifts to an imaginary Balkan State,
of which Gloria Swanson is the head serang.
Hers is, as usual, a fine display of millinery.
At Sydney Theatre Royal Maurice Mosco-
vitch continues to effect his marvellous cures
in “The Outsider.” Despite the Russian’s
entire lack of diplomas, no protest has yet
come from the Medical Board.
sje :'c
“Wildflower” is in its fourth month at
Her Majesty’s, with no weakening in the
warble of wood notes or the whirl of legs.
* * *
From the moment the curtain rose to dis-
cover the wreck of the aeroplane which has
made Major Antony Crespin and his wife
and Dr. Basil Treherne castaways in the
realm of “The Green Goddess,” the atten-
tion of the audience at Melbourne King’s
on Saturday night was held by a play which
is entirely one of action. A thread of love-
interest is provided by the attachment be-
tween Mrs. Crespin and the airman-doctor;
but, both people having high ideas about
morality and duty, there is very little oppor-
tunity for philandering even if the swift
action of the play was not a bar to it. Good
“TRELAWNY OF THE WELLS,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Irene Vanbrugh, as Rose Trelawny, puts up
patiently with Dion Bouoicault (Sir
William. Gower).
craftsmanship keeps the climax hidden until
the last few minutes; and striking scenery,
with a careful attention to make-up, costum-
ing and effects, gives the audience the atmo-
sphere of the kingdom of Rukh and its
Green Goddess.
* * * *
Guy Bates Post is a savage, subtle Hima-
layan prince upon whom an English Univer-
sity has put only a polish; underneath there
is hot resentment against the dominating
Europeans, and the barbarous instincts of
the Asiatic are blended with cowardice and
a cunning which prompts a search for per-
sonal safety at all costs —whilst resenting
the execution of his half-brothers by British-
Indian authority, he will not move to save
them lest they should be a future dynastic
danger to himself and his children; which
makes the yielding to avoid a clash with
British authority in the final situation con-
vincing. The star gave a complete expres-
sion to all the shades of the complex charac-
ter. His Cockney valet, Watkin, was, in the
competent hands of Leslie Victor, a live
study. Although it is understood that the
drinking habits of Major Antony Crespin
give his wife an adequate excuse for turn-
ing to Dr. Treherne, the character as repre-
sented by Winnington Barnes was really the
most likeable among the men. Ashton Jarry's
High Priest was impressive; James Grant
did all that was necessary as Dr. Basil
Treherne; so did Gerald Pring as Flight-
Lieutenant. Dennis Cardew; and the rest of
the male actors were believable inhabitants
of a semi-barbarous kingdom. There were
only two women in the cast. Nell Carter
rendered Mrs. Crespin on melodramatic lines
with, at one place at least, a rapid change
of emotions which made them seem artificial;
and Isabel Wilton, as an Ayah, had nothing
to say, yet helped the general success.
** * *
When Thurston Hall went out to Caulfield
on the afternoon before the opening of “So
This Is London!” and backed three winners
he was right in thinking it surely meant
something or other for his season at the
Melbourne Royal. On his last visit to the
house this Showman met in the interval three
men who had just received their income-tax
assessments. Yet they were all cheerful. If
a show wants a better recommendation than
that it is a glutton.
* * * *
A birth announcement of last week was
to the effect that a newly-arrived Australian
had been called just plain Betty. It looks as
though the show at His Majesty’s may last
long enough to let the newcomer attend with
her husband and explain how she came to
get her name.
The management sees no reason to even
hint at the close of the season of Cappy
Ricks, who brings his cargo of laughs safely
to land every night at Melbourne Athenaeum.
In fact, the advertisements are already sug-
gesting the possibilities of a record run.
* * * *
Panto will cease to pant at Melbourne
New Princess after curtain-fall on Saturday
of next week (March 14), Cinderella having
received orders to thereafter capture her
Prince elsewhere. The good fortune that has
been coming to the lady in the last act ever
since Christmas is nothing to the fortune the
frivolity has brought to the management.
ij:
The “Midnight Frolics’’ come to an end
on Saturday night. The New Palace is
then due for a week’s rest in order to re-
cover its poise, for the return of Allan Wilkie
is impending. The Avon will begin to flow
on March 14, and its season will last three
weeks only.
❖ ❖
A programme supplied at the Melbourne
Tivoli, in describing the Femina Quartette,
called their turn “A Musical Interludde.” The
audience, however, does not use any of its
spare “d’s” in expressing its opinion of the
turn of the four young women; although
distinctly a concert item, it pleases a
“variety” audience too. The ingenious Long
Tack Sam, with his supporting company
of Celestials, provides a whirling mixture
of turns in a quaint setting, his insistence on
bossing the show all through being the main
humorous relief. The Celestials have lifted
Tivoli attendances to capacity houses. Jack
Stocks is a moderate success amongst the
others : he dishes a hash of all the known
complaints against women and wives. It
would “go” better if he had a better style
of delivery.
* * * ssc
Stiffy and Mo are still “In Society” at
Melbourne Bijou, and the troubles of the
haughty who are assailed by these broad
comedians produce the loud guffaws which
assure the management that it isn’t paying
salary away for nothing.
* * -I. *
“Innocence” pervades the Melbourne
Majestic this week. It is rather an over-
stressed virtue, but with the help of Anna
Q. Nilsson the camera man has made it into
an excellent picture. “Yankee Speed” is
one of the worst examples of Yankee boost
this writer has seen ; if better pictures than
this cannot be obtained from England or
made in Australia, those countries are hope-
less from the screen viewpoint. The photo-
graphy is good and the settings are excel-
lent, but the Yankee young man who over-
comes opponents by scores arouses only deri-
sion. Thomas Meiglian is “The Alaskan” at
Hoyt’s de Luxe in what is described as “a
big, red-blooded romance,” and is what a
big, red-blooded romance usually is; and the
red-bloodedness shows also in “The Sunset
Trail,” which is described as “a 45 calibre
story of big men”—whatever that may mean.
* i|: *
Allan Wilkie, now at the P. of Wales in
Adelaide, continues his policy of quick
change, and gives big chances to junior mem-
bers of the company. Claude Saunders be-
ing originally an Adelaide boy, there is
special interest in his Borneo, and K'ore
King jumps with astonishing versatility from
Juliet’s nurse to Puck. The Anderson melo-
drama co. seems to till a local want, and
is going back to the P. of Wales from the
Royal, which is at the moment busy pre-
“SO THIS fS LONDON !” AT MEL-
BOURNE THEATRE ROYAL.
Sir Percy Beauchamp (Reginald Carring-
ton), assisted by his daughter Elinor
( Mary Macgregor) , indulges in a hearty
laugh. Gladys Webster as Mrs. Hiram
Draper.
poring the first Australian showing of “Kid
Boots,” from America. In t>e Majestic’s
variety programme Linn Smith’s jazz band
the most striking feature. At the York
Übaldo is singing; on the screen are Tyrone
Power and Buster Keeton. At West’s Ruth
Bucknall holds the stage, and a remarkable
horse, Silver King, is the brightest thing on
the screen.


OLYMPIA MOTOR SPEEDWAY, LIMITED,
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANY ACT, 1899-1918 NEW SOUTH WALES.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
10 PER CENT. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE
SHARE ISSUE.
CAPITAL .... £lOO,OOO
DIVIDED INTO 800 SHARES OF £5O EACH, AND 60,000
SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Ordinary Shares of £5O each have been issued ....
.10,000 Shares of £1 each are now offered for subscription
payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per share
on allotment and the balance in calls of not more
than V- per share per month, as 1 0 per cent. Cumula-
tive Preference Shares with the right to participate
pan passu with the ordinary shares in any dividend
. nnn to P er cent * P er annum
40,000 Shares of £l each to be held in reserve
£40,000
20,000
40,000
£lOO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
BOtoUSns F^Vr? 1 ’ 26 Hunter S,rect - S*l»w (Chairman).
iMIS™; I! I"Wter. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
JAMES l
ffurffr r' Srn Sm^ DNER ’ Esq -’ Solicit °r. Killara.
ALBERT J. HUNTING, Esq., Manufacturer, Balfour Road, Rose Bay.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS *
Messrs. FRANK COXON & SON, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
„ SOLICITORS:
Messrs. A. S. BOULTON & CO., Intercolonial House, 4 and 6 Castlereagh St., Sydney
AUDITORS:
Messrs. H. E. RUSSELL & SON, Martin Place, Sydney.
RINKERS •
ENGLISH. SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, Martin Place, Sydney.
BROKER:
EDWD. G. HATTERSLEY, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
t m SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
A,A,LS -’ A,I,E ; A -’ Ploor, No. 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
’Phone No. 85234.
Tho Hi™ 6 * of Operations of the Company to Date
The Olympia Motor Speedway, Ltd., was registered on Alov o in? ± V®
of acquiring lease of 79 acres at Mpmnhm legnsteiea on i\lay <J, 1924, for the purpose
speedway. dCrGS at Maroubra , for the erection of an up-to-date motor
in n, i, s hind
embankments oi^either^hle! 1 bU s’6tb 5 ’ 6tb mile ’ and its widtb 40ft., with safety
engineering i l lciple ’ banked to ensure an
pressure on the tyres), thus enabling sneeds t?h» tP.ri l b® stained without lateral
than existing world’s records 1S SPeedS t 0 be registered at Maroubra equal to or better
l dl av)C<T(mlitstlcomp) C< T(m I its tl compl > etion el on lTl, >()tii W f y i ha | be - en . let for £34,000 (with
inaugural meeting in August. completlon 011 20th July, 1020, in good time for the
Preferential Share Issue.
meius,”including’ the wiSngTf S? hf™ SS? i» “ ra f“P~ve-
T Planting of gra»oi for Mnding S Stnd ’ J “ ,S d ° Wn Water mains ' a ” <l
profits earned towards^ncreasing^the^^islets* eaCb yC if r a fair P ro Portion of the
stands and other public Sides which Sill* i? 6 E ° mpany b 7 way of erecti °n of grand:
increase the security to| preferential otherhsharhedders 8 ™ 1112 and ’ at thc time,
pp ications will close with the Secretary on Saturday, the 14th March, 1925.
Probable Revenue and Expenditure Figures
conservative °basis^ < a netf £33,750 per prospectus > lowing, on a most
rapidly incSed" Tut" moto? Ef hafnT SevioUfbe 8 ’ f number - being
manner as in other parts of the world Odiously been catered for in the same
the all as being
Perouse Maroubra Beach trams. U & strved °y mam roads and the La
Contracts.
between Olympia Motor a Speedwav liS Ltd SUe nf^ f shares is one dated 19tli February, 1925
Hattersley, J. S. TaylorJ TW LPA n f W and A. O. Willis, EG.
which may be inspected at the'office of ’£ cimMnVduritg o£ h'ouS.'“ f th ° <,ther Part '
THE WHOLE OF THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN UNDERWRITTEN.
POR 10 PER CENT - cumulative preference shares.
OLYMPIA MOTOR SPEEDWAY LTD
No. 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.’ ’’
Si rs > I beg to enclose herewith the sum nf c , .
on Application, for Cumulitivp ‘'' I,'.' ’ being a deposit of 5/- per Share navahlp
mentioned Company. I hereby request you* to allot n o llinr °l £1 { ea o ch in the Capital of th e P above-
Prospectus dated 20th February 1925 amisubiectto}he er of Shares u P on the terms of the
Company. I agree to accept such Shares orany °less e r numfe ° f / ss <>«ation of the
said terms, and agree to pay the further sum of 5/ “ , , at rna y be allotted to me upon the
to exceed 5/- per share at intervals of not less than one l0 T tmel l and balance by caDs n't
on the Register of Shareholders in respect o? anrStoes^lottedto^me?^ 6 y ° U t 0 pkce “
Name (in full)
(Mr., Mrs., or Miss) ••••
Address
.Occupation or description
Ordinary signiture
Date
... 1925.
Commonwealth 6 per cent.
Loan for States
£5.400,000
Interest 6 per cent. Price of Issue £99
The Loan is being raised by the Commonwealth Government
on behalf of the Governments of Victoria, South Australia,
Australia and Tasmania. The cash proceeds of the Loan
will be handed over by the Commonwealth to the States concerned
for redemption of State Loans.
Loan will be repaid in 1930 or 1935, at the option of the
subscriber, to be exercised when making application.
Applications for the Loan, also the Deposits and Instalments of
the Loan, may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank; at
any Money-Order Post Office, or with any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
Instalments will be payable as follows i 25 per cent, deposit
be l° dged with application; 25 per cent, on Friday, Ist May,
1925, and 49 per cent, on Monday, Ist June, 1925. All the
instalments may be prepaid if desired.
Interest is free of State Income Tax.
Interest commences from date of lodgment of money where
full subscription paid up at time of application.
Conversion Privileges.
Holders of Victorian, South Australian, Western Australian
and Tasmanian State securities maturing on or before 30th June,
1925, are invited to convert their holdings, or any part thereof,
in multiples of £ 1 0, into an equal amount of 6 per cent. Common-
wealth Stock or Bonds of this Loan.
Persons who so convert their State securities will receive from
the Commonwealth on 15th May, 1925, a cash bonus of £1 for
each £lOO of State securities converted.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Melbourne. S. M. BRUCE,
Acting Treasurer.
s
AFTER SHAVING
damp your face with a few drops of “4711 ” it
refreshes, acts as a disinfectant and makes the
skin soft and smooth.
The only scent which
men of refinement
may use.
Obtainable at all Chemists,
and Leading
Departmental Stores.
Head Office for Australia :
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wj
-8
A
i
m »
m
m
rN
'Eaude
mil


Protect Your Dependents Against Probate Duty.
TO the man on the land preparation for Probate Duty
is of utmost importance. The tax itself is unusu-
ally heavy. The period required for its
assessment is long. The estate with its income is not
available to dependents until the tax is paid. P. &C.
Probate Assurance meets both contingencies. It pro-
vides dependents with an immediate income, and thereby
protects them against hardships during the waiting
period; it also pays the tax and thus avoids the frequent
and disastrous necessity of sacrificing part of the Estate
in order to raise the large sum required, and thereby
forfeiting for always the income derived from it.
Probate is a matter that is inevitable —one that must be
faced. Send for folder dealing fully with this important
subject, post free, of course.
The Producers & Citizens’
of Australia, Limited,
Managing Director: G. L. WEAVER.
a
Co-operative Assurarice Co.
Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.,
General Secretary: 11. FELL.
poverty
“Charlik" on W.S.G.: —
In my long experience of W. S. Gilbert, I found
him invariably just, and, when opportunity arose,
generous; but there was one incident, far-reaching in
its 'consequences, which proved that he was not
immune from at least one human failing. He did
not easily forgive. Lillian Russell, the beautiful
American singer, was engaged to “create” the part
of Princess Ida, but although eminently suitable in
every other respect, her American accent spoiled the
delivery of the fine “Women of Adamant” speech.
Giiuert suggested private rehearsals. Lillian declined,
and, on these being eventually insisted on, hurriedly
married Edward Solomon (he was a fascinating
little chap), thus terminating her engagement. Solo-
mon, at that time and afterwards, was considered
interior only to Sullivan in comic-opera composition:
his “The Vicar of Bray,” “Red Hussar” and
“Nautch Girl” were capital works. When Gilbert,
after his second disagreement with Sullivan, over a
prima donna this time, was combing London for a
composer for “His Excellency,” it was generally
assumed that Solomon would be selected. I was
with Solomon when he sent his solicitor, Tom Davis,
to interview Gilbert at Grim’s Dyke, to see if it
could be so arranged, and also when Davis returned.
“Shall I give you Mr. Gilbert’s exact words?” Davis
asked. “Yes!” replied Teddy. “Tell Mr. Solomon
that I would not sit down in the same room with
him!” That settled poor Solomon. He went home
and I never saw him again. A very few weeks
afterwards he died. Gilbert selected Dr. Osmond
Carr (of “In Town,” etc.), but his music was
inadequate. In Gilbert’s own words to me, “He
did not understand the value of dramatic effect, ’
and “His Excellency,” notwithstanding its very
efficient cast, did not hit the public fancy. It has
not been produced in Australia, which is a pity, for
many good judges consider it the best of the “books,”
although the author’s pet was “Utopia, Ltd.,” not
“The Yeomen,” as many people imagine.
“Jeldi Jou”: Unless theatreland gossip is
all wrong another company will play Gilbert
and Sullivan opera in Australia this year.
It will be new for the most part, so the
talk runs, but may include dapper Jimmy
Hay, innocent cause of a Poverty Point con-
troversy not long ago. I trust the wardrobe
will he fresh too ; it would be tiresome to
see the old moth-fodder again.
“Hasen”: At the Theatre Royal, Hong-
kong, recently I saw an old friend of Aus-
tralian audiences —Madeline Rossiter, bright
particular star of many “Merrymakers” and
“Dandies.” The quiet-voiced, quick-limbed,
smiling Madeline carried her own company
through a neat little show, incidentally de-
monstrating to the sort of Britisher who fills
office-boy jobs with a general-manager air
how “reahllay tophole” the English language
may sound even though spoken naturally. An
enthusiastic reviewer in the South China
Morning Post refers to “the dainty little
lady doing her ( stuff in the Cremorne
Gardens Theatre ’in far-away Brisbane, and
provoking prolonged applause from Queens-
land audiences—probably the most critical
audiences in the world.” Will Brisbane re-
gard it as a bouquet or a brick?
“Lysander”: Dion Boucicault announces
that when he returns next year to produce
Barrie plays for J.C.W. he will not be
accompanied by Irene, his wife. In that
case he would be well advised to confine him-
self to one part. Introducing himself to this
generation of playgoers as Mr. Pim, Dion
played Mr. Pim throughout the Melbourne
season, despite the various labels he wore—
.Tesson, Blayds-Conway, Gower, Brummie
and Grenham. Peering eyes, stumping, wide-
spread walk, explosive talk, spreadeagled
arms, overwhelming impression of being the
only person on the stage—there they were in
every portrayal. It was clever, enjoyable,
but never art after the first. And even Pim
for a start was not quite fortunate, for
Boucicault’s Pim disturbed furiously Mel-
bourne’s conception of Pim, already met in
the clothes of Ashton Jarry during the Marie
Tempest season. The two Pirns are as far
anart as caraways and currants, and lots
of people liked Jarry’s the better.
“Lud”: “No. No, Nanette,” one of the
pieces secured by Hugh Ward, has reached
London from N’Yark through the instru-
mentality of Jack Waller, well known in this
part of the world a few years ago, when he
was running a troupe of peer-ohs and ’ettes.
and Herbert Clayton, also remembered here
as a tall, breezy baritone in many J. C.
Williamson, musical comedies. These two re-
cent recruits to London managerial ranks
are making things hum. They have a long
lease of the Palace, Shaftesbury-avenue, and
are concerned with the big hit, “It Pays to
HE WAS AN HONEST HAN HIMSELF.
"Hard up, eh? Well, paint me a Rembrandt — but, sec here, a genuine one!"
Advertise,” which has just started its second
year at the Aldwych, and with various pro-
vincial enterprises. “Archie,” one of their
touring song-and-dance winners, is another
of the Ward-Fuller acquisitions.
“First Old Man”: Movie-production in
Australia has got a move on at last. Arthur
Shirley’s “Mystery of a Hansom Cab” has
caught on with no uncertain catch, Brandon
Cremer is making a fairy-film for Carroll,
the Amalgamation’s producer is hard at
work, and Louise Lovely is to be principal
gem in “Jewelled Nights.” The Sydney
actress is now in Tasmania, engaged on the
principal scenes, and in her co. are such well-
known mummers as Arthur Styan, Godfrey
Cass and Harry Halley, three actors of ex-
ceptional ability and experience.
“Hamfat”: One wet and windy night in a
Maoriland township our “house” numbered
41, and only three of them paid. There are
people who will brave any sort of weather
to see a show on the nod. A touring thes-
pian just returned to Melbourne from a
round of the “smalls” says that on a night
of torrential storm one of the few heroes
who turned up at the theatre was a dripping
bushie, who, whilst shaking the moisture
off himself, told how he had ridden in 10
miles and nearly drowned himself in cross-
ing a swollen river. “But I had to come,”
he said. “You see, my brother keeps a pub
at Sale, and he got a pass from the boss of
this show and forwarded it on to me.”
“Topee”: I knew Rose Hersee (B.
26/2/’25) in the mid-’seventies, when, in
conjunction with an ancient singer named
Parkinson, she ran an opera co. in the Eng-
lish provinces. A brother of the old-time
Australian favorite, Charlie Turner, was
tenor for a time. Rose had a brother, Clive,
who married a Junoesque stage beauty of
whom he was intensely jealous. The pair
got an American engagement,, and after a
matrimonial quarrel Clive, who had been in
the R.N. and was a good swimmer, jumped
off an East River bridge, intent on giving
her a scare. But he had not calculated on
the floating ice, and they fished him out dead.
Another brother was Captain Hersee, for
years a popular commander in the Illawarra
S.S. Co.; he died in 1897.
“Lud”: London’s Old Drury lias had
enough of pantomime, which at one time —
and not very long ago, either-^—turned in so
much money that the directors didn’t mind
keeping the big playhouse closed from the end
of the long run until the autumn drama was
ready. The popularity of revue, which may
be seen all the year round in the West End
nowadays, is blamed for the changed con-
ditions. Anyway, last Christmas, instead
of panto., a gorgeous production of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” was put on.
“Morob”: In the dramatic art. civilised
man comes a poor second to the untutored
savage. The most realistic piece of acting
I ever saw was in New Guinea, when a
native, at a “sing-sing.” impersonated an-
other native who had been hanged
a few hours before. There was a large
roll-up at the performance, which was held
in an adjoining village, and. after a de-
scription of the day’s proceedings had been
sung in the usual high-pitched nasal man-
ner, the preliminaries to the execution were
vividly staged. Then the star actor advanced
into the firelight, and with rolling eyeballs
and protruding tongue gave a lifelike (or
deathlike) portrayal of the condemned man.
Every movement and expression was repro-
duced faithfully, even to the last convulsive
heaves. No Irving or Bernhardt could ever
have bettered this unknown member of the
profession.
“Hard Boiled”; My starter in the old-time
sob-stuff stakes was often bleated by Millie
Herbert, the heavyweight “popular ballad-
ist” of the day. at the old Tivoli, I
contend it runs a dead-heat with “De Oriel’s”
entry (B. 22/l/’25). Get the refrain
I know the girl’s not stylish.
Her ways are very plain.
But though without fine feathers
She’s a woman just the same;
To-day she is my sweetheart,
But soon my wife shall be.
So I don’t care what you think or say,
For she’s good enough for me.
I can’t explain now why we did it. but Millie
used to make us cheer like mad for her Sir
Galahad.
“Flaming Youth” : We had rubbed shoulders
iu thecrowd leaving the theatre —his face wore
a disappointed look which impressed me —so,
when I found him sitting beside me on the
train, I naturally asked how he liked the
show. He replied gloomily that we didn’t
get plays like we useter. “I don’t remember
seein’ a decent show since Cole’s, in the
’Aymarket, Sydney,” he added. It was
funny to hear that lament for “The
Bohemian” who, in a tent, with a platform
of raised earth for a stage, put on drammer
for the multitude, in an atmosphere redolent
of dank soil, horses, rabbit-ohs and saveloys.
Cole got an advertisement by staging some
dreadful effusions by E. W. O’Sullivan, then
a Cabinet Minister; but the play didn’t much
matter, since the main exhilaration of every
performance was an onrush on to the stage
of mounted performers, and the wild dis-
charge of pistols. Even if the principal per-
formers forgot their parts it was always pos-
sible to get the play running again out of
one of these scurrying incidents. No wonder
the man who looks back upon those hectic
upheavals regards a nlay like “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray” as dull!
“Louden”: When Allen Doone paid his
first visit to Warrnambool (Vic.), about
1008, his audience was drawn principally
from the Irish families in the dairying and
potato-growing districts of Koroit and Kil-
larney. The chorus of one of Doone’s songs
about a “toast to Erin” ended something like
this:—
To her loyal sons and daughters,
Wherever they may b \ •
God speed the day they’ll all come back
And set old Ireland Iree.
One night the chorus was solemnly taken
up by a crowd of Killarney bhoys, but they
didn’t get the words quite right. This was
their version:—
God spare me days, when we get back
We’ll set old Ireland free.
“Machete”: Variety has been transmuted
into vaudeville, and “Horsey. Keep Your
Tail Up” reigns where “Hi-tiddley-hi-ti” once
enchanted us. but most do I miss the “Sis-
ters” of old time. Days were when no well-
tor ill-) conducted young lady with a respect
for variety conventions dreamed of appear-
ing on the lighter stage unless accompanied
by a sister, who was as indispensable as the
“mamma” of a Gaiety chorus-girl. That is,
unless she was that high priestess of the
sacred lamp, a “serio.” Generally the sisters
began their career in company, feel-
ing safer that way. The turns, all alike,
consisted of rotten dancing and excellent and
unrestrained kicking, to the accompaniment
of a nasal whine after this fashion: —
Thor sheep-bells gaily tinkle
(Steps and kick).
Ther stars above us twinkle
(Steps and kick).
If one of the sisters showed any sign of
talent she became a “serio” in time, while
the other, if English, married a Guardsman ;
if Australian, a policeman.
“F.L.H.”: Anyone remember the “Cinder-
ella” panto, at Melbourne Royal 35 years
ago? Clara Merivale in the name-part;
handsome Fanny Liddiard as the Prince;
May Pollard. Annie Chaston. Howard Ver-
non and Walter Marnoek, with a harlequin-
ade provided by the Waltons and Annie
Martin. There was no jazz in that panto.,
but in 1889 we did hear a voice or two that
could get a song over the front stalls.
“Hamer”: In the Victoria Hall, Westport
(M.L.), there was a much more startling
appearance in undress than that mentioned
by “Amity” (B. 29/1/25). Old Fitz
arrived in a condition so ripe that, when he
reeled out of the dressing-room—how he man-
aged to get into his make-up was a mystery
—the management refused to let him go on.
Breaking into open mutiny, he was grabbed
by the mechanical staff and locked in a small
room, most of his clothing being removed for
safety. Fitz’s bangings at the door and yells
to be let out could be heard dimly during
most of the performance; when they died
down it was presumed that he had dropped
to sleep. But just as the understudy was
bestowing the heroine’s hand on the man who,
had proved he was no villain, a shirt-robed
figure loomed up behind the scenes and
staggered towards the stage. Strong men
tried to seize it as it passed, but only caught
the shirt, which ripped off in their hands.
The curtain fell on a scene of tumult in
which the central figure was a wildly ges-
ticulating gentleman who was delivering the
dignified stage father’s last lines in the
strangest costume ever worn by stage old
man—a few rags of calico suspended from
a neckband. The incident was a great boon
to shows which subsequently visited West-
port; everybody in that town got into the
habit of going regularly on the offchance of
witnessing a repetition.
“L.H.P.”: I remember Rose Hersee (B.
19/2/’25) as Australia’s original Carmen,
and also as “Maritana,” Arline (“The
Bohemian Girl”), Martha, Eily O’Connor
(“Lily of Killarney”) and Zerlina (“Fra
Diavolo”) with Lyster’s opera co. in Maori-
land, 1879-80. A grand co. that was; it
included Verdi. Armes Beaumont, Venosta.
Charles Templetoii,, Bessie Royal. Ethel
Lambert and Arthur Howell, Rose Hersee’s
husband —he was stage-manager. George
Musgrove was general manager. I also heard
Rose in 1886 at Covent Garden. Her sing-
ing of “The Power of Love” in Balfe's
“Satanella” was a circumstance to lay away
in the lavender of dear memories.
A IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is understood that when her engagement with
the J. C. Williamson management is finished, Maud
Fane will buy a farm close to Melbourne and retire
from the stage.”
“The backcloth will be hills of green
Where spotless lambkins browse;
Fruit-trees in bloom will deck the scene;
The chorus of the cows
Will blend with roosters’ carolling,
Each time a lilting lay I sing.
“A rustic cottage, neatly thatched,
Shall be my home, where I
Will note my chickens being hatched
As dreamy days go by;
In each tomato’s growth I’ll see
Rich, ripe applause, and all for me.
“I have a sort of hunch, you know,
That ev’ry song I sing
The cabbages, set row on row,
To quicker growth will bring.
But if I find my labor vain—
Why, I’ll not sing to them again.’
When vegetables miss their cues
Such idylls lose their charms;
Stage management may make revues—•
It cuts no ice on farms.
Apd actresses who feel the lack
To pasteboard farms will hasten back.
VICTORIA.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


Amusements.
gYD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: WILDFLOWER.
CRITERION:
TRELAWNY OF THE WELLS.
_ ROYAL: THE OUTSIDER.
a RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
. Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh .1. Ward Theatres Ptr., Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pPLLER’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE "WORLD'S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
. Plans at Theatre.
“STRALIA FIRS
"j" O W N HADE, SYDNEY.
Commencing EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 11.
And on APRIL 13, 15, 17 (afternoon) and 18.
MADAME ELSA STRALIA,
THE FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN DRAMATIC SOPRANO
PREFERENTIAL BOOKING.
Plans for Advance Booking will open on March 9.
Country patrons can thus secure seats by post.
Allotments in order of priority of application!
Price; 10/6 (plus tax and postage). Total: 11/6.
Applications to INGHAM & lIOLBURN LTD
Palings’ Buildings, Sydney.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
BETTY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SO THIS IS LONDON.
J. WARD’S SUPREME MELBOURNE
PRINCESS THEATRE
CINDERELLA PANTOMIME.
K INGS theatre, melbo u r n e.
GUY BATES POST in
THE GREEN GODDESS.
Amusements.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
** Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING at 8.
E. J. CARROLL presents
The Uproariously Funny Three-Act Comedy
CAPPY KICKS.
The stage version of Peter IS. Kyne’s famous Novel.
A Specially Selected Cast.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
H OYT’S TJHEAT It E S. MELBOURNE
1 * Aliio SYDNEY.
THOMAS MEIGHAN in
THE ALASKAN.
WILLIAM DESMOND in
THE SUNSET TRAIL.
Prices as usual.
POLICE
: we're after shillings
forth*
NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICE
HOSPITAL aw union
over £3200 in Prises
/ TICKETS I/-
lst Prize VACXHAIL MOTOR CAR ' valued
2nd „ STCDEBAKER “Light Six” Car
3rd „ Beale “MAESTRO” PLAYER PIANO .. „
4th „ Suite Furniture (Inlaid Sycamore) .. .. „
sth „ “INDIAN CHIEF” Motor Cycle & Side Car „
6th „ Beale No. 8 Model Plano .. .. ~ „
7th „ Linen Chest full of Household Linen .. „
And 93 other Prizes, values ranging down to £5.
£1250
£525
£258
£2OO
£175
£l3O
£lOO
Drawn 29th April, 1925
TICKETS may be purchased
at any Police Station or Hos
pital in the State, or on
application to A. Lendrum,
Police Headquarters, Sydney.
TICKETS 1/- each, postage
on one ticket lid., postage on
five or more tickets free. To
secure result slip send ad
dressed gnvelope.
A. LENDRUM, Hon. Sec., Police Headquarters, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135.00 to
$1,050.00
f.o.b. Detroit,
Mich.,U.S.A.
Bp s
a ■ m|l
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Ltd..
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit, Michigan, U S. A* Cable Address, Kermatb
Amusements.
|V|AJESTIO THEATRE, MELBOCR.NE.
PERCY MARMONT in
THE CLEAN HEART.
A Master Picture.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
N
EW BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO, IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan. Cen. 3251.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAIIE AN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
ADELAIDE: PRINCE OF WALES THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
x WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 122 of 1925.
BETWEEN RITA ALICE NIXON Petitioner
and WILLIAM NIXON Respondent.
To WILLIAM NIXON of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales Laborer. TAKE NOTICE that the
said Rita Alice Nixon has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her and
without any such cause or excuse left her continually
so deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-fifth
day of May one thousand nine hundred and twentv-
five and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. G. MADDOCKS COHEN,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Missing Heirs.
MARY ANN HEATH (or Rose), from
Victoria, and afterwards of Nelson, in
New Zealand, or anyone knowing her address,
is requested to communicate with the under-
signed, who has information for her advantage.
HILLIER CHEEK,
Solicitor, Nelson, N.Z.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
mi
K\
m
y'iV
11}
—v>
5tVjL
/
Easy
Move
From
Cur
m ( i
- .7? S
Cuhs up Branches
v
Pumps Wafer
A
y/j
rr?.*« •»«.
THE “WEE MacGREGOR” PORTABLE PETROL DRAG SAW
will cut ten times as much wood as two men by hand.
Invaluable to Farmers clearing land, and can be used for other power purposes, pumping, feed cutting,
grinding, running circular saw, and other similar work.
COIN STRLCTION. Frame built of hardwood, the cross members
being mortised into side frames to prevent wear and keep the
working parts in rigid position. The frame is of three-point
suspension, two points on the log, one on the ground. All working
parts of this machine, including engine, are placed on the frame
in such a manner that no part extends below the bottom of the
frame, which allows the machine to be slid over logs or loaded into
waggons without danger of breaking any of these parts.
motor is a 4-h.p. water-cooled type, two-cycle,
oiin. bore by 4m. stroke. Remarkably simple and easy to start.
Equipped with water-proof magneto. The engine has' self-oiling
connecting rod, and crank case is cast in one piece and reamed to
standard size.
IMPORTANT.—AII parts are machined to standard size and
interchangeable.
SAW HOLDER.—The saw holder is used exclusively on our
machine, and is a real time saver, and is superior to anything yet
deyised for this purpose. No time lost in fixing; simply place saw
against saw-holder, tighten saw-hook bolt, and you are ready for
operation. This feature is exclusive with the “Wee MacGregor.”
OPERATION.—The illustration shows the “Wee MacGregor” on
the log ready for operation. The saw is adaptable to any
position, and makes a true cut, no matter whether log is on a
side hill or on level ground. One man operates and movds it from
cut to cut in the log, while two men carry it anywhere.
Feed the ‘‘Wee MacGregor” with petrol,
water and oil, and it will keep up its
work hour after hour, day after da?/,
and never get that tired feeling.
The “Wee MacGregor” carries our guarantee, and
is manufactured in Australia.
PARKE & LAG 7 CP IP?
60 Clarence Street, S>DNEX
CASH PRICE:
£B5
Or Easy Terms
can be arranged


Tho Grand Old English Swoolmeat
Made from pure sugar, English farm butter,
and rich, ' thick cream, MACKINTOSH’S
TOFFEE DE Luxe simply cannot help
being delicious and good ! J ust taste it for
yourself and see !
Purity and Quality guaranteed by
JOHN MACKINTOSH & SONS, Ltd- Toffee Town, HALIFAX, England.
By Appointment
E
*
9
m
a
For stocks apply to Australian Agents—
H. DAWSON & CO., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE & PERTH, or Lociil Distributors.
CWESTINGHOUSEA
ELECTRIC J
Electric Fans—
A Boon to Humanity
THE Electric Fan is one of the appliances made possible
by the perfection of the electric motor —the heart of the
electric fan.
Use it for the sick room or hospital to bring comfort to the suf-
fering. Place it in the home to bring happiness by its balmy
breezes. Put it in the Counting House to keep a cool stream of
air in circulation. Set it in the Works where it will bring comfort
to an otherwise unbearable task. Wherever it be placed it brings
its message of what Electricity has accomplished to make life more
comfortable.
1
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
'Wcstinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company, Ltd.,
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
And Yorkshire House,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne.


LEARN TO DRAW
FROM LIFE.
You can learn to draw by post, through
the easy, concise, and interesting lessons of
the Harry J. Weston Postal School of Drawing.
Artists command large salaries, and are
independent in that they can earn a big
income in almost any country.
Mr. Harry J. Weston, the well-known
Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every student receives per-
sonal tuition.
Send for Mr. Weston’s interesting free
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
25 Commercial Building;,
17 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
“Erskine House,” Lome,
Most up-to-date Seaside Resort in Australia.
Sporting Carnival—
-1 4th to 2 Ist March.
Bowls, Tennis, Croquet.
Send for programme. Address Manager.
Prizes of
£l5/15/- and £26/5/-
offered for School Song for the Scotch
College, Melbourne.
Full particulars from the Hon. Sec., Old Scotch
Collegians Association, 59 William Street, Melbourne.
l.egal Notice.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
x WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1406 of 1924.
BETWEEN HARDWICK LINDSAY CROWDER
Petitioner
MARGARET CROWDER (formerly Margaret
Emberson) Respondent
and BASIL MOLLOY co-respondent.
To MARGARET CROWDER late of Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Hardwick Lindsay
Crowder has filed his Petition in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales praying for a divorce from
you the said Respondent on the ground of your
adultery with the said co-respondent AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the eighteenth day of
May one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this twenty-third day of February one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-five.
REGINALD W. BAKER,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Gladstone Chambers, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY (1.5.), Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Tenders.
THE CAIRNS HARBOR BOARD.
TENDERS are invited, returnable on TUESDAY,
APRIL 14, 1925, at 4 p.m. for the purchase of
the following, viz.:—
1 Babcock & Wilcox Boiler, 1265 square feet «of
heating surface.
1 Allen Engine, compound, 250 h.p.
1 Direct-coupled Alternator and Exciter, 415 volt,
3 phase, 50 cycle, 150 k.w.
1 Feed Water Heater, Feed Pump, Piping, etc.
1 Chimney Stack, 65 feet by 3 feet diameter, of
quarter-inch plate.
The above plant is complete and has only done
about two months’ running.
Conditions of purchase can be obtained on appli-
cation at the Office of this paper.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Five per cent. (5 p.c.) of the amount of tender
must be lodged with same.
T. R. HALL, Secretary.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL.
If Too .to troubled with the complaint, write at and
wa will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Tbit appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what wa state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street. Melbourne
JUST THE THING FOR COUNTRY ROADS.
WONDER-WEARING, GENUINE CREPE-RUBBER-SOLED
BOOTS & SHOES
Exceptionally Long Wearing,
Waterproof and Comfortable
81290 Gent, s Tan Derby Boots, medium
fitting, 36/6. Post I/-
Bsoo4— Gent.’s Tan Boots, as illus.,
wide fitting, 37/6. Post 1/-
Bl293 —Gent.’s Black Boots, medium
or wide fitting, 31/6. Post I/-
B3oo2 —Gent.’s Tan Shoes,
brogue style, wide fitting,
35/- pair. Post 1/-
Bl2B4—Gent.’s Black Ox-
ford Shoes, medium fit,
30/-. Post 1/-
B ’ 2 ubu w Tennis Shoes ’ 23 / 6 * Ladies’ Tennis
Shoes, 22/6. Post 1/-
All with Crepe-Rubber Soles.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.
395 (leorge Street,
Sydney.
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
fjj?Sa*r
cu
, rCu^ ct r o
dB fl
tOT
\vS&
at
Every Automobilist
needs this Flashlight
FOR changing tires, to back
around, to avoid ditches and
dark embankments, to read direc-
tions and in many, many other
ways,“AMERICAN” FLASHLIGHTS
will prove invaluable.
AMERICAN
81
Flashlights and Batteries
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children 6d. —Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Kill'amey.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jett}’, Circular Quay. 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 n.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Fame and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.T.A.: You’re wrong; it’s not a similar
system... .Cantilever: So much out of tune that if
we printed it there would hardly be a sound ear left
in all Australia... .A.C.H.: Too easy and too long.
....Comical B.: But that’s not the question. What
these people have been discussing is whether hang-
ing is better than some other form of execution....
8.A.: Too general.... Bernier: Thanks. But you’re
too late.... Howard E.: Very Wordy.... Gordon 11.:
Somebody else deals with it more comprehensively.
. ...D.J.: Subject written to tatters. And, by the
way, it is now pretty certain that Lawrence was re-
sponsible for very little of it B.: If a par. isn’t
printed in three weeks it isn’t likely to be printed
at a 11... .Concrete: No use sending us mere trans-
scriptions of other papers’ news items. We want
the personal knowledge that makes a paragraph live.
... .A.G.: Fanatic is good English, even if the abbre-
viation “fan” is Yankee slang. Our dictionary defines
it as “an enthusiastic devotee of any sport.”....
Terre Verte: The “cochon” yarn may be old, but the
“accoucher” one is older H.C.11.: With luck you
might get it into a school paper... .William C.:
Can’t find any improvement C.F.R.: Doesn’t get
near.... A.P.M.: The ear that will allow you to
rhyme “hound” with “gown” is out of plumb....
V.E. (Balmain): Mild yarn which drags rather
heavily... ,H.H.P.: Not a trace of ancient Athenian
atmosphere in the tales, and the themes are slight
and mechanical... .D.P.M.: One held for inquest.
The others must go back. And please note that
April is not a Spring month in Australia.... Rippon-
lea: As good as a page from an infernal guide-book:
Mephistopheles lifted his pitchfork
And jgbbed it into a sinner.
“Go Eustace, set the table,” he said,
“We’ll have salamanders for dinner.”
He thoughtfully scratched his left fetlock,
And way it to Beelzebub that he spoke;
“Not a little gink is Eustace,
Though- he’s nervous and goes into smoke;
Sent down at the end of October
For telling a rat-bag to go and eat coke.
Strange to say, now he eats it for breakfast
And at teatime and supper as well;
But, bless you, he doesn’t resent it-
He’s got the sweetest nature in Hell.
Now and then I give him a dainty,
To let him see that I’m treating him right;
Just a sherbet sucker o’ strychnine
Or a morsel o’ dynamite.
Good Heavens! How swift the time passes ?
I’m as peckish as the Devil, Bub,
Come, we’ll have a benzine and soda,
Then go in and yaffle some grub.
. ...L.A.C.: Loose descriptive stuff that gets to
nothing. .. .C.G.A.: The idea is not very fresh and
the verse lets it drop in places... .J.M.K.: Your
verse is weak.... Bertha M.: As many lumps in it
as in the sugar p0t....M.W. (Hobart): Very crude.
.... Haggis: The lines are weak. But, first, find
something to say....R.D. (Dungog) : Misses....
James H.: Fair ideas; now clothe them in better
verse. .. .D.M. and S.G.: A thought, but not worked
out... .R.E.L.: Weak and thin and doesn’t display
much skill... .Waihopai: Crude handling of an old
theme.... Billy See: There are the makings of a
story, but it is not quite made.... Bellerive: The
description of that suburban evening is very tuneful:
In the parlor of he’s house
My cousin’s friends did meet,
For he’d bought a gramophone
To give ’em all a treat.
First record was a band refrain,
Named “Marching on to Glory,”
Which was followed by an actor
In a marrowing freezing story;
A fiddle solo weaved a charm,
One of the mournful number,
Which nearly made he’s Missus cry.
And lulled her dad to slumber.
A special record broke in half,
Some schemer must have glued Her.
And cousin plied a comic named —
“The Villian still pursued Her.”
When other lips and other hearts,
And my little Irish Rose.
Brought the mixed selection
To a pathetic close.
R.F.S: No interest... .8.5.8.: The verse is poor;
and the yarn, though it has some points, calls for
more elbow-grease... .H.E.C.: You had a good peg
to hang the tale on, but you’ve hung it badly....
W. : Dull, and it does not touch reality....
. ...N.K.C.: Would want better handling to make
it convincing. The masquerade in male attire is
always difficult. Might be worth re-shaping....
James 11. Maoriland: All miss... .T.W.M.: Mostly
commonplace in pretty rugged verse... .E.T. (Arma-
dale): “Scandal” must go back.... Frank B.: Very
crude. .. .W.J.T.: The point is not strongly made;
verse rather wooden.... James B.: Everybody who
can’t write decent verse gets at some time an idea
that Hell is humorous and sends along a sorrowful
screed to show it is pathetic... .A. 5.1.: Not up by
some distance... .Plodder; “Way” must go back....
X. Bad prose in tortured verse... .A.P.M.: Doesn't
get near....J.G. (Peak Hill): Dull stuff without
point... .W.H.R.: Don’t worry about a Latin head-
ing, but get the lines into better shape... .H.V.D.:
Send the verses to the millionaires themselves. They
might be scared into better ways.... Rita C.: You
don’t make it very interesting. .. .T.T.R.: Wanted
stronger handling.... Dorothea F.: Bumps all the
way... .L.G.N.Z.: Doesn’t say enough. .. .H.C.M.:
The horses don't make us want to throw up our
hat... .Ethel D.; Far too slight. .. .R.R.D.: That
genius, kept alive by coffee in the old way, deserves
kicking. He went out, got a good meal and left
his wife at home starving.... 8.C.5.: The heroic
nigger can’t be chewed up here....A.K. (Adelaide):
Misses. .. .Mary W.: Doesn’t knock hard enough....
H. J.S.: Nothing there to make a story Fawks
Pass; Rambling and tedious... .W.H.H.: Screeds of-
that sort, about the doings of a prefectly idiotic
person in pursuit of treasure, are all built on the
same pattern... .Anchorite: No use patching together
that cheap stuff to hang a well-remembered yarn
on the tail of it. .. . J.C.E.: The verse is marvellously
bad... .G.H.H.; You have written “Poems” and want
to know what they are worth “per word.” Picking
the winner of the Melbourne Cup for 1952 would
be easier guessing than that. .. .Beanac: A par in
it, if you’d told us what he did these days.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.R.A.: The drawing’s artificial. The joke isn’t
homemade either C.E.: Only kindergarten stuff.
. ...M.E.O. (S’Africa): Thanks for the call, but
your voice doesn’t carry the distance L. 8.: You
are still in the student class. Your drawing is
all dressed up but gets nowhere 0.E., also M.S.:
A man who would want to kiss a girl like that would
be capable of bigamy with a corpse. .. .N.R.; You
are a spendthrift scribbler aryl a squanderer of good
ink and paper N.E.H.: The drawing was still-
born and the gag isn’t as virile as it might be
J.H.M.; Your demon bowler is no-balled... .F.G.A.
and 0.H.T.: Unsuitable... .A.A.L., M.H., W.E.8.,
F.D, and A.F.: Hopeless,


PROSPECTUS of PALMER RIVER GOLD COMPANY
Palmer Goldfield, N.Q.
This Company also takes over the Areas and Plant of the Russell & Johnstone Rivers Gold and Tin Dredging Co. N.L.
To be Incorporated under the Companies Acts 1863-1913.
Capital: £lOO,OOO in 100,000 Shares of 20s. each.
Of which 30,000 will be issued as Fully Paid Up and 70,000 as Contributing.
PAID-UP SHARE ISSUE.
20,000 will be issued to the Palmer Alluvial Syndicate for their area at Fernhill Creek . .
10,000 will be held in reserve until the areas have been bored
N.L.
£20,000
10,000
£30,000
£2,250
4,500
40,000
46,750
23,250
£70,000
Calls not to exceed 3d. per 28 days, except for the purchase of machinery, when same shall not exceed 1/-, unless by the consent
of the shareholders.
30,000
10,000
20,000
40,000
70,000
CONTRIBUTING SHARE ISSUE. At 6d. Application and 6d. Allotment.
have been taken up by the shareholders of the Palmer Alluvial Syndicate to be issued as paid up to 4/6 per share
are offered to the public at 6d. on application, and will be issued as paid-up to 4/6 per share . .
will be held in reserve until the areas have been bored
Uncalled capital on 30,000 shares at 15/6 . .
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
D. W. B. ARTHUR, Eso., Mining Director, Sydney.
JOHN PAYNE, Esq., New Sandgate Road, Brisbane.
S. AR*CHBOLD, Esq., Land Agent, Innisfail.
P. L. GODDARD, Esq., Gen. Manager Chillagoe State Smelters (Q-).
ARTHUR I!. CLARKE, Esq., Mining Director, Cairns.
WALTER COLLEY, Mining Expert, 'Cairns.
L. J. GRIMSHAW, Pastoralist, Winton.
OBJECTS.
The following areas having been acquired on behalf of this Company:—
300 Acres bctwen Fernhill and Glenroy Creeks, and 300 Acres adjacent to Annie
Creek and Strathleven Station, which areas embrace the whole of the river beds and
adjoining flats in these respective localities.
It is proposed to issue 30,000 shares for the purpose of systematically testing these
areas by shafting and boring, as recommended by Messrs. C. H. Wray and Walter Baker.
Of these shares 10,000 have already been applied for.
Reports on these areas by the above experts are appended.
The Company has an up-to-date boring plant, and immediately the wet season is
over the testing of the areas will be undertaken by . Mr. Walter Baker, who> has already
made arrangements for the transport of the plant.
A suitable dredge is also under offer, conveniently situated, and at a remarkably
cheap price.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORT ON THE PALMER RIVER
By David Morgan
(who tested the Palmer River on behalf of a Melbourne Syndicate in the year 1004 as
to its suitability for dredging for gold).
After spending about four months on the river sampling, he reports: —
NATURE OF BOTTOM. —Near the high reefs hard; dipping to the deep ground is
soft decomposed granite.
DEPTH OF GROUND. —From 0 feet to about 30 feet; 17 feet is the deepest I
could sink; I could not get below this depth for water.
FLATS. —As near as I can estimate the flats are from two to six chains wide and
about 40 chains long, some more, some less.
GOLD.—The gold is distributed the whole width of the flats, from the grass roots
down as far as I could go. Most of the gold is tine, but heavy, and worth over £4 per
ounce.
NATURE OF DEPOSITS. —As far as I could ascertain the ground is not patchy,
but the gold evenly distributed. I got the best prospects dipping towards the deep ground.
It was worth 8/- per cubic yard.
Altogether I sampled between 20 to 30 miles of the river.
A good deal of the ground has been worked to water level with good results, but I
could not get to the bottom, where it is natural the richest ground will be.
OVERBURDEN. —The only overburden I saw was very light sandy drift that will
float in the water.
Lower down the river, at Strathleven, there is a quantity of coarse gravelly drift,
but not having any casing I could not bore through it.
TlMBER.—Leichhardt is the best timber I saw. I did not have time to go and
see a small forest, where it is stated sawn timber for a barge could be obtained.
As for firewood, the best in Australia can be got near the banks of the river.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORT ON THE STRATHLEVEN AREA,
PALMER RIVER, by Jas. V. Mulligan, 10th June, 1903.
There is a deep waterhole at the top end of this area in which a dredge could be
launched to commence operations.
Innumerable colors of gold can be got in almost every dish washed, and up to one-
quarter of a grain in the drifts, especially where rough or pebbly, but cannot get bottom
in anv part of the area.
The three of us—Harbord, Walsh and myself—have done a lot of prospecting
from one end of the area to the other, simply by the dishes.
In almost every instance we could get colors and prospects up to one grain from 10
to 12 dishes, and in some places one grain to four dishes, and in some instances more.
We never could get down much below water level, but the gold continues, and I have
no douht hut there is very rich gold on or near the bottom.
The river is fully a quarter of a mile wide in places.
There is no other site for dredging for gold in all my experience' equal to this for
convenience and for quantity of gold, as, judging by the surroundings, there must be very
rich gold near the bottom, as well as in the heavy drifts, which cannot be reached by
ordinary means, even in the driest season, because the water is always there.
Mr. Harbord reports on the same date:—
This stretch of 44 miles has the advantage of being a much flatter part of the river
than higher up, and although the depth will be greater, the gold will not travel down it
the same as higher up, where the fall is very much more.
I estimate the average depth of the beaches at 20 feet.
The main channel of the river has at no time ever been prospected, and it may be
reasonably supposed that the deposits in* this area will be rich and highly payable,
without taking the bottom into account at all, and it will he there that the richest and
coarse gold will he found.
The yield from the wash or gravelly sliingld should pay handsomely. I am certain
that with a cradle I could make Idwt. of gold per day, or 2dwt. with a sluice-box, and
the gold is worth £4/2/6 per ounce.
PRELIMINARY NOTES ON THE PALMER RIVER GRAVEL
DEPOSITS, by Mr. C. H. Wray,
Who was for 14 years Reporting Expert and Engineer for Messrs. Bewick, Moreing & Co.,
and afterwards for Herbert C. Hoover, Esq.
2nd April, 1924.
Situation of the Areas.
This Queensland River flows from East to West along parallel 16 degrees S.
It is a tributary to the great Mitchell River, which latter empties into the Gulf of
Carpentaria at 15 degrees S.
Historical.
Gold was apparently first discovered here in the early ’7o’s. A great rush set in,
and throughout the succeeding 30 years the main stream and its) numerous rich tribu-"
taries were worked extensivelv by Europeans and Chinese.
The total output from this drainage system is variously estimated at from 6 to 8
million pounds’ worth of gold.
Subsequent to the abandonment of the region by alluvial diggers, the mam stream
lias been tested by various mining investors with a view to sluicing away its banka and
dredging its gutter, but, so far as I have been able to gather from a number of old
reports, only one serious attempt has ever been made to thoroughly test the deposits.
I refer to the investigations of one DAVID MORGAN, am alluvial miner of good
repute, who spent three or four months of 1904 in sinking pits and boring along the
river flats
In most cases, influx of water prevented sinking to bedrock, whilst the drill he
employed was Qso lam informed) practically useless for this type of deposit. His
summing up was briefly as follows: — , . .
(a) He got down in the shafts 12 to 14 feet, when water beat him, but the gold
values progressively improved in depth. In his large experience with the
auriferous gravels of Victoria, he had never seen anything so rich, his esti-
mate being 2/- to 8/- per cubic yard of gravel, and:
(b) He recommended that the deposit be further tested by means of boring.
BANKERS:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. MacDONNELL & HARRIS, Cairns.
BROKERS: „ .
ARTHUR H. CLARKE, Esq., Commercial Bank Chambers, Cairns.
J. N. PARKES, Esq.. Flinders Street, Townsville.
SECRETARY (pro tcm.) :
N. RYAN, P.O. Box 92, Cairns.
Area Secured.
After careful consideration of all that I had heard, read and seen of the liver, I
pegged (in the name of your Mr. Clarke) about 800 acres between Fern Hill and Glen-
ray Creeks (refer to the plan). The area extends about I/i miles up river fiom I ern
Tree Creek, and it includes the likely-looking flats whence the above referred to Morgan
obtained his best results. .... \
The ground pegged may be held for a year free from labor conditions.
Policy Recommended. —Should this river prove to be workable, the first step would
be the proving of one section of the channel (say a mile long) by shafting, pitting and
boring (where the last-named method is absolutely necessary).
It appears likely that satisfactory results would be obtained from the area you already
hold, and I suggest that testing operations be commenced at its lower end, i.e., at I ern
Tree Creek, by putting down a transverse line of shafts, pits and bores, spaced, say,
100 The ivex/step would be to do another cross-section, 500 feet further up stream and
so forth. , , „ ,
Thus, for the above stipulated mile, you would have the results from 10 transverse
lines of holes upon which to open negotiations for selling the tract outright, or floating
it into a company.
The work of testing should be started immediately after the rainy season (whether
this year or next) in order to evade water difficulties.
It is impossible to say definitely how long the suggested development would take or
how much it would cost, because, practically nothing is known about the working condi-
tions, but I should think it could be done in about 6 months, and that it should not cost
more than £2OOO.
Conclusion.
While opinions as to the economic nature of the tract vary within width limits, the
fact remains that it has never yet been the subject of a searching, technical investigation,
therefore no one is qualified to pronounce definitely for or against it, but, having regard
to all the circumstances above set forth, I am of the firm opinion that the enterprise con-
stitutes a sound mining venture, and that the! expenditure of £2OOO, on methodical pre-
liminary tests, would be justified, whether you win or lose. Yours respectfully,
Mr. Arthur Clarke, C. H. WRAY.
Secretary,
Palmer River Alluvial Syn., Cairns.
REPORT ON PALMER RIVER DREDGING AREA
21st January, 1925, by Mr. Walter Baker,
Late Dredge-master Manuka Dredging Company, N.Z.; Perseverance Dredging
Company, Victoria; Annan River Dredging Company, Queensland.
THE PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS,
PALMER RIVER GOLD CO. N.L, CAIRNS.
Gentlemen, —
At the request of Mr. Arthur H. Clarke, of Cairns, I proceeded to the Palmer
River in December last to inspect and report on your present Dredging Area, and to
secure other areas that I considered suitable, and have pleasure in reporting as under: —
300 ACRES FERNIIILL AND GLENROY CREEKS.—This area is situated
about eight miles below Palmerville, and was taken up on your behalf early last year
by Mr. C. 11. Wray. The top end of this area (Glenroy Creek) is just below what is
locally known as the “Falls,” and was a notoriously rich portion of the river in
the early days of the “Palmer.”
I examined this area carefully and closely, and also washed a number of samples of
the surface gravels, all of which gave exceptionally good dredging or sluicing prgspects.
The workable portion of the river and flats will average about 150 yards wide; there
arc numerous islands on it, thickly covered with ti-tree scrub, which, however, will be
no hindrance to any plant working the ground.
The bottom, so far as could be ascertained, is slate and soft decomposed granite, both
of which would be very suitable for either a dredging or sluicing plant to clean up.
It is evident from surface indications that a considerable amount of work has been
done here by miners in the early days on the shallow beaches; but from these same
indications and also from information gleaned in the district it is also evident that
the deeper ground has not been exploited, so that I think a little systematical prospecting
will reveal some very rich deposits in this area.
There is an abundant supply of the very best firewood procurable in the immediate
vicinity of the area.
The river cannot be termed a “torrential river,” and with ordinary precautions taken
I do not think a plant would suffer unduly from heavy floods.
Before deciding on any type of plant to work this area I would advise that it be
closely prospected by shaft sinking wherever possible, the boring plant being resorted
to only where the former system is impracticable, through extraordinary influx of water.
I have no doubt whatever that, this area will stand the test of prospecting and prove
very rich.
' 300 ACRES, STRATIILEVEN. —From Fernhill Creek I travelled down the river
to Stratlileven, a distance of 60 miles.
I was particularly struck with the auriferous nature of the ground travelled over.
I panned off a number of samples, both adjacent to the river and for a radius of
one and a half miles from same, and found all the creeks, spurs and slopes carried more
or less gold in old river wash.
This class of country extends right down to and below old Stratlileven Station, on
both sides of the river, and there is ample evidence of an immense quantity of the above
class of material having been eroded by the continuous action of the river and storm-
waters and deposited in the river.
The river immediately below old Stratlileven Station is very flat, and will average
3(H) yards wide for a distance of about 4-J miles. The gravels, which are chiefly com-
posed of quartz, are of a fitier nature, and very few stones over, say, 21b. in weight, are
visible. The country along this part of the river is more settled than in the upper reaches,
and this, conjoined with the highly auriferous nnhu’e of the country on either side of
the banks, and the fact that this river has been a huge golden tail-race of the rich Palmer
Goldfield, and surrounding auriferous gold-bearing countr% for probably thousands of
years, convinces me that this area, will prove to be rich in gold.
As far as it can possibly be judged from surface indications, this area is a first-class
dredging proposition.
After a thorough inspection of this area from old Strati even Station down to Annie
Creek, and carefully panning off a number of dishes of surface gravels with satisfactory
results, I decided to secure on your behalf 300 acres, which I did on 2nd January, lJ2f>.
The country rock visible adjacent to this area is soft granite, and it is reasonably
sure that the bottom of the ground applied for will be of a similar nature.
There are considerable evidences of various portions having been worked on the high
beaches in earlier times. , . ' .
I recommend that this area be systematically prospected by boring and shaft-sinking.
There is abundance of the best firewood in the immediate vicinity.
In conclusion, I would mention that this trip has been one of the most interesting
I have taken for many years, and I think it the greatest pity in life that this part of
Queensland is so little known and so sadly neglected. Yours faithfully.
(Signed) WALTER BAKER.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
jr*-..
m
V' :
0 V
The Name Attracts.
That is not surprising. The firm’s good work in
selling FOX, RABBIT and all other skins at top
values is a consistent inducement for owners to
forward consignments to market.
Send Your Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY It. cfc J. DICKINC.
Xlie “BABRI” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest and strongest metal
pulley made. Its tubular construction
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARRY” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for
your requirements at the most favorable
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & AVvnyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
lIOBABT 97 Collins Street
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Eegd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-cai
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GODROCK
ROPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
FIRTH’S STEEL
and
STEEL PRODUCTS
manufactured by
THOS. FIRTH & SONS, LTD.
Sheffield, England.
High-Speed, Carbon and Alloy Steels
for Engineering, Automobile and Allied
Trades. Steel Sheets and Strips.
Steel Forgings and Castings. Firth’s
Stainless Steels, etc. Engineers’
Small Tools. “Speedicut” High-Speed
Twist Drills, “Chain Brand” Files.
“Chain Brand” Carbon Twist Drills.
“Die-hard” Hacksaw Blades. Circular
Saws, Crosscut Saws, Bandsaws.
Planer Knives, etc. Large stocks
carried.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
VY&W2B.
mm
I<ondon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.B.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors tcith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly Jameß Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SIX GOOD REASONS
Why You Should Use
Kruses .
1. The purity is guaranteed, and the quality never
varies.
2. For quickly correcting a disordered stomach, there is
not a better remedy in the world.
j** co . un * erac * s the effects of over-eating or over-
drinking. One wine glassful is sufficient.
Bottled
In
I hree
Sizes
FIWntUCTESfA
4. For Children it is postively safe and
wholesome—the genuine Kruse’s con-
tains no harmful drugs.
5. It allays feverish conditions due to
vaccination and teething.
6. A pleasant drink. More like a spark-
ling spa than a medicine.
Don t Take Risks with Imitations. The Genuine Kruse's Fluid Magnesia
is made by
FELTON GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE
And is Sold by all high class Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID —32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Strathmore”: The old Bay View Hotel,
at Frankston (Vic.), has been demolished,
after being a landmark for over GO years.
It was originally an inn in the island of
Guernsey, and had withstood the weather of
two hemispheres for over 100 years. Much
of the timber was in good condition when
demolished.
* * * *
“Cliv” : Can any numismatic reader indi-
cate the value of a florin minted in 1549
and remarkable for the omission of the let-
ters “F.D.” and “D.G.” after “Victoria Re-
gina”? I have been informed that, owing
to the omissions, the coinage was withdrawn
from circulation.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Built 70 years ago, the ancient
Swanston-street (Melbourne) pub first known
as Cleale’s, and for the last 27 years as the
Vendome, is in the knacker’s hands —they
must make room for the extension of a next-
door furniture warehouse. In its early days,
when it was Cleale’s, the old place was the
city camp of the big squatters, but its glory
has long departed.
* * * •
“Wealsman”: Is there anything at all to
equal Iluon pine for boat-building? The
Tassio, champion 21-footer, is the latest-
launched craft of a numerous fleet of smart
sailers hewn out of this wonderful Tas-
manian wood during the past hundred years.
Unfortunately the forests, never very exten-
sive, are rapidly disappearing, and in another
decade or so it will hardly be possible to
obtain sufficient flawless Iluon pine planks
to build a boat of any size. Forestry ex-
perts know all about it, of course, but the
extreme slowness of growth of the species
is a bar to its inclusion in any modern
scheme of afforestation. Huon pine, it is
said, takes centuries to arrive at maturity,
while the “remarkable” pine and similar
softwoods are ripe for the axe at 30 years,
and may be almost too old at 40.
* * * •
“Herodot”: There are agents for pak-a-pu
banks in Sydney and Melbourne whose commis-
sion earnings run into six and seven pounds a
week; they work districts in the guise of
hawkers, and of late have been extending
their activities from factories to offices and
warehouses. With the Chinese themselves
pak-a-pu has become less popular, probably
because of incessant police raids, and just
now chu’en gow is booming. This is a sort
of dominoes, played with counters, mostly
in sound-proof rooms, otherwise the clinking
would soon attract police attention. The
white following of this game and fan-tan
is mostly of the degraded type which is
always to be found hanging on to the fringes
of Chinatown, but owing to repeated be-
trayals to the police those who run the
different schools are becoming extremely
careful as to whom they admit.
* * * *
“Grafter”: A landmark that is unex-
pectedly vanishing is the great Nobelius nur-
sery at Emerald (Vic.). An enterprising
Swede evolved the thing, first bringing his
enormous muscle and patience to bear on it
over 40 years ago. The place now covers
hundreds of neat acres, and has a railway
siding of its own. Orders for thousands of
trees—elms, birches, oaks and others that
grow easily in those cool mountain districts
—have come from Argentine, India and
Africa. In the nursery’s most thriving days
the old man used to offer £5 for a weed
found anywhere on his holding. During the
war the lack of transport made it impossible
to fill overseas orders, but there was a re-
covery later, and the experiment of a flax-
mill was added. Financial considerations, how-
ever, have caused the whole place to be sold
to a syndicate, which keeps on only enough
men to tie up the remaining plants into par-
cels as orders come in. When the last has
been sold, the nursery will be cut up into
villa sites purchasable on Gme-paym'mt.
* * * #
“Leamington”: Apparently the last will
shortly be seen of the Victoria Barracks,
Paddington (N.S.W.) ; the Federal and
State Governments have come to an agree-
ment whereby a depth of 120 feet on the
Oxford-street frontage will be sold, and the
surveyor’s pegs are glimmering on the his-
toric parade-ground. For years there have
been intermittent agitations against the mili-
tary occupation of an area eminently suit-
able for residential sites; but most of the
“monster meetings of protest,” have been at-
tended only by councillors and Bungs. Natu-
rally the local aldermen, with no revenue
coming in from these 30 acres, have advo-
cated the cutting up of the land for working
men’s homes; but the price which the land
is likely to bring will prevent genuine wage-
earners from benefiting. It is practically
certain that the new military headquarters
for N. S. Wales will be at Liverpool,
although a reconnaisance has been made at
North Strathfield and the Long Bay rifle
range is faintly mentioned. The present offi-
cers’ quarters—built on one of the finest
sites south of the harbor —are hardly likely
to be replaced at Liverpool.
* * * •
“Jaembi”: As one of the previously musi-
cally-starved thousands who are obtaining
an enormous amount of pleasure from cheap
wireless sets, ranging in cost from £2 to £5,
I disagree with “S.W.H.’s” opinion (B.
12/2/’25) that the difference between the
wave lengths of the two Sydney stations
should be drastically reduced. It would en-
tail the scrapping of existing crystal sets —
the type used by the majority of listeners-in
—and people would be slow to purchase new
sets, dreading further change. “S.W.H.”
may be correct in his statement that anyone
can build a set to deal with interference, but
the majority are after the programmes only
and_ lack the time or inclination to delve into
radio technicalities. Let experimenters build
all the sets they please, but their attempts to
raise “WXYZ Shikkago.” though interesting
technically, seem certain to injure rather
than improve the entertainment at pre-
sent available to Sydney listeners-in, which,
spite of criticism, is extraordinarily good.
That such programmes can at present be
effectively received on the simplest of sets is
the best possible reason why well should be
left alone for the present, especially as radio
technique is at a transitional stage.


Just 30 Seconds ’—from
open car freedom to closed car protection
»
m
r- '
m
t • ■
V -
>* v,.
—yet without the added weight or cost of
a closed car — this is the new
Studebaker Duplexl
THANKS to the genius of Studebaker engi-
neers, the open-closed car problem has been
definitely solved!
Now, in the new Studebaker Duplex you can have
the advantages of both the open and the closed
car —at the price of an open car!
In fact, the Studebaker Duplex is an open-closed
car in one—an entirely new type of automobile!
There is no other car like it on the market. Only
Studebaker can supply it, for Studebaker alone
builds the Duplex.
Instant Protection
When the weather is favourable, the Studebaker
Duplex owner enjoys open car airiness and free-
dom. Then, no matter how sudden the storm, the
protection and comfort of an enclosed car can be
obtained instantly —by simply lowering the roller
enclosures at the sides. It is done in 30 seconds
without leaving the car.
After the storm is over, open car freedom is
quickly restored by a touch of the hand to the
roller enclosures, which roll out of sight into the
steel framed upper structure.
And the Duplex body is but one of the many
attractive features of the new Studebaker cars!
Body lines are new and distinctive. Beauty is
emphasized by , the nickel - plated radiator, full-
sized balloon tyres and broad, deeply crowned
mudguards, which were especially designed for
balloon tyres.
Fine ‘Performance
The famous Studebaker six-cylinder engines—built
integral with the clutch and gear box—are more
powerful, smoother, quieter and more flexible.
The three new Studebaker chasses have deeper,
stiffer frames, larger bearings and wrist pins so
as to ensure the utmost in durability. Studebaker
operating costs are low, due to the combination of
high quality materials, careful workmanship and
advanced design.
Automatic windscreen cleaner; one-piece wind-
screen with glare-proof visor; foot-operated cowl
ventilator; ball-type accelerator; gear box lock;
combination stop-and-tail light; and an improved
tyre carrier with lock —these items form but a
partial list of the standard equipment features of
all Studebaker cars.
See the New Studebakers!
Before you buy any car, see the new Studebaker
models. Studebaker dealers will be pleased to
show you the exclusive Studebaker Duplex body
and to explain every feature of the new cars.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Indiana, U. S. A.
Australian Prices of Studebaher Motoy Cars
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
113-in. W.B. 50 H.P.
5-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood £430
5-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood 480
5-pass. Duplex-Phaeton, Imported
Body 490
3-pass. Roadster Australian Body,
Folding Hood 420
3-pass. Roadster Imported Body,
Folding Hood 455
3-pass. Duplex Roadster 405
3- Coupe Roadster 570
5-pass. Coupe 590
5-pass. Sedan 625
5-pass. Berline 650
4- Hydraulic Brakes, 4 Disc Wheels,
£l5 extra.
SPECIAL SIX MODELS.
12 (Km. W.B. 65 11. P.
5-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood £535
7-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood 550
5-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood . s 580
5-pass. Duplex-Phaeton, Imp. Body 595
3-pass. Roadster, Australian Body 515
3-pass. Roadster, Imported Body 535
3-pass. Duplex-Roadster, Imp. Body 545
4- Victoria 735
5- Sedan 765
5-pass. Berline 785
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
BIG SIX MODELS.
127ira. W.B. 75 H.P.
7-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood £685
7-pass. Duplex Phaeton 705
5-pass. Coupe 895
7-pass. Sedan 935
7-pass. Berline 960
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
Studebaker open models can also be
furnished with folding tops in place of
the Duplex body and top.
features-
Duplex body —an exclusive
Studebaker feature. *
Genuine balloon tyres with
steering gear and springs especi-
ally designed for their use.
Force-feed oiling system, ensur-
ing perfect motor lubrication
under all conditions. Crankcase
oil circulates three times during
every mile of travel.
Crankshaft machined on all sur-
faces to give perfect engine bal-
ance. Vibration is practically
eliminated.
Larger two wheel brakes; with
Studebaker four-wheel hydraulic
brakes optional at slight addi-
tional cost. More powerful emer-
gency brake, operated from the
instrument board.
Automatic spark control.
Lights controlled by a lever on
the steering wheel.
Instruments grouped on silver-
faced panel, under glass, include:
8-day clock, petrol gauge, speed-
ometer, ammeter and oil pressure
gauge.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth St., Sydney TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY. (Q’land) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
8604
STUD EBAKER Duple*
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73 YEARS


When your liver
is sluggish, and
your bowels con-
stipated, appetite
variable, you
need a course
of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. Their ef-
fect on stomach,
liver and bowels
is just marvellous.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
The “MOR”
Extension. Suit and
Attache Case
The “MOR” will always
Take More.
TO the many hundreds of folk who
have tried to cram more articles
into a suit or Attache Case than was
intended, the “Mor” offers a happy
solution to this vexed question.
By merely operating the hinges at the
back (simple enough to be operated by
a child) you are enabled to take 40
per cent, more articles without the case
losing its perfect shape.
Stocked by all leading Stores, or obtain-
able from Manufacturers.
Write for descriptive Folder to Dept. “D.’ >
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Buildings,
Martin Bane, SYDNEY.
CASH'S
WOVEN
NAMES
fouyk; amitru
L
.% t , xn %TT|{^-,-■ / 7/ -
To Mark Linen
Knsures you Protection and Individuality.
Your Woven Name, Neat, Clear and Dur-
able can be used on any Garment or Article
iiYmmii.tniimmiJiummnniiinmnmimm^iiii||
| D S. Evans I
Actual Size, Style No. 9
"A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
Prices; 12dz. 7/6; 6dz. 5/-; 3dz. 3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers
Write ior Style Book to
J. & J. Cash [td.‘
85 Cubitt Street,
Richmond, Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia' and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S. Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
(
®j®
ats
4 Plates
r 'Manufacturec(_ by°
CLIFFORD LOVE £> CO LTD
SYDNEY
SCHOOL SAVINGS BANK
The Government Savings Bank has taken over
from the Education Department the accounts
of depositors in the School Savings Bank.
NEW ACCOUNTS
Opened for any pupil who can sign his name.
DEPOSITS
Accepted at the Schools only, from Id. upwards.
INTEREST
Paid at 4 per cent, on every £ up to the usual limit.
Encourage the children to save by this simple method.
1/- deposited weekly will in five years amount to £l4/4/7.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ide at 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
motor-trips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
m
wm
&
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.lv. and
Continent b y
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£I3S.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000-ton Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOUTMAN.
Eull particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO.. 171 William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. DAEGETY & CO., Brisbane.
There are in Melbourne nearly 100 cars
which run on ordinary alcohol, instead of
petrol. Several of them belong to the Fed-
eral Government. The alcohol is manufac-
tured in Queensland, from molasses. Only
trifling alterations to the engines are needed
to fit them for the change of fuel; and since
alcohol can be combusted without leaving
a carbon deposit, the wear and tear on the
engine is alleged to be less. But the indus-
try is handicapped by insane excise duties.
“Nikko” : What is the record gap between
grandfather and grandson? Queen Victoria
was once astounded to learn that a youthful
earl was just 129 years younger than his
grandfather, the grandfather having remained
a bachelor until 60, and the boy, the son of a
second marriage, being born when his father
was 69. The young Marquis of Donegal is
somewhere around SO years younger than his
father, being the son of a third or fourth wife,
so he should have a good chance of breaking
the record.
“Waimarino”: Isn’t it time to call a halt
to the “first white child born in the country”
claim? The other day it was advanced on
behalf of a lady who died in N. S. Wales
at the age of 85 that she was the first white
child born in Maoriland. (Actually she was
born at sea, but within the three-mile limit.)
Yet at the time of her birth, in 1840, there
were a couple of thousand white people in
the country, including a number of women.
Missionaries had been settled there per-
manently for 26 years, and other sorts of
white settlers had been knocking around for
longer than that. To claim that a child born
in 1840 was Maoriland’s first white infant
is therefore absurd.
Following on the case of a Victorian
worker who was stigmatised in an official
union circular as “a hound” because he stuck
to his work and earned too much money,
The Bulletin hears of two Lithgow
I'N.S.W.) miners who have been filling their
skips (miners are paid by weight of coal
mined). After being warned they were fined
by their lodge, but persisted in their nefari-
ous practice. So the only thing left for the
union to do was to strike. This has been
done, and the situation stays at that. Some
of these days, if this sort of madness goes
on, the union of locomotive firemen will dis-
cipline any member who refuses to drop all
Strathfield passengers at Summer Hill.
“Sixenate”: A wife 32 years older than
the petitioning husband was a circumstance
that lent flavor to a recent Melbourne
divorce suit. The young man was only 19
when he entered the matrimonial state.
Returning from the war he had become
attached to a girl who developed a habit of
quarrelling in advance about their future
domestic life; wherefore, when her mother
suggested that he would do better to marry
“a sensible woman like meself,” he trans-
ferred his affections, the lady’s daughter
apparently giving her blessing. The domes-
tic happiness lasted for only five years, and
the ground for divorce was the wife’s deser-
tion. That gave the quaintest turn to the
affair—it is usually the young husband’s
misbehavior that is the disrupting influence.
“Sixenate”: The water-waggon pays a
good dividend sometimes. A man appealed
to the Law in Melbourne to compel the
honoring of a contract he had entered into
with his deceased father. Evidence was pro-
duced to show that Dad wrote to his wander-
ing boy, then in W.A., saying that if he
signed the pledge, and kept it for three
years, he would give or leave him £lOOO. The
son thereupon signed the document with due
form and solemnity before the Bishop of
Kalgoorlic. Subsequently Dad appears to
have forgotten the promise. Anyway, he
married again, although nearly 80 years
old, and when he died his money went to
his widow. But the Court decreed that the
money promised must be paid. Possibly it
reckoned that £lOOO was little enough com-
pensation for a man who had gone without
beer for three years in Kalgoorlie.
“Quero” : Yes, rescuing the damsel in dis-
tress is not always a job to be undertaken
precipitately. I was meandering on our jetty
when a young woman fell off the end of it.
She did not seem, to be much of a swim-
mer, and as there were only two men on the
scene, I felt it my duty to go after her. The
other man did likewise, but as he could not do
much more than dog-paddle I left him far
behind, and seizing the girl made for some
near rocks. I was almost certain she tried
to get away from me in the water, but putting
it down to panic I kept a firm grip. But
there was no doubt about the energv with
which she spoke when I landed her. “Fool!”
said the ingrate, “what did you want to butt
in for?” George, puffing like a grampus, now
appeared, and taking chai’ge of the lady
towed her ashore. I never learned the facts,
but concluded that George was a candidate
for the lady’s hand, and was not in high
favor with the family. I only know the
damage to my clothes ran into £3.
“Hamer” : The voice of the home town is
calling throughout Victoria —so insistently
that it sometimes gets into the Agony
columns of the Melbourne dailies. The occa-
sion is, as a rule, the jubilee of municipal
government, and I never realised how ex-
hilarating the celebrations can be made until
I received a circular from the Mudville com-
mittee inviting me (though not born at Mud-
ville —my home town is Sloshby) to join
the jollification. The programme covers eight
days. The first of them is to be occupied in
meeting the special trains (holiday fares
from all stations) and escorting the visitors
to hotels and boarding-houses. On the second
day the queen competition closes, and at
night there is the excitement of a picture-
show ; the next day, being Sunday, is de-
voted to “Back to Church” services and a
sacred concert at night in the park. By this
time the visitors are expected to have got
their breath back, and the decks will be
cleared for an official welcome (a trifle late
in the day, some might say) and an imposing
pilgrimage to the mineral springs which are
the town’s best claim to distinction. It is
in this hectic fashion that the eight days
are passed, with occasional mornings and
afternoons catalogued as “free”; although
there is a dark hint in the programme that
the “Come Backs” are expected to contribute
to the hat that will be circulated occasion-
ally. These trips to the old town must be
a terrible ordeal to any man who has become
used to a quiet city life.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET
Tons.
•OBAMA 20,500
•OBONSAY .. 20.500
•OTRANTO .. 20.500
•ORMONDE .. 11,853
Tons.
ORMUZ 14,588
ORYIETO ... 12.133
OSTERLEY .. 12.129
ORSOVA 12,030
10,000 tons.
Class only.
OBCADES
•First and Third
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
3 0,000 Tons 37 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981
(3 lines).
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE.via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
FARE £3/10/-, First-class Steamer and Rail;
£3/3/10, First-class Steamer and Second-class Rail.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD,
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking. Public Companies, Acc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chie! Inspector jor N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (2G4 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,98$
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Ne\v Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also.. Fremantle., W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 750,000
£1,625,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProWdentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Polices in' uVei* .. .. •• £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7.865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
B- W. APPERLY. F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping. Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 tons disp. MAR. 12 for Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. MAR. 26 „ San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ APRIL 9 „ A T ancouver.
MAKURA 13,500 „ „ APRIL 23 „ San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTEHCHANGEAISLE FOR KETUKN
BY OTHER I,INES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
(.William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Ik to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUIINS. PUT Id 1 & CO., LTD,,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
mm
J
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
‘MmIM
m
m
lV •
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA. CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, bj' the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR T.TNF.S.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World,
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - ----- 3,500,000 0 0
£9,700,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.:
Sir WILLIAM VICARS. C.B.E.
General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth and North-West
Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
*Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
l'itzroy Estates, Etd.
IJlacklieatU Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ham Line. Huddart, Parker,
ltd London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown.
AVIATION
BY
AIR
Adelaide-
S'ydney,
via Riverina.
PARCELS
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Aust. Aerial Service*, Ltd.


ELEKTROMEKANO PRODUCTS
ALTERNATORS—TRANSFORMERS
MOTORS—STARTERS
'NCy.
ELEKTROMEKANO MOTORS
are the product of long experience
in the making of alternating
motors for industrial use.
They are mechanically rugged and
electrically sound, to stand the
trying usage of factory or other
application.
The Elektromekano Motor is
designed to carry considerable
overload for a prolonged period
without injurious heating.
The insulation is specially de-
signed for tropical climates.
Elektromekano products are
made in conformity with the
latest specifications adopted by
the British Engineering Stan-
dards Committee.
lljlllggg
liiwig'Vi
S 3
\ So
ELEKTROMEKANO MOTORS
are self-cooling, having a fan at
the pulley end of the rotor which
draws a continuous draught of
cooling air through the interior of
the machine. The same mechani-
cal features are embodied in both
squirrel-cage and slip-ring
machines.
Slip-ring motors are supplied with
or without enclosures for the slip-
ring. Standard pulleys and slide
rails are provided with all
machines, while with slip-ring
motors an efficient and rugged air-
cooled starter is provided.
a
J
ELEKTROMEKANO
TRANSFORMERS
The same excellent mechanism
characterises Elektromekano
Transformers. Supplied in rat-
ings from stock 20 and 30
K.V.A. 6600/400. We quote
up to 10,000 K.V.A.
We supply Elektromekano A.C.
Motors from % to 50 h.p. from
stock, and quote up to 700 h.p.
at advantageous rates. Those re-
quiring power for specific pur-
poses should avail themselves
of a quotation.
lllliWlUH
SLIP-RING TYPE.
Write or call to either Sydney or Melbourne House.
SQUIRREL-CAGE TYPE.
JOHN DANKS 6, SON P^U?
524-330 PITT ST. SYDNEY 391-403 BOUR.KE ST. MELBOURNE
QUICK-REVOLUTION STEAM ENGINES
AND
AIR COMPRESSORS.
HR
'
Q.R. Steam Engines of simple, compound or triple
types, with forced lubrication.
Suitable for direct connection to Generators,
Centrifugal Pumps, Fans, etc., and for belt or
rope drive.
High Economy and Reliability Guaranteed.
Q.R. Air Compressors, designed
for direct steam or motor drive.
Forced lubrication throughout.
Robust design and construction
resulting in reliability of opera-
tion and long life.
Highest Guarantees Given.
THOMPSON 8 CO. (CASTLEMAINE) PTY., LTD.
ENGINEERS,
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
CASTLEMAINE,
BRISBANE:
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
VICTORIA,
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd,
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.


Mothers! Protect Your
Little
Miss
MAUD
ALDERSEA
(from a
photo).
gm
Home with
REXONA-The
Rapid Healer.
“I consider Rexona the best ointment
there is. My little girl, aged 8 years,
l was so badly burnt about the body,
I arm and legs we thought she would not
I live. For three months she was helpless,
I and had to be fed and lifted from bed
■ to bed. Rut I kept on with Rexona, and
now she runs to school as well as her
sister, and can use her arm although the
scars are terrible. She is not a cripple,
and it is due to Rexona. I will always
look on Rexona as I a life-saving oint-
ment. . *
“(Sgd.) Mrs. A. ALDERSEA,
“Neerim East,
“Victoria.”
REXONA, A MEDICINE-
CHEST IN ITSELF.
Mother is the home, doctor. Every day she is
confronted with some kind of little hospital work-
either a cut linger, a rash, bruise or burn, She
must be prepared by having something handy that
she knows she can rely on, and for that reason
she should always have Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Rexona is a complete first-aid cabinet m itself..
It cleanses and heals, and quickly gives reliet
from aches and pains. See that you get the
genuine Rexona, the Rapid Healer, in the triangu-
lar Box.
REXONA"
The Rapid
Healer.
Cooling
joolhing
Healing '
liseplic Oinimenl
3
flnlisepl
rifies
Absolutely
Reliable
Heals
x
m
[SB
m
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions . ™
and Irritations of the Skin, Eczema. Sores GjJs.
Burns. Bruises, sores. Sciatica, Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DF.P- SHELDON DRUG C° L T PSYDNEY.
m
*
0
§
...
a
rniK
162466 Pm ST
kCs.G'eo,* KingS
SYDNEY.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
&L4*eSt HiliieA
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
The Key.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL my life , . ~ , .
I have been searching and hoped to
find .
I know not what. True, the hedge
bottoms gave
Me violets in days long gone to bind
With ivy in my hair, and every wave
On childhood’s shore brought treasure to my
hands, , . ,
Winnowing hot and eager through the sands.
The old trees , . , ..
Know that I look for something, and they
hold .
Their arms wide open. Quiet and wise
and strong,
They tell me stories and in peace enfold
My heart awhile. The wild bird's thrilling
song .
Is rapture; and long sighings m the grass
(’all to my soul when wind-made shadows
pass.
I see
The tracery on leaves—a message w T nt
In fire beside the track when day is o er —
And hear night cry, when all the stars are
lit, ,
Scattered and grouped about Heaven s
dusky floor,
Echoes of time—the sounds from distant
lands,
Voices beloved—and feel lost baby hands.
All these
Have something secret that eludes me still.
Something I cannot grasp escapes my eyes
And all my senses. My impatient will,
Bound to its rock, strains at the cord and
tries
To see, to know, to hold—perhaps the key
Of life and death and all eternity!
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
My Hospitable Friend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the days when I was a knight of for-
tune there was a club so extensive and
palatial, and with such a vast member-
ship, that anyone possessing the requisite
effrontery could safely enter its doors and
enjoy some of its comforts with little fear
of inquiry or suspicion. No need for me
to tell that I possessed the nerve for this.
I had indeed on various occasions taken
advantage of this chance and sheltered in
the institution during inclement weather*, or
when weary or disposed to seek mental re-
freshment from the library shelves.
My stock-in-trade, I must say, was not
good, as my frock-coat was long past its best,
'my top-hat looked decent only with very
careful brushing, and my boots, though bril-
liantly polished, left me in the position of
literally walking on my socks.
However, with my monocle screwed tightly
in my eye, and swinging my stick in jaunty
assurance, I passed in under the stone por-
tico, and, strolling through the hall, was
about to make for the staircase, when a
portly, middle-aged gentleman appeared from
one of the side rooms. Catching sight of
me his face lit up with a joyous smile of
recognition, and he bore down on me and
grasped my hand.
“My dear old chap !” he exclaimed. How
glad I am to see you.”
For a moment I was at a loss. I remem-
bered seeing him at the club, generally read-
ing or sometimes dozing, with his fat hands
locked over his chest. Fie looked a person
of importance—perhaps a member of the
club committee. But he had never noticed
me before; plainly he had now mistaken me
for a friend who bore a striking resemblance
to me. I resolved to take advantage of his
error, and returned his greeting warmly.
“Where on earth have you been all this
time?” he said. “You have altered. Posi-
tively, I hardly knew you.”
“You notice that, too?” I replied. Every-
body does.”
“My dear boy,” he went on beaming,
“you’re not the same man. ’Pon mv word,
but for the eyeglass I wouldn’t have recog-
nised you. But come with me. Talking is
dry work.” Taking my arm, he continued,
“Have you dined?”
Dined? Heavens! I was sick for want
of food.
“To tell you the truth.” I began, I was
just going to order something.”
“You must dine with me,” he said firmly.
“Now, no refusal. Of course, the service is
poor. But I won’t put up with that, and
the waiters know me, so I promise you that
you won’t have much to complain of.”
“I shall be happy to be in such good
hands.”
“Well, come along then.”
He led the way to the dining-room. There
were few diners there yet, as the hour was
somewhat early. Most of them wore evening-
dress ; but as my companion was in a frock
suit, as I was, that circumstance did not
worry me.
“A taste of something?” he inquired.
“Thank you, yes,” I rejoined.
“A habit of yours?”
I thought of the beer and counter-lunch
I had for my last meal, and replied, “In-
variably,”
“By the way,” he went on, “I had a dis-
pute with a man the other day—Dick Robson,
you know him —about the way your middle
name is spelt. llow do you spell it?”
My sensation was that of a man struck
in the pit of the stomach with a billiard-
cue. I was sure I wanted no dinner if this
sort of question was kept on with.
“Oh,” said I, “first say how you think
it ought to be spelt.”
“With a y, of course.”
So I had gained nothing by that move.
“That’s perfectly correct.” I replied. “I
can’t imagine anyone spelling. it any other
way.”
“You might give me one of your cards to
show* to Robson and so convince him.”
I fumbled in my breast-pocket and told him
I had left my case at home.
“Never mind. Write it down.”
The portraits of famous members on the
wall seemed to have come to life, and all
combined to mock at my confusion.
“The menu, sir?” queried the waiter, and
as my tormentor took, a glance at it I could
have fallen on that attendant’s neck and
blessed him. so heartfelt was my relief. _
“Vermouth for me,” I said quickly.
“Italian.” As the waiter hurried off my host
persisted with, “Now, would you write your
name down?”
“I haven’t a scrap of paper with me.”
“Write it on my cuff.”
“But I haven’t a pencil with me.”
“No matter,” he said genially. “I have.”
He handed a dainty silver contrivance
across the table, and I took it, staring at
the expanse of cuff before me. It seemed
to me that I was lost.
“Come,” he said almost sharply. “What
is the matter with you?”
Then an inspiration. “To tell you truth
I can’t write.”
“Can’t write?” he gasped.
“No, I’ve suffered with cramp in my hand
for some time.”
Suspicion seemed to lurk in his eyes.
“Spell it out to me then, and I'll jot it down
myself.”
This seemed to be the end of all things.
I was beaten.
“Italian vermouth, sir,” murmured the
waiter at my elbow, and the momentary dis-
traction of my companion's attention enabled
me to evolve a possible chance of escape.
“But your handwriting might not be
accepted as evidence,” I suggested.
“Perhaps not,” he pondered. “Anyhow,
you can spell it out so I can at least know
I am correct.”
Another volley of irony from the paintings
on the wall! Luckily the old gentleman was
now engaged in giving elaborate orders to
the waiter.
“Well?” he said, turning to me at last.
I rallied. “I don’t know why,” I began,
“but one always feels a fool spelling out
one’s name. Why not show your friend our
members’ list? That should convince him.”
“Never thought of that. Waiter, bring
me the members’ list, please.”
The natty little volume was handed to
him, and he began turning over the leaves.
I felt hopeful again. He would be sure to
point out the name of the man I was im-
personating, and request me to substantiate
the evidence of the list. Thus I should find
my own identity and be a point to the good.
However, he complacently remarked that he
was right of course, and then closed the book
and laid it aside.
We began to eat and drink. The dinner
was an excellent one, and as the generous
wine fired my blood I began to enjoy myself.
To hold my unknown host off personal topics
I strained every nerve and kept him en-
grossed in matters of current interest. I
plied him with anecdote and story, and he
laughed merrily. He ordered more wine and
replenished my glass frequently.
“Just film old times,” said he as we neared
the end. “We must meet more often in the
future.”
“Yes,” I returned, “and you must dine
once now and then with me.”
“As often as you like, my dear boy,” said
he in his bluff manner. “As long as you
allow me to do the ordering. These waiters
have no consideration for an ordinary mem-
ber. You wouldn't have got that undercut
if you had ordered the beef. And as to the
wine!”
“I suppose so.”
“Certainly,” he rejoined, and leaning back
in his chair he regarded me with beaming
eyes.
I considered the time had now come for
me to invent an excuse for leaving him, osten-
sibly for a little while, and once out of his
sight to flee from the club. In this, how-
ever, I was thwarted in an unexpected man-
ner. I had noticed that occasionally a page-
boy would enter the room and call out a
member’s name. Being well aware that
there was no possible chance of my being
asked for, I paid no attention to these
shoutings. But my companion was listening
attentively to the page.
“I rather expect a man to call for me
about this time,” he explained. “I don’t
want to miss him, so if you will excuse me
leaving you for a moment I’ll just step down
to the hall-porter and see if he has arrived.
Then my mind will be at rest. And you
might order some coffee while I am away.
I shan’t be long,” and he hurried off.
His departure at first caused me no mis-
giving, but I began to realise the position
was a trifle awkward as I sat alone there
under false pretences and without a penny
in my pocket. The waiter might present
the bill any moment.
The time dragged along slowly now that
the excitement of the dinner had passed, and
I wondered if I could make a dignified
escape. But a great number of diners were
surrounding the tables, and I should have
to make my way among a maze of chairs
and countless hurdles of legs. I had ordered
the coffee, according to instructions, and as
I sipped mine I saw by the clock that fifteen
minutes had spun their intolerable length.
The page boy who had bawled out the
names again entered the room and I beckoned
him toward me. “Will you tell my friend
that I should be much obliged if he will
rejoin me at once'.'”
“Yes, sir; what name, sir?” asked the boy.
Anticipating the query I was ready, and
said: “Never mind the name. You know
w T ho I mean. The gentleman I have been
dining with.” I looked at him squarely. Was
I to be daunted by a mere boy after surviving
all the other dangers of the evening?
“Yes, sir. And your name, sir?”
I waved my hand impatiently.
He lowered his eyes. He was looking not
at me but at my disreputable boots!
A change instantly took place in his de-
meanor. “I must have your name. sir. or
that of your friend. I don’t remember him.
But you tell me his name and I’ll get him
—if he’s a member.”
“Oh, it doesn’t matter,” I said, “since
you’re so stupid.”
He eyed me with deliberate insolence and
walked away.
What was I to do now? Another 15 min-
utes had gone by and I felt like collapsing
to the floor, for in a flash I took in the situa-
tion. This specious stranger, who had claimed
my acquaintance, was no more a member
of the club than I was! An absolute im-
(Continued on next page.)


AID THE KIDNEYS.
Do Not Endanger Life when there
is a Way to Avoid It.
Why will people continue to suffer the agonies of
kidney complaint, backache, urinary disorders, lameness,
headaches, languor? Why allow themselves to become
chronic invalids when a tested remedy is offered them?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have been used in Kidney
trouble for years, and have been tested in thousands of
cases. If you have any, even one, of the symptoms of
kidney disease, act now. Serious kidney disease may
set in and make neglect dangerous. Sydney testimony is
given here:—
II I
-
S^mTi
m
a
“Every Picture
Tells a Story ”
*0
r
i
1 j iWm
m
A MAN’S CASE.
„ Mr. W illiam Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 749 Harris
►street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect
in the small of mtf back. For three solid months I was unable
to work, and was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the Joins and kidneys, and my secretions became
unnatural and irregular. I consulted a doctor, who recom-
mended lurkish bjiths; but, though 3 got a little ease, I could
not work. I used Doan’s Backache .Kidney Pills, and obtained
wonderful relief; in fact, so much so that I can now do heavy
work. I am full]/ convinced that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are a true Ki dney remedy, and H never fail to recommend
them among my friends.”
Twenty years; later Mr. Carroll says“l am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and by taking them now and again I keep
in splendid health.'”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. M. Whitbread, sen., “Amherst,” Napoleon Street,
Mascot, Sydney, says:—“For years I suffered terribly from
backache and kidney trouble, and was at times so ill that I had
to lie up for days. My back ached terribly, and I was almost
crippled with the ailment, every movement making the pain
worse. My ankles and legs swelled considerably, and I knew
this was a sign of dropsy. I also had trouble with the secre-
tions, was subject to dizziness, and felt tired and languid. I
was really far from well, and having seen Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills advertised at different times, it at last occurred to
me to try this remedy. I got some, and it proved a blessing,
giving quick relief, and gradually effected a perfect cure. I feel
splendid now, and have only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to
thank for my wonderful recovery.”
Two years later Mrs. Whitbread says:—“My cure has
proved a permanent one, no sign of kidney trouble having
returned since Doan’s Pills cured me over two years ago.”
DOAN’S
Backache
.Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney,
postor, his authoritative air, stately appear-
ance and suave manner had been used as a
superb bluff! He must have seen through
me from the start. He had played on my
fears and taken a malicious pleasure in
fooling me. I saw it clearly now. When
he left the room he had gone straight down-
stairs and, taking his hat and coat (or
somebody else’s), was a mile away by this.
And I was left to face the result.
A prey to unutterable feelings I sat there,
and my hand trembled that much that I was
afraid to lift the cup to my lips, although
my throat felt like an oven. Now that I
was alone I saw that I was the only man
in the room not in evening dress, and my old
frock coat under the light seemed to be all
faded stitches, stains and worn braid; it
shouted aloud my poverty and my fraud.
I could endure the terrible inaction no
longer. I must move. I rose and walked
towards the door. I reached it and, passing
through, was beginning to congratulate my-
self, when 1 heard a hasty step behind me,
•and a hand touched me on the shoulder.
I turned and, as I expected, saw the
waiter. Too much occupied with my private
tremors to have observed him before, he had
now become a hi”- figure in the drama He
was a short' stout iSan with black curlv
hair, and a clean-shaveh face His’
humorous mouth and twinkling eyes would
have made the, fortune of a low comedian I
somehow felt a little heartened by liis expres-
sion.
“VYeIP” I said sharplv
He appraised ’me in one rapid, compre-
hensive glance 1 1
“The bill sir.”
wasTlhling'witrmy °Mend.” exclaimed - 1
“Yes, sir.” He was evidently fascinated
by my boots. Somehow 1 could not resist
looking down at my feet, and there was a
little patch of sock showing ati one toe.
“But where is your friend. What’s his
name?”
(And now he was examining my collar
with an intensity which was painful.)
“I don’t know his name. We engaged in
conversation and he very politely”—l finished
the remark with a shrug of the shoulders.
“Ah ! And where did you say the gentle-
man was now?”—with a critical glance at
my shirt-cuffs.
“Somewhere in the building, I presume.
I will go and look for him.”
“But perhaps, sir,” insisted the official,
“you would pay first—in your friend’s
absence. The amount is”——
What it was I remember nothing of now.
All I know is he looked at my pocket,
where by the irony of fate a little patch of
threadbare cloth appeared as if worn by
the friction of money.
He repeated the request drily.
“It is not done,” I said. “My friend
would be extremely annoyed.”
“Perhaps so. Er—what would you think
of doing?”
“Well,” said I, slowly, “I don’t want to
get you into any trouble, you know.”
“Thank you, sir,” he murmured.
“And so,” I continued, “I will call in and
settle up to-morrow in the event of my
friend failing to do so.”
“But, sir,” with an irritating grin, “sup-
pose I don't let you go?”
“Don’t be insolent,” I said. “You forget
you are a servant of the members of this
club, and”
“Are you a member?” he interrupted.
“What do you mean?” I countered.
“If you are not a member”— he continued.
“I am not. But my friend”
“Is in the same position.”
“Probably,” I agreed at once. “But what
are you going to do about all this even if he
isn’t? I didn’t order the dinner. The other
man did that. If he isn’t a member of the
club you ought not to have served him. I
can see the club’s license being endorsed
over this. You have served intoxicating
liquor to a non-member.”
"Please speak a little lower,” said the
waiter.
I thought I saw an opening. “If this is
reported to the secretary, what will happen?
The dinner is eaten, the wine drunk and I
have no money. I cannot pay even if it was
legal for me to do so. You might give me
into custody, but the magistrate who hears
the case might make comments on the way
the club is managed. Members reading the
case in the papers will probably speak to
the secretary, who will promptly shift the
blame on to the head waiter. He will waste
no time in making you the scapegoat, and
you have no one to fall back on. And I sup-
pose your job is worth keeping?”
“You have forgotten that we may dis-
pense with the giving in charge and merely
throw you out the door.”
“Even in that case I could make it un-
pleasant for you by creating a disturbance
and on”
“We have a fire-hose in the hall that might
come into play.”
“Judging from your expression,” I ven-
tured, with a touch of pathos, “I would
not have thought you were a vindictive man.”
His grinning face altered.
“I suppose you were hungry?” he asked.
“You could not have made a supposition
more exact.”
“Ah,” said he; “just wait a minute.”
He walked away quickly and I subsided
into the nearest chair. The next few minutes
were anxious ones, as I was in dread of a
violent expulsion or being given in charge
of the police. Instead, to my surprise, I
saw the waiter moving towards me again
carrying a tray and cigars. Standing before
me he lowered it to the level of my eyes and
met my astonished look with a smile.
“Take the cigar,” he said. “You’ve won
it.”
“Eh?” I stammered.
He stopped further inquiry with a laugh.
“Did you notice me attending on you two
at the table?”
“Certainly,” I replied.
“Oh, you finished liar.”
I got up.
“Don’t worry,” he went on. “The fact
is I didn’t serve you at all. I am not a
waiter. I’m Arthur Carberry, from the Rivoli
Theatre. I saw you and your friend come
in. I spotted the game. The waiters were
not going to serve you at first, but I promised
to see the thing through. So they let you
go on. I watched you and saw the old man
get away. I noticed your misgivings as the
time went on. I saw you wriggling with
apprehension and your effort to bolt. Then
1 decided to take a hand. Oh, your face—
I’ve been studying it ever since.”
“But”—l began.
“Oh. it’ll make a great turn. No, don’t
apologise—you’re worth the money. Let
me offer you a match.”
He insisted on lighting the cigar himself.
A. P.
The Flame.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE oxy-acetylene burner applied to the
foreman for his next job. He was
instructed to cut up the cobbles piled
in an ugly grey heap between the rail-rollers
and the hot-saw. He signalled to the crane-
driver, who lifted the acetylene-tank and the
oxygen-bottles across to the pile.
The rails were rolled from red-hot blooms.
As they left the rollers they ran along nar-
row shoots to the hot-saw, which cut them
to length. Occasionally the end of a rail
would catch on a projecting bolt or flange.
Nothing could stop the rollers, and so the
soft, glowing steel would twist and writhe
like a great red snake. This made such
rails useless. They were called cobbles,
and the crane would rattle down and carry
them to the heap. The cobble pile had been
growing. It w r as. now necessary to cut them
up into six-foot lengths, and to truck the
pieces back to the steel furnace, where they
would be remelted.
The burner’s mate turned on the oxygen
and the acetylene. The burner held the end
of the brass-cutter near a piece of smoulder-
ing rope. With a snap the cutter lit. The
flame was faint blue, a deadly blue.. It
hissed as the compressed gases spurted
through the nozzle. The burner’s mate
casually marked off the lengths with a piece
of chalk, while the burner adjusted his.
goggles and squatted down to cut the cobbles.
The flame snarled as it struck the metal.
In a few seconds it began to bite into the
steel. The white slag dripped off in dazzling
globules and collected on the ground in a
shining heap. A thousand yellow sparks flew
up and were lost. The flame hissed on, eat-
ing the tough steel as the burner moved the
cutter along the chalk line. In a short time
he reached the end of the mark. The severed
piece of steel fell to the ground. The burner
went on to the next mark, dragging the hose
after him.
“Jim!” he shouted in his assistant’s ear—
it was necessary to shout because of the
noise of the mill—“I don’t think we’ve got
much oxygen left. Go down to the store and
see if you can get another bottle, will you?’’
“Righto,” wearily replied the burner’s
mate, and wandered off.
The burner had been cutting somewhere
about the middle of the heap for some time.
He was engaged in bisecting a big 30ft.
cobble. As it had cooled, a large number of
unknown stresses were set up in the steel,
and he did not know just how it would break.
He was very careful when he reached the
last two inches. With a bound one of the
severed portions swung in his direction. It
struck him on the side, knocking him down
on the heap. The heavy rail fell with a
clang, dislodging some of the others. The
burner felt his feet slip, and he fell down
between the cobbles. He received a crush-
ing blow on the leg, and a rail slipped
across his chest, pinning him so that he could
not move. Ilis head was pressed hard
against a distorted rail.
The pain was frightful. He tried to free
himself, but he could not move. No one had
seen the accident —his mate was away, and
the men on the rollers and hot-saw were in
their control boxes. If only the crane had
come along! The burner shouted, but the
mill noise drowned his cries. He could
hardly shout, anyway, as his leg gave him
so much pain. Perhaps it was broken. He
could not free his arms in order to wave
them. A new pain hit his senses. A rail
was crushing his chest.
Pie felt the beam behind his head grow
warm. Then lie realised. The torch! When
lie had slipped he had let go the cutter. It
must have fallen so that it was playing on
tin 1 beam behind his head. It takes more
than a fall to extinguish an oxy-acotylene
dame. He knew it was just behind his head,
for the rail was growing hotter. Soon it
would burn through the steel and then the
deadly blue flame would eat into his head
...eat and eat...until it reached his brain.
The horror of it! He screamed frantically.
The mill roared on. He thought of the flame
biting into his brain—a blue, snarling flame.
He must whistle the crane-driver! llow
foolish of him not to have thought of that!
They always summoned him in that way.
His lips refused to whistle. They were dry
and quivering. The agony of his leg!
The rail was growing unbearably hot. He
heard the flame roaring behind. He knew
bv the sound of it that it was some small
distance from the steel, and that would re-
duce its cutting efficiency. But it was only
a matter of a minute or two. A deadly blue
flame, eating into his brain! He clenched
liis teeth and shut his eyes.
Then he heard the crane. He opened his
eyes to see the crane-driver staring at him
in surprise. The driver’s surprise changed
to horror as he saw the flame. Why didn’t
the fool do something instead of looking like
tiiat?
The driver threw his hands across to the
controls in a flash, but it seemed an eternity
to thi' frantic man. The crane-hook dropped
swiftly op its chain, and he saw it swing be-
hind his head.
The driver perceived that the torch was
held firmly in the rails. The only thing to
do was to swing the hook right against the
nozzle. That would disturb the mixture and
the flame would go out. He dropped the
hook —and missed. He dropped the hook
again just as the flame burst through the
rail, and the silver slag ran down the burn-
er’s scalp.
The burner felt the fire strike his head.
Then he heard the flame go out with a snap.
He forgot all else but the strange darkness
and the pain in his leg.
N. E. RAYMOND.


9fc
m
m
mm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
WESTINGHOUSE brake go
£Z. Offlni 1 Agents— HoL,MlSS & CHDKCH, Brisbane.
t^ 3 " 107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
***■». " °<nce~99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
use
pitumastic Paint
s
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Pecia Uy adapted for Galvanized -iron Roofs.
C l
° rs: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J ' Wild,
Iridge U Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Afield Alloy Steels for Motor Vehicles
Strong enough to withstand the hardest
conditions, and yet as light in weight as
possible, "An Eagle on a Globe” brand alloy
Stee ls are most practical for use in motor vehicle
instruction. Severe tests have proven their
durability.
ball* 16 SPECIAL NICKEL STEEL to ease harden for gears,
ah rae es, gudgeon pins, sliding shafts, countershafts, etc., and
Purposes necessitating reliable case hardening,
8 T t
2 .1 CHROME VANADIUM STEEL for axles, swivels,
heaf uufts, transmission shafts, etc. Supplied only in the
treated condition, and will not case harden.
Write for quotations.
*■ £ AGLE &, GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
*■ Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street
vAOb 343-348 Swanston Street
Uanl & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
John Reid Jc Nepaews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
■•••?• Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
•ARROW”
x'NITRO CLUB”
"NEW CLUB”
~ "REMINGTOR”
Supplied in all standard
gauges and loads
y° ne of these Remington UMC grades will give
0u e ntire satisfaction. Not only are these
j n quick-firing and hard-hitting but every
Sood „ tlle box may be depended on to give equally
re sult s .
Gauge Shotgun Cartridges
UMC makes .410 gauge cartridges in
e j v 2 “inch cases which are highly efficient and
a USed or small game and bird shooting. Try
n d you will be surprised with the results.
■All grades are “ Wetproof”
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, lac.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
8-22 G. P. o. Box 686 Melbourne.
.
■go
&
I
The Empire Medicine
—the preparation which has won the confidence of
every country under the British Flag—the remedy
which has brought health and happiness to millions
of men and women in every part of the Empire—
the treatment which is resorted to everywhere—
for ailments such as Sick Headache, Biliousness,
Indigestion and Constipation, often considered
insignificant, yet decidedly inconvenient —ailments
which have their origin in a dyspeptic condition of
the stomach and a torpid action of the liver —
is
mi
s
Hill!
%
"Hi!
,11!'
‘Mi ill'
E
ELEY KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
S MOKE LE S SOD I AM O N D
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOB
SC OTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
.WOLFF’S
M
gal
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
■7»U
KOVAL SOVEREIGN
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT
LODGi
FORD OWNERS
Do you realise that one
cylinder misfiring means
more than 25% waste of petrol,
more than 25% loss of power,
and greatly increased wear in uni-
versal joints, back axle and tyres
Avoid misfiring by fitting the
LM9BE
■KIUKIBi
PLUG for FORDS
The finest plug made for Ford engines
taper. (.Model AF3)«
Price 5/6
Packed in sealed metal
box and obtainable from
all accessory dealers,
arapes and sto-es
LODGE PLUGS LTD.. RUGBY, ENGLAND.


&
/7
\
I
c 2
$
b
The Spirit of Unity
Unity is the very music of life—
a perfect symphony of thought
and action. With unity one may
live ideals in a world of wonderful
reality. And its surest foundation
lies in the genial companionship
and unquestioned maturity of
DEWAR’S
