

Ft
L
m
& &
V.
If
V 1
s?
MS
1
It
x*
* ®B
EM
X
\
fit
\)
Vi
s>s
rr
is
v)j
*>
*
o
t
LU
Cd
111
S==flflEWED
tv
IMr Pickwick
up - to - date
addresses the Pickwick Club
" Gentlemen —with,
Australia’s Best
Reach's RB Lager
on one side, -- and
D A (Dinner Ale) oi\
the other, we please
everybody who likes
the Best.”
mi
n b
FI D
la^er
r.p>:W
A’’Jk-
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2349.
Thursday, February 19, 1925.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Library Catalogue and full terms
and particulars and lists on all subjects.
Post free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street , SYDNEY.
L.YSAGHT -
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated^lron.
Manufactured wholly from. Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Strength, Service and Durability
characterise the performance of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
in every industry. Efficient at all times it consistently
eaves power and cuts production costs with its reliable
grip on the pulleys.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUBOWICI, Managing Director,
40 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd,
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs. Bright k Co.. Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND : P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenidl
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston k Hobart.
gft
\s
%
i \
A\
V W
K
tit
\1
N\H
Ns
\V#
\\N
V
AS
Self-Filling Type
From 17/6
Standard Type
From 12/6
Suxm'cAe {ifeWmz pm.
“ Swan ** Pens are famous
throughout the world for their
reliability and lasting wear and
the 14 ct. gold nibs are the
finest it is possible to produce.
The fact that <£ Swan ” Pens
have held undisputed sway
over other makes for more
than thirty years is solely due
to the excellence of the pens
themselves.
SWAN'
FOUNTPENS
OF STATIONERS. JEWELLERS AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue post free.
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133 & 135, Oxford Street, London, W.l ;
and at Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich,
Johannesburg, Barcelona, Sydney, Well-
ington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative:
J. A. Burke, 5, Primrose Buildings,
255 a, George Street, Sydney.
Lower Prices for
THE
DECCA
PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
PRICES:
JUNIOR - - £4 10 O
No. 1, Leather Cloth 6 6 0
No. 2, Fibre 8 8 O
No. 3, Solid Leather 12 O O
All Phonograph Dealers or
SIJTTONS 290-292 Bourke St., Melbourne
Ballarat Bendigo Geelong Sydney
PTY. LTD.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE K'Hs that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast," fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
MUSTDIE.
non PQOQNOB KWDOL
1 FTies.
Fleas.
Bus*.
MOO**
» 1/-
more effectively, and wo
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, of
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.O.
Sydney. IS
The Red Page
Henry Lawson on the Track
E. J. Brady’s reference (R.P. 22/l/‘_o)
to Henry Lawson’s trip to Bourke in the
long ago is correct in the main. But we
did not hoist Matilda with the idea of pad-
ding the hoof to Brisbane. Here are the
facts. Lawson, two Swedes or Norwegians
and I were camped in a small house over the
billabong on the western side of the tAwn.
Bourke was booming at the time, and one
Heseler, a well-to-do German, had bought
half a block in its centre and built a big
brick hotel on one corner. (It was at that
time called the Great Western, but later on
the Empire.) On the other allotments he
erected five or six small cottages, and it was
on these places that Lawson and I got a
job at painting. I worked for about a fort-
night, when I was sacked —I did not spend
much at the bar of the Groat Western. I
decided then to make out to one of the shear-
ing-sheds, and Lawson, eager for the bush
and wanting a mate, made up his mind to
come with me. We crossed on the punt and
tramped down the river to Toorale station,
then owned by Sam McCaughey, afterwards
Sir Samuel, and secured a job at picking
up wool on the shearing-board. Jimmie
James (not the twin-bed man) was boss of
the board—small and dapper, with neat,
well-kept boots. It was' from him Henry
got the idea for “The Boss’s Boots” :
The shearers gaze along the board
And watch along the shoots....
After Toorale shed cut out we started to
walk to Queensland, and followed a track
that led to Goonery, the out-station of
Toorale. .(I forgot to mention that there
was a third man with us for a while. His
name doesn’t matter, as he was only with us
for a few days.) After leaving Goonery we
reached the Wanaaring-Bourke road, and
camped for a couple of days at a small way-
side pub called Gumbalie. It was there, I
think, that Lawson saw for the first time
aboriginals in a semi-wild state. That is to
say, a big camp of them together, depending
mostly on game and fish for an existence.
A few of them came to our camp, expecting,
I suppose, tucker, tobacco or drink. They
got a little of each. Before they were with
us long Lawson showed signs of excitement,
and said to me almost hysterically: “They’re
a dying race, Jim, and they know it. I
can read it in their eyes—l can read it in
their eyes. I was suckled on a black breast,
Jim.” This last remark I took with a grain
of salt, as the saying is, which was the right
way to take it, as I proved later when we
were camped with an old hawker, a Spaniard,
who had a bottle or two in mis van. After
the third or fourth round Henry began to
recite
My father was a Spaniard,
My father was a Spaniard,
in such the same tone as he had previously
mentioned the black breast.
After leaving Gumbalie, we made across
to the Ilungerford-road, which in a few miles
brought us to a Government tank. I think
it was Sutherland’s Lake, but I am not
sure of the name now. The day was warm,
the water-bag empty, and we were tired and
thirsty, so we stopped some distance back
at the tank that was filled by an oil-engine
pump, to keep the troughs supplied. Our
other mate was in the lead, and he clam-
bered up and filled a billy and handed it
down to us. We both had a long pull:’ Then
he said: “Come up and have a look.” There
was a carpet-snake about six feet dong float-
ing. dead and swollen ! Henry’s eyes flashed
as he said : “He’s a blanker of a mate. Come
on, we’ll leave him.” As we lifted our drums
to move on the man said, “Where yer goin’?
Ain’t we goin’ to camp here?” Lawson
dropped his swag hurriedly and made a step
or two towards him, and answered: “We are
going on, but you are staying here.” He
stayed, and I never saw him after. Think-
ing over the incident now I do not fancy
that he saw the snake till after we drank
the water, and, on the spur of the moment
invited us to look. Still, it may have been
his idea of humor.
Henry was at times inclined to be what
to-day would be termed “fussy.” .For in-
stance. I was in some ways a bit of
a sloven in regard to rolling* and carrying
the swag and kit. I’d use a piece of rope
or a strap to sling it over my shoulder. This
used to annoy him; it wasn’t the right way.
The towel, its ends tied to the binding
straps, should be used. Another thing was*
the billy. Mine used to bump my leg and
soil the brown moleskin trousers —washed
nearly white; it was before the day of the
dungaree. His billy had a kind of a calico
sheath pulled stocking-wise Over it when
we were on the tramp. And again we’d
argue about the water-bag. It had been a
wet season, and although at times we were
walking through water he always insisted
on keeping the bag full—“in case of acci-
dents,” he said. And be 'it said there was
wisdom in his side of the argument.
But all that was as nothing, for he was
a stalwart mate, generous and unselfish, and
ever ready and willing to take more than
his share of the hardships; and God knows
there were plenty. In those days his deaf-
ness rather served him well, as he could lie
on his bunk in a rouseabouts’ hut amidst
the clatter and rattle of the dish-washing
and the babble of the tongues of the yarn-
spinners and card-players after tea, and
write until he was sleepy. What he saw
to-day he seldom wrote of to-night, hut in six
months or a year or two years—that was his
method. It has often been written that Law-
son was a fast shearer, and remarks have
been made of the big cheques lie could, and
did, make at that work. Henry Lawson
never shore a sheep in his life. Like myself,
he w.as always a rouseabout.
We were together four or five months at
that time, wool-rolling here, picking up
there and tramping a good deal. Once we
worked on a wool-scour. And then we
landed back in Bourke, broke, where my
friends discovered me and assigned me, as
a “colonial experience,” on a very far-hack
station under a spirit-breaking dog of a
manager. It was Hell or nearly so for me.
It was then that ,Law r son met his Peter
Anderson and Co. That firm secured him
a drover’s pass, with sheen travelling by rail
to Homgbush, or was it Flemiugton?
And so we parted, not to meet again for
over a quarter of a century; and then it
was too late to do much, for we wmre both
older than our years. Although we often
planned and planned and talked of another
trip together, it never came off. Circum-
stances did not permit. After all, perhaps,
it was just as well, for I know that at least
one of us would have been very, very dis-
appointed.
JIM GRAHAME.
Of Australian Plays
“There are nine and forty ways
Of rejecting Aussie plays,
And every single one of them is right.
Yes; I’ve had some experience of play
rejection in Australia —so much that I’ve
given up the long effort. It is all a matter
of expediency. Of all forms of literature the
dramatic appeals most to me. I have had a
long experience in writing for the stage;
and my two years with J. O. Williamson as
dramatic secretary gave me the opportunity
early in life to learn the job. I had to write
for that great producer—the last of his
kind —his annual pantomimes, founded, of
course, oh the traditional pantomime scripts.
I early found out that my brilliant attempts
to..improve upon the ancient jokes gradually
disappeared in the course of the rehearsals.
The public likes the sort of stuff it has
always liked. That lesson was valuable.
In the building up of the comic opera
“Tapu,” written and composed by myself and
Alfred Hill, J.C.W. turned a prentice
attempt into a stage success. His mind was
all for spectacle; and where the literary
conflicted with action, action won every time.
That was another useful lesson. J.C.W. took
my poor script, but he saw something in it,
and did not hesitate to produce it and make
good money out of it.
Though I cannot exhibit rich results of
that training several of my plays have been
produced by repertory companies, and I had
one real production on a London stage, “Mrs.
Pretty and the Premier.” It paid me well..
Yet, though that was all in my case, I think
that, as ultimately Australia must make her
own stage plays, the method of J.C.W. should
prove invaluable to Australian producers.
Let the firms that now depend solely upon
importations pick out a young man who
shows some facility in dramatic work, and
train him in the game. It would be worth
while, both for the young man and for the
firm. And it would cost very little. My
engagement for two years with J.C.W. pro-
vided merely a salary. I had no royaltieflin
“Tapu,” nor did I seek them. I had the
largest salary in the woi;ld then. I had
youth, and the delights of making drama, and
the vast experience of a master of production.
That, surely, should have been enough for
any aspirant.
Once on my own, back in Australia after
three years of struggle and semi-starvation
in London, journalism absorbed me, though
I spent the whole, or almost the whole, of
my spare time in dramatic effort. I found
it easy to get an amateur production of a
quite hopeless comedy, “The Tame Cat,”
in which, owing to a defection in the cast, I
had to play a leading part myself—my first
and only effort as an actor. I was nearly
as bad an actor as I am a golfer.
The production of one’s own play, however
amateurishly produced and acted, is most
valuable experience for a play-writer. A
scene that you feel sure will “get over”
you find fails utterly; another scene
that you have worked in because it
was necessary for the plot gets there
quite unexpectedly. Comedy that you think
most amusing falls flat; and there are patches
of what you fondly thought was brilliant
talk that never get past the footlights; while
some obvious joke causes an unlooked-for
ripple through the audience. The value of
production—any sort of production—lies in
the corrective it affords the beginning drama-
tist., It instils into him certain rules that
he must never transgress; and it forbids him
any effort at the purely literary. A script
may seem to you perfect until jt faces an
audience. That is the only proving ground.
I suppose, and I sincerely hope, that I
have been the most rejected of stagerwriters
in the Commonwealth. Until the last few
years, my plays, published or in script, have
been more often rejected than those of . any
other Australian aspirant. And here comes
the most remarkable thing: no two plays of
mine have been rejected by Australian man-
agers for the same reason. I have had plays
rejected by visiting stars and by all the
resident managements; but in every case
with every play a different reason for its
return has been provided. This, no doubt,
proves that my plays have been bad in so
many ways that it is quite easy to pick upon
one of their faults as a ground for rejection.
Still, to this easy dismissal of the subject
objections arise. My latest play I built up
for Marie Tempest. She approved the plot.
I set eagerly to work. I had put into 'it
ample opportunities, I thought, for the dis-
play of her special abilities; I had written
a society play of the kind she liked that
would, I thought, admirably suit her com-
pany. She turned it down for an utterly
unexpected reason which, I need not par-
ticularise. The rest of the play pleased
her, but there was that tiny difficulty, easily
removed —if she had seriously wanted it re-
moved.
Of all the managers who have so cour-
teously rejected my plays, Bert Bailey was
the only one, I think, who really took the
trouble to point out to me the faults of my
work and suggest improvements. A comedy
that I submitted to him interested him
greatly; and he sent me a closely-typed
letter covering eight pages, in which he
took my play to pieces, and advised me to
cut out my villain and turn it into a pure
comedy. That was only one of his sugges-
tions; he went carefully through the whole
of the three acts, and was prolific in minor
suggestions. It was a. heavy task to handle,
to cut out the villain and substitute a
(Continued on page 3.)


a
Furnish for a Lifetime’s Comfort and Satisfaction
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
It would be difficult for the seeker
of value in Furniture to know
what a lifetime of service in the
home would do to the particular
piece he or she admires in the
shop, were it not for the fact that
Anthony Horderns’ sell Furniture
with nearly a century’s reputation
behind it. When one buys Furni-
ture there, one is assured of
satisfactory and enduring service
—at the lowest possible price.
H3A =A
M
><V jXAN
.'ASA
s\\?A
ssr;
iiiJ
m
:-5i
A
i
r!
jIA
THE “BEATRICE,”
THE “BEATRICE”
BEDROOM SUITE,
made by Anthony Horderns’ in their
own Cabinet Works—that guarantees
its excellence.
In every detail of material, in every
detail of workmanship, is embodied the
quality that means a lifetime’s service.
price. .. .£42/ 10|-
THE "BEATRICE” BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked
figured Queensland Maple, fumed a rich brown and lined with
Pacific Maple, includes a 5 ft. 6in. Wardrobe, 21 inches deep,
which enables coat-hangers to hang easily when door is shut
two-thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves, four slid-
ing trays for hats and shoes, with 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22
inches deep with wide mirror; two small drawers and two long
drawers; 2 ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard. /> ijQ/1 I
price ■dLrT&j I U/ 8 *
THE “BERNIE” BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked figured
Queensland Maple, fumed a dark brown, and lined with Pacific
Maple, comprising: sft. 6in. Wardrobe, 21 inches deep, which
enables coat-hangers to hang easily when door is shut—two-
thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves and four sliding
trays for hats and shoes; sft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22 inches
deep, with wide mirror, two small drawers and three long
drawers; 2ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard.
PRICE
£45
THE “BERNIE”
BEDROOM SUITE.
There is value in every Suite you
purchase at The House of Economy.
Materials are carefully selected, and
still more carefully made up in Anthony
Horderns* own Cabinet
PRICE
£45
/
y. V v/, '
k:
M
!
THE “BERNIE ”
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


NO
m
&
{
- 3
•«>
5 *
' «)'
.'«i
Smoothness beyond Comparison
with the new Lanchester Balancer
AN amazing new invention now gives Willys-Knight a POSITIVE
FREEDOM FROM VIBRATION that is so common in motor-cars.
The New Lanchester Harmonic Balancer—invented by Dr. F. W.
Lanchester, F.R.S., builder of one of the most expensive cars in the
world—is now standard equipment on the New Willys-Knight.
By securing the American rights for the new Lanchester Balancer, Willys-
Knight brings to owners an entirely new conception of enjoyable motor-
ing. Smoothness Beyond Comparison. A new thrill of Vibrationless
motion. Smooth performance—the nearest approach to gliding through
space yet attained in a motor-car.
This new smoothness adds further laurels to a car already famous for
the matchless performance of its sleeve-valve engine. The only type
of engine in the world that actually improves with use. Never needs
valve-grinding. Never needs carbon-cleaning. Owners report 50,000
miles and more without engine adjustment or expense.
All Willys-Knights are now equipped with Balloon Tyres.
Try it to-day. Realise what it means to ride in a car That Ha*
Absolutely no Period of Vibration at any Speed.
Any of the following distributors will arrange a demonstration:—
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street
Perth, W.A.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Neals Motors Pty., Ltd.,
W illy s-Overland Division,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Overland Sydney, Ltd.,
147-49 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. Heathom & Co., Ltd.
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.
&
l
mu
itm
!E
lYf*
Tftf
V/
The DAY of the KSMIGHT is here —for good —your good


ffoltzjoroof ffasJerc?
Style No. 2200.
THE LOVELIEST OF ALL FULL-FASHIONED HOSE
THE BETTER-CLASS RETAIL STORES EVERY-
WHERE are now offering this beautiful Holeproof full-
fashioned hose in a full twenty-inch pure thread silk leg
in all the latest fashionable colors.
Wholesale and Indents through
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
humorous character, and to change a comedy
with a strong dramatic element into a
comedy of character. I set to work and
did it; but Bert Bailey had by that time
given up play-production. Still, lam glad
to hand my respects and thanks to Mr.
Bailey: I have heard of others who have
received from him the same thorough-going
criticism and advice.
The difficulties in the way of getting an
Australian play accepted for production are
many. There is the legitimate objection on
the part of Australian managers—that it
is Australian. Why go to all the trouble
of producing a new script when they can
import the whole thing—plot, business,
scenery, actors who have played the part
hundreds of times, and a producer who has
seen it performed since it was first put on
in London or Broadway? No script ever
appears on the stage without alterations
and cuts. It must be built up in rehearsal.
I was staggered when I once went to Adel-
aide to see a play of mine put on by the
Repertory Society. So great a reverence
had the producer for my work that he never
altered a line!
No; I don’t blame my friends the Aus-
tralian managers; they have suffered much
through my importunities. But Ido wish
that each would not discover a different
reason for the return, with thanks, of my
scripts.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
From the Chair of “The Times”
“Austria with her idiot archdukes” has no
friend in Wickham Steed, late editor of the
Times, who has written (Through Thirty
Years; Heinemann) an extraordinarily in-
teresting account of his reminiscence , —of
the years before the war; of the dreadful
years of the war itself; of the possibly more
calamitous years during which Europe blun-
dered into an uneasy peace without knowing
how she had done it. The story is in two bulky
but fascinating volumes; and through the
stately grace of the style you perceive the
judicial mind of the man who was mainly
responsible for deciding the attitude of the
greatest of British newspapers during the
most fateful period of British history.
Wickham Steed first formed the idea of
being a journalist when he was a young
man in a stockbroker’s office, and to fulfil
his ambition he travelled all over Europe and
lived for years in nearly every capital of the
continent that was even then preparing for
a war which, though we now see it to have
been inevitable, was for many years spoken
of as unthinkable, so frightful did it appear.
First he spent two student years in Berlin,
and we have a vivid little sketch of the
bullying old beer-barrel famous in history as
Prince Bismarck. It is surprising to learn
that, for all his vast bulk and his dominating
personality, Bismarck had a tiny voice, a very
cheep of a voice, which rose from his gigantic
chest as though the mountain were in very
truth bringing forth a mouse. Yet the good
people of Jena went mad over him. Pon-
derous professors, wearing ancient and
tight-fitting evening dress and mounted
upon horses like mastodons, formed mile-
long processions to fall upon the neck of
the statesman who had made modern Ger-
many. It was then that Steed began to
glimpse the true meaning of the German
Empire, and how in all probability its peace-
ful existence alongside that of the British
Empire would be impossible. It was only
afterwards that Steed learned that the speech
delivered by xsismarck which so roused his
audience to frenzy was in reality a direct
warning against the young Emperor’s policy
of war, or, rather, against the policy which
the aged statesman perceived must sooner or
later lead to war. “Who are we to fight
with?” asked the old man. “We have nothing
to fight about.” William Hohenzollern in
his craziness found something, and probably
now regrets it if he is capable of regretting
anything.
Then Steed went to Paris and found that
the German contempt for the French was
far from justified. These light and gay little
soldiers gave him the impression that, though
they did not worship drill, formality and the
goosestep, they were still extremely efficient;
and he found the French mind, with all its
apparent mockery, far more penetrating than
the heavy German intellect. Everybody who
has read a French scientific book will
recollect how the clarity of its style
often deceives the reader into a totally
false impression of superficiality. It
was delightful for Steed to discuss
metaphysical matters with these clever and
sceptical Gauls, to pit his newly gotten
Teutonic profundity against their apparently
shallow 'French wit. Bless your soul, in
two moments they would turn you inside out
and leave you wondering what had happened!
Laughing and sceptical irony appear still
to be a French attribute as it was an attri-
bute of some of the old Greeks—Lucian, say.
That was why Anatole France used to be
called a revival of ancient Greece.
Then Steed went to Borne and found him-
self at once immersed in the politics of the
Vatican. What he says about the Pope will
be news to many. An Italian nobleman was
discussing sacred matters with a prelate
imbued with the spirit of the Vatican. “Are
we not Christians, Monsignor?” said the
nobleman. “We are nrelates,” said the pre-
late. His meaning was that “the Govern-
ment of the Church is composed of the Car-
dinals, the prelates, the Inquisition, and the
heads of the regular clergy, and that matters
of faith lie within the exclusive competence
of the Pope, who is guided by his govern-
ment.” According to Steed, the Pope does
not really want to “make it up” with the
Italian Government. He prefers to remain
a _ “prisoner” in the Vatican so that his
friends can issue absurd pictures that show
him lying poverty-stricken upon a pallet of
straw. Another and possibly still more
important fact that helps to keep up the
pseudo-war is that if the Vatican were to
become friendly with the Government it
might lead to foreign Catholics demanding
that others than Italians should gain access
to the government of the Church. These
wheels within wheels seem to have much
surprised Mr. Steed.
Incidentally, the Church is not really so
wealthy as has been thought, because some
years ago exceedingly unwise investments
lost a great deal of its money.
Then Steed went to Vienna and at last
came under the direct influence of “the idiot
archdukes.” The phrase may have been a
cheap political sneer by Bismarck, but it is
only too terribly true that the House ot
Hapsburg has never been distinguished for
wisdom. During the last three centuries it
has produced two men of genius, the Emperor
Charles V. and the Archduke Charles who
gave Napoleon such a stiff fight at Aspern
and Wagram. But two men of genius in 300
years is no great deal to brag about in a
ruling house. The mother of Charles V.
was “Crazy Jane,” who for long had to be
put under restraint, and it is possible that
the modern Hapsburgs rather take after
her than after her mighty son. As to this
I do not profess to know, for the dynasty lias
been so intermingled between the • ruling
houses of Spain and Austria that to. trace
craziness from parent to son must be indeed
difficult. It would be a strange instance of
the dead hand if the idiocy of the average
archduke could be traced back to that six-
teenth-century idiot whose only good thing
done for the world was that she produced a
man of real genius for her son.
If Steed found the politics of the Vatican
less pious than he expected, what shall we
say of the politics of the Balkan Peninsula?
They were simply politics. There was no
principle involved except, perhaps, to
“down” the Archdukes. In the intervals of
assassinating monarchs the Balkans settled
their affairs over dinners of champagne and
cigars, flavored by ready wit. King Edward
came over to try if the tact which had made
a friendship between Prance and England
might settle the awful tangle in the Balkans;
but English honesty was no more potent
than Hapsburg idiocy, for you cannot make
peace when the contestants want to fight.
And the sad thing is that the Archduke
Francis Ferdinand, whose murder precipi-
tated the war, was himself half an imbecile
and was actually suspected by the doctors to
have general paralysis when somebody spared
the spirochaete the trouble of killing him.
All these millions of men died because of
this obsessional and “decrepitudinous” arch-
duke ! But while they danced and smoked
cigars, and scored off each other by pleasant
wit and veiled cynicism, the dreadful shadow
was coming nearer, the shadow that the wise
foresaw in a Clytemnestra vision, yet could
no more prevent than they could prevent an
eclipse of the sun. For just across the Bal-
kans sat a middle-aged Kaiser who thought
that his old leader had become senile when
he warned him against stirring up war in
Europe.
C. McL.
Sarah, the Lover
It is curious that “lover” is always con-
sidered masculine gender. To the woman in
the case is always flung the unromantic
“mistress.” Yet if ever there was a lover
it was the Divine Sarah, who was franker
than most of her sex in admitting that in
the game of love she did all the pursuing.
“It has often been said,” she wrote to Sardou,
“that women love to be followed. Perhaps
the second-hand sort of woman—the plain,
unimaginative, every-day sort of woman—
does. But the woman who is sonjeone pre-
fers the game of her own catching, and the
harder it is to corner the more tightened her
clutch.”
I have jtist purchased the best shilling's
worth that has ever hidden itself in two six-
penn’orths between four blue covers—Sarhli
Bernhardt’s love-letters to Victorien Sardou
and Pierre Berton. These men,strangely unlike
in temperament and their attitude towards
Sarah, aroused in her a rapture which reads
uncommonly well, even in translation. One
can feel between the lines the difference in
the men. To Sardou she wrote as an intel-
lectual warmed by emotion ; to Berton she
poured out all that agony of affection which
was always half-expecting that each to-
morrow would be the last. Pierre always
left her torn between doubt and assurance.
Americans excited her :
American women were, of course, the chief things
on the bill of amusement. If all American clothes
are like the most of those I saw I can well under-
stand why so many of the women come across to
Paris to get their wares. French women dress;
American women upholster.... Paris in summer is
fit only for sewer-rats and American tourists.
Naturally she had her likes and dislikes: —
I can survive anything except cold soup and De-
bussy’s music. I don’t believe I could survive two
other things either: kissing or being kissed by a
man who had false teeth —and being too often
mistaken for a lady.
Of her Jewish descent she wrote: “I never
knew who my father was, and my mother
did not know either; how can any one say
that I am a Jewess? My mother was cer-
tainly not one.”
Sarah’s views on love and matrimony were
not in conformity with the conventional.
“Women should be permitted to change their
husbands as often as they please: it is only
women who change their lovers who deserve
to be outcast and disresneeted.” Her own
life was a negation of the dictum, but her
contradictions and contrariness made her all
the more a woman. She had no time for
spiritual unions: “All love that has to do
with such as us is physical,” she wrote to
Pierre: —
Here in this desert waste, so like a state of chaos
is it all, so primitive are all the implements with
which one sets out to win, so futile are all the
weapons with which one defends oneself, that I think
the needs of the body are alone sufficient to take
up all one’s time here....l believe that before la
fi-t des fins there will be an existence far different from
this. Justice would require it. And there is justice
in this great scheme. To punish us for not living or
loving spiritually in this world would be like punish-
ing a child whom one had sent into the wilderness
unarmed for not returning with the game.
She wrote in the same strain to Sardou, and
also advocated trial marriage. To Sardou :
I only married in order to have a trade name!....
They say he has no visible means of support. Now,
I make no pretence at being fat and conspicuous, but
I certainly am visible! A woman should never marry
a man who lives beyond her means. It is a tre-
mendous erfor. This sort of a husband is a luxury,
not a necessity... AVe had hardly been married a
week before the bubble of my illusion began to
break....l married him for a husband, but, my
word —he married me for a sort of super-sympathetic
osteopath.
Sarah was observant: —
I do not believe that any woman ever had exactly
the same feeling for a husband after once seeing
him take his shoes off. A man is never so like an
ape as then.... So unnatural are the movements with
which a man puts on his socks that I cannot bring
myself to believe that God ever intended that men
should wear them. They were only intended for
women, like all other immodest things.
Uncertainty is absent from her loving in
her letters to Sardou, and her pen occupied
itself with things other than flowery dreams.
She wrote of sins:—
If one’s sins cannot be improved upon by experience
and made more exciting and original and big with
each lesson, what is the need of sinning ? There
is no satisfaction in stealing jam all one’s life —that
act is valuable only as a stepping-stone to higher
things.
And of men and women, paradoxically:—
Men never change. That is the tragedy of men's
lives. Women always change. That is theirs.
She told how she came by the famous coffin :
One of my early lovers was a coffin-maker: I knew
that I would have to die as well as anyone else,
and as I have always lived up to every franc that
I made and did not know what circumstances death
would find me in, I asked him for a coffin and he
gave it to me. When I travel I use it as a trunk,
putting into it the most fragile things possible, and
the railway people, thinking it is a corpse, handle it
with tender care and bowed heads. I had it full of
champagne on the occasion of my first crossing to
the United States.
She worshipped Oscar Wilde, and to Berton
she explained, almost apologetically:—
Do not be jealous, dear. It is not at all the same
feeling I have for thee, but I have a deep affection
for him, and we always feel strangely at home with
one another... .But he is “the next in merit.” He
is the only Englishman I would ever have considered
marrying, and that is only because I have found
out he is not an Englishman.
New art did not impress her : “The art that
tends to separate us from Nature, as does
most of the ‘art’ of to-day, is worse than
a canker-weed or a cancer,’’ She set herself
strongly against spectacular shows devoid
of any dramatic quality:—
Elaborate scenery is for plays that are either un-
speakably poor in themselves or plays that have worth-
less actors interpreting them. The stage of the future
will be a stage of very little scenery. As the art
of stage production increases, scenery will diminish,
and I will welcome the day. The most fascinating
plays, by the way, that I have come across for
many years are the Russiah one-act pieces. They
are extraordinary people for crowding years and
years into a sentence. Their plays are quite as good
as their short stories, and I think them the best
I have ever read.
She held that David and Jonathan had
the highest love—“a love w r hicli has never
existed between a man and a woman. Love
united David and Jonathan. Love still
unites men, I believe, but only scandals and
panics can unite two women.”
Neither Pierre nor Victorien remained
lover or friend with Sarah to the last: it was
too much to expect that her flame which
burned in brilliant spurts for both should
not flicker near the candle’s end. There is
no need for pen or poetry, nor tragic fare-
wells written in ink, as a substitute for
heart’s blood when two people at last come
to say:—
Since there’s no help, come, let us kiss and part,
For I have done, yea done, with all of thee....
Of Sardou, enough. Many people believe
that in him Sarah found her perfect lover;
but it was to Pierre that she wrote the per :
feet last letter. Earlier she had w'arned
him : here was the parting:—
Dear Peter,—l fancy that we have reached the ulti-
mate cross-roads which wait, as one in ambush, along
the way of every ill-fated friendship such as I am
sadly forced to recognise is ours. It is useless
to consider an attempt to mend things. Friendships
may be mended when they have been broken, per-
haps; loves never. I would prefer to never see thee
again, now that our love is dead.... Thou can-t
ge c \ a ° c i t ° on t o °fo?get th arf' mort Stoable” “lie
has theal abundantly* just as a woman has her tears.
so it goes, Peter; it is all of the past now.
Even could I regret anything, I would regret nothing,
now - b gave myself to thee urn eserve uung
a f ar longer time than I ever thought o £ , ®
self to anyone in all my life. So faith
to thee during those first two years tha
minded lookers-on might have fancied us -
And those years were the petals and the pollen to
me. You came into a garden that was m full bloom,
and lay under the fragrant boughs and blossoms
intoxicated by their heavy incense. And now, “thy
pa th lies here, and mine goes there, apart.” Love
is a vase which when it is flawed by heat, by violence,
or even by accident may as well be broken at cnee.
° y e * trust it J after . The more shapely
decorative it was the more convinced are >ve
discevn iug the hopelessness of restoring it to
' one-time state. Rough stones, when they are
fractured may be cemented again; precious stems
, ' ‘
never - OAaAH \ . ,
The royal signature remained to the end.
C. S.
A Satchel of Books
The Golden Quill, by F. O. Mann (Basil Blackwell).
It carries us back to the fourteenth century. We
pace with its hero the cloisters of an ancient priory,
fellow him into the greenwood, take the highway to
London, cross old London Bridge with its quaint
superstructure of houses, and arrive at the “Sign
of the Golden Quill” swaying and creaking in the
wind, and there plunge with him into the heart
of adventure. Quite a good rest book.
Great Events in Australian History, by Joseph
Bryant (Angus and Robertson). The author in a
preface states that its aim is “to give young readers,
in a form interesting and easy to follow, a clear and
straightforward conception of how the settlement of
1788 has developed and expanded into the Australia
of to-day.” The object aimed at has been reached
by a judicious selection of the outstanding events in
our history and the presentation of these in easily
grasped statement. Percy Lindsay has illustrated it
in the bright colors that are alluring to youth.
Memoirs of the Foreign Legion, by “M.M.” (Martin
Seeker; Robertson and Mullens). Nearly a third of
the volume consists of an introduction by D. H.
Lawrence which is not the least interesting part of
the contents. After meeting the author of the memoirs
at Florence in 1919, Lawrence ran up against him
in Palermo and was drawn involuntarily into his
affairs. “M.M.,” according to Lawrence, “had Hollen-
zollern blood in his veins; close kin to the ex-Kaiser
William,” and was a man who, “if he was a scamp and
a treacherous little devil, had also qualities of
nerve and breeding undeniable.” He for one believes
this record to be true, and the reader is left with
that assurance to form his own opinion. For the
honor of France it is to be hoped the story is not
authentic or, at least, is grossly exaggerated.
The English-speaking Nations, by G. W. Morris
and L. S. Woods (Clarendon Press). The object of
the authors is “the development of the Commonwealth
ideal,” the word “Commonwealth” being used in its
extended meaning of imperialistic union. The growth
of the conception is traced through history, and the
events which have made links in the chain are set
out clearly. “It is doubtful,” the authors write,
“whether the bonds which unite the manifold and
diverse realms of the British Commonwealth could be
engrossed upon parchment, or confined within the
most elastic of formularies. But though its political
unity is unsystematised, there is no doubt of its
existence and its reality.” The book is a living
picture of the growth of F.mpire and the development
of the principles of self-government, the negation of
which lost us the American colonies. It should be
in every school library.


m
Lone Time- Investment
Dodge Brothers Motor Cars give satisfactory,
reliable service over a far greater number
of miles than is commonly expected of an
automobile.
Fine materials, rigid inspection and constant
care in assembling, all contribute their share
in making Dodge Brothers Motor Car yield
the utmost in value.
It is this unusual standard of manufacture
which guarantees to the owner a long time
investment and long time satisfaction.
Dqdbe- Brothers
m
mm
i
to
jyoc
SSiaQS
k--
-Jll/'
.r.„ itjy« iu t tffri •• j» :
1-81 1 4 Ml mv
iilHtiism Erfm
TO
i
pp
a.
Qiuu
j/
/
:•/
> y
a
yj
-i -H *.tf t
-Lfc
remliii aim imi
F?nii if Ljumj!
m f' k
in am
556
'fVir.
'--i
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide, Australia.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
896-898 Hay Street,
Perth.
19/2/’25.


m
Ulll
Mtm
iiinn
mn n
mini
'linn
*llllll
GOODYEAR BALLOON TYRES
Give You Comfort Plus Mileage
Goodyear Balloon Tyres are of typical
Goodyear quality —for years they
have been used on test cars under
actual service conditions.
Goodyear Balloon Tyres are of
proved practical usefulness.
They improve your riding comfort,
besides saving the car —and you.
For nearly all cars Goodyear Inter-
changeable Balloons fit present wheels
and rims, if straight side or 30 x
3j beaded edge type, with no change
whatever.
Goodyear also makes the small
diameter balloon tyres for new cars
with special size wheels.
Ask your Goodyear Dealer about
Goodyear Balloon Tyres for your car.
In Balloon Tyres as in others
Goodyear Means Good Wear.
BALLOON TYRES
“ Made with Supertwist ”


awMovd
vcnraNvo
awMOVci
m
PACKARD EIGHT SEVEN-PASSENGER TOURING CAR
SUPREME
THE beauty of the Packard Eight is
but an indication of the incompar-
able quality of its performance.
Here is luxurious riding in a sense and
to a degree well worth your while to
know.
In power and flexibility, the Packard
Eight is more agile and eager and un-
hampered than seems possible for a
mechanical thing to be.
o
Yet with all its power and flexibility
and effortless speed, it handles so easily
and smoothly as never to suggest
strain or sense of effort. It responds to
a touch yet it unfailingly holds the
road.
Beyond compare, and without a peer,
the Packard Eight appeals irresistibly
to those who want the finest motor car
in the world.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors: 261, 263,265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Pty.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
PACKARD
AS K THE MAN W HO OWNS
ONE


Comfort Tired Aching
Feet With Cuticura
When your feet are tired, hot and
burning bathe them with warm
water and Cuticura Soap and fol-
low by a gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment. Cuticura Talcum
dusted on the feet is cooling and
soothing.
Soap Is.,Talcum I s. 3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: "R.Towns & Co.. Sydney. N.S.W.”
SUBS'"” Try our new Shaving Stick.
To Protect his School
Outfit
Mark all Garments
with
wi
Save yourself a lot of Trouble anu Money.
Any Name Neatly Woven in Fast Colour.
Everybody should use CASH’S NAMES to
Mark any Fabric.
Actual Size, Style Mo. 6
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.’’
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices ; lSdz. 7/6; 6dz. .5/-; Sdz S/6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH ZVo.
85 Oubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
it a Food-Drink which maintains
health and strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ENG.
€
In 4 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
fe.V * .'V£. J>
V
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms bv using
DR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless—•
Waterproof—Permanent!
All Chemists.
THE
LEVE r
i^test
pens
The Onoto Lever model has put old lever pens
out of date.
The Lever movement is a new improved patent,
with a parallel action, which ensures a perfect
vacuum when compressed, and this enables the
pen to take in so much more ink than any other
lever pen.
Ask your stationer 01 jeweller to show you the
Onoto Lever Filler. Examine its perfect balance,
the graceful stream-line holder with its easy grip
chasing—these are some of the features that com-
bine to make it the most exquisitely designed lever
filling pen you can buy.
Lever Filler
ONOTO th_e Ink for
all pens.
Blue Black 1/-.
Other Colours 1/3.
Thomas De La Rue & Co.. Ltd.. Bunbili Row. London. E.C.I
Representatives. NORMAL BAKER & LONGHURST LTD..
Sydney. Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
"Witk
new fixed
clip m
Rolled
Gold 20/-
Lever
Mode!
17/6.
FURTHER PRICE REDUCTIONS
IN THE WORLD-FAMED
WALTHAM LEVER WATCHES
:
ACCURATE and DURABLE
STEWART DAWSON’S
DIRECT IMPORTERS
Prices from
■ 4 a O
Sterling Silver Hunting Cases £4/10/-
10 Year Gold Filled „ „ *4/4■/-
20 ii •• ii ii ,i *6/“/"
25 ii n n n n *7/-/-
Solid 9ct. Gold Hunting Cases £ll ft O/-
Solid 14ct. „ „ „ £l6/-/-
Solid 18at „ „ „ £22/10/-
Also WALTHAM OPEN FACE RAILWAY LEVERS
In Strong Nickel Screw Case. Price d&3/5/-»
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 1871 (N.S.W.) LTD.
Two Sydney (412 George Street, Strand Corner
Establishments i 185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street
PL U M
mrt DE ,N Bncl *ND
s
a
SI
*
S/
a
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Heal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in tw’o widths: fin. and Jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
RAIG and AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Distant Mountains.
When I look out on mountains cold and still,
Majestic in blue silence and remote.
From me a sister silence seems to float
And mingle with their solitude snow-chill.
I lean upon their calmness at my will;
My spirit self feeds on some inner note
Of awe from some sweet secret woodland
throat —
A freshet, pool or little gushing rill.
That which is forest in me takes my eyes
Out to the outer distances I see—
Blue beyond blue, soft as the lids of night
And ere I seem to swoon, made mystic wise,
I am lifted, lifted, lifted suddenly
Into a paradisal realm of light.
N.S.W.
ZOEA CEOSS.
The Archaeologist’s Dream.
From the shore of the old .-Egoan Sea-
All, you were there in the Cretan night—
The memories dear come back to me
Like birds swift-winging in homeward
flight.
In Cnossos yon dwelt with your raven hair,
Your skin of silk and your mystic eyes;
Did you think, O lady supremely fair,
That I could forget those smiles and sighs?
In the Palace of Minos you lived serene —
It was thousands and thousands of years
ago—
But what recks love of the years between
That yields not to death, the final woe !
By shaven lawns the pathway led;
In the guarded garden we walked that day
’Neath pomegranate-blossoms, scarlet-red,
Past salt white statues toward the bay.
Together we stayed till the sun sank down,
A crimson disc in the painted sea.
Though fame should be mine and high
renown
No hour shall be as that hour to me.
They say you are only a dreamer’s dream,
And I a fool to believe ’tis true.
Ah, yet, despite all things that seem.
In the gardens of Cnossos I tarry with you !
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.
Arcady.
When we set out, just you and I,
To seek for A ready,
The day was gold within the sky
And gold upon the sea.
We left the shadowed morning pools,
The hill-groves dim and dear;
And none there was to say, “O fools!
The thing ye seek is here!”
We heard beyond life’s common themes
A rarer melody;
Yet evermore, save in our dreams,
We found no Arcady.
Till late —full late —clad pilgrim-wise,
Came one to bid us learn ;
Aye, with God’s pity in his eyes.
Came Love, and whispered “Turn !”
We tuxmed; and, 10, in dream or sooth,
More fair than Avalon.
With opal-ringed and flame of youth,
The hills of morning shone!
We trembled, wordless each to each,
And kissed, as lovei's do ;
Small need had we of mortal speech
To tell the joy we knew.
Behind us far, the heights sublime,
The desert dusk around,
This was the place and this the time
Our Vi'cady we found!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Maureen.
I wish I could tell of the songs that w r ere
sung by Maureen
When she lived in the Isle of the Dawn.
Through the silvery morn she has gone to
the Glen of the Mists,
Maureen and her little blind fawn—
The little blind fawn that she found by the
rocks of Atherne
And brought to the Isle of the Dawn.
There was never a bird in the wood by the
Glen of the Mists
But listened and paused in his song;
For her voice had the mirth of the elf-tliings
that dance in the fields
When twilights are silent and long.
And the birds clustered close in the trees
with wings folded to hear
The laughter and lilt of her song.
Far out on the cliffs she has sung to the
waves of the sea.
The grey gulls flew low on the foam;
For her song had the call of the waters that
plash in the night
On the walls of a wind-riven home,
On nests by the sea in the perilous rocks of
Atherne,
In the whirl of the spindrift and foam.
She has climbed the wild crags that look
over the Valley of Storms;
She has run with the winds on the hills.
I wish I could tell you the song that she
sang as she went
By the way of the white mountain rills,
When the yellow corn bent to the sound of
the song as it swept
Through the thyme-scented space of the
hills!
She has gone far away from the cloud-
mantled Isle of the Dawn,
Maureen with the sun in her hair,
With the sea in her eyes and the plaintive
bird-note in her voice—
Ah, she who is gentle and fair,
Singing still, roams a faraway land with her
little blind fawn.
Maureen with the gold in her hair!
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


9
m
ml jl*
x
i.... • ml
I
P 91
■ •
i
L
.
fW¥
m
m
H
v
»' 'ft s
Tflocd
#


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2349.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1925.
Price 6».
A MESSAGE PROM MARS.
"I know you are tired of me, and I have therefore handed over everything to the League of Nations. When you find my clothes on the beach I shall be nicely drowned.”
LITTLE AUSTRALIA: “I DON’T think!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
Tianms to Suhxcmtiers.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv address in Australasia, weekly:
12 mouths, £ 1 Gs. ; G months, 13s, Gd. ; 3 months, 7 s.
To any address Ovkuseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. Gd. ; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
nil Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper ere copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The. Editor will carefully read and. wlisre practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. sail.
SOGO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending 3tS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London Is
L. St. C. firomlnna. Australia House, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin" can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons. Cannon House, lheams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 5S Gracechurch. Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson apd Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban:
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Hcnoni News
Agency, lienoni; Handel House. Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings
Street, Vancouver, II.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Houlevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Hrentano’s, nth Avenue and 21 th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6tlt
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City: Hotaling's
Ne.ws Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 104 Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 666 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Pereia. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Per era and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fi.tt. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Kepresentatives.
London.- — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Cirrus, E.C.4-
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie, Street,
N. Michigan Bovlevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10nz.. Id. United Kingdom: ) to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional .’,oz.. Id.: All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oZ. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1925.
FANCY SETTLEMENT DEVICES.
The Australian Governments are still hold-
ing high financial discourse with Britain
about loan immigration and artificial land
settlement. The plan is always taking new
shapes, and all the shapes are grandiose and
inflated. The latest idea is that the
British Treasury should lend Australia
£34,000,000, and help with the interest to
the extent of £7,000,000. That would re-
present relief from several years’ liability,
varying according to the rate charged by the
philanthropist at the other end, but the prin-
cipal and the other thousand years or so of
interest would still be this country’s affair.
With the money thus provided the Common-
wealth and the States are to take 500,000
British settlers, and plant them on the land,
or make a colorable pretence of doing so, at
the rate of 50,000 or so per annum.
A great deal is to be said in a
general way for the idea of taking 500,000
British settlers; and, though there is rea-
son to believe that . the British commu-
nity is not all it was before the industrial
downfall and the establishment of the dole
system, there is no reason why, under sane
conditions, the descendants of the immi-
grants tint are available should not prove
valuable English-speaking citizens, and in-
finitely superior to the progeny of the Medi-
terranean races who are ready to throw
themselves on our shores in unlimited num-
bers, at their own or their Governments’ ex-
pense. But it isn’t worth while to spend
loan money on the purchase of 500,000 immi-
grants, or even of five, if it is proposed to
plant them around Sydney, which has now
over a million inhabitants and which was
lately proved to be growing faster than any
other city of the Empire; or around Mel-
bourne, which expects to pass the million
mark by 1929; or around Adelaide, which
holds more than half S. Australia’s old popu-
lation already, and absorbs all but a frac-
tion of the new population. If new States
were formed, especially if they avoided the
centralising disease, or if the comatose Fed-
eral authority could be wakened to the fact
that it has a desirable estate of its own, and
if a stream of settlement could be sent in
these directions, the prospect would be bright
enough.
* # * *
Fallowing the old lines it would be easy
to invest 34 or any other number of millions
in the acquisition of half a million or any
other quantity of people, and, at the best,
gain an additional Whitechapel or two as
the result. The manufactures of New White-
chapel couldn’t fail to enrich the country,
but the vacant regions would be left to empti-
ness or to invasion just as at present. The
country would be no safer. It must be re-,
membered, however, that the views of the
British Government don’t look to the en-
couragement of Australian manufactures,
either iij old States or in new ones, or in
the old overgrown cities, or the new indus-
trial towns which ought to be fostered but
are not. The Cold Country lids no intention
of helping to export 500,000 agriculturists
to “go on the land” in these parts. It has
no such number to spare, especially since
the defection of the Irish Free State, and
it has no desire to spare them if it had them.
The idea is to trade off superfluous town
population, Australia giving a sort of pledge
that this population shall not be employed
at the trades it knows, and at which it
should have a real value, but shall be turned
into some kind of agricultural botch. In its
natural capacity it Would compete against
British manufactures in the Australian
market. In its artificial capacity its pro-
posed destiny is to supply Britain with some
articles of food, and. if possible, with raw
materials such as cotton, and to be a cus-
tomer of British factories at the same time.
The amount of loan money suggested for
this remarkable conversion is £6B per settler,
or £B2 including the allowance for interest.
The work can’t be done at the price. Even
if these strangers and amateurs were sent
to new States, whore the budding farmer
could get land gratis or on long cheap terms,
and yet be within easy distance of a grow-
ing metropolis and a growing market, it pro-
bably couldn’t be done at five times the price.
Australia lias had experience. Up to June,
1920. the States had spent rather over
£17,000,000 on the purchase of land for
settlement, and on this land it put ex-soldiers
in limited numbers, some of them with ex-
perience and all accustomed to the climate.
By June. 1923. the amount had expanded to
over £53,000 000. The cost varied from some
£7OO per settler in the least-crowded States
to about £2lOO in Victoria. Hope of collect-
ing from the debtor has, in many cases,
melted away. In many cases the debtor lias
melted likewise. If he had had a busy little,
industrial town at hand to provide a market,
and possibly to furnish odd jobs in dull sea-
sons. the result might have been better. In
1922 the area of Australia occupied only
bv that most unproductive tenant “the
Crown” was 214 million acres more than in
1920. Later figures are unavailable. So
it would appear that fancy or artificial agri-
cultural settlement that caters for a foreign
distant market and is mostly engineered by
city lawyers is a dud.
* * * #
A country in the uninue position which
Australia occupies should have no need to
buy immigrants. It should be in a position
to reject, as below its standard, four-fifths of
those offering, and make the other fifth pay
an entrance fee, and still have enough. That
is how the United States stands. It cer-
tainly is ahead of Australia in the matter
of resources, but this crowded world can’t
afford to be so particular about resources as
it was even a half-century ago. There are
various reasons why 900,000 persons try to
get into the U.S. at their own cost in an
average, year, and why, after, rejecting
740.000 of the applicants, the republic has
doubts whether it isn’t too liberal. These
five may be quoted :
The U.S. believes in being a self-contained manu-
facturing country and an exporter of finished goods,
and not anybody’s permanent bucolic drudge. It
has a tariff which keeps its imports (1923 figures)
down to £7 19s. per inhabitant. Australia’s are
£22 16s. Bd.
The U.S. aims, and very successfully, at having a
railway to connect every deep-water port with its
hinterland. The idea of keeping some of its best har-
bors, such as Gladstone, Bowen, Port Stephens, Jervis
Bay and Twofold Bay, closed, or practically closed,
lest trade and population should spread, is purely
Australian.
The U.S. cuts an area which is a fraction less than
the Commonwealth into 48 self-governing divisions,
instead of six. So there are 42 more centres of popu-
lation, and there is no neglected and forgotten region
which is feebly misgoverned by telegram from a 2000-
mile range by some overburdened placeman who
never even saw it.
The U.S. hasn’t any vast territory relapsing into
emptiness under a species of experiment in State land-
lordism for which the people apparently have no use.
The spectacle of the N. Territory, where some
9,000,000 acres relapsed into the hands of “the
Crown” in 1921 and 1922. and that of Queensland,
where 24,500,000 acres similarly went out of occupa-
tion, are tragic.
The U.S. has not the Australian craze for selling
its gold output in return for foreign paper money,
merely to make a show of “trade.”
These U.S. ideas are among the few in the
republic worthy of our earnest imitation. If
they had been adopted even 25 years ago
it is safe to say that the North would be
in process of occupation by an English-speak-
ing race, that the immigration question would
have proved capable of taking more than
sufficient care of itself, and that ■ the
£53,000,000 which has been spent to put
.Tones on ton of the farm which used to be
underneath Brown would have been saved.
If .Tones wanted the farm he would pro-
bably have arrived by his own volition.
FACTS FOR PRATTEN'S CONSIDERA-
TION.
Pratten, the Minister for Customs, was
asked last week to assist the production of
Australian motion-pictures by clapping a 10
p.c. ad valorem duty on foreign films and
restricting imports to 85 p.c. of the average
—roughly, 15,000,000 linear feet per annum.
There were also suggestions that part of the
revenue from the impost on imported films
or the entertainment-tax paid at shows ex-
hibiting Australian pictures might be re-
turned to the producers in the form of boun-
ties. The reply was the familiar statement
that the Minister had the cause of Austra-
lian pictures at heart, and would see what
could be done. Similar assurances have been
given during the last IS months by Treasurer
Earle Page, by Pratten’s predecessor,
Austin Chapman, and by the Tariff Board
(twice), and the procedure lias become mon-
otonous. There has been a ton of promises
but not a pound of performance. Meantime
the case for extending the national fiscal
policy to picture-production has been stated
over and over again. Since 1914 the Australian
film market, confessedly one of the greatest in
the world, has been monopolised by Ameri-
cans, not a few of them German-Americans.
The war, by eliminating British and French
competition, assisted the Adolph Zukors and
Carl Laemmles to establish their dominat-
ing position, and they have also been helped,
they and their fellow-exploiters, by the un-
reasoning prejudice against Australian goods
and by the ease with which the press-agent
can pull the film-fancier’s leg. And the Aus-
tralian Government, by letting foreign films
come in at lid. per foot, plays right into
these foreigners’ hands.
* * * *
It costs at least £5OOO to make an Aus-
tralian “feature” film. A ready-for-exhibi-
tion copy of an American “feature,” adver-
tised as a million-dollar picture, can, how-
ever, be struck off in Hollywood and de-
livered at a Sydney exchange for a few
hundred dollars. In a sense, every U.S.
photo-play that reaches Australia is dumped,
the process being facilitated by circumstances
peculiar to the film industry. But instead
of redressing the balance, in the interest of
the Australian producer, by means of anti-
dumping duties or their equivalent—-a course
adopted in other trades where the conditions
are not nearly so favorable to the dumping
party—the Government levies the mildest of
revenue duties, which brings in a mere
£lOO.OOO p.a.—not one-seventh of the Ameri-
can profit on the Australian exploitation of
the films. (By contrast, the duties on un-
manufactured tobacco, alsp from the U.S.A.,
yield £1,800.000 p.a.) There is a strong
suspicion likewise that the aliens who are
on this marvellously good wicket, contrive to
pay very little income-tax compared with
native-born Australians who have estab-
lished important industries in the country,
who spend their money here, and who. in the
last resort, are available for its defence.
Other factors in the situation are locally-
registered U.S. companies which control
film-exchanges and theatres, and an Aus-
tralian amalgamation or combine which also
imports, distributes and exhibits on an ex-
tensive scale. One experience of the oppor-
tunities allowed by the gentry was related
to the Minister by C. le Maistre Walker,
a Sydney business man, who helped to launch
a film-producing venture which had a brief
life :
The co. produced a picture called “Silks and
Saddles.” It cost £5600 to produce and earned
£17,000 at the box-office ' in Australasia, but the
co. received only £3900,: The receipts from two
city theatres amounted \to £1700; the co.’s share
was £l9B. For the use of two suburban theatres
for a week the co. had to pay £450 each, “in
addition to £lOO each for rent.” The English rights
were sold for £3OOO and the American rights for
$16,000; thus the co. was enabled to go out of
business without showing a loss. The Americans
changed the title and altered the picture to some
extent, and made £30,000 out of it.
Well might the author of “The Sentimental
Bloke” film implore the Government to take
such action as will enable the Australian pro-
ducer to get his films exhibited in Australia
without being subjected to calculated brigand-
age or an alien boycott.
* * * *
It is due to the Amalgamation to say that
it is giving some, Australian producers a
show, and is itself beginning to make films
in a small way. If the tariff were what it
should be, the Americans, too, would manu-
facture photo-plays in Australia, even as
they manufacture chewing-gum, and are
going to manufacture motor-cars. The
thought of such pictures arouses no particu-
lar enthusiasm, but at least Australians
would be employed in the making of them
and they would catch something of the Aus-
tralian spirit, whereas in the films with
which the Commonwealth is now flooded the
spreadeagleism of Jefferson Brick mingles
with the manners and argot of the Bowery,
the sensationalism of the llearst newspaper
and the morals of the Barbary Coast. There
is not a representative Australian in any
walk of life who has a good word to say for
pictures of this type. Archbishops, judges,
magistrates. University professors, doctors.
Diggers and Cabinet Ministers declare with
one voice that they are poisonous produc-
tions. and that they are having the worst
possible influence on the generation that
is growing up. Australian producers
have shown that they can turn out
pictures that are cleaner and better in every
way than the imported offal, and they should
be encouraged to continue, the good work by
those whose business it is to help worthy
Australian industries by the fiscal route. But
a 10 per cent, ad ml. duty would be hope-
lessly ineffective. Even in Freetrade Britain
there is talk of asking the Baldwin Govern-
ment to impose a duty of ss. per foot. It
is suggested that the Australian Govern-
ment might experiment with a -duty ,of Is.
per foot, and give some relief to the ill-used
race of smokers by taking something, off
the tobacco tax at the same time.. Since
both articles are classified as luxuries it is
preposterous that tobacco-leaf from the
U.S.A., which is worked up in Australian
factories, should be taxed 2s. and 2s. 6d. a
pound, while “positives” from the same
country, which so far from being treated in
Australian film factories actually hinder
their establishment, are allowed in at lid.
per foot. The profit on a pound of raw
tobacco is small compared .with that on a
foot of lubricity like “The Sheik’s Wife,”
or some vulgar perversion of history, such as
“Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall.”
THE CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS.
The accommodation is less spacious as yet
tlian it might be; still it could easily be
worse, and when the Cobb’s coach of the
sky does 100 miles per hour the voyager has
a chance to reach his destination before acute
cramp sets in. So far the passenger list
is seldom large enough to justify a portable
refreshment-room, but some travellers carry
a flask as a precaution against snakebite,
or else a beer sandwich or two. These are
made by cutting two thin slices of beer and
putting a slice of rum in between.
The clipper sets out decently and peace-
fully, with no screaming of whistles, and no
herculean and blasphemous struggle to get
the last intoxicated fireman on board by the
neck and heels. The voyager only knows he
has left the ground when he glances down
and realises that he is soaring, as in the
Ballad of Mr. Cook,
O’er some household eminence,
O’er a clothes-line or a fence,
Over hedges, ditches, thence
O’er a brook.
The one annoyance is the persistent drone
of the engine, for which a silencer will have
to be devised. An express train is about
as bad, but then no one expects anything
better on the surface of the noisy earth. The
upper air should be a region of peace. People
who have drifted aloft in balloons have dis-
covered that, in the intense calm, a dog on
the ground can be heard by a man at a
height of two miles; but a balloon wanders
nowhere in particular, and it is hardly worth
while to climb so far merely to hear a dog,
and probably a valueless one, and then land
at some chance place, possibly a glue-factory
where there is a different dog, and go home
by train. The drone of the airship is less
afflicting than the bagpipes, but worse than
the mosquito. It is a relation of the domes-
tic vacuum-cleaner. .Possibly both the ship
and the cleaner will one day be set to music.
The bagpipes, needless to say, never will.
The most noticeable sensation in the upper
air is one of security. No children or dogs
or cows or pedestrians (sober or otherwise)
get in the road. There is no speed-limit, and
no need for one, and no policemen to enforce
it if there was one. Should the vehicle skid
it doesn’t bring up with a crash against a
pub or a wall or a town hall. It could skid
twice round the world, if such a thing were
possible, and then resume its course un-
damaged and unperturbed. It may occa-
sionally drop into a hole of no great depth,
but there are no rocks at the bottom of an
air-hole as there are at the bottom of an
earth-hole, and the sides of the air-hole dis-
solve, so that the vehicle gets out without
assistance. In fact, it doesn’t even pause.
The air has waves, just as the sea lias, but
they arc seldom violent, and they don’t break
on board. Should the foaming atmosphere
become a mild annoyance, which may happen
as the day warms up, it is the regular thing
to hunt for tranquillity in higher waters, and
find it. If traffic is met with there are four
sides on which the other vehicle may be
passed, while on the land surface of ,a town
there are only two, one of which is illegal and
the other usually under repair. And the
way is wider than Pitt-street, Sydney—-in
fact, I have been told that it is wider than
all Sydney. As another advantage, the
chauffeur of the sky isn’t distracted by fowls
perching on the radiator. He flies too high
to be interfered with by birds, and yet not
high enough to be molested by angels. Col-
lisions with clouds do occur, but except in
the case of a very tough cloud, like a float-
ing cheese, damage is practically unknown.
Nervous and illogical peiynle often remark
that, should the airship fall overboard, it is
a long way to the ground; but when the
marine ship falls overboard in a place like
the Japan Deep it is a longer way, and the
marine ship takes the downward road much
oftener than its atmospheric brother. Then,
in nine eases out of ten, the captain of the
foundered air-liner contrives a gentle descent
and makes what is euphoniously described
as a “forced landing.” The adjacent inhabi-
tants, if any, entertain the angered passen-
gers with lunch and whisky while the dam-
age is being inspected, and the adjacent girls
may even entice them into matrimony. The
lost marine liner, there is reason to be-
lieve, also makes a gentle descent and a
forced landing, but no one on board cares
how it descends. The hospitality is sea-
water and the society is sea-serpents. There
is not a single case on record, that I am
aware of, when an air-vessel has made a
total disappearance, including the en-
gine and the last passenger and the
last passenger’s hat, in its own ele-
ment, whereas the steamer and sailing-
ship do that sort of tragedy every day. It
is even possible for a derelict ship or boat
to pervade the watery expanse for weeks,
while its inhabitants lose their habits of
cleanliness and civility, and their oolite in-
stincts, and acquire long, haggard beards,
and finally sink into cannibalism. Happen-
ings like that are unthinkable, so far. in the
friendly upper spaces.
The world looks marvellous and beautiful
from above. The Lord viewed it that way
and said it was good. The Devii, who is
a pedestrian (see the first chapter of Job,
verse seven), views it from the surface and
considers it bad, also he hopes it will become
worse. A passenger, if he hasn’t gone to
sleep, may, at more than one place on the
Sydney-Adelaide route, consider 3090 square
miles of cultivated plain, or any larger num-
ber of miles of plain that he feels equal 10.
At the fairest season of the. year, when the
crop is half in and half out, it is an amazing
diagram of colors, and Joseph s coat was
a fool to it. Further, Joseph had only one
coat, while the plain is dressed with a new
one annually, and has spare clothes in
between times. Mildura from above is a
chessboard of ten thousand tidy squares,
which aren’t really square but near enough.
Considered from the level it consists of a
bad road, two fences alongside the road, a
narrow outlook of vegetation beyond the
fences, and some reminiscences of De Laris.
There are, in addition, some people and a
hotel. The Victorian-S. Australian border
line is ruled across the country as if it was
a stretched rope with a giant hauling at
each end. There is rich cultivation on the
S.A. side, presumably because railways haul
the crops to the nearest port. There is
nothing but the face of Nature on the \ ic-


torian side, because the nearest port is ana-
thema, it not being Melbourne. .
Looking down on a man, especially a
politician, from a moderate height (say, lUUU
feet), one sees him the size lie really is.
Meeting him on the ground he is more like
the size lie thinks he is. Towns show at
their best in the sky perspective, partly be-
cause one doesn’t see the population sticking
out of the windows. Population spoils many
good towns. The upper region is a mine ot
knowledge, as the well with Truth at the
bottom might have been if it had been
turned upside down with Truth at the top
and the water sticking up in the air, after
the fashion of a spike. An hour s run along
the Mufrumbidgee reveals probably more
than the discoverer learned in his whole life.
The river is sluggish to the point of being
stationary. It is crooked to the extent of
turning ten somersaults and throwing one
fit every half-mile. The wide timbered flats
suggest remarkable fertility. The Murray
doesn’t sleem to go anywhere, but merely
to tie itself into knots. One may cross it
20 times and be on the same side all the
time, These two rivers would extend round
the world if straightened out.
Now alid then one gives way to unreason-
ing anger at the apparent sluggishness of the
proceedings. Some pond a mile or two
ahead, which is i-eaily a lake several counties
ahead, excites interest and becomes a land-
mark. The ci’awlsome nature of the ap-
proach is SO aggravating that, but for the
restraining influence of the ship’s glass
lid, the inevitable course would be to get
Out and run ahead. The vehicle may be put-
ting its best foot foremost and crowding
120 miles into the hour, but still the stranger
lias an occasional Overwhelming desire to
put his head out Of a window and ask the
pilot, in his botvef of pantry at the real*,
to pull up his anchor, for the tovC Of Mike,
and start. A reverse effect is experienced
when the apparatus takes to high latitudes
to get above the rain or for some other law-
ful reason. Then its velocity becomes ap-
preciable, for it leaps from cloud to cloud
as brown Eliza did when she leaped the
frozen Ohio River with her hair adrift and
ber shrieking cheild in her arms.
Some day that prodding creature called
man, poking inquisitive hands and skewers
into the wheels of the works of Nature,
should find out how to push the earth away,
or. in other words, how to turn gravitation
off and on, in whole or in part. Then the
clipper of the clouds, with its lifting power
increased beyond all imagining, will really
come into its own, and will begin to shift
things as they were never shifted before.
Of course it may happen now and then that
the handle which turns gravitation on again
will snap, in which case the ship that is up
will have to stay up and he left behind,
while the globe goes on without it. And if
gravitation, through being too much fooled
and experimented with, wears out, and be-
comes like a dried-up sea or a denuded forest,
then it may be inferred that other things
will go up and be left behind. In con-
sequence of which the human race will doubt-
less go mad for want of any other place to
go, and stream off, and the whole mundane
show will become a dissolving view and the
tail of a comet.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Electoral Rolls and Ruffians.
A Ma State Nationalist organiser recently
started a brisk controversy by calling atten-
tion to the condition of the electoral rolls,
presently to be used for a general, election.
The Wammerawa compilation, he said (Wam-
merawa is one of the three-member constitu-
encies), was crowded with the names of
persons who had left for parts unknown,
and many people were enrolled two or three
times; on the other hand, thousands quali-
fied by age and residence had failed to secure
registration. Forthwith there were positive
assertions that the rolls in other electorates
Wore as bad as the Wammerawa exhibit, if
not worse. Breaking a long silence, Speaker
Dan Levy declared the Sydney roll to be
the dirtiest of the lot, and he added, with
evident emotion, that “if something is not
done immediately the Nationalist party will
lose thousands of votes at the general elec-
tion, and the two seats it now holds in
Sydney (one is Daniel’s) will he gravely
imperilled.” In reply the Electoral Depart-
ment protested that its “difficulties” were
“very great,” and that “some of the elec-
torates might be described as an antbed
that someone has trodden on,” which
doesn’t make the situation look any better.
And compulsory enrolment, like other fads
of the Australian politician, was to be such
an abounding success! While the argument
was in progress the familiar “laborer” was
given four months for impersonation at the
Sydney City Council election. In Melbourne
also the A.W.U. Convention resumed the dis-
cussion on the Labor ballot-boxes with slid-
ing panels; and the returning-officer
at the Fitzroy by-election made some strik-
ing remarks at the declaration of the poll:
This is one of the worst elections that I have
conducted. ; The number of attempts at .impersona-
tion that have taken place is astounding. There
were several instances at each of the ten voting tables
in the Town Hall, and the other booths have also
complained of several cases. It is impossible to
estimate how far this impersonation has gone. Three
people have been caught redhanded, and their names
have been forwarded to the police for prosecution.
“Their names have been forwarded to the
police.” Just as if they had been caught
riding on the wrong side of the road or keep-
ing unregistered dogs. Yet the purity of the
ballot is worth striving for even at the
expense of wounding sensitive souls in Fitz-
roy. It is a more important matter than
compulsory enrolment or compulsory voting
or proportional representation or any other
of the fancy electoral devices with which
the politicians have pursued the public of
late years, and which have contributed no-
thing to the general good, although the
opportunities/ for corruption have sensibly
increased, and are increasingly availed of.
The comfortable theory is that the will of
the majority prevails at. general elections.
Under the conditions existing in Australia
the real majority may be defeated by a min-
ority aided by a gang of impersonators util-
ising the advantages afforded hy unwieldy
electorates, postal and absent voting and the
nomadic habits of a considerable part of
the population. Reasonably clean elections
might be secured by obliging the voter to
deposit an electoral certificate (the cost, of
course, would have to be borne by the State)
containing the means of identification (or
some of them) required in passports, the
same to be returned to him after every poll.
But Australian legislators, while tremend-
ously keen on chasing old ladies into the
courts because they haven’t got their names
on some superfluous roll, are strangely apa-
thetic about keeping the well of democracy
undefiled and protecting the honest elector
against the ruffianly variety.
4
The Country Party, Such As It Is.
The only positive tendency the Federal
Country party has developed is the tendency
to try whether another run can’t be got out
of the old fiscal ghost. To help in this good
work the Country party in Victoria has built
a Town and Country Union to facilitate the
taking in of the city importer and the land-
jobber, and, if he is of any value, the Single-
tax crank. Sundry Laborites hastened to
give the movement their blessing, and a
rush of blessings is anticipated if the show
reveals any promise of causing disruption.
The gospel of the Foreign-trade Country
party is that the farmer is a trodden-on and
looted victim by reason of the duties on im-
ported cheap-labor agricultural implements,
fencing-wire, etc., and that, if these were
abolished, and the local industries destroyed
by the dumping process, the good kind im-
porter wouldn’t take advantage of his new
monopoly to push up the price. He charges
sinful figures in Maoriland and Argentina,
but anything of the sort would be contrary
to his generous nature in Melbourne. The
farmer seems to lend a fairly spacious sun-
burned ear to these representations. It is
also advanced that the ineffectual tariff,
which lets in so much that Australia is
among the record importing countries of the
world and buys a great deal more than it
can pay for, is a prohibitive affair and keeps
out everything, wherefore it should be low-
ered to let in everything instead. Owing to
the Customs receipts (or maybe the income-
tax) the Treasurer has a disreputable sur-
plus with which he basely pays off bits of
debt, and this is counted to him for extortion
and unrighteousness. And as nobody has much
faith in the sturdy Protectionism of either
Fable Page, the country doctor, or Bruce,
the city importer, and it is questionable if
anybody has any faith in W. M. Hughes,
whose resurrection may come about, the
Foreign-Trade and Low-Tariff ghost may
really have a ghost of a show, especially
if those who run it are not too particular as
to the company they keep. The Communist,
for instance, would as soon help to destroy
the tariff as anything else.
4
The Decline of Australian Oratory.
Marshall Lyle is glad, too: —
When critics discuss the subject of the decline of
Australian oratory, much confusion arises owing to
prevalent mistakes as to what is oratory. Under the
general term of oratory there is wrongly included
diverse forms of oral delivery, or orality, such as
young students’ debates, discussions on public
forums, the Domain or Yarra Bank, false speech and
sham speech in Parliaments, pulpit dead-doggery,
after-dinner bibulosities and multiform bletherskite.
What is true oratory? Oratory is the great art of
persuasion directed towards giving, in a particular
instance, a certain direction to human action. Its
faculties are judgment and imagination. It requires
both. Without imagination the Parliamentary
speaker sinks to the mere dry arguer, the debater,
the calculator, syllogist or sophist, the dealer in
figures, the compiler of facts, the mason but not the
architect of tne pile. Speakers of this sort never
attract audiences. They are not orators.
The great father of ancient oratory was accus-
tomed to say that action was the first, second and
last quality of an orator. The object of the orator
is not art for art’s sake, or to entertain. Delivery
is not of the most importance in true oratory, but
delivery is very important in sham-speaking and
quasi-false speech. Edmund Burke’s delivery has
been described as execrable, and in some of his finest
speeches he emptied the House. Burke never would
have won credit in an A.N.A. debating competition,
controlled by the oratory-destroying rules of the
Association.
In Parliaments it has been recognised that orality
wearies a House, and prevents action. This is the
principal abuse of public speaking of which the press
of Australia justly complains. Orality has its ruin-
ous effect upon oratory, literature, the standard of
thought, on public business, upon vigorous action,
and gives a wide field to dull mediocrity. In U.S.A.,
where in public affairs language is inflated and sur-
charged with pomposity, incoherent imagery, exag-
gerated descriptions and windy tongue-wagging, Con-
gress had to adopt a time limit for speeches, and the
English Parliament followed Congress a few years
afterwards. Farther back in time even the Council
of Trent had to do the same. Farther back still, the
Greeks likewise.
Free speech is good and publicity safeguards
liberty. But free speech is bad when it destroys
liberty. It has become recognised that orality can
kill liberty. When debates were conducted with
closed doors, there were no demands for speeches for
Buncombe, no clap-trap for the galleries, no flour-
ishes for the ladies, no necessity for time-limits. But
closed doors shut out utterances which might rouse
the people to the vindication of justice and the over-
throw of tyranny. So we must have open doors.
But we have to pay the price. There are in every
Parliament the noisy and loud-mouthed members
who are provided for those who are more easily cap-
tivated, by strength of lungs than by strength of
argument, the declaimers who are controlled by
sentimentalism, the facetious and satirical speakers,
the wits of the House for those who want to be
amused. But from the point of view of business, for
the direction of human affairs, and for the manage-
ment of enormous enterprises involving millions of
capital in socialistic undertakings, the vast majority
of Parliamentary speakers, such as these, are public
nuisances who should be suppressed and detested. A
time limit has had to be provided for them to shut
down their sham speeches. Not only in this way,
but also through the machinations of Party govern-
ment, the politicians have destroyed the chances of
oratory re-appearing in modern Parliaments. Party
government makes members slaves, and strangles
liberty of utterance.’ An orator must have liberty
of utterance. Conjoined with the evil of Party gov-
ernment we have the secret Caucus. Where is the
place for oratory under Party government and Cau-
cus rule?
There is notning foolish in distinguishing between
rhetorical and business capacity. A man may be
able to talk well and admirably manage a business
concern. But if we move above the range of ordin-
ary rhetoric to the fine art of oratory on the one
hand and to the capable management of a great
department in the modern State on the other, it is
hard to realise that anyone can excel in both. He
would require to be a mental pyramid and capable
of being in two different places, at least, at the one
time. But excellent speech is not and never was the
chief test of human faculty, or the measure of a
man’s ability for any true function whatsoever. The
plain truth is that Parliament does not and cannot
consist of orators. With two or three exceptions,
and these doubtful, Parliamentary weight has in
England not been proportionate to rhetorical power.
The British in times of peace show a preference for
men who display ability in managing the finances
and commercial interests of the country. It would
be a good thing for Australians if they did the same.
But we need not fear for the future of true oratory
in Australia. Great issues are beginning to appear
on the horizon, which the time-serving politicians in
Parliament fear to even mention. But in the present
state of the Australian Parliaments we must not ex-
pect an orator to arise inside any of the Houses.
And for the due discharge of the pressing business
of the country it is better that it should be so.
+
Some Small-Sister Politics.
Tasmanian Labor politicians profess some-
thing akin to contempt for the new Town
and Country party which is endeavoring to
rise from the ashes of the discredited
Nationalist and Cocky organisations. Pre-
mier Lyons and others point out that the
platform and personnel of the T.C.’s betray
the fact that the same old incompetents of
Vandemonian Toryism are in charge, and
that the new name —T.C. (Till Counter-
manded) —is the painfully transparent
camouflage of confidence tricksters. It must
he confessed that this somewhat jeering criti-
cism is not wholly unjustifiable, as political
word-warfare goes ; but the probabilities are
that the T. 0.. with all its imperfections,
will be accepted by anti-Laborites as a make-
shift rallying-point for the election cam-
paign—a centre for the collection and dis-
bursement of whatever funds may be made
available for political publicity operations.
Labor, of course, has such a centre in the
A.L.P.; but the local A.L.P. is a mere skele-
ton these days, without au ounce of financial
meat on its bones, and too weak to start on
a vigorous foraging campaign for an election
fund. Besides, Labor has lost its only news-
paper barracker, Hobart World, and will
have to buy all its publicity at full adver-
tising rates from the “enemy press.” This
means that Labor’s publicity will be almost
entirely got from the primitive soapbox—
and the soapbox in midwinter is a woefully
cheerless and ineffectual sort of pulpit. If
the Lyons party wins the day under these
circumstances —a win to which no unpre-
judiced observer, contrasting the Labor Gov-
ernment's record of service with that of the
bungles of its predecessors in office, can
deny its right—it will perform something
very like a miracle. To secure a majority
of the Assembly seats (16) Labor must win
an extra seat in Bass, Franklin, Wilmot and
Denison (or Darwin), and hold its own in
Darwin (or Denison). The four new quotas
required will probably take a turnover equal
to a 15 per cent, increase in Labor’s rela-
tive voting strength as indicated by the latest
election figures—those of the last Federal
election. In view of the well-known fact that
the Speck system of preferential voting gives
sitting members (of both parties, and how-
ever calamitous their party’s record) a pretty
considerable pull at the polls, these extra
quotas required to give Labor an increase
from 12 to 16, in a House of 30, will
take getting. It would not, therefore, be
astonishing to find, on election night, that
the parties had made a dead-heat of it, 15
all, and that neither Labor nor anti-Labor
could carry on as a Government without
stealing a Speaker from the opposite party.
If things should work out like that, or very
nearly like that, it will be one more proof
that party government and preferential vot-
ing are horses than can’t run in double har-
ness. One of them should go; and this paper
lias no doubt as to which of the two it
should be.
«
The Unmarried Mother.
Rita Cogiilan takes a bold line: —
“Surrounded by hoards of notes and gold, and with
no company save that of half-starved cats.” Such
was a newspaper account of the death of an old
unmarried woman, and the writer, speculating on the
probable causes leading up to the adoption of suen
an existence by many old, unmarried, misanthropic
women, says “they simply do not attract what are
called marrying men.” The remark is a forcible
illustration of the need for reform in the laws that
affect the social standing of the unmarried mother
and her child, and its author might have ventured a
little further and asked why, owing to her inability
to attract a “marrying” man, sny woman should be
denied the right to bear a child.
There is no logical reason why any woman should
die childless because of her failure to attract a
marrying man, nor for her being compelled to marry
any man before she can be recognised as a respectable
mother; yet, if she obeys the laws of Nature and
ignores those of Convention, she is ostracised socially,
despised morally, and her child designated a bastard.
Children were born when legitimacy and wedlock
were unknown terms, and (according to the teachings
of the Church) as descendants of Adam and Eve we
are all the offspring of a decidedly unconventional
alliance, much as we may despise in others that
from which we ourselves sprang.
It is safe to assume that maternal instinct exists
in every woman, or, to put it more plainly, the
desire to bear a child; yet only by conforming to
certain laws, in the framing of which she was not
consulted, can she carry out Nature’s intentions and
at the same time remain “respectable.” So, in most
cases, she stays respectable, also childless, and
wastes her affections on cats, dogs and parrots.
Richard King’s tragedy of the million superfluous
women becomes doubly tragic when one recollects
that each—or, at any rate, the greater part—of the
million is a potential mother.
If a woman wishes to remain single or, by force
of circumstances, is doomed to a celibate life, why
should she be denied the consolation of a child?
Happy marriages, we are told, are those based on
mutual respect and forbearance rather than on love.
By substituting toleration for these negative virtues
we arrive a step nearer the truth, and the single
woman desirous of a child is neither asking for,
nor offering, lifelong toleration, by any means. It
is the child she wants, not the father: he is simply
the means to an end.
I am not an advocate of free love; “free” is too
closely related to indiscriminate. I am merely a
supporter of the right of any woman to become a
mother without saddling herself with the encum-
brance of a husband, if she so chooses. Neither
have I any fault to find with the marriage laws, so
far as they relate to those immediately concerned.
If people wish to marry, let them do so, by all
means; it is their business, not mine. If, after
marriage, they find themselves totally unsuited to
each other, yet elect to remain together and drag
out the rest of their lives in a cat-and-dog atmo-
sphere, that also is their business, not mine, thank
God ! Neither is it any business of mine if a woman
det lines to run the risks of matrimony, but is willing,
to accept those of motherhood. But her child ia;
the most valuable asset Australia owns and is very-
much my business.
It is an indisputable fact, well known to those-
who interest themselves in the welfare of others,,
that a woman in straitened circumstances, left to-
battle singlehanded with the world for a family of
young children, will always put up a better fight
than a man similarly situated. She usually declines
to part with her family, preferring j»to work for
them 12 hours out of the 24 and spend the balance
of the day attending to their more intimate needs.
Her children generally grow up good citizens, as,,
through some mysterious mental process, they be-
come imbued with the idea at an early age that
thej- are responsible for their mother’s welfare, and
shape their conduct accordingly. Into citizens such
as these would the unmarried mothers’ children'
develop.
Idealists may discourse in beautiful phrases of
married love and dignify it with the title of a
mental emotion. Theirs is the permanent job of’
reconstructing the airy castles that experience con-
stantly shatters with the circumstantial evidence of
the Divorce Court; but maternal love, being recog-
nised as the most sincere and passionate form of
devotion in the world, deserves every encouragement..
For this reason, were I a legislator, I should intro-
duce into Parliament a much needed measure entitled!
“An Act to Protect and Assist the Unmarried Mother
and Her Child,” and it would be framed in such a-
manner that it would be kept busy living up to its
title by helping mothers to rear the aforesaid national
asset and finding it a job when it was ready to go-
to work. There would be a limit fixed to prevent
its becoming a business, for even in that city of
America which considered it cheaper to pay a
widowed mother sufficient to enable her to remain at
home and look after her children rather than risk
their becoming undesirables from lack of maternal
supervision, the municipal responsibility only ex-
tended to a family of five.
To those stern moralists who consider the marriage
ceremony a sine qua non, I would mention that
Nature, when she endowed woman with the power
to bear children, omitted to make marriage essential
to the perpetuation <jf the race. Dame Nature is a
wise old lady, and her omission may have been a
deliberate exclusion.
*
“I Know He Never Done It.”
An order nisi lias been granted by Justice
Mann (Vic.) to review a majority decision
of J’s.P. given by the Port Melbourne Court
of Petty Sessions by which a charge of hav-
ing the care and management of a common
gaming-house was dismissed. One of the
presiding J's.P. announced that he did not
think the place had been proved to be a
common gaming-house, and then went on to
declare: “I have known the people and the
place for years, and the business carried
on in the shop is a proper one, and is well
conducted. I have never seen any evidence
of a gaming-house there.” Other J’s.P. made
somewhat similar statements. This is an excel-
lent example of the danger which must always
exist where the administration of justice is
left in the hands of laymen. The trained
legal mind has always before it the duty of
the Judge or magistrate to come to his deci-
sion on the evidence, the whole evidence and
nothing but the evidence before the court.
The Jijdges, the stipendiary and police-
magistrates know that it is a violation of
their oaths of office to import into a case
before them anything which has the taint
of personal knowledge, prejudice or “lean-
ing.” Anyone acquainted with Justices’ jus-
tice is well aware that it is almost impossible
to drill the mind of the average J.P. into this
condition of receptive neutrality. Either his
mind won’t receive it or he does not desire
it to. It was the recognition of this fact
and the notorious abuse of power in respect
of it that made N. S. Wales many years ago
determine that the Justices of the Peace in
Sydney should not have adjudicatory powers
in the courts presided over by the stipendiary
magistrates. This principle, however, does
not extend to the multiplicity of courts
which come within country police-magis-
trates’ districts. There the old evil still
persists. It is true that when the P.M. is
on the Bench the better type of honorary
magistrates are generally amenable to his
views, and. recognising his experience and
his knowledge of the law, are guided by him
in coming to a decision. This, however, is
not always so. Every P.M. has probably had
before him, what in the old days frequently
occurred in Sydney, the spectacle of the
packed Bench. His technical knowledge
may sometimes enable him to outwit the par-
tisan gathering, but there are occasions when
he has to submit and with a shrug of the
shoulders declare. “Well, gentlemen, you
over-rule me,” and allow a palpable offender,
on the evidence in court, to escape. He may
and probably does register his dissent from
the finding on the formal papers, and per-
haps reports the matter to the Department
of Justice —where it will probably find a
resting-place, unless public opinion nuickeos
the official memory into action. That the
Metropolitan Bench of Melbourne should, in
the interests of the impartial administration
of justice, be reformed on the lines of the
Sydney Metropolitan Courts there can be
no doubt. The necessity for such a change
is made obvious by the Port Melbourne case.
And N. S. Wales has not yet reached the
desirable limit either. It would, of course,
be out of the question in such scattered coun-
try communities as we possess to do away
wholly with the adjudicatory powers of the
honorary magistracy, usefully applied in
many cases, despite the risk of abuse; but it
should be mandatory that when the police-
magistrate is present he and he alone should
be the adjudicating authority.
«
Are We Downhearted?
“Nakiioda” isn’t either: —
The writer (B. 5/2/’25) who refuses to he down-
hearted because he can quote instances of self-sacrificc
on the part of mothers for their children, is resting
his optimism on frail foundations. Tigresses will
fight for their young, and the rhinoceros hornbill is
alleged to starve herself in the same cause. Whales
and pelicans display the same instinct, and even the


ldeal of Integrity
HT HE wonderful reputation of Smith & Waddington Bodies is
built on a foundation of solid worth and absolute integrity;
motorists throughout the whole of Australia know full well their
superlative quality and endurance.
SMITH & WADDINGTON DE LUXE BODIES
V'.;’- re exceptional durability in use by an exceptional honesty in construction Everv
hidden part is of the same faultless quality and made with the same meticulous cie as
.hose which are most conspicuous. Every Smith & Waddington craftsman conscientiously
works towards the main-
tenance of the Smith and
Waddington reputation;
he is trained in an atmo-
sphere of unswerving
fidelity to this Ideal of
Integrity, so that Smith
and Waddington Bodies
may everywhere be known
as the soundest value in
Motor Car Bodies it is
possible to produce.
Smith
m.
SPECIAL RETAILERS
COMPLETE ROLLS-ROYCE CARS..
41-6 t Parramatta Road, CAMPERDOWN. NSW
TELEPHONE: L 2731. . * **?* W *
LINES
Designs and innovations
introduced by Smith
and Wadding ton are
being copied through-
out the whole world.
Call and inspect this
modern plan t—the
largest custom-built
motor-car body
works in Aus-
tralia,.
]]]]]]]]
1
humble amoeba has a rudimentary notion of it. The
problem of society is not the individual. The
phenomenon that makes pessimists is humanity in the
mass. Mrs. Sarah Smith, who allowed her body to
be crushed in order to save her child, was doubtless
one of the millions of Sarah Smiths who enthusiasti-
cally endorsed the Allied blockade of Central Europe,
which caused the death or enfeeblement of millions
of European children. Innumerable instances could
certainly be obtained of Mrs. Smiths in Germany
who have sacrificed themselves for their children ; yet,
amongst all the Frau Schmidts of August,
1914, none was found to raise a word of protest
against the atrocities committed on women and chil-
dren by German troops in Belgium.
There is cause for optimism, but it does not rest
on the hackneyed grounds of a common virtue
shared by fishes. It resides in the fact, which is
not as platitudinous as it sounds, that truth must
prevail. It may take billions of years to do it,
but it will prevail in the end.
Let us follow into three paths:—
(1) When man first began to think he started to
lationalise about himself, and though his reasoning
was often faulty, what was right in it has survived.
There is no instance of a truth, once having been
conceived, ever perishing. The opponents of
a new idea, if it is a true idea, are
forced to be active in its propagation. The
first stirrings of criticism of the Bible’s infallibility
were treated with scorn or indifference; now some
of the most daring of the Higher Critics are to be
found amongst divines.
(2) War is a huge vested interest, rooted in all our
institutions. The popular argument that there always
has been war is being upset by ethnologists ; that it
pays has been denied by economists, who have been
confirmed by recent experience. One by one its
sanctions are being stripped from it, and some day it
will be a naked anachronism that will be pitch-
forked out of existence.
(3) A million methods for making everybody
happy have been put forward, including unionism,
socialism, syndicalism, imperialism and anarchy.
None of them have been conspicuously successful;
but we are beginning to see dimly that population
pressure is at the root of most of our social troubles,
even those of trades unions.
When the person who refuses to be downhearted
quotes R. L. Stevenson., who spent his whole exist-
ence running away from life, until finally he found
refuge in Samoa, he is making his case still weaker.
Nothing is gained—in fact, everything is lost—by
pretending that men and women are angels. They
are very far from angels, as all of us privately know ;
and this is far from the best of all possible worlds.
The only decent thing to do about it is to try to
make it better; and disillusionment is necessary to
breed the divine discontent that makes men fig'nt
for a better future.
+
Australian Telegraph Service.
Australian telegraph performance during
the past few months has surely been the
worst on record. Week after week business
between Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane
drags along a half-day in arrears. This
means that messages lodged in these cities
after noon are not delivered at the other
end till next day. And once a week on an
average since October last Melbourne-Sydney
business has lagged behind r a full day, i.e.,
not one ordinary telegram lodged in either
city was delivered at the other end till next
day. True, a slow-working circuit was
patched up for double-rate urgent traffic:
this “urgent” system has degenerated into
a sinful device by which the public is forced
to pay 100 p.c. extra to secure any service
at all. The cities mentioned work direct;
where relaying has to take place, as be-
tween the eastern and western States, the
position is worse. On an average only about
twice a week are any messages lodged in
W.A. delivered in Tas., Vic., N.S.W. or
Queensland on the same day, and it is little
better with S.A. business. Really, Aus-
tralia hasn’t a telegraph service at all. Even
considered as a telegraph-letter service, it
can only be classed as moderate. Reasons:
(1) Insufficiency or total absenee of line mainten-
ance. The policy of the Department is to wait
till something happens (pole-collapse, etc.), and
tnen rush a gang of local laborers to che spot;
telegrams suffering a delay of half a nay or so
meanwhile. Faults of various kinds (nearly all
preventible) are so frequent that the full complement
of lines is rarely available. The public pays in
loss, inconvenience and “double-rate” what the
Department “economises” in linemen’s salaries. It
should here be mentioned that thanks to proper line
maintenance delay in railway telegraphs is unknown.
(2) The Department’s obstinacy in not admitting
that the Murray Multiplex and Creed systems of
“high-speed” telegraphy have proved failures; they
were not designed for such long lines as link—or
separate—Australian capitals. A day without fre-
quent stoppages is unknown. The Melbourne-Sydney
Murray recently took six weeks off. It was rewired
—no result. One day it started; no one knew why—
it just started. That is the situation with the
Murray after four years’ experience. A three-hours
run and three weeks in hospital is the best and
worst of the flickering Creed during 12 months.
(3) Understaffing. When they are going, the
Creed and Murray systems turn the messages out
typed, ready for delivery. The Wheatstone telegraph,
which, with their advent, was to have been dumped,
turns them out in dots and dashes, which have to be
translated by typists. With a fine disregard for
contingencies, the copying staff was disbanded. Yet
there is never a day but the Wheatstone has to be
brought into action. Baskets fill with copy—and
not a copyist in sight! In the Eastern capitals it is
common for business to remain “in the basket”
12 and 14 hours.
The remedies are obvious. Hand-working,
assisted by the Wheatstone, particularly for
press matter, should be more largely availed
of. Then, if all the lines were kept in order,
the busiest day’s work could be coped with.
♦
The city fathers of Rockhampton (Q.)
have been stirred to activity regarding
the ever-present rat menace by the discovery
of rat leprosy among the rodents caught
around tli e shopping centre of the town.
This disease, though caused by similar bacilli
and giving rise to lesions almost identi-
cal with those of human leprosy, has been
thought to be incapable of transmission to
man ; but experiments in this direction have
been few, owing to the dearth of would-be
suicides. What is more significant is that
several cases of human leprosy have been
found in the neighborhood during the last 12
months. It would certainly appear that
HE COULD NOT TELL A LIE.
[George Washington, born Feb. 22, 1732.]
No, no, it was not George who lied; it was th e camera rather out of focus.
leprosy is stealthily increasing its hold in
Australia, and stricter measures should be
taken to deal with the situation.
; ♦
Berlin has just discovered that a Russo-
Japanese-Cliinese treaty was signed in
January whereby China is to provide 800.000
men for the unholy alliance, and Japan and
Russia will clothe and arm them, while
Russia is to place a Red army of 200,000 at
China’s disposal, and Japan is to supply
Russia with a war fleet in exchange for an
island. The story is pretty, and is even
partly true. The only flaw is that the
Chinese Government which negotiated it
isn’t a Government any more, and was not
much of a Government when it existed. It
was a temporary affair which mainly lived
in the hectic but debilitated imagination of
Sun Yat Sen, who calls himself President
of China, and has lately been flirting with
the Bolsheviks in Peking. The scheme he
had in his head was to get his new friends
to unify China for him and then withdraw
and hand the fruits over to him. The later
Roman emperors, Indian princes and Peru-
vian Incas had the same bright idea. Sun's
countrymen showed their good sense by giv-
ing his project or conspiracy short shrift.
Y\ hat looms out of the murk, however is
sinister enough. It indicates the tendency
to draw together of the three “untouch-
ables” of international society; and the in-
terest of the fourth outcast, Germany, in
the proceedings is natural.
♦
A recent cable reported an impending
merger of all the cable companies. There
is already a big English combination embrac-
ing 11 companies with a Capital of 25 mil-
lions and an underwater nervous system of
150,000 miles. capital in the busi-
ness has expanded since 1572 from £2,000,000
with a mileage of 8000 to £50.000,000 with
a mileage of 325,000, and most of it is Brit-
ish. It was a sturdy cotton-spinner of Bir-
mingham who risked his wealth in linking-
ni» America and Europe. In those days
countries were as eager to be joined up to
tne English system as a Sydney suburbanite
to be connected to fhe local water mains.
Eater the value of cables for defence began
to dawn on statesmen, and a battle began
tor underwater supremacy. God-forsaken
sandbanks like Midway Island or coral atolls
like lap and Cocos suddenly acquired immense
importance as landings for cables, and Japan
ami other countries refused landing rights
to foreign companies, preferring to do with-
out communications until they could own
them. As a matter of course Germany
pushed out som e determined and highly un-
remunerative feelers into depths already
G,3 e im y , 0t J le f pc T le - The German-
i utcii cable loafed on three messages a day
T^r 1 .Shanghai to Menado (Netherlands
nicked ie 11111 a - le Japanese Government
picked it up during the war and diverted it
to their own uses The British Government
did the same to the German Atlantic cables.
The latest move is the cable companies’ reolv
to the threat of wireless competition ana
nc ndes a scheme of improvement whi e
i i eno^ ously mcrea se the capacity of
cab Jes. The struggle between the 1 two in-
terests will certainly result in a wholes-iL
acceleration of communication between this
country and the rest of the world. ™ S
fault of the honoraries who are
allowed to maltreat justice in the lower
Victorian Courts was stated by jK
VVoinarski when a case with a first-rate
defence came before him. On asking why
the defence was not submitted to tlnf lower
Court lie was told that the unpaid have q
fashion of saying that it is a waste of time to
~0 into the defence, as they intend to com-
mit. The astonished Judge’s comments
we™ appropriate to the occasion. It is one
of the defects of a roltten system that men
may be kept for monSths in' the shadow of
improvable charges because justices conscious
of tlieir inexpertness weakly transfer their
to a judge and jury. On £
other hand the criminal who can keep his
defence to himself until he has heard the
SoTrenlf ’ and then has time to concoct a
good reply, reaps an auvantage. These are
more reasons why the honorary should go.
♦“
Tas. Assembly sat for two days in January
and then hoisted the shutters until after the
elections. The chief business of the Tom
Ihttmb session was to receive the Council’s
amendments to the Shale Oil Rill The "
amendments, though reducing the size of the
concessions which Ministers had proposed to
offer the Australian Shale Co. as an induce"
rnent to test the Bronder process in Tas
Were not serious enough to cause the Govern-
ment to drop the bill or to create a consti-
tutional crisis, so they were accepted. The
JjOff. Councillors had got their way for once
and were quite perky. Rut, just as the pro-
ew in -m were a message announced
that Tames O Grady, Governor, had re-
ceived the Land and Income Taxation Rill
from the Speaker, and had, in the name of
his Majesty the King, given his assent to the
said bill. Thus for the second time in the
last, six months of its life of three-score and
ten years the Leg. Council of Tasmania had
.‘■ en flouted by the King’s representative,
its will in regard to a money bill set at
naught, its very existence as an essential
part ot the legislative authority of the State
ignored, and the House of Assembly, whose
custom for 70 years had been to meekly
accept the dictation of the Upper House, had
become ae facto the dominant Chamber. The
hopes that some of the Councillors had set
their hearts upon—that Governor O’Grady’s
diplomacy would find a way of reversing or
at least, modifying, the ruling which Admin-
istrator Niciiolls had given in November on
tdie Appropriation Rill—had turned to ashes.
The immediate and practical effect of the
setting aside of the Council’s amendment
is that taxpayers w’ill not be allowed to
deduct from their income-tax returns the
amount of tax already paid to the Common-
wealth. Treasurer Lyons’s excuse for this
tax upon a tax” is that the deduction would
rorfnil! e S , ta< i c ally t!n'ng from £12,000 to
120,000. and that, owing to the present grad-
ing of income taxation, Federal and State,
the wealthiest taxpayers would reap the
greatest benefit. But he admits that the re-
casting of the whole scheme of taxation is
necessary.
While manufacturing has run to such a
division of labor that the artisan in many
crafts has almost disappeared, the exact
opposite has been happening in the retail
business. The shoemaker has ceased to make
boots; he makes only one part of a particular
kind of boot. Rut the mercer sells hats and
ready-made clothing, brushes and leather
goods, as well as his main lines of trade: the
grocer stocks crockery and household iron-
mongery as well as perfumery and fancy
soaps ; in fact, only the limits of space pre-
vent him from adding a timber-yard and a
toundry. The large department stores are
increasing m number, and the smaller shops
imitate them as far as they can. The change
accounts for a great deal of bad salesman-
snip. While the manufacturer is trying to
turn out an article which is a little better
than all the rest of its kind, the salesman is
often incapable of telling the difference, and
passes his ignorance on to the public. From
this system the manufacturer does not get a
? a ] r The sellers of his goods waste a
Jot of his _ intelligence and enterprise. So
salesmanship as well as manufacture calls
tor the patriot’s attention.
_ ♦
Industriously searching for political offal,
Labor-leader Lang smelt a mammoth mouse
in the. fact that expert Raven, who helped
to report on the N.S.W. railways, is con-
nected with a company which had tendered,
m response to advertisement, for a local rail-
way contract of moderate size, and got the
same. The Chief Commissioner says the
rir S AA^\ as , that , its t(>,| der (£417,000) was
±40,000 below the next lowest, but the ex-
ireasurer sees corruption in the air, and
tears the worst. Statesmanship of the minor
sort is mostly made up of forebodings and
suspicions.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, ixew Zealand.
I
I
\
Ss
68
mm
Peapes’ Special at 30/-
An excellent boot for business or
general wear. Made of the best
selected parts of the leather on a
last of Peapes’ own design.
Dark Tan Willow Calf Oxford
Laced Boot, medium welt, strong
canvas lining, neatly perforated
cap, elongated toe. Beautifully
finished 30/-
Also in Black Box Calf.. 30 / -
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size and color, wide,
medium or narrow fitting.
Peapes § Co. Ltd.,
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
George Street (opposite
Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Euxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
After long and heated proceedings, in the
course of which the law was practically told
by imported bad characters to get work, or
alternatively to put its head in a bag, Aus-
tralia contrived to get the extraneous and
venomous disturber who periodically holds
up its shipping and consistently tears up its
arbitration awards fined £l5O. For an indi-
vidual who, in addition to his other sins, is
doing his share to destroy our civilisation
and involve the country in the horrors of
civil war, the figure is moderate. Presum-
ably the local union and not the outside nuis-
ance will pay, and Thomas will get to work
on his next strike or his revolution. There
is abundance of authority for the exporta-
tion of outside nuisances, but when the man
behind the authority is a polite wet rag it
might as well not exist.
Visions of a turn of the wheel in Labor’s
favor have brought a rush of 43 candidates
for the Vic. Senate selection. Labor men
confidently? predict a win of three Senate
seats, with a possibility of four —the fourth
is the one which was filled by Hannan after
the death of Stephen Barker Hannan is,
of course, amongst the candidates, and so
is ex-Senator Blakey. E. J. Holloway, sec-
retary of the Trades Hall Council, is reck-
oned almost a certainty; and R. S. Ross,
thinker and writer, a stalwart among .ad-
vanced Labor men for 25 years past, is well
forward in the crush. The ladies are repre-
sented by Miss Jean Daley, Miss Muriel
Hengney and Mrs. A. Katz; but their skirts
will hamper them. It is positively disgrace-
ful that they should; but there you are.
Although the Federal Labor Conference
repudiated compulsory military training, its
Red exemplars in Russia have established
a compulsory militia system, and have abol-
ished the election of officers and other inno-
vations advocated by the Melbourne dele-
gates. In the war against Poland the Red
Army proved to be a worthless rabble, and
the object now is to form ah efficient force,
governed by most of the old military rules.
On a recent day £250,000 in gold reached
this country from the United States, pre-
sumably borrowed in some way or another,
and excited newspapers gave big headlines
to the event, and photographs of the boxes,
with people gazing at the |strange sub-
stance. Most likely it was a fraction of
our own gold come back after costly pere-
grinations about the globe. During the last
five years Australia exported £23.559,355 of
precious metal and received £202,150 worth,
for other countries have been sitting tight
on their hoards, and if they owed us money
for wool or wheat or bullion they told us
blandly to take it out in their factory pro-
ducts, or else whistle for it. Wherefore this
country owes about 60 millions more of gold
debt than it did five years ago, and has accu-
mulated about half a sovereign to pay with.
Written in a murky atmosphere:—
Lamb, K.C., who has a commission to report on
sundry municipal transactions in, Sydney, where un-
paid aldermen have contrived to live sumptuously
without laboring overmuch, will next be asked to
PRETTY STRONG.
“Federal Labor-leader Charlton said the tide of Labor was stronger than ever, and it would soon
have complete control in Australia.”
CHARLTON: “Come on —'ere you are! It's stronger than ever.”
AUSTRALIA : “I knew I smelt something!”
ascertain why the new Labor-bossed Council rushed
into three-years agreements for the purchase of
dearer coal —£16,000 dearer altogether, compared
with the 1924 contracts —when prices are everywhere
expected to fall, and whether the Government has
arranged to get coal from at least one of the muni-
cipal contractors for 2s. 3d. a ton less than the
municipal figure. Evidently a Royal Commission de-
partment will have t 6 be tacked on to the Town Hall
if the author of the new “Lamb’s Tales” is to do
his job thoroughly.
If the Radical section of the Yic. Cocky
patty Can get Its way at the Convention to
be held next month, the two pacts—Federal
and State—will be denounced. Then Allan,
Yic. Premier, and his five colleagues in the
State Cabinet, and Gibson and Hill, of the
Bruce-Page team, will have to decide what
they will do. if Allan and his squad do
not make a quick move the six Libs, in the
Coalition will walk out, and theye will be
another crisis. Of course, Allan can hold on
till July if he likes, and fill up any vacancies
in the Cabinet from the ranks of the 11
available Cockies in both Houses, but such a
team would be mere caretakers. Whatever
the decision of the Convention, troublous
times are ahead next session for the Allan-
Peacock combination.
Queensland Labor party is not very happy
over the fight for the leadership, which will
become vacant at the end of this month
owing to Theodore’s departure. There are
two candidates—Gillies (Agriculture), dour
and physically not strong, who has been
Theodore’s loyal deputy; and McCormack
(Lands), who some time ago made up his
mind that lie was going to die. A good deal
of bitterness is being introduced, and as Theo-
dore will not consent to hang On to the job
till the party is able ; to. take a sane view, it
is possible that the wiSeiiCads Will} td preserve
harmony, put up a compromise candidate on
the 25th, when the election takes place.
McCormack could win if Alf Jones (Mines)
said he would support him; but Jones isn’t
at all likely to do that, because he thinks
that Gillies has earned the place by liis long
service as deputy—that, in fact, is the
only reason why he has refused nomination
himself. If, however, he sees that Gillies
cannot win, he will probably consent to be a
candidate. Stopford is also mentioned; but
if McCofmack can’t , wiii it is doubtful if
Stopford can, though lie is ting Of file f&Veeful
men in the Ministry, and will certainly chine
to the front.
The people of the Queensland capital
(there are 144,357 names on the roll) are on
Saturday to elect their first Greater Bris-
bane Council. There are only two candi-
dates for the mayoralty—Jack Keogh, a
storekeeper-Laborite, and accountant W. A.
Jolly, of the United party, as the Gnash-
Cockies now call themselves —but for the 20
W'ards there are 49 nominees, 9 of them In-
dependents. The Labor candidate for Pad-
dington is John Arthur Flhelly, sometime
member for the district and State Treasurer.
Fihelly’s prospects of securing £4OO p.a. (he
has promised to turn it in if he becomes
Federal member for Brisbane) are much
brighter than those of some of his colleagues
Who, lacking his personal popularity, are
more heavily burdened by the party’s record
in South Brisbane, where it has achieved the
familiar deficit along with the highest rate
in. the metropolitan area. However, the
other side would be much more easy in its
mind if the Independents had never been
born. Queensland being a free country, vot-
ing is compulsory, which means that about
Id p.d:. of the electprs will be unavoidably
detained at tlifi seaSidb Or tile races di* some
such resorts.
The A.L.P. selection-bailot for the Senate
provides another illustration (they have been
numerous lately) of how immigrant extrem-
ists are gaining in the N. S. Wales section
of “the movement” at the expense of Labor-
ites of the old school. When 5000 votes had
been counted, Grant, of the Sydney Domain,
led the large field, with Dunn, another
Domain spouter, a good second and Gardiner
an indifferent third. Gardiner was one of
the original (1591) batch of Australian
Labor politicians. He has been in the
Senate since 1910, was a member of the
second Fisher Ministry, and is second in
command of the Federal party, with leader-
ship in the Second Chamber. Apart from
an Occasional rush oLCobdenism to the head
lie has proved himself a good Australian
always. Yet thousands of unionists turned
liim down ill favor of a garrulous Johnny-
eo.me-iately who was the pride of the I Won’t
Works, and who. not three, years ago stood
agaihst Selected Labor candidates. After the
last proceeding the gentlefiigii WaS. “re-
admitted to ( the movement with continuity
of membership,” but similar applications on
behalf of .the Australian-born Arthur Grif-
fith, who iiaS done 20 times more for Labor
than Grant Over will do, have been Coldly
refused:
The Vic. Parliamentary tabor party is
about to decide whb shall .SuccCed the late
J. W. Billson as deputy-leader: As Preitdei-
gast is just on 71, and has had everything
that can possibly come his way now, inelucb
ing the Premiership, he may stand hack be-
fore the end of the present Parliament, and
the deputy now chosen will be his successor.
Hogan, Tunnecliffe and Bailey, ex-Ministers,
are regarded as the trinity from which the
deputy will come. There are said to be in-
fluences at work to keep back Tunnecliffe
for the benefit of Hogan, and Tunnecliffe’s
friends may support Bailey in the end. In
point of ability, Bailey was second to none
in the Prendergast Cabinet.
There is no provision in the Common-
wealth Constitution for unseating a Senator
or member of the Reps, if his mind becomes
unhinged. So long as the House concerned
chooses to grant leave he can serve out his term.
If the House refuses leave and the Senator
can be kept quiet enough to walk through
the House —say, just before the motion for
adjournment: is put— once every two months,
lie can continue to hold his seat. The mental
infirmity of Senator E, J. Russell (Vic.),
now ail inmate of Sunbury Hospital, caused
a careful search to be made of the Consti-
tution, Hr. W. E. Jones, Inspector-General,
said bluntly that he didn’t propose to do
anything to oust or assist anybody else to
Oust the Unfortunate member, first, because
there wasn’t any power, and, second, because
it wasn’t iiis business. So Unless death
Claims him sooner, Russell, once the. bench-
inan of Hughes in a series of Ministries, will
Serve out his Senate term till June 30, 1926,
and the Nationalists will be a vote short.
A recent appeal to the British Home Secre-
tary to modify the restrictions upon the
admission of aliens fell on barren ground.
Britain has long since given up the ambition
to be the unlimited refuge of the oppressed,
and those who deserve to be oppressed, and
those who think they are oppressed when
they are only unwashed. Admission, the
Secretary said, wasn’t a right but a privilege,
and in these times privileges aren’t thrown
about promiscuously. After the alien has
got in, he is now therefore registered and
kept under inspection, and he may be pro-
pelled out for dealing in drugs, or leading a
vicious life, or for being “undesirable.” And
if these powers are considered insufficient,
“His Majesty, by Order in Council,” has
power to give himself power which he thinks
v'ill meet the case. In 1921 and 1922 the
U.lv. sent away nearlv 31.000 more strangers
than it received, and considered the loss a
gain.
THE SPOILERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Thanet’s isle they drove their ships
Because the sea was ridden white
With keels that were too plunder-light
For that hoarse song upon the lips
Of cramped men bending to the oar.
No merchant dared the deeps for trade;
The tribute of the coasts was paid
in blood on every ravaged shore.
■“lnland,” they said, “the little kings
Sit nodding over tales and wine.
The woods are full of beeves and swine,
The river meads are loud with wings,
Fat priests beside the altar stand,
The shrines are heavy with red gold;
For us the labored waves are cold —
Kinsmen, our work is on the land! ”
Afar they went by grove and field
As shipmen walk with rolling gait;
They filled the vales with death and hate,
And bore their wounds until they healed.
So good a land it seemed to them
They sheathed their swords to drive the plough,
And saw the yellow harvest bow,
Heavy with bread upon the stem.
They drove the plough, they drove the wheels
Till all the land was brown with men,
Till fifty ate the bread of ten
And famine trod upon their heels.
“Outward,” they said, “the tides run wild
With scudding foam and troughs of death ;
But far beyond men draw the breath
'Of open places undefiled.”
Afar they went on virgin soil
As ploughmen walk with heavy tread;
They sold red beef and clean white bread,
Contending fiercely for the spoil.
So good the land whose sap they spent
They scarce had need to drive the plough;
The wooded hills with shaggy brow
Laughed o’er a summer continent.
They hoarded wealth of easy trade
From those whose sweat made sweet the soil;
And craft seemed better far than toil
Where little kings were lightly made.
Though fifty ate the bread of ten,
No famine trod upon their heels ;
The cities thronged with shining wheels,
The far horizons sighed for men.
But where the North star lights the sky,
Beyond the wide seas ridden white
By trading keels in easy flight,
A people watched with hungry eye.
“Yonder,” they said, “the little kings
Are heavy with unguarded g01d”....
What honor shall the tiger hold
With the fat herd before he springs?
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


THE OUTSIDERS.
“Though many of Australia's secondary Industries ore closing down or languishing, the Government is allowing fresh records to be made in importations of cheap Beery."


H&t
,„///
Say
20
for
m
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist .
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Troophorse”: Fourteen years ago, Neigh-
bor, an aboriginal of the Roper River
tribe, was being taken with other natives
to the Roper River police-station, in chains,
to answer a charge of cattle-spearing, when
he gallantly jumped into the flooded river
and with difficulty rescued mounted-constable
Johns, who had been stunned by a kick
from his horse. After bringing Johns to
shore, Neighbor, still manacled, mounted the
torse and conveyed the news of the con-
stable’s mishap to the police-station some
distance away. For all this Neighbor was
let off and given the Albert Medal, bearing
Ihe inscription: “Presented in the name ot
his Majesty to Neighbor, an aboriginal native
of the Roper River, for gallantry m saving
life on February 1, 1911.” It was the
first time in the history of the Northern
Territory that the heroism of an aboriginal
lmd been thus recognised. Since those glovi-
SO APPRECIATIVE.
“My new housemaid is a treasure!”
“Really! Does she do the housework so wonderfully ?”
“Oh, no—hut she never finds fault with the way I do it.”
ous days poor old Neighbor lias served many
years in the Darwin Gaol for divers sup-
posed offences; but since the recent changes
in the administration of the Territory s
Police Department, he has been able to get
a. fair crack of the whip. At present he is
acting as tracker to mounted-constable J. 0.
MacNamara, at Mount Alexander, near Cal-
edon Bay. The party at this temporary sta-
tion is spending the wet season in trying
to clear up the mystery of the supposed two
white women survivors from the Douglas
Mawson.
* * * *
“The Deacon” : That “There she spouts!”
yarn about the pioneer Henty (B. 5/2/’25)
recalls the tale told of a popular padre down
the N.S.W. southern line. Ilis reverence
usually has a pretty fair horse in action
with an eye on suburban meetings, and he had
arranged a trial for 3 P-'n. ; and then an
unexpected funeral claimed Ins services so
that the trial had to take place m his
absence Now, the cemetery overlooked the
course; and as lie chanted the long, familiar
service his eye wandered and tell on the
gallop; and the padre had the toughest
struggle of his life to keep to the solemn
“Ashes to ashes” ritual. “An’ it serves me
right for letting me attintion wander, says
his riverince ; anyway, just at the finish the
staid old parochial steed which had been
tied up alongside the course broke away, and,
startled by the galloping hoofs, did his best
to break evens, but only succeeded in break-
ing the buggy.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : A Melbourne suburb
has provided the latest in lightning-quick
courtships. A man had rung up on the
’phone to demand why his best-girl had not
kept an appointment; the girl had responded
bitterly that she had changed her mind and
gone cold on the marriage before a registrar
that had been arranged for the morrow. But
right in the sound of the sharp cut-off came
another woman’s voice. No. 2 had heard the
conversation and was expressing sympathy;
and shortly she was explaining about her
own fractured heart. After a rapid inter-
change of views the gent, consented to an
immediate meeting. No. 2 having caught him
on the rebound, as it were, and the end of
ic was that the engagement with the regis-
trar was kept, after all. After the ceremony
the happy couple found two ’phone girls
waiting outside to present the bride with
a bunch of flowers. A girl in the exchange
had been told about the romance, and the
bouquet had been subscribed for by the sen-
timental damsels who regarded it all as just
lovely!”
* * * *
“S.W.H.”: Even the eagle eyes of Sydney
Sun's “Our City” paragraphists don’t catch
all the human-interest items. The other
morning, in one of our most bustling suburbs
at quite the busiest time of the day, an
elderly man. clad only in his pyjamas, saun-
tered'out. of the gate of a private hospital
and calmly walked a hundred yards or so to
a tram-stop. When a tram came down the
hill he climbed into a back smoker, scaring
almost to squeal-pitch several flappers who
W ere seated therein. Just as the tram was
starting, and when everyone was wondering
what ought to be done, a motor-car, carry-
ing two obviously excited nurses, dashed
round a corner and set out in hot pursuit.
The crowds, now realising that they were
being offered some movie-drama from real
life, absorbedly watched the motor draw
abreast of the tram, the nurses scream to
the motor-man to pull up, and that be-
wildered person fall in with their wishes.
But hardly had the tram come to a stand-
still before the liyjama-clad passenger, evi-
dently disliking the prospect of being handed
over to the now hysterical nurses, jumped
to the road and ran for his life. He made
excellent time for a hundred yards ; then he
was tackled low by a pedestrian on the foot-
path and held until his pursuers arrived and
took him back to durance. Then the traffic
resumed its ebb and flow and the hard reali-
ties of life re-ass<?rted their sway.
* * * *
“F.N.W.” : About midway between South
Africa and Westralia, the P. and O. Barra-
bool came upon a strange craft wallowing
dolefully in the trough of the sea. The
derelict’s ark-like shape puzzled the oldest
salt on board. On closer inspection it proved
tn be a large steel dredging-hopper on which
was surmounted a smaller edition of the
same style securely set in a form of iron
cradle. The bottom craft was of about 1000
tons capacity, and bore the mystic sign
11.A.M. 79. The baby declared itself to be
11.A.M. 37, and probably went 200 tons. The
two-storeyed affair was in good condition, and
there were indications that the unauthorised
cruise had lasted between three and six
months. Trailing wires proclaimed the con-
traption’s bad behavior to some no doubt
HER CUE.
“Might I ask for this hoy?”
“Please do — I’ve been dying to refuse you all the evening.”
disconsolate tug, whilst a broken rudder im-
parted a dismal aspect to the other extreme
of the outfit. As the work of towing the
stranger to the nearest por£ (Fremantle,
1.700 miles) would only have meant financial
loss to a large passenger ship, its position
was broadcasted and reported to the Navi-
gation authorities ; and a few days later an-
other Australian-bound vessel sighted the
truant in a position that showed she was
galloping along e.-s.-e. at the dizzy speed of
IS miles per diem. In a month or so, pro-
bably, some tug-owner of Fremantle or Adel-
aide' will reach out a long arm and grab
the runaway as she passes the front door.
* * .* *
“Louden”: Patrick O’Flynn, ganger, was
signing on the new batch of navvies, and
everything was going swimmingly until he
came to the Dago. “Your name?” queried
Pat. “Pascall Bernardino Zaccari,” came
the reply. “Phwat?” Once again the
Italian obliged. “Where d’ye come from?”
the ganger demanded after a pause. “South
Aus.,” said the Italian. “Thin Crow’s your
name —K R-r-r O.” And down went the
name on the paysheet.
* * * *
“II.II.”: The world’s most phlegmatic
market-gardener came to light in the accident
which caused the death of Hbenezer Baker,
an ex-Diggqr officer, and the injury of Eng-
lish cricketer Douglas and Dr. Gwynne
Hughes. He was driving the waggonette
into which the" motor-car with the three
white men crashed, its shaft piercing the
breast of Baker ; and the Chinaman was
thrown from his seat to the ground. When
the awakened residents of the neighborhood
.—the accident took place just before 1 a.m.
—poured out to help the injured they could
not find the waggonette-driver. _ Had he
crawled away somewhere, badly injured, to
die; or, frightened of the consequences,
sought a hiding-place? Not much! What
be had really done was to tramp home to
get a spare shaft. When he got back the
new shaft was stolidly fitted and he took his
property home.
* * * *
“Shed Hand” : Fremantle goods-sheds are
adjacent to the harbor wharves, and recently
an employee was ordered to remove a case
of empty tins from a truck which had been
shunted on to the wharf for loading pur-
poses. Instead of going through the usual
red-tape method of securing the package, the
man lifted it out of the truck and heaved it
over the railway fence. A big detective
swooped down on him and demanded, his
name and address, which was gaspingly
given. “And now,” said the demon, “yon
come along with me to the Harbor Board
office.” “But who are you?” asked the rail-
way man. “I’m Detective Blank,” said the
captor impressively. The shed-liand let out
a sigh of relief like an engine blowing off
steam. “Gor’ blime,” he said, “why couldn’t
yer tell me at first? You put the wind up
ine. I thought you was Tom Walsh.
* * * *
“Trapper” : No, you can t tell a sausage
by its overcoat. When the Euripides was
nearing Egypt the C-O. inspected our bat-
talion and picked out- ten youths, among
them myself, as
too delicate to
stand the hard-
ships of warfare;
so we were disem-
barked at Suez,
along with a num-
ber of leadswingers,
to be returned to
Aussie. But head-
quarters refused to
see eye to eye with
our Colonel, and
when the regiment
landed at Alexan-
dria and came to
Heliopolis we were
all waiting to re-
join. Thereafter we
“tiny ten” deter-
mined to prove our
fitness, and the
long route marches
with full packs
across the sands
gave us plenty of
opportunity. Two
of us were killed
at Anzac, but the
other eight hung
on to see many of
our stouter cobbers
e vacuate d. In
France three more
were killed in
action, but not one
of the other five
ever left the bat-
talion except be-
cause of wounds.
T liree recovered
enough to return,
and remained until
the war was over :
and all five sur-
vivors returned to
Aussie with good
war records and
stripes on their
arms. Incidentally, the Colonel who had
sought to pass us out never reached Gallipoli
himself. The “hardships ’ of Egypt settled
him !
* * * *
“Sixenate” : In a recent Melbourne divorce
suit it was elicited that the first rift in the
conjugal lute occurred on the morning after
the wedding, when the ’groom turned, on the
hride with, “Oh, you’re always asking for
money!” He got off the mark early; an-
other man, likewise cited as respondent to a
recent divorce petition, showed a slightly
more accommodating spirit. He notified the
sharer of his joys and sorroys, after bestow-
ing on her the first matutinal kiss, that he
had made provision for the household ex-
THE DEVIL TO PAY.
MRS. OWEN: “Good gracious! What's that
awful noise in the hack yard?”
MR. O. (in a stage whisper) “’S' the milk-
man.”
MRS. O. (puzzled): “Well, the billy's out ,
isn't it?”
THE DOOR: “Bang! Bang! Bang!”
MR. O.: “It’s not the billy — it's the bill!"
ponses—the money was in an envelope on
the dressing-table. Then he departed briskly
on the business of the day. The ructions
started that night when the new wife wanted
to know how much housekeeping she was ex-
pected to do on five shillings.
(Continued on page 16.)
LITTLE KISSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing a song of kisses,
Happy little blisses,
Stolen in a moment, treasured up in mind;
Not the peeks of duty,
But flirtation’s booty
Gathered by the wayside when circumstance was kind 1
Once ’twas in a lane
In the misty rain ;
In a room ; or in a garden ; in a jolly wood;
On a gloomy stair—
Why, just anywhere
Little kisses turn up slyly if a fellow’s good!
Not a one was bought
With an evil thought—
Just a touching of the lips in the way of Youth ;
Just a dainty miss,
Just a playtime kiss,
Fleeting as a butterfly, honest as the truth!
Each shall be a treasure
For your future pleasure,
Memory will hold in store red lips, cool and sweet.
When the days are closing,
When an old man’s dozing,
Little kisses will come back to tickle his conceit!
N.S.W.
HAROLD THIRKELL.


M£
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto.
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
Soap, and nothing
but pure soap
When you buy Pears’ Trans-
parent Soap, whether scented
or unscented, you know that
what you are getting is soap
and nothing but pure soap. The appearance of each
tablet is that tablet’s certificate of purity. Your own
eye is as good as an analytical chemist.
EARS
UNSCENTED
s*is
5°
arcnt
The above wrapper has re-
presented soap excellence
for over 100 years.
'T'RANSPARENT
ISO A P
Matchless for the Complexion
“R.N.W.”: In that portion of 0. E. W.
Bean’s “Story of Anzac” covering the assem-
bly of the warships and transports at Lem-
nos and the attack and occupation of the
Anzac sector on Gallipoli by the Australian
and M.L. forces, I can’t find mention of lan
Hamilton's special Force Order which was
posted iip on all the transports for several
days prior to the Landing. P’erhaps it is
worth publishing if only to destroy the illu-
sion that the magnificent battalions which
rushed the beach were unaware of what was
before them. Here it is:—
FORCE ORDER.
(SPECIAL.)
General Headquarters,
21st April, 1915.
Soldiers of France and of the King!
Before us lies an adventure unprecedented in
modern war. Together with our comrades of the
Fleet we are about to force a landing upon an open
beach in face of positions which have been vaunted
by our enemies as impregnable.
The landing will be made good, by the help of
God and the Navy; the positions will be stormed,
and the War brought one step nearer to a glorious
close.
“Remember,” said Lord Kitchener when bidding
adieu to your Commander—“ Remember, once you set
foot upon the Gallipoli Peninsula, you must fight
the thing through to a finish.”
The whole world will be watching our progress.
Let us prove ourselves worthy of the great feat of
arms entrusted to us.
(Sgd.) lAN lIAMII TON,
General.
* * * *
“El Verdugo”: Nevertheless, pigeon-flying
is worthy of Government encouragement in
the Commonwealth. Those who have been
objecting that it didn’t do all that was ex-
pected of it in France forgot to mention that
more than one German submarine was located
by pigeon-post, and the crew of at least one
torpedoed trawler owed their lives to a fast
flier which, although wounded, succeeded in
making its loft. Those who know northern
Australia and its conditions have grave
doubts about the certainty of wireless in
ANOTHER DISASTER.
“These aeroplanes are getting more danger-
ous than ever.”
“Someone killed?”
“No, hut I see a chap got married in one
yesterday.”
times of emergency, and it is not an un-
known experience for Thursday Island, which
has both radio and a cable, to be completely
cut off from the world by static on a grand-
organ scale and hurricane damage to the
Cape York line. The pigeon has a better
chance than electrical communication, and
he is so comparatively cheap to maintain
it is a wonder he is not far more popu-
lar.
“The Rumpus*: The M.C. of the bush
“darnce” may still linger here and there, but
gone beyond reach is the musical jingle of
the spoon-and-bottle accompaniment. When
I was a nipper, at our bush pub in Queens-
land, my legs above the knees used to get
blue with bruises through keeping the spoons
on the move while a dreamy waltz was in
progress. Two teaspoons and two empty
beer bottles comprised the “instrument,” the
handles of the spoons being placed dowm the
necks of the bottles, and the bottles bumped,
bottom downwards, on the legs of the sitting
player, in time with the step —one, two-three;
one, two-three; one, two-tliree.
WRONG IN HIS COUNT.
“Philip said lie was in the seventh heaven when I accepted him.”
“Oh, did he? I thought he'd only been engaged five times before.”
“T.D.”: The casual Australian again!
The other day during a sailing race on the
Brisbane River, one of the for’ard hands
was knocked into the water and was just
at his last gasp when a rescuer arrived
fr> m one of the competing craft. After
getting his man aboard the nearest boat,
the rescuer dived over the side, swam rapidly
after his own craft and resumed his place
on the sheet.
* * * *
“James B.” : Here’s my queer coincidence.
Forty-seven years ago I travelled by the mid-
night train from Goulburn (N.S.W.) with
a woman whom I had known from childhood.
In her arms she had her first baby. I never
again saw or heard anything of mother or
child till the other day, when I found my-
self once again in a train leaving Goulburn
at the same hour, and fell into conversation
with a fellow-traveller, a priest. He was
the baby of 47 years ago.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The South African Labor
Minister for Justice, one Van Roos, has sud-
denly ordered the release of about a thou-
sand prisoners, the same being either persons
who had received a three months’ sentence
before December 31 last or. persons sentenced
under the liquor laws who had less than six
months to serve. What the idea was is a
little obscure, but it is quite possible the
wily Boer was anxious to liberate some per-
son or persons without attracting particular
attention,_ for burning down the house to
roast a pig is a favorite game of the breed.
Liquor-law prisoners are almost invariably
men convicted for supplying drink to Kaffirs.
This is rigidly banned throughout S’Africa;
the men who degrade themselves to it are
mostly low-class Jews and other wastrels,
despised and rejected of their fellows. There
must have been a bright-looking exodus from
some of the gaol-doors, especially at Johan-
nesburg, when the sly-grog sellers came out
in battalions.
* * * •
“Quiz”: Melbourne Customs officers take
few chances. Some years ago it dawned
upon them that the possibility of opium being
smuggled from steamers carrying Chinese
crews was not removed until the vessels had
actually left Port Phillip; hence an order
that such vessels should be shadowed for
several miles down Hobson’s Bay. The idea
was that the drug might be cast overboard
and picked up by confederates for convey-
ance to some quiet landing-place. One morn-
ing a while ago it looked as if vigilance was
at last to be rewarded: several Chinese were
seen to drop an object over the stern of their
ship. Speeding to the spot in their launch,
the Customs men recovered a floating wooden
box which, on being opened, was found to
be stuffed with straw. The Chows were still
grinning over the poop.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Touching interrupted weddings.
A farmer’s daughter in Northern Victoria
was courted successfully by a plausible young
fellow from town. The wedding-day arrived,
but about an hour before the ceremony was
to take place the bride, accompanied by a
bridesmaid, called at the hotel where the
'groom was staying, and requested him to
answer a couple of questions: (1) Why had
he called himself a bachelor? (2) What
had he done with his wife in Melbourne?
The flabbergasted man had scarcely begun his
halting explanations when the bridesmaid
sailed into him, and gave him such a merci-
less hiding that, instead of going to church,
he went to bed for a week or so. Later, it
came out that the bride’s brother, not being
satisfied with his prospective brother-in-law,
had made inquiries and elicited some damn-
ing truths. Then he borrowed a brides-
maid’s rig-out and took the law into his own
hands.
* * * *
“The Deacon” : The acquittal in Paris of
a Polish actress, who shortened the suffer-
ings of her dying lover by killing him at his
own request, lias aroused considerable con-
troversy in Britain and the U.S.A. as to
the legitimacy of her action and the degree
of guilt. There will be no argument as far
as Rome is concerned. The explicit teach-
ing of the Church is that it would be utterly
unlawful. Craniotomy is likewise forbidden,
even . although the mother’s life will most
certainly be forfeit. In his younger days
the great theologian Lehmkuhl taught its
lawfulness, but the Church forced him to
retract.
* * * #
“The Padre”: Re parsons who have aban-
doned secular callings (B. 5/2/’25). In
the earlier days of the Cardinal’s College in
Manly (N.S.W.), about 30 years ago, there
were very few graduates who had not had
some previous occupation. Although Cardi-
nal Moran had set the entering age down at
12 years no youngster was knocked down in
the entrance crush. They were mostly full-
grown men (one indeed arrived with a fierce
moustache which he was given 20 minutes
to reap) who had been farmers, journalists,
qualified chemists, railway officials and so
on. One enterprising person who claimed
that he had served before the mast in all
the seven seas, humped bluey all over Aus-
tralia and been a contributor to The Bul-
letin also signed on; it is perhaps needless
to. add that he didn’t last long. Nowadays,
with the Springwood Preparatory College
and better educational facilities, the supply
comes straight from school or college.
“Sturt”: Adelaide is losing one of its
oldest buildings, the original Congregational
Church in Gawler-place. It was started
in 1839, before the infant settlement was
three years old. the architect being S. G.
Kingston (Charley’s father), who had just
helped Light to lay out the city. It was
then away m the scrub on the eastern boun-
dary, but is now in the heart of the city.
By 1865 Congregational headquarters had
moved to Stow Church, and the little place
became a private school. For the past half-
century the Simpson tin-working co. has
used it; now it has to make room for a more
up-to-date factory. .
* * * *
“Hasen” : For theatrical non-essentials the
Japanese detective out-Sherlocks any Holmes
that ever drew an inference or dazzled a
vacuous Watson. At Kobe recently one of
the mates of our ship lost a valuable wallet
from his cabin. Two little brown men, most
correctly impressive and mysterious, materi-
alised as a result of an appeal to the law.
One, complete with pocket lens and a know-
ing look, did the heavy sleuthing, while the
other entered results in a huge notebook and
politely hissed his appreciation of his com-
panion’s cleverness. After half an hour it
was clearly established that the mate was 23
years o!4, that his father was English and
that the wallet was gone. Then Sherlock
San got really busy. His piercing gaze fast-
ened on the window, about 15in. square,
which faced on the deck. For a very long
tune _ nose and lens and sensitive fingers
examined every inch of while Watson San
made notes. Then the great sleuth pushed
and the window opened. A long and ex-
cited conference followed, at the end of
which little Watson explained, with an air
of inviting us to a feast of wonders: “He
say, sir, that this way the thief come in.”
The mate, long since resigned, nodded
wearily. “Yes, of course,” he said; “and
“iis would give him plenty of light to work
oy. He pointed to the door of the room
right alongside the little window. The maker
of notes consulted his book. “Ah, yes,” he
murmured, undismayed; “it -was "open, I
see.” The mate sighed and went down to
dinner.
a** * *
“Heroic”: I had just left work when our
office-boy called to me for help. Walking
oyer I saw a lialf-drunk lout mauling the
kid, and a truculent-looking cobber standing
a few feet away. To maintain prestige I
had to attempt a rescue, but I approached
the job with trepidation, for the bully looked
an ugly customer, his pugnacious friend
seemed capable of giving me three beltings
at a time, and the thought of both getting
to me at once brought visions of a battered
corpse and a newly-made widow. However,
reasoning that with luck a good hit to the
jaw might drop the tormentor and leave only
one man to deal with (or run from), I mea-
sured the distance and put all the weight
my 7-J- stone and a sedentary occupation
would allow into a dirty left. It found the
target; but there was no steam in it, and
I had already given myself up for lost when
belligerent No. 2 rushed in waving his arms.
“Gorblime,” he exclaimed reproachfully,
“you want to be careful. You might have
knocked him out.”
* * * *
“FY7”: Youth has no monopoly of cool
courage. W. Hind, of Lithgow, quarry
manager and 70 years old, recently had his
leg broken in three places by rocks falling
through the roof of a hut in which he had
taken shelter while a blast was being fired.
The fine old chap would not leave for hospi-
tal till he had filled in his time-sheets and
drawn a cheque for one of the quarry-hands
who was leaving. He made - the workmen
carry him into his office to do these
jobs; then with a “Now I’m ready,” he
turned towards the ambulance.
* * * *
“Squills” : The way of the student is hard.
I found our one Oriental saloon-passenger, a
serious youth, intent upon a Chinese text-
book on the art of letter-writing in English.
The sample he pored over was the form of
a rebuke administered by a high-minded and
eloquent gentleman to a friend who had
fallen into evil habits. The sentiments were
fine; the language dignified to the point of
floweriness. “Be sure,” wrote the hypotheti-
cal counsellor, “that nothing but sorrow and
shame can come of bad company, late nights,
neglect of duty and inattention to the obli-
gations of morality.” That was all right;
but a little later the teacher of English pro-
ceeded as follows: “I am willing to think
that you have not given this matter suffi-
cient thoughtlessness rather than a disposi-
tion to do wrong 1 trust that it will be
necessary for me to use more severe language
than this.” A somewhat unworthy hope,
this last, in the circumstances.
AN EASY ONE.
“We don’t leant a cat, Bessie. We haven’t
any mice.”
“Oh, that's nuffin. Baddy can buy some.”
“Landa”: Binglii was among those present
at the celebrations in connection with the
opening of the Nymboida (N.S.W.) hydro-
electric scheme. After the switching-on
ceremony somebody asked our dark-skinned
brother if he didn’t regard the day as red-
lettered. The nig. sniffed and ventured the
opinion that all concerned were a lot of fools
—he had lived in the district all his life and
had there been any plurry ’lectricity in the
water he would have known about it.
A SONG OF SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The purple grapes are peering through
Their green leaf filigree,
The luscious plums in orchard ways
Shine redly on the tree ;
And, blue as larkspur, butterflies
Float airily away,
Like painted shadows limned against
The yellow summer day.
The sapphire sea below the hill
Croons low a broken song ;
And up and up the slim red road,
An old horse plods along,
The crickets in the friendly grass
Chirp through the shrill warm hours;
The bees are droning happily
Amongst the shining flowers.
And not a breath stirs leaf or tree.
All through the afternoon
The quiet earth appears to be
Wrapt in a golden swoon.
N.S.W.
IVY GIBBS.


S
M
i
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
ELECTRICAL
CO- LTD
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle. Urisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
MOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Sa-fety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
23 Easy Instalments.
Death Bene ts. Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CC\, LTD.,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Parbutv House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries. Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Dee. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1914.. £34,415 H P-c.== £34,222 £193 £2,662
1915.. 34,039 7 „„ 32,0..0 1,373 4.03»
1916. . 28 018 6 ~ „ 28.000 IS 4,003
1917.. 30,650 6 „ „ 28,652 1,99 S 0,051
1918.. 45,590 7* „ „ 38,750 6,840 12,891
1919.. 44,548 74 „ „ 38,750 5,798 18,689
1920.. 52,981 9* „ „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8' „ „ 47,141 2,429 23,r>9/
1922.. 58,244 8 „„ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,964 8 „ „ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 ~ „ 49,867 6,317 40,522
Tlie co. finds it hard to live down its hectic
past, in the course of which it distributed
£246,373 of bonus capital. That phase of
its career, however, ended ten years ago. In
those opulent days many investors thought
the orgy could continue indefinitely, and
bought shares at prices which yielded little
more than 8 p.c., gambling on the good
things they thought the future surely held.
Rut Sydney Ferries operates a public utility,
and the wheels were spragged just when
things were going most beautifully. Of
course even now the co. is doing better than
it says. First of all. the profit claimed for
it in'the introductory table is greater than
that disclosed by the accounts, for the in-
surance reserve showed a growth of £4338 in
the past year. Furthermore, depreciation is
provided for before net earnings are brought
to Profit and Loss, and that allowance
probably erred on the liberal side, if it erred
at all. Also, special depreciation was again
allowed on the steamers recently constructed
for the Milsbn’s Point service. This is re-
flected in the reduction in the ship-property
asset, although on this occasion the amount
of the cut is not specified. In 1922 the sum
was £4028. and in 1923 £7449. It is impos-
sible to trace the full allowance for depre-
ciation in 1922. as ship property moved from
£363,622 to £429.078 under the influence of
new purchases. P.ut in 1923 the item moved
down to £4OB 230. a reduction of £25.848. Last
year it was £398,624. a net reduction of
£4606, notwithstanding that the big vehicle-
carrier, Koondooloo, was added to the fleet
during the term.
In 1918 the co. divided its interests and
formed two subsidiaries to run the lighterage
and “properties and other assets.” the parent
co. holding all the shares. In the following
year the two were amalgamated in the Har-
bor Land and Transport Co.. Ltd. One of
the numerous Royal Commissions which
have investigated the co. found that the pup
owned assets 50 p.c. in excess of its capital
(it is represented in the books by “invest-
ments in other cos., £107,000”), and the
Board of Trade said candidly, if nastily, that
the co. promoted the subsidiary in order “to
protect part, at least, of its operations and
affairs from public scrutiny or investiga-
tion.” Just what that subsidiary brought in
last year was not stated. Included in the
pup’s assets is the Clifton Cardens Hotel,
which was altered, added to and re-equipped
during the term —evidence that the assets
of the subsidiary are being maintained in a
state of efficiency, to say the least. _ Here
are balance-sheet figures with comparisons:
1913. 1923. 1924.
Creditors .. .. £16,705 £41,727 £40,933
Landed property .. 131,545 92,277 91,755
Ship property . . 284,771 403,230 398,624
Wharfs and waiting-
rooms . . . . 18,4/0 43,885 41,079
Plant and machinery 2.584 3,362 3,785
Fuel and stores . . 5,454 14,021 12.657
Shares in other cos. 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors .. 1,451 8,900 5,568
Public securities . . 32,521 48,489 60,422
Cash .. . . 292 3,033 8,830
There is in those figures little movement of
moment except the increase in liquids:
1922. 1923. 1924.
Liquid assets ..£72,302 £73,729 £86,705
Liabilities .. 69,746 41,726 40,933
Surplus . . £2,556 £32,003 £45,772
Liquid assets increased last year by £12,976
and liabilities showed a decrease of £i do, so
that the net improvement in the liquid posi-
tion was £13,769. Compared with 1922, the
gain amounted to £43,216. And meantime,
as mentioned above, at least one big and
expensive ferry has been bought and paid for.
The 8 p.c. offers no difficulty, but share-
holders cannot expect much out of the ordi-
nary these times because the danger of regu-
lation is always present, and the co. is cursed
with a past which the public insists on think-
ing is a present. If any cream is being
stored up, the first distribution is likely to
bring down legislation similar in intent and
purpose to the Act which governs that otter
public necessity, gas Otherwise, the out-
look is bright enough. The North Shore
bridge will take years to build, and mean-
time settlement across the harbor increases.
And, anyhow, the bridge isn t going to be
employed bv more than one out of every tour
people who'use the Sydney ferries; and that
one uses the co.’s shortest route.
* * *
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
Net To Re- Re ‘
Dor Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914.. £41,828 I2i P-C. =£33,334 £8,494 £^2,B/8
”}{•■ MS a;; ii:ISl nil ISS?
1917:: 37,637 12* „ „ 33,334 4,303 120,534
1918.. 32,300 10 „ „ 26,667 5,693
Reserves transferred to capital, £88,890 3 7,337
Written off reserves, £2450 .. •• 34,88,
1919.. 21,309 7i p.C. = 26,66' 29,&-a
Written off reserves, *-1446 ■■ • • -8,083
IS: 1:sIS k* :: «.«* -
Written off, £4761 . • • ••
1923.. 35.815 10 p.c. = 35,556 209 30,642
1924.. 15,329 5 „ „ 1t,778 28,193
lii the days of the old, unprofitable Syd-
ney Star, the managing director was telling
the hungry shareholders that they had
£30,000 worth of paper in stock and paid tor.
Then came a voice from the back seats:
‘•What about selling it and paying us a divi-
dend before you print on it and spoil it.
The position is fit the moment almost ns bad
as that with this co. Apart from its news-
papers and its printing plant and other
machinery, it has assets valued at £340,109
net; and if these brought in only u P-A they
would give more than the year s profit. In
addition to those assets the co. has m the
World’s News a reputed money-maker. it
seems pretty clear, then, that the Daily
Telegraph itself was a considerable money-
loser last year. The situation wouldn t be so
bad if the directors hadn’t in former days
poured out bonus shares like water. 11ns
little table shows how the capital was built
up by gift issues: —
1897.. .. £50,000 1907.. ..£133,100
1898 .. 57,500 1908.. .. l.)0,000
! ” 60400 1909.. .. 165,000
1900.. .. 66,100 1910.. .. 181,500
1901.. .. 66,100 1911.. •• 199.650
1902.. .. 75,000 1912.. .. 219,6-0
1903.. .. 85,000 1913.. “ orfi’rrr
1904.. .. 100.000 1914.. .. 266,606
1905.. •• 110,000 1919.. .. 355,560
1906.. .. 120,000
Under the influence of those regular bonuses
in addition to the sweet dividends, shares
rose to ridiculous heights. Up to £iO w*as
paid for the then £lO shares, and £(>-> was
an ordinary quote for some time. At the
latter price—and sales were recorded at that
level in 1914 —124 p.c. divs and a bonus issue
of one in ten would have been required every
year up to last year to provide the buyers
with a return of something near 4 p.c. Actu-
ally last year’s 5 p.c. gave less than a 1 p.c.
return to those who bought in 1914 or there-
abouts at £O5. ....
Still, the co. is in a splendid position to put
up a fight:- i92Q i 923 ig24
Creditors .. .. £49,322 £5,308 £6,303
Freeholds . . . . 185,076 194.476 195,159
Machinery, plant, etc. 42,427 52,155 50,756
Stocks .. .. 161,969 28,214 32,, 29
Debtors . . . . 46,064 49,264 38,794
Public securities and ...
shares . . . . 53,575 39,748 34,600
Cash.. .. .. 125 49,036 45,137
With those resources, with an honorable
record of 40 years, with a particularly good
name in the country, and with an influential
body of shareholders —500 of them —it has _a
tremendous advantage over any new competi-
tor. Yet there can be no question that it is
the new competitors —especially the Daily
Guardian —which have made its recent re-
cord look so sick. Presumably the directors
are thinking hard. But if matters don’t im-
prove promptly it will be quite evident that
they don’t know how to do the right sort ot
thinking. , * •
Hume Steel, Ltd. (Vic.), a subsidiary of
Hume Pipe (Australia), Ltd. —Registered in
Victoria on October 10, 1923, this co. was
formed to take over from W. R. Hume, the
inventor, the patents of a process of manu-
facturing high-pressure steel pipes. Origi-
nally 20,000 £1 10 p.c., prefs. were offered,
but meantime a £lOO.OOO contract had been
obtained from the Melbourne Metropolitan
Board of Works, and the issue was increased
to 50,000. These were over-subscribed by
Hume’ Pipe shareholders. W. R. Hume re-
ceived 85,000 and the parent co. 165,000
fully-paid ordinaries for world’s rights and
for equipment, data, etc. The prefs. are non-
cumulatiVe, but share point for point with
ordinaries. The first year closed on Sep-
tember 30 last with a credit balance of £36.
The Board reports that the Melbourne con-
tract had not progressed to the stage where
profit could be shown. The £50,000 raised
went chiefly in establishing a factory at
Pootscray, in developing the co.’s manufac-
turing process and in preparation for carry-
ing out the Board of Works contract. This
last is on a “cost plus commission” basis.
During the early stages unused capital was
at call, and £1371 interest was earned. This
with £3373 calculated as return on the con-
tract to September 30 met factory and office
expenses totalling £4709, leaving the profit
of £36. In addition to the bloated “patent
rights” (£249,864) another intangible is
“preliminary expenses, £1871.” In Novem-
ber shareholders were sounded about an
issue of 50,000 “B” prefs. The response was
not hearty. A further contract has been re-
ceived from the Board of Works, and “large
orders for steel pipes and concrete-lilted pipes
are available.” But the capital is locked up
in the present contract, and will not be avail-
able for another 12 months, and the directors
declare that more is necessary “if the co.’s
business is to be immediately developed to
the fullest possible extent.” Shareholders
are, therefore, asked to change their minds.
Since the accounts closed there has been a
re-organisation of nominal capital, the chief
point being the appearance of 100,000
10 p.c. non-cum. “B” prefs. with a corres-
ponding reduction of unissued ordinaries, the
old prefs. being tagged “A,” Of the “B’s”
50,000 are offered at par, 10s. on application,
10s. on allotment. They carry the same
rights as the “A” prefs. If this issue is fully
subscribed the co. will have to make £lO,OOO
a year to pay 10 p.c. on the prefs., and each
1 p.c. for ordinaries (and prefs.) will call
for £3500 in addition. The first year’s
accounts don’t help us at all in judging the
probabilities.
* # * *
J. G. Lunowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
* To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914 .. £3570 7 p.c. = £3964 £7,261
1915 .. 4422 7 „ „ 3964 £458 7,719
1916 .. 5075 10 ~ „ 5664 7,130
1917 .. 5948 10 „ „ 5664 284 7,414
1918 .. 6341 10 „ „ 5064 677 8,091
1919 .. 6685 10 „ „ 5664 1021 9,112
1920 . . 999.3 10 „ „ 6986 3007 12,119
1921 . . 8585 10 ~ „ 7930 655 12,774
1922 . . 8465 10 ~ „ 7930 534 13,309
1923 .. 8117 10 „ „ 7930 187 13,496
1924 . • 8744 10 ~ ~ 7930 814 14,310
There is not much room for complaint in
the year’s result, although the margin or
profit over div. requirements was small. But
there is a strong probability that before the
net amount was written in. Profit and Loss
a little was put aside for a rainy day—or
whatever the bad kind of day is for leather
manufacturers. During the war years the
Board did not lose its head—it saw an end
to the good times and provided accordingly.
Because of that it was enabled to pass un-
ruffled through the slump. The directors
report that trade was well maintained during
the year despite keen competition, and that
the overseas demand was satisfactory.
.T. C. Ludowici is the pioneer in belt-making
in N. S. Wales, and the fact that the co. has
won an export trade is a bright feature
which moves this Column to a cheer. But
there is Still much to do: it is a sorry fact
that for 1922-23 (latest figures available)
hides to the value of £249,208, sheepskins
with wool £2,948,489. and sheepskins without
wool £78.630 were exported from the Com-
monwealth, while the leather exports
amounted to a poor £242,681. Balance-
sheet movements were towards average
levels: —
1913. 1918. 1923. 1924.
Capital .. £56,644 £56,644 £<9,300 £79,300
Liabilities , . 644 8,655 39,007 28,7/9
Freeholds .. 17,308 16,181 60,964 58,637
Plant etc. ." 3;439 3,576 6,312 7,242
Stocks . . 37,737 41,466 50.182 45,081
Rook debts .. 7,591 11,892 16,001 14,832
Cash, etc. . . 1,133 3,752 3,654 1,908
Over £lO,OOO of debt was liquidated during
the year, partly by the reduction of stock,
which was worked down more than ±oOOU.
Although nothing elaborate in premises or
plant is needed in the business, the co. owns
a freehold in York-street, which is now giving
a fair return in rentals, and will pro-
bably do even better when the bridge drags
more business that way. Book debts are
relatively light, because the co.’s business
does not demand the financing of retailers
on the scale necessary in many other lines.
Creditors are secure enough, liquids and semi-
liquids. alone being equal to more than
twice the liabilities.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.: —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1913’ £315 442 20 p.c.= £192,500 £66,995 £186,434
1914 ! 1581875 10 ~ „ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915 282,551 20 „ „ 192,500 28,000 294,963
1916 376 404 30 ~ ~ 315,000 39,000 31/,367
1917” 413 080 25 „ ~262,500 134,264 333,683
1918 ' 367 869 25 ~ „ 262,500 76,969 362,083
1919” 319 232 15 „ ~157,500 86,807 437,007
1990.' 5.559 Nil 2.685 439,881
1921 32 926 Pref. 5 p.c.= 30,000 2,917 439,890
4/0,22/
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed .. £lOO,OOO 547,88 j
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
The fire at the Broken Hill Central mine
played havoc with both finances and pros-
pects. Expenditure directly incurred in fight-
ing the outbreak totalled £187,123, and this
was written off out of Contingencies Reserve.
The sum of £lOO,OOO was put back into Profit
and Loss from some cupboard where it had
been planted ostensibly to meet taxation.
This amount apart, revenue was £59,J<O
from Working Account and £37,700 from in-
terest. etc.; and as management exes, totalled
£13,534, a profit of £84.142 was left. The
Board wrote off £183,942. That swallowed
the £lOO.OOO and all the profit of £84.142
except £2OO. Here is the position in figuies.
„ . . 1922. 1923. 1924.
Gross proceeds from „ roo ,„.
all products .. £1,444,973 £1,163,172 £j83,124
Expenses .. .. 1,341,727 907,151 0^3,154
Working profit .. £103,246 £256,021 £59,970
Other revenue .. 18,129 33,294 3<,i06
£121,375 £289,315 £97,676
Administration and , 0 ,
taxes .. 34,134 74,152 13,504
Written off. . . . 4,408 50,000 83,94.1
Net Profit .. £82,833 £165,163 £2OO
Or the £lOO,OOO may be written in and then
written off—the net result is the same.
The £lOO,OOO represents past “over-provision
for taxation,” and is not the last of the
hoard; a “further very substantial sum from
the same source” will probably be produced.
In any case it is there; that much the chair-
man disclosed at the annual meeting.
The fire started on July 10, 1923, in time
to permit of the London Board weighing the
position before declaring the final div. for
1922-23. It is a catastrophe whichever way
you look at it; and nothing is to be gained
now by saying that, though perhaps the out-
break could not have been prevented, proper
provision would have allowed it to be at once
attacked. Nor can the neighboring South
entirely escape blame. Every mine along
the line is interested in seeing that every
other mine’s fire-fighting appliances are
adequate and in order. There seems, how-
ever, to have been no common authority:
nor has any been brought into existence.
I-low much the Central mine is worth now
nobody knows. The fire has run from the
400 ft. level to the 1200 ft.; wlmt area it has
covered is unknown. Portion of the B. tl.
Prop., sealed off on account of a fire, was
never workable afterwards. It is probable
that a considerable portion of the Central
has also been spoiled for good. In addition
to this and the heavy cost of the fire-fighting
and the added cost of working so much or
the mine as can be worked (there are bound
to be heavy subsidences well away from the
burned area), the co. has suffered also from
the loss of the splendid markets which ruled
last year and still rule. Let production
figures speak;—
Lea Pies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
( 1,175,676 oz. 17,790 tons. 2617 tons.
1923 j 43,7 oz . 66.1 p.c. 9.7 p.c.
f 196 451 oz. 2,949 tons. 484 tons.
1924 | oz. 61.7 p.c. 10.1 p.c.
Zinc.
f 338 494 oz. 1,915 tons. 16,417 tons.
1923 j ’io,o oz. 5.7 p.c. 48.7 p.c.
( 54 2750 z. 336 tons. 1,936 tons.
1924 | ’12.4 oz. 7.7 p.c. 44.4 p.c.
The co. bought the Junction a little over a
year ago. and, though the ore gave no direct
profit, it allowed the co. to maintain its mill-
ing organisation. Reserves m this always
disappointing mine are computed at 473,78 b
tons, mostly of low-grade, but a high-grade
patch is known to exist, and the manage-
ment holies to get 100,000 tons from it. As
at Tune 30, 1923, ore reserves of the Central
were estimated at 1,250,000 tons; but, as
said just now, how much of this is now work-
able nobody knows. The co. is pinning its
faith to the northern area, and lias mapped
out a plan of development which is being
put into operation.
For a long time, even after the Prop, had
sold its furnaces, the Sulphide Corp. reduced
its ore in its own smelters at Cockle Creek,
near Newcastle (N.S.M.). But in May.
1022 there being very little customs work
available, and for other reasons, an arrange-
ment was made with the B. 11. Associated
Smelters. Production at Cockle. Creek last
vear was confined to the superphosphate and
the sulphuric-acid plants, output in each case
being greater than in the previous term: —
Sulp. Acid Superphosphates
(tons). (tons).
1920 .. 13,222 17,398
1921 . . 21.737 26.991
1922 .. 22,060 29,173
1923 .. 11,968 17,186
1924 .. 13,560 19,192
The co.’s other big Australian interest is the
new cement-making plant at Cockle Creek.
Inclusive of the purchase of the Attunga
limestone quarry this has cost £l<o,ooo
As it stands it has a capacity of
30 000 tons per annum, but an extra unit
to double production can be added at a cost
of £60,000. The plant is expected to com-
mence production next month. The zinc
and acid works at Seaton Carew (Eng.)
w'ere added to during the year. Under the
influence of high prices these works appear
now to have attained a success long striven
for and well deserved. The co’s investments
also include £33,363 in Lysaglit Bros., Syd-
ney. wire-netting manufacturers, etc., and
£32 794 in Durelco, Ltd., of England, a hold-
ing' co. controlling three electric and fila-
(Continued on imge 19.)


OUR CADETS.


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/(5 per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.— Advt.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, m
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros' Ltd.. O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
I his asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * »
Extremes of weather, wet soil, fierce sunshine, frost,
electrolysis, all of which spell corrosion for metal
pipe and play such havoc with its life, have no
effect on Pioneer Wood Pipe. For nothing can cor-
rode this modern wood conduit, not even strong acids
nor alkalies. Other big advantages it offers are
fight weight, simplicity and cleanliness. Hundreds
of pounds have been saved in many projects by its
use. Write for an interesting book'of detailed infor-
mation to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt
Inventors— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coeuson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
‘ <NAT . I . ON n L ’: Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines
Portabl e Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons
. Mumimix Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
p"7 - Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
rr ’ ™,Y G °Wsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
* *
Babcock & Wilcox. Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W.. for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY, A. AUBREY,
Governing Director. General Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \
BRITAIN I
2/6 1/3 9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Week-end 7Jd. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
2/6 1/3
• Nil
CANADA ..
Week-end s|d.
U.S.A.
2/- 1/- 7d. (minimum
, 11/S. 20 words)
(minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND. . lid.
f N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum charge
I 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen’s House, Queen street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
&
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
m
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The First Duty a Man Owes to Himself and His Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second Only in Importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve himself of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.),
which has had over thirty-eight years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet, 33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Manager.
ment and lamp manufactures. The Lysaght
shares are in the books at Bs. 6d., so the 10
p.c. div. is worth over 20 p.c. on the book
value.
The liquid position suffered severely:—
1919. 1922. 1923. 1924.
£>££>£
Liquid assets 1,282,207 1,209,132 1,387,570 997,405
Liabilities . . 473,539 491,401 551,922 511,978
Surplus .. £808,668 £717,731 £835,648 £485,427
There are 000.000 prefs. (£1) and 600.000
(155.). Divided among that lot
the liquid surplus is equal to just over Bs.
per share ; but that may be cut into to put
the mine in order. The fixed assets (includ-
*.s*% ,Jl? e J- wo m ines) stand in the books at
£1,105,536, equal to another ISs. 6d. per
share. But the value of mines and indus-
trial plants is governed not by what they cost,
but by what they can earn. And, though
the super, works have no doubt been a good
money-spinner for years, and the Seaton
Carew works are turning in a good profit
now, the rest is uncertain. The value of the
great Central mine is speculative—it may
still be very great—and the cement works,
though they should add a few handy thou-
sands a year, have yet to prove themselves.
* * * »
The position of other Barrier mines :
IVith present high lead prices Broken Hill directors
do not desire labor troubles. The bonus suggested
is acceptable to the majority of the workers, and,
despite union officials, will probably be agreed to in
the end : even without it the working hours and general
conditions of labor are the best in the world. The
bonus offered by W. L. Baillieu on behalf of the
companies is worked out on the price of lead, and
on recent market values the men would come out
well. It is said that the Prop, and Junction North
do not agree with the policy, but have accepted the
lead of the Collins House group.
The premier outfit at the Barrier to-day is the
North, which treats a weekly haul (including the
output of its recently-acquired British section) of
about 9000 tons. Developments in the North have
more than borne out diamond-drill figures on the
1550 level, and some very rich stuff has been dis-
closed. Thompson’s shaft at the British has also
been opening up pretty well in the bottom. The
North is the only Barrier mine which now has left
a sizeable slime dump for future treatment —a valu-
able asset which will some day tide the manage-
ment over a long succession of rainy days. North
profits, with metals at present prices, work out at
over a million per annum, and no expensive develop-
ment or equipment campaign is in progress.
The runner-up, so far as profit is concerned, is the
Zinc Corporation. George Klug has come from Lon-
don to have a look at the new plant. The mill is
treating weekly about 4700 tons of South Blocks ore
and doing fine work. Lead values are high, with
low silver content, but good recoveries combined
with the lowest working costs in Broken Hill have
put the show in an enviable position. The develop-
ment of this mine—the old South Blocks —will
eventually make interesting mining history.
South is mining about 5000 tons weekly, and is
gradually getting over the handicap of the Central
flooding operations which shut down its best level.
Dump treatment on the South is now confined to
zinc concentrates production, on which profits are
small. Preparation is being made to sink a new
shaft at the south end of the property. This will
make available a large body of ore not taken into
calculations of ore reserves hitherto.
The B. H. Prop, is making the best of its remain-
ing ore, and treating two to three thousand tons
weekly, with Block 14’s output to help out the
mill. Mining and treatment are expensive, but the
high metal prices make the proposition profitable.
Junction North is mining on a small scale, with
some dump treatment in addition. It is anything
but a cheerful job clearing up the odds and ends
that are left, and the heavy costs incurred in the
lawsuit with the Prop, over the cancellation of
contracts at the outbreak of war don’t make it any
easier.
* * * *
New White Crystal, Ardlethnn (N.S.W.),
reports a good development at Crosby's Hill,
where the co. holds ground in line with the
Carpathia. The announcement that the lode
averages 3ft. 6in. assaying “up to 5 p.c.
tin” would have been much more satisfactory
had averages for the width been given.
Perhaps, too, holders who sold out at
4d. the week before would have had less
room for rude remarks if the improvement
had not come in quite so suddenly. A clean-
up gave 1 ton llcwt. concentrates from
185 tons; milling ore is now being broken
from the new find, and another shift has
been started. Value of the concentrates is
over £l6O a ton; but a register of 150,000
shares is on the expansive side. Scrip
had a sharp flutter from 4d. to Is. 3d.
Carpathia itself is doing comfortably—
making 3d. per share per month profit. And
it has a tidy balance in the bank.
* * * *
At Flagstone Tin, 22 miles north of
Emmaville (N.S.W.), a start has been made
to deepen the prospectors' shaft to 50ft.,
when some opening out will be done. The
latest to give the show his blessing is J. H.
Reid, for many years manager of the Irvine-
bank (Q.), who is novr settled on the land
near Tenterfield. Great Boulder, Ivalgoorlie,
is on the lookout for mining properties with
distinct chances, and is willing to take a
six months’ option and send an examiner
across at once. The holders of the £5 syn-
dicate shares, however, prudently decided to
do some more opening up before considering
option offers.
* * * *
Coal production in N.S.W. for 1924 was
11.618,216 tons, a record. The value at pit-
mouth was £9,589,547, an increase of
£981,655 over 1923. The previous best was
10,793,387 tons in 1921. The output from
the Maitland field was 696,297 tons greater
than ever before.
It is about time Lucknow Pups (N.S.W.)
grew up. Almost every weekly bulletin re-
cords a “good development,’’ and several
metals appear in “following No. 4 vein to
the serpentine in the drive at 140 ft. level.”
But the missing metal is the one that mat-
ters ; and in a co. whose quest is gold its
absence makes a difference.
* * * *
Bestwick, whom Adelaide almost invari-
ably despatches to look up new finds, has
once more arrived in W.A. This time his
job is to view French’s show at Nevoria.
For years the place was known as Never
Never, but this name, not appealing to the
official mind, was altered, as was Westons
to Westonia. Nevoria holds three unique
records in Yilgarn mining. (1) The power
plant, which was the best a great maker in
England could manufacture, got only as far as
Southern Cross, where rude creditors
pounced on it and kept it. Under the cir-
cumstances, a plant not so good had to do.
(2) The dam was a beauty; but in 15
years only once has there been any water
in it. (3) Working costs worked out at
nil. It was this way. The owner of the
big mine was the owner also of the pub
wherein was the little office in which the
mine hands were paid. By pub-closing time,
what had been paid out on the wages
roundabout had come back on the beer swing.
French’s has now located better mine values
than were known in those days, and the
pub has long passed away.
* * * *
Edna May Central has been looking at
the Leviathan mine, five miles south of
Southern Cross (W.A.). Leviathan, when
struck by woodcutter Jack Kenny, looked
such a good thing that the Associated North-
ern acquired and erected a 10-head mill on
it. After treating 10,000 tons, the co. gave
up. Since then prospectors have- mined
occasional 100-ton narcels. On performances
the mine is not likely to prove of much
value to the Central or any other co.
South New Moon, Bendigo, has retraced its
steps to 500 ft., where it is attacking the run
of ground that made the mine 30 years ago.
Off the 440 ft. branch crosscut spurs have
been met. but they are low grade and small.
Then at 500 ft. the 600 ft. south branch cross-
cut is now in the same spurry zone and a
little gold is showing. No wonder the market
is on tenterhooks: a happy strike here in
a show with the record of the South Moon
would set the Beehive humming.
* * * #
Orion Mines, Ltd., which once tried and
failed to make, a living on Niagara goldfield
(W.A.), hold a meeting in London last
month. The chairman said the co. had ex-
changed its old mill for a three-sixteenths
share ill the Kanowna Consols at Kanowna,
and now proposed to acquire the remaining
thirteen-sixteenths for £2500. The Board
hoped to raise this amount by issuing 8 p.c.
£lOO bonds, which shareholders were urged
to take up. Something was also said about
one reef in the Kanowna Consols being a
“plum” and another “all right”; but this
optimism is not shared by a Bulletin man
who was on the property a while ago.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) more than
trebled its market valuation the other day
on an official report that 9oz. ore had been
stabbed by a bore at 1300 ft. The find, which
is said to be part and parcel of a deposit
worked with fair results in a deeper level,
may prove to be valuable in bulk, but it will
take time to get at.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford writes :
Wild Cat Feb. 12, ’25, says of Mt. Isa Prop.: “The
Ibus is, for its size, now becoming recognised as one
of the prize blocks of the field.” The Ibus is as big
as any other block on the field —10 acres, that being
the limit. A large acreage of position blocks does
not mean value. A few acres of Broken Hill Blocks
10 or 11 were worth all the 40 acres of Block 14.
The Ibus is a better show than the Black Star, and
the Black Star is the biggest of the Mt. Isa Mines’
string. E. J. J. Rodda, general manager of the Mt.
Isa Prop., sampled the prominent 110 ft. of Ibus out-
crop—it outcrops flatly for another 90 feet. Con-
sidering only this 110 feet, he estimated 540,00.0 tons
ore from every 10 Oft. of depth. The Ibus No. 1 shaft
is down 200 ft. Very probably exploration will show
double Rodda’s estimated tonnage; that is, on the re-
cord of shallow crosscutting in the Black Star, adjoin-
ing it on the south. Apparently the Ibus has a greater
length of lode than the Black Star, and in the Mt.
Isa Mines’ Starlight block on the north the lode
(also apparently) splits into fingers. Also the
pitch of the Star shoots is northerly and the silver
content seems better in the Ibus than in the Star.
Mt. Isa Mines’ second-best show is the Black Rock,
also “for its size [5 acres] one of the prizes of the
field.” Between the Black Rock and the Rio Grande
(another outstanding Mt. Isa Mines’ property) are
the Out on Her Own and Even Break, together 15
acres. Returns of ore shipped from the Out on Her
Own and Even Break so far show 105 tons for £1627
net. Wild Cat par. is wrong in- saying “values [on
the 0.0.H.0.] to the water-level, except for bands
of bagging ore, will be on the low side.” No 2
shaft, now 175 ft. deep, has been in high-grade ore
from daylight to bottom. As water-level in the
Ibus is 200 ft., the relatively greater height of the
0.0.H.0. should carry secondary ore to 300 ft. or
more. Ore, and not acreage, is the first essential of
a mine, and the chief use of acreage is to tickle
Stock Exchanges. The diamond-drill should be at
work at time of writing, and a few months should
tell the story of the sulphides.
A discovery of silver-lead in new country
is reported from Forest Home station in the
Forsayth district (N.Q.). The outcrop of
the lode, which occurs in slate and porphyry,
has been traced for over 2000 ft.; it carries
oxide and carbonate of lead with a little
galena. A , test sample of the crop over a
width of 3ft. gave 19 per cent, lead and 4oz.
silver, but from its appearance this is very
leached ore, and better results may be ex-
pected in sinking. A local syndicate intends
to test the lode.
Operations on the Great Northern Free-
hold at Herberton (N.Q.) are still on a
small scale considering the high price of tin
and the general promise of the mine; the
management appears to be satisfied with
about 100 to 150 tons of ore a month. Yet
recent work there has opened up a quartzy
lode in the 410 ft. level up to Gft. wide, carry-
ing 3 p.c. tin, which invites energetic extrac-
tion. The Great Northern turned out a
lot of- tin in the past, and a vigorous policy
of development should make it one of the
mainstays of the field.
* * * *
The analyses of the oil and gas from the
Longreach bore have come out since last
week. Contrary to general expectation, the
gas proves to be dry and carries 60.9 p.c.
methane and 35.5 p.c. of inert gas. Under
the circumstances and in that location, it
is of no commercial value. The analysis of
the heavy oil shews it to contain 96.4 pet-
rolene- —that is, bitumen soluble in petrol
ether. This material is likely to be of little
or no commercial value, as the analysis does
not disclose any lighter fractions of petro-
leum. As the bore has a full column of
water, no one can say what quantities exist,
but the probabilities are that there is a con-
siderable volume, judging by the amount
already obtained under unfavorable condi-
tions. It is yet undecided as to whether a
complete test of the petroliferous strata will
be made by bailing the bore. Mines Minister
Jones considers the evidence shows the exist-
ence of oil in Queensland and that the
search can still be prosecuted for commercial
pools with optimism.
* * * *
To keep eallpayers up to the mark F. T.
Whympney has been telling how the Cornish
(Vic.) has furnished £1,000,000 of gold and
paid £250.000 in divs. That came out of
the Cornish reef, and gave the London crowd
which did the later financing of the claim
a chance to re-invest divs in the mine—with
disastrous results. S. J. Plain’s office is
now forcing the pace at the claim after it
has stood idle since the English interests
gave up. To avoid cost of unwatering at
depth the Crown reef is being opened up at
255 ft. A long crosscut has met 15ft. of
quartz, which is being driven on. So far
only an occasional speck shows, but Dayles-
ford shoots are erratic. If there is anything
in the zone theory Plain has more than the
ordinary mining chance in the neglected
Crown run of stone.
The for-sale notice posted on the Antox
antimony show (Vic.) was taken down,
pressure being exercised from London, which
holds the big paid-up interest. War in China
has cut off antimony supplies thence, and.
prices having skied, Antox is doing as well
to-day as a few months ago it was doing
badly. Costerfield prospects look brighter
than for a decade.
At Gaffney’s the Wallaby hops about in
the big dyke basin with some measure of
prospecting success. A lot of veins have
been cut, and two carry fair gold. These
will be followed to see if they make into
fair-sized floors. The co. owns three bat-
teries, and pi'Oposes to have 20 head avail-
able at once. It might be as well to prove
first that values are present to feed them.
Present prices for lead double profits for
North Mt. Farrell. Its last half-year’s total
(£22,832) is £13,000 more than was earned
in the previous six months’ campaign. The
little old mine shelled out 4s. divs., and as
these mopped up only £16.000 there is a
bigger carry forward of £13,757, after £l4OO
had been added to formal reserves. Debts
amount to about £3OOO against liquid assets
of £16,000, so that financially the show is
sound-, Its troubles lie in the relatively
small shoots. Ore in sight is about 16,000
tons, and as 13,000 tons went to the mill
in six months it doesn’t need a knowledge
of the higher mathematics to see that addi-
tions must come along if the bottom is not
to fall out of things. Nearly 85 p.c. of the
ore sent to the mill last half-year was won
at No. 7—the bottom level. There the new
shoot picked up a year ago was the trump
card, but drawing on this stuff cannot go on
for very long; so the shaft is to be bustled
down to find fresh reserves. Most of the
upper levels have little ore left.
Now the glad tidings have come from
engineer Thompson, on the Tongkah Com-
pound’s Malayan ground, that the Castle-
maine-built cutter section-dredge has lifted
55,000 cub. yds. in 4SO hours. Thompson
is sure that the good news will soon follow
that the guaranteed SO,OOO cub. yds. have
been recorded. He urges close boring ahead
of the barge so that true comparisons may
be made of the work done by this and
other types of plant. That looks a
fair proposal. The Compound’s trump card
to-day is its holding of 40,000 shares in the
No. 2 pup co. Divs. flow thence, and with an-
other 100 acres of fib. material bought for
No. 2 plant to work upon, prospects, should
Thompson be right, are a lot rosier for the
Compound than they were when 1924 ended.
Mt. Hunter is doing exploratory work in
the sluicing on Wilson’s Promontory (Vic.).
It is not the first time ambitious souls have
thought that there might be a fortune hidden
there, go far Mt. Hunter has had such
troubles as usually chafe the pioneer, but
the wash is said to be good. If so early
worries will soon be a memory. But why
are not bore results given to show what is
involved in working the ground?


A MONEY BOX THAT
IS A BANK
AN attractive replica of the Head Office of the Bank itself, the
L Mone y B °x is a, valuable section of the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia sea-vice and a handy aid to the lesson of Thrift.
Get one at your Post Office and teach the kiddies a good habit.
First cost 6d. only, and .renewed free when full. Obtainable also
at any branch of the
CommcmwaltE
JM “Australia
B
you are &ffured in every bottle
of that/elfjrairve rtandard of
excellence which, ha/* made
'KING GEORGE IV*
«*>
FAMOU/* THE WORLD O’ER
arvd conceded bycomvoijjeurf to be
JcOTLANtif JoUNDEf TjtIMULANT
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
. lV? n enabling women to sit in
the Vic. Parliament was experiencing its
rough, passage in the Uppish House, Jean
Daley s name was mentioned. Cohen, M.L.C.,
JEAN DALEY.
remarked that he
would be sorry to
see Miss Daley in
Parliament.
Twitted with un-
gallantry, he ex-
plained that he
would be the last
to deny the lady’s
capacity, “but,” he
added, “she’s such
a dashed fine
cook!” Jean was
at that time his
own cook; and the
gratified Cohen
kept her supplied
with Hansards
and Parliamentary
Papers. It was
during the con-
scription cam-
paigns that Jean
Daley came to the
front as the most
capable of Vic-
torian w o m en
speakers in the
Labor ranks; after-
wards she “wrote
up” the referen-
du m campaigns,
and her summary
was published in
America. She is
one of three women
seeking a Vic. Labor nomination for the
Senate.
Phiiip Whistler Street makes the eighth
Chief Justice of N. 8. Wales. Ttie first ap-
pointment was that of Francis Forlbes in 1823 •
he held office until 0.837. F’orbes was suc-
ceeded by the Senior Judge, James Dowling
who died in office in IS44 —the Dowlings
and the Streets of to-day are connected by
marriage. Alfred Stephen, son of John
Stephen, an early Judge and Senior Judge
at time, was promoted C.J. and resigned
in 1873. James Martin succeeded and died
in office in 1886. Martin was the first Chief
Justice taken from political life. Julian
Salomons, also in polities, was nominated
t. J-, but after 12 days, and without being
sworn, resigned. Frederick Darley came
next and died in office. William P. Cullen,
an Equity man, also in politics, followed on
January 28. 1910, and retired at the age-
limit in 1925.
The Lords of Trade are giving Australia
a good deal of attention. Airedale, Somer-
leyton, Maclay and Leverhulme are all men
whose peerages have risen on foundations of
a business Yesterday. Belper, who looked
in the other day with his wife, but did not
unpack at Federal Government House where
a former Lady Helper (sister of Lady Digby)
was so intimate a year or two ago, is also
n Trade Lord; the Belper barony is founded
on cotton, and its holders are descended from
that Jedediah Strutt who assisted Arkwright
to make Britain’s huge cotton-spinning
industry possible by means of his weaving
machine. Strutt's twine is a household word
in business England, and so productive of
millions for its spinners that it had to be
ennobled. Britain hates its millionaires to
be plain “misters”: it sounds almost dis-
respectful.
In the second batch of female domestics
brought to this country by Rev. John Dun-
more Lang was Anne McGilvery. A gigan-
tic wave which swept the deck of the sailing-
ship on the voyage carried her overboard.
but Anne was de-
livered back by thp
next sea. She pro-
fited by living a
hundred years,
finishing up as
“lady’s companion”
to the surviving
daughter of one of
the pioneer im-
ported domestics.
ALBERTO ZEE-
MAN, conductor
of Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra
and Philharmonic
Society, and some-
thing or other in
connection with
almost every
musical body
in Melbourne.
Australian politics having yielded him
everything lie can garner from them. Arthur
Robinson (Vic.) will discard them in May.
He will let his Uppah Chambah seat slide,
partly because he has had enough of it and
partly because he isn't sure lie could regain
it if he tried. Beginning in 1002 as a mem-
ber of the State Assembly, he next had a
turn in the Reps.. Each time he was dropped.
Buxtons death in 1912 provided him with
a seat in the Dreary House. He has spent
more than half of the 13 years in office—
first as an honorary Minister under Pea-
cock and then as Attorney-General. All the
Supreme Court Judges, except Cussen. are
his choice. At times he so dominated Law-
son s Cabinet that he was called the Supcr-
-1 remier, and Collins House, where he is a
magnate, was declared by his critics to be
the real seat of government. He may wind
up as a Conservative member of the House
of Commons.
George Chewings, owner of the Glcnelg
estate. Southland (M.L.), who died recently,
was the original grower of the famous Chew-
ings fescue, now the most popular M.L.
glass for sports grounds and all places where
a hardy grass is necessary. The evolution
°f the vegetable was another case of an im-
ported article adapting itself and producing
growth splendidly suited to its new en-
vironment. Chewings himself indeed was a
case of the same sort. He was trained for
the business of sheep-growing in the driest
parts of Northern S. Australia and South-
West Queensland, and then shifted across
to the wettest bit of sheep-country in the
Southern Hemisphere. But, though he had
iJ I ? ,F n a l°f> he soon accommodated him-
self to his new conditions.
Something unique in the way of friend-
ships was severed by the recent death of a
Williamstown (Vic.) identity. Over 40
years ago a. group of boys used to disport
themselves in Bunbury’s pool, a natural
rock-surrounded basin. Most of them were
casual patrons of the pool, even in summer,
and few possessed the enthusiasm which
faces the water on winter mornings • but
nnless sickness prevented them, Albert
Hughes and Walter Paterson had bathed to-
gether every morning. in rain or shine, since
their little club came into being. The bond
of the morning dip lasted for 44 years; then
Waiter Paterson died.
Canon Lumsdaine, who is the Anglican
padre of the little dead town of Emu Plains.
which nestles in the shadow of the Bine
Mountams (N.S.W.), was once a success-
ful Tasmanian barrister, and is father of the
beauteous Rosamund of the theatres. In
spite of much domestic opposition—another
parson married Rosamund the other day—
lie took up religion and his new duties. He
is known on the Plains as the Padre of Parts
lie cleans up his own little church, rings the
bell for service, plays the organ when neces-
sary, and after a scholarly panegyric over
some deceased cockie has been known to
help fill in the grave.
A recently unearthed photograph shows a
group of 11 South Australians who, by an
extraordinary coincidence, all became knights,
lhe 11 are: Governor Be Ilunte. John
l)owrier, Jenkm Coles. Frederick Holder,
Lancelot Stirling, Josiali Symon, K.C., Lam--
don Bonython, Charles Todd, Richard Baker,
K.( . Samuel Davenport and Edwin Smith.
Ut this W lute Company all but three have
now furled their knightly banners and gone
wherever good citizens go. The remaining
three, Langdon Bonython (77). Lancelot
Stirling (76) and Josiali Symon (79), show
no slackening in their activities.
W age Plug introduces another crusader :
Hctsy Matthias, the Joan of Arc of the revo-
lutionary socialist movement in Australia (B.
29/l/’25), has an able lieutenant in Mrs. 0. West-
brook, the little, big-hearted woman who sheltered
Reeves after he came out of goal. Reeves was the
only one of the 12 I.W.W. men who was not released
b. v the Royal Commission in 1920. Mrs. Westbrook
a parsons daughter and the widow of a lay preacher’
got her politics from Monty Miller, the West-
ralian veteran. Like Betsy, she believes the best
time to tongue-wag the worker is when he is dipping
into his lunch-pail during the mid-day spell. She
has spouted to seamen at the wharfside and minors
at the coalpits, and on one occasion in 1917 she
and Betsy manoeuvred with gentle audacity into
the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow (N.S.W.). They
stood on the luncheon tables and flabbergasted 800
workers by talking Syndicalism for 45 minutes. By
the time the police had been brought by an indignant
management, the two petticoated Reds had diplo-
matically disappeared in a car. Mrs. Westbrook is
contemplating a visit to the U.S.A., and should she
stay there it will be a big loss to her brand of
socialism in Australia.
Thomas Cambridge was the first letter-
carrier m tlie Windsor (N.S.W.) district,
and Thomas Cambridge, his grandson, still
blows the postman’s whistle in Windsor's
sleepy streets. He has been “an institution”
there for nearly half a century.
Mrs. Nancy Culman, Queensland’s first
jurywoman, has answered to her name—and
drawn a blank. Two men were charged
with stealing, and the empanelling pro-
ceeded briskly till the lady’s name was
called She was promptly challenged by
counsel for the accused.
“The Deacon”: Archbishop Kelly, of
i.ydney, was 75 on Sunday. There was a
time when he could hardly have expected to
sit so firmly in saddle. Reputed to have
the ear of Leo XIII., his consecration as
Cardinal Moran’s coadjutor took place with
some eelat in the Eternal City. Arrived in
Lydnoy differences soon arose between him
and the Cardinal, and he suffered almost a
tcTtal eclipse—almost as total as that of the
present coadjutor, Dr. Sheehan. Dr. Kelly,
therefore, decided to give Sydney and his
chances best after a year or two of oblivion.
One quiet Monday morning, unknown
except to a few sympathisers, he set sail
1 rom the Quay, and the next heard of him
ivas in connection with the vacant bishopric
of Bombay. But evidently he was per-
suaded to return. The Cardinal’s death
m 1911 found him a very sick man ; but un-
limited authority soon bucked him up, and
now he is almost as brisk as ever.
“Black Harry,” probably the oldest living
person in Victoria, will, according to local
belief or superstition, be 109 this month.
Born in Kingston, Jamaica, the old darkie
whose real name is Henry Moore, has resided
continuously in Port Melbourne since land-
ing there 78 years ago, when the place was
named Sandridge. He helped to unload the
clipper Thermopylae when in 1868 she com-
pleted her remarkable 60-days’ voyage from
London to Melbourne.
“M.D.”: on a great Sydney physician :
The late Sydney Jamieson, eminent physician and
crack pathologist, was always a hard-working stu-
dent, and the training he gave himself in his room
at St. Andrew’s his passion was for chemistry in
those days—must have proved useful in his later
microscopical studies. Nothing was too much trouble;
only a few months ago he told me of the progress
he had made in the Chinese language, which he
had taken up because of his large practice amongst
those interesting people. He was a firm believer
that toxins were the cause of cancer, and that it
would eventually be cured by medical means. At
the time of his death he was still engaged in inves-
tigations in this disease, and more and more satisfied
that he was steering in the right direction.
“Coot” : Henry Dendy, who purchased 5120
acres at fl an acre at what is now Brighton
(Vic.) thought he was on velvet. Never-
theless, three years later he was insolvent.
One of the first to buy part of the land from
Dendy was John McMillan, who took 424
acres at £7 per acre. His old homestead
still stands in North-road. Brighton. Dendv
had to obtain help to develop his estate, and
could not meet his bills when they fell' due.
In January, 1844, ho called a meeting of
creditors. Subsequently he started a brewery
at Geelong, but failed. A flour-mill at Heidel-
berg and some mining enterprises at Wal-
lialla proved equally unremunerative. and he
died a poor man.
P-N.”: Until quite recently old Harry
Watson, who had a job in the ('ommissariat
with Scott’s Antarctic Expedition in 100°
was knocking around the west of Queens-
GUNN, Labor Premier of S. Australia.
land dishing up mince-balls for shearers. He
was cooking at a pub in Lyttelton when
Scott and Shackleton blew in. and old Ilarry
—young Ilarry then, most likely—signed on
m a professional capacity. I once asked
what impressed him most on that southern
voyage. He thought a while. “Why,” he
said at last, “the side-steppin’ an’ dog-dancin’
I useter do in an’ outer that old galley er
mine. Yairs,” he concluded, “these Empire-
builders drink a terrible lot er hot cocoa.”
Old Harry was a snifter cook, with deep-sea
leanings: even his pea-soup appeared to take
on a definite ocean roll.
One of the most characteristic of the yarns
told concerning Dr. Doug. Stewart, just re-
tired from the job of med. officer at Pent-
ridge (Vic.), was his answer to the pri-
soner who besought him to give him “some-
thing’ to arrest baldness. Stewart ignored
the question, but as he was leaving the cell
doffed his lid and pointed to his own shiny
pate. Blunt and curt as well as bald, Stewart
was nevertheless quite human. So many of
the Pentridge staff mustered to give him a
send-off that there must have been only a
skeleton crew left to guard the cells. There
was no revolt, however. Tli e gentlemen-in-
waitmg felt that wouldn’t be playing the
game.
Those interested in C. of E. affairs in
Maoriland are trying to pick the Primate
now that Archbish. Julius is preparing to
vacate the job. Bishop Averill, of Auck-
land, who served under Julius in Christ-
church for many years, has the oldest apron
and is much favored. Bishop Sprott (Wel-
lington), next in seniority, has no desire
tor it. In any case the Primate will not be
the new Bishop of Christchurch, whoever
he may be, so the proud City of the Plains
will lose one of the feathers in its tail.
“C. Coral”: Visitors who roam Torres
fetrait will miss old Spia, who passed out
at Darnley Island a few days before Christ-
mas at somewhere about 80. A link with the
pre-civilised days, he had been medicine-man
and sorcerer, mission-boat skipper, native
policeman and Government orderly. When
he first made the acquaintance of the white
man one shell and a piece of cord comprised
his wardrobe, with a feather head-dress, arm
gauntlets, breast pendant, thigh adornment
and leaf skirt set off with bunches of croton
leaves for war dances; but after getting to
Know “Big Guvment” and kindly-disposed
triends of the Army and Navy, his collec-
tion of “uniforms” might have given the
Governor-General a good lead. The old
chap deserved the pound-a-month pension
given him two or three years back.
Trundle (N.S.W.) has a good story to
tell of Father O’Donnell, who hailed the Styx
boatman recently. The charming old cleric
was drawn into an argument on his know-
ledge of Irish political history. “G’long wid
ye, y’r Riverince,” said his opponent, “it’s
mesilf that cud buy and sell ye.” “The
Divil doubt but ye esnd, me bhoy—ye
cud sell me before ye’d hawk me a dozen
yards, but a man would have to cart ye
°^ er the Blue Mountains before he’d get an
offer for ye,” was the reply.
THE BORROWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our neighbor Skookum (R.1.P.)
And all the Skookum family
tor eighteen months were wished on us.
tills Skookum was the kind of cuss
Who, when he’d settled in the train,
W ould slap his pockets, all in vain,
To find his pouch. You know the rest—
The weed from mine he scooped and pressed
(lie smoked a calabash) until
I hadn’t got a decent fill.
Then Skookum every Saturday
M ould send a youngster round to say:
“Please, father wants to cut the grass.”
I’d send the mower, like an ass,
And when 1 got it back each blade
\\ as chipped, and half the nuts had strayed.
Of Skookum’s missus (now, alack !
She mourns his loss in raven black)
lied ink and asterisks convey
The mildest things there are to say.
She chronically lost her maid
And borrowed ham and marmalade,
And milk and eggs for omelettes,
And aluminium saucepan sets;
For “unexpected company”
Came on this morning’s train. And we
Would rake the larder to assist
The Skookum mill to find its grist.
Each blinking day it was the same.
.Tam-plastered Skookum youngsters came
To borrow half a loaf, or “Please,
Alum finds that she is out of cheese;
She’ll order some to-morrow ; but
To-day the corner shop is shut.”
Ah, why enlarge? “Tie mortuis” ....
For Skookum died. We rest in peace.
One summer day (alack the day!)
Came Skookum down the right-of-way.
“I broke my two front teeth,” he said •
Now could you lend me”—l saw red.
The sufferings of hectic days
Were focussed in a sudden blaze.
Scorched by that flame of murderous hate
boomed Skookum read his tardy fate.
I saw him wilt. Beneath the tan
A sickly pallor over-ran
His flabby face; a nameless dread
Dawned in his widening gaze. Nuff sed.
I biffed the blighter good and hard
1 buried him in our back yard.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


ahe Old
3a miliar
Blend !
r'
&
Capstan
9nthoauces
tiifßiq Brother
'Vr
<er
L-J
er
IVO
'<§' '-* n n
V\^
O
/TT
JO
A**
?©
2^>
<D
a
tSfff'P
p&
el* 5 *
Av
va**
step,
©*
to
W
fA^
O
-re*
X
oC
CA P §
?H>
«
5®
t> y
tMflfpS s
th®
*****
e*
f*
M
-ft***
**
im
N’ J
p«»
©
WILLS'?
50'
*
fit
%
1
1
&
1
I
I?
%
1
i
&
i
ai
FLAT
POCKET
TINS.
(HEAVY WEIGHTS)
Finest Selected Virginian.
W.D.a H.O.WILLS.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service il la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
im
I
#TIOb
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Nothing Like a Cool
Breeze on a Hot Summer Day.
It won t be long now' before the hot Summer sun wall be scorching down, using the
windows for a burning-glass, making indoors almost unbearable—unless you call
in a L_h.Nl Llt 1 Fan to stir up a breeze.
I s how different a cool, steady CENTURY breeze makes you feel
Koaf 8 Bet . ter get busy and order your CENTURY Fan ready to
beat the heat when it arrives.
thT best 16 ° ffiCe ’ CIUbS and tbeatres ’ stores and hotels, CENTURY Fans are
Agents for N.S.W. & Queensland:—
W. G. WATSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. 200 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
And at NEWCASTLE.
The Famous Browning F.N. .22
Cal. Automatic Rifle. Fires ll ordinary
Short Cartridges as fast as you can pull the
trigger. Easily taken apart and cleaned from
the breech end. Wonderfully accurate. 80/-
Also the same Model, to fire 8 ordi-
nary .22 Cal. Long Rifle Cartridges.
Accurate up to 200 yards 95/-
Single-shot Rifle, .22 Cal., by same
makers. A splendid, reliable and accurate
rifle. Take-down model. The cheapest good
rifle obtainable 35 / -
SPECIAL CATALOGS OF GUNS, RIFLES,
TENNIS, FISHING TACKLE, HUNTING
KNIVES, ETC.
“AP” Freshly-loaded Gun Cartridges give best
results; it will pay you to get our list
JUST OUT.—New English Air Pistol, by Web-
lev and Scott, very reliable. Write for par-
ticulars 57/6
GUN AND CARTRIDGE
318 Little Collins Street
G&' .
AKERS,
Melbourne
ABORICINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“J.G.”: Colonial pine may attract bugs,
or, as the esteemed “Dr. Nil” politely terms them,
Xorfolk-Howards (B. 22/l/’25), but I think that
ileas dislike the odor of all kinds of pines. At
any rate, dogs that are bedded down with, pine needles
or shavings are generally free of fleas. But as I’m
not that sort of dog I would be glad if somebody
would tell me how to get rid of a few millions of
unwanted lodgers that we have with us. We have
tried all sorts of poisons, floor-washes, etc., with
no better result than to fatten the vermin. Eucalyptus-
oil sprinkled about will keep them away for the
time being, but they are back as lively as ever as
soon as the smell of the oil passes off. Once we
got rid of a few bugs that invaded us by giving the
place a good fumigation with sulphur. We tried
the same thing on the fleas, and burnt a few pounds
of sulphur in the house, but the insects were soon
as numerous as ever, and about twice as lively. .Tust
now there seems to be a plague of them in many
country districts of Victoria, and you can find them
in the dust miles away from any dwelling.
“Gonger”: Most aboriginal warriors think
that, apart from their tribal traditions, the telling
of tales is a gins
game. A few tribes,
however, take a delight
in camp-fire yarns. The
teller narrates personal
experiences, the ad-
ventures of others or
purely fictional efforts.
The Princess Charlotte
Bay niggers are the
best and most enthusi-
astic storytellers I’ve
come across in the big
peninsula. Their yarns
are mostly of actual
happenings, such as
cyclones, the Bathurst
Bay pearling-fleet dis-
aster, incidents of the
chase, the spearing of
cattle, raids of the
dreaded “white pleece,”
the trapping of alliga-
tors, the hunt of the
wild pig, tribal fights
and woman-forays, and
Ihe harpooning of the
dugong and turtle, with
the spearing of pros-
pectors as the sure and
certain thrill of the
evening. Among the
big-scrub tribes further
south (not the coastal
tribes, but those of the
gloomy jungles) the
blacks have their pro-
fessional st o r yteller.
He knows all the
legends and supersti-
tions off by heart, but
is also a reservoir
of unadulterated fiction.
Such a grand teller of
the deeds of mythical
heroes does he become
that finally he wraps
himself around in their
cloak of valor and be-
comes a mighty man
himself.
“Saaedi”: I'm not surprised at “Longo’s”
yarn about a goanna swallowing a death-adder (B.
15/l/’25). The goanna’s favorite method of disposing
of his enemy is to swallow him whole, but sometimes
he displays very poor judgment in this matter. 1
came across the carcase of a goanna with a dead
jew-lizard protruding from his throat. The lizard
had evidently elevated his frill and choked his
aggressor when the latter attempted to engulf him.
Unfortunately for the jewie, he found it impossible
to withdraw, and so perished also.
“Skyrider": “Herodot” (B. 15/l/’25) can
find plenty of evidence that gum-trees discourage the
mosquito. In the southern N.S.W. town which
shelters me, this imported pest (he was never seen
here until the railway opened 50 years ago) thrives
in that part where the streets are planted with pepper-
NOT TAKING IT OUT OF HIM THAT WAY.
“ What's your trouble?”
“Fri'ful cold, doctor. ’Ad it for weeks.”
“H’m! Coughed up much?”
"No blanky fear. I’m on a lodge.”
trees, but on the outskirts, where the gums grow, he
is few and far between. The anopheles still sticks
to the coastal belt, but once he gets a grip along
the seaside it will not be long before he climbs higher.
I have seen the dreaded horizontal sucker near the
Berg in Natal, but that was before Power, of Rich-
mond. persuaded the Natal Government to try plant-
ing the Australian eucalyptus. Natal was so pleased
with the result that she began to import wattle seed
as well, with the result that S’African farmers
reaped a double harvest in health and wealth.
“Cygnus”: A six-foot black-snake, bound
for the sheltering hollow of a log, was stopped by
the axe of a farmer, near Gatton (Q.), the other
day. Pocket-knife post mortem liberated no less than
25 live snakelets, ranging from three inches up to a
foot and more. Does this qualify for an entry in
the books of the record department ?
* * * *
“Gerald Henry”: “Up Top” (B. 22/l/’25)
can account for the “fatal circling” of which he
speaks by the fact that few- people can walk in a
dead-straight line, blindfolded, because one side of
the brain works more actively than the other.
I have always found that left-
handed people tend to turn to the
left and right-handed to the right.
With regard to people stripping
themselves when they go mad of
thirst, the same thing happens on
many death-beds. I do not agree
with “Up Top’s” theory that this
is because the mind reverts to its
first state; it is simply the im-
pulse to cast off all restraint.
The subject is being tortured ; his
clothes seem to aggravate the tor-
ture, and are the only tangible
thing he can attack.
“Bill R.” : Tell “Up Top” (B.
22/l/’25) that there’s nothing
hard to understand about a lost
man walking in circles. Every
man is either right-, or left-footed,
and strides more vigorously with
the more hardy member. Running
birds, like the emu, unless guided
by a distant object, also travel in
a circular course, and knowing
dogs catch them by cutting off
arcs of the circle. Some race-
horses, too, cannot gallop well on
a left-hand course, and others fail on a right-hand
course, for exactly the same reason.
“Wandi”: Here and there along under
the Macpherson Range, generally in clear spaces in
the scrub, heaps of broken shells are found with
a stone in the centime. These are the middens of
the noisy pitta, or dragoon-bird, one of the most
beautiful of scrub-dwellers. It usually fossicks about
gullies and moist brushes, subsisting largely on
native snails, which it carries to its feeding-spot
and breaks on the stone. Another bird that uses an
anvil for the same purpose is the tooth-billed bower-
bird of the northern jungles.
“Billy See” : The now-almost extinct abos.
of the south-west coast of Aus-
tralia used to explain the wonders
of human propagation by “baby
stones.” If a woman went near
one of these stones a spirit-child
would leap out and enter her
body, and use her as a mother to
attain to human life. Many of
these spirit-stones were well known
and avoided, but spirits were cun-
ning and often changed their domi-
cile, and then of course the inevit-
able happened.
* * *
“Tatham”: If “Contrac-
tor” (B. 20/11/’24), who saw tan-
dem horses on a drill in England,
had been conversant with his sub-
ject he would not have judged the
farming bad on that account; a
little more observation probably
would have shown that it was the
only method practicable. On
“heavy” land all operations for
wheat are carried out so that
there is as little treading as pos-
sible on the “lands,” as all foot-
ancl wheel-marks at a wet “seed-
ing” set hard and become barren.
Hence all traction is in the fur-
rows, which also accounts for the
peculiar drawbars encountered on
some English machinery. Also, if
he had looked around the farm-
steads he would have seen his “up-
to-date” machinery multiple-
ploughs, etc. —in odd corners.
They are used in a run of dry
seasons, but are liable to be ruin-
ous in wet ones. But “Contrac-
tor” is right about Australian
children beating English children
at farm work. The Game Laws
and Covenants attaching to most
farming districts forbid any but
bona fide workmen to be on the
farms, so that boys with genera-
tions of farm-workers behind them
hardly set foot on a farm until
school-leaving age, and then only
to become one of three classes
which are not often mixed—cow-
men, horsemen and laborers, the
last being the most numerous.
“Troopliorso”: “Wessol,” who asks about
records in deep skin-diving (B. 22/l/’25), might be
referred to Arthur Mangin, a French scientist, who
said that Greeks in the sponge industry of Smyrna
and Beyrout would in 1868 descend 25 fathoms.
Natives skin-diving on the pearling-grounds in the
Strait of Manaar, the coasts of~Japan, the Persian
Gulf and the Red Sea could not, he added, exceed
eight to nine fathoms. The natives of Torres Strait
can work to .10 fathoms, and one will find a few
boys that can go deeper. The N.T. coastal native
"THANK HEAVENS, I’M SHINGLED.”
is a fair diver, but I have struck only one that
could reach bottom at eight fathoms. Down to
five and six fathoms these natives work well. Dur-
ing 1917, in the old swimming-baths at Darwin, a
Greek swam under water from end to end several
times, keeping down well over three and three-
quarter minutes. This performance was repeated
afterwards at the local swimming sports before a
big crowd and good time-keepers.
(Continued on page 2 .}.)
THE GREAT RED HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thej r erred or lied who glibly said
The heart of this fair land was “dead”;
A hundred millions yet unborn,
From Darwin down to Capricorn,
From Capricorn to Derwcnt-tide,
Will know they either erred or lied.
For, be they brown, or be they white,
The singers of the South will write
Some clay of garden and of field
Where now the lonely sheep-walks yield
But meagre living in the years
Of far Australian pioneers.
Brave Stuart of a time gone by
Beheld it with far-seeing eye;
Ho kept his faith, despite the stress,
The struggle and the weariness;
He guessed the future we behold
In purple promise slow unfold.
They erred, they lied, they could not see;
And even yet small souls there be
Who dwell in fog, who wag the beard,
Who mumble from their mouths afeared
Of “dreary waste” and “desert heart”—
Thank God at. least they ride apart,
A spavined, mean and sorry steed,
A crock of cheap imported breed!
I shall not see the winning post;
But this I know, as well as most,
That, white or brown, this continent
By God or Nature, was not meant.
To be a theme for “desert” schools,
Much less a paradise for fools.
This, then, the burden of my song;
Oh, Children of the South, be strong!
No careless hands shall keep the prize;
Oh, Children of the South, be wise!
Be earnest to the work in hand ;
She calls, she calls, our native land !
THE INFLUENCE OF EINSTEIN.
"Looking for a job! Certainly not, Madam! I am on a walk-
ing tour.”
“Are you going far?”
“My tour, Madam, is measured by time, not distance.”
On distant fields you played the game
That brought our native land no shame ;
And (this my tribute unto you)
I always felt, all time I knew,
The mintage of the South would be
An eighteen-carat currency!
But War is War, as Peace is Peace,
And neither shall their duties cease
Whose task to-day is written clear;
The time is now, the place is here.
This great red heart —or woe is fate!—
With blood of progress must pulsate.
Oh, could I but your hearts inspire
With honest, patriotic fire;
Oh, could I but your minds impress
With good Australian earnestness,
I’d deem my work was fully done,
And lay me down at set of sun.
Beneath the forest, near the sea,
I’d lay me down contentedly;
And if perchance in Death there comes
A distant echo of the drums :
If Death be dreaming for us all
And fighters hear the trumpets call,
I’d know, despite the drums of fate,
This great Red Heart, with life pulsate,
Was pouring out a racial blood
That ever yet the East withstood,
And ever yet since Marathon
Has carried on, and carried on... .
Be done with fooling, done with lies 1
Come up, ye sons of Austral skies J
Take council now and forward face.
Who thinks at all, he knows the case—
A thousand million aliens stand
Between us and the Motherland!
Beneath the forest, near the sea,
I’d lay me down contentedly
If I but thought, if I but. knew,
The words I’ve writ this day to you
Were not as chaff to mad winds thrown,
A crazy fancy of my own.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


u* there is no
DENYING
OLD FRIENDS
ARE BEST
!'<. "» *• f *v.
IlBl«ll«II!Si»
... ■:,»
<? &
1
-Si.. ;
w
ste
- ,
■
, 'i%& - '• -
ISlStei'sl : •
.V
• :
* > .
It •. ~«
v - s ''- '- v " - "a 1
IWEi' jt.' :i,= ; a ;!S
...:.. .... •:
iSS'^ 5
- -.*&■* .'*sS J l. J§ss& id S^si-toivss&wiSb
■' A
k
-
*


Cbe
Gquitabk
Cite
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Ctd.
Heart Office:
I’arbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane,
Brancher *,
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., S.vdK?y. S6O Collins St., Melb.
Fredlc. Levy. Managing Director.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
PABCOLIN
LABOR-SAVING
FLOOR
RUGS
HiRD-WEARING ENAMEL PAINT SURFACE
ATTRACTIVE, DURABLE, BRIGHT, DEPENDABLE, SANITARY, DUSTPROOF, DAMP-PROOF.
DISTRIBUTORS: GREIG BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY,
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe. '
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
“F.P.J.” : Some months ago, on a station
in the N. Territory, when drought made bird life
pretty scarce, a wild turkey was seen one afternoon
strutting quietly past the homestead, about 30 yards
away. The manager, his son and 1 were standing
on the verandah, and when the word was given that
he’d make a good target and guns were called for,
the bird suddenly stopped, looked about for a second
or two, then squatted down, looking like nothing more
than a tuft of Mitchell grass, which is pretty plenti-
ful there. So clever was the camouflage that on their
return neither man could distinguish him, and I hoped
hard that nothing would disturb his thoughts till
they had gone. Five minutes later, when about one
hundred yards lay between them, the bird quietly
rose, stretched his wings and made flight.
“Adam Selector”: “Jimmy Possum” is
right when he identifies “Sylvester’s” queer reptiles
as slow-worms. Here, in the s.-e. division of Queen; -
THE TRUTH AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
JAY PAY: “An’ ’ore big was the cavity where ’cc found the dead
body of the deceased?”
CONSTABLE: “About four feet square by three feet deep, your
Worship.”
JAY PAY: “Yes, yes! But ’ow wide do ’c be?”
land, they are very. common. I have noted three
distinct varieties. One of these is comparatively rare.
It is of a French-grey color and grows up to about
2ft. in length. The commonest one averages seven
or eight inches. The other is about 15in. and is
prettily marked with dark-grev spots. I have one
in my hand now, and its front legs are over Jin. in
length. The hind ones are just noticeable. All
the creatures are harmless.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The tailed men of Papuan
legend, referred to by “Dawapia” (B. 22/l/’25), un-
doubtedly had their origin in the tribes of the Upper
Musa countiy, between the central range and the n.-e.
coast of Papua. The tribes there, including the
once-dreaded Doriri, plait the hair in long pigtails,
eked out with bark wrappings and pandanus fringes.
These tails vary in number from two to five, and
were first described by William Macgregor. The
tailed-men legend is particularly strong among the
tribes south, north and east of the Upper Musa dis-
trict, and Macgregor had no doubt of the connec-
tion. Still, as late as 1908 I heard mountain men
from Gadara, on the eastern flank of Mt. Albert
Edward, tell the then Governor (Barton) of a
tailed tribe which lived on the other side of the
big mountain. These had to make a hole with
their spears in the ground when they wanted to sit
down, and the tails were minutely described as like
a pig’s, but stiff, without any curl. They knew
this because they had seen the spear-holes in de-
serted camps 1
* * * *
“T.T.”: On a selection in the Winton
(Q.) district last week, after a heavy shower of
rain on a small area, hundreds of fish were found
in a pool about 3in. deep of sub-artesian bore-water.
The majority were dead, and the remainder followed
them within a few hours. Sizes from llin. to 9in.,
and the largest (quite a number) weighed about
lib. They comprised cod and bream, though the
latter were all small. In this hole, which is filled
with bore-water by a neighboring windmill, and is
visited practically every day, fish had never been
seen before (one can see the bottom at any time) ;
in any case, they couldn’t live long in that water,
and we don’t see cod up here. If they did not arrive
in the rain, can any Abo. offer an explanation?
P.S. —The nearest pub is 50 miles away.
“Colub”: In many parts of the country
there is a firm belief, held even by those who should
know better, that the death-adder is in the habit of
making an attack on a man by springing at him,
first forming itself into a circle and then uncoiling
with a spring, sometimes covering a couple of yards
in this way. There is nothing at all in the belief,
which probably has arisen from the adder’s habit
of whipping its tail round to its head when it
bites, a habit which has also been responsible for the
idea that it “stings” with its tail. Anatomically,
the death-adder is quite incapable of performing such
an act as the first-mentioned ; it does not possess the
muscular equipment which would certainly be neces-
sary for springing. Yet I have encountered numbers
of old bushmen who have sworn that they have seen
or heard of instances in which the reptiles have
jumped distances varying from 5 to 15 feet.
“Up Top”: When a little abo. is coming
a reincarnated sou
has entered into the
mother. In North
Australia, anyway. To
have acquired this
spirit she must haVe
walked close by a
sacred spirit-ground.
Here the souls of
the departed collect,
strictly in their totemie
groups, and await the
passing-by of a likely-
looking earth-mother.
If a girl does not want
to do her duty, she
camouflages herself as
a double d-u p old
woman. When a spirit-
child enters a woman
to be re-born it drops
its sacred stick, with-
out which no abo. can
come back into the
world. When the child
is born the mother tells
the father where she
thinks the youngster
entered into her, and
dad and the old men
search the spot for the
sacred stick. If it
has vanished the bucks
cut one from the near-
est tree, and this be-
comes; the sacred stick
of the youngster. The
tree is generally called
the nanja-tree, and a
strong relationship
thereafter exists be-
tween the buck and
this tree. Many regard
their nanja-tree as so
sacred that any bird
which alights upon it
is also sacred to them.
Which is why white
men have at times been
earnestly entreated by
a nigger not to cut
down his nanja-tree.
“Wingella”: I’m told that down south
(logs will not cat bandicoot, and that few bushmen
will touch the beastic. If such is the case, the
N.T.- bandicoot is well worth investigation by
scientists, since both dogs and humans delight to
feast on his white, tender flesh, more delicate than
chicken. I remember one Christmas when my guests
were an Australian, a Canadian, a Swede and an
Irishman. Menu: Two roasted bandicoots, two roasted
chickens, one boiled ham, one plum pudding. At the
close of the meal half the ham and one chicken
were left, but of the bandicoots not a bone remained,
for the dogs had wolfed what wc left, and had even
chewed the skins to get what little remained of
the flesh. Yes, bandicoot, properly roasted (give
me a camp-oven for preference), is a dish fit for a
dinkum Australian.
“Dingo”: Bleeding from the nose (epis-
taxis), from which “Nitric’s” horse (B. 22/l/’2o)
suffers, may be the result of a tumor or ulceration,
or it may be spontaneous. He should search the
nostrils with an electric torch, and if he finds no-
WICKED WASTE.
“I wonder what the fool thinks he's going to grow there, Mother?”
thing he may put the bleeding down as hopeless of
cure, though the condition may improve with age.
Hypodermic injections of adrenalin chloride will
usually relieve bad attacks, but this is a vet.’s job.
Although such cases are dangerous, very few ter-
minate fatally, and many a good racehorse has suf-
fered from the infirmity. Old racegoers will remem-
ber a jumping treble won at Randwick by a well-
known “bleeder.”
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: There wore probably a
thousand men within gunshot of the paper’s London
office who could have supplied details, but the Wool,
Recokd ano Textile World preferred to give its own
unaided explanation of a diagram of an Australian
sheep-station exhibited at Wembley—
Imagine that you are looking at an actual station
for about 10,000 sheep, through an instrument that
reduces it all in scale, and brings it down to the
dimensions of, say, an average dining-room floor, and
you will have an idea of the perfection of this
piece of work. The undulations of the country, the
fences, the trees, the buildings, and all the objects
that go to make up the life of the station are most
ingeniously modelled, and the scene is the more
realistic because some of the objects are moving.
You observe how dry and brown the land is around
the farm buildings, where it has been much trodden
by sheep. Waggon loads of wool are departing from
the shed. The picture is complete even to the
“sundowner” —the unattached man who roams from
farm to farm and who, when night overtakes him in
his wanderings, boils “Matilda” /and makes tea, and
then unrolling his “bluey” or blanket, sleeps under
the stars amid the silent gums.
It is a picture calculated to move the heart of any
true Australian —-especially the homely foreground of
bare earth round the house, the grass being worn
away through the sheep hanging round the (bsek
door for scraps, and the swngman making tealipyt
of his boiled swag in the middle distance.
* .* * *
“X2X” : This is what science says about
it. There are about a dozen different varieties of
yeast, Sacciuiromyces cerevisae being that which is
used for brewing and bread-making. Sometimes S.
cerevisae becomes contaminated by other sorts, prin-
cipally S. pastorianus, . and when this happens such
things as “ropiness” are likely to be caused. Other
varieties turn bread sour and bitter, and when used
in brewing convert the alcohol into acetic acid by
oxidation as fast as it is formed from the carbohy-
drates. For “Dry” to assert that the cause of
“ropy” bread is to be found in the tins used in
breadmaking or in the oven (B. 29/l/’25) is wide
of the mark.
* * * *
“Harvib”: Built high in a Darling River
gum at Gundabooka, Bourke (N.S.W.), is a sentry
shelter and lookout. Although constructed more
than 50 years ago (the old gum has grown completely
round many of the supports), the timber in the
ladder and cross-beams is quite sound. Blacks, one?
speared some shepherds, and attacked the . station
homestead, thus making a continuous guard a neces-
sary health precaution. The old hands mixed . some
sport with the grazing.
“Ento”: Black Brother of Tasmania had
a spear, the perenni, which is unlike any other
known ; and the manner in which the blacks operate
the weapon must have been as specialised as the
throwing of the boomerang by the mainland abo.
The shaft is 10ft. and more long, without point cr
cutting edge, was so slender that it had to be
carried perpendicularly to prevent sagging and
warping, and would have buckled on hitting an
object did it not first acquire a superlative spin.
The lughrana, a 2ft. waddy and companion in the
chase, had an effective range of only 40 yards, so the
strength of the thrower could not entirely account lor
the penetrating power behind the longer projectile.
The few remaining spears are badly warped now.
* * » *
“1.L.1.”: Pagarra is a N.Q. niggers’ fish-
poison plant. “Civilised” niggers call it “will
dynamite,” because when the leaves are crushed an I
thrown into a waterhole the fish turn up their
white bellies in a very few minutes. jKoie-yan is a
pretty jungle-vine addicted to .climbing trees. Its
flowers arc pure white, with a pleasant scent. The
leaves are a sheeny green and about a foot long.
Portions of the vine arc cut into foot lengths, and
the outer layer of bark being rejected, the middle
layer is scraped into little piles on fresh green
THE PROPOSAL.
"Mary, I’m thin kin’ er marryin’ again.
Them pore cores uv mine ’aren’t known
the touch uv a woman’s ’and since
Martha died.”
leaves, then vigorously rubbed on heated stones.
On the stones being thrown into a lagoon, the juice
dopes the fish in the neighborhood. When a creek
drips up into a chain of waterholes, the niggers
simply dope a hole, , roast and eat the fish, sleep
an,, then move to the next hole.
RUS IN URBE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Real love of the country is best cultivated from
the quiet corners of great cities.” —Daily paper.
If you love the purple shadows on the everlasting
hills,
And the sheen of waving wheatfields on the plains ;
If you yearn to see our bushland and experience
the thrills
That rejoice the hearts of bushmen when it rains ;
If you’d see the dewdrops flashing on the bushes they
adorn,
Where, like gems, they deck the spider’s cunning
snare
When the first notes of the magpie’s cheery yodel
greets the morn
As the sun climbs" o’er the ridges, bold and bare,- •
You may turn your footsteps westward, with Matilda
on your back,
And your bags and old black William in your
hand,
And seek, like Henry Lawson, all the romance on
the track
That awaits you in the Never Never land.
But, if your nature-loving soul desires the keenest
joy—
The joy that overcrowding never kills—
Take a bag of roasted peanuts with your missus and
the boy
For a tram ride through the wilds of Surry Hills.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


uiuiuuHiUMiim
WIMM
I
SS:
'/A
a
Y
<?
<v
m
m
m
i mm ii tw\\ \ u w \Trrn\
/
m
mu
m
m
m.
w
m
mm
m
MSW
»
{mu i diu.
m
m
t
s
i
«>
'"WWW
k
d'
I
fh
I M
m
m
! -
OJ
"W
MOTORISTS!
What car do you drive!
Note what it costs to put the best tyres made
on your car. Appended are the reduced
prices at which you can buy dependable
NHWraB
(Cord or Interchangeable Balloon) from all
garages and agents.
★ ★ *
EUROPEAN CARS
HUMBER
710 x 90 B.E. 4 2 3 0 15 6
760 x 90 B.E. 4 6 6 0 16 0
820 x 120 B.E. 7 3 6 1 4 3
ITALA
765 x 105 B.E. 6 10 110
820 x 120 B.E. 7 3 6 1 4 3
LANCIA
765 x 105 B.E. 6 10 110
895 x 135 B.E. 9 16 0 17 6
MINERVA
820 x 120 B.E. 7 3 6 1 4 3
895 x 135 B.E. 9 16 0 17 6
Morris-Cowley and
Morris-Oxford
710 x 90 B.E. 4 2 3 0 15 6
J3O x 31 B.E. .4 4 0 0 15 0
»31 x 4 O/tize . 5 12 6 10 0
Panhard-LevaBBor
Accept only Dunlop Tyres, they
stand alone for value and economy.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States
and N.Z.
Pt
7)un/op
Cords
and be
Satisfied!
AMERICAN
CARS . . . .
BUICK
Size Covers Tubes
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Takes this Balloon.
31 x 4.40 B.E. 510 3 016 6
HUDSON
34 x4l S.E. ..7 7 0 1 3 0
HUPMOBILE
(32 x 4 S.E. ..6 5 0 1 0 6
133 x4l S.E. ..7 3 6 1 2 6
Takes these Balloons.
Where two tyres are bracketed-
the lower is Oversize.


A BEST SELLER.
STEELE RUDD’S
latest laughter-giving Book,
ME AN’ TH’ SON.
Brimful of humor from beginning to end. the reader will have many a hearty
laugh at the doings of the pair of unconscious humorists who, forsaking their
native town, add to the gaietv of the big city.
ME AN’ TH’ SON.
Cloth Library Edition, with artistic, three-color Picture Jacket.
Price 3 8. Posted 2d. extra.
PROCURABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
Twenty Best Books on Technical Subjects.
Postage
Price, extra.
80/-
36/-
SV-
-30/-
25/-
1/0
1/6
i/.o
il-
ea.
85/- 1/-
24/- lOd.
15/-
»/-
6d.
4d.
15/- posted.
07/6 1/7
WRITE FOR LISTS.
AUTOMOBILE.
Dykes’ Automobile Encyclopedia, 13th Edition
CABINET MAKING & JOINERY."
Modern Practical Joinery (Ellis)
CARPENTRY.
Modern Practical Carpentry (Ellis)
CONCRETE.
Concrete Engineer's Handbook (Hool & Johnson) ..
SHEEP & WOOL.
Australian Sheep & Wool (Hawksworth)
PERFUMES.
Perfumes & Cosmetics Synthetics (Poacher) ....
RECIPES FOR ALL TRADES.
Formulas, Recipes & Processes (Ilcnly)
CHEESE MAKING.
Cheddar, Swiss, Limberger, etc. (Dicker)
BUNGALOWS.
Book of Australian Bungalows
COAL MINING.
Modern Practice of Coal Mining (Trewayne)
OILS, ANIMAL & VEGETABLE.
Fixed Oils, Fats, Butters & Waxes (Wright) i
MACHINE DESIGN.
Handbook for Machine Designers. Shopmen and Draughtsmen..
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
Mechanical Engineer’s Handbook (Marks)
TELEGRAPHIC CODES.
Bentley’s Complete Phrase Codes, Numbered
GENERAL ELECTRICITY.
Hawkins’ Electrical Guide, 10 vols
TELEPHONES.
Practical Telephone Handbook (Poole)
IGNITION, STARTING & LIGHTING.
Automobile Ignition, Starting and Lighting (TLvward)
OTL ENGINES.
Diesel & Oil Engineering Handbook (Rosebloom)
BRIDGES.
Design of Highway Bridges (Ketchum)
ACCOUNTANCY.
Australian Manual of Accountancy and Commercial Law (Morley,
Tait & Collins)
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
45/-
36/-
115/-
60/-
1/6
1/-
1/6
1/6
19/- lOd.
24/- 1/-
30/- lOd.
45/- lOd.
42/- 1/6
ISl*
ilBMiiWBMil i
CX' \ * '
m
JBi
m
i
' !WS
KSvaS
m
i ym
SB©
Si
ALTHOUGH the illustrations cannot effectively reveal
the real beauty and quality of the specially-selected
gems with which these pieces are set, nor the perfect
workmanship that has entered into their production, they
disclose two very distinctive designs. The diamond ear-
rings are flexible. The hip brooch, also in diamonds, is
representative of a favored design now being worn in
Paris. Both have been taken from a selection of exclusive
jewellery which contains many others just as beautiful
and attractive, while additional designs are continually
being added.
■a> * -
■
o
EVEN IN THE HOTTEST CLIMATE
That’s ISKO Automatic
Electric Freezing Machine
FACTS WORTH STUDYING!
ISKO can be attached to your own refrigerator or
ice box.
ISKO is absolutely foolproof.
ISKO does not require expensive engines, as it is
simply connected with the house current.
ISKO entirely eliminates the buying of expensive,
melting ice, at the same time making 50 cubes
of ice each day.
ISKO will give you the greatest service at a very
low cost.
ISKO is absolutely automatic, switching itself on and
off as required.
Your Money runs down the drain when you buy ice!
By installing ISKO you convert this liability into an asset.
ISKO HAS MANY SATISFIED USERS
Including—
City Tattersall’s Club, Sydney.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney.
Hotel Toronto, Toronto.
State Parliament House.
Hotel Metropole, Sydney.
Barley Mow Hotel, Sydney.
pm
ft A /
m
m
When in Town, Call and See it Working, or Write for Literature to
IsKo Distributing Depot
Telephone: City 2355. 412 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
We are also Manufacturers of Refrigerator Cabinets.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
From Home
To Home
*3
A,
The pleasure of a stay in Melbourne
is enhanced when you make your
temporary home at “ Scott’s. ”
At this exclusive hotel your every want
has been anticipated and is met in a
manner that truly breathes the atmos-
phere of the “ home from home. ”
The Newly Completed Extension
which makes available an enlarged Dining
Room, Spacious Lounge, Bedrooms with
Baths attached, is just as completely, and
palatially appointed as the original section
of this popular and centrally located hotel.
Write for Tariff Card
Melbourne I
rs tfw
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
O/ie Grcc^t
Toti Dal Monte obtainable
•wy/s it is MARVELLOUS °~, LV
Home Recreations J d
388 George St, Sydney.
(opp. Bea*rd Watson's)
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne.
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK & DOVLE
Phones Central 1532, 1533.
But for a few back rows, the King s
Theatre was filled on Saturday night to see
Mr. Pirn pass by again. Public taste seems
to have ripened since Marie Tempest first
introduced the absent-minded old gent, to
almost empty houses. The Vanbrugh looked
her nicest as the nearly-bigamous Mrs. Mar-
den, in a fieecy-wliitc dress with lace en-
tanglements and a scarf to match, looped over
her arms in the Early Victorian style,
which is now quite new. Janet Eccles, as
the flapper, started out in a white silk
jumper, featuring the dear old Bishop’s
sleeve which has also returned from exile
to clothe the nakedness of our arms. Blue
and white embroideries linked up the jumper
to a skirt of butcher blue, and she ended up
in a short-skirted pink frock buttressed with
creamy lace. Joan Crossley, looking like a
fairy queen in court trappings, was the wife
in the curtain-raiser, “The Twelve-pound
Look”; while Ethel Wellesley, as the typist,
handed out a hint to city office girls with
a neat little black one-piece, collared and
cuffed with white and a paddy-green hat.
A group of Tait daughters, boxed with an
aunt, wore pink frocks and cheerful smiles.
Mrs. Fred Payne and niece Noni Wilshire,
who are shortly off to London, were stalled
elsewhere. Mrs. W. E. Manser brought
daughter Peggy for a final outing before her
marriage with Reg Kempton.
The fourth Test match proved the social
draw on Saturday afternoon. Women who
hardly know one end of a bat from the other,
and would never dream of wasting their time
at a match of lesser importance, flocked
there by dozens. Some knitted and some
puffed cigarettes; a few even looked at the
game. Donald Mackinnon, V.A.C. president,
had called on Sutcliffe and Hobbs to come
up at 11.30 for a silver tea-service apiece—
Elizabethan design for the former and
Georgian for the latter. The vice-regal For-
sters brought a grand fleet with them, includ-
ing the Westralian Governor and Lady Cam-
pion, Mrs. Pitt Rivers, just back from her
Sydney trip, Lord Henry Scott and a cloud
of helps.
The visiting English cricketers _ were
beckoned in one day last for a night of
jazz at Carlyons’. Nine out of the dozen
or so took the field, and they were easily
picked out in the crowd by gift kookaburras
laughing on their coat-lapels. Every table
had been booked, and youth and age whirled
amongst balloons, cabaret toys and noise-
makers. The jazz band, thank goodness, is
steadily outgrowing its exuberant adolescence
and acquiring a sense of responsibility: one
can almost converse nowadays with one’s
partner without having to insert one's lips
into the convolutions of his ear. Several
of the Aussie cricketers were there, and a
few of the Best Known had brought parties.
Gilligan and Chapman smiled above a dinner
the jack Baillieus had offered them in their
Toorak home. The John Winter Irvings had
the Robert Bruces, Norman Falkiners, Tom
Granthams and Leslie Macphersons grappled
to them; Mrs. Max Trytliall had two of the
English players, while the Tom Carlyons and
Harry Scotts gathered round George Sut-
ton’s festive board.
The last of the George Gatehouses’ brood
of three fluttered from the nest when daugh-
ter Beryl joined up with Stephen Sampson
at Toorak St. John’s. Vicar Law forged the
links and Dad led the bride to the sacrifice.
The orange blossoms which had circled her
mother’s wedding veil had been resurrected
from their lavender-scented wrappings to
bind Beryl’s haze of tulle to her brown
shingle above the meshes of an old lace veil,
also a Gatehouse heirloom. Little Ailsa
Cameron, who had crossed the wet track
from Tassie, preserved the bridal train from
scathe and looked like a pink fairy while
she did it. Cousin Dorothy Allanby and
Mary Sampson ’maided in blue crepe with
pink posies trembling on the rims of their
silver hatbrims. John Sampson seconded
the leading man, and had the help of Dr.
Riddell-Stanley. Fizz was uncorked in No.
9 Darling-street, where Mrs. Gatehouse —she
was a daughter of the late Chief Justice
Dodds, the Speck's Lieutenant-Governor —
cheered her black silks with a bouquet of
pink and blue flowers; the 'groom’s mother,
Mrs. W. E. Sampson, splashed the port side
of her blue georgette with Oriental beads.
An orchestra framed the babble, and pink
and white roses frescoed the food. There
was an inter-State flavor about the guest-
list.
Some holiday-makers have returned from
a down-the-bay resort with their pot of in-
dignation boiling over. A distinguished,
foreign-looking man was a mere onlooker at
the dancing at the fashionable hotel until a
Melbourne doctor, who was one of the
guests, introduced him round. A good
dancer, he became popular, and his popu-
larity was enhanced by the atmosphere of
mystery that enshrouded him. _ He was
voted charming, in fact, until it was dis-
covered that —horrors ! —he was the cook.
It’s no use. The doctor has explained that
he got into conversation with the agreeable
stranger, and, asking his name, naturally
introduced him to others. Nothing that the
poor man can say or do will win him for-
giveness.
The other day a move w r as made in the
right direction when the Sun blazed an offer
of rich prizes for the best and prettiest
frocks manufactured at a cost of five shil-
lings. The temerarious newspaper now finds
difficulty in going to press for the stacks of
home-made chiffons about the premises.
Bradshaw’s Training College is helping on
the good work with a dozen dress-designing
scholarships for the 12 girls placed in the
final judging. Economy in dress appears to
be a world-wide passion at present. A cable
tells us that Miss E. Wilkinson, Labor mem-
ber for Middlesborough, wore a frock of sea-
green taffetas which she had built at the
modest cost of ten shillings, at the opening
of the House of Commons’ session. There
was nearly a riot amongst fellow-members
of both sexes. Green taffetas does sound a
trifle frivolous for the mother of Parlia-
ments, but the electors can’t complain, at
any rate; there was no dress-plank in any
of the party platforms.
Ernest Makowcr, who has presented the
National Gallery with a clutch of 37 mezzo-
tint engravings, is the partner in Makower,
Mcßeath and Co. who attends to the British
end of the business. When he was here in
1921 he took a great interest in the Gallery,
and his gift, which was discussed by him when
William Mcßeath was in London last year,
is an enthusiastic art-collector’s effort to
spread light in dark places. The Makower
collection covers a wide range. It contains
engravings by Prince Rupert, who pioneered
mezzotinting in Britain about 1660; John
Vandervaart, who taught John Smith;
Smith himself; John Brooks and his pupils
Richard Houston and .Tames MacArdell, and
MacArdell’s pupil Edward Fisher; John
Raphael Smith, who dawned 79 years after
the earlier John Smith began work, and his
pupil John Young; and William Gay, who
did his last engraving in 1834. There are
also engravings by Blooteling, who crossed
to London from Amsterdam in 1673, and his
pupil Gerard Valck. Though to most people
the collection, chiefly portraits, will seem as
dull as a day without jazz, it has a deep
historic interest.
Unfortunately, it turns out, the Town
Hall paintings were insured, and large
photographs of them arc in existence. They
can be painted all over again and placed in
the new hall! So the fire was all wasted in
a way—the roast pig is lacking.
This is Broothorn’s presentment of the
Watson Robertsons’ clever daughter Elspeth,
now shining
as 1o a ding
girl in “Gappy
Ricks" at the
A t h e nffum
Theatre. Prob-
ably no one
was more sur-
prised than
Elspeth when,
after a brief
flutter in Re-
pertory, she
found her stage
dreams come
true on the
right side of
the profes-
sional foot-
lights. The
popular So-
ciety damsel’s
gift of dra-
matic expres-
sion was doubt-
less inherited from her mother, who is one
of the moving spirits of the National
Women’s League, and has the gift of tongues
too.
Melbourne mothers are going to be inter-
ested presently in a report that local autho-
rity has decided on fighting diphtheria with
the newest weapon provided by science—the
Schick test. The doctor injects a drop of
solution into the arm of little Gwendolyn.
If Gwendolyn is one of those fortunate few
who are immune to diphtheria, there will be
no development and she can run off and roll
with the dog and crawl in the gutter with
safety, so far as diphtheria is concerned.
Otherwise a red spot will appear on the arm
for a day or two, and three separate injec-
tions of “a carefully-prepared mixture” are
to follow. It takes some months for the full
benefit to be obtained, but then, so mother
is promised, it will last for a lifetime. The
whole thing is to be free.
The star attractions at Governor O'Grady's
first lawn party in Hobart were the vice-
regal Forsters. A thousand invitations hart
been broadcasted. Though the season down
south has been spoiled by the shipping
trouble, the week or so surrounding the
G.-G.’s visit was richly freighted with fri-
vols of all kinds, from liorse-racing to
swanky little jazz whirls. A number of the
best-known matrons joined in hostessing a
lunch party for Lady Forster, and the Vic-
toria League ball topped off an orgy of fox-
trotting.
Joan Hay, second daughter of the late
Alfred Hay, of Boomanoomana station
(N.S.W.), kept a matrimonial appointment
with the W. R. Renwicks’ third son, Frank,
at the Surrey Hills R.C. Church. The
bridal satin, the orange blossoms and the
white shower bouquet were convoyed by
cousin Geoff. The ’groom’s small nephew,
Billy Spring, bloused and breeched in white
satin, took charge of the train. Sisters
Patricia Hay and Mary Renwick ’maided in
azalea pink fringed with brown fur, and
Allan Keane and Leo O’Connor best-manned
the ’groom. Mrs. Hay, in crepe and fine old
lace, said liow-dy-do at her Box Hill home.
This well-chiselled profile belongs to Jean
Wilmot, the clever little Inky Wayfarer who
steamed off to London the other day with
contracts t o
contribute
articles t o
several Austra-
lian journals.
Few have as
much ink in
their blood ns
.7 ea n. II e r
journalist dad,
R. W. E. Wil-
mot, is “Old
Boy” of the
Argus and
A u s T R A T.-
astan. Ilis late
father, .7. G.
W. Wilmot,
was one of tin;
powers behind
the t h rone
in the hal-
cyon days of
Mel bo u .r tie
Punch ; and
her maternal grandfather. W. de Tracey
Tracey, 50 years ago edited the Gippsland
Times. Since getting her B.A. at Mel-
bourne, Jean has been writing the bright
articles on “Shops and Shopping’’ in the
Argus.
When Harold Mercer, The Bulletin’s
Melbourne Sundry Showman, received con-
gratulations last week upon still another new
arrival in his household, there was one wire
which won a merit prize. It ran simply:
“Congratulations. We should all be thank-
ful for our little Mercers.”
Lord Somerleyton, now in Australia as a
visitor, belongs to the Aristocracy of Trade.
His father was plain John Crossley, of the
Yorkshire carpet-making firm of John Cross-
ley and Co., but with fine foresight John
gave his son the name of Savile as an encour-
agement to the King to do the fair thing by
a young fellow who looked fit for a title.
Entering Parliament, Savile voted right, was
a useful Under-Secretary, and won in turn
knighthood, baronetcy and peerage, lie re-
presents carpets along both lines of blood,
for his mother was a Brinton, and the Brin-
tons have for generations run one of the big
businesses of Kidderminster.
Mrs. Hall Thompson and daughter Valerie
just waited to cheer the Admiral off on his
official trip to Singapore aboard the Sydney
before packing for Maoriland. The two will
spend a couple of months amongst, the gey-
sers before returning to Melbourne to wel-
come their sailorman back again.
Matters were arranged for Helen Elliot
and Vincent Woods on Thursday night at the
Toorak kirk of which the bride's late grand-
father, James Balfour, M.L.C., was one of
the stout props. Her parson uncle, Graham
Balfour, helped the Rev. J. Mackenzie to ad-
just the knot, and another Balfour uncle
gave her away. The bridal veil of old
Limerick misted silver-encrusted lace of a
rich cream color. The silver train was held
by two small Balfour cousins, Eirene and
Beverley, while two more cousins of the name
’maided with the assistance of Loraine Scott.
Lewis Murray was batman to the ’groom,
and the bride’s widowed mother, in grey
georgette and ostrich plumes, had the jollo
at her Ivew home, Aldourie. In the cheery
gathering Avere the bridegroom’s mother,
Mrs. J. S. Woods, Bishop and Mrs. Arm-
strong, the Fraser dame, still more Balfours,
and a regiment of Elliots.
The Herbert Thomsons, of Malvern, are
taking daughter Olive to see the world.
Thomson was the builder of the first Aus-
tralian motor-car, a hard-tyred steam
vehicle, capable of carrying four passengers.
Its maker covered a lot of ground in St, visit-
ing shows. He established with it the first
important long-distance record in Australia
—that from Bathurst to Melbourne —and
from his early association with the motor-
business made a deal of good cash. He
picked up his first engineering knowledge
from his father, now long deceased, who
earned his daily crust by building merry-go-
rounds and the like.
Mrs. Percy Alderton, wife of the P. and O.
manager, invited a bunch of feminine friends
into her Malvern parlors to meet an English
sister-in-law, Mrs. Fripp, over the teacups.
The principal guest has come here to cast
an eye upon her younger son, Gerry, now
earning his crust in this city: the good-look-
ing matron looks too ridiculously young to
be the mother of grown-ups.
Nineteen-year-old Margaret Fellows, who
has made a confession of intending matri-
mony with the 11. Iv. S. Wards’ eldest son,
Harold, is the eldest of the Herbert Fellows’
daughters and grand-daughter of Toorak’s
famous sporting parson.
The first prize of £4OO for a design for
the completion of the spires of St. Paul’s
Cathedral goes to Sydney, the winner being
John Barr, of Wynyard-square. The second
prize of £BOO is divided between W. H.
Buckley, of Box Hill, and Lippencott and
Billson, of Collins-street.
The Outhwaites and their four chicks have
got back after over a year’s sightseeing in
the Old World. Mrs. Outhwaite is better
known as Ida Rentoul, the clever black-and-
white artist, who has never had a lesson in
drawing, but ever since she could hold a
pen has spun fairies out of her inkbottle.
She is now illustrating another book for her
London publishers.
Evelyn Scarfe, of Adelaide, has made a
date with Dr. Victor Delaney, and Mrs. A. E.
Delaney showed her approval of her son's
choice with a lunch party in the Oriental.
The lady was browned like an autumn leaf
in and lace, and the bride-elect was all
of a piece in tan-colored marocain.
It is time our women tennis-players gave
as good an account of themselves on the
other side as our women golfers. Miss IT. M.
Tliyne, of the South Yarra Tennis Club, is
homeward bound on the Diogenes to blaze
the trail. She will knock them on the back
line at Edinburgh, in the Scottish champion-
ships, and at Wimbledon.
Melbourne has lost one of its most charit-
able sisters in Mrs. Alec Creswick, wife of
the squatter racing-man, who died the other
day at her Toorak home, Yarrien. The big-
hearted matron never failed to answer any
philanthropic appeal. She was the daugh-
ter of the meenister of Victoria’s first kirk,
the Rev. James Forbes.
A week of Adelaide
The Amateur Turf Club struck a swelterer for its
meeting at Cheltenham, with storm clouds to keep
Friday’s deluge in mind and drive some cautious
souls into winter tweeds, and a blazing sun that
sent others into the comparative comfort of thin
alpacas. Mrs. Allan MacFarlane, wife of the acting-
president, hostessed the official cold meats in smartly-
hung navy blue marocain. Mrs. Glover was in
navy, too, with touches of gold and henna, and Mrs.
A. V. Benson, whose husband presides over the Port
Club, was in petunia-colored crepe de Chine.
The Returned Soldiers’ Association is again out
after the scalp of the S.A. Soldiers’ Fund; Methods
of administration and a secretary who isn’t an ex-
Digger have made it see red, and it proposes to
publish a detailed analysis of the fund’s next balance-
sheet, plus its own comments.
Double harness is on order for Catherine, only
daughter of Mrs. Gilmore Reid, and the Barham
Blacks’ only son; and another set for the George
Ritchies’ son, Colin, and Mary, daughter of the
W. .1. Mays, of Gawler. The Kekwick-Lucas wed-
ding is billed for this month. The prospective bride
was star guest at a tea given by Mrs. Colin Trevor
the other day.
Jack Bonython, who went to England at the begin-
ning of the year to be established at King’s College,
Cambridge, has already annexed his lacrosse blue,
and was booked to play in the inter-’Varsity match.
Glenelg’s Floating Palais has had a fancy-dress
carnival, as a sequel whereto a damsel was dis-
covered perambulating Victoria-square in the small
hours of the next morning. By that time she’d got
out of fancy dress into her night rail, and she was
convoyed to the police-station till she could remember
where and to whom she belonged. Where the con-
nection lies between the carnival and the sleep-
walking doesn’t transpire, but it is duly recorded that
she was at the frivol as an Eastern princess.
All superstitions are not founded on ignorance
and folly. AVitness the case of the damsel who walked
under a King William-street ladder the other day at
the precise moment a painter up above had chosen
for dropping his pot of paint. Fortunately she had
a sunshade up, or -worse might have befallen her,
but that useful buffer achieved a jazz-like addition
that not even designers of modern cretonnes could
hope to emulate.
Adelaide is inclined to think that it got the
straight tip from Providence when the recent mid-
day flood brought down a slice of the stone wall
running right round Government House grounds.
Public opinion is pretty nearly unanimous that the
whole thing should go. It was put up 75 years
ago, when the British idea still prevailed that every
real aristocrat should wall himself in from the
public gaze. The western section —the one that has
collapsed—is the first thing to catch the eye of
every stranger coming up from the railway station.
The bank on which it stands will probably be ter-
raced and planted with flowers, with either a hedge
or a low railing at the top.


GRAND-
FATHER
CHIMING
CLOCKS.
A. Saunders’ Grand-
father Chiming Clock,
full Westminster
chimes, Litchfield
strike, mission oak
finish, £2O.
Larger, £25.
Others, £35, £45
£55, £75.
A. Saunders’ one-day “Alarm”
Clock, Oak Case, 20/-
Luminous Dial, 25 /-
CRYSTAL CLOCK.
A. Saunders’ Crystal Regulator
Clock, polished brass case, 8-day
movement, mercurial pendulum,
bevelled glass fittings, £lO.
Others, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
SENDS ALL CLOCKS TO YOUR NEAREST
RAILWAY STATION OR WHARF,
PACKED AND FREE OF CHARGE.
m
gO m
A. Saunders’ 8-dav Mahogany-finished Clock, strikes hours and
half-hours. Accurate Timekeeper. £3/ 107-
Others, £4, £5, £7/10/-. Guaranteed.
12
10
3
7
CABINET CLOCK.
A. Saunders’ Marblette Clock, 8-day. Strikes hours on rich
cathedral gong and half-hours on bell. Bronzed Mounts, plain
dial, 457-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Nickel or
Oxidised Bedroom Alarm,
dependable timekeeper,
20/-
Similar, 15/-
fed
CARRIAGE CLOCK
A. Saunders’ French Carriage
Clock, brass case, lever escape-
ment, in Leather Case, £5/10/-
Others, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£5/10/-
SWINGING
BALL
CLOCKS.
A. Saunders’ 8-day bronzed-
finish Swinging Ball Clock,
£l5.
Others, £2l, £25.
Reliable Timekeepers.
CATALOGUE
SENT FREE
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ALL CLOCKS
GUARANTEED.
Australian.made Weighers.
7
\
=i
7i
The Storekeeper—
The Cotton Grower—
The Fruit Grower—
The Manufacturer—
The Warehouseman—
all need this w Asco ” Utility Platform Weigher. Its sterling
construction gives it the capacity to withstand heavy knocking about,
while the Hardened Steel of the Bearings and Knife-Edges preserves its
weighing-accuracy for years. Wholly manufactured at our works
in Sydney on the principle of the famous British " Avery ”
Weighers. A standardised production and moderate in price.
Capacity, 3cwt. Range, 281 b., by 4oz, divisions.
Call or ’write to any of our branch Showrooms.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO.LTD,
217-219 Thomas Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
New Showroom—B9-91 Quay Street, Sydney (opp. Coastal Farmers,
Near Railway Square).
Newcastle
Adelaide
Wellington, N.Z,
Melbourne
Brisbane
Auckland, N.Z.
Asco Ad. 132.
Tt
\ -
The Finest Motor Drive
becomes in the end tiresome. A few drops
of ‘ ‘47 11” not only cleanse the skin from dust,
but also revive and invigorate.
Obtainable at all Chemists,
and Leading Departmental Stores.
Head Office for Australia: 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Eaude
Cologne


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1914.
ch\\/i 3 \3\i:
Charles Heidsieck
mmnwm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACNt
OiariasHadsitt>
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
PRE-EMINENT
TEA DANCE AND CABARET daily from 3.30 p.m.
DINNER DANCES each evening from 7.30.
Unrivalled facilities for private reservations
and all occasions requiring the distinctive
qualities of the Wentworth.
BANQUETS PRIVATE DANCES WEDDINGS.
'Phone: City 9931.
dummer Season at
sirir
POPULAR SUMMER EVENINGS,
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY.
There will be delightful
Dining and Dancing from 7.30 till
12 each evening.
For the very modest sum of
1016
(Evening Dress Optional.)
Nothing in any way in value approaching this
has ever been before possible in Sydney.
Tuesday and Thursday, 21/-
Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons, daily, 12.30 till 2.30, 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 till 5.30, 5/-
with the privilege of two hours delightful
dancing to the most enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone K 13666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The New Settlers’ League has hit upon a
bright thought in its Big Brother scheme.
The idea is that every boy immigrant should
be adopted by a Big Brother, to whom lie will
be responsible for his actions and who will
be prepared to see to the newcomer’s comfort
and happiness in the land of his adoption.
This Letter is so taken with the plan that
it would urge its application not only to the
strange lads, but to the boys and girls who
are boarded out from the State Relief Depart-
ment. Wouldn’t it be just as jolly for the
little orphan from Bourke as for one from
Bristol to have a big brother or sister help-
ing to smooth out life?
The late Chief Justice Cullen’s lady and
daughter Ailsa have been sharing the honors
with the new Agent-General’s wife in the
matter of farewell parties. The Cullen
family journey to Europe next month, and
on their return will live at Leura. Tregoyd,
their green-girdled home at Mosman, is to
go to the hammer. A big party in their
honor was hostessed by Ethel Turner Cur-
lewis at her Judge’s home in the same water-
front suburb. One of the most interesting
gifts which the gentle lady of Tregoyd will
put into her Mountain home is a dove-grey
writing-desk which the North Sydney branch
of the District Nursing Association gave to
her last week in memory of the great interest
she has always taken in their work. Grey is
the lady’s favorite color.
The Queen Victorians chose the episcopal
atmosphere of the “Blue” tea rooms for their
farewell to new Agent-General Arthur Cocks’s
lady. The “Blue” rooms are run by a
committee of the women workers of the
Anglican Cathedral, and one can almost
smell orthodoxy in the correct china of the
neat and complete little establishment. There
was nothing churchy, however, about the
gathering that screwed or oozed its way into
the delphinium-garlanded rooms the other
afternoon. Short skirts were there, long
ear-rings and georgette raiment. The prin-
cipal guest garnished her hat with a goodly
helping of the purple ostrich, and was other-
wise mole-frocked —subdued but costly.
Furthermore, she was adorned with a boom-
erang of delphiniums presented by the Club’s
President, Mrs. Arding Thomas. Essie Ack-
land, who was also being farewelled by the
active little club, netted a basket of pink
roses and carnations and a shoal of good
wishes. Joseph Bradley’s small lady served
a programme so full of good music that
the afternoon sounded like an all-star con-
cert; and tall violinist Dagmar Thomson
repatriated herself with the Victorians, who
openly demonstrated their delight in having
her home again.
Wives of members all remind us
Husbands Londomvards may climb,
And, departing, friends will find us
Raiment for the colder clime.
An umbrella and a steel-embroidered bag to
keep it company were further light artillery
thrust upon the ex-Treasurer’s wife for her
conquest of London. The presentation took
place last week, with Parliament House for
the background and wives of M's.L.A. in
the foreground. The Premier’s lady did the
handing over, and embellished the gift with
fair words, and there was a running accom-
paniment of tea and light chat around tables
glowing with pink »oses.
Boredom lay like a pall over the Insti-
tute of Journalists’ latest lunch, in spite
of the presence of S. M. Herald potentate
Geoffrey Fairfax. The institute had cast a
wide net, and along with its prize fish, Hur-
bert Murray, of Papua, had drawn in a
shoal of smaller fry: Belgian Consul Segaert,
Mr. Sacchi, of a Milanese newspaper, and dear
old Gerald Marr Thompson were a few of
those seated at the top table for ait the world
to see. The women journalists wore the
February complexion with the smile of an
early Christian on the grill, and whispered
of bargains to be picked up around the shops.
Then, with everybody feeling that life was
nothing but one vapor-bath after another,
the Lieutenant-Governor of Papua spoke the
opening words of his speech in a voice heavy
with a recently-caught cold. (If he could
have located the corner where the chill
struck him it would have become the favo-
rite promenade of all present.) A packet
of lozenges and a long, long glass of water
enabled the voice to carry on, which same
it did for nearly half an hour, on the subject
of the Judge’s own Papua,
Even while Governor Dudley de Chair was
telling of its good works, the Paddington
Women’s Hospital was busy at its job of in-
troducing new citizens to Australia. Just
as his Ex. was in the middle of his most
glowing sentence, one of the nurses slipped
off quietly in response to a whispered mess-
age. Twenty minutes later she rejoined her
friends. “I wasn’t needed, after all,” she said
smiling; “the baby arrived before I got to
the ward. It’s really my afternoon off, but
we’ve had a big day, and I offered to stand
by.” This was one of the entractes at the
annual meeting of the N. S. Wales Benevo-
lent Society, which is always staged in the
spreading grounds of the Royal Hospital for
Women. The loudest hallellujah of the
afternoon burst over the decision of the Gov-
ernment to establish a chair of midwifery
at the Uni., though a silver cymbal of praise
was duly sounded for Scarba, Renwiek and
the Royal, the society’s special avenues of
mercy. Departing president William Cooper
was speeded, and arriving president William
Thompson greeted. And then there was tea
in the grounds and babies ad lib. in the
wards for the visitors.
Ireland’s daughters are the pearls in her
crown of sorrows. Two of them from Dublin
descended on Sydney last week, appealing
for funds to relieve the acute distress in the
Green Land. They are Kathleen Barry and
Linda Kearns, the skin of them fine as a
cherry and soft as milk. Linda is a tall,
willowy creature; Kathleen is of more ath-
letic build. Their objective is £lO,OOO, and
it is already in sight. Kathleen is a sister
of that gallant young Barry who, when cap-
tured while serving with the Republican
Army, preferred to die by hanging rather
than betray his fellow-officers. Married the
day she left Ireland on this mission, Kath-
leen looks forward to a delayed honeymoon
on her return. Her young man, who was a
political prisoner, was unexpectedly released
a day or two before Kathleen was due to
sail to Australia, and to make sure of her
return to him and Dublin Bay he speeded
the knot-tying.
The Belgian Consular Segaerts are busy
packing up for a holiday in their native land ;
and on Friday the French Union will drape
the tricolor and the red, yellow and black of
Belgium above the door of Sargent’s in
Market-street, and rally to a dance in
honor of the whole family. There’s to be a
present, too, but that, of course, is a secret,
until the tissue-paper is unwrapped.
The Stars and Stripes were well repre-
sented in the drawing-room of the Australia
one afternoon last week when the small but
ever-present wife of actor Guy Bates Post
combined bridge and mail jongg in the in-
terests of the babies of St. Margaret’s. The
hostess was a flutter of sand-colored georgettes,
and wore one of those pearl chokers which
are now more than ever the rage in London,
after suffering temporary eclipse. Among
the afternoon’s smart frockers were Keith
Smith’s better half, who hobnobbed with the
Hugh D. Mclntosh and Harry Musgrove
matrons. The good-looking Mrs. E. J. Car-
roll was another outstanding decoration.
Nell Douglas Graham is one of Banana-
land’s gifted girls. Mother was one of the
Murrays of Darling Downs, and also a
beauty; 'father, one of Brisbane’s leading
barristers, was
a son of that
William
Graham who
was a Queens-
land M.P. in
the days of
Mc 11 wraith
and Palmer.
Nell acts for
the Sha k s-
peare Society
and for the
Classical Asso-
ciation. She
was Andro-
mache in “The
Women of
Troy” last
year, she pro-
duces for the
Dickens Fel-
lowship .. Soci-
e t y, and
teaches e 1 o-
cutionary and dramatic art. In her few
spare moments she arranges concerts for the
entertainment of convalescent Diggers. She
does not think she could ever be satisfied
with the mere social round, and a tea-
sipping existence bores her. She has plenty
of energy and grit, a charming personality
and a circle of relations which takes in the
McConnels of Cresbrook, the Jondaryan
Kents and half a dozen other pioneer families.
Australian songbird Amy Castles will be
the guest of 23 Sydney presswomen to-day at
the Mary Elizabeth. “The greatest Butter-
fly the world has heard” is to be the toast
of the afternoon.
An active worker for a children’s ward
in the Royal North Shore Hospital is Mrs.
J. B. Wright, of Neutral Bay. Some time
ago a group of Sussex-street merchants estab-
lished a memorial in the kiddies’ section of
the North Side institution to her husband,
and ever since Mrs. Wright has been an ener-
getic advocate of a children’s ward. Through
her efforts the Helping Hand Committee has
been formed—a circle of ladies as enthusi-
astic as herself in the cause of sick children.
“The Vagabonds” are giving a performance
of Haddon Chambers’s “Saving Grace” at
Warringah Hall on March 25 to get funds.
Living Valentines in the hoops and billows
of Kitty Bellairs and the Pompadour made
the ballroom of the Wentworth savor of
romance on Valentine’s eve. A group of
pretty Sydney girls had been trained in the
sweeping curtsey of an older age, and when
the orchestra broke from jazz into the stately
minuet, there was a sigh of regret for the
passing of the romance of the sentimen-
tal age.
Herewith tenor Alfred O’Shea, whose con-
certs have been filling the Conservatorium
these three weeks. Ilis is a voice of rich
tone and subtle sympathies, and with Cecil
Sherwood he shares the honor of being the
foremost tenor
Australia has
produced in
this genera-
tion. He con-
siders hid most
stirring ex-
perience was
when he ap-
pea r e d as
K u dol f o to
Melba’s Mimi
in “Bohfeme.”
He did this
without hav-
ing one re-
hearsal with
the diva. Bor-
gioli had de-
velo p e d
“throat” dur-
ing the morn-
ing, and Pic-
caluga was
dancing at the
Ambassadors, so the Australian tenor went
on and sang beautifully, though he was obvi-
ously nervous.
Honor the policeman! Not only does he
save us from being torn into a thousand
pieces by savage motorists, but he is
proving himself a buffer between us and ill-
health. At the present moment he is track-
ing £50.000 for the Sydney hospitals, and
looks like catching it. The hospitals are
helping by running queen competitions; so
far Mary Hannan waves the sceptre for
Lewisham, Marie Burke is the Crown-street
queen, St. Vincent’s swears allegiance to
Mrs. Tansey, and the Mater bows the knee
before its tried and trusty friend Mrs.
Leahy. These royalties are busy piling up
votes to decide who shall ultimately possess
the highest throne. Incidentally, the can-
didate who wins will chalk up £lOOO to her
institution over and above its ordinary share.
Phyllis Walls, who astonished the exam-
iners of the London Board of the R.A.M.
and gained the coveted Emmeline Woolley
scholarship, which entitles her to three years’
tuition at the. Royal Academy, is a 16-year-
old Sydney girl whose success has been re-
joiced over by battalions of friends. Mrs.
J. D. Connolly invited over 60 of Phyllis’s
schoolmates, their aunts and friends to a
gift afternoon on Saturday, and Phyllis is
the richer by snowy pyramids of hankies
and undies. She played several solos bril-
liantly, and wielded a facile bow over the
’cello in the school orchestra which per-
formed mightily at the party. The clever
girl leaves Australia by the Moreton Bay
at the end of March.
The St. John Ambulance has a baby
which has been christened the Junior
Auxiliary, and their State Exes.’ daughter
Elaine is the patroness. All the other office-
bearers are taken from among the more or
loss idle rich, so they’ll have lots of time
to carry out the good work according to
St. John. The auxiliary gets its official
blessing at the King’s Hall on April 16
from Lady de Chair, who is patroness of the
parent association.
When a girl has finished her training at
St. Vincent’s she is fitted for three jobs—
nurse’s, actress’s and ballerina’s. If any
man doubts, let him go to the next nurses’
annual at-home at the big institution. On
the stage at the end of the big quadrangle
there is dancing to turn a Russian ballet
green with envy, and the Pavlovas and
Columbines are transformed Nightingales.
The other night the corroboree was once
more in full swing, with electric lights, police
band and monster supper marquee on the
upper lawn. The quadrangle was crowded,
and the balconies surrounding it were a
surging sea of faces. The programme scin-
tillated with stars, brightest among them
being visiting songbird Kate Rooney, though
Ethel Osborne and tenor O’Shea ran close
seconds.
Alfred O’Shea, one may remark, left his
concert at the Con. to motor to St. Vin-
cent’s. do his turn there and return in time
for his next item on his own programme.
But time never does behave in a considerate
fashion; so Alfred had to tack to one part
of the programme what should have belonged
to the other, and all went well.
From an Australian womafi in Nice, on
which the Paris fashion parade descends for
mid-winter: —
\ou still can’t have your frock too short: if you
don’t want to be a frump you must let the world see
all the calves you’ve got. Hats have high crowns, and
on top of the crown is perched a small bow of ribbon
or small ostrich tips. Of course, there is no brim to
speak of. Parasols are still Tom Thumbs, or Tom
Ponce, as they call them here. Though there was
a recent attempt to do away with it we still wear
a red gardenia on our left shoulder, or, now that the
days are moderately cold, we pin it to our furs. Sun-
burn stockings are universal; black shoes with
Louis heels. Furs are sumptuous. A Dutchman at
the hotel told me that he had discovered to-day
where I could get a bargain—a nice coat for £4OO.
Mink coats are greatly in fashion —full length; also
full-length ermine capes lined with gold brocade.
Faces this year are worn much done up ; the lines
under the eyes are almost as heavy as one ordinarily
sees on the stage. On Christmas night, at the Grand
Hotel, there was a grand diner de gala. A Sydney
girl (Helen Mcßobert) caught many eyes in a crBpe
de Chine of palest pink, with a silver lace overdress,
a deep flounce worked with pink and green beads.
The lace longer than the slip, in deep scallops—the
approved style—and a pink feather cabuchon on the
left hip. On the Promenade des Anglais nearly
everyone has a dog—anything from the tiniest
papillons and Pekinese to Alsatian wolfhounds.
A wedding of interest to A.J.C. circles
happened at St. Mark’s, on Darling Point,
early last week, when Jean Mackellar, of
Kdgecliff, became Mrs. John Mitchell More,
of Mackay (Q.). Bishop Long and Padre
Howard Lea slipped on the noose, the bride
standing up to it in ivory brocades and tulle
veiling and a shower bouquet of unusual
magnificence composed of stephanotis and
carnations. One bridesmaid, in blue and
silver, floated after the bride, and the ’groom
was cheered along by Eric Martin. Jean’s
aunt, Mrs. Harry Chisholm, hostessed a
party later at the Queen’s Club.
The marriage of Margaret Gibson, of
Darling Point, to Anthony Godsell Brabazon
was celebrated with the soft pedal at St.
James’s. The bride, forsaking tulle and
orange buds, crowned her locks with a wide
white hat, but, relenting below the chin, was
there a foam of georgette and hand-painted
lace. One ’maid, Edna Lloyd Jones, in skyey
blue and swinging a silver basket brimming
with purple pansies, supplied an illuminated
border, as it were, to the wedding group.
Stephen Friend best-manned, and the Queen’s
Club put the right quantity of ice into the
loving-cup.
Molly FitzSimons, a popular North Shore-
liner and amateur actress, is among the
newly-engaged. The young man is George
Brown, of the Highlands, Pymble. Molly’s
father is a State M.L.A.
Lorna Reid, of Winton, a Queensland lass
who has not been long in Sydney, has had
the usual reserved sign hoisted by Norman
G. Heron, of Randwick.
Sculptress Margaret Holden is packing up
for England, and leaves by the Ormonde.
There will be a long stay in Rome later on.
The Papuan Excellency Hubert Murray’s
lady has built a seaside home at Terrigal.
High upon the cliffs above the foaming break-
ers, it looks_down on the sands where don-
keys, lovers, etc., delight to moon about on
mid-summer days. The clever little woman’s
hobby is the camera.
Miss Brisbane’s memo :
The visiting oil-potentate, Sir Robert Waley Cohen,
is the lion of the moment, and with Colonel Waley
Cohen was the guest of honor at a big dinner at
Government House the other evening. Former Speaker
Alfred Cowley and his lady, General Bruche and his
wife, Mrs. Theodore, Miss Freda Bage (principal of
the Women ’si College), the Cadell-Garricks, the For-
syths and H. C. Cupples and his wife were among
those present.
The soup-plates wandered amongst bowers of splen-
did roses at Lennon’s the other evening when Bern
Harris and some friends ate to the approaching nup-
tials of his popular brother Syd and Daisy Hardeastle.
A dance at the Trocadero was another reminder to
the same couple of coming events.
The Messageries Maritimes ship Cephee was cleared
for action on February 9, in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Toowoomba. Mrs. E. G. Theodore, in
shaded imperial blue georgette, stood at the gangway
prepared to receive boarders with a smile. His Ex.’s
party consisted of Sir Robert Waley Cohen and
Colonel Waley Cohen. Miss Winnie Murphy, the one
and only deb., was presented by Mrs. Theodore. Palm
fronds converted the gangway and dining-saloon into
a Queensland mountain gully, and the supper tables
were bright with roses. Two bands ministered to
the needs of jazz-hungry feet.
The Hawaiian fish girl, Marieschen Wehselau, and
her handsome chaperon, Mrs. Fullard-Leo, had tea
handed to them at Lennon’s the other day by the
Ladies’ Amateur Swimming Association. Hibiscus
flowers and a real Hawaiian, band in their national
dress gave the appropriate atmosphere for President
Mrs. J. P. Fry’s words of welcome.
Miss Borton, of Toowoomba, whose marriage to Mr.
W. Proven, of New Guinea, takes place at the end of
February, was the guest of honor at a bridge party
given by Mesdames H. J. Stark and T. P. Connolly
at Toowoomba.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
liqueur
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean* Soft and Mellow.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
for
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
The Hawk nobly vindicated the much-
criticised V.R.C. weight-adjuster in the St. George's
Stakes at Caulfield on Saturday. In receipt of 31b.
from The Night Patrol, whereas he was handicapped
to give the other lib. in the Newmarket, he proved
himself at least a 101 b. better horse on the day.
The Night Patrol opened at evens, with the small
Martian —Sparrowhawk gelding at 5 to 4 ; then there
was a rush to back the Governor’s horse, until it
was difficult to get 4 to 5 at barrier-rise. Tackled
at the straight entrance, The Night Patrol showed
no relish for his job, and J. M. Cameron’s wonderful
little Maorilander came home three lengths ahead
in lmiiv Slfsec. for the nine furlongs. The
vice-regal horse is speedy enough, but he has no
stomach for a fight. Backwood, last early, finished
just behind Amalfi, the third horse, and McShort-
odds immediately quoted a dynamite price for the
Australian Cup.
The Oakleigh Plate is generally a mad scramble,
and shrewd punters, warned by experience, fought
shy of Saturday’s race, for which there were 30
starters. Adrift (Blankney II. —Trenody) was one
of the first to leave the machine, and, having in-
dulged Vivanda with the lead for three of the 54
furlongs, came right away in the run home, three
lengths separating him from Skirling, with whom
Validus, Trice and Whittier were almost in a line.
George Woodforde, sometime chairman of the V.A.T.C.,
owns Adrift, who was backed from any old price 1o
10’s. Whittier, at the same quote, was the only
other solidly supported to beat Father’s Voice (9 to 2),
and his connections were perhaps unlucky to see him
beaten. He missed the jump-out, and was heartily
bumped when he joined the leaders. He will have
a better opportunity of getting a clear run in the
Newmarket. Father’s Voice was also knocked from
pillar to post. Bernina (St. Spasa—-Guinevere), added
the Bond Cup to her lengthy list of trophies won
in South Oss. Though only a. rat of a mare, she
can stay for a week, and she was going easily ahead
of Accarak aird Prince Florizel at the eird of the
12 furlongs. She was favorite at 3’s, and is now
greatly fancied for the Australian Cup, in which she
will carry 7st. 121 b less, than on Saturday.
“Chiron”; Pike, on The Hawk, fairly outgenerallcd
Lewis, aboard The Night Patrol, in the St. George's
Stakes. At the slick pair's previous meeting in
the Cantala Stakes on V.R.C. Derby Day, Lewis
had The Night Patrol in front all the way, and
Pike was unable to get near him until half a
furlong from home. Then Lewis rode the English horse
so very vigorously that there might have been
ground for a protest if Pik4 hadn’t weighed in
light; as it was, the victory was Robert’s. On
Saturday the Sydney jockey used every ounce of
speed the Maorilander possessed, and caught the
importation just after they swung into the straight.
The Night Patrol soon turned it up. If Pike rides as
well at. Flemington as he did on Saturday, The
Hawk will win every w.f.a. race he starts in.
Some well-backed horses rolled home at
Rosehill (N.S.W.), but. as usual, the odds-shouters
had the better of the week-end argument at the
finish. The hurdler Old Grey (10’s), a country prad
only recently introduced to the game, was a good
friend to them, and so were the Woorak filly Guest
(14’s) in the Granville Stakes and little Cesarion
Chip (14’s) in the Rosehill Handicap, 10 furlongs.
For the latter race The Wraith and Luddenham
were the public fancies, but they had no chance with
the game Positano pony, who saw that the pace
was willing from the start, and lasted long enough
to beat Eudorean (12’s) by a neck, with Lord
Satin third. The remarkable little fellow was sent
into the sale-ring on Monday, but the highest bid was
250 guineas, which was not accepted. He is worth
a lot more than that. Loyal Merv, who gave The
Hawk a good race at Moorefield last month, took
the seven-furlong Dundas Handicap, and other winners
■who did the public no harm were Speech (4’s), a
good sort of two-year-old by Demostnenes —Angelia,
Sea Risk (3’s) and Pardex (3’s). Sea Risk made a
fair-class welter field look very ordinary, and perhaps
the best has yet to be seen of this brother to the
disqualified Purser, rising seven though he be.
* * * *
The luck was all with the Englishmen
in the fourth Test match at Melbourne. First, Gilli-
gan won the toss, then Sutcliffe was badly missed by
Ponsford off Gregory before he had made 10, and
when Taylor and Andrews had apparently got the
measure of the English bowling, after a bad Aus-
tralian start, on the third day, rain stopped the pro-
ceedings at 3.15 p.m. In two days of patient batting
the Englishmen registered 548. Sutcliffe added to his
remarkable record of Test-match centuries by reach-
ing 143, remaining in throughout tne first day, only
to get out l.b.w in the first over on Saturday; and
Whysall (76), Ivilner (74). Hobbs (66), Hendren
(65), Hearne (44) and Woolley (40) gave him sub-
stantial help. The brightest batting was that of
Hendren, who got his 69 in 114 minutes. Ivilner’s
was also an interesting exhibition, but the stalwart
Whysall was fearfully dreary. Ivelleway, who dis-
missed Whysall, Gilligan and Kilner in nine balls,
without a run being scored, and wound up
with 3 for 70, was the leasit unsuccessful
trundler; but the bowlers were put into the shade by
the wicketkeeper, Oldfield, who stumped four men
and caught one, and kept sundries down to 13, two
of which were no-balls and three wides. The slim
chap’s stumping of Hobbs, off a fast one on the leg
side from Ryder, was masterly ; in fact, his achieve-
ment has never been excelled in first-class cricket.
Collins took Arthur Richardson in with him instead
of Bardsley, and the pair batted freely for 25
minutes. Then trouble came in large quantities. Col-
lins (22) was cleverly caught by Kilner off Tate,
Ryder hadn’t scored when he played the same bowler
on, and Bardsley (24), after shaping quite in his
1909 style—he hit four brilliant boundaries —took a
risk with Hobbs and was smartly run out. Richard-
son (19) and Ponsford (21) followed them to the
pavilion—Ponsford was never easy when opposite Tate,
although Hearne got his wicket —and five were down
for 109. But Taylor was at home from the outset,
and with Andrews also batting confidently, the score
was carried to 168 before proceedings were abandoned
for the day, to the annoyance of the spectators. And
a Melbourne crowd can be very uncivil when it is
annoyed.
The two N. S. Welshmen resumed on a soft wicket,
and Australia’s prospects were about as bad as they
could be. Andrews added only two to his over-
night score of 33, and then Kellcwa.v went l.b.w. ;
Kilner got them both. Taylor and Gregory made
a plucky stand, adding 72 for the eighth wicket, when
Taylor hit one into Hendren’s hands at silly mid-on ;
he had made 86 in 138 minutes —a splendid effort in
the circumstances. Gregory, who had several lives,
left when he had contributed a merry 38, and the
innings closed for 269. Kilner, who has been a tower
of strength to the Englishmen since he struck form,
took 3 for 29, Hearne 3 for 77 and Tate 2 for 70.
Going in a second time, Collins fell to Kilner for 1.
and Bardsley to Tate for a blob. Taylor and
Gregory made another spirited attempt to save the
side, but when this was written it. looked as if
nothing short of actual violence could prevent the
Englishmen from having their first win in a Test
match since 1912. No Australian will begrudge it
to them, for they have been good triers always.
“Snow”: History is on the side of the old-timer
who snorts at seven-day Test matches, and maintains
that the game was much livelier in the past. In tho
first Test, at Lord’s, in 1896, after the Australians
had lost 3 wickets for 62, Syd Gregory and Harry
Trott added 221 in two hours and a half ; Syd 103
(17 fourers), and Trott 143 (24 boundaries). It
takes about four hours to make that many to-day.
At the Oval, in 1902, G. L. Jessop belted 104 for
England in 83 minutes (17 fours and a five). At
Manchester the same year Vic Trumpcr scored 104 in
110 minutes; his opening partnership with Duff pro-
duced 135 runs in less than an hour and a half.
DAVE PRICE , trainer of Rahda and Impu-
tation and other decent Vic. horses.
And there was Joe Darling’s wonderful Test innings
in 1898 —160 in less than three hours, 120 from
boundary strokes. I wouldn’t mind wagering that
neither Collins’s XI nor Gilligan’s will hit 30 fours
in one innings of the last match at Sydney.
“G. 0.8.”; Sutcliffe, Collins. Foster and others
have done w’ell in their initial Test match, but to
my mind the best batting effort stands to the credit
of the late Reg Duff. At Melbourne on New Year’s
Day, 1902, Duff w'ent in when Barnes, Blyth and
Braund were making such good use of a bumpy pitch
that five good wickets had fallen for less than 50.
To put an edge on his anxiety, the larrikin section
of the crowd hooted and re-hooted him during his
stay at the wicket, for they believed Peter McAlister
should have been in the team, and that Duff's in-
clusion was solely due to favoritism. Reg added
32 to Australia’s meagre total, and, what was in-
finitely more valuable, stuck it for over an hour
when the wicket was at its awfullest. In the second
innings his top score of 104 gave Australia a com-
fortable win.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The first use I remember of
“thrown out” in the publishing of cricket scores
(B. 5/2/’25) occurred after a match on the Sydney
Cricket Ground, when Harry Donnan. dashing "along
near the fence to save a fourer by inches, picked up
and threw' in grandly, the ball knocking down the
middle stump. It was a memorable bit of fielding,
and I always thought the Daily Telegraph justified
in recording it as “thrown out, Donnan.” But there
is a distinction between that sort of credit and
describing an ordinary “run out” as “thrown out.”
The old Star, reporting the success of Bill Howell
A memory of Marieschen Wehselau and some
Australian Nereids at Manly ( N.S.W .)
baths
in that match, N.B.W. v. England, in which Bill
first made a name for himself, allowed its exultation
to rush to its head. In its published scores appeared
“Sundries, c. and b. Howell.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: Nothing so much exempli-
fies the true inwardness of professional “sport” as
the general exodus of allegedly crack League foot-
ballers from N.S.W. to Queensland for the coming
season. A year or two ago, ere Queensland League
football had begun to approach the State’s old Rugby
Union standard, every eligible gladiator flocked to
N.S.W. Now that the latter’s mana has been rubbed in
the mud, Queensland is the promised land. The north-
ern State itself is suffering from a. professional football
boom. Local stars are flitting from club to club
and from town to town as the money calls. Bonuses
of £lOO and “football jobs” at anything up to
£8 or £lO a week are flying all over the place, and
a species of puss-in-the-eorner is going on between
the three “big” football centres, Toowoomba,
Ipswich and Brisbane. Of course it will all crash
in the end, as sport for payment has always done,
but, in the meantime, everyone who likes that sort of
thing, and is otherwise qualified, is hopping in while
the going’s good.
* * * *
“0.M.”: There has never been any love
lost between the governing bodies of Union Rugby
and Union League (B. 5/2/’25). Year after year
the English League draws Union champions to its
ranks. Union Rugby was almost killed in Northern
England and in N. S. Wales. It died wholly in
Queensland and is being fought bitterly in Maoriland.
The decision that a Maoriland and not an Australian
League team should be invited to tour the North of
England next winter is an incident in the war. The
inducements will be £5 or £6 a week per man, with
a bonus at the end of the tour. If only some of the
present All-Blacks can be persuaded to make
the trip huge gates are a certainty. The All-Blacks
are not at all pleased at their treatment by the
English Union. That body, after making £40.000
during their tour, packed them second-class in
steamers about the coast, and did other things calcu-
lated to make the tourists remember that in their
veins did not flow the blood of Vere de Vere. So
League agents are hoping that some of the men who
scored 49 to nil against. Canada the other day will
follow the example of George Smith, Charlie Seeling
and other M.L. Rugby Unionists who, after touring
Britain with the amateur'team in 1905, joined the
M.L. League in the following year, revisited England
as members of a League side, and stayed there as
football-publicans.
* * * #
“Hamer”: The curious importance of foot-
ball in Melbourne is shown by the skirmishing which
goes on in different municipalities over the leasing
of grounds, and by the claim, now frequently made,
that his Worship the “Mare,” wTioever he might be,
should be president of the local League club. When
the latter point was discussed in one council, a hire-
ling of Fat pointed out that there might sooner or
later be a majority of Labor councillors, with the
dreadful result that a Red would be wafted into the
honored position of football president. While the
anti-Reds were shuddering at the thought, an indig-
nant Labor man put in his protest. He declared
that he was poor but honest, and, rich as the man
who had cast the slur on his party might be, he,
the speaker, would make just as good and honorable
and dignified a football club president. (Loud
applause.) There has not yet been an argument as
to whether the mayoralty should carry with it the
chairmanship of the local two-up school ; but no
doubt that will come.
“MyoMerin”: Here, in Darwin, we play
footer during our summer. There are no specially-
made boots as in the effete South. Tennis shoes or
bare feet are the general rule. And the kicking is
pretty high-class, too.
* * * *
Hans Robertson (who took the title,
foreigners not being qualified) made a good showing
against Sam Kahanamoku in the 100 yards Vic.
championship at the St. Hilda baths. At 15 yards
the Victorian led, with Kahanamoku inches behind,
but the brown swimmer proved the better man over
the last bit, and won by a touch. His time was
59sec., a second outside the State record; but the
state of the water was against speed. Only a couple
of hundred people considered the championship and a
good supporting programme worth witnessing. For
some reason or other there has been a marked de-
cline of interest in competition swimming this
summer, notwithstanding the visit of lvahanamoku
and Miss Wehselau.
“S.T.S.”: Handicapping long-distance
swimmers in Adelaide is increasingly difficult because
of the juvenile talent. In this year’s fresh-water
swim-through-Adelaide, fastest time, 27min. 33sec.,
was done by veteran Beaglehole, formerly of Moonta,
but it put him only 16th. A 15-year-old, Gadkear,
did the mile and 200 yards—against the current —
in 29min. 22sec. ; he had six minutes start, and
arrived 80 yards ahead of the next to finish. There
were 97 starters, several of them girls. The race
has been held each year since 1913. One man.
Baton, has swum every time, and is now the handi-
capper. He has cut down the limit start to 9min.
- —l2 for girls—but even this needs reducing. No
imaginable runner would be asked to give away 33
yards in the hundred, or 580 in a mile.
* * » *
Hone and Rowe, the two South Austra-
lians who have had the big compliment of an offi-
cial inquiry whether they would be available for the
Davis Cup team if selected, met in a club match
last week. Hone lost the first set 3—6, and only just
saved the second at 6—5; the match was played
with advantage sets. Then, using his head, he intro-
duced a heavy chop-stroke which on the wet court
discounted Rowe’s fierce driving and gave Hone the
deciding set, 6 —3.
* * * *
The Rymills of Adelaide are in Brisbane
this week on an attempt to get back the
Griffiths Cup for motor-boat racing, which J. M.
Williams took north last year after" Tortoise 1. and
11. had held it in S.A. since before the war. Century Tire
was bought in America by Williams, with a reputa-
tion of over 70 miles an hour. She never got near
that on the Port River, but won anyway. Tortoise
11. has been speeded up since then, and the Rymills
claim that she can really do 70 or thereabouts.'
* * * *
“Tiller”: Tassie, the winning yacht in the
21 ft. restricted class at Hobart (B. i2/2/’25), cost
only £3OO to build. The keel was laid in Charlie
Lucas’s shipyard on December 18; a month later
she was in the water, and by Feb. 9 had won the
Clarke Cup, the Albert Cup and the three heats of
the Australian championship. She was constructed
of Huon pine from a model supplied by her helms-
man, W. P. Batt, who has been sailing racing craft
on the Derwent ever since he left his pram. The
actual shipwrighting work was done under the
nominal supervision of Lucas by a Viking genius
named Gronfers.
* * » *
Barton, the Belgian welterweight, made
good in his contest with Harry Collins, of Newcastle,
at the Sydney Stadium. He lost the decision, and
was nearly knocked out in the fifteenth, but he took
all that was coming in the gamest possible fashion
and landed solidly at times with a dangerous right.
And there is no doubt he will do still better when
thoroughly acclimatised. Collins, in the opinion of
some Stadium critics, is a world-beater, and will
prove it when he goes to America. He is certainly
a good man when he gets going, but he is an uncom-
monly nervous starter, and it is not to be forgotten
that he was twice knocked out by the American
Bagel, a man not highly regarded in the country
where pugs and pickle-factory tabbies are accepted
as “film stars.”
* * * *
The sympathy of the multitude was w T ith
Ben Martin (9st. lib.) when he faced Bill Grime
(9st. Iflb.) at the Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day. A few weeks ago Ben defeated Englishman
Joe Fox, having filled a vacancy left by the sick-
ness of another pug, and the glamor that attaches
to the tyro who does great deeds was his. On this
occasion he was not quite up to his contract, but
he gave Grime one of the hardest contests of that
methodical youth’s career. Grime took delivery of
some hard punches, some of them on a cauliflower
ear. He returned them with heavy interest. In
the 18th round Martin was dropped. Rising after
“eight” he was felled again, and Quirk awarded
Grime the fight on a technical knockout. Then the
crowd, which hates Grime, hooted him to his dress-
ing-room. Martin, on the other hand, was wildly
cheered.
“Pip Tok” : Diggers of the 4th Division,
A.1.F., lost a good friend when Jim Driscoll, former
featherweight champion of the world, passed out
at Cardiff. While the Somme winter was at its
worst, Driscoll was attached to the 4th Division as
physical-training and bayonet instructor, and, though
the Army curriculum did not then include boxing.
Jim could always spare an hour or two for a little
free instruction in that art. With a Welsh accent
lie combined the ready wit usually attributed to the
children of Oisin, and with the Taffy knack of acquir-
ing money went the Irish habit of scattering it
quickly. The friend and mentor of Jimmy Wilde, he
finished the Great War as a boxing instructor at the
great Headquarters gymnasium at Aldershot. With
one exception—our own Griffo —he was the cleverest
featherweight the game has known, and no gentler,
kindlier or more painstaking instructor ever put ’em
up . *
“Trevdee” : At a fancy-dress ball in a Vic-
torian town a youth arrived in the guise of a heavy-
weight boxer. Another youth rebuked him for wear-
ing such a rig-out, and the argument finished at the
back of the hall. The “boxer” was knocked-out in
three seconds. After ruminating on the row and its
result, the judging committee awarded the injured
youth first prize for the best-sustained character.
“Past Grammar”: The next Olympic Con-
gress, which is to take place at Prague, is to lay
down an authoritative general ruling on the amateur
status in two important particulars. One is whether
amateurs are to be allowed to compete with profes-
sionals ; the other, whether amateurs may receive
compensation for “loss of time.” This is not to be
confused with the present “personal allowance” to
amateurs. At present, any amateur competing
against or with a nrofessional loses his status. If
the practice is permitted it will increase the already
hard job of distinguishing one from the other:
whether that result be good or bad is a matter for
individual opinion. Compensation for loss of time or
“broken time” means that a man is being paid to
enable him to engage in sport, and that, in letter
and spirit, makes him a professional, for good or
evil.
NOSE-RINGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Firpo expressed liis satisfaction at the news of
Dempsey’s marriage. ‘Now that Jack has a new nose
and a wife,’ he commented, ‘he is unlikely to fight
again and 1 will be the champion.’ ”
He bruised his way to glory and to kale,
Laurels galore he wreathed about his brow,
But surely his intrepid heart will fail
At thought of risking facial damage now.
A brand-new boko and a doting bride
Are things not lightly to be put aside.
How could he stand before me in the ring
And lower his guard to tap me on the point
Knowing, as well as I, one vicious swing
Would put his cherished feature out of joint
And turn to anguish vehement and grim
The wifely pride she takes in it and him?
Mere championship any man might risk
With stacks of dollars as a quid pro quo,
And from his corner move, alert and brisk,
To meet and mash a pugilistic foe ;
But who, just married, wouldn’t dread a clout
Directed at a renovated snout?
He wears a nasal organ on his face
Fairer and shapelier, they tell me, far
Than that which Nature gave —a thing of grace,
Roman and classically regular,
A jib so rare among us scrapping guys
What must it be in her enraptured eyes 1
A conk to paint, aye or in marble sculp !
For him and her it would be pitiful
To have it battered into shapeless pulp
Before the onslaught of a Pampas Bull.
Re-nosed, new-wed, resign, your honors, Jack.
It’s very obvious you can’t come back.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Modern Methods of Construction
Reconstruction of Botany Road
showing Modern Machinery in Use.
AREA: Approximately 5 miles.
CONTRACT TIME: 39 weeks.
.. tlr- '
J J ':r
LMifc - *
• " —— ” .Tn*t'
! f -- —7*l ■
•3, £ Z, ;i
ia
,r
# m, •«
2 £ |
■Jsfe*
JoS
H
; USHW&f
Ifi*
-i
'sir-
'
V...
*
r . - • _ '-«*■**
.- ; ;■■ • :
: s fv^- v ■,
* .
■ ~ ;
'
v■ ■ *
Engineers: Ross & Rowe, Sydney.
Contractors: Concrete Constructions, Ltd., Sydney.
;We are contractors for all classes of concrete work and invite your inquiries.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
47 King Street, Sydney.


VENUS
V PENCILS
Ike largest selling
jiuility pencil
in the world
m-
17 degrees Black
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
For ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere
VIVISECTION ! !
Can it be Justified? We say No ! !
Help to Abolish It.
For information and literature apply to the Hon Sec.,
(Miss) Helena MacDougall, 00 Holmes Road, Moonee
Ponds, Victoria.
Minimum subscription 1/- per annum.
5/- or more secures monthly magazine,
“THE ABOLITIONIST”
Write new, and join
THE BRITISH UNION FOR
ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,
Melbourne Branch.
The “MOR”
Extension Suit and
Attache Case
The ‘‘MOR” will always
Take More.
TO the many hundreds of folk who
have tried to cram more articles
into a suit or Attache Case than was
intended, the “Mor” offers a happy
solution to this vexed questi< n.
By merely operating the hinges at the
back (simple enough to be operated by
a child) you arc enabled to tike 40
per cent, more articles without the case
losing its perfect shape.
Stocked by all leading Stores, or obtain-
able from Manufacturers.
Write for descriptive Folder to Dept. “D.’’
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Buildings,
Martin Lane, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
If any illustration appearing in The
I.UIXETIN takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Legal Notice.
WJ ILLIAM PATRICK FEEHAN, of Mt.
▼ t Duneed, Victoria, whose last known
address was 117 Wharf Street, Brisbane,
Queensland, is requested to communicate
with the undersigned, from whom he will
learn something to his advantage.
The undersigned will also be pleased to
hear from any person being able to furnish
information concerning the fate or -where-
abouts of the said William Patrick Feehan.
Dated this Sixth day of February, One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-five.
DOYLE & KERR, Solicitors, “The
Exchange,” Market Square, Geelong, Victoria.
fdr
o
\v' vr.
/ «?>7
moo
r* i yn
-Spinet
TKesuper CIGARETTE
Wherever- people of taile
forefather, “Spinet” Cifar"
ettes are in favour. ‘Th.err-
cool mellowness appeals to
(hose who recofnise a good
cifarette.
Cork-Tipped
Ovals
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. li. & M. A. CO., LTD,, Melbourne.
MOTHERS!
These Jelly
Moulds Are
Yours FREE
ONE MONTH
ONLY!
Our Offer Expires
MARCH 20, 1925.
1
'SL
*♦
u
0
/i
tsl
y
SIX (6) GENUINE
ALUMINIUM MOULDS
Value 4/6.
HERE’S a generous offer to every woman
who knows the exquisite quality of
JELLEX—the new type—quick gelatine
dessert, in flavors of real fresh, ripe, juicy
actual fruits.
Buy at your grocer’s only a dozen pint
packages of JELLEX. Post us the coupon
below, with X/- for postage and packing—also
the 12 “Minute Maid” trade-marks from the
packages. We then will post you six jelly
moulds of pure aluminium —value 4/6 (at 9d.
each) —which should last you a lifetime.
This offer is made to help women serve the
new JELLEX in the most attractive and appe-
tising ways.
JELLEX reveals absolutely new, rare
delights in jelly desserts. Blended from
costly, rare-quality gelatine—super-reflned for
JELLEX alone—with a rich, zestful, fruity
juice flavor, JELLEX is rapidly replacing the
old-style jelly crystals in tens of thousands of
Australian homes. JELLEX is packed in
twenty-three delicious flavors; but if your
grocer hasn’t your favorite flavor he can
quickly get it for you.
INDIVIDUAL MOULDS
ARE 2f INCHES
DIAMETER.
out and post this Coupon Now!
Mai
Mi*
.i!!l
UTg
jECfiPr
Os/
®>D
*e>
Clinton Williams, Ltd.,
200 J Wimble Building, 35 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
I have to-day purchased and received twelve (12)
packages of JELI.EX, as illustrated in this
coupon, from my grocer:—
*
Now I post this coupon along with the twelve
(12) “Minute Maid” Trade-marks and 1/- in
stamps, to help pay distribution expenses, postage
and packing for the six (6) aluminium jelly
moulds you offer.
Name
Address
(We offer vou Six Shapes of Moulds. Say if you
want illustrated shapes, assorted, heart, cr fluted.)
The oldest liome-grown nun in W.A.,
Sister Mary Vincent, brought up GO on Time's
board the other day. She was the first native
(if Terth to join up at the Irish-founded Con-
vent of Mercy.
Dead at Glenelg (S.A.), at close on 70,
Clem Phillipson, a popular citizen, who had
divided his time for many years past between
the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne and Adel-
aide. He returned to S.A. for good about
three years ago.
“G.H.”: When a Chinaman came up to
be sworn in a Melbourne law court the
other day, proceedings had to be delayed
while they sent out to the market for the
necessary live-stock. John demanded a pig;
but a rooster was brought and the mur-
derous deed done.
“X.N.0.”: “Table Salt" (B. 5/2/’25) lets
loose an old joke when he asks how many
ropes there are in a full-rigged ship. The
answer is “Five.” Can “T.S.” name them?
And can he also tell me which is the biggest
block in a ship, and the name of the strong-
est light on the N. S. Wales coast? Also,
when does a sailing-vessel give way to a
steamer?
“C.N.”: Reference to two members of the
same legal firm sitting in Parliament together
(B. 29/l/’25) reminds me of a pair who
once held Ministerial rank at the same time.
When Paddy Glynn, the Adelaide K.C., was
in the Federal Cabinet, his partner Aligns
Parsons was Minister for Education in S.
Aus. Parsons is now on the. State bench,
and not long since Glynn retired from the
old firm of which he had been senior partner
for so long.
In 1902, when Wilson's Street Direc-
tory was first issued, the population of Syd-
ney was 516,540. At the end of 1924 it
numbered over a million. With the popula-
tion almost doubled the number of streets
has proportionally increased, and with 57
named Victoria, 44 Williams and as many
Georges, 42 Shorts and 30 Jameses and Eliza-
beths, such a directory is a necessity to both
pedestrian and motorist. There is also a
section devoted to the Blue Mountains indis-
pensable to lioneymooiiers.
“Adelaide”: The Doradillo grape had a
post-war boom in South Aus., where its
heavy bearing capacity—lo tons and over
to the acre —caused it to be specially recom-
mended to soldiers starting life on the
Murray. The Federal Committee’s report
just published is a merciless indictment of
the Doradillo on these grounds :
(1) It is a crude wine-grape, useful only for in-
ferior wines and for distilling'. (2) It has been
enormously overplanted without any adequate arrange-
ment being made for marketing the surplus crops
now coming in. (3) On the limestone under shal-
low sandy soil, common in the Murray districts, it
bears less than in the coastal district, where it got
its reputation; also, it does not live so long. (4)
Something may be done by grafting with other varie-
ties, but growers advised to cut their
losses and abandon the Doradillo wherever it gives
less than five tons to the acre.
And, even so, there remains the question of
a market for the rest.
“Hamer”: A new process for scouring
wool and extracting the valuable by-products
at the same time is being pushed by a Mel-
bourne company on a patent of Innes Young,
for some years chemist to the Dunlop Rubber
Co. It is called the White Wool Process,
and the co. is confident of its ability to pro-
duce a scoured wool which, uninjured by
wash-chemicals, will yield 10 p.c. more cloth
than that scoured in the old way. The by-
products will be extracted cleanly; and how
much these are worth may be estimated
from the admission of a Bradford manu-
facturer who, while showing some Diggers
round his works, remarked cheerfully that
he had the warmest feelings towards Aus-
tralia, since it sent his firm £BO,OOO worth
of by-products free along with the wool that
was paid for. The new company is so con-
fident of being on a good wicket that it pro-
poses, while treating first-grade wools for
their owners in works to be established at
various convenient centres, to purchase
second-grade wools on its own account and
treat them.
“Borom” : Keener competition and smaller
profits are gradually forcing the business of
dispensing drugs into the background with
many a city and suburban chemist. As in
America, the majority now stock anything
from photographic material to fancy goods,
toilet accessories, perfumes, cigarettes, to-
bacco and magazines. The danger to the
public is that this is likely to mean a low-
ered standard in the drug-dispensing part of
the business, where the profits are smaller.
I know chemists with big city shops who are
beginning to look upon the dispensary as the
least remunerative part of their activities,
and hence the one which merits least atten-
tion. One natural result is that the phar-
macy apprentice nowaday gets nothing like
the instruction in dispensing and materia
median that he once received, most of his
time being occupied with a close study of
the merits and prices of soaps and perfumes
instead. The pharmacy authorities in some
of the States seem to be alive to the danger;
they talk of raising the standard of the final
examinations in pharmacy to compel more
attention to the technical side of the calling.
“Werrimee” : The old coach road that runs
from Wentworth, on the Darling, down into
S.A. once witnessed a bitter war between
rival coaching firms. For a time the mail
contract on that route was held by the late
W. P. Crick’s father, who later extended to
Wilcannia and Bourke. Then Cobb and Co.
undercut and beat him for both sections.
Crick was very sore over his defeat, and
after three yeai-s he came back with a new
plant to fight the big firm for the track. The
opposition was so bitter that both lines
carried passengers free. Even the old swag-
men could afford to ride, and whalers from
the river bends put on their best suits for a
pleasant tour. They could go from Bourke
to Adelaide and back for nothing. When
the joy-rides had continued for some time
Crick launched a flank attack. Besides free
passages he arranged to provide free meals
and free drinks at every mail change on the
long road. All the deadbeats began to roll
up, and the human traffic was increasing at
a great rate when Cobb and Co. threw down
the reins. Crick, however, did not last very
long as a coach proprietor. He smothered
himself in his own dust.


NEW
CATALOGUE
The new Lister Engine
Catalogue obtainable from inter-
state Agents, gives full details
of all Lister models both petrol
and kerosene.
SEND FOR IT
10,000
en
m
users
would answer “Yes”
Ask any one of the Ten Thousand Australian Lister
Users “If you wanted another engine would you buy
a Lister?” The answer would be an emphatic “YES.”
Ask any Lister user if his engine ever let him down. His answer would be an
emphatic “No. The thought of engine trouble never enters my head.”
One well-known user, Mr. Frank Laird, of “Willandra,” Booligal, says of
his Lister: “We have a Lister that has been working for about 12 or 13 years.
The man in charge has no mechanical knowledge, but still she goes.”
Another glad owner from Queensland, Mr. R. W. Graham, of “Lake-
side,” St. George, gives his verdict: “In 1915 1 bought a 2£-H.P. Lister
Engine. During the following six years I shore one quarter of a million
sheep without a hitch, and the whole cost of engine repairs was only 7/-.”'
250,000 sheep shorn and only 7/- for repairs! ! !
Can you overlook this? Can you afford to? It’s no case for “tossing
up” to see which you will have—it’s a matter affecting your close
interests, your pocket; it calls for practical judgment with nothing left to
chance. Any of the firms mentioned below will send you full details
and new catalogue. Ask for them.
InN.S.W. : Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Sydney
In Vic. . . . Mitchell & Co., Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
InQ’land: Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane
In S. A. : Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd Adelaide
InW.A. : Malloch Bros. Perth
In Tas. : A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
STEAM
OF QUALITY.
TURBINES
MANUFACTURED
IN AUSTRALIA.
Q.R. ENGINES.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
SURFACE
CONDENSERS.
LOCOMOTIVES.
GRAVEL
PUMPS.
REES
WATER-TUBE
BOILERS.
V— ..
i *■
---'
T
k mm
v
•SHi
-
&m
■
s
: m
MANUFACTURING UNDER LICENSE FROM METROPOLITAN VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO., LTD., MANCHESTER, WE ARE IN A POSITION TO
SUPPLY TURBO PLANT OF MODERN DESIGN, SOUND CONSTRUCTION
AND GUARANTEED ECONOMY.
COMPLETE POWER PLANTS INSTALLED.
BLOWING
ENGINES.
EJECTOR
CONDENSERS.
PUMPING
ENGINES.
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMPS.
DREDGING
PLANTS.
FORGINGS
and
RAILWAY
MATERIALS.
Thompson 8 Co. (Castlem&ine) Pty., Ltd.
ENGINEERS,
CASTLEMAINE,
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE:
Mel bourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren, Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.


The NeW 3 r 6 Safety Razor
ILL USTRA TION SHO WS
THE NEW 316 SET
containing the essentials for a per-
fect “Valet” shave the razor,
blade and strop in neat case. If
your dealer does not stock it, the
agents will send it post free on
receipt of a postal note for 3/6.
/
%
BRITISH MADE
OF ALL DEALERS
—wHicH worKs on a 251- Plan
EVERYONE has heard of the “Valet” Razor, which
made its name all over the world —at 25/-. Everyone
knows that the “Valet” has a patent device of its own
for stropping its blade —without removal from the frame—
keeping it as sharp as any blade can be for 4U or jU
shaves. Precisely this same principle is now incorporated
in this less elaborate model, sold everywhere by dealers
to-day—razor, strop and blade complete for three-and-six.
You needn’t wait another day to start on a lifetime of
perfect shaves.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents in Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
UNCON A
®aws©is OeMii® EmMA
m
mm
■
mm
mM
WMSMm
mam
Hi
ALL BRITISH
GENUINE BALATA
This illustration depicts a “Lincona
1 6in. x 8-ply, which has been in use
on the mam drive at the Engineering
Works of Chas. Ruwolt Pty., Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria,
for the past eight years, and is still
giving excellent service.
In these works “Lincona” has been used exten-
sively, and it has been found the most economical
belt, owing to the long and satisfactory service
it has rendered over a period of years.
A Full Range of Stocks is carried throughout Australia by the following Sole Agents
S. Aus.: A Noble & Son, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
Vic.: Charles Ruwolt Pty., Ltd., Victoria Street, Richmond.
Tas.: Chas. Davis. Ltd..'6o Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.S.W.: James Muriday & Co., 230 Clarenee Street, Sydney. , Streets,
Q’land: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., Ci. Chailotte & Edwaid Stree
Brisbane.


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
jgtoTsUfly
"Always
ri4s>
A
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Wildflower”
Criterion “The Green Goddess’’
Royal “The Outsider”
Grand Opera House .. ‘"T lie Rise of Rosie O’Reilly”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's t Moving I’ictures
Town Hall Amy Castles Concerts
MKI.HOORNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s “Betty”
Royal “So This Is London”
King’s “His House in Order”
Princess’s “Cinderella”
Palace “The Midnight Frolics”
Athensum “Cappy Ricks”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
«
The story of the upset caused in the quiet
home of an orthodox Englishman by the mis-
take of a doddering old chap who, telling a
story of a man he has recently met, gives
him the name of the first husband of his
host’s wife, was retold at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday. It was an altogether
delightful performance, in which a high
artistic standard was reached in Dion Boitci-
eault’s picture of the old man w’ith the sieve-
like, memory, Carraway Pirn, who, by assd-
ciating a curious name he has just heard
with the equally curious name he has beeii
trying to recollect, makes Olivia (Irene Van-
brugh) and her husband, George Harden,
imagine that the rumored death of the for-
mer’s first husband was as fraudulent as his
life. C. M. Hallard, as Harden, the dog-
matic Englishman who was all the better
for the rootshaking that Pirn the Passer-by
causes, adequately expressed a good fellow
fallen into a groove and crusted with tradi-
tion ; Irene Vanbrugh conveyed well the im-
pression of a woman whose amiable soul has
been mellowed by suffering, but has not lost its
humor ; and Janet Eccles was fresh and appeal-
ing as Harden’s niece, Dinah. In the part
of her lover, Brian Strange, Roland Ward’s
restless habit of twisting his body and throw-
ing his limbs about is an annoyance. Ethel
Wellesley, who had only the small part of
the maid, Anne, had a bigger opportunity in
J. M. Barrie’s one-act comedy, “The Twelve-
Pound Look,” preceding the main show, in
which she played Kate. She looked absurdly
youthful to be the woman who had 14 years
before deserted her ponderous husband,
“BETTY,” AT MELBOURNE
MAJESTY’S.
Jotte, the dressmaker (Cecil Kellaway), pro-
poses to his head model, Estelle (Winnie
Collins).
Harry Sims (just made “Sir Harry” when
the action commences), because his “success”
disgusted her; but her good work almost
overcame the absurdity. Harry Latimer was
the self-satisfied Sims; Joan Crossley, his
wife; and the footman, Tombes, was played
by Paul Longuet. To-night the bill is due
for another change, “His House in Order”
being staged for five of the last six nights
of the Melbourne season—the one-night re-
vival of “Aren’t We All?” rounds off the
present visit.
* * * *
Fading out to rather poor houses, “Sally”
is due to wave farewell to Melbourne at the
Royal to-morrow (Friday), and “So This
Is London” will take the stage on Saturday.
The management is optimistic that the new
play, coming with a big reputation for cheer-
fulness and backed by the fame of Thurston
Hall, will break the hoodoo which lately has
been on this house.
Melbourne audiences have quite decided
that “Betty” is a young person who thor-
oughly deserves their patronage, as well as
the gilded fortune and happiness which Maud
Fane achieves in the last act. Possibly there
is an added charm in being able to scrutinise
the follies of the aristocracy of England; and
Alfred Frith, as Lord P'layne, is an amusing
nobleman it is worth anyone’s while to meet.
* * * *
* “Cinderella” continues to rise from the
ashes of affliction which have no power to
stain her pretty face and hands or smudge
her bright soul. The partial holiday for the
performers hinted at last week has been
postponed. The New Princess’s management
has decided that a continuation of the daily
matinges is still profitable in the ninth week
of the show; and schoolteachers who see
gaps in their classes can guess where the
children are spending the afternoon.
* * *
Large sums in dollars are still carelessly
mentioned at the Melbourne Athenaeum.
“Cappy Ricks,” although much of its make-
up is melodramatic, is a genial comedy, in
which the onlooker is asked to like all the
characters; and having laughed the evening
through and seen everybody happy at the
curtain-fall, the onlooker goes home with a
nice buoyant feeling in his chest, to tell
the world where a pleasant few hours can be
spent,
jjc fsc
“Nancy Lee” is a breezy nautical bur-
lesque in the ndtv programme of ( the Mid-
night Frolics, which have also introduced
“The Coffee Stall’—in the mind of many, a
neefesfeafy ingredient of every midnight frolic.
The Mew Palace’s habit of changing its
matter evefy, week is sd commendable that
one almost forgives .those, performers who
are unable to be anything different. As long
as they keep their work bright afid hippy
nothing else matters much in such a show,
The expert Felovis is still winning ap-
plause at Melbourne Tivoli, and as one who
puts new points on the much-worn juggling
business, lie deserves it. This week an in-
telligent goose flies away with the Four
Ortons; but nothing is yet said about the
departure of the melodious Versatile Three.
The Novelle Bros, have budded on the pro-
gramme again ; but their bud will never be
more than a cabbage.
“The Grand Hotel,” with Stiffy and Mo as
bell-boys, is a trying place to live in; but,
other people’s troubles being invariably amus-
ing, the happenings provide much hilarity
for the crowds that are paying tribute at the
shrine of broad comedy, the Bijou.
Melbourne’s own motor troubles will prob-
ably only give it an added impulse to see
“The Speed Spook.” which took the screen
at the Melbourne Majestic last Saturday,
and has a remarkable motor race as one of
its features. “Three Miles Out” supports
the bloodcurdler. “The Female” is the
medium by which Betty Compson makes an
exposure of feminine instincts at Hoyt’s de
Luxe. An incident of the week has been the
showing at a couple of suburban shows of
the picture made by the 15-year-old George
Palmer at Box Hill, Melbourne. The
youngster has packed some thrill into his
five-minute juvenile masterpiece. An in-
structive morning was spent at the Majestic
one day last week in an inspection of “The
Story of Oil.” It was preceded by some
lantern slides and a short film, showing the
travels of Yankee expert Clapp in search of
oil in Australia —almost as indistinct, now
and then, as they were interesting. Broue,
the man who has made the pursuit of oil his
hobby, gave a description of tb« slides: but
he seems much more afraid of his voice than
of his speculations.
* * *
Two art dabblers :
A wilderness of canvases now hanging on the
wails of the Upper Athenaeum Hall, Melbourne, will
probably inspire many acquaintances of the artists
and itinerant picture-buyers with a memory of
damaged patches of wallpaper that would be better
for covering. Even if the paintings they select
give their artistic visitors (if they have artistic
visitors) indigestion, they probably will not hear
about it. The near-artist of a prodigal show which
runs to about 90 assorted water-colors, oils and
pastels is Aileen Dent, who badly wants a task-
master to insist upon her painting less and painting
better. This lady really might be able to do good
work if she was made to try, but her work runs to
seed in crudeness, imperfect drawing, and, in the
water-colors especially, flatness. “The ’Cellist”
might easily be made good ; but in another picture
of the same study a thumb is shown with no con-
nection whatever with its hand—and that is only
one fault. Attached to the show is an exhibition
of pottery by Harold Swanson, some of it very
decorative and some very commonplace.
"i* T
About a portrait:—
Max Mel drum has just completed the subdivision
of land-agent T. M. Burke into various patches of
light and shade on a big canvas. “T.M.” is seated
at a beautifully-carved rosewood desk—an easy and
characteristic pose in marked contrast to that of
most “official” portraits. The brilliant light falling
from the left and reflected from the right by a
mirror floods the whole canvas and creates a limpid
atmosphere. Thus, doubly lighted, the figure really
lives in space. The features and expression are ex-
cellent. Meldrum has “caught” this hustling per-
sonality just as he hustled in, even to the way-
wardness of a lock of hair. The color scheme is
quiet, varying from a neutral grey-green in the back-
ground to the brilliancy of the light Australian
tweed suit. The cardinal-red seat of the chair in
the direct light dominates the colors and makes an
“THE OUTSIDER ,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Anton Ragatzy (Maurice Moscovitch), sup-
ported by Mr. Ladd (Nat Madison), in-
troduces his body-stretching machine.
exquisite still-life work of itself. The technique is
sure; each patch of color records an impression, and
that is all. There is no waste paint, as is too often
the case. The portrait will probably lend majesty
to the walls of the old London Bank—-Burke’s new
offices in Collins-street.
* * * =!:
“The Outsider,” at Sydney Royal, con-
tinues to display the art of Maurice Mosco-
vitch, to lay bare the soul of a cripple, and
to cast fresh doubts upon the infallibility of
the medical profession. Happily, consider-
ing the weather, there are occasional raisins
of humor in the somewhat solid dough of
the drama.
“Rosie O’Reilly” will rocket aloft for an-
other eight nights at Sydney Opera House.
Then “Mr. Battling Butler” will do his best
for the new firm.
* * * *
“Wildflower” is in the twelfth week of
distributing its sweetness to packed houses
at Sydney Majesty’s.
* * ❖
“The Green Goddess” will remove her
gracious presence and Himalayan atmo-
sphere from Sydney Cri. after Monday. The
Guy Bates Posts showed their practical sym-
pathy with the S.P.C.A. cn Wednesday by
tendering it the matinge for a benefit.
It is much more pleasant to listen to the
music of the Six Brown Brothers at Sydney
Tivoli, even if the instruments are saxo-
phones, than to sit at home and worry about
the income-tax. They are original, and can
turn out some worth-while melody. The
Dewers are a pair of gymnasts new to Syd-
ney who have borrowed an idea or two from
Atlas, the old gentleman who keeps the
world from doing what the Walsheviks want
it to do. Clement May has changed his
Dickens studies: this week he is Micawber
waiting for something to turn up, Little
Nell’s grandfather and Sydney Carton. Other
parts of the programme are well filled by
Cardinl, the Femina Quartette and many
more; and Quintrell’s orchestra lends a lot
of animation to the proceedings.
The vaudeville half of Sydney Fullers’ bill,
which has shown signs lately of sagging,
was propped up last Saturday by the inclu-
sion of Danny D’Alma, an acrobatic stilt-
walker, and three small dogs with minds
above flea-scratching and digging for hidden
bones. Phil Smith’s revue company, due to
move off in a week’s time, grows more
sprightly as the pantechnicon approaches:
“On tile Scent.” this week’s turn, is a
brilliant little affair in its way.
* * * *
“The Last of the Duanes,” present at the
Sydney Lyric this week, is a wild affair
which possesses but one redeeming feature,
and that is the splendid photographs of the
rugged mountains and deep canyons where
the events take place. The Lyceum is a
place of refuge for “The Tenth Woman,”
who tries to drown herself; but her attempt
to increase the death-rate is nipped in the
bud—it was too early in the picture to lose
such a good actress. The vivacious Connie
Talmadge is having “Her Night of Romance”
at the Haymarket, a night packed with mis-
understandings and spice—the bedroom
scenes are specially adapted to draw the
curious. “K—the Unknown,” at the Strand,
is an average mystery story. “The Alaskan”
is chilling the atmosphere within the Em-
press, where Tom Meighan is leading a
crusade of Alaska for the Alaskans. Native-
born Alaskans in Sydney should storm the
Empress without further delay. “My Hus-
band’s Wife,” at the Rialto, is a tolerable
comedy-drama, and there are scenes in “The
Uninvited Guest” that were filmed 50ft.
under the sea. “The Mystery of a Hansom
Cab”—a good Australian production—is
packing the Crystal Palace to the Plimsoll
mark.
v H*
“The Listening Insect” :
John Bull is worried because 2,000,000 people are
pirating ether melodies and market prices, and only
1,300,000 listeners-in are paying fees; and he pro-
poses to end this by a piece of very drastic legisla-
tion. Under the new Wireless Bill a person sus-
pected of unlicensed communion with the ether will
be liable to have his house entered and searched and
the apparatus seized. The state of affairs in this
country, where the fee is three times as great as in
Britain, and the programmes are conspicuously poorer,
calls also for redress. For evei'y licensed set there
are probably three illicit stills of wireless harmony
hidden in roofs and under bedsteads. The likelihood
of a roving inspector detecting more than a small
percentage of these buccaneers is slight. The most
obvious remedy is to abolish fees altogether and
subsidise the broadcasting stations by a tax on im-
porters, manufacturers and distributors of radio
apparatus. As the tax would promptly be passed
on, the people who get the benefit of the service
would pay for it. The enterprising youth who
fabricates his set out of fencing-wire would, of course,
escape; but, then, he deserves to escape.
* * *
Old dramatic friends have taken posses-
sion of the stage in Adelaide. Wilkie is just
starting at the Prince of Wales in “Cym-
belinc,” not seen in this city since Louise
I’omeroy gave it in the ’eighties. The An-
derson co. moves over to the Royal, to give
yet one more version of “The Christian,”
with Leslie Adrienne as the Manx girl and
George Cross as John Storm. This co. has
been reviving the good old “Fatal Wedding,”
tin-can band and all, giving Sheila Helpman
a big chance as the kiddie. The Humphrey
Rishop open-air season has closed, leaving
to the bustling Billy Maloney the monopoly
ot that kind of show, and George Wallace
is nearing the end of his long stay at the
Majestic, where Jack Cannot is now on the
bill, and the sawn-woman. “illusion” is ex-
plained away at every performance—which
seems an error in tactics. Pictures are very
American, mainly of the “two-fisted he-man”
type, notably Farnum at Wondergraph.
West’s offers a discreet bedroom drama, and
at the York Percy Marmont once more shows
himself a fine actor, as a very human mis-
sionary under strong temptation on a Pacific
island.
“Ibsenshaw”: “I have never divulged to
anyone what set me, a dour Scot, to the
writing of plays. I think I should never
have taken to it seriously but for pressure
from two great Englishmen, Henry Irving
and George Meredith.” Thus J. M. Barrie
to a gathering of brither Scots recently.
That Irving should have so advised him is
not surprising, for the eminent actor-man-
ager, though he produced singularly few
modern plays, always kept his weatlier-eye
open for new dramatists. Meredith, one sus-
pects, must have seen the promise in some
“STIFFY AND MO ” REVIEW, AT
MELBOURNE BIJOU.
of Barrie’s early attempts; he was a keen
critic of the drama, though the footlights
never lured him away from novel-writing
as they did his Caledonian friend. Barrie’s
first-produced play was written in collabora-
tion with a Maorilander, Marriott Watson,
This was “Becky Sharp,” a dramatisation
of various scenes from “Vanity Fair,” staged
in London in 1891.


Jazz!
I DON’T know much about Jazz
and all these new - fangled
dances, sir, but I suppose they
give pleasure to some folk.
There’s nothing like merriment
and pleasure to keep harm away
and lengthen life.
Everyone to their taste, for me it
is a real pleasure to serve Kensitas
to gentlemen like yourself, sir,
and you experience pleasure when
smoking Kensitas, because you
enjoy a really good cigarette,
and—
e< Kensitas cigarettes are as good
as really good cigarettes can be.”
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA
20. M 116
50 for 3/9 • 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists
Keifs it as
6kepreferred ajarette
Manufacturers: J. WIX & SONS, LTD., LONDON
in
A 20,000 gin. tank alongside
—the homestead tank miles
away via a 2\ in. pipe line—
both kept full to overflowing.
There, the regular performance
of Mr. Whites 18ft. “COMET* j
operating a pair of syphon i
pumps at Longreach, Queens- j
land. Why use an engine?
COMET
But only people who do not
know the “COMET” wonder
at its unique pumping perform-
ance. Read the reason in “Use
the Wind,” our special post-
free book. Write now.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & Co., Ltd.
Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill,
Sydney.
City Office: 255 a George Street.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane,
and Townsville.
Agents in over 60 Districts.
SW3S
B=*-^
Australia’s Leading Mill
SUNTYNE,” THE Combined Drill
Saves Labor. Saves Capital Outlay.
Pays for itself in the increased yield.
:
£
W'
■■
vM
8 row with 17 tynes, sft.
12 row with 25 tynes, 7£ft.
14 row with 29 tynes, B!ft.
16 row with 33 tynes, 9£ft.
20 row with 41 tynes, 12ft.
The Progressive
Farmer uses the
Combined Drill.
Sunshine Quality is
the Highest.
Sunshine Prices are
the Lowest.
Ask for complete price-list
and Catalogues.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
64 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
102 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Comer King and Murray Streets, PERTH.
Comer York and St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON.


cu
Longest Range,
Greatest Killing Power.
Those are two of the big
reasons why you should select
Climax Cartridges.
Climax Cartridges are loaded with
Dupont Smokeless Powder and CORK
TEX WADS. Cork Tex Wads ensure
less recoil, smoother action, more uni-
form distribution of shot.
TRY CLIMAX in the field or at the
traps.
Obtainable at all leading Stores.
UNITED STATES CARTRIDGE CO., New York
Wholesale Distributors:—
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.,
104 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
For the Man on the Land
Macnaught’s “HARVESTER”
Boot . . . 25/- pr.
MADIi, of the finest water-resisting
Chrome Leather, in Black or Tan
Extra high leg, with stout screwed
and sewn soles. Vamp and Counters
sewn with heavily-waxed thread, making
the ‘ Harvester” the strongest, most com-
fortable and most enduring boot
for all outdoor work in all weathers.
Sent anywhere in the Common-
wealth. Send for your pair to-day.
Send for new slioe-repair Price List.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 PITT STREET SYDNEY 135 KING STREET
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Demetrius”: Marie Burke is one of the
season s surprises. In partnership with
pianist-composer Arthur Klein she arrived
without flourish of trumpets—hardly so
much as a preliminary puff-par.—as one of
Y au deville contributions with which
J.C.W. wa « persuading Tivoli Theatres to
part with a controlling block of shares. Tall,
willowy, Castilian-lookin g, she affected
primary-color shawls and sang music-hall
stuff pleasantly but without causing much
of a stir. Then a musical-comedy lead was
required _ at short notice, and Marie was
whirled into the part. She rose to the occa-
sion, and relieved a worrying situation. Fol-
lowed a genuine succes in “Wildflower” and
a long engagement.
“F.L.H.”: Old-time Australian opera-
lovers will remember soprano Bose Hersee,
who died in England the other day. Lvster
brought her to Melbourne Opera House in
LSB). She opened with “La Sonnambula”
V erdi making his Australian debut the same
night as Bodolplio. Bose Hersee was the
hrst to sing “Carmen” in our little bit of
the world; her father was the English trans-
lator of the opera. Another flue part of
hers was that of the page in “TJn Ballo in
Maschera, where she showed grace in action
and brilliant singing.
c Ghost”: Arthur Shirley’s version
of The Mystery of a Hansom Cab” is very
much more elaborate than the pitcher for
which W. A. Gibson, now an 0.8. E., was
mainly responsible in 1909. “Bobbery
Under Arms” was run off about the same
time, and both were money-pullers. There
is a legend that the Taits appeared in the
second production.
The Deacon”: When Father Robinson
returned to Melbourne after hearing Amy
Castles, then a pigtailed flapper, sing at a
church function, he sought out J. C. Wil-
liamson, and enthusiastically reported his
discovery. J.C.W. was prepared to give
a contralto a hearing, but shied off anything
in the way of a soprano. However, Father
George was not discouraged. Amy was
launched on a career which has been very
successful, in spite of interruptions. Her
father, who was a comp, on a Bendigo
paper, piped a fluty tenor.
‘‘Lond”: The future of pantomime is
doubtful in England and Australia alike.
For half a century “doing pantomime busi-
ness” has been the superlative to denote the
success of any other kind of show, but of
recent years in London one has had to go
out to the suburban houses to find panto.
Children are taken to a whole seines of
plays aimed at them, instead of to the old
concoction which mingled spectacle with jokes
about beer and the lodger. Every Christ-
mas comes along “Peter Pan”; Gladys
Cooper is the most recent Peter, and Gladys
puts up an amazing double by playing that
part every afternoon and the lead in a
“Diplomacy” revival every night. Equally
regular are “Alice in Wonderland” and
“Where the Rainbow Ends.” Further, both
“The Private Secretary” and “Charley’s
Aunt, ’ which can knock out tucker in
the “provinces” all the year round, always
now drop in to London for Christmas; and,
latterly. “When Knights Were Bold” has
joined them as a reliable money-maker.
“Cliarlik” goes boarding :
During the Maoriland tour of Musgrove’s Shak-
spearcan co. my patronage was declined at the Grand
Hotel, Auckland (B. 5/2/’2-5). The clerk said.
“Sorry, but we don’t receive actors here!” On
tinning to go out I met a. lady, who greeted me
effusively. Her husband was the proprietor, and i
had met them both when they ran the Windsor Hotel
in 1 1 inces-street, Edinburgh. She would not hear
of my leaving, so, of course, I stayed. Her lord told
me afterwards that he did not so much mind actors,
but he strongly objected to the female of the species.
“When they enter a hotel,” he said, “they seem to
think they own it!” In England, hotels are rarely
patronised by members of touring companies. The
theatrical landlady is a time-honored institution.
When Gilbert and Sullivan became reconciled after
their “carpet” quarrel, Conan Doyle and J. M.
Barrie’s fiasco, “Jane Annie,” was being played at
the Savoy. It ran for only six weeks, so, as it was
necessary that the company should be kept together
for the forthcoming G. and S. “Utopia, Ltd.,”
D’Oyly Carte sent “Jane Annie” on what was termed
a “holiday” tour, the principals accepting a slight
reduction of salaries. Rutland Barrington, Ernest
Ford (composer-conductor), Scott Fishe (the bari-
tone) and I made up a party, and we lived like
fighting cocks for £2 per week each. One of our
hostesses was Ma Barnett, of Birmingham, to whom
Barrington referred in one of his books; she was
great in every way, excepting her bills. It had been
necessary, of course, to arrange for our accommoda-
tion some time previously. Once a young actor and
his wife omitted this precaution. They arrived in
Glasgow one miserable Sunday morning and had to
search for rooms. After tramping for hours they
UP TO MUD.
FRIEND: “Hullo, George! How's the revue?"
MANAGER: “Oh, d — n it, shocking—shock-
ing!"
FRIEND: “Ah, good! Packed houses, then, of
course?"
happened upon a vacant “sitting- and bed-room” in
Renfield-street, and inquired the terms. “Are ye mar-
ried?” asked the landlady. “Of course we’re
married 1” indignantly replied the man. “Oh. weel!
if ye’re married it’ll be sexteen shillin’, but if it is
the eoostomary theatrical arrengement, it’ll be
twenty-wan!”
“Demetrius”: With commendable gallan-
try the cables refer to the success in Europe
of the “young Australian singer” Francesca
Duret, though Francie was a settled subur-
ban matron long before she set out to con-
quer Munich. Father kept a pub in Foots-
cray (Vic.) —strange home town for prima
donnas!—and the family name is Durre, or
used to be. Miss Durre (Mrs. Shepherd in
private life) was a popular vocalist at
cinema shows and church socials, but it was
reserved for a foreign audience to hail her
as a singer of diva standard —another case
ot the prophetess and her own country. Her
voice is a well-colored soprano which, before
she tried her luck in Europe, inclined to a
Concato-like shrillness in upper notes. If
I rancie would only invent a tireless camp-
cooker or invest in a little duck-farm in
Surrey there should be a great future for
her m her native land.
The Repertory movement in Melbourne:—
Under Gregan McMahon’s care it was a very
healthy youngster, but when the war arrived it fell
sick. Gregan went to Sydney, and members received
back the unexpired portion ot their subscriptions.
Then came Mrs. Frank Apperley, wife of a Rhodes
scholar who returned to a Melbourne Uni. position.
A piquant young matron, with a delicious brogue
“that once through Tara’s halls,” she bade to her
side enthusiasts of the dormant society like Isabel
Handley, Helton Daniell, Bob Guthrie and Mary
THE HIGHER CRITICISM.
FIRST ARTIST : “What did she say—she was
talking about my picture, wasn't she?"
SECOND ARTIST : “No; she was giving the
old, chap what for for leaving off his
winter underpants."
Curtain, and the Mermaid Society leapt to light.
It was over-fond of obscure pieces of the Lady
Giegory order, but it gained approval, and was
encouraged to produce real plays—Barrie, Galsworthy
and their class. The society woke to find itself
arrived and almost embarrassed with riches. It
thereupon decided first to resume the name of Mel-
bourne Repertory Society, and then to extend opera-
tions as a true Repertory Theatre, inviting to that
end a general membership and the cash that goes
with it. The old committee was authorised to
e\ohe a constitution, and a programme including
Blanco Posnet,” “R.U.R.,” “A Bill of Divorce-
ment’’ anl “You Never Can Tell” has been drawn
up In effect, the Reps, since Gregan left have been
a loose-knit organisation of amateur actors and play-
, ' ing intellectuals, chiefly associated with the
Varsity. The latter provided the executive; the
amateurs attended to the producing, the playing and
(as it has proved) the money-spinning. The non-
players would have reconstituted the society under
the old committee and officers, but the players, claim-
ing a right to have more say in managing the
enterprise which depends so much on their skill
and work, carried a resolution for actual reconstitu-
tion after a ballot for officers. There is evidence of
a very sharp line between the two parties, and the
veterans of the movement, George Syme and Robert
Garran, will have ample opportunity to exercise
diplomacy and tact. Indeed, Melbourne may wake
up presently and find itself with two lots of Reps.,
especially as an ambitious community theatre project
lies in the offing.
: “Phillum ITp’s” sneer at the
fi , lm “Painted Daughters”
( t>. 0/2/25) on the ground that it is un-
Australian ns more provincial than practical.
It picture-producing is to become a paying
industry here the goods turned out will have
to seek a world-market, not merely a local
°ne. hy should “Phillum Up” or any other
parish-pump patriot expect Australian pro-
ducers to shackle themselves with restric-
tions that their overseas competitors do not
recognise? As a matter of fact, “Painted
Daughters is a story with an English set-
ting. which will be none the worse for havino-
- scenery as a background. All
the actors are Australian, bar one or two
who may he English, and the beauty of Aus-
tralian girls will be well advertised 'when the
film is screened. “Phillum-Up” seems to
object to the producer—his name, by the
way, is Stuart Whyte—coming from Los
Angeles. It may console him to know that
V) byte is an Englishman.
Ilamer ; In amplification of my par.
about the Lynch family (11. 12/2/’25 ) : three
brothers are alive and in Australia. The
hue old boys are considering the idea of giv-
ing some more bell-ringing shows on the lines
ot the one originated by the family. When
it was suggested that such an entertain-
ment was pretty strenuous for a man of his
78 years, Harry smiled. “You get so used
to giving it that you don’t notice any strain,”
he said.
“C.W.”: I was astounded to read that
Archbishop Duhig, the denouncer of “Flam-
ing Youth,” was giving his support to a
picture-play, opening in Brisbane, reputed to
represent “The Hunchback of Notre Dame”
- astounded because Hugo’s book throws
the darkest of shadows on the R.C. Church,
find I believe is on the “Index.” However,
an illustrated synopsis of the play supplies
the explanation: apparently it is as much
like the book as Lenin was like Garibaldi.
The blackguard priest, who is the arch-
villain of the tale, is transformed into Esme-
ralda’s guardian angel, and a no-account
brother takes the villain’s part. The liber-
tine Captain Phoebus is represented as a gal-
lant cavalier, and instead of Esmeralda being
hanged, she is rescued, marries Captain
Phoebus and lives (presumably) happy ever
after. Nor is there the most remote refer-
ence in the synopsis to one of the exciting
incidents in Hugo’s tale, viz., the priest slung
over the top of Notre Dame by Quasimodo,
catching and hanging miserably to the para-
llel' until he falls exhausted to the distant
earth. Yet that would have made good pic-
ture stuff.
“Lud”: • Harcourt Beatty, whose name
cropped up in a recent Bulletin, got back
to the stage a few months ago after a long
retirement. The very likeable mummer was
last heard of playing in “The Outsider” in
the English provinces. lie was Jasper
Sturdee, M.S., the part taken by Kay Souper
in the Sydney production.
“Nikko”: George Kensington, stage-
manager of “Sally,” might call himself an
Aucklander, as it was in that city he spent
most of his youth. In those days the old
horse ’buses ran through Parneli, George’s
home suburb, to Newmarket. Shortly after
George s first stage appearance lie was tak-
ing a small part in Dunedin, and had to
inquire, to slow music, “Where was I this
night ten years ago?” “Parnell and New-
market!” came a voice from the gallery in
exact imitation of one of the famous old ;bus-
drivers on that route.
“Macann”: Possibly it indicates that
Christmas Eve busking has been found a
profitable side-line; anyway, the cult of
gutter-singing is spreading among Melbourne
newsboys. Some potential Carusos refuse
to amalgamate with their tuneful fellows, but
mostly the lads blend in choirs four or five
strong, catching the theatre crowds both
ways and the stray strollers in between.
. plum, any pud, any Wee Georgie
Wood, with “Sporting Sun and Herald
Stumps thrown in by way of chorus and
monotonously reiterated is the entire reper-
toire of one soloist who hangs out near the
new Athenaeum. The choirs, however, rise
to Barney Google,” “The Stock of Bananas
Has Diminished, ” and other elegant importa-
tions. The general effect resembles a service
broadcasted from a temple of Allah.
P. Pawnticket": Not many theatrical
managers are squeamish about the matri-
monial status of the couples who travel in
their companies, but I know one who was.
His suspicions having been aroused, he inter-
viewed the pair in his office, and spoke
severely when the truth was acknowledged.
lou say you only discovered at the last re-
hearsal before we left Sydney that you loved
one another,” he said. “Well, you are single,
each of you—why didn’t you get married be-
fore we left?” An awkward silence was
broken by the lady, who smiled brightly.
“You see,” she explained, “we were both so
busy packing.”
“Borom”: “Te Pana’s” Maoriland .hotel-
keeper (B. 29/l/’25) was not the only Boni-
face who won’t allow actors on his premises.
I know at least three leading hotels in N. S.
Wales country towns where actors are on
the prohibited list, and quite lately two well-
known mummers were turned down at one
of them. As a matter of fact, few publicans
anywhere welcome the profession. Their
objection is based mainly on the pro.’s ex-
pectation of special rates, even at the busiest
seasons of the year, but they have observed
also a tendency to complain long and loudly
about every little thing that does not meet
with approval.
“Billy See”: “Syd. C.’s” verses (B.
22/1/25) recall the days when the month-
organ was a much favored instrument in
Ballarat. I saw Maggie Moore play “Struck
Oil” in the old Academy of Music. She
took her mouth-organ from the mantelpiece
in the Stofel kitchen and, advancing to the
footlights, gave us “Home, Sweet Home” as
sweetly as a bird. The encore brought “The
Last Rose of Summer.” Then the play
went on. But why do they call the instru-
ment a mouth-organ? True mouth-organs
were made of pipes, just as a church organ
is. Any old illustration of Punch and Judy
will show the one-man band with his
mouth-organ stuck in his cravat. He
could thus beat the drum, clash the
cymbals, tap the triangle, and blow the
moutli-organ at the same time. The jazz
band isn’t half as modern as it thinks
it is.
THE GUARNERIUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tschaikowsky's Nocturne.
I have heard three hundred years
Cry from a wailing string.
With. a grief foo old for tears,
It could but sing!
I have heard the sorrow of Death
Soar in a starless sky
And pause for a sobbing breath,
Then sink and die.
I have heard, like a wraith of bells
Wailing in far, thin chime,
The laughter of seven hells
O’er the grave of Time!
Traumerei.
Jasmine bells of dreams
Rhyming and chiming slow,
Through your music the moon fire seems
To float and flow.
Bells that the breezes sway
In a fairy bower afar—
Who knows whether sad or gay
Your echoes are?
Your moon-white melody
'■oven of visions seems,
Ringing so drowsily—
Bells that are dreams !
Spring Song.
Laughter of bubbling gold
Poured like a fairy wine
From a cup so brown and old
It has grown divine!
Listen, dear heart o’ me!
Once when the gods were young
From the grapes of Arcady
Such a wine was wrung!
Shadows of gold and green
Rain o’er us a flaming dew;
"V our eyes have a pagan sheen,
Bluer than blue.
Play! From your fingers fleet
Gold laughter bubbles and drips,
There is nothing I know so sweet—
Only your lips!
Yet ever the strings will keep
One note, like a sad refrain,
A minor of years that weep
For an old, old pain!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Amusements.
g YDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: WILDFLOWER.
CRITERION: THE GREEN GODDESS.
ROYAL: THE OUTSIDER.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor. George Marlow.
Direction Hugh .1. Ward Theatres Pt.r., Ltd.
EVENINGS AT 8. Matinees, Wed. and Sat., at 2.15.
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
DICKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
** Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres. Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pUULEIi’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
MY CASTLES’ GRAND OPERA CONCERTS.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
NEXT SATURDAY, TUESDAY, THURSDAY; and
SATURDAY (28th).
ASSOCIATE ARTISTS:
SIGNOR CAPPELLI (Tenor),
Mr. A. C. BARTLEMAN (Baritone),
MAESTRO E. IvOST (Musical Director), and
Miss EILEEN CASTLES.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S:
BETTY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SO THIS IS LONDON.
Hugh j. ward’s supreme Melbourne
ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS THEATRE :
CINDERELLA PANTOMIME.
PALACE THEATRE:
THE MIDNIGHT FROLICS.
THE SHOW OF SPEED, SPICE AND SPARKLE.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
AT HENAS U M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING at 8.
E. J. CARROLL presents
The Uproariously Funny Three-Act Comedy
CAPPY RICKS.
The stage version of Peter B. Kyne’s famous Novel.
A Specially Selected Cast.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
BETTY COMPSON in
THE FEMALE.
BUSTER KEATON in
THE THREE AGES.
Prices as usual.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREA
PRODUCTIONS.
ADELAIDE: PRINCE OF WALES THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager; J. V. De Batyn.
Amusements.
|yj AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
BROADWAY GOLD.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nig'nts at 8.
|Vj EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*” Twice Dailv, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO, IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan. Cen. 3251.
Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF
COMMERCE, LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Meeting
of the Holders of the Inscribed De-
posits of The Australian Bank of Commerce.
Limited, will be held at the Head Office of
the Bank at the Corner of King and George
Streets, Sydney, at noon on Tuesday, 24tli
February, 1925, for the purpose of discuss-
ing and considering a proposal to surrender
,Inscribed Deposits and to receive instead
shares in the Bank in proportion of two
fully-paid-up shares of fl each for every £6
of Inscribed Deposits.
By Order of the Board,
C. M. C, SHANNON,
General Manager.
Head Office, Sydney,
10th February, 1925.
Legal Notices.
TO CHESTER SAMUEL PERRY late
of Huonville in Tasmania but last
heard of as being in Launceston in Tas-
mania.
WHEREAS EDITH LILIAN PERRY of
Huonville in Tasmania claiming to have
been lawfully married to you has filed her
Petition for Dissolution of the said Marriage
in the Supreme Court of Tasmania on the
ground of desertion for two years and up-
wards. NOW you are hereby notified that
unless within thirty days from the date of
publication hereof you enter an Appearance
in this Court at its Registry. Macquarie
Street Hobart in Tasmania the said Court
will proceed to hear the said charges and
to pronounce sentence your absence not-
withstanding.
DATED at Hobart aforesaid this Twenty-
sixth day of January One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-five.
(Sgd.) C. S. SIMMONS,
Judge’s Associate.
MURDOCH JONES & CUTHBERT,
of Number 135 Macquarie Street, Hobart,
aforesaid, Proctors for the Petitioner!
Personal.
BASSIE. Received letter. All are well.
Glad you heard band. Write to same.
Don t forget address that will reach you
safely. February. CRIMPLE.
Missing Friends.
( I HARLES JOHN WELLNER, formerly
a j of Gladstone, South Australia, or any-
body knowing his whereabouts, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned, who
has information which may be to his
advantage.
Dated this 4th day of February, 1925.
_ C. L. ABBOTT, Solicitor,
Remington House, 29 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
fJhe CANADIAN: PACIFIC
/ /i
25
i\m
m
UEi.
Take this wonderful route —each mile
teeming with interest and scenic beauties—
across Canada on your way to England
and the Continent of Europe.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
is one great link on the “All-Red Route”
to Great Britain—and your through tickets are
obtainable in connection with the Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail line to Vancouver,
BC. The new Quadruple Screw Motor
Ship Aorangi (22,000 tons displacement)
and the favorite s.s. “Niagara” make this
an unrivalled service.
Write to-day for full information
regarding this glorious journey across a
magnificent country!
For descriptive literature and information
apply to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.;
any Tourist Booking Agency; or to J. Sclater,
Representative, Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
■NBB? 5,
itimnu
tfliot util
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Raker k Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
POLICE
uie’re after shillings
for the
NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICE
HOSPITAL APT UNION
over £3200 inPrijes
TICKETS 1/-
Ist Prize VAIJXHALL SIOTOK CAB .. ~ valued £1250
2nd „ STCDEBAKER “Light Six” Car .. .. „ £525
3rd „ Beale “MAESTRO” PLAYER PIANO .. „ £258
4th „ Suite Furniture (Inlaid Sycamore) .. .. „ £2OO
sth „ “INDIAN CHIEF” Motor Cycle & Side Car „ £lts
6th „ Beale No. 8 Model Piano .. .. „ £lgo
Ith „ Linen Chest full of Household Linen £lOO
And 93 other PrizeSj values ranging down to £3.
J)ra«-n 29th April, 1926.
TICKETS may be purchased
at any Police Station or Hos-
pital in the State, or oil
application to A. Lend rum,
Police Headquarters, Sydney.
TICKETS i/- each, postage
oil One ticket iAd.i postage Uii
live ot iliore, tickets Irbej Tti
secure result slip Setid ad-
dressed enieiopfe.
A. LEXDRUM, Hon. Set;., Police llettdtjUtt tte»% PHillip ttttd llfililei* Stt-eetfe, §y«ih%
ICH
IDJ££
Btf Appointment to
H.R.H The Prince of Waht
Qjm you ojfhjouud dj
IT is a duty you
owe to yourself
to avoid this
dreaded scourge.
See to it that you
keep your teeth
and gums healthy
by the twice-a-day
use of
KOLYNOS
DENTAL CREAM
Kolynos contains
no particle of
GRIT to injure
the teeth or gums.
*5»
&
MS
CREAM
?. * v////////


i
Made from pure sugar, English farm butter,
and rich, thick cream, MACKINTOSH’S
TOFFEE DE Luxe simply cannot help
being delicious and good ! Just taste it for
yourself and see !
Purity and Quality guaranteed by
JOHN MACKINTOSH & SONS, Ltd., Toffee Town, HALIFAX, England.
I
%
For stocks apply to Australian Agents—
H. DAWSON & CO., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE & PERTH, or Local Distributors.
1 l*
SB
E
‘ I «
iii li
i.
• ; i
JP
Liy
ik
On
■Fr:
(Xio
y;2
111 lii
Electric Fans—
-4 Boon to Humanity
THE Electric Fan is one of the appliances made possible
by the perfection of the electric motor —the heart of the
electric fan.
Use it for the sick room or hospital to bring comfort to the suf-
fering. Place it in the home to bring happiness by its balmy
breezes. Put it in the Counting House to keep a cool stream of
air in circulation. Set it in the Works where it will bring comfort
to an otherwise unbearable task. Wherever it be placed it brings
its message of what Electricity has accomplished to make life more
comfortable.
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Wcstingliouse will be'pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company, Ltd.,
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
And Yorkshire House,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
I
&
U
Hi*
*O3-
"WESTINGHOUSE
_ ELECTRIC.


Choose
Your Guns and
Rifles from
Mick Simmons’
No. 1.
No. I.—Greener D.8.8.L. Ham-
merless Gun, 12-gauge, treble wedge,
fast action, rebounding, “Siemen’s”
special steel barrels, shooting guaran-
teed ; both full choke ; splendid pigeon
gun.
30-inch. 32-incli barrels.
£22/10/- £23/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 15.
No. 14. —The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b.
Carriage Paid. £3/17/6
No. 15. — The “Cert” Gun, as above,
but with X bolt. . £4/2/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 17.
No. 16.—The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar locks,
pistol grip, neatly engraved, superior
finish; weight about 71b £4/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No 17. —The “Cert” Gun, as above,
tut win, x bolt £5/2/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 11.
No. 11. —Winchester Single Shot
Rifle, 1902 Model, 22-calibre, rim fire,
18in. round steel barrel, bolt action;
peep or V sights, scroll trigger guard,
rubber heelplate; weight
about 31b
Postage 1/6. Other States, 2/8.
37/6
No. 26
No. 26.—Remington Hammerless
Repeating Rifle, Model 12a, 22-
calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 22in. round barrel,
handles, 15 short, 12 long, or 11 long
rifle cartridges, adjustable rear and
open front sights;
weight, 411 b
Carriage paid.
£5/10/-
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
' ' -:4S
THE WINDORAH
HIGH-GRADE
PARK SADDLE.
THE “WINDORAH” has been designed to add
to the comfort and pleasure of riding. The usual
skirt has been dispensed with and a combined flap
and skirt is used, sewn direct on to the seat. This
gives a narrower non-chafing, comfortable grip. The
kneepads are the popular Queensland type, and
the tree and materials throughout are first-class.
Folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups are included in the price.
£l4/5/-
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to
N.S.W. Railway Stations.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
REMINGTON
BALLET KNIFE 815
With the Good Blades.
The Shoe forms a bottle-cap
opener. 7/6, post 6d.
WRITE FOR LIST OF
REMINGTON STOCK KNIVES.
Walther 8 Stevenson, Ltd.
395 (leorge Street,
Sydney.
THE GABRIEL
A Quality Talking-machine at a Reasonable Price.
We have spared no expense to make the Gabriel at least equal to the best
the world produces. The reproducer will play “His Master’s Voice,” Brunswick
and similar records, while a turn of the wrist brings the jewel (two supplied) into
position for playing Edison Re-creations.
All are rendered in an incomparable manner.
The Gabriel is sold from our factory direct to the public, saving duty, freight,
showroom expense and middlemen’s profits.
Hear the instrument played at the works, or write for circular.
Graceful modern cabinet model in full polished rosewood finish, 35 guineas.
William and Mary, or Jacobean Period cabinets, 38 guineas. Terms or cash.
MARSHALL <%L ROSS,
ENGINEERS,
RALPH STREET, ALEXANDRIA.
Take Botany, Bay Street or Baceyville Tram to Beaconsfield Street.
Riamfords
Croats
n ufncture d by
CLIFFORD LOVE &CO. LTD., SYDNEY
Best for Alofhers,
Young Children
Si Invalids •
{By permission of The Attorney-General of N.S.W .)
Help Foe,
Con sumptives"
ART UNION
“BIGGEST
and BEST”
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine .. Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan . . ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car ~ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car „ £4OO
sth Prize, Player Piano ~ £250
6th Prize, 3 Rooms of Furniture „ £2OO
200
PRIZES
IN ALL
Tickets 1/-
By post l/l-£, 3 or
more, post free.
Five tickets . . . 5/-
Every ticket drawn
replaced in barrel.
Each ticket has 200
chances of winning
prizes.
Sale of tickets closes 20th May,
1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney,
3rd June, 1925.
Results published all Sydney
Dailies, sth June, 1925.
T'ckets obtainable from all newsagents and tobacconists, and from the
Secretary, GEO. H. WHEELER, 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
PRIZES
VALUE
9
FOR
a?
RIPOLIN
THE PAINT THAT
LASTS LONGEST
It pays better to paint once with the best paint
than several times with inferior paint or paint
and varnish.
WHITE and 100 harmonious colors available.
Write for Color Card, Booklet, etc.
THE STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD.,
AGENTS FOR VICTORIA,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11054.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily siibmitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Mentiroso: You’ve missed your chance.
It’s the people who would be interesting ; the plant
is dull. .. .C.S.: Too long. .. .Boonali: The theme is
shop-soiled.... Old M.: You haven’t managed to put
much interest tor Australians into it... .Woodieus:
The idea is good ; the execution poor. .. .R.E.8., jun.:
The subject is as stale as the handling is fresh....
Booth B.: It drags like a broken wing... .W.J.D.:
They might make good pars... .Walker H. T.: It’s
too well ploughed a field.... Ted Blake: His sister
has got the job in hand... .C.P.T.: You put a heavy
handicap on yourself by your close typing... .Mas-
salia; Wooden prose cut up into stove lengths and
labelled poetry.... Fitzwil: Somebody else got there
first.... Bromley: “Taste in Pictures” only scratches
the surface of a matter into which The B. has been
digging deep for three years past... .P.S.: We
couldn’t pass this:—
Kook-kook ! O cackling Kookaburra, cack ;
Corrub and carrol joy to beat the band;
Your melody of mirth 1 dub it, Jack,
Crescen-do-ra-me-far-cically grand.
....Ernest A.: There is no yarn to te11... .W.E.8.:
“Milly” isn’t the most interesting flapper of the
week.... Julie R.: The lie is too far-fetched to hold
mirth. .. .A.11.Y.: Makes a tedious tale... .R.P.T.:
No use here. .. .L.J.C.: Slight and not attractively
written... .Duika: Not up to the mark... .W.A.P.:
Can’t you put more life into it?... .C.M.N.: Only
a rather muddled repetition in poor verse of what
you quote as a heading.... Mary M.: Harmless, but
thin and weak.... George C.: Doesn’t get anywhere
near.... Gerald W.: A pretty confused statement....
H.C.M.: Has no touch with life... .Ethel D.: Not
up R.W.T.: You haven’t improved it; and you
still maintain the bad rhyme... .Ripponlea: The
bright little domestic picture stirs us:—
The young husband was slicing the meat with scrupu-
lous care,
And his wife was perceiving him with quizzical stare;
As the blade broke through a piece of string and
slither’d o’er a skewer
He grasped his knife in a grip, graceful and secure.
Neatly did he amputate a hunk o’ succulent fat,
And extract a skewer and give it to the cat.
But when he o’erturned the meat and got some
gravy in his eye,
“Blast this infernal joint,” he roared, “Why didn't
you put it in a pie?”
“You great, big, woodenhead mutt, you’re the plague
of my life ;
’Twas only Tuesday fortnight, you turned your beezer
up at tripe ;
You're always growling at the meat 1 get from Mr.
Oswald.”
“Ah, curse this married life,” he groaned. “I’m off
out to get well sozzled.”
. ...M.J.8.: No merit at all in it.... James II.:
Thin thought, bad construction, false rhymes....
Lucy K.: There’s a faint suggestion of something,
but not enough to make it worth while.... Curlew:
No thoroughfare in that direction.... Douglas E.:
It left us pained and cold. ... Omahu: What’s the
use of asking all those commonplace questions in
verse?... .Eleanor B.: Not well enough laundered.
. ...Q.S.: Poor little verse that staggers and falls.
... .R.C.E.A.: Lame lines on an ill-handled subject.
....Alan W.: Nice verse, but says nothing worth
while. .. ,E.D. (Wellington): Too hard to dig any
meaning out of it... .Widgin: With the office micro-
scope we managed to discover that the verse wag
not good enough. .. .William C.: “King Binghi”
nearly did it, but needs sharpening up... .Ex-A.1.F.:
Don't know, but certainly no Australian State has
the record for 2ft. 6in. railway lines. ’Victoria has
122 miles of that gauge, and Queensland 240
miles; Sierra Leone (Africa) has a 2ft. 6in. line
open from Freetown to the Liberian border, 227
miles, and numerous long branches. As a matter
of fact, there is more 2ft. than 2ft. 6in. line in
Australia.... F.F.: One delicate fragment:—
Across the seven seas I have been,
From San Francisco to Port Arthur;
The finest sight I have yet seen,
Can not compare to Sydney Harbor.
I have gazed upon the Niagara Falls;
And wandered up the Norwegian fiords,
But the view that surpasses them all
Is the sun on Sydney Harbor.
The beauty of Monaco people often speak,
Also the coast of Pearl Harbor;
To me the scene, sublime beauty unique,
Is your own, own Sydney Harbor.
....Fay P.: Well enough written, but this is not
the barrow for those goods... .Z.-V.W.: Verse poorly
done. Yarn slight and 01d....Te K.: No use....
F.1.W.: Poor little homeless thing.... A. Retrop:
A rambling article of that kind is no use to us.
We’ve got a whole continent to cover every week,
and every line matters... .Handy Andy: Doesn’t
move us to cheers.... Edith H.: No yarn there....
A.S. (Bondi): The “Moral Sermons” have little
interest ; and, in any case, we don’t -want matter
to reprint... .G.D.8.: “The Choice” needs more
detail to make it convincing... .M.D. (Kilmore) :
Says the old things p00r1y.... Kenali: Not enough
meat on its bones M.A.H.L.: A long string of
commonplaces that make tedious reading... .Plodder:
Your frog isn’t an attractive insect.... Caesar: Far
off... . Islander: Very poor goods ; and the wrapping
is no better Les H.: Far too rugged Erica:
Doesn't get anywhere near....R. de N. S.: Pleasant
verse, but not enough point... .L.M.: For jingle
of that sort you need a more facile pen.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J. (M.L.): Your first effort hasn’t set the
Tasman Sea on fire A.H.S.: “Early Australian
Cricket” is cheerful, but suffers from weak draw-
ing.... L. 8.: This time the drawing is better but
the humor isn’t. Try something less ambitious....
J.N.K.: Cultivate more life in your line —and less
mortality in your jokes E.C(hamagne) : There is
a suggestion of sparkle in your name, at any rate.
A.H.T.: The Irishman and the railway-train
joke ceased to be funny about 2000 b.c. It was the
Fishskin Tartar and the Caravan in those days....
N.H.: They are endemic, those two. One or othei
of them breaks out every week C.W.J.H.: You’re
one of the multitudinous band who think there is
something funny in hairy legs.... A.A.D.: The
fleas are bad at Manly this year, but they are not as
bad as you try to make out. .. .T.D., J.E.8.,
J.R.V., T.A., S.S. and A.F.: None of them matter.
Those who feel that the appearance of
Southern Europeans in Northern Australia
is bound to be the signal for lights, camor-
ras and other atrocities may take heart. The
other day in Townsville (Q.) two sturdy
citizens, by name Lowth and Bourke, had a
difference of opinion which involved the use
of a revolver. One shot was fired, and the
second was only prevented by the action of a
pacific onlooker who seized the shooter’s
arm. The pacifist was R. Melano, Italian
Consul.


BILLABONG
WINDMILLS
f
If you are'interested in Windmills, get full
particulars of the New Enclosed-Gear
“Billabong.” This new Mill will prove a very
profitable\investment to the users of Wind-
mill powers as the first cost will be about the
only outlay needed, where an Enclosed-Gear
“Billabong” is installed. Weather influences
cannot affect the working parts, and with its
unsurpassed oiling system, friction and wear
and tear is practically nil. Descriptive
Folder Post Free.
PIPES AND FITTINGS
for Irrigation
a Specialty.
Our Own
Manufacture.
Behind the goods we make stands
the reputation of our Firm. Their
superiority results from our long
experience in irrigation under
Australian conditions.
5311.
Bore Cylinder,
with flush-jointed,
Screwed Cap and
Double Leather
Bucket.
5301.
“Banks” All
Brass Pump,
■with Inspection
Valve Covers. Our
own design. Ac-
cessibility is the
feature of this
Pump.
5305.
Bolted Cylinder.
Fitted with Double
Leather Bucket.
BUSY B
WINDMILLS
To meet the demands of those who require
hut a moderate amount of water the BUSY
B” Windmill has been manufactured. It is
extremely high in quality and efficiency, and
is a really sound proposition for where the
quantity of water required does not warrant
the installation of a higher-priced mill. The
“BUSY BEE’’ has a sft. Wind Wheel of our
“Billabong’’ Standard Design. It is of the
direct-acting type, has a Ball-bearing Turn-
table, and is automatically regulated to suit
all winds.
The “BUSY B” can be supplied with fittings
for mounting on a Wooden Post instead of
the usual Steel Tower.
Write for Prices of
BORE CASING.
Black or Galvanised.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“ His Master’s Voice
GRAMOPHONE
“ Music’s Golden Key.”
“His Master’s Voice” music unlocks a treasure
house of infinite delight—and creates an atmo-
sphere that dispels all the petty cares of the day.
You could not choose a better instrument than one of “His
Master’s Voice” Gramophones for supplying dance music—
sprightly feet refuse to behave when this wonderful instru-
ment plays “His Master’s Voice” Records made by the world’s
best Dance orchestras. Then, too, you may listen to Opera,
Band Selections or the greatest instrumental virtuosi whenever
you desire. The happiness of the whole family is increased
with one of “His Master’s Voice” Gramophones in your home.
Paling’s have thirteen models from which to select at prices
from £lO. Why not call in and hear its beautiful tone?
PALING’S EASY TERMS make your purchase of “His
Master’s Voice” Gramophone a very easy matter.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free for the Asking.
"Quality our Keynote since 1853.”
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba,
Lismore and Rockhampton.
KTI
2?
5#
*
fcv;
&


When Your Stock Move
to market see that they travel in the right direc-
tion. Cattle, Sheep or Lambs—
TRUCK YOUR FATS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enogft'era Yards, Brisbane.
The returns secured will forcibly show the reason
why Winchcombe-Carson’s Sales are such a constant
attraction for owners to consign to the firm.
POWER
Transmission
X
%
AUSTRALIA
i
Tanned and processed under tlie most
improved methods of manufacture.
HAEDIE’S LEATHER BELTING en-
sures the most dependable and
economical service in the efficient
transmission of power.
Only specially-selected bends are used in the
manufacture of HARDIE’S LEATHER
BELTING, with the result that there is no
stretching, and consequently no loss of
power through slippage.
Specialising in everything used in the trans-
mission of power, wo can quote for all your
requirements at absolutely bedrock prices.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & AVynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 97 Collins Street
FIRTH’S STEEL
The reputation of
THOS. FIRTH & SONS, LTD.
for supplying the finest quality steel
has been built up (1) By the use of
the highest quality raw materials,
melted in up-to-date furnaces under
highly efficient technical supervision.
(2) By the accurate control of casting
temperature.
(3) By careful attention to the rate
of pouring.
(4) By the use of correctly propor-
tioned moulds.
Carbon anti High-Speed Steels,
Automobile Steels,
Die Steels, Mining Steels
AND
Firth’s Stainless Steels, etc.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
810-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.l
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
3\[aiure s Loving Proxy—
OKe
Watchful Mother
and waitchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who vJon’t
take risks vJifh “His
Highness”— the baby—but
keep him healthy and bonny
by giving small doses daily
of
•<»
1
KRUSE’S
Bottled in three sizes.
nius safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises die dis-
tress caused b$ teedung and
vaccination, besides checking
die development of odier
ailments that retard tbe
progress of young children.
Cooling in Summer —Reliable Always
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular tftanever, because
it does all fhat is claimed
for it —and more.
See &at ;sou get die genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ps. Ltd., on the label.
SCHOOL SAVINGS BANKS
The Government Savings Bank has taken over
from the Education Department the accounts
of depositors in the School Savings Banks.
NEW ACCOUNTS
Will be opened for any pupil who can sign his name.
DEPOSITS
Accepted at the Schools only, from Id. upwards.
INTEREST
Paid at 4 per cent, on every complete £1 up to
the usual limit.
Encourage the children to save by this simple method.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
as
r
"j?
<o
PERFECTION MWftf
DETROff wtyn«H
Illustration shows
h-h.p. Engine,
Wico Igniter,
our
with
CAILLE
Perfection” Marine Engines.
For Service —Economy—Reliability.
Caille Engines are obtainable in
any horse-power from 2 to 20.
All Single-Cylinder Engines, complete
with Wico Waterproof Igniter.
Spare Parts always carried in stock.
Send for Catalog and Price List.
Sole Agents—
Benson Brothers, Limited
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Pick": At Gerringong (N.S.W. South
Coast) a Trinidad Islander, known as “Old
Louis,” lias a local industry all to himself.
When tides are low lie hunts the sea-washed
rocks for a species of sea-slug, locally known
as mutton-fish, prises them from the sea-
wall, cleans and partially cooks them, dries
them in the sun, and packs them for export
to China, where they are regarded as extra-
choice delicacies. A return of about one
penny per slug is the veteran’s reward for
his hard yakker, and since he collects up to
600 in one outing the job should be payable.
Frequently, tiny pearls are found among
the rotted offal from the fish, and Sydney
jewellers pay eight shillings apiece for them.
* * * *
“Herodot”: One hardly-noted effect of the
Navigation Act has been to break up most
of the card-sharping gangs which formerly
“worked” the Australian coast. These en-
terprising gentry used to travel between
Fremantle and Sydney, and their pickings
were often rich. Now the overseas boats
are barred to them, and there is less chance
of finding pigeons on the inter-Staters; also
the danger of being recognised the moment
they come aboard is much greater. Most
of the gangs have consequently abandoned
the steamers and taken to the trains, the
Sydney-Melbourne and Sydney-Brisbane ex-
presses arid the Transcontinental being favo-
rite hunting-grounds. On a “limited” which
left Sydney for Melbourne at Cliristmas-time
six sharpers were operating before the Vic.
border was reached.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: In a recent account of the
opening of a big centre for native education
in Central Papua it was said that the higher
standards would include geometrical pro-
blems and mensuration. The Papuan’s pas-
sion for “cat’s cradle” may be assisted by the
first science, and mensuration may at last
enable him to give the weary white way-
farer definite information as to the distance
to the next pub or cocoanut grove. Still,
one would have thought that these born agri-
culturists arid handicraftsmen would have
benefited more by technical training. A pleas-
ant item in the curriculum is the training of
the girls in lace-making. I saw a class at
work at the Fyfe Bay Mission 20 years ago.
The girls of the south-eastern coast of Papua
are delicate-fingered, and the pillow-lace they
were turning out, after only a few months’
training, was good to see. Papuan women
are expert plaiters and weavers from baby-
hood, and since the great desideratum tor
fine lace-making—a moist atmosphere—is
not wanting, the Papuan lace-trade may grow
into a good thing some day.
* * * *
“Doctor”: A company called Australian
Sheep Farms, Limited, is being formed in
London to acquire Dunlop, Toorale and
Nocoleche stations for £370,000. Evidently
this price does not include the stock; for
> £480,000 was the figure asked locally on a
walk-in, walk-out basis a while ago. These
pastoral properties were owned by Samuel
Wilson in 1870, and were sold to Samuel
McGaughey in 1881. At his death they were
acquired by Robinson and Vincent, two of
his station managers. The directors of the
new company are R. 11. Caird, George Slade
and Sir Arthur Stanley, all of the Australian
Mercantile Land and Finance Co., and as
the issue has been underwritten it can be
taken for granted that the ownership of
these stations has definitely passed overseas.
Toorale has an area of 980,000 acres western
lands lease and 4000 acres freehold; Dunlop,
962,000 acres western lands lease and 3000
acres freehold ; Nocoleche comprises 400,000
acres western lands lease, 400,000 acres occu-
pation lease and 2000 acres of freehold. The
leases terminate in 1943.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Every father should do his
best to inculcate the habit of usury in his
offspring, the teachings of Shakspeare on the
subject notwithstanding. I was never so
touched as when my small daughter, having
been alarmed, apparently, by breakfast-
table discussions about mortgages and over-
drafts, emptied the contents of a chipped
china vase on to my desk and told me that I
could use her little hoard if it was any good
to me. She now regards the new house as
partly hers, never ceases to remind me of
the fact or to collect her interest on quarter-
day. _ Usury is a word with an ugly sound;
but it is the parent of thrift, and now the
young lady has a brand-new money-box sup-
plied by that great national institution, the
Commonwealth Bank. It is an elegant re-
plica of the bank’s handsome headquarters
in Sydney. Last year, I am told, the bank
sold 119,694 of these thrift-promoters, and
those returned full averaged £2 3s. lOd. a
box. A new box is given free in place of
the old one. Having filled her parent's re-
quirements, my daughter now feels a
patriotic pride in saving her threepences for
the needs of the nation. When all is said
and contradicted, it was the interest on Vic-
tory Bonds that won the war.
* * .* *
“Caractacus”: The Vic. Health Commis-
sion, which recently tried to disturb the
simple faith of patent-medicine takers by
ordering the display of formula? on packages,
is now on the warpath against the sale of
“seed tapioca” as sago. Both are glutinous
substances: sago, a dirty brown globule,
made from the pith of a tropic palm; tapi-
oca, a pure-white sphere made from wheat or
the pounded root of the cassava or manioc
shrub. The food principle of each is starch-
their value that of any other carbo-hydrate
—fat and heat producing. There is no more
profit to the grocer in tapioca than in sago;
m fact, not one shopkeeper in a hundred
stocks real sago, and most housewives would
reject it if offered, on account of its unattrac-
tive appearance. The popular and commer-
cial name for the tiny ‘‘seeds” of starch is
sago ; and it is this “sago” the buyer asks
for and gets. The name should certainly not
have been misapplied; but at least nobody
suffers by it; and, however much the Health
Commission insists upon tapioca being called
tapioca, _ no more true sago will be bought,
lhere is a pure-food regulation in N. S.
Wales forbidding grocers to sell “tapioca” as
dead-letter. 1 ' “ S be “ a “ 0 "' cd t 0 become a


Famous Stars
Endorse Rexona
7
7,
7,
(A
£
FO*
>/
l &£«<
N\jb
%
//
ZS2
t*S tS
C.Lf>
e>«°
tf''- 5
p\£s
ppp'
//
%
m
f
“I always use Rexona Soap,
for I flml it so refreshing after
taking off my make-up.”
Miss MARIE BURKE
ff ' t
: R
v' 1
“My motto is Rexona.’’
Miss DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Every day the fame of Rexona grows, until it is now world-wide.
Most of all our noted theatrical artistes are Rexona Girls, for they
know how much personal attractiveness adds to charm, and have
learned by experience that the use of Rexona and Rexona Soap is
the shortest road to health and beauty. Note what these famous
stars say of Rexona and Rexona Soap, and if you are not already a
user of the Rexona Products, start their use to-day. Rexona will
keep your skin in perfect condition, and free from all blemishes.
Rexona Soap gives natural beauty to the skin and hair.
Girls! Beautify Your
Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of your hair?
It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as
anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits
those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments
you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling
hair. If you care to have pretty hair and lots of it —get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
Why Not Enjoy a
Good Complexion?
You cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash
your face do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, but that your
skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from
blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this influence,
as you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the
skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the better class of such soaps do not in
any way help to improve the skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an
absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the same principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment, which is known throughout Australasia as the Rapid Healer. That is why
Rexona Soap really does for the skin and face what cosmetics are supposed to do, by
ensuring not only a clean face, but a pure and healthy skin, and thus gives you a clear
complexion. s
Rexona Soap 1/-
mb
m
9BP
“I always find Rexona Soap
most soothing and refreshing to
the skin, and as a shampoo for
the hair I consider it par excel-
lent.”
Miss WINNIE COEEINS.
TOE
“Rexona Soap is simply won-
derful for making the hair
bright., soft and silky.”
Miss NELL CARTER.
“My advice to girls who wish
for an attractive complexion is
to use only Rexona Soap.”
Miss MARIE LAVARRE.


You often get up
in the morning
with a bad taste
in your mouth,
feeling sick and
miserable. That
is a sure sign
that you need
Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
Wonderful for Biliousness.
Constipation & Bad Breath.
GhahberlaihsTableis
y
they cleanse the stomach and
REGULATE THE LIVER AND BOWELS.
P«»c£
1/e
2
Chamberlains LIMITED.
Sydney. n.s.w * Wellington. n.L
Monarch
A ROYAL
smokeH
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6 d.
each.
0
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing' two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciuh
Reil Cigar Factory.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If yon an troubled with the complaint, write at and
wawill tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with ail cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day' » use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rapture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we stata
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it it not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price it within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED catalogue
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street, Melbourne j
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons-
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S. Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Rvan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
M ith offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland aha
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
goose grease,
blacking,
boot polish..
Nugget.
“cNug,&et” is as &reat an improve-
ment on ordinary 0 boot polish as
blacking was an improvement on the
g,oose grease used by our- ancestors.
Use nothing but
XUGGET
BOOT POLISH.
4" plates f or^/'
Manufacturpci by
CLIFFORD LOVE 6* CO, LTD., SYDNEY.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
weeks' Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
m o t o r-t rips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent b y
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000-ton Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOUTMAN.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney,
MESSRS. JOH3» SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. D ALGETY & CO., Brisbane.
“Trevdee” : Another farming record? At
Barraport (Vic.) recently G. Quinn, took off
just over 300 bags of wheat with a header
and six horses in one day. The crop was
one of the best you’d see, I admit.
Another good Australian goes to the Irish-
man’s educational aid in the Port Mel-
bourne Carmelite, Dr. Gearon. For years
the leading theological writer for the Order,
he has been appointed to the professorial
staff of the Carmelite Headquarters in Dublin.
“Trevdee”: Here’s a late Queer Accident
entry. A Coburg (Vic.) dentist was ex-
tracting a man’s tooth, when a piece of the
molar snapped off and pierced the operator’s
left eye. Although suffering intense pain
he pluekily finished his job. Septic poisoning
resulted, and the doctor had many weeks'
fight to save the eye.
Just after Toutcher was made Minister for
Education in the third Peacock Ministry
(Vic.) he went into his electorate to address
a gathering. As he was about to rise a
neighbor whispered to the chairman : “Don’t
forget to mention that he has just been made
a Minister, and put the prefix to his name.”
Whereupon the chairman introduced to his
astonished audience “the Reverend Mister
Toutcher.”
The aunt who married an American mil-
lionaire and left an immense fortune has
tux-ned out to be no fable as far as one
lucky M.L. family are concerned. The aunt
of James Whitley, shoemaker, of Timaru.
told him she would not forget him
in her will. Now, after 25 years,
James and his sister’s children are about to
receive a little legacy of £1,500,000 that has
been tied up awaiting proof of claim. Whit-
ley is 70, so he will scarcely have time to
spend all his portion.
About the limit in casual appropriation
was shown in Melbourne recently, when a
man who had to meet his wife near a sub
urban police-station drove her and a lady
friend home in a car belonging to the Civil
Ambulance Service. The ambulance driver
had gone inside the station to inquire about
the case he had been sent for, and the passer-
by thought it a shame to let the thing stand
idle. Eventually he drove it back, merely
remarking that his wife had complained of
feeling ill. The P.M. considered £lO and costs
would be a warning.
“The Rumpus”: In the nor’-west of
Groperland there would be nothing unusual
in a tin of jam being shouted in lieu of a drink
(B. 15/l/’25). Between Geraldton and Wynd-
liampubs are few and far between, consequently
the obscure inland “stores” stock most lines,
and a jamboree is occasionally finished with
tins of peaches, pears and pineapples. At
one place a mob of sliicksters, after mopping
up all the snakejuice and sending the pre-
served fruit after it, concluded their festivi-
ties with the store’s stock of jam and con-
densed milk.
“Sturt”: Lionel Hill, who combines
Public Works with Education in the S.A.
Ministry, has been inspecting the Werribee
Farm system which receives the sewage of
Melbourne. Adelaide had deep drainage 40
years ago, which enabled it to refer a little
pityingly to the neighboring capital as
“Smellbourne.” But now that the whole
Adelaide plain is becoming covered with
homes, and Port Adelaide .suburbs are push-
ing out close to the sewage farm, the works
require to be modernised. Gutteridge, Com-
monwealth head of Sanitary Engineering,
and Philippe, manager of Werribee, have
given technical advice; and the new Hy-
draulic Engineer of S.A. will have to begin
by tackling this problem.
“XD”: Melbourne appears to have a re-
markably efficient gang of looters; perhaps
the habit was learned at the time of the
police strike. Fear that the Town Hall fire
would spread caused a number of residents
of the Victorian Coffee Palace to desert their
rooms hurriedly. Most of them, realising
there was no immediate danger, presently
returned to collect their belongings, only to
find that the collecting had already been
done—the plunder in one case was worth
£lOO. Much the same thing occurred at an-
other fire in Bourke-street; and the board-
ers at a city hotel who had been lured out-
side by a free show in the shape of a street
fight returned to find that several of their
rooms had been effectively “barbered.”
“ Verri”: It seems to me that the chemist
is liable to get into trouble whether he “fol-
lows copy out of the window” (in the old-
time compositor’s phrase) or whether he
doesn’t (B. 2!)/l/’25). A chemist once
handed me a bottle of medicine with the
warning that as it was very strong I should
measure it with the gi-eatest care. I took
the precaution of halving the dose, and even
then was extremely ill. In the commotion
that followed, the doctor informed the
chemist in my presence that he was
entirely in the wrong in not questioning the
quantity of arsenic in the prescription, and
having it verified or corrected. In fact, the
responsibilities of the chemist are tremend-
ous. I came on one the other day holding
a prescription, one dose of which might have
proved fatal, and a • well-known doctor wrp
about to arrive to examine an item whicV
he declared, per telephone, he could novel'
have been mad enough to write down. Some
doctors are notoriously careless, and on these
the chemist must keep a wary eye.
Cocky and his variegated tribe sit on one-
third of the perches in the Vic. Assembly;
of the 23 a baker’s dozen call themselves
plain farmers. There were 5 solicitors until
Maurice Blackburn was returned for Fitzroy
the. other day to make the half-dozen. Secre-
taries, mostly of the trade-union variety,
number 5. Carlton, Collingwood and East
Bendigo all return Laborites and boot-
makers. There are a pair each of managers,
coopers and clei-ks. Jimmy Jewell (Bruns-
wick) manufactured mince’ meat before find-
ing this better job, and Arthur Cook scraped
the whiskers from a thousand chins. Dr.
Argyle is the only one who hangs a red
lamp over his front gate, and John Bowser
is the sole journalist. The catalogue
includes one (each) mechanic, printer,
cutter, legal manager, storekeeper, tea mer-
chant, baker, saddler, managing director,
estate agent, mine manager, agent, carpen-
ter, warehouseman, ironmonger, merchant
grocer, plumber and school-teacher—the
last, E. C- Bond, successor to W E
Thomas, farmer, of Glenelg, who passed out
a month or so after the general election.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•ORAMA 20,500
•ORONSAY .. 20.500
‘OTRANTO .. 20,500
•ORMONDE .. 14,853
Tons.
♦ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12.138
OSTERLEY . . 12.129
OKSOVA 12,036
*ORCAI)ES 10,000 tons.
•First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
OF
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981
(3 lines). 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast, Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
FARE £3/10/-, First-class Steamer and Rai-l;
£3/3/10, First-class Steamer and Second-class Rail.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD,
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents; Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499*435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaoht, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge. M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Cltiel Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFf ICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
• New Soulb Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairiiairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500’000
Ordinary Shares 3,000’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, Mew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 750,000
£1,625,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies ui over £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds £53,000,000
Annual Income £7.865.000
/
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H- W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, ate.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
MAUNGANUI 11,350 tons disp. FEB. 26 for San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ MAR. 12 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. MAR. 26 for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ APRIL 9 „ Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing; oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
i
f m
♦ » ft: ' " ’C.
- -t ■» L^t
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE EXITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGE A DEE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUItXS. I’HI Ll’ & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
wf f™'
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
11 |yg \
Pf
. iHf
' - \ 'A
i a .
g-. fa ‘ I Pf
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert \V. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
General Manager: OSCAR f.TNRS.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND - 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 3,500,000 0 0
£9,700,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Sir WILLIAM VICARS. C.B.E.
General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth and North-West
Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
t Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, .Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS EOIi
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
I'itzroy Estates, .Ltd.
IMucklieutn Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian lio.val Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofop I|=
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission ol the Hon. the
Attorney-General ot N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published "Daily Telegraph." June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, I/IJ. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets for 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizes
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Froudi
Ltd. and Lassetter’s. Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it


The (^e e w
STUDEBAKER DUPLEX
2 cars in 1
* I ''
, :
t
•' i /.Ml
- -'y/r.• ■,. ■— ■
' "'%*&%}■*■'■"' ■ -'•' ’ >v “
~■■■" -
.Tm*c^‘‘Tf-Tr*** ■". "**■ --■■•■ •
: -:7
77:
; aan
la. -e ? fjts&M*
...
■ I
’ ■• -i
■ i , IHli: *Y - t :
. « ~... .... .... • <
The New Studebaker Special Six Duplex-Phaeton. Price
£595. There ii also the Standard Six Duplex-Phaeton at
£490. And the Big Six Duplex-Phaeton £705.
STUDEBAKER
Joints
Duplex body.
Genuine balloon tyres.
New-type emergency brake.
Greater brakingefficiency through
larger and more powerful 2-
wheel brakes. 4-wheel hydraulic
brakes optional, at slight extra
cost.
Full-powered, six-cylinder en-
gine, integral with clutch and
gear box. Force feed oiling sys-
tem. Completely machined crank-
shaft.
Oil filter to ensure clean oil.
Force-feed chassis lubrication.
Nickel-plated radiator.
Massive headlamps. Distinctively
designed cowl lamps.
One-piece, full vision windscreen
—glare-proof visor.
Automatic windscreen cleaner.
Foot-operated cowl ventilator.
Lights controlled from steering
wheel.
Ball-type accelerator.
Gear box lock.
Tyre carrier with lock.
Combination stop-and-tail light.
Protecting shield over petrol tank.
Instruments, including 8 - day
clock, speedometer, petrol gauge,
ammeter and oil pressure gauge,
mounted in an oval group under
glass. Lighted by concealed lamp.
Genuine leather upholstery—
deeply stuffed. Comfort enhanced
by new type horizontal seat
springs in combination with ver-
tical coil springs.
Sparking plugs protected from
water by rubber insulating caps.
Broad, deeply crowned mud-
guards.
Automatic spark control.
An open and closed car combined
—at strictly open car price!
NO more hurried efforts to put up cur-
tains in the wind and rain. No more
searching about for the right one while
the storm beats in. The New Studebaker
Duplex ends all this inconvenience and delay.
One moment it is a delightful, airy open car
—next a snug, dry enclosed car.
Converted in 30 seconds
Simply lower the roller side enclosures —as
easily, as quickly as you lower a window
blind —and the conversion is made. With a
touch of the hand, they can be rolled up—out
of sight. The change can be made in 30
seconds without getting out of the car.
And the Studebaker Duplex-Phaeton sells
for no more than a strictly open car! Which
means that the Studebaker Duplex owner
secures the advantages of two cars (an open
and a closed car) at the price of one.
The Duplex is an exclusive Studebaker crea-
tion. No other automobile has this great
convenience.
In addition to the Duplex feature, the new
Studebaker models possess striking beauty
of line and finish. They are further dis-
tinguished by their increased power, new
ease of operation, greater riding comfort and
unparalleled value.
SMany additional features
Genuine balloon tyres—with steering gear and
springs especially designed for their use; force-
feed oiling system—giving positive lubrication
under all conditions; crankshaft completely
machined, to give perfect engine balance and
thereby reduce vibration to an absolute mini-
mum; lights controlled from the steering wheel;
emergency brake operated in a new and
more convenient way—these are but a few of
the many features possessed by the new
Studebaker cars.
See the new Studebaker Duplex today. Ride
in it. Drive it. Test its two-fold conveniences.
Inspect each of the fifteen new Studebaker
cars. Then you will realize why Studebaker is
the most talked-of car in Motordom today.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Indiana, U. S. A ,
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
113-in. W.B. 50 H.P.
5- Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood £430
6- Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood 480
5-pass. Duplex-Phaeton, Imported
Body ••. 490
3-pass. Roadster Australian Body,
Folding Hood 420
3-pass. Roadster Imported Body,
Folding Hood 455
3-pass. Duplex Roadster 465
3-pass. Coupe Roadster 570
5-pass„ Coupe 590
5-pass. Sedan 625
5-pass. Berline 650
Awheel Hydraulic Brakes, 4 Disc Wheels,
£l5 extra.
SPECIAL SIX MODELS.
120 in. IV.B. 65 H.P.
5-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood £535
7-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood 550
5-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood 580
5-pass. Duplex-Phaeton, Imp. Body 595
3-pass. Roadster, Australian Body 515
3-pass. Roadster, Imported Body 535
3-pass. Duplex-Roadster, Imp. Body 545
4- Victoria 735
5- Sedan 765
5-pass. Berline 785
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
BIG SIX MODELS.
127 in. W.B. 75 H.P.
7-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood £685
7-pass. Duplex Phaeton 705
5-pass. Coupe 895
7 -pass. Sedan 935
7-pass. Berline 960
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
Studebaker open models can also be
furnished with folding tops in place of
the Duplex body and top.
J 8602
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, (Queensland) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73 YEARS


There is Nothing Like
a Smile when the Teeth
are Plaza Cleaned
Plaza-cleaned teeth aid a charm-
ing smile. There is no charm like
the smile of a lovely woman, but
the essential of a smile is the beau-
tiful sparkle of clean, white teeth.
What a delight to know that your
teeth are white and pearly, and
that you can smile with every con-
fidence and not need to try and hide
the teeth.
Use Plaza Tooth Paste, contain-
ing Milk of Magnesia, night and
morning, and see the difference.
It not only means bright, clean,
attractive teeth, but protection
from decay and tender gums.
Ask your Dentist the advantage
of Milk of Magnesia in a Tooth
Paste.
He knows, and can tell you ot
the benefit you will derive.
“I consider Plaza Tooth Paste a truly
delightful dentifrice, for cleansing and
beautifying the teeth.”
Miss SYBIL, SHIRLEY,
Double Bay, N.S.W.
“I find there is nothing to equal
Plaza Tooth Paste for cleansing and
preserving the teeth.”
.Miss LOTUS THOMPSON,
Rand wick, N.S.W.
Plaza Tooth Paste
Made with Milk of Magnesia.
'M h,\
Wh
'A
Large
Tubes
1/6
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to
you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia,
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
'
:-v
/
n
JSS
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
“Hoiv
Lovely /”
Faith in Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
bees have a speech of honey,
I And the winds have a song of dust;
And in grey days or sunny
The earth is full of trust.
Beak and claw of the rending
Pass with the shadow of wings;
But the bird-song of faith unending
Pipes through the countless springs.
War in the greenest places
Goes with a restless cry;
And earth has a thousand graces
To hide the things that die.
Hiding, finding, revealing.
The sun walks over the day,
Warm with an infinite healing,
Hot with desire to slay.
In the heart of the crystal hidden
Is a plan beyond the plan,
And no way is forbidden
To the searching eyes of man ;
But the wonder of meaningless meaning
To the centre of knowledge draws
A sense of a blind world leaning
On meaningless perfect laws.
Instinct, gathered through ages,
Is wisdom in leaf and flower,
Life writes a million pages
To touch one word of power;
And, writing the word, forgets it,
And knows of the perfect thing
No more than the rain that wets it
Knows of the bloom of Spring.
Instinct, born of the reason
That buds on the rod of fear,
Knows the voice of the season,
Fawns at the feet of the year;
And the light wings stay or follow
The summer that heeds not men,
Making two homes for the swallow
And one home for the wren.
We that through wonder and fearing
Have come to a place that is vam,
Listening, but never hearing
A purpose in change and pain,
What of the earth that bore us?
What of the days to come?
The high planets o’er us
Rise white and dumb.
Little we gain by seeking.
But surely a gain we hold
Of fine things speaking
In blood that is ages old.
And over the ordered madness
Of exquisite hopes defiled
Is the great instinct of gladness
In the eyes of a laughing child.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Twin-bed Dialogues.
WHEN BABETTE PLAYS BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE always maintained that Babette,
my wife, is a sensible woman; but
when she goes over a solid no-trump
call by calling two clubs on queen-knave to
four, I merely delete the adjective and main-
tain that she is a woman.
Babettc does most things well, and some-
things, such as flirtation, too well; but her
bridge, though bright, is too fascinatingly
feminine to follow. ,
I admit that the modern husband has to he
something more than a mere husband. Babette
admits that I do my duty faithfully on the
lines so clearly laid down in the marriage ser-
vice. She qualifies this generous statement,
however, by her inexperience. “Yes, dar-
ling,” she would murmur, “you can be quite
delightful and thoroughly efficient; but how
do I know that you are any better or more
expert than any of the millions of other
men who aren’t my husband? It isn’t as it
I was a widow, or a divorcee, or three times
married. Yon are the only husband I’ve ex-
perienced. I’ve never had the chance of try-
ing anybody else. I do think it unfair that
a perfectly nice and trusting girl like me
should have to go through life with the same
man, when, for all I know, there may be all
sorts of exciting experiences that I may be
missing.
“Why, this evening I read in the paper of
a girl who was married at sixteen, divorced
at nineteen, married the ‘co.’ next year, and
then was a war widow, with all her life
ahead of her. Now, why shouldn’t every
woman have at least that amount of excite-
ment in her life? No matter how nice a
husband is—and I know you are just lovely
—l’m only an amateur in marriage. At
school I used to have lots of different teach-
ers ; but in the marriage school there is only
one. And, to be perfectly frank with you,
darling. I often wish I Could have a change
of teachers, just for a little while; and I
know I'd come back with a greater appre-
ciation of your kisses. It’s a hard world for
women.”
Though in some respects I may not be
ideal, at least I do my best to make her life
happy. It’s a complicated job being the hus-
band of a woman like Babette, or, indeed, of
any other woman. Consider how difficult it
is for a husband to find for his wife the
ideal jazzing partner or the just-so bridge
pair. There is a grievous shortage of mar-
ried jazzers or married bridge-fiends.
The trouble about jazzers is that there are
always more good girl dancers than good men
partners. Left to myself. I could pick up
a dozen perfect female Chicagoans; but their
husbands! The only men that suit Babette
are widowers. Naturally they get ample
practice; but they are always booked up
weeks ahead. In other respects, too, they
are undesirable; there was one widower who
jazzed perfectly, but was a still more expert
sitter-out. Even Babette, who is herself an
expert sitter-out, said with a sigh that he
surprised her.
So, in these my middle-aged years. I have
to be continually on the quest of the male
jazzer. I go about, walking up and down
upon the earth, seeking whom I may grab to
jazz with Babette. Cautiously I turn the
conversation upon dancing whenever I meet
a new acquaintance that I think would suit
Babette’s step—.she has one of those
rhythmic steps with a sort of lilt and joggle
that would entrance any man under sixty.
When I learn that both he and his wire
jazz, I engineer the conversation casually
into a suggestion that perhaps we could get
up a small party. , . ...
When I remark that I’d like him and his
wife to meet my wife, he shies. There is
something fatal in the mention of "my
Whenever I am lured into meeting anybody s
wife, I always know that I am going to meet
a mother of five that has let her figure flow
over. Naturally my acquaintances picture a
Babette of that middle-aged-spread type, aou
can’t blame the man —there are so many ol
that type about.
When, however. I manage to secure a
jazzing pair, Babette finds a treasure, but I
have to take on the wife. It is a most
uneven world.
So it is with a bridge married-pair. Ba-
bette does not demand a player who plays
all the conventions, or even one who lias
heard of them ; she insists on him being in-
terested not in her play but in herself. There
are plenty of excellent bridge pairs who play
a scientific game and don’t thump their win-
ning cards down on to the table; but Babette
finds such pairs dull. “Bridge is all right,
she sighs, “but I do like a little excitement
in it.”
We take our seats and Babette insists on
the blue cards. It is Babette's deal. Now
for business! She sorts her cards and an-
nounces to the lady on her left that she had
seen a perfectly ducky hat in that new hat-
shop—you know, the one that exclusively
imports Paris models. Of course, it is a
terrible price to pay for it; but, then, it was
a model. Sim had seen the Paris label on
it. She tried it on, and it seemed to suit
her wonderfully. Made her look so young .
No ; she hadn’t got it yet, though they were
keeping it aside for her till to-morrow. Yes,
but nothing but the right thing would do tor
hats. She would rather have one genuine
Paris model than half a dozen that didn t
look like models. So it was cheaper in the
end to pay for something that you knew, and
everybody else knew, was the real thing! She
had rung up her best friend to come with
her the next afternoon to see what her friend
thought of it—on. They would have to have
lunch together to get into the right mood
for trying on hats. And then: “Oh, by the
wav, whose deal is it?”
I inform her, in what I trust is a polite
manner, that it is her deal. Babette is
shocked and apologetic, and eagerly scans
her cards. And, of course, she goes one no-
trump. At the last trump she will nicely
explain to Gabriel that no-trump hands are
so much more exciting to play..
We in turn make our calls, in the inter-
vals of the discussion on hats, in which the
other female eagerly joins. It comes round
to Babette again; and when she has been
told by me, I trust not irritably, what the
other hands and myself have. declared, she
continues the game. In the middle of a dis-
cussion on the meanness of her opponent in
keeping a card she had forgoten to count,
and playing it unexpectedly, the telephone
rings.
I answer the call, in what, I hope, is a
gentlemanly manner. It is one of her best
friends wanting to speak to Babette. She
happily puts her hand down and swishes to
the telephone.
“Yes?” she coos, using the telephone voice
that all women use when speaking to an un-
known at the other end of the wire: it might
be a nice man—you never know —-and first
impressions are so important. “Oh, it’s you,
dear!” she eagerly says. “So nice of you
to ring up. Busy? Oh no! We’re having
a little game of bridge, dear; but it’s ages
since we had a talk, isn’t it? Oh, they don’t
mind ; but really I can’t keep them waiting
too long, can I? Ooh! I’d simply love it.
I haven’t been to a trying-on for years.
That new' color! Isn’t it a bit too-oo?
No, I'm sure it would suit you. Yes, let me
see; yes, I could meet you for afternoon tea
and then we could have al lovely long after-
noon seeing you get tried on. .Tames? Oh,
he won’t mind a cold dinner. Oh, the bridge
party? Yes, perhaps I’d better ring off.
But I w T on’t forget. Ta-ta. dear!”
“Awful nuisance people ringing you up in
the middle of a game,” she murmurs as she
seats herself. “I hate the woman, and she'll
look like a pillar-box with her boiled com-
plexion ; but I simply couldn’t miss seeing
her tried on. Now, let me see, where w'ere
w T e?”
I tell her, I think not irritably.
And Babette explains why she didn’t risk
that finesse that would have given her the
game.
Husband and w T ife are always supposed to
play a good game of auction wdien partners;
but Babette hates playing with me. She, ob-
jects to my calls; she dislikes my doubles;
she wonders why on earth' I didn’t lead her
the right suit; but what she loathes me for
are my conventions. Babette, who had never
had any use for conventions in life, is true to
herself at. auction bridge. I have explained
them again and again to her, I believe in con-
siderate tones; but she utterly refuses to
make use of them. And when I illustrate
the score we w T ould have made if she had only
doubled one-no-trump—merely, I am con-
vinced, in a fatherly manner—Babette
meanly appeals, almost with tears in her
eyes, to the only other male present.
“I only w T ant. to know 7 ,” she wistfully asks
him. “I know T I don’t play a very good
game; but, now, I appeal to you !”
The mean man invariably agrees with her;
but I hope I do not sulk.
Then in the middle of the play of a hand
Babette remembers a funny story. When
she is dummy she allows herself a little
license. She simply must tell this one! It
is one that I told her. with reserves. Even
when you are married to such a frank and
out-spoken person as Babette, there are some
funny stories that you have to bow'dlerise.
Babette butts in with her story while her
partner is wildly w'ondering liow r he is to
avert disaster in a double. Babette’s call w\as
one of those sketchy no-trumps that might
come off once in a hundred hands, but never
does. The poor child has such a profound
faith in the chivalry of human nature; but
it does not work in auction. So she tells her
little story, which, of course, the other man
and I know, with variations. And then she
sadly accuses her partner of displaying the
hand.
It is a trying job to play bridge and to
keep an eye upon a wife’s wiles. When
(Continued on next page.)


inra
50
%
s
eg
II
r
“Every Picture
Tells a S tory"
What causes
Aching Joints?
\
Much of the pain attributed to rheumatism is
really due to an excess of uric acid in the blood
caused by weak kidneys.
When excess uric acid col-
lects in the blood it forms
jagged crystals, which are de-
posited in the muscles, joints,
along the walls of the arteries,
and in the sheaths of nerves.
The movement of a nerve or
muscle that contains these uric-
acid crystals causes sharp, in-
tense, darting pains, and in time
starts swelling and inflammation
of the joints.
The moment you feel any
rheumatic pains—any twinges
or uneasiness in the back—-any
sign of urinary irregularity, be-
gin with Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills. This medicine aids
the kidneys to filter excess uric
acid out of the blood, and has
been winning successes for over
fifty years.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
Mrs. F. Schroder, Oberon Cottage, 14
Oberon Street, Randwick, Sydney, says:
“For a good while a member of my
family suffered from rheumatism and
backache. The pain was often so severe
that it was torture to move about,
especially stooping. We felt sure the
kidneys were not working properly, as
there were several other marked symp-
toms noticeable, but backache and rheu-
matism were by far the most painful.
One day Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
were recommended to us, so I sent for
some, and I am pleased to tell you
they acted splendidly, three bottles
making a complete cure. Some years
have elapsed since then, but there has
been no return of the trouble, so we
feel safe in saying the cure is a perma-
nent one.”
Six years later, Mrs. Schroder says:
“The cure referred to still holds good,
a fact that speaks volumes for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. They are a
splendid kidney medicine and will
always have our hearty recommenda-
tion.”
Sold at 2/9 per bottle at all
Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
DOANS
Backache Kidney Pills.
TWO RESIDENTS OF SYDNEY CURED OF
PILES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
A KENSINGTON CASE.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, senior, No. 29
Anzac Parade, Kensington, Sydney,
says: “For years I was tortured with
itching piles. The irritation of this ail-
ment is terrible, and only those who
have suffered know how awful it is. I
used dozens of pile remedies, but could
not get anything to give me ease. A
friend urged me to try Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying he was sure this prepara-
tion would cure me. I got some and
commenced using it, and in a very short
time I was completely cured.”
Nine years later Mr. Abrahams says:
“I have not been troubled with Piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured me over
nine years ago. I have advised many
sufferers to use this grand remedy, and
I am sure it will cure in every case if
people will only apply it properly.”
AN UNDERCLIFFE CASE.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Homer Street,
Undercliffe, Sydney, says: “For about
12 months I was tortured with Itching
Piles, and the pain and irritation nearly
drove me mad. I consulted a doctor,
and used Pile remedies, but could not
get permanent relief. I heard that
Doan’s Ointment was good, and decided
to try it. After a few applications I
felt better, and by the time the third
pot was finished I w r as perfectly cured.
I advise all those who suffer with Piles
to use Doan’s Ointment, as I am sure
they will benefit by it.”
Eleven years later Mr. Martin says:
“Eleven years ago I told you Doans
Ointment had cured me of Piles. I
can now add that my cure has lasted,
for I am still free of this torturing
ailment. I always keep Doan s Oint-
ment in the house, and use it occasion-
ally, just as a preventive against any
return.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES AT 2/9 PER TIN.
by chance in picking up the pack Babette’s
hand touches the hand of the other man,
and deliberately lets it lightly linger, it
makes me lose count of the trumps. Then,
when dummy, she sits on the arm of the
man’s chair and leans over him to watch his
play. And how can a man make the odd
trick when a Babette’s hair gets in his eyes?
The rest of the evening is devoted to a
wild but perfectly discreet flirtation between
Babette and her admirer. They have all
sorts of by-play perfectly innocent on the
surface, but intimately understood by them-
selves. And the man’s wife is so jealous
that she revokes, and simply doesn't care.
No more does Babette. Her handshake
with him as our guests depart means so much
that, in a law court, it would have to be
handed up to the magistrate in writing.
“Well,” she sighs, as she gathers up my win-
nings—in married life the wife never pays
her bridge debts but always collars the hus-
band’s hard-won earnings—“it has been a
delightful evening, hasn’t it? He wants me
to go to afternoon-tea with him—not one
of those big parties that you so dislike, dear;
just the two of us. I love his handstand, oh,
that midget moustache! I wonder”
And Babette is off on a dream adventure
of her own. “Of course,” she sighs as she
wakes up, “I know you wouldn’t like me to
go to tea with him on my own ; but perhaps
you and bis wife could come too, and you
could talk with her. No, dear, it wouldn’t
be fair—no fun for you. But, oh, isn’t the
world a horrible niace! Still, he knows my
telephone number.”
JAMES JAMES.
The Drama Some Women Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
s.s. Tahitian lurched and leapt in
the storm. Two hours before the
wireless had begun to hum and
crackle with an urgency which was a prepara-
tion. for the news that was shortly circulated.
The s.s. Honolulu, somewhere out in the
same heavy tumult through which the
Tahitian was now making what speed she
could to her aid, was in trouble, and had sent
out the SOS. Lunch was just over when the
first message came. Now it became known
that the two vessels were very near, but that
the position on the Honolulu had grown des-
perate. For some minutes past the messages
had ceased altogether.
Passengers, leaving the saloons, braved the
storm which cut their faces and deluged their
clothes. Even the taciturn Clissold, nerv-
ously shy and self-centred usually, stood
with the others, showing their excitement.
He had moved forward to share in the
observation of one who with a quick exclama-
tion had pointed ahead. With a lurch more
sudden and violent than usual, the Tahitian
dipped its hard-buffeted head, and, with a
roar, a spume-covered, broken, green wave
went swirling past, pouring avalanches of
water over the bows. Whilst the Tahitian’s
nose still quivered in the cauldron, a further
peak of the mountain of water into which
it had plunged came rushing down upon it
and broke in snarling rage over the forepart.
The Tahitian shuddered under the impact,
but there was another, a grating shock, that
turned hearts sick with a sense of disaster.
As the bows began to lift above the water,
what had happened became evident. At the
side of the well-deck was piled a mass of
wreckage, partly the wreck of the bulwarks,
but chiefly what seemed to be a light cylinder
raft, twisted and tangled into the vessel’s
broken side. In the turmoil of waters still
filling the well-deck rolled the body of a
man. He had been delivered out of the
wilderness of tossing seas on a raft.
Clissold was foremost in the crowd which
looaed down as seamen sprang into the well-
deck to stay and lift the drifting body. “By
God, he lives!” the man at his shoulder
shouted; and Clissold himself shouted as the
light shone on the grey, wet face. But it
was a cry of terror —“Trevor!”
Clissold clawed and pushed his way through
the passengers jambed behind him, and shot
into his cabin. He was snaking as with an
ague. “Trevor ! Trevor ! My God, Trevor !”
he cried huskily.
It was some time before, with regained
courage, lie told himself that Trevor must
be dead, or surely he must die after the
buffeting the sea had given him. Yet he
could not convince himself. He hugged his
cabin until dinner-time; then, almost fur-
tively, he stole out.
They all were talking about the wonderful
escape from death of a man who in the
midst of a raging ocean had been washed
upon the deck of the one vessel within scores
of miles. It was almost as marvellous that
one who had sustained such a buffeting
should live, and not only live, but so soon
be able to talk. They talked also of the lost
Honolulu, speculating whether there were
any other survivors.
Clissold left the table abruptly; and once
more behind his cabin door fought with
his fears, and failed to overcome them.
Fate was against him ! To avoid Trevor
and his vengeance he had left Sydney for
America in the Tahitian, following the
announcement in the Sydney papers of the
return of this man, his enemy. It seemed
like the drawing-in of the threads of a
tragic drama to its inevitable conclusion.
The very man he was fleeing from cast'at
him out of the sea! Whatever courage he
might have raised for an encounter was
shattered by the appalling significance of
that happening. Fate had determined to
throw his enemy upon him.
He remembered that at the time when he
eloped with Trevor’s wife he had laughed
at the idea of pursuit, or at any fear that
he could not face an encounter, if one became
necessary; yet fear had grown upon him,
Kate was a neurotic woman, full of drama
ah'd hysterics, and her fear of Trevor con-
veyed its contagion to him. Living in San
Francisco, well away from danger, she was
yet filled with terrified apprehension on his
behalf. At night when he proposed to go
out without her she wept hysterically, de-
claring a premonition that Trevor was com-
ing. Her terror wore upon him so that
when the Sydney papers told him that Trevor,
the artist, intended trying his hand in
America, he responded with shame-concealed
eagerness to her suggestion that they should
'leave San Francisco.
He did not personally know Trevor, and
had to take Kate’s word about him. That
word, even before they became anything to
one another, supported her subsequent fears.
It was her hints of almost savage ill-treat-
ment by the artist that, in the artist's absence
in another State impelled Clissold to make
love to the passionate and ill-used woman.
Then, when their intrigue had ripened, she
told him in tensely agonised tones that she
would kill herself if she had to return to
the old life. It was some conception ot the
brute Trevor was that induced him to suggest
their elopement.
Ileassurance came when Trevor, apparently
not seeking them, went through to New
York, where soon he made an artistic hit
sufficient to give his movements some interest
to the papers. Yet jyst when it seemed that
fear was unnecessary, he found it reawakened
with renewed force on learning that Trevor
was coming to their new town. The terror
of Kate in urging their removal stimulated
his own fear. lie had gone to New York, she
said, to make money with which to pursue
them relentlessly. So they moved on ; and
in a couple of months Trevor came again in
seeming pursuit to their new location. It
became apparent then that, though the
pursuit might be slow, it was relentless.
Clissold was glad to get rid of Kate when
at length she left him. His fear had grown
to terror; and the woman trammelled him
and increased his danger. They had had
bitter quarrels in which she told him lie was
a villain who had seduced her from a good
husband and ruined her life; she added,
gloatingly, that Trevor was a man who would
never forgive, and, whether she was with him
or not, sooner or later he would have his
revenge.
Finally Clissold returned to Sydney, where
he seemed to be left in peace, yet still so
sensitive to fear that sometimes a quiet
footfall would set his heart quivering. Heavy
drinking to find forgetfulness did not help
him; and doctors he consulted spoke of a
nervous breakdown. Then he learnt that
Trevor was returning to Sydney, and there-
after till lie stepped upon the deck of the
Tahitian was in the full torment of his fears.
And now the sea had brought to that
vessel the man he had boarded it to avoid.
Bolted in his cabin, he suffered agonies that
seemed worse than any before: his heart
missed its throb when the steward knocked
at the cabin-door. The' night was one long
nightmare.
In the morning, under the mask of sickness,
he still hugged his cabin, more reluctant to
leave it the longer he stayed. The doctor
came to see him later, breezily insistent that
fresh air was wanted; and. later, when lunch-
time had come and he had not appeared,
looked in again. Shamed to confess his terror,
he then dressed and lunched, forcing himself
to eat, or appear to eat, in a saloon already
almost emptied. And then the doctor, kindly
insistent, again urged him to the deck and
got him there. Ashamed to retreat, he stole
furtively about the least frequented part,
shrinking from observation. Suddenly he
stared. Trevor was talking with the chief
officer not a dozen paces from him.
Trevor turned and looked at him curiously,
and made some remark to the officer. If he had
heard the words they used he could not have
been more certain of what passed. Trevor,
of course, to be sure of him, had asked his
name. Suddenly, his limbs unstiffened, he
dashed behind a deck-house, his heart as if
to burst, and did not stop until he reached
his cabin, where he flung himself, quivering,
on his bed.
The doctor came and bullied him. He got rid
of this attention by promising that he would
go on deck in the evening ; the light seemed to
make his head ache, he explained. And
when night came the cabin seemed so stifling
that, apart from the shame of the doctor
finding him there with his promise unful-
filled, he felt he must leave it. He crept
stealthily to the deck. There, finding a quiet
spot, he leaned against the rail, looking into
the phosphorescence of the waters rushing
along the vessel’s side, seeking peace to the
tumult of his mind.
Thus standing he felt the presence of
someone behind him, and. with a half-glance,
saw it jvas Trevor. Trevor seemed to be
looking away from him, but in that he only
saw his enemy’s cunning. A stride, a swift
grip of his ankles and a lift upward and
over, and he might easily have been sent
spinning into the water, with no aid pos-
sible, and no one ever to know the manner
of his ending.
He moved away, unostentatiously, until he
had put space between himself and Trevor,
and then he ran. Near the auxiliary steer-
ing wheel-house he found a corner, and
crouched down in shadow behind a wooden
tub. lie was too terrified to look out when
he heard the soft pad of a foot near; but
he knew it must be Trevor’s!
As he lay there, palpitating with his fears,
one idea that had peace in it came to him
with a strange glimpse of happiness. Why,
after all, had he not waited for Trevor to
do his worst?
At last he looked out cautiously. There
was no one about. He crept to the rail, and
looked down into the darkly-gleaming w T ater,
which seemed to offer him peace. It beck-
oned him seductively, lovingly.
By this time Trevor and the chief officer,
whose friendship had ripened amazingly,
had reached the sixth whisky and heart con-
fidences in the officer’s cabin.
“It w r as queer how that man looked at
you this morning,” said the host. “It looked
as though he recognised you—and seemed
frightened of you !”
Trevor laughed.
“I don’t know him ; anyway, I don’t know
of any man who need be frightened of me,”
he said carelessly. “Unless, of course, the
man who ran away with my wife thinks he
ought to be. As a matter of fact, she tricked
me into marrying her by play-acting—talk
about dying for my love and killing herself
if she lost me, and all that drama stuff—
as false and worthless as she was herself.
It was only when I was rid of her I started
to get on. The chap who took her has my
sympathy. I was so relieved I didn’t trouble
to find out who he was. Anyway, he deserves
my best thanks—let’s drink his health !”
The soda splashed into the glasses just
about the time there was another splash
at the stern of the Tahitian, and the waters
of forgetfulness closed over the nerve-wracked
victim of the drama some women love.
HAMER.


r '
WA
W
» « 2*5
. %
:•; if
if AS
& **&T -"%. ifS
fi
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest efii-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
* CHURCH, Brisbane.
atl ** rston Street. Wellington.
Queen Street. Melb
BITUMASTIC
1 1 enamels
Un
Quailed a$ a protection against Rust.
E
xtr aordinary properties of Elasticity and
e nacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented. /
| SOLE AGENTS—
• WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
less on
Cu/ cirSaws
C^ul a 8 ' e s 0n “ G ‘° be ''
dnv Li aWs are un '
p> SS re 'BK P* need
to t » erun s> as keen
y C 8 he of
$ in Aus?J°v e ’’ brand saws
SM dllt y the liigh-
ril, ‘ t(> H ! Cast Sheffield
>Cjk and th? ar « cut very
>?• t to so teti-
kiS re of Sm ? oth cst run-
' t circular saw
wr quotations.
a*
oAj
. *- a B'le & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
s &ociate i
5. Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.. Sheffield.
•.., 1 alser * of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street
••• 343-348 Swanston Street
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
•• John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
••• Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
•••• R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
ew %2 imgtQlL
gating Rifle
JO
Sll ots
25
As
£5
Calibres
♦25*20 and *32 W. C- F«
MODERN in every detail,
this latest Remington is ef-
fective for medium sized game
at ranges up to 300 yards.
Remington Hi-Speed cart-
ridges are highest in velocity
and energy, lowest in trajec-
tory.
Cal. Bullet Wgt Veloc. Energy
.25-20 60 2200 645
.32 80 2000 710
GTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
* D. BRYANT, Representative I
* O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
SATISFACTION
with oneself —the knowledge that you have
succeeded where perhaps others have failed—
such satisfaction is good. A bright optimistic
temperament and calm mental poise fit an
individual for doing his or her best. Such a
sound, healthy state of mind is rendered
difficult, if not impossible, When a person is
troubled with digestive disturbances. Tired-
ness, that languid, heavy feeling, is the result
of stomach, bowel and liver irregularities. A
few doses of Beecham’s Pills, however, will
regulate the organs to healthy activity.
A
fl
a
r*
ri
m
t
r*
/S
J.
a
j
u
a
a
j
j
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Shoot to kill with
ELEY &. KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOB
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
WOLFFS
m
vr
ifC
pen
0
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN"* HB
r se ’c&tej/- / 7&uxf tin. &U C ~/%r6/
BRITISH
MADE
For
all engines
in
all climates
under
all conditions
there Is no sparking: plug: equal to a
LODGE
The name LODGE on a sparking;
plug is a definite guarantee of its
inherent high quality and efficiency.
Made in different models, and obtainable
from all accessory dealers, garages and
stores. State make of engine when buying .
Illustrated in standard moclel (03)
for nearly all engines screwed metric,
PRICE 5/6.
LODGE PI.UGS LTD.. RUGBY, ENGLAND.
m
ip
m
I


,
W'i",
t\
//i
/P
IP
jf/
I ft
if /
mi
%
ti#i
mk,
Mi
1
PS£\
►
H
PlfcS?
m
PIA ••,
m
M,
*
n
%
¥
/'"
r
ftyy
ISj/;f?S
'"'S
y'fZZvZ
/s/s/s
V
Ip V. ■ x * mW^-
*ae9^“*S',s*mf rrfi \
w
>//
'//A
\ m
w4M.
pp V.
% ll
IP
*T
&
Ml
//Mi
i; «|||
m
''/'"'/■Mzs/,
tf
//
'//X
Mi
M
IS?
Syr/'/////,
WM
ys/yS '//
,/tfp
m
m
Whii
m
k> l
tin
I t
//
J
%/Jtj!y,
S''///!!!/
m-
' ',' y
// y
V
%V
>SK
«25
' /// //
z <
PI
yyl
*fss
as
ff/
r
Si
0
//
z//i
'< c,
m
iff //
/M
in
€/
//
//
///
#
/r/
#/
//
//
V'/i
MUM
Then —Now —and in years to coP 1
e
Under most trying conditions all over the world,
Republic Trucks are outlasting every vehicle in their class.
This is no vain boast—the fact has been proved beyond
all question.
The explanation lies in the general engineering excellence
of the Republic and in the following Republic features:
RIGID ONE-BEAM REAR AXLE, built to carry body
and load weight, free from driving strain and tension.
LONG WIDE SPRING of special alloy steel,
give special protection to the truck mechanism and 1
EXTRA PULLING POWER, due to the arrange* 1 ** 1 *
size of the TRANSMISSION GEARS.
ikifl g
it
REMOVABLE FRONT CROSS MEMBER,
possible to take Continental Red Seal Engine f r °
chassis without disturbing cowl or dash. yef
EXTRA STRONG CHASSIS FRAME with big
load capacity. r\Js
The springs cannot slip. SPECIAL SPRING G
ensures this and minimises risk of broken springs-
N. S. WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
287 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land)
Creek and Adelaide
Brisbane.
Ltd.,
e Streets,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Republic Motor Truck Sales,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd., 47 King
Street, Perth.
TASMANIA.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
