

UNCON A
ALL
BRITISH
STRONG • SILENT • SMOOTH
GENUINE
BALATA
LINGONA
IS THE
/A
/A
In ni
Inr*
0
AIELTIM
LT ; l
A Full Range of Stocks is carried throughout Australia by the following Sole Agents:
S. Aus.: A. Noble & Son, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
Vic.: Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd., Victoria St., Richmond.
Tas.: Chas. Davis, Ltd., 60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.S.W.: James Munday & Co., 230 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Q’land: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Cr. Charlotte &. Edward Streets, Brisbane
West Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Murray Street, Perth.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2363.
Thursday, May 28, 1925,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


npHE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
I for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD,,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
O
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ISMMK
t ■ M rjawsßlu ikb
m
52
KSB
in
yj
MANGROVITE LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is manufactured in all grades ami sizes,
FOR ALL KINDS OF DRIVES.
It gives consistent high quality service where wear is
hardest, and its well-known capacity for hard work makes
it the most reliable for every industry.
Try it on your main drive.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co.. Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND; P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kaljmna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Toiler, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA ; W. k G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston k Hobart.
(ROSTRUM
TRADE HARR
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
»£l o
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longliu-st
5O York Street. Sydney.
The strongest and
most reliable self-
filling pen offered
at a low price • • .
The new Blackbird ” Self-
filler has a chased vulcanite
holder, a safety screw-cap, and
is fitted with a 14-ct. gold nib,
tipped with iridium ; supplied
in any style of point to suit
your individual requirements.
“Blackbird 8, 9/6 (postage extra)
Non-self-filling 7/6
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS
AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue Post Free
Mabie. Todd & Co.. Ltd., Swan House. 133 & 135,
Oxford St., London, W.l. and at Manchester;
Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Johannesburg. Barcelona.
Sydney, Wellington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative
Phipson & Co., Ltd., Broughton House,
ISI Clarence Street, Sydney.
ha oe
TOOO *. c
.0-o^l
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a-.m. and 2.15 p.m.
' Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). * Sydney Ferries, Limited.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinp- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious- diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
m
0
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
c.
D.
The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung. , .
The Lobe of o ns
of the Lungs.
For Goughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
Woman and History
Christianity took root, in the beginning,
almost solely in countries where feminine
influence was important. Mohammedanism,
as H. G. Wells has observed, is purely a
man’s religion, and the bloodless imperson-
ality of Buddha is foreign to femininity also;
but Christianity is moulded very near to her
heart. And where her influence was effec-
tive she seems to have been a determining
factor in bringing about its acceptance. At
any rate, it is significant that Christianity
was accepted in Europe and rejected in
Asia, the former country having, of the
two; a generally higher regard for women.
Being more gregarious than man, and en-
dowed Avitli the maternal instinct, woman
was inevitably attracted towards the reli-
gion of altruism and love and human frater-
nity. For her impulses are primarily “alter-
centric,” just as man’s are primarily egois-
tic. This js why woman’s place in history
has always seemed inferior to what it really
has been. Her influence has been primarily
on persons and only indirectly (though none
the less effectively) on ideas. Her contri-
butions to war and statecraft, to science and
philosophy, can in no way compare favor-
ably to man’s. Though she makes a better
showing in art and literature, she cannot
be said to equal him here either. Both the
world of large affairs, as in politics, and the
world of impersonal ideas, as in philosophy,
have failed to attract her, mainly because in
such activities she loses the sense of intimate
personal contact for which she craves. In-
deed, such activities frequently result in
complete social isolation, as in the case of
many social reformers, and this isolation
Avould be quite intolerable to her. A woman
shunned by society is a woman morally, in-
tellectually and emotionally bankrupt, be-
cause she draws her strength from society;
hut a man in like case is sometimes strength-
ened, for he draws his strength from his
egoism.
It has been natural for man to imagine
himself as “the voice of God” and “the sword
of God” (which is why he has originated all
the notable religions), but not so natural
for woman. Undoubtedly pride is the basis of
the majority of man’s most admirable actions,
while love is woman’s most valuable incen-
tive. “It’s wonderful how fine men can be to
the wives they don’t love,” Wells makes one
of his heroines say bitterly, thereby subtly
suggesting the fundamental difference be-
tAveen the two viewpoints. Man is liable
to deal more justly, more tolerantly and more
honestly towards his fellows because of his
greater egoism. His greater pride engenders
greater indifference towards persons, and
enables him to deal equitably Avith those at
least who do not clash too badly with his
designs and desires. But woman must like
or dislike, and therefore rarely appears as
steadfast morally as man. On the other
hand, the weakness of egoism is that it is
prone to sink into blind savagery, or soar
into the clouds of impersonal indifference,
unless stabilised by bonds of human affec-
tions. Man is more careless of life than
woman, and where he would say “Let us
go and kill someone,” she is usually satis-
lied with “Let us go and slander someone.”
Man desires independence. It pleases his
pride at times to have dependants, but he.
objects to being dependent on anyone.
Woman, on the other hand, desires to be
dependent on someone and to have someone
dependent on lier. And she has had her
Avay. With innumerable imperceptible and
perceptible threads, she has tied man to her.
Apart from sexual lure, she has cleverly
operated through his pride. She has admired
his feats in Avar (which at heart she always
hated), praised his prowess in this and that,
and so convinced him that she was a creature
of considerable discernment. She instigated
chivalry, and thereby delayed the complete
emancipation of her sex by many genera-
tions, but diminished the brutality of the
male very appreciably. Moreover, had she been
aware of the consequences of chivalry it is
doubtful if she would have acted differently,
for she has never been as interested in her
social and political emancipation as .man
has imagined, while she has been'profoundly
interested in domesticating the male. She
instituted paternal pride. A baby was quite
obviously a wonderful and entrancing thing
to her. and in time to him it was “my child.”
And “my house,” he thought AA r ith self-satis-
fied pleasure; but she whispered “our home.”
And “our home” it was, though the stupen-
dous, silent, unsung battles that were fought
to make it so, for sheer heroism and persist-
ence would put to shade all the glory that
war and politics can show. Intent on the
conservation and continuance of life, she
bound him to the family as protector, and
so set his feet on the path of civilisation.
Above all, she taught him something of her
love.
All this she has done amongst progressive
races at least. And that she was permitted
to do these things was the main reason why
they were progressive. In this connection a
comparison between the histories of Europe
and Asia during the past thousand years is
interesting. It has been held that the Euro-
pean’s intellectual capacity was in some way
superior to the Asiatic's, hut this theory is
scarcely borne out by historical facts. Asia
was cradling civilisation Avhen Europe was
sunk in savagery. China originated paper
and gunpowder, easily the two most import-
ant of early discoveries. Arabia evolved
mathematics, and these two countries, with
Persia, and. probably. India, passed through
neriods of culture superior to anything
Europe could then show. Moreover, the in-
tellectual .influence of Greece seemed at first
to stir a ferment rather in Asia and Africa
than elsewhere in Europe. Again, Asia
evblved all the notable religions, though
Christianity seems to have been an exotic
efflorescence even from the outset. It is im-
possible in human affairs to ascribe to a
disease any one cause, but the chief factor
in Asia’s decay is found in “the lowly status
of her women. Only the male mind found
expression, and hence, in the final issue, some
Asiatic races fell into sensual snyagery
end some into a vast fatalistic in differ cnee.
It is apparent that only a very limited social
system can be evolved unless both the masen
bne and feminine natures are woven inU
tlie structure.
T. JASPER.
An Epic of Australia
There is a Homeric simplicity about the
geography of YVestralia, with its flat land
surface and its gleaming beaches that
stretch for 2000 miles waiting for the sun
to climb down through a cloudless sky to
touch them into flame before it sinks into
an empty ocean. At a thousand points along
that coast the observer may imagine without
straining his fancy that he is looking at
a virgin sea and standing on an undiscovered
shore. There is an epic simplicity about
the weather, too. Out of the dark interior
springs every morning a light land-breeze;
over the sparkling sea horizon comes every
afternoon the failing breath of the south-
west Trades. It wus on the wings
of the same Trade wind which modern
city dwellers have nicknamed the “'Fremantle
doctor” that the first European voyagers
came running out of the blue on to a silent
coast. Startled, the look-out men shouted
their warning and the heavy Dutch ships
hauled their wind and stood north towards
Java.
The first-comers may have had the curiosity
to remain hove-to while a boat went ashore
to sec if this unexpected landfall gave pro-
mise of another rich and thickly-populated
India. But that portion of the coast was
burning hot and arid, and the. miserable
aborigines did not suggest the existence any-
where of Oriental sultanates, opulent but
feeble, and hordes of slaves who could be
driven or cajoled into doing the white man’s
bidding. For that reason rather than with
any idea of settlement the new discovery, was
spasmodically charted, and only the acci-
dental circumstance of shipwreck made white
men better acquainted with it for the next
200 years. One such circumstance was the
wreck of Pelsart’s flagship, which led to the
setting up on the Abrolhos Islands in 1629
of the first white Government in Australia.
That Government was no particular credit,
to Australia, being the creation of a blood-
thirsty maniac who massacred 125 men,
women and children to insure his reign, and
was ultimately deposed, tortured and hanged,
along with 45 members of his court, by the
Dutch authorities; but the stark awfulness
of the tragedy and the lonely stage on which
it was performed will always give it a
romantic interest to students of Australian
history.
The first white colonists of Australia
were two of the temporary monarch’s in-
fatuated follow’ers who were marooned for
their sins on the mainland near Champion
Bay. They wandered off into the great
silence, leaving a trace perhaps of fair hair
and changed customs in some of the native
tribes.
In 1622 an English ship was flung up and
97 men lost on the forbidding coast, and in
1649 68 Dutchmen, survivors from a wrecked
treasure-ship, vanished without spoor in the
interior. Then came Dampier, that intelli-
gent buccaneer, and scientific observation
began to take the place of prejudice and grisly
rumor.
The history of the first 50 years of British
settlement is a long record of hopeless
struggle against overwhelming odds. Man
was a pygmy in the face of all that vastness
of land, and he deliberately handicapped him-
self with his own crazy laws. Areas of a
million acres were sold to settlers in a
continuous block, and the entire country
for scores of miles around new townships
was found by immigrants to have been ear-
marked by absentees before their arrival. In
1845, 16 years after the founding, the mother
country was still feeding her offspring, there
was no money circulating, immigration had
ceased, emigration had begun, property was
almost valueless, and there was £7 6s. sd.
in the treasury. The settlers still clustered
for company about the Swan River, and
the vast hinterland brooded around them
virtually unknown. In 1850 the colony,
which had been founded on the basis of
free settlement, of its own volition induced
the Home authorities to make it a penal
establishment.
For 36 years convicts built bridges, roads
and' public buildings—their curious brick-
work is still one of the distinguishing features
of Westralian architecture—and the colonists
prospered by their labor. In fact, they
learnt to rely so much upon it that when
pressure from the Eastern States forced the
cessation of the System, the Governor was
authorised by the Legislative Council to
spend money in importing Chinese and
Javanese coolies. In 1890 the population
was only 46,000, more than half of whom
were huddled in the towns. The rest -were
so thinly scattered that the miserable rem-
nants of the blacks were still an - actual
menace. Then the land gave up its’ secret.
The ghost of Jacob d’Edel, who in 1619
wrote of W.A. that it “might not unlikely
prove to be goldbearing, a point which. may
be cleared up in time,” must have ground
his teeth when he goff the news in Hades.
The effect upon the State, now a self-
governing community, was instantaneous,
m three years after the discovery of the
Golden Mile the population doubled. In
1899 51 million pounds worth of gold was
exported from the country that the treasure-
seeking ships of all the nations had passed
by in scorn. The production has since de-
clined ; but wool, wheat and other things
have taken its place to such an extent that
in 1923-24, out of a total export of 14
million pounds, only two millions represented
the metal which had put the State, after half
a century of stagnation, on its prosperous
feet.
Westralia’s simple story has an epic sweep
about it, that, viewed at the distance of a
thousand years or so, may even appear
grand and romantic. When our Homer
eventually puts in an appearance it will
probably be the Sunset State that will
inspire him, and in Western Australia,
(Continued on page S.)


k
nee
Service and Comfort Assured in Men’s Overcoats
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Wishing to acquire much in Overcoat
quality and comfort—while spending
economically—the man who shops wisely
will consult Anthony Horderns’, knowing
that he will find there a splendid variety
of the right type of garments. And he
will find the prices remarkably low.
• V
1
1
POST YOUR ORDER if a personal visit
is inconvenient. All Mail Orders receive
the prompt attention of our expert Mail
Order Staff.
Si
Eh
kM
wte'
J'-xW:
m:<
wym'i'i
ill
•XvX-X'X
fvXXW?
HI
11
m
mm m
¥Jm* . afi ofr
:-^A
i
nm
m?& mi
K i
fM ;;
.‘,l > -jj
SSi v -
jj# a| %
mm
■ u
■:
Wmk
WmMmWM
m
m p
iM
t.:-2
* - i
iiiiiiii
We Pav the Carriage on Men’s Wear
in N.S.’W., and to the nearest Inter-
state Port.
The “Hordernia” All-Wool
Australian Tweed Sac Suit
Newest designs in Grey and Brown
effects. Coat has two-button front,
outside breast pocket, centre seam,
no vent.
Vest has medium opening, four
pockets.
Trousers have side and hip pockets,
plain or cuff bottoms (as
illustrated at left). PRICE
59/6
Other Prices:
70/-, 85/-, 95/-, 110/-
The Raglan Overcoat.
Designed with easy fitting, slip-on
shoulders, patch or vertical pockets,
strap or turned-back cuffs, centre
seam and vent, lined foreparts (as
illustrated at left).
All-Wool Australian Tweeds, dark
shades, in Brown or Grey mixtures.
Prices: 63/-, 65/-, 84/-, 95/-
English Tweeds, in Dark Effects—
-95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
Highest-grade English and Scotch
Tweeds—
Prices: 147/-, 168/-, 189/-
Fashionable Overcoats.
The Raglan Rainproof Overcoat.—
Unbelted style (as illustrated at
right) is a commendable style for all
occasions.
This popular garment ensures per-
fection of comfort, and is designed
with easy slip-on shoulders, but-
toned to neck or step collar; patch
or vertical pockets, strap or turn-
back cuffs, centre seam or vent,
lined with check. In
Fawn Gabardine. PRICE
105;-
Macintosh Coats.
Macintosh Coats, in Fawn Parramatta Cloth,
designed with Raglan shoulders, convertible
collar, sewn seams throughout, vertical pockets
(as illustrated above).
In Heavyweight, without belt—
Prices 67/6, 80/-
In Heavyweight, with belt—
Prices 70/-, 84 -
In Lightweight, without belt—
Prices 32/6, 57/6
vs
k
•iV
Ml,
f I fifcv
325
V_r
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


CITROEN - - AGENTS:
N.S.W.—Salmon’s Motors, 143 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney,
W.A.—Gilbert s, Ltd., 896 Hay Street,
Perth.
Vic.—Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., 1 14-122
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
S.A.—Maughan, Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Q land—Brisbane Equipment Co., 45 3
Ann Street, Brisbane.
Tas.—Mohr, James & Robertson Pty.,
Ltd., 29 Cameron Street, Laun-
ceston, Tas.
N.Z.—James Tombs & Co., Ltd., Albert
Street, Auckland, N.Z.
$
fajt
C'Q
I
*
ft
to
Pfs
$
f/
0
m
f)
fa
&
9
a
UNIVERSAL ACCEPTANCE
CITROEN
“The World’s Economy Car
has made possible the phenomenal growth of
Citroen production from:—
60 CARS PER DAY IN 1919
to 500 CARS PER DAY IN 1925
a growth unequalled by any other motor-car manufacturer.
99
Factory Distributors:—W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


7m
ii
V
ii
w
ss
la
\):
4/
&
HI
=HS
tP
Pleasing Contrasts
in
HoleproofHosierg
Mm for - Vhen, women JT J[and chiloren-^
You are offered the most delightful choice of full-
fashioned and semi-fashioned styles in all new shades.
In every pair of HOLEPROOF Hosiery you will
find flawless perfection of texture —richness, lustre
—snug-smooth fit.
Sold only in retail stores.
If not available locally write direct to
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
so YORK siTTJKF.T. SYDXEi
a History, from its Discovery to the
Inauguration of the Commonwealth (Uxtoru
Uni. Press), J. S. Battye, Uitt. !>.. the
Public Librarian of Perth, lias painstakingly
collected all the necessary materials.
M. G. S.
Verlaine
When Verlaine was borne to his grave,
just over 28 years since, there was a deal
of adventitious noise both in the troop ot
mourners and in the lines of spectators who
had come, some to give him a send-off in
their wise, some to see the fun. 1 speak, 1
hasten to say, in parable; the younger school
of poetry was burying its chosen tinmen;
the established school of criticism was hold-
ing high holiday; and the journals were
making good copy out of it all. Doumic s
article in the Revue des deux Mondes and
the retort of Gustave Kahn remain, for the
reader who remembers it all, as the final
utterances on either side. Since then, in
accordance with that curious law that works
with such regularity in French literary mat-
ters (at intervals generally of a quarter ot
a century), Verlaine lias been quietly
accepted, and opinion—opinion once more
imposed upon youth, and sure again to be
reversed —lias fixed upon “Sagesse ’ as Ins
chief work. Thereby Verlaine, for the
foreigner, has lapsed into lc domavne public.
Verlaine matured early. From that Par-
nassian school which lie was later to help
to subvert he got, while yet quite young, a
finished technique. It was a just thing to
say that Baudelaire, in all his life, never
acquired such a mastery over the difficult
art of French poetical expression as this
disciple of his showed in his twenty-third
year. It is important to remember this ; for
long after the poet in Verlaine was dead,
and long after he had exhausted the literary
sayings which a fortunate chance enabled
him to pile up, the Parnassian that lie was
furnished an Indian summer —of verse, if
not of poetry.
Verlaine, then, maturing early, found him-
self early, found in himself a quality dis-
tinct from the dominant Parnassian charac-
teristic, even though, as said, it was from
the Parnasse. and through leafy byways
leading out of the Parnasse, that he came to
light upon it. That quality is double, and,
in its doubleness, appears already in that
mediating period which I have called the
leafy byways—“ Scenes after Watteau,” as
I think we should call his “Fetes galantes”
—before it comes on us, for the first time
full, in his “Lieder ohne Worte,” which
again is for me the only rendering of his
“Romances sans paroles.” (Need I say that
the title “Songs without Words” is not
merely a misapplied thing in the case of Men-
delssohn, but bars the way to all and any
understanding of his attempt and achieve-
ment?) In that title Verlaine reveals him-
self as already conscious of one aspect of
his special poetic quality. It is a pet theory
of mine—more than that, it is a fact—that
every poet worth his salt not only reveals
his own secret, but somewhere infallibly
gives us the formula of his own poetic quid-
dity and utterance. But Verlaine went,
beyond. The Parnassian in him came
put as a theorician, and so, 10 years
after the “Lieder ohne Worte,” he issued his
“Art of Poetry,” with its famous promulga-
tion of the doctrine of la nuance, the fine
shade, the demi-teinte. And be it further
observed that Verlaine was just then so
tyrannical, so downright so dogmatic—in
short, such another Boileau —that he would
not allow Victor Hugo any value outside the
poetry of the demi-teintes. What is this
famous nuance? Not color, but the fine
shade. Not direct emotion, which knows,
feels, or at least guesses its object; but the
mixed mood, a hushed conflict of mere feel-
ings, which knows not itself and is a sweet
annoy to the mind which it for the moment
possesses.
Now, two things arc here to be noticed.
This poetic mood —once thought the only poetic
mood —has its ancestry. Heinrich Heine,'
whom of course Verlaine had absorbed (the
cross-currents of European literature since
1830 are incalculable), had already used and
abused it. But where Heine nearly always
falls flat Verlaine has converted the sugges-
tion into a theme of poetry, has found in it
the prompting towards a new poetry, which
he himself helped to achieve, though his
achievement was on a lower plane. To
lighten poetry, to free it from matter (“sub-
ject” or “description”), to refine it to an
essence —that was the effort of the school
that hailed Verlaine as its liberator from the
prison of the Parnasse. “C hoses crepuscu-
laires —twilight things”—it runs back to his
Watteau period and that a soir equivoque
d’automne.”
The other aspect of his quality is a sim-
plicity, not classic, nor artless, nor yet
elemental, but happily reminiscent of the
French folk song, to which Gerard de Nerval
had directed attention.
Such, then, was Verlaine’s distinct poetic
quality. Beyond that we must not seek:
he had not, like his astounding friend Rim-
baud, a new vision of the world which must
express itself in new invention of imagery
and style. He was not an innovator or. a
rebel: he developed in and through the tra-
dition, though here and there, no doubt, he
let predilection, even whim, carry him into
oddness and a winsome preciosity.
I said that a fortunate chance enabled
him to amass his literary savings and that on
them he largely lived for 10 years of publica-
tion. That chance was his imprisonment in
1874: for from his marriage and the booklet
of courtship verses down through the years
of the Rimbaud episode there is nothing to
show but the slender and unequal sheaf of
the “Romances,” published after his sentence.
Having found himself. Verlaine ran the risk,
by reason of his life of vagabondage, of losing
himself, or at least of failing to garner his
harvest. Gaol saved him. The mass of
verse he wrote there bore, in manuscript, the
title “In Prison Cell” —“ Cellulairenvenf ’ he
called it, by a quaint adverbial term, like
those affected by Huysmans—and under that
he proposed to publish it as it stood. But
during his prolonged retirement after his re-
lease, while he kept on producing more verse
of varying quality, much of it imitation and
repetition of the prison-poetry, the idea
seems to have occurred to him that the older
and newer work combined might be separated
out into distinct categories, and thus furnish
forth a series of volumes. Tho first of these
to appear after six years’ silence vas
"Sagesse.” This volume easily betrays its
composition. The strength of the book re-
sides in those poems which have directly
to do with Verlaine’s realisation ot jus
wasted youth, his sense of degradation, his
remorse, penitence, and return to the Church.
With these, to till out the volume, go a num-
ber of occasional pieces. The central piece
is a dialogue between God and_ the soul,
which is considered one of \ erlaine s finest
poems; and of which 1 confess having pub-
lished, in the days when .1 had not. learnt to
he quite honest, some words of perfunctory
praise. I can now see through it. Verlaine
had at hand Mgr. Gaume’s “Catechism ot
Perseverance” or some manual ot devotion a
meditations, and having disposed the material
thence procured in the order of a dialogue,
proceeded next to cast that in the form ot a
sonnet-series. Detestable it is and remains.
What a contrast is Coventry Patmore, busied
just at the same time in the direct study ot
Aquinas, and then casting, not dogma, but
the corollaries of dogma in a metrical form
all his own !
The last of Verlaine’s important works is
“Parallidement,” the title of which implies a
theory just previously expressed by Verlaine
that as an artist he had a right to take as
his theme homo duplex —on the one side the
convinced believer and penitent, on the other
the natural man without grace. The pro-
gramme', somewhat grotesquely simple and
not, after all. very promising as an inspira-
tion, occupied Verlaine during his last period.
But he had used up all his earlier material
and he had exhausted the vein of his true
poetic quality. Whatever good verse he
writes henceforth is a reversion to his first
pre-Verlaine period, hut there is not too much
of it. The mediocre outweighs it and there
is much that is in execrable taste. As V er-
laine told a young confidant, he no longer
found any fun in writing verse. The Ver-
laine whom they bore to the grave on the
tenth of January, 1896, had survived the poet
by some seven years.
CHRIS. BRENNAN.
“The Gloomy Dean”
Mankind seldom loves its prophets. It
usually stones them. For that reason the
present Dean of St. Paul’s is a man more
respected than loved. lake Jeremiah, he
has raised his voice in challenge in his own
generation. He has hung down the gauntlet
before the present social order, and is pre-
pared to accept the consequences. Most
people are loath to abandon their cherished
ideas, and hate to be roused from their warm
complacency. But “any dead dog can boat
with the stream,” and Dean Inge has decided
to swim against it.
He would look more at home in a cowl,
poring over parchments, than he looks in
knee-breeches, lecturing on Eugenics. Had
he lived 2000 years ago, he would have
written the book of Ecclesiastes. The. temper
of his mind, like that of Kolieleth,. is criti-
cally agnostic. A deep-rooted scepticism re-
garding the vaunted improvement of the
human race runs through all his social and
economic discourses. To him the Earth is a
doomed ship, and the bulk of the human
cargo is, after all, scarcely worth the trouble
of saving. He does not believe in miracles,
and much of the theological cant and suiter-
natural “dope” which finds a prominen*
place in the present-day Church he regards
as a definite hindrance to religion. \et he
is not a misanthrope in the sense Flaubert
was. Life to him does not seem like the
foetid exhalations which rise through a
scullery grating. Bather In' looks upon life
with mingled feelings of disgust and pity,
and upon the affairs of men with cold and
mortifying scrutiny. We may call him pessi-
mistic'; but his lucid mind has never been
beguiled with soothing sophistries, lie has
never purred on the hearthrug of sell-satisfac-
tion. His outlook is stern. In the acquisi-
tion of scholastic attainment he subjected
himself to a rigorous discipline, and at the
age of 60, looking back over the history
of mankind and having weighed all things,
he is not sure that wisdom will ever triumph
over folly; and he has more than hinted that
life may be meaningless, after all.
Dean Inge belongs to a family of divines
and scholars. He himself passed through
Eton, and held a position at Oxford. He
is the author of numerous ecclesiastical
works, and a valuable book on the philosophy
of Plotinus. He gained his greatest audi-
ence, however, by the publication of his two
volumes of “Outspoken Essays,” dealing with
Science. Religion and Politics, which un-
doubtedly established him in the front rank
of English thinkers of the present day. He
is a man who knows no fear; intellectual
honesty has been the guiding principle of
his life. Other men may coquet with com-
promise or play with the soap-bubbles of
illusion ; he cares only for truth. This he
imagines he finds, not at the bottom of a
well, but in the cold heights of a rarefied
intellectual atmosphere—so cold at times that
his philosophy freezes the hearts of men.
He fully realises the present impotence of
organised religion, and with rare courage
proclaims that “Cnristians are the worst
enemies of Christianity.” He is scornful
of those who bow to the “time-honored pre-
tensions of priestcraft.” He has little
faith in his brothers of the cloth. They have
outlived their usefulness, he declares, and
exist among "the irrational survivals of our
social order.” He can tolerate neither “the
meretricious gaudiness of the Church of
Borne” nor “the squalid fanatic
conventicles.” And liis indictment of the
Established Church is as complete.
He tackles politics in the same thorough-
going fashion, seeing in democracy a form of
government only less bad than any other.
To him it appears a disintegrating force.
What health is there in a State, he asks,
where one section imposes the taxes and
another class pays the doles? The British
Labor policy appears to him only as a “com-
prehensive assortment of economic heresies.”
An aloofness from petty things—slippery in-
trigues, paltry gains and the worship of
success —deepens an abiding melancholy
which tinges his whole outlook. He may
admire certain men personally; he loathes
(i,., crowd. In “herd morality” he will
acknowledge no good thing. He thiuks the
r-'ivi-nt of another Dark Age not improbable.
creel>x under a sinister shadow, war
being its greatest dysgenic factor and patri-
otism a variation of “moral lunacy.” Add
to these opinions one last parting shot —
“the myth of progress is our form of apoca-
lyptism.” and the picture is one of complete
disillusionment. "The worldly hope men set
their hearts upon” has turned to ashes.
Dean Inge always wants to peer inside the
cupboard ; and when he has found the skele-
ton he can see nothing else. He looks at
the radiant vision of man, but he thinks
always of "the bug, the louse and the spiro-
chacta pallida .” Thus he throws bombs
over the parapet of convention into the dug-
outs of our accepted beliefs. He snipes at
our established doctrines; the shades of
Malthas urging him on. He stirs up the
stagnant pool of our smug content. He does
all this quietly and logically, driving his argu-
ments home in progressive sequence. He has
no need to raise his voice. One cannot imagine
him in a hair shirt, crying in the wilderness
"Repent, repent, for the end is at hand.”
He tells us this as if it were a foregone
conclusion, attacking the hypocrisies of the
age with a cool intellectual detachment
acquired in the cloister. In his writings
there is no ecstasy and little tire; his
passion is the emotion of disgust. This is
perhaps his most serious defect; he claims
no visionary fervor and has no word of
comfort for the great crowd who have no
pleasures, yet sustain their existence by
joyless labor, gaining no respite until the
final oblivion. He has been called “the
Gloomy Dean,” because he refuses to indulge
in the “blasphemy of optimism,” because he
takes life seriously, and has an antiquated
respect for truth. I imagine that he seldom
smiles. He could no more write ribaldry on
the walls of the tabernacles than turn somer-
saults in Fleet-street. The boisterous banter
of Rabelais would sicken him.
Many years ago a distinguished prede-
cessor. Dean Donne, ordered his coffin and
shroud, and contemplated himself as a
corpse. He, too. was wont to look at the
obverse side of the picture, but he turned
his petulance into poetry. Dean Inge cannot
thus comfort himself. He may be wrong
or he may be like the wise man of Browning
whose verdict “outweighs all the fools.” At
all events, his writings are a wholesome
tonic in these post-war times of disquietude:
for he brings men to think of ultimate and
momentous things. And because he refuses
to hibernate among comforting compromises,
he remains “the gloomy Dean.”
REG S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
.. . . ... n . ,
bapho, by Alphonse Daudet (Collins). A cheap
reprint for the pocket. •
~ . , „ , _ . „ ... .
The Cross-cut, by Courtney Ryley Cooper (Collins).
A popular type of cinema novel in which sheriffs,
villains and the Blue Poppy mine in Colorado reel
off like the miles behind a racing motor.
The Owl Taxi, by Hubert Footner (Collins). From
the time he gets off the mark the author keeps
the reader panting after him in the sleuth hunt of
the usual wonderful detective.
... , r , in / r i
Why I am a Christian, by Frank Crane (John
Lane). It seems scarcely necessary to have written
a book to expand what the doctor, a popular Ameri-
can preacher, puts tersely in a foreword. “All the
religion I have I am using. I am carrying no
extra baggage. I am not loaded up with a lot
of beliefs that make no matter. What religion 1 have
is ion per cent, practical.
Kak, by Vilhjaimur Steffinsson and Violet Irwin
(Harrap). The lady is responsible foi the stoiy
;lll( i the explorer certifies to the authenticity of the
facts As J lar we can seej nobody certifies to
t)u . explorer. The hero is an Eskimo, and his adven-
ture with wolves, white bears, caribu, seals and so on
are the pabulum that youngsters delight to feed
upon. ,
Mischief , by Ben Travers (John Lane). Readers
Xoke'ry know' what' t/expect.
one posses ses more skill in skating over thm
j ce than Mr. Travers, and “Mischief” shows no
falling off in that respect. It is not a book for
the serious reader; but for those who can enjoy
a hearty laugh at audacious humor it fills the i ■
Etiquette Up to Date, by Constance Buueign
garner desired,” 1 says e [he’author,’and incident-
aj|y d i scugs a question which periodically crops up
j n our overcrowded trains, trams and ’buses,
She says diplomatically: “Let us leave it that it is
a kindly, chivalrous act on a gentleman’s part to
vacate his seat, and the lady should accept i as
g? ,35 &
sort> and in the end the diligent student may be
in some danger of becoming an insufferable prig,
j/,._ Pepper, Investigator, by Sir Basil Thomson
(John Castle). A detective stoiy; and if an ex-chief
of the English Criminal Investigation Department has
“ ot the material for such a ® f o
Peoper has none ot the characteristics ot hneuociv
u L o Pj; ies His hands were podgy, and the back of his
head « unusU al]y flat” ; finally “he ate and drank
not at all sparingly.” The one resemblance is a habit
of administering wisdom in homoeopathic doses. “If
tliere is an obvious clue to a mystery do not attempt
ta follow it,” says Pepper: it will lead you wrong.
“If one person only had a. motive for the crime, you
f ee l certain that he is innocent.” All of which
somewhat conflicts with the theory of Poe that folk
in their search for mystery almost invariably over-
look the obvious. Yet a capital story of its kind.
♦
“codger”- The cross-word craze has resulted in a
at fa]lins o ff in the demand for Action, according
|q |head-serang of London Municipal Library.
Broadcasting- is another adverse influence blamed by
b oo k se ii e ,s and publishers for their decreasing sales.
Whatever the cause, cheaper books are in sight in
Austra lia. Since the booksellers’ conference last
y ear j n Sydney arrangements have been made with
En „ lish publishers by which local traders are enabled
io re tail books at the overseas published prices,
which j s g oo d news for those old-fashioned folk who
gtiU prete r a good book to wrestling with cross-
word puzzles or listening to jazz music on gramo*
p ],ones
1
F. A. Malcolm writes: —
“C.8.M.” (R.P. 14/5/’25) has evidently been read-
ing- J. A. Steuart’s recent book on Robert Louis
Stevenson, and reiterates the error therein published
relative to the Nerli portrait of R.L.S. “C.8.M.”
states “Mr. Bremis (R.P. l/l/’25) may be inter-
ested to know that the portrait is now in the
National Portrait Gallery of Edinburgh.” Actually
~ , ~ . . r. nnsaossirm of
the Portrait is in Sydney and in the possession of
the writer This error of Steuart and G.JtJ.M.
1 , . ~ c _ T ., „ , , ~ „
was corrected in the Times Literaiy Supplement o
Feb. 12, 1925. The Nerli portrait was sold by
the artist to Angus and Robertson, some 25 years
a g o . It then passed into the possession of Professor
Anc i erson Stuart from whose widow I purchased
. h t , trait and the journal of the artist
. . * w t> t q kwh
containmsf the verses wiitten by R.L.b. about JNeui.
® ~n . nnc«PccinD Tbo mVtnrp is a
These are still in my po es . . p ,
finished life-size portrait m oils, signed by tne
artist and sitter both, and is not to be confused
w jth the one in Scotland, which I believe to be
water-color, and much smaller, reproduced as a
sp i eee to Mr. Steuart’s second volume,
‘


A
S.
r
&
£5OO
from an
acre of/
trees /
A return of £5OO for an investment of £25 is an
opportunity you cannot afford to let pass. It is an
opportunity made possible by the depiction of the
timber resources ©f the world. Re-afforestation
is being carried out everywhere. The demand for
trees is increasing, the supply diminishing. Afforesta-
tion policies are obviously and vitally necessary.
The timber now being planted will bring a huge
reward at maturity. Some of it can be yours.
2 51- down and 2/- a week!
That is what it amounts to. Anyone can afford such easy payments as these. No life insurance
could equal it for its wide profits and security. These bonds, easy to pay for, will provide
you with a splendid “nest-egg” in the future. A bond bought now will give your boy or girl
a start in life when coming of age.
BETTER THAN LIFE INSURANCE
£25 by terms over 4£ years, or £22 10s. for cash, will purchase you the yield of one acre (portion of a 50,000-acre tract being
planted) of scientifically-afforested pumiceous land on the Waikato River, New Zealand. The land also belongs to the
bondholder (Freehold) as partf of his purchase. The trees planted on that acre, in the first planting following your purchase,
will mature in about 20 years, when the profit should return you £5OO or more.
HOW TO BUY BONDS,
EITHER FOR CASH OF
TERMS.
HOW YOU ARE
PROTECTED FROM FIRE
AND OTHER RISKS.
DEATH BENEFIT CLAUSE.
SECURITY.
FINANCIAL RETURNS,
ETC.
SEND FOR FREE
BOOKLET.
POST THIS
COUPON TO-DAY.
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD., Agents,
N.Z PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Bulletin.)
Please send me your free booklet
on commercial afforestation.
Xante
Address
“There is money in trees!”
Send for free booklet, which contains full in-
formation you can make the future safe
with a bond or two.
NEW ZEALAND PERPETUAL
FORESTS LIMITED,
SMITH, WYLIE & CO. LTD.—Agents
N.S.W.: Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney,
Vic. .. . Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land.. Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
S.A.. . . Liberal Club Buildings, North Terrace, Adelaide,
W.A. . . 53 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.


Use a
Burroughs Calculator
§
4
m
r<r
m
Hf
&
and You Will Substitute
Burroughs
Machines
4*‘ Add
X Multiply
■» Subtract
•5* Divide
Accuracy for Errors
A Burroughs Calculator insures accuracy in figuring. You probably
have incoming invoices to check before remitting; outgoing invoices
to figure; sales to be dissected; costs to be determined; interest,
discounts, and profit percentages to be calculated. Think what it
would mean to you to have all such work done accurately—-with
a Burroughs Calculator.
Time-Saving for Time- Wasting
A Burroughs Calculator will also save you considerable time in
handling your calculations. The machine can do, and even check,
a problem much faster than such work can be done mentally. Its
many features enable operators to maintain high speed operation.
Ease for Drudgery
Another prime feature of a Burroughs Calculator is the ease with
which it will enable you to accomplish any form of calculation.
The machine eliminates the drudgery which is typical of the mental
and scratch-pad calculating. The machine is portable—weighs
only eleven pounds.
Profit for Loss
A Burroughs Calculator reduces the cost of figuring to a minimum.
The errors it prevents; the time it saves; the large volume of work
it handles; its low purchase price and low operating cost, are all
direct sources of profit.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK, LIMITED
Sydney, N. S. W.
Without obligation, I would like to
have a Burroughs Calculator demon-
strated on my own figure work.
Name
Business
Address
4132
A demonstration of the Burroughs Calculator on your own work will con-
vince you of its many advantages. Mail the coupon and we shall be pleased
to arrange for such demonstration without cost or obligation to you.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk, Limited
Challis House, Sydney.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - ROCKHAMPTON
BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
ADDING > BOOKKEEPING • CALCULATING AND DUPLEX MACHINES


On a great tract of 1125 acres in Michigan,
General Motors has reproduced the roads of
the world for experimental purposes. There it
has constructed samples of every sort of
roadway, grade and curve for tests of speed,
endurance, fuel consumption, hill-climbing,
acceleration, cooling, braking and riding
qualities. At right: One of the machines used
by General Motors for testing springs.
a
■i-
r\
wastes**
saC
aw-.
'^o--
V®
What makes motor car value?
5* Riding Comfort
xi MOTOR CAR should do more than
take you where you want to go. It
should take you in comfort, too.
So General Motors doubly assures
comfortable riding qualities in the cars
built by its manufacturing divisions.
For example: In its great Research
Laboratory, scientists are constantly
investigating the principles of spring
suspension, tire pressure, seat angle
and other factors involved in comfort-
able riding and operation. In addition,
General Motors has built samples of
every sort of road for purposes of test
And the findings of this research
and test, passed on to the manufac-
turing divisions, result in the continu-
ous improvement not only of riding
qualities but of many other things
which determine motor car value.
Further information regarding General Motors may be had by writing to General Motors
Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers, 160 Castlereagh St., Sydney; or General
Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Bourke & Russell Sts., Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
BUICK
OAKLAND
CADILLAC
OLDSMOBILE
CHEVROLET
GMC TRUCKS


r
Oi
1
Don’t Worry About Your
Skin Use Cuticura
Bathe the face freely, especially
at night, with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. If there are pimples, red-
ness or roughness smear them with
Cuticura Ointment before bathing.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15. 3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.
Try our new 1 Shaving Stick.
TRADE MARK
ffohn cfetounv
CASH’S
WOVEN
NAMES
Unrivalled
For Marking Linen
■Whether Personal or Household to Ensure
mlividuality. Any Name woven in aCamlnie
Tape in Fast Colour.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
i! ITI mi an rrn i l l l vry-i—;i i. 1 1 n i;. 'j ■■ ■' ' -7T,
Actual Size Name Style No. 6
Invaluable for the Household, Traveller
or School Outfit.
Sold by All Best Drapers.
Prices: 12dz, 7/6; 6dz. 5/-; 3dz. 3/6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH LTD
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
oa u
A Better Sweeper
Made to Do More Work
and to Last Longer
Carpet Sweepers may look the same—
but they differ greatly. Not only in
method of operation, but in strength
and durability.
The Bissell is radically different from
any other, because it alone has the
famous “Cyco” Ball Bearings which
always bring the brush in correct
contact with rug or carpet, giving
longer wear, more thorough sweep-
ing, smoother operation.
With the Bissell you can do your
sweeping in half the time and do it
better. No aching arms or weary back,
no clouds of dust, or wear and tear on
carpets or rugs.
More Bissells sweep today than all
other makes combined the world
over. Only a production of hundreds
of thousands yearly could make its
quality possible at the price, which is
less per year of service than any
other sweeper.
Bissell Toy Sweepers at trifling cost, delight
little girls and teach tidiness. Sold by the
leading merchants everywhere. Write for
booklet.
Bissell
CARPET SWEEPER CO.. GRAND RAPIDS. MICH., U.S.A.
Carpet Sweepers
Empties
With a
Thumb
Pressure
ts2B~*
n
~ ' ", ~ x i ''"ZZrJ/"',. 'Sd
AH! THE DECCA
DECCA
BUTTONS PTT. LTD.,
290-2 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Sydney, Ballarat, Bendigo & Geelong.
Uncle Tobys
Oats 4 Plates/firs
“lllaaufaeturecL b
Clifford love & Co. Ltd, gqdnfiif
Host Holbrook Sai/s~
1
“Worcestershire Sauce, like
wine, should be well matured.
I mature my sauce in vats
of English oak.
Ah! It is an appetising brew.”
ROOKS
I
n
_L
£
rJE
$
1
H
K.
&
R
*
Made in Black, Tan,
Light Tan, DaikTan,
Nigger Brown, Red
Stain, Patent and
White.
“Oh! Yes, Madam, you need have no fear
about the colour. There’s a ‘Nugget’ shade for
every shoe made, you know. I will enclose a
tin of Dark Tan with the shoes. You will be
perfectly satisfied with the- result.”
BOOT POLISH
Ar
5 0,
to
v
Guaranteed & Kept
in order for two years free?
KKBaSi
c
4000 SATISFYING SHAVES
SJJYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
resentationCase
E5/-M Free
I
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sleep Sony.
Now shall Mary go to sleep.
Stars are shining on the wail;
One across the rail may peep
Saying: “Peter, John and Paul,
Andrew and Bartholomew,
See what sleepy eyes can do!”
They will peep and they will close,
Wake and peep and dose again,
Till, perhaps, the yellow rose
Murmurs at her window-pane:
“Michael, Raphael, Gabriel,
See the way her lashes fell!”
Velvet fringes of a dream.
Fall and close on Mary's eyes!
There’s a dewdrop with a gleam
On the peachrtree old and wise,
Whispering: “Puck and Mab are here;
All the road of sleep is clear!”
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
Dawning.
It wakes a gentle light that sweeps
Where soft, wan stars are fading;
And jagged spurs and rugged steeps
On winding ranges rear their heaps,
Like armored hosts parading.
It strips the flimsy veil of night
From drowsing hill and hollow:
And, beaconing from height to height,
It seems to call —a voice of light—
“Oh, follow, follow, follow.”
It fleets in mighty bounds along
The grey-gum crested mountains.
And stirs the sleeping birds to song
Of shadows in a billabong
And gems on rocky fountains.
It wakens from their shallow; sleep
The furry bushland dwellers;
And down where tiny creatures creep
It ventures in to pry and peep
Along their cosy cellars.
Across the pale grey realm of God,
Its gleam increasing ever,
Tt banishes the stars that nod :
And then, its steeds with gold-dust shod,
It drives through stream and river.
And, listing to its magic cry—
“ Oh. follow, follow, follow"
The wide bush echoes to the sky
A thousand songs that mount on high
From waking hill and hollow.
n.s.w.
CECIL MANN.
Her Colors.
Autumn is queen of color in quiet change.
Her palette is an April sunset sky;
Gently she veils the mighty mountain range,
For little gardens saves her richest dye.
Gold and vermilion has she at her call;
Yea, from the rainbow seven fair handi-
maids;
But two dear colors she loves best of all:
Rose and soft purple in their blending
shades.
The clouded pink of apples crisp with frost,
And grey-blue grapes mysterious with
bloom,
Rich lasiandras pledging a princess lost
In shallow cups that spill out violet gloom.
Michaelmas daisies, curled convolvulus,
Clear, faint-flushed lilies, like Estella’s
face,
Asters, wide autumn stars ingenuous.
Are rayed with favors of her special grace.
Pink, from its palest to its deepest hue
That throbs like crimson and yet is not
red ;
Lilac, through darkening tints too warm for
blue —
These are most lovely in the aster-bed.
The colors of church windows—-angel, saint,
Making flower patterns on the marble floor
Where sunlight speaks through lettered case-
ments quaint
“In Memory” of those who speak no more.
The colors of old gems for hand and wrist
Broidering a sampler in the candle glow,
Flat garnet brooches, drops of amethysts
For which young ears were pierced—how
long ago?
Rose and soft purple—each alone most
sweet—
Together a minor third that swells and
grows
Till longings, dreams and memories all repeat
Over and over: purple and soft rose.
A glass of Burgundy held to the light.
Blue cherry-stains on pointed finger-tips,
Blue veins, scarce traced, on arms of flaw-
less w T hite.
And the wine-red of proud JEstella's lips—•
The colors of Estella ! Coldly fair.
From little feet that can so straightly
tread
To the chill moon-gold glinting in her hair.
She chose her garments from the aster-bed :
The dusky pink of asters for her dress,
Their rose-dark warmth translated into
silk
To wind about her body’s suppleness
And drape beneath smooth shoulders white
as milk,
The dusky blue of asters, gloaming skies
In the sheer velvet cloak that folds her
round
To match the nameless beauty of her eyes,
Where passion and denial both are found.
Estella. autumn star! Her eyes are stars
Whose rain-grey kindles to strange
amethyst-;
Her rose lips speak the word that love
debars—
Those same rose lips that kissed me when
I kissed !
VICTORIA,
ELSIE COLE


9
r V
‘ .
CU G.
"£ \
h'
>-X
«
fe. %
Tt
O
..
&
■*&k
>s
G
S..
c


The Bulletin
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40—No. 2363.
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 1925.
Price 6d.
THE SKELETON IN THE CUPBOARD.
HOUSE-AGENT LANG (showing prospective tenant over house): “Oh, why won’t the fool keep the door shut for a while?”


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tile White Man.”
I‘i in ted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 (leorpre Street. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
i.oNi)(*\ Office: Australia House, Strand, VV.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly l
12 months, £1 (Is. ; 6 months, 13s. 6d.: 3 months, Is
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6"
months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manna er.
Special Notleo.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper ere copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” comma
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
30(j0 words, are specialty acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
senditig MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona. Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London,
E. E. T. Hole, tiolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet
Street. London, E.C. ; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
Town, .Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and li2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West Jjlst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. California;
Wheatley News Co., 7Oft Market Street, San Francisco ;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.—A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.Ip
U.S.A. —./. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional l t oz. . Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., 14d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/OZ. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 1925.
THE DECAY OF ELECTIONS.
All the marks of public indifference which
characterised the last Commonwealth elec-
tion campaign in N. S. Wales have been re-
peated during the State affair now drawing
to a close. The result in December, 1922,
was an uncommonly small poll: 46.24 p.c.
voted in South Sydney, 47.28 in East Sydney.
47.68 in West Sydney and 48.42 in Parra-
matta, nine members being elected by less
than 30 p.c. of the persons enrolled; and
unless something occurs at the eleventh hour
to make people really angry with one side
or the other, the same thing will probably
happen on May 30. There are many reasons
for this immense apathy or ennui, which has
been found especially chilling by the 30 or
40 Labor politicians from other States who
have been giving the N. S. Wales public ill-
informed and unsolicited advice. For one
thing, there is a lack of that vigorous leader-
ship to which Australians 'responded bo
readily in the past. Leadership is a plant
that doesn't thrive in the unhealthy environ-
ment of machine politics, and the successors
of Parkes, Robertson, Reid, Barton and
Lyne are cubits below their stature. Again,
the contemporary politician is too often a
dull creature chosen for his willingness to
be subservient to some precious “executive”
or coterie of bosses, or for his skill, or that
of his friends, in faking ballots by various
criminal devices, such as impersonation, for-
gery and boxes with sliding-panels. And
proportional representation has contributed
to the weariness of State electors by estab-
lishing electorates too enormous to be repre-
sented in the personal and intimate fashion
of former days (Ryde, for instance, con-
tains nearly 90,(W0 electors, and in Murray
there are 42,000 adults spread over 16,230
square miles), and by presenting the spec-
tacle of members of the same party intri-
guing against one another for No. 1 votes
and blowing their own trumpets for all they
are worth.
But at the root of the prevailing apathy
and boredom is the conviction that there are
serious defects in each of the existing parties.
Neither Laborism nor Nationalism nor Cocky-
ism embodies the sentiments of the average
elector, who cannot vote for any of them
without some sacrifice of opinion and feel-
ing. Capable of ideals, enthusiasms, he
is offered only materialism, some of it of a
deadly complexion; that and dreary abuse
of the other side. Aware that Australia is'
going through a critical time, he sees its
larger interests subordinated to the interests,
real or fancied, of some clamorous minority.
The Country party, which started with gener-
ous aspirations, has developed an arid sec-
tionalism, expressed in selfish demands for
over-representation, and Freetrade in every-
thing except farm produce, which must be
heavily protected, of course. Its Federal
allies, while professing to stand for Austra-
lian nationalism, have interpreted it so
meanly as to let important Australian indus-
tries drift on the rocks, fearing that to bring
in adequate Protection would involve the
loss of votes. Yet the war which brought
“Nationalism” into being, or, rather, gave
it a local habitation and a name, should have
convinced them that the people could be de-
pended upon to make sacrifices, if sacrifices
were needed, in a worthy Australian cause.
And nothing could be more alien to the Aus-
tralian spirit than the Labor party, with
its imported objective and class-war, its
attempt to graft internationalism on to the
White Australia policy, its hostility to
national defence unless it can be combined
with and made subordinate to unemployed
relief, its evil selection-ballots and vote-
buying, mud-slinging politicians. Once in its
history this party really did touch the chords
of Australian sentiment and seem able and
willing to lead the nation on to a great des-
tiny. That was when it set about founding
the Commonwealth Bank and establishing a
national army and navy, and when the North-
ern Territory, then about to become a Com-
monwealth possession, loomed up as a mag-
nificent outlet for the energies of adventurous
youth. But the 'vision of “an enlightened
and self-reliant” Commonwealth fled during
the war years and has been succeeded by a
confused dream of something in the Soviet
line. Nowadays we find Mr. Willis, an
immigrant, president of the N. S. Wales
Labor party, and Mr. Garden, another immi-
grant, secretary of the N. S. Wales Trades
and Labor Council, each claiming to speak on
behalf of “the Movement,” disputing whether
the socialisation of industry and everything
else, sterile achievement of Orientalised Mus-
covites, should be brought about by “evolu-
tionary” or “revolutionary” methods. This
for and in a country which only a few
weeks ago commemorated its Anzac Day with
solemn pride!
* * * *
It is impossible for anyone who is hundred
per cent. Australian to get enthusiastic about
George Fuller, the N. S. Wales Nationalist
Premier. There is no imagination in the man
or the' policy of his party. Yet his Govern-
ment, though not guiltless of sins of commis-
sion and omission (the Ne Temere business
was its worst blunder), has been fairly effi-
cient as N. S. Wales Governments go. Its
financial record is miles better than that of
the Labor Government of which Lang was
a member—that Lang who is asking the
electors to make him Premier. In his first
year as Treasurer Lang added from 4d. to
Is. 3d. in the £ to the State income-tax,
making the lowest N. S. Wales rate Bd. in
the £ more than the highest Victorian rate:
and he was planning another whopping lot
of increases, having contrived to spend in
one year nearly half a million more than the
inflated revenue, when his Government was
kicked out. Fuller substantially reduced
the income-tax. Lang exacted huge sums by
means of dearer rail and tram fares, 16 2-5
p.c. higher railway goods-rates, racecourse-
admission and betting-ticket taxes, and a
shoal of oppressive stamp duties. Fuller
removed some of these imposts and reduced
others. And although the Nationalist Gov-
ernment has borrowed too much, as all
N. S. Wales Governments do, its aggre-
gate loan expenditure in 1923-24 was
little more than half that of the Labor
Government in 1920-21 and less than half
calculated per head (£3 10s. as against
£7 Os. Bd.) ; while the number of un-
employed at the end of its third year
(10,500 according to the Industrial Registrar)
is small compared with the 61,743 who re-
ported their condition to the census-taker
after a year of Lang’s government, 29,304
stating the cause as “scarcity of employment.”
Fuller has undertaken to lower the income-
tax again, and. having been reasonably pru-
dent, he will be in a position to do it if
returned. Lang has also mumbled some-
thing about “lightening the burden on shoul-
ders least able to bear it,” but if he becomes
Premier the taxpayers will have to sweat
for generations to pay the prodigious poli-
tical bribes he has offered —he is making
desperate attempts to buy the entire Gov-
ernment-employee vote. The Nationalist
mode of pre-selection is no better than it
should be, but no one has associated it with
hordes of hired impersonators, forged mem-
bership tickets and voting-papers or ballot-
boxes with sliding panels. Neither has any
Nationalist leader stated, as Dooley, the
Labor Premier, said of his crowd, that his
party organisation was controlled by “un-
couth crooks,” nor lias any representative
Ministerial organ declared, as the Worker
has done again and again, that the “uncouth
crooks” were Bayards and Philip Sidneys
compared with the clique which followed
them, and which is now in the ascendant.
Further. Fuller can be trusted to govern on
lines with which the people are familiar,
whereas no one can be certain that the weak
Lang would not be hurried into some ruinous
experiment by the wilder spirits behind
him. If Fuller gets back, the Government
railways will assuredly not be placed under
the control of Labor-union bosses, as was
decided upon at a recent Labor-union confer-
ence, nor will there be any monkeying with
the financial stability of the country by some
crazy attempt to “nationalise credits,” of
which Mr. Willis talks so much. In the
absence of a party capable of mobilising in
the service of the community the vast amount
of goodwill and Australian sentiment now
going to waste, Nationalism is certainly
more deserving of support than the Laborism
of to-day, which may be Communism or Tam-
mauyism to-morrow. Even a slow pace on
a. known and lighted track behind Fuller
and. it may be. Bruxner is preferable to
wild leaps in the dark behind Lang.
THE APPEAL TO N. S. WALES.
A confused situation surveyed:—
The extraordinary collection which has been scram-
bling for votes in N, S. AVales is a consequence (and
an indictment) of proportional representation. Other
queer results of the fool-system which has obtained
at the last two Mu State elections have been
9.69 p.c. of informal votes in 1920, 37,900 ex-
hausted votes in 1922, the loss of votes by fractions
in the progress of the count (278 were so lost in
1922), “alphabetical” voting (the A’s, B’s and C’s
fare uncommonly well, and there is a considerable
distribution of preferences in the order of pre-
cedence on the ballot-paper), and the transfer-value
difficulty which cropped up in Wammerawa, and
which may recur anywhere. And the setting-up of
huge multiple electorates in which members and
their opponents are known only by name to large
proportions of their constituents has undoubtedly
contributed to that apparent public apathy which
has been so conspicuous a feature of the present
election campaign, and which has got the whole
280 candidates guessing. Nationalists, Laborites and
Progressives are sending out optimistic reports, it
being part of the game. But in the uncertainty as
to how proportionalism will work, especially in five-
member divisions where there are from 16 to 21
candidates, none of the party leaders actually feels
the confidence which all profess.
* # » *
Official Labor needs ten more seats for an absolute
majority, and it is very hard to gain ten seats —one-
ninth of the representation—under the proportional
system. Even in the disaster that smote it three
years ago, when there was a much greater turnover
of votes than is customary, the party lost only nine
seats —one each in Balmain, Bathurst, Byron, Eastern
Suburbs, Parramatta, Sydney, Wollondilly and two
in Newcastle, counting Gardiner as a Laborite. Its
chances of regaining the ground then lost are un-
questionably good in Byron, where T. J. Swiney just
failed of a quota in 1922 ; in Bathurst, where Rosen-
thal, of Mont St. Quentin, is having a rough trip;
and in Parramatta, where Morrow, the second
Nationalist member (Bruntnell, Minister of Educa-
tion, was the other), hasn’t made much of an impres-
sion. But they are not rosy in the other five divi-
sions, unless the wave of feeling, sectarian or what-
ever it was, that washed Skelton to the top of the
Newcastle poll—he got 13,132 No. 1 votes out of
52,126, the quota being 8688 —has receded altogether.
And even then the Nationalist vote should be sufficient
to return one member at least, for Newcastle cannot
complain that the Government has neglected it.
With Dr. Fallon out of the way, Labor would
probably win a second seat in Eastern Suburbs, but
the “Democratic” candidate commands a solid No. 1
vote, and will be a difficult man to shift. Three
years ago Miss Preston Stanley, the Nationalist,
figured in the final count for the fifth seat, and now
that Oakes is out of the field she is not unlikely to
become the Ma State’s first feminine M.L.A. Cer-
tainly Miss Preston Stanley, Mrs. Melville, who
is also contesting Eastern Suburbs, and Mrs. Dwyer
(Balmain) have brighter intellects and are more in-
teresting speakers than the average N. S. Wales poli-
tician ; but the Labor ladies’ prospects are not so good
as the Nationalist’s, though by no means to be
despised.
* * * »
As regards Sydney, the bookmakers with whom
Alderman Mick Burke places commissions would lay
long odds against the Labor party winning four of
the five seats, as in 1920. Alderman Mick, despite
his little difference of opinion with Royal Commis-
sioner Lamb, is one of the Labor candidates, as also
are Holdswortii and McGuinness, two more Sydney
aldermen; the others are Paddy Minahan and J. E.
Birt. It is a singularly weak ticket, apart from
Birt, and the veteran is too ill to do much campaign-
ing. McGirr, who headed the poll as a Labor can-
didate, predicts that he will repeat the performance
as “leader of the Young Australia party,” and it is
doubtful if his quarrel with the A.L.P. has done him
any harm with the women who voted so strongly
for him three years ago. Nor is Jock Garden, who
is exchanging preferences with McGirr, to be ignored,
for he will get some personal support on the score of
being an. amiable and obliging Jock as well as all
the Communist No. l’s, for what they are worth.
The intrusion of the Yaps and the Bolshies has im-
proved the outlook for Speaker Dan Levy and Jack-
son, the other Nationalist member, but they looked
pretty safe in any case.
Lud Mayor Stokes, municipal leader of Burke,
Holdsworth and McGuinness, is also a candidate; he
is after A.W.U. boss Bailey’s seat in Goulburn. Un-
reasoning optimists predict a Labor gain here, but
the expulsion of Bailey hasn’t helped Stokes, nor is
his candidature going as well as that of J. M.
Tclly, a Lands Department officer with warm friends
among the cockies and no A.W.U. ill-feeling to
overcome. The campaign managers are more hope-
ful of an additional Labor seat in Murrumbidgee and
another in Ryde. Lang has offered the Murrumbidgee
irrigation settlers everything they ask for—and their
requests are numerous and costly—provided they vote
the right ticket; then Flannery, who got 9516 out
of 25,285 primary votes last time, has been as active
for his party as Grimm, who is not standing again,
has been inactive in the Nationalist interest. Farmers
complain bitterly that Grimm has been a stranger to
them for a long time past. Labor expectations in
Ryde are founded on a ccnsiderable increase in the
working-class population, especially about Concord
and the suburb from which the electorate has taken
its name, and on public-service hostility to Attorney-
General Bavin. But not all the public servants are
hostile to Bavin, and that badgered individual is
putting up a fine fight. Bavin’s speeches have been
far and away the most vigorous of the whole cam-
paign, as the intruding Theodore found to his
cost, nor has he ever once lost his temper or
descended to personal abuse.
* * * *
The Nationalists declare that they will hold their
four seats in Ryde, together with four in North
Shore, three each in St. George, Western Suburbs and
Eastern Suburbs, two each in Sydney, Maitland,
Namoi, Wollondilly and Balmain, and one each in
Botany, Sturt, Byron, Oxley and Newcastle. They
talk hopefully of capturing the Labor seat which
Moleswortii vacated in Cumberland, where there has
beer, more than even the average amount of A.L.P
wrangling, and expect to oust a Laborite or a Pro-
gressive in Wammerawa and Cootainundra, while i
second seat in Murray and Goulburn is included in
the possibilities.
The Progressives' hopes ol adding to their numbers
are centred in Namoi, where they are after the scalp
of either Wearnb (Lands) or Chaffey (Agriculture),
and Cootainundra, where Main’s personal popularity
may be sufficient, they think, to pull another Prog. in.
And there are freelances, in addition to those men-
tioned, who will very likely poll well—A. It. Gardiner,
in Newcastle; E. S. Carr, in Cumberland; Mario
Morton, in Oxley (all old members) ; Peter Gal-
lagher, who was MoTiehnan's secretary when the
latter was Labor Attorney-General, in Botany ; and
A. D. Kay, cleverest of Domain speakers, in North
Shore, where Scott Fell, also nominally an indepen-
dent, but a Nationalist except that he doesn't carry
the brand of the party, is likely to get back.
What the outcome will be no man can tell.
Perhaps a Nationalist or Labor Government with a
majority of its own ; perhaps a Nat.-Prog. Govern-
ment. The obvious danger is that the power of making
and unmaking Ministries will fall into the hands
of ‘irresponslbles, cne or more, with axes to grind.
111 that case it can only be hoped that responsible
men in the Nationalist, Labor and Progressive camps
will have sense and spirit enough to form a Cabinet
on the elective principle or, failing that, to abolish
eontortional misrepresentation and fight it out again,
as soon as the thing can be arranged, in single
electorates with preferential voting.
THE PUBLICITY HOUNDS.
The rage for newspaper publicity amazes
every journalist except those who are new
to the business and themselves have the rever-
ence for the printed word which time has
calloused in the older hand. It possesses
patrician and plebeian with equal virulence.
Men whom you would have expected to sneer
at publicity as notoriety come hungrily down
for it, while others to whom it ought to be
unattainable on their merits or importance
as eagerly reach up for it. And as there
are those who make a living by writing
"boosts” for those who crave them, two
types of “publicity hound” infest newspaper
offices, one which wants its name in the paper
and the other whose trade is to get it in.
The typical “hound” is received with more
or less good-natured contempt by those who
sit in the newspaper gate, yet is recog-
nised as having his occasional uses—at once
a convenience and a curse. When “copy”
is scarce, a few inches of ready-made manu-
script from some paid panderer may come
in very handy, especially for an early edi-
tion that must be filled and got out, and the
agent’s heart is gladdened by the sight of
his “stuff” in print, though it get only one
“run,” which means that it is flung out of
the next edition. The person on whose be-
half the publicity is thus obtained is flat-
tered, and marks his boomer as one wlio “can
work the press.” As often as not this
advertised individual sees his statement for
the first time in print. On one of the “days”
so often celebrated during the war, a sub-
editor went to his news-editor glumly re-
porting that he had “messages” from the
King and from other monarchs and various
Presidents of Republics, also from tlie Pre-
mier, and that the Premier’s was twice as
long as any of the others. “Cut it down,”
said the news-editor. “I’ve cut it,” replied
the poor sub., “and Elks [the publicity
fiend in the case, and the cleverest and most
persistent of all his kind]- has had a go at
it, but it’s still too long.” “Bring it here,”
ordered the court of last resort, “and I’ll
hack it down.” So that in this typical in-
stance three men butchered the mendacious
pronouncement, including its anonymous
author; and the odds are that to this day
the Premier in whose name it eventually
straggled shorn into print has never read
it. Similarly many a man gets his first
intimation that he has made a statesman-
like deliverance from some friend who has
seen and read it, and would blush to find
himself famous if he were not too hard in
the rind to blush about anything.
When you hear anyone say that he doesn’t
read the papers, or that he loathes publicity,
it is well to remember that all men are liars.
Henry Parices used that sort of talk; yet
he was not so neglectful of the papers but
that he could and did threaten to get this
writer and a colleague sacked because they
did not report verbatim a speech which a
ruthless sub-editor had ordered them to “get
into less than a column.” Not all men by
many a thousand have the candor of E. W.
O’Sullivan, who used to say: “I don’t care
what you say about me. Abuse me as much
as you like. But don’t leave my name out.”
The commoner practice is to seek pub-
licity while decrying it. Of course plenty
avowedly love it. These are well known,
and when occasion arises to “get some inter-
views” it is easy to name a dozen or two
whom the reporter will find fully charged
with speech and ready to roar at the first
light touch on the accelerator. But the most
cynically inured to the windy ways of men
is liable to be surprised by the avid readi-
ness with which the seemingly retiring man
will jump at the chance of having his name
in the paper and the trouble and expense
he will undertake to get himself advertised.
There are many queer ways of getting a
living, but none of them stranger than this
of pestering newspaper men to run in some-
thing about somebody. It should be a lucra-
tive job. judging by the demand for such
intermediaries. For it has sometimes seemed
to this writer that every kind of man had a
publicity hound somewhere or a share in one.
They come beseeching on behalf of cricketers,
lawyers, scullers, carnivals, undertakers,
public bodies, women’s organisations, clubs,
theatres and parsons, and anything and every-
thing else that is. The citizen who expects
or desires a knighthood or a seat in the Legis-
lative Council has a myrmidon who confi-
dently tells him that he “knows all the Press
boys,” though he is only known to the Press
as a nuisance. Claimants for appointments
often invoke insidious public mention through
the same sort of humbug. An American cir-
cus that was here years ago even carried an
“editor.” Most noticeable politicians have
their “ghost,” who may be a reporter on your
own staff or inhabit a lawyer’s office. That
may be instructively borne in mind when the
publicity hound is in full bay on behalf of
candidates; also that when you sec a speech
by Josiaii Bounderby reported, the great


probability is,that it is not Bounderry you
are reading, but his “ghost," who knows
much more about politics than Jos. will ever
know. „ . ~
The dummy figure ou the ventriloquist s
knee is a fair parallel for many of our rulers
and advisers and lecturers; the real yoice be-
ing that of the publicity man who has
thought up and prepared the speech or state-
ment which you read with the introduction
that “Mr. McGinty said yesterday”
The same with the “article” in which Jekyll,
M.L.A. or M.H.R., discourses so learnedly
and glibly that his friends declare they “didn't
think it was in him.” Nor was it. Not
Jekyll, that thick-hided, hard-skulled bust-
ler, wrote it, but Hyde, the misnamed, in-
conspicuous scribbler. A former State Gov-
ernor, having decided that he must specialise
in something, picked a “line” which seemed
to have been neglected, engaged a deep-delver
to “ghost” for him, and went at it until in
time he actually came to know enough to be
able to talk about his theme independently.
But picture what happens when the dummy
“forgets his lines,” as he will do. Thus the
dead-and-gone N.S.W. politician who, recit-
ing his piece on woman’s suffrage, was lured
by an interjection into including Marion
Crawford among the illustrious women
writers. Thus, too, the Premier who, if
heckled, is apt to drop the book of the words
and wander into blunders which his sup-
porters are at great pains to explain away
or deny. While he says what Hyde tells
him to say, Jekyll is usually safe. His
“bloomers” are mostly his very own, about
the only original contribution he makes to
his utterance, the fell outcome of ignoring
Talleyrand’s famous advice, “Above all,
gentlemen, not too much zeal.
H. J. T.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Attempt to Fix a World Award.
When the Washington Conference sat down
in 1919 to lay the spectre of war in the
Pacific, it pointed its polyglot finger at the
biggest danger when it prepared a series
of agreements aiming at the standardisation
of the labor conditions of tlie world. No-
thing definite was known about the Celestial
working-man, but be was darkly suspected
of being the chief plague -spot in an otherwise
hopeful landscape, and the Chinese Govern-
ment was invited to subscribe to the prin-
ciple of protective factory legislation. It did
so with a cheerful countenance, knowing that
its hope of putting such legislation into prac-
tice was so remote as not to be worth losing
sleep over. In 1923, with a noble gesture, it
produced Provisional Factory Regulations,
which contained many of the rulings of the
Washington Conference, and was otherwise
an elegant production in the Chinese classic
style. As, however, the Legislature was
temporarily absent or had been mislaid or
poisoned, the regulations have never been
embodied in an Act, and since the Govern-
ment’s writ extends no further than a gong-
stroke from the capital city’s walls, no great
disturbance of industrial conditions resulted.
An illuminating commentary on the matter
has recently been received by the Inter-
national Labor Bureau in the shape of the
report of the Shanghai Child Labor Commis-
sion (1923). This commission was appointed
by the Shanghai Municipal Council, a foreign
body which rules over a leased territory
about the size of Sydney on the fringes of
the great yellow republic. Being under
European management, and situated along-
side the hugest store of raw and human
material in the world, Shanghai has in re-
cent years grown into one of the largest
hives of modern industry east of Suez. Its
labor comes to it from the surrounding vil-
lages in the shape mainly of girls, and of
children who in Australia would scarcely be
considered old enough to be sent to a kin-
dergarten. Around the high walls of the
factories is a noisome muddle of native
boarding-houses, occupied by families living
four to a room. These are not. however,
the slums, which are provided by the beggars’
camps and the boat communities huddling in
the swamps or the mud of tidal creeks and
existing under conditions of quite unparal-
leled debasement. It was into this wilder
ness the Commission went exploring, and
found these among other things:—
The average monthly earnings of an adult worker
are not greater than 30s. and may be as low as
165., while the cost of bare living for a man and
wife is 325. Female feather-sorters receive not
more than 2fd. per diem and children less than 2d.
The minimum age is the age at which a baby boy
or girl is of any economic value to an employer.
The minimum daily shift for children of five or
upwards is 12 hours and the maximum is 15; most
factories prefer the maximum. Most labor is con-
tracted for, and if the contractor goes far enough
afield he can buy a working infant for 4s. a month ;
in times of famine he can have his labor for the
trouble of carting it away.
Provisions against fire or accident were con-
spicuous by their absence. In view of the
sordidness of these disclosures the Commis-
sion’s recommendations were very mild —
they did not even amount to a request for
abolition of night work for children. But
mild as they are they are not likely to be
put into operation, for the reason that, the
factories in the Shanghai foreign settlement
being in active competition with the fac-
tories outside it, and the Chinese reser-
voir of labor being 400 millions deep, the
industry which embarked on an expensive
career of social amelioration for its workers
would sign its own death-warrant. It may
be taken for granted from this example that
the noble ideal of a single award to cover
the toiling millions of all nations is as re-
mote as universal peace; and the discussions
of the International Labor Conference in
which Joseph Cook is taking part at Geneva
are merely academic exercises. An award
would doubtless be accepted by a majority
if it was as low as the lowest conditions
existing in Asia ; but a standard as high as
that which the xiustralian worker enjoys is,
for at least three-quarters of the human race,
not yet a practicable ambition. Australia,
in fact, stands as a sort of oasis of compara-
tive ease and plenty in a desert of battling
indigence. The enchanting spectacle has been
regarded by some people as a special dispen-
sation of Providence, by others as a matter
of course; the fact that it rests ultimately
on force is frequently lost sight of, particu-
larly by those who benefit most by it.
The Railway to Dead End Springs.
Deak Bulletin, —Though the agreement
with S. Australia for the building of the
South-to-North railway along a specified
route , is as distinct as words can make it,
there is nothing save the honor of the man
in office at the back of the agreement. Years
ago John Forrest put it on record that he,
at all events, wouldn’t respect it in the least.
Foster, who isn’t a genius, and Symon,
K.C., who is, both believe in the absolute
no-compromise policy. So did Charles 1.,
and the boy who stood too long on the burn-
ing deck, and the Roman soldier who got his
feet scalded at Pompeii, and others with a
good case and bad luck. I think a line
branching off the East-West railway at Tar-
coola or thereabouts, as half-promised by
Prime Minister Bruce, is far better than
one branching off the same line at Quorn,
as the Oodnadatta concern does. There is
less lake country in the neighborhood of the
proposed new route, and that is an advan-
tage, for an Australian lake is a dry depres-
sion paved with salt, and with a wind-devil
performing like Old Boots in the centre of
it. It takes up space, and supplies no traffic.
Apart from ihe lakes the land along a Tar-
coola or Kingoonya route has a better repu-
tation than that on the old track. It “takes
off’ nearer to the centre of Australia, and
further from Theodore’s scheme for steal-
ing the entire work, by means of a deviation
at Marree into his own dry and low-lying
and misgoverned West. By making a fresh
start there is the prospect of a 4ft. 84in.
line, which would be a vast improvement on
the old idea of a break of gauge and a
34ft. apology for a transcontinental. Bruce
discourses about making a 4ft. 8-}in. line
from Kingoonya to Alice Springs. Alice
Springs is at most only half-way, but that
is as much as can be expected from a Half-
Bruce, and the work having arrived there,
Australia would at least be committed in the
matter of route. There appears very little
prospect of getting the narrow-gauge Oodna-
datta contraption even that far, or getting it
anywhere at all. Quite probably our be-
loved Half-Bruce does intend his half-way
line as a substitute for the whole one which
is in the bond—as a composition of 10s. in
the £, so to speak; and many big firms have
paid less. Therefore S. Australia should put
it on record in every possible way that it
is accepting no composition, but merely a
long-overdue instalment. Alice Springs
would at least furnish more inspiration for
a fresh start than Oodnadatta. It would
look as if the rails had got as far as Success,
whereas they now look as if they had stopped
at Failure, and stayed there till staying had
become a habit. With the railway once over
the border a spell would be broken, and
the new and promising terminus might pre-
sently raise enough population to make a
fuss. A fuss made on the spot by local people
might be very helpful.—Yours, etc., J.E.
❖
Clouds in the North.
What seem like the first rumblings of a
very ominous rumpus were heard in the
Innisfail district (N.Q.) early this month
when the Royal Commission, appointed by
the Queensland Government to inquire into
the social and economic effects of the present
foreign influx, was taking evidence there-
abouts. The trouble started when the union
demanded that field labor this crushing sea-
son should be 75 per cent, “white.” As the
farmers are almost 75 per cent. Southern
Europeans, and as Southern Europeans do
not like Australians better than themselves,
the demand was not granted. The time
came for signing on the cane gangs, and
foreigners were given preference everywhere
except at the El Arish soldiers’ settlement.
One gang, made up exclusively of returned
soldiers who had been cutting cane in the
district for years to the satisfaction of the
farmers, was turned down in favor of a gang of
new-chum Italians. The union countered this
move through the millhands. At South John-
stone and Mourilyan an ultimatum was issued
that unless all available “white” labor was em-
ployed, no cane would be crushed. The
crushing season this year will last for nine
months and it will be a struggle to get all
the cane through, so the threat was a serious
one. Crushing was about to start in both
mills when four Italians were employed at
Mourilyan in preference to Britishers. All
hands downed tools and the Italians were
put off. The South Johnstone hands also
showed great eagerness to make good their
threat; so with only two days’ delay in the
crushing the demands were conceded, and
now all available “white” labor is being
employed in preference to alien labor.
As these things were happening there were
little outbursts of another kind among
the Italians. At Ingham a fight occurred
between some of the “whites” and a
great many Italians. On the follow-
ing day an Australian in Innisfail was
attacked by three Italians and wounded with
a knife, the avowed reason given by the
assailants being that “he robbed us of our
jobs.” And at about that time the Italian
Club at Mourilyan, which is a Fascist organ-
isation and which was the centre of a bomb
o'.trage a few weeks ago, held a very big and
very secret meeting. What the meeting was
about is not known, but at the end of the
week the town heard that every gun in its
shop had been sold, and that the buyers were
mostly Italians. Things may begin to look
interesting after a while. Meantime union
officials were telling the Commission, with
glib untruth, that there was no objection to
the Italians on racial grounds, that it was
purely a question of surplus labor, and that
there are now at least four men for every
job. While the entire community is being
actuated by racial consciousness and pride,
no one seems to have the moral courage to
tell the Commission so. But if the Commis-
sion has its ears and eyes open and can per-
form the simple mathematical feat of adding
the proverbial two and two, it will not need
to be told.
♦
The Tail of the Animal.
When there are two animals and only one
visible tail, the ownership of which is doubt-
ful. a fair test is to tread hard on the tail,
and see which animal yells. If they both
yell it is a joint tail. This idea has its
application in present N. S. Wales politics.
The obscene caudal appendage is the Com-
munist revolutionary party. It sticks con-
spicuously out of places where the Labor
body has its residence, and especially out of
Sydney Trades Hall —out of the door and
down the steps and into the dingy street.
It suggests something big enough to fill the
whole building. Inside the premises notori-
ous Communists have their offices and Com-
munist literature is sold. But harassed
nominal Labor leaders come and go, and
attest that they neither see nor hear of any
unusual or unorthodox creature on the pre-
mises. It is really not quite certain whether
orthodox Labor, which passionately denies
all knowledge of Communism, or Commu-
nism, which lives on its premises and de-
clares far and wide that orthodox Labor is
the reluctant but helpless horse which the
Bolshevik oligarchy drives at its pleasure,
is running the Opposition in these days. On
appearances the oligarchy is the driving
force. The cross which the Langs and
Doot.eys and their kin have to hump along
their dolorous way is the necessity to be
Communist at Conference time lest they
should go out of the movement, and the need
to be anti-Communist and respectable-old-
Labor at election time lest they should go
out of Parliament. The mass of unattached
sympathisers of Labor tendency, who are not
vocal at the conference, have to be remem-
bered. It doesn’t seem difficult for Com-
munism, with its capacity for subterranean
engineering, and its hole-and-corner methods,
to capture a majority of the body which
makes the party platform; but to capture
a national majority is a different under-
taking. Therefore, those who lead, or are
shoved in front of, Labor, especially so far
as N. S. Wales and Queensland are con-
cerned, struggle to live a double life. ( In
the plainest words they are pledged to “the
socialisation of industry, prodiiction, distri-
bution and exchange,” which is the indus-
trial doctrine of Moscow in a sentence. It
is further explained at “the All-
Australian Trade Union Congresses” that
the idea is “to take and hold the
means of production, distribution and
exchange by revolutionary industrial
and political action,” or, in other words,
to steal the lot. Labor leaders (who seem
to lead nowadays very much as did Uriah,
the Hittite, in the final complication of liis
life) are pledged to that also. These things
are, of course, to be brought about as soon
as possible, there being no sense in delay.
This one supreme plank of the platform
makes all other planks superfluous. It covers
everything. Taxation problems vanish when
there will be only one proprietor—viz., the
Revolution —with money to pay taxes. Land
problems are mere piffle when the Revolu-
tion is to annex all the land. Debts
won’t be worth discussing when the Revolu-
tion “takes over” the debts. It would doubt-
less be possible to capture a few constitu-
encies with the Red Objective well in the
front, but, all the same, the Parliamentary
Labor party of the Ma State would be a
wrecked force, with official salary as far
out of reach, for an indefinite period, as the
thick end of the rainbow. Wherefore the
haggard Langs and desolated Dooi.eys try
to ignore or gloss over the only plank that
counts for anything, and at most they men-
tion it as a pious aspiration, which may be
more fully considered a half-century hence.
They blandly deny the existence of the
animal whose obscene hindquarters obstruct
the very entrance of their most cherished
premises. And the animal yells scorn at
them and refuses to be denied.
*
Hosannas!
fj. D. Meedell says the time is ripe for
them: —
Griffith Moses (B. 14/5/’25) treated my humble
effort to tell the truth about Australia’s wealth with
much irreverence and in a querulous spirit. I
have never said, thought nor dreamt that Australia
‘•ought not to worry about defence,” because defence
of one’s country is the first principle of patriotism
and the very heart and soul of love of one’s own
country. But I don't agree with him that we need
worry about an invasion by Japan. London Daily
Telegraph has put my argument in a peanut shell:
“A man-o’-war has not yet been designed which
can steam over the enormous distances separating
the Pacific nations and then be in a condition to
fight.”
To state the facts and inform the public how
little need there is for pessimism about Australia’s
destiny is not boosting. And there is none of what
Mr. Moses calls the teaching of fat content and
smug self-satisfaction in quoting figures about the
total public and private wealth of the Australians.
Mr. Moses thinks too many race meetings are a
curse to this good country, and he has my full
support in that view. But lots of other things are
unnecessary evils —to wit. foreign loans, Wembley,
the League of Nations, Freetraders, excessive imports
and immigration. This country can do without all
of them.
Griffith Moses complains that Australia is
thinly peopled. Why the urgent need to have
it fatly peopled? Aren’t we developing our country
solidly and safely? No over-populated and over-
crowded countries like the United States, Britain,
China, India and Japan are desirable places to live
in. Moses’s figures about the number of inhabitants
per acre are valueless as a test of human well-
being. The more people there are to the acre the
less happiness and the worse the welfare of those
people. And comparisons with much older countries
and their earning capacity and wealth only place
Australia’s record in high relief. The United States
and Canada were both settled about a.d. 1608, 317
years ago. Australia’s epoch of productiveness prac-
tically dates from 1861, when gold was found ; that
is 74 years ago. Canada has 9.000,000 people and
the United States 115,000,000 (including 15,000,000
negroes). In another 250 years Australia may have
115,000,000 of a population, if she makes the
same mistake as the Americans and throws open her
land and its wealth to strangers.
Mr. Moses points to the number of decaying towns
in Australia. In Victoria that is due to the decay
of gold-mining ant is not the result of the Big
City policy. Walhalla, Maldon, Creswick, Clunes,
Pitfield are decadent, while Kerang, Rochester, Mil-
dura, Swan Hill and Bairnsdale are examples which
may suffice of numerous progressive towns. These
are the salient features of Australia’s progress, and
they should form the book-plate of every school-book
used by Australian children. They ought to be
taught that Australia is at least quite as good a
country as America or England:—
At 31st December, 1924.
Total wealth, public and private . . £2,823,000,000
Output of manufacturing industries.. 348,577,583
Value of other production . . . . 250,000,000
Overseas trade, 1924-25, estimated, at 324.000,000
Public debts —State and Government 1,027,247,722
Bank and Savings Bank deposits . . 477,372,799
Population on 31st Dec., 1924 . . 5,873,503
Males on 31st Dec., 1924 . . . . 2,996,848
These statistics are supplied by Ciias. H. Wickens
in his Quarterly Summary. They are amazing, pro-
digious and unparalleled. Accordingly I am not one
whit abashed by Mr. Griffith Moses's uncompli-
mentary criticism of myself as a fatuous city
prophet. Those figures above prove there is no need
of people, such as travelling pinchbeck knights and
titled tourists, to tell decent Australians “to work
harder and progress faster.” There is a real, press-
ing need for the birth of an Australian national
spirit, and for the universal daily preaching that
love of his own country is the first qualification of a
good citizen. That is my Credo. If it be boosting,
then I exult in the fact that I am a booster of the
best land on earth.
The accursed affectation that nothing is good that
is Australian has become a permanent habit —in
art, poetry, music, literature, manufactures, food or
drink or indeed in anything—-whereas the truth is
that in all such things we are evolving advanced
types of all material things because we are an
entirely new type of people. And of what value is
our progress unless every individual Australian is
imbued with a national spirit ?
Bavin and His Numerous Enemies.
Though old hands complain that the present
N. S. Wales election campaign is the dullest
on record, there is at least one contest with
interesting and important features—the one
in which Attorney-General Bavin is en-
gaged in Hyde. Ryde is one of the five-
member constituencies, and Bavin, who hasn’t
much of a personal following, was the fifth
man to be elected in 1922. Since then more
mud has been thrown at him than at any
three other N. S. Wales politicians. Red
unions and muck-raking journals have pur-
sued him venomously. Lottery-promoters
and their hangers-on have vowed his politi-
cal destruction, and in pony-racing circles,
less for what he has done than for what
it is feared he may do, his name is rarely
mentioned without an oath. But his most
formidable enemies are in the militant sec-
tion of the State Public Service. Declaring
that “Bavin has robbed us of our legitimate
rights,” this section is running a man against
him on the Labor ticket, and is cocksure of
success, since there are many public ser-
vants in Ryde. The object of all this enmity
has by no means taken it lying down. Reply-
ing to the dissatisfied public servants, he
said that they had “no legitimate rights ex-
cept what the law allows them.” What he
really did, he declares, was to substitute a
reasonable form of arbitration in the Govern-
ment departments— i.e., salaries committees,
with an appeal to the Public Service Board —
for the unreasonable form of a State indus-
trial court, which tribunal was not only ill-
qualified to assess the worth of an individual
officer’s work, but stood, in this instance, for
a dangerous departure from the principle of
Parliamentary control of the public purse.
And from that position, in spite of threats
extending over two years, he has never
budged. The Red unions are after the
man’s scalp because lie caused a parcel of
union secretaries to be prosecuted for what
he regarded as the lawless hold-up of a
steamer. The prosecution failed, but the
author expressed no penitence; nor did he
bow his head under the repeated blows of
sensational editors and “art-union” para-
sites—he nearly always contrived to give as
good as he got. In short. Bavin, though in
some ways a Puritan, with the defects of the
Puritan qualities, is an honest man and
game. He has so little use for the tricks of
the political trade as practised in N. S.
Wales that when a recent convert from
Labor to Nationalism attempted to make an
election issue of something R.C. Archbishop
Kelly was alleged to have said on the birth-
control question, he bluntly announced
(thereby extorting the admiration of decent
Labor opponents) that he accepted the
Archbishop’s disclaimer. And visiting Mur-
rumbidgee in the wake of Opposition-leader
Lang, he disdainfully refused to enter into
an ignoble vote-buying competition started
by that worthy, who promised all manner of
concessions (£750,000 worth, it is estimated)
to the distressed irrigation-farmers, victims
of the stupid and heartless policy,
which Lang undertakes to extend, of
“settling” men with little or no capital
or knowledge of the business, and
without bothering about markets. Bavin’s
fate is in the hands of the unattached voters
in Ryde. It is a representative N. S. Wales
constituency, and its verdict will nidi*
cate whether there is a place in public life
for the rare sort of representative who is
above pandering to any section for its vote,
and who stakes his political head on the poli-
cies lie considers best for the country, or
whether Parliament is to be given over to
sectarian-mongers, Tammanyists, bovietists,
followers of the line of least resistance and
promisers of the moon.
Politicians and the Infinite.
“The Listening-Insect” thinks it over: —
The present N. S. Wales election may some day
be regarded as historic, for it is the first time
Providence, inviting them to their own destruction,
lias allowed Australian politicians seeking a man-
date from the people to invade the ether. Putting
an extra log on the fire—for appearance sake rather
than for warmth —and arranging at my side a box
of cigarettes and a few selected books, I accom-
modated myself comfortably cn a settee and prepared
on three recent nights to find out if I could what
the present intermezzo in the governance of the
State is all about.
The experience was sufficiently uncanny. Out-
side, the small creek or drain that bisects my pro-
perty babbled in a soft undertone to the sleeping
gums, and a sickle moon looked through the upper
storey of the leaves. By turning a rheostat at my
elbow to and fro I could pick up a multitude of
voices. A Japanese Morse station was clamoring
for attention from an American station in Hawaii.
A stream of messages was pouring at high speed
from Buenos Avres to the Eiffel Tower, and vessels
up and down "the coast were whispering to each
other in undertones. Broadcasters, Ltd., was dis-
pensing jazz to the frivolous-minded at one end of
the scale, and all around it the infinite was breaking
into tiny cracklings of laughter, interspersed with
silences. A stupendous stage was set for the poli-
tical sages. Above the assorted orchestra of the
ether the voices of Mr. Fuller, Premier; Mr. Lang.
leader of Labor; and Mr. Brunner, head and front
of the Progressives, boomed lustily, as if each one
of them had seized me by the button-hole and was
shouting in my ear. Occasionally a chair-leg scraped,
a chairman coughed, or an interjector, spectral-thin
and far away, uttered some irrelevance; but mostly
I had the speakers to themselves.
Each of the leaders prefaced his speech with


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
An Essential to clean Shaving
i
shaving \c#z!»G:
CREAM iU=L£*M /•/
limited
4§
Mutjeui
SHAVING CREAM
Hygeia Shaving Cream is
absolutely pure. It yields
a fine creamy lather in
either hot or cold water,
and makes shaving
a pleasure.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
HY 3 7
a little flapdoodle for- the benefit, of his unseen audi-
ence. lie congratulated himself and his party that
for the first time in history thousands of people in
Australia, Tasmania and Maoriland who were for
various reasons unable to be present in the hall
would not be denied the privilege of hearing his
inspired words. lie hoped the idea would be de-
veloped. Fond man! Little he knew how efficiently
the thermionic valve filtered his turgid eloquence;
how hollow his electioneering promises sounded in
the ’phones! Even in the emptiest hall there is
always a certain amount of crowd influence to con-
tend against. The personality of the speaker gets
between the listener and the message. The printed
abstract of a speech, read in the newspaper next
morning, has gone through an elaborate process of
polishing and improvement. I was immune from
all these subtle contacts and infections. I held the
naked figure of the orator in the hollow of my hand.
Ilv turning an indicator a couple of studs I could
squash his airy economics with the voiceless chal-
lenge of eternity or scatter his pompous rhetoric
with that thin, elfin laughter of the infinite. I
enjoyed, in fact, all the incorruptible detachment
of a god. The hopeful democracy of the future will
piohibit election meetings altogether and equip every
voter with a radio set and a pair of ’phones.
♦
Race Pollution.
‘■Maoriland lias now the reputation with the
Imperial authorities of being the hardest
and most exacting of all Dominions regard-
ing the health and physical fitness required
of immigrants.” The claim is contained in
a report furnished by a committee of inquiry
in Maoriland into mental defectives and
sexual offenders. The late Dr. Macgregor.
an able and far-sighted public servant in the
Dominion, where he was for many years
Inspector-General of Hospitals, once de-
monstrated the evil effects which had flowed
from the old-time laxity in permitting unde-
sirable immigrants to flow unchecked into
the country. The great influx of vicious and
degenerate people of whom so many were
introduced in past days considerably deterio-
rated, in his opinion, “the average of popu-
lation in point of quality.... The ultimate
cost of this degraded class of people to the
country is enormous.” In support he quoted
family histories and pointed out that the
evil results are never finished. Legislation
subsequently checked this indiscriminate sys-
tem ; but after tlje war vigilance somewhat
relaxed, and the system of control and medi-
cal inspection was not so strict as it should
have been—especially in the case of the Brit-
ish Government’s oversea settlement scheme
for ex-service men and women. This be-
came so apparent that the Dominion took
the matter in hand and sent an officer to
Britain to secure a more thorough examina-
tion of assisted immigrants. Under the sys-
tem at present in force no person is accepted
as an assisted immigrant without a certifi-
cate of physical and mental fitness from a
medical man on the official roster; and these
referees are instructed to make their exami-
nation so thorough that there shall be no
question about the applicant passing a search-
ing examination at the port of arrival. That
this work has been carried out pretty rigor-
ously would appear to be the fact in view
°f .the Imperial assurance. But it is not
sufficient, and the committee recommends still
further precautionary measures. The inquiry
should be extended. It should probe not only
into the physical and mental fitness of the
applicant himself, but should, so far as pos-
sible. penetrate into his family history, par-
ticularly as to whether it discloses “any cases
of insanity, epilepsy or feeble-mindeduess,
crime or dependence on charitable aid.” In
another direction the law requires tightening
up. Under the M.L. Immigration Act of
1908 certain responsibilities are cast on the
owner, master or charterer of a ship carry-
ing passengers to the Dominion: but “to
anyone who has seen a medical inspection of
passengers arriving in an oversea vessel.”
says the committee, “it is obvious that any
degree of feeble-mindedness short of manifest
imbecility or dementia would be liable to be
admitted, and a good many cases of tuber-
culosis escape detection.” “The time has
now arrived,” the committee says, “when
closer supervision should be exercised over
those persons who come as ordinary passen-
gers with the intention of remaining.” If
with the testimonial of the Imperial authori-
ties at its back Maoriland is yet not satisfied
that it is getting the primest quality of
immigrant on the market, what has Australia
to say? Is the Commonwealth going to be
content with second and third grades, and
possibly the damaged goods of other nations,
or are we prepared to come into line with
the Dominion? It is certainly time we set
about earning our testimonial, too. To put
it on no other ground, our pockets demand
it. To be lax in this matter to-day means
to be taxed to-morrow.
+
Verneukerie.
Few folk with any knowledge of the Dutch
Afrikander’s real attitude towards Britain
and the Empire ideal put any faith in his
public protestations of unswerving loyalty
and his occasional repudiation of secession.
The Prime Minister of South Africa, General
Hertzog, pooh-poohed the very idea of
secession when welcoming the Prince of
Wales to the Union. His hearers must have
covertly recalled his bitter republican pro-
paganda for the past 20 years and smiled.
It. is barely three years since he publicly
announced that he had agreed to drop the
secession issue in public for the life of tin-
present Union Parliament only. lie was
forced to this undertaking by the British
element among his Labor allies, without
whose aid lie could not have taken office.
To one of his race the bland disavowal of
the aims which every Kaffir cook-boy knows
he is wedded to is nothing; it is a habit
pleasantly referred to in the vernacular as
verncukerie —“roguishness.” Nevertheless,
Hertzog’s amiability in the presence of the
Prince has roused the stalwarts of the
Nationalist—or, to give it a true designa-
tion, the Republican—party. The official
organ of the Transvaal Nationalists, Das
Vaderland, took the prime Minister to task
warmly. This journal is identical with the
once notorious Ons Land, and loves Hert-
zog none the more because he is an Orange
Free Stater. The pact with the Labor
party is ■ admitted, but Hertzog is
warned against “going to the other
extreme.” Das Vaderland also remarks
that “the Nationalist struggle has always
been for the realisation of an ideal
—absolute sovereign independence.” While
Britain may not be South Africa’s greatest
enemy, she should not be regarded as South
Africa’s best friend, an idea “which must
bring pain to thousands of Afrikanders, to
whom England remains a conqueror of our
nationhood and our sovereign independence.
We wish to regain that independence, and
we do not propose hiding our purpose.” That
frank bit of self-revelation will come as no
surprise to the South African resident of
British blood or predilections, even if opti-
THE WIZARD.
ADI LANG: “And I promise that you shall he young and beautiful , and have a wonderful
voyage across the water , and meet a handsome prince with millions, and he will
marry you and lay his wealth at your feet , and you will be happy ever after-
wards. And now that you arc going to be so rich , you will, of course, leave,
a little offering in the box for me.”
mists in some of the sister Dominions are
shocked at the opinions expressed. What
would have happened in the 1914 rising in
South Africa had not Louis Botha’s mar-
vellous personality and mana among his own
people turned the scale, one does not like
to think. The pot almost boiled over again
with the Red rebellion at Jo’burg in 1922:
but here, again, Smuts robbed it of the
threatened National support. Nowadays
Nationalists are in the majority in the Pact
Cabinet, and none of them have the capa-
city for the vigorous and determined resist-
ance shown by Botha and Smuts —even if
they have the will, which is more than
doubtful.
*
“Isaac Insulin” : A 15-year-old girl gave
birth to a child in a South Aus. country hos-
pital the other day. A young man, criminally
charged for his part in the proceedings, had
previously been convicted and handed 12
months by the Judge, and there was an imme-
diate howl in the press at the leniency of the
sentence. Yet what did the moralists want?
The man was ready and anxious to marry
the expectant mother, and she was equally
keen, but being under age parental consent
was necessary and this was refused, the
available parent being incited by other
females to get the man all that refusal would
involve. The girl was well grown and looked
18, and was physically well able to look
after herself, and, I should say from personal
knowledge, was w 7 ell aware of the method and
manner of her own origin. There Mas no
suggestion of violence, consent being admitted.
Had a marriage been arranged no doubt the
man would have had his sentence suspended ;
as it is, the father is in gaol, the mother
under a stigma, and an innocent little Aus-
tralian (who, by the way, I helped into tne
world) is making a rotten start in life. It
seems to me, us one u ho more than once has
happened on such cases in the course of my
profession, that where there is repeated con-
sent to acts of intimacy, and the girl is obvi-
ously sophisticated, she might be treated as
a co-delinquent. This might be a deterrent.
Failing this, the prospective mother might
cease to be a minor as far as marriage is
concerned, so that no parental consent would
be necessary. In this case the girl’s mother
has exercised the power of imposing a life-
long stigma on her daughter and the little
one.
4
“Gan” : Melbourne’s Chief Commissioner of
Police must have been stirred by the movies
when he suggested as a remedy against the
current gun-play that the lum 7 should be
loosened so that the harmless necessary tax-
payer could take up arms in his omti defence.
This thrilling advice is no good to me. Wliav
chance would I have, a timid, short-sighted
person who couldn’t hit a white elephant
sitting, against an expert gunman who knows
all the fancy shooting stunts? I dread to
think of the time when every mug will carry
a revolver and practise amateur gun-play in
the streets. It’s bad enough now, with only
a few at it. “Of two evils choose both” seems
to be our impressionable Commissioner's
motto.
♦
Nationalism may not have done all that
it should for Australia’s ex-soldiers, its in-
tentions being better than its management.
Still, it has been fairly respectful to them,
while official Labor only conceals its con-
tempt at election time, and does it badly
then. It ivas an official Labor organ which
published these lines during the M ar, and the
sentiment hasn't altered much, if any:—
Ye are the sordid killers
Who murder for a fee,
Ye prop, like rotten pillars,
Trade’s lust and treachery.
Hog-souled and dirty-handed
Ye sell yourselves for gain,
And stand for ever branded
Red felons after Cain.
Ye are the fools and flunkeys,
Ye die to serve the great,
The rooks and gilded monkeys
Who eat the fat of state.
Ye fell in alien places,
On foreign wastes ye lie,
Stiff-limbed, with putrid faces
Turned stinking to the sky.
“Red felons after Cain” has lost some of its
force. The Red Army has got well ahead of
Cain.
4
“H.F.J.”: Apropos James Edmond's
article on “The Pole of To-morrow” (B.
23/4 /’25), the idea of reaching the Pole by
airship is not new. The ill-fated Andree
M-as first to essay it. He deemed feasible
the plan of crossing the North Polar regions
by means of a balloon and set out from Danes
Island, near Spitzbergen, in 4897. Neither
he nor his two companions have since been
heard of, barring a message sent by carrier-
pigeon two days after their departure. Peary
reached the North Pole in April, 1909, and
Cook claimed he had reached it in April,
1908. though he urns unable to give his news
to the world until shortly before Peary
returned. Cook’s claim was doubted by
geographers from the beginning, and he has
not been able to furnish proof that he reached
the Pole. Peary’s feat was also questioned,
though the National Geographical Society of
Washington, D.C., examined his documents
and decided that he had done it all right.
Since his death his complete records have
been made public, and no doubt can possibly
exist now that he did reach the Pole. Search-
ing examination of his latitude observations
taken durinv his 30 hours’ stay at the Pole
is sufficient to show that they were not
faked or legendary.
—4 ——
“A.M.H.”: The paragraph (B. 23/4/’25)
about the dying man whose appeals for some-
thing to end his agony led to his son’s pro-
curing a revolver for the sufferer, and there-
after standing trial for manslaughter, wakes
one of my most distressing memories. My
first few months in a metropolitan hospital
w’ere made miserable by the suffering of a
youth with a sarcoma of the lower part of
the leg. Three amputations were performed
at successively higher levels as the growth
recurred, but they were unavailing. The
last, a complete removal at the hip, had
barely started to heal when there appeared
unmistakable signs of secondary growths in
internal organs. The youngster (he was
under 18) M 7 as undoubtedly “as good as
dead,” but unhappily he muxs still some
months distant from that comfort. I still
don’t like to think of those months. Long
before the end he had reached the stage
where comparatively huge doses of morphia
had little, if any, effect. It was a distinct re-
lief when he became too weak to scream very
loudly. Perhaps I was more impressionable
then ; but I’ve never forgotten what was one
of my earliest experiences of preventable tor-
ture. And I still find it difficult to appre-
ciate the mental attitude that refuses even
to consider the possibility of doing something
about it.
♦
“C. Coral” : An installation of a wireless
telephone along the Roper River or at Groote
Island might save a lot of worry and loss of
time in looking for missing explorers and
others. Recently scare headings appeared in
the press concerning the murder of a couple
of police officials sent to look for the Douglas
Mawson survivors (if any) ; at about the
time these came out, the men concerned M r ere
enjoying a smoke
and a yarn with
one of the Roper
River Mission staff.
Another batch of
alarmist headings
was published con-
cerning the dis-
appearance of Cap-
tain Wilkins, also
in the vicinity of
the Roper—much
to the surprise of
the explorer him-
self when he blew into Thursday Island the
other week in the mission ketch, after a
sojourn with the superintendent of the mis-
sion for some months. Evidently people down
south haven't yet realised that there are places
in Australia from which it is frequently
impossible to send mails for weeks together.
4
Wnn 40 members of the State Par-
liament as his auditors, Owen Jones, chair-
man of the Vic. Forests Commission, did
some plain speaking at Creswick recently
on the need for growing trees as well as
cereals and vegetables. Jones, a capable
young man, owns an Oxford science diploma,
saw three years’ service in the Air Force,
and had a forest training in India and Cey-
lon The Creswick plantation is one of his
pets, and deservedly so. On the worked-out
leases that surround the old mining town
millions of trees have been planted in quartz
formation scarred and lacerated in the days
of gold. These trees—mostly conifers, with
the maligned Pinus insignis predominating,
but with a leavening of Corsican, Oregon,
western yellow and Canary Island—are in
various stages of maturity, from seedlings
just planted out to trees ready for the mill
or being milled. The minimum required to
meet Victoria’s timber needs is 5,000.000
acres. At present the total reservation is
just over 3,000,000 acres, not all of it
planted—Parliament, as Jones drily said, has
failed to provide the funds. At the nursery
2,000,000 trees are ready for planting this
year. They mu'll cover 2000 acres. That is
all the Commission can do ■ with the money
available. Yet for a modest outlay com-
pared with the vast sums lavished on various
settlement schemes, 3,000,000 acres could be
planted, and that on exhausted mining ground
unfitted for agriculture. Math the result that
Victoria would meet its own softwoods re-
quirements in less than 25 years. The poli-
ticians seemed interested in Jones’s speech,
but his proposals lack one compelling quality.
Trees don’t represent votes.


ART OF II
JT
MAGIC
)Cy®
& andmde-
SYOntT SB* rtifOJftflt
ART OF MAGIC, 2 6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/6.
Levinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
Fifty Simple
Card Tricks, 1/6
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
FREE CATALOGS—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 201 Bourke Street,
SYDNEY, and MELBOURNE.
[3
1
n
3
•£2. l»-
sr r
mu
m
ms
Fruit 8 Walnut Cakes
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only — European Plan.
Dining Service :T la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
ATIOH
«S 8
Tarifi—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caffe and Hotel Proprietor*.
Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
6ecame dear that no Union Jack was to be burned by
seme hireling of Piute to discredit the Labor paity
(as Lang had hysterically suggested), Kay got a
bigger and more interested crowd than any five of
the Labor speakers apart from Lang and Willis.
Considering the spadework he has done for them
since 1917 the Nationalists have treated Kay rather
shabbily, although they did run him for a hopeless
Federal seat on one occasion. He is contesting North
Shore on his own account, and may give some of the
machine candidates a shock.
The Commonwealth has a chronic sur-
plus, and a little of it might be thrown
overboard by a reduction of excise duties.
Last financial year the Treasurer collected
£10,572,902 in these levies, which was a
monstrous burden to lay on local manufac-
tures. In 1913-14 the excise was £2,325,333,
but in the war-time increases were made in
a very offhand fashion, and the amount
dragged from Australian industry was multi-
plied by about 44. The importing man got
off much more lightly. His contribution rose
from £12,652,737 in 1913-14 to £25,177,882
last year, so it didn’t quite multiply by two,
and as imports also multiplied by about two
it couldn’t be said that any extra load was
put on the importer to help pay for the war.
The illegal strike which has closed the
Perth restaurants and hotels for weeks is
a sequel to Thomas Walsh’s war on Austra-
lian and British shipping, having been worked
up by two arrogant Westralian Walsheviks.
During its progress it has been shown (1)
that the public convenience doesn’t matter
a dump to the unions concerned, (2) that
wagepayers trying to carry on a lawful
business can expect no protection from the
Collier or Cocktail Cabinet when yelling
mobs besiege and explode stink-bombs on
tlieir premises, and (3) that even the traffic
regulations cease to operate in such cases,
the said mobs having been permitted to block
the entrances to “black” caf(*s, although
peaceable citizens contemplating the riotous
proceedings (one of them an elderly ex-
Speaker) have been moved on. Public
The Langs and Dooleys wasted much elec-
tion time with their tale of the imaginary
wonders they achieved when they ran N.S.W.
before. It was all singularly irrelevant,
When they took office before they weren t
pledged to the Gory Objective. If they get
office now they will be pledged to it, first,
foremost and all the time. What they say
they did under totally different conditions
doesn’t matter now.
The N. S. Wales Progressives showed poor
judgment in nominating Crawford Vaughan
for suburban Ryde instead of a country
constituency. Vaughan has only an outside
chance in Ryde, where there is no Prog,
organisation worth talking about, whereas
he could have comfortably won the Goul-
burn seat occupied in the last Parliament
by Rutledge, the well-liked A.I.F. Colonel,
and now in some danger. An ex-Premier
of South Aus. and a Parliamentarian whose
experience dates back to 1905, though he is
no more than 50, Vaughan is the ablest re-
cruit the Progs, have captured; and in their
own interest they should have offered him
something better than a forlorn hope.
Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., in the Sydney
Domain: —
People will say that j r ou have bad men among you.
If the Christ of 2000 years ago could not pick 12
perfect men, how can we wonder that some fall by
the wayside?
But at least one of Christ’s bad men had
the decency to go and hang himself. The
ballot-box fakers are still alive.
N.SAV. Labor-leader Lang isn’t the only
one who is facing two ways. In Brisbane,
at the annual Labor Day dinner, Minister
McCormack pointed out in _ commonsense
language that manufacturers in Queensland
under the 44-hour week would be at a disad-
vantage compared with those of Sydney and
Melbourne, and that “splendid conditions for
the favored few meant pushing the less
favored into unemployed.” Yet next day
the same McCormack marched ahead of a
procession carrying a banner which pro-
claimed a 36-hour week as Democracy s
immediate goal. Still, it was probably only
a misprint. The Australian Democracy that
struggles ior a 36-hour week is making for a
dole, not a goal.
There seems to be an idea in some Aus-
tralian trades-liall circles that, even if the
Russian “silvertails” “got it in the neck. ’
things under Communism are all right for
the working-man. According to the Ikon
Age the number of registered unemployed in
the Russian iron trade was 1,400,000 at the
end of 1924, and labor is “increasingly in-
ferior owing to the migration of the old
skilled hands to the country”—where the rule
of the Soviet doesn’t run to the kame extent.
Production is improving, but all metal goods
are only 27 per cent, of the pre-war output,
the average wage is 39 roubles (£3 18s.) per
month and the per capita outputof iron ore lias
shrunk to 30 p.c. of that of 1913 owing to the
absence of expert direction and general indif-
ference. A Kieff Province official report said
lately that no less than 49 per cent, of the
local peasantry are so poor that they now
possess no farm machinery or tools of any
kind.
At a Domain demonstration: —
Looking at Lang, the N. S. Wales Labor leader,
in the Sydney Domain on■ Sunday, one instantly con-
jured up an image of Jack Scaddau of W'estialia
when Scaddan was Labor Premier and sported a
moustache. Physically and facially the resemblance
is striking, so much so that the pair could pass for
twin-brothers; but whereas Scaddan is a brisk and
humorous speaker, Lang’s utterances are heavy and
dull. After 15 minutes of his ponderous promises
and droning complaints it was a relief to listen to
the apt and cheerful little A. D. Kay. And when it
THE POOR RELATION.
“In answer to an unemployed deputation, Mr. Bruce refused to recognise the relation, between
inadequate tariff-protection and the large army of unemployed workers—skilled and unskilled.
JEAMES YELLOWPLUSH BRUCE : “ ’E calls kisself a poor relation, sir—sich impudence."
un ’ ’e refuses to go away, although I ’are told ’im we are nothing for tin.
opinion is dead against the Walsheviks and
the Cocktail Cabinet, and so many infuriated
citizens have audibly renounced the Liaboi
party and all its works that Labor candidates
for the Senate and the House of Reps, are
feeling ill. For, with the decline of gold-
mining and the advent of the new Labonsm,
Westralia has really ceased to be a Labor
State, although an out-of-date distribution
enabled the Cocktail Cabinet to fluke office
on a minority vote last year.
Horsham (Vic.) all but ignored the State
Cabinet Ministers who went up from Mel-
bourne to declare an instalment of the pro-
gramme for next session. There were only
50 or 60 people in the Town Hall when
Goudie, Argyle, Bourehier and Groves
marched on to the platform. And yet it was
a pretty good tale they had to unfold. To
wit, a road-construction policy involving a
million a year for live years and £BOO,OOO
a year on maintenance ; superannuation for
State employees on a contributory basis;
better conditions for teachers; motor-lorry
services to feed the railways; homes for
agricultural laborers; farm training for
migrants; half a million for forestry; and
a campaign against tuberculosis and V.D.,
as well as criminal law and lunacy reform.
And then something was saved for Governor
Stradbroke’s speech at the opening of the
session about July 1. Redistribution of
seats, for example, which is to be referred
to the familiar commission with power to
—report.
The Queensland Government was squatting
on 15 stations when the list was last pub-
lished, and when it cuts up Dillalah and lets
it to Private Enterprise at the end of this
year it will squat on 14. The old enthusi-
asm has evaporated a good deal. Public
squattage was never so big an affair as the
fuss and advertisement suggested. At the
last count the Government had 91,158 male
animals and 127,255 women cattle on its vast
area, making 218,413 hoofed creatures in all.
As Queensland possessed 6,396,514 cattle in
all the Government was proprietor of a little
over 3 per cent, of the lot. It owned 7184
horses out of a total of 660,387. Apparently
it owned no sheep or hogs, so out of about 24
million animals it cultivated less than 1 per
cent. As it wasn’t bound to charge itself
rent, and certainly didn’t raise its rent as it
did that of the individual State tenant, it
was just a rather favored pastoralist, doing
business in a moderate way, and allegedly
demonstrating a great principle of some sort.
The Brisbane Labor Day procession, which
was headed by Matthew Charlton, McCor-
mack and several other State Ministers,
carried banners with these devices: “Long
Live Soviet Russia; Spread the Way for
Revolution”; “Our Immediate Objective-
Six Hours a Day”; “Capitalism Gives Men
Unemployment, Sweat-shops, Death”; “It
the Capitalists Want War, Let them Cut
Their Own Throats.” Only one working-
man in a dozen knows quite how far the
Communists have white-anted his unions and
his political machine. Displays of this sort
in a procession led by the chief of the
Federal Labor party ought to make the
other 11 do some thinking.
All inquiry should be made into the over-
time worked on the Yic. railways. The
Bulletin is told on the best authority that
drivers work as much as 4<j hours in four
consecutive days ; and, considering the nature
of their work, this doesn’t look much like
“safety first.”
“Would United States gain by joining the
British Empire?” was a big heading in the
Sydney Sunday Sun. It would. It would
gain the Empire.
One Russel, a salvage man, who lately got
a smashed steamer repaired at Port xldel-
aide, reports that Australian workmen vary
from excellent down to hair-raising. Measured
by the amount of work done under the same
conditions the best man, he said, was almost
exactly eight times the value of the worst
one. Yet if he had paid a bonus to the best
man there would have been a strike, and if
he had sacked the worst one there would
have been Ancient Nick to pay.
The two Port Adelaide seats in S.A.
Assembly are so safe for Labor that the pre-
selection is more exciting than the appeal
to the people. J. S. Verran has been chosen
to fill the vacancy made by J. L. Price going
to London as Agent-General. Both are sons
of former Labor Premiers, and both sat tor
the Port till the 1921 general election, when
Verran was left out in the preliminary
plebiscite, and sent to take his chance of a
seat in Sturt. There lie failed after a close
go, but now lie gets his reward.
Buchanan, the British engineer now in
these parts, made some comments on Queens-
land railway management because, on the run
from Cairns to Rockhampton, two engines
broke down. One breakage was within nine
miles of the biggest city in the North, and
the other within 20 miles of the second
biggest, yet each time the delay was live
hours. Whereupon Railways Minister Lar-
combe, without denying the breakages, called
the visitor a “defaming globe-trotter, and
opined that it was the indignity of having
to go railroading in “a Labor-controlled
State” which made the Briton “spit blood.
Larcombe ought to have known better: his
anger merely suggests that a five-hours de-
lay in Queensland is too ordinary a happen-
ing to call for mention.
Melbourne Argus repudiates the notion
that there is any connection between the
flood of cheap imported goods and the spread
of unemployment, and bursts into tears at
the mere suggestion of “tampering with
the tariff. But things are so deplorable that
even some of the Melbourne municipalities
are waking up. Suburbs like Brunswick,
Coburg, Richmond, Fitzroy, Williamstown
and Collingwood have adopted the policy ot
buying only Australian-made goods and
machinery. An exception is Caulfield, where
the racehorses live, which defied public
opinion and imported a road-roller because
it was “cheaper.” And the worst of it is
that mean-spirited bumbles have been given
some ground for believing that, if they
buy cheap imported machinery, the duties
will be waived by a Government that calls
itself Protectionist.
Acting-Premier Angwin, of Westralia, was
really hurt when the Council of the Jus-
tices’ Association complained of the present
holdup in Perth, and replied tartly that
“the police were carrying out their duties m
an unbiased manner, doing what they
thought was right in preventing a breach
of the peace, and placing all parties on an
equality.” Certainly some parties can t
carry on business because other parties
picket their premises, search them from
garret to cellar in the hope of capturing and
removing employees, sit on the stairs and
order away customers, but that is all in
Angwin’s idea of equality.
Queensland has been dubious about
Pearce’s new northern province, but it felt
better on learning that he proposed to let
it keep the Cape York Peninsula and to take
only a strip of Western Queensland north
of 20deg. south. Westralia is to give up a
patch east of a line drawn from Wyndham
lo the same degree. These are the latest
weekly “amendments” of the scheme. it
Parce will draw his lines so that they leave
out all the country that the two States want
to keep, they will no doubt give him the rest,
with their blessing. With a little coaxing
X S. Wales might also present lam with
all the land—and dingoes—west of the Dar-
lin-' except Broken Ilill and a few special
patches. And if lie waits long enough ho
can have the Hill, too.
Siam, with which France has just con-
cluded a treaty by which she agrees to sub-
mit her nationals to the jurisdiction of
the native courts, has a short way with alien
undesirables. She expels them, _ first, how-
ever, tattooing them on the wrist, so that
they may be known if they return. It this
truly Oriental measure were universally
adopted, it would be feasible to collect all
the habitual criminals and Bolshevik agita-
tors in one spot. As there can be no crooks
where there are no honest people, this sug-
gested Alsatla would probably present to
the world a model of good government.
ANZAC NIGHT, 1925.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One clanks his gleaming medals till the ring
Sounds as bright bayonets whipping for the charge;
Another draws the lines of a barrage
Upon a beer-stained table, murmuring
That such a thing is men, and such a thing
The looming cliffs; and this a sunken barge;
And that a grave; and these the guns’ discharge;
And those the broadcast bullets spattering.
Others there are who patently pretend
All to forget; whose talk is of the ways
Of women, horses, politics and blight.
And yet one more —and may the kind gods lend
Peace to his soul! —a white-faced one who says:
“The nurse might shut me out. (food-night, good-
night.”
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


THE LADY WHO ALWAYS MISSES THE ’BUS.
“The much-heralded policy speech of the Victorian Government, delivered hy a bevy of Ministers before 50 apathetic electors at Horsham last week. contained no reference to the crYins need of redistribution of seats.”


[ know- there is no throat-harm in a million j
STSIE (XBRESS 4% O
AAA
20 f or
VIRGINIA CICARETTES
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO M LTD.
0
w
4
/
Society
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLES INKS"
“Ces”: Whenever I come home on the
wrong side of midnight with a cray and
a cargo to meet the usual conjugal re-
proaches. I think regretfully of poor old
Jamie McTibbs and the way his mild-
mannered wife treated him on the occasion of
the big fire at Sulky Gully. That night he was
just recovering from a week’s jag. His long-
suffering helpmate must have known that
a fire. meant cheap beer and plenty at the
pub, but she raised no objection when Jamie
announced that he was going down to see
the blaze. That, was on the Wednesday.
Two nights later a few of us were
FIFTY-FIFTY.
“John, I gave you a
letter to post a month
ago, and I found it in your pocket
to-day."
“Yes, darling; the coat’s becn waiting for
you to sew a button on."
surveying the ruins, when we saw Jamie
come out of the pub and slither up the
street toivards his home. We followed. As
he neared the gate, Jamie made spasmodic
attempts to appear sober. He scaled the
verandah after several diagonal rushes, and,
straightening himself against the doorpost,
rattled his hand upon the door. A light
appeared in the passage, and we waited for
the outburst. But it was the mildest of
voices that reached us. “So it’s you, Jamie:”
she said. “Is the fire out yet?”
“Trevdee”: The stout, thoughtful-looking
gent, who had seated himself opposite me
in the three-course feeding-house which I
frequent ordered apple-pie for a start, then
roast-beef, and finally mulligatawny soup.
My curiosity at his queer reverse action over-
came my manners, and I asked him politely
why he took his meals that way. Well,
I’ll' tell you,” he said, gulping down his last
spoonful of soup between sips of coffee, LJI
tell you, but keep it quiet, because the idea
may become a habit with everybody. Apple-
pie was always ’off’ when I used to reach
the third course — soup is never off! ’
“Gouger” : One of the best friends I made
in the war was a little pony that carried
rue for three long years over blazing sands
and mountain snows, carried me .safely
through many a hail of Austrian shells and
Turkish bullets. I’ve shared my iron rations
with her in the
hard times, and my
water-bottle on the
awful desert
marches. On the
Khan Yunus stunt
the regiment had
halted for a hasty
meal among low
hillocks close to an
evacuated Bedouin
camp. We slung
the scant nosebags
on the hungry nod-
dies just as I
was called away.
Twenty minutes
later I got the
strongest feeling
th a t my pony
needed me. I can-
not explain it, but
I was sure she was
in trouble. I grab-
bed a good-tem-
pered orderly to
carry on with mv
job, and ran back
to the squadron.
The pony was miss-
ing from the lazing
troophorses. I ran
straight past oyer
the hillocks, feeling
sure she had wan-
dered back to the
Bedouin camp. The
nomads often
buried barley grain
about their camps,
and I was in the
habit of fossicking
for the big earthen
jars and giving the
good belly-fodder to
the mare. She’d
remembered all
right, and in the
course of her quest
had fallen down
a Turkish rifle-
pit. As I raced I could see her head plung-
ing frantically just above the level of the
pit. There was a black shroud struggling
about her neck. It was a Bedouin girl with
a horn-liandled knife, and the brown devil
was trying to cut my pony’s throat.
* * * *
“Torres” : “Sucre’s” minister who married
himself (B. 30/4/’25) recalls to me a young-
clergyman who left a North Queensland town
to meet his English fiancee at Thursday
Island, and returned to his parish with his
wife. As there was no clergyman on the
island, he was asked “Who married you?”
and he replied “I did.” An unsatisfied
churchwarden wrote the Bishop, “Can a man
marry himself?” The answer was equally
brief, “Can a man bury himself?” Years
later the registrar of marriages at T.I. .casu-
ally. mentioned to me that he had married
the pair; but the bridegroom, being a strict
churchman, insisted on performing the reli-
gious ceremony too —as far as he was able.
The same man afterwards wrote a work on
theology, which obtained some vogue in Eng-
lish ecclesiastical circles, and is still quoted
as an authority. He was a relative of the
late Lord Curzon.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: According to novelists,
many old-time marriages were celebrated
by impostors who posed as clergymen, the
bride being subsequently left to discover
that she had been the victim of unscrupulous
villains and her marriage was invalid. Nowa-
days. in Victoria, at any rate, you can be
legally married by a butcher or a plumber -
provided that one party believes that the
person who performs the service is duly
qualified the marriage is valid. The Mar-
riage Act 1915 is explicit on the subject.
It says: “No marriage in fact shall be voided
by reason only of the same, having been
celebrated by a pe ; rson not being a minister
of religion or ordinarily officiating minister
of religion, or the Government Statist, or
a registrar of marriages, if either of the
parties to the marriage at the time bona-
fide believe that he was such a minister of
religion, ordinarily officiating minister of
religion, Government Statist or registrar of
marriages.”
* * * *
“Bill o’ Costs”: A recent remark of Judge
Parsons (S.A.) that he entirely disagreed with
a jury’s verdict —his Honor made some at-
tempt to quell the subsequent storm by the
almost incredible statement that he “wel-
comed criticism” —has started laymen once
more raising the question of the right of
a Judge to comment on a jury’s finding.
There are no “rights” in the matter. Both
Judge and jurymen are entitled to remark
upon each other’s conduct of a case if any-
one will listen to them. They only run the
risk of being told, more or less politely, to
stick to the job for which they were respec-
tively appointed. I wait in vain, however,
for the joy of seeing an indignant juror rise
in his box and address the great man in liis
ermine and horse-hair thus: “In spite of
having had tb® i»V clearly explained to you
IT WASN’T HER IDEA.
“Work from nine to six! I wouldn’t think of such a thing!"
“Neither would I, dear. It was the Boss who thought of it before
he gave me the job.”
by both the Crown Prosecutor and counsel
for the accused, you have seen fit to direct
us differently. We entirely disagree with
you. We can’t discharge you, but you ought
to be sacked.” Or upon this model: “We
fail to understand how any presumably in-
telligent Judge could deliver such an inter-
pretation of the law. It reflects grave dis-
credit on your education and commonsense.
We shall report your incompetence to the
Attorney-General.” Yet why nob? Sauce
to the jury—sauce to the Judge.
“ J.H.”: Two gentlemen named Solomon
and Goldberg were fined in Melbourne re-
cently for failing to pay an employee for
two statutory holidays. There were other
fines for other omissions, but Fate went a
bit over the fence in ordaining that the two
holidays in question should be Good Friday
and Easter Monday.
“Percy Pawnticket” : Saith the Melbourne
Herald : “It does not matter whether she
wears crinolines and a ‘bun,’ or short skirt
and bobs her hair, woman remains essenti-
ally the same.” Yes, verily:
Let hair be bobbed, or curled, or coiled,
Its strands have power to net us,
And girls whose waists are low —or high—
We’ll squeeze whene’er they let us.
For whatsoever woman wears
She wakens still man’s passion;
The She within ,her changing modes
Is always in the fashion.
“Agent”: About the most surprised Mel-
bournite of the year is an Essendon citizen
who has contracted the reprehensible habit
of absenting himself from his home for days
at a time. Returning at midnight from one
of his periodical jags, he had hardly let
himself in to his house when a strange
voice sternly ordered him to put up his
hands. He promptly did so —for combative
purposes—and there was a great scrimmage
amongst the furniture before the lights were
switched on. When it dawned on the be-
wildered homecomer that the overturned
household gods were not his own, he began
to think he must have got into the wrong
house. A policeman who had been attracted
by the noise of battle and the screams of
women helped to sort out the situation. The
first realisation of wliat had actually happened
came with the wanderer’s recollection of his
wife’s often-repeated threat that the next
time he went a.w.l. she would move from
the house, and he would have no home to
return to. The indignant lady had done
it, and a new tenant had moved in on the
heels of the evacuation. It was a thoroughly
dejected as well as bruised person who wan-
dered out into a dark world which had swal-
lowed his home and furniture, uncheered hy
the policeman’s kindly offer to lay a charge,
against him that would at least provide a
lodging for the night.
“The Deacon”: The statement heard from
an R.C. pulpit hy “Dr. Nil” (B. 21/5/’25)
that two Catholics placed in such circum-
stances that a priest would not he available
for an indefinite period could live as man and
wife on the understanding that the first,
opportunity would be taken of getting the
union solemnised was the regular teaching
prior to 1908. In that year the terms
were slightly altered: the now notorious
Ne Temere decree was issued, in which
I’iux X. declared such procedure in order for
any eligible pair of Catholics who would not
he able to get in touch with their pastor or
another priest within a month, provided there
were two witnesses to the exchange of the
necessary consent. Wherever the Ne
Temere has been promulgated, as in Aus-
tralia, such a marriage is perfectly regular;
consecpiently, if the padre is hung up by the
rains in the blacksoil country and likely to
he there for a month, Dave and Sarah can go
ahead with an easy conscience. So far there
has been no record in N. S. Wales of such a
ceremony, the impatience of parties thus
circumstanced presumably not being such as
to reconcile them to the novelty of it. If the
Decree had world-wide application it might
he a different matter.
* * * *
“Harold Ilardupp”: It’s a poor sort of
house in Melbourne that lacks its gas bath-
heater; and quite a lot of them are potential
death-traps. One of them provided Mel-
bourne with an addition to its list of horrors
last week;; a man and woman were overcome
by gas-fumes, and, in a houseful of people,
suffocated or steamed to death. Apparently
the woman had been overcome in the bath
itself, and the man, intending to lift her.
had been himself overcome before he could
do more than remove the bath-plug. Mel-
bourne has run close to scores of tragedies
arising from the same cause, the prisoned
gas-fumes being unable to find escape in a
flueless room which is usually the worst ven-
tilated in the house.
* * * *
“Centurion” : It followed as the night the
day that the gallant ex-Guardsman, Colonel
Dennistoun, should resign his commission as
an officah on the reserve, after the showing
up he recently received in the English courts.
In pre-war days a commission in the Guards
carried serious responsibilities. Only a black
tie could be worn with mufti, though in later
days, as the lounge suit edged its way in,
the Guards colors might be worn with blue
serge, except in the West End. One might
figure as a co-respondent in a divorce case,
provided the circumstances were not
EXTENT! A TING CIROOMSTANCES.
“I am surprised at Barbara marrying him .
From what I can gather he seems to he
a little hit — off."
“if depends upon what you consider a little
hit. I should say six thousand a year
was very well off."
too red-hot. On the other hand, if one mar-
ried a member of the Gaiety chorus one’s
papers went in automatically. It was once
computed that these matrimonial casualties
cost the Household Brigade more officers be-
tween the Crimea and 1914 than did the field
of glory.
(Continued on page 16.)
VISION SPLENDID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Councillor said he did not see the use oi
spending money on a heap of stones.” —Discussion on
War Memorial appeal.
A heaven-touching temple first they scan,
That lifts its trembling spires up to the light,
Ae if the sick, aspiring soul of man
To Cod reached shaking fingers from the night
That ev’rywhere encompassed him. The glow,
That lights a little while the artist mind,
Had died, in birth of beauty, to bestow
This mud-denying gesture on mankind.
The grave and weighty fellow simply groans:
“I only see,” says he, “a heap of stones.”
They showed him then an olden idyll, limned
In ’during colors of a cunning seer,
Whose e'ager, questing eyes had been undimmed
For one God-given moment that the* sheer
Eiichantment of all youth and love might live
Down through the years for unbegotten men,
To lift their sullied eyes and solace give
For some of that sad filth that fouls their pen.
He gazed at it, this solid man and quaint;
“I only see,” said he, “a mass of paint.”
A sombre cenotaph they last displayed,
The casket of a nation’s Unknown Dead.
One drooping flag above it was arrayed,
One wreath of laurel looped about its head:
And silent thousands lingered there to mourn,
Poor symbol of the myriad gallant lost!
One lonely skeleton in nameless bourne,
The gem that casket held ... .0 God, its cost I
But waste the worthy man no whit condones;
“I only see, ’ said he, “a heap of bones.”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


lip
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the Biitish Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto,
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
lU"*> ' *ft
anantMy'
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
“H.H.”: Coincidence and a rather com-
mon name played a trick upon a man named
Frederick Williams which nearly landed him
in gaol the other day. Expecting some money
from Adelaide he called at the Sydney G.P.O.
and was handed a letter containing a postal-
order for £lO, which he promptly cashed.
But actually the postal-order was one that
another Frederick Williams, on his way to
Australia, had sent to himself from Malta,
Malta postal-orders, it appears, coming
through Adelaide; and the other Frederick’s
signature to the scrap of paper was a techni-
cal forgery. Fortunately for himself he was
able to prove his expectation of money from
Adelaide, or the mere fact that he had re-
stored the money to its rightful owner might
not have saved him.
“Bouragi”: Detzner and Klink, the two
German New Guinea officials who “went
AN OPTIMIST.
MRS. PRIM : “What a cheerful woman Mrs. Smiler is.”
MRS. TRIM : “Yes, she’s the sort of woman who can have a good
time just thinking of what a good time she would have if
she were having it.”
bush”-when war was declared (B. 14/5/’25),
did not have to go to Morobe to hear that
der Tag had dawned ; the news came to them
in much more dramatic fashion. The Ger-
man survey party had crossed the boundary
into Papua behind the Lakekamu goldfield,
and natives brought the news to Chisholm,
then magistrate at Nepa, the district station.
The German expedition numbered 200 armed
men, besides carriers. Chisholm took three
native police, three white miners and five
carriers to stem the invasion. Moving
quickly, the little party came to a high ridge
over-looking the big German camp on flat
ground, and reconnoitred, much as Gideon
looked down on the hosts of Midian. A
native policeman was sent down to the Ger-
man camp with a note explaining that war
had been declared, and that their position
was commanded by a Papuan Armed Host.
The messenger had been warned to give
no hint of the Armed Host’s numbers and
disposition. The German party, badly
bluffed, broke camp at once and made back for
Morobe, their retreat being so disorganised
that some of their police and carriers were
mopped up by the British “forces.” Had
Detzner pressed on, he could have cleaned
up the Lakekamu field and Nepa, and secured
gold, arms, ammunition, stores and, perhaps,
one of the steamers then trading to the field.
In that case it is quite within the bounds
of possibility that Port Moresby would have
fallen into his hands, seeing that everything
in the shape of a man-o’-war was over New
Britain way.
* * # •
“Engee”: Speaking of stowaways, I have
known them escape detection for weeks. A
pair discovered on one of the Bay liners last
year must have put up something like a
record in this direction. They em-
barked at Sydney and camped in an
empty six-bertli cabin. They never missed
a meal or an entertainment, and altogether
had quite a good trip till within four days of
London, when a sudden and unannounced
ship inspection caught them unprepared.
They got three weeks on landing; but they
said it was worth it.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: We got an imported domestic
to help during a busy time. According
to her references, she had experience in all
branches of housework, and really did fairly
well until she was to be left to cook the
dinner. “Oh, Missus, I couldn’t,” she pro-
tested. “But why? You are supposed to
be able to cook—didn’t you do any before
you came to this country?” “No, Missus.
I was a coffin-trimmer.”
* * * *
“X.D.”: A new terror for the fugitive
criminal is reported from the land of the
wooden nutmeg; last week finger-prints were
wired from New York to Chicago, and were
immediately identified as the signs-manual
of a new arrival under police observation.
There was a time when the finger-print sys-
tem was viewed a little sceptically as a
means of identification; but it is a fixed
science now. The magnified prints are classi-
fied according to whorls, spirals, etc., and
to the man who knows the theory it is as
simple as turning up a reference in an en-
cyclopedia. I have seen a new finger-print
identified in 30sec. by reference to the finger-
print library at Long Bay (Sydney). The
telegraphing of photographs tightened up the
net against the refugee from justice; this new
departure is going to make the way of the
transgressor even harder.
“Woorook”: About the most desolating,
story I ever heard was told concerning
the just-sold Rotomaliana. A woman occu-
pied a cabin with her two children, one a
baby, the other a girl of about four. The
baby was peevish and squally, and the mother
tried in vain to
soothe it. She
cooed to it, cuddled
it, rocked it
patiently, shook it
impatiently, showed
it the doorknob, the
pretty curtain, the
lovely blue sea
through the open
porthole and the
waves slipping past
at 15 knots. No
good! In desperate
vapidity she ex-
claimed : “Oh, if
you don’t stop I’ll
put you through
the porthole!” The
baby taking no
notice of the
threat, the mother
decided to go and
see if any other
mother had teething-
powders to spare.
Placing the infant
in the bunk, she
hurried away,
paused a few
moments to explain
her trouble, got the
powders and hur-
ried back to the
cabin. The child
was nowhere visible. The four-year-old
sister explained: “Baby wouldn’t stop cry-
ing, mummy, so I put it through the port-
hole for you.”
* * * *
“Sylvester Saveabob”: The Westralian
goldfield of Edjudina provided the most re-
markable christening in Australia. Years
ago there was only one white woman on the
field—ft Mrs. Brown; her husband was a
prospector, and. she ran a boarding-house.
One day the miners were delighted to hear
that the first baby had been born in their
midst, and at once they decided to celebrate
the event. A crowd adjourned to the home
ol the Browns, where they called for the
new baby. The mite was brought, and some
champagne was poured into a basin. The
baby’s feet were dipped » the liquor, and
the girl was there and then christened Edju-
dina Yarrie Brown. In her fist a nugget
of gold was placed, and the diggers departed
to continue celebrating the event. There
should be a young woman somewhere in
Australia to-day bearing the unique Chris-
tian name of Edjudina Yarrie; for at her
formal christening a few months later her
parents adhered to the names chosen by the
miners.
* * * *
“M.11.H.”: I have before me a letter
posted in Australia to a relation in Europe
just prior to the outbreak of war. In the
ALL SET.
“It’s settled then, dear, that we’ll elope to-night at eleven?”
“Yes, darling.”
“Goodo! You’re sure you can get your things together by then?”
“Quite, dear —Mum and Dad have both promised to help.”
turmoil which followed the lady addressee
moved quickly from one place to another,
living at different times in France, Italy,
Switzerland and Denmark. In all cases she
left a forwarding address behind her, and
the letter followed faithfully, sticking to the
trail until she crossed the Atlantic to
America. Then it turned back on the home-
ward journey, and eventually returned to
Australia. The postal authorities here were
equally conscientious, and eventually located
the sender in Northern Queensland, long after
the war was ended. The letter came back in-
tact, but without a fraction of an inch of space
left anywhere on the envelope, and with a
queer jumble of directions in seven lan-
guages.
“Borom”: Prison authorities are always
Confronted with a problem on those rare
occasions when an ex-policeman, especially
one who has been a detective, is entrusted to
their care. Among the ordinary inmates of
every good-sized gaol are sure to be some
with a personal account to settle against
the man who may have helped to put them
where they are. and it is obvious that even
the life of a prisoner of this sort may be in
danger. In addition, some of the officials
themselves are likely to have known such
a man in former days, which makes it diffi-
cult for them to treat him as gaol regulations
demand. For these and other reasons it is
probable that the two detectives recently sen-
tenced in Melbourne will serve their terms
in some ouiet country prison where there
are only a few other confinees. It is, at all
events, extremely unlikely that they will do
their “stretch” in Pentridge.
“H.K.”: The bell of the Dunbar, which
was wrecked at Sydney Heads over 67 years
ago, still serves a useful purpose at Darling-
hurst (Sydney). Sold with other effects
after the wreck, it was bought by St. John’s
("Anglican) Church. On the installation of
the fine peal now attached to that well-known
shrine, the old ship’s bell was relegated to
the lumber-room. Afterwards, however, it
was rescued and remounted, and now sum-
mons pupils to the parochial school.
“L.M.”: The old N.S.W. Parliament
House is in a bad way; only the hospital
next door keeps the Council Chamber on
its weary feet with a few staunch props.
Elsewhere white ants are doing more than
the Communists to bring about the downfall
of the Chamber. That is why, soon after
the Prince of Wales’s visit, new beams were
placed under the balcony facing Macquarie-
street. Hundreds of people had crowded on
to and under that balcony, but there were
some who distrusted its security and didn’t,
After the ceremony it was found there really
were no beams worth mentioning under the
porch. The ants had nearly brought off a
sensational disaster, as the workmen dis-
covered when they came to place the new
timber.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The departure of the Ameri-
can fleet from ’Frisco, en route for this
country, has recalled a previous occasion
when the startled citizens of Sydney woke
up one morning to find a unit of Uncle
Sam’s navy had crept in during the night,
unheralded and without pilots, and anchored
itself blandly in Farm Cove. Going through
a bundle of brown old letters the other
night, I came on the following, written in
1839 by an ancestor, resident in Sydney, to
his brother in England, which throws a
curious light on that visit and indicates the
perturbation it caused :
You ask me about New Zealand. I very much fear
our taking that country under our protection, as
we call it, will involve us before long in a war with
America, and, above all, with France. Our position
in the country is very anomalous, and if, as they
seem determined to do, these two nations form settle-
ments on the island, they will come so nearly in con-
tact with us as to make it almost impossible to
avoid a collision. They have both squadrons already
here, and seem perfectly prepared to obtain their ends
either by fair or foul means. We are miserably oft
for naval protection here, a well-armed privateer
could any day raze Sydney to the ground.
Sydney’s defences, are relatively what they
were in 1839, so it is the blessing of Provi-
dence, no doubt, that the great armada of
127 vessels belongs to a friendly nation.
* * * *
“Merris”: The Diggers didn’t do all the
souveniring in France. “Froggy” himself
helped. So rapid was Fritz’s advance in
April, ’lB, that the inhabitants of Ilaze-
brouck and other French towns fled with
only the clothes they stood up in. When the
First Division had held up the Boche, every
assistance was given to the citizens to re-
move their furniture; and when the well-
dressed M’sieu’ de Chateaublanc requested
help, army motor-lorries were placed at his
disposal, and his fine house was soon de-
nuded of everything movable. A week or
so later the real M’sieu’ de Chateaublanc
arrived, and there was the devil to pay when
he found that not even a change of clean
linen had been left him.
* ♦ * *
“Ivum Day”: The most determined self-
slayer I ever met (B. 7/5/’25) was brought
into the casualty-room of a Sydney hospital
one evening. He had a gash in his throat
which had exposed the posterior wall of his
pharynx; in addition, he had taken a good
dose of arsenic. We washed his stomach
out, and sent him to the theatre for repairs.
Turning out his bag we found 16 powders,
each containing sufficient arsenic to finish a
man, two razors, a revolver loaded in all
chambers and two lengths of clothes-line.
The patient lived for ten days, apparently
much against his will; then the sloughing
of the wall of the common carotid artery
effected his purpose.
THE PIOUS PROFITEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 went to church last Sunday wcl.t- twas years
since I had been —
To hear once more about the meek and lowly
Nazarene;
And as the organ notes rang clear, I turned and
chanced to see
A smug ship-owning profiteer a-sitting next to me.
A blatant, smoodging jingo he, who owned the Union
Jack—
His war-time profits easily would fill a giant sack.
Self-satisfied and smug and grim, he sat contentedly.
The parson then announced a hymn—the hymn “for
those at sea.”
Internal Father, strong to save,” I heard my neigh-
bor roar.
He emphasised each swelling stave until his throat
was sore.
His sleek, fat belly heaved apace to do his bellows
proud,
His mouth encompassed all his face—God knows his
voice was loud.
“Oh, hear us when we cry to Thee” (my soul,
who couldn’t hear!)
“For those in peril on the sea” and freights
are down this year.
The gentle Teacher, meek and mild, with ships and
freights he fused—
I wondered whether God was wild, or only just
amused!
I went to church last Sunday week, and now I rue
the day.
The solace I had come to seek was wafted miles
away.
For that grand hymn, “for those at sea,” which
shrives the shellback clan,
A smug shipowner sang at me. .. .and I’m a sailor-
man !
A plate was pushed the pew within. The “owner”
gave a nod
And lodged his bounty with a grin—and squared
himself with God.
He sat in that religious light, self-satisfied and
grim....
Though he with God may be all right—well, I have
worked for him!
LONGSHORE.
ALBATROSS.


m
m
m
ffl i
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
Death Benefits. Eas > T Instalments.
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD.,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Pnrbury House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank -
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £145,099 £78,789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,016
(94 p.c.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126.610 1,376,626
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares.. 163,164 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares. . 14,739 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares.. 191,823 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,196 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares.. 167,529 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
*Six months.
The growth of the National has been
dazzling. To-day its capital of £4,000,000
is exceeded only by that of the Bank of N. S.
Wales and equalled only by the London-
controlled Bank of Australasia. (The Com-
monwealth Bank, with a capital of
£4,000,000 isn’t in this comparison.) In
its first half-century, which was celebrated
in 1908, capital moved slowly from £9O 563
to £1,498,220; and the first balance-sheet
total of £97,925 compared with £10,155,308
at the jubilee. To-day the total of £41,177,776
is over four times greater than it was in
1908. That is to say, in the past 161 years
the National has put on three times more
weight than it did in the previous 50. Not
that the Bank has had complete freedom
from troubles, even in late years. But its
Board was gifted with vision and faith as
well as wisdom. In 1918 it embraced the
Colonial of Victoria; a few years later the
Bank of Queensland (itself an amalgamation
of the Bank of N.Q. and the Boyal of Q.)
was brought in. So rapid has been the re-
sultant growth that capital has been in-
creased each year since 1921: —
Paid Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1920.. £2,000,000 £1,250,015 £725,127 £426,345
1921 . 2,000,000 1,376,625 862,102 625,491
192°.. 2,661,125 1,661,907 953,758 603,590
1923 . 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1924.. 3,225,000 2,148,342 1,199,282 701.113
1925.. 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321,419 782,587
For the moment there is a lull in the rumors
of further amalgamations in Australian bank-
ing. But amalgamation has given England its
Big Five, with enormous strength and secu-
rity to depositors, and it is unlikely that the
movement has definitely ended in Australia.
There still is too much overlapping of
branches, which is uneconomic and harmful
no less to depositors and borrowers than to
shareholders, for all pay their share of the
unnecessary expense.
The latest accounts cover the wonderfully
prosperous months in which 75 p.c. of the
record wool clip was sold at record prices
and the wheat and sugar cheques for thgir
record yields were doing the round trip. The
opulence of the man on the land is reflected
in balance-sheet movements :
1920. 1924. 1925.
Notes .. .. £49.809 £48,311 £48,184
Bills, etc. .. 962>.908 1,412,333 2,598,345
Free deposits .. 11,926,167 13,878,804 13.683,921
Fixed deposits .. 11,472,035 17,336,185 18,232,621
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 11,495,536 16,331,299
Advances .. 13,903,139 25,759,647 23,865,165
Premises, etc. .. 643,636 954,044 981,311
In the first complete twelvemonths after the
amalgamation with the Colonial deposits
totalled £23,398,202 and advances
£13,903,139; last year deposits were 81 mil-
lions greater (£31,916,542) and advances 10
millions greater (£23,865,165)
The net increase in deposits compared with
a year ago was £702,553; but the movement
was more favorable than those figures sug-
gest, inasmuch as fixed deposits increased by
£897,436. This gain and the decrease
(£1.894.482) in advances show the influence
of the general prosperity. On March 31,
1924, despite the curb which had been put
on, business had galloped so hard that only
35.2 p.c. of liabilities to the public were held
liquid. That a portion of the advances was
in a more liquid form than is usually the
case was a modifying factor; nevertheless a
cautious Board recommended an issue _ot
capital. That plus the growth in deposits
and the shrinkage in advances has greatly
changed the position. Last year’s accounts
closed with liabilities amounting to
£34,563,069, of which liquids represented
£16,331,299, equal to no less than 47.2 p.c.
—a movement of 12 p.c. in the year.. Thus
21 millions more is now held within easy
reach than usually is considered adequate.
Of the amount public securities represent
£4 463 018. The £18,231,770 of the public’s
money not held liquid was protected by
advances and premises with a written-down
value of £24,846,476. The internal resources
are probably substantial. At any rate, the
amalgamations insured that at those dates
no asset was over-valued, and as banking
business has been very profitable since then
the National, in common with the other
great banks, has unquestionably made pro-
vision for nil known contingencies nnd
doubtless something over for good measure.
Premises alone have been visibly written
down £195,000 since the Colonial was em-
braced. ....
On March 31 the bank was holding £5 7s.
9d. of outside money for each £1 of its own
funds. It is thus in a position to let oqt its
belt considerably and still be within the
limits considered safe. Put it this way. The
deposits amount to £31,916 542; they could
expand another £10,000,000 and still be. so
well secured that depositors could sleep. B or
the greater sum would represent less than
£7 to £l—and £8 to £1 is considered within
tiie safety margin. That the strength dis-
closed will attract further deposits is obvi-
ous, and the progressive management will
be able to seek business with greater free-
dom now that the exchange shackles have
been broken. Had it not been for the ex-
change difficulties the National would have
had a more profitable time. It does a big
exchange business, and during the months
of stress, before the re-constituted Common-
wealth Bank in conjunction with the Asso-
ciated Banks eased the difficulties by the
pooling arrangement, it had to bear a dis-
proportionately heavy share of the trouble.
With the return to the gold basis exchange
is no longer a difficulty. Although the mar-
gins are smaller now, the business which had
been done outside will doubtless flow back
to the Associated Banks.
* * * *
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney!:—
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1915. . £12.836 8 p.c. = £8,624 ( _ £7354
Written off, £8237 ) ’
1916.. 12,760 8 p.c. = 10,080 £2,680 10,034
1917.. 13,959 7 ~ „ 13.860 99 10.133
1918.. 15,116 7 „ „ 14,745 371 10,504
1919.. 24,626 12J „ ~ 23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245.633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued for every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
245,633
Add new co.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 11.1 p.c.= 50.576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co., £25,000.. .. .. 217,347
1922. . 103,100 13.3 p.c.= 77.922 1 3 178 2 14,169
Written off, £22.000 j ’
1923.. 105,440 11.1 p.c.= 72,274 33,166 181,003
Goodwill items, £15,097 .. •• 196,100
1924.. 82,109 11.1 p.c.= 80,978 1,131 194,969
1925.. 116,655 11.1 ~ „ 97,316 19,339 175.630
That record profit was made in the face
of the Melbourne failure, for the venture
south has ended with the sudden despatch
of the Evening Sun and the sale to the
rival Herald and Weekly Times,_ Ltd., of
the Sun News-Pictorial. The price is de-
scribed as highly satisfactory—“so large that
the Sydney Board did not feel justified in
interfering with. .. .the sale.” The annual
report put it in these terms: —
Sun Newspaper (Melbourne) Ltd., in which this
co. holds all the ordinary shares, has had a somewhat
disappointing year. The News-Pictorial has made
steady and increasing profits almost since its estab-
lishment, but these were nullified by the losses made
on the Evening Sun. Owing to the high productive
costs and the limited amount of advertising revenue
received, it was found impossible to reduce that loss
to a figure which would justify the directors of that
co. in continuing to spend shareholders’ funds. It
was therefore decided to accept an offer for the
goodwill of the Sun-Pictorial and to shut down the
Evening Sun. The price received for the goodwill
of the Pictorial was thoroughly satisfactory, and
should enable the company, with reasonable fortune
in realisation, to satisfy all its outstanding creditors,
and also recoup the shareholders (including Sun
Newspapers Ltd., Sydney) the full amount of their
investment.
On September 30, 1924, the capital of Sun
Newspapers (Melb.), Ltd., was £400,000.
Of that, £99 995 was in 8 p.c. prefs., most
of it subscribed by Sydney Sun sharehold-
ers. The whole of the ordinary capital of
£300,005 was held by the parent co. (An
extraordinary meeting last month sanctioned
an increase in capital to £500,000; a fort-
night later the sale was announced. None
of the shares were issued.) On September
30 liabilities were £110.665, and there were
tangible assets amounting to £420.731: —
Freehold Premises .. ..£152.014
Plant and machinery .. 157,661
Furniture and fittings .. 15,657
Stocks .. .. .. .. 45,475
Book debts .. .. .. 49,774
Cash .. .. .. .. 150
The price mentioned in The Bulletin as
having been paid for the goodwill of the
Pictorial is £175,000. No divs. have been
paid on the prefs., so that when liabilities
(including additions to the end of April)
are discharged, there will be the prefs. and
accumulated divs. to receive attention before
the parent co. can get anything. Stocks and
book debts should realise very close to the
figures. Furniture and fittings will doubt-
less bring only a good fraction of the book
value. The expensive plant and machinery,
assets not easy to sell in ordinary circum-
stances, should realise favorable prices.
Primarily, the parent co. will satisfy some
of its own machinery requirements from the
Melbourne plant, and offers already have
been received for portion of it. The big
building in Flinders-street may drag:
£152,014 seems a full value for the struc-
ture, which has had three years’ use. There
are, then, assets with a book value (Sept.
30) of £420,731, and. say, £175,000 purchase
money, plus the £lO,OOO p.a. payments for
the cables to balance the liabilities, prefs.
and divs., and the ordinary capital, in all
approximating £540,000. (That,too, is at Sept.
30. What loss has been sustained since has
to be taken into consideration, although last
annual report declared that it was diminish-
ing.) Assuming the reported goodwill price
to be correct, chairman Hugh Denison did
not exaggerate when he termed the sale
“highly satisfactory.” No part of the battle
was so successful as the retreat from the
field.
The big move took place subsequent to
the closing of the accounts, and to that ex-
tent they are out of date. The profit claimed
was £111,557; but £5097, establishment and
brokerage charges in connection with the
Melbourne Sun float, was wiped off, which
explains the figure in the introductory table.
The steady progression that has marked the
co.’s career since it took over the assets of
the old Australian Newspaper Co. in March,
1910, for £28,000 and turned a sinking Stak
into a rising Sun, was still evident:—
1919. 1922. 1924. 1925.
Paid capital.. £190,910 £594,742 £804.408 £894,048
Liabilities .. 37,197 69,641 150,835 56,063
Premises .. 61,370 130,482 165,567 168,817
Plant, etc. . . 79,784 139.717 217,834 231,553
Stocks . . 86,703 80,093 83,197 87,632
Book debts .. 34,347 80,837 94,063 107,573
Cash, etc. . . 18,968 4,179 6,274 2,065
Investments . . 90,110 302,466 302,360
Goodwill . . 217,633 230,097 225,000
Calls during the year increased capital by
£89,640, and enabled the co. to wipe out
its debt to the bank: sundry creditors (which
include the bank overdraft) were less by
£94,769. Goodwill is in the books at
£215,000, and there is another intangible:
Australian Cable Service, £lO,OOO. In the
introductory table they are reduced by the
amount standing to general reserve, £30,000,
the year’s appropriation £lB,OOO, and the un-
distributed balance £1369. But there are
other reserves : buildings, plant and machinery
reserve which, at £80,003, grew £23,255 during
the year, and the fund for contingencies and
taxation (£45,519), which on this occasion
is purely for contingencies. Last year’s
profit .was disclosed after provision had been
made “for all necessary depreciation, bad
debts and both Federal and State taxation
on the full year’s income,” and losses of
£2176 on Wentworth Court and the New-
castle freehold. Whether, in the circum-
stances, the two reserves should be suspected
of harboring true profits is a matter for
consideration. During the year the New-
castle Sun was enlarged and circulation
increased. The Martin-place resumption is
still unsettled, and the Board is thereby ham-
pered in deciding as to plans for expansion.
Provision is being made for emergencies by
the erection of a building in another part
of the city to house a small but complete
plant.
The Sun did well to maintain its position
in face of the keen competition from the
Evening News, and the high standard it
has set since its almost meteoric rise from
the ashes of the old Stab still marks its
career. Now shareholders are indulg-
ing their fancies as to what the Board will
do with the money from the liquidation of
the Melbourne venture.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
1915.. £23,459 7 p.c. =£18,541 £l5OO £3,418 £54,961
1916.. 24,730 7 „ „ 18,550 6,180 61,141
1917.. 25,575 8 „ „ 21,200 4,375 65,516
1918.. 30,329 8 „ „ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 „ „ 23,917 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 90,828
1920.. 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9,275 100,103
1921.. 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 „ „ 31.828 1,093 108.402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 1,103 109.505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40.000 2,376 111.881
1925.. 47,371 10 ~ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
In Maoriland Kempthorne Prosser attend
to the supply of superphosphates, while still
of course pursuing the drug-making and
-importing business; but severe and rather
successful competition in that line has in-
truded during the last 12 or 15 years. At
the present time the co. has three fertiliser
plants—one in the Far South, one in the
North, and one at Christchurch —and a fourth
is to be constructed at Wanganui, which is
in the heart of a rich farming area. For this
latter purpose 65.000 £2 shares have been
issued since the close of the accounts —
60.000 to shareholders and 5000 to the staff
—at a premium of 10s. per share. These
premiums will swell the general reserve by
£32.500. making it, with £6OOO added from
last year’s profits, £125,000. The co. had a
record year, due to steadiness in prices
and general prosperity. In fact, the
profit was probably greater than the
accounts claim, for Kempthorne Prosser
is a Dunedin co. with Dunedin habits; and
it is more than likely that, after it had pro-
vided against all the troubles it could think
of, it unobtrusively put aside something extra
for the dreadful things it couldn’t think of.
There is evidence of fine progress, too, in
these figures:—
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. .. £53,034 £36,426
1915 . . . . 67,094 43,635
1920 .. .. 139,909 100,098
1925 .. .. 147,344 99,985
Gross profits are shown after provision has
been made for depreciation on plant, build-
ings and stock. Here is another view of the
movement: —
1910. 1920. 1924. 1925.
Capital .. £200,000 £367,140 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 59,442 76,650 128,362 140,800
Stock . . 149,622 188,874 198,720 214,616
Factories, etc. 103,193 140,114 308,870 305,048
Book debts . . 53,613 105,283 138,707 139,609
Cash, etc. .. 4,373 133,976 22,001 27,779
The issue of new shares since the close of
the accounts increases capital to £530,000.
By Jan. 31 £35,955 of shareholders’ money
had been received as payment on the new
shares, and it is included in the liabilities
item in the table.
The capital of £530,000 will (allowing for
the time necessary for calls) require some-
thing like £50,000 at the end of the current
term to permit of a div. rate of 10 p.c.
It seems a pretty big thing to expect judged
on recent results, especially as it will take
some time to get the Wanganui factory to
the profit-making stage. However, as already
suggested, there may be a bit up the direc-
tors’ sleeve. Certainly the co.’s position on
Jan. 31 was very strong. Liabilities (includ-
ing money held on shareholders’ account for
new shares, and the final div.) were more
than accounted for by cash and book debts,
leaving the balance and stock and the fixed
assets (well written down) to provide 265. 2d.
for each £1 of capital.
* * * *
Younghusband, Ltd., formerly Young-
husband. Row and Co. Pty., Ltd., wool,
grain and produce merchants, agents, etc.
(Melbourne). At the time the table com-
mences goodwill had a book value of £42,047 ;
but it has not been treated as an asset here-
under :
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1914.. £14,035 10 p.c. = £6,982 £7,053 £16,171
1915.. 6,986 7 „ „ 4,888 2,098 18.269
1916.. 12,373 7 „ „ 4,888 7.485 25.754
1917.. 12,868 7 „ „ 4,888 7,980 33,734
1918.. 23,341 10 „ „ 6,982 16,359 50,093
1919.. 24,265 15 „ ~ 10,473 13,792 63,885
1920.. 29.183 15 „ „ 10,473 18,710 82,595
1921.. 12,140 10 „ „ 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 „ „ 10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ „ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,921
1926.. 32,834 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
Record wool prices were responsible for
that unequalled profit, although £50,000 of
new capital, raised early in the term at a
premium of £12,500, played its part. Net
profit was equal to almost 22 p.c. on paid
capital—handsome, even allowing that sub-
stantial visible reserves were helping: on
total funds it was equal to 11$ p.c. Pastoral
finance and agency cos. can be judged only
by surveying their profits over a period of
years; Younghusbands passes the test with
flying colors. In the riotous boom of the
post-war years, while not stinting share-
holders. it sent large sums to reserves. And
in earlier years it strengthened its position
in preference to distributing the_ whole of net
earnings. The result is shown in that, inde-
pendent of share premiums and surplus from
sale of property, £100.834 of profits has been
accumulated since 1914. Reserves are now’
within distance of paid capital, but our
national economy is dominated by the sea-
sons, and a protracted drought can play
havoc with pastoral agency cos.’ profits and
securities. Wool sales showed a big fall:
Bales. Bales.
1914 .. 49,129 1920 .. 66,209
1916 . . 36,504 1922 . . 49,513
1916 .. 38,444 1923 .. 68.106
1918 .. 50,288 1924 .. 48,968
1919 .. 67,685 1925 . . 39,342
That figure, however, must be read in the
light of the carry-over, which was heavy at
17 400 bales. The decision of the National
Council of Wool Selling Brokers, whether
it be wise or unwise, was responsible for the
diminution of sales. Despite the reduction
the influence of the phenomenally high prices
realised at the early offerings and the gen-
eral prosperity throughout Victoria and
Southern N.S.W. —these being the areas over
which the co. operates—is shown in the in-
crease in gross earnings from £97,073 to
£107,812.
The new capital influenced balance-sheet
figures. 191 4. 1922. 1924. 1925.
Paid capital .. £69.825 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £150,000
Liabilities .. 102,364 149,271 215,996 174,193
Premises & plant 61,891 77,339 107,866 109,019
Book debts, etc. 127,109 235.652 318,893 3^3,769
Investments, etc. 6,900 30,526 12,035 12,045
Jlerchandise .. 1,504 3,380 2,622 5,110
The new capital can be traced in the reduc-
(Continued on page 19.)


A NEW ROUTE FOR A JOY-RIDE.
"Capt. Amundsen has loft Spitzber gen in the hope of opening up a new air route to the North Pole. Blizzards have delayed him, and he has had difficulty in keeping his motors from freezing.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
Ori sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Tiie Bulletin Ollice. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent,
l’rice, 2/- per copy; or 22/0 per uiiiuiii:,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd. — Advt.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometer-!,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., .s
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
When building make sure 'of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltiun Hoofing. H
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes." Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [•»
Absence of upkeep costs, which is one of the many
“economy” claims of Pioneer Wood Pipe, is em-
phasised in the following letter from the Secretary of
the Evandale Water Trust, Tasmania: “I have much
pleasure in informing you that the wood pipes sup-
plied by your firm to the Evandale Water Trust during
the last 10 years have given every satisfaction, and
that the maintenance charges in connection witn
same are practically nil.” The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. Thev
produce a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part of the plant. The price of a two-
light plant, complete and installed, is only £2O.
There is practically no additional cost, the ordv
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station—positively no wages or train fares
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney'
N.S.W.— Advt.
Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-—Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for inventors' Guide.— Advt.
( “Rational” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons
‘•Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Rond-makimr Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of east-iron and structural-
steel reouirements.— Advt.
THE GOLDEN EGG
ART UNION
in aid of
St. Margaret’s Hospital
where 1/- a day keeps a baby a day
OVER 1000 GUINEAS
WORTH OF PRIZES.
First Prize Valued £5OO.
Drawn July 18, 1925.
Send 5/- for book of 5 Tickets to
The Secretary,
Golden Egg Art Union,
Dept. B„ Box 2755 G.P.0., Sydney.
Space generously donated by Southern Cross
Assurance Co.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
the investment to meet the
INEVITABLE HEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
6^
&
boord & SOM
V# I.OWDON. ENGLAND w
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
j
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St.. Sydney .
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iix Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Fosses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CFAIMS PKOMPTFY AND EQUITABFY SETTFED.
AGENTS IN AFF PRINCIPAF COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
tion of liabilities and in the expansion of
£34,876 in advances—-the latter due, doubt-
less, to the heavy carry-over of wool. Tin;
failure of the accounts to discriminate be-
tween leaseholds and freeholds and the lump-
ing of unspecified assets with advances mar
the balance-sheet. Still, it is clear that the
position is very strong: liabilities of
£174,193 were secured by advances and other
more or less liquid assets totalling £370,929.
The excess, plus premises and plant, after
providing for the div., amounted to £1 17s.
9d. for each £1 share. There seems every
prospect of wool holding at very remunera-
tive levels, though the recent remarkable
prices are not likely to be again obtained.
That means good returns for pastoral and
agricultural finance and agency firms, and
Younghusbands are likely to get a profitable
share of the business.
A. 11. Collier’s London syndicate, formed
to verify the good results obtained by bor-
ing on Gw alia Consolidated at Wiluna
(W.A.), has got its shaft down to within a
few feet of the required depth, and, pro-
vided the crosscut proves that the bore values
are there, a big flotation in which the prin-
cipal Kalgoorlie mining cos. will be interested
will follow. Optimists reckon that 400.090
tons of ore can be opened up for every 109 ft.
of sinking on the holding where the syndi-
cate is operating, and that two millions’
worth of gold can be won within four years
of the date when treatment begins. Apart
from the Moonlight and one or two other
adjacent shows, nothing that could be de-
scribed as promising is visible outside the
boundaries of the Gwalia Consolidated. This
is a fact that the public should remember
when invited to take shares in other Wiluna
ventures. Quite a host of impoverished
Adelaide cos. are marshalled for an invasion
of the field should results at the Consolidated
prove satisfactory.
“O.B.”: Mararoa (W.A.) broadcasts the
assertion that its plant on Reedy’s group
will “shortly be in working order with satis-
factory results.” For the sake of share-
holders wearied by call-paying it is hoped
that this, information is 0.K., and that the
Board will soon be able to prove its oft-
repeated statement that the Emu’s feathers
are worth plucking is not moonshine. Re-
sults of drilling on the co.’s Wiluna proposi-
tion, which the manager some time ago re-
ported as “favorably situated,” are officially
stated to be unsatisfactory. The old divi-
dend-paying show at Norseman, which the
co. operated for years, and which was once
the mainstay of Norseman, is now being pro-
fitably worked by a local syndicate. Mararoa
has never had a day’s luck since it aban-
doned this property.
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.), which has bored
a few thousand feet in the aggregate without
striking a commercial oil-nool. reported an-
other find the other day. This time a “seep-
age” has been met with in the latest bore
at a depth of 1850 ft.; but as the West’s oil
boomlet has long subsided, the development
is worthless from a market standpoint. When
similar finds were reported a year or two
ago shares moved up a bit, but soon came
down again when selling pressure was
applied.
Yilgarn is now the gold-mining option-
hunters’ Mecca in the West. Five Adelaide
cos. have lately acquired leases there on
approval, and five more are willing to do
business if sufficient inducement offers.
Hansel Mundy and one or two other in-
terested concerns are blowing about the past
performances of the Manxman mines, while
Edna May Central is doing the same in re-
spect to the old Leviathan property at
Kennyville. But, as The Bulletin has
often remarked, it is only with what is left
in the safe and not with what has been taken
out that you can give the youngsters a feed.
Having gone out of the bullion-selling busi-
ness, the Gold Producers’ Association now
proposes to do its best to secure a gold bonus
for the mineowners and diggers of Australia.
Backed by the, Westralian Chamber of Mines
and others, it will shortly inaugurate a pub-
licity and political campaign. Convinced
that Higgs’s Disabilities Commission will
recommend the cadge, the association believes
it is on a winner.
* * * *
Actually a profit is reported by B. H.
Block 14 for the last six months. It comes
from ore that assays about 124 p.c. lead,
lloz. silver and 11 p.c. zinc. Output was
small—only 18.720 tons; not three weeks’
work for the big South plant. Now that the
Block 10 partnership through force of hard
times is ended, all Block 14’s sulphides go
to the Prop.’s mill. It in turn has little
ore of its own to draw upon, the result being
a high cost charge. Assuming that all the
debits in working account are chargeable
to the mine and to treatment and returning
costs, the average outgo per ton is 655. That
is stupendous, and it is a big testimony to
the power of metal prices that Block 14 on
such grade ore and with such costs should
get round the financial corner. Labor didn’t
help. The short shift and the bonus arrange-
ment hit the little shows the hardest. Any-
way, the co.’s liability to the smelters in-
curred over work resumption two years ago
is now a thing of the past, the net profit
shown being £11.539. If the little co. likes
now to have a policy of its own its hands
are not tied. The next happiest bit of
news is the Voss Smith assertion that he has
opened up as much fresh ore as he has^stoped.
The latest float for dredging the Palmer
River (N.Q.) raked in more than sufficient
cash to send Walter Baker up there with
a boring plant to test the auriferous gravels.
He is on the job now and expects to be there
another month or two testing the co.’s ground
around Glenroy Creek and Stratlileven. It
looks like a venture with an outside chance
of something very glittering, for all the
Palmer gold was scooped from close to the
surface and no attention was paid to deep
ground.
Crushings from Ilerberton (N.Q.) tin-
field for April showed a considerable shrink-
age, and the price of tin concentrates assay-
ing 70 per cent, metal dropped to £145.
f.Yrbouin mine, Stannary Hills, crushed 319
tons for 74 tons worth £975, and Vulcan
tributors, 149 tons for 6 tons worth £784.
These were the only two returns of any size.
Great Northern's last crushing averaged
4 p.c., but the grade of the lode has lately
improved and prospects for about 7 p.c.
A few months ago Walter Colley inspected
the alluvial tin deposits near Mt. Molloy
(N.Q.), on the Upper Mitchell watershed,
preliminary reports by a local syndicate
having indicated something phenomenally
rich. On his advice the syndicate is installing
a hydraulic sluicing plant and a pipe line
two miles long, which will give a head
pressure of 800 ft. The tin is not strictly
alluvial, for the river flats have been en-
riched by the debris from the granite slopes
above —as in most of the tin shows in the
Cooktown district. The flats touch the ex-
ceptional figure of 7lb. per yard, but average
only 18 inches in thickness. Above these
a lot of rotten granite can also be sluiced,
values running from lib. to 21b.
Considerable prospecting for cobalt is
going on in the Cloncurry' (Q.) district.
Three new prospects have been located, but
so far only the Queen Sally near Koola-
marra has produced any ore. Five tons of.
17 p.c. ore and 25 tons of‘4 p.c. have been
raised from the lode to a depth of 18ft. It
averages about 2ft. thick. The other dis-
coveries took place in old copper workings
near Quamby and Kajabbi, and good samples
of cobalt have been obtained. These make
a total of five distinct cobalt deposits in the
Cloncurry district.
Lawn Hills (Q.) is shipping ore to Chil-
lagoe smelters via Burketown. Several
hundred tons of picked ore have been raised,
mostly from Volkman’s leases. The Minister
for Mines is visiting the field, and will see
the tractor which he purchased for the
field conditionally on the ore going to C-hil-
lagoe for treatment.
Tasmania is making a fuss about its
mineral resources. And quite properly, for
it has produced £50,000.000 of minerals and
paid £10,000.000 in dividends. The Mt.
Lyell Co. has produced metals worth
£17,461,000. and paid 25 p.c. of that in divs.
It is quite true that you can’t take the same
ore out twice; but the Speck isn’t exhausted,
by any means. In the zinc-lead mines of
the Mt. Read-Rosebery belt, 2,000.000 tons
of ore have been proved. On the West
Coast there are immense iron-ore deposits
of unknown value. And the beds of oil-
shale contain 44,000,000 tons, valued at 30s.
a ton. By the way. the leading authority
on oil-shale in the United States mentions
that he expects a number of plants to be
operating on shale in Colorado very soon.
* * * *
From ,T. L. Strevens: —
Speck Geologist Reid’s opinion (B. 7/5/’25), that
the Glenelg River (Vic.) district has ideal conditions
for oil deposits unsurpassed by any other part of
Australia known to him, is a refreshing commentary
on a portion of this continent which has witnessed
the spasmodic efforts of oil seekers since pre-war
days. To a close observer of the surface phenomena
in the portion of s.-w. Victoria under discussion,
the doming and anticlinal features of the mioeene
rocks, as seen in a series of extensive parallel folds
stretching from east of the Glenelg River to well
into S. Aus., present clear and unmistakable evi-
dence of a very pronounced movement which also
probably affected the sunken area between Tasmania
and the mainland, evidence of which is seen in
the remnant Table Cape beds of the Speck’s north
coast. Stratigraphically and paleontologically, this
formation warrants the closest surveying and re-
search, but hitherto it has been neglected by both
the Vic. and S.A. State Geological Departments.
Having all the essentials for the generation, aceumu
lation and retention of petroleum as w’ell as ad-
equate depth and thickness of the sediments which
have been undisturbed by large-scale vulcanicity, it
will be a geologic freak if oil is not met with in
some of the more readily accessible structures. In
any case, pioneering companies will be saved much
expensive test boring, and should the efforts be unsuc-
cessful then oil seekers generally will be well advised
to throw in the towel so far as Australian tertiary
deposits are concerned.
* * * *
A syndicate has been formed to examine
a mineral area on the west coast of Tas-
mania, between Macquarie Harbor and Port
Ilavey. A big stretch of shore will be pros-
pected, and particular attention is to be
given to the tract between the Mainwaring
and Low Rocky rivers. C. R. Howard, who
reckons that some outcrops he has found
are promising, is heading the expedition,
which will be away about six months.
News isn’t bottled up by H. L. Connolly
when oil is on tap. So most of the revela-
tions contained in the latest report of Port
Addis are no longer mysteries. Dr. Prit-
chard still sticks to his dome at Torquay,
despite all that Dr. Clapp has ever said
adversely. The plant available won’t go deep
enough; so the Federal purse is to be tapped
for plant to be let on hire to enthusiasts who
want to search the continent for petrol. To
keep up interest, boring by the Goldfields
Drilling Co. is now to be begun on the Glen-
elg River, high up on the dome located there.
The third string to be twanged is the
S. African selection, which Connolly himself
tripped off to examine.
* # * *
Nai Hoot Juita is one of the group of
Siam tin shows run from Collins House,
and has Capper Moore as secretary. Rex
Thompson, of the Castlemaine Thompson
iron-founders, is on the board. His firm
has furnished a 12-inch suction cutter-dredge,
but it has not yet dropped into position.
That is because of alterations made in the
design by director Thompson when he was in
Malaya. Having wrestled with the Tongkah
Compound plant, which that co. now rejects,
he saw that an altogether stouter plant had
to be furnished for the Nai Hoot paddock.
Its Board avows that the Thompsons are
sparing neither trouble nor expense to give
the co. a good dredge, and that the faults
in design and equipment disclosed in other
plants when steam was up have been elimi-
nated. That reads nicely and stills most
of the shivers that ran along shareholders’
spines when Tongkah Compound rejected its
plant. Mine work, in the circumstances, is
still a bit in the distance, but better that
than to start with uncertain plant. The
two big ifs are (a) whether, after all, the
dredge will do what is claimed for it; and
(b) whether the ground will stand to the
bores. If both these “ifs” are answered
satisfactorily, the six months’ wait won't
matter. Finance was a problem, but with
the Thompsons acting liberally, loans
not hard to obtain and forfeited shares sale-
able to lenders at full market price, the
ditch was jumped. Paid-up capital a year
ago was £95,022. Now it is £154,692. Some
of the difference is made up of 5500 sur-
rendered £1 shares being released to pay on
the co.’s new lease “129.” Then last year’s
53,750 unissued shares have been reduced to
14,950 shares and 46,250 shares paid up
to 7s. each now figure as fully paid. Cur-
rent debts are only £5243, and there
is a bit of cash against them; but
£ll,OOO is due on Thompsons’ £26.000 cutter
dredge. So the road ahead still looks to
be rather difficult.
Followers of Tongkah Compound (F.M.S.)
got a severe rebuff last week. On Tuesday
sales in Melbourne were at 15s. 10d., but
“after trading hours” there was an official
announcement that “the Board has rejected
the suction cutter-dredge now operating on
the co.’s property at Mantin Setul, and is
arranging to instal, at the earliest possible
date, on terms easy to shareholders, a bucket
dredge with a capacity of 120,009 yards a
month.” On ' Wednesday forenoon. Sydney
dealers, still in the dark about all this, were
well loaded with scrip from 15s. to 145..
while Melbourne was selling at 12s. 3d. Be-
fore and after Easter the market understood,
unofficially, that the suction cutter was de-
livering the goods, highly improved yields
were taken as corroborative evidence, and
the market followed these false clues up to
10s. 3d. The reversal has been a facer to
folk who noted the optimism of Rex Thomp-
son, of Castlemaine, who told the papers on
May 13 that the suction cutter had been
proved capable of working ground that could
not be treated by a bucket dredge. “At Ton-
kah Compound 57.000 yards had been treated
in a month, and he had no doubt the dredge
would be treating 100.000 yards within a
couple of months.” Apnarently the Board
wouldn’t risk further delays. All the same
the failure —if it is a failure —no more proves
the principle bad than the repeated failures
of the early Dutch-built scoop dredges proved
them to be worthless.
* * * *
Kampar River, Ipoh (F.M.S.), believes
it is plastering up records in dredge-construc-
tion. “It is anticipated that the dredge will
be operating in July or August.” The dila-
tory Takuapa. which has only just got its
dredge to work, is in the same stable. For
the sake of Kampar holders, it is to be hoped
that this forecast will not be as far wrong
as the other’s was.
The art of the company promoter is visible
m twin prospectuses issued in connection
with two tin floats called Tanjong Tualang
* if M fl l a Kampar, of Ivampar, Perak
(h.M.S.). They refer to adjoining areas,
approved by Malcolm Newman, each with
400 acres dredgable, and each with
20,000,000 yards of pound ground and
30,000,000 yards of §lb. ground ; each co. is
in 120,000 20s. shares, of which 55,000 in each
go to the vendors; each is to win £OOOO a
month profit with tin at £2OO in London,
and each is to recover metal at a cost of
2 4-sd. a yard. Each is to be served by a
bucket dredge of 150,000 yards monthly capa-
city, and the boring charts show that all the
unbottomed holes left off in the richest tin.
The proposition looks good goods forone big co.
with two dredges; but that would mean only
one directorate, one flotation commission,
etc., and a host of other tragedies not to be
thought of.


AMERICAN
FLEET WEEK
BOOK FOR
CLIFTON GARDENS
HOTEL
and view arrival of Fleet
through the Heads and coming
up the harbor.
25 Minutes from City.
Ferry service passes through the
Fleet at anchor.
Apply Manager, Mosman.
Tels.: Y 3012, 3013, 4 lines.
“If Youth but Knew what Age doth crave,
How many a penny Youth would save!**
The couplet needs no elaboration. It is just our way of saying
save now, in the heyday of youth and health, and rest comfortably
in old age; for the spectacle of penniless old age is pitiful but
preventable.
Your Commonwealth Bank of Australia provides, throughout
the length and breadth of the continent, a Thrift system that safe-
guards your pennies and your pounds. The less you earn the greater
the necessity for saving. Regular deposits, no matter how small,
will increase your bank balance at a surprising rate. Start an account
and see the Miracle work for yourself.
The Savings Bank service extends to every Post Office in
Australia, and there is a General and Savings Bank Branch in 80
cities and towns.
Commonwealth lank of 'Australia.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXIRACT
Sir Charles Hotham, Admiral of the Fleet,
just dead in England, aged 82, assisted as a
midshipman to pump lead into Maori braves.
He was on the Cordelia on the Australian
station when the navy was called on to
assist the Army in
suppressing a
Maori rising, and
in 18(52 he returned
to Maoriland just
in time for another
round. That time,
leading a naval bri-
gade in an attack
on a redoubt at
Rangariri Pah, lie
was s e v e r 1 y
wounded.
PROFESSOR
COLEMAN
PHILIPSON, who
has retired sud-
denly from the
Chair of Lain in
the Adelaide
University.
Some June birthdays;—
IV. O. Archibald, former Federal Minister, 75, on
3rd; ex-Premier W. B. Propsting (Speck), 64, on
4th ; Mrs. Gunn (“We of the Never Never”), and
Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 56, on sth; Senator
Major-Gen. Glasgow, 49, IV. M. Marks, M.H.R., 50,
and A. H. Adams, 53, on 6th; Prof. Arnold Wood
(Syd.), 60, and J. J. Knight (Brisbane Courier),
62, on 7th; Bishop Gilbert Wbite (Willochra), 66,
on 9th; Vic. Minister Alec Peacock, 64, on 11th:
Federal Senate President T. Givens, 61, and Judge
Herbert (Papua), 65, on 12th; Geo. H. Knibbs, 67,
and Prof. Allen (Melb.), 71, on 13th; Federal
Crown-Solicitor G. H. Castle, 65, on 16th; Bishop
Maxwell-Gumbleton, 53, on 17th; Robert W. Best
(former Federal Senator), 69, Frank Tate (Vie.
Director of Education), 62, and ex-W. Aus. Agent-
General C. H. Rason, 66, on 18th; Senator Brig.-
Gen. Elliott, 47, and Rev. Dr. E. H. Sugden, 71,
on 19th; Adelaide’s ex-Mayor Frank Moulden, 49,
on 25th; Lieut.-General John Monash, 60, on 27th;
Speck’s ex-Senator Keating, 53, on 28th; S. S.
Cameron (Vie. Director of Agriculture), 59, on 29th;
and Prof. T. Hudson Beare (Edinburgh, b. in S.
Aus.), 66, on 30th.
“Johnny” French, gone to his reward, will
have biographers in plenty. Veterans of
South Africa, where his fame was founded,
will best appreciate his faculty of swift deci-
sion. No doubt his four years in the Navy
helped this trait which, more than any other,
got him so disliked by the Boers. They were
used to British generals who wasted time in
thinking out the next move. When French
galloped past his left flank into Kimberley.
Oronje was little perturbed. He streaked off
to cross the Modder near Paardeburg, and
when he found French had straddled his line
of escape at Wolvekraal, he was the maddest
Dutchman in the two Republics. The un-
heard of Rooinek had guessed Cronje’s line
of retreat, and had cut off the Dopper’s idol.
This gift of snapshotting the essential point
stood French in good stead from Mens to
the Marne, and later in the improvisations
which checked the Hun attacks at Ypres-
tliat and his long study of the Flanders-
l'icardy terrain, for he was one of those who
realised that there the thrust would come.
Australian medicine suffered a great loss-
by the death last week in a train near Mt.
Victoria of Dr. Eric Sinclair, N. S. Wales
Inspector-General of Insane. A Scotsman
by birth, he graduated from Glasgow at 21,
to enter shortly afterwards the Ma State’s
I .unaey Department. During his term as
Inspector-General he introduced many re-
forms, most important among them being
provision for the treatment of voluntary
patients-—the old method was to wait till
a patient could be certified as insane before
doing anything for him. Thus hundreds who
have felt their reason tottering have been
supported, and in very many cases restored.
G. M. Burns, who beat George Fuller for
Illawarra in the 1913 Federal fight, but
later lost the seat to Hector Larnond, is one
of the Labor five at St. George. Burns, a
native of N. S. Wales, worked as a miner
and sleeper-cutter, and had carried his swag
2600 miles before he became secretary of the
A.M.A. in Tasmania. He represented
Queenstown in that State’s Assembly for
three years, and then, developing Federal
ambitions, attempted to displace Philip Fysh
for Denison without success. He has small
hopes in St. George, either. The electorate
is composed largely of skilled workers who
are buying their homes on the instalment
plan and are Intensely jealous of their
rights as property owners. Yet the House
is likely to contain at least threescore poorer
members.
John Barker, who died suddenly in Adel-
aide a few days ago, was one of those big.
active, many-sided men to whom the central
State owes so much. He was at once a
prominent churchman and chairman of the
S.A.J.C. for 15 years (he was on the com-
mittee for 30) ; his business energies ran to
stock-raising and horse-selling (the Barker
and Chambers horse-bazaar was locally
famous) ; and he was a director of half a
dozen cos. and a supporter of twice as many
philanthropies. He lived to be 78.
“Gustave G.”: Australians are still making
names for themselves in the radio world.
For a long time our amateurs held the re-
cords for long-distance low-power transmis-
sions; the latest feather goes to Charlie Mae-
lurcan, of Strathfield (Sydney), who has
worked “two-way” with the Yankee Naval
Laboratory at Washington. This constitutes
a world’s record for long-distance amateur
transmission. Up to quite lately it was
the generally-accepted theory that a 20-
metre wave would not travel by day; bill
Maclurcan’s message, by going round the
“daylight” side of the earth, travelled some
1 6,000 miles. The feat has been confirmed
by cable, and it gives Maclurcan a title to
be ranked with John L. Reinartz, the famous
American amateur, among the wireless-
world’s leading experimenters.
One of the most widely-known members
of the French colony in Melbourne was
Madame Liet, who has just passed over. For
40 years she taught French in the leading
girls’ schools. Her daughter is the wife of
James Davies, sec. of the Commercial Tra-
vellers’ Association of Australia.
Seen his last crushing through, James
Robertson Smith, for the past 13 years man-
ager of the Harwood (N.S.W.) sugar-mill—
the little man who was more responsible
than anybody else for the smooth working
of the sugar industry on the Clarence. He
was as straight as his back; and his toughest
navvies had a good word for him.
While John Allan, Vic. Premier, was re-
ceiving Viscount Dunwich, Stradbroke’s heir,
who is on leave from the Royal Navy, the
unemployed invaded the State public offices.
Eighty forced their way into the secretary’s
room and demanded to be heard. Allan’s
orderly had the presence of mind to lock the
doors of the Premier’s and Cabinet rooms,
and a clerk diverted the jobless visitors till
a few J. Hops arrived. The long streak of
a Viscount with his dad’s A.D.C. slipped out
unnoticed, and the unruffled Allan filled his
pipe and pondered on the minor worries of
a Premier.
Ivor MacGillivray, of Port Adelaide, one
of the few survivors of the first batch of
Laborites returned to S. Aus. Parliament,
was 85 on May 24. He worked on the
M.L. goldfields for 12 years, and Dick Sed-
don was one of his mates.
A man who can supply some first-hand evi-
dence about the opportunities Australia offers
is F. R. Nicholos, who has just resigned the
management of the Melbourne Harbor
Trust’s dock and repairing shops at Williams-
town. Twelve years ago, at the age of 23,
Nicholos arrived in Australia with nothing
but a thorough grounding in the engineering
and shipbuilding trade. By the time he was
27 he was assistant manager with 350 men
under him; and for the last five years he
Superintending-engineer F. R. NICHOLOS,
of the Melbourne dry docks and ship
building yards.
has held the senior job. lie supervised the
building of the Commonwealth “E” boats
at Williamstown ; but no more opportunity
for shipbuilding seems likely to come to
those works, where only 120 men are now
employed. So Nicholos leaves in search of
bigger opportunities outside the public
service.
Of four additional meds. appointed by Vic.
Government to inspect school children, three
are women —Mary Lane, Marie Oliphant and
Irene Stable. The fourth is Kevin Brennan.
Chit of the full staff of eight docs., five are
women and three men. Jane Greig is chief,
and Eileen Fitzgerald second in command.
In the near future a woman assistant-chief-
inspector of schools is a possibility.
Another soap baron, William Kitchen, has
joined Viscount Leverhulme across the Styx.
He was vice-chairman of J. Kitchen and
Sons Pty., Ltd., and saw well to his equip-
ment before going into the business. From a
grammar school he went to Melbourne Uni.
and then to the University College, London,
where he specialised in chemistry; and, like
most men who know their job, he was a
good employer. A son and daughter, well-
gilded, are left to carry on the name, and,
presumably, the business, though much of it
has been for some time controlled by the
Levers.
The credit for opening up the Syrian
Desert to motor-traffic belongs to two young
Australians named Nairn, who left this
country in war-time with the Light Horse.
They started transport operations after the
Armistice with a through weekly service to
Baghdad from Beirut via Damascus, a dis-
tance of 600 miles, and later added some
branch routes to the enterprise. The diffi-
culties at first were immense, for roads could
hardly be said to exist, and the cars had to
be run under an armed escort because of
attacks by predatory natives. To-day all
obstacles have been surmounted, and the en-
terprising pair hold the Government mail
contract. Their service has shortened the
distance between London and Baghdad by
several days. All of those employed are
Australians, the majority of them ex-A.I.F.
officers.
The election-agent speaks :
Just as the Diggers chummed up with the Jocks,
so Australian electors take-kindly to candidates of
North British origin. A cheerful Irishman generally
makes a good impression on them, particularly if he
derives from one of the O’ elans. So does a Jew —
often a clever fellow with a local reputation for
benevolence, and never a target for sectarian ani-.
mosities. But the type with the strongest appeal
to non-party people who hold the balance in so
many electorates is the plain, blunt Scot or Scotch-
Australian. Politicians of this stamp can win seat-
in the “doubtful” category and keep on winning
them in the most difficult circumstances. Take
Andy Fisher, who was elected six times for Wide
Bay (Q.), although it was never really a Labor
constituency. His last majority in 1914 was 7339;
when he left, 12 months later, the seat was lost, and
it has never been regained. And take J. M. Fowler,
who in the course of 21 years was Labor, Liberal,
Nationalist and anti-Hughes M.H.R. for Perth. Air
tfalian Labor used to have a strong Scottish in-
fusion-witness, in the Federal sphere, Fisher, Gregor
McGregor, Allan McDougall, Anderson Dawson,
Stewart, De Largie, Bob Guthrie and Jimmy Hutch-
ison—but nowadays, particularly in N, S. Wales, the
Caledonians stern and wild seem to prefer the other
parties. For the Ma State Nationalists William
Cameron is standing in Maitland, Duncan Angir
Cameron in Murrumbidgee, John Hugh Cameron in
Oxley, Angus Campbell in Gootamundra and John
Boyd Macdonald in Wamnierawa, and there are a
Gillespie, a Beddie and an Anderson —pure parritch
besides. It will be surprising if two or three of
them don’t get in.
When the just-dead Rider Haggard was in
Australia in 1916 a Sydney public man, pro-
posing his health, credited the author of
“She” with having written a certain book,
which he praised lavishly. Haggard promptly
arose and said that, although he would have
liked to spare the well-meaning gentleman,
he had to confess the book wasn’t his. The
late .1. R. Patterson, before he became Vie.
Premier, was much more fortunate when lie
was asked to a function to meet Rudynnl
Kipling. Until the invitation came he had
never heard of Kipling, but a conversation
with the chief of staff of a morning paper en-
lightened him. and at night he talked as if
he had soaked in every line of prose and
verse Kipling had ever published. The ex-
butcher was very quick in the uptake.
11. L. Denford, the long, fair-headed tire-
eater who is. trying to induce the toilers of
Botany to present him with a quota of first
preferences in the N.S.W. elections, ran to
revolutionary tendencies early. Long before
most boys leave school he was pulling tickets
on the old Adelaide horse-trams, and was
sacked after 18 months for asking his work
mates to get together and demand more
wages. He was the first sec. of the I.W.W.
in Australia and humped Matilda in the
cause all over Queensland. Leaving tin
I.W.W. because they didn’t believe in Par-
liaments, he joined a number of abortive
Socialistic bodies. The Communists found
him waiting and he became editor of the
Communist, the official organ whose title
was watered down to the Workers’ Weekly
so as not to scare the more timid proletariat.
With Garden and Howie he was elected to
the A.L.P. executive at the Conference before
last, but was put out with them for refusing
to sign a statement disowning the Com
munist party. He is .‘>B, describes himself
as an ironworker, and lias as a partner in
his fight Nellie Rickie, well known in theat-
rical circles.
.Tames McGregor, of Cooma, started carry-
ing on the roads between Sydney and Moraro
in 1855, when the
trip with bill locks
took about nine
weeks. In the days
of the gold rush he
turned the leaders
for Twofold Bay.
wool down and
goods up. In ’B3
he started grazing,
and jogged along
in quiet affluence
till at the 87th
mile-peg he drew
on to his last
camp.
FRANCIS
DELL, K.C.
Premier of Maori-
land since the
death of Farmer
Bill Massey.
South Aus. loses, and M.L. gains, Hugh
Corbin, Lecturer in Forestry (there is no
chair to scat a Professor) at Adelaide Uni.
arid “consulting forester"’ to the S.A. Gov-
ernment. Only 46 now, he had a lot of ex-
perience in Scotland, Switzerland and especi-
ally India, with Science degrees from London
and Edinburgh, before coming to Australia in
1911. Now he goes to Auckland as Professor
in his subject. S.A. is talking gloomily of
the possibility of closing its School of Fores
try. It had claimed to be the main school
of its kind in Australia, and had hopes of
being recognised as the Federal School. Bin
now that is to go to Canberra: and Corbin
goes to M.L.; and the future in S.A. is
dubious.
WHO SAID GLOOMY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Doan Inge, interviewed at Liverpool on his return
from a lecturing tour in the U.S., said he would he
glad to get back to his cellar. In America he was
only offered ice water to drink.”
O scholarly and disputatious cleric,
Whose homilies so cogently expressed
Attain a currency that’s hemispheric
Immediately you’ve chucked them Off your chest,
I pictured you as sunk in woe abysmal,
A very croaking raven of a bird;
But, thank the ixrnl, you can’t be half as dismal
A chap as I’ve inferred.
Your views inexorably pessimistic
About the future of the human race
Made me portray you with a Calvinistic
Or, at the best, a Puritanic face.
The Inge my fancy drew was lean, ascetic,
A sombre streak of misery and rue—
A being obviously hypothetic,
Not in the least like you.
Those hands, in many a synod raised disputing,
In many a pulpit passionately wrung,
It heartens me to glimpse them executing
Some deft manoeuvres with a cork or bung,
Those lips, that hurl incisive condemnation
At devotees of fashion or of sport,
Smacking in eloquent appreciation
Over a glass of port !
Miscalled, misjudged divine, ’tis good to find you
(From your own mouth) so humanly terrene.
Out on the knaves who libelled and maligned you
Under the caption of “The Gloomy Dean” !
Your horoscope w 7 as cast without a stellar
Contraption like Saturn in control;
The gloom they tell of may be in your cellar—
It isn’t in your soul.
A penance and a perish, too, beshrew me,
You’ve undergone across th’ Atlantic foam ;
A parch that might have made a bishop gloomy
Assailed that clay of yours, but now you’re home.
Your health! Though sons of temperance, aye, and
daughters
Disgust express and disapproval cluck,
Across the heaving wilderness of waters
Here’s luck, old man, here’s luck!
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


I
«
rfk
v
TOBACCO
v
d
V
V
%
l AX
y
v.
xT
X
//M
Y^
V
}*r
»/
/ /
n
me
n
m
if!
r
rs
•\w" nm\"
V\ .
aw- ■
\\&
w K> v •*.- >Jtrz i.^>L
l
3*J ISAV S^
! 4i>
k-
I' 3
," •*TTiX ,v ’i»:
, t ? "tf- yft-ato
v x, Jr
' 3
A\
- LV
Jil
tjhi.il :y
«tiM*
L -V.
FP?
SI
®S^2
M
1.61
m
w
4530
1
3£
o/re
l Ui
P Ct/A I
it
4\
mm
ST9
wMmJSSMht
5S
_P
HBw
K T i
lake
Wu
1
/%>
•H.<5T.
c: n
v\
\\\
PATON
m
/ / i/t
wee
ship brought
tbe ffost bale of
(tobacco to tbe
white wao bib
there bas wer
beet) a wore; del-
ectable smoke.
A
'4/A


Equitable
Eife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Ctd.
Head Offices
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branelier s
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
OBTAINABLE AT ALL ELECTRICAL STORES.
IS the finest and most complete range of Electrical goods on
the market to-day. Any Electrical convenience required
in the home is to be found in the “Universal” line, which
amongst many other articles includes Electric Irons, Curling
Tongs, Waffle Irons, Kettles, Coffee Percolators and Heaters.
Wholesale Distributors for Australia and N.Z •
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, ADELAIDE and PERTH.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
Dfie.
PATHEORAMA
'7 '• Rested 7e Films la ea.
Home Recreations J*?
368 George St.,Sydney.
(opp. Beard Watson's)
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Polycarp”: The imported fox is blamed
for much of the damage done by our native water-
rat. This giant of his kind, over a foot and a half
long, not only robs the nets of river fishermen and
preys upon the rapidly-disappearing platypus, but
is the chief enemy of the waterfowl whose easily-
accessible nest is on the ground among the rushes.
A native-hen with a running brood of eight or tin
chicks will in a few weeks have only one or two
survivors, owing to the nocturnal raids of the water-
rat. His only service to man is the destruction of
the yabby, which causes leakages in the dams by
burrowing through their banks.
* * * #
“Bunya” : Our eaglehawk may be the
world’s largest eagle, but he doesn’t build the largest
nest, even among Australian birds. 1 have seen one
of the nests in the Blacks 11 Range (Q.) which com-
pletely hid from below a blackboy stretched at full
length on the top, with his arms wide-spread. At
least a dozen small birds had built their own nests
in the bottom part of the great structure, which
would more than have filled any dray. Yet the
eaglehawk comes a bad second to that solitary lord
of the swamps, the jabiru, our one Australian stork.
His nest probably constitutes a world’s record, some
of the sticks forming the foundation b§ing thicker
than a man’s leg. It is usually built in a ti-trec
close to a swamp, or growing in the water, and in
spite of its size has a cavity hardly deep enough
to contain the single pair of eggs.
“Slam” : The most conspicuous bird of the
interesting group of mound-builders is certainly the
scrub-fowl, found in N.Q. and the territory, as well
as in a few of the adjacent islands. While the
M.S.W. mallee fowl’s incubator is merely' a heap
of sand and leaves about a yard high, the northern
megapode scrapes together a young hill that alters
the landscape. One mound in the Gulf country
measured; Height, 15ft.; circumference, 150 ft.; cubic-
content, roughly 9000 ft. Although some of the
huge eggs are deposited 6ft. from the nearest sur-
face, the fully-feathered chicks struggle out success-
fully' and bolt, for the scrub.
“Wingella”: Where did “Cockle Bay” get
his information about Melville Island niggers (B.
26/3’25) ? I’ve always seen them use womeras
with their spears, which are pointed with quartz,
iron or wood, as the fancy of the maker elects. I
say this from actual knowledge of both Bathurst, and
Melville Island blacks. I’ve seen spears flung by
Melville Islanders from a womera travel 150 yards
easily, and it seemed as if the thrower could have
doubled that distance.
* * * *
“Atherton”: Can any bush timber-man
tell me a way of getting good big
logs clown from a 2000-feet scrub-
mountain without smashing them
to splinters ? There’s a fortune
in some beauties I know if they
could only be brought to the low
country. The ordinary chute
method is no good. We tried three
logs that way and never found
their splinters. I saw close on
a quarter-million feet crumble
into matchwood when ehuting
them below the Bloomfield Falls
(N.Q.). It was a. good straight
chute, yet many of the logs
jambed, and others coming behini
tore the lot into driftwood. When
a few did finally land in the
water, their speed and weight
sent them end on to the rocky
bottom and they split straight up.
From the top of the chute to the
water was barely 1000 feet. The
logs were mostly cedar. Burns,
Philp and Co. lost an enormous
amount of timber when they tried
to float it over the Barron Falls
years ago. The Bloomfield idea
was to drop the logs in the water
below the falls. But it didn’t act.
“ILI”: I had an uncanny experience on
Cape York Peninsula, north of the Jenny. We
could find nothing yellow in the gullies and were
ready to move on. But a big nigger tribe there was
preparing for the initiation ceremony which gives
the youths the full privileges of manhood. I deter-
mined to see the performance, especially as the rites
of this tribe had never been witnessed by white
men. They told me. however, that so long as white
men were about the star act wouldn’t come on. They
advised us to shift. We refused. Then I learnt
that we were camped right on their initiation ground
-it had been used as such for perhaps centuries.
They must perform the operation on that spot or
postpone the ceremony until next year. As the
bucks badly wanted to be turned into warriors so
that they could take wives, I knew we had a fair
chance of stall seats. My mate Dick didn’t care one
way or the other. I received an intimation that if
we didn’t clear out, old Banda-guroo, the witch-
doctor, would point the death-bcn:>. I told the envoy
that I’d knock Bandy’s block off if he attempted to
stage any funny’ game. That evening the old devil
in all his greasy nakedness appeared like a shadow
and squatted just outside the circle of firelight. He
stared at me unwaveringly, taking no notice of Dick,
who sprawled by the blazing log. I gave
him stare for stare. The silence became pain.ul ;
HE COULD SWEAR TO THE OTHER THINGS-
ONE WITH UNBRELLA: “Wet day, isn’t it?”
ONE WITHOUT: “Well, me feet are wet, ’nd me shirt’s wet, ’nd the ground’s wet, ’nd
there seems to he moisture in the air; hut the blanky day may he as dry as
Gideon’s fleece for all I know.”
even the niggers’ camp around the bend was omi-
, nously still. 1 sat up, and tried to engage the
witch doctor in conversation. But he cnly stared
from out the half-darkness and presently his body
seemed to shrivel and* his eyes grew to be all—
everything. I moved my head, and yet the eyes
seemed to bore into me. When turn-in time came
I rose, stretched and strolled into the gloom to
where the horse-bells tinkled. Almost instantly a
big night-bird swished past my ear and was gone.
The neddies were all there and contented, so I
started back to camp; and again the night-bird
lifted the hair on my head. The old witch-doctor
was still by the camp-fire. The next night exactly
the same performance was repeated. The night
after Dick took the final look at the horses. No
night-bird swooped at him! Feeling a bit ashamed
at the good-humored grin in his eyes, I walked away
from the firelight. Instantly the bird came and
sent a shivery feeling down my spine. I walked a
little way and on turning for the camp the vicious
swish was repeated. The next day I planted a 12ft,
stretch of fuse past the fireplace to the spot where
the old witch-doctor always squatted. I left an
inch of the black fuse sticking up. The other end
was where Dick generally sprawled. His duty was to
casually put a glowing firestick to it when lighting
his pipe. The shower of spitting sparks beneath
Banda-guroo’s skinny buttocks would cure his scaring
for at least one night. He came noiselessly as
usual, stood, stared fixedly at me, then squatted sft.
away from his favorite position, his eyes gleaming
within their shaggy sockets. Abruptly I arose and
strolled into the night. Instantly the bird came and
was gone. I walked quickly on, bareheaded, my
head all the time turning. I couldn’t see the bird;
but it came again an 1 again, always from the
back, and always as I turned to look in the
opposite direction. I stood the dashed thing for a
week solid, then packed up and quitted.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: On the subject of “moon-
stroke” I rise to say that there is no such thing.
I have slept with my face exposed to the light of
the moon at full and other phases, and have known
many others do the same, both at sea and on shore,
but have never met with a case of facial distortion
caused thereby. There is, however, a well-known
condition called “Bell’s paralysis”—a palsy of one
side of the face —which is common enough following
exposure to cold, and is due to “a neuritis of the
fifth nerve within the Fallopian canal” (Osier).
Movements of the muscles of the unaffected side
appear to be exaggerated, owing to the contrasted
lack of movement on the affected one. This, probably,
gives rise to the idea that one side of the face is
“drawn up.” The condition may also be caused by
a syphilitic lesion. No doubt, many of the travellers
and sailors of days gone by preferred to let the
innocent moon carry the responsibility.
“C. Coral” : During the Nor’-West. when
the flood waters coming down the Fly River in
New Guinea sweep a lot of stuff into Torres Strait
and down round Murray and the neighboring islands,
a good deal of floating timber is to be seen, especi-
ally’ big Nipa palm-trees. These are called “Meidu,”
and when the natives spot one they remark, “Ah,
here is Meidu come back to look at her own place
again.” The origin of this is a local legend of
an old woman, Meidu, who once lived on Dauar
Island. One day after swimming with some girls in
the water, she lay down on the beach and fell
asleep. She awakened to find the girls gone, and
the water lapping all round her. While she slept
the tide had carried her out into deep water. See-
ing her home receding in the distance, she began to
chant a mournful song, then complacently went to
sleep again, and floated on and on until finally
she was cast up on the beach of New Guinea, near
the Fly River. Still asleep, she was found on the
sand by two young men who had been exercising
themselves in archery, to see who could send his
arrow furthest; one of the arrows fell close to the
sleeping woman, resulting in her discovery. “Ah,”
said one, “here’s a wife for me; I shall take her
to my house.” In due course, the Nipa palm
flourished all through the locality. But though
Meidu is far from home, she doesn’t forget the
island from which she came, and floats down to see
it every Nor’-West.
* * * *
“0.M.G.”: How is this for sheer pluck,
despite its foolhardiness ? They were mustering
cattle on a West Q. station when a beast ran amok.
It had done for three calves and a horse, and was
making another mad rush, when the owner, up
a tree, yelled, “Stop him!” A youth of 18, gaining
his first experience out back, obeyed the order liter-
ally. As he attempted to seize the brute one horn
pierced his wrist from iront to back, the other going
through the side of his shirt. Nevertheless he got
his intended grip on the horns, and held the beast
whilst his mates killed him with the only available
weapon, an iron bar. “How could I hold him!”
he said afterwards. “Why, I had to.' If I’d let
go and he’d charged again, he’d have got me!”
* * * *
“New Year Island”: In the very early
days, sea-elephants swarmed on King Island and the
adjacent islets in Bass Strait. They were cut off,
as a contemporary writer puts it, “root and branch.”
Apparently Macquarie Island is the only place in
Australasian waters where they still come ashore
to breed. Their numbers were greatly diminished
in the days when they were killed for oil, but prob-
ably they have increased of late years, as the
island has been abandoned except for a possible
poaching raid or two. They have one other place
of resort, but it is in the North Pacific, a long
way from Macquarie Island. This is the island of
Guadeloupe, 150 miles west of the Lower California
peninsula of Mexico. American writers speak of sea-
elephants being found in no other waters than
those off the west coast of North America, but photo-
graphs and descriptions show them as identical with
Wese of the Southern Ocean.
(Continued on page 2 -J.)
LINES WRITTEN IN A COUNTRY POLLING
BOOTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ratepayers again showed a lack of interest in
the elections. Only a very small percentage registered
their votes.” —Any local paper.
From nine a.m. till six p.m. I sat alone in state;
No motor-ear nor horse and trap came rattling
through the gate ;
The only visit was my wife’s with dinner, which
I ate.
At nine a.m. I locked the box and tucked the key
away—
“ Retained it on my person,” as the regulations say—
And settled down in earnest for a very busy day.
At half-past nine, or thereabouts, I heard a car go
past.
“Ah, ha!” thought I, with sudden hope, “I’ve
caught a vote at last.”
I hurried to the door —and saw it disappearing
fast.
At ten o’clock I sauntered out to take the morning
air ;
The thrushes whistled in the pines, the breeze was
fresh and fair;
Three sparrows hurried past with straws, but voting
birds were rare.
At half-past ten I lit a fag, and, as I watched the
smoke
Go curling up, my eyelids drooped; and then 1
slept, and broke
A clause of the Elections Act. At twelve o'clock
I woke.
My wife came in at half-past twelve with half a
roast of beef,
And several cups of steaming tea and other things
—in brief,
A meal which cheered me in my gaol and offered
some relief
At half-past two, when two more hours had sauntered
slowly past—
So slowly that they would have made a Clydesdale
snail seem fast—
A voter came, and then I knew that I was saved
at last.
I searched the rolls at fever heat. He wasn’t to
be found.
He said with growing emphasis that some neglectful
hound
Had missed him out. You see, he owned a goodly
piece of ground.
IMPENDING DISASTER.
“I hate to hear the toot of a motor-horn.”
“Had sonic narrow escapes, old man?”
“Too right! Man ran away with th ’ missus in a Ford,
'n' ev’ry time I hear a honk I think it’s her
coming hack.”
But suddenly the storm went past. I saw his anger
fade
To meditations long and vexed with which his brow
was weighed,
Till, finally, it dawned on him —his rates had not
been paid.
At four o'clock the sinking sun came stealing through
the room.
It couldn’t vote, nor did it care about me and
my doom;
But somehow it dispelled a while the fast increasing
gloom.
I fell to meditating then how other districts fared,
And whether their electors gave some signal that
they eared,
Or whether my grim solitude by all mv kind was
shared.
At six p.m. I closed the booth and tiptoed softly
past
The ballot-box, which seemed to me to have become
at last
A wooden tomb, within whose walls my stricken
soul was cast.
I' or n >ne long, dreary, dismal hours I sat alone in
state;
No motor-car nor horse and trap came rattling
through the gate;
lae onl.v visit was my wife's with dinner, which
1 ate.
MAOHILAND.
KARIM KHAN.


*mr
"7^
*V*lf-3CVKCt
V. ,
Si. /
A
m
&
- V
Q-
-9L't
21.
ns
is
Nk
\
I ■-■ m
)U
V
; - i »
Z/A
m.
MOTORISTS- when the time comes for
your children to earn their livelihood-
Will
they
be
able
to
obtain
work
?
e
HERE are over 200,000 motorists in Australia to-day, and
the majority of them have boys and girls who delight in
the pleasures and conveniences that the motor car affords.
Some of these motorists buy their cars without considering
what tyres are fitted and where they were made. Others
again purchase tyres for replacement purposes without a second
thought as to where their money ultimately goes. Self interest
leads to the majority of carists always using Australian made
Dunlop Cord Tyres, they appreciating the value of Dunlop quality,
service and economy. THIS APPEAL IS PARTICULARLY
DIRECTED TO MOTORISTS WHO BUY IMPORTED TYRES.
We confidently assert that Dunlop Cords will give you service on
Australian roads equal to any tyre made in the world, evidence
of which is the fact that our employees are continually increasing
and now total 2500, whilst orders for Dunlops have our big plant
working day and night. Further, the Dunlop price is the lowest
in Australia, despite the high quality and generous weight in these
covers and tubes. If these facts do not impress you, then consider
the matter from the viewpoint embodied in the headlines of this
announcement. If Australia is not industrially developed, where
are all the boys and girls may be yours going to find per-
manent employment in years to come Z SENDINQ YOUR
MONEY OVERSEAS TO THE BENEFIT OF PEOPLE OUT-
SIDE AUSTRALIA ROBS THIS COUNTRY OF THAT
AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUPPORT.
When tens of thousands of Australian motorists thoughtlessly do
the same thing, you can visualise what a difference it makes in the
number of men and women employed in this Australian industry.
WE ALREADY DISBURSE IN WAGES £500,000 A
YEAR. MOTORISTS CAN MAKE IT A £1,000,000*
The purchase of Dunlop covers and tubes entails no sacrifice in
value, service or dependability, and we respectfully suggest that
when next purchasing you give preference to Australian made
DUNLOP CORD TYRES
TO YOUR BENEFIT & THAT OF YOUR FELLOW CITIZENS
Garages can supply. List on application.
* ¥ *
The above remarks apply equally to Dunlop Rubber Goods.
-r
Dunlop Rubber Co. of aust. ltd.
(Manufacturers of every description of Rubber Goods!
ALL STATES
AND N.Z,


“KING GEORGE IV.’WHISKY
**
Acknowledged to be
*
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
TO
m
i
C=3
r
klbsl
MALThOIDr-
Eh
MALTHOID
jFLOOR COVERING
RED AND GREY.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., L>. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CiIALLIS <?YnNFX
* * * *
“D. 8.”: As to sheep being able to live
without water, this is my experience. Some years
ago, during a severe drought, a neighbor of mine
had about 400 sheep on his hands. The water gave
out, and his lot had nothing to drink for over six
weeks. The weather was hot and grass very scarce;
still the animals did not look much the worse for
the hardship they had undergone, and when counted,
after the breaking of the drought, only two were
missing. This summer I have driven sheep to
water after they had been without it for a fort-
night, to find that only about 2 per cent, of the
flock would attempt to drink. Fat sheep that were
killed for mutton had their bladders tucked up to
about the size of a large thimble, suggesting that
they had not taken in any water for months.
* * * #
“Riverina”: “Bunya’s” list of Binghi’s
bird-names (B. 23/4/’25) reminds me that the
blacks of S.-W. Riverina also called the galah
“willick-willick,” which gets as near as possible to
the bird’s own call. Binghi generally got near to
truth, and, incidentally, poetry, in his labels; and
there are many bird-lovers who will give a sincere
“Amen” to “Bunya’s” suggestion that the R.A.O.U.
should adopt his nomenclature in place of the abomi-
nations of scientific observers—except, of course, for
scientific classification.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The hair of animals sports
three colors. The tip
is called the “over-
hair,” while the fluffy
woolly stuff hidden
from sight below is
the “under fur.” Over-
coat and singlet vary
in growth and density
according to whether
the animal has to be
protected from rain,
cold winds or sun heat.
Under strong sun heat
alone there is generally
no under-fur. In rigor-
ous climates both over-
hair and under-fur are
abundant. In the
tropics a light under-
fur alone is often
found. In heavy-rain
countries the dense
under-fur is the ani-
mal’s raincoat. As the
seasons change so do
the fashions in animal
land. The red ’roos
discard their reds for
a light grey suit in
the male ; this is easily
done, as the under-
fur is grey and the
over-hair red. The
female, true to her sex,
does exactly the oppo-
site. Her shimmy is
bright red, while her
shoulder-straps and
stockings are grey'.
Towards winter the
over-hair of her dainty
“fur” grows longer.
Similarly you’ll notice
an improvement for
of the human species
the better in the hair
as cold weather draws near.
* * * *
“Piriti” : A recent Bulletin par. told of
a Maori who was unable to give the meaning of
the native name of a certain locality. Practically
every Maori name has some association with legend
or history, but civilisation has broken down the
old custom of handing on stories from generation to
generation, and the present-day Maori, as a rule,
knows little of the traditions of his forebears.
Examples of Maori nomenclature with legendary con-
nection may be found among many familiar names.
The euphonious Wanganui, for instance, means “very
tired legs.” The legend is that an old chief, in
pursuit of a runaway wife and her two lovers, reached
the Wanganui River in an exhausted state and
gave it that name to commemorate his own condition.
The same old gentleman, in his further travels
southward, put handles on other localities, appropriate
to his experiences, impressions and incidents along
the track. He named Wangaehu (“the splashing of
the water”), Turakina (“the staff laid down”),
Manawatu (“the heart stands still"), Waikawa
(“brackish water”), Ohau (“myself”). Finally,
when he came up witli the fugitives and slew them,
he called the place Otaki (“avenged”). It seems
a thousand pities that the picturesque association of
such stories with Maori nomenclature should be
lost to the people whose ancestors took a great pride
in remembering it.
* # » *
“Tarago”: At one time or another I have
had most bush animals as pets, but the quaintest
of them all was a young native-cat. Puss never took
kindly to civilisation, and looked on me as her only
friend and refuge. If anything startled her —and
nearly everything did—she would land as lightly
as thistledown on my shoulder, spitting and splutter-
ing like a demented dynamo. At such times it was
not safe for a person to approach me, as she would
spring at him. Once she got a hold with her steel-
trap jaws, she’d hang on like a bulldog. Although
little bigger than a rat, I never saw the limit of her
spring. A hand smacked on the ground near her
would send Kittie four or five feet straight into the
air. To the top of a box sft. 6in. from the ground,
where I fed her, was merely a hop.
* * * *
“Billy See” : A fence post should be put in
the ground the way the tree grew. Putting a post in
upside down is the greatest factor in producing rot.
The sap travels up the trunk by capillary attraction,
and even when the wood is dead and dry the tend-
ency is still there. Hence a post put in the right
way constantly drains the buried portion. Put in
upside down the reverse is the case, and the water-
logged bottom speedily rots. Jarrah laid on the
flat lasts but a short time if exposed to damp, but
the same wood on end, right way up, is good for 30
years. The bed of the Perth-Fremantle road is now
being taken up, and the jarrah-stump blocking, Which
had been rightly placed, is still fit for firewood,
though down 50 years.
* * * *
“Veronal” : It is quite true, as “Caesa” (B.
3(J/4/’25) says, that the little ringed snake or
bunda-bunda (Curina occipitalis ) has a bad name
among bushmen. Krefft, Waite and other snake
experts, on the contrary, reckon it to be merely
venomous, and incapable of inflicting death. The
yarn about the fits taken by a bundy’s
victim corresponding in number to the rings of
alternate black and white is sheer moonshine, and
on a par with the belief that a dying snake doesn’t
give up the ghost till sundown. The ringed snake is
credited with a wide distribution over Australia,
but is rare, I think, in cold climates.
ANXIOUS TO LEARN.
DRILL SERGEANT (to awkward recruit): “ Didn’t you hear ‘About
turn’?”
RECRUIT: “No. Wot erbout ’im?”
“Centre” : I don’t know where Sida retusa
originally came from, nor the name of the misguided
philanthropist respcndble for its introduction into
Australia ; but I’ve just returned to a little 10-acre
block that I’ve been unable to attend to for the
past two years, and find it smothered with the
cursed weed. I want the Council to tell me how best
to handle the situation. Judging by the corner I’ve
made a start on, the stuff roots down about 2ft.
below the surface, and averages sft. in height. It’s
in seed too, so I suppose there’ll be the same thing
to tackle again next summer. Is there any means of
poisoning the crop as it stands? A neighbor tells
me that the only way to handle it is to cut it, let
it dry, then burn it, and finally plough the ashes in
and the roots out ; and that this must be done every
year till the seed is exhausted. If that’s true, any-
one may have the block who wants it
OBSERVING THE LETTER OF THE LAW.
“Hi, Digger! Traffic one way only here!”
“Well, I’m — hie—only (join’ one way, ain’t I?”
“Slam” : A somewhat rare but fairly
recent book on Australian bush lore, “Rambles of
an Australian Naturalist,” contains some assertions
which I would like to see ratified, or else ruled out.
It is written by Paul Fountain from the field notes
of a bushman, Thomas Ward. Mention is made of a
Westralian springing centipede, 17 inches long, which
draws the tail up to the head and springs 16 feet
at a time. It is of a coppery hue with greenish
reflections. From the same State a barking lizard
is described, whose voice might easily be mistaken
for that of a small dog. When the Groperland abos.
have settled those two, will they place the “jumping
snake” described in the same book, also from W.A. ?
This reptile has two well-developed legs at the
back, and though it can’t run, it jumps about sft.,
rising a yard high in the effort. Know it? Or
does it call for a special brew ?
* * * *
“Fez” : Reference to the American custom
of putting pads on the horses’ legs, as a protection
against cactus, reminds me of the drovers and stock-
men who puts boots on their sheep-dogs’ feet to
protect them from the cruel thorns known as
“bindi” or prickly roly-poly. Country saddlers dis-
play “Darkie’s boots” in their shops amongst the
other articles for sale. Why shouldn’t we protect
these workers ? Shearers soon make a noise, and
shout for basil aprons, when shearing sheep from
pear-infested country.
* * * *
“Rena” : Werribee, a village on the main
Geelong-Melbourne line, recently made famous for
a five-hour block on its bridge by a wandering
weatherboard house, has other claims to notoriety.
Two hives of bees have taken up their abode in
its ancient Mechanics’ Institute, and defy the efforts
of the local inhabitants to dislodge them. At a
recent flower-show they descended en masse upon'
the stalls, to the intense dismay of the exhibitors; and
on the following morning all the home-made cakes
on the refreshment stall were found to be denuded of
their icing.
“Pitch and Toss” (Carnarvon, W.A.).:
“Anaf” is right (B. 2/4/’25). The smuggling of
Chinese to n.-w. ports is a well-known fact; indeed,
there are few boats that do not drop one or two
stowaways. The crews cn board give every assistance
to make these ventures of their countrymen as easy
as possible. There were two stowaways in this
town last week and they may be here yet. They
were stylishly dressed in tailor-made clothes, and
looked like the sons of prosperous Chinese merchants.
A local Chinaman told me casually, as if it were an
everyday occurrence, who they were.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The Torres Strait islander had
a scientific way of catching thieves in the days before
“big Guvment” came along with its uniformed
policeman. When a man discovered that someone had
been borrowing garden produce without permission,
he went to a site called “Tomog” (if he were a
Murray Islander) and waited until a locust-like
insect called ketoto, which makes a loud “swish,
swish,” was heard. Then the ketoto was followed.
When it rested the follower rested; as soon as it
took up its peculiar call again and went on, the
sleuth went on also, until presently it led the
seeker to a house. The man wanted would be found
within, and was invariably held to be the guilty
party, so the oracle-workers allege. “He good
telegraph for bring message that one,” said one old
fellow; “he can find out any kind ting that ketoto.”
“Kum Day”: Let me reply to “Wingella”
(B. 7/5/’25). Color of the skin in variou--
races is due to pigment. This varies in different
peoples, the dark races having much and the white
races little or none. All infants are born without
pigment in the skin, and are, therefore, white—
this is true of all races, black or white. Abo. babies,
however, turn black within a few days. When “Win-
gella” can explain thia he will answer his own ques-
tion. He also wonders at a half-caste woman grow-
ing darker after maternity; but he need not go as
far as half-caste women for increased skin pigmen-
tation after child birth. The phenomenon is normal
in white women at the same stage. The amount
varies with the complexion of the mother: the darker
she is the more pigment is formed, and vice versa.
Obviously, it is not uniformly distributed through
the skin, but shows an affinity for particular areas.
Increased skin pigmentation is the general rule after
maternity in all races. Why is quite unknown.
* * * *
“Coot”: When travelling from Red Cliffs
to Ouyen (Vic.) recently a motoring party discovered
that the radiator was empty. The nearest water
was ten miles away. Regretfully the travellers sac
rificed six bottles of beer, and ran the remaining
20 miles thereon.
* * * *
“Munjong”: “D.D.D.” (B. 30/4/’25) asks
for the prettiest native-birds’ nest. I had clipped
two ponies, one a grey and the other a chestnut, and
some weeks afterwards discovered, in an adjacent
clump of saplings, two nests, one made entirely of
grey hair and the other of chestnut. The nests,
swung in the upper branches of the bushes, were
about the size of an orange, and*'spherical in shape.
Two small holes near the top entrance allowed the
beak and tail of the sitter to protrude. The chief
points of beauty in these nests were the perfect
matching of the different shades of hair and the
weaving. The texture of the walls was almost as
close as rough serge, only the short body-hairs of
the ponies having been used.
“Riverina” : It is to be hoped “Parama’s”
suggestion for the unlimited slaughter of mono-
hawks up north (B. 23/4/’25) to supply cigarette-
holders for gussie smokers will receive no support.
While humane persons are working for the protec-
tion of our bird life, other people not so minded
are continually rising with enthusiastic plans for
their wholesale destruction. “Parama’s” final re-
marks conjure up an unpleasant picture: “To catch
the birds one lands at night with a powerful head-
light ; in half an hour one can supply hundreds of
cigarette-fiends with holders.” Apparently the cigar-
ette habit cannot claim all the fiends.
* * * *
“Boronia”: To keep your butter or last
bottle of beer really cool, try this. Get a chaff-bag.
thoroughly wet it and wrap tightly around
the goods. Then bind a dry sack firmly over
the wet one. When the inner bag shows signs of
becoming dry, it must be wetted again.
* * * *
“Dalang”: “McSk” states (B. 22/l/’2o)
that turtle dig three holes and use only one. Minor
details differ in various localities. At North Keeling,
Cocos, where the Emden was scuppered, two mounds,
about 6ft. apart, indicate the spots where the visit
has been paid, but the Malays recover the fruit
at a level spot midway between. On the beaches
of Cochin China the greenbacks make the same
mounds, but the eggs are invariably found several
yards higher up the slope. At the proper season
in the latter country, Madam often comes ashore
in the early evening, and so strong is hereditary
bluff that she will go through the usual flim-flam
before a crowd of sightseers, and then placidly
deposit her soft-shelled eggs in the grass-hats of the
swivel-eyed beachcombers.
THE NEW BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is booming at Breakneck Creek.
We’ve had a meeting about a bridge.
We’ve talked of it now for fully a week
Over the Flat and along the Ridge,
And very soon, there is little doubt,
We’ll have a bridge to be proud about.
And, frankly, I think we can scarce go wrong,
Though visitors have been known to sneer
And say that the creek goes roaring along
At something under a mile a year.
I grant that the creek is mostly a bog
Spanned by a two-foot bloodwood log.
But, mind you, it means two mile to go
Down and round by the gravel bar,
And that is a loss of an hour or so
For busj' men, as we mostly are.
So a good strong bridge must be our dart,
Strong enough for a horse and cart.
Besides, it is only right that we
Should forge ahead like the blooming town.
We hear that Sydney will shortly be
Plonking the price of a new bridge down.
And Breakneck Creek must no longer jog
Along content with a two-foot log.
So talk is booming along the Creek
And down the Flat and over the Ridge.
We all are determined, so to speak,
To challenge the boasted Sydney bridge.
And if he’ll swear he can build it strong,
We’ll give the job to this Dorman Long.
N.S.W.
BARTADAMSON.


fh
MU
vMNCHINKIRY
B- v i
Wmsmmm.
rU-X'^^x.-^n
■
ii*ii«2
hhhh
i
■ ■
B
i
;v
.<*3
mm
■ v/' '
*1
:
' '/J
all //
■
I
m
.
>;
r
mSK
•O’Vi
iki
W%
ser
>.
:
:
Wt
?■#&
m
v*
ft
M.25/f


A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, 45/.
■g»g
9
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, pure Silver-
plated, Al quality, glass lining, 65/-
mHrnirwnrnmwn
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, Al quality,
Silver-plated, £7/10/-
Others, £5, £5/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
Al Quality Silverplate.
A. Saunders Lntrfe, Dish, A 1 quality, pure Silver-plated, beaded
edge, highly burnished, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
ALL
ORDERS
SENT
POST
FREE.
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A.‘ Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers,
handsome English Cut Glass Bowl, pure
Silver-plated Mounts and Servers, GO /-
WUIII
A. Saunders’ Dessert Stand, pure Silver-plated,
Al quality, highly burnished, hand pierced,
£5/10/-
V'A
m
Art
m
lIS
05
m
Mm
■ O
£JS!
AfJ
SO?
«PW
■855
A. Saunders’ Tantalus Spirits Frame, Cut Hobnail Crystal
Bottles, pure Silver-plated, Al quality frame, £lO/10/-
Two Bottles, £B/10/-
BIG VALUES IN MEN’S
RIDING WEARABLES.
mm. : m
mm t
WWM
•;»»<**
:>*<■
i*
■
/
%&*
a@s
Footwear and Leggings.
“Stockman” Riding Boots, in Stout Black or Tan Yearling
Calf. Sewn Soles and best elastic sides 27/6
Riding Leggings, in Stout Tan Hide, perfect fitting,
made on anatomically shaped blocks. In spring front
or Puttee Styles, 18/6. Better quality, 22/6.
Leviathan • Riding
Wear is made on
lines that ensure per-
fect freedom of movement
and the utmost saddle-
comfort. Materials are of
textures specially-selected
for their hard-wearing
qualities, and every gar-
ment is honestly tailored
to withstand heavy strains.
Military
Twist Breeches
Heavy quality gar-
ments in regulation
Military Twist, and
fitted with self strappings.
Riding Tweed
Breeches,
301-
High-grade Breeches
in specially-woven
tough material of
unequalled wearing capacity.
Fitted with leather strappings.
Pockets and lining of best
heavyweight Drill. Fawn and
Grey shades.
Suede Drill
Riding
Breeches,
35 1-
In Khaki or Olive
shades. A wonderful
wearing line of washing
material, with self strappings.
Judhpores (Riding Trousers)
in the same quality, 21/- pr.
19/6
Write for our New Winter Catalogue, post free on receipt of your Name and
Mail Orders are personally attended to by an Expert Shopper.
Address.
The LEVIATHAN
Pty.,
Ltd.,
Cr. SWANSTON AND BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE.
F-FLOIVE
JI?ROM Paris the firm have received a selection of fine
Black Onyx Jewellery, which represents the very newest
being worn there. Particularly worthy of an inspection
is an Onyx and Diamond Circle Brooch included in this
selection. The figure of a dancing girl, in diamonds
set in platinum, forms part of this attractive article, with
diamond and platinum bows on each side of the circle.
W hile these articles are distinctly novel, they are executed
in dignified, refined designs, and the workmanship is of a
particularly high-grade character.
WM-DRUMMOND £> CO
U E WELLERS
34-4-34-6 COLLINS STREET,MELBOURNE


e
The question of “where to stay” when
you plan to visit Melbourne is best
answered by Scott’s —Melbourne’s most
central hotel.
The Newly-completed Extension
makes this modern hotel more attractive than
ever, by providing an Enlarged Dining-room,
Spacious Lounge, Bedrooms with Baths
attached, and all modern comforts.
These new innovations, together with the
constantly maintained high standard of com-
fort, cuisine and service, are features that
firmly sustain Scott’s pre-eminence.
There is No Better Hotel
at Which You Can Stay.
Rates on Application.
Telegrams:
“Scott’s,” Melbourne.
Telephone:
9012 (4 lines).
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday |
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
MISSES MONKE DOYLE
Phones Cent 1532, 1533.
Tlie Palace Theatre took the plunge from
Shakspeare to Australian revue on Saturday
night, when “Snap” exchanged places with
the Allan Wilkie co. The atmosphere was
all frivol, from the garlands of greenery and
chrysanthemums which looped the loop all
over the theatre to the lively music. The
new entrepreneurs prematurely crowned
themselves with numerous golden laurel-
wreaths, and, in its eagerness to please, the
Australian Musical Productions Pty., Ltd.,
rather gave an over-dose; but with some
snipping “Snap” should do well financially.
A huge house gave it rapturous welcome.
Twenty-six changes of scene include black
and rose velvet draperies and back curtains.
Ten shingled ballet-lassies work overtime,
frilled in varied hues, in bathing attire of
royal blue and gold, pyjama-clad, as demure
Quaker girls, as frisky pierrettes or goose-
stepping as a dashing silver-arrayed platoon.
Kitty Reidy’s trousseau includes sheathing
of silver tissue traced with a design in
petunia velvet, and her principal-boy raiment
is of gold tissue and black pom-poms upon
a hussar headpiece. Noteworthy is the black
apparel in which the leading lass is merely
wound, not fastened. Vivien Carter of the
Titian top wears as her gladdest rags black
lace top-dressing white satin. Kathleen Fan-
ning, niece of Senator AA’nlter Kingsmill,
soubrettes in silver, and later in blue and
pink petals. Howett AA 7 orster, the producer,
wears quite a nifty pussy-willow dressing-
gown, upon which masculine eyes lingered
long. The stage presented a flower show
at the final curtain, with Hector St. Clair
staggering under a “Kitty” writ in crimson
roses. And black cats were without number.
Alelbourne’s smartest smiled approval from
d.-c., stalls and boxes. Louise Lovely re-
ceived a welcome from the galleryites as sin-
stepped into a box in an ermine coat. Oppo-
site, composer-director Kenneth Duffield with
his wife bowed acknowledgments. It was,
by the way, a nice little act to make sol-
diers’ wives and mothers guests of honor at
the final rehearsal.
“Thank U,” .1. D. O’Hara’s new offering
at the Athenanim on Saturday night, earned
the appreciation of a full house. As the
gentle old clergyman who is deeply grateful
for the minor offerings bestowed by his
church committee, J.D. seemed very happy;
and the audience quite approved of Alaggie
Jarvis as the nice niece from gay and wicked
Paris, where they wear sleeveless frocks and
do other dreadful things just like Alelbourne.
Alaggie sports a sweet black satin striped
coat, collared, cuffed and edged with white
fur over black gowning, with a green tas-
selled necklace. A rose-lmed trained neglige
with zouave jacket of blue is a disturbing
element to uncle’s feminine flock. Emma
Temple has effective matronly apparel of
chocolate brown with gold and ruddy autumn
tints embroidered on it. Jade blue millinery
makes an attractive alliance with Zoe AA'cnke's
frock of ivory lace. Lottie Sargent gets no
plums in raiment, being robed in somewhat
eccentric mode. There was nearly a hold-up
when Alaggie Moore made her entrance as
the clergyman's housekeeper—it was a
reception to be proud of. Heaps of flora
and some other articles wandered over the
stage at the curtain drop.
A full house at the matinee on Thursday
at His Majesty’s, a raffle of silk stockings
and some auctions meant a fat cheque for £530
to help the Old Actors’ Benefit Fund and the
J.C.AA 7 . Employees’ Sick Fund. A plethora
of good things included the first act of
“Spring Cleaning,” in which Pauline Fred-
erick’s near-loss of virtue missed some thrill
when presented in a knee-length frock of
black satin instead of the voluptuous rest-
gown of green and autumn tones. AVee
Georgie AVood, as “AVee Alacgregor,” scattered
his sweets around the orchestra; and one
of Alaggie Aloore’s recitation offerings sug-
gested a Band of Hope meeting—but she
made amends with a child-study sketch.
There were the prologue of “Skittles,” with
John D. O’Hara; warblings by the Con.
Ladies’ Choir; whip-cracking by Snowy
Baker; some delightful dancing by clever
youngsters trained by .lennie Brenan; and
startling whirling by Hazel Clements and
Michael Cunningham. Araud Fane. Alfred
Frith and Muriel Benton were among the favo-
rites ; also, Reita Nugent and dancing-part-
ner Brooks. Uproarious merriment was
caused with the “Blue Hoosier Blues,” in
which finely-attired men and maidens become
darkies all in a flash. Scott Lang and
Nancye Stewart auctioned sundry articles,
from a bottle of fizz, which brought £lO, to
a °-old cigarette-case, which the last man in
got for £l3. Nellie Stewart sent along one
of her gold bangles, which was run up to
£7; and the purchaser of the “bubbly” handed
the bottle to Maggie Aloore.
A crowded Glaciarium on Saturday intro-
duced Alelbourne to Howard Nicholson,
dubbed the champion skater of the world,
and Henry AVitte in exhibition skating.
There was a thrill in all Nicholson’s work,
including his execution of Catherine-wheels.
AVitte introduced comedy imitations of the
other's performances ; but his leap over 19ft.
obstacles showed amazing daring. The show
roused cheers from 3000 people.
Although Alelba was absent from her
native city on her 64th birthday, it did its
best to do her honor by turning out in full
force to listen to her golden notes on the
gramophone in the Athenaeum Hall in the
evening, when the chair was well filled by
Dr. Barrett, representing the Lady North-
cote Orchestra, with Airs. Jimmie Dyer, pre-
sident of the British Musical Society, on his
right hand. Little Fritz Hart took a long
time in eulogising his idol, and was followed
by Prof. AA r . A. Laver. Longstaff’s 500-
guinea portrait of the absent one looked on,
and a cable was sent to her in London.
Alembers of the English-Speaking Union,
with some unofficial exponents of our national
tongue, met in the new lounge of Scott’s to
extend a friendly hand to Airs. H. E. Hayes
and her reverend partner, who is bent upon
establishing yet another brotherhood here, in
the shape of Toe H. Interest centred in Dr.
Earle Page’s address upon “AVhat I Saw in
U.S.A.” ; and there were no motes in his eye
when he looked. Guy B. Post, who was in-
cluded in the Union’s handclasp, said that his
own English-speaking tongue would certainly
be raised in lauding the Commonwealth and
the surplus coin of his tour in Australia
would be invested in Aussie bonds. Donald
Mackinnon, our recent Trade Commissioner
in TJ.S.A., presided, and a quintette of fair
English-speakers in the Colin Fraser, Harry
Gullett, AV. AL Robins, Clarence Marriott,
and Harold Clapp matrons fortified the visi-
tors witli souchong.
Airs. Pohlan, of East Melbourne, and
daughter Dorothy made the visiting Sistine
soloists feel at home at the Oriental the
other day. Hostess, with ermiue tippet
brightening a black gown, extended the wel-
coming hand to the Alelodious Nine, and also
to the AVeedon dame, just back from Alaori-
land. Airs. Douglas Stewart, Eileen Castles
and sister Airs. Finn, mummer Norman Lee
and violinist Sarcoli were other genial folk in
the party.
Nellie Stewart's illness has not made her
forgetful of the troubles of her brother and
sister professionals. A well-known philan-
thropic worker here received a wire from
Sweet Nell from Sydney early last week ask-
ing the receiver to be sure and help the Old
Actors’ benefit fund matinee all she could.
The lass of the brown eyes is Isabel
Handley, an early pillar of the Melbourne
Repertory Theatre Society in the days when
Gregan AlcMahon ruled its destinies. Be-
sides interpre-
ting other
people's plays
she has written
some of her
own. She will
be sole pro-
d u c e r of
“A Bill of
Divorcement,”
the society's
next offering,
and October’s
p r e s e ntation
will be “The
Mandarin
Coat,” her very
own and most
am b itious
effort, of which
Irene Vanbrugh
has spoken flat-
teringly and
which the Big
Smoke may yet
see. Miss Handley's minor flights include
“The Six Aliss Seymours” and “Wedding
Belles,” written especially for the Old Girls’
of Lauriston College, and “The Girl in the
Chair” and “Let Ale Explain,” played by
the Reps.
St. Michael’s Old Grammarians put up a
good programme at Praliran Town Hall the
other night to help the College Building
Fund. Though the rain pattered down, the
attraction drew many folks from comfortable
firesides; for several ex-students of St.
Alichael’s now rank among the professionals.
Contributors included Constance Ziebell,
Florence Blitz, Tess Stewart, Norman Brad-
shaw and Joseph Foster, with some recita-
tions by Lucy Ahon ; and Eric Fox was an
excellent accompanist. The inevitable chews
and programme of events were distributed for
a consideration by a bevy of lasses.
Nell, only daughter of the Horace AVim-
pole pair, of St. Ivilda, burgeoned forth at
No. 9 Darling-street the other night. The
lass follows the F'indon Hounds, and guests
were gently reminded of her prowess in the
field by the hunting sketch by Leo Forbes
that adorned the dance programmes. Nell,
looking cliax-ming in white crepe meteor, with
wanderings of silver lace, stood beside mamma,
who smiled upon her guests above black satin
with attachments of steel and jet beads.
There’s been quite a boom in picture sales.
President John Longstaff reports heavy buy-
ings at the just-over show of the Artists’
Society. Blamire Young’s water-colors were
positively red-peppered, and the late Phillips
Fox collection put under the hammer
brought £l5OO, a big wad of it from the
Felton Bequest—4oo guineas for “Aly
Cousin” and 350 for “The Lesson.”
Could good Queen Vic. take a peep into
the AVomen’s Hospital which bears her name
she would be forced to admit that the sex’s
claim to advancement in her day had some-
thing well worth while in view. From a
three-days-a-week dispensary, opened in 1896
by a trio of women doctors —Dr. Clara Stone
and the late Drs. Constance and Mary Page
Stone —it has grown into a huge concern
which offers medical, surgical, midwifery and
clinical aid to distressed women and children.
Last year’s in-patients numbered 1236, in-
cluding 201 children, while out-patients
totalled 27,086. The hospital is gradually
assuming an imposing square, and, thanks
to the successful appeal of last year, a new
maternity building will provide for a further
90 patients. Alan plays no part in its man-
agement, and even honorary consultants of
the whiskered sex are bothered little.
One of the
busiest of its
busy commit-
tee is bonnie
Dr. Alargaref
M cLo rinan
ALB., B.S. An
honorary sur-
geon to in-
patients and
on the honor-
ar y medical
staff of the
midwifery de-
partment and
the out
patients 1
branch, and iri
her spare time
a Collins-
street practi-
tioner, she yet
stopped in one
place long
enough to
allow La Fayette to take this snap.
Mrs. Phillips Fox, who has settled down
here again after her travels abroad, is to
hold a show of her own work on June 2 at
the New Gallery. One night recently she
called her old friends together at the Lyceum
Club. Her wrapping of gold and black bro-
cade was nicely set off by the floral decora-
tions of marigolds.
Members of the Women’s Automobile Club
crank up on June 4 to give a number of
blind children an outing. At the last fort-
nightly chat and tea president Mrs. 11. .T.
Robertson, frocked and hatted in brown,
offered the glad hand and a sheaf of excel-
lent artists, including Mrs. 11. .Tolley, Spencer
Reis and Dr. Bartolini and violinist Cecil
Parkes. Secretarial duties are now shoul-
dered by Mrs. H. Pattinson; Mrs. W. A.
Troedel had to resign through ill-health.
Welcomed back last week, after over a
year’s jaunt in the Great Smoke and on the
Continent, Mr. and Airs. Arthur Baillieu and
daughter Sunday, to say nothing of the
canary, which evidently was not a prohibited
immigrant. Home from the same festal pil-
grimage came also the R. S. Whitings.
Arthur Baillieu spent quite a lot of his time
off looking into hospital management, and
hopes that his Alelbourne Hospital hobby
will benefit by it.
Vera Bedford has just joined the serried
ranks of Alelbourne’s professional pianists.
This daughter of Randolph’s was a brilliant
student of the University Con., last year
toured Victoria as pianist with Gregory
Ivanoff, and has been piano soloist with the
Con. orchestra at various Town Hall music-
makings. Percy Prout and W. Hornby super-
vised her first steps, and at the Con., where
she gained a three years’ exhibition and a
diploma, she was guided by F. W. Home-
wood.
Wedding bells rang last week for Ercil
Eyres Baynes, youngest daughter of Airs.
George Baynes, of South Yarra, and Roger
Edward Webb Ware, a son of the Charles
AVebb AA r ares of Toorak. Dr. F. Brown,
headmaster of Geelong Grammar School,
where the bridegroom, a rowing hero, was
tutored, tied the knot, with the Rev. Leonard
Townsend’s help. The bride, who didn’t lose
either her looks or frock sense in acquiring a
Master of Science degree, said she would in
white georgette with silver tracery and ina-in-
law’s old Brussels lace. Arley Baynes and
Elinor Ware ’maided in rose-pink georgette
with velvet and gold petals. Rejoicings were
at No. 9 Darling-street.
Felix Lloyd, the new City Councillor, is
managing director of Buckley and Nunn, and
his offer of public service has set other busi-
ness men thinking whether they shouldn’t
follow suit when opportunity comes. Ex-
State Treasurer McPherson seized a chance
at the annual meeting of the Chamber of
Commerce to urge some of his friends and
rivals to come and lend a hand in Parliament.
But there is that ogre of the ballot-box to
be passed.
Dorothea Vincent, in gold tissue gleaming
through velvet embossed georgette of the
color known in pre-war days as magenta, did
some good work at the piano in the Assembly
Hall before she moved on. A large audience
gave the unheralded English artist consider-
able applause and heaps of gardenware. Vio-
linist Alberto Zelman and the lady put up a
remarkably good performance of the “Kreut-
zer Sonata,” and the latter introduced some
attractive modern music. The Dyers’ roof
sheltered the lady during her short stay in
Melbourne.
Jean. Apperly is taking a plunge next
month with barrister Fred Gamble, who is a
son of Dr. and Mrs. Gamble, of Kew. Bride-
elect is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Apperly, and sister of Dr. Apperly, a
former Rhodes scholar now on the staff of
Melbourne Uni. She can also claim artist
John Longstaff as uncle. The cake-cutting
will be at the Windsor Hotel.
The veteran Mrs. Emily Dobson, of
Hobart, who for years out ,of number has
represented Australia at the National and
International Conferences of the Council of
Women, has just been made an honorary life
vice-president of the International Council
in Washington. The still vigorous lady, who
is the widow of Henry Dobson, a former Pre-
mier of the Speck, has reached her 83rd
milestone.
Mrs. H. B. Howard Smith, who went
globe-trotting by the Cathay, was invited
to pick a bone at Menzies’ by Mrs. Robert
Wilkins. The also-feasted were given posies
of the first sweet violets of winter along
with the oysters.
Mrs. Andrew Muecke, of Adelaide —she is
a sister-in-law of Ada Crossley—journeyed
over to Sydney last week after saying how-
d’-y’-do to friends in passing. Daughter
Nancy accompanied her; the charming flap-
per, who is just about to plunge into the
social world, desired a trip instead of tin
usual “coming-out” party.
Sister Adelaide follows :
The debut of Betty, eldest of the Lavington Bony :
then girls, was the excuse for one of the smartest
dances of the season. The Palais hid its stalls
and boxes behind banks of bamboo and blue-gum,
and grew in the centre of its dancing-floor a rose-
wreathed dais flanked at its four corners with mam-
moth standard roses. From this citadel the evening’s
debs. —they included Lesley, elder of the Clem
Hill daughters, Joan Goodman, Betty MacDonald
and Margaret Weston —pelted the other dancers with
roses and confetti just before supper. Mrs. Bony-
thon stood slim and straight in jetted black; and
the chief heroine wore blush pink georgette glimmer-
ing with crystal, with rose petals xoun<l its- hern,:
Members of the Repertory Theatre Club fore-
gathered in the B.M.A. Hall —they are already out-
growing their own quarters in Pirie-street —to hear
Professor Heaton’s depressing story of contemporary
drama in England, where managers give their public
what they want, and, their public being the new
rich, the position explains itself. Music, however,
he found on the up-grade; and revue is sliding to
perdition.
A bridge evening at the Town Hall, with Mrs.
Wallington, Mrs. Harold Bond and Mrs. Wesley
Lathlean to keep an eye on it, has .given another lift
to the funds of the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary.
We’re to have no lack of opportunity for getting
rid of the odd pennies this year. The Queen’s
Home is the latest to unpack its begging bowl
with a request for £lO,OOO.
Ex-Agent-General Lucas and his lady said their
how-d’-y’-do’s to a big muster at a tea, hostessed
by Mrs. Glover. The welcome, by the way, stressed
the part S’Edward had played in getting this village
lifted to the giddy eminence of a Lord Mayoralty.
Galli-Curci, in white and silver, gold and black,
and hooped petunia taffeta in tuin, has filled the
Town Hall to bursting. Though she raised the
usual controversy as to the quality of her singing,
she won the usual unanimous verdict concerning
her personal charm. She has decided —in spite of
original refusals —to come back for a concert in
the Exhibition. which takes considerably more voice
and audience to fill than the Town Hall.
The Frederick Duttons were star guests at the
at-home given by the H. H. Duttons —she in gold
tissue and lace and her hostess in draped white
satin with pearls about her neck. The frivol also
helped to warm the Duttons’ new town quarters—
once the Harold Fishers’ home. The flowers were
exquisite—great bowls of long-stemmed carnations,
giant hydrangeas, sheaves of multi-colored gladioli,
an 4 , on the supper table, a huge crystal goblet ablock
with red and pink roses: they came from the Dutton
gardens at Victor Harbor.
The Oxford debating team broke up after its
appearances in Adelaide. Woodruff and Hollis return
home by way of Java, but Macdonald stays on to give
some lectures on his own account.


Books for
Architects & Builders
Carpenters & Joiners
Post Free.
Modern Cabinet Work. Furniture and Fitments. By Wells and Hooper, 3924 31/6
Woodworking Machinery. By Ball 14/0
Sawmills, Their Arrangement and Management. By Ball 20/-
Modern Woodworking Machinery. By Stafford Bansome. 3924 17/-
Light and Heavy Timber Framing Made Easy. By Fred Hodgson. 450
illustrations 12/8
Elementary Building Construction. By Sage and Fretwell. 570 illustrations 7/-
Timbers and Their Uses. 96 Photos of grains of wood. By W. Winn 8/6
Practical Bricklaying. By Hammond. 1924 3/10
Audel’s Carpenters’ and Builders’ Guide. 4 Vols 37/-
Beaton’s Pocket Guide, Measurer and Estimator lor the Building Trades.
(Pocket size.) 2/8
Building Construction Drawing. By Eaton. Parts 3 and 2 each 3/3
Building Construction Drawing. By Eaton. Parts 4 and 5 each 5/4
Practical Uses of the Steel Square. By Hodgson. 8/-
Carpentry and Cabinet-making for Amateurs. . .. . ; .. 0/«
Carpentry and Cabinet-making. By W. Oakwood 2/4
Saws, Their Care and Treatment. By Durham 8/8
Elementary Carpentry. By J. T. Hurst 12/6
Stair-building and the Steel Square. By Hodgson-Williams 6/6
Practical Joinery and Carpentry. By R. Greenhalgh. 480 illustrations. . . B'B
TJhe Practical Plasterer. By W. Kemp 4/6
Wilson’s Carpentry and Joinery. (24th Edition.) 10/6
Tables for Reinforced Concrete Floors and Roofs. By R. T. Morgan. 1925. 14/3
Elementary Principles of Reinforced Concrete Construction. By E. S.
Andrews. 3924 10/6
Manual of Reinforced Concrete. By Marsh and Dunn, 3922 26/8
Blue Print Reading. By Fairfield ,e. .. 12/8
Reinforced Concrete Simply Explained. By Faber ". . . 7/-
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS.
WE STOCK A LARGE VARIETY OF BOOKS OX BUILDING
BUNGALOWS AND COTTAGE HOMES.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
hafCdy bflos i<td.
I EWELLER.S
aass
M
feo
*45
/100
*4O
1/
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
of Quality and Value Unsurpassed
DERPECTION of Quality and Workmanship, combined
* with unequalled value, characterise the Diamond
Engagement Rings offered by Hardy Brothers. The
< ompany s name has stood for over 70 years as a guarantee
of strict integrity and lias set an unparalleled standard of
quality in all Departments. .Selections of Rings are sent
on approval throughout Australia.
Five per cent. Discount allowed on Cuxli Purchases. An attractive
Catalogue forwarded anywhere on request.
298 300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3Jie c House of* Osclustvc ‘UewelLznj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IJ6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Greatest
PLAYER
PIANO
VALUE in
Australia.
Sfce VICTOR
£.212
t%e
LAFFARGUE
£.230
Less 5% discount
for cash or easy
terms arranged.
Call and investi-
gate or let -us
send a represen-
tative to your
home.
338 George St.,
Sydney. 17
PALING’S
set the
Standard
IN
Player-Pianos
Pianos
Organs
To-Day
as they did
72 Years
Ago
when they first
started in the
piano business.
You cannot do
better than place
yotir order with
this well-tried
company.
Inspection invited.
338 George St.,
Sydney. 16
to
Victor
Pianos
■■■ an ra ■■ mm
will
stand all
c 1 i mates,
they have
a beautiful
tone and
last a life-
time.
SOLD FULLY
GUARANTEED.
Write to-day for
free Catalogue and
price list showing
Easy Terms.
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
i


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1914. I
CHAMPAGNE (
Charles Heidsieck
; a® IMS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
c-
champagne
OlariesHeidsi^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
THE NEW ADDITIONS TO WHICH, JUST COMPLETED,
RENDER IT UNRIVALLED IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Steam-heated throughout, its suites of rooms and wonderful lounge and
dining-room, provide that element of simple luxury so difficult of attainment.
In addition to the wonderful service of the Hotel those staying
in the house are cordially invited to the famous W entworth
Ballroom adjoining, where Sydney’s Society entertains its friends.
Church Hill, Sydney, or
’Phone 8W1361.
Code: “Mum.” Sydney.
The Coolest Spot in Sydney.
rams
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till Y 2.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
PINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 217-
Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
• Saturdays. 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons, 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and 57-
Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-, with
the privilege of two hours’ delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone M 3666.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The tickets for the Polo Association’s ball
sold like hot cakes at two guineas each, and
on the night of the rally the marble halls
of the Ambassadors were thronged with Syd-
ney's best, its next-best and its almost good.
These bumped and squirmed in the lounge
at the foot of the stairs even after the band
bad started to phiy, and hadn’t wholly pushed
off into the ballroom when the vice-regals
made their entry under convoy of Mrs. Tony
Hordern and Mrs. Din Garvan. The G.-G. s
lady, who girdled her misty blue georgettes
with brilliants, and fastened each shoulder-
strap with a twinkling star, looked pictorial
as ever; and our own Viking's lady wore a
regal mixture of embossed velvet and sable
polished off with long diamond ear-rings
and the lasso of pearls.
Mrs. Tony Hordern, who. like Martha,
was concerned over many things, waved an
opulent flame ostrich-plume alternately over
buffet and supper tables, and with the help
of an army of waiters magicked details into
the perfect whole. Mrs. Din Garvan wore
her turquoise-green velvet with a deep \
pinched out between the shoulder-blades; but,
instead of wasting the piece, she turned it
into a little flippy-floppy train like a mer-
maid’s. Ken Austin, who oils all the wheels
of the big’ polo fixtures, came with his lady,
her nut-brown frock soft with lace. Brown
fringed from hem to collarbone swirled
around Mrs. Colin Stephen ; an artist’s dream
of gold tissue and cornflower, around which
a hem of sable purred, threw up the blonde
coloring of Mrs. Vivers. Mrs. Pat Levy was
wraith-like in pale pink ninons embroidered
in gold; mother-in-law Mrs. Sep wore her
beautiful white hair tucked in, rather after
the style of a barracoota loaf, and was clothed
in a frock of great charm, entirely composed
of dawning blues sown over with crystal
flowers of prize dimensions. Mrs. Macken-
zie, the diminutive wife of the visiting
Maorilanders’ captain, came with her large
lord. Mrs. Frank Ilowson aired an exquisite
souffle of georgette and lace toned like mellow
ivory. Mrs. Guy Belisario’s black-and-gold
frocking suggested a Chinese screen. Knight
Tom Hughes brought liis lady, and with
them came daughters-in-law Mrs. Geoffrey
and Mrs. Roger, Mrs. Fred Porter (S.A.)
arid Mrs. Bridges (England). Betty Wilson,
graceful Alison MacConnick and the attrac-
tive Cowle girl from South Aus. were out-
standing in a night that included such eye-
arresters as the Maple Browns, the Dudley
Gibsons, brilliant polo-player Colonel White
and Captain Coote.
Evidently the committee knows its Sydney.
On the crossed polo-sticks and team banner-
ettes that decorated the stairway was printed
the legend: “Please do not take away the
sticks.” The same little motto ornamented
the decorations on some of the supper-tables.
The dizziest rocket of the week’s carnival
burst over the Rose Bay Golf Club. Nearly
all who were hosting parties at the dance
spread the evening meal for their guests at
the club before the hour for jazz resounded.
The polo-keen Tony Horderns, of course, had
the biggest party; it included players from
all the States.
The Tony Hordern dance at Retford Hall
was the only big private party of the week.
It was to the glory of the Gold Cup polo
players; the ballroom at the foot of the
lawns was brimful, and the dancers were
almost a duplication of those at the Ambas-
sadors the night before.
The dance of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation was a washout, although it happened
on the finest night of last week —it had the
bad luck to clash with the Tony Horderns’
private dance at Retford Hall. Most of the
country hostesses footed it gaily amid the
Darling Pointers, while the C.W.A. frivol
languished and wilted at the Paddington
Town Hall. Of the five committee matrons
who stuck loyally to secretary Mary Irvine
one was Mrs. T. R. Bavin, who looked a
model of constancy in black panne reinforced
with nailheads. Pink was the predominating
wear among the handful of dancers: all
shades of pink are the wear for the young
person this season, while those misty pale
blues that used to be associated with babies’
ribands and sweet 17 seem to have been com-
mandeered by the forties and upwards. As
the night wore on towards 9.30 Town Clerk
Layton made a sort of vice-regal entrance,
piloting a party sleek with ermine and gold
and silver panne embossed velvets and the
last word in tailorings. Everybody was so
delighted that a sigh of gladness like a cheer
echoed through the room, and the painted
Henry Parkes on the landing smiled above
the green spears of the decorative palms that
were tickling his whiskers.
The ball of the St. John Ambulance
Auxiliary scored the first goal in the Polo
Week carnival. To begin with, the young
things (the Auxiliary is made up of society
girls) had with the cunning of the serpent,
dated the flutter while the week was still
young, so the roll-up was large arid sprightly.
A contact was immediately struck between
the dancing dervishes and the exuberant de-
corations of the Palais, and when the State
vice-regals arrived —which they did early,
bringing both the children with them—the
pulse of gaiety was beating along as
tumultuously as the bedouin’s much-quoted
steed. Not that (to the naked eye, at least)
any dancer was shod with fire, though what
agonies some of the knuttiest footwear cov-
ered was known only to the tortured soles.
The Government House party was met on
arrival by a reception committee, headed by
the new Chief Justice and his nice wife, she
wrapped in brocaded tissue that might have
been a remnant left over from Joseph’s coat,
so rich it was in hue. Among the crowd of
greeters smiled Colonel Adam Dick, the
chairman of the St. John Society, and
Colonel Morgan Martin, who is another of
its kingpins. Barbara Laidley, the youthful
president of the junior auxiliary, and sister
Perry, who is the organising secretary for
St. John were others in the doormat
tableau. A cape of blue georgette gave the
now floating effect to the Vice-Reipe’s peri-
winkle blue and gold brocades, and daughter
Elaine’s frock mingled almond-green taffeta
and chiffon. Very handsome was Mrs. Shep-
lieard Laidley’s cruiser-grey brocades; and
graceful Josephine Cowle (S.A.), in white
georgettes fluffing with ostrich, was one of
the night’s greatest charms.
There was a sound of revelry by night
to all within coo-ee of the Wentworth on
Friday. That Church Hill caravanserai,
glittering with pomp and ceremonial, not
to speak of military and naval uniforms
blazing with decorations, thrilled the early
stars with a fanfare of trumpets on the
arrival of the vice-regals at the ball in
honor of Empire Day. The function was
the special celebration of the United Ser-
vice Institution, and Commodore Wardle
was the evening’s high priest. Between a
guard of honor that stretched from the
entrance to the foot of the steps leading into
the Palm Court passed both the Federal and
State Excellencies. Lady Forster’s frocking
was a nocturne of blue and silver; and our
own Viking’s lady flashed her favorite golden
tones, while daughter Elaine’s frock looked
as though it had been brocaded by Jack
Frost. Mrs. Norman Kater and Commander
Grant’s pretty wife added to the pictorial
look of the dais, and so did Jean Wardle, the
Commodore’s daughter, in a whote moire and
silver confection. The General Brands and
the Chief Justice Streets and a small army
of aides were others in this horizon.
The lady in this May Moore picture is
Miss Rose Piper: and every one of the wives
and babies of
the returned
T.B. soldiers
calls her
friend. She
was one of the
first members
of this State’s
Red Cross; in
the early days
she was matron
at the Cro-
nulla home for
wounded war-
riors, and later
was on the
voluntary staff
of almost
every holiday
home for sol-
diers in the
State. For
many years
now she has
been in charge
of the Red Cross “After Care” department
for women and children, and through her
capable ministration these sufferers —they
are mostly the victims of T.B. —are kept
supplied with milk, fresh fruit and warm
clothing. Her address is Rose Hall, and she
will be glad to hear from anybody who has
a surplus of fruit, vegetables or milk.
A feature of Empire Day celebrations in
Sydney was the Royal Colonial Institute’s
dinner on Saturday night at the Australia.
Here, with the only colors in the spectrum,
red, white and blue, with a brace of vice-
regals at the table of honor, and with pillars
of State like Tom Henley on every side, the
Institute ate to the glory of Empire.
But grilled chicken had replaced roast
sirloin at the feast, as no doubt it did at a
thousand other similar banquets. So an-
other chance was lost of ringing the Empire
symbolically with Beefeaters.
The younger girl in industry caused the
National Council of Women grave thought
the other evening in the Highland Society’s
rooms. Welfare-worker Miss Hinder had
engineered the meeting, and she and Pidding-
ton, K.C., and Miss Cashman, of the Trades
Hall, were the speakers-in-chief. The little
girl who has to work for her bread and
butter is deserving of all the care and pro-
tection better-off big sister can give her;
but we must not make a whip of her, as one
of the speakers seemed inclined to do. Neither
must we watch her every step and inclina-
tion, as the resolution moved by Margaret
Thorp advocated, lest we destroy her ini-
tiative and so rob her of much of her charm.
The most sensible suggestion evolved was for
vocational-guidance bureaus. But at the end
of two hours’ discussion Grace Scobie, Whose
job is factory-inspecting, stood up and
meekly claimed that there was nothing new
in the ideas before the meeting, as the Public
Service Board was already at work on simi-
lar lines. If one read aright, the firm line
of Mrs. Muscio’s mouth- —she was in the
chair—said, “Well, we’ll speed them up a
bit.”
Another pressing matter before the Coun-
cil is the question of the prevention of in-
fantile paralysis. Dr. Grace Boelke upstood
and spoke the other day: "No fresh manure
on gardens during the fly-breeding season.”
This brought a strangled cry of protest from
a rose-grower; and Grace, turning on her
with a steely eye, inquired : “Which do you
prefer, Madame—roses or babies?”
Every theatregoer in Sydney knows the
name of Clint, for more back-cloths and
scenic effects
have be e n
painted by
members of
th a t family
than can be
reckoned. This
Ma y Moore
head belongs
to Alfred, one
of three artist
brothers (an-
other is Syd,
whoso name is
often at the
foot of Bulle-
tin drawings),
and a show of
his works will
adorn the
walls of the
A u s t r alian
Fine Art Gal-
leries early in
J u n c. The
three brothers have a farm at Windsor:
at present they have divorced themselves
from back-cloths-, and each is devoting him-
self to smaller mediums of expression.
Father Hartigan’s “Boree Log” (every-
body knows who “John O’Brien” is) lias
been turned into one of the most lovable pic-
tures that ever graced the screen. As
clean as a night wind among the gumtops,
it tells of simple men and women, honest
and direct in their way of living, too busy
to be complex, loving laughter and sunshine
and enjoying a joke even against themselves.
The beautiful scenes of the homely theme are
laid around the Wollondilly River and
Taralga, and the other morning, when the
picture had its first screening at the Prince
Edward, an audience which included Sir
Dudley de Chair and his lady, the Kreislers
and Father Hartigan himself exclaimed with
delight over the photography, especially as
they drove through tile early morning with
the old Mass shandrydan along the bush
road. You could almost smell the day’s fresh-
ness ; , even an amazing cobweb glistening
with dew had been included by an artistic
and poetic producer.
The big-hearted Scully sisters deserve a
cheer. Monica. Francis and Tessie have
each raised £lOO towards the building fund
of St. Margaret’s, and last Friday the pupils
of the three sisters combined in one of the
most successful cabaret afternoons the Went-
worth has ever known, over 500 revellers
turning up at it.
Any great artist is a citizen of the world,
especially in these gramophone days; but
surely Sydney Town Hall has never housed
more cosmopolitan audiences than during the
Kreisler season. The whole patchwork of
Europe and most of the Orient has been
drawn on to this most uncomfortable seat-
ing ; while as for the leather chairs and the
red carpet, they have been occupied by earls,
papal dignitaries and. at the last concert of
all, by a dignified rajah in a magnificently-
jewelled turban, his suite and a bunch of
Theosophist leaders. But there were per-
haps as many eyes for the pair of perfect
legs that ornamented the front row of the
organ steps. Silk clad, skirted only to the
knee-tip, they were a lyric in limbs, and
worthy the best work of Mr. Kreisler’s bow.
In striking contrast were some of their neigh-
bors. several pairs of which were pink-clad
—the sort the girl in the flat opposite de-
scribes as celluloid legs.
St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, housed a
pretty wedding the other night when Mar-
jorie White, of Bellevue Hill, exchanged
vows with lan McDonald, son of the late
Arthur McDonald, of Cowley station (Q.).
Two ’maids swathed in pink and silver fol-
lowed the bride’s ivory georgette and billow-
ing tulle veil; and later on bride’s mother
hostessed a reception at the Queen’s Club.
Mrs. Lyster Ormsby is tracking the odd
half-guineas overlooked by Ivreisler and the
Polo Association. The sleuthing is on be-
half of her beloved Girls’ Realm Guild. The
society with the old-fashioned name does a
work not touched by any other organisation.
It provides fees for educational purposes to
the hard-up student of needy middle-class,
artistic and shabby-genteel families. Jazz is
the snare set for June M, and the assembly
ball of the Women’s Club the place.
Winter is at hand, and Miss Boswell will
again be at home in the crypt of Bt. James’s
on June 5. Callers are requested to leave
men’s clothing and boots —especially boots—
instead of cards.
Sydney's old friend Marie Narolle-Currie
sends a coo-ee from New York to mention
the success of two Australians, Judith
Anderson and Godfrey Ludlow. Judith is
the acting-girl who left Sydney some years
ago to seek fame on Broadway. Willing to
climb every rung of the ladder, she has
played in stock companies and in repertory.
She got her chance a while ago from Bclasco.
and made a debut that was a Broadway
sensation in “The Dove.” Godfrey is hailed
by the New York critics as the Australian
Ivreisler, and was chosen the other day out
of hundreds of violinists from all parts of
the world as an active member of W.J.Z..
the foremost radio corporation of America.
Incidentally, he owns one of the six finest
violins in the world —the De Rougemont
Stradivarius.
One of our Very Best is still telling the
story in tones solemn with amazement. She
has been travelling in Europe, and returned
to Sydney last week. The family rooftree.
which had been rented during her absence,
was vacated by its tenants (also of the Best)
on Saturday morning, and the same after-
noon the returned traveller installed herself
among her household gods. On Monday
morning came a message from the temporary
dwellers in her tent: “As you’ll remember,
our time was not up till Saturday evening.
Please therefore let bearer have the eggs laid
by the hens on that day.”
A word or two from Brisbane: —
The Bellevue ballroom was marked off for All
Hallows’ past-pupils’ dance for the funds of the
Mater Public Hospital. Pale blue and white was
the frocking of the walls, and the Hon. Bill Lennon’s
special table had touches of poinsettia. Colored
electric lights starred the lawn, worn threadbare by
the feet of an exceeding multitude of guests.'
The Theatre Royal saw the first lap of the golden
jubilee celebrations of the Girls’ Grammar School.
Dante saw Beatrice pass in a dramatic piece per-
formed by students, there were graceful minuets,
and the school choir sang.
After Frank Hutchens, Bindley Evans and Harrison
Allen’s concert in the Elite Theatre, the Savage
Club spread supper for the trio, and offered them
music and dancing. Ruth Portraite and Fred Homer
were singers, and listeners included Kreisler’s advance-
manager Batiste, the J. Shaw and A. P. Green-
field matrons, Mrs. Forrest and George Shaw. At
the concert, Hilda Cooper, the Windsor eisteddfod
champion soloist, sang to a floral finish.
The Exhibition Building kept the rain off the final
session of the eisteddfod. Maidens Guyatt, Raddie
DavieS, Hollander and Una Bick scored in elo-
cution and three of Barbara Sisley’s pupils took
honors in the recitation contest.
Tattersall’s postponed their fixture from the rain
of Saturday' to the sunshine of Monday, which
brought the frocks out. Mrs. Cecil Palmer’s eavn-
mel-brown was fur trimmed, her black cloche bright
with cloth o’ silver. Mrs. Ness Hogan was sheathed
in pink and Mrs. Glynn Connolly in brown.
Rain poured on the Women's College function at
Kangaroo Point. Mrs. Jimmy Blair lifted the latch
and was received by Mrs. Thynne and Freda Bage.
There was dancing and music in the evening, while
mall jongg and bridge raged in various corners.
Martha Burns was amongst those who lent and mani-
pulated motor-ears to carry visitors from the ferry,
and an illuminated address, signed by some 60
ex-collegians, was handed to Freda Bage.
“The Moth of Moonbi” film is being “shot” at
Rosevale Valley, and amongst those who have gone
“into location” for the Australian production are
Doris Ashwin (who plays Dell Ferris), Arthur Tan-
chert, Marshland Hassell and Billie Stokes. The
picture hopes to catch bush visitors to the Brisbane
Show in August.
Six delightful little debs, made their bows at the
Picnic Race Club balls in Toowoomba. One was
Helen King, a younger daughter of the Kings of
Craigcnd; another was Eleanor Rutledge, the Kur-
rowah Rutledges’ chick ; and there were dark-haired
Hilda Walsh (Southport), Timmic Cox, Peggy Kent
and Kathleen Bligh (Condamine Plains). All the
buds wore white, and most of them carried dainty
little Early-Victorian bouquets of pale pink rose-
buds • and white carnations.
The wedding of Tom Crothers, of Dirranbandi, to
Edith Pechey, daughter of Mrs. Gailey, of Brisbane,
and cousin to Mrs. Alex. Murphy and Yulie Hobson,
will take place in Toowoomba on King’s Birthday.
The wedding-cake is to be cut at the Club Hotel.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER.
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth sad GeraUlton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
For Horsemen —and
the Man on the Land
MACNAUGHT “Wombat” Emperor Boot is easy and
comfortable to your feet, has Elastic Protectors.
Long service is assured by the use of lasting leathers.
The soles are strongly sewn and narrow for the stirrup.
you’ll get any amount of solid
wear from the “Wombat.” In
Black Calf.
In Tan Calf
Sizes s’s to 10’s.
Write for yours to-day.
We pay postage.
21 1-
25/-
mz#
Send us
your
repairs.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
189 Pitt Street 22 Strand Arcade 135 King Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
After opening at 5 to 2 for. the Bay View
Handicap at Williamstown (Vic.), Pukka drifted
until 9 to 2 and s’s were obtainable. Good money
for Bombard and Susie Pye resulted in late backers
having to take 9 to 4 and 4 to 1 respectively, l’he
race proved that the Tasmanian horse was exception-
ally unlucky at Sandown Park, where he lost on a
protest lodged by the Maltarda party; at Williams-
town, though pocketed at the back of the course
and blocked at the turn, he came with such a line
finishing run on the outside that he pipped the
favorite on the post. Sure was third, and Susie
Pye, who ran a sour race, next, while Frances
Tressady was doing pretty well at the end. Colin
Boyd, who rode Pukka, had a similar experience in
the Beach Welter on Lion Isle (7’s), the Sydney
gelding, who was not well placed early, just squeezing
home from Dukedom. Preposterer (10 to 9), the
only favorite to do it, credited A. G. Barlow with
his third successive sprint at the week-end meetings.
Autrolite (7’s) enhanced his National prospects by
a clever win in the lvororoit Hurdle, in which
ICnut Lad and Maluka were killed; and Valaster's
victory, at 9 to 4, in the Autumn Steeple was
also striking in its way. This fellow is by Piastre
—Valkyrie.
“Hasen”: A curious comment was made by the
Williamstown handicapper on the decision of the
Sandown stewards to disqualify Pukka in the main
event and award the race to Maltarda. Over the
same distance at the seaside course he made Pukka
give extra weight to the rival who in the judgment
of those stewards could have beaten him at San-
down. Many of Pukka’s Sandown backers thoroughly
agreed with him, considering they had been hardly
dealt with on that occasion. They argued, reasonably
enough, that a horse that can win by two lengths,
running away, would not have lost if there had men
no interference at the bottom of the long Sandown
strait. That they and the handicapper were right
and the Sandown stewards wrong seems now to be
fairly confirmed, for with 51b. more Pukka beat a
better field in smart time for the dead track (10 in
2—B) with Maltarda, receiving more weight, no-
where in the picture. No doubt the rider should
have been punished for what happened at Sandown,
but there was no sense in penalising the backers.
Followers of Tooliey liad a decent dav
at Randwick on Saturday, but no other punting
section did. The Rosehill horseman, who is in
splendid form this season, steered Periwoo (12’s) to
victory in the Flying Handicap, Buchanan (s’s) in
the second division of Tattersall’s Stakes, and Stony
(B’s) in the Welter. In each case he made his run
on the outside and kept his mount going until.there
was a length or two between it and the next best.
Unlike a lot of saddle-sitters, Toohey never wastes
precious moments in waiting for an opening on the
rails, nor does he believe in the flash practice of
cutting things fine—too fine, as sometimes happens.
He doesn’t mind how much his horse wins by so
long as it wins. Valamita (6’s) made a promising
debut over a distance in the Winter Stakes. 11 fur-
longs, but rather too much use was made of him, and
he was passed in the last 100 yards by Strongbow
(10’s), to whom he was conceding 211 b. Cistercian
was third. Strongbow, who is by Meenah’s sire,
Bowman, out of Mary Fortune —he is trained by
Pat Nailon for E. J. Watt —ran away with one of
the three-year-old races at the A.J.C. Spring meet-
ing. but had done nothing in between. A substantially
built chestnut, he will probably improve. And
Jupiter (B’s) made friends by the dashing manner in
which he accounted for Les Paddington and six
other hurdlers after the favorite, Une lor All, had
run himself to a standstill. Jupiter, who carried
Ust. 51b., has 9st. lib. in the rich A.J.t'. Hurdle
next month.
“Cobber” : It always puzzles ine why some
varieties of turf parasites are allowed to infest the
racecourse while others are stopped at the turn-
stiles. Sixty “whisperers” were bounced off ltandwick
at the A.J.C. Autumn meeting, yet professional tip-
sters are given an open go. Some of these nuisances
advertise that they are to be “consulted” at particular
spots, such as alongside a bookmaker’s stand; 1
have even heard one “spruik” for a grandstand
Tommy without being chucked out. Hut there must
be money in the game. One day recently 1 saw over
500 letters in a single mail delivery to one of
these alleged prophets.
Twenty thousand jostling Queenslanders
saw -Admetus, favorite at s’s, take the lead in the
.seven-furlong Brisbane Thousand on Saturday and
keep it for half a mile. Then Fine Stitch (10’s)
shot to the front and was never headed ; the three-
year-old Featherstitch gelding won by lengths,
being followed home by Sim Dallas, Molly Cyrus and
Persses Double, who won a race in Sydney a month
ago. The winner was piloted by “Wopper” McCabe,
who only a few days before had had his Warwick
disqualification lifted by the Q.T.C. committee. W.
J Tucker saddled him up, and he would not have
blown a candle out at the weigh-in. The minor
events were only remarkable for the way in which
the Ma State’s jockey Orrell stole a couple of events
from the best of the Bananalanders, Pat O’Sullivan.
While the latter was “kidding” to others, Orrell
slipped along the rails and took the money.
S.A. Jockey Club gave £lO,OOO-odd in
stakes during the three days it raced recently, and
nearly two-thirds went to Victoria. The A.lt.C.’s
three-day meeting follows immediately, with the
City Handicap, the Birthday Cup (the name dates
from last century, when the race used to be run
on the holiday for Queen Victoria’s birthday), and
the Alderman Cup. S.A. stakes are likely to be
further increased next year. The Port Adelaide
club talks of £3500 for its Cup at Christmas.
* * * *
The polo tournament at Kensington
(N.S.W.) racecourse came to an end on Saturday,
when South Aus. soundly licked the 3M. S. Wales
“A” team by 9 goals to 1. and thus collected the
Australasian Cup. The consolation trophy went to
the Queenslanders, who beat Victoria 11 —3. South
Aus. had begun so shakily against Queensland early
in the week, although it finally prevailed (8 —5),
that its prospects of getting through did not look
bright, especially as Victoria had made short work of
the N.S.W. second string, a strong individual side.
However, the Central Staters showed greatly improved
form against Victoria next day, developing a com-
bination which never left them. Victoria was
knocked out by 7—4 in a match wherein the Port
Phillip men showed a great falling-off from the form
displayed in their first game. In the final the
South Australians ran right away from the fast N. S.
Welshmen and never for a moment lost the initiative.
An accident to T. F. Ross, the N.S.W. back, which
compelled that fine player’s retirement, had no effect
on the issue; the team showed brilliantly on
occasion, but failed to “click” in combination, in
general, save for the first part of the game against
Queensland, South Aus. showed almost perfect com-
bined understanding. A trifle better mounted than
their opponents, they exhibited great stick work,
while their riding off and support all round were
fine. The Piltcn (Q.) club, which fairly galloped
over Vic. in the final of the consolation tourney,
provided a good example of hard-riding, hard-hitting
individualism in polo.
* * * *
Lebanon, outsider for the N. S. Wales
Coursing Association’s Dewar Cup at Rooty Hill,
both for the stake and in every course, put out. his
opponents one after another and reached the final.
STAN SEYMOUR, the Enylish team’s out-
side left. One of the most prolific scor-
iny wingers in English First-League
football.
There he met Persian Wave, favorite from the open-
ing card-call, and his forward march was stopped
at last. The course was hotly contested. On the
way to the hare the pair ran locked. Approaching
the game Persian Wave commenced to draw away,
but Lebanon reduced the gap, and was nearly level
as the hare wheeled. Allowing for the points on the
hare, there couldn’t have been much in it when the
elusive quarry whipped under the fence to safety, and
the heart of a bookmaker who stood to lose £BOO
on Lebanon stopped beating until it was clear that
he wouldn’t have to pay out. Both dogs hailed
from the country, the winner from the Dean ken-
nels at Orange and the runner-up from Koorawatha.
Once “bush-dogs” were thought but little of at
Rooty Hill. Now they quite commonly fight out
the decider.
The initiation of a new system of shorter
fights at Melbourne Stadium met with bad luck
owing to one of the two principal bouts proving a
fiasco. There was a brisk 12-rounder between Ben
Martin and Bert Spargo, each scaling 9st. 31b.
Martin, who was as hard as nails, won at least
eight rounds, and in the tenth had the veteran
rattled ; but Spargo retained sufficient cleverness in
evasion to last out the round and the other two.
Martin got the decision. In the cruiserweight affair
Alf Stewart (list. 10}lb.) was guilty of a very
palpable foul in the second round, and his Canadian
opponent, Fred Zimmerman (12st. 241 b.), had to
get medical treatment. Another such offence and
Stewart should be retired to the wharf-laboring pro-
fession or whatever calling he follows. The man-
agement put on an extra turn, but one of the “boys,”
Kenny, appeared in bandages, and went white at the
first blow he received. Referee Quirk stopped the
encounter, and seemed annoyed; and his annoyance
is not amazing when it is considered that Kenny
ONLY ONE THING NEEDED.
“What's up, old chappie—no winners?”
“Plenty of winners."
“Why this worried look?"
“No money to lack ’em with."
was only just out of hospital, where he had been
under treatment tor double pneumonia. Heaven alone
knows why a man in such a condition was per-
mitted to enter the ring.
“G.11.R.”: Concerning “Ilousey Ilousey’
(B. 14/5/’25), the game is played like the old
A.I.F. gamble as regards “bats,” with their three
rows of five numbers, in Malvern (Vic.). The
promoters provide maize to cover the numbers called.
I often have a game on Saturday night, and if I
have four numbers in a row “covered” I can always
throw the fifth. The compartments in the box are
numbers 1 to 99, as were the old buttons. The
most striking difference between “Housey Ilousey”
and “House” is that promoters now take 75 p.c. of
the stake, whereas in the A.I.F. they were satisfied
with 20 p.c. I know. I had a set of cards and
buttons -oing over < n the Nestor.
* e * »
“Hamer”: With Gunderson absent and
C. G. Steele dead —he was killed in a railway accident
eight months ago —the Victorian chess championship
was battled out, rather stodgily, to end in a win
for W. F. Coultas, with 11 straight wins out of
14 games. He lost one of his games each with
M. Fox (second, with 10 points), Merkel (third,
with 94) and Stanes. Coultas was champion once
before, in 1909, when he was only 21 ; on that
occasion he did not lose a game, although three
were drawn. The lengthy tournament was relieved
one night by a talkative visitor whose remarks had
to be “S-shed” into silence. His end came when he
suddenly exclaimed “If you hadn’t warned him o.v
saying ‘check,’ you might have taken his king!”
An outraged official promptly escorted the ignoramus
from the room, and the players tried hard to forget
that such sacrilege had happened.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: More than one family
cricket team has been mentioned in The
Bulletin, but I have never seen any reference to
the Johnsons of Alexandra (Vic.). It was owing to
members of this family that the looal team came
through the Alexandra and Yea Districts Competition
unbeaten this year; and when the season was over the
Johnson family met an otherwise representative dis-
trict XI and gave it a fearful walloping. The
exploits of the Johnsons remind me of a picnic
challenge match in Sydney in which a family named
Fallon put in a side against all comers. Young man-
hood led off for the Fallons, middle-age followed,
and then came a partnership between a boy of 15
and his grandfather, who swiped a four, and, trying
to repeat the stroke, got out. The field showed a
tendency to make for the pavilion, when the boy
interposed. “Hold on!” he shouted. “There’s
great-grandfather to come in yet.” And great-grand-
father did come in and made 9.
“Centurion”: P. F. Warner predicts that
the regular appearance of E. A. McDonald with
Lancashire will enable the Red Rose to win the
County championship. Like Spofforth and Hobbs,
Warner thinks the Tasmanian-born express the finest
of present-day bowlers. Apropos, “P.F.” is urging the
banning of the use by wicketkeepers of adhesive
mixtures on their gloves. As he says, the stuff makes
a beastly mess of the ball, and some brands are so
sticky that the leather can be held even if the
hand is not closed. Here is a simple recipe for
working the oracle given to the writer by Board,
who understudied Stover in Stoddart’s team of
1897-98. Smear the rubber of a pair of new
’keeper’s gloves with neatsfoot oil and expose them
to the sun or a fire. When sufficiently glutinous,
use them and ignore the bowler’s blasphemv.
* * * *
Tlip English Soccer Mayors continue to
win their games with nonchalant ease, whatever the
ground and weather conditions. Asrainst Victoria last
week they won 7—-0 on a dry. lively ground, and
with a wet ball and a greasy footing they beat
“An Australian XI” by 5 goals to nil. The local
representatives in this last game included Mitchell
the >S.A. back, and Honeysett of Tasmania with W
Maunders and McNaughton, the N.S.W. rep. forward-'
Robinson of Victoria, the Australian goalie, was the
hero of both matches among tlie local men; but
Maunders, playing centre forward, was soon bottled
by the English halves and got little help from his
wings. The half-back line is the keystone of modern
Soccer, and this department of the visiting side seems
even more formidable than the clever and tricky
forwards. It is this defensive-offensive combination
which is going to test the N. S. Wales side to the
full on Saturday. N. S. Wales will probably plav
its customary fast, rushing game, instead of "trying
to beat the \ isitors at their own style. The contrast
in methods should be as educative as it certainlr
Will be interesting.
* * * »
Some fast anti lively Rugby League foot-
ball was witnessed in Sydney on Saturday, the
grounds being firm for once. Though South Sydney
secured most of the ball from the scrums St. George
was superior in other departments; however, South
led by 11 points to 10 at full time. A bit lucky,
perhaps. Barry, a straight-running centre-three-
quarter, was the winners’ best man, and Saunders
played a great game for St. George. North Sydney,
which is recovering some of its old prestige, downed
Western Suburbs by 21 to 12. Balmain, last year’s pre-
miers, sustained another defeat, the second in four
matches, Eastern Suburbs, a very promising young
team, scoring 18 to 8; and ’Varsity left the wooden
spoon with Newtown—l7 to 8., The selectors have
included a lot of new blood in the side to meet
Queensland. On paper, N, S. Wales has very little
chance, but football is a funny game.
“Past Grammar”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League has given yet another example of putrid sports-
manship. It is an old story now how the League
secured a long lease of the Sydney Cricket Ground,
which w'as originally handed over in trust for ama-
teur sport, when the liUgby Union hud been crippled
by' the war, and how it proceeded to combine pro-
fessionalism with the paltriest kind of parochialism.
When a bill to increase the powers of the Cricket
Ground trustees was introduced in the late Parlia-
ment, VVearne, the Minister of Lands was asked why-
world-famous international football teams under
Soccer and Rugby Union rules were compelled to
play on second-rate grounds, while the State’s finest
arena was occupied by insignificant club matches.
The reply was that he would see the League about
it. Later, he said that Flowers, president of the
Leg. Council, who is connected with the League in
some way or other, had promised to allow the
Soccer people to hire the ground for their big
matches against the Englishmen. This statement not-
withstanding, the League sullenly refused to let
the Soccer people have the S.C.G. for any of their
games. Worse still, it has arranged a Queensland
v. N.S.W. match for the Cricket Ground on Satur-
day- w'hen the N.S.W. Soccer XI will be playing the
Englishmen on the adjoining and much inferior
Showground. Perhaps nothing else could have been
expected of a gang which brought pony-racing tra-
ditions into the control of football, but some effort
should be made in the next Parliament to obtain
the cancellation of the winter monopoly given to a
body which should never have been considered in
relation to it.
“Assoc”: The League’s action is a rotten return
for the hospitality of the English Football Associa-
tion, which has always placed Soccer grounds at
the disposal of Australian League teams touring
England. It hasn’t only refused to grant the use
of the S.C.G. for one game, but it is running in
opposition to all the representative matches that
the English Soeoerites will play in Sydney. By
contrast, the Austtralian Rules people gave up
the Melbourne Cricket Ground that the visitors
might play there on Saturday. Also the Queens-
land League has placed the Brisbane Exhibition
Ground at the disposal of the Soccer authorities.
Melbourne’s chief League match, between
Collingwood and Geelong, proved a thrilling episode,
notwithstanding the moisture overhead and underfoot.
With 10 minutes to go, Geelong was 23 points in
the lead : but in those last minutes ’Wood played
wonderful ball, and when the bell gave respite was
but three points in arrears—B7 to Geelong’s 90.
A fine, clean game, with a hair-raising finish. The
two undefeated teams. Fitzroy and Essendon, easily-
accounted for St. Kilda and North Melbourne re-
spectively—B4 to 38 being ’Roy’s tally and 88 to
47 Essendon’s —but both games were marred bv
lively but irregular bouts w-hich will result in
several players being carpeted. The Richmond-
South Melbourne scuffle was also exciting, inasmuch
as South started the last quarter four goals to the
good, yet went home walloped by five points—7o
to the Tigers’ 75. Melbourne went over to the
suburb of smells and returned with Footscray’s
scalp—7o points to 42. Which indicates that ’Sorav
isn’t the team it is cracked lin to be. Carlton
achieved its first win, over Hawthorn, by 70 points
to 49; but the circumstance is only mentioned as
a matter of form.
* * * *
“Wink”: There is no honor for the de-
clining champion, or Paddy O’Brien would have
crowned his career at Carlton with one season as
captain. The committee rewarded his long service
by appointing him playing coach, but the players
immediately made this position impossible by voting
Beasy captain. Trouble .followed and Beasy resigned,
but as Brew was the team’s next choice, Paddy was
obliged to give up bis coachship. Wh< n Billy Dick re-
tired, all Carlton went into mourning in despair of
ever filling his place, but already on the premises
was Pathrick. Not quite such a wonder as one-eyed
Billy, he nevertheless became the best half-back
in Victoria, and when be was out of the team the
supporters trembled for the result. For 12 years
he has patrolled across the Blues’ goal line, and with
surprising dexterity continually hurled two hundred-
weight of wild Irishman at the transit of the ball.
If opponents stood in his way their thud was
sudden and jarring. Latterly Paddy has been no
respecter of persons, and among the bodies that
always littered his path were generally some of his
mates. This, together with a despotic habit of
speech, is the cause of Paddy’s declining popularity.
“Bake”: “Hamer” is wrong in stating
(B. 7/5/"25) that Vic. Richardson led the South
Oss team at Hobart last August. Hobart was par-
ticularly keen on seeing him, because the defeat oi
South Oss by the Southern Speck team in Adelaide
in 1923 was largely due to Chariesworth’s outplay-
ing Richardson in the centre. But Vic. did not
make the trip to Hobart, no doubt having the Test
matches in view.
THE LATEST TESTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The British Croquet Association is receiving
numerous requests from clubs anxious to meet the
Australian men’s team. The dates for the Test
matches have not yet been fixed.’’ —London cable.
We have beaten them at cricket soundly, ever since
the war,
Showed them stacks of points in Rugby that they
never knew before.
They can wipe our eyes at Soccer still, it cannot
be denied,
Though ’twill tax their keenest efforts when we
get into our stride.
But above this hoop-and-mallet hokey-pokey
The veil that hangs is just a trifle smoky,
And with doubts I’m torn asunder
As absorbedly I wonder
Can we wallop Britain’s paragons at croquet.
We have fairly got them rattled where our tennis
champions sweat,
Smashing their terrific volleys half an inch above
the net.
I imagine we could whip them on the greens where
striving souls
Concentrate with frames a-bending on the ancient
game of bowls.
But ’tis rather early yet to fling a bouquet
At our prowess in the game precise and poky
Which the ladies played demure at,
Years agone, with just a curate—
’Twas the curate’s speciality, was croquet.
On, ye brave, to the arena! Never shall Australians
flinch!
Set the arches in position to the fraction of an inch.
Weigh the balls and measure mallets. Snap the
captains as they toss,
And, if we contrive to win it, flash the news the
seas across.
We’ll be waiting with sensations almost choky
And won’t our bards iambus spout and trochee
Should supremacy be wrested
In one game not yet contested
And the Kangaroo knock Leo out at croquet!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


r
m
i vr
A
DEWAR’S
THE IMPERIAL SPIRIT
The policy behind DEWAR’S has always been to preserve custom by maintaining
quality. It has been carried out by the ample reservation of perfedly matured whisky
in bond. Thus, and only thus could the consistent quality of DEWAR’S have
£ood the test of time.


Beauty is Only Skin Deep
But Ripolin also
“HAS THE GRIP.”
It is Quality and Permanency
that Count.
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL PAINT
for
MOTOR-CARS OR BOATS,
Hospitals, Mansions, Bungalows and
all interior and exterior painting.
White and 100 shades procurable.
Send for Booklet and Color Card to
L. A. CORMACK
(FACTORY REP.),
4 Underwood Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 83284.
S. J. Squires & Co., Ltd., 171 Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane.
Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd., 379 Flin-
ders Street, Melbourne.
Clarkson, Ltd., 123 Bundle Street,
Adelaide.
MO I RALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY - BRISBANE
OVERLOOKING RIVER. MRS B. KENNEDY,
Handy to Trams and proprietress
Trains phone cent. 5112
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
BOLS
Tofts softness andftteUaPnessT
its Age,. ■ ./
efahe it neat as the nollanc/ens
L t cfo at Honie & j
Cherqy
Brandy
JW&raeao
{.Whize arOrQriye)
Creme c|e
Kernel
Gin
Lucas Sob
or
fhe Distillery
Apisterclarry
r Vwu> qS
wc? 'Oielartioc^
HOLLAND, GIN
(in stone or glass)
A. GILBERT TOMLINSON,
Supervising Agent,
431 a Kent Street, Sydney.
Skin and Wool Merchants.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMAIISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135.00 to
$1,050.00
f.o.b. Detroit,
Mich.,U.S.A.
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Ltd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit, Michigan, LL S. A*. Cable Address, Kermath
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
The Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on Slst March last, and the Profit and Loss account for the year
which then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £78,698/6/2 for
Income. Land and Note Taxes, amounted to . . .. .. .. .. ..£538,832 4 9
Add balance brought forward from previous year . . .. .. .. .. 108,342 3 1
Leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . £647,174 7 10
Prom this sum the following appropriations have been made
Interim Dividend of 10 per cent, per annum paid in November last out of the
profits for the six months to 30th September, 1924 .. .. .. .. .. £200,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £2,300,000) .. .. .. •• 92,470 12 10
Reduction of Bank Premises .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .. 40,000 0 0
£332,470 12 10
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the £lO and on the £8 shares
at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum out of the profits for the six months
to 31st March, 1925 200,000 0 0
£532,470 12 10
Carry forward .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 114,703 15 0
£647,174 7 10
The increase in the Paid-up Capital of the Bank to £4,000,000, referred to in our last report,
has been completed.
During the year the following New Branches were openedVlCTOßlA—Yallourn (in place of
Receiving Office there). NEW SOUTH WALES —Castle Hill (Sub-branch), Euston, Granville, Parramatta
and Wagga Wagga. WESTERN AUSTRALIA —-Victoria Park (in place of the Agency there).
The business of Nyah Branch, Victoria, is now conducted at Nyah West.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Bank’s Head Office,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 27th May, at noon, when the shareholders will be called upon
to elect two Directors in lieu of Mr. Hugh Murray Strachan and Mr. J. Newman Barker, who retire by
rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no
other candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year in lieu of
Messrs. John Bishop and S. J. Warnock, who retire, but are eligible for reappointment.
By Order of the Board of Directors. JAMES WILSON, Deputy Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd., Head Office, Melbourne, 14th May, 1925.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
For the Year Ended 31st MARCH, 1925.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-150,000 £lO
shares fully
paid up . . £1,500,000 0 0
500,000 £8
shares paid up
to £5 per share 2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund Account
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation. .
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
interest
Bearing interest
£4,000,000
2,300,000
314,703 15
£6,614,703 15 0
48,184 10 0
1,972,811 14 11
£195,059 9
957.420 16
Other Deposits—
Not bearing
interest . £13,488,861 11
Bearing interest 17,275,200 8
1,152,480 5 4
- 30,764,061 19 11
£31,916,542 5 3
380,537 15 11
244,995 11 1
Interest accrued and rebate
current bills
Balances due to other banks
£41,177,775 12
Contingent liability, as per contra,
in regard to obligations of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and guarantees, £1,285,191
14s. 3d.
ASSETS. Cr.
Coin, bullion, Australian notes and
cash at bankers .. .. ..£7,035,558 2 4
Government, municipal and other
public stocks, debentures and
funds 4,403,0X8 0 7
Bills and remittances in transitu 4,586,622 11 1
Notes and bills of other banks .. 109,451 9 2
Balances due from other banks. . 112,572 8 11
Duty stamps.. .. .. .. 24,076 12 4
£16,331,299 4 5
Real estate, consisting of bank
premises .. .. .. .. 745,259 0 4
Other real estate .. . . .. 181,065 16 1
Bank furniture .. .. .. 54,986 6 5
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. .. 23,865,165 411
£41,177,775 12 2
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit, drafts and
guarantees, as per contra,
£1,285,191 14s. 3d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 298
Branches and 170 Agencies £703,588 10 10
To Income, Land and Note Taxes.. 78,998 6 2
To Interim Dividend . . .. 200,000 0 0
To Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 92,470 12 10
To reduction of Bank Premises Account 40,000 0 0
To balance . . • • 314,703 15 0
£1,429,761 4 10
By Balance brought forward
Bv Cross Profits, including re-
coveries, less rebate on bills
current, interest accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises and
rent
£108,342 3 1
1,321,419 1 9
£1,429.761 4 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance .. .. .. . . 2,300,000 0 0
£2,300,000 0 0
By Balance last year
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account
By Premiums on Shares
£2,040,000 0 0
92,470 12 10
167,529 7 2
£2,300,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Deputy Chief Manager, to
comply with the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report.
JAMES WILSON, Deputy Chief Manager.
Wilson lc Couteur. who died in Sydney
recently at the age of 72, was one of the
few men who possessed an extensive know-
ledge of all the chief dialects of the Pacific
groups. A native of the Channel Islands, he
reached Australia as a young man, and in
the course of a career which was filled with
adventures he came to know most of the
islands at first-hand. When the New Heb-
rides Condominium was instituted, in 1906,
he was appointed chief interpreter.
“Pip h ok": How’s this for the fighting
spirit? Monte Prior, of the 47th, had come
back from the Boer War with a major’s
crown and the D.S.O. He joined the A.I.F.
as a Digger, plain and unvarnished, and on
at least one occasion was pulled up by some
choleric brass-hat who could not understand
how a grey-haired private came to be wear-
ing an officer’s decoration. Monte did not
acquire more than a second star in France,
because every time he went within coo-ee of
the firing-line he collected a Blighty. One
of his wounds was even received at a bomb-
ing school where the C.O. had sent him to
keep him out of harm’s way.
Charles R. Long, senior inspector and edi-
tor of the Vic. Education Department’s pub-
lications, retires in August, after a half-
century’s service. A genuine Australian, he
is responsible for the fact that the Vic.
youngster really knows something of his
country’s history. He is the moving spirit
behind the erection of cairns and other
memorials along the tracks of explorers.
Years before the Hume and Ilovell centenary
success, he was either plodding along the
actual route, or interviewing old identities,
feeble in all save memory, and living solely
in the past. In his schoolpapers Henry
Lawson and other Australians have had full
scope. His retirement will be a great loss.
“X2X”: “Topee” can rest assured that
the practice of “dipping” or using snuff as a
toothpowder (B. 30/4/’25) is unknown in
Australia. The “recondite joy” obtained by
devotees of the practice was due to the pres-
ence in the snuff of cocaine—very little
of it, but enough to give a “kick” in the
form of physical stimulus, which lasted for
about an hour and then was succeeded by
profound depression. The cocaine was
absorbed into the system through the gums,
a much quicker effect being obtained than
would be the case if it were drunk in solu-
tions. Forty or fifty years ago, when there
was practically no official control over nar-
cotic drugs in England and America, many
of the “snuffs” in use contained cocaine,
and numbers of snuff-takers were actually
drug-addicts, although they did not know'
it themselves.
“Borom” : The discovery was recently made
by the Sydney police that many women who
take advantage of the Act entitling them as
presumable first offenders to be tried behind
closed doors have been convicted previously,
in some cases three times. To the female
shoplifter the Act has been a boon, for by
simply changing her name she can avoid the
publicity which formerly resulted in every
big shop in the city being on the lookout
for her once she had appeared before the
Court. The net result has been that shop-
lifting has increased greatly in Sydney, and
some of the larger establishinents now reckon
their losses as 50 per cent, more than they
used to be. Petty pilfering by employees
is also said to be growing, employers
ascribing this to jazz, racing and other things
which breed extravagant habits. Between
this and shoplifting, some establishments are
at their wits’ end.
“Bill o’ Costs” introduces his client:—
He was a wealthy old gentleman who dwelt un-
assumingly in a cheap suburb. He was 89 and bed-
ridden, so I had to deal with his mail matter. In
one batch was a letter from an enterprising and
kindly American co., printed in fake typewriting,
beneath a picture of a 20-storeyed building, and
addressed to the old boy personally, thus: “Mi\ X.
Dear Friend, — Subject: New position to be filled. A
mutual acquaintance has given us your name as a
suitable man to whom we could offer a profitable
position with our house, to look after our interests in
your neighborhood. The position we offer you is high
class and of a dignified nature, the only require-
ments being energy and personal attention, and it
can be managed in your leisure time.” The letter
went on to tell my energetic young client how
much he could make at the job, and assured him
that the writer’s clerks had instructions to look out
for his reply expressly, among the hundreds of letters
daily received, and to give it immediate attention.
They would reserve going into details until receiving
his reply, and subscribed themselves his very truly,
the Damswindel Company (that is near enough,
anyway), Box L 96832, Washington, D.C. (or there-
abouts). They even added a footnote: “This letter
was dictated by the president, U. Damswindel, and
read by him before mailing.” As it happened, by
the time I had to deal with this, the old chap, in
wnose energy this thoughtful company' had such con-
fidence, was dead, so to probe the mystery I replied
in his name; “Gentlemen, —Pleased to know you have
such confidence in me. I shall be pleased to hear
about the business to be undertaken. In order that
I may know whom I have to thank for the kindness,
will you please let me know the name of the mutual
acquaintance who was good enough to introduce you
to me? —Yours, etc., J.X.” In due time came the
reply, stock printed as before: “Dear Friend, —We
are pleased to hear from you, and are confident that
your industry and energy will assure success.” (Much
more to the same effect.) The letter then proceeded
to formally confer the appointment of local repre-
sentative upon my deceased client, and got down to
the real business in hand. “On receipt of a postal
order from you for two dollars (Bs. 4d. in English
money) we will forward you six trial boxes of our
celebrated Liverandlights pills, which are usually
retailed at one dollar per box. These y r ou can sell
to your friends, thus ensuring a handsome profit to
you. When you have sold these we will be pleased
to send you a further supply on the same liberal
terms. —Your very truly', The Damswindel Company'”
(as before). The correspondence ended there. They
didn’t mention the name of the mutual acquaintance.
I didn't expect them to. But how is it done? Un-
less m.v estimate of the limits of human credulity is
much out, this pill-pusher would be lucky to get five
bites in every hundred casts ; and if of these nibbles
5 per cent, came again when they saw what was
offered, that would represent only five in every two
thousand originally' circularised. Allowing the pills
to be worthless, they still had to be manufactured
and packed; and those 2000 circulars cost
at least £8 6s. Bd. in postage alone. Add occasional
second letters, postage of the pills and the cost of
printing and stationery, to say nothing of such things
as clerical labor, searching the directories of the
world for likely dupes, and the two dollars when it
arrives must look like a dividend from a wound-up
wild-cat mine.


PYJAMAS
WHEN you read that
TWO HUNDRED AND TEN
THOUSAND (210,000) of these very excellent
sleeping, suits were sold last year you will realise
how many men find Pelaco Pyjamas the most
satisfactory of all.
*lhey are made in:
Poplin Winceyette
Tobralco Flartnel
Crepe Flannelette
Each suit is fully GUARANTEED
Crimean
Twill
Taffeta
U fin kit
n
they fit
m
■A
w
TWO POPULAR SUCCESSES
m
m
a
m
i
■
II
MARIE
BURKE.
LINDEMAN’S
WINES
Secured 41 Prizes
at 1925
ROYAL
AGRICULTURAL
SHOW
The Judges
proclaim
LINDEMAN’S
CHAMPAGNE
and
SPARKLING
WINES
equal
to the
WORLD’S BEST
mm
m
Melbourne: Messrs. Taylor, Ferguson & Co.
Fremantle: Messrs. Lionel Sampson & Son.
Brisbane: Messrs. Brabant & Co.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
Adelaide: Messrs. A. E. & F. Tolley, Ltd.
Rockhampton: Messrs. Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Townsville: Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
LINDEMAN LIMITED, Q. V. Buildings, Sydney.
Cairns: Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.
Hobart: Burgess Bros Pty., Ltd.
Launceston: Johnstone, Willmott Pty., Ltd.
New Zealand: All Wholesale Agents.


O O
7/6
Set No. 101 com-
prises self-stropping
“Valet” Razor, three
tested “Valet” Blades
and a leather strop
in hinged container,
complete in neat
japanned case.
251-
Set No. 50. Heavily
silver-plated “Valet”
Razor, 12 tested
Valet” Blades and
strop of selected
shell horse-hide,
packed in nickel or
leatherette case
AValet Auto Strop
razor set complete/^
Spend Three and Sixpence on a “Valet” Razor.
To-morrow and the next d y and for forty or
fifty days more you will get a per ectly comfort-
able shave with the blade that is in the new
Every “Valet” blade gives several wee s’ perfect
shaving. How ? By automatic stropping.
Every morning you slip the strop through the
razor head. Then you run the razor up and
down for ten seconds— the blade automatically
turns over and over and gives itself a fine new
edge. Then you shave.
To clean the razor is equally simple. A rinse under the
tap, another run up and down the strop, and the razor
goes back into i l s case. No unscrewing, no liddling
with naked blades. Try a “Valet ’ Razor to-day.
British Made
Of all dealers
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207, City Road, London, England,
36
THIS IS THE NEW THREE AND
SIXPENNY SET.
Contains the essentials for a perfect "Valet”
shave—the Razor, one Blade and Strop in
a neat Case. If your dealer does not . lock
it, the Agent, as at foot, will send it ost
free on receipt of a postal order for 3j6.
It
sSL
CD
Managing Agents for Australia: PH/PS ON & COMPANY. LTD.. 181 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
THOMPSON
CONDENSING PLANT
/ N
Condensing Plants of all
Types and Capacities for
Power-Plant Installations.
Correct Design. Best Materials.
Good Workmanship.
Specify Thompson Plant
and
Ensure Satisfaction.
n
Surface Condenser for 1000-k.w.
Steam Turbine.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Pty. Ltd.
ENGINEERS
CASTLEMAINE
VICTORIA.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY: , THE EAST:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House. L. Hinks & Co. Ltd. McAlister & Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE: ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. .Jas. Haydon.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.
“ Kookaburra” Quality
A HAT that combines every desirable feature—Quality,
Distinction, Service, Economy. Prove its surpassing worth
at One Guinea! If it fails to please you in the slightest it
may be returned and your purchase money refunded in full.
Specially selected Pure Fur Felt blocked in the extremely popular “Nail Curl"
shape, featuring a perfectly flat brim with neat sharp curl at extreme edge. Also
“Prince” and "Lounge” style. Silk bound edges.. Light, Mid and Dark Grey
shades with Black bands, also Mid and Dark Grey with
contrasting bands. All Regular Sizes
The Finest Value
in Australia
21/-
POSTAGE PAID
TO YOUR DOOR.
©
When writing
kindly state size
and address your
letter to DESK
R.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Bnrglary, Live Stock,
Piiblic Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc,, etc.
Listen In
I# beneficial beveca&e
ABBOTS
LAGER
CN
M
00
0 000
p
w.
&S
m
NIGHT SHOOTING AT 100 YARDS
is quite easily done with a
Winchester Focusing Electric Torch.
The Newest and Most Efficient Electric Torch.
Throws a narrow beam o£ light 300 it., or can
be focused to throw a broad beam at a short
distance. A boon to the man on the land.
Invaluable to Motorists in town and country.
LARGE MODEL takes a 3-cell battery, 9 inches
over all. Fitted with a fixed and flashlight
switch. All nickel 18/0
Same Model, fibre body, nickel finish. . 1 t / O
SMALL MODEL, takes a 2-cell battery, Nickel
or Fibre, 61 inches over all 15/-
WINCHESTER BATTERIES give best results.
They last longer and give a brighter light.
2-cell Batteries. 1/9; 3-cell • Batteries, 2/6.
Wholesale and Retail Distributors:
SPORTS CENTRE,
318 Little Collins Street. .Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kid Boots”
Criterion “The Merchant of Venice”
Royal “The Lady of the Rose”
Palace “The Skin Game”
Grand Opera House “The Honeymoon Girl”
Tivoli '... Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Primrose”
Royal "Spring Cleaning”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Athenaeum “Thank U”
Princess’s “Little Jessie James”
Palace “Snap”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Kreisler’s bow sans its farewell to Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night. Again the
Cesar Franck Sonata was the work,
and once again musicians saw the Kreisler
interpretation as a light set in dark places.
The Tschaikowsky Concerto m D Major and
the feathery rondino on a theme by Beetho-
ven were other noteworthy numbers on a
programme that with encores kept the violin-
ist and his remarkably sympathetic accom-
panist Lamson on the stage till long after
10. Thrills of the week had been the 'Devil s
Trill ” a Bach chaconne, and the several-
times-repeated Pugnani Praeludium and
Allegro. The music of Mozart lias glowed
on nearly every programme, and the final
matinee enshrined that miracle of grace, the
Mozart D Major Concerto.
v v ,
It took almost as many people to write
“The Honeymoon Girl,” now showing at
Sydney G.0.H., as it takes to man a Com-
monwealth liner, and the results aren t con-
spicuously different. After the first act,
which is good enough to inspire hopes, the
crew of literary and musical geniuses appa-
rently knocked off to discuss tlieir rates of
pay, and the ship was left to take course.
The task assigned to Hugh Ward’s com-
pany of comedians was therefore one to daunt
the stoutest art; and, despite a spirited dis-
play by Mamie Watson, some nice singing
by Mione Stewart and the strenuous endea-
vors of Mark Daly, who rattled the bag of
chestnuts handed him in his own fashion, the
craft found its way into the doldrums and
stayed there till the end.
** + # * *
As Cherie, a Russian dancer with a past,
which she obtrudes into the wedding pre-
parations of Dulcie (Mione Stewart 1 and
Leoni (Leyland Hodgson), Mamie Watson
made the luring away of the prospective hus-
band from his future bride an entirely pro-
bable event; but the two principals about
whose approaching nuptials all the fuss is
made failed to sustain this Page’s interest
in their subsequent career. May Beatty, Lou
Vernon, three separate and distinct couples
who provide specialty dances, Janid .Tune
Roberts, who is a graceful stepper but an
undistinguished vocalist, tided the audience
over the various complications leading to
the final reconciliation of the wedding night.
As laughter the badge is
That marks- human? from brutes,
Don’t miss at Her Maj.’s
A pair of “Kid Boots.”
To shoo care and shelve ill
A rare recipe
Is Josie the Melville
Cum Georgie the Gee.
s*: u' ❖ -fc
At Sydney Cri. Maurice Moscovitch has
another week to portray the various emo-
tions liable to rage under a Jewish gabar-
dine when Gentiles get the whip hand. The
Sbylock of Moscovitch would excite interest
anywhere, even in Jerusalem.
* * * *
There is plenty of grip and humor in
“The Skin Game,” which is still causing
sharp intakes of breath mingled with riotous
explosions of mirth at Sydney’s New Palace.
i’j i'fi i)i
Reflection at Sydney Royal:—
This way or that the music-lover goes,
But who is there in all the Sundry Shows
Hands out such melody as Miss Moncrieff
Dispenses in “The Lady of the Rose” ?
Sydney Tivoli bill still hangs on Will
Fyffe, who is responsible for the biggest rush
of Scotsmen to Castlereagh-street since the
day it was rumored that the management
was giving away free tickets. The maudlin
study of a half-witted boy lias been cast over-
board, and Fyffe’s current offerings are well-
balanced and bulging with humor. The Ver-
satile Three have come back for a short
spell; and Florence Yates, Louise Metters
and Joyce Collins, who trade as the Romney
Trio, produce a pleasant entertainment with
voices, violins and harps.
For a farewell turn George Wallace
doubled back on his tracks at Sydney Fullers’
last Saturday, and revived “Off Honolulu, ’
the frolicsome revue with which he started
his season a few months back. Although
at times there was a shrinkage in the quality
of his weekly revues, his audiences took the
comedian and his two main supports. Mar-
shall Crosby and Nellie Dean, to their hearts.
Now grazing in the vaudeville paddock are
the Norman Stewart super-six symphonists,
as good a crowd of jazz musicians as has
been heard hereabouts lately.
rfc
In producing “Painted Daughters,” a new
Australian film, at the Sydney Lyceum.
Stuart Whyte has clung slavishly to the
American notion that a successful picture
must be loaded with good-looking damsels
whose task is to suggest naughtiness, so far
as a plentiful display of silk stockings and
much toying with a wineglass denote a
departure from respectability. The story
relates how a stage dancer deserts her male
partner for an allegedly wealthy admirer,
who soon goes smash and commits suicide.
Her daughter follows' in her footsteps by
making a name in thespian circles. The
daughter’s press-agent arranges a charity
matin6e, wherein the old chorus in which
her Ma was a shining light is collected and
arrayed in tights. As a consequence Ma
meets her old dancing-partner, and later
appears with him before a parson, the
daughter doing the same trick with the
press-agent at the same time. Poor stuff;
yet there is promise in the picture.
With the evacuation of the circus from
the Sydney Hippodrome and the disappear-
ance of the last faint odors of the jungle
comes a new tenant in the William Cosgrove
Dramatic Co. “A Million to One Chance,”
the opening play of the season, revives mem-
ories of the homecoming of the cat that
father tried to drown. The play is undiluted
“THE HONEYMOON GIRL,” AT
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Mamie Watson as Cheric, a Russian gay
lady, 'with some segments of Mark Daly.
bathos, with all the marks of the old blood-
and-thunder drama that so enthralled the
peanut galleries of another generation. Still
it is a cheap show for the money. Three
bob, plus tax, will take you into the best
seats, and if your sense of humor has not
been blunted by political speeches there is an
immense quantity of fun to be extracted from
the play. Victor Fitzherbert outrivals a
Melbourne gunman in the matter of villainy,
while the hero, Owen Gayle, belongs natu-
rally to a stained-glass window. Naomi
Rutherford does some lengthy pulpiteering
as the heroine.
>!< * * *
It was a large audience that put the stamp
of its approval upon the initial venture of
the Australian Musical Productions Pty.
with “Snap” at the Melbourne New Palace
on Saturday night. The cheerful compote
of nonsense had not a single serious thread
of plot to tie it together, but the sequence
of tuneful ballads, agreeable quips and well-
conceived dances was neatly dove-tailed and
helped through by light music, for which
Kenneth Duflield deserves congratulations.
Amongst the items which caught the eye and
ear was “Accidents Will Happen,” dealing
with the hopes of the Slugg family and their
bosom friend, Mrs. Beetle, that Dad (’Ener.v
Slugg) will meet with an accident which
will enable his fond relations to collect com-
pensation under the insurance scheme run
as a circulation boost by the Sluggs’ daily
paper. In this and in some other of the
humorous items Hector St. Glair rose to
the occasion with a better sense of humor
than he had been suspected of possessing,
and good assistance was rendered by Vivien
Carter as Mrs. Slugg and Kathleen Fan-
ning as Cissie Slugg. A “Penguin Dance”
was another attractive item; and Douglas
Calderwood made a success of the catchy
“Piccadilly Willy.” Ilowett Worster and
Kitty Reidy drifted in and out amongst the
farce-patches to supply sentimental relief in-
tended to prevent laughter from becoming
monotonous, and an attractive and well-
trained lot of “Snap” girls responded to
every call made upon their energies in a
cheerful spirit. At the conclusion of a show
that lightly left the plain path of the pro-
gramme when it felt that way. IJowett Wor-
ster allowed himself to ramble through a
speech, in which he revealed what a new
manager who scents success feels like, hand-
ing out congratulations and thanks all round ;
but he clean forgot to mention Kenneth
Duflield, who, with a party, was in one of
the boxes. Probably the writer of the music
felt sufficiently recompensed by the reception
given to his work.
* * *
“Thank U,” which opened at the Mel-
bourne Athenseum on Saturday night, is. as
its name suggests, a very polite comedy;
but the origin of the title is a dark mysterv.
Certainly the poor parson who gets 800
dollars a year for delivering what are said
to be most inspiring sermons has no occa-
sion to thank anybody. The play strikes a
measure of originality in making a church
vestry the villain, as far as there is any vil-
lain. The hard-headed, unsympathetic war-
dens play havoc with the soul of J. I).
O’Hara (Rev. Davey Lee), which would
be a much better soul if only John allowed
himself to be more natural. One admires
J. D. O’Hara with a reservation: his capa-
city to appear as if he was weeping real
salt tears is most wonderful; but this is
only making sob-stuff, and sometimes he de-
serves anything but applause for his red
eyes. With the aid of the scampish son of
a millionaire who loves the parson’s niece
and reforms, to the amazement of a father
who also helps, “Thank U” works out to a
happy conclusion, in which the vestry assists
with an apology. A nice, happy little story,
not very much stronger than a musical-
comedy tale, and, although acceptable, not
worthy of the strong cast.
* * * #
Maggie Jarvis is winsome enough as the
Rev. O’Hara’s niece, but not as successful
as in “Skittles”; but Martin Walker is again
a most acceptable lover, although there is
really no reason why a prodigal’s repentance
should flood his voice with tears. Maggie
Moore gives the show a rattling start off as
the bustling housekeeper, Hannah. A very
good opportunity is afforded Atholwood
in the part of Andy Beardsley, and he
makes all that can be made of it: and, of the
six churchwardens, Eardley Turner, the
pompous Morton Jones, who speaks for the
lot, precisely represents the well-meaning but
unchristian enthusiast. Reg Roberts has
the part of the one fine man among the
churchwardens, and Arthur Styan plays
Pa Jamieson easily and well in his own
silver-grey beard —the one that he grew for
picture purposes. It must be a long time
since an actor fitted himself for a part on
the Australian stage with his own whiskers.
** * *
Before audiences that have grown with
the season the Sistine Soloists have lived
the strenuous life of new programmes nightly
at the Auditorium. This week their Mel-
bourne visit comes to an end. The pro-
grammes have been uniformly good, the one
fault being a rather monotonous sameness
in singing methods. A repeated success was
the beautifully rendered vocal octet “Matti-
nata,” by Veneziani; and an item of rare
interest was “Agnus Dei,” composed by
Giuseppe Paganelli himself.
* * *
The Ibsen season at the Queen’s Hall,
Melbourne, has suffered from no flagging in
public interest. Following “A Doll’s House,”
“Ghosts” walked. The shocks of Ibsen’s
society-shaker, which achieved so wide an
advertisement as a prohibited play, have long
been eclipsed by others without the analytic
excuse of “Ghosts.” Its exposure of the
rottenness existing under our smug social fab-
ric was given intelligent though rather tame
interpretation. Maisie Bennett offered the
most convincing characterisation as Mrs.
Avling; Madge Wyatt was weak as Regina,
and Beresford Fowler was passable as
Oswald without displaying any endearing
dualities. The Reverend Manders of Claude
Thomas was formal, and W. Devine gave a
fair sketch of Engstrad. On Saturday “John
Gabriel Borkman” completes the season.
“THE SKIN GAME," AT SYDNEY
PALACE THEATRE.
Dawlcer ( George Blunt ) and Hornblower
(Frank Harvey).
Although winter has fallen on Melbourne
large audiences maintain a springtime atmo-
sphere at His Majesty’s, where the “Prim-
rose” is still in bloom.
There are no indications yet that “Little
JeSsie James” will be called away from the
New Princess’s.
❖ Hs
“Spring Cleaning” seems to have swept
away the historic bad luck of the Melbourne
Royal, and Pauline Frederick continues to
draw houses prepared to shower applause at
the least as well as the greatest provocation.
(Continued on page 37.)
Kreisler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deop in the wordless language of the heart
The enchanted fiddle sings.
Damn Ivreisler and his art—
He’s wearing out my heart’s vibrating
strings!
Tremendously a wave of beauty flings
Its power upon my palpitating soul—
The roll
Of worlds caught up like corks upon a sea
Of unimagined sound,
The dizzy round
Of whirling eddies of rich melody!
Softly! we’re in an Eastern garden where
The Hareem’s novices bathe ’neatli a moon
Hung like a big balloon of frozen air
Above a gleaming, low, landlocked lagoon.
(Across an undulating dune the sea
Laughs low and weeps low intermittently.)
And all the stars are like a broken string
Of yellow daisies tossed into the sky;
And there are lispings low from many a
spring
That, save for an inconstant gleaming
through
The dream, were hidden from the dreamer’s
eye.
But who would look for springs when, two
by two,
The Sultan’s little ladies naked pass
Along the pathway to the water’s brim,
So silently their bare feet seem to skim
And barely bend the dew-bejewelled grass?
“THE NIGGER." AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Philip Morrow, an apparently high-horn
Southern gent., learns he has nigger
blood in his veins, whereupon his best
girl gives him the bird. Ailsa Grahame
and Guy Bates Post.
Hush, hush! He’s weaving evening on a
place
I used to know. I wonder if a face
I loved long since will grow upon the gloom.
I wonder can a fiddle break a tomb!
I dare not hope too much, I dare not woo
That folly—ah, the face, the face, give too
The arms, the breasts, the brown unquiet
hair,
The lithe white limbs of her, ah! in the
air....
The vision dies upon a dying tone.
The clapping crowd’s around, and I’m alone.
N.s.w.
GUY GOBBO.


iWlliJ//.
m
¥ -o
ui
Born 1820.
♦Still going
strong.
Don’t worry
about the age
of your Whisky
The distillers of
I
Si-
■y-i:
•>.vX\
did your worrying
for you years ago
Ask for “a Scotch” and
you’ll get a whisky—of some
sort. Ask for a “JOHNNIE
WALKER”—and you’ll get
the right sort. Its quality
and age are guaranteed the
world over.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
• 1
O
Born 1820.
Still going
strong.


YOUR WIFE RELIES ON YOU TO DO THIS!
NO honorable man would leave a friend in the
lurch. His duty is clear and he meets it.
Yet many a man to-day is condemning wife
and child to years of struggle and financial
hardship after his death because he delays too
long to protect them by Life Assurance.
The P. & C. makes this obligation easy to fulfil.
Based on co-operative principles, the Company’#
terms are unusually generous, and its policies
varied to meet practically every need.
The Company’s financial policy is strictly con-
servative; its managerial policy progressive two
factors that have earned the confidence of
farmers and graziers throughout Australia, earned
the support of the most influential co-operative
bodies in each State, and made possible the
record-breaking figures that have marked P. & C.
progress each year since its inception.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane.
Only to-niglit (Thursday) and to-morrow
night remain for those Melbourne people who
want to have a look at Guy Bates Post. On
Saturday the King’s Theatre will have done
with the white-and-black problem of “the
Nigger,” and “On Our Selection,” which is
good White Australian, will take charge.
Wee Georgie Wood’s sketch this week is
“Daddy,” an entirely new scena, which goes
with a good swing, and deserves its applause.
Tom Clare is hack, mildly entertaining with
his monocle, his songs and his piano. _ Lrom,
another “wizard of the wire,” and, inciden-
tally, one of the brothers who own show
horses and run a circus, provides an act
which would be better if brightened with
some patter: and the acceptable Daros
have taken the place of the Versatile Three.
Melbourne Bijou management would be
well advised to say a few words to btifty
and Mo about cutting off some rotten
branches from their tree of humor. A grossly
offensive bit of “business” introduced by
Stiffy in at least one of last week’s perform-
ances deserved rather the hisses of those it:
must have outraged (if they noticed it) than
the hoodlum laughter of those _ to whose
curious ideas of humor it was intended to
appeal. Stiffy and Mo can be funny enough
without this sort of thing.
The Orpheon Choristers filled the Mel-
bourne Assembly Hall with a concourse of
sweet sounds. Such items as Willoughby s
“Flora Gave Me Sweetest Flowers were
delicately rendered, the choir showing a good
balance; but “My Love Dwelt in a Northern
Land” (Elgar) was uneven, and Sweete
Floweres Ye Were Too Faire” (\\ almsley)
lacked expression. There was some atone-
ment in Bantock’s finely impressive ‘They
That Go Down to the Sea in Ships. The
work of the soloists was unremarkable.
The “White Man,” going through a life of
thrill in South Africa, with a stray white
woman to supply a love interest, is
the principal picture at Melbourne Majestic
tins week. A British film, “A Couple of
Down-and-Outs” (advertised curiously as
“Not a War Story), is good support. At
Hoyt's De Luxe Hoot Gibson provides excite-
ment in “The Hidin’ Kid from Powder
River,” and there is also “The Broadway
Madonna.” A particularly entertaining pic-
ture has made its appearance at the Capitol
in “Merton of the Movies” —a better-than-
usual adaptation of the book.
Felton additions and Melbourne shows: •
On the principle that any Corot is worth having,
“Vue du Quai des Esclavons” is probably worth the
900 guineas paid for it by the Felton Trustees; but
one may still hope that some day the metallic thing
will be sold for more money to a burgher whose
appreciation of art is a matter of names, and the
proceeds sunk in something that will do more to
embellish the National Gallery. The Raeburn portrait
“Janies Wardrop, of Torbane Hill,” is far better woito
its 4200 guineas. Painted in 1819, it is mellow and
full of feeling. A bronze by Derwent Wood, “David, ’
i.> an item upon which the Trustees also deserve con-
gratulation.
The simplicity in the work of Koran Gulden,
shown at the Athemeum Gallery, makes its appeal
Miss Gurden started as a figure painter, but has
turned to landscape, and there is good color sense
and sincere drawing in her work. The pick of the
74 canvases is probably “A Blue Day” (No. 12), m
which there is tine atmosphere, and the poetry of the
peaceful, happy hour is well indicated; and “The
Valley” (No. 41) is also full of charm. The flesh
tones of the figure in “Silver and Gold” (No. 74)
are excellently done. The exhibition sends the visitor
away with a sense of pleasure. *
A small exhibition of the water-colors of Uma
Roach at Miss Sutherland’s Book Club, Coll ins-street,
shows some daiuty work rather short of ambition and
accomplishment. An outstanding item is “Drying
Sails, St. Ives.” in which both composition and colot
are quite satisfactory; and there is good work with
the shadows in a sunny landscape, “Cloud Shadows,
Portreath, Cornwall.”
The revival of “Mr. Pim,” at Adelaide
Royal, illustrates liow differently two sets ot
experts can handle the same play. Graham
Browne was an honest but obtuse country
gentleman, with Marie Tempest battling
against him for her happiness—and Ins;
whereas Hallard is shrewd, and Irene Van-
brugh takes the domestic crisis in a gay
spirit verging on hysteria. The whole play
centres this time on Mr. Pim, whom Bouci-
cault plays with a studied deliberation that
vet never wearies. As an example ot that
kind of art which does not conceal itself, ins
old Pim is a triumph. At the picture-houses
two really big things are in sight—the in-
ferno,” at West’s, a costly and spectacular
show, with too much fire-and-brimstone m it
for flic average woman patron ; and the full-
blooded “Sea Hawk,” having a crowded
second innings at the Pav. Buster Keaton is
reallv funny at Wondergraph; so is the
Monkey orchestra at the York. The sound
Andersonian co. at the Prince of Wales is
engaged at the moment on poor melodrama.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Hamfat” : An Australian actress recently
played second lead in a well-known London
theatre for £8 per week. And it is a lucky
Thespian in the Cold Land who works more
than half-time. No wonder the mummers
who have once experienced Australian condi-
tions rush the chance to get back again .
“Lud” : In the London revival of “Kismet
the only one of the original cast to re-appear
was Herbert Grimwood, who played the
Wazir —the villain of the piece. Grimwood
will be remembered for his performance ot
that role in Australia with Oscar Asche, and
also for his very meritorious lago to Oscar s
Othello. He has more recently been seen on
the screen in various horrific Hollywood
concoctions.
“C.K.” for the defence
It is quite understandable that “Peter Piper’
(B. 21/5/’25) does not appreciate the full beauty
of the “Kreutzer” Sonata, but why blame the music?
An equal recognition of the same qualities is not giien
to all of us. One may find his great enjoyment in,
say, the “Merry Widow,” and another in the “Ninth”
Symphony; one ephemeral, the other for all time.
It is a matter of temperament. The “Kreutzer has
stood the test of over 120 years—it was performed
in 1803 and published in 1805. Since then it has
been included in the repertoire of every important
violinist. It did not appeal to all of them, but
they had to play it. Coming to the moderns, Papini
PREMATURE.
POET: “ What did you do with that bundle
T left on my table?”
CHARLADY: “I threw it, out —I thought it
was waste-paper.”
PPET: “Rut it wasn't —I hadn't written a
thing on it yet.”
did not like it, and Ovide Musin said he couldn’t
play it—but he did. Papini was an Italian, and
Vlusin a Belgian. Ysaye, also a Belgian, loved the
Sonata and played it magnificently. The same influence
of temperament applies to pianoforte music. Vladimir
de Pachmann, the apostle of Chopin, cannot play
Beethoven —I have heard him try—and Hans von
Bulow and Anton Bubinstein, two of the greatest
Beethoven interpreters, would not touch Chopin. So
why worry? The “Kreutzer” was originally arranged
for an English violinist named Bridgetower. The
first and last movements were composed some time
before the “Andante with Variations.” which was
only completed at the last moment—Beethoven was
suffering from very serious deafness at the time—
and the big arpeggio cadenza in 0 was introduced
by Bridgetower and accepted by Beethoven. That
much is known, but why the name “Kreutzer” was
given to the music remains a mystery.
“Machete”: Reference to the late Alfred
Lester’s exploitation of the “lugubrious
brand of humor” (B. 14/5/ 25) calls to mind
an Australian player who made a great suc-
cess of this line in days gone by. This was
Will Stevens, in his own parts a really
first-class comedian. The writer recalls him
iu the very early ’nineties with various
vaudeville shows, singing songs such as tlis
Relatives Wrote His Epitaph, His bun-
oral’s To-morrow” and other blithesome bal-
lads suited to his hollow eyes and long,
dreary countenance. Stevens might have
been the model for “Phiz’s” drawing of Job
Trotter, the broken actor in The Pickwick
Papers.” He was an excellent acting com-
edian, too, and figured with D’Arcy Stanfield
and his wife when that bright little comedian
ran a long burlesque season at the old Bris-
bane Opera House, playing Little Miss
Esmeralda” and other Gaiety successes.
A FAIR OFFER.
CANVASSER: “If you have a small photo,
Madam, we will he pleased, for the mete
cost of the frame, to make you an en-
largement of yourself exactly the same
as this.”
“Sturt” : Artist Frank Williams, cabled
ns being badly knocked about in bis
Hat. did all his early work in Adelaide.
Radiy wounded in the Avar and paralysed
for over a year, lie Avorked out some new
and startling decorative schemes for both
stage and household. Also he invented at
least two ballets: Brewster Jones Avrote the
music for “The Call of France and W. It.
Cade for “The Pageant of the Ages. Both
were “produced” by Herbert W alsli at Adel-
aide Royal in 1918.
“F.A.”: G. 11. Rogers was certainly the
first noted actor to begin his stage career
in Australia (B. 21/5/’25), but there were
others who, having failed to attract atten-
tion clscAvhere, made their name in Australia.
One Avas Francis Nesbitt McCron, who
arrived at Sydney in 1841, and after many
vicissitudes got a job in the old Victoria
Theatre. He made a hit as Pizarro in Sheri-
dan’s tragedy of that name, and Avas pro-
bably the pioneer of itinerant theatricals in
this country. He died in harness, being car-
ried from tlie stage during a performance
of “William Tell” at Geelong, and his bones
are in the local cemetery underneath a monu-
ment placed there in 1856 by G. V. Brooke.
“The Listening Insect” looks to the future:
Judging from the somewhat meagre details of the
new German method of canning speech, no fresh
principle is involved. Two Australian cable engineers,
in an endeavor to put telegraph messages into
pickle, experimented with the same device in 1908,
and a’ similar scheme was patented in U.S.A. some
vears later. A band composed of an iron alloy
was passed through a field controlled by a signalling
kev. and every depression of the key altered the
polarity of the portion of the tape that happened to
be passing. W hen this tape was run through a
magnetic field connected with a recording instiu-
ment, the current in the circuit fluctuated and the
signals were reproduced ; the substitution of the
wireless microphone would make the impulses audible
as sound. If the method is perfected to include
music and singing, various results may be antici-
pated. The future Galli-Curcis and Kreislers will
come here in the shape of spools. Mayoral receptions
will be rather dull affairs, the famous singer being
presented by the local representative of the house
of Tait on a silver platter. Much of the joy and
all of the draughts and cold feet will be eliminated
from performances, and the dramatic critic will be
able to listen-in luxuriously at home, with his
glossary of the Italian language open before him
instead of furtively concealed in his hip-pocket.
And caricaturists will have to look for othei jobs.
“Hamfat”: Apropos of the oJd_ theatre ui
Queen-street, Melbourne (B. 14/5/’25). When
the first structure had to be torn down an
enterprising citizen paid £5O for the _ right
to search the ground. There is no precise
information as to how he got on. but .tn
dust probably dollied out very well. Afflu-
ent miners in the hectic days used to pelt
their favorite performers with sovereigns ana
small nuggets wrapped in paper, and it is
quite possible that a good deal of ' fyue
dropped through the clinks ot a floor that
was mainly chinks when the hectic days
arrived. The Chambers sisters—four ot
them—who apparently sang and danced very
badly, but introduced feminine charm, to
miners who were hungry for it, were special
objects of the golden showers.
“Lysander”: No theatrical troupe or
variety cast is now complete without its
Russian princess; and the higher flights de-
mand that she shall have fought in a
“White” corps. Many of the princesses were
intimates of the late Czar’s womenfolk,
several received the Czarina’s last message,
and all suffered the loss of husband and at
least one child at the hands of Lenin s mei-
cenaries. Some are devoting the remnant
of their shattered lives to searching, foi the
remainder of their children. The princesses
passionate patriotism is usually expressed
by a habit of wearing conspicuous Russian
boots in addition to the customary sleeve-
less one-piece, gold bangles and light-colored
stockings. The boots serve to identity the
owners instantly to outsiders, but what
memories of horror and hardship must be
awakened every time a “White ex-soldiei
sights them in Pitt-street, Sydney, or the
Melbourne Block!
“E.T.” : The English Theatrical Managers’
Association had its annual meeting and
luncheon at Gatti's restauraait, hard by
Charing Cross* in the last week of March.
One of the speakers was James M. Glover,
for 20 years musical conductor at IJrury-
lane. He mentioned that he had invited his
friend and fellow-countryman Shaw to be
present and talk about the drama, and he read
(LB.S.’s reply—it was written on a post-
card :— ■
The theatrical managers of England, from Inverness
to Plymouth, will present an extraordinary spectacle
all assembled at Gatti’s, but I must not contem-
plate it, as I am too old for such overwhelming
sensations. Give them my love. What an oppor-
tunity for a twentieth-century Guy Fawkes!
“Caul-boy” : It is a prevalent notion that
Australia gets tlie best of and
British plays—that after public opinion has
winnowed the clialf out of the years diaina-
tic experiments in New York and London,
patriotic Australian producers select the best
for transportation here. The -most commer-
cially safe, doubtless, take the long sea-trip,
but the most artistically sound seldom do.
Galsworthy’s “Skin Game, ’ whose first night
I saw in London in 1920, has just arrived
in Sydney; .and, although it is not transcen-
dent art.* it is a good deal better than h
number of plays that have preceded it. Ihe
Vanbrugh-Boucicaults have just given us an
entertaining season, for which we are thank-
ful. but it mainly consisted of Pinero s plays,
which were acclaimed a quarter-century ago
as works of genius, but are now seen to be
merely the productions of an industrious
mechanic. The same coalition promises to
bring us shortly a handful of tarrie s plays.
Barrie is another amuser whose quips and
cranks are already threatened with decay.
It seems a pity that nuurtmers of such high
skill as the Vanbrughs can’t see their way
to risk a night or two of box-office receipts
by including in their next repertoire some
specimens of the living drama of the day. |t
is a hardy critic who, from this end. would
say what plays are living and what dead, or
which are destined for immortality and which
for hasty burial; but the fact remains that
the plays usually presented to the Australian
playgoer have their cerements flapping about
their fleshless ankles and breathe over the
footlights the musty odors of the grave.
“Neebsah”: .Arthur Williams <B
23/4/’25) and I were once dressing-room
mates in a London production. He was
by way of being an inquirer into the whence,
why and whither, and was deep in bweden-
borgianism at the time. "W hen the last cur-
tain dropped on the first night’s performance.
I thought he left the stage rather hurriedly. L
followed later, to find him in our room talk-
ing to a typical London potman, who propped
up a tray loaded with food and a tankard of
beer. When Williams bad polished off the
beer he became geniality itself. I asked him
why he didn’t have his supper at a restaurant.
“I couldn’t wait,” he said. ‘ When I am
working I can’t tackle food till after the
show'. The supper you saw- will last me till
to-morrow night.” Life was no comedy to
this fine comedian, who died on Sept. ,uo,
1915. aged 70.
“Lond”: The latest addition to “Christ-
mas holiday plays” in London like
being one of the most successful. Alt s
Button,” the farcical, magical absurdity by
Darlington, ran at the Prince's till well into
March —longer than any of its rivals—and is
booked for return next Christmas, touring in
the “provinces” meamvhile.
THE PRIMA DONAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vienna newspapers are publishing columns cou-
rernimr the quarrel between the prima donnas, Jentza
aM Olszewsla! Olszewska cleared her throat ami
spat three yards, hitting Mme. luttel in the
Subsequently she _ apologised, saying that sne
aimed at Jeritza.”
Of fire and force her vocal chords have plenty,
The range and compass of her liquid voice
Doubtless delight Vienna’s cognoscenti
And make Hungarian notables rejoice.
Her songs have carrying power. As for her ,
A first-hand witness should be Madame lvittel.
Yunk gunmen in the films are quick as lightning
Upon the draw whenever there’s dispute;
And in their books I feel, the interest heightening
When someone indolently murmurs “Shoot.
But who is there in opera that - a
More prompt and vicious “sighter ? Ask Jeritza.
And do admirers shower the bouquets floral,
The costly wreaths on this melodious shrew l
A fitter tribute might be cuspidoral.
Most cats can conjugate their Ja Compile.
l<' ew Heav’n be praised! —essay it with the true oca-
Turient impressionism of Olszewska.
MIDFORD.
N.B.W.


fHORLICKSI
MALTED MILKI
Nourishes and sustains. The Ideal
FOOD-J)RINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
t Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N S W.
' sizes ol all Chemists
and Stores.
uctmiesuii
In 4 siz
>N/
* @ a
As-
•X
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKC*
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENO.
USE
ONLY THE
RELIABLE BRAND. J A
I DOUBLE “D”
EUCALYPTUS
| A Eucalyptus Oil of Quality
for Internal and External use.
Invaluable for
Coughs, Colds, Sore •
Throat, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, Lumbago
and Sciatica.
Large Bottles:
1/3
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II fn an troubled with the complaint, write at and
wa will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rapture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what wa state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, ond the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street* Melbourne
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
. ACTUAL size
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to an}
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG gAITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors foi
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory,
Amusements.
§VI)NE Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT It ES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S—KID BOOTS.
CRITERION :
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
ROYAL : THE LADY OF THE ROSE.
PALACE: THE SKIN GAME.
GUAM) OPERA HOUSE. SVIIXE V
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Dirertion Hugh .1 ward Tlieatres I’tv., ltd
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
THE HONEYMOON GIRL.
Plans at Nicholson's.
DICKA KI) S’ TIVO I. I TIIE A T RE S.
Lessees; Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Rest.
pu LL E It'S TIIE A T RE, S\I)N E V.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SPRING CLEANING.
Amusements.
K INCUS THEATRE. )l EI.BOI) II N
T and Direction : Bert Bailee & Julius Grant
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 30.
BAILEY A GRANT Present
Steele Riidd's Famous Australian Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
ArSTRA LI .V S FA V O RIT E.
BERT BAILEY AS DAD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 5/-, 4/-, 2/-, 1/44. Plus T
Matinees, Wednesdays and Saturdays: 4/-, 3/'-, 1
Plus Tax.
AT II ENAC U >1 THEATRE. MELBOURJ
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Ptv., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson presents, bv arrangement w
E. J. Carroll,
JOHN D. O’HARA,
in the American Comedy Drama,
THANK U.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
p.UACE TIIEAT It E, AIELKOE ID
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
lIOWETT WORSTEIt Presents
SNAP.
Music by Kenneth Duffleld: Book and Lyrics 1
Dion Tithendge and Ronald Jeans. All Star O’
indudes KITTY REIDY and HOWETT WORSTE
also Hector St. Clair—principal comedian.
(-1 O Y T ’ S I» E LUXE THE AT R
1 1 IHERROIRNE.
HOOT GIBSON in
THE HIDIN’ KID FROM POWDER
RIVER.
THE BROADWAY MADONNA.
ALL STAR CAST.
Prices as usual.
9
1
txlm®
"""2.
X '2%£Z%. y/s//ss/ss/sys/sssssss/2Z;;;%/',,
| ONOTO %
2 ihi? 2
5^
ONOTO
INK
Best
WS/ty/////,
Vs/.-/;,
♦■k
for all
S 5
Pens
>'C r
5?=??
V'
%€Zp4%4#"""«
H J* 4 p
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
“The Little Giant of Musical Comedy.”
y| AJESTJC THEATRE, Aid. 1501 USE
RIN-TIN-TIN in
THE LIGHTHOUSE BY THE SEA.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
k| lOW 151,10 U TII EAT It IS, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO. IN BE VUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Con. 3251.
rllE ALLAN WILKIE SIiAKSI’EA KEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
UEENSLAND TOUR: THEATRE ROYAL, Brisbane.
Head Office: 178 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Missing Friends.
PIETRO POLA, late of Rhymney, in
Victoria, deceased. —CHARLES WIL-
IAM POLA, son of the deceased (or any
:rson knowing his whereabouts) is re-
uested to communicate with THEO. G.
JRANO, Solicitor, Ararat. Something
reatly to his advantage.
I F any persons who can claim descent from
J. WILLIAM MOON and AMY WELLER,
vho were married at Brighton, Sussex, Eng-
and, in or about the year 1815, will com-
nunicate with Messrs. RITCHIE &
’ARKER, ALFRED GREEN & CO..
solicitors, Launceston, Tasmania, they will
lear something to their advantage.
IF MRS. ELIZABETH (or BETSY)
SILVESTER and MRS. SILVINA
BERTS (both born Poultney) or the
children of either communicate with the
indersigned they will learn something to
their advantage.
WILSON, RYAN & GROSE, Solicitors,
Townsville, Queensland.
June Poisnand.
INFORMATION is required of the present address
of JUNE POIGNAND (the third son of Wil-
loughby l’oignand and Ohiyo Poignand), who was
born at Shanghai, China, on March 3, 1900, and who
formerly resided at No. 1 Ward Road, Shanghai.
June Poignand left Shanghai for Sydney, Australia, on
oi about October 9, 1918, and was last heal'd of at
Sydney shortly afterwards. If the said June Poig-
nand is dead, particulars are required of the time
and place of his death. Information to he forwarded
to the undersigned.
BLAKE & RIGGALL,
120 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
m
B
1^
*ll
L_J
&
A Scientific Insect-pest Destroyer
Kills quickly
Is turn-poisonous
lUll not stain —
Has a pleasant
odor —'
Fly-Tox is giving the public in this and other countries
a new sense of sanitation, a new comfort, a new satis-
faction—a house without flies, ants, moths, or other insects.
Fly-Tox has given a new means of ending an old menace
of contamination, pollution, infection, and disease par-
ticularly from flies and mosquitoes.
Fly-Tox is the result of the painstaking scientific research.
It was conceived, developed and perfected by the Rex Research Fellow-
ship at the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research of the University
of Pittsburg, U.S.A., the foremost Scientific Research Institute of its
kind in the world. The Rex Companies founded their Fellowship at
the Institute so that the knowledge of the world’s leading Chemists
should be at their disposal, and no product is ever released unless it
proves superior to any article for similar purposes.
You will find Fly-Tox the ideal household insecticide, having merit
beyond all previous preparations. It is a liquid spray which quickly kills
all insects. It is non-poisonous to humans or animals. It absolutely will
not stain, and has a fragrantly refreshing odor.
Your Chemist or Grocer sells Fly-Tox in three sizes. The Hospital
size is specially recommended for Hotels, Restaurants, Warehouses,
Schools, and Public buildings.
The specially constructed Fly-Tox Hand Sprayer is recommended.
It sprays a fine mist cloud in any position
Australian Agents.
FRAZER & BEST LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
jManufacturers : THE REX SPRAY COMPANIES
D.S.A & CANADA.
There is only one FXYTQX
ax'
mitltlittlffmßS
FLY;Tp^>
5N'
■I
MS
/
A Free Trial
Sprayer
(patent applied
for)
with each
bottle


7-Fass. Big Six Duplex-Phaeton, £?O5.
5-Pass. Big Six Coupe, €895.
7-Pass. Big Six Reflan, £935.
3-Pass. Big Six Berline, £960
5-Pass. Special Six Duplex Phaeton, £595.
3-Pass. Special Six Duplex-Roadster, «54»-
3-Pass
. Special Six Sport-Roadster, £575.
4-Pass. Special Six Victoria, £735.
5-Pass. Special Six Brougham
-19-
Models
One
Standard
Quality!
19 New Studebakers—each a six; each of
a design that is distinctive- Whether you
buy the lowest priced or the highest priced
Studebaker model —you obtain the greatest
motor car value in the world for the amount
you invest- See the New Studebakers be*
fore you buy- Investigate before you invest!
TOT STT TDF.BAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Indiana, V. S. A.
Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
Australian and New Zealand Distributors .
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY. (Q) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
o-Pass. Special Six Berline, £785.
5-Pass. Standard Six Duplex-Phaeton, £490.
3-Pass. Standard Six Duplex-Roadster, £465.
5-Pass. Standard Six Coach, £540.
S-Pass. Standard Six Country Club Coupe, £57«
f
5-Pass. Standard Six Coupe, £590.
5-Pass. Standard Six Brougham, £575.
5-Pass. Standard Six Sedan, £625
5-Pass Standard Six Berllne, £650.
5-I’ass. Special Six Sedan, £765.
STUD E BAKER
YEARS
7 3
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR


LEARN TO DRAW
FROM LIFE.
You can learn to draw by post, through
the easy, concise, and interesting lessons of
the Harry J. Weston Postal School of Drawing.
Artists command large salaries, and are
independent in that they can earn a big
income in almost any country,
-lr. Harry J. Weston, the well-known
Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every student receives per-
sonal tuition.
Send for Mr. Weston’s interesting free
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
25 Commercial Building,
17 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
THERE’S NO NECESSITY TO
CRAM, CRUSH OR JAMB—
when you buy a
“MOR” (Pat.)
Extension Suit or Attache Case.
T T means you have said “Good-bye” to
all packing troubles..
It means that by the very simplest of
operations the hinges at the back can be
adjusted to give 40 per cent, more room
in your case.
It also means that you can make the
same case fit your varying needs —a
business attache case can be adjusted to
week-end size—and a week-end case can
be adjusted to fit the needs of a travel case.
Prices are so little above an ordinary
case that you’ll buy.
Stocked by all Leading Stores or
obtainable from the Manufacturer.
Write for further information to
Department “D.”
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Building,
Ash Street (off Martin Lane),
SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & O Lta.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: Bridge Street, Sydney.
LAST DAYS.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4OOO for I|=
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
CIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General ol N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published “Daily Telegraph. June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/I}. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets for 6/»
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prize*
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Proud*
Ltd. and Lassetter’s. Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie's Chamber*, Katoomba. N.S ’.7,
■
■
THE GENUINE
KEMP SADDLE
THE “KEMP” is a general utility
saddle—Polo players use it and so do
professional buckjumpers. The shape
and position of the pads give the rider wonderful
comfort and security. It is a high-grade saddle
throughout and is fitted with special Kemp pattern
girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l3/15/-
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Rail-
way Station.
Write for Our Big Saddlery Catalogue.
A REMINGTON
POCKET KNIFE
Bls.—With Two Good
Blades, colored grained
handle, and the shoe is
a bottle-cap opener.
Price 7/6 each. Postage 6d.
POLO PLAYERS!
Write for our Special Polo
Booklet, with Rules —Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
305 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Rum fords
Groats
Best for MoihersYounq Children,Glnvalids
Obtainable from oil Chemists & Grocers
.
o
ER
Every Householder
needs this Flashlight
IN every home there are
many, many uses every
night for an “AMERICAN”
FLASHLIGHT. Their bright,
white rays light up the dark
places instantly.
AMERICAN
83
Flashlights and Batteries
STEWART DAWSON’S
Fashionable Wristlet Lever
Gold Watches
This is a Lady’s Jewelled 9-ct. Gold Lever Watch,
with the fashionable Moire Silk Band and 9-ct.
Gold Fastening. It is exceptionally neat and a
Thoroughly Reliable Timekeeper
SPECIAL
PRICE
70/-
13
PLAIN
or
FANCY
DIALS
In Solid Silver Case - - 40/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
We also have a large selection of other shapes
to choose from, ranging in prices up to £l5
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTD.
Two Sydney f 412 George Street, Strand Corner
Establishments 1185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Old B.: You are quite wrong. The
Nationalist Government diil give relief at Broken
Hill, but it took care that the relief wasn’t equiva-
lent to strike pay. The strike was declared on
May 19. Relief was almost at once made available
for necessitous cases by the Nationalist Government',
and by June 2 theie were 31 such cases. By
March 20 the following year a total of C 4700
had been distributed. The Storey Government,
which took office in the middle of April, appointed
a committee of three, nominated by the strikers
themselves, to distribute relief at the police stations.
In three months the weekly sum distributed in-
creased sevenfold. The Edmunds Award was made
on September 30. and the strike was declared off
November 10. The stoppage the next January was
caused by a fire destroying the smelters, and was
not a lockout in any honest sense of the term....
R.0.H.: A controversialist who can’t get the
name of his opponent right is too careless to
be trusted. .. .Gardenia: Not the bud for this bookay.
....Cecil F. E.; You’ve got something to say, but
you say it badly C.H.0.: Too long. Still,
there ought to be some usable paragraphs in your
inkpot. .. .Iota: “’Am and Eggs” don’t quite make
a meal.... Herbert M.: Afraid you’ll have to describe
that snake a bit more distinctly... .Adam A.: Sorry,
haven’t the space... .C.C.P.: The encyclopa:dia—any
encyclopaedia—really puts it better W.A.P.:
“There is an oil painting in this town, originally
brought from Scotland, and bearing the name of a
master hand. Rubens, the date being either 1842 or
1872. Could The Bulletin give any idea of its
value?” None; but you might get some line on it
from reflecting that Rubens died in 1640
Esmond: The gramophone yarn is built on an old
m0de1.... Gilbert G.: Both are very far 0ff....
R.X.J.: The yarn misses its chances... .H.J.P.:
Wooden sort of yarn with no life in it H.J.0.:
Told in that bald way it is neither attractive nor
convincing Dan de Q.: You took up a lot of
space saying it and it isn’t much when said. If
the basis is fact it might be worth a par....
H.L.M.: Thin, wild stuff... .Cyclone: Not well
enough t01d.... John M.: They don’t make us want
to embrace them. .. .Arthur T.: Very rugged verse
of an old sort.... Cora S.: They don’t get near
enough even to coo-ee Ripponlea: Certainly the
sonnet form is worth cultivating:—
Ah! How do I remember, when but a boy.
Going to a certain place that we lived near,
And after seeing Father’s mo with joy
Bedripping with drops of scintillating beer.
But is th’ sight do I remember most
Was cne night in th’ yard and th’ moon did shine,
And I did see a grisly, ghastly ghost—
’Twas but grandmother’s nightdress on th’ line.
Those delightful days are very dead indeed;
Poor Granny’s long since died—she had St. Vitus—
And Pa turned up his toes in a pool of bleed,
And now I have to wear red flannel for my own
bronchitis.
When reminiscing of those boyhood jokes
I can scarcely speak for a frog in mine throat.
... .W. Lun: Sorry to say there’s nothing in it
except the rhymes. And rhymes alone won’t make
poetry.... L.L.: “Affinity” doesn’t appeal... .E.L.S.:
Promising. Try a brighter subject. And avoid the
old tags like a pestilence.... H.: Hymn of booze
seems to have an idea; but it glimmers very
faintly. .. .Dragon Fly: Not a new thought in it.
The workmanship is passable. .. .D.W.8.: You haven’t
made much use of your material. And it isn’t very
good material... .W.J.W.: Not well enough done.
The prose is really the better... .Fort Bourke: No
space for the conventional newspaper biography.
But there’s something of interest in nearly every
life, and it’s that little thing we want... .Millicent
A.; Doesn’t read a bit true... .H.W.8.: Your pen
hasn’t the skill for a job of that kind.... A.Q.R. •
It’s a rather unattractive performance. .. .W.F.W.:
Hopeless stodge.... Almaden: Things are happening
around you that not one in a thousand knows about,
though most of the other 999 are interested in
them. Yet you fellows will write about the little
nothings of the suburbs. Don’t be afraid of “talk-
ing shop”....T. Buck: “Ivalumea” is good old
pickled melodrama.... H. Flower: No, it’s not hope-
less. Read and write —and tear up and re-write
for a few years.... Alice G.: “Adi” shows that
you’ve got the dramatic sense; but your writing is
very rocky.... Forfar: No chance. .. .J.T.N. A.: A
few good grains in a prodigious lot of chaff....
Woodki; Come in, come in:—
CATASTROPHE!
(P. W. P. Brophy has been granted a transfer of
the license of the Tuggerah Lakes Hotel to Ettalong
Beach.)
There’s a lachrymose lamenting at the Lakes,
For the beer that now another circuit slakes—
The license does a get along to Ettalong!
Give Brophy then his trophy
In a mournful chanted strophe—
He’s the man who took the tug away from Tuggerah !
. ...Merris; “Identified” has been told too often;
and the other is ■ very tame... .Constance G.: Ah,
that dear little shoplifter and the impressionable
junior partner are both such old friends of the
family.... Taypee; “Sixteen” is as thin as a winter’s
shadow in Lapland.... Snowy S.: Hardly. But we’ve
printed plenty w0r5e....30: The subject was dis-
cussed lately, and you don’t offer any fresh thought.
....Caesar; Every time you fall just short....
H.S. (Warrack): You reach highwater mark in this
stanza:—
Though we can’t build our new cruisers,
Our worthy Premier to amuse us
Tells us tales of saving pounds
By building ships at Johnny Brown’s.
. ...D.P.M.: “Stars” slight and holds no fresh
imagery. “Coromandel” is good, but the last verse
needs attention. .. .8.M.: Limps too heavily on its
poor lame feet... .M.8.P.: Undine is too deep a
mystery.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.M.M.; No; something similar would not do. Some-
thing twice as good might just scrape in. ...M.F.:
Sorry, can’t give you an opportunity of satisfying
your life’s ambition this time... . G.D.: Only imita-
tions. .. .J.R.W.: You haven’t got the better of your
medium yet.... Ink : Like the Beast of the Apocalypse,
your number is now 999, or thereabouts—and the
999th isn’t any improvement on the first.... H.J.P.:
This paper doesn’t understand your humor and has
no enthusiasm for your art....M. St. J. T.: Not
badly done; but it’s a style that usually hides a
multitude of shortcomings... .J.F.S. (Eng.): This
country made itself self-supporting in that line of
merchandise about 1880... .N. 8.: They show enough
promise to make another nib a not over-reckless
speculation.... A. 8., Andrews and R.J.M.: Not up.
. ...G.A.E.; Doesn’t please us.


The Range
that cooks with
stored heat.
MFClarys
Electric Range
"77ie only Range with </ie “TOR-RED” Protected Element"
m
McCLARY’S Electric Range saves current
by accumulating heat in the oven and
cooking top.
Warm up the oven to good baking heat
—turn the current “off”—and you may con-
tinue to use the oven for hours. A perfect
“fireless cooker” because of “stored heat.”
“TOR-RED” Protected Elements retain
heat, too. Ycu do most of your boiling and
frying on “low.”
A lady writes: “No heat is felt from the
range with the current full on, a great con-
sideration in summer. Another advantage is
saucepans do not get a scrap dirty on the out-
side.”
Six handsome designs in nickel and enamel
to choose from. See also small hot-plates and
ovens, electric irons, kettles, waffle-irons and
electric-light fittings. Call and inspect; no
obligation incurred.
Sole Suppliers of McClary Ranges—
-JOHN'
& SON -Pi y. Ltd
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Westclox
To be punctual, set a Westclox
BEING punctual has made many a man success-
ful. — On the job at the starting hour;
meeting appointments in time; doing the day’s
work on schedule.
Those who do big things usually have the repu-
tation of being in time, —Westclox alarms help
many successful men maintain their schedule too.
You can depend on a Westclox to run on time
and ring on time.
IVestclox Big Ben, 21 /-; Baby Ben, 21/-; Sleep-Meter, 12/6; America, 9/6;
Blue Bird, 10,6; Pocket Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 18/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 27/6, Baby Ben Luminous, 27/6; Glo-Ben, 12/6;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/■
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
Its the
years
Turf
BIG SIZE
Cigarettes
20/- for 2/-
The New Size
Turf—
JUBILEE
(with the Blue Band)
'lofiAk
\OforQ J
Once tobacco has fermented
in the cask it is technically
matured. It takes three years’
ageing in the wood before
tobacco is properly matured.
Then it is that all harshness
and bitterness go, and the
flavour is perfected.
TURF
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
GUARANTEED MADE FROM
TOBACCO AGED AT LEAST
3 YEAJOS IN THE WOOD.
Look for the
BLUEBAND
$
►w*
£
m
T
?6


THE
SEASON’S
MESSAGE
SEND YOUR
SKINS
TO
RABBIT, POX, KANGAROO and, all
other skins—for top values consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY I!. d J. DICK, INC.
The “BARRV" Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest and strongest metal
pulley made. Ifs tubular construction
preserves the exact shape ol' the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BAUUV” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for
your requirements at the most favorable
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
IAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n'r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBAItT 97 Collins Street
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
ROPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Who are Firth’s?
Why! Firtht in the
Field with
Thtainleth Thteel
of Courth!
AND
the first manufacturers of high-grade
steels to foresee the possibilities of this
great continent as a manufacturing
country, for Firths’ first overeas
branch was opened in Melbourne in the
year 1846; since then branches have
been established throughout the world,
where the STEEL PRODUCTS of the
house of FIRTH are now famous.
To think of STEEL is to
think of FIRTHS’.
You require FIRTHS’ STEEL for
some purpose in your workshop.
Please send * us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aus.) Pty., Ltd.
314 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
London Office:
“Gresham House.”
Old Broad Street, E.C.B.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades,
Zinc Producers’ Association
Con tractors with the Hoard of Trade .
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
in YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Health First”
Let this be your Slogan
Health First by all means, and if you’re lacking in this priceless gift,
be well advised and try
Some truly wonderful results have been achieved by this nutritious
health-giving Fmulsion.
Thin, emaciated children have developed rapidly by its use, and many
people of delicate constitution have grown robust, active and alert after
taking one or two bottles only.
HYPOL is a rich, strengthening food, atonic and revitaliser in one, and
most pleasant to take.
For unhealthy lungs or chest complaints of any kind, it is capable of
effecting a permanent cure.
Doctors have proved that the high percentage of Cod Liver Oil in
HYPOL, together with the valuable tonic elements it contains, gives a
healing and restorative power that is unsurpassed.
The action of HYPOL is an abiding one. There’s no slipping back
when you discontinue taking it.
HYPOL is not a mere pick me up, but a distinctive scientific compound
designed for sick people of all ages.
Refuse doubtful substitutes. Say you MUST havt
Hypol
Made by
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID—32 per cent, Na2o.
POWDEKED-98 per cent. NaOH,
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, prftre Anhydrous
In 100. 150 and 2000Ifa. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little, Collins Street, Melbourne*
WORKS: YARRAVTLLE. VICTORIA,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hamlet, Junior”: The limit in candor has
been reached by a tailor in Adelaide. His
shop-window displays several suit-lengths,
each ticketed, and in the centre a neat card
reads; "It. takes nerve to sc 11 at these prices.”
So far, no one has publicly disputed it.
“Caesar”: “Toby C.’s” picker, who liar-
vested 8161 b. of cotton in one day, would
certainly need to be "an active young chap”
<B. 80/4/’25). Two years ago Australia’s
champion (a woman) picked something
close up to 1501 b., and a series of 721 records
taken throughout the United States showed
averages of 9.81 b. to 181 b. per hour.
* * * *
“Chris” : That stout veteran, the barquen-
tine Ysabel, which has been resting in Auck-
land waters, goes into the Society Island
group trade shortly. The Ysabel has had
many experiences in her good half-century.
Built at Auckland, for some 20 years she
was the Southern Cross, and carried stores
and passengers for the Melanesian Mission.
Then Captain W. Ross bought her, took out
the engines and re-named her the Ysabel.
In 1914 Scales and Co., of Wellington,
acquired her, and she was strenuously worked
during the Big War. Later she did the
Auckland-Wellington-Niue Island run. Her
timbers are sound yet.
* * * *
“E.8.M.”: Why does the Postal Depart-
ment treat its customers differently from all
the businesses which recognise the principle
of “a reduction on taking a quantity”? The
cost of soap, for instance, is Is. a cake and
11s. a dozen, and the same in all other lines.
But the charge for sending a telegram is Is.
for 16 words and Id. for each additional
word, the additional words being thus 2-5
per cent, dearer than those covered by the
fixed minimum charge. The cost to the De-
partment consists of (1) stationery, (2) re-
ceiving, (3) transmitting, (4) receiving and
(5) delivering. The extra words add practi-
cally nothing to these costs, yet the wooden-
department charges a higher rate
for them.
* * * *
Shipping Clerk”; German ships have been
nibbling at the Australian trade for some
time, and in June the Nord Deutsclier Lloyd
will start a regular service with the Koni'gs-
berg; the ships will travel by way of the
Cape. Before the war the N.D.L. was an
active Hun trade-ambassador. While we
were all good friends 1 had a commission to
sell some crude rubber for an old mate in
New Guinea. Getting tired of waiting on the
Australian firms which dealt in the com-
modity, I went to the N.D.L. and got the
business settled in half an hour. The N.D.L.
offices in Bridge-street, Sydney, were almost
palatial. The counter in the main office,
all solid mahogany, with beaten-brass eagles
on the pillars supporting the canopy, was
a particularly imposing piece of furniture.
" hen the war dispossessed the co., the wood-
work went into a lumber-yard; nowadays,
minus the eagles, it is the bar for the new
Musicians’ Club in Castlereagh-street.
* * * *
u “Hashish" : In the U.S.A. I met a type of
“crook” that the American movies hadn’t
introduced to me. He is a logical product
of a country where papers are crammed with
ads. that offer "easy work, short hours and
big pay for handling our wonderful proposi-
tion—no experience necessary.” Many wild-
catters work on the principle that almost
any man can sell a certain amount of any
article at the beginning, if only to sym-
pathetic friends and relatives. Therefore
they offer a modest salary and commission
for the first week or so, and thereafter much
bigger commission but no salary. Now, these
smart men are the natural food of the
“check-grabber,” who is also a smart man.
He signs up with Cyrus P. Swindell
to sell bonds at, say, 15 dollars a
week and 5 p.c. commission for one
week, and after that no dollars and 25 p.c.
commission. At the end of the week he has
sold nothing. Naturally enough, since he
hasn’t tried to; he lias been too busy signing
up with Gideon Bunk and Henry J. Hoaxe on
somewhat similar terms. The fact that lie
is enthusiastically fired and blackguarded by
Swindell and the rest at the week’s end
cuts no ice alongside the other fact that
he has drawn from each a few dollars in
salary. There are many more advertise-
ments to answer. A strange and fearful
thing is American business.
“Tabac” : “What remedy have I got,” cays
the man in the flat, “when the roof leaks,
the guttering is defective, and our carpets
and furniture are just sopping messes —with
the missus outside on the balcony crying her
eyes out?” Well, Man in the Flat, until
quite recently you had the law all on your
side. The Court beamed and sent you away
with hands filled from the pocket of the land-
lord. But recently the Court changed its
mind —it is sometimes as fickle as a woman.
The position is this. The law has always
been quite clear in the case of a house let as
a whole that the landlord has no duty cast
upon him to repair any part of the demised
premises unless he has expressly covenanted
to do so. But it is not so clear with regard
to the tenancies of flats. The one roof covers
a whole nest of flats. Of no individual tenant
can it be said “That is his roof and his
alone.” In 1916 an action was brought in
an English court by the tenant of a flat to
recover damages from his landlord on account
of loss he had sustained through defective
guttering allowing the rain to wet his car-
pets and effects. The Judge then held that
the duty of the landlord was absolute, and
it did not matter a brass farthing whether
he had been notified of the defect or not.
He had to pay. That judgment, which held
good for eight years, was lately over-ruled
and the position now is that the landlord—
in, of course, the absence of any special
covenant —is liable only on proof of negli-
gence ; as, for example, by showing that,
although he had due notice of the defect
given to him by his tenant, he had been dila-
tory or remiss in remedying it. As the
tenant will most likely know nothing about
the defect till the mischief is done, telling
the landlord about it then will be rather like
shutting the stable door after the steed has
caught a cold.


\
O
GOODYEAR
MEANS
GOOD WEAR
/)
o
0
&
Goodyear
O
n
r
Balloon
Tyres
&
made
of
are
A
Supertwist
<2r
jm
t
o
A
o
«/
t
The story of a
tyre-making, of
sensational improvement iit
profound economic interest
to every car-owner
You know by now that the modern
low-pressure balloon tyre is made with
thinner sidewalls and greater flexibility
than tyres of earlier type:
These characteristics involve new pro-
blems in design, and important special
requirements in materials.
Doubtless the most essential require-
ment of the successful balloon tyre is a
new kind of cord fabric, of extreme
elasticity and endurance.
No ordinary cord fabric can properly
withstand the balloon tyre’s continuous
and repeated flexing, and at the same
time victoriously resist severe road
shocks.
In its laboratories and its own cotton-
mills Goodyear has solved this urgent
problem—by perfecting a remarkable
and exclusive cord fabric called i ‘Super-
twist.’^ f
Tests made with tyres embodying this
new material showed that a carcass
made of i ‘ Super twist” delivered in excess
of 100 per cent, greater service than a
carcass containing an equal number of
plies of standard cord fabric.
In other words, it was demonstrated in
these tests that, ply for ply, Goodyear
“Supertwist” cord fabric literally
doubled the carcass life of the tyre.
Certainly this justifies the belief that no
greater contribution to the art of tyre-
building than “Supertwist” has been
recorded since the introduction of the
cord tyre itself.
The superiority of Goodyear “Super-
twist” is due to its greater elasticity and
power to flex, with consequent wider
distribution of shock and greater free-
dom from stone-bruise and like injuries.
This incomparable material is now used
in regular Goodyear production and is
built into Goodyear Balloon Tyres of
both kinds —to fit new wheels and the
wheels now on your car, if with straight
side, or 30 x 3-\ beaded edge rims.
BALLOON
TYRES


" COUGH g
REMEDY
► -> i - ■
Coughs.
CROI
SB
ife
ifSp
a
jc-Stsm:
THROAT
111,'!
i <
MADE IN
r::r
Eli
I
BSSSfe
*r<wf
This medicine robs ’Flu
of its after effects.
Never neglect ’Flu. Go to
bed at the first symptoms.
Take Chamberlain’s freely
till the fever subsides and
all the pain disappears.
An attack of ’Flu treat-
ed with Chamberlain’s
never leaves any bad
after effects behind it.
Chamberlain's
"cough Remedy"
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you pi’ice for the original.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Tdeal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Features
a
\92=>
cxv
3\
v-e'
7J
e
6
L
//
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Rood Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
r>. No projection to catch in
pocket.
fi. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
0. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel * Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink. for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t delay'. Get yours
State whether Fine
or .Medium Nib.
YOU’ITL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference—Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Milne. Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart. Esq.:
A. C. Luya, Esq. : M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAVMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
BEGIN THAT BANK
w
?_ 71
m
\
&
%
&
ACCOUNT
"V - OU never
* that
know when
rainy day ” will
come—the day you will be in
need of ready cash to tide you
over a difficulty. * * * v
Begin now to prepare for such emergency.
The knowledge that you have money in the
bank will inspire confidence, and foster
independence. ********
Interest at 1 0 U P to £5OO, and at 3'/% on any excess to £lOOO
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF N.S.W
Head Office . 19-23 Martin Place
SYDNEY
GBD
m
m
Shape
No. 4327
The Tipe for
Particular £Men
Made from the finest French Briar
Root grown. Note the fine quality
grain. Every pipe faultlessly shaped
and carefully finished. GBD is
the smoker’s standard of supreme
pipe quality.
A wide range of popular shapes for
your selection.
Sold Everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P 0., Svdnev
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
weeks' Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
motor-trips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
rice versa.
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent by
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £Ol.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000-ion Mail Steamers TASMAN and IIOIJTMAN.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. .JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street. Melbourne.
MESSRS. D ALGETY & CO., Brisbane
I'at Smith, who died the other day. was
the first white baby born on the Tweed
(N.S.W.). He saw daylight at Terranora
in 1851, attended the first school at T.ismore.
and ran the first mail service to Casino
—the journey from Kynnumboon was done
on horseback, occupied two days and was
made every fortnight. Pat established what
is now the flourishing auctioneering business
of I*. Smith and Son, Murwillnmbak, but
ho wasn't first in there.
“S.W.R. : Who says there’s no religion
in business? A Melbourne taxi company
advertised the other Saturday that it was
giving concession rates to church-going
patrons on Sunday mornings, the said rates
being listed from most suburbs to the city
churches. Bright and early on Monday
morning came an inkyiry over der telephone
vether the co. couldn't make der same con-
cessions to people who ranted to go to der
synagogue on Saturday. And what could
the taxi co. do but consent?
Among his many activities the late 11. E.
Barir, for so long Registrar of Sydney Uni.,
retained to the last an interest in manly exer-
cise. His advice to every student of excep-
tional mental promise was to “join a club,”
and he was himself a first-class bat. In the
middle ’sixties the old Orwell Cricket Club
included Joe Carruthers, then a law student;
Harry Bar If, another student with a penchant
for mathematics; Peter Duric, a training col-
lege student; one of the Gregorys, and a
number of others. Their playing field was
in the Eastern Suburbs, on a level patch now
bounded by Oxford-street, Jersey-road and
I ’addington-street.
“The Rumpus”: “M.II.H.’s” heroine who
frightened a burglar with a packet of crackers
(B. 16/4/’25) must be related to a lady 1
know. _ The weapon the latter uses for put-
ting night prowlers on the run is an empty
kerosene tin. Each night it stands on a
chair beside her bed, opposite the open door
leading into her shop premises. At any
untoward no'ise the old lady heaves her noisy
Jack Johnson into the heart of things and
leaves the rest to the probable burglar, whose
nerves nowadays will not stand much shock.
Of course every dent on the tin does not
represent a victory; often it is only a four-
legged rat that turns a double somersault.
The death in a Randwick (Sydney) private
hospital of Mrs. J. M. Gunn, formerly of
Wagga, and widow of the late J. A. Gunn,
M.L.C., recalls the debt owing by the sheep-
owners of Australia to her late husband
and McGarvie Smith, who collaborated in
discovering a vaccine for combating anthrax
in sheep. Gunn and McGarvie Smith experi-
mented for years before succeeding, and the
benefit to the pastoral industry in Aus-
tralia cannot be assessed in figures. Gunn
predeceased McGarvie Smith, who in his will
devised the formula to the people, asking only
that the State should provide the buildings
necessary for the preparation of tne vaccine,
lie had been offered £lOO,OOO for the formula,
but refused it.
“G.W.Y.”; The Maoriiand Government
has announced its intention of putting out
a new issue_ of stamps in connection with
the forthcoming Dunedin Exhibition. If this
means a special series to commemorate and,
incidentally, advertise the exhibition, it will
not raise the already low estimate of the
Dominion entertained by philatelists, who
object rightly to the excessive use of stamps
to record unimportant incidents. If M.L.
really desires a better advertisement from
its postage-stamps, it should begin by cast-
ing the existing inartistic issue into outer
darkness. The badly-drawn outline map of
the Shivery Isles on one of the penny stamps
at present in use would earn a schoolboy
the cane. It is a slander on Maoriiand
artists and engravers. Another reason why
the M.D. Postal Department is on the phila-
telist’s black-list is that it follows an
objectionable practice of reprinting older
issues for the sake of a little extra profit.
“Splints” : Radium has added to the ner-
vous trials of hospital doctors. The stuff
is so precious that the, greatest precautions
are taken with it; the medico who uses it
is held responsible for its return to the super-
intendent or nurse in charge after treat-
ment of a patient. In a recent Melbourne
case a young doctor, having other business
to attend to and not wanting to return at
11 p.m., asked a nurse in charge of the ward
to look after £5OO worth that he’d been
using. Unfortunately for him. the nurse was
relieved and forgot to mention the radium
to her successor; and the latter changed the
bandages in ignorance of their precious con-
tents. Now the doctor’s resignation has been
demanded. The official value of radium is
£480,000 per ounce; and. apart from the
enormous price, there is a difficulty about
getting any at all. Sydney Hospital’s tiny
stock was once recovered in the nick of time
from some bandages on their way to the
incinerator.
“Cuthbert Counterlunch”; One Tony, a
Greek, who conducted a restaurant in Baylcy-
street, Coolgardie, in the roaring days of ’94,
was the first to discern the profits awaiting
the man who could supply his patrons with
fresh oysters. He boldly sent to Perth for
a consignment of shellfish. These were put
off the train at Woolgangie, the head of the
line, where they sweltered in the heat for
a couple of days. Tony had commissioned a
teamster to pick up the precious bags, but
after getting them aboard and collecting a
whiff or two in the process the driver de-
cided to bury his malodorous cargo in a bush
gully, and returned to tell Tony the tragic
story in Coolgardie. Tony refused to admit
defeat, however, and set out for the spot
where the carrier had planted the bivalves.
He found them—humming ff. by this time.
Setting to work, he resurrected them, opened
them all. discarded the vile contents, washed
the shells and bagged them carefully. Re-
turning to his place of business, he de-
spatched his offsider to buy up all the tinned
oysters available at the local stores. Open-
ing the tins, lie equipped the shells with pre-
served molluscs, and invited the public to
“Coma buya da fresha oyst! Half-a-crowna-
da plate!” Diggers poured into the shop,
impressed by the proprietor’s enterprise,
sampled the wares, pronounced them good
and roared for more. Tony did a great trade,
and the same shells did duty as long as there
were any canned oysters left in town to
go upon them.


ghipplnir __
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
EUEET.
Tons.
•ORAMA 20.500
•ORONSAY .. 20.500
‘OTRANTO . . 20.500
•ORMONDE .. 14,853.
‘ORCAOES
•ORMI'Z
ORVIKTO ...
OSTKRUEV ..
ORSOVA
,io.ooo tons.
Tons.
14.588
12.133 j
12.120
12,030
•First ntul Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2*4-0 Spring Street,
Sydney. ,
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma —Sierra —V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
BTDBI. 13 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modei'n Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday, 0 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail—£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Blinking, 1’ill)lie Companies. Stc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
.Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,618
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,485
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Fkank N. Yauwood, F.0.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
H. R. Lysaout, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D,;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector jor N.S. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
- Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Hritain and
Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 26* Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. -. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 780,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,655.000
8/5,000
£2.530.000
He \n Office: ADELAIDE. SOLTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London' Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Kstalil islieii
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Ollice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924
Yielding Reversionary Auditions to
Policies of ovec
Accumulated Fundu .<
Annual Income ..
£2,370,000
£4,000,000
£55,800,000
£8,400,000
The Societv transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, £e.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. JUNE 4 for Vancouver.
MAKURA 18,000 „ „ JUNE 18 „ San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ JULY 2 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ JULY 16 „ San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
rs
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
("Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
1
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England: —
ViU AMERICA 1 ' (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE,,
magnificent steamers “MAREELA” or MON TORO,
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £9b,
class Return. , _ . .
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
by the
Sailing
First-
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
bank of new south
Established 1811.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!,
J. Black, M.E.C.
Esq., M.D.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London umce-::i xnreao.ieeo.e sireet js.u;.
an 9 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. mnrr-r
s Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECr.
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Foreign Bills
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND - -
RESERVE CAPITAL -
ESTABLISHED 1534.
£3,500,000 0 0
2,700,000 0 0
3,500,000 0 0
£9,700,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager ; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports : at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
CANBERRA?
(Melb. only)
KATOOMBA.
( AH Ports,
Inc. Albany).
WYANDRA..
(Melb. only),
ZEALANDIA
(All Ports).
KANOWNA..
(Melb. only).
KAROOLA..
(All Ports).
WYREEMA..
(Melb. only).
Leaves
Svdney.
I Leaves
i Melbourne
Sydney Agents.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
fßrisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddarf ParkerLjH
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAHT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
A.U.S.IM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies, 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug ami Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS I’Olt
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
I'itiroy Estates, Ltd.
HlacklieatU Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S.- N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Francisco service i union 0.0. o’ ,
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ham Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritunes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktowii
AVIATION
BY
AIR
Adelaide-
Sydney,
via Riverina.
m
Route.
Agents.
ADELAIDE
MILDURA
HAY
NARRAN-
DERA
COOTAMUN-
URA
SYDNEY
M. G. Anderson & Co.
J. H. Bayliss Pty., Ltd.
Wilkinson and Lavender.
Culley & Co.
G. A. Fitzpatrick.
\ Rudders Ltd.
\ Tourist Bureau.
PARCELS
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Aust. Aerial Services, Ltd.


For Ten Years-Dependable
Exceptional dependability has been a
characteristic of Dodge Brothers Motor
Car since the day the first of these sturdy
cars was marketed.
Not once in a decade has it failed to
uphold and enhance its reputation for
faithful performance.
The reason for its consistent goodness
and continued betterment points directly
back to the ideals of the founders.
Instead of fluctuating between an end-
less series of annual models, they deter-
mined to concentrate on the perfection
of a single chassis.
Dodge Brothers Motor Car to-day is the
embodiment of that ideal—an ideal that
will endure as long as the institution
itself.
Dodbe Brothers
T 1
■JO'
IE
TrT
>K>
y°v:
-H
<-v
£§
£=
or.
Bg
i
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.]
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co,, Ltd-,
199 St.-George's Terrace,
Perth.


Be Pretty!
Be Dainty!
Be Attractive!
Be a
Rexona
Girl!
aas
,1
a —
&
im
m
*SJi
WfcWffiPp 1L
m
Spiff 1
<»►
Vfh'Jyir/VA
CK
i»
SWSBnj
qZ&ffl l I [
yji
Wwm
Hum?
» » !.M
f Miss RUTH
f CLIFFORD,
a Beautiful
Rexona Girl
appearing in
“The Torna-
do,” a Uni-
versal Jewel
P r o duction.
to he released
shortly.
A Noted Universal Star
says " Rexona Soap is
the Best Ever.”
Miss Rutli Clifford, the perfect blonde, who, with the title of M.P. Star,
attributes her remarkably fair skin to the use of proper soap. “What soap
do you use?” was asked by envious fellow-workers. At a recent Fashion
Show, at which Miss Ruth Clifford participated, the secret leaked out when
a cake of Rexona Soap was discovered to
be a most important part of her equipment
in removing makerup. “It's the best ever,"
says Miss Ruth. This beautiful Movie Star
is small, very fair, and possesses
wonderful big' blue eyes. Her
complexion is perfect, and she is
considered one of the most beauti-
ful of all Bathing Beauties.
Rexona Soap
for Health and
Beauty
m
«***•
1/'
51b. Box,
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4/- per 11b. box
11b.
21b.
31b.
41b.
51b.
Red Metal Box..
4/-
8/-
12/-
16/-
20/-
Postage, extra
No expense Is spared to make ERNEST HIL
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.’*
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
duuMtttiiiUi
J 62-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
Six Days Shalt Thou Labor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u ✓"'v ix. days shalt than labor, doiny all
V ' ' that thou, art able:
i J And on the seventh holystone the
deck and clean scrub the cable.
The Captain rend the sermon,
The mates replied to him ;
The bo’s’n gave the lesson
And roared it with a vim. •
The crew took up the chorus
Of Neptune’s ancient hymn :
For six days shalt thou labor;
And even though it Ralls,
Thou shalt not stand unwilling,
But answer to the cal\s
Of such appointed task a*
Upon the seventh falls.
Though Captain Bover pressed ye
And hard yonr lot might be,
Though bitter need had brought ye
The service of the sea,
Ye may not skulk your duty
Nor scamp its quality.
Mayhap ye builded better
Than in your days ye knew;
For when we read the story—
Old shipmen strong and true —
Despite your faults and failings,
Our hearts go out to you!
Ye laid a firm foundation
Whereon an empire stands;
Ye gave a seaborn nation
The ruling of the lands;
And though the future resteth
In God’s compelling hands,
And though our Island Nations
Unto our enemies
May seem to be divided
In strident hours like these,
The house that ye have founded,
It surely shall not cease.
In time and in tradition
That Nordic house must stand:
The Celt shall know the Briton,
The Briton understand —
Oh. they must be together
Forever, sea or land.
And west across the water,
From where the islands lie,
There lives the Elder Brother —
A poet poor am I;
But oh for that reunion
Before I come to die!
It may be that this morning
I wander from my theme;
It may be that this morning,
Bewitched by some strange dream
The common things of Life are
Quite other than they seem.
Perhaps, in thinking over
A seaman’s homily,
I glimpsed a wondrous vision
Of what mayhap could be
If they would stand together
And rule the land and sea!
Not for the world’s oppression,
But for the Best-in-Man —
The form of rule is nothing—
But since the game began
We do the best that’s in us,
We do the best we can.
Six days must we labor
Doing all that we arc able:
And on the seventh holystone the deck
And clean scrub the cable.
Six days must we labor,
King and chimney-sweep;
Six days must we labor
To own and rule the Deep.
Six days must we labor
And on the seventh we
Must holystone the cable
And keep the ship at sea !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.
“Grin and Bear It.”
r For The Bulletin.]
']»/■“ ILLY CLEGHORN, now mother anrl
IVI father tH lier brothers and sisters
because of the death of the real
mother six months before, listened to the
talcs of her lover s struggles and setbacks
since Bill of Bringalily had departed the
day after Mrs. Cleghorn’s funeral for his
homestead lease, west of Quartpot Creek,
and down the Macintyre. lie told the story
with a quaint humor of his own and the
Bush-Australian’s habit of discounting diffi-
culties—afraid as a Red Indian of showing
emotion and laughing to hide his hurt.
“It’ll come good, though, Mil,” he said.
‘•All I’m sorry for is that it's going to leave
you Milly Cleghorn for longer than you
ought to be.”
“I’d have to stand by the kids a bit
longer, anyhow.”
“I’ll take the lot,” said Bringalily, whom
drought could make penniless but never pessi-
mistic. “We’d put young Bill to the law;
he can tell lies and get out of them better
than anybody else I ever knew. We’d edu-
cate him for a lawyer. And all the others
are in, the school age yet. except Tassie, and
she’s shaping all right for a farmer's wife
when she's old enough. I’ll look after the
lot.” ~... .
“Don't take on any more responsibilities
than you've got, Bill. Poof Bill ! You re
the unluckiest hard-worker out. Drought on
your homestead lease out west and drought
here on your orchard —all your catch-crops
gone. It seems hard that we should have
all the luck. Jimmy was saying yesterday
that ours is about the only place here where
the catch-crops haven’t gone with the
drought.”
“It’s because you’re up in this neck of the
hills, Mil. Whichever way clouds blow
around here they’ve got to stop up against
the high rock, east, north and south, and the
hills crack ’em and send the rain.”
Old-man Cleghorn had developed a new
interest in the place because, while all their
neighbors were suffering drought, their throat
of the hills found a home for /every cloud.
He had overheard the young couple from
within, and now came out to bejvamglonous.
There was no thankfulness in him for the
rain that had fallen upon tlieic earth, while
ail the little worlds of their neighbors were
bone-dry; lie could regard the preference
only as the reward of superior virtue.
“It ain't bein’ in tlie neck o’ the ills—-
what you talk about,-” said Cleghorn. “It s
because it’s ower place. The lain stops just
be ower fence. It comes down the gorge and
falls on bus. You ’aven’t ’ad a drop since
Ohris’mus on your place. Bill; neither as
Joneses; neither ’as ’Oilman. Neither ’as
Deneen’s place. It ouly come to lius.”
“Your luck doesn’t seem to make you any
kinder,” said Bringalily. “I’ll be going, Mil.
Come out to tlie gate, eh?”
Milly went with him, .knowing that the
irritation of that smug complacency was not
bearable by man for long. And as they
walked roadwards Bringalily said : “I’m sorry
because’s he’s your father, Alii; but mean-
ness like that makes me sick.”
She pressed the arm she held, replying:
“I know, dear; I know.”
“Anybody would think lie was glad of other
people’s bad luck. I’m sure lie’s glad of
mine.” , „
“Never mind, Bringalily: never mind.
“I’ve got to mind, Alii. All that bad luck,
here and down tlie Alacintyre, means we
can’t be married for donkey’s years.”
“How many years is that, Bill?’
“About as old as Uncle. I s’pose we’ll be
getting married when I’ve got mad little
white whiskers and you’ve worked yourself to
skin and grief for the old man and the kids.”
“They’re growing out of my responsibility,
Bill. And we’ll get married now if you like
and chance the luck.”
“Not for me!” said Bringalily firmly.
“That isn’t a man’s way. I’ll make good
first, and I can’t make good here.”
“Jimmy says he’ll go too. He says he’s
made this into a farm now, and it can
nearly run itself for six months, and lie’ll
go east. Somebody’s put him on to a patch
of tin.”
“Good man. Jimmy. That brother of yours
has made a place of it, be has.”
They looked up the valley on clean, culti-
vated orchard and newer green of flourishing
catch-crops, the work of dauntless youth
against hard conditions and the selfish drift
of lazy maturity. From the contemplation
of that shining evidence of toil, Bringalily’s
loss of heart that was no more than of the
moment replaced itself by the old resource,
and he laughed at his troubles again.
“It’ll come right, Alii; you’ll see. I'll
win; and if the worst comes to the worst
I'll leave enough to have a motor-hearse for
my funeral —might as well make tlie last
ride a joy-ride.”
“It will take old age or accident to kill
you, Bringalily. That big heart of yours
won’t let you die. D’ye know wliat father
says you ought to do?” .
“Something he wouldn’t do himself, 111
bet.”
“Yes, that’s right. He says you ought to
sell out down the river as soon’s the weather
breaks and buy a dairying place. It’s quick .
money for cream cheques.”
“On a small scale it’s slavei’y, Alii. Davis
makes a hundred pounds a month. I
wouldn’t take it at the price.”
“But his own children are not slaves.
“No. his own children are at school, and
he has four State kids. No! I couldn't
afford to make a hundred a month that way.
It costs too much.”
“Yes, Bill.”
“It'll all come right. And there s a man
worse off than me.”
“Who’s that, Bill?”
“Any man who died yesterday. So long.
Alii! "i’ll go to town and see if there’s any
news. There ought to he a letter from down
the river to-day.”
Bingalily mounted his tall horse, leaned
from the saddle and kissed Milly, and with
another “So long!” cantered down the white
track westward.
Milly, returning to the house, met her
father, all his vainglory departed, so that
he would have cried “Ichabod!” had he
known how: in his hand an empty bottle
covered with the shrieking label of one of
the patent medicines bought to treat his
alleged nerves. He had discovered an offence
against property, and iiis proper indigna-
tion made itself heard in denunciation of
some person or persons unknown
“The medsin for me nerfs,” he said.
“Somebody’s been an' gone an’ scoffed me
tonic for me nerfs. I can’t go without me
tonic.” ,
“You take a lot of it. Dad. It won t hurt
you to go without till Deneen’s cart comes
out again.”
“I can't go without it. I’ll get the cart
an' ’orse an’ go in.”
“Jimmy said he wanted help at bagging
to-day!” .
“I can't do no work without me medsin.
replied Cleghorn stubbornly; “I’ll 'arness
the cart an’ *orse.”
Half an hour later he drove the horse
drawing the spring-cart towards Quartpot,
beating the horse upon the tail as substitute
for his “nerf tonic.”
Bill of Bringalily, riding through the
divine air drenched with sunlight, was all the
optimist again before he steadied his horse
down the broken road to the creek and up
the stony rise that led to Quartpot town-
ship, and let him out again to his easy
canter in the main street, entering like the
conqueror any man feels on a good horse
meeting houses after an inspiring gallop
through the bush. That glory of arrival has
made many a fine lad abandon the drabness
of mere, money-getting to drive a coach over
long bush cart-tracks, with the best horses
for the first and the last stages; crawling
for a hundred miles of the journey, and
driving the. last five-mile stage galloping
triumphantly. So the magic of the sea
lures the boy to the lime-juicing wind-
jammer ; for to all adventurous youth all
voyages must he to the Isles of Spices and
in tbeir dreams there are not any icebergs
nor tempests by Cape Horn.
The horse, most human and dramatic of
animals as the dog is the faithful comedian,
felt all the new hope of Bringalily. and gal-
loped for the little audience of Quartpot.
(Continued on next paye.)


Why Kidney Disease Is so Serious?
“Every Picture
Telle a S
The reason kidney disease is so serious is that it
comes on unnoticed, and often gains a firm hold of
the sufferer before he knows what is wrong with him.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills should be used
immediately there is any sign of Backache, Dizzy Spells,
Aching Pains in the Loins, Water Troubles, Gravel,
Rheumatic Pains, Sleeplessness, Irritability, Watery
Swellings in the Ankles or beneath the Eyes, Stiffness of
the Joints and Lumbago.
Doan’s Pills thoroughly cleanse the kidneys and
bladder, and assist them in their great work of filtering
the blood. But be careful to get the genuine Doan’s Pills.
TWO COMPLETE CURES
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Spring-side Street, Rozelle, Sydney,
says‘ln common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago
I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was
troubled with pains across the small of my back and dizzy
feelings, besides having no energy for anything. One day my
attention was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and in
the hope that they might benefit me I got a bottle. After taking
them for a few days my health began to improve, and by the
time 1 had used six bottles I was completely cured. I am
grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have done me, and
hope many will profit by my experience and use this splendid
remedy. I never suffer with backache now, in fact, feel splendid
in every way.”
Six years later Mrs. Burrows says:—“l have had no reason
to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
cured me some years ago, and I am still well.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
. r - W. J. Frappell, who has been in the employ of Messrs.
\V right, Heaton and Co., Sydney, for nearly thirty yearsj, sjkys :
“It gives me pleasure to testify to the curative value of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I had been suffering with an ajbhing
back for a number of years, and at times it was very sfevere.
After trying many remedies without getting any ease whatever,
I was advised to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so,
and from the first few doses got relief, and after using- three
bottles I was entirely free of backache. lam thoroughly- cured,
and hope this statement will meet the eye of other sufferers and
be the means of them getting relief through the use of'Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills.”
Twenty-two years later Mr. Frappell says:—“l am still
a great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and I find by taking this remedy now and
then that I am able to keep free from the torture of backache.”
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
And the leader thereof was Denny Deneen.
J.P. •“Among those also present,” as the
local re porter would have said had tlijere
been an,y local reporter, were Puttifbot,
Denny’s butcher-man; Mickey, Denny’s
chore-boy ; Calvin, barman of Denny’s hotel;
Uncle the bellman; and the Bad Man of
Goondiwin di. Denny put up his hand as
Bringalily came within his jurisdiction: and
Bringalily .pulled the horse, and the luorse
stopped and mouthed the bit protestingly,
“I’ve a letter for you, Bringalily,” said
Denny Deneen. “ ’Tis bad loock ye have.
Walk your hoarse to the hotel an’ put lum in
the stable wit’ the gjood chaff from Tunny-
morel, an’ you'll have a drink to. strepgt’en
yon for all the-, bad news your letter have in
it.” i
In the hotel .bar Btringalily had liis klrink
and read his ten-days-old letter, anil the
reading thereof was in the manner fallow-
ing
Lowtide Bend,
17th Sunday.
Dear Bill, —1 think if’s dead finish. Torn is,’ giving
it best and he’s taking this letter to tlie post.
I’ve got all the sheep where we took them, but
the feed’s close up finished and in about a fortnight
it will be as bad as the rest. I’ll hang on tiill it is
dead finish and keep a stiff upper lip; Ibut I’m
satisfied it won’t be l«mg. George Simpsow passed
through, going to the mil-head, hist Wednesday with
two thousand starvers from his father’s place.
Just moving wool they are, and a muttion chop
apiece under it.
They’ve put a new joke up on Axlegntase, the
groom at Paddy’s Cruising. The coaehdrftver told
me yesterday Axlegreape threatens to have a, bath
When the rain comes; pud all the blokes think lie’ll
die dirty and a long life before then, too! All the
same, we know how the country sticks to the
man who works and keeps his upper lip as stiff
as sheet iron.
All you wish yourself, mate.
Yours to a cinder,
Ted.
“Good old Ted—the best mate ever a
man had!” said Bringalily, digging up the
money for the next drink. “Fill ’em up
again.”
“Bad loock never has a long life wit
worrk,” said Denny. “Is that the telegram
boy from the post office lookin’ for you,
then?”
It was. Bringalily opened the telegram
and laughed at the best news in the world.
“Rain !” he said. “Rain ! Big rain ! Two
inches all the way down the river, and heavy
at the head of it and running a banker at
Paddy’s Crossing. Axlegrease the mail-
groom will have his bath.”
“What’s it mattlner? ’Tis his loss and
your gain. Axlegrease’s sufferin’s won’t
matther a straw.”
“Isn’t it great!” said Bringalily. “That’s
the drought broken. A banker at Paddy’s
Crossing means heavy rain at my place at
Lowtide Bend, and 20 mile further up.”
The Bad Man of Goondiwindi arriving
brought the news that many sheep in the
river-flats had been drowned, and that other
flocks were threatened on both banks of the
Macintyre.
“Never mind,” exclaimed Bringalily the
optimist. “Won’t we have a great season!
It’ll be a record.”
“And it’s coming up this way, too,” said
the Bad Man.
“That’s fine,” said the enthusiastic Bring-
alily. “Just when the orchards wanted it
most. Have one with me."
So they talked and smoked through the
early afternoon. Without, the clouds
gathered and the taste of dry wine left the
air and was replaced by dampness. That
brought Denny and Bringalily and the Bad
Man to the verandah to see the clouds
coming up from the west and south, and
now filling half the firmament.
Maybe in a spirit of emulation, Cleghorn
and Uncle were now filling more than their
half of the street.
“The old man can get slacker quick.” said
the Bad Man. “I see that old bloke and
Uncle at your store an hour ago, Mr.
Deneen, and they was both cold sober.”
“That’s nothing,” replied Denny. “Half a
farthin’ less than nothing. Give ayther ot
them wan rum an’ a kick in the pants an’
lie’s as full as a goose.”
“Why, lie was buyin’ some nerve tonic
over at your store, an’ he took a good swig
of it while he was there.”
“Buyin’ more strychnin’ tonic, have he? 1
must break off his habit; Jimmy Cleghorn
workin’ out there to buy the ould loafer
nerve-tonic. Do you know all that’s wrong
wit’ his nerves? ’Tis the lazy mickrobe in
his blood, then !”
Apparently Cleghorn and Uncle had but
that moment left the bar, and their loud
argument suddenly prompted them to re-
turn to it.
“The best bullicks I ever see they was,”
argued Cleghorn. “They’d pull till they
was on their knees. Give em a toehold
an’ they’d pull the flamin’ quill outer the
waggon.”
“Davey’s team at Crow's Nest was better
than them,” said Uncle. “I tell yer—l
seen them !”
“All right,” said Cleghorn. “I betyer.”
They entered the bar and suspended the
argument on bullock-politics for the time
necessary for the ordering and consumption
of one drink each : and then the three men
outside heard the formula repeated.
“Betyer all the rice in China.”
“Betyer all the sugar-cane in Queensland.”
“Betyer Broken Hill against Mt. Morgan.”
"Betyer.”
“Now you’ll hear money changin’ hands,”
said Denny Deneen. “Byemby one of them
will wager West Horstralia against Noo
Sout.’ Wales. There, I tould you.”
“I'll betyer South Ostraylia against the
Darlin’ Downs.”
“Betyer.”
They came to the verandah again, still
betting impossible values in kind.
“Now, how can they get out of that
without fightin’?” asked the Bad Man.
“Whist,” said Denny. “Wait till I arbi-
thrate. He raised his voice to the dispu-
tants. “What’s the arrgumint, Mr. Cleg-
liorn V”
“Uncle says the best team 6’ bullocks in
Queensland is Davey’s at Crow’s Nest;
an’ I says the best team’s at Tannymorel,
sniggin’ logs outer the scrub.”
“An’ I tell yer—Davey’s.”
“How would Davey’s bullocks pull, Uncle?
Show us, then.”
“I’ll show yer in the shake of a lamb’s
tail. They’d go up inter the yokes an’ stay
there—if they had a million feet o’ hardwood
on the jinker it was nothin’ to them. Give
’em a toehold, and they'd pull till they was
on their knees.”
“An’ how would they do that, Uncle V”
said the tempter. "I think you're only
talkin' to make a name for yourself, then.”
With two drinks of rum well and firmly
held, the challenge was enough for Uncle.
Down on his hands and knees went Uncle
the bellman. He ran forward into an imagi-
nary yoke; he pulled an imaginary million
feet of hardwood across an imaginary creek;
he demonstrated toeholds on moving stones
with his open hands upon the floor, and then
sank to his elbows to prove that the un-
conquerable bullocks were on their knees in
a bog. and still pulling. Then the Bad Man
joined the game, pretending to be a dog,
but still erect —a biped dog, heeling the un-
conquerable bullocks.
Uncle crossed the bog and rose to his
hands again in imitation of a. new toehold
up the bank to firm ground; and while he
was still ardent in demonstration, Mickey
rode down the street on his tall horse, his
light stockwhip held so that the handle
rested on his knee in the fashion most
approved by bushmen riding in a township.
He brought a telegram for Bringalily, and
having handed it to the owner, sat on his
horse, grinning at the vagaries of Uncle.
“By cripes!” said Bringalily. “That's
bad luck—all me sheep drowned.”
“You poor unloocky lad!”
“Never mind,” said the optimist—“l'll hop
away this afternoon an’ get the carcases
down river. They ought to come ashore in
the big backwater at Jerry’s Flat, an’ I'll
catch ’em there, an’ save the pelts.”
“Bringalily, you’ve got a heart big enough
to comfort you even if you were being
hanged, then.”
“I’m not being hanged—l’m as right as
rain. Look at the season it will be after
that drought. We’ll have a huudred per
cent, lambing, and over.”
“And what’s the good of that to you, me
lad, an’ you wit’ your sheep drowned, an’
no shtock for a new beginnin’?”
“I’ll get ’em—while there's a ram and a
ewe left I’ll get the jumbucks.”
“You’re a loocky lad, then, to have a liearrt
to bear it.”
“And the grin.” said Bringalily, laughing
to prove his words. “Don’t worry about me.
I’m as right as rain.”
“An’ pullin’ just like that,” said Uncle
again, drawing public attention to a public
man. “Pullin’ jest like that, Cleghorn. I’ll
betyer all the rice in China.”
It was at that moment that the Bad Man
of Goondiwindi, who had been persuading
Mickey to something, succeeded.
“I’ll betyer,” said Cleghorn.
Mickey brought down the lash of the stock--
whip lightly enough on Uncle’s buttocks and*
he started as if stung and then became a
biped again, roaring vengeance as Mickey
cantered down the street.
“The —the —the cow !” roared Uncle. *Hi/;s
me wif his whip—hits me on the pants.”
“Grin and bear it, Uncle,” said
Deneen. “Take the thrack of the loDcZiy,
onloocky Bringalily Bill. Grin and bean/it.”
“Unluqky be sugared!” said Bringalilj
Bill. “I’m as right a,s rain.”
Laughing at Uncle's threats against the
peace of all men, they entered the house as
the rain fell upon the iron, roof, singing the
reprieve of beasts and ertops and men.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Maldon’s Springs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though with ste/flthy steps and fingers
Time, the maste r-thief, has taken
Wonder froiy. the face of things,
Not forgotten/are the mornings.
Noontides go/den and grey twilights
That I siynt at Maldon’s Springs.
Years ago, grey years and many,
When all c louds seemed rainbow-tinted
And ay. life seemed bright and fair,
Seeking. beauty, beauty finding,
All alojr.e, though never lonely,
Oft«y.itimes 1 lingered there.
Thither questing, thirsting deeply
Nor 'the wine that beauty offers,
r !/nere I saw, from map withdrawn,
jPo/ds of cool and limpid water,
(NV 'lling up from hidden cisterns,
(Classing moon and noon and dawn.
■'There the wildflower came all seasons,
•Whimpering in coverts reedy,
Feeding on lush water-grass:
' There all day I saw the she-oak's
..Limbs and tresses softly mirrored
As in some clear looking-glass.
Thither, too, stole timid creatures,
Grey and silent shapes at twilight,
From the distant hills around;
All athirst, but not for beauty.
In those clear upwelling waiters
Cooling drink they sought and found.
Tate and lonesome by those waters
AYailed the curlew, and unanswered
11 y his nest-mate wailed again ;
Maldon’s meadows lay around them—■
, Meadows grooved by grassy furrows
Turned by vanished ploughing-men.
Grassy furrows! Furrows golden
Once of old with gracious harvest
Waving in the autumn wind;
'Gone was Maldon, none knew whither,
None cared whither, leaving nothing,
Naught but grassy grooves behind.
Gone was Maldon! Ne’er a timber
Told of where he raised his shelter,
Hoped and troubled, ate and slept;
Only furrows, grass-grown furrows,
Here and there about his meadows
Memory of his labors kept.
Though no more around about me
Fancy flings her lights of wonder
O’er the age-worn face of things,
Not forgotten are the mornings,
Noontides golden and grey twilights
That I spent at Maldon’s Springs.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


mm
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
T Hfc WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
island .'Agents—HOLLIES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
3{f* Offiee—93-107 I'eatherston .Street, Wellington.
JJCtoriaii Office—-99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless,
specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
1- Wildridge U Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
ssi
see
K
3
/
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean* easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Tty,, Ade1aide......... Arthur Glove/
Ltd. Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth,- ..L. M, Cullen & Co.
,Manufactured by '
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND .
in 4-to
Remington.
emiatiPM
125 CONSECUTIVE
BULL’S-EYES at 200 YARDS
A record that takes some beating
AKEEN EYE, a steady nerve and
PALMA ammunition resulted in
this new world’s record made by Mr.
R. H. McGarity in the National Rifle
Association matches at Camp Perry,
Ohio, on September 19th, 1924.
Bull’s-eye 7.2 inches in diameter, prone
position, using telescopic sights.
Pull
Wl
up your score
with PALMA
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Representative G. Pv O. Box 686, Melbourne
The Empire Medicine
—-the preparation which has won the confidence of
every country under the British Flag-—the remedy
which has brought health and happiness to millions
of men and Women in every part of the Empire—
the treatment which is resorted to everywhere—■
for ailments such as Sick Headache, Biliousness,
Indigestion and Constipation, often considered
insignificant, yet decidedly inconvenient—ailments
which have their origin in a dyspeptic condition of
the stomach and a torpid action of the liver —
is
MV
!Ml I II '
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“EC.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
lUNITIO
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL 1
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILIIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
A'-' V.' -V
WOLFF’S <s
trra r*g
Pi
*
n
g&y \
-A.-, .s.
* "ROYAL SOVEREIGN
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
/*
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERl 7r
LODGE
m
MMM
W©b£L
Ilf
9
3
I" taper. (Model AF3)-
Price 5/0
Packed in scaled metal
box and obtainable from
1 ,' i ytfVf«*Oi*y (ica'lt' i'-;,
FORD OWNERS
Do you realise that one
cylinder misfiring means
more than 25"% waste of petrol,
more than 25% loss of power,
and greatly increased wear in uni-
versal joints, back axle and tyres
Avoid misfiring by fitting the
In U fej ffy§ IbL
PLUG for FORDS
The finest plug made for Ford engines
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY. ENGLAND.


Turn your old and useless lamp into money when you
purchase a new Aladdin—the finest lamp in the world
*4*7
* y
K-t
lllllllllllllllllHllllJlfliilllft
MiHiißniiiiiiiMfnffimii
'mm.
m
»* <
**»
i\n »< i» # ,
U*“ 1 ** * i j.
%»** l
1
liV
SNun
In the ancient story of Aladdin, the
magician, wishing to get the wonderful
lamp away from Aladdin, went through the
city with a basket full of new lamps, call-
ing out: “New lamps for old. Who will
exchange old lamps for new?’’ When he
passed Aladdin’s palace, a servant girl, not
knowing the magic power of Aladdin’s
lamp, gave it to the magician in exchange
for a new one.
In modern times the powers of the old
magicians have been replaced by science
and skill, in our factory, where Aladdin
lamps are made, and we still give new
lamps for old, or we ‘turn your old lamp
into a new Aladdin. Make it give a big
white incandescent light—and make it use
only half as much kerosene as it did before.
What more could you ask of Aladdin and
his magic than this? Isn’t it wonderful
that there are now millions of Aladdin
lamps, instead of only one as in the ancient
story? Every home can have one—some
have half a dozen.
m
m
23
■
Ml
a
J
sue- m
< 2 ‘t
s
AGENTS
WANTED
to demonstrate in terri-
iory where oil lamps
are in use. Experience
unnecessary. M a n y
agents average £GO
tier month. One distri-
I)utor cleared over
£l6O in 6 weeks. You
can make money even-
ings and spare time.
Write quick for terri-
tory and sample.
This new kerosene mantle lamp, besides saving
you one half on oil, gives at least double the
light of the old style open-flame lamp, thus
being quite four times as effective; and it beats
electricity and gas in the soft whiteness of its light.
The Aladdin will give a 60 candle-power light for
70 hours on a gallon of oil. Burns common kerosene,
with absolutely no odor, smoke or noise. Simple,
clean, and will not explode. Tested and approved
by the world’s greatest light scientists. Nearest of
all in quality to daylight.
KEROSENE MANTLE LAMP
We are repeatedly being asked: “Can we use the Aladdin
burner on our old lamps?” To satisfy these numerous
inquiries we have installed special machinery for converting
old-fashioned lamps into new Aladdins, and now Miller, Rayo,
Juno and other similar lamps are coming in by the hundreds,
and we are converting them into new Aladdins.
WE WILL BUY YOUR OLD LAMP. As an Aladdin
is constructed on the Central draught principle, only lamps
having round wicks and central draught tubes can be con-
verted, but if we cannot convert your old lamp we will allow
you 5/~ for it, as part payment for a new Aladdin, thereby
giving a new lamp for old. Probably we will lose money on
some of these, but we will allow 5/~ anyway. Glass can be
melted into Aladdin chimneys, and brass can be melted into
Aladdin lamp bowls; so send them in, either to us or to any
one of the hundreds of our distributors selling Aladdins
throughout the Commonwealth. It does- not matter what
kind they are, what they are made of, or what fuel they burn.
Here is your chance to dig out of your lumber room that old
black, battered, dirty lamp you thought was worthless, and
exchange it for a new Aladdin as offered above. Turns your
night into day, cuts your kerosene cost in half. Why? Because
the Aladdin burns 94 per cent. air.
Cut out this
Coupon and Mail
it to us for
FREE Illustrated
Catalog.
W/y
'S,
V-
vX
X
X
ss
s
Ol
To
Aladdin
I ndu -I ries, I ,t il.,
House, Shepherd
Date
Dear Sirs.
Please forward to
the undermentioned ad-
dress full particulars of
the Aladdin lamp, together
with particulars as to how
to get one FREE.
Please answer by marking X
in respective square.
T am interested in the Aladdin
for private use.
I am interested in having an Aladdin
burner put on my old lamp.
I am, interested in the Aladdinette,
I am interested in the Aladdin agency.
KAMM
ADDRESS ■
STATE ■-'*
TWO MORE WONDERS from ALADDIN HOUSE
Aladdin Kerosene Radiator.
This Reflector has been designed so that it
may be attached to the Standard Aladdin Table
Ramp at a moment’s notice, so forming a conveni-
ent and economical heater for general use. It has
the great advantage that the heat may be directed
where required, and is ABSOLUTELY SMOKE-
LESS and without smell. Costs much less to
burn than the electric radiator, and is undoubtedly
without a peer for use in homes where electricity
is not available. Can be installed in any part
of the house, and on cold evenings takes the place
of fires and various other room-warming devices.
BURNS 90 HOURS ON ONE GALLON OF
KEROSENE, no noise, no smoke, no smell; can
be purchased as a Reflector (complete with chimfiey
10 Days Free Trial .
Let us send you our liberal ten-day free trial offer. Prove
for yourself Without expense that this new Aladdin light has
no equal. If not satisfactory in every way you may return it.
and mantle) or
complete with
standard Alad-
din Table Lamp*
Model No. 1100.
The Aladdinette.
The Aladdinette is just like an ordinary
candle and candlestick in appearance. With
appearance, however, the similarity ends, for
the Aladdinette is made entirely of metal!
About a tablespoonfui of kerosene is simply
poured into the “candlestick” and this ; s
immediately absorbed into the interior of the
“candle” itself, which lights at the wick in
the ordinary way. Thus, at no time, is the
presence of kerosene in any way evident.
The Aladdinette burns for 100 hours at the
cost of one penny I In other words, the cost
of burning an Aladdinette in a sick-room or
night nursery from 7 o’clock at night until
7 o’clock in the morning: would work out
approximately three far-
things per week.! Aladdin-
ettes are cheap enough to
burn continually, wherever
just a light is needed-
Even so, they will save
their initial cost over and
over again in a year.
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES, LTD.
0!) ALADDIN HOUSE, SHEPHERD STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Largest Kerosene Mantle Lamp’ House, in the World.
