

V
f.
I
Kodak dealers and
KODAK
(
St>end
we ek-ends
with a
KODAK
■ ' ' - . v ; ' . a . • : ■
They go together—happy days and happy
pictures—week-ends and Kodak snapshots. Take
a Kodak or Brownie with you next time!
The Kodak Juniors offer a wide choice of
models that will always bring back pictures.
Prices range from 77/6. Box Brownies from 11/3;
Folding Brownies from 47/6. See full details in
our free catalogue.
Kodak “Same Day” Service.
Kodak Prints for Kodak and
Brownie Users.
379 George Street, and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Str<
“The Kodak
?et, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; Bast Street,
Corner,” corner tiambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2375.
Thursday, August 20, 1925.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
428 Gcorse Street, Sydney.
IL-YSAGHr
0
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
yimafmrF},
<1
CONSERVE YOUR POWER
with
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Manufacturers with foresight avoid power leakage and waste
by installing “Mangrovite” Belting on every drive where
Complete reliability is essential. They know that this nigh-
'class transmission medium has the ability to transmit a full
complement of power to the machines at all times ana
under all service conditions.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenfell
VICTORIA; W. Tolley, 253 Spring Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA ; W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobat,.
x
•Hi'C
A-3
J
_^S
9tf„cT
-- •
■a
‘‘Worcestershire Sauce, like
wine, should be well matured.
I mature my sauce in vats
of English oak.’
Ah! It is an appetising brew.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m.
FARES: All Day, 2/6; Half Day, 1/6. Chfldron. 1/- and 6d.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
LUNCHEON in the New Dining Room at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
Adults, 4/-; Children, 2/-. Afternoon Tea on Board, 1/-
Tel.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Fei&lesj, Ltd.
bvnmjvb
BOSTOCKS
Shoe Cream
♦
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes—is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube , Obtainable Everywhere.
® 3 I A
behind time!
WHEN YOU’VE
’fctrC&x'
WRIST C POCKET
WATCHES
9 'orMen or Women
7rom Up-to-date Jewellers
fl
t
HUDSON’S EUMENT
.1 ;
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza. .
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion: on the
contrary, they have a bcneflcjal effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
m
'3?
a
A. The Larynx oi
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The
Tubes of
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
God, Darwin and Tennessee
From Tennessee has come a faint echo
of battle from the year 1559. Darwin iu
his quiet home at Down that year sent out
a book which lias done more to revolutionise
men’s conception of their genesis than any
other piece of printed matter ever issued
through the press. Said a contemporary:
"It came to the general world of unscientific
readers with all the sudden vividness and
novelty of a tremendous earthquake.” The
"Origin of Species” was not a work that
could be ignored. Its author was acknow-
ledged to be a great geologist and an equally
great biologist. He had travelled far. As
naturalist on the Beagle he had visited
Soutl\ ; America, the islands of the South
Pacific, Maoriland and Australia. The world
w r as his university, and never liad university
a more zealous student, nor the domain of
'nature a more meticulous observer. Tie
came home with a wealth of natural history
that occupied years for its close and intense
examination and classification. In this work
he had the assistance of the most skilled
specialists of the day. When he returned
from the long voyage he was not yet_ 28,
and he was a middle-aged man-—over 50 —
before he launched the bombshell that
rattled the windows of the churches through-
out the world. Certainly he was not a man
to be ignored. His wms a well-considered
* judgment. “On my return home, it occurred
to me that something might be made out of
this question by patiently accumulating and
reflecting on all sorts of facts which could
possibly have any bearing on it.” After
five years of intense work he drew up some
short notes on the subject; two years later
he enlarged these into a sketch of the con-
clusions that seemed to him probable, and
then for 15 years he steadily pursued .the
work of further research and verification.
The considered judgments of the Court of
Science are beyond any suggestion of hasty
conclusions. It was with the same thorough-
ness, the same process of test upon test, that
Newton had kept his theory of gravitation
in the solution of thought for many years
before he gave it to the public ear. It is
interesting to note at the present time, with
the renewed interest in that almost forgotten
work, Malthus’s “Essay on Population,” and
when its argument is being given serious
consideration, that Darwin remarked that,
having “fortunately happened” to read it,
“the idea of natural selection through the
struggle for existence at once occurred to
me.”
The effect of the publication of the “Origin
of Species” was felt immediately. The learn-
ing, the lucidity and logic of the work at
once appealed to the more thoughtful, though
its general conclusions were not straightway
admitted even by all Darwin’s professional
contemporaries. But the squibs of scientific
criticism were but feeble cracklings beside
the thunder of the churches. The doctrine
of evolution if accepted would mean the
collapse of the theological structure of the
geneses of organic life, with man at their
apex, into a mouldy ruin. Darwin was
denounced as a heretic, an atheist. What
they are saying in Tennessee to-day was
said in England and on the Continent over
half a century ago. When the publishing-
house of Appleton put the book on the
American market in 1859, it involved itself
"in a tempest of indignation and abuse.”
Hundreds of threatening letters were re-
ceived, and one of the most distinguished
clergymen in U.B.A. wrote to the head of
the firm that “he would be punished in this
world and in the world to come.” The house
still remains and American thought has
swung round to evolution. Tennessee pro-
jects itself as the last bulwark, prosecuting a
bespectacled schoolmaster for corrupting the
minds of youth by teaching the Darwinian
theory, basing the accusation on tire ground
that evolution is the denial of God. Seduc-
tion of the young and the denial of the
national gods were the charges that brought
Socrates to trial and death. Yet when the
gods had vanished into limbo, Socratic philo-
sophy continued to mould the thoughts of
men. In the far centuries to come it may be
that the orthodox God of to-day will have
been transcended by a higher concept wrought
out of the fabric of evolution. Neither
Socrates nor Darwin denied God, but waited
and worked seeking His revelation. Darwin’s
position is quite clear. It is the position
science takes. In a letter to Lyell lie wrote:
"With respect to the great subject to which
you refer, I always try to banish it from my
mind as insoluble. Many persons seem to
make themselves quite easy about immortality
and the existence of ;v personal God by
intention; and I suppose that I must differ
from such persons, for I do not feel any
innate conviction on any such points.” The
denial of God is inconceivable to the scien-
tuie mind. Huxley, the beloved disciple of
the great evolutionist, put its attitude thus:
“In matters of the intellect, follow your
reason as far as it will take you, without
regard to any other consideration. Do not
pretend that conclusions are certain which
are not demonstrated or demonstrable.” No
scientific theory puts up a barrier to religion.
Where intellect ceases, faith begins, tran-
scending all limitations of reason-—“believ-
ing where we cannot prove.” The doctrine
of evolution does not touch faith, which has
been defined by a great Christian cleric as
“a sixth sense.” It does not deny, alter or
affect in any way the concept of a Creator,
but only explains the creative process.
In the great world outside the confines
of the State of Tennessee, the bitter opposi-
tion, “a mixture of ignorance and insolence,”
to evolution has long since passed. ,It has
been appreciated and even approved in the
advanced wing of modern theological thought.
On April 26, 18S2, Darwin was borne to his
tomb. The selection of his resting-place was
significant of the change that had been wrought
in English thought in less than quarter of
a century. He was “laid in death among
his peers in Westminster Abbey by the will
of the intelligence pf the nation.” The very
church whose leaders had branded him as
heretic and infidel intoned its service over
his remains, filled the ancient building with
its chants and choral music, and laid him to
rest with all its honors. This unobtrusive
man, living a simple, liome-loving life, had
“found a great truth trodden under foot,
reviled by bigots and ridiculed by all the
world ; he lived long' enough to see it, chiefly
by his own efforts; irrefragably established
in science, inseparably incorporated with the
common thoughts of men, and only hated and
feared by those who would revile but dare
not. What shall, a man desire more than
this?”
T. B. C.
Wanted: A Beneficent Barabbas
The University of Cambridge has shown
itself ' alive to the services that a wealthy
man without any academic education can
render to letters by conferring the honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws on James Loeb,
founder of the Loeb Classical Library. This
great undertaking already includes 150
volumes, containing text and translation,
side by side, of many of the scarcely obtain-
able classics of Greece and Rome. Every
great publisher strives to issue at least one
great work, not for money-making purposes,
but to add lustre to the name of his firm:
a kind of oblation to Apollo and the Muses..
Thus Smith,-Elder and Co. issued the monu-
mental “Dictionary of National 'Biography”'
which filled a very perceptible gap in our
literature. But had it not been for Dr.
Loeb’s assistance, the firm of William Heine-
mann, Ltd., could not have issued the Loeb
Library. Loeb is a member of the financial
house of Kuhn, Loeb and Co. He has long
had a passion for literature and the collec-
tion of bronzes and terracotta, and is just
now completing a book on the terra cottas
of Northern Italy. The munificent scheme
for the library'was first suggested to him by
M. Reinach, the well-known French scholar.
Another instance of the same kind is the
foundation left by Andrew Carnegie for the
publication of fine works of music. This
foundation continues to function to the en-
richment of contemporary music. And phe
recalls the splendid palaces erected by Pier-
pont Morgan at New York and Huntington
at Pasadena. California, in which to house
for the public benefit their fine collections
of MSS. and books.
It will be seen from these few instances,
which could be multiplied, that the wealthy
in other lands have seen that a duty lies
upon them to help the cause of culture in
the countries from which their wealth has
been drawn. Now. Australia is not lacking-
in rich or in public-spirited men. In the
district in which these words are written I
should have no difficulty in laying my hand
upon one man who paid income-tax last year
on a woolclip bringing him in £80,000; an-
other in the same period had an income from
a like source of not less than £lOO,OOO. The
opportunity for service presents itself to each
of these men. The life of the scholar, the
poet, the imaginative writer, the man of
letters in Australia is lamentably hard. No
doubt it is hard everywhere; but in Aus-
tralia. without a leavening minority of the
cultured and the leisured, the literary artist
literally starves. Nowhere can he find a
publisher. Is not this a shameful indict-
merit of our growing community? Everyone
with any interest in “the things that are
more excellent” must find it so.
I have just been reading a couple of
magnificent novels, works really worth while.
Needless to say, they were neither written
by Australians nor published by an Aus-
tralian firm. Does it ever occur to you that
no artist will turn out great work unless lie
has the facilities for reaching his public?
The University of Sydney and that of Mel-
bourne have striven to face the question : I
do not know about the Sydney one, but T
do know that the Melbourne University Press
has perforce to suspend operations after
publishing only two or three books, and that
entirely through lack of funds. The pub-
lishing house I have in my mind, however,
would not be of such an academic cast. The
writers of Australia need a solid venture
run partly on a commercial and partly on an
artistic basis. Such a house would partici-
pate in all manner of publishing, but would
aim primarily at assisting at the birth of
works of high and grand imagination,
whether plays, essays, poems, novels or criti-
cism A worthy start might be made by a
collected edition of the delightful bookman’s
essays of “Elzivir” (Professor Murdoch) in
the Akgxjs. Arthur H. Adams has b several
volumes of poems ready for publication ; so,
I understand, has David McKee Wright;
Edward Yidler has a. noteworthy anthology
of Australian verse. “Austral Poetry of To-
day” ; and what about Louis Essoins alto-
gether worthy plays creeping forth into an
unresponsive world as grey as covers.
Nor need we stop at letters, for such a house
would be honored to publish an adequate
collection of David Coutts’s songs—such as
“April, April.”
Here, then, is a chance for our wealthy
men to expend a little of their money in a.
worthy cause. What is wanted is a firm
foundation that will command adequate pub-
licity. that will not confine itself to the
“highbrow,” but give us also good litera-
ture, racy of the soil and beloved, by the
people. I do not visualise something aca-
demic and unbending, but a living, palpitat-
ing entity that will act as a mother to that
prodigal son of an artist as well as to ‘ the
general body of readers.”
You remember Barrie’s proposed Home
for Geniuses”? They do need saving from
themselves, these geniuses, even in Aus-
tralia. I know at least one who has been
relieved of all his capital by an alleged pub-
lisher. Our (unfortunately hypothetical)
beneficent Barabbas would have saved him
from literal starvation in our rich and rare
1 ’recently walked through a graveyard
■where many Wealthy squatters and their low'd
ones lie buried. M hat costly and gigantic
monuments squatters would appear to place
over their dead! Quite palpably they do not
intend to assist the resurrection, even it
they have to suffer it. And then the futility
of these gravestones broke upon me. No-
thing really permanent was here. I thought
of James ‘ Loeb. His memorial is pretty
(Continued on page 3.)


CatjjeiuMotdefasfaje
You Pay Less for Mett’sg Youths’ Clothing
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
A NTHONY HORDERNS’ advocate a com-
parison of prices and values for Economy s
sake. They are ready to stand or fall in public
opinion on the results. And if they can serve
you better, isn’t it your duty to yourself to
make sure of the fact?
The “Hordemia” Sac Suit
is made in our own workrooms under expert supervision
—from materials imported direct from the mills and it
conforms to a standard remarkably high in quality of
materials, excellence of workmanship, and neatness in
finish.
The Coat is a two-button model, with outside breast
pocket and no vent. Ihe Vest has medium open-
ing and four pockets. The Trousers are designed
with side or cross and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
IN ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED, in neat Grey and
Brown effects.
PRICE .
59/6
Grey Worsted Sac Suits
Made in our own workrooms from materials imported
direct from the mills, are so different in materials, in
construction, in fit and in their excellent finish that a
casual inspection is all that is needed to discover how
superior they are to the average “Ready-made.”
The Coat is smartly fashioned with a two-button
front, outside breast pocket, no vent. The Vest
has a medium opening and four pockets. The
Trousers are designed with side or cross and hip
pockets, cuff bottoms.
Obtainable in GREY WORSTED in neat Striped, Plain
and Check effects.
PRICE
95/-
English Two-piece Sports Suits
The Coat has patch pockets and belted back. The Trousers are
designed with side and hip pockets, loops for belt and side straps.
In Fancy Mixture Tweeds, in Grey and Brown effects.
PRICE
Other Values: 75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
65 -
20$
/wwm
mm
yivv.;
V>V.v' r
fe»s
*£&
r <r-t
ij&i-iL*
i*^
mP&jt
■zm
Hi-]
m
•if?,
Hm
-M
CtA
m
<&
s£%££
m
**
ftMft
?3
p
■
» : yv v7‘®
Me
we
\>'i
$»
v>,
:
&
SrVfrM
-<;.<•
isr
mm
7-J
~x
•j< • a tr
B
‘Xy
C' J
V-:t^
/&. */
'.X't:-iIA
zMw&fiM''
'-‘■£i
‘V^
tea®?
Nslf
P:ffe-'M
sss
■’■< \
&
v.*7
tWw^,
wim&i
Y*
;-4^
The Hordemia Junior Sac Suit
The Coat is a two-button model, with outside breast pocket, no
vent. The Trousers have side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In All-Wool Australian Tweeds, in neat dark designs.
PRICE
Other Values: 65/-, 75/-, 84/-
57|6
(Men’s and Youths’ Clothing—Ground Floor.)
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE IN N.S.W., AND TO THE NEAREST PORT ON INTERSTATE ORDERS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


w
m
MH
iSglpgig
H gilll
4
v
I
t
m
. i
Often ttfoiukr *okai ike
Vintners bm)
One Half so precious
as the Goods
they Kha^arn
m
%
%
:» *
¥
2.
•X
' %
'
%
. ;
L
/
>*
1
\
i
mm lip
. Vvi
2^
-
% tm
111 1 MM
llilsli pH i S
*7
•feT****!
; ; ■
- * -P •
■:
■ •■: vVP'..;
A
.:>
«m
r
<0
3bhi
■
it
m
m
&,M
\ '
mKBm I
: :
. •
, :
memm
fmxM I 1
i
: :. •
m
■ :
■ •»
■
•.
00mr\
.V,
re
• 113l il VIM. |


Time fora
fresh pair?
P4RIS
CARTERS
(40 METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
•IS
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston, Hobart.
permanent, isn’t it? And I thought of
Austin Dobson’s compact little verse
All passes. Art alone
Enduring stays with us:
The bust outlasts the throne,
The coin Tiberius.
Here is a golden opportunity awaiting
Croesus.
ALEX. C. WELSH.
Mesopotamia and the Mandate
Towards the end of 1918 Imperialism, as
we know it, was in a despondent mood.
Several people, including Woodrow Wilson,
whose country goes in for economic Imperial-
ism in areas made available by the terri-
torial Imperialists, said it had a tail, and
much repetition of the slander made it half
believe in the existence of the deformity it-
self. Nevertheless, it could not forget that
its armies in various parts of the world were
in occupation of large tracts of country ; that
they had established courts of justice, rail-
ways, cinemas, electric light, telegraphs and
other amenities of civilised existence; and
that a military withdrawal would inevitably
result in civil war amongst the polyglot in-
habitants and invasion by unfriendly people
on their borders. Unfortunately, the in-
genious Woodrow, a master of Puritanical
evasions, invented a form of camouflage
which permitted the Imperialists to pull a
pair of trousers over their nether limbs and
hide the presence of the alleged caudal ap-
pendage. The camouflage was known as the
mandatory system, the cost of upkeep was
made a charge upon the indicated Power,
and its supervision was made a charge upon
the League of Nations.
Nearly six years having passed since the
application of Wilson’s invention, the time
is ripe for a consideration of its working,
and in The Heart of the Middle East, by
Richard Coke (Thornton Butterwortli), an
excellent resume of the history of one typical
object of experiment is opportunely given.
The country in question is Mesopotamia. To
the Land Amid the Rivers, hoary with ex-
perience of alien Governments, the mandate
is a mere interlude. The country is littered
with the experiments of former empire-
makers. When it first leaps out of the fog
of prehistoric times it is found already to
be equipped with civilisation, religions, laws
and social evils requiring legislation which
must have taken thousands of years to ela-
borate. This was (5000 years ago, and there
are indications that even then the country,
which lias lately been called Iraq and its
inhabitants Iraqi, in the hope of creating
a national spirit, was a crazy quilt of vigor-
ously hating nationalities, The first alien
conqueror of whom we have any record—he
arrived round about. 3800 b.c. —was a Semite,
and his name was Sargon. lie was the fore-
runner of a long procession that has ramped,
raped, massacred, liberated, oppressed and
administered down the centuries, even unto
the present era.
Amongst the most conspicuous figures in
the sometimes shadowy and sometimes mag-
nificently real concourse may be mentioned
Hammurabi, the Elamite and law-giver;
Sumabi, the Arab; Slialmeneser, the
Assyrian; Cyrus, the Persian; Alexander,
tlie Macedonian: Trajan, the Roman; Abu
Bekr, another Arab; at least three varieties
of Turk; Hulagu, the Mongol, who in four
days reduced Baghdad from the most luxuri-
ous metropolis in the world to a city of the
dead, and demolished the canal system on
which the prosperity of the country had
been built; and the English East India Com-
pany (1600). This company, being strictly
on business bent, made profits for its share-
holders, but did not contribute any splendid
name to the roll of local fame. The latest—
but, doubtless, not the last—invader of the
tormented country was Woodrow Wilson,
for although the American schoolmaster-
politician was not known ever to have set
his feet on Mesopotamian sand, it was his
notion of how the country should be run
which the optimistic English engaged them-
selves to carry out. All these waves
of conquest have left their flotsam on
the shore in the shape of diverse
faces, creeds, traditions, laws and sys-
tems of government. Among the, re-
ligions tiiat may be enumerated are the two
main varieties of Mahomet’s faith and a vast
number of local “sports” ; some murky relics
of early Christianity; modern American
variants of the same; agnosticism, devil-
worship and the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
There are also the Mandamus, who need bap-
tism so frequently that they cannot exist
apart from running water, with the result
that the Turks, who have no particular re-
gard for water, had to give up conscripting
them in the late war. The number of races
and sub-races and admixtures thereof is in-
calculable. Shopkeepers bargain in five lan-
guages and require a working knowledge of
as many others. Centuries of anarchy have
driven into the city folds the sheeplike races,
such as the Baghdad Jews and the Arme-
nians, and left the outside country to tlm
control of Arab sheiks and bands of
Bedouins with wolfish predilections. Outside
the badly-defined boundaries of the new
State hovers Ibn Sand, the recent conqueror
of Mecca, who regards his co-religionists of
Mesopotamia as nothing less than idolaters;
the Khemalist Turks, who regard the coun-
try as much a part of Turkey as Scotland is
of Britain; and sundry hungry tribes who
regard it as a burglar regards a suburban
bungalow.
This was the country selected for a trial
of the mandatory system, which implied that
the Power in military occupation should
turn schoolmaster, and when it had satis-
factorily instilled the art of government into
the infant nation should kiss it on its brow,
withdraw and leave it to its own devices.
The upshot in Mesopotamia is as might have
been expected. After the war Britain, hav-
ing reasonable expectations of adding Irak
to its imperial possessions, started on a
vigorous policy of development. There was
talk of the British taxpayer footing the bill
for roads, railways, bridges and a grandiose
scheme for restoring the great irrigation
system destroyed by Hulagu in 1258. A
Golden Age superior to the Golden Age of the
good Harun A 1 Raschid appeared to be
dawning on the country. The imposition of
the mandate damped its rays. It was not
long before the Cockney who sustains the
Empire on his back began to question the
wisdom of investing his money in such an
uncertain speculation. To-day the Golden
Age is in retirement. Baghdad still trudges
across its river on its ancient bridge or
boats, the railways are only in the country
because they are mostly military ones and
not worth picking up, and the largesse ot the
two mighty waterways _ that once sustained
millions of people continues to spend itself
in the Persian Gulf. In the meantime the
inhabitants have been unable to fix on the
form their self-government shall take or
definitely decide what nationality to call
their own. The progress, or lack of it, of
mandated Mesopotamia, is not encouraging
and induces misgivings as to the fate of
Australia’s own small part in the experi-
ment. The probable fate of all the man-
dated territories seems to be either abandon-
ment by the responsible Powers (whica
means anarchy) or their complete absorption
as plain, common and uncamounagel
colonies.
M. G. S.
Mudie and His “Felonry"
There are two copies of book in
the Alexander Turnbull Library, Wellington
(M.L.). both with the wrong pagination.
The printers’ signatures show, however, that,
while there was some irregularity in making
up the sheets, no section was dropped. One
volume is of particular interest: it is a pre-
sentation copy from the author to Sir Charles
Forbes, with pungent MS. notes. Very hos-
tile to Forbes is a note at p. 118: “Assisted
by Sir C. Forbes, who on his return to Eng-
land in :1536 refused to receive him. and on
asking for further assistance he was told
by the servant to retire.” On p. 53 is a para-
graph ascribing a Bermudan birth and an
American education to Forbes. Against this
is a note indicating that Forbes was born m
Scotland, educated in England, called to the
Bar in 1812 and appointed Advocate-Genera,
at Bermuda in 1813. Pages. 239-41 are very
fully annotated. Here Mudie attacks Flax-
land : “A very worthy and reputable, as well
as a portly and good-natured man | who |-was
originally a yeoman in the county of Kent.
But the' idea of making this English
yeoman, this worthy man of Kent, a legis-
lator is as preposterous as it would be to
make him Archbishop of Australia, or poet-
laureate to his Excellency Governor Bourke.
The owner of the book has gone to the
trouble of having narrow slips of notes
printed so that they might be pasted on the
margins of the page. The four margins ot
p. 239 are so covered, a light, rule dividing
the notes from the text; the .side and lower
margins of p. 240 and the left and lower
margins of p.p. 240-41 are likewise covered.
Most of these notes are in defence of Blax-
];iml. They start with a preamble on the
top margin: “These Marginal Notes are to
show the uttor fnlsohood find ronli&nity or
the author’s attack on Mr. Blaxland, which
demands a direct contradiction. They prove
also the truth of Flanagan’s statement in
his ‘History of New South M ales’ as fol-
lows: ‘This individual [Mudie], the character
of whose evidence before the Parliamentary
Committee was that of falsehood and exag-
geration.’ ” Then the defence of Blaxland
begins:—
In the Duke of York’s yeomanry cavalry, Mr. Blax-
land held the rank of captain together with his
cousin Lord Brook, and most of the country gentle-
men. In no other sense of the word was he a yeoman
He was born to an ample .patrimony, in Kent and
other counties, the wreck of what had once been
the immense landed possessions of his family. Being
earnestly entreated by his friends, Lord Castlereagh,
Lord Bathurst and Sir Joseph Banks, he after a
demur of three years consented to transplant' him-
self to New South Wales. Declining the offers of
the Ministry of a passage free of all expense, he
chartered a: "ship for his family and dependants, and
their supplies. Du the sale of his lands, after he
left England. his capital was £30,000. On coming
out, he brought but a fourth, of that sum. The
importance of his coming was not lightly esteemed
by the Ministry, as the import of their dispatches caused
tiie Governor to send his aide-de-camp, Cant. Put land,
on board, as soon as he arrived, with a written in-
vitation for Mr. and Mrs. Blaxland to stay at
Government House... .
Blaxland’s lineage is then traced away
back to Ethelbert. and the reception of St.
Augustine in A.n. 597. All this to prove tlmt
a man was not a mere yeoman seems a great
pother to no purpose in these days. Note 2
contains matter of more moment:
At the King’s College, Canterbury, Mr. Blaxland
was educated, together with Sir George . Gipps and
Bishop Broughton. All this spite and malignity
against him arose, no doubt, in the family of the
recipient of the pension. Mr. B. exposed an im-
position. In tiie Manly sense of duty, together
with that indestructible Saxon element of courageous
will, he rose in the Council, in -face of the Donor,
and ’ the Recipient, to present his Protest against
what he considered an imposition on the Colony.
His first Protest was against the Colonial Secretary,
Mr. McLeay, receiving £750 a year out of the
Colonial Fund for services performed in .England,
it being expressly prohibited by Statue (sic) 50th,
George 111. Ilis second was against the President
of New Zealand receiving the annual sum of £5OO as
salary, on the same ground that it was contrary
to the New South Wales Act of George IV. His
Protests were simply his own—his friend Sir Charles
Forbes had no part in them, save in his warm con-
gratulations. They were simply the promptings of
his own upright mind, the technicalities being in-
serted. Besides the suspension of the £750 by the
Protest, Mr. McLeay entertained another cause of
pique and vengeance against Mr. Blaxland, which
was that of Mr. Blaxland’s early knowledge of him
when a very young man, and when he, Mi-. McLeay,
was Foreman in Mr. Wm. Sharp’s Brewery. . . . Mudie,
his cat’s-paw in most of the authorship of the
“Felonries.” had been formerly a Tradesman, a caster
of Medals. He was rough, and uneducated in manner,
and being employed by Napoleon the Ist, his step-
daughter, Miss Scargill, who had been a Governess,
had to see that the spelling and the devices were
correct. No feeling of a gentleman was there, to
forbid him lending his name to a publication that
strove by its venomous malignity to lower the
standing of men of high caste, such as Sir Richard
Bourke, Sir Francis Forbes and Mr. Blaxland, etc.
Tbe third inserted note relates to Blaxland
and bis banking transactions. Mudie re-
marks p.p. 240-41: —
Another anecdote of Mr. Blaxland may suffice to
show his unfitness to exercise the functions of a
legislator. It is still a subject of much laughter.
Being a proprietor in a bank, the shares of which
were at a very high premium, and receiving from
17 to 20 per cent, of annual dividend, it is sus-
pected that the Chief Justice, for the sake of the joke,
advised Mr. Blaxland to sell out, and gravely to
assign as his reason for doing so, that he did not
think a bank investment safe, inasmuch as on the first
war with America any American privateer might
possibly take Sydney, levy a contribution on the
town, and carry off the money in the banks!. ...
Mr. Blaxland.... actually sold out.
The note upon this is :
Mr. Blaxland being a leading member of the first
Bank established in the Colony, he withdrew from
it, on seeing certain private signals passing, of
late, between doubtful and venturous members, and
slips of paper passing over and under the table, when
large sums were desired, not conformable with his
knowledge of Banking, nor with his high sense of
honor and rectitude. He sold out but just in time
to escape the crash of the breaking of the Bank,
when hundreds of families were left destitute. The
sarcasm against Mr. Blaxland may have been to
blind the then unconscious sufferers. Again Flana-
gan in his History says of Mudie: “In 1833 his
[Mudie’s] assigned servants revolted against his
illtreatment, and six of the unhappy men were
hanged, but persisting to the last that they were
goaded on to their crime by his tyranny and ill-
treatment.” The place he called. Castle Forbes was
a group of miserable tenements “far away from any
township, and here he perpetrated his cruelties, until,
hearing of his atrocities, the Government sent a
Commission to inquire into his dealings with his
convict servants, the result of which was, that
he was struck out of the Commission of the Peace.”
Mr. Commisisoner Therry, in his pamphlet “Human-
itas,” gave a detailed account of this inquiry, and
commented in no mild terms on the owner of Castle
Forbes and his minions. It is probable that in the
retirement and quietude of Mr. Blaxland’s Home-life
at Newington in Australia, this production [published
in England] never came into his hands, nor into
those of any of his family. But the son of Mr.
Attorney-General Kinshela made him [Mudie] cry
“Peccavi” under the lash of his horsewhip, making
him thereby notorious as a calumniator.
The notes are not dated, but from their
tenor they appear to have been written
soon after publication of flip book (1837).
Are other copies known with the inserted
printed notes? One would hardly suppose
them to have been printed for a single
copy.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN .
A Satchel of Books
The Painted Veil, by W. Somerset Maugham (Heine-
mann). Sex and the psyche in a Chinese environ-
ment. Has some dramatic incidents, ar.d there are
clever sketches of minor characters,, but it falls short
of the high standard of Maugham’s previous work.
The Future of Protestantism, by Ambrose Czako
(Allen and Unwin). The writer is a Hungarian
professor of philosophy with something of a European
reputation. Catholic and Protestant modernism he
regards as transitional stages to a freer form of
religion.
The Ministry of Health, by Sir Arthur Newsholme
(Putnam). A thoughtful and informative work by
the principal medical officer of the Local Government
Board, U.K. Invaluable to all who, by profession or
specialised interest, are concerned in its subject-
matter.
Principles of Psychotherapy , by Pierre Janet (Allen
and Unwin). Dr. Janet, Professor of the College of
France, is an admitted authority on the medical side
of psychology. This science has now reached a stage
when its practical application is open to discussion.
The author traverses a wide field, covering the evo-
lution of the various methods of mental treatment in
early days. He deals then with the study of psycho-
logical phenomena, and finally indicates the condi-
tions under which methods of treatment may be
applied with chances of success. “It is probable,”
he says, “that we shall one day know how to establish
the balance and the budget of a mind as we establish
those of a business firm.”
Portrait of a Publisher, by Grant Overton (Apple-
ton and Co.). William Worthen Appleton, to wit.
The Appletons are New England people; and the
founder of the business, a bookseller, made his
first venture in the publishing world nearly a century
ago, with a book of biblical extracts. His successors
have had dealings with Herbert Spencer, Lewis
Carroll, Dana, Rudyard Kipling, Conrad, Stephen
Crane, Joel Chandler Harris and others of whom
interesting glimpses are given, and the house has a
very honorable record among D.S. publishers. Through-
out its long history it has paid the English or foreign
author royalties exactly as if his work had been
protected in the States.
Money, Banking and Foreign Exchange, by R. C.
Mills and F. C. Benham (Angus and Robertson).
Boiled down from a course of lectures delivered at
the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, last year by two
University economists. It covers a wide range, from a
definition of the nature and functions of money to
a consideration of the future monetary policy of
Australia Since these lectures were delivered the
economic position has been considerably altered by
the restoration in Great Britain, Australia and
Maoriland of the gold standard, which removes
the Australian general price-level from -the control
oi the Commonwealth Bank. To-day U.S.A. has
replaced England as the world’s chief creditor nation,
and contains about half of the world s monetary stock
of P-old This means, according to the authors, that
our° price-level depends mainly upon the American
price-level. If the American banking system de-
creases its proportionate reserve, which it can do
with safety, and lends more freely, we may expecr,
loom conditions to prevail in America, and the result
must be. sooner or later to send up the price-level
litre.
Birth Control Exposed, by Ilalliday G. Sutherland,
M.D. (Cecil Palmer, London). The author objects
to birth-control on three grounds: (1) moral, because
Nature invented marriage for the sole purpose of
perpetuating the species; (2) physical, because
medical evidence indicates that it is harmful and
is liable to cause sterility ; and (3) economic, because
it is based on the theory of Mai thus that population
tends to increase beyond subsistence, whereas Double-
day found that whenever the existence of a species
is endangered a corresponding effort is made by
Nature for its preservation by an increase of fertil-
ity Overfed mares, for instance, become sterile
owing to fattv degeneration of their sexual organs.
In other words, the excessive frequency of babies
amongst the indigent is due to lack of nourishment,
supply the nourishment and the baby will arrive less
frequently. The reply to this reasoning seems to
be that if free cake is distributed amongst the
indigent, they cease to work for it and the cake
mysteriously disappears, leaving them more indigent
than ever and the baby-rate unimpaired. The author,
however, advocates a method of birth control under
certain circumstances which may. interest those who
distrust the guidance of Marie Stopes. Tne
partial continence based on this discovery, which
is said to have been made in Germany during the
war, is the only form of birth-control, according to
the ’writer, that does not violate ethical and physio-
logical laws.
♦
From G. 11. Barlow, of Toowoomba: —
The painting of Shakspeare that has recently been
discussed (with a photo thereof) in London Graphic
(B. 2/7/’25) is owned by Mrs. Harriott Barlow, of
Toowoomba (Q.). There are records to show it
has been in possession of the family, or, rather, of
my mother’s ancestors, since 1678. It is not quite
correct to say .that it is claimed as the work of
Cornel is Jansen, the painter-bishop of Ypres (1588-
16.38). We believe it to be his; what we claim for
it is that it is the picture from which G. Vertuc
and the two Vanderguchts made their engravings of
Shakspeare early in the seventeenth century, and that
they did not copy the “Chandos” picture, as they
are said to have done. A comparison of the Vertue
and Vandergucht prints, first with the Barlow
picture and then with the Chandos, will show far
(loser resemblances to the former. The Barlow
portrait has been injured, in that the sides of the
face have been rubbed. This must have occurred at
some date prior to 1743 ; ever since then it has been
jealously guarded and never allowed out of its
owner’s possession. There is no mention of it by
any of the early commentators on Shakspeare por-
traits; it is obvious that none of them ever saw it,
and doubtful if they were aware of its existence.


#
World-Wide Good Will
Good Will has been defined
as “the disposition of a pleased
customer to return to the
place where he has been well
treated.”
Good Will is also the dis-
position of a customer to
recommend a satisfactory
product to his neighbors and
friends.
It can be created by the
printed word only in so far
as that word reflects the
integrity of the institution
behind it.
Good Will is admittedly the
most valuable asset that any
business can possess. And
no organisation has so im-
pressive a reason to appreciate
the magnitude of its value as
Dodge Brothers, Inc.
This value—this unprecedented
and world-wide Good Will —
is founded on a few old-
fashioned principles of good
faith and good workmanship
which the world has come to
associate with Dodge Brothers
name.
Building ever better and better,
Dodge Brothers have simply
earned the trust and friendship
of the public by consistently
fulfilling public expectations.
J.I □ X 3 Q □ NI'S 3 H J.O Q-3 3 a a Q
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
B.G/8/’25.
cvnvb


STEAM
OF QUALITY.
TURBINES
MANUFACTURED
IN AUSTRALIA.
Q.R. ENGINES.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
SURFACE
CONDENSERS.
LOCOMOTIVES.
GRAVEL
PUMPS.
REES
WATER-TUBE
BOILERS.
■r
BLOWING
ENGINES.
EJECTOR
CONDENSERS.
PUMPING
ENGINES.
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMPS.
DREDGING
PLANTS.
FORGINGS
and
RAILWAY
MATERIALS.
MANUFACTURING UNDER LICENSE FROM METROPOLITAN VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO., LTD., MANCHESTER, WE ARE IN A POSITION TO
SUPPLY TURBO PLANT OF MODERN DESIGN, SOUND CONSTRUCTION
AND GUARANTEED ECONOMY.
COMPLETE POWER PLANTS INSTALLED
Thompson 8 Co. (Castlemaine) Pty., Ltd.
ENGINEERS,
CASTLEMAINE,
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House,
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd,
BRISBANE:
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren, Ltd,
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
n
i
\
r*/\
INSTRUCTING.
1
&
rf
V.
ACCOMPANYING.
PALING’S
Player Pianos
Meet Every Demand
of Musical Pleasure.
it is impossible to over-estimate the value of music in the
home, and more especially when it springs from one of
Paling’s Player Pianos.
Young and old alike share and revel in the joyous moments
which a Paling Player Piano constantly provides.
Purchasing your Player Piano at Palings amounts to more
than merely buying a musical instrument —the transaction not
only ensures the best return for your money, but it also
guarantees COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
This is more readily understood when you consider that
behind your purchase stands PALING’S 72 years’ sound
experience and high reputation. Therefore, in your own best
interests, buy your Player Piano from Palings.
You are cordially invited to inspect.
Catalogue and Price list free.
EASY TERMS ARRANGED
And if desired your present Piano can be exchanged as
part payment.
<3k
“Quality our keynote since 1853,“
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba,
Lismore and Rockhampton-
SINGING,
*s®
IfS
/X
DANCING,


Mercantile Mutual Insurance Company, Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act.)
HEAD OFFICE:
Mercantile Mutual Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors:
A. E. J AQUES, Chairman.
C. C. GALE
J. M. ATKINSON
Manager:
KELSO KING.
THEODORE T. MARKS
L. J. DAVIES
Secretary :
EDWARD GREGORY.
Solicitor:
p. v. McCulloch. .
Auditors:
ROBERTSON, CRANE & GIBBONS, F.C.P.A.
J. P. LARCOMBE and GO WARD, F.C.P.A.
Melbourne Branch: 1 Queen Street.
Directors:
RANDAL J. ALCOCK
W. J. S. EAVES
JAMES M. GILLESPIE
A. L. WETTENJIALL
ocal Manager and Branch Superintendent: SKLWYJST KIXGr.
Brisbane Branch: 377 Queen Street.
Directors:
WM. HAMILTON HART ROBERT WILLIS TAYLOR
ALAN WALTER CAMPBELL.
Resident Secretary: J. G. MILNE.
Townsville Branch.
Local Manager: J. R. Y. BARTLAM.
Cairns:
Chief Agents: ESTATE H. S. WILLIAMS, LTD.
Adelaide Branch: C/r King William and Pirie Streets.
Directors:
NAPIER K. BIRKS NORMAN JACKSON
Resident Secretary: W. IT. SHEPPARD.
Tasmania:
Chief Representatives: ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD.
Perth:
Chief Representatives: H. J. WIG MORE & CO., LTD.
BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1923.
1925 —June 30.
Capital Subscribed
Less Uncalled in
Reserve Fund
Contingent Fund
Profit and Loss ..
Sundry Creditors
Claims)
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
404,147 0 0
Reserve 101,036 15 0
303,110 5 0
.. ' 94,792 15 6
7,358 11 1
44,441 8 11
(including Unad j listed
£
449,703
100,936
s. d.
0 6
8 8
£550,639 9 2
ASSETS.
£550,639 9 ‘3
PROMT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for the year ended 30th June, 1923.
Dr.
Cr.
1925 —June 30.
To Interim Dividend paid Shareholders, Ist February, 1925..
~ Contribution to Officers’ Provident Fund ..
Cost of Management, Fees, Commissions and other
Charges
„ Subscriptions to Fire Brigades and other Taxation
„ Losses
„ Balance
£ s. d.
15,155 10 3
500 0 0
130,081 6 10
17,820 3 2
186,834 0 7
44,441 8 11
£394.832 9 9
1925 —June 30. £ s. d.
By Premiums, less Reinsurances and Returns. . .. .. 376,692 18 6
„ Interest and Rents .. .» .. .. .. .. 18,139 11 3
£394,832 9 9
KELSO KING, Manager.
A. E. JAQUES, Chairman.
M e hereby certify that having compared the Balances with the amounts shown in the Books, examined all Vouchers and Securities, we find the
above Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account to be correct.
Sydney, 22nd July, 1925.
ROBERTSON, CRANE & GIBBONS, F.C.P.A. 1
J. P. LARCOMBE and GO WARD, F.C.P.A. /
Auditors.
The Forty-seventh Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders was held
at the Company’s Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney, on Thursday, 6th August.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet the Chairman
referred to the Company’s experience during the financial year ended 30t'i
June, 1925, as follows:
THE PREMIUMS received, after deducting reinsurances and return
premiums, amount to £376,693, and represent a substantial increase compared
with previous years. The progress is gratifying, because it has been general
in all the Branches throughout the Commonwealth, and may be traced partly
to the favorable season enjoyed and increased production, combined with the
satisfactory market prices that have been ruling for a large portion of the
Country’s products; also partly to greater recognition on the part of the .Public
to the claims of Australian Insurance Companies and other Australian Institu-
tions for increased support. Other indications of prosperity are the increased
number of new buildings that have been erected, and additional industries
established or extended during the period under review, all of which have
helped the progress of this Company. As our operations extend throughout
the Commonwealth and include all classes of Insurance except Life, it will be
apparent that any movement affecting the prosperity of Australia is likely to be
reflected in the Annual Reports issued from year to year. The chief source
of revenue is from Fire Insurance, but the other branches of Insurance also
continue to expand. The limit held on any single risk or group is decidedly
moderate, and, whilst the Company’s affairs generally are conducted on most
conservative lines, we are, nevertheless, progressive, keeping abreast of the
times and endeavoring to meet all reasonable requirements of the insuring
public. The supervision of the various Departments is under the cave of
capable and highly-trained officials who are recognised as possessing special
experience in their particular duties.
THE EXPENDITURE has necessarily increased in amount compared
with last year, but it shows a reduction in percentage to the premium income.
TAXATION, including rates and compulsory contributions to Fire
Brigades, amount to the large sum of £21,278 6s. Id. I have previously
referred to the excessive burden of taxation cast upon Insurance and other
Companies, which is higher in New South Wales than in other States, much
to the disadvantage of all engaged in trade and commerce.
LOSSES paid and in process of adjustment at the close of the financial
year have amounted to £186,83 1, and, although, above the average experience of
this Company, compare favorably with the experience of other Insurance
Companies operating throughout the Commonwealth. The. usual custom of
making a liberal allowance for outstanding claims lias been followed in the
accounts now being presented to you.
THE UNDERWRITING SURPLUS lias amounted to £41,457 7s. lid.,
representing 11 per cent, of the net premium income, and, with the return
from investments of £18,139 11s. 3d., makes a total of £59,596 19s 2d.
available for distribution, being an increase of £5948 10s. 6d. compared with
the previous twelve months. During the year it has been found possible to
augment the Reserve Fund by the transfer of certain sums set aside over a
period against contingencies, provision for which is no longer necessary.
ASSETS: The reference made last year to the assets applies with even
greater force to-day. Our Freehold Properties in Sydney, Melbourne ana
Brisbane occupy excellent sites, and their market value is much in excess at
their book value. The other assets are of a solid character, and also stand in
the books at prices much below either cost or market values.
In this connection it may interest you to hear that your Directors availed
themselves of the opportunity to convert the 4| per cent. War Loan due next
December into the new Conversion Loan, amounting to £32,110. This asset
had a book value of £30,110; the difference will be added to the Reserve Fund.
THE STAFF: Before closing I would like to refer to the Staff, some of
whom have been in the Company’s service for long periods. Part of my duty
as Chairman brings me in daily touch with many of the senior officers; I am
able to follow the operations of the Company, and can realise the amount of
work performed by those inside, as well as those working out of doors. I
believe no opportunity is lost to advance the interests of the Company, and
I feel sure you will agree with the proposal of the Board in asking you to
approve of the allocation of a further sum of £lOOO to the Officers’ Provident
Fund, which is suggested as an appropriate appreciation of loyal service.
To the Directors of our Branches in other States, to the Chief Representa-
tives and to all Agents the Board wish to express renewed thanks for the
special interest taken and care bestowed on the Company’s affairs. He aie
very pleased with the progress made at Head Office and throughout the
Branches, and we feel that, with fair seasons and fair prices for our products,
we can look with confidence to the further expansion of our business \vhere\er
established.
Finally, I appeal to our Shareholders to unite in assisting the Dnec ois
to promote the interests of their own Company by placing their own business
here and by using their influence with friends in this direction. Some a reai}
do so, and their co-operation is appreciated by the Directors, but it won t oe
greatly to their own advantage if this course were generally adopted >) <>
Shareholders.


IP
L/
N,
Rff!
Cuticura Talcum
Is The Ideal Powder
Its purity, smoothness and fra-
grance, combined with antiseptic
and prophylactic properties which
help to overcome disagreeable
odors, make it an essential toilet
requisite.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
IPST" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
vnmvbm
Ditching
Terracing
Made Easy—Bigger
crops, better farms with
Farm Ditcher
, iVracer & Road Grader
Cuts a mile of ditch 3 to 4 feet deep in a
day. Cleans out weed-grown ditches.
Moves dirt.
SAVES WORK OF 100 MEN.
J. B. WAILSS LTD.,
Challis House.
SYDNEY.
7f~
m
MARK ALL LINEN
Personal or Household with
vnmbv
vbnv
bvn
Saves Loss, ensures individuality. No
trouble as with marking ink. Invaluable
for Traveller * and School Outfits.
\ny name can be woven in fast color.
“A few stitches and they’re on. ”
nb
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices : 1 2 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz, 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH
Pty.
Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street,
Richmond, Melb.
im
COUGHS^fUc^
•'(SI
RUPTURE!
A FREE TRIAL.
II Ton are troubled with the complaint, write us and
wa will rend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. ft is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory wef.o not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, nnd the price is within
the reach of all.
illustrated catalogue
posted free anywhere.
| WINSLOW CO.,
I 104 Queen Street, Meibourne
bvnm
N.S.W DEALERS!
Apply to Suttons,
Macdonell House,
321 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
£4 10 0
£6 6 0
o ®
QO ®
QO CSI
*"3
99
290-2 Bourke St,
MELBOURNE,
BALLARAT,
BENDIGO & GEELONG.
vn
More than
a surface matter
Sartorial perfection begins with your undervest.
*Does it crinkle round your body, making you
feel bulgy and uncomfortable ? Have repeated launderings
made the surfaces of the garment rough and harsh ? If so,
your •vest is not“JASON ,” for “JASON” adapts itself to your
form with trim-fitting ease, and its soft, silky finish never
weTirs off.
Your store
has “Jason’
Underwear
in all sizes,
and Winter
& Summer
weights, for
men,women
& children
ALL-WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
“Olympic” Brand is a lower priced underwear with the
same guarantees of value and satisfaction as “Jason.”
Sale Manufacturers :
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
<¥>A
m ttu Tace af-t&i
™*PLUM
bn
bnmv
CRAIC&AITKEN
654 b GEORGE ST.
S 'V' D M E >T-
ftuvnfoT&s
Groats
Obtainable from
All Chemists & Grocers
Best for Mothers,
Yanina Children
& Invalids.
it Mm
, r\
j.
i
“I am glad to hear you say
so, Sir. While we take credit
for the shape and finish of the
boots, I am bound to admit
that the shine is due to
‘Nugget Boot Polish,’ which
we not only recommend but
use ourselves.”
Made in Black, Tan,
Light Tan, DarfcTan,
Nigger Brown, Red
Stain, Patent and
White.
Hsnod looa
xaoomr
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bewitched!
Yesternight, when all slept
And the midnight neared.
Up and up the moon crept—-
Crept, as though she feared
To awake the little town
By the beaten beach,
Where the stately pine-trees stand
Nodding each to each.
Wonderment on all fell,
Beach and rock and tree;
Underneath the chill spell
Of her witchery.
Ilign and low the little town
(dimmered, white and wan,
While like wide astonished eyes
Eastern windows shone.
As her pallid rays gleamed
Over cliff and beach,
What was it the trees dreamed,
Nodding each to e_*eh V
Wlmt was it the ocean felt,
Shoreward heaving slowV
Windows gazing out to sea,
What amazed them so?
N.S.W.
RODKRIC QUINN.
The Soul in Captivity.
Like a pirate woman taken and held in
bonds
And cast to the bottom of some stone
prison-pit,
Stifling, lightless, terribly straitened and
foul,
I crouch and stiffen and my wit gnaws at
my wit.
Oh for a knife, wide-bladcd and wonderfully
Thrust through the sash and leaving the
cutlass-liand free!
And ear-rings of gold and sun-tan low on the
breast—
The smell, the thunder, the savage blue
of the sea!
Blue as the burning, fathomless - eye of a god,
Holy and dreadful, lovely with pitiless
love —
The fire-white upthrow of foam —teeth bared
in laughter 1
And the blind and blinding beauty that
curves above.
Swing and lift of the deck like a horse's
canter,
Lunge of the naked figurehead seeking
the spray.
Oh, to lean out and down with the pale-
browed figure
Meeting wave-kisses, sharp-edged as the
swords that slay!
To hunt and in turn be hunted, to wound
and bleed.
To baulk and baffle and swoop with a
cloud of wings,
To watch the shell-rough side of some green
sea-monster
Heave up through mystery while a circling
harpy sings!
To risk the uncharted reefs that rainbows
halo
As the recurrent foam-burst flowers to the
sun,
To know the shock when the reckless ship,
flung backward.
Shudders and slants where the azure death-
rivers run!
And then —oh! the fight with the white-
mottled water,
The raw, hot noon-light above and the
grave’s chill beneath —•
Suffocation, struggle, and crashing of surges,
Till, like the close embrace of the brows
by a wreath
Of olive and laurel twined, the sudden calm,
The limpid lagoon, the rusted anchor that
lifts
Through sands of c0ra1.... The sun goes
down and the moon
Comes in great peace, like the Christ with
Ilis final gifts.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
The Dancing Children.
If I could play a silver tune
Upon a fiddle-string,
Down little lanes at dusk I'd go
Until my song should bring
From house and garden, tumbling free,
Dear children who would dance for me.
With laughing eyes and lips they'd run
From here and everywhere,
With red upon their rounded cheeks
And tumbling manes of hair;
And gravely they would come, and go
The while I curved my magic bow.
Shrilling with joy they'd whirl and whirl
Past dusky cottage-doors,
With skirts outlreld in tiny hands
And foaming pinafores.
The dim, white flowers', down garden-beds,
A-glimmer past their baby heads.
And faster then their feet would tap
And wilder grow my tune,
Till all the air would break in rose
Around the big pale moon ;
And out the startled owls would fly
Squat-winged against the darkening sky.
I have no magic-crying bow,
I have no fiddle-string;
Yet in my little room at dusk
Sweet crowding fancies bring
Dream-children round about my knee
That dance and spread their skirts for me.
And, where the yellow' firelight falls,
To unheard tunes that play
They laugh and curtsey, one by one,
And sighing melt away.
But still their dancing footsteps keep
Like music with me when I sleep.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


sBBB# -
RALIAN WINE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 46.—N0. 2375.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1925.
Price 6d.
STARVING HIS OWN PACK
“The threatened trouble in the British coal industry has been temporarily averted by the Government undertaking to give subsidies amounting
to £10,000,000 in the ensuing 12 months.”
THE SMALL BOY: “Dad, if you bought tucker regularly for them with the money you now send out of the country, they wouldn’t be so hungry, would they?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets,Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
' PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ant address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.j 3 months, Is.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
nil contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length,, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
ptrect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will _ be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are. those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
jj. st. C. Grondona, Australia B[ouse, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can toe ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.%; E. T. Hole, IJolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
E. Algar, 58 Gracecliurch Street, London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Jfilnd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co.. 10) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street , New Orleans, La.
Egtpt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street ,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., SI Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Cetlon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.If.
U.S.A, — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l)d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
Tj&Tißulleim.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1925.
JOHN BULL’S COAL AND OTHER
RESPONSIBILITIES.
There was a short period of Government
control of the coal-mines of Great Britain
during the war, when the Government
helped out the finances with subsidies, and
made itself very popular. When it gave
up management and tried to let affairs drift
back to their old business footing, the position
proved almost as difficult as that of the
Queensland authorities would be if they now
tried to make their railways pay their way
and do without the £1,500,000 or so per
annum of subsidy. Hours were shortened,
for the British coal-miner is no eight-hour
serf nowadays, and says that he never again
will be even if the heavens and the British
Empire fall. One thing which happened was
that it required 239,357 more miners in 1920
than in 1918 to produce a few thousand tons
more mineral. This was an evidence of vari-
ous things, one being that a worker doesn’t
necessarily produce as much in 42 hours as
in 48, despite all shoutings to the contrary.
In 1920 the average value of coal at the pit-
mouth was officially set down at 345. 7d. per
ton. In 1922 it was given as 17s. 6d., and in
1923, where the available figures end for the
present, it was ISs. lOd. The chief assign-
able causes of the shrinkage were that the
war fleets ceased to use coal at the war-time
rate, or at anything like the old peace rate
either; that distracted Frenchmen and Bel-
gians and Poles were getting their own ruined
mines in order again and ceased to buy much ;
that the merchant-shipping business was flat
and British factories were flat also; and that
oil- and water-power was being more exten-
sively used. The coal-trade depression was
bad in other countries, but other countries
had no mawkish scruples about helping their
coal-using industries with a tariff, and they
cheerfully sold the products to J. Bull to
make his factories worse and his coal busi-
ness worse likewise.
* * * *
After the guns cooled, the average price of
British coal didn’t drop to the pre-war level,
which was about 10s. 2d. per ton at the pit-
moutli in 1913 and 10s. in 1914, yet, as
already mentioned, it fell very badly. But
the union magnates decreed that wages, which
had gone up in sympathy with the increase
in price, must stay up, and they left to other
people the problem of saying how. In this
respect they acted similarly to certain
Queensland copper-miners. The price which
Australian copper fetched in London aver-
aged £6l 10s. sd. in 1914, and the war pushed
it up to £124 17s. lOd. Wages rose at the
same time, and when the price fell to
£69 7s. 2d. and then to £62 2s. sd. the same
decree went forth that they must stay up,
whatever happened. Messengers even went
forth by night and chalked the legend “Hands
off wages!” on the walls of innocent people
who had nothing to do with wages.. The
Queensland Labor Government, to which the
problem was left, being no niiracle-worker,
took the simple course of letting the copper-
fields slide, and Cloncurry, which once pro-
duced 11,625 tons of copper in a year, fell to
a miserable return of 89 tons. But the Bri-
tish Government couldn’t drop the coal indus-
try negligently down a hole into perdition and
supply the dispossessed toilers with Public
Works jobs out of loan money to make good,
after the Theodore fashion. That would
have been dropping all Britain down a hole.
So an arrangement was fixed by which the
miners actually got an increased rate of pay,
and their remuneration was made a first
charge on takings. The “capitalist” also was
allowed a fixed profit, but he had a mere
second mortgage, and he only got something
if anything was left after the miner was paid.
* * * *
The union leaders presently pressed for
a bigger first mortgage, and got some final
concessions as recently as 1924. About that
time the back of the camel, which was far
from being the animal of 1920, sagged in
earnest. In 1921 the number of “hands”
employed in British coal-mining was set
down as 122,224 less than in 1920, and in
1921 the trouble was only beginning. Defi-
nite figures for a later date are lacking.
Wages became poor in many places, not
because the work was ill-paid, but because
there wasn’t enough work. A few pits were
closed because the owners were making no-
thing, wherefore they reckoned they might as
well leave the mineral wealth in the ground
till better times arrived. Many, especially
of the poorer sort, were closed because they
ran the proprietors into an absolute loss,
said to be in places as much as 4s. per
ton. When at least one-sixth of the pits had
left off work, and more were leaving, and an
influx of foreign coal began to be a serious
possibility, employers gave notice to termi-
nate the agreement. They suggested a return
to the eight-hour system and a small rever-
sion in the matter of wages. The reply was
a refusal to concede anything at all, and a
deadlock supervened. It was impossible to
terrorise the coal employers with threats
of a strike, for many would have regarded
it as a blessed rest, and many more were
indifferent. But it was possible to turn a
very big gun on the Baldwin Government
by threatening a stoppage in coal, iron and
transport —the stoppage of Great Britain, in
fact, with revolution as a side-show. It is
difficult to believe that the revolution would
have been a success unless the leadership was
much better than anything at present in
sight. But it would have been very costly,
and the Government disliked the look of the
gun, so it bought a respite by subsidising
the wage fund of the coal industry, such as
it is now, till next All Fools’ Day, with an
aid which is roughly estimated at
£10,000,000, though nobody really knows.
Baldwin and his Ministers have protested
vigorously that they will not make any simi-
lar concession to the carrying industry and
the iron industry, though both will almost
certainly be asked for with the same threat
at the back of the demand. In 1914 Britain
dug up nearly 15 million tons of iron ore
worth ss. 3d. per ton. In 1920, which was
the “peak” year with iron as well, as coal,
the production was nearly 13 million tons,
valued at 15s. Bd. per . ton, and during the
interval wages had climbed steadily. In
1923, where available figures leave off, the
output was below 11 million tons, and the
value 6s. lOd. per ton. The problem is, how
to get as much, or nearly as much, wages
out of 6s. lOd. as out of 15s. Bd.
* * * *
There has been a great deal of specula-
tion as to what a strong Government
a real Goliath of a Government—would
naturally do in the present case. It is taken
for granted that it would introduce Protec-
tion. It has been suggested that it might
introduce Prohibition also, and thus do some-
thing to straighten up a community that
spends £7 ss. per inhabitant per annum on
liquor, and whose drinking habits have begun
to attract unfavorable notice. But Britain
hasn’t revenue to burn as the United States
had when it dried up the source of hospi-
tality; in fact, without its drink income the
British Government might stop payment.
Another proposition is that it should close
all racecourses, boil down all racehorses, and
make bookmaking equivalent to man-
slaughter. It is seriously alleged that there
are 60,000 bookmakers plying their trade in
Britain, that some of them employ as many
as 300 assistants, and that the bookie’s tout
is to be met in practically every factory and
in almost every street of every city, seeking
for anything down to 6d. The amount
wagered has been guessed at £500,000,000 in
an ordinary year, and the amount retained
by the aggregate bookie is estimated at as
much as the value of the entire coal output.
“Doles,” national and municipal, are blamed
among other things. As an instance, West
Ham, with some districts attached, has gone
broke for about a couple of millions and for
all the money it could borrow, because a
socialistic local authority tried to “relieve”
68,000 people, or about one-tenth of the popu-
lation, some getting as much as £3 per week.
And there are probably a hundred other
causes or sub-causes, all more or less boiling
down into one cause. The war swung the
pendulum, and millions who got too little
wages now want far more than they earn;
millions who had too little to spend
now demand from those who used to
have too much more than the latter have
to give. The war taught the multitude its
power; but it didn’t teach it that it isn’t
omnipotent—that it can’t get three pints out
of a quart-pot. Sanity will no doubt return;
how quickly will depend upon the type of
leader who gets the ear of the multitude.
The one justification of coal subsidies and the
like is that a little time is gained to win
that ear.
THE ETERNAL CRAZE.
Another dismal chapter has been added to
the history of land-settlement of the political
variety peculiar to this continent, and especi-
ally prevalent since 1918. The lucubration
in question deals with the Westralian group
settlements which, like previous experiments
of the kind, were begun upon theories
cherished by politicians of all parties, said
theories being that any male person of
British descent has a right to be provided
with an Australian farm; that he requires no
experience, a knowledge of agriculture being
inborn in him, or money of his own, the
Government being in duty bound to finance
him out of the general loan fund; that the
quality of bis land need not be tested before
he is planted on it (the land will always
“grow anything”), and that there will be an in-
exhaustible market for his produce (if any),
in Britain or some other country, at high
rates. An agreement embodying all these
chimeras was fixed up with Downing-street
four years ago by Jimmy Mitchell, then
Jarrahland Premier. In consideration of a
British loan of £5,000,000, and of Imperial
and Commonwealth interest concessions for
five years, the warm-hearted and thick-headed
Premier undertook to furnish 5000 new
settlers, “migrants” and Australians, with
5000 dairy farms, cleared, equipped and
stocked to the self-supporting stage. The
settler’s liability was limited to £lOOO, por-
tion of which was to be paid to him as wages
for helping with his improvements and those
of others in his group. The Government was
to get the £lOOO back on the long-instalment
plan.
* # . * *
The Royal Commission (there is always a
Royal Commission in these cases) visited 41
groups, examined 142 witnesses and took
just on 11 months to finish its task. Sub-
joined is a necessarily brief summary of the
majority report, which was signed by C. W.
Harper, a leading member of the Primary
Producers’ Association; T. Moore, a Labor
M.L.C. from a farming province; and J.
Lindsay, a Cocky M.L.A.:—
The scheme was launched without proper prepara-
tion. The agreement between the State and the
Imperial and Commonwealth Governments bears the
imprint of undue haste. Some of its provisions
dealing with the State’s obligations are difficult of
interpretation; several of them have not been com-
plied with; some the State is unable to fulfil.
It was intended that the settlers comprising the
groups would be selected from among those having
12 months’ land experience. This period of
training has gone by the board. New arrivals,
drawn chiefly from the towns and cities of Britain,
have been drafted from the ship to the settlement
without training or selection. The migrant comes to
the group in most cases entirely unfitted for the
hard work awaiting him, and the group must stand
the cost of training him, and also the cost of
carrying him as a malcontent. For often he gives
up any idea he may have had of staying on as a
settler and remains only as a wage-earner, waiting
for a better job to turn up.
Of the 384 settlers composing the 'first 20
migrant groups, only 207 originals remain. And
in the opinion of officials, farmers in the group
districts and group members themselves, not more
than 50 p.c. of those at present in the groups will
make good. Settlers entirely unsuited to the calling
are to be found in considerable numbers on the
majority of the areas, and to their presence is
largely due the very high cost of group work under
sustenance conditions as compared with that of
similar work under piecework.
Large numbers of the settlers are taking no interest
in the development of their holdings. It is
extremely difficult to get the settler to protect his
clearing from a regrowth of scrub unless he is paid
sustenance while so engaged. He is disinclined to
work for more than the eight hours for which he
receives sustenance payment, even for the protection
of what is to become his own property.
A considerable area of poor land unsuitable for the
purpose has been utilised The farms which the
State undertook to provide for £lOOO will cost
£l4OO and £1650 on the lightly and heavily
timbered areas respectively. It is obvious that the
farms are not worth to-day what it has cost to
prepare them.... The greater part of the loss should
be carried by the State.
To establish the settler under group-settlement
conditions, the State will have to provide about
£3OOO. There are 1816 group-settlement farms in
the making. Should the. settlers occupying these
require the financial assistance expected by the
Commissioners, they will owe between them in from
five to six years from date an amount of £5,706,329
—cost of farms and interest, £5,567,224 ; cost of
supervision at 2§ per cent., £139,105. Very little
interest can be expected for from six to eight years
after establishment of the group.
It may here be remarked that, in the process
of placing these newchum farmers on land
of questionable value for dairying, magnifi-
cent karri forests have been destroyed.
* * * *
Latham, M.L.A., the other member of
the Commission, issued a report of his
own. Being a follower of Mitchell, he
attempted a defence of that amiable messer,
but made a poor fist of it. The only really
interesting thing he said was that more Aus-
tralians than migrants had quitted the
groups: “of 858 men who were placed on
the first 20 areas restricted to Australians,
but 176 are left.” This merely demonstrates
that no man, Australian or immigrant,
should be encouraged to go farming unless he
has had at least 12 months’ experience as a
farmhand and possesses, say, £750 of his
own (£l5OO would be better and £2OOO better
still) ; and the encouragement should be
limited to the provision of land at a reason-
able price in districts served, or to be served,
by railways—by the opening-up of Crown
areas, repurchase of estates or scientific tax-
ation, as the case might be —and of credit
for such as can furnish security. Now that
the Digger agriculturists have all been accom-
modated, after a fashion, and another
£5,000,000 of soldier-settlement money has
been written off as irrecoverable, the fact
should be recognised that the Australian
who wants to go on the land has no more
right to lean on the Government financially
than the Australian who wants to start a
tinsmith’s shop. As for migrants, the job of
transforming them into self-supporting Aus-
tralian farmers should be respectfully declined
unless they shoulder the financial burden them-
selves, as used to be the custom, or the Brit-
ish Government does it for them. But the
craze for putting neophytes on the land is as
irrational as the craving for drugs, and appa-
rently as ineradicable. In spite of the group-
settlement fiasco, the Westralian and Queens-
land Governments have undertaken to “settle”
another shoal of migrants, using a British
loan of £lOOO per migrant at a reduced rate
of interest for 10 years. And although
Lang, the N. S. Wales Premier, has not yet
signed the migration agreement, he pledged
himself in his policy speech to “raise the
necessai’y money [by loan, of course], to
effect the settlement of every qualified appli-
cant who wants to go on the land.” A
qualified applicant is defined as any person
who can put up “a small deposit,” and.
according to Lang’s estimate, there are
“ten or twenty thousand” such citizens whose
“settlement is to be accomplished as soon as
possible.” The gentleman also undertook to
salve the wrecks of existing settlements, on
which at least five thousand small depositors
are in distress, by such devices as “writing
down values to a point at which the settler
will be able to succeed.”
THE ADVANTAGES (OR OTHER-
WISE) OF NATIONAL SUICIDE.
The annual agitation in France over the
birth-rate reveals an interesting problem for
which the advocates of birth-control haven't
yet provided a solution. The only result
of checking by conscious means the supply
of indigenous French baby has been to stimu-
late the influx of mostly undesirable adult
aliens. Hundreds of thousands of laborers
flow over the frontiers to plough, reap and
mine, decamping with their pockets full of
French francs when the job is over. Hun-
garians and Russians monopolise the taxi-
cab and road-mending business in the cities,
and the Polish peasant is a frequent object
in the rural landscape. These immigrants
are usually thrifty souls with hungry fami-
lies at home, and the French post-office does
a big but not lucrative business in foreign
remittances in consequence. . The birtli-con-
trollers say that if the land is fully occupied
each unit of a stationary population will
have more of the collective loaf than if the
population is increasing, and that if the
population is already too large . a reduction
will increase the size of the individual slice.
The Stopesians, however, leave out of con-
sideration the effect this spectacle of a well;
fed community practising “race-suicide"
would have on a hungry neighbor who
hadn’t heard of the doctrine. The result
as far as France is concerned seems to be
that she is compelled to admit the hungry
surplus of her neighbors to the family
board; if she refused and went on pros-
pering, her neighbors would attempt to help
themselves by force; and as the Almighty,
on the authoritv of Napoleon, is on the
side of the biggest battalions, they would
probably succeed.
* * * *
In the absence, therefore, of. an inter-
national convention to make birth-control
obligatory on all the high contracting parties,
the misguided country that tried to further
the ideal without reference to the others
would suffer the same fate as a Freetrade
country in a world of High Protection. The
probability of any such agreement is hardly
worth considering. There is no record of a
country voluntarily restricting its popula-
tion in order not to discommode a neighbor,
while there is a drayload of examples of
nations whose rulers preached the sacred
necessity of multiplying and then used the
congested condition of the country as an
excuse for foreign depredations. Some of the
wild tribes of Papua are reported to restrict
their numbers by a method of birth-control
which has not yet been incorporated in the
text-books; but all the virile races known
to history have gone on the principle
that they must, numerically speaking, boom
or burst. No country has held more stead-
fastly to this principle than Japan.. The
solemn necessity of providing offspring to
clap their hands at the shrines of their an-
cestors and provide for their heavenly comfort
with their prayers is the corner-stone of
that country’s domestic policy. No Japanese
statesman has yet arisen to tell his country-
men that they must refrain from having
children because their existence would embar-
rass the Governments of neighboring coun-
tries. On the contrary, they have taken very
determined steps to increase the nation’s
human tonnage by every available means
in order to use its weight as a counter m
international discussions.. Amongst the mea-
sures taken may be mentioned the capture by
armed force of the natural resources of Man-
churia, Korea and Formosa, that the home
population might have a field of immigra-
tion and a source of raw material; the pur-
chase, mainly by force, of concessions of oil.
coal and iron in China and Saghalien to
remedy the lack of those commodities in
Nippon ; the rapid conversion of the home-
land from an entirely agricultural to a semi-
industrial country; the creation of a large
mercantile marine, and an adequate navy to
give it point. Australia is at present enter-
taining two Japanese experts, one of whom
is here to study the conditions of the mining
industry—at the moment largely a still-life
study—and the other to ponder on this coun-
try’s wonderful breed of sheep. The latter
is modest in his pretensions, and pessi-
mistic about his country’s hopes of becoming
a producer of merino wool, but he makes


no mention, although it is doubtless in his
mind, of the vast pasture-lands of that part
of Manchuria his Government has appro-
priated from the Chinaman. Neither of
these inquiring gentlemen is concerned with
the question of birth-control. They are here
to help their country carry the largest popu-
lation that can find footing on the soil, and
they would greet with polite but sarcastic
snickers any suggestion that it Avas their
country’s duty to commit race suicide be-
cause other countries contemplated the same
thing.
* * * *
Confronted on one hand with the example
of France, whose attempt to carry out the
doctrine of the Rev. Malthus has resulted
in the peace-time capture of the country by
foreign invaders; and on the other with
Japan, whose ignoring of the doctrine
threatens the independent existence of
Aveaker countries. Australia, ivitli her nine-
tenths empty territory and the promise of
the economists that she can if she likes carry
with comfort a population of over 60 millions,
should have no doubts about which way her
own interests lie. It is possibly an idealis-
tic .fever in the blood or the habit of slavish
imitation that is making her tend in the
same direction as the exhausted and over-
crowded countries of the Qld World. It has
become almost an established doctrine
amongst Labor Governments that immigra-
tion of any sort is an evil thing; and the
advent of the infrequent baby, even in the
households of the well-to-do, is not being-
greeted with the same unrestrained delight
as was shown on similar occasions by the
early pioneers. In Northern Queensland,
where the white Australian is being rapidly
supplanted by the Italian, local en-
deavors to make the unions into preserves
by a labor aristocracy have resulted in a
replica in little of what is happening to
France. Endeavors on a national scale to
emulate the same country Avill hasten the day
when this continent will provide a replica
of what has happened to innumerable other
countries that failed to multiply and inherit
the particular bit of earth their fathers Avon
for them.
IN THE WAKE OF THE FLEET.
Walter Page, the most distinguished of
modern U.S. Ministers at the Court
of St. James, said: “The English make
a sharp distinction between the Ameri-
can people and the American Govern-
ment—a distinction that they are con-
scious of and that they themselves talk
about. They do not think of our people as
foreigners, but they do think of our Govern-
ment as foreign.” This was written before
the war, and the occurrences since have
tended to sharpen the distinction to which the
late Ambassador alluded. American travellers,
as Avell as travellers from other countries, do
not always leave a good impression in the
countries they visit. The American Fleet
certainly did: and an interchange of such
visits could not fail to- remove unfavorable
predilections and replace them by a feeling
of general goodwill. Unhappily there are
disturbing influences beyond the power of the
individuals of the Fleet or other similar citi-
zens of the U.S.A. to dispel. Such influ-
ences as exist to-day no doubt are the agents
that cause a distinction to be made between
a people and its Government. And no amount
of pious aspirations will bring about the re-
moval of the antagonising forces. Indeed, Lord
Lee- of Fareham deprecated the exchange of
merely sentimental talk between the U.S.A.
and England, and the New York Times,
commenting on Lord Lee’s utterance, re-
marked : “The gush Avhich has become so
common on public occasions that bring re-
presentatives of the two nations together is
in great danger of degenerating into bore-
dom.”
There cannot be any possibility of doubt
that a widespread feeling exists that some-
how the American nation did not come out
of the Great War as it should have done.
The thinking people of the nation are them-
selves alive to the unfair advantage it retains
in relation to those who confronted the assault
made upon civilisation for long, weary years
before the U.S.A. ranged up alongside her
ultimate Allies. Owing to the delay in com-
ing to the defence of civilisation a certain
section of her people to-day hold her late
Allies in a statu of economic thraldom. The
subject is one that engages the constant at-
tention of the American press and leading-
people. There is a wide divergence of
opinion, however, as to what (if anything)
should be done to give relief to at least her
late friends in the fighting-line. Elbert
Gary, chairman of the board of directors of
the United States Steel Corporation, for
example, AA r ould hold to the bond. In his
opinion the U.S.A. Government “in a polite
and friendly way should strictly insist that
all debtor nations pay to this country the
full amount of claims.” He would, hoAvever,
go so far as to offer liberal terms of payment,
and as to the rate of interest. But this is
far from expressing the general attitude of
Americans. Thus the Governor of West
Virginia, Howard Gore, thinks that “our
people have no desire to impose terms that
would enslave our Allies economically, or to
take from them the possibility of the national
life that they, in conjunction with us, fought
to secure.”
Major-General John O’Ryan, who was in
command of the 27th Division of the U.S.
Army at the front, strikes a note that should
be weighed earnestly by all Americans. He
says: “If it was a great moral obligation
to on war in 1917, was it not equally
so prior to that year? If it was, then it
follows that we were morally obligated to
share in the cost, of the war during such
period.” There is the Avhole point in a nut-
shell.
What were the direct costs of the war?
Professor E. L. Bogart, of the University of
Illinois, compiled a statement of them for
the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. The gross amount of the costs to the
U.S.A. and her Allies was $145,387,690,622.
Of this amount the share of the U.S.A. Avas
$32,080,266,968, leaving $113,307,423,654 as
the share of her colleagues. This is the most
faiwable statement that can be made, for it
includes in the U.S.A. amount the sum of
$9,455,014,125 advanced to the Allies. This
is merely the expenditure of money; but a
very instructive and valuable estimate of the
capitalised value of the lives lost, omitting
Crippled soldiers and invalided and devital-
ised members of the army and civilian popu-
lation, was published in America. It was
prepared by M. Barriole, a French actuary.
He worked out the value of human life upon
the following scale (in dollars) : U.8.A.,
4720 ; Britain, 4140 ; France, 2900 ; Russia
and other countries, 2020. The total loss of
the Allies, including the U.S.A., was, on this
basis, $19,581,400,040. The amount the
U.S. A. contributed was $517,972,800, or
approximately a 39th of the total. It is the
consciousness of such disparities of sacrifice
that keeps alive any feeling of antipathy
that may be evinced by her late Allies to-
wards the U.S.A.
The influences that may have prevented the
U.S.A. from taking her place with the Allies
earlier than she did should be allowed for.
The delay would be forgotten. But the
appalling debts that Judge Gary would call
upon the nations to pay are constant and in-
terminable reminders of the inequality be-
tween those countries that promptly opposed
the aggressor and the nation that did not
join up till near the end of the sruggle.
Mr. Houghton, U.S.A. Ambassador in
London, lately gave the assurance to a
gathering in London that America would
help to her generous utmost. The assurance
was, however, qualified by the stipulation
that the American people should be satisfied
that the time for destructive methods and
policies had passed. It is a reasonable
enough condition to attach. But all assur-
ances of this kind by themselves are value-
less. They require to be reduced to some-
thing concrete. Detached expressions like
these, giving vague promise of relief, while
possibly stimulating thought, lead a very
short distance indeed.
Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, Presi-
dent of the Columbia University, is ofi
opinion that until the problem of the war
debts is solved, peace and prosperity must
continue to be insecure. A disarmament con-
ference brought a measure of relief. A war
debts conference might be looked to to bring
about a solution of a situation which, seven
years after the close of the war, contains
the strongest elements of continued distrust
and doubtful goodwill in places where no-
thing but the best relations should exist.
Granting that the U.S.A. has a legal light
to demand the utmost shilling of the debts
due from other nations in connection with
the prosecution of the war, it may be well
worth while for her Government to consider
whether, in the long run, not only in her
own best interests but in those of the peace
of the world, it would pay her to bear in mind
the moral aspect of the position and take,
into account the circumstances in which
those debts? were contracted. By pursuing
the nobler course she will remove the danger
of the perpetuation, and even the intensifica-
tion, of such odium as she encounters to-day.
MARK B. YOUNG.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Electioneering Starts.
The Federal election campaign Avas opened
in the House of Reps, last Thursday, when
Treasurer Page brought down his third
Budget. Ministerial candidates reckon it
a brilliant Budget, there being lots of good
vote-catching material in it. No section
Avhose friendship is worth cultivating has
been forgotten. The old-age and invalid pen-
sioners (there were 150,000 when last
counted) are to get a rise from 355. per fort-
night to 40s. p.f., and those who go to the
‘■pitchers” are to be relieved of entertainment
tax (now a penny in the shilling) where the
price of admission is less than 2s. 6d. This
particular concession is expected to deprive
consolidated revenue of £300,000 p.a. which
can be easily collected and means no hard-
ship to anyone; and it will hasten the advent
of the glad day Avhen the moving-picture “in-
dustry,” from which huge fortunes are de-
rived by brassy foreigners, will yield nothing
at all, directly or indirectly, to the cost of
governing Australia. For motorists and the
increasingly numerous class that demands
unskilled-labor jobs from the least exacting
of bosses there is a grant of £750,000 for
road construction, to be disbursed by the
States. Farmers and graziers are provided
for by the earmarking of £500.000 for cheap
wire-netting loans (the idea is to make
£3,000,000 available in the course of six
years), and by a proposed Rural Credits
branch of the Commonwealth Bank, to be
financed in part with 25 p.c. of the profits
of the Australian note issue. Also, £1,500,000
is to be expended in naval construction,
which is good, as far as it goes, though it
isn’t far enough. And the income-tax is
to be lopped again, to the extent of one-
eiglitli this time. Thereby, it is alleged.
£1,400,000 will be left in the pockets of in-
dividual taxpayers during the current finan-
cial year. But if the Treasurer really be-
lieves this, his credulity is marvellous. Tax-
payers living in or drawing income from
non-Labor Victoria will no doubt get some
relief, but it is as certain as anything can be
that the revenue sacrificed by the Bruce-
Pages in N. S. Wales and Queensland will
be immediately collared by Lang and Gillies
(with additions, most likely) to finance
their work-reducing schemes and their whole-
sale distribution of largesse among their
supporters. The misguided people who have
been raising the parrot-cry that “the
Commonwealth should evacuate the field
of income-taxation” (though the Com-
monwealth, unlike the States, has a
Avar to pay for) will live to be sorry for
themselves. What the case calls for is the
Federalising of income-taxation and the
devotion of the one Commonwealth impost
to national debt purposes exclusively: instead
of that, the delirious folly of seven income-
taxes will persist, and some of them are
obviously going to be levied in a boisterous
spirit of class bigotry, the few being penal-
ised for the imaginary benefit of the many.
If Page, as has been asserted, flogged the
income-taxpayer with a whip, Lang, Gillies
and co. will flog him with scorpions. Oddly
enough, a few Protectionists have joined in
the agitation for the abandonment of income-
taxation to the States, although it should
be obvious enough that if the Federal
Treasurer has to rely upon the Customs
revenue for his war interest and sinking-
fund payments he will be tempted to preserve
the revenue incidence of what was intended
to be a Protective tariff. As to that, it was
inflated Customs receipts that made the vari-
ous vote-catching proposals possible; they
exceeded Page’s estimate by over three mil-
lions (the excess in 1923-24 was six mil-
lions) and, in fact, gave him the surplus of
£3,018,000 which he did not anticipate. In
1919-20 the Customs and excise revenue was
£21,574.000; in 1922-23 it was £32.872.000,
in 3 923-24 £35,750,000 and in 1924-25
£37,192,000. The melancholy moral is that
the Protective incidence of the Greene tariff
lias disappeared, if it ever existed.
♦
Prickly-pear in Queensland.
At the end of 1923 301 million acres in
Queensland were infested with dense growth
of pear, and about 13f million acres with
scattered pear. Ten years ago only 34 mil-
lion acres were densely infested and 121
millions sparsely. This means that the in-
crease of the pest in the decennial period has
rendered 8,373,278 additional acres of pas-
toral and agricultural land more or less use-
less. or an annual average of 837,327 acres.
Every day approximately 2300 acres of
Queensland land was wholly or partly put
out of use, and the worst of it has been
that the dense infestation has increased far
more rapidly than the sparse. The first
annual report of the Prickly-pear Commis-
sion and information obtained from the Sher-
wood laboratory connected with the Com-
monwealth Prickly-pear Board, however,
give reason to hope that the maximum area
of infestation has been reached. Poisoning
by arsenic pentoxide has been found effec-
tive for scattered areas, and the cost of
applying it is estimated at an average of
about sixpence an acre. The poison is sup-
plied to lessees at cost price, and for one
penny expended on pear-poison the land-
holder has at hand the means for destroying
more than one ton weight of pear. But to
attempt to wipe out dense pear by means of
poison would be futile. The biologist must
come to the rescue here. For over two years
the Sherwood laboratory has sent out for
distribution by the Queensland Pear Com-
mission various insects for which prickly-
pear is the natural food. Of these the cochi-
neal has so far been found most suitable.
But there are several varieties of cochineal
insect, preferring different kinds of pear.
The Ceylon cochineal, which was the first
to be introduced, attacked the Monocantha,
or coastal pear, growing in the northern dis-
tricts, but it showed little or no liking for
the Opuntia inermis, or common pest-pear,
chiefly found in the west and south-west.
The true cochineal of commerce will attack
only the tree-pear. A third kind, introduced
from Southern California, Texas and
Arizona, has been found destructive to O.
inermis, and is doing good work in the area
between Taroom and Goondiwindi, on the
east, and Charleville and Cunnamulla on the
west, and down to the N. S. Wales border.
Detached areas around Charters Towers,
Townsville and Clermont have been almost
cleared. The area administered by the
Prickly-pear Land Commission comprises
51 1 million acres, and is roughly 500 miles
from north to south and 300 miles at its
widest part from east to west. At Alice
Downs, near Blackall,. there is a thick de-
tached patch, and there is isolated pear as
far north-west as Cloncurry. Left to itself
the curse would invade almost the whole of
the State in another 10 years or so. One
advantage destruction by cochineal has over
that by poison is that after a patch of pear
land has been cleared by the former, and
shoots spring up, these are fiercely attacked
by the insects, which do not rest until every
vestige has disappeared; on the other
hand, after poisoning, shoots spring up, and
unless carefully attended to the pest soon
becomes as bad as ever. Another advantage
is that the cochineal increases with tremend-
ous rapidity. W. B. Alexander, M.A., the
officer in charge of the Sherwood laboratory,
two years ago took up one case of in-
sects to Westwood, on the Dawson, and re-
cently over 900 cases were collected there
by the Commission; and these seem to make
no difference in their numbers. It has been
proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
cochineal is incapable of existing on any
other plant than the prickly-pear, so there
seems nothing to fear that it will attack
any vegetable other than those belonging to
the cactus group. Those sent out from Sher-
wood have remained in quarantine long
enough to insure their freedom from para-
sites, and they are carefully tested before
being despatched to the country. The only
Australian enemy the cochineal has, so far
as is at present known, is the ladybird beetle;
but the harm done is negligible so far. The
report of the State Commission is hopeful,
and says that the spread of the pest has
been stayed; but one conclusion arrived at
—“the prospects of their [biological means]
ultimately eradicating pear on a large scale
are not yet encouraging”—does not tally
with that of Mr. Alexander, who says that
the results of two years’ work have been
quite up to expectations, that in another two
years surprising developments will be wit-
nessed, and that in 10 years from now there
is reasonable ground for hope that the enemy
will have been virtually subdued. “The work
of the insect may be slow,” he says, “but
it is very steady, and T think the result is
sure unless some new factor arises to inter-
fere with them.” The outlook for iiltimate
victory is therefore distinctly hopeful.
♦ —
Scapegoats.
Everybody is looking for the outrageously
wealthy middleman ; but except in the import-
ing line, or among dukes and people who cut
up real estate, he is rather hard to find. A
Queensland M.L.A. has protested that the
bullock-squatter gets only 3d. per lb. for live
beef which costs Is. 3d. when it arrives dead
at the consumer’s door, and he blamed the
meatworks at Enoggera (Brisbane) for the
glaring robbery and outrage. Still the best-
known meatworks lately went four years
without a dividend. And the Government,
which owns cattle-stations and retail meat-
shops and is its own middleman, can’t make
either of them pay expenses. Premier Lang
(N.S.W.) recently made two discoveries.
One w’as that the manufacturers of his State
were making suc-h immense profits that they
could pay higher wages for one-twelfth less
work and not turn a hair. Enterprises like
the Newcastle steel-works, which hadn’t seen
a dividend for years, viewed Lang with mild
surprise. He also held that, if he decided
to start a coastal shipping service on Walsh
aud Johanson principles, he couldn’t fail
to make a great profit in view of the way
the existing companies piled up treasure.
Some of the companies are now in search of
that treasure. In Freetrade England, where
the coal-trade is in a shocking way and over
000 pits recently closed, an impassioned mem
her drew attention to the rapacious million-
aire middleman, through whose machinations
coal worth 18s. per ton at the pit-mouth
cost £2 per ton by the time it reached the
small consumer. To which a weary voice
responded that if co.al, a natural product
furnished gratis by the Almighty, was really
worth 18s. per ton when it had been dug up
and had travelled perhaps half a mile to the
pit-mouth, it was a wonder it didn’t cost
more than 40s. after it had been loaded and
trucked and unloaded and carted and bagged
and had performed generally like the Gulf
bullock on the way to Brisbane. England
has still a brood of politicians who are will-
ing to blame its troubles on anything down
to a Popish plot rather than admit that the
Freetrade Joss has blown up, and that go-
slow is. a failure. One of them lately proved
to his own satisfaction that cloth which cost
10s. (Id. per yard could be retailed at Is. but
for speculators who bought and sold the cot-
ton crop four or five times over before the
seed was sown, and many times afterwards.
One “great” Australian daily gave a leader
to the matter, so much was it impressed.
The Queensland cotton-grower, tending his
herbage with Government supervision to pre-
vent these parasite speculators eating up 90
per cent, of its value, should therefore be
making a fortune: but somehow he isn’t—
not yet, anyhow. It is all rather disappoint-
ing, this search for the fellow who has all
the money that all the other felloivs should
have but haven’t.
—
The Navy as a Trade.
“Forebridge" : The quaint creed that the
Navy, as a profession, is only a “part-time”
job apparently has a disciple in “Carao-
tacus” (B. 33/8/’25). “The TJ.S. Navy
excites admiration,” he writes. “Its youth-
ful seamen are each taught a skilled trade.
.... The U.S. gains through having turned
out of its ship-factories each year several
thousand eager young fellows, all charged
with the rudiments of seamanship and war-
lore.” The generally-accepted notion in the
British Navy is that a sailor who has only
a rudimentary knowledge of his profession
should quickly be taught more about that
profession, and not coached in stenography,
photography or some other accomplishment
which may be useful to him in some other-
walk of life. It is recognised in the R.N.
and the R.A.N. that five to seven years’ in-
tensive naval training is required before a
man can become much use to the service.
In the U.S. Navy recruits engage for only
four years, and as they apparently spend
much of that time in learning some extrane-
ous trade, one of two things would seem to
be indicated: either the Americans are far
better natural seamen than we are, or else
they have a very different standard of naval
efficiency. Says “Caractactjs” : “If Aus-
tralia could make the R.A.N. a national
technical school, it would take a long step
upon the path towards solving both its naval
recruiting and apprenticeship problems.” It
would; and at the same time it would render
its navy useless as a fighting-machine.
Modern sea-warfare is a highly scientific
business, demanding just as much undivided
study and attention as any other business.
It is not to be “picked up” in the intervals
of learning some other trade. The sugges-
tion that a shoemaker should sacrifice much
time from his legitimate trade in order to
learn plumbing would be considered ridicu-
lous. But many people see nothing absurd
in the suggestion that an embryo naval gun-
layer should dissipate much of his time and
energy in acquiring—at the expense of the
country and his own job—a knowledge of
pipes and drains. Of course, it all depends
on how much is expected of the gun-layer.
If you don’t expect much from him, then
by all means let him learn half a dozen trades
in his spare time. But if you do expect
much from him, he will have no spare time,
for all his available working hours will be
employed learning how to lay a gun. The
American Navy is undoubtedly a great in-
stitution, but British naval opinion is not
in agreement with its methods of training,
and if the recent visit of Uncle Sam’s Fleet
results in Australia copying those methods,
it will be a sorry day for the R.A.N.
♦-
The Man Behind the Strike.
Dear Bulletin,- —In the storm of condemna-
tion of industrial upheavals and their leaders,
very few pause to see the union leader as he
really is. As Trades Hall roundsman for a
daily paper in one of the capitals, I have
studied the opinions and characters of the
species fairly closely, and since an examina-
tion of the responsible germ usually helps in
the treatment of a disease I am sending you
my experiences. The union secretary is
almost always the central figure of a dispute
because he is the only professional holder of
the union reins, and because all business
must pass through his hands. But because
he exercises most control he is not necessarily
a disruptive influence. He is neither a
divine harbinger of an age free from toil
(which his fellow-unionists imagine him to
be) nor the wholly malicious destroyer of
industry which enraged business men persist
in labelling him. He is just a man. I have
parcelled the specimens I have met into half
a dozen bundles, according to their main
characteristics. They do not fit as neatly
into the bundles as a packet of envelopes.
In fact, since every one of them is different
from his brother, the bundles straggle out
loosely at the ends, like a bunch of carrots.
But these are the broad types as I have met
them in descending order of frequency:—
(1) The man with a dominating but hazy idea
that the capitalist is an unfriendly neighbor who
will steal his fowls. He accordingly watches for
an opportunity to whip the heads off the other


The Federal Mutual
\ ra got ail J
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT,
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
, li. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
fellow’s dahlias unobserved and within the law. He
seizes on any example of an employer’s cussedness
as a proof of the iniquity of the genus employer,
owing to a Labor habit of generalisation. He is in-
effective, but, when convinced of your good inten-
tions, friendly, well-meaning and honest.
(2) The business man of varying mental capacity,
who is principally concerned with the efficient
running of his union. He dresses in perfectly civilised
manner and can pass a soap-box unmoved by any
desire to expound Socialist theories from it. One
of these secretaries has the best knowledge of
national finance and economics in his' State Parlia-
ment.
(3) A large and amorphous class who “do their
jobs” satisfactorily. They are usually embryo
Parliamentary candidates (indeed, most union secre-
taries are), but their political shades vary from Nation-
alist to pink-tinged Laborite. Some of them don’t
seem to have ideas or vitality.
(4) The “one of the lads” class, of bovine mind,
good-humored to friends, rude to opponents, with
no depth of thought, but able to keep books in
reasonable order. These usually hold their positions
because they fight hard for their men and go out
of their way to alleviate distress.
(5) The cantankerous brute with an obsession that
everyone who addresses him over the telephone or
wears a white collar is an enemy of the Industrial
movement. He has a negative amount of manners,
occasionally intelligence, but in no case education
or balanced judgment.
(6) Rarest, alas! the idealistic type, really
devoted to the betterment of humanity, well read in
economics, mostly of a sort suited to his political
views; sympathising with Socialist aims, but cherish-
ing no illusion that Utopia could be introduced to-
morrow by revolution. There are only two men in
this group, and both of them hold, or have held,
high positions in the A.L.P. and were adjudicators
on wages boards.
It is noticeable that not one is a park-orator
of the Extreme Left, though such a type is
not unknown among union officials. All but
one or two have more idea of their own import-
ance than I consider justified. Class five
are the only intractables, and I don’t know
how they can be dealt with short of asphyxi-
ation. The germ having been isolated, now
for the remedy: (1) Treat the union secre-
tary as a rational man, not as a child. Nine
human beings out of ten react to this treat-
ment and behave rationally in return. (2)
If an employer considers some of his work-
men are not doing their day’s work or are
turning out indifferent craftsmanship, he
should explain the position in a friendly way,
with facts, to the secretary, and ask him to
see if he can straighten matters out. The
secretary will swear that nothing is the mat-
ter, but just see if the subject of the com-
plaint doesn’t improve. I could quote in-
stances where this method has succeeded. (3)
When the secretary has a complaint the em-
ployer should remember that the union secre-
tary nearly always wants to be an arbitrator
rather than a foe. The adoption of these
methods and one or two others suited to
the individual secretary will not eliminate
all industrial disputes any more than vacci
nation lias eliminated small-pox, but it will
generally make for a peaceable settlement. —
Yours,
DIOGENES DAYLIGHT.
"Tarago” : I suggest to “ J.11.M.A.” (B.
6/8/’25) that it is unfair to compare the
behavior of a handful of American sailors
visiting the Commonwealth in peace time
with that of any section of the 300,000 Aus-
tralian soldiers who were sent overseas dur-
ing the horrors of the war years. The Ameri-
can Jackies came to meet people of their
own speech and race, who welcomed them
with open arms. The Australians were
strung to fever-pitch, buffeted and barged
about under war conditions, and dumped
down in strange lands, amongst people of
every race, creed and color. Yet even then
the incident of the Wazzir was the only seri-
ous disturbance during four and a half years,
and any self-respecting body of white men
might have laid violent hands on the Wazzir
with less provocation than our lads had.
“J.H.M.A.” hopefully observes: “Some of
u 5.... will not hesitate to admit that a divi-»
sion of our own lads would have made things
a good deal more willing.” Well, for over
three years London was occupied by more
than a division of desperately war-wearied
Australians, on leave, with the shadow of
death never more than a few days away,
and the best tribute to their behavior was
the never-failing admiration and warm-
hearted hospitality extended to them on every
side. It was the same with every other city
in Britain, and not only in Britain either.
♦
“Veteran” : It is a reflection on the niggard-
liness of the Defence Department that effi-
cient and highly-trained staff-officers should
leave the permanent military service for
better-paid jobs outside. The latest to do
so is Tom Blamey, who has been appointed
Chief of Police in Victoria at a rise of about
£6OO on his previous screw. About 18
months ago Brudenell White was induced
by an extra thousand to become a member
of the Federal Public Service Board.
Later Barney Somerville was selected from
a large number of applicants to be secretary
of the R.A.S with added money. The three
men mentioned are all Staff College gradu-
ates who were tried and thoroughly proved
in that only real school for soldiering—war
itself. It may be argued that their services
will be available should war occur, but that
is not the point. What Australia requires
are the best military brains to make pre-
paration for war as regards training. The
poor provision of money for training, muni-
tions, etc., is possibly another reason
why men like these are only too ready to
leave a department which, when the evil day
arrives, will be made the scapegoats for the
shortcoming of the political heads. Anyone
reading General Chauvel’s annual report on
the military forces must be struck by the
pessimistic note permeating it; it is really
a serious indictment of the parsimony of the
Bruce Ministry veiled in the usual official
language.
«
“Tiie Listening-Insect” : The fact that
British post-office experts have succeeded in
lighting a 40-lamp chandelier from a distant
aerial seems to indicate that this flustered
planet is on the eve of another revolution.
The super-valve that makes the latest
wonder possible is cheap in comparison with
present methods of generating electrical
power, and doubtless types will be designed
suitable for fitting into motor-boats, Fords
and tractors. It may even be possible for
trams, trains, ocean-liners and aeroplanes
to absorb their stimulus from the ether while
they travel, and the lonely bushie will read
last month’s newspaper by the light of an
installation carried in his matilda. Obvi-
ously huge generating plants will be set up
at the centres where enormous water-power
is at present running to waste, such as the
OFF AND ON.
“Federal Treasurer Earle Page announces a reduction of the Income Tax by one-eighth.”
N.S.W. TREASURER LANG : “Thanks. That slice will come in so handy to feed my
hungry supporters with!”
Victoria Falls in Africa, Trollhattan in
Sweden and the Yang-tzse gorges, and there
should be some means of catching the billions
of ergs that annually spill themselves down
the slopes of the Alps, the Himalayas and
other lofty points in the form of melted
snow. Equally obviously, the generated
waves that will be flung into the air from
these centres will be available to all. No
system of inspection 'could suppress the
thief or bandit of the ether. The freedom
of the air will thus become a necessity,
like the freedom of the sea, and the central
supply companies will have to be recouped
by a levy struck on each country according
to its approximate needs. The interest of
predatory Powers in Persian oil-wells and
Shantung coal-fields will languish, and the
Armageddons of the future will be waged
for possession of the new sources of world
energy.
The coolness of Maoriland’s welcome to
the ’Murcan Fleet seems to be largely due
to that extreme affection for the Cold Coun-
try, amounting almost to fanatical devotion,
which distinguishes the Shivery Islanders.
Nowhere is the National Anthem received
with a smarter clicking of heels, and no-
where can statesmen be more certain of a
cheer when they advance some statement that
the country’s highest hope is to remain a
perfect replica in little of the homeland.
Curiously enough this sentiment is to-day a
good deal stronger than it was a couple of
decades ago. The American Fleet of 1908
was received in Maoriland with marks of
brotherly esteem. The general atmosphere
moved a number of enthusiasts to
hang up in Queen-street, Auckland, a banner
inscribed with a stirring if illiterate appeal
in verse to Uncle SAM' to stand shoulder to
shoulder in the Pacific against a certain
Power believed to harbor predatory designs
against the country. A stanza: —
The Monkey grins and shows his teeth,
Call again, white man;
By-and-bye he’s going to bite,
By-and-bye we’ll have to fight.
We’re far from home and all alone,
He’s the dog and we’re the bone.
Call again, white man.
Anguished Authority detected the scandal
after a few grinning files of gobs had passed
beneath it, and the arm of the Law reached
up and pulled the banner down.
“Master Mariner” : The marine inquiry into
the recent collision between the Sydney ferry
steamers Kuramia and Kulgoa elicited
that there exists an understanding amongst
masters of Sydney ferries that one short
blast on the siren signifies “I am going to
pass you port-side to port-side.” Now the
international regulations for preventing col-
lisions at sea definitely lay down that this
signal means, “I am directing my course to
starboard.” If no other craft but the ferries
used Sydney Harbor, there would be no ob-
jection to the masters of those vessels fram-
ing what rules they please. But this is not
the case, and the use of a private code of
signals amongst a certain class of shipping,
especially when those private signals happen
to contain meanings entirely different from
those prescribed by international law, consti-
tutes a grave danger to other boats. In the
Mersey (Eng.), not so long ago, a man-o’-
war got mixed up with a harbor-tug: the
master of the latter pleaded in defence that
he had sounded four short blasts, consum-
able locally as “Please get out of my way.”
The warship, however, had not been let into
the secret, and quite rightly the tug was
adjudged blameable for the collision. The
sooner the Sydney ferries are compelled to
subscribe to international regulations the bet-
ter for deep-sea mariners and those whose
lives are in their keeping.
♦
“Bile o’ Costs” : The article advocating law-
reform for N. S. Wales (B. 6/8/’25) serves
as a reminder that the Ma State is still in
the mediaeval age of litigious practice,
while more enlightened States have followed
the reformed procedure for half a century
or so. South Australia’s change dates from
1878. Indeed, her Supreme Court is due for
another revolution in practice and in the
speed of its procedure, and is likely to get
it without waste of politeness,- if the Law
Reform Commission, still sitting, has its way.
The ancient methods sanctified by Hale,
Coke and Littleton, and still held sacro-
sanct in N. S. Wales, now only serve as pegs
for the jests of the legal greybeards of S.A.
Nevertheless there have been reactionaries.
Old Judge Boucaut was one. True to his
nature, he was as fiercely conservative on
this subject as he was violently radical on
some others, and he never, lost a chance of
expressing his poor opinion of the un-
scientific” new practice. After the novelty
had been in operation for 25 years or more
he one ctay seized an opportunity in ‘ direct-
ing the conduct of suit” to order that it should
proceed “as upon a bill in equity.' It was
a doubtfully sound order, but the lawyers
concerned fell in with liis humor. A one of
them had even a nodding acquaintance with
a bill in equity, but they dived into the legal
dust-heap with goodwill, and soon there fol-
lowed a rain of demurrers, rebutters, replica-
tions, rejoinders and what not that would
have made Eldon. Mansfield and co. laugh
their wigs off if they could have read them.
Finally, the contestants got themselves and
their pleadings into such a technical tangle
that not even the author of the mischief
could get them out of it—scientifically, at
any rate. I believe he solved the Gordian
knot in one of his characteristic ways, but
he never repeated the experiment. He was
the last of the diehards. The present genera-
tion of Crowland Judges and lawyers
wouldn’t know a bill in equity from a bunyip.
4
“Rio” has the last word :
Because I repeated the truism that Australia cannot
be at peace when the British Empire is at war,
Arthur Lynch (B. 9fB/’25) accuses me of sycophancy
and what not. Whether Mr. Lynch and myself are
grovelling Imperialists or ardent Bolsheviks does not
affect the question, which is: Was Australia neutral
in the Boer War? No matter how much Mr. Lynch
dislikes it, the British Empire is a monarchy, and
one of the prerogatives of the monarch is to declare
war. This declaration binds the whole Empire and
every British subject, as Mr. Lynch should know
very well.
4
W. M. Hughes, professor in bis time of
many things, has been assisting in a course
of University Extension lectures arranged
for the purpose of enlightening Sydney’s
suburbs on divers matters. In the course of
a lecture at Killara the other day he shocked
tender souls by announcing the self-evident
truth that the State that had the biggest
battalions spoke with the loudest voice at the
Peace Conferences in which lie took a part.
From this he argued that,. since force was
the sole arbiter between nations, it was force
that preserved empires. But force alone
won’t do it. Amongst the empires that have
thought it might may be enumerated these:
Kmer, Kin, Han, Ur, Yue Che, Nippur, Ilkhan,
Aztec, Modjopait, Bugis, Mataram, Elamite.
These empires are to-day as dead as last
year’s mutton. In the courts where their
builders gloried and drank deep, the white-
ant struggles with the banyan for mastery.
If their archives could be disinterred it
would probably be revealed that what most
of them succumbed to was internal dry-rot:
demagogues when in office betrayed the inter-
ests ofi the State in the interests of any mob
that had sufficient force to frighten them or
money with which to bribe them. Probably
their statesmen had courage to speak the
truth only when out of power; and few worse
things can befall a State than that.
_4 •
“G.M.L.” (London) : Whether Italians are
likely to make desirable settlers or not, the
fact remains that it is much easier for them
to enter Australia than for the British im-
migrant. The latter, or the great majority
of them, must be approved before they start
on the voyage, whereas the only barrier alien
arrivals have to get by is the medical examina-
tion at Fremantle. Four out of five new British
arrivals in Australia go on assisted passages,
and before this concession is granted the
applicant has to pass a stiff medical test
and show up well in a personal interview at
Australia House.' The remaining one-fifth
are men with capital who prefer to pay for
their own passages. On the other hand, the
alien migrant, who is usually on an assisted
passage under a private scheme arranged by
his friends in North Queensland, has only to
negotiate a temporary loan of £4O. pass the
doctor and step ashore.
4 _
“Canvas” : Accuracy of tone is one thing
that Max Meldeum’s disciples insist upon
when they dopy an old master. But how
can the Melbourne student achieve it when
there is no “students’ day” in the Picture
Gallery? A year or two ago a young artist
copied the little jewel that is the Van Eyck
Madonna. The way he worked was this.
He had a print of the picture at home, which
gave him a guide to proportions and com-
position. As for the color and brushwork.
he got them by going into the Gallery and
staring at the picture for half an hour at a
time. Then, looking neither to right nor
left, he raced home to his studio and there
painted furiously. This he did over and
over again ; if his copy was a success, as u
was, it was in spite of the Gallery trustees.
One may fairly ask why students are nor
allowed to sit on certain days and copy
the pictures in the Melbourne Gallery.
Famous throughout the world on account or
its opulent foundation, that Gallery could
help to build up a whole school of young
artists, now unjustly handicapped by an
unsympathetic regulation.


EARS
UNSCENTED
5°
arcnl
v---
You can see the purity of
vnmvbm
Transparent
SOAP
Any impurity wou'd cloud its beautiful trans-
parency. Hold a tablet up to the light and you will
see why Pears is matchless for the complexion.
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd.
P-93
THE THINKER
knows that Thrift does not mean Miserliness, Meanness, that
absolute Self-Denial that cuts out all pleasures and most of
the decencies of Life.
It means Wise Spending as much as Wise Saving.
To most of us there comes a time when a lump sum of money
is vital, when it means the difference between ill or good
health, the opportunity that leads to prosperity.
In short, our ability to save now may mean happiness and
peace of mind in the future.
There is no better means than a Savings Account, and no
better Service than that provided at all Post Offices and the 85
Branches of the
Commonwealth lank of Malta
POLITICAL
POINTS
Four State Labor Ministries were repre-
sented at the latest meeting of the Loan
Council, but the N.S.W. Lang Government
was an absentee, it having signified its in-
tention of scabbing on its mates. The idea
is evidently to borrow to the limit in London
and dodge the sinking fund which is a con-
dition of every Loan Council flotation, even
if the other chaps’ market is spoiled by
N.S.W. competition. Queensland Premier
Gillies is trying to persuade the ignoble Syd-
ney Government to do the decent thing, A
better way would be to suspend the 255. per
head Federal payments to N. S. Wales, which
have been charitably continued since 1912,
when the constitutional obligation ceased,
until the Government of the Eternal Nark
abandoned its blacklegging policy. Unfor-
tunately the bland Page is not a Treasurer
of the George Turner stamp.
It w r qs glad news that the Commonwealth
had, on June 30, an accumulated surplus of
over £4,600,000. Still it was apparently
paper, or mostly so, for the usual big loan
was lately floated abroad (in New York this
time) to meet foreign liabilities which have
to be paid in gold. It would be an interest-
ing deviation if this country imitated Brazil,
where the Treasurer announced last year
(hat he had collected £11,373,000 in gold coin,
and that, as his liabilities payable in gold
(such as interest on debt in London and
New York) were only £9,820,000, he had a
surplus in that department, and had reduced
liis outside liabilities a little. He admitted
that it had been a bad year otherwise, and
that the paper revenue hadn’t kept pace with
the paper (local) expenditure. When every-
thing was added up the Brazilian man had a
deficit, while the Australian claimed a sur-
plus. Still, the former didn’t find it necessary
to go loan-seeking abroad a.nd the latter did.
In deciding to make an all-round cut of
121 p.c. in the Federal income-tax, Trea-
surer Page has followed a precedent set by
Tommy Bent when he was Yic. Finance
Minister. Said Bent to his Income-tax Com-
missioner : “Instead of worrying about re-
adjusting rates, just make up the assess-
ments as usual and take off one-fifth.” Bent’s
remission was 20 p.c. And in those days
a remission was a remission. As things poli-
tical are, it will he a case of Federal remis-
sion, State imposition.
The Federal Government’s loan estimates
include £1,300,000 for a railway from Graf-
ton (N.S.W.) to Brisbane, which is really
the business of the two wealthy States con-
cerned. It doesn’t seem wildly urgent even
if it was the Commonwealth’s job, as there
is a railway already. Still the craving to
finish it is intense. But a mere £1,045,000 is
proposed for another instalment of the South-
to-North railway. That is the Common-
wealth’s affair and no one else’s. The Com-
monwealth lias a whole province there to be
developed and lots of land to sell. The sav-
ing of distances and freights which the com-
pletion of that line means is incalculable.
A great mineral field is waiting to be made
accessible up there, and Australia could do
with something of the sort just now. But
the North-South line won’t land any imme-
diate votes: and what else really matters?
James Kell, “Governor” of the Com-
monwealth Bank —it is a stupid title nowa-
days and ought to be altered —is a sick man,
and there is talk about his retirement from
the job: he was appointed only for 12 months
so that the new Board of directors might get
to know him and recommend the confirmation
of his appointment or otherwise. Kell is an
experienced banker of sound judgment, and if
he is available there isn’t very much doubt
that the Board will recommend his re-engage-
ment. If he isn’t available, then certainly
the services of a banker of equal experience
will have to be sought. Something has been
said about taking a man out of the Treasury
and giving him this job; but the appoint-
ment of a man not trained for the work is
simply unthinkable. The Commonwealth
Bank can’t be played with in that way. It
would be just as wise for Dr. Earle Page
to recommend his colleague to put a plumber
at the head of the Health Department.
THE CAUTIOUS CADDY .
“Asked if he endorsed N.S.W. Premier Lang's denunciation of the I.W.W., Mr. Anstey, deputy-leader
of the Federal Labor party, said that he did not feel called upon to say anything at present.”
THE CADDY: “Mind, I don’t say you can’t score with these clubs; but I’ve never seen
a gent, do much good with ’em yet.”
“The banks with heart offices in Sydney have
no hesitation in recommending the conversion
loan to the public. We are unanimous in our
view that this loan, being originally instigated
for patriotic purposes, should be for the
same reason liherally supported now; and
we agree that the general public should re-
gard it as a thoroughly sound and safe in-
vestment which is not likely to be surpassed
in attractiveness by any later flotations of
a similar character.” Thus Oscar Lines, gen-
eral manager of Bank of N. S. Wales.
A comparison of the Governor’s speech at
the opening of the N.S.W. Parliament with
the recent Queensland effort suggests that
the two Ministries have entered on a brisk
struggle to determine which can distribute
more favors among its supporters at its
opponents’ cost. By so doing they have made
things awkward for the Labor Governments
in South Aus., Westralia and the Speck.
Those Governments had previously met their
Parliaments with programmes merely hum-
drum—almost “borjoice.” Not one of them
promised the moon or offered to pour three
pints out of a quart-pot. Their candid
friends are now demanding to know why
they are not to get more pay for less work,
together with bonuses for flappers, pensions
for grass-widows and all the rest of it. It
is an embarrassing situation.
The N.S.W. ex-Premier did the strictly
orthodox act when he moved his vote of
censure on the Lang Ministry, and there
are men who would rather appear in public
without their clothes than without their
orthodoxy. Still, it was very futile. Un-
less he converted at least one opponent he
had no more chance of winning than he had
of being canonised on the spot, and that kind
of opponent isn’t converted nowadays.
Sydney Worker, in a genial survey of
its party, remarks that the Senate selection-
ballot was scandalous, that the West Sydney
selection-ballot was infamous (“ballot-
papers and other documents have dis-
appeared"), that the whole selection-ballot
, . , ... . .... , ...
system is contaminated and riddled with
rottenness, find that the A.L.P, in N.
Wales was never more rife with rumors and
allegations of corrupt practices ; in short,
‘the Purity Brigade has now been m com-
mand for two years, and the movement is
dirtier than it ever was before. The gents,
thus lauded are now rescuing the Ma State
from the clutches of the nefarious capitalist,
Harry Gullett, who stood as a Liberal
last time, has been selected as the Nat.-F'ed.
and A.W.N.L. candidate for the Henty
(Vic.) seat in the House of Reps., but
Donald Mackinnon, ex-State Attorney-
General, says he will also run. Francis,
the sitting member, has announced himself
as a candidate for the Senate. He hasn’t
been adopted by any organisation yet, but if
the arrangement with the Cockies goes by
the board the Nat.-Fedders will need an-
other candidate as w r ell as Elliott, Plain and
Guthrie, the selected trio (there are four
vacancies to be filled), so Francis has hopes.
Gullett has been sedulously nursing the
Henty constituency since 1922. Before that
he was head of the Commonwealth Immigra-
tion branch.
The law of Ma State fell foul of the
I.W.W. the other day. There exists a body
consisting largely of non-Australians which
conspires openly to bring about the destruc-
tion, by mussy crime, of our self-governing
arrangements. It sells, contrary to the Aus-
tralian law, literature in which it teaches its
criminal programme, and when it is told to
stop doing so it bids the law depart into
Hades. Wherefore a Sydney Court, or a
w T et rag, or a tame sheep, or something, fined
four of the most contemptuous offenders £1
each and Bs. costs. It might have been more
dignified if the law had gone to Hades as
directed.
Barrister Evatt, opening the Address-in-
Reply debate in N.S.W. Assembly, scorned
the idea that fewer working hours for the
same wages would increase costs. The result
would be “more efficient work, and the work-
ers would have a certain amount of leisure,”
which, of course, they haven’t now. Mean-
while the Water Board has decided to vary
all its construction contracts when the short
week comes in, and allow for the increased
cost, lost its contractors should come to
financial grief. The Railway Department
is also making calculations. Last time the
44 hours were experimented with expenses
went up to correspond, and it expects the
same thing again. It is right enough to re-
duce hours if the party conscience demands
it: but why talk hypocritical nonsense about
it?
On a recent day one Vic. County Court
Judge had a busy time. He dealt with
Conroy (aged 17), who owned several pre-
vious convictions; also Dempsey (19), who
had broken into 10 warehouses for certain
and was suspected of more. Then he got
on to Talbot, described as “a youth” with
a record for forgery; Richardson, likewise
“a youth,” and in the hotel-breaking line;
and Armstrong (17), with seven burgling
adventures. Kingston (17) had broken out
of a reformatory to resume motor-car steal-
ing. After settling up with Kelton (18)
for embezzlement his Honor had a chance
to deal with a few cases aged from 21 to
43. He made some remarks to the effect
that he was disappointed with the rising
generation. The question is whether he
shouldn’t be more disappointed with the
setting generation—the grown-ups who put
obstacles in the way of a youth learning a
trade lest the old man’s job should be
jeopardised.
Hobart recently had a Made-in-Australia
Week. The show was opened by an imported
Governor standing on a platform made of
imported pine. Quite likely there was a
good sprinkling of unemployed- Australian
timber-workers in the audience; there aren’t
many Tasmanian timber-mills working now.
“Aragun”: Periodically we are reminded
by various fat Boards of the falling off in
meat export and the greater popularity of
the Argentine product in London. Meanwhile
how does the .State encourage the failing in-
dustry in N. S. Wales? Aberdeen works, if
they wish to sell beef inside the Newcastle
area, are compelled to pay the Newcastle
abattoirs an inspection fee of 10s. per head,
notwithstanding that every beast killed has
already been inspected by a Commonwealth
officer. The owners of Aberdeen, F. .1.
Walker and Co., have expensive meatworks
scattered around the country, and no wonder
most of them are lying idle.
Unless the Australian police are to die our
like the aborigines and the standing army,
the time for doing something has arrived. In
1922, which is as near as complete figures
go, Victoria owned 12 fewer “cops” than in
1913, and 1913 is a good way back. Queens-
land had increased its force by only five.
Westralia by 12, and Tasmania by three. In
proportion to population Robert is a dimin-
ishing quantity in all the States; and yet:
where he had to look after 729 scoundrels
in 1913 he was expected to capture 797 in
1922. They are swifter scoundrels, too, be-
ing furnished with an enormously increased
quantity of stolen motor-cars. Furthermore,
in N.S.W. 20 per cent, of the time of the
police is taken up with duties which are not
police duties, and new ones are always being
invented; and in Queensland a constable is
68 different officials besides himself. For
these and other reasons it is anticipated that
the whole force may disappear some night,
leaving the lockup door open and the charge
book an ink-stained ruin on the floor. Then,
if there is any poetic justice, the first use
the push will make of its new license, will be
to throw bottles at politicians and stoush all
justices of the peace whose antics have added
enormously to Robert’s risks and toil.
THE RESERVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“While the Commonwealth Government and the
Governments of the other States have deemed it
desirable to float a loan in the United States of
America, my advisers do not propose to depart from
the practice of raising oversea loans in London unless
the London market is unable to provide for the
requirements of N. S. Wales.” — N.S.W. Governor’s
speech.
Let Bruce for loans to Wall-street go,
To us it’s immaterial;
In one respect we mean to show
We still can be Imperial.
We look to Bull for £ s. d.
As well as to defend us.
Weil have no other mortgagee,
Not on your life —as long as he
Has got the bunco to lend us.
We've found him liberal and just
Through donkey’s years of dealings ;
A poor return for all his trust
’Twould be to hurt his feelings
By going' to the other shack
'That’s run by Yankee Doodle;
On Bull we'll never turn our back—
Save only should he prove to lack
The necessary boodle.
In vaults by Hudson’s banks the gold
Beyond compute or measure is ;
It fascinates the chaps who hold
The keys of Austral Treasuries.
But there’s one State at least can show
More patriot rulers, luck’ly.
To London borrowing still we’ll go—
Unless, of course, it’s clear we’ve no
More “possible” than Buckley.
fI.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE HULK
FOR "THE BULLETIN":
The old hulk, with its blackened sides,
The glory of its tall masts gone,
Swings drably in the passing tides
Like some spent ancient, crabbed and wan,
Who, travelling abroad no more,
Sits dozing by the cottage door.
The waves that lap its weed-grown keel
Sigh softly, as in sympathy;
But, if these dingy planks could feel,
Would they desire to wander free,
With proud sails spreading to the breeze,
The trackless highways of the seas?
Its prow, once gay with gold and green,
Clove through the waves of oceans strange;
Proud, strong, majestic and serene,
The world itself its boundless range.
Now rust is on its smutted face,
Chained as a slave to uses base.
It is to youth adventure calls
To follow tracks where wonder leads,
Keen for the conflict when it falls,
With heart that leaps to daring deeds;
But age, grown wearied, may forget
Its lusty pride without regret.
Dreams may remain of battles won
And grand adventures which have past;
But when the lust of youth has gone,
And humble peace has come at last,
The rusted chains shall cease to chafe,
Moored in a harbor dull and safe.
Serene the coal-smudged ruin swings
Upon the pull of changing tides;
And each day’s peaceful sunlight flings
Contentment on its blackened sides.
Not angry for a youth long spent,
It sways and dreams and is content.
Victoria.
HAMER.


/ iiof/jium in uueij-jeojtjj oust dJdi/j -MOlilf J
20 >
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
-
W
w
m
1W
A
V
SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Forebridge”: The crockery and bunks on
the U.S. Fleet which excited the admiration of
visitors, “women particularly” (B. 6/8/’25),
nevertheless have their disadvantages when
considered as part of a modern warship’s
equipment. China looks very nice when it
is neatly laid out on a mess-table in Sydney
Harbor, but I wonder how much delf table-
ware an ordinary Yankee mess would muster
after a week’s really bad weather. For
those who, like the British “matlow,” fancy
their food even when a gale blows, unbreak-
able crockery is a godsend. As for bunks, the
uninitiated may regard them as more com-
fortable than hammocks, but most British
bluejackets think otherwise. In a well-slung
hammock the motion of the ship is scarcely
noticed, and no matter how she rolls and
pitches it is practically impossible to be
A PLUTOCRAT.
THE OLD HAND : “You are the new girl,
aren’t you? What class do you belong
to?”
THE NEWCOMER : “The moneyed class, of
course.”
any patients to Geneva to interview Spah-
linger,” the T.B. Soldiers’ Association has
subsidised one of its members for the visit,
and he is already in Switzerland. In
addition, three branches have selected
several suffering members whose number
will be reduced by ballot to two. These
will be further examined by a specialist
as to their eligibility for the mission,
and an appeal will then be made to the
administrators of the German Verge bequest
to defray their expenses to Switzerland for
a course of the Spahlinger treatment —if it is
available. Australian T.B. sufferers will at
last get unimpeachable information on the
latter point, at any rate.
* * * *
“Forebridge” : In the U.S. Navy the gun-
nery officer of one ship may find himself the
navigating officer of his next ship._ This is
said to make the service more elastic; every-
one, it is alleged, can do everyone else’s job.
Neither British nor Australian naval officers
have that versatility. There a navigating officer
is merely a navigating officer, and though he
has—by reason of several years’ training in
subordinate ranks —a sound knowledge, of
gunnery, engineering and kindred technical
subjects, he is essentially a specialist in his
own department. As a result the Hood
steamed into Sydney Harbor at 12 knots with-
out a pilot, although her navigator had pro-
bably never been there before. But he had'
spent the last 20 years of his life piloting
lI.M. ships into the ports of the seven seas.
Had he, instead of being an accomplished
and experienced pilot, merely possessed a
fair working knowledge of deep-sea naviga-
tion, the Hood would have been forced to
take a harbor pilot—as the California did —
and crawl to her berth.
* * » *
“ J.A.”: A retired out-back (S.A.) station-
manager tells the story. Two fair-haired
foreigners, said to be brothers, called look-
ing for work. One was strong and. well-
built ; the other slighter and boyish in ap-
pearance. The elder, who could speak very
little English, did the talking, the other keep'
ing in the background. They were given a
job at dam-sinking, and proved first-rate
workers. One peculiarity they showed was
a disinclination to associate with their fellow-
workers. Their camp was pitched in a
secluded spot, where visitors were not wel-
comed. They had been there for about two
years when the younger brother failed to
report himself for work. But as it was no-
body’s business to inquire into, the absence
no significance was attached to it. One night
the elder brother came to the homestead in a
state of great excitement, and asked for the
boss. The boss, though used to shocks, had
to admit that what he heard made him
stagger. The man had asked that the doctor
be sent for immediately, but as the nearest
medical man was 80 miles away, the man-
ager was not in any hurry to comply. He
said he would consult his wife, who usually
did the doctoring. She nearly collapsed when
she heard the news, but later went to attend
the patient. On the following day the sup-
posed younger brother gave birth to a little
girl. They had eloped from their homes in
Sweden, married, and sailed for Australia.
In order that they should not be separated
they, on arrival, became “brothers,” and
set out for the country. The discovery of
their secret did them no harm, for they were
very willingly given married quarters and
work congenial to each.
# * •* *
“Samuel Surething”: I admit having sug-
gested to Mrs. Soak, after every other pos-
sible method of reforming her husband had
failed, that she should try kindness, but I
still think it unfair she should blame me for
the failure of the experiment. It was while
plodding homeward the other night I came
upon the lady, and pleasantly asked if the
treatment had been successful. In between
some vicious references to “stickybeaks,” I
gathered that. Soak arrived home as well
sozzled as ever on Saturday night. But there
were no hard words. His wife removed his
wet boots and substituted warm slippers,
drew his chair up to the fire, and rigidly
abstained from any word of recrimination.
“Coming to bed now, dear?” she asked pre-
sently. “Ah, yesh; s’pose I mi’ a’ swell,”
observed the reveller reflectively. “If I go
home the mishus’ll only gimme (hie) Hell.
I’ll shtay.”
* * * *
“H.K.”: It was a generally circumspect
Melbourne citizen who encountered, on a re-
cent business visit to Sydney, a light o’ love
of his earlier days, and was beguiled into
accompanying her to a fashionable city hotel.
There at her request the pair registered as
Mr. and Mrs. Blank. Next day he asked for
his bill, and was staggered to find that it
amounted to £32. “What’s this!” he gasped.
“We only stayed here since yesterday.”
“Yes, sir,” said the manager.; “but your
wife has been here for the past three weeks.
She said you would pay when you came
across.” And pay he did.
* * * *
“Oes” : One of the precipitate, marriages
resulting from the visit of Uncle Sam’s blue-
flung out. The average British tar would
never exchange his “flea-bag” for a bunk,
however well stuffed and sprung. An even
stronger objection to the latter is that they
necessarily decrease the fighting efficiency of
the ship. In the British service warships
are still built primarily as fighting-machines,
and the additional space which 1200 bunks
would occupy in a battleship, together with
the added weight, would mean the sacrificing
a considerable amount of magazine, shell-
room or storeroom capacity.
■£ * * ♦
“F.T.K.”: Notwithstanding Mr. Gann’s
declaration as N.S.W. Minister for Health
that “it would be worse than useless to send
jackets to Melbourne had a startling sequel.
An impressionable gob met a demure little
lady who admitted, on the way home from a
dance, that she had fallen in love with him
at first sight. After this matters progressed
so rapidly that a special license was obtained
next day, and the pair were married, amid
the approving comments of numerous roman-
tic flappers. The disillusionment came when
the bridegroom discovered that the bride’s
IN SELF-DEFENCE.
ONE CAT (as the just-returned singer passes): “How ever did she raise the cash to
get to Europe?”
ANOTHER : “Oh, easily! The neighbors started a subscription.”
husband, or ex-husband, was a compulsory
guest of the Government, and that the lady’s
own name had figured often in charge-sheets.
Police-magistrates in Melbourne saved a good
many others from similar fatuities by refus-
ing special licenses.
* •* * *
“Sixenate”: The contention that an evil
motive ought to be shown to justify a con-
viction for “wilfully and corruptly making
a false declaration” was raised at the Mel-
bourne General Sessions. The accused had
been nine months out of work and was help-
ing to maintain a family of six brothers and
sisters; it was apparent that he had made
declarations that he was married in order to
secure and hold a job rather than to revel in
the two-and-sixpence per day extra to which
the married state entitled him. Legally, of
course, tlie point is untenable, but Judge
Williams got over the difficulty, after the ver-
dict of guilty had been returned, by releasing
the accused on a bond of a mere £lO. It was
the same refreshingly sensible Judge who
refused to be impressed by the eloquence of
an advocate who wanted it placed to the
credit of his client (an embezzler) that he
was neither a drinker nor a gambler, and was
a keen church worker. ’S Honor remarked
caustically that in that case he was not only a
thief but a hypocrite too. On a previous occa-
sion Judge Williams declined to consider the
good upbringing and highly respectable con-
nection of an offender as a mitigation of
his offences. “He had less temptation than
others; he had more opportunity to know
better,” he said, in effect.
* * * *
“Duster”: When a friend asked Tate, Vic.
Director of Education, why Alberton State
school, South Gippslaud, had tlie honor of
being No. 1 on the list, he admitted
that the distinction was purely alphabetical.
It reminded him, he added, of a time when
he was listening to a lesson being given by
a teacher famed for getting a grip of his
pupils. The testcher explained very effec-
tively Leigh Hunt’s poem, “Abou Ben Ad-
hem,*’ and endeavored to impress upon the
youngsters why the angel gave precedence to
this gentleman. Then he put the question:
“Now, children, tell me why did Abou’s
name lead all the rest.” Tlie usual impul-
sive kid got in first with: “Please, sir, be-
cause they were placed in alphabetical
order.”
* * * *
“Alwyn”: It was not until twopenny
postage arrived, in 1831, that pillar-boxes
were introduced -in Sydney. Constructed of
wood, they were known as “receipt boxes.”
Iron pillar-boxes did not make their appear-
ance until May, 1856. Concerning these
the S. M. Herald of the period remarked:
“The first of the 12 iron letter-receivers,
which are to be. placed at convenient inter-
vals throughout the city so as to command
the prominent points of traffic, was erected
at the corner of tlie street adjacent to the
Customs House. The apertures (three in
number) for receiving letters are placed
Oil tlic woman responsible for cutting short
a promising young life; the writer begged
that the paper, in chronicling his demise,
would add some appropriate material regard-
ing the lady’s stony-heartedness. But before
the editor could put the thriller into type
he got a frantic urgent wire: “Don t publish
my suicide. I have changed my nnnd. Why
lie changed his mind has never been ascer-
tained.
*** * _
“Percy Pawnticket”: A burglar with a
taste for poetry lias been run to earth in
Melbourne. On information received, the
John Hops raided a house and found the
modern Sikes —or Villon —immersed m
Spenser’s “Faery Queen.” Most of his. other
loot had been got rid of, but the library
contained books which connected the house-
breaker with a vast number of minor rob-
near the top, so that persons on horseback
may be enabled to post their letters without
dismounting.”
* # * #
“Sleuth”: Touching the would-be suicide
who thinks better of it (B. 6/8/’25). The
editor of a Queensland weekly got a dramatic
letter one day beginning “By the time you
get this I will have gone to another world.”
Enclosed was a picture, also some comments
THE Nth HEAVEN.
“Tess, I’m the happiest ever! I’m marry-
ing the man I want.”
“Pooh, old flivver, that’s nothing to the joy
of marrying the man someone else
wants!”
beries, at which the plunder had invariably
included a few books along with articles
of greater intrinsic value. Having disposed
of the latter the crib-cracker was lying in
bed assimilating the thoughts of the great
minds of literature.
(Continued on page 16.)
OLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was May to his December —
Such a winsome, winning May.
New-lit flame and greying ember,
AVedded birth and death were they.
Such a strange, unholy mating
That the words from me were wrung:
“AVith a warmer love awaiting,
Love that’s strong and swift and young,
Can it be,” I made so bold,
“That you’d rather have it old,
Cold ?”
She surveyed me then in wonder,
Like a child whose eyes are wide
AVith amaze at some mad blunder
By an elder who would chide.
Oh, so artless and beguiling,
Such a tantalising elf,
AVith her pouting and her smiling—
I had wanted her myself!
But my fate her answer told:
“No, I’d rather have it old
Cold!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


m
w<
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto,
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
ananbn
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
“M.H.”: Some burglars are as discrimi-
nating as collectors of old china; and one
of them turned up the other night in a Sydney
suburb. During the dark hours he crept into
the yard of a big block of flats and entered
a wash-house that had been left open. There
were some bundles of excellent clothes on the
floor, but all these he left untouched, content-
ing himself with extracting a daringly-colored
fuji shirt from a soaking tubful of such rai-
ment. Then he fled with his treasure, a
sloppy mass of fuji pressed under his coat
and a trail of water marking his furtive pro-
gress. Possibly it was the color scheme that
appealed to him.
SILENCE THAT IS GOLDEN.
“Dad, what is untold wealth?”
“The sort you never mention in your income-
tax return, my boy.”
“Pile Light”: Deceased Chinamen, in
course of transit to their native land, used
to be profitable freight on the M.L. coast
boats to Wellington (B. 13/8/’25). Usually
attendants went to see the coffins safely
stowed on the boat to China. I never knew
of any objection being taken by the sailors,
possibly because this class of cargo „was a
minor source of revenue to some of them.
Religion or custom, or both, required that
money should be put on top of the coffin; but
not infrequently it disappeared. Sometimes the
attendants grew superstitiously excited at
finding the cash gone when they came for a
final look at the departing departed, but they
always planked more coin on the lid. It was
a childlike simplicity in a people usually
credited with vast cunning. One Chow who
was looking after a cadaver certainly did try
to minimise the risk. He had the coins
nailed to the coffin.
* * * •
“Flicker”: A sustained and robust ven-
detta between two
closely-related fami-
lies in an up-coun-
try district of South
Aus. recently ter-
mina t e d in an
action for assault.
The evidence
showed that Monta-
gue owned a piece
of land adjoining
that of his kinsman
Capulet. When
ploughing time
came, he christened
one of his two
horses Capulet and
named the other
after Capulet’s eld-
est son, Bill. Mon-
tague would wait
till he was well
within earshot of
his enemy and
would then address
his prads in such
fashion as this:
“Yer lazy dirty
’o un d, Capulet!
Bill, yer blankard,
come over!” Also
he would make re-
marks reflecting on
the ancestry and
morals of either
beast. All legal re-
monstrances were
met with the bland
statement that “a
man could call 'is
’orses what ’e
liked.” The day
came when Capulet
could stand it no
longer; he set out
to abate the nuis-
ance, and in the re-
sultant disturbance
the horses bolted,
and broke their
harness. Capulet
was fined £2 and
costs, but he reckons
it was worth it.
Montague calls his
horses Ned and Boxer now.
* * * *
“Cartot”: The comparatively few desert-
ers from the U.S. Fleet who have been re-
captured and sent on to rejoin their ships
at Auckland or Wellington have a poor time
to look forward to. Men convicted of de-
sertion from the U.S. forces mostly do their
bit in the naval and military prison on a speck
of an island just inside the Golden Gate
at San Francisco, a penitentiary with the
reputation of being the worst and hardest
in the whole country. Perched high up on the
rocks of the island, it has some resemblance
to the Chateau d’lf of Dumas. Escape from
it is impossible, and a rigorous routine
has been specially planned to act as a deter-
rent to any of Uncle Sam’s soldiers or sailors
who may contemplate “going over the hill.”
Because of the attraction of higher wages
in civil employment the proportion of de-
serters from the U.S. forces is high, but
relatively few of the levanters are ever re-
captured.
* # * *
“Adelaide”: Our commanders in France
would have had a busy time if they had
started weeding out names of German origin,
where South Aus. was concerned. A very
strong contingent was imported about 1845,
largely Danish and generally anti-Prussian.
They mostly went on the land, and the stock
help to a large extent to build up the typi-
cally solid (and rather stolid) S.A. char-
acter. Whether the name persisted or not
was a matter of male descent. Where the
Schmidt brother and sister had married a
Smith sister and brother, it was obviously
absurd to call the one family Germans and
the other good Australians. The names that
did persist were all over Adelaide, and in
the country some districts had hardly any-
thing else. When the war came, the third
and fourth generations enlisted just as freely
as other young men, and were genuinely
astonished when anyone remarked on the
significance of the names. There is not a
war memorial anywhere without such names
among the dead. Yet the bitterness of the
period drove every name of the kind out of
Parliament, and officially abolished village
titles like Lobethal or Hahndorf. Even
Tanunda, from its ingrained associations,
was resigning itself to be re-christened when
Rodney Cockburn and the other experts
pointed out that it was a perfectly good
Australian native name.
“Wang”: A new fashion in house nomen-
clature may be noted amongst Melbourne
suburban dwellers, the newly-weds having
taken to labelling the dove-cot with
a blend of the Christian name of each.
Thus when the wayfarer sees “Maybert” on
the front gate of a new villa he may deduce
A TIGHT CORNER.
“Who was the woman you were raving about in your sleep last
night?”
“Why, you, dearest.”
“My name is not Sybil.”
“That shows how I was raving, dud-doesn’t it, darling?”
that sweetie’s name is May and hubby’s
Albert or Herbert. Willamy is just as easy
to unravel, and so are hundreds of others.
Some of the combinations result in weird
titles like “Samoline” ; but possibly even they
may be regarded as an improvement on
“The Nest” and “Emoh Ruo.”
* * * *
“Killarney”: A bright young man in the
sth L.H. discovered something wrong with,
one of his shoulder-blades. When he drew
it back the arm used to “click” (in confi-
dence he told me it had always been like
that). He reported sick, and our M.O. was so
puzzled he took him
along to Brigade
H.Q. The M.O.
there was most em-
phatic—the should-
er-blade was frac-
tured without a
doubt. By this time
the patient had be-
gun to feel bad
pains—so he said.
Evacuated to Lem-
nos the hospital
people could find
nothing wrong with
him; so the young
man was marked
down for Anzac
again, and while
waiting transit was
given a job in the
hospital. Finding a
vacant bed in one
of the wards one
night he crawled
into it and went to-
sleep. About 2 in
the morning he was
awakened by a
medical man, pad
and pencil in hand,
and the question,
“How many times
through the day?”
“Six,” cheerfully
replied the youth
and went to sleep again. In the morning he
was on the Aquitania, - and eight days later
landed in England.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: The joke is regarded as
being on the local priest in a scattered
N.S.W. country district, but his reverence
is enjoying it quite as much as any of his
parishioners. The priest, who uses a buggy
for travelling, recently sacked his handy-man
and engaged, through a Sydney registry-office,
a newly-arrived immigrant with a full-
flavored Irish name. The first Sunday the
cleric noticed that his new acquisition did
not attend church, and, asking the reason,
learned that the man was a Methodist, and
a local preacher himself. The employer saw
the humor of it, and, so far from discouraging
his helper, cheerfully acquiesced in the situa-
tion. And now of a Sunday, after driving
the priest to a town where service is to be
held, the newcomer hurries off to his own
corner of the vineyard.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: Sydney’s cemetery suburb of
Lidcombe supplies a case of quaint nomen-
clature (B. 6/8/’25). Originally known as
Haslem’s Creek after a person who kept a
beer shop there in the ’thirties, it later be-
came Rookwood. But the depressing pall of
the necropolis weighed so heavily on the dis-
trict that the residents secured permission
from the Government to re-christen them-
selves. There was a popular ex-mayor, Lid-
bury, who had done yeoman service in the
struggling years, and there was an energetic
mayor named Larcoinbe. The “portmanteau
word” Lidcombe resulted.
* * * *
“Coot”: Include among grotesque place-
names in Victoria Bandiana, which got its
label from a neighboring range called after
a bandy-legged gin named Anna. Badaginnie
is Ceylonese for “hungry belly,” and was
named by Surveyor Wilmott, the members of
whose party were on the verge of starvation
when he returned to camp on one occasion.
Willaura is the combination of the names
of two children, Will and Laura. One Mel-
bourne suburb perpetuates the name of a
racehorse. This is Aspendale, called thus by
J. R. Crooke after his mare Aspen. Only
one suburb has a native name, viz., Prahran,
a corruption of Pur-ra-ran.
# * * #
“Caractacus” : The visit of the U.S. Fleet
showed me how unintelligible our common-
places of conversation —not slang, but every-
day colloquialisms such as even Judge Cur-
lewis could hardly affect to misunderstand—
may be to English-speaking strangers. I hap-
pened to use the phrase “A tall story” to
one of the lads from the land of tall storeys
and stories. He quite failed to grasp what
I meant, and I could not quite put it into
the language of his suburbia. The nearest
point reached by him was “a front-page
story”—not at all my meaning, but we left
it at that.
# * # *
“Chhota Peg” : If “Tarago” read a morse
signalling-lamp “reflected on a light film of
cloud” at a distance of 50 miles (B.
0/8/’25), he can claim it as a record. What
he saw during the American Fleet’s visit to
Melbourne was probably a searchlight. They
were frequently in evidence, and the opera-
tors had a habit of sending short messages
and words. The same principle was adopted
COMPENSATIONS.
“How do you find the new hash-foundry?”
“Good and bad. The rooms are small, the food is poor, hut the
scandal’s lovely.”
at the siege of Ladysmith, when messages
were sent to the garrison in the town by
playing on a cloud with a searchlight-beam.
The ordinary lamp used for ship-to-ship sig-
nalling is not constructed to throw a light
on the heavens, and if it were it would hardly
be distinguishable at 50 miles from the glow
of the general lights of a city. If it can be
read with a telescope at 10 miles it is of more
than average quality.
THE TANTALISING TYPISTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Quill was a. clerk, the most steady of men;
His love was a ledger, his sword a steel pen;
He dotted his i’s and he crossed all his f’s,
lie added three columns at once with great ease;
And his favorite dish was brown bread and cheese.
He arrived at the office at eight forty-five,
Put on an old coat, for his desk made a dive;
There he totted up figures until it struck one,
When he lunched in the cloak-room on tea and a bun,
Then rushed to liis desk as though shot from a gun.
He was still in the thirties, although growing grey,
When into his vision there drifted a fay—
Her name was Dianthe Delphinium Phlox—
Who stood five foot-three in her silk-arto sox,
And dwelt with mamma, at Vaucluse, in “The Rocks.”
Her eyes glowed like pools of dark water at night
When shot by the rays, ’tween the trees, of moonlight;
And their long, drooping lashes —quite close, yet
apart—
Were wings which directed each dangerous dart
Aim’d from Cupid’s love-bow at an amorous heart.
John gazed at the typiste, his mouth filled with
bread,
Till shivers ran up through his spine to his head;
Her mouth was a perfect, though small, archer’s bow,
Rose-red with the carmine which health may bestow;
And her neck put to blush the poet’s best snow.
DianthS at length felt the glow of John’s stare;
Her eyelashes lifted —surprised he was there —
Whilst he blushed and trembled and gazed at her feet
(Arched and small, topped by ankles slim, shapely
and sweet),
And at limbs in silk stockings enchantingly neat.
She said: “How are you? You’ve forgotten me quite!
We met at the Goldpens’ one Saturday night.”
John stammered “Oh, yes,” though he’d never been
there ;
Begged pardon, and found her an easier chair,
And thought as she moved that she floated in air.
He borrowed ten pounds from the cashier at two,
And asked her to dine at the Cafe Coo-Coo;
But she said: “I’m so sorry—at seven we have tea;
I can’t keep ma waiting—there are only us three:
The mater, dear Billy (my brother) and me!”
John thought: “What an angel! How modest, how
true!
Oh, would I were worthy to make love to you!”
He spent all his savings on Her —thought them dross.
But the bright little lady worked things on the
cross—
She lunched with John Quill, but she dined with
his boss!
N.s.w.
GEORGE BLACK.


I
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
MfckeVgN
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington CN.Z.),
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
Death Benefits. Easy Instalments.
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CC\, LTD.,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Parbury House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gas Light Co. (Syd-
uey) •
Dividends To Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves. Reserves.
1917.. £34,495 5 p.c. = £38,250 £1,245 £16,674
1918 86,627 6 „ „ 91,800 11,501
1919.. 138’,945 Si’,’, ’’ 137,210 1,735 13,236
1920 155 843 8., ~ 153,892 1,951 15,187
1921.': 183,978 8 ,! „ 170,574 13,404 28,591
1922.. 182,973 8 „ „ 173,621 9,352 07,940
1923.. 168,721 8 ~ ~ 195,660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ „ 216,921 22,883 33,887
1925.. 232,918 8 „ „ 237,752 29,053
Profits last year were £4834 less than the
dividend. That, however, is not unique, and
is of no importance provided the amount set
aside for “special purposes” and deprecia-
tion was sufficient —and it may safely be
assumed that it was. The Gas Act permits
an annual vote to the “special purposes and
depreciation fund” up to 3| p.c. of the
capital outlay on premises and plant; but
the maximum standing to the credit of the
fund must not exceed 10 p.c. of capital and
share premiums. The amount voted last
year compares with recent terms as follows:
Charged Total at
Against Revenue. Credit of Fund.
1919 .. £100,602 £132,070
1920 .. 60,000 138,788
1921 .. 91,371 130,338
1922 .. 120,000 172,050
1923 .. 100,000 187,792
1924 .. 100,000 200,421
1925 .. 105,000 182,158
Total capital on June 30, was £4,857,833
(share, £3,120,000; loan, £1,667,997; pre-
mium, £69,836) ; therefore the co. was en-
titled to appropriate £170,000. The fund
itself could have been £485,783 on June 30;
at £182,158 it was but 37 p.c. of that
amount. Practically all of last year’s expen-
diture was spent on removal and replace-
ment of plant.
Prior to making the provision just men-
tioned, earnings in the past seven years have
been: —
1919 .. £239,547 I 1923 .. £268,721
1920 .. 215,843 I 1924 .. 339,804
1921 .. 253,613 I 1925 .. 337,918
1922 .. 302,973 I
To pay for further expansion 30,000 £6
shares were sold in April. Most of the
£950,000 of “1930” debentures issued earlier
in the year was to replace debentures which
matured in February, but portion went to
meet capital outlay for plant. As a result
share capital increased by £lBO,OOO and
loan by £172,928. Expenditure grew in every
department. It isn’t likely to shrink either,
with N.S.W. Labor insistent on the 44-hour
week and coal-owners and -miners _in con-
ference over the wages question again. Here
are figures for three full years:—
1922. 1924. 1925.
Gas .. .. £1,518,809 £1,565,247 £1,618,279
Meter rents . . 21,824 24,257 24,992
Residuals 129,247 164,177 173,947
Expenditure —
Coal, oil etc... 634,807 610,065 620,726
Wages, salaries . 207,039 217,250 228,736
Management . . 35,935 40,186 47,172
Maintenance . . 335,806 389,220 402,330
Despite the larger use of electricity for
power purposes and its virtual monopoly of
lighting, the growth of population and manu-
facture is making new customers for gas
which the management, by keeping abreast of
latest developments in manufacture, has set
itself to retain. Australian Gas Light really
has developed into a great public undertak-
ing minus the throttling deficiences of the
average Government-owned enterprise. Divs.
are practically limited to 8 p.c., for it would
be inviting Government interference to take
advantage of the clause which permits in-
crease when the price is dropped below the
standard. At present the co. is selling gas
at ss. 2d. per thousand c. ft.—7d. below the
price fixed in 1920. Reductions have been
made voluntarily, the last in February. With
electricity competing keenly in every line
the co. is governed by something infinitely
stronger than legislation; and if the fac-
tors at present shaping in N. S. Wales crys-
tallise, then the management will be forced
to review the price, and Bill Smith will be
given a small reminder that Tie has to pay
something of the cost of the 44-hour week.
One amendment of the law is still called
for. Gas cos. should be given every induce-
ment to improve processes of manufacture
and to utilise, improve and add to residuals.
That inducement could be the right to in-
crease divs. in proportion to savings, on the
finding of a competent tribunal.
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915.. £7,315 20 p.c. = £5OOO £2315 £42,268
1916.. 9,503 20 „ „ 5000 4503 £6,771
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 21,771
1917.. 8,746 14 p.c. = 7000 1746 23,517
1918.. 8,730 14 „ „ 7000 1730 25,24.
1919.. 9,260 14 „ „ 7000 2260 27,007
1920.. 11,898 16 „ „ 8000 3898 3 M05
1921.. 9,117 14 „ „ 7000 2117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 16$ „ „ 8250 5390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 „ „ 9500 4269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9500 5789 48,9/0
Transferred to capital, £25,000. . 23,970
1925.. 15,045 lOp.c. = 10,500 3645 1 27.615
Written off, £9OO ( ’
Last year’s gift issue brought paid capital
to £75,000. A like amount was distributed
nine years ago, so that last year’s return, to
old holders, was worth anything up to 42
p.c. It has been a splendid proposition for
shareholders, and although the Board still
refrains from giving information about the
value of the trust estates in hand, the profit
figures have been so consistently good that
the directors need fear no cross-examination.
This comparison indicates the progress:—
Earnings. Expenses.
1900 .. .. £7,376 • £3,022
1910 .. .. 17,131 8,673
1920 .. .. 26,673 14,580
1924 .. .. 36,105 20,740
1925 .. .. 37,467 22,344
Expenses moved up sharply, but no explana-
tion is given. During the year a strongroom
was added at a cost of £1737; of that £9OO
was written off out of the year’s profits.
Provision is made for contingencies before
income is written in, and the allowance_ is
doubtless liberal. These figures, covering
two 10-year periods, show how the position
has improved:—
June,’os. June,’ls. June,’2s.
Liquid assets .. £17,951 £39,284 £49,073
Other assets . . 24,461 31,575 49,771
Liabilities .. 524 Nil Nil
And, as the “other assets” include £33,028
owing by sundry debtors, the gain of £27,985
in the last decade represents excellent pro-
gress, particularly in view of the fat divs.
and the gift issues over the same period.
There are total funds of £102,615 to protect
clients as well as £300,000 uncalled.
* * * *
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Policy- to Re- and Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 32.045.13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 4,148 183,897
New capital .. .. £l2 '183,909
1916.. 33.571.13,985 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 189,510
1917.. 618.14,812 10 „ „ 12,500 181,816
New capital .. . . £99 181,915
1918-39,450 14,593 12$ p.c. = 15,625 9,232 191,147
1919.. 323.15,243 12$ „ „ 15,625 6,455 197,602
New capital . . ..£25,000 222,602
1920.. 42.469.16,998 121p.c.= 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital.. ..£77,983 307,306
Premiums on new shares 27,408 334,714
1921.. 887.16,413 10 p.c.= 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital .. .. 127 339,028
Premiums . . . . 85 339,113
1922.. 47.519.16,957 10 p.c.= 30,305 257 339,370
1923- 17,597 7$ „ ~22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. 391,892
1924- 17,967 10 p.c.= 30,311 5370 397,262
From inner reserves, £BOOO .. 405,262
1925- 19,505 10 p.c.= 30,311 8,781 414,043
The bonus to policy-holders is paid on re-
newals bv every office working under the
tariff agreement. Clipping that amount,
then, off the profit figure, the year’s earn-
ings are £39,092, and that is an improve-
ment. The Mercantile is no laggard now in
the race for business. For a long time it
was pernickety in its choice of risks; but in
these later years it scrambles for the ordi-
nary run of business and finds that, if it
doesn’t pay as well, it at least can be made
to pay something. In the next table pre-
miums include the 10 p.c. bonus; the loss
and expense ratios are, therefore, somewhat
less than if net premiums were used in the
comparison:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.c,
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1915.. 136,85 S 50,664 61,458 37.0 „ 44.9 „
1920.. 194,681 67,212 94,083 34.5 „ 48.3 „
1921.. 216,774 74,751 105,564 34.5 „ 48.7 „
1922.. 241,281 92,815 116,156 38.5 „ 48.1 „
1923.. 257,511 124,233 112,623 48.2 „ 43.7 „
1924.. 326,786 157,301 132,674 48.1 „ 40.6 „
1925.. 376,693 186,834 147,901 49.6 „ 39.2 „
That last line shows the heaviest loss in
the co.’s 47 years, and it followed on two
years almost as unfortunate. Recent times
have been trying for underwriters, and the
Mercantile merely participated in a general
experience. However, it had success in get-
ting expenses 1.4 p.c. below 1924 and 8.9 p.c.
below 1922. The full value of that decrease,
if maintained, will be evident when losses
become normal. With international condi-
tions subject to violent changes, with ex-
change moving to jazz time in many coun-
tries, with competition from overseas increas-
ing in keenness and a tariff wall that is only
three bricks high in most places, uncer-
tainty finds plenty on which to feed, and the
moral hazard ’gets mudstains on its gar-
ments.
Investments returned £18,140 for the 12
months. Some which in previous terms had
looked doubtful had apparently turned out
all right, for £BOOO set aside for contin-
gencies was disclosed and carried to reserves.
On average funds the return was low —less
than 4i p,c. The Mercantile, contrary to
custom," has no provision specifically against
unexpired risks, throwing the liability upon
capital. Last year net premium income
was £376,693; 40 p.c. (the usual provision)
would have called for £150,677. Reserves,
after final appropriations, amounted to
£110,933, and that was much better than
has often been the case. However, policy-
holders are amply protected by funds of
£414,043, an amount £69,908 in excess of
the abnormal losses of the past two years.
Assets were in the following form: cash,
public securities, etc., £242,459; book debts,
£68.489; mortgages, £18,141; freeholds,
£221.550. Allowing cover for liabilities
(£100,936), almost half was in readily reali-
sable securities. Freeholds were written up
in 1924 (a practice not usually com-
mended). but. on the experts’ valuations,
there is still £28,325 of internal reserve in the
item. Many of the securities, too, are in
at under market value. The Board intends
to convert its holdings of 41 p.c. War Loan
into the new Conversion Loan, which will
result in an addition to reserves of £2OOO.
In the past Mercantile shareholders have
eaten deeply into profits, and there was
always undue eagerness to mop up accumu-
lations in gift issues. There is no inten-
tion, according to the management, of seek-
ing further funds from shareholders,_ despite
expanding business, inner reserves in free-
holds and other assets being considered suf-
ficent support to visible assets. At present
there is £101,037 callable on the 404,147
£1 shares paid to 15s.
« * # *
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1915. .£16,721 10 p.c. = £6,150 £10,571 £12,000
Reserve Funds capitalised, £9500.. 2,500
(Contingency Reserves- —shown in table as written
off—capitalised, £19,389.)
1916.. 11.055 9 p.c. = 6,719 1,336 5,500
1917.. 10,623 8 „ „ 7,605 1,618 6,900
1918.. 13,925 8 „ „ 7,827 1,998 11,000
1919.. 14,773 8 „ „ 7,840 1,933 16,000
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written
off—capitalised, £6667.)
1920.. 17,127 8 p.c. = 8,925 3,202 21,000
1921.. 16,469 8 „ „ 9.902 2,567 25,000
1922.. 18,071 8 „ „ 10,389 3,682 29,000
1923.. 27,803 10 „ „ 14,609 8,194 34,000
1924.. 40,170 124 „ ~ 23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 12| „ ~29,219 2,986 53,000
There has been uq big attack by the cold-tea
army for some time, and the local-option
skirmishes have resulted in favor of the trade.
Queensland Brewery Board has been express-
ing its opinion of the outlook by laying out
money on fixed assets. Last year the opera-
tions of the co. were extended into new dis-
tricts. In Queensland, as in the rest of the
Commonwealth, there is good money in beer;
still, it is not the golden trade it used to be.
In the case of Q. Brewery last year expenses,
including an unspecified sum for deprecia-
tion, took 80 p.c. of gross profits, while in
the pre-war year only 63 p.c. was taken. In-
creased business has compensated to a great
extent, and the lift in the div. rate from 8 to
12§ p.c. since 1922 is as much a sign of pros-
perity as of confidence in the future. With
the Queensland Labor Government increasing
wages and decreasing hours and maintaining
loan expenditure the oppressed toiler has both
time and money to give to beer-drinking.
And the fact that the State and Federal Gov-
ernments get such a fine share of the spoils
in excise duties gives the performance a kind
of official seal. The market views prospects
with equanimity: sellers are asking 30s. 6d.
Certainly the position is solid. Disclosed pro-
fits last year were far in excess of div. re-
quirements. The amounts shown as written
off are not depreciation provision; they repre-
sent the balance of profit after divs ; and re-
serves have been provided for, which each
year is dropped into contingency fund. But
the only incursion the reserve has suffered
has been for issues of bonus scrip, £26.000
in all having been extracted since 1915. Thus*
the £28,496 which it totalled on June 30 may
be regarded as accumulated profit additional
to the £53,000 in the other funds.
Balance-sheet figures show all-round ex-
pansion :
1910. 1915. 1920. 1924. 1925.
£ £ £ £ £
Liabilities .. 28,424 26,888 31,476 55,122 62,728
Fixed assets.. 44,587 55,992 73,643 154,455 193,630
Stock .. 12,176 17.617 44,795 64,176 72,939
Book debts.. 11,182 38,870 45,804 114,115 137,026
Cash, etc. .. 775 10,926 9,846 3,510 3,910
Capital has increased over the period: in
1910 it was £33,750, and in the next five
years £26,250 of new capital was added. On
June 30, paid capital was £250,000, of which
£35,556 represented transfers from reserves.
Of recent years increases of £50,000 have
been made, and shareholders are now being
asked to authorise an increase of nominal
capital to £500,000, unissued shares to be
offered at par to present shareholders when
the directors consider increases necessary.
Creditors are secured by more or less liquid
assets amouting to £213,875. On June 30,
including the amount in contingency reserve
each £1 share was represented by net tangible
assets with the value of 265. Gd. At the
present time indications favor the brewers,
and a Board which discloses such confidence
is likely to express it in a manner favored
of shareholders.
♦ * * *
The Australia Hotel Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :■ —
f Dividends.
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £
1915.. 22,502 1980 12$ p.e. = 12,500 659 44,487
Co. reconstructed. Goodwill included
at £25,000 ; £75,000 of bonus capital
issued. Nominal
Reserves.
1916.. 12,140 1980 6$ p.c. = 10,000 48,098
1917.. 13,934 1980 6s „ „ 10,000 13,354 36,698
1918.. 21,426 1980 8$ „ „ 12,500 1,712 41,932
1919.. 20,290 1980 10 „ „ 15,000 4j > 24 -
1920.. 35,014 1980 12$ „ „ 22,500 50,7/6
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 30,7/6
1921.. 32,990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922.. 28,954 1980 10 „ „ 25,173 38,087
1923.. 36,825 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 48,059
1924.. 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 58,192
1925.. 43,678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,517
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,57 <
The annual report said: —
After consideration your directors decided it was
advisable that the co.’s principal asset, consisting
of buildings and land, should stand in the books
at its fair value, and engaged Raine and Home and
Walker Bros, to make the necessary valuations. The
amount over the former book value will be placed
to a reserve in the current year’s accounts.
That has been done, and the book value of
the property increased by £108,352 to
£485,000. The Board has now recommended
a bonus on ordinaries of 6s. 3d. to be ab-
sorbed in the payment of 12s. 6d. per share
on an issue of one ord. for every two held.
That will absorb £79,292, the balance of
£29,060 to be carried to general reserve.
The latest movements, of course, lie this
side of the close of the accounts. Says the
report:—
The year’s trading has proved a record, and we
see no reason why the coming years should not be
equally satisfactory.
While the disclosed profit was practically
on a par with the previous year, £16,000
was added to reserves without comment.
Further: —
The equipment and organisation of the different
departments have been brought up-to-date and are
now capable of efficiently handling all the business.
Apparently the cost of all this was met out
of revenue, for the property, equipment and
machinery items are unaltered. This com-
parison of balance-sheet figures discloses
how the fixed assets had grown to June 30:
1913. 1921. 1924. 1925.
Stock .. .. £7,812 £23,544 £10,975 £11,421
Book debts .. 3,179 5,358 7,499 6,949
Cash, etc. .. 598 4,970 2,370 2,370
Liquid assets.. £11.589 £32,972 £20,844 £19,740
Liabilities . . 32,151 36,782 131,416 113,987
Excess lia-
bilities ..£20,562 £3,810 £110,572 £94,247
Property and
equipment .. 167,365 257,904 444,173 444,173
The heavy parcel of fioating debt apparently
suits the co„ and, with new pref. issues com-
manding as much as 9 p.c. on the market,
money at bank overdraft rate represents
good financing. Despite the capitalisation the
popularity of the hotel should make the pay-
ment of the old rate a fairly easy matter.
# * # *
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd., set
the meters going on Oct. 15; and accounts
now submitted cover a working period of
8 months 17 days to June 30. Results were
good but not brilliant; after providing
£26,719 for taxation and reserves to cover
depreciation and contingencies, net profits
were £17,742, equal to 13 p.c. p.a. on paid
capital. Div. at 10 p.c. p.a. absorbed about
£ll,BOO, leaving £5942. It was provided in
the prospectus that 5000 paid shares should
be allotted the promoter, P. W. Tewksbury,
“immediately after the co. had paid a div.
at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.” That, with out-
standing calls paid up, will bring capital to
£203,083. On June 30 £5285 of capital was
represented by preliminary exes., a tidy sum
having been eaten in publicity in Sydney at
a psychological moment when another taxi
co. was on the stocks. Further, an amount
of £10,285 is represented by insubstantial
assets; also there is a possible deficiency of
£7624 on the sale of Royal Blue Motor Ser-
vice assets, but subject to realisation of free-
hold, which may reduce the deficiency to
nothing.
Results for the period covered by the
accounts are from Melbourne operations
only; the cabs won’t run in Sydney till Sep-
tember. The co. has 152 taxis in Melbourne.
The prospectus stated that the capital sought
•—and all but £2OOO of it was subscribed—
was enough to purchase 200 cabs; but some
money may have gone in freeholds; and
there is £9046 “deposit paid on cabs ordered.”
The Sydney service starts with acres in
Darlinghurst, “within five minutes of the centre
of the city,” purchased for £lB,OOO. A
modern operating station has been erected, at
a cost of £30,000. This building will give
(Continued on page 19.)


THE ARTIST MAKES A PEW SUGGESTIONS FOR AN IMPROVED SYDNEY PERRY SERVICE.
“A motor-bus plying between Adelaide and Clenelg li[?]s been furnished with a listening-in wireless set.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?’
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH,
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
Dost free.
Scientific Glassware, Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals,
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., ■ Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane.—Advt.
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing'
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
***-:{■
The all-round utility and economy of Pioneer Wood
Pipe is consistently revealed in the reports received.
One from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., Laboratory and
Chemical Works, Sydney, says: “We have used these
pipes for the purpose of conveying acid fumes away
from our superphosphate works, these have been in
constant use for the past eight or ten years, and
to date show no signs whatever of deterioration.” The
Australian. Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Australia
for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. They produce
a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-power for
less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp. Very
convenient cooking-stoves and gas-rings are available
as part of the plant. Prices, which are extremely
moderate, range from two-light plants to any size
required, and are inclusive of installation. There
is practically no additional cost, the only extras
being the freight on the goods from Sydney and the
mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest railway
station —positively no wages or train fares. Wizard
Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons,
“Mtjltimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. — Advt?
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered bv
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY, A. AUBREY,
Governing Director. General Manager.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract*
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providihg the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
V
YG
3 0 °N
FINEST DRY GIN
& old tom
%
DT
■ Swift & Company iAtl.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia*
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine,, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 118 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CI.AUIB PROMPTLY AND S'TySFpR.NCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chair,nun. li. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
i-oAxiiX un feet of floor, one-third of
which will bg used for working the first 100
eabs. The rest of the space is to be us °d f or Pe-
yote garaging and parking. It sounds pi ofit-
able. The co. does not intend to go beyond
Sydney and Melbourne, although a Reflow
Cab Co. has been floated in Adelaide. In
connection with that concern I. W. lew ks
bury explains the flotation mid las connection
With it. He mentions, incidentally, that lie
has arranged to buy out the interest-
-30.000 shares—of the Chicago bellow Cab Co.
in the Melb. co. ....
tt is difficult to gauge probabilities on
results so far. On the one hand the organisa-
tion of a new service adds to expenses.
Against that is the patronage of curiosity
Which conies to something new and cheap,
and the advantage, that accrues from an un-
organised opposition. Yet against that
must be set the fact that this service is be-
coming better known every Week and thou-
sands Of Melbourne people who never used to
summon a taxi now oall for a ‘Yellow
Ihiibli as they might,foi‘ a cup of tea, Whether
gig allowance for depreciation was Sufficient
even those inside can’t yet kndw fdr Cem
tain. The sum set aside (£26,719) to covet-
“depreciation, insurance and other (purposes
is equivalent to approximately £36,800 p.a.
That sounds a lot; but it needs to be a lot.
That the co. has done well in Melbourne is
evident on the figures, and it reaped a very
heavy harvest in the few weeks after the
accounts closed. That it will do well m
Sydney also is more than likely. On June
30 liabilities consisted of a £lO,OOO mort-
gage on the Exhibition-street (Melb.) free-
hold and creditor items totalling £7249. Ihe
latter were more than covered by cash.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Electric Power Co. (W.A.) has
added to its plant in expectation of “steady
expansion of business” with the mines. At the
annual meeting in London last month chairman
Howard declared that the co, s motto was
“Efficient service at lowest cost” ; he added
that any scheme brought forward to lessen
power costs at Kalgoorlie would receive the
Board’s Utmost support. Hitherto the co.’s
chief customer has been the local trams, but
lil view of Royal Commissioner Kingsley
illomas’s recommendations it is hopeful of
doing more with the Golden Mile cos.
» * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) shows a surplus of
£i(J47 for 1924. As nd development was
done and a gold premium was Obtained dur-
ing that period, it seems obvious, now that
new ground is being broken at depth and
the premium has gone, that, apart from some-
thing entirely unforeseen, the mine cannot
be operated at a profit. With nearly half
the income from investments swallowed up
in London exes., the prospect of further divs.
appears to be remote. Some London share-
holders are urging voluntary liquidation with-
out delay. They claim that if this were done
a distribution of at least 2s. 9d. per share,
or almost double the present market price,
would be possible. At present the co. is
spending some money on prospecting por-
tions of the old workings of the Kalgurli,
and, jointly with the Lake View-Star Co.,
is trying the Mineral Separation Co.’s flota-
tion treatment process; but in neither case
have desired results been obtained.
* * * *
Empire Extended, alias Lass of Gowrie
East (W.A.), whose chief features are cheer-
ful reports followed by calls, is about to ask
shareholders to replenish its till. Several
blanks and one unlucky miss are in its
record to date. Blanks include duffers at
Mt. Monger, Hancocks and Laverton; the
miss was at Yilgarn, where, after giving up
an option, the vendors took out a fair quan-
tity of gold, and claim there is plenty left.
Latterly the co. lias been domiciled on a
Tasmanian tinfield, but apparently pros-
pects are slender there, as it again is seeking
its fortune in the West.
* * * *
At Kalgoorlie strenuous efforts have been
made during the past year to increase pro-
fits by reducing costs, but in most cases
cheaper production has been more than coun-
terbalanced by the decreased value of the
ore treated. At one mine—Golden Horse-
shoe- —-“trials and experiments” have been
made with some success, but because tlie ore
milled carries less gold than formerly, opera-
tions for tlie time being are unprofitable.
Some of the other cos. operating on tlie
field declare that there is no hope of profit-
able working without the gold bonus.
* * * *
At the Great Boulder meeting in London
on July 3 chairman John Waddington re-
marked that since shareholders last met the
eo. had acquired an eighth interest in the
Wiluna Options Syndicate (W.A.), and a
third interest in the Carmen mines, Colum-
bia. He had hopes of the former becoming
one of the “biggest tilings in Australia,” and
described the latter as being equally promis-
ing. One bad produced nearly a million, and
the other half a million sterling. Adding a
word or two about the future of the co.’s
old Kalgoorlie mine, Waddington said that,
although £275,919 was taken out last year,
the gross value of the reserves only fell by
about £50,000. The value of the ore at
present in sight was estimated at nearly
£350.000, and as development was bound to
reveal a lot more reserves —perhaps better
than the average of those now in sight—the
property was by no means worked out.
* * * *
From London :—The most interesting fea-
ture of Lake View Investment Go.’s report
for last year is the changes which have been
made in investments. Various holdings have
been unloaded, the most notable being half
a million Burma Corporations 40,000
National Mining Corporations and 30,000
Mexican Corporations. Out of the pi’oeeeds
interests have been acquired in about 100
undertakings scattered all over the world ex-
cept Australia. The reason for giving tins
country the cold shoulder is not obvious.
Gt. Boulder’s 1924 accounts show that in-
stead of paying any div. the Board has de-
voted the year’s profits to strengthening the
co.’s financial position, which had been
allowed to get into rather a weak state.
Scouts in foreign lands are still on the look-
out for new interests.
•» * * *
A fresh shuffle is on over New Langi
Logan, and not before it is wanted. Driving
south they have: found the run. of gold in
the gutter richer Since the big intrusion of
country was left behind. But there was only
800 ft. of the lead left before the boundary
was reached, so that the chance to get a
div. out of the show was Buckley’s. Jem
Mackay, therefore, has stretched out a long
arm for that adjoining shocking failure, the
Langi Logan South. In a merger the New
Langi nicks 80,000 shares and the South
Langi 20,000 of 10s. each. Years ago New
Langi grabbed the North Langi for a small
share consideration, but the North ground has
been neglected. South Langi has driven north
from its main shaft towards the New Langi
for 1200 ft. The wash has been patchy stuff,
and calls had to pay for taking it out. That
to the old alluvial miner is a mug’s game,
but the Langi Logan has done no better. The
lure of the fusion is that 2500 z. a fortnight
is being raked oxxt by the New Langi. That
in the old days would have supplied enough
cash for stoping and development and given a
bit of profit to cheer the heart of the share-
holder. To-day with the trained alluvial
worker absent in city sewerage works, and
with, a less-experienced hand to fill his place,
costs are high and calls are the lot of all the
mines. What a sink for cash the two Laxxgi
shows have been since the Ararat boom of a
decade ago! New Langi has mopped up # all
the gold won and calls; working account
has a debit Of £225.000, all without shedding
a div. South Langi has done ditto, its dis-
bursements being £203,000. A negative con-
solatioix is that the Moorlort alluvial ven-
turning of Bewick, Moreing and Co., under
the pioneering of Herbert Hoover and geolo-
gist Lindgren, provided an even worse record
without the share flutters that made the
Langi shows bearable in the market place.
* * * *
Vic. Electricity Commissioners Monash,
Gibson, Lyle and Swinbnrne are demanding
an expert examination of Morwell, and gen-
erally into the Cabbage Garden’s brown-
coal possibilities. A section of the press
which for 25 years demanded brown-coal
development xxow shrieks at its cost.
Farmers’ Union Hall plays the part of Echo.
Premier Allan and Peacock agree to Mon-
asli’s request for an expert. Who is to fill
that bill isn’t told, but Germany is the only
country where brown-coal work is a science.
Morwell’s trouble is that the seam opened
up carries 60 p.c. of moisture instead
of an expected 45 p.c. Costs of winning
the lignite by open cut are a fraction over
3s. a ton, but it is the extra 15 to 20 p.c.
of water that hits up costs generally.
* * * *
It is the same drag with Loch Fyne as
with all Victorian mountain shows. No
dependable reserves are ever available. This
is because floors of quartz in diorite dykes
cut out like shoots of tin in granite. At
present Loch Fyne is grubbing small battery
supplies off No. 3 crosscut: but who can
say how soon the shoot will pinch out ahead?
Underfoot the stone looks to be making
strong, and as soon as the winter is over
work in No. 2 level will go ahead to see if
the floor has lived down to it. If so, and
values keep up, a share flutter is certain.
But that won’t make reserves. The co. then
will have 120 ft. of backs, and could rely on
some profits instead of having to use both
call money and gold to keep work going.
Only a memory of the old richness of the
shoots keeps up interest in mountain claims;
-X- * * *
Rose of Denmark, at Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.), is another mine that wants some-
thing good to revive interest. Winter rains
flooded the dyke basin workings, and as the
stone in the stopes is poor stuff it is to be
left alone. This means that gold has to be
groped for along the narrow run of the
dyke north of the basin. So far nothing
has been picked up; but as gold was won
at the surface, the chance of an unexpected
extension to the tunnel-level is the lure that
keeps tlie> mine at work. On that 1500 ft. of
tunnelling has been done.
Sxxmmerhill Anticlines, N.L., capital £5OOO,
is an Adelaide float of a section of S. Aus.,
near the Glenelg River (Vic.), to bore for
oil. Directors are J. M. Livingston, M. B.
Hamer and H. F. Kessal, the last-named
the man who put up such a gallant fight for
the Okes-Durack Co. at the Orde River, 200
miles south of Wyndliam (W.A.). He drilled
through 750 ft. of basalt, and finally proved
there may have been an oilfield there in some
dim distant age. Kessal was exiled on the
Oi-de River for two and a half years, and
is now keeping sheep at Mt. Gambier.
* * * *
Point Addis Oil Wells Co. (S.A.) is boring
in easy country in search of the source of the
seepage still in sight on the Glenelg River.
At 960 ft. oil globules were reported. At 1100
to 1200 ft. they expect to reach the oil sand
pierced by the S.A. Oil Wells Co. to the
west of the Point Addis bore. It is announced
that Dr. Wade, Di*. G. B. Pritchard and
geologist Baragwanath (Vic. Mines Depart-
ment) have examined this borehole and its
surroundings on behalf of the Commonwealth
Government. Dr. Pritchard thinks a com-
plete geological survey of the district must
be one result of the visit. It is xxseless to
look for oil without plans and maps, and the
absence of geological survey is one. reason
why oil has not so far been found in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
The recent discovery of osmiridium at
Adams River (Tas.) is attracting diggers
from all over the Commonwealth, chiefly men
who have had previous experience on the
Speck’s other good fields —at Bald Hill and
on the Savage and Wilson rivers. The metal
is coarse and nuggetty, and even better than
that obtained from Bald Hill. The three
original discoverers have applied for an 80-
acrc reward, and one of the party, who after-
wards located the metal at a spot some miles
south, is seeking a similar claim there. At
present there are upwards of 70 men on the
field. From two half-acre claims the owners
cleaned up 330 z. 7dwt. 22gr. in two months,
for which they received £lOB9.
# * * *
The 212 ft. level at the Mt. Cobalt mine,
Cloncurry (N.Q.), appears to have lost the
shoot of cobalt ore. Drives both north and
soxxth along the contact of the diorite for
about 90ft. have been barren. A further
shaft is being put down along the northern
extension of the lode. It has gone 60ft., and
is carrying a little copper ore. The mine is
employing over 50 men, but its prospects
are not promising on the faces exposed. June
retux’ns show 8.4 tons of concentrates valued
at £1685.
* * * •*
Although there lias been a mild boom on
Stanhills tinfield (N.Q.) in the matter of
taking up leases, development work is hang-
ing fire until the battery is ready. At pre-
sent McClelland’s leases, results from which
look like making or marring the field, are
under exemption. Fred Reid and P. L. God-
dard have a couple of leases and are doing
prospecting work. Labor will not be required
on the field till crushing starts, anyway;
and unless men are prepared to go prospect-
ing it is not advisable to make for the field.
The Mauretania crushings are likely to cre-
ate a good deal of interest when they come
along.
* * * *
The fluor-spar lode near Chillagoe is
turning out 20 tons of 90-95 p.c. grade
daily, and this is being absorbed by New-
castle Steelworks. Workings are dowxi 60ft.
and the lode looks promising. Expenses are
fairly heavy owing to freight, and a tractor
run over three miles pxxts on about 2s. a
ton. Output is capable of expansion if mar-
kets caxi be found.
* * * *
Sutherland Lode, Kiandra (N.S.W.), is
offering its reserved 15,000 contribs., pro
rata to the 30,000 already in existence, at a
flat rate of 2s. From the proceeds of the
original 30,000 contribs. there remains only
£315 at the bank. Operations at the mine
were suspended at the end of May owing to
bad weather. The shaft had then l-eached
the 100 ft. level. Manager Stone reports
that “high values” were met at 74ft. and
carried through to the 100 ft., where the
pyrites stone assayed nearly lOoz. and the
clean quartz 7idwt. Ten tons from the
40ft. level assayed 2oz. 7dwt., and the parcel
realised £46 oix treatment at Port Kembla.
The development policy includes sinking an-
other 20ft. into more settled country and
then opening levels north and south. The co.
is the first of its kind to take reefing seri-
ously at Kiandra, where about 150,0000 z. of
alluvial were panned in 1861-62.
* * * *
The 80,000 contribs. in the Tanami
(N.T.) float were snapped up so rapidly that
the directors hurriedly decided to launch
the other 16,000 instead of holding a reserve
wad. Last-minute applications licked these
up also and asked for more. Broken Hill
came into the float with a rush; and if H.
I. Jensen’s optimism is justified by results,
progress reports will be popular at the Ilill.
The larger issue is an improvement on the
smaller-; but even now it is doubtful whether
the co. is financially strong enough to do its
job.
* # * *
Dr. 11. I. Jensen, who spent five months,
in New Guinea this year, is impressed with
the gold prospects, but depressed by the
difficulties of recovery. Rich alluvial gold
on the Waria and Markham rivers had not
been ti-aced to its reef sources. “It was very
costly to equip a prospecting party in the
Mandated Territory; and, after finding an
ore body, it was almost hopeless to get
machinery transported to it... . The coun*
try is extremely mountainous and rugged,
covered with jungle whex-e not too precipi-
tous, roadless, traversed by swiftly running
streams in sharp canyons, and besetting
transport with phenomenal difficulties.”
* * * *
Rawang, the lame duck among the pro-
ducing cos. of the Pratten stable, appears to
have got up on the wx-ong leg at the start,,
and has wobbled ever since. Not a word lias,
reached Australia by cable as to the outcome
of the general meeting oix July 25. The
bucket dredge misbehaved during the trial!
run, and excuses are plentiful because 200/
hours’ work only found 10 toixs oxide.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths de Luxe in most of tlic Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
iLL , ’JiILL'JJUUUUi:UUUi
wwnmmnhw
fkW
m
If f J ! tf.i
i:
If
THE WHISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
HUNTING KNIVES.
Marble’s Hunting Knives are made of
the best-quality steel. Exceptionally well
furnished and perfect balance.
“WOODCRAFT,” as illustrated, 4 tin. blade
Compressed leather
for general bush
handle, 12/6.
“IDEAL,” the correct Skinning blade,
centre. Brass hilt. Compressed leather
Sin blade, 15/-
“IDEAL,” with 6in. blade. HORN
brass hilt, 22/6.
WADE & BUTCHER KNIFE, leather handle,
4in. blade, 8/6.
DICKINSON’S HUNTING KNIVES
Hollow
handle,
handle,
Sheffield
steel. Long 6in. tapered blade. Compressed
leather handle, 15/- ... . ~
All knives complete with eheaths.
Direct Agents for Marble’s Knives, Axes, Ili/le
Sights and Hunting Requisites.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRANO
A pub came nearer to representation in
a N.S.W. Cabinet when C. J. Roberts was
made Postmaster-General by Henry Parkes
than ever it did before or since. “Charley”
was a popular young man who followed Dad
in the Crown and Anchor long before most
youths have got a fair start in life, and,
as he had a great hunger for limelight as
well as (at that time) a real thirst for
public service, Parkes gave him a small Min-
isterial job. The pub was, of course, a large
contributor to party funds (and in those
days of non-payment there were distinguished
members who called for a good deal of help,
too), and a C.M.G. was its reward —the
ribald said it was short for Corner of Market
and George. The old house was swallowed
a few years ago by Farmer’s, and its
owner, long since out of public and public-
house life, thoOgli he remained an M.L.C.,
had his funeral last week. He was just
turning into the eighties.
Within a few hours of the receipt ot.
Alex. Nicholson’s resignation of the job of
Chief Commissioner of Vic. Police, the Allaii-
Peacoek Government had appointed Brig.-
Gen. T. A. Blarney, second chief of the mili-
tary general staff. His war record is bril-
liant, and a trinity that was emphatic in
recommending him
was composed of
Monash, Chauvel
and B rudenell
White. Blarney’s
reputation for or-
ganisation, thor-
oughness, tact, dis-
cipline and ability
to get the best out
of men impressed
Chief Sec. Argyle
and the Cabinet.
He is not young
enough to be cock-
sure, or too old at
41 to learn. Already
the Force has nick-
named him “Tab,”
and he doesn’t mind.
He will draw
£l5OO. plus 1200-
odd in allowance—
£6so or so more
than his predeces-
sors.
Vic. Chief Police
Commissioner
VICEOLSON,
who leaves his job
for good at the end
of this week.
The spirit of Jabez Wriglit must have
joyfully grabbed the handles of several Celes-
tial pints to celebrate the N.S.W. Parlia-
merit's inauguration of day sittings. Jabez,
a retired undertaker, had two aversions—
night sittings and collars. Another old-time
member who would have rejoiced at the in-
novation, though not in Jabez’s fashion, was
J. B. Mercer, M.L.A. for Rozelle. Mercer
seldom stayed in the House after 9 o’clock
except when Labor had a majority. Then
there wqte times when he had to say, and
his search for a pair to enable him to get
away bordered on the frantic. So did his
tales about his nocturnal adventures. “Last
night, three women —total strangers to me—
stored me whilst I was on my way home,”
i i/; protested once. Convinced that Parlia-
ment, unless it sits in the daytime, is no
place for a respectable man, the amiable
little wowser declined to stand again for
a seat which was absolutely his own as
long as he liked to keep it.
Dooley (N.S.W.) is not the only wigless
Speaker in the Commonwealth. Recently
elected to the Speck Speakership, Michael
Ignatius O’Keefe discarded not only the
insanitary horsehair, but the academic gown
and lace bib as well. Michael Ignatius is
one of the Labor members for Wilmot.
The queerest casualty connected with the
visit of the American Fleet to Sydney was
sustained by Herbert Ingram, a former
A.I.F. airman, at the Orient wharf can-
teen. It was his job to hand out ice-creams
to the gobs, who, no matter how cold the
night, could get away with a half-dozen each.
Ingram pulled out with a frozen right thumb.
The schoolmaster is abroad. General
Blarney, the new Chief of Vic. Police, began
his wrestle with life as a teacher. So did
C. S. McPherson, State Public Service Com-
missioner; Akeroyd, Inspector-General of
Penal Establishments: Lewis Thomas, sec-
retary and inspector of the Children's Wel-
fare Department; Farthing, Hughes and
Bond, M’s.L.A.; and Peverill, Under Sec. for
Lands. Temporary jobs in grammar schools
also helped Irvine, C.J., and Peacock, State
Treasurer, to keep the pot boiling in the
days of their youth. Irvine was assistant
in Geelong Grammar and Peacock in Cres-
wick Grammar.
When Givens, President of the Senate,
whose manners are not exactly Chester-
ileldian, ordered I)eany, State member for
Warrnambool, to move on - off the steps of
Federal Parliament House on the day Uncle
Sam’s Fleet marched through Melbourne, he
struck a snag. Deany is not a pattern of
amiability either, and he happened to be in
the right. He was on the steps by invita-
tion, and he also had a claim to be there
under a Federal-State agreement. Deany,
not content with successfully defying both
Givens aud a policeman, aired his grievance
in the State Assembly, and Speaker Bowser,
wishing ,to soothe, promised to talk it over
with the House Committee.
C. A. Middleton, who died the other day
at Goulburn (N.S.W.) at 80, was the son of
Rev. George Middleton, who arrived in Syd-
ney in 1820, and was appointed by Governor
Macquarie assistant chaplain to Sam Mars-
den. The son joined tLe telegraph service,
and was one of the four operators at the
Sydney P.O. when messages were delivered
to the suburbs by mounted carriers. Later
on he was postmaster at Goulburn for many
years.
Sydney’s medical men, assisted by the den-
tists, have been wholly responsible for the
extraordinary increase in value of the fine
building known as Wyoming, at the corner
of Macquarie and Hunter streets. Wyoming
was ready for occupation in 1911, and has
become as well known as the Post-Office clock.
A few years ago it was offered to the tenants
for £BO,OOO-odd, but the doctors’ offer fell
far short of this sum. The rooms having
been regraded and the rents raised, the pro-
perty a year ago was again under offer to
the tenants for £115,000, but the doctors re-
jected this also. Last week the owner, John
O’Brien, a well-known Christian Scientist,
disposed of the property to Emanuel Myer-
son for £lOO,OOO. As the leases expire at the
end of 1925, the tenants begin to wonder
what is going to happen.
. South Aus. has lost one of its very few
citizens who are older than the State. R. IT.
Stacy Brown was seven when he came from
Devonshire to the infant province in 1841.
He claimed to have hunted ’possums in the
scrub in King William-street, and seen a
bullock-team bogged in front of the Exchange
Hotel. The family started at Willunga, in
the south, but later drove their sheep north
to Pekina, and afterwards to the Flinders
Range. Later still Brown was manager of
Wiunininnie and Netley stations.
’Erbert Smith, one of Melbourne’s pair in
the Uppali Chambah, satisfied the politician’s
ache for limelight when he attacked Potter,
the retiring chief of the C. 1.8., the other day.
Potter, according to Smith, was edged out, and
the ill-health explanation was merely “bunk.”
Richardson, leader of the House, took little
notice of the clamorous Smith. On the
following day Assembly members of the
Ministry showed that five docs., including
three on the Police Med. Board, had certified
that Potter was in bad health. For years
he had been a night-asthmatic. Potter's
friends were wrathful at Smith having men-
tioned Potter in the same breath as men who
had been drummed out of the Force, and his
limelight may prove expensive in 1928.
Archibald John Christie, a Ballarat pro-
duct, who has been a big figure in postal
administration in the Ma State for 14 years,
goes to Brisbane this month as Deputy-
Postmaster-General. To go to Brisbane, he
relinquishes a lovely garden at Gordon,
North Sydney. Another hobby is amateur
soldiering, at which he served for 30 years
as a commissioned officer in the old volun-
teer force, and he got into khaki for the
Boer War.
Priminister COATES, of Maoriland.
Described liis last fish, J. Douglas Ogilby,
a’veteran scientist. Old age overtook him
at the Diamantina Hospital, S. Brisbane.
Sydney’s Museum to-day is dotted with evi-
dences of his piscatorial knowledge. His
father was William L. Ogilby, the well-
known London zoologist.
Archbishop Man nix. who is leading the
Holy Year Pilgrims, lost his private secre-
tary suddenly the other day when Arthur
Vaughan died at Wiesbaden, Germany. A
product of the Cardinal’s College at Manly,
Vaughan was appointed collector in Victoria
for the Newman College. He was with Dr.
Mannix in 1920 when both were taken oft'
their liner and transferred to a warship by
the British Government.
A N.S.W. law-maker who links up with
the State's past is Bruce Walker, M.L.A.
for Cumberland and erstwhile Chairman of
Committees. His grandfather was one of
the earliest Presbyterian clergymen in the
State, and his father, William Walker, was
elected to the N.S.W. Assembly as member
for Windsor four years after the advent of
responsible government and afterwards sat
in the Leg. Council for 21 years. William
Walker first married in 1853 Mary, daugh-
ter of Jonathan Hassall, one of whose ances-
tors, the Rev. Robert, went as a missionary
to Tahiti in 1796. This particular Hassall
subsequently founded the first Sunday-school
in Australia—at St. John’s, Parramatta.
Timberman Hepburn McKenzie’s long ill-
ness ended last Saturday, and he was buried
in Sydney on Monday. He didn’t get into
timber till he was close-up 30; then he began
to build up a business which is nowadays
run by a co. with a capital of £300,000. Un-
like a good many others in the trade he was
as much concerned about planting as cutting
down, and thousands of acres of young grow-
ing timber in two States of Australia and
Maoriland are his best memorial. He even
got the Methodist Ladies’ College at Bowral,
of which he was a warm supporter, to plant
a large part of its grounds with trees that
would bring in money presently.
Danny Levy can’t quite realise yet that
James Dooley has pushed him out of the
N.S.W. Speaker’s chair. Of course, the
House hadn’t been sitting an hour before it
began to forget that it isn’t a monkey-pit;
whereupon Levy’s old habit reasserted itself,
and, springing up, he called “Ordah!
Ordah!” in the best manner of his other
days.
If ex-Vic. policemen are accustomed to
pray they should include A. A. Farthing in
their petitions. He it was who piloted through
Parliament the Act which enables J. Hops,
on retiring, to accept a pension instead of
a lump sum. Should the pensioner die be-
fore he has received an amount which, in the
aggregate, would equal what the lump sum
would have been, the difference is paid to his
widotv or dependants. If Chief Commissioner
Nicholson, who retires on August 21, draws,
say, £3OOO in pension in five years, and then
passes out, another £l2OO will go to his
family, as the lump-sum value will tot
up to about £4200. Previous to the Earthing
Act the superannuated ones had to make a
choice and take the risk. Tommy O’Cal-
laghan, fortunately for himself, selected a
pension, and has drawn about £lO,OOO.
Maoriland has lost its biggest block o£
Masonry by the death of Malcolm Niccol at
Auckland. He was born in the northern city
in 1844, and later became a business light
there. When the local craft set up tlm
agitation in the ’eighties for Home Rule for
Masons, Niccol was its leader, and became
the first Grand Superintendent when respon-
sible government was wrung from the Grand
Lodges in the Cold, Country. Later he be-
came Grand Master of the two islands. In
.1000 he was appointed Grand Secretary. Oa
all fine quillets of the law of Masonry he
w'as regarded as a high authority.
Died recently in Melbourne, shortly after
his return from the China Seas, William
Hopper, a veteran marine engineer, whose
last ship, the Hong Hwa, was seized and
looted by pirates early this year. The Hong
Hwa, formerly the Kalgoorlie, an old Aus-
tralian coaster, was captured by 44 despera-
does travelling as passengers from Singapore
to Swatow. The captain and most of the
officers were at breakfast when they sud-
denly found themselves looking into automa-
tics. The buccaneers got away with £3OOO
in gold and other valuables. Overtaken by
police a week later they put up a fight in
which their leader was killed. Twenty-three
of the gang were captured.
William Arthur Trenwith, ex-Senator and
former leader of Vic. Parliamentary Labor
party, who died on July 26, left £7675, which
goes to his widow.
H. 11. Turner, the first secretary of the
first bicycle club Melbourne ever had. has
just retired from business. He was with the
firm of Banks, Bell and Co., warehousemen,
for 54 years, and for 47 years of it had been
a departmental manager.
Queensland’s recently-appointed Justice
Brennan is not among the Judges who object
to colloquialisms. One of the first cases
heard by him was an action by the executors
of an estate against an alleged debtor. The
evidence suggested that one of the trustees
of the property, now deceased, had been
guilty of irregularities, but counsel were
unwilling to pursue the matter out of con-
sideration for the feelings of the dead trus-
tee's relatives, some of whom were present,
in court. Brennan, however, ordered them
to proceed. “There can be no hitting with
padded gloves here,” he said. “Let us have
everything straight from the shoulder and
right to the point.”
Charlie Pearce, now in Australia with the
M.L. Rugby League team, is one of the
pioneers of the League game in Australasia,
as he was a member of Baskerville’s team
W. E. BOLD, Town Clerk of Perth.
which introduced the Northern Union code
into the Southern Hemisphere. In his
Rugby Union days lie was one of the best
forwards in Maoriland, which is saying
something. When he returned from the
Baskerville tour he did good work in estab-
lishing the game in the Dominion, and played
for the Shaky Islands on many occasions,
eventually captaining the side against N.S.W.
in 1913. Some time afterwards lie accepted
the management of a big meatworks in the
Argentine, but returned to M.L. in 1916, too
big for any more active football. He now
has a job in the Westfield meatworks, out-
side Auckland.
THE DAYLIGHT SLEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“For the first time in the history of the State
Parliament day sittings came into operation yester-
day. Mr. Lysaght, who was making his first appear-
ance, went to sleep, and was an object of curiosity
for members throughout the morning.”—S. M. Herald.
“We’ll meet,” they said, “in future bright and early
And get to graft before the sun is high ;
We’ll finish up the verbal hurly-burly
By six at latest, and evade thereby
The hours when men grow somnolent and surly
And tired eyelid falls on tired eye.
Recumbent frames upon these seats no more
Shall snooze and snore.
“There’s many a weary soul ere now has taken
The forty winks one needs when bedtime’s past,
Or slumbered unashamedly, to waken
To make a quorum or a vote to cast;
But fresh from bed, and bath, and eggs and bacon
A fellow should contrive eight hours to last.”
Seems reasonable, too, but all the same
The Dustman came.
They’d scarce embarked upon the daylight sitting,
Designed to usher in an era bright,
When over the luxurious seats was flitting
That mischievous and legendary spitite;
One head was soon a-droop, one moutti emitting
The noises that infrequently excite,
More admiration in the neighborhood
Thau sawing wood.
What recked the sleeper whether morn’s or even’s
Light glowed without or faded?-—not a hang!
The most impassioned charge, the bitterest grievance,
The fiercest thrust of Fuller against Lang
Mas lost upon his ears. The fate bf Stevens
Occasioned him not the remotest pang.
M as it his new-won honor seemed so cheap
He tell asleep?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ft
mmßm
1
li!
IHHH
fell! it
SBill
Mas
i
tiiSSM
Kffi
9
i: 1 *
a
1
IS
01
•f <) it :
11 $
I
li’S
iF
ft w
1: ii
li
-A’/K-r-Aj
s
ill! $
i
:> i:
(X
»!5!:
9
®<
55
«!
®.
&
»
M
0
a
I
9
a
H
9
9
9
a:
9
9
! il
11
is™
9
I i
9
ii I?
3
!?)(«
3
i
9
3
ii
3:JiWi! siis
llliß I
I! w&m d
m
i«:ii
3
3
if il 9
3
HR
3
I!;
id
3
If®
;*<;J
9
9
iite
MS*
iii 9
i:H:
3
:[ i
i-.r,
3
I
HMMBI
ifeisEt
S! i
3
m
3
mm
!j;|i
3
3
I
M
3
3
i
I!
tj;ii
i
3
3i!
SIS
it::;
i!si
3
3
3
3
&a
<;ii
3
3
3
3
iWiililiß
3
3
(iKtil
II
3
3
I: i
mm
3
ISi
3
3
3
3
I
jm- w
3
3
3
■MHMM
3
mm !i ill i <2
■SSI* i
it!
!
I 11 [1
3
M
II H
3
ii!
ffl
ill
l;'l
3
I
vm
3
3
!i!i
m
3
ii
Hi!
3
3
IfliP
9
3
ti-:i
m
3
3
3
3
sSV.
d
9
oV
mm a
II
3
fS
4.
3
t:3kii
"M
S»mi
; I
<>!()
iH
M
PJ
!l 111 ;!«>!■: !i|
ii
CAo/ce ffiymtar 7oAaeeo.
7 h a unique
7 & h/ph-c/ass packing.
Tins o| 20, ’ Tiivs of 50,3 ; 9
The little more that means so much,
the capacity for taking pains—the genius
that creates outstanding quality, exquisite
care in the selection of leaf, its blending
and its manufacture, give " POLO ”
Cigarettes (ovals) their famous quality.


Cbe
equitable
bmvb
Cife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head OfHee:
Parbnry House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
81 I'ilt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy, Managing Director.
mbvm
Under all conditions Simms
Magnetos stand up to their
job. Due to their effi-
ciency and reliability ninety
per cent, of the British
commercial chassis builders
fit Simms Magnetos as
standard equipment.
Agents :
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
From any garage or electrician
—most efficient
most reliable
vmvb
FILM PQCKET
PICTURE SHOW
Dfic
PATHEORAMA
7' FGsted 7*3 Films I 9 ea..
Home Recreations £
368 George St Sydney
(opp. Beard Watsons'}
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
“Efl'ty” : My dog lias developed a craving
for tobacco, which he cats and seems to relish. Can
any Abo.-liar tell me how to cure him? He lands
me in trouble with visitors, as he watches them
closely and, if he gets the chance, steals their
pouches and tins. And he is bad to argue with if
anyone tries to take the loot away. His latest
dodge is to go to the railway station and there
eat all the cigarette ends he can find. He turns his
nose up at corned beef, but otherwise is normal
in his appetite, and is a good watchdog.
ALMOST INSOLE RLE.
ELSIE : “Dad, help me with this cross-word puzzle.”
DAD: “Blow your cross-word puzzle! This cross-breed puzzle’s enough for me.”
“A.N.U.” : I have heard of several
methods of getting a non-swimmer across a river
that was too deep to ford, but has any member of
the Council heard a more original method than the
following, related by the author of a history of
Bundaberg (Q.) ? Mr. John Stewart was travelling
from Baffle Creek boiling-down works in 1866 look-
jug for some timber beds for staves for tallow casks,
which he was told he would find on the banks of the
Burnett River. He had an abo. and his gin for
guides. Reaching the Kolan River Stewart was led
to believe that he would be able to wade across,
When he got in up to his chin he found that there
was no chance, and, as he could not swim a stroke,
decided to walk back. His guide, however, wouldn’t
hear of it, and gave him a violent shove'which sent
him floundering into deep water. Then Binghi and
the gin placed long sticks, which they carried, under
his arms, and thus supported he was towed across
by the swimming blacks, who enjoyed immensely his
shouts of protest. When the party came to the
Burnett Stewart declined to repeat the performance,
so the blacks made a raft of logs tied together with
fishing-lines, and paddled him across. Stewart stayed
six weeks in the country around the Burnett with the
abo. guides, and became the founder of Bundaberg.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Of all the strange deni-
zens of the sea the grey-spotted jelly-flap of
northern waters is perhaps the strangest. They arc
about Din. long by sin. wide, and lie on the sand
in the shallows, feeding on some unknown substance.
Almost transparent, they resemble the ordinary jelly-
fish in all except their out-of-water action. Out of
the sea a jelly-fish will dry, shrink and smell, but
the jellv-flap, in 10 minutes or less after its
removal will have vanished out of sight, having
dissolved completely into water. I have questioned
many North Westralians about this wonder, but few
profess to know anything about it. Ask a binghi,
however, and he will demonstrate it to you, often
taking upon himself the unearned credit of being
responsible for the flap's disappearance.
■sfr •K - -JC* -jf
“ J.H.S.”: In the early days of cotton-
growing in South Queensland my dad and another
mischievous nipper once scattered a blacks’ camp in
the most simple fashion (B. 2/7/’2i3). As the dusky
nomads made fair cotton-pickers, when they could be
coaxed to work, they were encouraged by the cookies
to camp close handy. One night when they were in
the middle of a corroboree the dad and the other
young imp sneaked up and set a “pumpkin head,’’
masked with red paper, on a tall stump close to the
circus-ground. When the whooping, dancing demons
spotted the grinning red ghost on the grandstand,
there was a shriek of “debble-debble,” and the con-
cert came to an abrupt end. Next morning there
wasn’t a nigger within miles, and nothing could in-
duce them to return. The cause of the stampede
remained a mystery till the pumpkin carvers were
too old to be given a belting.
* * * *
“Gouger”: By a cheerful N.Q. campfire
my mate and I solved the mystery of how the abo.
thought out his first spear, knife and fire. Here
it is: In the beginning he caught things by Olympic
prowess, killing and eating them by strength of
hands and teeth. One day, while running, a
splinter pierced his foot. He sat down and howled
as he drew the sharp thing out. A month later
he decided that if such a thing could injure a
man, it could also injure an animal, so he broke
down a sapling and pointed its end by tooth and
claw. Next day, chasing a wallaby that he just
missed catching, he jabbed the spear into it, and was
thus the first man to experience the gloriously
triumphant thrill of mind over matter. A hundred
years later, his descendant, while walking along
the seashore, slipped and cut his foot upon the
jagged fragment of a shell. The pain of the cut
impressed the happening on the grey brain matter
within his skull. When making his next spear, he
broke a tooth on the extra hard wood. The blood
from the cut gum dumbly reminded him of some-
thing. He strolled to the seashore, found
the jagged shell, and began hacking his
spear-point with it. Thus was the first knife
evolved. One day he bailed up a Too, and, having
forgotten his spear, hopped in to kill him with
hands and teeth. But the Too objected, and, side-
stepping, landed him a dinnyhaser on the jaw. In
the daze that followed, his dawning brain realised
that was swinging paw that hit him—whilst
he couldn’t hit it. He picked himself off the
ground, and his sulky eye fell on a stick with a
knotty end - Grasping the stick, he swung it round
a,ld boastfully growled aloud what would have
happened to the Too if it were only still there.
So was born the club! One day, in shivering fear,
he sheltered in the forest from a wind-storm.
Overhead two dead branches were groaning and
creaking against one another from the force of
the wind. Soon friction got to work. There was
smoke, a blaze, and the abo. ran in howling fear
from this new devil. But later on lie experimented
GETTING TO DETAILS.
DETECTIVE : “Now, give me some particulars of the absconding
cashier. Is he tall or short?”
COHEN ( bitterly ) : “Schort! I should say he vos! He schort two
t’ousand quid!”
and produced the firestiek. The result scared the
devil out of him—he’d produced Are! As my
mate finished speaking, he poked the campfire, then,
with the thrill of a brain wave, triumphantly held
up the charred stick. “And this,” he said, “is
how they found out how to harden their spear
points.” Then we proved to our satisfaction how'
Binghi made his first tomahawk. But you may
think that out for yourselves.
* * * *
“Pick”: When enumerating the bird-
mousers (B. 16/7/’2o), “S.C.” omitted mention of
the champion. Working in a harvest field in South-
ern Monaro (N.S.W.) last summer, we daily watched
a pair of kookaburras procuring provender for their
chattering brood in a near-by hollow spout. The old-
sters would perch sedately on the fence with no
appearance of watchfulness, but every now and then
one or the other would plunge into an adjacent mouse-
infested haystack. Seldom did he emerge v'ithout a
squirming mouse or young rat held in his pincers.
The number the jackos caught and carried off indi-
cated a voracious appetite in the home circle, but
the wonder was how', at such a distance, they could
so accurately discern the straw movement that, be-
trayed the whereabouts of a hidden rodent.
* * * *
“Brady’s Look-out”: “Herodot’s’* par (B.
16/7/’25) on dough-kneading in the early days brings
to mind an old-timer who, before the advent of
cream-separators and concussion traptions, used to
churn the butter with his feet. Seated on a three-
legged stool with his trotters in the cream-crock, he.
soon beat out the buttermilk to the tune of “The
Little People” or “The Wearing of the Green.”
* * * *
“Up North”: It’s curious that more bush
stock don’t get killed by falling timber. Despite
continual downfall of branches and trees, only an
odd humpy-backed steer advertises the fact of having-
been caught. I suppose it is because instinct makes
qattle dodge coming- death more expertly than
humans dodge motor-cars. Almost invariably a fall-
ing. tree gives notice minutes beforehand. A creak,
a groan, an uptearing of roots and any cattle
sheltering underneath are off like a breath of wind.
It is the dead limbs which snap close to the trunk
and faH like a whizzing spear that do the damage.
Occasionally the snap sounds like a pistol shot, and
drowsing cattle make off before the branch hits the
ground. When it does drop without a sound, then
any live thing that’s underneath stops it. I saw
a case of confused generalship one time, out on the
Upper Clarence (N.S.W.). A big mob of steers
were enjoying their mid-day siesta under a mighty
gum. There was not a breath of wind, and every
bush thing was drowsing. The million leaves of the
great tree glinted as the sun shone on them at a
suddenly different angle. The earth cracked above
a straining root, and the towering barrel seemed
to slightly quiver. The mob were up on the instant
and away at full gallop. A heavily foliaged branch
on a tree opposite fell with a humming “swish-sli”
fair in front of the leader. He swerved, and the
mob swerved after him, galloping off at an angle that
took them directly under the desperately canting
gum. Most of the mob got past, hut the far-
rc-aching branches broke across the backs of eight
of them. Six were killed outright and the other
two had to be shot.
* * * »
“W.J.C.”: “Buuya” (B. 10/7/’25) is out.
in spots, concerning nestless birds. He says the
jackass does not even collect a stick. X.Q. jackasses,
at least, are more care-
ful. As with most oi
tile kingfishers, they
build in the soft,
honeycombed ear t !>
mounds that ants are
kind enough to erect on
trees. In one of these
Jack will dig a neat
tunnel finishing in a
hollow, which he lines
with soft grass, making
altogether a fit. reposi-
tory for any egg. .Most
N'.Q. parrots, too. make
some attempt at lining
their hollow branch
attics with grass and an
occasional feather. For
jerry-built abodes,
“Bunya” may add to
his list that of the
homely dote, whose
nest is a meagre lattice
work of grass, through
the bottom of which
the eggs are plainly
visible. The nearest
approach to a War
Service HonVe is the
nest of the mopokes.
which consists chiefly
of a few' sticks plus the
pious hope that the
long white, elliptic
eggs won’t dr o p
through. Among the
real home-builders, the
cliook-chook has the
cake for industry.
Smaller than a sparrow,
he digs a tunnel of
anything up to a yard
in length in a bank,
arid sets his grass-lined
nest in a hollow at
the end—a mighty task
for the homing of three
small white eggs. Star-
lings with their com-
munity nests make an interesting study. Until
recent storms did havoc, the Barron River (X.Q.)
had some good specimens, long festoons of nests
hanging from every branch of several trees.
* * * *
“Sheepskin” : “Nakli” (B. 30/7/’25) asserts
that eels have been found beyond the Dividing
Range. There is no authenticated instance of them
having been caught in any river of the western
slope of that range. T. C. Roughley, in “Fishes of
Australia,” confines their habitat to the coastal rivers
only. At Lowther, on the Jcnolan Caves-road, eels
can be caught in the creek, which is a tributary of
the eastern-flowing Cox. The ridge which divides
the watersheds is but a few hundred yards oil,
and from its western side creeks flow to the Fish
River, one of the head waters of the Macquarie.
Eels have never been caught in any of these creeks
nor in any western stream. This peculiarity, which
exists right along the Dividing Range, puzzles
scientists because there is no apparent reason why
ALTERATION NECESSARY.
THE SERGEANT: “Why you make circle in-
stead of cross, Mary.”
MARY : “This pfella bin marry ’gain las’
week, boss —changem, name.”
eels should not travel from one slope to the other.
Anyone who catches a specimen in western water*
will earn the thanks of the N.S.W. Fisheries Depart-
ment by sending it along, together with details of
place of capture.
(Continued on page 24.)
CUPID’S STEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
old horse, you used to carry me when life was young
and sweet.
When all Love’s calls were urgent, and ail Love’s
calls were sweet.
No matter what the night tracks were, no matter
where they led,
Vou- seemed to sense that Paradise’ was waiting on
ahead.
Rock-ribbed, stone-strewn declivities —all, what were
they to you !
You simply were quite unconcerned, and blithely
battled through.
What matter if a slippery place decreased somewhat
your speed,
You quickly gathered pace again—the pace young
lovers need.
Your eyes peered through the darkness—{he gift of
second sight
Was yours, increasing ever with the blackness of the
night.
A fallen tree, spread-eagled, across the track defied—
’Twas but a trifling item ; you took it in your stride.
Long hours were you tight-tethered to some obliging
tree,
With this command: “Wait here, old horse, keep wait-
ing here for me.”
But with that calm philosophy peculiar to your kind,
Old horse, although you should have chafed, you
didn’t seem to mind.
Oh! you were Cupid’s bearer of strong arms meant
to press
In feverish abandon, or pleadingly caress!
You’re long since dead, old Love Horse, and as
tribute overdue
I dedicate these verses to memory of you.
N.S. W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


When you fit
it means increased mileage
economy £ satisfaction.
You save money in their
purchase and avoid trouble
by their use. Nothing to
equal them for hard driving
on Australian roads.
Fit .them —it pays! Garages
stock ‘Dunlops' in all sizes.
'iSiiiiii
■im
111
.y.
—HI
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of AUS. Ltd.
ALL STATES t N.Z.


HOW MUCH DO THE RABBITS
COST YOU EVERY YEAR?
u
FUMO
BRAND
$
Pern'S
Can you estimate the cost of the damage they do your crops?
It’s a good deal more in one year than it would cost you to
exterminate them with
CALCIUM CYANIDE
This thorough method will absolutely clear your acres of
the rabbit pest.
You blow it into the warren like dust. There it generates
fumes which kill every rabbit in the
warren, no matter how deep the dead-ends
are. It indicates every opening by a
smoke cloud, so that the operator knows
exactly the extent of that particular
warren.
Apply it with a Fumo Dust Blower, which
is so simple and safe a child could use
it, and be done with the rabbits for good.
Full particulars promptly on request.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS;
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Utd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Beggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Utd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Bid., Perth.
vmvm
MALTHOID
f loor covering
RED OR GREY.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Acstralasian Manager, CHaT.I.IS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Moonshine” : “D. 8.” (8.9/7/’25) is skating
on very thin ice in his observations on camouflaged
“shimmering pools of water” in “the frosty night,” and
the non-intelligence of water-fowl. When observed
at a comparatively low altitude most roofs, certainly
that type which shelters the cocky in the Riverina,
appear flat. But the architecture usually provides
for a gable or two, and it is into the gable that the
birds, flying- just above the roof-tops at great speed
and under the low visibility afforded by moonlight,
crash. The birds mistake the patch of light for a
flat roof, not a pool of water. Again, in alighting
birds judge the angle of descent so accurately and
reduce the flying speed so effectively as to land, with-
out serious mishap, on a broken bottle.
* * * •
“Taliarangi”: “Wiremu’s” par. (B.
25/6/’25) reminds me. Ngahuia was the niece
and ward of Te Ruahuihui te Rangi, that venerable
chieftain and tohunga of Rotoiti; but after her
romantic elopement with Raharnhi she lived among
a mixed crowd of orthodox Christians and Hauhaus,
and in that nest of heresy forgot what was due to
the gods of her fathers. Ngahuia attended the
funeral rites of a relative, and the bereaved family
gave her as a souvenir a beautiful long curved
mat-pin, fashioned many years before from human
bone, the property of generations of chiefs. She
THE QUEST.
“What’s ’ec belong doin’ av Faather?”
“Tryin’ to find ‘The Lost Choord,’ Mawther.”
placed it in the little flax kete, without which no
Maori lady goes travelling. While the chorus of
farewells was taking place, a packet of sandwiches
was handed to Ngahuia as she boarded the train;
and the careless girl slipped it into her kete. When
Ngahuia reached home the vengeance from the un-
seen world overwhelmed her. She was seized with
acute cramps and convulsions. Raharuhi, a practical
man, suspected ptomaine, so he opened the kete
and, before the shocked gaze of the elders, pulled
out the mat-pin and a sandwich! No use now to
call upon the blessed Mere, or to bark “Hau!” in
unison around the Sacred Pole! Swift mountain
ponies carried Raharuhi to Rotoiti, and soon his
tale was told to Te Ruahuihui. The unfeeling old
gentleman only laughed. “She is better now,” was ail
he would say. But in the early morning he rode
with Ruhi to Horolioro, where they found Ngahuia
free from pain but utterly prostrated. Te Ruahuihui
NOT PROGRESSING FAVORABLY.
“How’s the steak to-day, Alphonso?”
“Da reporta notta too encouraging so far, sir."
smiled. “Get up!” he ordered, and the patient rose
to her feet. “Now walk down to the stream and
stand in it!” Then while the tohunga’s bough
dipped and sprinkled the clear water, and the
soothing murmur of the old incantations rose and
fell, Ngahuia quivered into strength again, and
hushed watchers did silent homage to the might of
the Maori gods.
* # * *
“Koolamarra”: Has any Abo. writer in-
formation about the rifle-fish found in the Cloncurry,
Leichhardt and Mitchell rivers (Q.). These little
chaps are very plump
and attractive in ap-
pearance, being in
color dark on the back
and golden yellow on
the belly and sides,
with black spots along
the latter. They are
found in deep pools,
on the shady side near
the bank, in shoals of
a dozen or so, and are
called rifle-fish on
account of their method
of shooting prey. This
is done with a jet of
water forced out of the
mouth, the aim being
very accurate. At feed-
ing time they swim
close to the surface and
can easily be seen by
anyone keeping quiet
and well hidden, they
being very shy. Flies,
moths or grasshoppers
seem to be their
favorite tucker, and
when within range they
knock these gentry into
the water with one
shot. I have often
tried to catch them
with a grasshopper for
bait on the surface, but
it was no go, as they
simply ignore anything
they did not shoot
themselves. One Sun-
day, however, I saw an
old-timer catching them
one after the other. He
hung his bait over the
water about a foot
above the surface, then,
keeping very quiet,
waited till the shot
came to drop his bait
on the water. They make excellent eating.
“Xamite”: Difference in the diameter of
wool fibres is caused most commonly by climatic con-
ditions and the state of pasture. Wool reaches
perfection in a fair season when there is just
sufficient feed to keep the sheep in good even nick the
year round. Grossness of condition- in the animal
caused by over-nourishment is reflected in the wool,
particularly in warm latitudes where camping hours
are long. Sheep fill themselves without the exercise
of walking and grubbing round after food, which is
essential for keeping them healthy. Buyers always
complain of the yolk in wool and coarseness of
fibre after very good seasons. The diameter of
fibre can and does vary throughout the year; so much
so that a few weeks’ semi-starvation of the animal
causes its fibre to become so wasted that it scarcelyr
exists at all at the point of growth corresponding
to i the lean period. This is one of the causes of a
break in wool. In average seasons the variation of
diameter during summer and winter growth is so
slight as to be scarcely noticeable, but it is there
nevertheless. Intenseness of crimp is essentially a
merino characteristic, and quite distinct from the
robust wave of any other type. Like most merino
characteristics, it has been intensified by careful
breeding. The crimp arises chiefly from pressure
below the surface of the skin by the vigorous growth
of fibre-forming cells at the base of the follicle.
Cold climates produce a denser and finer wool than
do hot ones, because the skin is usually contracted,
lienee fibre ducts are smaller and closer together.
Shorn strong-woolled sheep taken from a hot latitude
to a cold one will tone down considerably by next
shearing, for the same reason.
* * # *
“N.Iv.C.” : Has “Nitric” or “Jackeroo” (B.
16/ 7/’ 2 5) noticed the inordinate desire stock, par-
ticularly sheep, show for feeding in paddocks which
have been top-dressed,with supeiphosphate? It’s not
the grass they seek, for the “super” paddock is
picked almost bare, whilst there is abundant grass
on the other side of the fences, yet the sheep will
wriggle through the wires to eat in that particular
field. Possibly, as “Nitric” suggests, they are
searching for necessary ingredients not present in
their ordinary food.
* * * *
“Sierra”: “Maccabee” (B. 30/7/’25) is
wrong in his assertion that on December 21 the
earth is 3,000,000 miles farther from the sun than
on September 23. As a matter of fact, bn December
21 the earth reaches perihelion, and is then 3,250,000
miles nearer the sun than on June 21, the northern
midsummer day. Although altitude, ocean and air
currents, obliquity of sun’s rays, and so on are
important factors, the earth’s distance from the sun
has a considerable influence on seasonal variations
of temperature. The apparent diameter of the sun
appreciably increases as the southern summer ap-
proaches, and the earth as a whole receives 10 per
cent, more heat in January than in July. As the
southern hemisphere is canted towards the sun at the
earth’s perihelion, and away from it at aphelion, it
follows that the summers should be hotter and the
winters colder than in northern latitudes.
* * * *
“8.C.”: Seeing a hive of bees going into
a big redgum-tree on the edge of the Ninety xMile
Desert (S.A.), I took my axe and started to cut
it out. The entrance for the bees was about
six feet from the ground. When I had cut a
foot into the tree, I found no honey, but there
was a small spring of water rising from the
ground. The five experienced bushmen with me,
who had been over the greater part of Australia,
said tney had not seen anything like it before.
The tree is in a dry district and stands on a
sandhill. It went down as far as we could poke a
stick, and furnished sufficient water to supply drink
for a dozen horses. I
* * * * {
“Hardandry” : How is this for a good
performance? At Rarawai mills, Barr River, Fiji,
in 1905, when the crushing season was about to
start, the home plantation was short of male
canecutters owing to delay in the arrival of new
indentures of coolies from Calcutta. It was dec-idea
to give the rundiro (Indian coolie women) a trial.
I chose 45 of the best workers out of 127. Their
performance for six weeks was two tons seven
hundredweight per woman a day, cut, carried and
loaded on trucks, the cane being cut two chains
wide on both sides of the portable line put down
for the purpose. The best of the rundiro were
cutting about three tons per day, which made up
the good average. The new coolies who took their
places did not equal this average for the rest of
the season.
* * * *
“Jackeroo”: What is the biggest wallaby
family on record? In the mountains behind Cobargo,
on the South Coast (N.S.W.), I shot a wallaby that
had one joey at foot and three tiny ones in her
pouch. Prior to that, the biggest family I knew of
was three, and I have only seen that number twice.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: A Binghi who taught me
most of my bush lore once told me that young-
pigeons of opposite sexes are never found in the
same nest. There are always either two males or two
females. Unfortunately I had no chance to test
Binghi’s assertion exhaustively, but in the 20-odd
nests I did investigate I found that he was right.
Is this Nature’s way of preventing in-breeding among
pigeons, or was Binghi pulling my leg?
* # * •
“Wandi” : Many people keep a tame emu
or two as a curiosity, but nobody has thought of
breeding the giant fowl for profit. It is no good for
the table, except when very young, but its eggs are
all right. Bushmen eat them fried, boiled and
poached. They also serve well as pastry eggs. Their
enormous size would make them particularly useful
in cake factories. For cooking purposes the eggs
could be sold in bulk; and the residue shells, wortli
a shilling each, resold for ornamental purposes. By
and by a wild emu will be a rarity, and the man
with foresight enough to establish an emu farm will
find his birds laying golden eggs for him. On reach-
ing the age limit they could be boiled down for
the oil they contain.
* * * #
“Gan” : No bush bard has yet chanted the
praises of the pig drover. The man from Snowy
River who took my fancy wasn’t doing a dashing
ride after cattle through the big timber —he was
driving a mob of pigs to Orbost. A tall, picturesque
figure, he walked ahead of the mob, scattering corn
cobs to lure them on. Pigs won’t stampede if there’s
plenty of tucker about, but they do not like to be
hurried. When they’re on a good thing, they want
to stay with it. Ten miles a day with them is
fast going. There are no sensational night watches.
Put them on the right spot, and give them a good
feed at suppertime, and they’ll all nestle together
and sleep and snore like politicians on the back
benches. My hero had been five days on the road,
but there weren’t enough thrilling adventures to make
him the hero of a bush poem.
* * * *
“Ledraw” : “Up Top” is right; sun-heat
is often less dangerous when out in it than when
under shelter. During a heat-wave I once helped to
bury two men who were found dead under a tree with
heads on swags, and a full water-bag- hanging on
a branch. Had they spread out their blankets, to
neutralise the heat from the ground, they would,
probably, have been safe, the hot ground causing
sunstroke even quicker than the direct rays of the
sun. In India the best preventive of heat apoplexy
is plenty of hot tea, but no grog.
* # * *
“W.P.T.”: Add to “J.G.’s” list of Aussie
ornamental trees (B. 16/7/’25) the wild yam. This
good-looker has the smoothest and cleanest of
HERBERT : “Wot’s this ’ere basic wage,
Clarence ?”
CLARENCE : “Aw, that’s wot yer get fer GOIN’
ter work. If yer want t’ make a bit extra
yer goiter work.”
trunks, and it is so regular and ball-shaped that prun-
ing becomes unnecessary. When the dark pods dry and
split, revealing two rows of golden seeds, you
would imagine Sturt’s desert-pea were growing on
the tree. Also the wild yam’s roots penetrate deep
into the ground and do not affect the surrounding
surface, as do those of most trees.
AT SUNRISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High upon a mountain road
When the day was breaking,
Light of heart and foot I strode,
Hearth and house forsaking.
Friends I found at every turn—
Every hill and hollow—
Feathered folk on tree and fern,
Thrush and swift wood-swallow.
As the sun gold rays, and long,
Cast o’er hill and valley,
Greeted was he with rich song
In green aisle and alley.
Crested ridge and mountain wall
Glowed, day’s lord saluting,
While on gum-trees, green and tall,
Magpies gathered, fluting.
Day arose, in gold arrayed,
Free from night’s grim bondage;
Came a breeze and fondly played
With the leaves and frondage.
Thus to wander sweet it was,
Hearth and house forsaking,
When the dew was on the grass
And the birds were waking.
N.S.W.
BRICALOW.


It’s just as easy to say
m
m
■:W-V;AW
: • i : *-■*'
l:y:
•i-lvT!
SIM
x}<-
0
:: : t * *:*V*;*.*".*•**•
|f:-U::*xl
m
&
v.v
*
&
■: '!•
4
iilUii "i-iii
D
£1
as to say “Whisky”
—and much safer
p
/
<6
L>
y
tr
Born 1820
Still going
strong.
It’s the guaran-
teed “a ge” of
“JOHNNIE
WALKER” that
makes it the “safe”
Scotch Whisky—
buy it where you
will. Any whisky
that isn’t mature
isn’t safe.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD,,
Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.


m
a
1)2
FINEST TORTOISE,SHELL WITH ' SILVER MOUNT.
Mirror, length 1(H inches £5 10 O
Hair Brush, length 9 inches . Each £3 10 O
Hat Brush, length 6J inches £2 2 O
Cloth Biush, length inches £2 2 O
Silver-mounted Comb ~ £2 0 0
Powder .Tar, diameter 4 inches £ J 10 O
Trinket Box, diameter 3§ inches £2 10 0
Boudoir Clock, with 30-hour Lever movement £7 0 O
A discount of 5 per cent, will be allowed on all cash purchases.
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’
DISTINCTIVE JEWELLERY
Finest Quality Diamond Rings - - Guaranteed Watches
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Octagon
Ring, 18ct. Gold
Platinum set,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia.
mond Ring', 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, IBct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £l5,
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Button Clus
ter Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £25.
Smaller Diamonds
£2O.
12
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Gold Lever Watch, jewelled
movement, Gold Expanding Bracelet, £6/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds.
£25, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King 18ct.
Cold, Platinum
set, £B.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
(told, Platinum
set, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25, £3O
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, ISct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond All Plati-
num, £95.
Smaller Diamonds,
£75, £5O.
a
riw
A. Saunders' Lady's Gold Lever Watch, jewelled
movement, Silk Wristlet, £B/10/-. Guaranteed.
RING BOOK, with Size Card,
forwarded free.
WRITE FOR GIFT BOOK.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia.
mond Ring, l.Sct.
Gold, Platinum
sot, £25,
Larger Diamonds,
£3O.
A. SAUNDERS
Wat chmaker—J eweller—O ptician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opposite Railway Station).
s pA R KIHg y\
HOCK
IW
Li N DEMAN’S
Darkling
hock:
*-l*D
co**r
syroZl" LT »- wet
**E V
i pr. e fi*
LINDEMAN’S
SPARKLING
WINES
CHAMPAGNE HOCK
MOZELLE BURGUNDY
are delightfully stimulating and
exhilarating when served cold.
Judges at the Royal Agricultural Show proclaim
Lindeman’s Sparkling Wines equal to the worlds best
LINDEMAN’S WINES
Secured 41 Prizes at 1925 R. A. Show.


„ A
EVER-READY
; ,r l *i '■" 'i 11 "■'/// " f / ;',
m
$
f
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
mvm
Look for th* Tr»d*ir»rk ! Agent* Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Luxurious Accommodation
at Melbourne’s Most Central Hotel.
When visiting Melbourne, add to the pleasuie of
your stay by''booking- at—
Melbourne.
Apart from Its central situation, “Scott’s” has every com-
fort and convenience, and maintains a superlatively high
standard of service. It is the most favored residential
hotel of visitors from overseas and the leading people
from all parts of Austral ia.
A
The New Extension
to “Scott's” provides for an
Enlarged Dining-room, Spacious
Lounge. Bedrooms ■ 'with baths
attached, and telephones.
Appointments are as complete
and palatial as those of the
original section.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or
Bed and Breakfast Rote.
WRITE FOB TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams:
“Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8012.
m
On your next visit to Sydney make
HOTEL.
"St JAMES
your headquarters. This new hotel embodies
all the distinctive features that appeal to tne
discriminating—luxurious, modern comfort, ex-
cellent service, splendid cuisine, eoinenient
location The “St. James” is within thiet
minutes’ distance of the theatres, best stores
and chief business houses.
Moderate Tariff. Single room and
breakfast from 8/6.
A Special Feature:
Business-man’s Bunch, 3/6.
’Phone: City 1475.
Cr. Market & Elizabeth Sts., Sydney.
Melbourne thatter
The Occidental
P[?]
Misses MONNE DOVLE
Phones c[?] 1532.1533
Flomington saw the beginning on Satur-
day of a new facing season, and the
prettiest of pigeon-egg blue tickets dangled
upon the tailored cquts or ensemble
suit of many a fair patron. Evi-
dently a good proportion of members over-
looked the fact that ••subs” were now due.
for the attendance did not approach a record.
The meeting kept up its old reputation of
being a difficult one at which to pick win-
ters —not that the task is ever superlatively
easy, but in August, it seems, you never
can tell. A feeling of spring in the warm
sun led mere woman to discard the heavier
of fur coats in favor of necklets and stoles,
and coats and skirts allied to such had a
great run. White rabbit and fox furs made
glad showing, and several of the ensemble
costumes known last year in varied form
as three-piece had the freshness of first time
of wearing. Stone, beige and fawn tones
appeared to have no rivals for first place in
colors for this covering. Hats in petunia, purple
and good old puce and all shadings thereof
blossomed on almost all the women. Two
matrons announced that summer is coming by
wearing the only large millinery seen—one
cherry-red of sailor shape, the other black,
its brim a ledge for ostrich plumes. The
marigold in artificial form reigned supreme
as a cheer-raiser for the dark fur wrap or
cape. The younger set clung to its coat
and skirt, the smartest viewed being black
and white check, black velvet-collared topped
by a small black hat; but the lass ruined
the turnout by looking like Harold Lloyd’s
maiden aunt in horn-rimmed spectacles. Mrs,
Leonard’s cigar-brown attire was worn with
kolinsky fur and nigger hat, criss-crossed in
fawn; with her was Mrs. K. C. MdCleland,
in a black kasha suit topped by a grey elotli
twine. Miss Greene, daughter of starter
Rupert Greene, was an attractive study in
tan frock and millinery.
Although frost may still crunch beneath
our feet in the mornings, the first whisper
of spring is heard in shop-window shows of
raiment that is frail, filmy—and costly. Ad-
vance models have almost full-length coats
to match the one-piece gown beneath. It is
not decreed that the top covering should have
weight or add materially tot the wearer’s
comfort or discomfort, for lace of the hue of
the frock is quite as correct as georgette or
such light fabric, and infinitely more alluring.
So the price of two dresses will be in one,
anti there begins the worry. In-between-
seasons apparel is all ensemble, but the
“altogether” is of heavier fabric, such as the
new kasha cloth, and it is plain and checked
combined for the ultra-smart. Besides the
two-piece dresses, France has sent along some
confections of silk that are eyelet embroid-
ered, with the skirt portion still flaring
daringly above silk hose.
The quarterly dinner given by Mayor
Brunton and his lady to the aldermen,
councillors and their womenfolk at the Town
Hall, though the last turkey-carving of the
Mayoral year, had the air of being the first
of a third edition, with the- promise of many
lavish roastings still to come; for it is
rumored that October will bring re-election
for the popular civic head. Pink and white
heath, roses and primulas bloomed in the
cosy drawingVroom And on the tables
in the council chamber, where the 20 mayors
of bygone years rescued from the fire sniffed
the savor of the baked meats and did their
best to look unconcerned. Fair guests found
shoulder posies awaiting them in the dress-
ing-room. After dinner Mrs. Gregor Wood, in
opalescent sequins and oyster crepe de Chine.
Dorothy Humphries in black velvet, and
Norman Mackenzie and Guy N. Moore saiig
attractively. Mayoress Brunton emerged in
black from beneath a cloak that was deep
amber sprayed with flowers of royal blue.
Mrs. Jeffries listened in a gold-encrusted
black gown to her alderman proposing the
chief toast; the medical man of the moment,
councillor Dr. Kent Hughes, had 1 a pink and
crystal-beaded spouse. Mrs. Cabena, who gave
black velvet, and needle-run lace an airing;
Miss Wootton, whose fancy ran to apple-
green and gold tissue; and Mrs. Ferguson, a
recent bride whose frocking was reseda-hued
georgette, were amongst the elegantly curry-
combed. The civic great ones blushed under
an avalanche of congratulations for the way
they staged the Mayoral ball for the Fleet.
Those present at the fifth annual meeting
of the Society for the Healtli of Women and
Children of Victoria, at the Assembly Hall,
listened to a few unrelished facts from presi-
dent Dr. J. W. Springthorpe. For instance:
“Victoria lias the greatest infantile mortality
of any State, and Melbourne tops the death-
rate for the cities of the Commonwealth.”
Maoriland, where Dr. Truby King has had
his Plunket system in full sway for some
years, boasts the world’s lowest. The
Tweddle Hospital, the home of the Truby
King teaching here, is endeavoring to in-
struct mothers in the care of baby, and
nurses are being trained for the crusade
against baby’s enemies. Satisfactory pro-
gress was reported. The Tweddle Hospital
has a tower of energy and strength in
Matron Moreland, who, besides her hospital
duties, chats regularly over the wireless to
thousands of isolated women and contributes
press articles to mothers. The Irvine lady
presided a*t the meeting in the absence of
the Countess.
The lasses who punctuate your ‘phone con-
versations with “Number, please!” are out
to make £lOOO foi* the building fund of St.
Vincent’s. This is the first occasion that
the Metropolitan Exchange’s girls have
joined forces to aid the funds of a charity,
and they mean business. • Dances, concerts,
a dramatic performance and a carnival are
a few of tlie means to be Used. Satur-
day afternoon and evening found them run-
ning their biggest effort, the “Number.
Please!” carnival, at the Brenan Hall, the
out-patients’ department of St. Vincent’s.
Departmental heads were very much inter-
ested. H. P. Brown, Director of Postal Ser-
vices, who was introduced by G. H, Morgan,
manager of telephones, came along to do
the opening sayings. His happy suggestion
was that telephone subscribers might contri-
bute an amount equal to one week’s effective
calls. Mrs. and Miss Brown, Mrs. Morgan
and Mrs. L. B. Fanning, wife of the super-
intendent of ’phones, were in charge of stalls.
The general organiser of the appeal is Tessie
Flanagan, of “Central,” and May Edwards
is the lively secretary. Brunswick exchange
private orchestra and the Fire Brigade band
helped musically in the afternoon, and the
police rounded up their instrumentalists for
the night. The success so far has decided
the girls to have an annual carnival to aid
some charity.
Two floors of the new E., S. and A.
Bank building being yet unfurnished, parquet
floors seemed to invite a hop, so the Lyceum
Club borrowed one, engaged a jazz orchestra,
purchased some balloons and streamers, and
the tripping was on. Frocking was of the
smartest, flared, beaded, embroidered,
feathered and furred. The bank’s chief
officials, C. W. Wren and Ernest O’Sullivan,
with their wives, were guests of honor,
president Mrs. ,T. (1. Latham, in georgette
draperies like a Turner sunset, giving them
the glad hand. The Lyceum’s treasurer, Mrs.
Phillips, who wore glistening black, was
prominent in keeping visitors gay. Dr.
Georgina Sweet, in an Oriental cloak over
gold tissue and ivory georgette gowning;
Dr. Constance Ellis; Dr. Ethel Parnell in
amber satin, gold beaded; and Dr. Hilda
liennie were some of the medical represen-
tatives. One of Melbourne’s first women
lawyers. Miss Brennan, brought along her
niece, Claire Brennan, in pale blue, bead em-
broidered. Mrs. Woolcott. a leader in the
Girl Guide movement, had a party; Mrs.
Kent Hughes came in a robe of black tulle
and lace; Miss Doris Hall, who is giving up
Law for matrimony, was a dainty figure in
jade green and gold; and black raiment
much embossed with gold was Mrs. Thorold
Harper’s fancy.
This lady of the smiling face is Pegg Clarke,
one of Melbourne’s best-known photograph-
ers, who does
portraiture for
her bread and
butter, an d
for pleasure
dabb 1 e s in
landscape
work. In the
latter she has
earned many
laurels, having
had her efforts
hung in the
London Salon
and in photo-
graphic exhi-
biti o n s in
America and
all over Aus-
tralia. . She
can say “Alone
I did it,” for
she had no
p r o f e ssional
training in squeezing tlie rubber bulb.
James Godden, who passes six nights and
two afternoons a week as the genial but
misguided gentleman of “No, No, Nanette”
whose function is to make everyone happy,
is carrying on the good work off stage. Tea
was poured for him at the Embassy the other
afternoon, and fellow artists and many from
next-door houses handed the surprised com-
edian a cake and an inkstand of Aussie black-
wood and crystal, with a wee silver kangaroo
decorating: it, as mementoes of his first birth-
day in Australia. Among the one-steppers
were Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Ward, .inn., she
wearing jade millinery above black satin;
Elsie Nanette Prince, who cheered black
with rose and gold ; May Beatty, in black,
Constance Evans, dainty in almond green
taffeta with front panelling of ecru lace; the
tall Olive Grant, suggesting a Rhine maiden
from a Wagner opera; Anita Shaw and
Winifred Dalle. The only absentee among
“Jimmy Smith’s” lady friends was the fas-
cinating Lucille, Madge White, who was
discussing matters with the ’flu.
The profits of A. A. Milne's play, “The
Romantic Age,” to be produced by amateurs
at the Play-
house on the
28th, will he
shared hy
children an d
animals, since
it is the socie-
ties for protec-
tion f r o m
cruelty to both
that are to
benefit. This
is Broothorn’s
picture of Ray
Whiting, artist
an d long-dis-
tance walker,
and, for the
moment, pro-
ducer of the
comedy. Some
little time ago
lie directed a
charity film.
"The Twins,”
with success.
Mrs. Apperly, the only fair one who figured
in Shaw’s “Captain Brassbound’s Conver-
sion,” presented by the Repertorians at the
Playhouse, deserved the honors she did not
have to share. The lady to whom all man-
kind succumbs naturally would run the show,
so this bright ex-member of the Irish I layers
was producer as well; very helpful to her
being the fact that she had discussed staging
and roles with the great Bernard himself
during a recent visit to England. Various
picturesque settings were attractive, Ladj
Cicely being a study in white throughout. In
linen riding-suit she was quite dashing, while
nothing could have been more charmingly
feminine than the white gown, blue-embroid-
ered. and shady millinery in which began
her conquests in Morocco; and she com-
pleted her conversions in similar frockmg
with much faiicy cross-stitch. First appro-
vers included the Arthur Robinson dame, Dr.
Frank Apperly (the leading lady s husband),
artist John Longstaff, Mr. and Mrs. Choroid
Harper and Professor Skeats.
“No, No, Nanette” has become so much a
household ' word that, though four under-
studies have had to appear already, hull
House” has been posted for every perform-
ance. Our changeable weather has been
responsible for the imported leads going
under to 'flu ; but fortunately the occurrences
have been consecutive, and not concurrent.
Four Australian chorus girls have thus been
able to rise successfully to the chances of
tlieir young lives.
Scots’ Church. Collins-street, was the
scene one night last week of the nuptials,
amid palms and primulas, of Grace
eleiue Anderson and Jack Heywood Alc-
Roberts. The bride, who is the younger
daughter of Mrs. Andrew Anderson, ot
Toorak, wore gowning of silver tissue with
floral design traced in crystal beads; her
Brussels-lace veil fell over a train of white
satin lined with blue chiffon. Lottie Norman
and Betty Nunn, bridesmaids, were nicely
in the picture, carrying armfuls of pink blos-
soms against flared frocks of almond-green
and silver brocade, with harmonising mil-
linery. Mrs. Anderson, in black-beaded robe
and hat, with black osprettes, welcomed the
guests to No. 9 Darling-street.
Last week State Government House was a
seminary for Girl Guides, for a course of
training was daily given to commissioners
of branches. Whatever Lady Stradbroke
takes up is done thoroughly, and she means
the Girl Guide movement to be well and
truly founded here when she hands over the
keys of Government House.
Bridesmaids clad in jade green georgette
touched with gold, and carrying posies of.
wattle blossoms, set off the gold lace and
lame covering and gold net veil crowned
with green velvet leaves which formed the
bridal finery of Editha Yseult Donnison, from
the Great Smoke, when she became Mrs.
Kenneth Bailey at Queen’s College Chapel.
Rev. E. H. Sugden, M.A., master of Queen s,
officiated. The bridegroom is a Victorian
Rhodes scholar, and at present is vice-master
of Queen’s College and lecturer m history
at the ’Varsity. The cake-cutting was m the
Union Club rooms at the Uni., the. bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. E. T. Bailey, doing the
honors.
Two brides of the same evening last week
chose green for the trucking of their atten-
dant maids. Gowns of the hue of the leaves
of early Spring have been rather out of favor
here of late, since a bride of a couple of
months ago who was supported by a bevy of
dainty lasses in such verdure clad developed
pneumonia on her honeymoon, and only re-
cently was able to leave a private hospital.
The Russian violinist Cbulialdin, a like-
able young man with an attractive smile,
may be more successful in the role of flap-
per’s idol than as a star performer. Of
the first samplers of his playing were
the Baldwin Spencer lady, Jimmy Dyer
and Mrs. Jimmy (just back from Nor
folk Island), Mrs. Riddell Stanley, Mrs.
Mortill and Mrs. Field Fisher. Mrs.
Howard Jolley wore the most delightful of
theatre coats of black and silver brocade,
collared and bordiered with white marabout.
White Elephant Day, which is to be a red-
letter day for the Alfred Hospital, is a happy
idea of Mrs. Jim Angus to raise more re-
venue for that institution. Everybody has
a white elephant somewhere—the birthday
box of cigars from Aunt Maria or the wed-
ding picture of two pelicans and a horse-
stinger presented by an artist friend. On
October 9 they will go under the hammer,
and someone will be found to take them off
our hands in a good cause.
Victorian Women Grads, played bridge
with their friends at the Lyceum Club last
week in aid of the University Women’s
Hostel in London. A special residential sec-
tion for Aussie graduates doing research
abroad is the objective for which the
enthusiasts hope to raise a thousand pounds
and a bit over, maybe, for some furniture
made from one of our own beautiful timbers.
Joan Bainbridge, the Registrar’s daughter,
sold salted almonds in a green frock glisten-
ing with beads, and along with a bevy of
workers saw to the food, Dr. Constance
Ellis, Dr. Georgina Sweet, Mrs. Kent
Hughes and the Harrison Moore lady were
amongst the card-shufflers.
Lee White, in a dazzling sheath of lace
gleaming with crystal and festooned with
pearls, made her an revoir speech to a
crowded house at the Athenmum on Saturday
night. The stage was an effective back-
ground of black and white costumes for the
floral offerings.
The C. of E. Grammar School chapel saw
the giving of Alice Clapin, youngest daughter
of the F. L. Clapins, of South Yarra, to
Charles'Clark Altmann, son of Dr. and Mrs.
Altmann, of the same suburb. The bride’s
white satin shimmered beneath a rare lace
veil; her two attendant maids were veiled in
pale pink tulle and frocked in vellum-toned
satin and lace. No. 9 Darling-street housed
the supper and dance.
And now Adelaide :
Political squabbles apart, the week opened pianis-
simo with a dance staged by Mrs. 1 rank V erco m
the Liberal Union Hall, where pink shaded lights and
hanging flower baskets showed youth at her best,
and mirrors set below the stage multiplied her
charms. Mrs. Verco, whose net and lace frock
mingled beige and oyster, had three daughters to
help her, in white and silver, the pink of pale
cyclamens and tawny orange. Supper was in the
Piccadilly rooms below, at tables abloom with mauve
irises and pink sweet-peas.
An anonymous gift of £5OOO definitely establishes
Toe H. in this State. The endowment is in memory
of Captain E. Wright, A.D.C. during the Bosanquet
regime, who was killed in action in November, 1911,
while serving with his regiment, the 3rd Dragoon
Guards.
Sunset Lodge, the home for aged women established
in the one-time Wilcox home at Mitcham by the
Salvation Army, has so justified its existence in its
12 months of Hie that 18 rooms* have been added.
The key was turned by Mrs. C. H. Angas, whose
husband was an early and generous subscriber to
the scheme.
Saturday’s Point-tO-Point Steeple went to E. M.
Luxmoore, an ex-Master of tlie Hunt Club, who owed
his win largely to his good riding. After struggling
through mud and slush on a succession of drenching
Saturdays, the Club struck a perfect afternoon.
The English-speaking Union, through Mrs. Glover,
who reigns over its reception committee, bade Alt-
house and Middleton and accompanist Harris to
stir a cup of tea in the Mayoress’s rooms in the
Town Hall. Cr. George McEwin said the welcoming
words.
Friday saw two dances —one at the Liberal Hall,
where Mrs. Wallace Bruce was hostess; the other
at the Osborne Hall, where students of the Bchool
of Arts and Crafts hung the walls with a dado of
Dutch scenes, planted tiny gardens of red, yellow
and purple tulips beneath them, and veiled them-
selves in fancy dress, masks and dominoes. Mrs.
Howie, Miss Maude Prosser and Dr. Fenner gave the
prizes to a feminine Peter Pan and a masculine
rustic. At the Liberal Hall Mrs. Bruce panelled the
walls with Egyptian friezes, and hung up gargantuan
scarabs of blue, brown and red. Her own frock was
black and silver, and her daughters were in pink.
The Melville-Scales wedding was on the same after-
noon —she is the daughter of the C. A. of
Robe-terrace, Medindie, and he is a son of the late
R E. and Mrs. Melville, of Artarmon, Sydney. Her
frock was soft white satin with a hint of pink show-
ing through a georgette panel, repeated in the bouquet
of ° pink hyacinths and carnations, and her veil of
exquisite Limerick had been worn by her maternal
grandma. Her sister, in blue georgette with a pink
rosebud or two, bvidesmaided, and Jack Horn best-
manned.


Four Splendid New
Australian Novels.
Cloth Edition, with. Picture Wrapper, Price 2/6. Posted 2/8.
MUKTY BROWN. By Edward Sorenson.
Murty, a shrewd hush humorist, m hose quaint sayings and an aptitude for
extracting himself from difficult situations keeps the reader amused from start
to finish.
THE BOY iFROM BULLARAH. By Arthur Wright.
Another dashing story from the pen of Australia’s foremost sporting writer.
OVERDUE. By J. M. Walsh.
“Overdue” is a splendid romance of unknown New Guinea, and shows this writer
of South Sea romances at his best.
SPEAR EYE. By Jack McLaren.
A vigorous and exciting Island story by the author of “The Skipper of the
Roaring Meg.”
Write for Complete Post Free Catalogue of 150 Bookstall Novels.
Text Books for Art Students.
Sensible and Practical Guides to Drawing and Painting,
Concise and Pnofusely Illustrated. -
Price
Post Free.
3/8
5/1
14/3
10/6
10/6
10/6
16/10
16/-
6/10
5/1
8/4
13/9
16/-
16/6
14/2
SIXTY-SIX ETCHINGS. By Members of the Print Society £l/2/-
lIIEROGLYPHIC, or Greek Method of LIFE DRAWING. By Adolphe
Armand Braun 19/8
The HUMAN FORM and its Use in Art. A Series of Studies for the
use of Art Students. By F. R. Yerbury £l/3/6
APPLIED DRAWING: Pictorial, Decorative, Mechanical 14/-
VENICE, Past and Present, 11)25 (Spring Number of Studio) 10/8
The ROYAL ACADEMY, illustrated, for 1925. Over 160 reproduc-
tions of Pictures and Sculpture 4/-
ART IN AUSTRALIA. (Many back numbers offered at reduced price) 5/4
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Corner, CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Elementary WATER-COLOR PAINTING. By J. Ilallah Brown ..
SKETCHING in Water-colors. By /lames Stewart
Masters of WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Prom “The Studio”
The TEACHING OF COLOR. By H. A. Rankin
The MACWHIRTER SKETCH BOOK, with 24 examples in Color..
SKETCHES from Nature. By J. MACWHIRTER
Brush and Pencil Notes in LANDSCAPE. By Sir ALFRED
EAST, R.A
Masterpieces of MODERN ART, with 40 Large Color Plates by
Famous Modern Artists
MICHEL ANGELO, with 400 Illustrations from Photos
WHAT TO DRAW, and How to Draw It
PEN DRAWING. By Charles Maginnis
DRAWING (from Drawing as an Educational Force to Drawing as an
Expression of the Emotkffis)
DRAWING for Art Students and ILLUSTRATORS. By Allen Seaby
The Art of Drawing in LEAD PENCIL. By J. Salwey
FIGURE DRAWING. By Richard Hatton
Crossley Motors, Ltd,
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H.M. THE KING
Crossley Motors, Ltd
ICH
DIEN
8V APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
vbnmv
NEW IMPROVED MODELS. REDUCED PRICES
15/30-H.P. MODEL
STANDARD TRACK.
Petrol Consumption at least 30 Miles per Gallon.
srSeater Touring Car (Australian Body) . £495
5-Seater Touring Car (English Body) . . £515
5-Seater Touring Car (English Body), including
4-wheel brakes, shock absorbers, rear wind-
screen, clock, luggage carrier, strangler for
carburetter, balloon tyres optional .
£545
19.6-H.P.
The Car which broke all R.A.C. certified car mileage records.
The first British Car to run from Adelaide to
Darwin and back under its own power. From
£B7O
20/70-H.P.
SPORTS MODEL.
Guaranteed speed 75 miles per hour. Including
4-wheel brakes
£975
New South Wales: CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUS.), LTD., 87 William
Street, Sydney.
Victoria &Riverina: MORRISON MOTORS, 116 Russell St., Melbourne.
South Australia & Broken Hill: BRITISH MOTORS, LTD 71
Goote Street, Adelaide. ’
Western Australia: SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
HAB.DY B FLO S LTD.
J E WELLERS
■V
p
ii
m
P
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS*
Hardy Brothers specialise in Diamond Engagement
Rings, offering an extensive variety of dainty and
exclusive designs which are unequalled in Australia
for value and high quality of gems.
All the settings are of pure platinum, carried out by
the Company’s experts, and feature the delicacy of
workmanship and finish which is characteristic of all
Hardy Brothers’ jewellery.
Selections of rings will be forwarded to any address
in the Commonwealth, on approval.
Five per cent, discount allowed on cash purchases.
An attractive Catalogue will he sent to any address on request .
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
7/ouse ofi QssluswcZJewellertf
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
For Quick, Accurate
Measures of Oil or Petrol—
Rely on a Wayne Pump
vmbv
Illustrated is Wayne Model No. 364-B,
an exceptionally efficient one-gallon
pump for handling petrol. Delivers a
measured gallon with two and three-
quarters turns of the pump handle.
Will also accurately deliver fractional
parts of gallons. Supplied with an
automatic meter which records every
drop going through the pump.
With positive filter, this pump is
known as Model 364 A. F.
This pump, without petrol hose and
connection, is also supplied for handling
lubricating oils (Model 364-C with fau-
cet and drip pan) with or without meter.
These pumps, while inexpensive, are
mechanically perfect and very easy to
operate. Every part coming into con-
tact with the liquid is galvanized or
made of brass to prevent rust.
For complete details of these models
(or other Wayne equipment for the
storing, measuring and pumping of oil
and petrol) address:
KOUGKI F. LEE, Kes. Representative,
100 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Hawkins Equipment Company, .Ltd.,
100 Castlereagli Street, Sydney;
Shipman, King & Co., Ltd.,
400 Lourke Street, Melbourne.
Mechanical Supplies, Ltd.,
70 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
King & Hazcll,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Arthur H. Christian,
805 Hay Street, Berth, W.A.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY
Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S. A.
Ingersoll House No. 9 Kingsway,
London, W. C. 2, England
Established 1891
CS
HONEST MEASURE PUMPS
364-B -


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1914.
Tom
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsicffc
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'iartcslleidsfe#
REIMS
***** f * a,a *‘
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
SYDNEY’S CAFE PRE-EMINENT
“WHERE SYDNEY FOREGATHERS:’
WENTWORTH LUNCHEONS: Excellent, exclusive, tempting. A boon
to the town-tired people.
AFTERNOON TEA AND CABARET: Daily at 3.80. Novelty, talent
and charm of performance, daintiest of teas —-happiest of afternoons.
DINNER DANCES: Every night from 7.30. Famous for superb cuisine,
ideal music, elegant environment.
SPECIAL DINNER DANCES Thursday and Saturday nights. Novelties,
Exhibition Dances, Cabaret. Saturdays, Dancing till 1 a.m.; Thursdays,
11.30 p.m.
Church Hill, Sydney. ’Phone: BWI3GI.
REVISION OF PRICES AND
NOTEWORTHY INNOVATIONS.
tv
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Popular Niglits.
DINING
from 7.30.
1016
DANCING
till 12.
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 5/0
THURSDAY AND SATURDAY
(late nights) :
Continental Dinner, 7.30 21/-
Saturday, Reduced, from 25/-
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 10/6
Noteworthy Innovations.
Spectacular Dancing, Song and Music.
Two Bands. Continuous Enjoyment.
AFTERNOON TEAS, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Book early. Order Wines before 6.
Ring M 3666, M 3020.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kaysey
CLOVES
Rain that was like sleet and wind that
stung like a whip blustered down Macquane-
street for the opening of the State 1 orna-
ment. Over all was a cold drabness. -Lke
House itself gave the impression of a gouty,
elderly Mrs. Gummidge, rather tottery on
her feet, mouthing her toothless gums at
beldame Burdekin House across the way,
as if to say: “Well, m’dear, we’ve done our
dash and why they can’t superannuate us
is beyond me!” The usual absurd number
of cards having gone out, only very early
arrivals managed to get within coo-ee ot
the opening ceremony; but so slowly does
hope die that up till the stroke of noon
hordes of grim-faced women and men clutch-
ing pink cards forced their way into the
passages and corridors and camped among
the draughts that riot within the halls of
State. Just before 12, boom! went the first
gun—the Governor was on his way to give
legislation its pusli-off along the rails laid
by Lang’s Labor gang. Down swooped the
rain! Boom! Boom! went the guns. The
khaki guard in the square beneath the
House balconies shouldered bayonets and
came to attention. General Brand saved his
pipe-clayed helmet from destruction by
timely cover. i p clattered the mounted
police» caped and with their cap-flaps down
—rather like bushrangers wearing Ned
Kelly helmets. Sir Dudley gave a lightning-
sketch inspection ot the Guard, and then
cocked hat, gold epaulettes and all were
swept within to the canopied chair of great-
ness.
The State’s first woman member. Miss
Preston Stanley, very much slimmer than of
old, clothed herself in black. But the gar-
ment was cut on tailored lines that gave it
a wicked rather than a subdued air. Her
hat, its crown a sort of gold chessboard, may
have been a reminder that even M’s.P. are
only pawns in the game. Lady de Chair
brought Elaine and Mrs. Duncan Grant to
the ceremony, and they had a nice front-
line position on the floor of the chamber.
Clothes were mostly macintoshes and gol-
oshes and fur coats, and the most picturesque
figure was that of the Greek Archbishop,
who wore his impressive head-dress and
profile with dignity. Mrs. Flowers, whose
husband is President of the Upper House,
hostessed her usual outsize morning tea-
party, and many members entertained inti-
mate groups of admirers in the big dining-
room. But the room which drew the women’s
feet was on the first floor of the cottage
in Richmond-terrace. Here Miss Preston
Stanley will pass the time between the
division bells in maiden meditation, fancy
being able to roam free over a greeny sea of
Domain. Other furniture is a fair-sized
mirror above the mantel. There was a
special billy-boiling here, the brew diluted
from the largest white enamel jug this
Letter has ever seen—it must have been
about four feet high.
Lady Forster’s last engagement in Sydney
will be a visit to the Bush Book Club.
The Club is having the spring replenishing
of its shelves on Friday next and will be
at home to all new books and their givers
from 10 till 5. Lady Forster lias made a
point of being present on every Collection
Day since she arrived in Australia; in fact,
it was on her suggestion that this day was
founded, and next Friday afternoon, sup-
ported by the G.-G. and Lady de Chair, she
will pay a final visit to the little library
among the eaves of 161 Castlereagh-street.
In the evening she and Lord Forster leave
for Melbourne.
Before this Letter can wave another greet-
ing to you two of the best-known legal names
of Maoriland and N. S. Wales will be
united. Justice Langer Owen, of Sydney, has
dated his wedding with Hilda Chapman,
daughter of Judge Chapman, of Wellington,
for the 25th.
On the day this Letter puts on its pink
pinny and goes out into the world, Eileen
Tilley puts on her wedding gown and marries
R. E. Fisher. Since Dad returned from Eng-
land with his family nearly three years ago,
they have made the Australia their home;
now the younger of the daughters returns to
the Fog, quite satisfied that her nice young
man will make up for the loss of sunshine.
The wedding is to be a quiet family affair,
and the real honeymoon will be spent in
India on the way to the new home.
Phil Shipway, of Bradley’s Head, who
follows his late father as a partner in the
law firm of Shipway and Berne, has quietly,
almost unobtrusively, joined the Benedicts.
His bride was popular Lorna Macdonald, of
Mosman.
On the arm of her big dad, Colonel Cox-
Taylor, Adele Violet walked up St. James'
aisle on Tuesday evening to make suitable
replies to Dr. Micklem’s leading questions.
The tall ’groom was Maurice Bramley, of Auck-
land. The bride was a shimmer of white satin
and pearls, with a long foam of georgette,
and blue eyes sparkled under a veil of Honi-
ton lace, lent by Mrs. Cramsie, of the Glen
Innes clan. Bridesmaidens Lorna Brand,
Marie Mitchell and Amy Bruggy floated after
the heroine in golden sheen of satin, with
touches of delphinium blue and golden coronets
and tulle veils. Best-man C. T. Halsted and
’groomsmen Captain D. Mackay (Vic.) and
Charlie Johnston attended the leading gentle-
man. The organ pealed in old St. James’,
and Mrs. Harold Vale warbled a wedding
chanson before the bridal group left the
church for the party in the officers’ mess,
Victoria Barracks. Mrs. Cox-Taylor, mother
of the bride, helped her husband to welcome
a legion of friends in the mess. The iced
beauty of a wonderful cake, on which Cupids,
butterflies, a little lifeboat and a Morse
code message in silver beads (Maurice Bram-
ley is a Pacific Cable Board official) made a
unique filigree, was the work of Adele
Violet’s chum, Sybil Dowse. The Staff
Corps gave the bride a magnificent basket
of crystal, with a golden lining showing the
four-leaved shamrock for luck.
Pretty Cynthia Blair, of Neutral Bay, has
pledged her blond self to Herbert Macquarie
Douglass, He hails from Elstree, Point
Piper.
A nice, pleasant out-of-door alliance is
promised in the engagement of Vinnie Fig-
tree to Dr. Thomas Greenaway. Vinnie
is a Strathfield girl, and her medicine man
is on the R.P.A. staff.
The Lachlan Beatons and Ruby Adams,
back in Sydney after six months’ journeying
in Europe, can claim the unique experience
of not seeing London. Italy and the south
of France were their playing-grounds. Pre-
sent at many of the ceremonials of Holy
Year, they were particularly struck by the
youthfulness of the present Pope. Smiling-
eyed and round-faced, his aura is geniality
rather than austerity. On the Appian Way
one afternoon they dropped on Sydney’s old
friend Fred Niblo. The comedian is making
a film of ancient Rome, and there, by the
wayside of one of the first highways the
world knew, stand in the local equiva-
lent for wattle and daub the movie pro-
ducer’s reconstructions of the halls where
the Neros, the Caesars and the Borgias played
their game of human chess. Italy is over-
run with Germans; everywhere are groups
of German women tourists, their knapsacks
strapped to their shoulders; and even their
keen frau eyes have to admit that Mussolini
has done stupendous work in cleaning up
the cities. “A superhuman vacuum,” one
lady from Berlin called him, carried away by
her enthusiasm.
In Paris the Beatons were present at the
Grand Prix, but saw practically nothing of
the races. The fashionable custom is to
hire a chair. This the knowing punter
carries about with him. Then when the race
starts everybody jumps upon his chair, and
the mere stander on the lawn has his view
completely blocked. Like the tarnished glory
of the Grand Prix is the post-war atmosphere
of Paris. It seems no longer a French city.
English and Americans are everywhere, and
everywhere English is spoken. Even the
Opera Comique programmes are printed in
English as well as in French. Frank Otter’s
widow —slim as a willow-wand, as the Euro-
pean edict requires—makes the French capital
her headquarters, and another Australian,
a Mosman girl, Dorothy Flateau, who made
a hit with her “Yellow English,” is one of
the notables in writing circles. Her newest
book, “The Rat of Paris,” is considered one
of the books of the year. At present, to
gather atmosphere for another novel, she is
working as a vegetable-vendor in the public
markets.
One little group is able to keep warm even
though cold winds do blow upon the Ameri-
can Fleet in Maorilaud. After paying all
its bills, the American Association in Sydney
found that of the special collection it had
made among its members it had enough left
to buy every one of the score of nurses on
the Relief hospital ship a beautiful Australian
rug.
The girl in the flat opposite said reflec-
tively the other day that she had heard that
when Earl Beauchamp was Governor his
cheerios were called the Seidlitz-powder
parties, but since the Fleet doings she
thought the Government House parties
should be named the Musical Chairs —always
somebody left out!
The lads and lasses of the city houses
never miss a chance to help the sick kid-
dies. Last week the staff of Pauli’s emptied
the proceeds of their yearly dance into the
treasury of the Children’s Hospital. A
neat £6O in all.
The Bawson Institute will raise its droop-
ing head under the silver spray that comes
from a two nights’ production of “The Im-
portance of Being Earnest.” Ernest VY att s
home, Araluen, had housed the rehearsals,
and Ernest himself supplied a suave render-
ing of the young man who had been shifted
irom a perambulator to a handbag while Ins
place in the nram had been given to a three-
volume novel written by the literary but
absent-minded nurse-girl. This nurse-girl
grown to maturity and the status of govern-
ess was admirably rendered by Madge Cox.
But, on the whole, the introduction of the
ladies spoiled the uniformity of a bad cast
—as the apple said in commenting on the
Garden of Eden eviction. However, the little
Adyar Hall was crowded on both nights with
an audience composed of Society supporters
of the Seamen’s Mission. A curious eftect
given by the tiny stage was to make all the
performers appear too large, and the faintest
flicker of a movement labored.
Australia may be on the rim of the world,
but she doesn’t always follow; sometimes
she leads. A few weeks ago a London cable
announced that a great novelty had been
put on at a West-End shop, where a manne-
quin parade of corsets in the form of a play-
let had taken place. Last year Mary Craven,
of the Berlei firm, evolved this idea for Syd-
ney, and presented the show at the Palace
Theatre, where Dr. Grace Boelke spoke the
health-giving word from a box o.p. .These
two indefatigables are staging a similar
show at Her Majesty’s on the 24th and 25th
under the title of “So This Is Elegance!”
The S.U.D.S., under Ken Webb’s direc-
tion, made quite a neat success of “Mrs.
Gorringe’s Necklace.” This play, by Hubert
Henry Davies, is not easy for amateurs to
handle. Beginning on a note, of broad
comedy, it is engulfed bit by bit in tragedy;
and the girls and boys from the Sydney Uni.
handled the situations quite cleverly. The
cast was strengthened by the outstanding
talent of John Gould: and the girls gave
sympathetic readings of their parts.
Unassuming Myrtle Meggy has taken her
piano from behind her ear, and is again
training her brood of Conservatorium hopes
on the road to fame. Myrtle is just back
from a tour of Europe and America, and in
the States she had the joy of playing with
Verbrugghen’s orchestra at Minneapolis.
St. Vincent’s College old girls foregathered
at the Wentworth one night last week in the
interests of the school bursary fund. Nell
Casey, the capable vice-president, wrapped
herself about in a coat of old rose brocades
and entertained a large party, of whom was
Mayoress Cecilia Walsh in soft brocades as
silver as rain. The Vincentians turned up
in glittersome hordes, and Kathleen Butler
danced just as well as if she didn’t know a
cantilever from a feather-duster.
To-morrow night Trixie Tange plays her
last chord in
Sydney at the
State Conser-
vatorium. The
clever young-
ster is facing
Europe an d
hard study
with the cour-
age that comes
from the de-
termination to
become Aus-
tralia’s Car-
reno. Concert
artists will
miss the rapt
gaze of the
f u z zy-topped
Trixie, who
lias been a
front - seater
and a first-
lighter at
every To w n
Hall concert for the past live years.
Gone are the days when a trip to Europe
meant months of stitchery beforehand.
Two of everything, provided they be silk,
will see a girl from here to old England these
days. The new P. and O. Chitral proudly
draws attention in her bill of attractions to
the fact that ladies’ lavatories are fitted
with electric irons. Also every cabin has
a porthole and an electric heater. So the
little step-ins and ’jamas can be dried and
aired while the traveller sleeps. Of course
if you must be classy or want to air off a
trousseau there’s a perfectly appointed
laundry to send the wash to.
But the really fascinating thing about the
Chitral is its mechanical cow. She does not
consume the tender daisy, nor grow reflec-
tive on the velvet sward, but a diet of pow-
dered skim milk, butter and water is emulsi-
fied in her cranky and gadgeted interior into
milk that they claim is as good as the
meadow, product. It is milk that grows
cream, too —lots of it.
Gwen Hobson did her teacher, Gordon
Lavers, more than proud at her recital in
the King’s Hall last week. The young pian-
ist’s programme was interesting and well
balanced, and her work held sincerity and a
technique that promises success in the future.
Arnold Bax’s Moy Mell for two pianos, in
which composition she was joined by her
teacher, brought the ovatiou of the evening.
This grand-opera face belongs to Nell
Hayes, of Neutral Bay, one of Sydney’s newly-
Hedged song-
birds, Her
voice is a
mezzo of such
d i m cusions
that it more
than aston-
ish e d those
who were pre-
sent at her re-
cent recital in
Beale’s concert
hall. She is
from the studio
of Mr. Sauer,
and her plan
is to travel to
Europe after
she has had
another two
years’ study in
her native
land. Her in-
troduction to
the musical
world of London will lose nothing from the
fact that she is a niece of Knight Timothy
Coghlan’s popular lady. Falk made the
picture.
Mrs. Linda Prince, for years one of the
Council of Sydney’s R.S.P.C.A., had a per-
fectly gorgeous jollo the other afternoon
in London. She was olvo of the visitors
to the Costers’ and Street-traders’ Donkey
Show organised by the Dumb Friends’
League of which the Earl of Lonsdale is the
president. Mrs. Prince, who had sent along
a cheque towards the prize list, was invited
on to the platform and taken to tea by the
committee, whose names read like a volume
ou heraldry.
Miss Brisbane’s show-piece :
The G.-G. got out of his limousine to have a ride
round the ring with Ernest Baynes on the box seat
of an old Cobb and Co.’s coach at the Show the
other day. This worthy vehicle took part in the
“Evolution of Transport” procession which was
headed by Coley, a Binghi from Barambah, his wife
and a couple of their piccaninnies, and finished with
the most up-to-date of tractors and motor-cars.
In between went ancient spring-carts, decrepit
buggies, a bullock team, the old yellow ’bus of
Brisbane’s ’eighties, and a Baekbloeks mailman such
as. the Baekbloeks never saw, with a red cap and
postal uniform. A microphone dispersed announce-
ments and instruction about dairy breeds to the
crowded grandstands from the centre of the ring.
A popular event was the feat of Machine Brick, the
Cornstalk horse, who lowered the trotting record by
three-quarters of a second amid cheers.
A pavilion that was fairy-like with blossomry was
one feature of the Show, and gave a flowery hint
of what we can grow in Bananaland. Toowong's
horticultural garland was particularly fine. In the
Art section W. Bustard scored S’Matthew’s 10-guinea
prize, and Tom Alban took the same value for a
nude. Although this section was better than in
former years, there were many pictures which might
have stayed at home with advantage to the cause
of Art.
For Show week, which had a dance every night,
Government House set the jazz ball rolling with a
party at which 16 debs, bloomed into full-blown
roses, his Ex. presenting each deb. to the Forsters
and giving the girleens a gold monogrammed brooch
apiece. Lady Forster hid her blue silver embroidered
gown under an ermine cloak. Mrs. Leonard Turner
was in black, and Miss Carleton pink and gold.
Mrs. Glyn Connolly chose rose, and pretty Mrs.
Espie Dods suited her fairnessi with apple-green and
gold—daughter Peggy was a bud in ivory marocain.
Another handsome deb. was Sheila McCowan, in
cloth of silver.
Sir Matthew was presented with a water-color
(by Bustard) of Queensland scenery and an address
in a case composed of. Queensland woods, the cover
having an inlaid map of the State worked in 20
different timbers. Three hundred women gathered at
the Botanic Gardens kiosk to see Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax, the president of the Country Women hand up
the gift.
Over 60 bachelors held out the glad hand from
pink and blue decorations at the South Brisbane
City Hall the other night. Mrs. Bruche came in grey,
Mrs. Ellangowan Baldock in orchid mauve, Mrs.
Caddell Garrick in delphinium blue and daughter
Cecily in ivory brocade.
There was a Town and Country ball on the previ-
ous Saturday in a black and yellow color scheme in
the South Brisbane City Hall, and a Matrons’ Ball
on the 13th in the same spot.
Mrs. Ted Theodore organised a dance at the Palais
to aid the limbless soldiers. Yellow and palm-green
were the colorings, with masses of wattle and bou-
gainvillaea, and a guard of honor of war nurses and
members of the association received the State and
Federal vice-regals.
On one day the Show committee invited, through
a loud speaker, all those who had been at the first
Brisbane Show 50 years ago to come into the ring
and be photographed and receive a life membership
badge from the National Association. Over 70 hale
and hearty veterans paid tribute to the Queensland
climate by sitting on a form and facing the rush
of camera men.


igy&afo-
RESCH’S
. PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors! BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
S3lg Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
From the Macnaught “Guinea
Shoe Section
Now in stock, as
illustrated, in
Black Brocade,
Black Satin,
Black Glace Kid,
Medium Tan
Calf, Imit. Tan
Lizard, with
Black Vamps
and Tan Backs.
Buy Several Pairs.
THEMACNAWOT
GUINEA SHOE
mbv
Sizes:
2’s to 7’s
(Post Free).
Shoe recovers
done neatly.
Mail Order Dept.: 135 KING STREET,
:'- r v- ;■ •
SYDNEY.
SPORTINO
NOTIONS
The need of straigktout totalisators was
keenly felt at the dull Rosehill (N.S.W.) meeting-
on Saturday, for the prices obtainable in the ring
about anything- with a chance were, for the most
part, murderous. Cilix, the gelded brother to Erasmus,
was never better than evens in many of the books for
the second division; of the Highweight Handicap, six
furlongs, although there were 14 runners and two
others were well backed. Oilix won nicely from
the outsiders Hamilton and Epitome, and is evidently
a comer, but small punters could not back him at
the price. For the Rosehill Handicap, 10 furlongs,
it was 6 to 4 Master Oagou, 7 to 4 Barosca and
2’s (in places) Earl Liddell, bold spirits offering
9 to 4. Earl Liddell got home because he was in
much better fettle than Master Oagou or Barosca,
the other three starters being fifth-raters; for that
reason, the form may be discarded. In the betting
on the Carlingford Mile, Hit and Collaroi oscillated
between 6 to 4 and, 2’s and Inia’s Boy between 7 to 4
and 9 to 4, My Son being at 10’s and Dainty
Davie and Cadbury at any price. Condition again
prevailed, Inia’s Boy having the advantage in that
respect over Hit* whom he beat by a neck, and
the dead-heaters Collaroi and Dainty Davie —the
latter, a robust bay by imported Don Reynaldo—
The Knot, will be worth following when in good
trim and judiciously placed. Souchong, a Quantock
—-Tea Leaf mare who is trained by the shrewd
Munson, showe(d a fine turn of speed in a seven-
furlong handicap) confined to three- and four-year-olds,
for which she was favorite at 5 to 2 ; and Varney
(s’s) gave S. Cracknell his third successful ride by
coming with a Stony-lilce run on the outside in
the Maiden Handicap. But a number of Rosehill
runners may be expected to show rapid improvement.
They were merely out for an airing.
Sol Green’s imported chestnut Vcrbius
( Swynford—Hippolyte), who had been backed in
an earnest way for the Caulfield Cup during the
week, opened at 6’s for the August Welter at Flem-
irigton on Saturday, firmed to 7 to 2, and, though
the stable is alleged to have put £2OOO on him,
ended at 11 to 2. Always well up and never ex-
tended, he was three-quarters of a length in front
of the improving Ouragan and Linlithgow at the
close. He reached the front in. a few strides, and
it: was a rather taking Caulfield Cup trial, though
the distance was only a mile and the time (lmin.
il.jsec.) was nothing to write home about. There
were 18 runners, mostly of fairly good class. Tex-
tile, who has also been mentioned for the Caulfield
Cup, in which he has 7st. 91b. (Verbius has 7st.
111 b.), ran disgracefully in the August Handicap,
10 furlongs, for a heavily-backed 3-to-l favorite.
Little Pehgarie (6’s), an ancient who has never
looked bettew, came through on the inside of three
horses, and just pipped Frances Tressady (7's) on
the post, Alshley Heed takings things too easily on
the mare a/hen she reached the front. A. Gh Barlow,
who owns,' Frances Tressady, did better with Ambas-
sador in tthe Three-Year-Old Handicap. The black
Bt. Anjtqftx—Stagegirl colt was rather unlucky at
Caulnelrt; where he hung out. On this occasion
Weathc/lcock was the wandering animal and Ambas-
sador benefited. Swift (6’s), Phocion (2’s) and
Manli/ed (20’s), going easily, rvere behind the win-
ner. Manfred will be at a shorter price in his
next race, which may be at Williamstown on Satur-
day, After that he goes to Randwick to finish his
A. J.C. Derby preparation.
* * * *
Mediterranean made a good attempt in
thfi Adelaide Grand National Hurdle to repeat his
victory in the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield, in AA T hich
he led most of the way. But Fiseom compelled
.Mediterranean to gallop too fast over the first mile,
and the Sea Prince gelding dropped back when
16 of the 20 furlongs had been traversed. However,
he plugged on gamely and finished third behind
Stress (Tressady—Polska), another Vic. candidate,
and the outsider Peremal. Stress, who Avas beauti-
fully ridden by Boyd, paid £1 18s. for £1 and
Peremal’s dividend rvas £7 13s. Cockina (Cock of
the North —Yoopina) won the Fulham Park Plate,
the first two-year-old race of the season, his backers
collecting £l9 is. for £l, and the hot favorite
Ethelton (St. Anton —Ethel Maude) made hacks
of her field in the Adelaide Guineas, while old St.
Speed annexed the first division of the Lightning
Handicap, the other division going to Shanky. No
less than £55,218 Avas speculated on the machines,
which amount may be compared with £49,820
staked on the first day of the A.J.C. jumping carnival
at Randwick and £32,779 on the second day. Of
course, the A.J.C. permits bookmakers to ply their
unnecessary calling at Randwick, and its totalisators,
unlike the S. Aus. and Westralian implements, are
run on a stupid concession-betting basis.
* * * * ' *
Racing is not overdone in South Australia,
and Myel's, owner of Dundalk, with four winners,
seven races and £3442 in stakes, heads the past
year’s list easily. Wadham is second with £2870,
won by Steel Bronze alone; King of Mirth and
Lemma put R. E. H, Mope and Gardiner next. But
-A. D. McDonald has easily the most. wins, 101.
Nobody else Avon (inside S.A.) more than £2OOO.
The old names of Hawker, Hamilton, Kidman, McFar-
lane and McLachlan are a long way down the list,
and Vincent Zed has dropped out altogether. Med-
hurst, Spain and Mules w T ere the first three among
the jockeys, and Reid, Butler and Bates among
the trainers, in respect of races won. As regards
sires, the. ancient St. Anton, Avho has been getting
winners since 1907-08, has at last been put down
into third place by Pistol ( £8285) and Comedy
King.
* * * *
“Proletarian”: Great is the stamina of
some of the “grassfed” racehorses you see out back.
After being hacked about for a couple of months
and hard fed, they are paddocked for a month (some-
times where the herbage is tough and unnourishing),
arid then intensively trained, after a fashion, on corn
for a couple of weeks. On this regimen, some of
them will gallop half a mile on a barbarous track
with welter weights in 52 or 53 sec., and do it
three times in an afternoon. If it is a two-day meeting,
they will repeat the performance on the second after-
noon, having been tied up to a tree in the saddling-
T. DAVIES, owner of Pildin, the crack
hurdler.
paddock in between, and obliged to stand tucked up
and sleepless in a stall overnight. At Axigathella
(W.Q.) recently, I saw grassfeds at it for fbut days
running, and in the last race of the meeting five
of them finished abreast, with their straight-backed
jockeys riding hell-for-leather to the last stride. Fox-
courage and endurance your pampered aristocrats
are not in it with many back-country prads whose
parentage is too doubtful to be recorded in stud-
books.
No\;ocastria”: “Itiverina’s” suggestion
that two-up was introduced into the North of Eng-
land by Australian Diggers (B. 6/8/’25) is rubbish,
ror .at least 50 years the game has been a favorite
pastime of the pitmen of Northumberland and Dur-
ham. Reference is made in the same paragraph to
pitch and toss, but this is quite different from two-up.
In the former, a mark (commonly called a “mot”)
is aimed at with pennies; the most accurate thrower
then “kips” all the pennies, and those coming down
heads are his. The runner-up next throw's and takes
"’hat fortune gives him, and so on until the game
finishes.
* * * *
“Brumby” : A few simple rules were rigidly
enforced in Sydney’s old-time ,two-up schools . (B.
23/7/’25). For example, claypipes were prohibited,
and the “boxer” or ring boss was the sole judge in
betting disputes. After hearing both sides he would
say to one disputant, “Give ? im 10 bob,” ,or what-
ever Might be the sum at issue. It the litigant
refused or went on arguing lie was violently ejected
'forthwith. Any patron who dozed off in his seat,
instead of playing, had a wet floor-cloth playfully
flung in his face by the proprietor to awaken him.
A lucky bettor could get a few minutes’ start .when
leaving with his winnings if he so desired, a privilege
that was largely availed of, for well-known habitues,
when successful, had to run the gauntlet of a horde
of stony-broke acquaintances and cadgers as they jostled
their way from the room. One night these attentions
were neatly circumvented by a player who, in a
betting duel with a prominent hors'etrainer, had wqn
between two and three hundred pounds in gold, notes
and silver. Shovelling it into his pockets he seized
the last two handfuls of silver and flung them into
the air. Instantly the ring resembled a yard full
of hungry fowls picking up grain. Most of the
spectators joined in the scramble and many players’
bets were snatched in the commotion. Meanwhile the
tactician had quietly faded away.
* * * *
The Australians now in pursuit of the
Davis Cup gained the expected victory over the
Canadians Wright and Crocker at Montreal. An-
derson accounted for Crocker in straight sets, 6—l,
6 —3, 6—2; then Wright flattered Canadian hopes
by wresting two sets, 7—5, 6 —3, from Patterson,
only to be flattened out in the other three by the
in-and-out Victorian, who made it 6 —3, 6—l. 6—3.
After that it was a procession: Hawkes and Patter-
son beat Wright and Crocker 6—o, 6—2, 6 —4 ;
Patterson’s cannon-ball service was too much for
Crocker, 6 —4, 11—9, 6 —4; and Anderson's speed
and generalship were combined too effectually fbV
Wright, 6 —2, 6—4, 6—l. But danger thfeateihs
the Australians in the persons of the Japanese
Harada and Shimizu, Who haVC 'eliriii'nate'd the
strong Spanish team-, Composed of the brothers
Alonzo and FlaqUer. Though Shimizu may not be
quite so good as formerly (Flaquer defeated him),
he is still a formidable opponent, and by trouncing
the great Manuel Alonzo, as well as Flaquer, Harada
has qualified for inclusion among the six best
players in the world.
'* ■ * * *
There was a gap of 44 minutes between
that very grandad of cyclists, Louie Anderson, and
the scratch men, Opperman, Beasley and Osborn,
when the 100-mile road race arranged by the Vic.
cycle traders moved off last Saturday; and the
veteran kept ahead for 50 miles. The race took place
over a section of the Prince’s Highway, and there
was a notion that it might be a preparation for a
proposed new means of contracting strained hearts
—a race to Sydney in three stages. C. M. F. Shillito,
a man off the ten-minute mark, came in first, beating
C. W. Watt (27 minutes) by a few yards. Beasley
secured fastest time, 4hr. 49min. 58sec.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Harold Abrahams, who won
the 100-metres race for Britain at the Olympic
Games, has said good-bye to track athletics, lie
had a bad fall while jumping, and, straining a leg
muscle, was obliged to spend some time in hospital j
when he came out he decided that tennis and golf
would do for him in future. Incidentally, Abrahams
got a good start and is having a fair run af thh
Bar. No doubt his athletic fame has helped hiriv.
* * * *•
Tenario Pelkey, darkest and ddiifest ttf all
the Filipino pugs, seeil in AUstralii, Weighed lOst.
141 b., and Viking-fail Leo Wilt lost. 4fib., when
the pair met at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night before a moderate crowd. The Manilaman
was a hot favorite, but the blond fought a desperate
battle and had his man in sore trouble in the
7th, i3th and 17th rounds. In the 13th, a heavy
left swing to the mark put Pelkey on his haunches
with a plonk that shook the doves on the rafters.
The steel-armored Manilaman actually smiled as he
scrambled to the perpendicular. Both were very
tired during the 10th and 11th, and also wobbly in
later rouflds; and that Leo, only a few days out of
a sick bed, stuck to a losing game as he did to the
bitter end, spoke volumes for his courage. A heavy
right swing to the butt of the jaw in the third
caused Wax to bite his tongue, and he bled from
the mouth right along; the Filipino, though jabbed
on mouth and nose dozens of times, did not shed
a drop nor show so much as a slight lump. Pelkey
on points.
“Basher”; Stadiums, Ltd., has lost its monopoly
of the business in Sydney. Pat McHugh, of Leich-
hardt, and Bill Szarka, of Mayrickville, have weighed
in with opposition which will probably oblige the
Rushcutter Bay syndicate to reduce its tariff,
and will certainly result in preliminary boys being
better paid. One of the principal reasons why
Australia has produced so few good performers in
recent years has been the totally inadequate re-
numeration offered to aspiring youngsters. N T ot only
have lads been scandalously underpaid, but ill the
matter of more important engagements preference
has been given to inferior importations, the “dingier”
the better. Hitherto, the wealthy Labor capitalist
who controls the Stadium has paid ten-round fighters
£4 10s. each, six-round boys £2 10s. each, and
four-rounders £1 10s. each. Such figures are not
worth the trouble and expense of training, especially
as there is no Workers’ Compensation or Employers’
Liability Act for pugs. Szarka, who has never
aspired to be considered a wealthy Labor capitalist,
started by paying £2 10s. apiece for four rounds,
£8 10s. for six rounds, and for ten rounds £5 10s.
He could have got Stan Thurbon to risk his bantam-
weight: championship for a guarantee of £lOO,
“Champion is he?” said Bill. “Well, give him £150,”
And Jimmy Kelly, who won, got 25 per cent, of the
house.
* * * *
Jimmy O’Connell, said to be an American
lawyer, who is after a match for the world’s cruiser-
weight championship and the costs of the action, en-
countered Billy Meeske at the Melbourne Stadium on
Satinday night. The Yank weighed in at list. Blb.,
191 b. less than the Australian, but Meeske was handi-
capped by a bandaged arm. O’Connell treated the
damaged member as a technical point, and although
Meeske, putting the ease well, gained most of the
points the pressure of an a unlock on the weak arm
which the lawyer exerted in the seventh bout caused
Meeske to tap the .mat in token of submission. There
being no further falls, judgment was entered for the
American with costs.
* * * *
South Sydney XIII and referee Tom
McMahon ma.de the long journey to Toowoomba (Q.)
last week Jom to provoke the wrath of the one-eyed
Avho didn t relish his decisions, and the N.S/VV.
premiers to be well walloped by the local cracksi
who scored 12 points to 5. Toowoomba was the
heavier team, and was attacking most of the time
Spencei', the winger, who did not great!v i mpres ‘
when he was in Sydney, got both Toowoomba-
tries, and Lindsay, the full-back, kicked three goal-
For South, Lapham scored a try, and Blair kicked
a goal.
Toowoomba took the field without “XjggeF
Brown, the dashing eetttl'e-thl'eeqiiai'tei-, Who was
injured . m the match against the iUctriianders
During the last two seasoiis the local kill has
defeated the elect of England, M.L. and Brisbane,
as well as the Ma State premiers. Certainly ,1
unique achievement for a country club,
* * * *
The absence of South Sydney's stats, a titled
to the fact that a Country Xlll had defeated the
Metropolis during the Week, induced the selector-
to include four of the Cotmtfynieii in the S\s \y
team which played the final iiiatfch with Mamilairi
Oh the Sydney Cricket Ground. Brain, a wing thrte-
qnarter, aild Maker, a, sturdy fohvard, justified their
selection. N,S,W. led by id. to 3. at half-tinie i
after that M,L. shifted the hack division, and broke
through the Blue defence again and again, winning
by Id points, to 18. But the gaitte Was not rerilaik’-
able for quality, though Vigorous enough.
OLIFF RANK[?]N, captain Of Geelong. He
is having a remarkably [?].
Nobodyj tjfettamiy not the i(jsers, will geek
excises foi* the tleiedt. b-V . Victoria ,on Saturday of
the S-. AUStiaiiati cbiilbinaupn that had twice wiped
the- earth with the Whstralians and once with the
Vi'cs. It was ah ideal day, the Melbourne Cricket
Ground was hi tiptop order, and the friendly crowd
M 29,28,7 (exclusive of deadheads) paid £1537
19s. 6d. to see the show. And the play was bright
and fast. The Croweaters marked superbly, their
system was good and their kicking accurate, lint
they were a shade slow; they failed to support each
other when in difficulties, and, above all, they lacked
the determination that, especially towards the end,
spells victory. They liad the had luck to lose the
services of Showy Whitehead—through either a broken
rib or torn ligaments—but Victoria also lost Taylor,
through concussion. The game was even through-
out ; only in the last quarter could it be seen that
the Vies, were destined to win, as ultimately they
did by 12 goals 16 behinds to 11 goals 9 behind?,.
Frank Golding, Sturt’s old champion, was great as
full-back; Lill, in the centre, shone out, as did
Hanbe.v, McGregor and Ryan. The best of the Vies,
were Fleming, Wigraft, Syd and Gordon Coventry,
Chadwick and McKenzie; but there wasn’t a passen-
ger in either team.
“Hamer”; Frank Golding, the South Aus. skipper,
has played for Crowland' in every inter-State match
for the last 16 years, with the exception of a game
for which he had to be scratched (he was selected)
owing to a knee injury. He captained the State
team for the first time on his 36th birthday. Golding
entered senior football when only 16 ; but that he
was a well-grown youngster is shown by the fact
that his weight has not Varied more than a few
pounds since he started. In Westralia, where he
bogged _ in for West Perth, he was a pretty good
competition boxer, but he heVer looks foi' fight oil
the football field, or anywhere else for that matter.
Playing much better football thart ill Melbourne
recently, N. S; Males beat Victoria’s second XVIII
by 88 to 87, after a. Very exciting fourth term.
Favored by the wind ill the opening quarter, Vic.
led by 33 to 21, and in the third quarter it was 7ti
to 61, but with the atmosphere’s artful aid N.S.W.
got 27 points against 8 in the final bout. P. Flynn
kicked six of the 13 goals, and Mclvoy and Voekler
were great in the ruck. Skelton, Hayes and Hopkins
were the most prominent Victorians.
“Wink”; There is a growing opinion in Melbourne
that delegates who compose the League executive
sometimes forget justice and the good of the game in
their hard battling for the club interests they repre-
sent. _ How otherwise is the treatment of Donnelly
to be interpreted ? This player, a merely useful with
Essendon juniors, had a season in South Oss. Return-
ing to Vie. he lived for a few weeks in North Mel-
bourne territory, then resided for the allotted time
in Melbourne district, and applied for a permit to
the latter club, giving the League full particulars of
all his movements. Without a voice of protest the
application was granted. MTien Donnelly materially
helped to put Melbourne in the running for the
premiership (an honor it has not won for 25 years),
and earned a wing position in the Victorian XVIII,
North Melbourne suddenly remembered that it could
have claimed him. It said nothing officially, how-
ever, but St. Hilda, in a last desperate effort to reach
the final four, protested on the point after a defeat
by Melbourne. The League dismissed the protest,
but the committee cancelled the permit. Thus, as
the period for reviewing permits is over, Donnelly
is prevented from playing again this season, and Mel-
bourne is weakened by the loss of one of its best
players. And the primary error, with its climax of
injustice, was wholly the work of the League
executive.
TOO RIGHT,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“>J- B. Hobbs, whose tally of centuries now equals
‘W.G.’s,’ gives it as an excuse for having failed to
gratify his admirers sooner, that ‘a hundred takes,
nearly four hours to make on a soft wicket, and
a lot mar happen in the way of getting out during
that time.’”
Bit by bit the seasons rolling
Make, it harder for the bowling,
Scarce a year but sees the averages climb.
Though the interest doesn’t ’minish
Matches take a week to finish
That were won and lost of old in half the time.
Pitches smoother grow and plumber
Pretty nearly every summer
And it’s easier to stonewall or to clout,
But it doesn’t need suggesting,
for it’s quite beyond contesting,
Quite a lot of ways remain for getting out.
Though the ball loom big and bigger
As you jubilantly figure
for your.century long-coveted you're set;
Though the googlie cease to trouble you
That vexatious l.b.w.
May send you back to the pavilion yet.
Or that ball just off the wicket—
Scarce perceptibly you snick it
But you hear a confident stentorian shout,
Hardly time for silent prayer is
Ere the umpire’s hand in air is
And you face the grim conviction that you're out.
Slips are swarming in the gully,
Suddenly you realise dully
That one of them has caused your knock to cease.
Risky runs are sweet for stealing,
But it’s quite another feeling
When you’re caught an inch or two outside the
crease.
There are simple traps or subtle,
And you rue, the while you scuttle,
You blundered into one beyond a doubt
When that tempting ball you lifted
Heedless that the field had shifted—
Yes, there’s still no end of ways of getting out.
Though upon the splice you’re sitting
Or along the carpet hitting,
And off-theory is powerless to seduce,
Still your scalp may be collected
By the yorker unexpected
Or the break that’s camouflaged may cook your
goose.
Aye, though bowlers’ hearts be breaking
With the centuries in the making,
There’s still a ground for thankfulness devout.
We might all assume our places
With the Hobbses—and the Graces—■
If there weren’t so many ways of getting out!
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


■
si
a
■
s*
m
M
K i
18
9
m PI
v
¥
&
if
Misr*v
r'Q
V*
«s»
s?Q
M
&A
g£2
£2
SS
mbv
mbv
THE FAVORITE OF A FAMOUS FAMILY.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PXI., LTD Melbourne, Vic.
GARRATTS, LTD Sydney, N.S.M.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD Adelaide. S.A,
ARTHUR ANDERSON. LTD
FIAT SAFES AGENCY. LTD
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD., Sub-A Kent
Perth, W.A.
Brisbane. Q’lantl
for Tas., Hobart.


These Gun and
Rifle Values
will Interest
Every
Sportsman.
No. 25.
No. 25 —B.S.A. D.B. Hammerless
Shot Gun, 12 gauge, 30in. barrels, both
choke, nitro proof, fluid compressed steel
barrels, automatic safety pistol grip;
weight about 6Jlb.
Carriage Paid. * l^
No. 22.
No. 22 —Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, case-hardened
frame, cross-bolt, blued steel barrels
right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers,
pistol grip, vulcanite butt-plate, snap
fore-end, tested for nitro powder®,
weight 711 b. to Blb.
With 30in. barrels
With 32in. barrels
£5/5/-
£5/10/-
Carriage paid.
No. 1.
No. I—-The “Maine” Rifle, 22ca1.,
fitted with plain V back sight, designed
for 22 short, long, or long rifle cart-
ridges, rim fire. It can be taken apart
easily and quickly by simply unscrewing
the thumbscrew located underneath the
forearm. The action used is of the
safety bolt type, and is exceedingly
simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long,
bored and rifled with the same care as
the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight about 31b.
Price
25/-
Postage:
N.S.W., 1/6; Other States, 2/8.
No. 18.
No. 18 — Winchester Repeating Rifle,
1892 Model, 25/20, 32, 38, 44 calibre,
central fire, full or half magazine, 24in.
barrel; length over all 424 in. With
round barrel; weight, about
71b.
£7/15/-
Carriage Paid.
With Octagon Barrel
Carriage Paid.
£B/5/-
No. 17 —Carbine. All calibres.
Carriage Paid. £7/5/-
No. 6.
No. 6—Stevens’ Visible Loading Re-
peating Rifle, 22 calibre, magazine
holds 15 short, 13 long or 11 long rifle
cartridges, mixed or separate, 22in.
round barrel, slide action, blade front
and ladder rear sights ; weight,
441 b.
80/-
Carriage paid.
No. 85.
No. 35— 8.5. A. Miniature S.S. Rifle,
No. 1 Model. 22 calibre. Bolt action,
191 m. barrel, polished Walnut, stock
Weight about
Cai-riage paid.
£3/15/-
WRITE FOR FREE GUN
CATALOGUE.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
RAIN PROOF
DUST PROOF
LEAK PROOF
m
ONE OILING LASTS
A WHOLE YEAR.
“BILLABONG”
ENCASED \\ T» 1 Ml
gear Windmills
He who decides on a Billabong Encased Gear Windmill
makes a wise choice—a Mill is not a thing you buy every
day. Remember, a defective or heavy-running Mill is
a mighty bad asset to any farm. Billabong buyers are
assured of a smooth and easy-running mill—a powerful
mill, possessing lifetime service-giving qualities.
Send for full particulars and prices.
The ‘l)anks”
All Brass
Windmill Pump.
Bolted Cylinder,
Fitted with
Double Feather
Bucket.
Brass-lined Bore
Cylinder.
Bore Cylinder,
with flush-
jointed Screwed
Cap and Double
Feather Bucket.
Bolted Cylinder,
Fitted with Ball
Valve Bucket,
with Double
Feather.
CATALOGUE OF WINDMILL PUMPS AND PUMP
ACCESSORIES POST FREE.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
a
%
391-405 BOURKE ST. MELB.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE INKY WAY.
“Balala”: Since the war the growth of the free
advertising sheet in Sydney suburbs has been amaz-
ingly rapid. In 1918 there was only one, the Manly
Daily. Now there are five dailies in various suburbs
and 23 free weeklies. Every suburb of importance
has its own free sheet to chronicle the doings of local
Bumbledom.
“Simon”; The Shakspeare brothers, who acquired
Hawlcesbury (N.S.W.) Herald a couple of years ago
when respectively aged 21 and 23, should be about the
youngest newspaper proprietors in the business. They
are the sons of Shakspeare, M.L.C., also a newspaper
man, who as a Labor candidate a few years back got
within a few votes of winning Namoi.
The proprietors of the Bundaberg (Q.) Mail have
bought a controlling interest in their rival, the Daily
News, and now issue the Daily News and Mail. S.
H. Barton directs the managerial side of the busi-
ness, and Matt O’Brien, late of the Sun Pictorial,
Melbourne, inhabits the editorial sanctum. There are
80 papers in Queensland, and, as Minister McCormack
complained the other day, only about three are friends
of the Labor Government.
Died recently at Thames (M.Jj.) in his 83rd year,
William McCullough, for over 40 years head of the
Thames Star. Born in Ireland, he reached the Shaky
Islands in 1859, and made farming, mining and mine-
managing an asset in his after life as reporter of the
Star, and later proprietor. Ballance called him to
the Leg. Council, and he was delegate to the Burns
Centenary and to the 1915 Press Conference. A son
controls the destinies of the family paper.
“Kriz”; Passed out at Broome (W.A.), W. H.
Barker, founder and editor of the Nor’-West Echo.
He had been a printer and journalist for 40 years,
beginning his career on the Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
Herald at the age of 14. Westralia called him in
1895, and he launched the Leonora Miner for Hugh
Mahon (subsequently Federal Member and Minister)
in 1897. He issued the Port Hedland Advocate in
1906 and the Echo in 1912. The last is now run
by his son Keith.
“O. McKay M.”: Melbourne Uni.’s weekly news-
sheet, Farrago, which has run through 15 issues
and is now well established in the University, is
to be handed over to an undergraduate staff shortly,
when the present editor (S. H. Heymanson) and
the chief of staff (B. C. Fitzpatrick) set off
together to seek Ph.D.’s in London. Melbourne
’Varsity journalism is thriving. The meds. pro-
duce the Speculum, and the University Magazine
comes out each term. Each of the five colleges has
its own annual magazine, too.
John o’ London’s Weekly (30/5/’25) has
an article on the firmament of the Southern Hemi-
sphere as an inspiration for Australian poets, and
quotes illustratively Brunton Stephens’s beautiful
octette from “Convict Once” (commencing “Out on
the orb-studded night”) and James A. Philp’s seren-
ade —“Could I that sickle moon but grasp.” The
latter, which first appeared in The Bulletin, is de-
scribed as “a poem of lyric fire vieing with the
Elizabethans in poetic expression.” Strangely enough,
Philp’s serenade fails to find a place in Professor
Stable’s recently printed anthology of Queensland
verse.
“Borom”; While frisky French journals such as La
Vie Parisienne are refused entry into the Common-
wealth, there is no such embargo on a swarm of
Communist and Bolshevik periodicals, most of which
are published in the United States. Yet the
majority of these abominable sheets simply teem
with lewd and blasphemous articles and illustrations.
One of such, the Industrial Communist, in a recent
number publishes an article which is a direct and
vile libel on Australian soldiers in France. Yet
these papers can be openly purchased in any of the
Sydney and Melbourne bookshops which specialise
in them.
“Iford”: The most desperately conservative publica-
tion in the world is, perhaps naturally enough, the
British Court Circular, the exclusive medium for
recording the doings of royalty and its relatives.
Slabs of it are lifted every week, with due acknow-
ledgment of the source, by various London dailies ; a
recent item was that the King of Portugal had been
given an audience by King George. Not the ex-
King, although it is 15 years since Don Manoel lost
his crown and his job; the Court Circular obviously
doesn’t believe in revolutions and isn’t even prepared
to admit that they happen—or, at all events, not to
the detriment of anybody who is even remotely con-
nected with the British reigning house.
“Uramao” ; That bright Maoriland weekly, the Free
Lance, has just been keeping its 25th birthday. A
group consisting of W, J. Geddes (now M.L.C.), W.
Blomfield (“Bio,” of black-and-white fame), J. M.
Geddes and G. H. Dixon, who had been running the
Auckland Observer a quarter of a century ago,
decided to launch a similar paper in the Windy City.
J. M. Geddes became editor. The paper under him
has been racy of Maoriland ever since. It set the
feet of many journalists and black-and-white men
on the Inky Way into the path of success. E. F.
Hiscocks (now in England) and Tom Glover learned
their paces on it, and James Cowan, deep-drenched
in Maori lore and history, finds it a medium for
broadcasting much of his knowledge.
“M.”; As a generic cognomen for a gaol, “clink”
isn’t quite as ancient as “Nux Vomica” (B. 30/7/’25)
tries to make out; but as referring to one gaol in
particular—namely, the Clink in Clink-street, South-
wark—the term is much older than the time of
Charles I. The Clink-street caravansary dates from
the beginning of the twelfth century, the name
being derived originally from the A.S. “clinchan,”
signifying to hold fast. Having reference to that,
particular house of detention, we find in Barclay’s
Egloges (1570) the collocation “Then art thou clapped
in the Flete or the Clinke” ; also in Foxe’s Book
of Martyrs (1563) there is mention of somebody
who was “had to the Clinke, and after to the Counter
in the Poultrie.” The gaol known as the Counter is
alluded to in the “Merry Wives” (Act iii, Scene 3), and
when the roystering Prince Hal callously casts off
the fat knight and the rest of his evil companions,
it is to the Fleet they are summarily consigned.
Shakspeare must have been well acquainted, too, with
the original clink, or at least the outside of it.
According to some authorities, he lived in Clink-
street till 1609; and the Clink prison stood close
to his own playhouse, the Globe.
“REMAINDERS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They lie in casual heaps, these lorn, lost books,
Love lyrics, thrilling tale, historic tome,
Where none but heedless hands and scornful looks
Take notice of their last neglected home.
A soulless publisher has marked them down
To sixpence each, or eight for half a crown.
“Remainders” now, they have outlived their time,
Their publisher has cast them out of sight,
Not spareth he the gentle poet’s rhyme,
Nor funny narratives some authors write.
He throws them to the wide, wide world, and eke
The nursemaid’s novelette and sage critique.
Here lies “Lord Rudolph’s Secret Love,” and here
“If Maids but Kne.w,” a passionate romance
That drew from fair frail flappers many a tear,
Tossed in with Coffyn’s “Sermons,” just by chance.
“Roses of Rapture” and “In Chloe’s Day”
(Such daring books!) have gone the self-same way.
Here is a name, the pride of yesterday,
A hundred thousand readers was his score;
His masterpiece, now marked a modest tray,
None but a passing straggler glances o’er.
Best sellers, like poor blokes without a name,
They drop into the basket just the same.
They He, poor books, neglected, put to rest,
“Remainders,” now scarce able to entice,
Though lauded loudly as the last and best,
Reluctant purchasers to risk the price.
This is the end of every author’s stocks,
Oblivion in a little dusty box.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


Murdoch’s Unrivalled Service
to the “Man on the Land”
i
■
*feJl
m
1
m
Jim
m
m
mm
:
Ik
■
I $
I ■
I
? ?<>4 f
... ,ll I'
Boots
MEN’S TAN MILITARY COSSACKS.—Heavy Standard screwed
and sewn soles. Watertight tongues. Thoroughly
reliable. Recommended for good service. Also in
heavy Black Box Hide. Guaranteed all Solid
Leather
19111
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL VALUE IN MEN’S LEATHER RIDING
BOOTS. —Black Tweed Elastic-side Emperors. Standard Screwed
Soles 16/11
IN HIGH-GRADE TAN CALF 22/6
Leggings
MEN’S SPLENDID QUALITY TAN
OR STRAPPED FRONT PUTTEES, sew
SPRING
n back...
11/9
Blocked all one piece, plain 21/-
Bound Top 22/6
Please state. Calf Measurement when Ordering.
MURDOCH’S recognise something deeper in the word
“Service” than simply attending to the Clothing
Wants of Australia’s Men and Boys—valuable
as that is.
Deeper still there is a binding affinity between Australia’s
greatest Men’s Wear Store and the men who not only placed
Australia on the map, but brought to her fair name the respect
and homage of all nations.
•• • • •• ••
And this deep, unshakeable sentiment is expressed in the
irreproachable quality of Murdoch Merchandise and the
guarantee which accompanies it. Murdoch’s would prefer to
suffer financial loss in any transaction rather than lose the
goodwill of one of Australia’s “sons.”
Men’s Shirts
MURDOCH’S “TOUGHITE” (Regd.), the strongest-wearing Work
Shirt known. Made from specially-woven Twill Harvard. Will with-
stand the severest test. With collar, pocket, and button
wristbands, double sewn and gussetted. Light or Dark
Pattern design. All Men’s Sizes
619
MEN’S NAVY OR KHAKI DRILL WORKING SHIRTS.—Extra
strong wearing fabrics. Made as above 7/6
Men’s Trousers
MURDOCH'S “TOUGHTEX” (Regd.) WORKING TROUSERS.-
A Tweed material without equal for hard wear. Strongly
sewn and well finished. Side or cx-oss pockets, plain
bottoms. Dark shades. All sizes
12/6
MEN’S KHAKI DRILL TROUSERS. —Reinforced for strength.
Trimmed throughout, including pockets with self-material. Made as
above 10/6
Breeches
MEN’S RIDING BREECHES.—Correctly proportioned to ensur
easy freedom of movement. Cut with Side and Cross
pockets, medium Balloons, from Murdoch's famous
“Barbwire” Tweeds; strongest make throughout.
Beady to Wear
19111
IN FAWN SHADE BUSH CORD, superior quality 25/
IN HEAVYWEIGHT WOOL BEDFORD CORD 35/
Men’s Suits
READY-TO-WEAR SAC SUlTS.— Fashioned from splendid-qualitj
Australian Woollen Tweeds, in a wide range of service-
able Grey, Fawn and Brown shades. Suit comprises
Coat, Vest and Trousers, accurately proportioned and
ready for immediate use
59,9
lii All-Wool Pure Indigo Fine Twill Serge or English and Australian
All-Wool Worsteds 95/-
Men’s Hats
“THE DROVER.”—A very popu-
lar Australian-made Hat of de-
pendable quality. Blocked after the
Military style, but of finer quality
Pure Fur. Plaited Leather Band.
Color: Military Fawn
only. Brim, 3i inches
wide. Sizes to 7|
27/6
“THE STOCKMAN.”—SimiIar in
shape to the above, but with 3-inch
width brim. Dark
Fawn color only.
Plain Silk Band.
Sizes, OJ to 1% • •••
1916
mbv
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When Ordering Suits kindly state
height, ivaist and inside leg
measures, also weight.
D
*
“The World’s Largest Men's and Boys’ Wear Store.”
When Writing address your letter
to DESK R.
Murdoch’s 52-page illustrated
Catalogue — Free!


It
as
v£>
Set No. 99. —The New Three and Sixpenny set, illus-
trated here, contains the essentials for a perfect
“Valet” shave —the Auto Strop Razor, one
Blade and Strop, packed in a neat leather-
ette case
3/6
Set No. 101 (Model 0.) —contains self-stropping
“Valet” Auto Strop Razor, three tested “Valet” Blades
and a leather strop of good quality, the
whole in compact and durable metal case,
complete as illustrated
7/6
Set No. 50. —The set de Luxe contains everything of
“the best” possible—triple silver-plated “Valet”
Razor, 12 blades, strop of specially
selected shell horsehide, in highly-
polished nickel case
25/-
Shaving up!
WHEN you shave against the growth of your beard you put
your razor to the hardest test, and that’s when “Valet”
users appreciate the joy of a self-stropped blade.
To obtain an edge of lancet-like keenness is the simplest thing
in the world. You just insert the strop into the head of the
“Valet” as it lies flat on the razor and run it to and fro a few
times—there’s no taking the blade out and no fiddling with
screws. To clean is just as simple—a rinse under the tap, a wipe
on the towel, a rub or two on the strop, and it is ready again for
to-morrow’s perfect shave.
BRITISH
MADE.
“VALET”
J\. Ut O S jD
Safety Razor
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia:—
OF ALL
DEALERS.
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
.
k
M
1M
mmm,
o*ye
4
, ■'■■■ ..."
n : : f ■ - v~-<mi:sm,
m
m i
A”-
ifeit
'/f#c/"rte*y. Bloc*oo/03
%, ,;n '* v- >, >; »,v-; j ,^ ,|, v; , l -' * .
I— »■*■» urn <■ w*» f ii Klin mw » w wnwniimiinMWi mnmm »mm mmm<* m mmmmn » ■» m m
Listed on Lloyd's Register, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— “HEAT-
TREATED.” —For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
\ ■ r,: ( ■ ' - •
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Corn*
pensation, etc., etc.
Listen In
'ji Jbeneficiat leverage ,
ABBOTS
LAGER
*A
OO
000
m
w
NATIONAL HOTEL
Strictly
First
Class.
i
4 1
m j-t
Brisbane,
“Rome’s,” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The street s,n S er .
Criterion “The Lady’
Royal “The Masquerader”
Grand Opera House ‘‘Little Jessie James”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers’ Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “ Ki .? ® oots ”
Royal “Wildflower”
K'ing's “Within the Law
Princess “No, No, Nanette”
Athenaeum . ... Edna lhoinas
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
JIILTOLYTTUS.
Out flew the web the Fates had knit,
Hippolytus was snared in it—
That huntsman doting; on the chase
Who not so nmcli as saw the face
Of lovelorn Phsedra as he passed.
Now Phaedra, dumb, was slowly dying.
Her breast worn thin with too much sighing,
V\ hen her old nurse her secret gleans,
And to the young man spills the beans,
Leaving that austere youth aghast.
And Phaedra hears his scornful cries.
And straightway hangs herself and dies,
Leaving a scroll whereon is writ
That Hippo, is to blame for it.
Her hubby, reading this, straight cast
His first-born. Hippo, on the world.
Who, crushed within a wave that curled
About the marge of Athens’ shore,
Dies at liis sire’s Ionian door.
When Theseus (pure) learns Truth at last!
* * * *
Dorothea Spinney made the tragedy of
Euripides (in the foregoing done into English
by “N.McA.”) her theme in Sydney on
Saturday night, but for some reason pre-
ferred tiie translation of Gilbert Murray to
that of the Bulletin bard.
After finishing her “Spring Cleaning’’ on
Friday at Sydney Cri., Miss Pauline Frede-
rick will play “The Lady.”
Hard put to it the I loyal is to cope
With nightly crowds “The Masquerader"
brings
To witness G. B. 1’ost assail the dope
And other equally arresting things.
“Little Jessie James” lingers at Sydney
Opera House like a cat over a saucer of
cream.
Who to oblivion would Care transfer?
The Palace is the place for him —or her,
And piquant Nellie Bramley the performer
To make the coldest world seem “Fair and
Warmer.”
“LITTLE JESSIE JAMES," AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Conductor Hamilton Webber in one of his
picturesque moments during a dance by
Ray McLean.
As George Washington Cohen in ‘‘The
Cherry-tree,” Harry Green is engaged by
a worried employer at a fabulous sum to
crusade in the cause of Honesty. The subtle
Yiddish comedian soon discovers that a strict
adherence to his principles involves more
trouble than he imagined, and after an epic
and highly diverting struggle against various
forms of falsehood he crashes in pitching a
tale on behalf of his employer’s wife. Green
is irresistible in his part; Marie Goodwin is
an excellent reason for his downfall, and
the husband is effectively portrayed by Alter
Allen. It is part of the programme at
Sydney Tivoli, where also the bright Lee
Mason Co. frolics and Fred Bluett incorpo-
rates some droll musings on the idiosyn-
crasies of goldfish.
. A sweet singer* “The Street Singer,”
Who beat the best as a Fleet singer,
And many a heart full sad is
To think relentless Fate decrees
In another week at His Majesty’s
’Twill be good-bye to Gladys.
Scamuzzi, who was one of the stars of
the wonderfully good little Gonsalez Opera
Co., has come in at Fullers’ house in Sydney
with his wife. A sonorous baritone, with
a chest that would drive any sergeant-major
jealous, he makes a hit in the factotum’s
song from “The Barber of Seville’’ and a
“Pagliacci” number; and his wife, Nina
Ambrose, scores handclaps for some of the
delightful music of “Madame Butterfly. '
Notwithstanding the inclusion of a son of
a N.S.W. Cabinet Minister as chief saxo-
phonist, Landeryou’s jazz band is an undis-
tinguished crew. Sadie Macdonald manipu-
lates a fiddle bow deftly, better female im-
personators than Charles Holt have been
seen, and the daring trick cycling of La
Marte Trio is a revelation in misplaced
heroism.
“The Arab,’’ who has pitched his tent at
Sydney Hoyt's, is a naive young rascal
Avith a sweet tooth for petticoats. When he
loses his tnrbaned top-piece over a mission-
ary’s daughter, troubles begin in earnest, and
what follows merits a glance. Those Avho
missed “East of Suez’’ when Muriel Starr
played it are advised that a visit to the him
version at the Empress will not make good
the omission. The producer obviously de-
\ 7 eloped cold feet when it was a matter of
facing the racial question and has in his
timidity so mutilated and distorted the
original that one wonders Avhether Somerset
Maugham was ever consulted in the matter.
“Fifth Avenue Models” are parading at the
Strand, and the Crystal l’alace makes a
desperate effort to suggest the debauchery of
the Roman Court in its stage prologue to
"Quo Vadis.”
The little Playbox Theatre (Rowe-street,
Sydney) changes its bill next Wednesday,
when McNulty’s “The Lord Mayor” and a
Grand Guignol shocker, “The Man, the
Wofnan, the Will,” will be at the starting-
post.
The Melbourne Repertorians succeeded in
greatly amusing their audiences last week
with Shaw's “Captain Brassbound’s Conver-
sion”; and, although the large cast made
it impossible for the touch of amateurish-
ness to be altogether avoided, the creaking
of the joints of the production were very
little heard. The honors went to Elizabeth
Apperly, who not only was the one woman
in the cast, but was also responsible for the
production. As Cicely Waynflete, the lady
Avitli the supreme confidence in her ability
to do what she likes with men, she suc-
ceeded in making an incredible conquest of
all the male characters appear almost
credible. Leo Burke Avas the brigandish
Captain Brassbound whom she succeeded in
subduing. He oscillated between the vigor-
ous and the monotonous. 11. N. Gregory
did very well as the pottering old Scotch
missionary; and, as the whining Cockney
convert, Felix DrinkAvater, Frank T. Keon
was amusing but not very convincing. Jack
Southern, as Sidi El Assif, and Ray Whiting
as the Cadi of Kintaji, made a good pair of
Moors; Charlie Row was Captain Kearney,
of the U.S. Navy; Keith Roberts was ex-
tremely useful to the development of the
Shavian philosophy as Sir Harvard Hallam;
and, amongst a host of minors, Harold Har-
wood, as Johnson, was best.
The Assembly Hall saw the opening of
Chuhaldin’s Melbourne concert season on
Saturday, and it was anything but an im-
pressive opening. There was vitality in some
of his work —his second number, the Con-
certo in D Major of Paganini-Wilhelmj,
for which he earned a double encore; the
“Nocturne” (Op. 27) of Chopin-Wilhelmj;
and Sarasate’s “Spanish Dance” —and a
couple of his short extras were acceptable;
but the occasional brightness was really a
matter for surprise after the flat opening in
Wieniawski’s “Polonaise Brilliante” and the
very uneven and sometimes poor work in
other pieces, notably a crude rendering of
Wieniawski’s “Souvenir de Moscow.” Harold
Elvins, the accompanist, did nothing to lift
the proceedings out of the depression. A
second concert is to take place to-night.
:S * * *
The artistry of William Ileughan has been
displayed again at a series of Melbourne con-
certs, the first three last week at the Assem-
bly Hall and others at the Australian Hall.
Usually dramatically forceful in his interpre-
tations, Ileughan puts wistfulness into such
numbers as the Hebridean folk-song, “The
Road to the Isles”; from that he passes to
remarkable sonority in operatic excerpts.
For this season the support was strengthened
by the young violinist Hyman Lenzer, Avho
lias wonderful surety for one of his years,
and by soprano Sadie Granger-Broad, whose
Avork is uneven, but shows always a fine
spirit and considerable inspiration.
“Kid Boots” will cease to dance at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s after next Saturday.
* * * s;:
If “Wildflower’s” name had been “Wild-
fire” it would express just how the delectable
show is going at the Melbourne Koyal.
** * *
If anyone were to ask such an absurd ques-
tion as “Is the present show at the Princess
Theatre likely to »be changed?” the obvious
answer would be “No, No, Nanette!”
“NO, NO, NANETTE!" AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS.
Elsie Price as Nanette; Jimmy God den as
the hind-hearted Jimmy Smith.
Muriel Starr will stage “Within the Law”
at Melbourne King’s next Saturday; and,
this being a play which has proved a draw,
she may go to another Melbourne house
after the first week. But as far as _ the
King’s is concerned her season is limited.
Maurice Moscovitch is to come back on
August 29, staging “The Great Lover,” in
which Melbourne would have liked to see
him on his first appearance.
$
It was sunset for the bright Lee White
show last Saturday; and on Tuesday Edna
Thomas started operations in Melbourne.
Early last week the Philharmonic, in con junc-
tion with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra,
presented “Lohengrin” at the Auditorium;
and the result encouraged a repetition. Yet
it cannot be said that the performance was
up to the standard of others the two musical
bodies in combination have presented. The
brasses particularly were astray, and the
endeavor to atone by volume of sound for the
lack of essential harmony that makes sound
worth while drove the soloists to a vehe-
mence which created the impression that the
affair was a Stadium contest. The chorus
was the redeeming feature, especially in “Lo,
lie Is from Heaven,” the male singers being
particularly good. Radcliffo Hawley was
fine in the lyrical work as Lohengrin; Annie
Cadden as Elsa produced some very sweet
tones and a dramatic spirit in the recita-
tives. Others were Vera Bedford (Ortrud),
E. E. Fortescue (Telramund) —these two the
best of the champions of the singing side in
the combat—Alexander Raff (Henry the
Fowler) and Ernest Thompson (the King’s
Herald). On Wednesday night Alberto Ze 1-
man added the task of singing through the
part of Lohengrin to the work of conduct-
ing. It was really a fine achievement, but
more in the nature of a record than a musi-
cal success.
** * *
The Oriana Madrigal Society gave a reci-
tal at the Auditorium last week. It was a
fragrant programme, in which the part-
singers, under W. C. Frazier, managed to
give the atmosphere of the red anemone shin-
ing through dewy grasses, and all the other
items necessary to the setting. Hoist’s “Song
of the Blacksmith” was the event of the even-
ing ; the audience felt that it was a little
village through which the joyful ring of the
smith’s hammer echoed. “My Mistress
Sings No Other Songs” (Jones) and “Every
Bush Now Springeth” (Cavendish) were
amongst the other triumphs. The indefati-
gable Edward Goll did some nice work on
the piano.
Wednesday of last week saw the last of
the series of Chamber Music concerts
arranged by the Ormond Professor of Music:
and the attendance at the Assembly Hall
showed how these, concerts have grown in
public favor. There was fine work in the
rendering by Bernard Heinze, Louis llatten-
bach and Edward Goll of Mozart’s trio. for
violin, ’cello and piano in E Major, especially
in the delightful andante grazioso.
4# $ *
Athol Tier and Peggy Ross, who have got
back to Melbourne Tivoli after a five years’
absence, win a few easy laughs. The lady’s
attractiveness and the young man’s ability
to contort his lanky form into a represen-
tation of a worm turning help the act. Vaulto
and Eric —the latter a surprisingly agile
child —give some new twists to an acrobatic
net. Will Fyft’e is worth seeing again; so
is Gus Fowler, “The Watch King.” But
the determination of some of these people to
cling to the same stuff week after week makes
vaudeville anything but variety.
v * *■!* •!'
The illness of George Wallace, who wanted
to appear but was told to rest, caused the
Melbourne Bijou management to have a
reshuffle of its cards on Saturday, dropping
revue and substituting a mixed programme.
The quite good result was materially assisted
by Henri French, “The Parisian Drunk on
the Wheel,” whose turn is a lively one ; other
main helps were Amy Rochelle, who was
called upon to work overtime, the acceptable
songs of Marshall Crosbie, and an act by
Frank Gorman, which brought .plentiful
laughter. Frank has ceased to introduce
himself in clerical garb, for which better
taste there is reason to be thankful.
.4 * * *
Hoot Gibson has occasion for horseman-
ship in “Let ’Er Buck,” which shows at
Hoyt’s De Luxe, in Melbourne, and, of
course, he keeps his saddle as a screen hero
should. To fill out the show “Tons of
Money” is done into a picture. The Maori
dances are a novelty which have proved a
draw at the Majestic, where Baby Peggy
is the star character in a screen version of
that hilarity of a generation ago, “Helen’s
Babies.” The other big picture is “One
Glorious Night,” with Elaine Hammerstein.
An Australian film, with Claude Dampier,
has arrived at the Paramount. “The Adven-
tures of Algy” are diverting and the photo-
graphy good.
4
In pictures “The Ten Commandments”
has broken all Adelaide records, and is still
carrying on. The York has a mushy story
of mother-love. West’s supplements its
picture-show with Long Tack Sam, .while
the Pav. is content with the night life of
Paris —as imagined by Americans. The
Royal has continued to show the Anglo-
American humor of Thurston Hall, while
the Prince of Wales revives old English suc-
cesses ranging ' from Dickens to “Hands
Across the Sea,” Darcy Kelway very funny
in this. Althouse and Middleton give popular
“SPRING CLEANING." AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Charles Coleman as Bobbie Williams, a
poisonous hind of bounder: and George
Barro[?]d as Ernest Steele, a blase pur-
suer of married women.
song recitals at the Town Hall, and the
clever Australian “Wonder” kiddies are just
coming in at the Majestic.
From an Adelaide critic :
The exhibition by James Ferries is interesting.
Before lie made money and went for two years’ art
training in Europe, he was remarkable in local shows
for ambitious compositions, classical or Biblical, but
unfortunately with little knowledge of anatomy. In
Cornwall he has acquired a new manner of painting
cottages, solid, in high relief, red-brown, recalling
the British school of a century back. He has seen
a good deal of continental Europe, too, and is now
distinctly a painter to be reckoned with. Pastel
and black-and-white complete a versatile show. Prices
are modest, and have appealed accordingly.


sr
I
1
m
1
1
ggg
»
1
fw
1
p;
m
I
II
zm
mM.
i
i
1
10
V/A
A Boy Hero
An Old Story with a Modern Moral.
Down through time has come the story
of the little Dutch hoy whose bravery
and fortitude saved the lives of the
community in which he lived. Finding,
as evening fell, a small hut insidious
break in the sea wall that kept the
hungry ocean at hay, he stopped it
with his finger throughout the long
night. When dawn broke he was found
exhausted by his long and heroic vigil.
WOLFES
iliiiffi
SOMEDAM
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
THIo
arpnatic narvuK.
The epic of the brave little Hollander provides an apt
illustration of the effectiveness of simple precautions when
danger is countered in time.
And the moral of the story does not end there, for the
country that witnessed his exploit has provided a notable
means by which the principle of taking simple and timely
precautions may be put into practice in regard to the
important matter of health.
In the city of Schiedam is distilled the beverage which has
become world-famous under the name of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfes is not merely a stimulant—not merely an absolutely
pure, entirely wholesome beverage. Through its principal
constituent —extract of Italian juniper—it functions as a
diuretic, and as such is an aid to Nature in maintaining the
purity of the blood stream.
To have ‘ one Wolfe’s Schnapps a day for your health’s sake’’
is to take a simple precaution which will avert many serious
ills that modern flesh is heir to.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in Quarter bottles
as well as in the familiar Half and Large Bottles.
AFLONIA/r IC SCHIEDAM
¥ A Blessings to Humanity *


Renewals for Year Ending July, 1925
It is not surprising that this remarkable percentage of
renewals should have been obtained by the P. & C.
By living up to the spirit of Co-operation the P. &C
is making and holding friends throughout the
Commonwealth.
The fact that the P. & C. is linked with the most
influential bodies in each State testifies to the
company’s stability and integrity.
A further factor in the popularity of the P. & C.
is that the company is controlled by and operated
in the interests of the Man on the Land.
The Producers
Co-operative Assurance
a
and Citizens*
Company of Australia Limited
Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.
Man. Dir.: G. L. WEAVER.
Gen. Sec.: H. FELL.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILOA MELBCURNE
“First Old Man”: John Cosgrove, hero of
a hundred racy theatrical yarns, will spin
them no more. His stout and cheerful pre
senee was familiar to theatregoers from
Kalgoorlie to Cooktown, and in the profes-
sion he was esteemed for the best part of 40
years as a prince of greenroom jesters, and
a very good actor withal. John made Ins
last appearance before the footlights in
Melbourne as the oily old rascal Pernsard
in a revival of “Madame X.” Shortly be-
fore that he had scored heavily on the same
boards as the country auctioneer m Gals-
worthy’s “Skin Game.” An experienced
mummer in all lines, he was at his best m
characters like those mentioned.
“Titus”: I can’t recall the just-dead John
Cosgrove with Williamson, but I remember
him with Bland Holt. Bland had the same
yearning for tall men as Frederick n llliam
of Prussia. He held an old idea that the
low comedian should be a short man, _ and
hired long men for the sake of comparison.
Cosgrove had a habit of “breaking up other
actors and actresses by whispering comic
“asides” to them in the middle of their
speeches. Bland, after various warnings,
told him he wasn’t paid, to spoil the show,
and John never seemed quite the same man
afterwards.
AN EYE-OPENER.
KIND OLD LADY ( inspecting futurist’s
SKETCH) : “Dear me, now, they're quite
right—I do need glasses. I’ve keen living
here this 50 years, and I’d never noticed
how much the place has changed."
“Flaming Youth”: Bob Greig, the latest
Australian actor to invade England, was en-
gaged for a New York production a few days
after he stepped from the boat. Not being
required straightway, he put in eight weeks
in Manchester with a company which played
“Betty,” “’Florodora” and “The Geisha ;
and the management asked him to let it know
whenever ha was out of a “shop.” He is
now on a long contract with the Launlliard-
Shubert management to play in A Aight
Out” at a Broadway theatre.
“R.K.D.N.”: It is not often we come
across a native-born dramatic star actress.
Wherefore I doff my hat to Nellie Bramley,
who is now holding the fort at Sydney
Palace. Nellie has reached her present position
by sheer hard work. Theatregoers remem-
ber her as the heroine of countless Marlow-
dramas, and no more popular player of a long
line of persecuted females ever trod local
boards. Now she is essaying comedy roles,
and her experience in the heavier stuff
enables her to sustain them with confidence
and poise. She will go far.
“Hamfat”: The long-distance vaudeville
partnership of Stiffy and Mo has come to an
end. Stiffy (Nat Phillips) remains with
the Fullers; Mo (Roy Rene) has gone to
a revue eo. in Perth. Presumably Stilly re-
tains such stage rights as can be claimed
in the not violently original sketches with
which the partners amused the multitude.
It is to be hoped that some of the over-the-
fence gags that crept in too frequently have
been trodden on in the argument over pos-
session and lost for good.
“Little Boy Blue” : Jennie Lee, beloved of
our grandads, has once more had to deny a
report of her death. Jennie,
now in the seventies (she made
her first appearance on the
boards on January 22, 1870),
is living in her native Cock-
aigne with that constant
companion of faded stars. Re-
duced Circujnstanees; and she
must be a lonely old lady, see-
ing that her husband and
daughter died years ago, and
that her only son was killed
in the war. As Jo in the
dramatisation of Dickens’s
“Bleak House” she toured the
world, and in the early
’eighties was all the rage in
Australia, where, incidentally,
she was first reported dead.
After her first visit (she had
a brief Melbourne vaudeville
experience in the ’nineties)
Australia got a Jo of its own, in
a real child-actress, Nellie Og-
den (Ferguson in later years),
daughter of D’Orsay Ogden.
Nellie is rather an ample lady
now; and no one would sus-
pect her of having been able to
fit with remarkable reality into the role ot
the emaciated kid.
“X.N.0.” : Hajnos, the gob who showed at
the Sydney Tivoli in strong-man stunts (B.
6/8/’25), isn't a patch on Alby Portsmouth,
once an able seaman in the Royal Navy.
Hajnos is merely a strong man of the usual
type, but Portsmouth was clever into the
bargain. Ropes, boxes securely nailed down
and lashed up and padlocks were nothing to
him. His star turn was given at the Canteen
Theatre, Malta. I borrowed ten pairs of
particularly vicious-looking American hand-
cuffs from' the IT.S.S. Chester, then visiting
the island, and locked them all on Alby's
wrists behind his hade. It took him exactly
90 seconds to get free of the lot, and he had
never seen an American handcuff before. I
believe lie afterwards left the service to go
on the halls; unlike Uncle Sam's Navy, the
R.N. does not permit Jackies to appear at
professional places of entertainment.
“(4. Emcey” : “Gappy Ricks” first saw the
light with the Philip Lytton co. at Towns-
ville (Q.). Little did Ward Lyons and his
fellow-mummers think, as they thundered
their lines across the footlights of the dilapi-
dated old theatre-tent, that in less than a
year they would be playing to capacity in
the chief theatres of the Commonwealth. Till
Ward took the lead in “Gappy Ricks” he
was playing the heavy father in bellow-
drama, and his star turn each evening was
to appear between acts, and, “on behalf of
Mr. Lytton,” thank the audience for its
splendid support. His real old-time pro.’s
way of “putting it over” never failed to raise
applause from the gods.
“S.T.S.”: Young Australia has the drama-
tic faculty all right. In a recent competition
among S. Aus. girls' clubs, the acting (with-
out words) of a scene from the New Testa-
ment, three out of the four teams competing
had pounced on the obvious dramatic oppor-
tunities of the Salome story; and they went
through it courageously—dance of fascina
tion, head of the Baptist and all. It was
quaint to see really unsophisticated girls
offering, as a sort of religious exercise, an
episode which has tended to be barfed even
by the regular theatres in London.
A spring show in Sydney: —
A tendency to spottiness is the chief defect of
Harold Herbert’s water-color compositions now show-
ing at the Macquarie Galleries, Bligh-street, Sydney;
but his taste in color is uniformly sound. He likes
soft, billowy inland scenes, with gentle rivers apolo-
getically asking the easiest way down to the sea.
“Late Afternoon” (No. 7) is a cosy study full of
rest, but in the largest picture, showing the Valley
of the Tweed, the clouds distract the eye. The
porch in No. 1 invites burned soles to seek its
cool shelter out of the hotly-painted sunshine. The
American Fleet arrives in Melbourne in No. 27 on
a dull, damp day that is admirably defined.
“E.” : Lydia Lopokova’s exquisite dancing
with the Russian ballet as the soulless
puppet in Stravinsky’s “Petroushka, ’ as the
saucy maid in Scarlatti’s “The Go°d-
humored Ladies” and as the cabaret-doll in
Rossini’s “La Boutique Fantasque was well
worth making a trip to London to see. A
comedienne, with flawless and amazing
technique, she took an equal place with Kar-
savina and Pavlova, and was certainly one
of the greatest dancers in the world. Her
marriage, lately reported by cable, with J. M.
Keynes, who makes statistics as fascinating
as a high romance, should, at any rate, pro-
duce an extraordinary dance of figures.
“Polycarp” : U.S. film-producers exploit to
the full their “thundering herds” and all the
rest of it, and we import their stuff by the
million feet when we have bettor material m
Australia. Recently I received word that
my old friend Ben Smith, a plain Australian,
PUTTING STRAINS ON IT,
ORPENTON : “She’s a friend of mine."
CRITICSON : “What, still?"
had reached Hughenden (Q.) from Carpen-
taria Downs with 4000 bullocks in his
charge, his outfit including 20 stockmen, three
vans and 120 horses. The same afternoon
I was one of a Brisbane herd which paid
to see a well-groomed cowboy stunting on the
film with a mob of about 50 bullocks, pro-
bably borrowed from around Los Angeles.
When are we going to get a real Australian
movie industry, with producers intelligent
enough to perceive the possibilities of such
as old Ben Smith? Lack of intelligence is
the trouble with one or two alleged pro-
ducers I have in mind.
“E.T.” : A remarkable artist is Sybil Arun-
dale. Early in her stage career she and her
sister Grace were prominent on London
vaudeville bills as expert dancers. Later
she came to Australia to play principal boy
-—one of the best —in a Williamson panto-
mime, and remained for some time after-
wards, appearing in various musical comedy
roles. Now the versatile lady has surprised
Londoners by taking the St. James’s Theatre
and there producing (of all pieces) Ibsen's
“The Wild Duck,” with herself as Gina
Ekdal. and giving a highly-praised render-
ing of that difficult part. The play is once
more hailed as a masterpiece of construc-
tion : which it is.
“Valentine Day” : The statement that W.
B. Beattie was a principal in the first Aus-
tralian performance of “Pinafore” (B.
23/7/’25) can only be true (1) if Beattie
sang in 1879 under another name, and (2)
if he is much older than I imagine. “Pina-
fore” originally saw the Australian footlights
on May 3,1879, when it was presented at the
School of Arts, Sydney, by Kelly and Leon,
who soon after moved to the Opera House
in King-street. Shortly afterwards the thing
was produced at the Academy of Music, Mel-
bourne (afterwards the Bijou), by Alice
and Horace Lingard, Johnny Hall and
Jessie Grey; at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne,
by the Stewart family: and in Maoriland
by Tom Riccardi. All four shows were
abruptly closed when J. C. Williamson re-
turned from London with the Australasian
rights of “Pinafore” and “The Pirates.” Nor
does the name of W. B. Beattie appear in
the cast of the J.C.W. presentation of
“Pinafore,” which, as I say, was the fourth
in Australia.
“C.K.” : The failure of the Royal English
opera in Cambridge Circus has been referred
to. It was due to two causes: the double
cast for Sullivan's “Ivanhoe,” and the fact
that no other opera was ready to be re-
hearsed. “Ivanhoe” was undoubtedly a suc-
cess in itself, although the critics differed,
but the effect of the double cast was injurious.
Prospective auditors were not informed who
were singing until a few hours before the
performance. This was fatal to advance
booking. People who wished to hear Eugene
Gudin, Ben Davies and Maggie Mclntyre
were naturally disappointed when these
artists were replaced by Richard Green, Joe
O’Mara and Miss Thudichum. The former
two were young students just returned from
Italy, and the lady was a concert-singer with
a very large voice—l think she has sung in
Australia —but otherwise unsuitable. Con-
sequently attendances decreased, and Carte
considered other operas—Wagner’s “Flying
Dutchman,” Bemberg's “Elaine” and Mes-
sager’s “La Basoche.” The last-named was
selected to run alternately with “Ivanhoe.”
Ben Davies being unavailable for both operas,
Barton McGuckin was engaged for "Ivan-
hoe,” but the success of “La Basoche” re-
moved Sullivan’s opera from the bill. Mc-
Guckin played in only two performances,
receiving a lump sum representing £9O per
week for 13 weeks—a lovely contract! After-
wards a combination of misfortunes, notably
the death of the Duke of Clarence, weeks of
almost continuous fog and an influenza epi-
demic. closed the theatre, Carte having lost
£25,000.
From an Australian in New York :
I read with interest a Bulletin notice of Miss
Helen Simpson’s “A Man of His Time,” as produced
by Grogan McMahon. “The Firebrand,” a play
dealing with the same Benvenuto Cellini who lias
attracted the Australian writer, has been one of the
outstanding successes of the New York season. Tt
was written by Edwin Justus Mayer, an American,
and in it one finds the same Angela-—or Angelica, as
Miss Simpson has called her —the bone of contention
between Cellini and the £)uke. And Angela’s mother
was the same sordid, money-grabbing virago.
But Mayer’s play is emphatically more theatrical
than literary; indeed, it was written with a knowing
hand and a tutored mind, even though its author
had never previously been represented on Broadway.
Like its Australian parallel, it abounded with incident
and action; but unlike the Sydney production, the
dialogue was highly colloquial. Mayer brought
Cellini to the level of the ordinary man, just as
Shaw treated Csesar in “Crcsar and Cleopatra.” The
second act was nothing but an American bedroom
farce put into the Florentine setting. The result
made first-nighters gasp —and then laugh, and laugh,
and laugh. In the third act the mood veered back
from farce to comedy. No more most humorous
thing has been presented in New York this season,
and it would certainly be enjoyed by Australian
audiences. Joseph Schildkraut, son of the Viennese
actor, played Cellini, and his Angela was Eden Gray.
“Minim”: Before joining up witli Arthur
Sullivan as the librettist of “Haddon Hall,”
Sydney Grundy (B. 13/8/’25) was respon-
sible for various other “books” of comic
operas, including that of “The Vicar of
Bray,” which Edward Soloman composed.
But that circumstance did not save him from
odious comparisons when “Haddon Ilall” was
produced at the Savoy. Most of the critics
were lukewarm regarding his lines and
lyrics, and several remarked that he was not
a Gilbert. Grundy took it very good-humor-
edly, and wrote a letter to the Times sug-
gesting that any author guilty of daring to
write a Savoy libretto should be put to
death. “Something with boiling oil in it ’
would meet the case, he thought.
Two good Melbourne shows: —
The artists will not allow the poets to have spring
aIL to themselves, and the first two buds of the
are very satisfactory. They otter a great con-
trast in styles. L. Bernard Hall shows the hand of
a master almost too careful in some of his work.
A good many of his numerous portrait studies lose
vitality in the meticulous art of the painter; but
the portrait of Edward la Touche Armstrong has
strong quality and personality, and that of Mrs.
Sydney Pern is delightful, whilst there is a luminous
quality in the one of Professor Alison. A
bluff representation of Dr. Charles Ryan is
also worthy of special note. The artist is best ;n
his treatment of subjects in a subdued light, his
creation of atmosphere between the foreground figures
and their... background being a special quality.
The treatment of flesh tones in the nude and semi-
nude studies is particularly fine, and is especially
marked in “The Picture in the Mirror” (No. 39)-;
but the posing of the model is awkward in some of
these figure studies. The still-lifes show admirable
craftsmanship.
Sydney Thompson, the Maoriland artist, must be a
good customer to his color merchant. In contrast
to the smooth, even work of Bernard Hall, his paint
is piled on his canvases until they appear sometimes
like bas-reliefs. There is good, craft in his work,
and, with proper distance, each splodge becomes a
virile picture; and the lightheartedness of the show
is appealing. “Evening” (No. 18), showing flam-
boyantly the glow of the sinking sun on a mass
of red buildings, “Evening Light” (No. 7) and
“When the Fleet Comes In” (No. 2) are the best.
A batch of pen drawings shows the same strong
treatment, thick lines and heavy shadows throw-
ing out the picture in a lively fashion.
UNDERVALUED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Madame Nektchinova, a Russian dancer, lias in-
sured her legs for £30,000.’
My legs to me are things of worth;
They carry me upon my way
About my section of the earth.
At times, perchance, they go astray,
And lead me to some tempting spot
Where, strictly speaking, they should not.
If not alluring to the gaze,
Still on the trams they bear my weight
Whilst other folk by devious ways
Find space to sit, and sit elate ;
Yet, with the aid of wrists and strap,
They keep me up without mishap.
Through winter’s chill, through storms of rain, •
They always do their best for me;
And so when sunshine comes again
I let them take me to the sea,
And bask, almost entirely bare,
Along with many another pair.
But though they knock not at the knee,
Nor bandy out like pillars curved.
Insurance with the A.M.P.
I’ve never thought my limbs deserved ;
But now their value I can sec,
I’m off to get a policy!
QUEENSLAND.
THE ACE.


Amusements.
S Vn N *■ V’S CIII E r TIIKAT li K »
J. C. WILLIAMSON, I.TD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE STREET SINGER.
CRITERION: THE LADY.
ROYAL: THE MASQUERADER.
Q RAM) OPERA HOUSE. SYDNEY.
. Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward 'theatres Pty.. Ltd.
Nightly at 8. MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday.
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
©ICKARBS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees : Harry Itickards’ Tivoli Theatres, l.td.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
piiLLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
TIIE WORLD'S REST VAUDEVILLE.
PI ans at Theatre.
C. AVI LET A M SON LTD.. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KID BOOTS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WILD FLOWER.
IMPS THEATRE, M E I. I! O U R N E
MURIEL STARR and FRANK HARVEY in
WITH IN THE LAW.
Amusements.
prciNORSS THEATRE. JIELBOUKXE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NO, NO, X ANETTK.
HUGH J. WARD’S WON OKU M I.’SI CAT. COMKOY.
|J O Y T ' S I> K L I X K TIIEAT l{ |;
MKLP.OURNIv
HOOT GIBSON in
LET ’ER RUCK.
TONS OF MONEY.
AN ALL STAR CAST.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IrtSTIC Til RAT It E, Ml7l. l:OC IIN li
• DOROTHY MACKAILL in
WHAT SHALL I DO.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|M 1 » HI.IOI THEATRE, MELBOURNF
* Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS' VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
GEOROE WALLACE IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
A * 11 E NACU AI THEATRE. MELBOURNE
** Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. .1. Carroll
E. J. CARROLL Presents
EDNA THOMAS.
THE LADY FROM LOUISIANA,
World-famous Singer of Negro Spirituals, Creole
Melodies and Plantation Songs.
Thursday Evening, 20th. Matinee Friday, 21st.
Saturday Evening. 22nd August *
PLAN AT ALLAN'S.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
Smalls, from August 20 to September 11.
Toowoomba, September 12 to 10.
Head Office; 178 Gastlereagh Street. Sidney.
Sydney Manager: J. V, De Batyn. ‘
I
J
Peter Pen presents
GIFTS
OF
DISTINCTION
From 15/-
TO
£B-8 -O
Onoto
Pen
The Onoto Pen is British
therefore Best
Plunger-filling Safety Lever-filling.
From all Stationers and Jewellers.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & Co., Ltd.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Representatives: Norman Baker Sc Longluirst, Ltd..
Sydney. Melbourne, Wellington, N.Z.
BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
Ute Onoto Ink for all Pen,
i
The Investor can help his Country
and Himself
By investing in the
COMMONWEALTH
Kl *
5i per cent.
Conversion
The interest rate — per cent. —is undeniably
a good one. The interest is exempt from State
Income Tax, and is, therefore, really equivalent
to more than 5-£ per cent, as compared with an
ordinary investment.
The Investor has the Option
of investing for 6 years, or 11 years, or 16 years;
of paying at once the full amount of the subscrip-
tion, or 10 per cent., or a greater percentage, as
a deposit. Interest on the amount paid will begin
to accumulate immediately at the rate of 5£ per
cent, per annum.
Advantages of Conversion
are obvious. Every holder of War Loan 4-2 per
cent. Bonds maturing in December next who
agrees to convert into the new Loan will begin
to receive interest at the rate of 5| per cent, as
from the date on which he lodges his application.
The New 5i per cent. Loan is
Free of State Income Tax
Full particulars may be obtained and applications
made at any Bank, Savings Bank, or Money Order
Post Office in Australia, or application may be
made through a member of any recognised Stock
Exchange.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Melbourne, July 22, 1925.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Babies
thrive on
mv
it is so
nourishinq and
easy to chyest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists t Stores
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
I
Ask for
THE
ORIGINAL AMERICAN
Bnuh
Always Sold in the YELLOW Box i
YOU brush your teeth, but do you clean all of them? Not
unless you use the Pro-phy-lac-tic-—the tooth brush that
reaches every part of every tooth, every time.
The Pro-phy-lac-tic Tooth Brush has a curved surface that
exactly fits your mouth. It has saw-tooth bristle tufts that
reach in between the teeth. It has a large end tuft that helps
clean the backs of the front teeth and the backs of the hard-to-
reach molars. No other tooth brush gives the same satisfactory
service as the Pro-phy-lac-tic.
Made in three sizes: Adult, Small and Baby, in medium, soft
and hard bristles. Always sold in the yellow box. Look for the
fac-simile hyphenated name on both box and brush
handle.
Revrcieitatirei: AYERS k JAMES PTY. t Ltd., SrJiey, Melbrane, Adelaide, Brisbane, Parti
Clean Tooth Never Decays*
bnmvb


Look for This Trade-mark
When You Buy a Battery
These passenger cars and trucks
are equipped by their makers with
genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Cole
Cunningham
Daniels
Davis
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Export)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Franklin
Delling
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
McFarlan
Oakland
Ogren
Oldsmobile
Packard (Export)
Peerless
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Stearns
Studebaker
Stutz
Westcott
Wills St. Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All-American
American -
La France
Atterbury
Bridgeport
Case
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dodge
Dorris
Fifth Ave.
Coach
Fremont
F. W. D.
Fulton
Garford
Giant
G. M. C.
Graham
Bros.
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Independent
Indiana
Kankakee
Kissel
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Meteor
Miller
Nelson 85
Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Riddle
Ruggles
Sandow
Sayers &
Scovill
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Velie
Vim
Ward-
La France
White
Wilson
STORAGE
BATTERY
You save good pounds ster-
ling when you buy a Willard
Threaded Rubber Battery,
for should it ever require re-
insulation, any Willard Serv-
ice Station will do the work
gratis.
STORAGE
BATTERIES
vmbv
CLEVELAND,
OHIO, U. S. A.


This sketch was purchased from,
J. Jonsson, a former pupil of
the Weston School, now on art
staff of Smith’s Weekly.
DRAWING IS PROFITABLE
The Weston method of
teaching drawing by post
is the most successful, be-
cause Mr. Weston teaches
his students to DRAW, not
to copy.
Many Weston pupils earn
money before they complete
the course, whilst several
successful Australian artists
owe their first training to
the Weston School.
Send for free booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.’*
The Harry J. Weston
Postal School of Drawing,
34 Commercial Building,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
Anobades Magi
ART OF II
MAGIC
0
MDIMDIr
ART OF MAGIC, 2/6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/6.
Levinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
Fifty Simple ,
Card Tricks, 1/6
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
FREE CATALOGS—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 201 Bourke Street,
SYDNEY, and MELBOURNE.
. t 3
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*z\. should read the Bkitish Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
i actual Size
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
irost paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
THE “APEX” STOCKWHIP
AN ARTISTIC PIECE OF AUSTRALIAN
WORKMANSHIP IN TWO COLORS.
The design of the “Apex” is attractively
carried out in two-color plaiting, either black
and tan or tan and white. For 2/- extra
we will plait up to four initials in the handle.
The thong is 20-plait Bft. long, with fancy
plait as illustration.
75/-
COMPLETE,
POST FREE.
WHIPS
“K’Burra” Stockwhips are Plain Plait, Guaranteed
Kangaroo Leather right through, with inside plaited
belly.
THONGS 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait .. 17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
16-plait .. 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
Handles: 16-plait, 16/6 ;
24-plait, 18/6. Loaded
Handles for 9ft. thongs
1/6 more.
Flax Crackers, 1/3 doz. Whips Post Free for Cash,
posted.
B 80 —Braided Cotton BBl—Braided Linen Lasso,
Lasso, 15/-. Post 1/- 22/6. Post 1/-
WALTHER & STEVENSON, Ltd.,
mvbm
Saddlers,
395 George St., Sydney
LEARN to WRITE for the PRESS
JOURNALISM taught in 12 concise, practical and very interesting
lessons, Town or Country, by an experienced working Journalist.
It is a lucrative and pleasant hobby; provides learners with a
fresh, live interest in people and things, and generally increases
the intellectual range of all who care to practise it. The lessons
are simple and straightforward; the fee is moderate, and payable
in easy instalments. Full particulars on application to the
INTERSTATE SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM,
140 Phillip Street, Sydney - - - - Correspondence Only.
Skin Collectors and Merchants
As we are direct exporters of all skins we charge no commission
or handling charges, and the world’s top market prices are
therefore nett to you.
Consign your produce to:—
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
Also London and New York.
IFOLCI
SUPPLIED IN WHITE
AND 65 ARTISTIC
SHADES.
LESS EXPENSE AND BETTER
RESULTS WHEN YOU USE THIS
WORLD-FAMED
ENAMEL
It is better to paint once with the best Paint than
several times with inferior Paint.
For Motor-cars, Launches, Hospitals and all
interior and exterior Painting.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
Telephone 83284.
S. J. Squires & Co., Ltd., 171 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd., 379 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Clarkson Ltd., 122 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
Regimental sergt.-major henry james
MARTIN, The Buffs (East Kent Regt.), re-
quests whereabouts of Aunt BEATRICE KING,
formerly ARMSTRONG. Reply, The Buffs, Gibraltar.
BRAD. —To your advantage correspond
with wife at once. Good news.
Address wanted of edward hal-
LETT LITTLE, formerly of South
Australia and Western Australia. Recently
employed by an insurance company in New
South Wales. Apply EXECUTOR, TRUS-
TEE AND AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD.,
22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
vmbn
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cue
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficient In stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless l slumps accompany.
Killarney: You’ve souvenired another
man’s old-established pen-name, so we’ve rechristened
you... .Pinpoint: Couldn’t. It would have to be
wholly rewritten, and there isn’t enough in it to
make that worth while... .H.C1.B.: Not weight enough
. ...J.C.T.: No. 1 has had all the attention it
calls for and No. 2 dawdles too much for a paper
like this... .N.D.1I.; Your sidelights have been thrown
too often. But there is force in the writing....
E.A.A.; “Middle Watch story” has enough merits,
but eats too much space E.M.E.: Merely a re-
statement of what has been often printed... .Roy C.:
Discussed recently, and you throw no new light on
the freak....K. (Vic.): Hardly S.D.: We should
have to charge more than sixpence this week if we
printed all your verses about the Murrumbidgee flood.
So we stop at this: —
It went into our houses,
It knocked down many walls.
It carried away old trousers
It wrecked the horse’s stalls.
The household goods were packed
On hillsides everywhere,
Driftwood too was stacked
On fences; leaving post holes bare.
Families got in groups
Living in one home,
They shared each other’s meats and soups.
Anglican joined with Rome.
Others got a lorry
To assist them in their plight.
Really it was jolly,
People pushing with all their might.
A flood brings folk together,
Old ones telling old-time tales.
Young folk wish for finer weather
To patronise the picture plays.
. ...F.E.T.: Not well written; and not worth writing.
... .Edwin W.: No good... .E.R.W.: A little feeling,
but at present the verse is too weak to carry it....
Linda P.: Has none of the free sonnet movement....
M.H.M.; Not quite well enough done Tin Ribs:
The ideas are better than the verse... .L.O.R.: A
rather dreary ramble... .Mayphil: Both fall far short.
... .A.M.B.B.; Nasty stuff, neither clever nor interest-
ing. .. .E.J.B.; Whatever yarn you had is spoiled in
the telling.... Billy See: Poor....Rona R.: Same
old idea in rather worse verse than usual. .. .H.J.S.:
The best thought in it isn’t fresh... .A.E.C.: Repe-
tition of the word “roses” 28 times is a defect....
Dorothy: Highly moral, but as dull as weak tea....
Henry S.: Carries a hint of promise, but the lines
are badly out of shape Henry M.: Worth a
second reading; but there wasn’t enough in it to
save it... .R.S.E.; You prove pretty convincingly
that he isn’t worth writing about... .M.Q. (Perth):
Misses, but not by much... .E.M.S.: Don’t send
matter personally addressed. The revision doesn’t
carry “Laughter”... .Plodder; “M.W.” is nicely done,
but falls away to commonplace at the end....
A. : The mirror must go back....N.W. (Mary-
borough): One may do....Raupo: A bit too rugged.
H.G.B.; On its way home....E.D. (Perth):
Too easy and too uninteresting... .A.G.II.: The
matter is not strong enough to make up for those
redundant “alls” and “sos”... .M.G. (Bendigo): The
tender little thing sings itself into a place:—
Come, lads, we’ll join together
And we’ll sing this song of May,
The sweetest Lass the Goldfields ever grew,
And I am feeling slightly maudlin
As I bag another beer—
Ah me but what foolish things
A man sometimes will do.
The world seems very drear to-night,
There is an aching void
Which only one can fill;
But what is past and gone
Don’t matter in this strife—
O Lord, if I only had enough
To pay that bill!
The sunshine of her laughter
Mixed with sadness in her eyes
Spoke more to me
Than lips can ever tell;
And her face I see in dreams,
Though sad sometimes it seems,
But I really hope
This poem is going to sell.
... .W.H. (Sth. B.) ; Rather thin and lacking in
freshness... .Sydney G.: They miss, but scrape the
paint off....Dennis II.: Moves rather stiffly to state
commonplaces.... The Dean: Far below standard....
W.G.S.: Not worth reprinting... .Mary S.: Much too
thin and weak ... .W.M.F.: Doesn’t say anything
worth while... .W.E.B.; Doesn’t convince; and not
much of a yarn, anyhow... .C.D.D.: Poor yarn in
bad verse.... J.W.H.; Like a magazine story watered
thin....V.F. (Ilirribilli): Even for a first attempt
it is very weak... .O.A.T.: Too lumpy... .John C.:
Fierce attempt to hack mirth out of stolidity....
M.H.H.: “Ideals” too artificial... .C.A.S.: It’s on
the road, but you have some distance to go.
... .H.E.G.: Wooden... .C.E.B.: Very lame and weary.
.... Bungaree S.: No mirth and has only a distant
likeness to verse... .W.J.T.: Ugly stuff without the
feeling of horror.». .E.J.G.: Too slight and foolish.
.... Codex; Doesn’t make a yarn; and the writing
is poor A.F.H.; Nearly as good as some of the
worst stories in the weakest magazines... .Pulex: The
commercial traveller was frightened by a cat. That
is the whole yarn... .W.H.C.: Quite empty....
T.O. J.: No use....L.M. (Melbourne): Too melo-
dramatic. .. .K.A.J.: The effort to be clever is too
obvious.... Enid C.; Grow up; and send us a
contribution in six or seven years’ time... .Helen Z.:
Could be much worse, but not quite up....Wilga:
Too frail and empty... .S.N.H.: Yes, “quite out of
the ordinary.” In fact, horribly bad A.C.C.: Not
well enough done... .Woodki: “Nothing to Argue
About” is nothing you can write about W.B.M.:
Feeble, and you can’t rhyme “means” with “dreams.”
.... G.M.: Such unpleasant stuff starts with a
handicap, which the telling doesn’t wipe out. —
Eil D.: Don’t think the quotations sustain the
superlatives... .McC.R.: “Hiawatha” is Longfellow’s
patent.... Fidus A.: Shocking... .W.J.T.: Some feel-
ing, but doesn’t get to much....J.T. (Melbourne):
Not up. Two initials only are not enough to dis-
tinguish you from others... .Joy: Horrible imitation
of the worst things wailed over a piano in suburban
front rooms... .Poeta: Has no resemblance to an
Italian sonnet; and from any point of view it is
bad verse.... J.A.S.: We dare not tell you what we
really think about it....R.T. (Newtown): Done
a thousand times; and your repetition of it has
no charm.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B. ; For the immediate purposes of this journal,
all gobs are extinct... .R.J.C.: “Dad” stumbled
down a steep place into the basket... .H.W.T.: Sus-
pended animation, and not too much of the animation,
either.. . .K.T.; Keep going, but practise a freer
line T.H.: Just found us going out P.O.:
Shorthand note of doubtful authenticity E.M.E.:
That gag was used to relieve the tedium of the
Aztec deluge by Cox-Cox, the local Noah.


GOOD WHISKY
FOR 179 YEARS
From the
Original Recipe,
1746.
m.
Eame. i7*z.
this label is registered
BV
APp OINTMINT
JMO IN WOOD
bottled
TO HIS MAJESTf
THE KING
& TKe OTd Blend
N? 5021923 WKisky
Horse(ell&r
Yf
oj tKe
Q[MU
FROM THE .
I7 <? I Origirud R««P 6 e
ALL that are desirous to
EDINBURGH to LON DC
w -OIW place on their toad
jjSJjthe WHITE HORSE «
. at which place
in a STAGE COACH evei
m lD . AY wh >ch performs the wh
atfil • < ky s (if God permits). an c
An ‘ n th c morning
ijlyV each passenger 14 po"
6 pence per P o^
i ls l v
i«i T , E , DISTILL
Distillery. Island of Islay andGl
and LOND
and Gl
"#• wibiiu wi ijic
Glasgow and
That is what this Bottle
and Trade-mark stand for.
Its rich, malty flavor and softness make WHITE HORSE
noticeably different from other whisky. There is nothing
“just as good.”
The world-wide demand for WHITE HORSE is fully
met by enormous stocks of fine old whiskies, and by
possession of the famous Highland Malt Distilleries at: —-
Lagavulin ----- Islay
Malt Mill Islay
Craigellachie- - - - Glenlivet
Cragganmore - - - Glenlivet
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
is made by the largest INDEPENDENT
Distillers in Scotland.
THE NAME IS THE GUARANTEE
SCOTCH WHISKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.


THE
SEASON’S
MESSAGE
SEND YOUR /
V"
W/NCHGOMBE
LTD. EM
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all
other skins—for top values consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
DICK’S
TRADE
vmvbm
HARK
Genuine Baiata
Whether required for heavy service on
huge main drives, or for light service
on individual motor drives, involving
small pulley diameters and severe
fluctuation of loads —DICK'S GENUINE
DA DATA BELTING will transmit all
the power at lowest cost.
Also secure our prices for “BARRY”
Steel Split Pulleys; Cotton Wastes;
Leather Belting': Steel Shafting;
Lubricating Oils, etc.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE
HOBART ..
30 Currie Street
103 Collins Street
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming',
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
THE
GOUROGK
ROPE WORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Firth’s
Stainless Steel
FOR
VALVES
AND
PARTS SUBJECTED TO
HIGH TEMPERATURE,
SHOCK, TENSION OR
COMPRESSION.
HIGH TENSILE STAINLESS STEEL
In eases where it is desired to machine
the steel, this is supplied in the heat-
treated condition, to comply with the
mechanical properties for specific
engineering p urposes.
In this condition, the necessity for
further heat treatment is obviated.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., Adelaide.
[2
VV&W26.
HE
london Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
vbnmvb
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc
Producers’ Association
pty.
ltd.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
OLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Health First”
Let this be your Slogan
Health First by all means, and if you're lacking in this priceless gift,
be well advised and try
Some truly wonderful results have been achieved by this nutritious
health-giving Fmulsion.
Thin, emaciated children have developed rapidly by its use, and many
people of delicate constitution have grown robust, active and alert after
taking one or two bottles only.
HYPOL is a rich, strengthening food, atonic and revitaliser in one, and
most pleasant to take.
For unhealthy lungs or chest complaints of any kind, it is capable of
effecting a permanent cure.
Doctors have proved that the high percentage of Cod Liver Oil in
HYPOL, together with the valuable tonic elements it contains, gives a
healing and restorative power that is unsurpassed.
The action of HYPOL is an abiding one. There's no slipping back
when you discontinue taking it.
HYPOL is not a mere pick me up, but a distinctive scientific compound
designed for sick people of all ages.
Refuse doubtful substitutes. Say you MUST have
Hypol
Made by
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDEKED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coota” : The estate-agency business seems
to have a special attraction for women. In
Victoria over a hundred members of the sex
that bobs its hair are registered as esthte-
agents.
* * * *
“Coffin Nail”: The first introduction of
cigarettes into England (B. 30/7/’25) was
one of the results of the Crimean War. The
British Army learned the habit from their
allies, the Turks, and took it home.
* * * *
“Lun” : I never did go much on work me-
sclf, but I had a real job once. It was down
at the wharf, an’ 1 was doin’ well —them bags
down there make as comfortable a place to
sleep as I ever ’ad. I was workin’ a bit one
day, and the foreman comes up to me and
tells me to take me time. I says, “That’s all
right, Boss —a bloke must do a bit now an’
agin.” But blow me if the coot wasn’ giviir
me the sack!
* * * *
“Kriz” : “Wai-lioi” (B. 9/7/’25) is wrong
in claiming that Darwin pearlshell has more
lustre and body than the Broome or Thurs-
day Island product. Broome shell is far
superior to either Darwin or Thursday Island
shell. If “Wai-hoi” were correct the 170-
odd boats working out of Broome would
shape their course for Darwin and add their
number to the half-dozen or so pearling-
boats operating there.
* * * *
“Kriz” : The waters of the North West-
ralian coast abound in dugong. A Broome
pearler has for some years had a couple of
niggers employed in spearing, skinning and
boiling down dugong, and has a considerable
quantity of oil and hides on hand. AW.A. boot
manufacturer has convinced himself that
hoots made from the product have better
lasting qualities than leather ones, and the
pearler is getting a pair of diving boots made
from the hide. If tests prove successful the
whole of the hides will be bought by a
Broome firm, and used for divers’ boots in
place of leather. •
* # *
“Quiz” : Offered at auction in Melbourne,
the ancient coaster steamer Buninyong was
passed in at £2OO. A steady old boat in her
time, perhaps her most memorable achieve-
ment was taking eight days for a trip from
Sydney to Melbourne. The coast was envel-
oped in smoke from bush fires, and the vessel
crawled along at a three-knot speed, sound-
ing her whistle so incessantly that a pas-
senger declared he carried the echo of it with
him to bed the night after lie landed. No
tidings of the Buninyong were received on
shore from the time she cleared Sydney
Heads until she reached Hobson’s Bay.
* * * *
“Cobug” : Unearthed at the Warrnambool
(Vic.) Museum the other day, from a collec-
tion of geological specimens, was a briquette
closely resembling the present Morwell pro-
duct. Impressed on both sides is the word
“Marie” with the German crown; the in-
scription, “Briquette manufactured in Ger-
many by compression from Victorian brown
coal, 1892,” appears on the label of the
exhibit. Apparently, about that time, samples
of Morwell deposits were being sent to Ger-
many and converted into briquettes. Inci-
dentally, the inscription is in the hand-
writing of the then curator, Joseph Archi-
bald, sergeant of police, Warrnambool, and
father of the late ,T. F. Archibald, one of the
founders of The Bulletin.
* * * *
“Uramao” : The respective merits of rein-
forced concrete and ironbark for telegraph
and electric-light poles have been under re-
view by Maoriland engineers. F’or 15 years
the Telegraph Department has used rein-
forced concrete poles, and it now advises
electric-power boards to use wooden poles in
preference. Experience has shown that the
pull of the wires induces a lateral tension
which the rigid nature of the concrete makes
it unable to withstand; thus cracks occur
which absorb moisture, and corrosion of the
reinforcement takes place. M.L. authorities
say the concrete poles are more costly than
jarrah, transport charges are heavier, and
breakages much more frequent. The elas-
ticity desired is to be found in the wooden
poles.
* -X- * ■*
“M.H.”: My conception of what a bailiff
should look like, derived from Dickens and
other writers of last century, was rudely
shattered when a mild little gentleman not
much over sft. high sauntered into the office
on professional business. This particular
bailiff was over 70, and, according to him,
his vocation was almost as peaceful as an
organist’s, the general tendency being to
accept him as the inevitable. I had been
under the impression that he ensconced him-
self in a household and stayed there until
the rent was paid or the furniture sold, but
he contented himself with taking an inven-
tory and warning the householder against a
furtive flitting. He told me afterwards that
he has little to do in the poorer suburbs.
The working-man, as a rule, pays his rent
regularly, however much he may protest
against the size of it. Usually the bailiff's
job carries him into the luxurious flats of
well-tailored gentlemen who treated their
landlords as impossible persons with out-
rageous demands.
* * •» *
“Harold Hardupp”: A Melbourne boot
manufacturer attributes his insolvency to
the passing of a fashion in shoes. This
danger threatens every trader; but some of
them manage to turn it to good account. In
the days when nearly everything was im-
ported, red parasols threatened to become a
feminine habit in Sydney, and one warehouse
laid itself out to meet the demand. When
some ladies of the pave took to the bright
goods for advertising purposes, however,
society dropped them with a shudder; and
the heavy stocks looked like becoming a dead
loss to the importing firm. But in a few
months it was notifying retailers of its
willingness to buy back the goods they still
had on hand —an offer the retailers eagerly
accepted at a slight loss. The big firm runs
an island trade, and a trial shipment had
proved that the heathen in his blindness
loved nothing better than red parasols, and
was prepared to give for them something far
exceeding civilised-trade prices. For years
thereafter the landscape of the tropic isles
was brightened by these crimson sunshades.


It’s
Medicated!
©gf
t/L
m
e»^v
>/
%
c\£^
u
%
*35
7/
tfT
f vt-
p\jß'
W 7
'll'jll
///
1/-
Rexona Soap-A
High-class
Product for
W Oman’s
Crowning Glory!
A Woman’s Crowning Glory is her hair, whether it be bobbed or shingled,
straight or curly—and much of this glory depends on how she washes it and what
she uses. REXONA Soap is the best and most satisfactory cleansing power which
can be employed. It gives new life to the scalp, for it removes all dandruff, and
consequently the hair itself receives renewed vigor and brightness.
The “silky” look is the charm of a well-dressed head; but, no matter how
thick or wavy the hair may be, if it is devoid of that lustrous sheen it will look
frowsy. REXONA SOAP ensures brilliance of quality and quantity.
Be Pretty! Be Dainty!
Be Attractive!
Be a Rexona Girl!
Use only
Rexona Soap
1/- per Tablet
«*►%
%
Miss Pauline Garon,
a beautiful Universal
Star, is a Rexona Girl.
She says: “Rexona
Soap surely has my
hearty endorsement.”


u COUGH g
REMEDY
Coughs!
CROL
C'fouoTS
REMEDY
m
lii
j>Kjp,
ttioattutbid S—TO»—»
O i^SwmtmSuluS
SORE THI
INFLUE
k mm kramMilb.
•MM • fa»H-ti»ipc*}n£uS II
IHROAT and
?MJj
i»«a»
ii^l
MADEinAUS
Wtf Crm^c' 1 * «>«.'<•
lifts
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY, h
111*
»I*i=
i!in
SMALL
F th*l
ommm uMrrm
Drives away all kinds
of coughs like magic.
Hacking coughs loose
coughs chest coughs
throat coughs they all
fly before the healing pro-
perties of Chamberlain’s.
It acts so quickly and
effectively that before the
day is out you will forget
you ever had a cough.
Chamberlains
"COUGH REMEDY M
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
Ideal Pocket Combination.
Fire New Patented Features
&
\9s>
W-
-OM*
Protect®
Perfectly
m
L
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEA SI-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 00/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t
K»'T.
delay. Get yours
State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU I/L BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
( Reference—Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. 11. Hart
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ’
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. .. .. .. ... .. BRISBANE
With offices at London Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland al,a
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business. ‘
THE BUSHMAN'S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
STEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
mm
/
■ coin
■
W
w
m
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60/-
For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
makes it dust and damp proof.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTD.
Two Sydney fl 85-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
Establishments 141 2 George Street, Strand Corner
ALBEC”—the Sweetest, Coolest, Smoking Pipe
That’s what hundreds of Smokers are saying who have used the
ALBEC I J IPE.
A richly - grained
London-made Sil-
ver-mounted French
Briar, matured by
a Special Seasoning
Process, and fitted
with a Hard, Scotch
Vulcanite Mouth-
piece.
mbv
The World’s
Best.
It is equal in
value to pipes usu-
ally sold at £l.
Possibly your to-
bacconist or store-
keeper stocks these
pipes. If not, don’t
be put off, take no
substitute; there is
no other pipe just
as good or cheap.
You’ll be abundantly satisfied on sight, or your money returned.
Send 8/9 any convenient way. Made in 15 different shapes. State shape required, and the
Albec Pipe will be posted to you, prepaid, the same day. Every pipe is fully guaranteed to
give satisfaction.
D. W. KEIR, 90 SMITH STREET, COLRINGWOOD, VIC..
THE OLD HIGHLANDER TOBACCO STORE.
0
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135.00 to
$1,050.00
f.o.b. Detroit,
Mich.,U.S.A.
mvbmn
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Fairbanlts-Morse Company (Australasia), Rtd.,
25-27 Clarence Street. Sydney.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit, Michigan, U S. A* Cable Address, Kermath
Olicle Tobw
Oats \
Opiates forXd
Manufactured by
CL t FFOUD J.OVE CO, LTD., SYDNEY.
«E6tSTKM»
TRADE UARK
Guaranteed,
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
bas a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
bvnmvbm
Australasian Representatives
Morman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
H. C. A. Agg, chief clerk of Vie. Audit
Office and formerly Treasury accountant,
has been called aloft. While working
for the State for 43 years he got the most he
could out of life in his spare hours, having
no family cares to worry him. He used to
say that the Government would never collect
any probate on his estate, as the most he
looked for was to balance the ledger.
E. J. B. Nunn, a Melbourne solicitor who
left £71,236 behind him when he got the call,
was generous to nine public institutions. The
’Varsity, the Alfred, Melbourne and Women's
Hospitals, Gordon Institute for Boys, Old
Colonists’ Association, Melbourne Orphan
Asylum and the Blind Institute receive
£5OO each; and £250 goes to the Society for
the Protection of Animals. His partners and
employees were not forgotten.
Buchanan, the British engineer who has
been inspecting Australia’s ports, neglected
and otherwise, told Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce the other day that the ideal port
is one situated a few miles up a broad river
or branch of the sea, unencumbered by either
bars at the entrance or sandbanks in its
channels. He reckons Hobart (Tas.) and
Gladstone (Queensland) almost ideal. And
both are in the category of neglected ports—
at- least Hobart is neglected by the Common-
wealth Government and Gladstone by the
State Government.
H. W. Kroger, who was tipped for the
Vic. C. 1.8. job which has been given
to Montague, will have a few years
to run before Anno Domini dismisses
him to the shelf. A very spare six-
footer, Kroger struts like a Guardsman,
though his sole service has been in the police,
most of it in the mounted arm on country
duty. He comes of Danish stock from the
Wimmera wheat-country, and has spent his
life in the force. Since he pinned oh his
first stripe, about 10 years ago, Kroger has
climbed rapidly through sergeant, sub-inspec-
tor and inspector. He has also climbed in
the councils of the police themselves. A
foundation member of the Police Association
(and for that reason not a favorite with
some of the martinets) he has gone from dis-
trict councillor to general president two years
running.
“Tabac”: Tardy recognition has come to
Dr. G. H. Taylor, head of the N.S.W. rail-
way medical staff. Thirty-nine years ago,
when medical superintendent of the Coast
Hospital, he suggested in a report that pro-
bably there were many cases of incipient
leprosy which never came to be specifically
diagnosed as such, and that such instances
of persons suffering from early and mild
forms of the disease might be found in the
Government asylums and other institutions.
All he got for his pains was a rap over the
knuckles. Now Dr. Muir, a Calcutta inves-
tigator, has demonstrated that in normal cir-
cumstances of health leprosy may be present
and yet heal itself. “Many persons,” he says,
“harbor the bacillus without manifesting lep-
rous lesions, others have slight lesions from
which they recover spontaneously, and many
others have very mild lesions which remain
unrecognised for years.” This is practically
what the Sydney medico reported in the
’eighties, only to be departmentally snubbed
for his pains.
“Verri”: The Maoriland woollen trade,
like that of Australia, is suffering from de-
pression, the slump being the worst for about
30 years. An unusually mild winter last year
contributed slightly, but the main cause is
the importation of large quantities of stuff
from overseas which undersell the much
superior home-made article. Time was when
Maoriland rugs had a high repute, but cheap
importations caused several of the mills to
decrease their output until at present the Aus-
tralian retailers complain that it is difficult
to obtain sufficient to supply the local
demand. The competition sent the M.D. mills
into the more profitable lines of stockings
and underclothing, and the unique tweeds,
floor and travelling rugs for which! the
Dominion was world-famous are becoming a
vanishing quantity.
“ Jesmond” : Richard Trevithick undoubt-
edly built the first locomotive to run on rails
(B. 16/7/’25). It is also claimed for him
that he was the inventor of the first
steam road carriage, but a French military
engineer, Nicholas Joseph Cugnot (1725-
1804), set two of these going 30 years before
Trevithick put his on the road. The first
carried four passengers, and certainly ran,
but it was short-winded and had to stop
every 15 minutes or so to get steam up again.
The second was built to take a load of four
tons at a speed of two to three m.p.h., and
though there is no record of its ever being-
used, some engineers who have examined it
see no reason why it should not have come
up to expectations. The machine itself is in
the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers, and a
fine model is on view in the Science Museum,
London. When Trevithick lost everything
in the Peruvian War of Independence it was
Robert Stephenson —the son of his former
rival—who hastened to his assistance and
enabled him to return to England. In 1833
he died in poverty, like so many other world’s
creditors have done.
“Theodoric”: Serious-minded people on
both sides have attested before the Tariff
Board the merits and demerits of native
and imported whiskies —and have left the
problem much as it was. I once made a
similar investigation myself with much more
definite results. Commissioned to Harrison-
ise a country storekeeper’s business which
had drifted into very loose ways, I found
for a start that one of the customs of the
place was “open house” to customers— i.c.,
a bottle of whisky, carafe of water and caddy
of biscuits on a back counter and a general
invitation to step round. The whisky was
an expensive imported brand, and we were
getting through nearly a half-case a week.
Downright abolition -would have been too
drastic, but there was in stock a cask of
Australian spirit, so I started reform by
substituting a decanter of this for the fami-
liar black bottle. The outcry was bitter:
the draught whisky was resented. I tried
then to grade guests into folks worth treat-
ing and plain bibbers, with whisky graded
accordingly; but the deadheads howled worse
than the shoutworthy. I then tried a little
dishonesty by refilling the imported flagon
with native blend. In a week all clients
were drinking and enjoying the local brew,
and I had cut down that business leak by
50 per cent.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
OBAMA 20,000
O RONS AY 20,000
OTRANTO ... 20,000
ORMONDE ... 14,853
Tons.
ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12,133
OSTERUEY .. 12,129
ORSOVA 12,041
REGULAR SAILINGS.
First Saloon and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra— V entur a
Oceanic Steamship Company,
81 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m. : reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 pm •
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m. ' ’ ’
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail—£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
. Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Ohallis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, JPublic Companies, Stc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2.000,00(1
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2 634 560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925 .. £.15,395937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman
I'KANK N. Yauwood F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson
?•' i George J. Sly, LL.D.
Lieut. Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W G Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places i
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rondle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and Ne'
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYAIID
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529 988
Preference Shares .. .. 1 875 000
Ordinary Shares 3^50’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Hritaiii and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Hanking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 261 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 780,000
„ £1,655,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,530.000
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C,
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,000,000
Accumulated Funda £55,800,000
Annual Income £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
3. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping. «c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
AORANGI . 23,000 tons disp. AUGUST 27 for Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. SEPT. 10 for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ SEPT. 24 for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,000 „ „ OCT. 13 for San Francisco.
* Steamer from Sydney to connect.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
' £*■*>»!
T lie Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via Soutli
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
ISY OTHER JANES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO.. Brisbane. Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., RTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
. MS
* ill ' n|
/
f I
i
BHH
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOUBIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, bv the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £9O, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Iteserve Fund
Iteserve Liability
Established 1817.
**A
- , a
£6,000,000
4,150,000
6,000,000
£16,150,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert VV. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
ihe Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. . General Manager: OSCAR lINfS
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street EC’
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND POUTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
tßrisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parkei'L^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports arid vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton $ Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Itlacklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
AVIATiON
BY
AIR
Broken Hill,
Adelaide,
Riverina,
Sydney,
Melbourne.
PARCELS
vbmbvm
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Airport.
Agents.
ADELAIDE
MILDURA
HAY
NARRANDERA
COOTAMUNDRA
SYDNEY
BROKEN HILL
DENILIQUIN
ECHUCA
MELBOURNE
M. G. Anderson & Co.
J. H. Bayliss Pty., Ltd.
Wilkinson and Lavender.
Culley & Co.
G. A. Fitzpatrick,
f Rudders Ltd.
1 Tourist Bureau.
McCulloch Carrying Co., Ltd.
H. Lloyd & Sons, Ltd.
Murray Shipping Ltd.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Managing Agents:
Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Ltd.


The New Studebaker
Special Six Duplex-Phaeton
(folding top optional )
One of the New Studebaker models
from £420 to £960
ro
n v
ai
tr
I
N*r'
SK
"fco
V <c
:<J/
m
5
> :
/
We * >
Lacquer or Enamel Finish
is another enduring feature of the
New Studebaker Cars
Sun, rain, dust or grease will not harm the
beautiful lacquer or enamel finish of the
New Studebaker models. For science has
conceived in these finishes, a lustrous sur-
face that resists wear. Thus lasting beauty
is obtained. And frequent repainting is
unnecessary.
Long-lived, economical service has been
built into every detail of the 22 New
Studebaker Models. See them before
you buy.
STUDEBAKER —{South ~Bend, 7/id., U. S. A.
Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
STANDARD SIX,
113 in. w.fo., 50-h.p.
From £420,
SPECIAL SIX,
120 in. w.h., 65-h.p.
From £515.
BIG SIX,
127 in. w.b., 75-h.
From £685.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), LTD.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
ISLAND MOTORS PTY., LTD., Arcadia Garage, Hobart.
StudebaUer open models
can be furnished ivith
folding tops in place of
Duplex body and top .
JB-637
STUDEBAKER
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73 YEARS


PIUS
PIUS
PIUS
&
PIUS
Do you rise in the morning with a groan? Do you feel
that you are getting old? Having made up your miiid that
you are a martyr, do you vent your ill-humor on the family !
After a while the pain and stiffness leave you and you forget
your troubles until the next morning, when the same dull pain
in the small of your back, the difficulty of bracing your nerves,
brings back all the dire forebodings of the day before.
This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim and
you are starting on a long journey towards ill-health and
infirmity. The kidneys arc overtaxed with the. work of cleans-
ing out the impurities from your blood. Each day there is an
accumulation of waste which must upset the body. It forms
Uric Acid and Uric Acid is the most insidious form of poison-
ing that can take place in . your body. The number of ills
to which it leads is almost limitless and though middle age is
the most favorable season for their activity, even the youngest
child often suffers and sometimes dies from the different mani-
festations of Kidney Trouble.
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, but a reliable,
specially-prepared remedy, such as Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills, is
the safeguard for your health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills stimulate your sluggish kidneys to
re-action and assist the work of removing impurities from
your blood, which the kidneys have been unable to accomplish
unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the kidneys that
are filtering the blood that the work is done automatically as
by a perfect machine. Your back straightens up, the pulling,
dragging feeling gradually leaves you; in the morning you can
leap from bed, feeling a glow of health and vigor and meet
life with a smiling face.
It is the duty of every man, not only to himself but to
the world at large, to keep his health in the proper condition
for his daily task; and for the victim of Kidney Trouble Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills give just the little boost his organs need to
make them his slave, instead of his being a slave to ill-health.
D» Sheldons
bvmbv
I■
m
111). Hoy.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing.
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4\- per
lib. box
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
bvnmvb
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Tea-tree Burning.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS I drove down to Smitlifield.
The Dog-trap Road along,
j heard a wagtail calling
His haunting midnight song.
As I drove on from Smitlifield,
Glad was my heart and gay,
Somebody’s chimney smoking
Spoke of another day.
Smell of that tea-tree burning—
All in a house that still
Stands by a red road turning
Westward to Prospect Hill—
Comes to me yet, as over
The green, glad world I go;
Comes to me now a rover
Since thirty years ago.
Past Merrylands, still dreaming,
Soft in a summer’s night,
I drove till dawn rose streaming
Through eastern gates alight;
To Parramatta shaking
From roses white and red,
Its early dews, and waking
To warm day richly spread,
O’er orange groves, all golden,
And sunlit orchard lands,
That sprang from efforts olden
Of dead colonial hands.
But yet by road and turning,
By hollow, bridge and hill,
I smelled that tea-tree burning,
I smell the tea-tree still!
I doubt not other roses
In red and white and gold
Throw from their gardens closes
As sweetly as of old
Their fragrances eternal.
But far and far away
Now walks in realms supernal
Tile ghost of that dead day.
(Though Death nor Sorrow daunt us,
Who face our Fates like men,
Tee ghosts of days may haunt us,
May haunt us now and then.)
But here’s a cup to Sorrow !
And there’s a can to Care!
The roses of to-morrow
Will bloom as fresh and fair.
And ye who’ll come hereafter,
In kinder days than mine.
With youthful joy and laughter
Lift good Australian wine,
Drink to a dead December!
Drink to a memory !.. ..
If 1 in sooth remember.
So will remember ye!
And if ye go by Smitlifield,
The Dog-trap Road along,
Think of my crazy story,
But think not overlong!
You'll smell the tea-tree burning
From some old house that will
Stand by a red road turning
Westward to Prospect Hill.
Go to the right! And over
Hill and hollow you'll wind—
What do you think, my rover,
What do you think you’ll find? -
VICTORIA.
E. .T. BRADY.
Riddle’s Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u ET along, go away with yer!”
IT “But look ’ere, boss, y.r kids is
lovely, the missus is the”
“Get away, go along, yer loafer!” The
boss took the man by the slioulder and
pushed him through the paddock-gate. 110
was angry and flustered. Reaching the road
the man wriggled his shoulder free, and the
young man sitting on his swag by the gate-
post stood up. It looked like a chance for
a job.
“Blow yer kids! Tliey’s the worst little”
He stepped back hurriedly as the boss
made a dash at him. “The missus is”-— —•
But he turned and ran down the road while
the boss heaved clumps of dried mud at him.
Coming back, his eyes bright with anger,
breathing heavily, the boss- saw the swag-
man. The dismissed man raised his voice
and sang dolefully'.
The boss’s eyes softened. Nodding over
his shoulder to the retreating man he said
to the swagman: “He was too sentimental
-—got too fond of the missus.” Suddenly he
frowned. “Want a job?”
The swagman nodded eagerly.
“Like kids?”
“Love ’em.”
The boss's eyes lit up.
“Reely? I got four.” He hesitated.
“Know anythin’ about farmin’?”
“Done four years at it.”
“Come along, then.” He passed through
the gate and carefully closed it as the last
note of the dismissed man’s song floated to
his ears. “Poor beggar! A pity he got too
fond o’ the missus.” He sighed and led the
way across the sunlit paddock to the farm.
Half-way across a thundering noise came
from the farmyard; it was as if somebody
were trying to batter down a wooden build-
ing with a sledge-hammer. The boss turned
pale and broke into a run. The swagman
followed.
Entering the yard they saw the legs of
three children kicking ecstatically over the
lower half of the stable-door, and the thun-
dering came from violently kicking horses.
Grabbing one after the other the boss up-
ended them; they still gripped fishing-rods
t-o which were attached thistle-heads.
“You little”
A woman stalked into the yard.
“Go lion, Dad,” said a defiant boy of ten.
“Swear away; mother likes to ’ear lius
swear.”
The boss rubbed his forehead as a girl of
eight began to howl.
“What’s the matter, darling?” cooed the
woman.
“Dad’s swearin’ at lius.”
She looked at Dad scathingly and led the
children to the house, while they made faces
at their father over their shoulders. He
mopped his face.
“It was only their innercent fun. They’re
wunnerful kids, an’ ’ave a wunnerful
mother.” Then lie entered the stable to see
if the horses had injured themselves. One
had a skinned hock, and a rail had been
kicked out of a stall-panel. “It mighter bin
worse. Come an’ I’ll show yer your room.
It's not so much the ’orscs, but them kids
might get their legs broke. What wages
d'yer want? Times is bad. Wliat, a pound
a week an’ keep! An’ me with a family!
Make, it fifteen bob an’ I'll make it a pound
if yer suit.”
The man accepted.
“What’s yer name?”
“.Jim Weeks.”
“Mine’s Riddle, Tom Riddle. Everybody
knows me round ’ere. Got any relations?”
Jim shook his head. Riddle looked sym-
pathetic, and a little envious, .Tim thought.
Riddle Was a thin man and undersized,
with' the nervous manner of a fellow torn
between his inclination and his duty, and
determined to do his duty at any cost. Weeks
looked anything between thirty and thirty
five, though his real age was twenty-two.
But looking older had its advantages; it
suggested that he knew more than he did.
Weeks quickly discovered that Riddle did
not own the farm. One of the children,
Tommy, told him. Riddle told him lie had
married the farm; but that was an accident.
His wife was an only child and had married
him because he was a good farmer and she
had a farm to work. lie slaved from dawn
till dark, and sometimes in the dark. His
food was what was left after the children
had been fed, his clothes what could be
spared when the children had been clothed.
Mrs. Riddle managed the income. She was
a tall woman, handsome too. She told him
that paternity was sacrifice, and then related
what a sacrifice it was to be a mother.
Weeks gathered all this in the course of
the next few weeks. He began to feel ner-
vous too. But that was because of the
children. They stuck burrs in his bed., pulled
his chair from under him, tied strings in
the doorway for him to trip over. He always
had to look carefully before he sat down
to make sure the stool was there and that
a bent pin was not. It was the same with
the animals. The horses showed the whites
of their eyes and flattened their ears when
they appeared, the cattle tossed their horns
uneasily, the dogs slunk away and the cat
fled spitting, its tail bushed.
Peace fell upon the farm only when they
were at school, and Mrs. Riddle grew dull.
She brightened with pride when they re-
appeared, and in ten minutes nearly all, from
the mother downwards, were weeping, the
youngest yelling. It generally rose from
some misunderstanding of a sentimental kind,
in which the mother-love in her was jarred
because one did not get as big a piece of
bread-and-jam as the other, and resented
the injustice by slamming it on to the face
of the other; which meant the washtub and
more wails. They were a most loving family.
Winter came with its frosts and rain.
Riddle got into the way of visiting Weeks
when work was over, and telling him what
a grand thing it was to be a farmer and a
father, particularly a father.
“You’ve bin with me three months now,
Jim. That’s fine of yer. Most of ’em got
too fond of them children, an’ made their
mother jealous. You’ve got savvy, Jim;
you’re fond of ’em, but you somehow ain’t
made their mother jealous. She’s real sen-
sitive, she is.” A gust of wind sent insidi-
ous draughts sneaking round the room, and
he shivered. “My word, it’s mighty cold. I
oughter brought me overcoat. There’s a
nice fire in the kitchen. But them kids is
doin’ their lessons, an’ we mustn’t disturb
’em on no account. I’d sacrifice anything
for ’em.”
Jim thought he was included, but kept
his opinion to himself, and hinted that the
boss would be warmer in bed.
“It’s too early yet,” said Riddle, rubbing
his hands to keep them warm. “The missus
is as tired as blazes; but there she is, stayin’
up to help them children with their lessons.
She’s goin’ to make a doctor of Tommy, a
lawyer of Billy, and Nettie’s voice is better’n
Melba’s. The youngest ain’t got over suckin’
’is thumb yet. an’ is that quiet that she
thinks he oughter to be a great thinker;
she ain’t quite decided what kind yet. Any-
way, better’n Mr. Thomas.” Mr. Thomas
was the township schoolmaster, who knew
everything—except about farming, of course.
“She’s a real wunnerful woman, Jim; don’t
you think so?” He looked at Jim pleadingly.
“I do,” said Jim solemnly.
Riddle’s eyes brightened. “I mu,s’ tell her
what you think, .Tim, an’ it’s because she
is such a wunnerful mother, ain’t it?”
“Rather,” said Jim as heartily as he was
able through his chattering teeth.
“I knew yer would, Jim. But don’t you
make her jealous, Jim. All them other
. fellers did, an’ you saw what ’appened—-to
the last, at any rate. They was an awful
disappointment to me. I ’ope you won’t be,
Jim. I’d sacrifice everything for the sake
of them children and their wunnerful
mother.”
After he finished his meal next night Jim
was requested to stay by the kitchen fire
till bedtime.
“You won’t mind the children, will you,
Jim? Their father told me ’ow”
“That’s wrong, mother.” shouted Tommy.
“Schoolmaster says it’s ‘how,’ not "ow.’ ”
“Of course, darling. You see, Jim, how
well they respond to learnin’.”
Tommy flung a book on the table. “Learn-
ing.” he snapped.
“Tommy, those manners are jus’ like your
father’s.”
Tommy dropped his face on his arms and
sobbed bitterly. “I didn’t ’spect you’d hin-
sult me like that, Mom.”
“Mom” rose and put her arm round him
and soothed the injured boy gently with:
(Continued on next page.)


A TREACHEROUS TROUBLE
Kidney diseases are very dangerous. They come on
silently, gain ground rapidly, and cause thousands of
deaths that could have been prevented by proper
treatment in the beginning. Nature gives early
warnings of kidney disease—backache, twinges of
pain when stooping or lifting, headaches or urinary
disorders. If these symptoms are unheeded there is
grave danger of fatal kidney disease. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have earned a reputation for
their effectiveness in kidney trouble and are known
and recommended the world over.
I
w.
wm
“Every Picture
Tells a S tory ** f
Hi
m
1
y
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney, says:—“l was
a great sufferer with my back and the pain was at times so bad that I had
to leave my work and go home. I was bent almost double and could not
stand up straight without increased suffering. I used various preparations,
but only got slight relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased the pain and the
second completed my cure. This did not happen yesterday, but about two
years ago, and I have had no sign of backache all that time, so it is not
mere temporary relief, but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and am glad to have an opportunity
to publicly recommend them.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Williams says:—“My husband is still well
and has been free of backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him
14 years ago.”
Mrs. W. Sullivan, 61 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:—“I
suffered terribly with my kidneys for some time. I had terrible pains in
my back and could hardly move without suffering torture. I was also subject
to bad headaches, dizzy feelings, and had urinary trouble, the secretions being
thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed to suit my
case, and I suffered on in spite of treatment; but at last I got a good remedy,
and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A friend advised me to take
a course of these Pills, which I did, and I am pleased to say they cured
me of every distressing symptom mentioned. I used 10 bottles in all, and
my cure is perfect, for I have been as right as rain for the last 12 months.”
Ten years later Mrs. Sullivan says :—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache and kidney trouble 11 years ago, and I am still well.
I always keep this remedy by me and take a dose or so now and then, just
as a help to the kidneys.”
mvbb
nbvn
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
“You know, Tommy dear, mother didn’t
mean to pain you; your father didn’t ’ave
■ —have the advantages you have. Be good,
dear, an’ forgive mother.” Her tears flowed
softly.
Tommy flung his arms round her. Nettie
and Billy went and flung their arms round
her. The youngest stared dully and sucked
his thumb.
Riddle gazed at the fire. In a little while
he nervously adjusted a log.
“Grand, ain’t she?” he whispered to Jim.
“I should say!”
“What should you say?” demanded Mrs.
Riddle sharply.
“If I may be allowed an opinion, Mrs.
Riddle, I should say you manage them lovely
children fine.”
Billy opened his mouth to protest about
something, and Tommy stuffed his slate-
sponge into it. Then he saw his father
gazing at him more in sorrow than in anger,
and put out his tongue at him.
Riddle gave a nervous heave as if about
to rise swiftly, but catching his wife’s cmes-
tioning eye he subsided, murmuring “Wun-
ncrful, wunnerful woman!” and looking
anxiously at Jim.
Jim nodded emphatically, but held his
tongue. It was blowing bitterly outside.
“This ’ere business of bein’ a father. Jim,”
began Mr. Riddle next afternoon as they
were working in the barn, “is great for a
man. It teaches him that there’s more’n him-
self to think on. You bein’ a liorphan doesn’t
know what yer father sacrificed for yer.
He sacrifices his time, his liberty. But it’s
worth it, Jim. An’ the mother, too —look at
the sacrifices Mrs. Riddle makes. You saw
what a steady strain it is upon ’er feelin’s:
it’s wearin’, Jim. I sometimes wish I could
’elp ’er more. I’d sacrifice everything to ’elp
’er with them kids. If I thought it would
serve ’er, Jim. I’d leave ’er ter-morrer.
There’s no sacrifice a woman like ’er don’t
deserve.”
Jim nodded a general assent.
Next time it was: “Jim, there’s more’n
that I’d do for ’er, an’ for them dear kids.
I don’t think I’m much of a man, just a
nobody what ’ad the good luck to take a
job ’ere, an’ the better luck ter take the
fancy of the boss’s daughter. Book at me,
Jim. I’m a man o’ means, with a fine farm,
a finer wife an’ the fines’ kids in the world;
an’ I was jus’ like you, a bloke what never
knowed in the mornin’ where I was goin’
to lay my ’cad at night. Now, don’t you
think I was lucky?”
Jim nodded.
“Well, you say it as much as yer can to
Mrs. Riddle. It’ll come more natural-like
from you, seoin’ as how you ain’t her ’us-
band. An’ it’ll mean a ten-bob a week rise.”
.Tim felt he could do with a rise.
He followed the hint, and the rise came
within a week. In a month he was promoted
to eating at the same table as the family.
But he found it embarrassing when the
children pointedly ignored their father and
appealed to him against some decision of
the mother. As the extra salary was worth
it. he backed up the mother. Then he saw
she began to look upon him as a man of
superior intelligence, which added point to
her remarks indicating the inferiority of
Kiddle. For all that the children compelled
him to be w T ary for practical jokes.
But his wariness failed him completely one
night when he sat on an inch of hatpin.
Grabbing Tommy by the ear he laid him
across his knee and spanked him properly.
Tommy was too astounded to utter a sound ;
so was everybody else.-
From the other end of the table Mrs.
Kiddle gazed at him with a grief that would
have made Niobe look like a sentimental
schoolgirl beside her. She turned to Riddle.
“Are you a father?” she demanded.
Riddle jumped nervously to his feet, and
taking Jim by the arm led him to his room.
Then he carefully shut the door.
“Blarst yer!” he said venomously. “Blarst
yer! What did yer lose yer temper for?”
“I didn’t really ’urt ’im, boss.”
“I wish yer’d spanked ’im till ’e couldn’t
sit down fer a week. It ain’t ’im ; it’s ’er.
She’ll never fergive yer.”
“Then I’ll ’ave ter leave.”
“Of course, yer will, blarst yer! You've
failed me, too. Oarn’t yer see it’s me wot
wanted ter leave!”
W. BREN TON.
The Financial Poet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I DON’T think I dreamed this.
Early in life James Ogfelt decided to
be a poet. Neither by name nor in-
clination was he particularly fitted for this,
but he found himself useless in other avoca-
tions which he essayed in search of a con-
genial life-work. As he was lazy, and had
not enough money or dishonesty to corner
any foodstuff-supplies, literature seemed the
easiest track to take to a life of ease.
Every branch and hy-way of literature,
close acquaintance showed, was exploited
thoroughly* except poetry. There were, of
course, certain vers librists and other poets
corresponding to futurists and cubists and
impressionists in art, but none had any
“pep,” and none had as yet made a thor-
ough study of the financial possibilities of
poetry. It seemed to be the one thing
in the land which efficient financiers had not
specialised, and Ogfelt swooped upon it
ravenously.
He had no poetic inspiration, and he could
produce nothing novel; lie w r as primarily a
business man, the only one in this field.
Accordingly he studied metre, rhythm, rhyme.
Everything he did with thoroughness. A
passion for realistic detail even misguided
him into rising at three o’clock one morning
to gather at first-hand materials for a poem
on dawn; but he was in bed for a week
afterwards with a chill, and editors rejected
his poem because his facts were contrary
to all the traditional poetisings on dawn.
Ogfelt persevered, and wrote most success-
ful poems on all subjects in all kinds of
metre. At the end of two years he was the
most popular poet in the land. But he was
still poor. Editors paid very little for poetry
as it lacked popular appeal.
Ogfelt had realised this early; but his
business capacities provided him with a
scheme to overcome the difficulty. Indi-
vidual protest and effort could do nothing
against editors. The poet, nevertheless, was
important in a community, and could not
consider honors sufficient recompense.
Accordingly James Ogfelt founded a poets’
union, affiliated with other trade unions, and
relied for support upon his brethren through-
out the country, so poverty-stricken as to
be almost beggars.
This step was immensely important,
though one does not realise it immediately.
For centuries poets had been poor; as in-
stancing this it might be stated that no poet
had ever been able to afford a haircut except
at very long intervals.
Quickly Ogfelt’s union became a great
organisation. Poets from all parts of the
country enrolled as members. Ogfelt had
not imagined so many poets possible. After-
wards lie realised that most of them were
impossible.
With a membership of thousands, and with
Ogfelt at its head, the union flourished. All
editors capitulated; no editor refusing to
pay union rates could obtain poetry, and
if he wrote it himself naturally the circula-
tion was affected.
Then the union set itself to create a public
demand for good poetry. It bought a flour-
ishing daily, in which it cultivated the public
taste and by which it increased the demand
enormously. Soon every daily newspaper
and every periodical, even in the provinces,
had columns of poetry and verse or it lost cir-
culation. Ogfelt seems to have impressed
on the masses that verse was the best means
of describing strikes, murders and other
national pastimes, and on the classes that
poetry meant culture, and was indispensable
to social position. Advertisements flared out,
written by the nation’s foremost poets, re-
commending toothpaste or underwear in
heroic couplets; moving-picture titles began
each line with a capital letter, and occasion-
ally had a line which, although, of course,
ungrammatical, scanned correctly; and at
one time a leader in a prominent paper was
written in verse.
All this time the union’s members flour-
ished as poets have never flourished before
nor will again to the end of poetry. A poet’s
hours were few. his wages exceedingly high.
The quality of the output fell; it was enough
now if rhymes and metre were approximately
right; people did not ask for inspiration. A
demand for this would have been fatal to
the union ; so Ogfelt saw to it that inspira-
tion w r as despised, and that any poet having
it w r as looked down upon as a superior per-
son who was not of the masses and therefore
vile. Luckily there was but one in the coun-
try, and he was put in a lunatic asylum
where food was plentiful.
In due course came specialisation, and
immediately the quality >r the output im-
proved. Specialisation of a kind had been
successful before. Herrick, for example, wrote
only lyric poetry of any value; and Homer
only epic. But they had not the acumen to
exploit it sufficiently, the keen insight
■amounting almost to genius which enabled
James Ogfelt and liis fellows to,make such
a success. Members of the union wrote
everything; even epic poetry was not
neglected, and several millionaires were, for
a reasonable consideration, made by it the
great men of the nation;
Those were the golden years. The union
had a monopoly of the industry and made
enormous profits, apart from those made by
individual members. Handsome buildings
were erected in which business was carried
on; and the union was formed into a limited
company.
For seven years it lasted, and the race of,„
poets grew rapidly. They were trained for
the profession at the colleges and universi-
ties, although nowhere was there instituted
a chair of inspiration. Little boys sitting
on fathers’ knees asked with awe: “What is
a poet, daddy?” And being told were capti-
vated with tire glamor of the poet’s income,
and determined to be poets; until eventually
only a limited number were allowed admit-
tance to the union and its sacred rights every
year. Poets displaced professional football-
ers and movie actors in public regard, and
their photos, filled pages of fashionable
magazines. Instead of wearing the old Bohe-
mian costumes they now dressed in the height
of fashion, for they no longer had to worry
about the month’s rent and consider pawn-
ing the Sunday trousers for a meal. They
were the leaders of brilliant society sets, and
any idiosyncrasies they affected were aped
by thousands. Divorce cases in which they
were implicated were the spiciest Sunday
reading the public craved. They had fre-
quent offers to appear in moving pictures,
even when they could act quite well; and on
vaudeville circuits they were paid huge sal-
aries. People were satisfied simply to look
at poets.
Poetry in this, great age begot another
immense industry, a further instance of its
practical use hitherto so little realised. Critics
in their hundreds sprang up. Special periodi-
cals were • founded to review the enormous
poetical output; and all the best newspapers
and magazines had on their staff poetry re-
viewers. A minor industry also flourished
in which critics criticised critics in sublime
and sublimer depths. Poets were popular
candidates for Parliamentary and other
offices. They were, however, handicapped in
tlicir campaigns by inability to scan such
phrases as “altogether despicable policy of
the Nationalist party”: difficulties which
many authorities consider brought about a
revival in vers Hire.
For seven years this lasted; then came
the crash. Some had foreseen its inevita-
bility; but James Mcßean’s invention
startled the majority immensely ; and upon
the poets its effect was devastating. It
destroyed the union, it swept away the most
prolific race of poets ever known to the *
world, and, depriving them of their occupa-
tions, condemned them to work. Mcßean had
invented a machine adaptable to all metres
and capable of- rhymed verse; and poetry
thenceforward was turned out in factories
by unskilled labor.
J. M. DAVIES.


m
U
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock-—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 ITeatlierston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
Bitumastic
(REGISTERED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of Bitumastic is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use Bitumastic” only.
Soldf in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
•" '■ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILDRIDGE g SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
590-592 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 239-341 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
Fanshawe Street, Auckland.
m
1
3
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our ag'ents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia : LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide Arthur Glover
, S*f£ Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY GO. t LTD. y WUlcsden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
Repeating Rifle
Model 12
.22 CaL
■
CHAMBERED for three
distinct cartridges
.22 Short, good for 75
yards; .22 Long, 125 yards;
.22 Long Rifle, 200 yards.
Excellent for small game with
hollow point cartridges. Maxi-
mum range and accuracy with
Remington UMC .22 Long Rifle
PALMA.
Magazine holds 15 Short, 11
Long or 10 Long Rifle Cartridges.
Ask Your Dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT* Representative
G. IP* O. Box 686, Melbourne, .Victoria
nbvmvbm
When you meet a chap who s looking
“ White about the gills, ”
That ’s a sure and certain sign
That he needs Beecham’s Pills.
™ If so, you cannot do better than
take Beecham’s Pills. They
stimulate the appetite; promote
sound digestion; correct irreg-
ularities of the stomach, liver and
bowels; assist in the proper
assimilation of food and reinvig-
orate the entire system. If you
are “ out of sorts” try
f NO
wm>
L
vbmbv
WOLFFS
m
JP©C!©lOl0l
>l%
sQ
BRITISH
MADE
encils
Is your pencil
<. Brilish?
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“E.C or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEE
aNHnon™
iaaaxs ivvmiM
ssnoH
06
These Products are shown in the Nobel
Exhibit, British Empire Exhibition.
lodge
m
M>RE>
• Bm©DEL'
......
m
% taper. (Model AF3)-
. Price’ 5l&
Packed in sealed metal
box and obtainable from
all accessory < dealers,
garages and stores
FORD OWNERS
Do you realise that one
cylinder misfiring means
more than 25% waste of petrol,
more than 25% loss of power,
and greatly increased wear in uni-
versal joints, back axle and tyres
Avoid misfiring by fitting the
LODGE
PLUG for FORDS
The finest plug made for Ford engines
LODGE PLUGS LTD.. RUGBY, ENGLAND,


m
MMnuiim
it*
1
%
xC
I
'h
23
2
•n-
-»■»
'j>*z4cr~ ~~
g.P'Mur* 0
& Capulet)
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF HOSPITALITY
Hospitality provides the privilege of making others happy. It is quite an art
in itself capable of showing the very soul of man. Hospitality can ring
false or sound a note as truly genuine as the ever-welcome merits of
DEWAR’S
