

°OTH
The true-to-type Lager,
light in character,
wonderfully refreshing,
entirely wholesome.
'TMU 1
Ml
I
T
m
mw
[lillllllilKlil
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2381.
Thursday, October 1, 1925*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
42S Ocorse Street, Sydney.
L.YSAGHT 7
b
o
R
/AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
rjas
■*r
m
K
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is the ideal coupler for busy factories where time is of the
essence of the contract. It has a fine reliability and strength
that enables it to grip the pulleys with a firm .effectiveness
at all speeds, while its unique wearing qualities will stand
the test of the stillest drives. Consult our engineers on all
belting problems. They are experts and will advise freely.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wjrnyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip FrankeJ & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers,' Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA- W. Tolley, 253 Spring Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA; W. &G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
h
For quick filling, instant starting, smooth
writing and unfailing reliability the
<c Swan ” Self-filler is the best
of all.
Choose the right nib—
the cc Swan ” will
do the rest.
.
W A
"Swan” Self-filler
from 17/6
OF STATIONERS
& JEWELLERS
D
"SWAN
The World Famous Pen
Other “Swans” from 12/6 Catalogue post free
Mabtk, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House, 133 & 135 Oxford Street,
London, W.l. And at Manchester, Brussels and Zurich. Depots
atCapeTown, Johannesburg,Sydney, Wellington, Paris,Rotterdam
and Barcelona. Australian Distributors : Piiit Sov & < 0., Ltd.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street. Sydnry.
FD
Ď
.W DEALERS!
Apply to Suttons,
Macdonell House,
321 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
©ECGV
THE PORTABLE PHOHOORAPB
HI 10 0 £8 8 0
£6 6 0 £l2 0 0
290-2 Bourke St.
MELBOURNE,
BALLARAT,
BENDIGO & GEELONG.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
m
..Ju
h<9kju. ■nrrKTu'n
_a i^evnCH. »..
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the toon
when taken after meals.
The Res Pa ge
Unexpurgated O’Neill
Anyone who knows New York knows Times
Square. The towering, triangular building
that originally housed the New York Times
has given the place its name, (Nowadays
there is an enormous “annexe,' two minutes
walk away, where the work of publication
goes on.) The original home, this architec-
tural arrow, is bounded on one side by
Broadway, on the other by Seventh-avenue,
on the third by Forty Second-street; and
around the base of the building an ocean
of humanity flows ceaselessly. A super-
effective place for advertising; so at the
Seventh-avenue and Forty Second-street
intersection any passer-by with eyes to see
may view a huge sign. On a background
of ‘yellow appears the likeness of a two-
storey, gabled house. Over the roof hangs
the foliage of two trees. And to the right
of this design'stands out one word, “Desire."
In this way have those responsible seen lit
to advertise to the hurrying hordes of New
York’s Forty Second-street Eugene O'NeiH's
play of this season, Under the
Elms." Any habitue of Gotham will at
once recognise the appeal to the elemental,
the crude, the obvious. One cannot be
subtle in New York.
The play's three hours of eloquent agony,
in which, as. a first-night critic remarked,
“Hell is emptied and all the devils let loose
upon a New England farm,” concerns in
the first place old Ephraim Cabot, as stony
as his acres, and the bringing “hum” of his
bride—his third. Two sons by his “fust"
wife, foreseeing their immediate disinherit-
ance, start for the goldfields of California,
not without having given as heart-tearing a
display of unfilial scorn and hatred as the
tormented soul of O'Neill has conceived.
The departing pair leave behind them their
handsome step-brother. Eben. to face the
father’s anticipated wrath and his new “ma.”
She is an odd creature, this New' Englander,
odd and terrible; she is young and vigorous,
a compound of hot blood and cold heart,
and of as diabolic a power of calculation
as has been sjeen on the stage these many
seasons. Casting her inscrutable eye on
Ebon’s pleasing person, she devises a means
to be happy though married. Aided by her
stepson's hatred for his grim, tyrannical
father, she compounds this emotion with her
own youthful attractiveness and seduces
the boy. And has a child. Some months
later, such is the tragic outlook of the
author’s mind, she smothers her babe, think-
ing thus to please, and won the approval of
her irresolute stepson-lover. A nightmare
situation —the sort of thing that O'Neill
revels in! This action of Abbie, the mother,
and wife of old Ephraim, has .an effect
contrary to that intended ; it horrifies Eben.
so that lie gives her up to the police.
The story ends in a familiar way—fam-
iliar, though with a difference. The “hero
and the “heroine" are seen as the last cur-
tain falls, stage centre, folded in each
other’s arms. Trite, you say, and in view
of the circumstances altogether unbeliev-
able? No; for, at the end. Eben has re-
turned to the kisses of Abbic’s thin, un-
virginal lips—returned, not with the joy
of yesteryear, but urged there by a secret
force, to accompany her, as far as the
audience knows, to the gallows. Partners
in crime; partners in punishment.
Such is the bitter story in which O’Neill
again eats out his heart in the torments
of almost inhuman despair. Seeing it one
shudders —and comes away subdued. In
one’s mind no thought obtrudes of sex —the
author is never suggestive. It is the sheer
human tragedy that grips one. But. there
were not wanting those who said that the
theme was revolting, that the intention was
gross, the play obscene. It is one of the
periodical joys of this so-called democracy,
this America where everybody minds every-
body else’s business and on less than no
provocation forgets his own in order to do
so, that a collection of the veriest nincom-
poops can indulge their passion for inter-
ference and raise as much of a stench as
the well-informed, the people whose opinion
is worth counting. In no department of
human affairs is this prerogative more tire-
lessly exercised than in the matter of the
stage.
Two questions were in many minds. Would
1 his attack “wing” O'Neill? And would the
playwright cut his doth to fit the occasion?
In other words, would unexpurgatod O'Neill
be expurgated? Play juries were formed.
By lot they were chosen from a panel of
300 selected names, and composed of pri-
vate citizens drawn from many walks of
life. Two other plays were sucked into the
maelstrom, and also tried for their life. The
District Attorney gave it as his opinion
that “Desire Under the Elms” was “an in-
decent play and should be suppressed." The
penal law w/" mentioned, and a Police Com-
missioner ~s associated with the afore-
mentioned official. Tlie personnel of the
three play-juries, of 12 members each, who,
to protect them from possible annoyance,
had been promised that under no circum-
stances would their names be revealed, found
both names and : addresses made public. The
verdict was a complete knockout for the
District Attorney. O’Neill’s play met with
“unqualified approval” The “unanimous
decision” of the jurors reviewing it. was that
it was “not objectionable from the stand-
point of public morals.” Another play was
similarly regarded. In three plays the only
alteration asked was the modification of a
love scene in one. The mountain had given
birth to a mouse. The populace laughed
and breathed again. Once more the world
had been made safe for democracy.
Meanwhile “Desire” went steadily on Avitli
its public performances. From being held
up to the scorn of men. it is now daily
advertised as O’Neill’s greatest play. It has
run over 40 weeks. This is claimed as the
longest run of any tragedy in New York
Oity. O’Neill was present, on the occasion
of the three-hundredth performance several
weeks ago. And as a crown to its success,
the play was translated into German by Miss
Paula Berg and in that language presented
for a brief run here.
As I write comes the astonishing news that
the Lord Chamberlain has forbidden the
work on the English stage. Official vetoes
seem to be catching; Basil Dean, famous
London producer, long associated with
Barrie’s work, is furious. “Desire” he con-
siders “one of the greatest modern plays I
have read. It is tit to be bracketed, by sheer
force of its tragedy, with Shaw's ‘Saint
Joan’ and Masefield’s ‘Tragedy of Nan.’ ”
He also considers that such plays have a
“purifying influence owing to the tragic
nature oLtheir subject matter.”
The writer, who has seen many an O’Neill
opus in action, has been struck with the
gloomy tendency of his mind. It is a queer
reversal this, a throwback, that a people
notoriously and almost fatuously optimistic
should find their chief pleasure among native
writers in a man who is so consistently
dolorous. O’Neill does not warm the heart —
he cools it. One comes away from such a
play as this with a sense of depression,
with a sharp smarting of the invisible wounds
of the spirit. Classic tragedy frequently
produces a sense of elevation of the spirit,
of a cleansing of the soul. O’Neill never
causes this reaction: his mind is cast in
such a mould that this fine _ essence of
tragedy somehow escapes, is dissipated in
the gloom that surrounds his grim stories.
But of salacity, nothing. Everything he
does is beautifully planned and gauged. In
“Desire,” the opening act contains some poor
work; nut once let the creator get past his
introduction, once let him get into the
human struggle, arid the power, the insight,
the perception manifested immediately stamp
the author as a writer out of the common.
NEW YORK.
ERIC MILLS.
John Lane
I read in a fin-cle-siecle bard
And then I up and said:
“Oh give me more of the godly heart
And less of the Bodley Head!”
Nolle of the pious obituary notices of John
Lane, probably the most romantid, publisher
of the last 40 years, remembered —or thought
tit to include —that neat enigmatic verse of
the late Canon Beeching. The publisher of
to-day has to take the place of the literary
patron of other times and manners who
formerly provided both money and encourage-
ment. In this despite there is scarcely an
author now so poor that he pays reverence
to his publisher. Yet. remembering the long
services rendered to literature by- John Lane
at the Bodley Head. I pause to wonder if
tne sum of his services does not exceed those
of any individual whose books he brought to
life.
He was a long time in finding his place.
Born in 1854, after an undistinguished so-
journ at an obscure Devonshire school he
became a Government clerk. In 1887 he
decided to risk liis very small capital in
partnership with Elkin Mathews, who was
publishing and bookselling in an old-world
bookshop that retains to this day its early
Georgian aspect. At this period the “aesthetic”
movement still held sway; poetry was in
vogue. Fine printing flourished: limited
editions were eagerly sought by collectors,
and some went out of print. In 1804 Lane
severed liis connection with Ala thews and
commenced business across the road under
the newly named Bodley Head. The office
was properly a portion of the Albany where
Macaulay had written his history. A front
door had to be erected with a Vigo-street
entrance. In a short time Lane was publish-
ing for such distinguished singers, as William
Watson, Lionel Johnson. Francis Thompson,
Ernest Dowson, A. E., Stephen Phillips, Mrs.
Meynell. Owen Seaman, Mrs. Margaret L.
Woods* and Dr. Richard Garnett. The.
publication of that unique illustrated
quarterly, the Yellow Book, caused a sen-
sation. The first volume, now scarcely
obtainable, contained a super-erotic poem by
Arthur Symons, and a number of outre
illustrations by Aubrey Beardsley, whose
talent was first recognised by Lane’s quick
wits. Herein commenced an enchanting
series of essays by Max Beerbohm. Both
Henry Ilarland, the editor,, and Beardsley
were consumptives. Ilarland lingered until
1905. but the emaciated Beardsley, moving-
like the shadow of a shadow, died in his
20th year. The unfortunate artist expired
in the odor of sanctity; he made a good
end, and wrote on his death-bed to Leonard
Smithers, who published much of his later
work, beseeching him to destroy the original
drawings for his illustrations to “Lysistrata”
and not to allow reproductions to be sold.
These drawings (which I have inspected)
are markedly, frankly licentious. Smithers,
since dead, was a sociable but careless indi-
vidual. Beardsley’s dying request, was not
heeded.
Of Lane’s ready wit may be quoted a reply
to Sir Frederick Leighton, who, being shown
some of Beardsley’s work, remarked, “If he
could only draw!” “Sir Frederick,” retorted-
the publisher, “I am tired of men who can
only draw!” Beardsley’s wonderful decora-
tive illustrations to Oscar Wilde’s “Salome”
held honored place among Lane’s excellent
collection of art treasures. But Lane did not
admire the play, and, although he published
for Wilde, an instinctive antipathy caused
him to avoid personal association with that
unhappy man. This antipathy was respon-
sible for his failure to make a fortune from
Wilde's works. When Oscar died, in extreme
poverty, his literary executor, Robert Ross,
offered to sell the entire copyright of these
works for £lOO. Not one who was
approached would accept the proposal. Since
then the royalties have brought to the Wilde,
children over £50,(K)0.
Following the appearance of the fourth
volume of the Yelt.ow Book, a majority of
its contributors presented the publisher
with a round robin stating that they
would sever their connection with the
quarterly unless the immoral and disgusting
Beardsley drawings were excluded. Estrange-
ment from many of his best authors would
have ruined a prominent business, and Lane
•—very reluctantly—yielded. In any case,
the Yellow Book was doomed from the
day it was reported in the press that when
(Continued on page S.)


nee
Requisite Frocks-more
at ANTHONY
charming than costly
HORDERNS’
You can acquire a smartly-designed
colored Fuji Silk Frock at an extraordi-
narily low price—especially if it be chosen
at Anthony Horderns’, where you can
choose from a delightful range of the
most charming types —at prices that will
make no undue appeal on youi shopping
allowance. Here are four examples.
D 5930
D 5982 —Useful Frock, produced in colored Fuji Silk.
Finest pin tucks are used to trim the bc\!ice, as sketch
illustrates. A dainty touch is givdn by the long tie
of White Fuji, which is slotted through the bodice. Ihe
short sleeves are also edged with White and finished
with pipings of self. The skirt is slightly flared. In
shades of Cinnamon. Dark Saxe. Ilelio, Havana, Natural.
White and Shrimp. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S
Price
l
39/11
D5920-—Simple, yet smartly-cut. is this Frock of
colored Fuji. The feature of this frock is the un-
common embroidery which trims the new long front.
Buttons and imitation buttonholes are further interest-
ing- features. The double flat collar and turned-back
cuffs are piped with White. An inverted pleat runs
from waist to hem. giving width to skirt. Narrow belt
on sides and back. In shades of Beaver, Saxe, Helio,
Cinnamon, Shrimp, Natural and White. Sizes:
S.W., W., O.S. Price
45/-
D 1732 —Most charming is the combination of plain
colored and printed Fuji Silk in this Semi-Ensemble
Suit. This model illustrates the new straight, beltless
design. Light ground printed Fuji, in pretty tonings,
is used on the long front, and bands of same also appear
on the roll collar; also, give a delightful finish to sleeves.
In shades of Beaver, Light Saxe, Dark Saxe, Shrimp,
Natural, Havana
w. t O.S. Price
and Bleached. Sizes: S.W.,
42-
Ds93o— Stylish Colored Fuji Silk Frock, built on
becoming straight lines. Novel tie of self material passes
through slot on the bodice, as sketch shows. Inverted
tucks appear on the shoulders. The two flounces on
skirt are piped with White, as also is the belt, and
folds on the new short sleeves. Printed floral design
gives *an attractive finish to waist. Iu shades of C inna-
mon, Dark Saxe. Heliotrope. Havana, Shrimp,
Natural, Bleached. Sizes: S.W., W„ O.S. Price
39/6
We Pay Carriage in N.S.W., and to the Nearest Interstate Port.
Jumpers and Skirts
of Style and Elegance.
D 1771. — Sports Jumper in Crepe
de Chine, designed with roil collar,
three-quarter sleeves, with band at
waist; trimmed pin tucks and em-
bossing. In shades of Ivory, Grey
D3OS Fine Check Hopsac is used
to fashion this Practical Skirt,
in wrap-round style. The shades
include Navy, Fawn, or Nigger.
Price 31/6
(Fashion Salon—Third Floor.)
Fashionable
Sunshades
Chubby Sunshades, in All-over
Cretonne, effective designs.
Price 16/6
Useful Cretonne Sunshades,
with plain border to tone, or in
contrasting shades. Smart chubby
handles.
Prices 10/6,10/11
Attractive! Chubby Sunshades,
with Poplin de Luxe cover, 'floral
border. Colors: Navy, Cinnamon,
Cerise. Saxe* Nigger.
Price 15/11
Floral Sitlnshades, “Kiosk" de-
sign, plain border, in all ibo new-
est shades.
Price 21/-
Charming Silk Sunshades,
with two-inch border and lining of
floral silk. Colors: Nigger, Navy,
Cerise, Cinnamon.
Price 3 7/6
(Sunshades —Third Floor.)
Children’s Frocks.
Smart Styles. Low Prices.
FX39B.—Child’s Xinnene Frock,
made in straight Magyar style,
bindings of check zephyr to tone.
Colors: Saxe, Brown, Pink, Sky.
Lengths— 2G» 22-24 in.
Prices ... 5/6 a/XI
FX4OI. — Child’s Beach Frock,
of good quality Lionene, cut on
smart, straight lineg, and prettily
trimmed with ch tele Zephyr to tone
and buttons. Bfcflt of self, short
sleeves. In shades of Saxe or
Brown.
Lengths— 27-80 33. in.
Prices ..... 7/6 7/11
FX. — Children’s Tub Frocks,
consisting of smart Overcheck and
Striped Zephyr, irt various new
and attractive design*, ; and useful
and durable colorings. Lengths:
24 to 39 inches. , 0/1i
Prices 8/t6 to 12/11
(Children’s Frocks— TVird Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9 440.


7
Ha yiliri
if - * mm
E* A
If
MB
»
b\
*
. £**
i i
■ m
* "•sun,
* “V
/
wMWMzM Tvl
■
li
? ;M'
/
#
m
m
3
PH!
»
V
a
Mi
i
&
&
H
i
■
1
il
m
i ■
-
TheWhifce Horse Cellar
“And for the right, we come to fight
Before the ranks of Rome."
Thus does Macaulay recall for us the
famous legend of Castor and Pollux with
their snow-white steeds.
Not on the battlefields of Roman legend,
but on the bottles of a famous Whisky do
we find the great White Horses of to-day.
For the White Horse has ever been the
emblem of purity, strength, courage and
all the enduring qualities appreciated
through every age.
FT
ESta-to. 1742
MADE
BY THE LARGEST INDEPENDENT DISTILLERS IN SCOTLAND.
KwmsKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD., GLASGOW & LONDON


Time fora
fresh pair?
PARIS
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
112
~^s
©
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston, Hobart.
Oscar Wilde was arrested he had a copy tn
his hands. It became respectable, but not
respected, <ind ended with the thirteenth
volume—-not before it had given to the world
a series of rare literary and artistic trea-
sures. ' .
There was unquestionably a oio dc liohcnic
in literary London of the nineties. The
fragile Ernest Dowson. consumptive, lor ever
victim of an unhappy love episode, died worn
out by the excesses wherewith he sought
to ease his sorrow. Lionel .Johnson, ridicu-
lously advised that alcohol would cure insom-
nia, probably avoided Dowson s fate through
his premature death in a street accident.
Herbert Crackanthorpe, a master of the
conte, drowned himself. Fortunately, Francis
Thompson, one-time slave to. opium, . was
destined for a sheltered life in the kindly 7
care of the Meynells. .John Davidson, a
true poet and fine critic, lived through many
years of financial hardship, only to die by
his own hand in despair at his failure.
Davidson often acted as a reader for
Lane. One day he wrote to the publisher
that he had just finished reading a novel of
rare passion and power —the naked and un-
ashamed work, probably, of a woman mature
with erotic experience. Lane wrote to the
author —one Miss Vivian Corry—-stated that
he wanted to publish the book, but that
there were certain rather questionable pas-
sages in the work which required discussion.
"Imagine my surprise,” said Lane in telling
me the story 7, “when a girl of about 17 was
ushered in. ‘My 7 dear young lady 7 ,’ I said,
‘it’s the author of this book that I wanted
to see: I can’t discuss such things with a
child like you.’ ‘But, Mr. Lane,’ replied this
astonishing young person, ‘1 am the author.
And so it proved. Lane advised her to use
a pen-name and it was he who invented for
her—from her initials —“Victoria Cross.'
The novel in question was called “To-
morrow.”
To William Watson Lane proved a friend,
and his provision of a regular income for
the poet during his lean years was
more an affectionate gesture than a
prudent investment. Lane was an ex-
tremely sociable man : he entertained
largely, knew even more about, pictures and
objets d'art than books. Always he courted
young men—the men of the future. He
despised publishers whose main object is
reprints—“living on dead men’s bones,' he
contemptuously called it. He had always
wanted to visit Australia, had an intense
admiration for Norman Lindsay 7 , and could
never understand why the novels of Arthur
H. Adams did not sell more generously in
Australia. “Galahad .Tones” was a great
favorite of his.
Lane was perhaps tin; last of the pub-
lishers who strove for intimate friendship
with their authors. A new generation has
risen which is well content with the literary
agent.
ARUNDEL DENE.
The Distribution of Books
Mr. Alex. C. Welsh's proposal for a subsi-
dised publishing-house (R.P. 20/8/’25) only
touches the fringe of a targe question. It
is not much vise publishing books unless they
can be distributed, and for this a special
organisation would have to be built up, with
branches all over the country. The ordinary
bookseller is of little use. For one thing,
(here are very few of them who can distri-
bute a book beyond a narrow range. For
another, they have their own vested interests
to consider—the mass of books they have
imported from abroad, and for which they
have paid cash. These are their main line
of business, and any other must come a bad
second. In this connection the fate of a
Melbourne firm that aimed at publishing
children’s books is enlightening. It did actu-
ally produce a couple at the moderate price
of a shilling—books well turned out and illus-
trated, the work of a known Australian
author, whose oversea-published books still
sell in cartloads for children’s prizes at
Christmas —but it found, when it came to
get rid of them, that the booksellers were
shy and refused to oyder except in driblets.
“We’ve paid out good money for all these
oversea books,” they said in effect, “and so
we must get rid of them first. If there’s any
demand for your books, we can always Send
round the corner.”
A refusal to carry local stock —that is
the first, difficulty an Australian enterprise
meets, whether it is publishing books or
manufacturing tweed. The importing-house
controls the distribution in both cases, and
it can always send round the corner for the
local article when it wants it. In all pro-
bability it will not want it. for the public
largely buys what is placed before its eyes.
But, in any ease, the burden of carrying
stock is always placed on the Australian pub-
lisher or manufacturer, and his resources are
not equal to the strain. In this particular
instance the firm that aimed at publishing a
good, cheap line of children’s books went
out of the business very promptly as soon
as it discovered what it was up against.
The bookseller is the enemy of the pub-
lisher, and this not through any deep-dyed
hostility to Australian books, but simply be-
cause of economic circumstances. In spite
of the slight glory that is lent him by the
commodity he sells, the bookseller is a
tradesman like any other, and has the same
business methods. There are booksellers
with a love of books and a knowledge of
them, but they usually deal with a very
limited circle of patrons, and could not effect
general distribution. In two or three cases
booksellers are also publishers. They have
found certain classes of books that they can
produce profitably, and their widespread
ramifications allow them to do their own dis-
tributing. Generally speaking, though, the
only books that can be distributed adequately
in Australia are the ones that come from
oversea, and unless this essential difficulty
can be overcome, a publishing-house such as
Mr. Welsh outlines would founder in the
end, no matter what were its resources.
Why has the Melbourne University Press
that he speaks about reached the end of its
resources so soon? It is not merely that
it was academic. It published two books of
general interest—one on the White Australia
problem and another on land-settlement in
Australia—that should have had a profitable
sale. But how many copies of either has
anyone seen in a bookseller s window ? 1 in*
booksellers probably intimated to the pub-
lishers that they eould leave a tew copies
“on sale or return,” and then promptly
forgot all about them. It has become a habit
to deal with Australian books on these terms,
and soon it will become a fixed tradition.
There are so many little volumes of poetry
published by authors who arc anxious to
get them into the public view somehow, that
the bookseller has come to regard the sugges-
tion that he should pay cash for an Aus-
tralian book as a joke. Most of our book-
sellers have piles of these volumes, on sale
or return,” tucked under their counters.
Occasionally a few of them sell, and then it
is pure profit for someone, for the author
is usually too timid or unbusinesslike to ask
about sales after the first few months.
But even this trade is dying oil. There
are fewer Australian books with a literary
intention published every year. Such as are
published find it harder and harder to get
an audience ox* adequate critical attention
in the papers. Book at, the reception that
was given to Dowell O’Reilly’s posthumous
volume of short stories last year! Here was
a man with a style and a literary reputation,
and yet a book containing almost the whole
of his creative work was treated with con-
siderably less ceremony than a sheik novel.
Fpurlos versunken! Obviously something is
wrong. There must be a public in Australia
that reads its own writers with discrimina-
tion, and that thinks Dowell O’Reilly of
more importance than E. M. Hull; but where
is there any sign of its presence? Is it
snowed under by an indiscriminate mass of
reading matter?
I agree with Mr. Welsh that there are
a great many worthy books in Australia
awaiting publication, and for evidence there
is no need to rummage in anyone’s secret
desk. They are visible to the eye. In the
back files of The Bulletin alone there is
material for 20 volumes of short stories of
a quality at least as high as that of many
oversea anthologies that have been selling
here quite briskly of late. Then there are
essays, nature studies and travel sketches
of a popular yet important kind. They are
read in current journals. Is it, likely they
would be regarded as “highbrow” when they
were made into books? There is a big field
here for publishing, quite apart from poetry
and novels, which call for a more acute
literary judgment if any sort of standard is
to be maintained. ....
But the main factor lies in distribution,
a difficult thing to organise. _ At present we
have to trust to the old “law” of supply and
demand, which is a proved failure, even in
commerce. Except for a handful of experts,
people don’t take extravagant pains to seek
out books obscurely published; in the long
run they take the ones foisted on them. If
it were only a matter of buying tweeds, this
habit would be disastrous enough, but some-
thing more than the industrial structure of
a country is affected by the kind of books
it reads.’ And at present Australia is more
dependent mentally on the ends of the earth
than it was 20 years ago. _ln another gen-
eration our output of imaginative literature
will probably be limited to immigration
pamphlets.
DIOGENES.
The Complete Essayist
Essay-writing for magazines which still
publish a corner for intellectuals lies crushed
under a Dead Hand. It died about 1840.
The gentle essayist when he goes essaying
seems to regard it as against the rules of
his union or guild to write of anyone more
recent than (say) Dickens. When in doubt
he plays safe with Byron, Shelley, Keats.
Southey, the Brontes, Johnson, Wordsworth.
Emerson ; or, safer still, with Marcus Aure-
lius, Plato, Petrarch: or, in a really daring
and devilish mood, with Walt Whitman and
Tennyson—hardly dead at all, comparatively
speaking.
I am very suspicious of these essayists,
In a varied career extending over at least
two-thirds of man's allotted span—spent,
admittedly, more among the boisterous
worldly than among the cloistered intellec-
tuals —I have never met anyone who has
read one of these writers. Far be it from
me, however, to say the writers are not read
by someone; I may have been unfortunate
in my acquaintance. Mot that I doubt the
writers wrote, and wrote that published under
their attribution, for I frequently quote
their writings myself. I get them out of
Gurney Bonham's “Dictionary of Quota-
tions”--an invaluable tome ; or a standard
encyclopaedia, cheap edition because out-ot-
date. a mine of superficial information. It
is significant that Gurney Benham troubles
not about anyone more recent than (say)
early Kipling; cheap encyclopaedias usually
become skimpy about the ’nineties.
Someone, of course, did read these anci
ents. Compulsory Marcus Aurelius was pro-
bably a form of torture in the Middle Ages;
contemporary poets were the sole literary
provender in the cells of the Chateaux
d'lfs of their times. Poor devils who sur-
vived torture or immuration probably wrote
essays on their experiences, building them
round the pivot of their agony, and every-
thing written since has been an etei’nal
paraphrase of the original protest. Poetry.
“Lives” and Reflections are part of the
normal equipment of those lesser places of
torment, the public schools. Only by in-
flicting them on helpless schoolboys and girls
would Ovid and Virgil, Euripides and Homer
ever be read. So with poets, philosophers
and the Bible. Conversely, a smattering of
poets, etc., implies a public-school educa-
tion ; hence the appearance in nearly every
home of a dictionary of quotations and an
anthology of verse. Did you ever pull one
down from a library shelf? Ten to one it
had dust on the top and uncut edges inside.
An occasional ppet was a best-seller of his
day. Byron, for instance. Being forbidden,
he was naturally widely read. Admirers
and the reverse wrote letters and articles
about him —for the encyclopaedists to incor-
porate and the essayists to poach.
The essayist, stuck for a subject, can
always slip into a library sure of finding an
encyclopaedia there, and almost sure of the
chance to make a selection from any of the
classic writers. They will all be there, dusty
but unsoiled. If he wanted to write about a
modern he would have to buy the book or
wait three to eleven weeks for it to be “in’’
—very delaying, very expensive, taking all
the gilt off twopence a line. So the Dead
Hand deadens, and the old bones are stirred
and stirred again. Writing of the dead and
done-for has become an essayist’s obsession,
and it is time it was dispelled.
That which the busy reader of to-day
wants given him in concise “potted” form is
the literature of to-day ; lie wants summarised
by those with time the books and poetry he
cannot find time to read himself. He hears
much of Inge, of Mencken, of Nathan, of
Synge and Yeats, of Rebecca West and May
Sinclair, of Irvine and Beresford, Herges-
heimer and Eugene O’Neill, Burke and Ibanez
—and how often is their work analysed in
an Australian publication? He wants even
to know —poor, undiscerning fellow ! —of
Oppenheim and Ostrander, Le Queux and
Ethel Dell, Hutchinson and Compton Mac-
kenzie, preferring a live potboiler to a dead
lion any day.
L. M. RIAL.
What May Music Mean?
“Torch,” in his attempted answer to his
own query, “What does music mean?” (R.P.
27/8/’25), allows the part to overshadow
the whole. His definitions are more or less
useful, more or less correct. Music cer-
tainly “may be roughly said to be the recur-
rence of rhythmically ordered atmospheric
waves.” But this neither explains nor en-
lightens the question. It is merely a state-
ment of a well-known fact.
To say that music “has no language and
cannot convey any message” is bad aesthetics
and unsound physiology. I use the latter
term purposely, as “Torch” has based his
argument on a physiological fact, namely,
“a special disturbance of the nerve system
by sound waves.” Now, what is language?
Is it not a means of expression, whether by
sounds or signs? And is not any means of
expression limited in its completeness, first
by its utterance, and, second, by the com-
prehension of those to whom it is addressed?
Music is a means of expression, and as such
is a language depending on its formation
and its reception. I do not claim that it
is as accurate or as complete a means of
expression as the spoken or written word,
but it is, nevertheless, like speech or writ-
ing, able to form and convey a message sub-
ject to the similar rules and limitations that
govern other languages. Suppose you do
not understand French, you would not there-
fore deny that French is a language, and
as such a means of expression. However
excellent a language French may be, its
ability to convey you a message depends on
your knowledge of the tongue; that is, your
comprehension. So much, then, for music
as a language.
I take it for granted that “Torch” admits
the ability of spoken words to convey a mes-
sage. Well, speech, too, is but “a special
disturbance of the nerve system by sound
waves,” and sight but the special disturbance
of the nerve system by light waves; but
these statements neither deny nor explain
why words may convey a divine mes-
sage of beauty or bring about spiritual
exaltation. The fact is that spiritual exal-
tation may be the result of a number of fac-
tors dependent on the material conditions of
the body and its environment. The emo-
tional centres arc invariably excited, but
their excitants may vary, in one instance
being perhaps oratory, in another religious
faith, in a third the perception of natural
beauty, in a fourth music, in a lifth perhaps
combinations of those. “Torch” says that
“further than this we cannot go till science
helps us,” and “in its replies I venture to
think no such phrase as ‘divine message 7
will be found.” All probably true. But it
still does not deny that the divine message
may be there. Science explains phenomena,
does not deal with their ultimate purport,
examines the means and does not speculate
concerning the end. When science explained
that wind was due to currents of air de-
pendent on temperature changes, etc., it did
not change the beauty of the west wind or
deny the inspiration of Shelley.
MARGARET CHEADTE.
A Satchel of Books
Masterful WiUi'elmine, by Julius Stiride (Methuen).
An English translation of a German novel. It. is
presented by E. V. Gueas. diligent searcher in the
byways of literature. A humorous novel with very
human touches —very near to Dickens.
Matilda, by Sophia Cleugh (Thornton Butterworth).
A story cast in mid-Victorian days. The heroine,
a young and friendless girl, is taken from boarding-
school to be governess to the younger children of a
dowager Duchess. Has many humorous touches and
bits of good portraiture.
Between Earth and Shy. by Konrad Berc-ovici
(Jonathan Cape). A collection of short stories by
a writer who lias lived the gipsy life made familiar
to us by George Borrow and given it a range from
Palestine to Panama, from Roumania to Havana.
The stories are highly dramatic ami rich in color.
If the Gods Laugh , by Bosita Forbes (Thornton
Butterworth). Once more to the desert and the
whistling sands, picturesque bedouins and super-
sheiks —blood, love and hustle! To all who like
this sort of Arabian mixture, the novel will appeal.
It all ended happily when the hero saw the revela-
tion in Vittoria’s eyes “and swept her into his
arms.” The gods laughed. And so, if we know her,
did Bosita Forbes.
A History of the. Pharaohs, by Arthur Weigall
(Thornton Butterworth). This initial volume of what,
when completed, will be a comprehensive series deals
with the first 11 dynasties. The author comes to his
work with a full equipment, having held the office
of Inspector-General of Antiquities to the Egyptian
Government. While being a clear and connected
history which can lie followed with interest by the
general reader, the volume yet supplies the more
advanced student with an immense body of material
to be assimilated. A new system of chronology is
submitted, and many questions upon which doubt
rested have been discussed and solutions proffered.
The volume is replete with tabulated matter, charts
and photographs, and is admirably produced.
♦
“Clergyman”: “T.8.C.” maintains (R.P. 20/8/’2f>)
that “the doctrine of evolution, if accepted, would
mean the collapse of the theological structure” with
regard to the genesis of organic life. The attitude
of the Roman Catholic Church on the 1 question of
evolution is stated by Dr. Sheehan, Coadjutor-Arch-
bishop of Sydney, in his book, “Apologetics and
Christian Doctrine.” While regarding evolution
as an “unproved hypothesis,” he adds: (1) “If the
proof were forthcoming to-morrow that the body
of the first man evolved from the lower animals, R
would not be found to contradict any solemn, ordi-
nary or official teaching of the church.” (2) “In
the eyes of men of science, the chief value of the
theory of evolution is that it serves as a working
hypothesis. To this use of the theory no Catholic
can have the slightest objection.”


~ m«m** > - ,
\ix 'l-v. ,&.
msMMmmtS
\
MISI
m
wmrnm
mMumm
m
PM-S
v,
.
■
--■ '-. S'.fl'fe-*. ' -• r.-.f- ••.S s * s > S - ?" 1 %-Vv '•'i'.. _
-';Bpi&&*4:- v'''' : k %
*
•"' '• ■ -•' -M
0 8
/
•*i
mmm^
■
■
iisMM
-Vi
S U P R E M E—Air, Land and Water
PACKARD motors drove the giant dirigible Shenandoah on its record-breaking
flight of 8100 miles, and were still doing valiant service when the huge frame was
broken and torn by the recent cyclone.
Packard motors enabled the sea-plane PN-9 to nearly double the previous world’s record
for non-stop sea-plane flight by travelling 2230 miles in 28 hours 35 minutes 27 seconds
with a starting load of nearly ten tons. These motors drove the sea-plane across the
Pacific on the recent attempt to reach Honolulu an attempt abandoned only because
of the exhaustion of the fuel supply.
A standard Packard marine motor drove Rainbow 111 1064 miles in 24 hours, a distance
greater by 276 miles than any boat of any kind or size ever covered in one day.
Packard’s quarter century of experience in the design and manufacture
of motois is available to all in the Pack rd Six and the Packard Eight.
IRA L. & A. C BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors: 261,263,265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration.
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
Write or call foi catalogue.
S. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide.
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.


t5he
Engineering Works Department
of William Adams & Company Limited
is at Your Service.
Manufacturing.
Gear Cutting.
Castings.
Repairs.
A LL classes of engineering are turned out by our
' up-to-date and well-equipped engineering works. We
can save you both money and time, for the works are
self-contained, having their own foundry, forging plant,
etc.
E specialise in Gear Cutting, and are fully equipped
* with the right staff and the right tools to do this
work quickly, efficiently and economically.
“C EMI-STEEL” and “Better” iron castings are produced
daily. We specialise on “Breakdowns,” and have
the plant and staff to get your plant running in the least
possible time.
DEPAIRS to all classes of machinery is a special
O' feature of our service.
What this Service Means to You!
V OU can save money by having all your work done by us, as our plant
* i s self-contained, and we have our own foundry and forging plant.
We’ll be pleased to tell you more of this service and will be glad to hear
from you.
WILLIAM ADAM S &
Company Limited
Works Department: Fountain Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE?
King Street.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
BRANCHES—
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Waymouth & Morphett Streets.
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street


Extde
BATTERIES
A
l
i—<
u
I
ffi*
rV
h
V
When is
a battery cheap?
The price is only one —and the least one—of three
things that tell whether a battery is a good bargain.
More important considerations are: How long will it
last and how few will be the repairs ? One repair job
may change the lowest-priced battery into the most
costly.
The true way to put a value on your battery is
to take the first cost, add the repair bills, and consider
the length of time the battery lasts. Do this and you
will find that an Exide Battery costs you less than any
other per month and per year of service.
Now, even the first cost of an Exide is low—
with the quality as high as ever.
Jlustralian Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosins*
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
“Radio House,” 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors :
Hope, Gibbons. Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.
We handle only genuine Exide parts.


Cuticura
is cooling
and
refreshing
shavini
\ Men who have ten-
r der, sensitive skins,
easily irritated by
shaving,will find Cu-
The new freely-lathering
Cuticura Soap Shaving Stick permits
shaving twice daily without irrita-
tion of the skin. Cuticura Talcum,
an antiseptic powder, is soothing
and cooling to the most tender skin.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
J
FD
BHchiit&
Terracing
Made Easy—Bigger
crops, better farms with
Farm Ditcher
Terracer & Road Grader
Cuts a mile ol ditch 3 to 4 feet deep in a
day. Cleans out weed-grown ditches.
Moves dirt.
SAVES WORK OF 100 MEN.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.,
1 I.L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news or Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
D
mm
ST-/'
BE
COLD 5
COUGH 5
backs
lame
|/3
rw
1 \
"A Few
Stitches
6Theij're
on"
CASHSfIMAME
For Marking Linen
are a Great Convenience
in every household—No trouble as with
marking ink Quickly attache i to any
fabric—Your name is woven in fast color.
I jiiuiiiiiinmuinmummi:iiLiiui)lluiilimUluuiiiUUlumill)j)lM
j ! C M.WALKER j
I |mlnn--i"nTT —'i'MiiiiiiiniiTiiiiiniiiiihihimimiiiniiiiirfirrrni
Actual Size, Name Style No. 9
| |
i ■Mu l ,i, <l .i!i-, t firrrrr.Trmiii i nninii l !n.'iniii,!.!)Tr[miiiMH u n -r*
Actual Size, Name Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DPAPERS.
Prices : 12 doz. 7/6, 6 dor, 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond. Melbourne.
4I«t9TBK«»
tKAOt U«»l
fiuarante«tf.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anythin# previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Ď
Australasian Representatives
Norman Halier & Longburst
SO York Street. Sydney.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
F
Red u tea
Prices
$135.00
to
$1,050.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich., U. S. 4.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—-impulse coupling.
Kerinath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a
all oarts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath
Exclusive Factory Representatives s
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Ltd.. .
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.» Detroit, Mich.,U.S.A.
Cable Addres s - KERMATH
D
A STIFF PROPOSITION-Q
with-THE PLUM RAZM
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 b GEORGE ST. SYDNEY Halil
ĎF
D
ĎF
*
BOSTOCKS
Liquid suede dressings
■
BOSTOCK’S Black Liquid Suede Dress-
ing gives a Jet Black tone and preserves
the original density of colour in the Suede
leather; also made in Brown, Nigger
Brown, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Obtainable
Everywhere
(SSP3IS
r,
IK
Host Holbrook Saus~
"‘Worcestershire Sauce, like
wine, should be well matured.
I mature my sauce in vats
of English oak.
Ah! It is an appetising brew.”
A-3
OLBROOKS
JSAUCE I
V.
The perfect fit of
99
46
.-WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
You can buy "JASON" underwear
in many sizes, and if you ask for the
correct one, perfection of fit is assured
you. You want your under-garments to
cling trimly to your body. The luxury
of “Jason” Underwear lies in its inability
to bulge, sag or crinkle, and in the lasting
delicacy of its silky Finish.
Your store has ‘Jason” Underwear in all sizes,
and Winter and Summer weights, for Men,
Women and Children.
S'tle Manufacturert :
<|>D JASON UNDERWEAR CO.. LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
D
“ Olympic ”
Brand is a
lower priced
n n d erwear
with the
same guar-
antees of
val u e and
satisfaction
as "Jason.”
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Peace-bringer.
Up the sleepy coast
While the moon shone white,
Like a kindly ghost,
Stole a wind last night.
Over lit lagoons
Where the black swans slept,
Over cliffs and dunes,
Velvet-soft it crept.
Scarce a leaf it stirred,
Scarce a blade of grass;
Scarcely did a bird
Wake to hear it pass.
Slie-oaks bending low,
Bloodwoods towering high,
Felt it softly go
Lullabying by.
Arching fern and palm,
Still of frond and stem,
Knew a deeper calm
As it breathed on them.
Such its mystery,
And its magic such,
E’en the restless sea
Slumbered at its touch.
Utter peace it brought
Wheresoe’er it went:
Field and town it sought,
House and hut and tent.
Where long moonbeams strayed
Gleaming through the gloom,
Entry soft it made
Into tent and room.
Men who troubled not,
To no sorrow yoked,
Bettering their lot
With sweet dreams, it stroked.
Restless folk it hushed.
Tossing on their beds,
With a hand that brushed
Trouble from their heads.
Folk by storm and stress
Grayed and furrowed deep
Found some loveliness
Mingled with their sleep.
Thus o’er beach and height
’Neath a milky sky
Went a wind last night
Lullabying by.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Shining Armor.
On time’s anvils, ringing, ringing.
Ancients wrought their arms of gold,
All their wealth of laughter bringing,
All their store of love untold,
All the tears that great hearts hold.
Time, the master-smith, came after,
Silent through forgotten years,
Drew the discord from the laughter,
Left the golden love and laughter,
Left the tears.
One upon time’s anvils ringing
Flung the iron of a soul,
All his pain and anger bringing,
All his rapture past control —-
Glowing, passionate the whole.
On time’s anvils there he shaped it,
Armor of tear-tempered steel,
He who could have still escaped it —
He could surely have escaped it!—
Learned to feel.
By time’s anvils, ringing, ringing,
Lie the' arms now laid aside;
Time, the master-smith, is bringing,
Where they fell in jangling pride,
Tribute to the man who died.
In time’s reverent hands uplifted,
Newly on time’s anvils laid,
Gold-inlaid, for he was gifted !
Truly time has found him gifted !
See the arms he made!
w.a.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Wendouree.
The lake is tinged with gold and silver
sheen,
With rose and pearl and lapis-lazuli;
Black opal burns the willow-trunks between.
The lonely swan, the pine and poplar-tree
Look on their mirrored images unblurred.
The clouds are motionless. Beneath a spell
Lie leaf, unruffled lake and reeds unstirred
Of any wind. The chiming convent bell
•Is silent now. The sky is silver-starred.
So tempest-tossed within! Without so
still !
Is sueh a calm, such loveliness unmarred.
The very peace of God and this His will?
Victoria.
ETHEL MAKTYR.
Man Homage.
To this unconquered shadow that was man
I bow in homage even at this last
When the pall sinks, the grave-bands being
fast,
And murmuring not at all he leads the van.
Irked by his narrow haunt, this furious Pan
Rushed through the precinct where his
lot was cast
And through the leafy lattices has passed,
God knows to wliat remote ambitious plan.
Yet even in the grave he surely hears
The voice of love that echoed word by word
His whole of scorn, hurled in the face
of Fate;
Were it not so, then Heaven must weep tears
Or tlu'ough the silence ocean must be heard
Thundering in protest on the sevenfold
gate.
MAOBILAItt).
D. M. ROSS.


9
'j/Syc£
Melbourne Show.
1922, 1923, 1924
and 1925.
FIRST PRIZE.
Sydney Show.
1923 and 1924.
FIRST PRIZE.
Adelaide Show.
1923,1924 and 1925
FIRST PRIZE.
Brisbane Show.
1924 and 1925.
FIRST PRIZE.
' ■/?’
vim
Olgil *
in
w**.-
i)
m-.
m
&:%; .
va
A v *’ '••*> A
\JI
\
mm
. s
»:|lf '
DF


The Bulletin
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2381.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1925.
Peice 6d.
THE ONE WHO IS PUSHED OUT.
"The farmers know who are their real friends.”— N.B.W. Labor-Premier Lang.
LANG: “Here, you, move up and make room for this gentleman.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.’'
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 211 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Blinders Street.
London Office : Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
IH months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in jLondon is
L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House, £i so from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons , Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London.
E. E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” ol High Holborn, London, W.C.t;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —- Chicago; J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and IRnd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West If Ist Street, New Ya r k City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva,
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street , Ludgate
Circus. E.C..).
! .S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz., Id. AU Sea Route: 160 z., lhd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1925.
THE NEGLECTED POWERS OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
The bashfulness of the Commonwealth in
assuming and using the powers which pro-
perly belong to it amounts to a disease, and
like a shy and blushing maiden it thinks
that its proper place is the background.
After a quarter-century it still leaves to the
States practically the whole control over
marriage, divorce, guardianship of infants,
banking, insurance and the control of
foreign and local corporations. It is
a very mixed control, as well as being
rotten in many places. The ground that
Federal law should cover but doesn’t is im-
mense. Every additional day of delay makes
the position of the State Governments, especi-
ally the big and arrogant ones, more a matter
of course, and tends to make any attempt on
the part of the Central Authority to assert
itself more likely to be resentpd as a usurpa-
tion. There is need for a strong Government
to devote the recess (if not immediately, then
as soon as the Communist nuisance has been
shipped off home, or gaoled in the rare cases
where this country is its home) to drafting
measures for the assumption of neglected
powers, even if through so doing it has to
go about addressing its constituents a good
deal less ; Then it should buy itself a saw
with which to cut off useless debate, and a
guillotine to come down hard on the neck of
Obstruction, and it should prepare for a long
session of useful work, with an extra day’s
toil in each week if necessary. As a case in
point, Parliament last year passed an all-
Australian Bankruptcy Act; but the appli-
cation of it was hung up pending the draft-
ing of the necessary rules, and it still hangs.
Now, however, that this year is on the wane
something threatens to be done; hence this
unpretentious newspaper paragraph :
With a view of determining arrangements necessary
to enable the Act to be proclaimed at the earliest
practicable date, a conference of Commonwealth and
State Attorneys-General was held at the Commonwealth
offices yesterday. Those who attended were Mr. L. E.
Groom (Commonwealth), Mr. E. A. McTiernan
(N.S.W.), Mr. F. W. Eggleston (Vic.), Mr. W. J.
Denny (S.A.), Mr. A. G. Ogilvie (Tas.) and Mr.
F. W. Mole (Q.). Matters discussed involved the
question of vesting the Federal jurisdiction of the
Bankruptcy Act in the State Courts, the necessary
administrative staffs, the transfer of proceedings, and
the operation of the necessary rules.
Without any desire to damn the five State
Attorneys-General who attended, or to heap
anathema on the sixth one who didn’t, or to
consign the Federal law officer to a hot re-
gion, or to otherwise enter into theological
controversy, it can be said that the proposed
arrangement is unsatisfactory to the verge
of childishness. The Commonwealth shouldn’t
rely for the enforcement of its laws nearly
so much as it does on more or less learned
gentlemen who are appointed by the States
and removable if the State Parliament
chooses to take that drastic course. In fact,
it shouldn’t rely at all, except perhaps in
affairs of the police-court calibre, and it is
quite unsafe to swear that it should rely
even then. When a capable Federal police
force is in existence, and there are Federal
gaols to preclude the release of the Federal
convict by a State Governor (who may be
Joiianson himself if the futile Deportation
Board misses fire and the local nomination
of minor Excellencies comes to pass), such
dependence should be quite superfluous. Re-
form would, of course, begin with the estab-
lishment of a complete set of Federal courts
on the United States plan, and the finding
of work for them to do. This last
should not be difficult. Divorce suits
grow more and more numerous, and
bankruptcy offers a wide field of usefulness.
With the assumption by the Commonwealth
of all its dormant powers its tribunals would
deal with great masses of the more elaborate
kinds of fraud, and on the criminal side it
would attend to matters of treason, which
is very common now in high places and low,
and is very much neglected. It doesn’t
appear that boards of nervous laymen are
adequate to the emergency. The Federal
judiciary would have all its present uses for
appeal purposes, and it might be given wide
latitude to hear original -causes, so that the
persistent litigant wouldn’t need to move
his dispute from State to Federal jurisdic-
tion, having been in the latter all the time.
Should the final result be to make the State
bench obsolescent through scarcity of em-
ployment, the Federal courts might be
clothed with State jurisdiction instead of the
other way about; but this is a thing to be
avoided and it shouldn’t be necessary.
* * * *
State and Commonwealth have their re-
spective spheres of action, but in practice
the State share of the two spheres has been
about If and tKe Commonwealth the rest.
Like Japiieth, the State has dwelt in Shem’s
tent and its own as well. The Central
authority, even on paper, is inadequate,
especially as regards the subdivision of over-
large provinces, the control of borrowing,
and the putting down of civil commotion.
There would be much greater hope of secur-
ing more Federal rights in these and other
directions if strenuous use was made of the
rights which exist, and if the Australian
Government was more of a reality and less
of an apologetic shadow in the distance. So
far the luck, when extended powers were
sought for, has been distinctly poor. On
May 31, 1913, six separate questions of this
sort were put to the people, and it said no
to every one of them, but by a majority
almost small enough to be ridiculous. To
lose by 8000 votes in a poll of nearly two
millions might be classed as bathos. The two
military-service referendums were failures
on much the same scale. It is difficult to
imagine such consistent ill-fortune attending
a Government which was known to every-
body, which entered into everybody’s life,
and which was everywhere in evidence,
arresting the Bolshevik by the hands of its
own cop, sent°ncine the fraudulent bank-
rupt to six months in its own gaol, and hold-
ing the heartless co-respondent on the pitch-
fork of contempt over the flames of popular
execration.
BALDWIN AND CERTAIN LABOR
POLITICIANS.
Shortly after the British elections at which
the Protectionists secured 419 seats in a
House with 615, a private member intro-
duced a bill designed to relieve trade union-
ists opposed to the Labor party (and there
are many such, in both Britain and Aus-
tralia) from the obligation to contribute to
its funds. Baldwin, the Prime Minister,
summarily disposed of the measure by de-
claring that, although he approved of it in
principle, he had no authority from the
people for enacting it, the issue not having
been raised during the election campaign,
and that it was calculated to cause strife
which he was anxious to prevent. If Bald-
win’s attitude is ever considered by some of
the Labor parties which have somehow
reached office in Australia, it must move
them to boisterous mirth. In Queensland,
where Labor-Socialism sustained by foreign
loans has misruled a great country for up-
wards of 10 years, the working week has
lately been reduced by Act of Parliament
from 48 hours to 44, and the basic wage
raised by the same means from £4 per week
to £4 ss. in the south-eastern part of the
State, from £4 ss. to £4 10s. 6d. in Central
Queensland, and from £4 10s. to £4 15s. in
the North. Neither proposal was submitted
to the people at the last election. The re-
duction of hours certainly figured among
the pious aspirations of a preceding Labor
Conference, but Theodore, the then Prc-
mier, did not mention it in his policy speech;
indeed, he and McCormack, his Home Sec-
retary, were known to be opposed to it. Nor
did the Government even hint on the hust-
ings that the basic wage might be fixed by
a political party intent only on buying sup-
port with other people’s money, instead of
by an unbiased industrial tribunal after
investigation of the facts.
The Full Arbitration Court on May 8 re-
jected an application for an increased basic
wage on the ground that it would be too
great a burden on industries arbitrarily
brought under Theodore’s Forty-four Hour
Week Act. “There is no justification for
any increase,” McNaughton, J., said. On
September 16, however, the Labor Government
brought in a bill cancelling this considered
judgment and granting the ss. p.w. increase
to "all employees governed by awards or in-
dustrial agreements,” and rushed it through
at a single sitting. In the intervening period
this blot on the name of democracy had
cravenly surrendered to the demands of a
mob of strikers employed on the once effi-
cient and profitable Government railway sys-
tem which under its administration has
become a bankrupt ruin. Kirwan, the Min-
ister who introduced the bill, pleaded that,
while industry would have to bear an addi-
tional burden of £1,000,000 in the first year
as a result, “it would not be equitable if
the increases granted to the Public Service
and the Government railwaymen were not
extended to the general body of workers out-
side.” A politician with less assurance
would have left equity out of the argument.
Thus has industrial arbitration been de-
stroyed in Queensland, although Kirwan
had the effrontery to assert that “the powers
of the Arbitration Court are not being in-
terfered with.” Thus likewise have wage-
payers, especially those who entered into
contracts on the basis of the legal minimum
of £4 for a 48-liour _ week, been robbed in
cold blood of their rights and their money.
And since there may be some difficulty in
financing a system of fixing wages and hours
of labor in which votes are the fixing body’s
all-in-all, the _ Government hopefully an-
nounces that it is going to borrow harder
than ever.
* * * »
The N. S. Wales Labor Government has
adopted some of its Queensland brethren’s
devices and methods, and is confidently ex-
pected to copy others as time rolls on. Hav-
ing secured one more than half the number
of Assembly seats with 17,450 less than
half the number of effective votes, it met
Parliament with the announcement that it
had “come from the country with a full and
unequivocal mandate,” and has made it
abundantly clear that its interpretation of
the people’s verdict and that given in his
own case by the conscientious Baldwin,
with his House of' Commons majority of
168 over all other parties, are as wide apart
as the Poles. In the exercise of its alleged
“mandate” the Lang Government has
hounded men out of the Public Service be-
cause of their political opinions and com-
pelled others to join labor unions. Despite
its declaration that the financial year closed
with a deficit of £756,450, it has signified its
intention of substantially increasing its own
salaries and those of the rank and file of
Assemblymen—the raid is expected to cost
the people at least £75,000 in three
years. It has refused the Common-
wealth Government the use of the State
police for the initiation of deportation pro-
ceedings against aliens who have been hold-
ing up Australian and British shipping—
but not one clieap-labor European or Asiatic
boat —for the last 12 months, and threatened
to “test the constitutionality” of the Federal
immigration law at the expense of taxpayers
whom the said aliens have grievously injured.
And _ nowithstanding the protests of 126
municipal bodies, some of them predomi-
nantly Labor, it has brought in a bill to
confer the local-government franchise on
all adult residents, which term includes
lodgers, migratory workers and sundowners
who have camped in the district for a month.
(In committee the qualifying period was
altered to three months, but even the Sydney
lodger, who has been the means of making
the City Council a paradise for municipal
laborers, highest tenderers and aldermen
with changeable minds and rotten memories
when interrogated by a Royal Commissioner,
is expected to have dossed in the neighbor-
hood for six months before the municipal
roll is made up.) Had the general body
of ratepayers known in May that the Labor
party, if victorious, intended to make the
noniad supreme in many a municipality and
shire, there would have been no Labor
Government. Country electors in particular
would have rejected the felicities of Labor
rule rather than see their municipal or shire
council converted into a'smaller, and perhaps
worse, edition of the Sydney institution in
which Tammany is enthroned. But there
was no mention of monkeying with the
local-government franchise in Lang’s policy
speech, as reported in the paper of which
he is a director. Neither was there any
reference to the salary steal, nor to the
introduction of the spoils-to-the-victors
policy, nor to the revolt against Com-
monwealth law in the interests of Walsh
and Joiianson. However, there -was one
pertinent statement which should be repro-
duced :
When the electors vote for Labor candidates they
vote for what is here proposed, and not for anything
else, so far as the existence of the next Parliament
is concerned.
In the days when the Labor party believed
in the referendum, national service, the
White Australia policy and restriction of
borrowing, and hadn’t begun to believe in
the socialisation of industry, the Supreme
Economic Council or Red armies, one off its
favorite catchwords was “Trust the People.”
Recent events have raised the question
whether the people can trust the Labor party
with power in any shape or form.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
The original (1911) measure providing for
unemployment insurance in Britain was ex-
tended in 1916 and again in 1920, and now
it covers some 12 million citizens. It estab-
lished a fund contributed to by employer,
employed and the State. During the year
ended Julv. 1924. the contributions from
the two first-named sources were sufficient
to meet the claims, and the State contribu-
tion was applied towards the reduction ol
a deficit brought over from previous years.
As to the relative contributions, in June
last 39 per cent, was contributed by the
employers, 35 by the employees and 2u by
the State. The scheme as it now stands
covers substantially all employed persons
except outworkers and such as are engaged
in agriculture and private domestic service,
also certain classes for whom provision is
made by superannuation and other schemes
—the police, for example. Persons employed
otherwise than in manual labor and getting
more than £250 p.a. are not within the scope
of this law, nor does it apply to children
under 16. In theory, at any rate, the sys
tem is wholly distinct from Poor Law relief ;
it is differentiated by the element of insur-
ance and its association with employment
exchanges; nor does any portion of the con
tributions to the fund come out of the purse
of a Local Government authority.
* * * *
A critical examination of the whole scheme
has recently been made by a number of investi-
gators, wlio have published (through Mac-
millan’s) the results of their inquiry in a
pamphlet entitled “Unemployment Insurance
m Great Britain.” They put their in-
quiries under live heads : Whether the sys-
tem (1) diminished the incentive to work;
(2) made the worker more willing to change
his occupation and move from place to place;
(3) affected his desire to retain his job, and
thus increased (or lessened) the efficiency of
labor; (4) had any influence on the rate of
wages for which lie was willing to work;
or (5) affected his readiness to undertake
temporary or intermittent jobs by which
earnings might be supplemented. The in
vestigation was carried out by simultaneous
inquiries in eight densely-populated centres,
of which Birmingham and Glasgow were
two, and it is claimed that, broadly, the re-
sults show that the alleged evil effect of un-
employment insurance on the willingness of
the worker to accept employment had been
greatly exaggerated. The procedure when
an insured person becomes unemployed is for
him to attend an employment exchange and
there submit to an examination on format
details and the reason of his unemployment.
A copy of this is sent to his last employer
for verification. Inquiry is at the same time
made from the official source as to how his
account with the fund stands. Meantime the
man attends at the labor exchange periodi-
cally, sometimes repeatedly during a day.
If on return of the employer’s report it is
found that the applicant “chucked up his
job,” benefit is refused for at least six weeks.
It is refused also if he declines an offer of
employment, provided such offer is not at
a lower rate of wage or under worse condi-
tions than he might reasonably have expected
if his former employment had continued.
Also he may without prejudice to his claim
refuse employment in another district if
the standard wages and conditions of that
district are not offered to him. He may not
be required to take the place of a worker
involved in an industrial dispute; but he is
disqualified if he has lost his job through a
strike or lock-out unless he can show that
he is not participating or in any way financ-
ing the dispute, or that the employer has
acted in such a way as to contravene au
agreement made between himself and his
men, or a group agreement or national agree-
ment to which he was a party. If all these
conditions be met and the applicant remains
out of employment for three days—it is
proposed to make it six—he becomes en-
titled to benefits, provided his contributions
to the fund are sufficient. This sufficiency
is met if he can show 30 contribution-stamps
for the two years immediately preceding the
beginning of his current benefit year. Having
thus received his benefit he may not rest
on his oars, but must be available for work
and genuinely seek it.
* * * *
Until the standard benefit which he has
purchased by his contributions to the fund
is exhausted, the unemployed man is in the
same position as any citizen who under ordi-
nary insurance may have made a similar
bargain and paid its price. The debatable
point is reached when it comes to an end.
The Acts then provide for “extended
benefit” —a question for the “Rota Panel
Committee,” a sub-committee constituted out
of a larger body, the Local Employment
Committee, to which latter in each district
is delegated the general administration of
the scheme. This Panel inquires into the
facts of the application for “extended bene-
fit” and determines whether. the statutory
requirements, such as genuine! search for em-
ployment, have been complied with. If this
authority is satisfied the “extended benefit,”
which is not covered by any contribution
from the recipient to the fund, is granted;
and it is here the danger of abuse arises.
Under private schemes of insurance the
insurer gets what he has paid for or his
contributions have earned, and no more.
When his policy has matured and the money
lias been paid to him it is the end. The
contract has been fulfilled. In the case of
the unemployed worker under the British
scheme, his contribution, with the employ-
er’s and Government subsidies, being ex-
hausted, he is thrown on the general fund
for his maintenance, and how far this can
be distinguished from public charity it is
hard to see. What it would conceivably
eome to in a crisis of prolonged industrial
unemployment is that the State would have
to foot the bill all the time. It is claimed
that the rate of contribution is designedly
higher than it otherwise would be to meet
this contingency of extended benefits, but
at best the margin could not go far. It
seems to be a fairly satisfactory scheme in
good times, but in days of industrial depres-
sion, such as Britain is just now passing
through, it suggests a possible outlay that
may embarrass the finances and increase
taxation, which in turn will be reflected in
the less body of capital available for labor-
employing enterprises.
ON A “BAY” LINER.
To travel by one of the “Bay” boats of the
Commonwealth line is an interesting experi-
ence which few care to repeat unless obliged
by circumstances. The steamers are excel-
lent sea-vessels of some 14,000 >tons. After
running through very bad weather between
Sydney and Hobart and meeting the south-
west monsoon between Colombo and the Red


Sea, one can honestly given them a testi-
monial for seaworthiness and steadiness. Ihe
first day out from port, however, impresses
upon the senses the fact that one is aboard
an Australian ship. It is obvious that the
ruling deity is the soviet union ashore. In
all sorts of ways this obtrudes itself. We
are in the republic of time and overtime,
where everything, even dire necessity, must
bow to a system of trade-union regulation
of hours and wages. Even the captain is
shorn of much of the powers that skippers
on other lines possess aboard their little
kingdoms.
Criticism can with justice be levelled
against the passenger accommodation. Many
of the cabins upon the C deck are small,
cramped, badly fitted and ill-ventilated. In
damp weather the red composition of the
floors exudes an objectionable . and dirty
moisture, and only after complaint is a bit
of common drugget put down to save the
feet and clothing from the filth. The most
serious cause for complaint, however, refers
to food and service. The victuals supplied
are fairly good in quality, but are so badly
cooked tliat the meals- as served would pro-
voke an immediate strike in a shearers’
camp. The food is very often quite spoiled
in the ship’s galley. The potatoes and other
vegetables are soggy and tasteless; and the
potatoes are often black and wormy. There
is a totally inadequate supply of fruit when
it is most necessary for health. The clean-
liness of the drinking water supplied is not
above suspicion. Cleanliness, indeed, is not
a feature of the service. The stewards wear
dirty, frowsy jackets at table. Tumblers
used by one sitting of passengers are very
often merely wiped dry instead of being
washed before use by the second sitting. The
knives and forks are dirty, and when bread
is cut with the knives the remains of clean-
ing-powder or -paste comes off upon the food.
Tea is put upon the table in Gargantuan
metal pots which it is unsafe for a woman
to try to lift. The tea itself is poor, and
the so-called coffee is so much worse that
it would be condemned ashore under any
Pure Foods Act.
The hours at which meals are served are
most unreasonable and unsuitable in the
tropics. Breakfast is at 7.45, dinner at 12
noon, and tea, the last meal of the day, at
4.50. These times are arranged, not for
the health and comfort of the passengers,
but for the convenience of the stewards and
staff. Thus the meat meal of the day .is
served at the hottest hour: and in the tropics
that is not a trifling defect. The attitude
of the stewards towards the passengers makes
an interesting study. In spite, of the alleged
advance of the democratic spirit, the steward
even on these boats is too often a mean snob,
whose fawning respect goes to those who
have money to hand out. A stranger thing
is that on these Commonwealth ships where
stewards earn £IS a month and “all found”
there are few Australians. Most of the staff
are truculent towards third-class passengers.
They are at times familiar towards girls and
women, who put up with impertinence rather
than complain. Their method and manner
of serving food is humorous and vulgar. I
have heard “Take some of this stickfast—
it'll do your ribs good”; “Have a bit of
roast horse,” and many other remarks ejus-
dem generis. To be five minutes late at
table is an offence which will most likely
bring abuse upon your head of an offensive
and vulgar kind. An inspection of the
stewards’ table reveals that they are much
better fed than the passengers. To complain
is to be told plainly that you are on a third-
class ship, and are being carried cheaply.
The long arm of the union boss reaches
out across the sea and rests upon these boats
registered in Melbourne. The captain is
not the real master, lie does his best, no
doubt. He has a good job, and so
have the officers, and they want to
keep what they’ve got. Hence it comes
about that the stewards and the crew
are considered before the passengers. Such
servility as there is—and much of the
civility—comes from the officers and not
from the stewards. It is a pity; for the
ships of the Bay Line are. doing good, and
could do still better, service to Australian
trade. Their very existence in competition
with ships of the great foreign and British
combines keeps dowm freights.
Francis Jackson.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Seamen of England.
Loose eloquence and neglect of detail, to-
gether with a habit of cheering for the Re-
volution on general principles, led to some
misconceptions about the British seaman
who has lately been on strike in this coun-
try. He isn’t an absolutely helpless indi-
vidual. He has a Parliamentary vote, and
so has his wife, and the proportion of the
nation which is entitled to vote in Britain is
only a fraction less than in Australia. He
is looked after by a very powerful union,
and at the latest count the proportion of
unionists to inhabitants was greater in Bri j
tain than in Australia. British unionism is
a power. Half the representation on the
National Maritime Board, which attends to
marine problems, consists of seamen, the
shipowners having the other half. The
mariner’s food-supply when at sea is looked
after by law. His accommodation while on
duty is admittedly not spacious, but that is
one of the incidents of the trade—accommo-
dation for the cheaper class of passengers is
scanty also. The rate of pay on British ships
has varied since 1922 with the fluctuations
of a depressed branch of industry, being suc-
cessively £lO per month, £9, £9 10s., £lO and
£9. It is about this last drop, in a time
of special depression, that this country’s
imported Communist conspirators induced
some 5000 seamen, who are British by cour-
tesy but to a great extent as foreign as
Jakob .Toiianson by birth, to maroon them-
selves here and become a charge upon local
resources. The change of wage was brought
about in the usual way, with the consent of
the British union, and was smaller than had
been expected. Ten pounds per month, or
even £9, with food and accommodation, isn’t
so widely different from some samples of the
Australian basic wage as is commonly sup-
posed, and but for the artificial boom 'created
by loan money an Australian basic wage
might not be all it is. In his intervals
ashore in the Cold Country the British sea-
man, if so disposed, “goes on the dole,” and
collects unemployed allowance. A good deal
lias been said because shipowners ceased to
pay to the striker’s family a share of the
striker’s pay when the striker had not only
ceased to earn pay, but had deprived the
owner of his ship; but between the dole,
which takes in unemployed women and child-
ren, and the additional aids furnished by
Boards of Guardians, their way may be less
hard than is imagined. In the London dis-
trict of West Ilam, for instance, the local
allowance to an unemployed family is as
much as 595. per week, wherefore West Ham
has accumulated nearly £2,000,000 of un-
productive debt, and is still going strong.
Considering the drawbacks of a Freetrade
nation which drinks and bets too much, the
oppressed mariners have done as well as
could be expected so far. What chiefly
troubles this paper is that the men who have
been misleading them are making it impos-
sible for them to do as well in the future.
4
Up to Mutch.
Speaking at the exhibition of a new Austra-
lian film in Sydney T. D. Mutch, N. S.
Wales Minister of Education, after justly
praising the work of the good Australians
concerned in the production, from the poet,
who began it to the photographer, expressed
the hope that the film would “prove the. fore-
runner of a great Australian moving-picture
industry.” The dice are so loaded against
Australian films that Mutch’s hope will
never be realised until Australian Govern-
ments make it their business to see that
worthy Commonwealth producers got a fair
spin. ’ Unfortunately the Government which
controls the national fiscal policy has fallen
down on the job of giving the struggling film
industry sufficient protection, at the Cus-
toms. Although a sort of tariff revision was
whisked through Parliament at. the end of
the session, the foreign films which flood the
Australian market are still to come in at
ltd. per foot. . This means that a ready-for-
exliibition copy of a foreign picture which
perhaps cost £lOO,OOO to produce, and which,
having had the run of its own market, may
earn £lO,OOO in Australia for its foreign
owners, is dutiable at a mere £3O or £4O;
and its owners may easily dodge the Aus-
tralian income-taxes if so minded. By con-
trast, the “Boree Log” people probably had
to spend £.5000 on the picture that Mutcit
saw and praised, and their profits, if they
make any, will be substantially taxed —the
Commonwealth and State Taxation Com-
missioners will see to that. Obviously there
can never be a great Australian moving-
picture industry until these brutally unfair
handicaps on Australian enterprise are re-
moved by the Federal authorities. Something
can, however, be done for the Australian
producer by the State Governments, and an
excellent start has be'en made in Victoria by
Dr. Ahgyle, the Chief Secretary, who has
brought in a bill making it incumbent on
cinema showmen to exhibit a certain propor-
tion of British and British Dominion films
after January 1, 1927. The proportion will de-
pend on the available supplies of such films,
and the idea is to raise it as they increase.
There are other good features in Argyle’s
measure, which was drafted at the instance
of the State Council of Education for reasons
expressed in the following terms by Director-
of-Education Tate :
A careful inquiry into tile effect of the picture
house on children revealed appalling conditions In
the hands of commercial-minded agents the film has
become really a supplement to the education pro-
vided by the State. If we were to put in school
books subjects shown in some films there would be
an outcry at once. The Council of Education is
particularly interested in the development of British
sentiment, and would like to see less of the insidi-
ous propaganda used in American films.
The N.S.W. Government, which proclaims
its anxiety to encourage Australian senti-
ment and industry, should not be too proud
in this instance to take a leaf from a neigh-
boring Administration’s book. There is no
party politics or sectarianism or anything
of the kind in the matter of fostering the
production of wholesome Australian pictures.
On a deputation designed to strengthen the
hands of the Vic. Government, which has
incurred the bitter enmity of the foreign
film interest, were representatives of all the
political parties and all the Christian
churches.
4
Alcohol from Molasses.
The Federal Government’s proposal to pay a
bonus for power alcohol produced from cas-
sava is not likely to cost the taxpayer much.
That bonus is not xvhat the sugar men —who
presumably are to be encouraged to grow
cassava —are looking for. What they, want
is some method of treating and turning to
commercial use the molasses which they now
run to waste. They are of opinion that
from the present acreage of cane grown they
could extract all the power-alcohol that Aus-
tralia can buy. If it can be done, then there
is a good chance of the price of sugar coming
down. The molasses question is a big one.
Powcr-alcohol might be the means of settling
it. and to some extent it might also help the
solution of the over-production of sugar
problem, too. Northern Queensland cane-
growers are not as favorably looked upon by
the men in the South as one would expect.
Their increased production is regarded with
anxiety. Up in the North they start crushing
cane earlier and keep it up till later than tlicir
southern contemporaries. The splendid rain-
falls of the North, the warmer sunshine, the
cheaper land, all combine to make the pro-
duction of sugar cheaper than it can be south
of Mackay, where it lias to be grown on land
that has cost £6O to £lOO an acre. Most of
the old-time growers in the South have sold
out to a new generation and are sitting back
on the profit they made out of the sale. The
newcomers are all right so long as they can
sell all their crop at the price mentioned in
the agreement. But if 40 or even 50 per
cent, has to be sold at world’s parity, then
they are up against a loss. No other crop
suggests itself that can be grown on land at
that price; so if the over-production problem
is not solved it means bankruptcy to men
who are now doing quite well. The North-
erners can hang on when the lean time comes
until the men in the districts where sugar-
growing started have filed their schedules,
and so have made way for the survival of the
fittest. Yet nobody seems enthusiastic over
the prospect of growing cassava. According
to the highest authorities The Bulletin can
unearth, the vegetable cannot be grown by
white labor at a price that would make it pay
unless it has substantial Government help.
But almost without: 'exception the same
authorities say that power-alcohol from
molasses is a commercial possibility. Now,
in Queensland every year something like
10,000,000 gallons of molasses is turned into
rivers—it doesn’t improve the rivers either—
or is burnt because no market exists for it.
Some is turned into rum, but Australians
are not a rum-drinking people, and the
market is limited. One great firm at Bunda-
berg turns its molasses into the Burnett
River, and refuses to allow it to be used for
the distillation of Derrink. Although canny
Scots, their temperance principles forbid
them joining in the rum-making. The only
product of Queensland sugar-cane that is
used really is the white sugar, and because
there is so much waste that commodity is of
course dear. There has been some talk of
turning the megass—-the residue of the cane
after the juice is squeezed out —into a build-
ing material. So far this has not got beyond
the vocal stage, and the megass is burnt in
heaps where it cannot be used for mill-boiler
fuel. If some use cannot be made of molasses
and the megass, it seems that the only pos-
sible chance of overcoming the _ over-product-
tion problem is to induce Britain to increase
the preference given to Australian sugar so
that it may be sold in London at a profit.
In 1923 Britain imported £31,200,000 worth
of sugar—about half of it raw —from foreign
countries. That is, nearly two-thirds of her
requirements came from the foreign nigger
plantations—roughly, about 1,000,000 tons.
Australia’s total production in 1924 was
409,000 tons, so that if wo could _ secure
the trade that Britain now does with the
foreign nigger, we could treble our produc-
tion. That would mean that we could find
work for 60,000 British immigrants in the
sugar industry.
♦—
Mysteries of Estate Agency.
Percy Owen, described as an auctioneer and
estate-agent, of Malvern (Vic.), was the
means recently of throwing some light on the
ways of those who cut up “estates” for sale
on the time-payment plan, and the shocking
luck of some folk who buy them. With a
certain recklessness in the matter of pub-
licity the agent appealed in the High Court
against his income-tax assessment in re-
spect of certain profits from the sale of two
properties, the plea being that he bought
them originally as “pleasure farms,” and
that this made a difference. Though he
ceased to use them for mere basking pur-
poses and turned them into money, he
reckoned that the original purpose should
be taken into account. Then the evidence
proceeded as follows :
Owen, further cross-examined, said the profits from
the subdivisional sale of the Glen Iris property
between 191 C and 1925 were £30,180. and his
profits on the Glenroy resale totalled £5978. There
were many eases, especially in connection with the
Glenroy property, where purchasers did not go on
with their payments after having paid deposits. In
these cases the deposits were forfeited. These trans-
actions did not appear in the property register,
except in cases where the instalments had been paid.
In the Glenroy case were there not a great many
forfeitures by returned soldiers? —Yes.
Take the case of S. J. Ellis. He handed you a
gratuity bond for £lOl, and apparently the land
was forfeited. Does that transaction appear in this
book at all?—Not in this book.
The transaction showed that the sale price was
£l2O, and he gave you the bond. The land was
forfeited and you kept the gratuity bond. Where
would that be shown? —The contract was rescinded
and the deposit retained.
Retained bv you?—Yes.
In the highly profitable land-dealing-by-instal-
ment business five things appear to be with-
out limit, and possibly more could be found
on closer investigation :• —-
There is no known limit to the amount of profit
whicih may be charged on the original purchase price.
Even when the N.S.W. Profiteering Act was making
its best pace it is not remembered that it took
cognisance of this branch of the gentle art.
There is no recognised limit to the amount of mis-
representation that may be indulged in by the well-
dressed and persuasive gentleman who comes round
to the suburban door and beguiles people to come
out on Saturday and inspect the desirable property.
If sufficient people are beguiled out on the same day
the obvious rush shows that the property is very
desirable. Oral misrepresentations are not easily
proved.
There is no ascertained limit to the number of
times the same allotment may be sold, save that it
is a rule to forfeit Smith’s deposit and cancel
the transaction before taking Brown’s deposit.
There is lack of information about any limit to
the smallness of the unpaid balance which justifies
forfeiture.
There is profound scarcity of information about
the size of the agent’s commission, which, of course,
helps to swell the cost .to the buyer, hut 20 per cent,
has been mentioned as a fair thing.
The State might make a small beginning by
declaring unpaid instalments irrecoverable
at law. It would be a very poor beginning,
for the misrepresentation and the unlimited
power of forfeiture would remain, but it
would at least show that somebody was still
alive on this earth. It isn’t suggested that
the Melbourne suburban practitioner was
a bad specimen of his tribe; but it
isn’t much of a tribe, and his . unwis-
dom in trying conclusions with an ironclad
the size of the Tax Commissioner brought
him into the limelight. The principal plea
which Latham. K.C., advanced on his be-
half was that he was in “a broken-down
and disturbed condition.” The condition of
some of his clients wasn’t gone into.
*
The Gombeen Man Turns to Sugar.
“Poinciana” : It looks as if the Gombeen
Man is becoming as unpleasantly important a
figure in the sugar-growing areas of North
Queensland as lie used to be in Ireland.
His prey is generally the foreign immigrant
who has worked among the cane for a couple
of years and is anxious to get hold of a small
farm. Now that so many of the original
growers are getting out of the industry there
is a good deal of cutting-up into small hold-
ings, and this gives Antonio a chance to
satisfy his land-hunger. But in order to
acquire his farm he has usually to go to. a
money-lender, or some sort of financial in-
stitution, and since most banks will not
look at the kind of security he can offer,
there has arisen a class of Gombeen Men.
The Gombeen Man, of course, has real assets
to show the banks. Borrowing money from
them at 6 or 7 per cent., he will hire it
out to Antonio at from 10 to 15 per cent.,
sometimes charging a bonus in addition. To
Antonio nothing matters for the time being
but the opportunity of owning his farm-land.
He will cheerfully pledge himself up to the
neck in order to have the satisfaction of eat-
ing his macaroni under his own roof and
sinking his pick into his own square yard of
soil. And often enough, with the load of
interest on his back, he fails to make a do
of it. It is a not infrequent thing to come
upon men working in the cane-gangs who
have “owned” two or three farms, and the
rapidity with which these farms change
hands in some districts is creating an atmo-
sphere of feverish instability. It is not
genuine dealing in land; it is a gambling in
crops, as was pointed out by a Queensland
Arbitration Judge some time ago. A run
of good seasons has made it possible, but
when a bad one comes there will be general
wailing among the compatriots of Dante.
The Gombeen Men rarely seem to be Italians
themselves. More often than not they come
from the island that invented the name, and
here and there one finds a Greek storekeeper
dabbling in the profitable business.’
+
An Educational Experiment.
It was appropriate that the nation which
produced the late William Jennings Bryan
should also produce the very recent Queen
Silver. Queen Silver is an educational
experiment. Up to the age of eight her
upbringing was entrusted to her mother, with
the assistance of heredity and environment.
That at least is what her prospectus claims.
When she reached eight a retired attorney
took a hand and guided her mind along the
channels of sociology, economics, foreign
travel and the various sciences. She was
never compelled, but was allowed, to
specialise in any line of inquiry she liked.
She was given no silly rhymes to memorise;
no myths or fairy tales were permitted to
distract her from contemplation of the cold
flame of facts. She was taught never to
accept a statement without testing it in the
crucible of her mind; she was encouraged
to use the godlike gift of reason at an age
when other infants are accustomed to hold
out expectant arms for the moon ; she was
compelled to wait; upon herself, earn her
own living and pay for her own sustenance
from the age of seven, and she was taught
always to babble her own opinions on men
and things, even if they hurt other people.
At the age of four this young citizen of Ingle
wood, Cal., was giving 15-minute lectures on
scientific subjects. On six successive Sun-
day evenings she gave lectures before the
London School of Social Science in Los
Angeles. At the age of 11 she challenged
Bryan to publicly debate the question of
evolution, and as he disregarded liis juvenile
antagonist she published her opinion of his
doctrine in pamphlet form. She seems to be
a bad-tempered little girl. And it is doubt-
ful whether a nation of inspired but kindly
idiots would not be nicer to live with than
a nation of small horrors. The experiment
of Queenie’s education is, however, valuable
as suggesting that a person’s attitude to cur-
rent shibboleths is not any more the re-
sult of environment than of temperament;
and that may or may not be heredity. At
any rate, if Bryan had been confined from
babyhood in the scientific section of a public
library, probably he would have emerged the
slovenly-minded, emotional mystic he was;
if Queen Silver had been subjected to the
discipline of a Methodist home in Tennessee,
she would doubtless have run away to the
woods and joined the I.W.W.
4
The Health Millennium.
Dear Bulletin, —Without becoming pessi-
mistic, the mind concerned with cause rather
than effect must seriously doubt whether
many of the popular remedies proposed are
likely to prove of any practical utility to s\
large section of the community under- exist-
ing conditions. Can, for example, any mea-
sure designed to improve and protect the
public health accomplish its aim while slum
areas are permitted to exist? Is it any
use teaching a child for a few; minutes each
day hygienic theories which his environment
affords him no opportunity to practise? In
its effort to solve the housing problem the
South Aus. Government encountered finan-
cial disaster as well as a , fair amount of
criticism; but. after all, if the thousand
homes do cost £lOO each more than the origi-
nal estimate, they should be cheap. The
scheme is simply an attempt to follow the
example set by the Levers, Ford and others,
all successful business men, who considered
the provision of comfortable living condi-
tions the best means of securing—and retain-
ing—the most efficient workmen available.
For some time past the public has been de-
manding that Government affairs be con-
ducted on business lines, and if in its maiden
effort to satisfy that demand the Labor Gov-
ernment of S.A. has fallen down on the job,
the only thing left for the public of - that
State to do is to stop squealing and take the
intention for the deed. Some people are
never satisfied. When the Health Millen-
nium arrives, cities will be merely centres
deserted at night by all sqve those whose, at-
tendance the municipal authorities consider
imperative. No residential areas will be
permitted within a radius of two or three
miles, and in that area slum dwellings on
pocket-handkerchief allotments will be un-
known. Public health is a matter that
touches all. The employee who leaves shop
or factory after his day's work for a com-
fortable home amidst healthy Surroundings
is a far more profitable investment to Ins
employer and the State than the slum-
dweller, so to make this class of worker the
rule and not the exception .should be the
aim. Unfortunately, assuming that each
member of the one-fiftlx who have their heads
definitely above water approached each unit
of the submerged four-fifths wfith an inquiry
as to the latter’s domestic comfort, the
chances are that the one-fifth would be told
to go to Hell and mind its own business, be-
cause of the cordial relations existing be-
tween the fractions mentioned, due partly
to something known as “the liberty of the
subject” and partly to the teaching of bud-
ding Walsiies and .Tohansons. A common
delusion under which the average man labors
is the mistaken idea that he enjoys a mythi-
cal freedom lie calls “the liberty of the sub-
ject.” As a citizen of a “free” country,, he
enjoys just as much liberty as law, religion,
convention and (if an organised worker) in-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS: S. P. WOOD, J.P., Governing Director; P. R. HIGGINS, LL.B. ; W. NORTH AM, J.P. GEORGE PEACOCK, A.C.1.5., Secretary.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Paid-up Capital exceeds .. 300,000
Total Assets exceed.
Funds exceed. . .. .. .. £928.000
Government Securities . . .. 649,000
.. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
sidiness 11 Policies in* Amsllralasia 0 * 68 cover * Dg e ’ Endowment, Probate and House-Purchase Insurance. It also issues what is easily the most liberal
' . • 1 1 • ' , . ’ } J * , f •> <> ') ' ;
LIVE AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
dustrial unionism permit. And it would be for
his own good if his alleged liberty was cur-
tailed a little more. In one European coun-
try the man who consistently spends an
undue proportion of his earnings in beer, etc.,
and whose wife and family suffer thereby, is
taught his responsibilities. A report to an
official leads to a quiet inquiry as to its
subject’s manner of living; and if it proves
to be as stated, the offender, on next apply-
ing for his wages, is referred to a Govern-
ment department, where he is acquainted
with the reason for its impounding his pay.
If he declines to listen to reason and return
to his ordinary employment, the Department
betrays its benevolent leanings by providing
him with Government work, the proceeds of
which hard labor it devotes to the mainten-
ance of his family. The end is inevitable,
the reformation usually permanent. As beer
and gambling, when indulged in to excess,
bring poverty in their train, and poverty is
one of the greatest menaces to public health;
it might be a step in the right direction if
this Continental method were applied to
that portion of the community: in need of
it. It would bring us much nearer the
Health Millennium. —Yours, etc., Rita
Cog iilan.
«
The Ways of Micawber.
The story which the Auditor-General has
told about N.S.W. finance is not widely dif-
ferent from the tales of other States, being
not much better than some and a good deal
worse than others. Its tenor is that the Ma
State is going downhill at a pace which is not
decreasing, and no one ever invented a hill
which hadn’t a bottom, or a bottom which
could be struck hard without a bump. Year
after year the State has been getting more
definitely towards the position that it must
find new foreign loans. This l is wholly
apart, of course, from the need for
money with which to renew old loans. No
serious attempt has been made, or is being
made, to get out of the position. At latest
advices the situation was thrilling enough :
The Ma State has an overdraft in London of
over £7,700.000, and it wants a new fixed loan to
clear off this floating liability.
It has to find each year £6,500,000 of real money
with which to pay interest in London. This bill
was never so large before, and it was never growing
larger so fast.
It wants a new loan every year to pay the interest
with. The pretence that money, or its equivalent,
is shipped from this end to cover the interest, or
is shipped in anything like sufficient quantity, has
long since been abandoned.
But it is necessary to keep up the pretence that
the loans are wanted for necessary productive and
“developmental” works at this end, and that the
money wouldn't be borrowed but for these works.
So to keep the fiction good there has arisen the
habit of inventing works, or charging up to the
public debt works which might otherwise be paid
for out of revenue. An amount must be spent here,
in paper, on something that is called “works,” at
least equal to the amount borrowed in gold else-
where. Thus the State gets more railways than it can
cither keep in repair or put to profitable use, and
it gets loan sundries and odds and ends to boot.
With £53,347,000 of debt which doesn’t pretend
even to earn a scrap of paper money, the position is
remarkable.
The total peace debt of N.S.W. has now climbed
to £217,800,000, which is twice what it was 12
years ago, and the annual interest bill is over
£9,800,000, which is three times what it was 13
years ago. With the increase of loan expenditure
there has been an increase in the class which
lives on loan expenditure, and which will feel en-
titled to raise Cain if it diminishes. The Auditor-
General also comments on the suspension of the
sinking fund. Holman suspended it when he was a
Labor Premier- —for the purpose of beating the
Germans, or something. It was a poor little thing,
but it at least looked respectable.
To all this it has boon added by Mark
Sheldon, who High Commissioned awhile
for Australia in the U.S., that the love for
Australian securities in London is a faded
emotion, and that nothing approaching the
dizzy finance of the past few years can be
looked for again. The same authority states,
what was practically inevitable, that the
British concerns which have been accustomed
to buy Australian produce are making hur-
ried contracts elsewhere, because the ships
which should be starting back full of our
great natural resources are detained here bv
Walsii, Joiianson, Garden and Co. This
fact has no bearing on the present amount
of the Australian foreign debt, but it may
have a very material bearing on the Old
Man’s willingness to lend more debt. This
community is divided into two parties. One
approves of national bankruptcy as a step
to revolution. The other disapproves of bank-
ruptcy, but shamefully neglects the task of
stopping the drift that way. It could be
stopped if one authority secured control of
the foreign loan industry, and that authority
made sure that imports were so far below
exports that the difference would pay the
interest account and leave a balance to re-
duce the alarming mortgage. There are ways
of achieving this, but the pottering habit
and the dread of originality prevent the Aus-
tralian politician achieving anything in par-
ticular.
The Abrams “Cure.”
An electrician’s summing up:—
A voluble American who describes himself as the
editor of Pearson’s Magazine (U.S.A.) has been
stumping this country on behalf of the Abrams
Electronic method of diagnosing and treating disease,
and as he alleges that the Queensland Government is
considering the establishment of an Abrams clinic,
that Ministers of the t N.S.W. Government are
sympathetic, and that an unprecedented flow of the
expensive Abrams machines in this direction is hourly
expected, it is opportune to recapitulate the known
facts of flic case.
Speaking in the same Sydney hall in which Sir
Ernest Rutherford lately revealed the potentialities
of the atom, the visitor from the Land of Spoofs
stated that the Invention was the most revolutionary
discovery of the age, and in proof of his claim gave
a single demonstration. As that demonstration was
purely electrical, consisting of the registering on an
ordinary radio receiving set of impulses supplied to
the demonstrator’s own body from the Abrams oscil-
loclast, it is fair to meet him on his own ground.
Probably the latest scientific investigation into the
electrical properties of the machine was made by
Messrs. Ackerman and Clark, two impartial and
highly-qualified engineers, of London. They found
that (1) as the instrument contains several open
circuits that have no function, its peculiar structure
was probably intended to mystify and mislead; (2)
as the periodic electric pressure applied to the
patient is not capable of variation by the apparatus,
it cannot do the chief thing claimed for it, which
is to oppose the alleged vibrations of cancer, tuber-
culosis or dhoby-itch with vibrations of similar wave-
lengths; (3) any average mechanic could make a
simple and inexpensive instrument which would
produce precisely the same phenomena. The home-
address of the late Dr. Abrams and the address of the
Physico Clinical Co. that sells the outfits were the
same, the investigators note, and as the price of a
complete set of the wonder-workers was about £l5O
and the cost could not have been more than £2O,
“the ‘display’ was excellent and the profits must have
been equally so.”
It is possible, of course, that the arrangement,
despite its appearance, may conceal some new and
deep principle unknown even to its inventor; but
Australia, which already has its full quota of pseudo-
scientific quackery, can afford to wait for the ordinary
THE FIRST DEPORTATION.
processes of investigation into the truth or false-
hood of the Abrams device without being hurried by
the eloquence of a legate from the Land of Gullibility,
who makes no secret of his contempt for the intelli-
gence of this country.
«
Australian-born Governors, etc.
Dear Bulletin, —In the matter of this con-
troversy about stopping the importation of
minor Excellehcies, my idea is that each
State Governor should be elected by popular
vote, which is the invariable custom in the
United States. Another U.S. custom is to
have two State Houses, elected on the same
franchise, with equal pay, the difference
being that one is a big House with
small constituencies and the other is a
small House with big constituencies.
When the United Stationer lias chosen
his Governor, with the whole State as
one constituency, he has had three
chances to assert his political views. He
has three more chances in Federal politics,
the Presidential election being a very big
one; and in several States he has the refer-
endum and the initiative as well. To return
to our own State figurehead, I hold that
women should be eligible. The latest avail-
able list showed that Mrs. Miriam A. Fer-
guson was Governor of Texas, the biggest
State of the Republic, and that Mrs. Nelly
Ross ruled over Wyoming. Nothing bad is
reported about either lady. Further, 1 would
have it fixed by law that every State Gover-
nor must be Australian-born, and every
trades-union official also. At the census of
3921 only a shade over 15 per cent, of this
country’s inhabitants, including Chinamen,
were not Australian-born, and possibly there
are fewer now. It is easy to blither over-
much about the rights of that petty mino-
rity, some of whom seem to think they have
all the rights that are going. Incidentally,
the three quietest States in a political way
(Tasmania, S. Australia and Victoria) are
the most Australian, and the three which
talk most treason, bloodshed and revolution
(Queensland, Westralia and N. S. Wales)
possess the biggest imported element. The
difference between being 92J per cent. Aus-
tralian and only 75 per cent, accounts for
a lot of things, all bad ones. The moral is
that the Australian is the man (and woman)
for the ruling jobs. In addition, I believe in
the abolition of night-baking; also in the
abolition of night-printing and night-report-
ing.—Yours, etc. J. E.
*
“One of the 21”: An article (B. 4/6/’25),
apparently by a Rhodes scholar, complains
that 21 of his brethren of the pre-war period
have failed to return home. But might it
not be contended that Australia has profited
by the arrival of some Rhodes scholars who
originated elsewhere? Again, men working
in the civil services of India or the Soudan
or elsewhere in Africa or Asia are assuredly
doing the kind of work Rhodes would have
approved. Apart from this, Australia is not
always able or willing to furnish the kind
of occupation for which some Rhodes
scholars have fitted themselves. For instance
in a very mouldy cellar of an Oxford labora-
tory you will find a very popular Sydney
“blue.” May I add a personal experience?
A few years back I took the trouble to go all
the way to Melbourne to find out my chances
of getting into the particular Federal service
for which my studies might have been held
to equip me in some degree. Arrived at the
fountain-head of officialdom, I was told : “Oh,
there are about 8000 applications for a post
in this section ; you would just be No. 8001."
Further discussion elicited the amazing in-
formation _ that this particular mandarin
thought his department w T as not “interested
in anything west of Singapore.” Convinced
that External Affairs will be of increasing
importance to Australia in the years to come,
the writer has, by working his way, been
able to live and study in three foreign coun-
tries, and hopes to go to three more —any-
how, for a time —before returning home.
Don’t scold but sympathise with us a little.
We still wish to come back, and we still
read Tiie Bulletin, so we can’t get very
far out of touch with the place we stiil
call home.
♦
“Bildad” : A great deal of the stuff that has
been written in Australia about the wretched
lot of the British seaman, now in a state
of rebellion against his own union, is very
antiquated. I suppose there are still back,
numbers in other countries who think this
is a convict land, and that pure gold is still
dug up with a shovel at Ballarat, and some
of our own back numbers are equally back.
■There was a time, this side the middle of
last century, when a poetic consul explained,
among his other errors and misdirections: —
And I know the wretched seaman
Who was tortured by a demon
Captain till he fled in terror with his wages in arrear,
And I’ve given him sufficient
To ship as an efficient
And active malefactor on a gentle privateer.
The privateer has passed, and the old coffin-
ship, and the right of the merchant captain
to dog anybody, especially the cook, and the
old wage, food and housing conditions gener-
ally ; but a great many people don’t know
that the world moves except the bit that
they live on. There they can’t help noticing
a movement. It is quite possible that many
of the strikers came ashore under the im-
pression that the Revolution was much
nearer than it is, and that they could pick
up nuggets to go on with.
♦
“Country Ped” : Probably no branch of edu-
cation has suffered more from the examina-
tion bugbear than elementary science, especi-
ally in the secondary schools. In the primary
schools science, as it used to be taught, with-
out any regard for the practical application
of its principles, has been to a greater or
less extent superseded and many of its com-
ponent parts transferred to nature study,
geography, agriculture and horticulture. But
in the secondary schools physics and chemis-
try are the twin subjects of the science cur-
riculum, which is drawn up, so the Vic.
Board of Secondary School Inspectors states,
“with a vigilant eye on the Intermediate
Physics and Chemistry Examinations.”
Naturally if a boy leaves school before he
has completed the course in these two sub-
jects, he carries with him very little useful
information into life at large, and probably
nothing of value in his workaday experience.
Even if he completes the course it is of no
practical use to him if he does not go on to
the University. In America schools are dis-
carding these specialised science courses, and
are introducing what is termed General
Science. Such a course contains studies in
plant life, hygiene, physiography, astronomy,
physics and chemistry—all as exemplified in
daily life; for the desire is that students will
not only gain generally useful knowledge,
but carry with them a wholesome inclination
to gain more. Victoria is not going to be
backward in adopting this sensible plan. The
Schools Board of Secondary Inspectors has
a committee at work now preparing a course
in science based on the new American prac-
tice, but more suitable to Australian con-
ditions. A tentative programme has been
outlined, and ranges from the study of water
supply in all its phases, and the air we
breathe, to the home conveniences of the
lever type, as well as the latest electrical
labor-saving devices and their principles.
Even home recreations are included —musi-
cal instruments, wireless, photography. The
new idea is far in advance of the present
type of instruction ; for, while it will benefit
the many who do not intend to enter the
University, it will broaden the outlook of
the fortunate few who do.
4
“O. McKay M.”: Apropos the decline of
oratory, there are specific reasons for the
disappearance of the forensic rhetoric of the
school of Curran and the Georgians. The
passing of the Judicature Act half-way
through last century had a great deal to do
with the decay of eloquent advocacy, inasmuch
as it had the effect of substituting- for trial
by a jury in many cases a hearing before a
Judge. But the chief deterrent to flights of
decorative exhortation was the English
enactment of 1536 giving the prisoner the
right to offer evidence on oath. This pro-
vision has cramped counsel’s style. If he
instructs his beetle-browed client to refuse
to make a statement suspicion is immediately
aroused. It is no longer possible for defend-
ing counsel to point a shaking finger at his
silent client and cry: “Gentlemen ! Gentle-
men ! Can you bring yourselves to convict
this unfortunate man who stands dumb be-
fore you? Will you consent to incarcerate
this model of deportment who is forbidden
to make articulate answer to the accusations
of the learned prosecutor for the King?”
Rhetoric being entirely de trop, the prisoner’s
friend these days finds it all very difficult.
♦
“Nakhoda” : One of the claims made for
the Abrams treatment by Marky, the
Yankee journalist who has been laying
hands on the long ears of our politicians, is
that when he put seed in the “dynamiser”
which measures the wave-lengths of diseases,
the good seed gave a different reaction from
the bad. He made this revolutionary dis-
covery in Brisbane, and the Labor Govern-
ment there was so impressed that it now
proposes to conduct an independent and un-
biased investigation into the whole con-
trivance, although in both England and
America several committees of experts have
thoroughly overhauled the thing and de-
scribed it as a callous fake. A Government,
however, which allows itself to be stampeded
by the eloquence of a touring amateur pro-
bably thinks a panel of politicians is more
competent to judge an electrical device than
any expert.


THRIFTY DON’TS
Don’t fail to plan your expenditure, and keep within the limit
you set.
Don’t be ashamed of saving, pennies—*-they soon make pounds.
Don’t let false pride cost money—there is no happiness
in that.
Don’t think spendthrifts meed be capitalists. You can be a
spendthrift with a shilling.
Don’t forget that peac*; of mind is better than things you
cannot afford.
Don’t forget that the,Savings Bank isihe best thrift aid.
Don’t forget there is» a Savings Bank Agency in every Post
Office in Australia.
Commonwealth lank of Hnstralia
The Federal Mutual
CaQD'u’QD^
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Stsftfeete Sydney. Hoorctar _
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A f i MAiWZIE, Manager and
Victorian Branch: 360-G0 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARBOLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
* NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Until recently this country did a useful
trade with S'Africa. Between 1922 and 1924
the Union bought just over four millions’
worth of Australian produce, largely West-
ralian wheat, flour and timber, the value of
the S’African exports to Australia being
less than two millions. But for the last two
months the British steamers which used to
do the carrying have been held up by the
strike. And all S’Africa believes that the
strike was engineered by the Australian Sea-
men’s Union, for the same union has been
encouraging the crews of S’African Gov-
ernment steamers calling at Westralian ports
for timber to strike for Australian rates of
wages, which rates of wages are only made
possible by a coasting-trade monopoly. In
the end, it may be, the S’Africans will go
to other parts of the world for their pur-
chases of wheat, flour and timber. Yet
Senator Needham professes confidence that
the Westralians will vote enthusiastically
next month for the political champions of
the union which has deprived it, perhaps
permanently, of a good customer.
A much older hand at the political game
than Priminister Bruce, Yic. Treasurer Pea-
cock chipped in as soon as the dissolution
was announced, and suggested that the
sooner the Government came out with a:
constructive policy, if it had one, the better,
since anti-Communism wouldn’t go, down
alone. Page took the hint, and made use of
an opportunity during Show Week to en-
large on what the Government had done in
two years and nine months, and promise
something equally good or better for the
future. On top of that, the Administration
will need to convince country voters that iU
stands for getting their produce to market,
even if the whole ragtag and bobtail of re-
volutionary unionism declare it “black” and.
condemn it to rot in the paddocks. If it:'
does that it will win the election, but mere
denunciation of Communism won’t do. ;
Although stopgap Senator Gibbs was well
beaten in the preliminary ballot, the N.S.W.
Labor executive has decided to run him for
the Senate on November 14, as well as the.-
five candidates duly selected —Gardiner,.
Grant (of I.W.W. celebrity), Dooley
(not the Speaker), Dunn (not the Minister
of Agriculture) and Eldridge. The decision
amounts to another selection-ballot swindle ;
moreover, it is a glaring violation of the
understanding on which Gibbs was appointed
to succeed the late ,T. M. Power in the
Senate. Nominating him at the special sit-
ting of the State Parliament, Lang, now
N.S.W. Labor Premier, stated “definitely”
that “if Mr. Gibbs is elected he will not be
a candidate for the Senate election in any
circumstances.” But for this assurance, Gibbs
would most probably have had to go back
to his clerical job in the A.L.P. office in-
stead of being sent to Melbourne to get £Bb
6s. Bd. a month and a free railway pass—
it was only President Flowers’ casting vote
that put him ahead of ex-Senator Josiali
Thomas. Such is the worth of a Lang
pledge.
Certain Queensland State Labor politi-
cians are not pleased at the fixing _of an
early Federal election. They arc afraid that
defeated candidates will be after Assembly
seats by way of consolation prizes. Most
of the selection ballots have been held, but
there is always a way to wangle these things.
Theodore reckons he has the Herbert in his
pocket, but Fihelly has only a sporting
chance for Brisbane, and if he is defeated he
is not likely to be content to be a mere Bris-
bane alderman for three years. Fihelly s old
seat (Paddington) is now kept warm by
Mines Minister Alf Jones, who is fervently
hoping that his friend Jack won’t want it
back.
The N.S.W. Labor Government lias de-
cided to establish an insurance department
to take all kinds of business, including life.
Whatever justification there may be for
undertaking some branches of the business,
there is none for going into life-assurance-
Ostensibly the idea is to save the public
from the extortions of the capitalist; but
KILLED IN THE RUSH.
“The North-and-South Railway Bill, providing for the construction of the line which the Commonwealth
long ago contracted with South Australia to build, was on the verge of being introduced when the
dissolution of Parliament arrived.”
three-fourths of the business of life-assurance
in Australia is done by mutual offices, which
have no capitalists whatever to feed, and
the bulk of the other one-fourtli or less
is done by offices which exist only because
they can compete successfully with the
mutual societies.
Time was found in the closing days of
the dying Federal session to pass a measure
giving a vote in certain cases to Asiatics;
but time wasn’t found to authorise the build-
ing of the Oodnadatta-Alice Springs section
of the South-to-North railway. So the oft-
disappointed South Australians won’t go to
the poll with hearts full of gratitude towards
the Bruce-Page Ministry. Nor will the Tas-
manians, whose requests for relief from the
’burden of the Navigation Act and for an
.inquiry into their financial disabilities, such
•as was granted to vociferous Westralia, still
‘meet with the reticence of the tomb.
Senator Gardiner, excited at the possible
deportation of a non-Australian who has
been convicted once or twice, promised in. the
House the other night to deport Australians
who hadn’t been convicted of anything, and
sketched the procedure 0 :
Previously I have said that the Labor party would
keep the Deportation Board when it came into power
in order to deal with those who created it. 1 am
now opposed to that course. The Board is too
costly. We will impeach the Ministry for sedition by
violating the principle of trial by jury. They will
be given a fair trial on the floor of this House, and
will then be found guilty because we will have a
majority.
There is to be no jury in these proceedings
—only judges. There will be no right of
challenge, for that would spoil the majority.
The result of the fair trial will be decided
beforehand, and the verdict will be in Mr.
Gardiner’s pocket. It will be interesting to
see if he puts this promise into all his elec-
tion speeches, so that the community may be
posted concerning this cheery madness. It
would also make a good sporting event,
Prime Minister Bruce to put up £lOO against
the Senator’s £lOO (likewise up) that he
won’t be tried on the floor of the House, or
the ceiling either.
Theodore could have had the chairman-
ship of the Northern Territory Commission
had he, wanted it. Bruce asked him jocu-
larly if he would take the job on, and Theo-
(lore replied in the same spirit that he would
wait until he was asked. Had he treated
the suggestion seriously, a formal offer would
have been made. One of the interesting
pair may regret next month that it wasn’t
made.
The figures of the N.S.W. Auditor-General
suggest that the Bang Government supplied
a deficit for its predecessor by crowding an
extraordinary number of payments into the
last week of the financial year, that simple-
minded countryman, Geo. _ Fuller, having
gone out needlessly early to give it the chance.
The last seven days’ expenditure for five
financial years is quoted thus: —
1920- . . £1,828,162
1921- .. 1,465,481
1922- .. 1,931,411
1923- .. £1,753,828
1924- . . 3,523,716
This, of course, while making things look
very bad for Fuller last year, gives the new
Government £1,770,000 less expenditure to
blame itself with this year.
S.A. Railways announce a profit of
£58,000 for the year, in spite of having to
reduce Adelaide suburban fares to meet ’bus
competition. As for the long Victor Harbor
run, with 11 private owners on the road
the Department started its own “road motor-
coaches,” and announces that “to-day there
is practically no other service catering on
that route.” (Effect on the neglected per-
manent-and-reproductive train-lines not
stated.)
The much debated silk duties, like the
recently imposed duty on motor-cars, have
already shown good results in England. In
the few months since the Budget every mill
in the country has worked up to full capacity,
and in one centre alone, Macclesfield, five
mills have commenced additions which will
soon absorb thousands of the supposed static
unemployed. And Continental firms seeking
English sites for mills will soon improve
the position still more. But the best testi-
mony of all to the merits of Protection is
that silk stockings and frills, instead of going
up in price, are a little cheaper than before.
Seeing that the numbers were against him
in Vic. Assembly last week, Treasurer Pea-
cock compromised on the maximum pension
provided for in the State Employees’ Super-
annuation Bill. He offered to take £312 in-
stead of £416 a year. He was not met grace-
fully by Labor, which hasn’t any use for
“tall poppies,” and won by only one vote.
Peacock learned to take the half or three-
quarter loaf in the days w-lien he w-as pilot-
ing factory legislation, and thus gradually
reached the day when he could induce Par-
liament to empower the Governor-in-Counci 1
to create a wages board at any old time for
any old occupation. He reckons it is good
policy, when building, to start with the
foundation instead of the 14th floor.
Oddly enough the U.S.A. Government lias
its Walsh problem too. In a communication
received by the Home and Territories depart-
ment inquiries were made w’hether Australia
would be prepared to take in a person by the
name of Walsh who is being deported from
the Republic. The gentleman claimed to be
an Australian, but no record of his birth in
this country could be found, and the U.S.A.
was therefore informed in the polite terms of
official communications that the Common-
wealth was unable to see its way to add to
its Mr. Walshes. It raises the question ot
what shall we do if we have to find agree-
able hosts for two possible guests of a simi-
lar kind.
S.A. Leg. Council has been discussing
what it called a small “machinery” bill, to
exempt Walter Duncan, one of its members,
from the Act which prevents “public con-
tractors” from sitting in Parliament. The
old John Duncan home at Mitcham is under
discussion as a possible new site for Go\-
ornment House. Duncan is thus an in-
terested party, and the bill is merely to pro-
vide that he shall not lose his seat oyer it.
The Liberals, who have a majority in the
Council, mostly expressed themselves torn
between a dislike to do anything discourteous
to Duncan, a highly popular member of then-
own side, and a dislike for any step what-
ever which may help the Labor Ministry to
move Government House from its present
location on North-terrace.
The usual tendency is manifested by the
N.S.W. Government to start on the easy
jobs, and leave complex problems like
motherhood endowment till later. The Store.v-
Dooley Cabinet left it till so much later that
the bill w-as never even drafted. The aboli-
tion of capital punishment involves no brain-
fag. This is understood to be based on the
formula “Thou shalt not kill” in the Deca-
logue ; but as Ploly Writ went on to order
the killing of many persons, including
witches, people of strange religions, disre-
spectful sons, the uncircumcised, and the
man who prigged the Babylonish garment,
the command is obscure. To enact the 44-
liour week is also easy. The Decalogue
orders a straight six-days’ labor, and makes
no mention of a half-holiday, but that is a
side-issue. Other easy items are the raising
of members’ salaries, and the municipal one-
adult-on e-vorte to facilitate the return of
Labor ald<*-men. After that the road is
likely to grow steeper and rougher, and there
are giants w r aiting in the shadows.
Simultaneously with the N.S.W. Labor
Government’s decision to raise Assembly and
Ministerial salaries to the pre-Fuller mark
sundry members of the Leg. Council are
mildly suggesting that they, too, could do
with a taste. It hardly seems to have
occurred to them that they could make their
own terms. One Upper House showed the
way. In 1900, when John Forrest passed
tiie first measure for payment of members
through the W.A. Assembly, no provision
was made for- remunerating the Council, nor
w-as there any thought, of doing so. that
body, however, promptly remedied what it
regarded as a palpable omission by tacking
on to the bill a provision that the M.L.C.
should receive exactly the same as the
M.L.A. Then it sent, back the measure to
the Assembly and waited with a determined
look in its eye. Forrest blustered, and some
of his colleagues protested, but the protests
died away as (it gradually became clear that
the Council controlled the situation, and the
amendment wais accepted with as much grace
as the people’s House could muster. Salaries
have been raised twice in the Groper State
since then, a uni are to be, raised again shortly,
but the initial mistake of leaving the Council
out has neve r been repeated, and is never
likely to be.
HIS EXHORTATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“‘Pull up your socks and get to it!’ came in
stentorian tones from Mr. Yates, Labor member for
Adelaide, when the Prime Minister announced the
dissolution of Parliament.”
Already Bruce and Page let loose
Their duly chosen slogans ;
One theme prevails in hall and street
And countryside—where clubmen meet
And in the bar at Brogan’s.
Call up your pep, aspiring Rep.,
Your task awaits you; set to it!
If you’ve a seat to hold or win,
Delay no longer to begin:
“Pull up your socks and get to it!”
Obtaining votes —not “getting goats”—
Keep well in mind your dart is.
So polish up your rhetoric,
Rehearse the words that stir and stick
And boom the stock of parties.
And when you spy some obvious lie
That’s aimed at you, stiletto it.
There’ll be a fair amount designed
To queer your pitch, but never mind.
“Pull up your socks and get to it!”
In armor bright once rode the knight,
Lance-skilled and tourney-tutored ;
But they had faithful squires, you know,
Who sent them forth from top to toe
For joust or fray accoutred.
You may not tilt where blood is spilt.
Although there’s strain and sweat to it ,
The fight of these more sheltered days;
Wherefore, in simpler, homelier phrase.
“Pull up your socks and get to it!”
On, on (with Yates) where glory waits
In the immediate distance,
And twenty pounds a week to spend
And various other things that lend
A glamor to existence.
* * * #
But should we find ’midst womankind —
Thougjh none has “wised” us yet to it—-
An entrant for the wordy rush,
Who’ll dare to say without a blush
“Pull up your socks and get to it?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.),
NOBEL-OLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
Death Benefits. Easy Instalments.
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD.,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Parburv House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Co-operative Insurance Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., which began with £825 of its
capital absorbed by establishment costs: —
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£825
1919. £630 £630 195
Additional establishment costs, £283.. 478
Reserves.
1920.. 7,178 7 p.c. = £2lOl 5,077 4,599
Additional establishment costs, £1023. . 3,576
1921.. 18,025 7 p.c. = 3127 14,898 18,474
Additional establishment costs, £lOl.. 18,373
1922.. 14,344 7 p.c. = 3563 10,781 29,154
1923.. 9,765 7 „ „ 3929 5,836 34,990
1924.. 19,015 7 ~ „ 4303 14.712 49,702
1925.. 20,807 8 ~ „ 5415 15,892 65,094
With investments returning £4604 the direc-
tors had to draw on underwriting profits
for only £Bll to pay the higher div. And
as there was no halt iii the eo.’s progress, the
increase was made without misgivings.
Started by two Vic. dairy-produce co-op. con-
cerns, the C.I.C. later got the support of
the Vie. Butter Factories Co-op., the Farm-
ers’ Union of S. Aus. and the Coastal Farm-
ers’ and Berrima Co-op. of N. S. Wales.
With that influential support little more
than care was needed to build up a substan-
tial business. Losses have been very light
compared with those of most Australian fire
offices during the past three years, which
speaks well for the selection of risks; but
expenses are nothing to cheer about. Here
is the underwriting history from the begin-
ning :
Not P re- Ex- Loss Expense
miuins. Losses, penses. Ratio. Ratio.
1920.. £14,235 £1.689 £6,477 11.9 p.c. 45.5p.c.
1921.. 46,564 6,963 23,924 14.9 „ 51.4 „
1922.. 55,274 11,293 32.177 20.4 „ 58.2 „
1923.. 62,884 15,487 40,490 24.6 „ 64.4 „
1924.. 76,823 19,246 41,416 25.1 „ 53.9 ~
1925.. 89,116 23,698 49,216 26.6 „ 55.2 „
With the machinery of six big farmers’ co-
ops. to work with, in touch with 70,000
farmers and graziers, the business should
flow in cheaply. The expense figures indi-
cate that some of it at least has to he
run down with an expensive motor-car. What
has been done and is being done in propa-
ganda among the farmers will doubtless
benefit future business, and there is this to
be said in bright letters: the co. has met
every expense out of revenue, and has kept
the books clear of establishment account.
Co-operative benefits do not yet come
direct to the shareholders in the various co-
op. concerns: all profits go to the cos. hold-
ing the shares. But individual members will
benefit increasingly, of course, as profits
strengthen their cos. In the past six years
£22,438 has been distributed in divs. and
£65.094 accumulated in reserves. The latter
exceed the usual provision (40 p.c. of the
year's net premium income is usually looked
upon as necessary to cover unexpired risks)
by £29,448. Paid capital is £72,520; and
assets at March 31 consisted of public secu-
rities. £62.713; cash, etc., less sundry
debtors, £39,024: book debts, £1456; agents’
balances, £15.714; freehold, £56,679, less
£36,679 owing; equipment, £5123. During
the year the co. purchased a freehold in the
heart of Melbourne. The offices will enable
the “rapidly increasing business to be com-
fortably and expeditiously carried on,” the
directors explain. In this the co. is doing
what less solid young insurance concerns do
as soon as they see a few pounds accumu-
late above their establishment account. It
is doubtful policy, especially as the provi-
sion of letting space both in Melbourne and
Sydney is for the moment over-done. How-
ever, the C.I.C. has succeeded well so far.
and should do still better.
* * * *
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
Towards Re-
. Tune, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1915.. £4,188 Nil £4lBB- £5,225
1916. . 6,904 Sp.e. = £3076 3828 9,053
1917.. 3,965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9.919
1918.. 3,284 8 „ „ 3099 185 10,104
Premiums on new shares 458 10,562
1919.. 4,219 10 p.c. = 4039 180 10,742
Premiums on new shares . 2822 13.564
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4843 4280 17,844
Premiums on new shares .. 3166 21.010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. = 5408 7602 28,612
Premiums on new shares .. 7491 36,103
1922.. 7.130 10 p.o. = 7130 36,103
Premiums on new shares .. 1210 37,313
1923.. 5,351 7 p.c. = 5159 192 37,505
1924.. 6,600 8 „ ~ 5896 745 38,209
1925.. 8,613 8 ~ .. 6115 2498 40,707
A lower loss rate was responsible for that
improved profit. Although capital increased
by £2737 and is now £76,441, net income was
sufficient to pay a 10 p.c. div.; but the Board
wisely decided to keep it at 8 p.c. and
sock away the balance. The growth of capi-
tal has been steady from the beginning. The
“Mutual” in the co.’s title has expressed the
management’s ideal: °to secure insurers as
shareholders, issuing shares “only to persons
with good insurance accounts.” This ought
to bring in a select class of risk; but so far
the loss rate is not significantly low. Nor
has there been of late very striking progress;
in fact, last year net premiums slipped back
£6502. Here is the underwriting experience
for the past 10 years :
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Kate. Kate.
1916. . £32,303 £ 14,981 £12,292 46.4 p.c. 38.1 p.c.
1917.. 30,3i)0 17,942 15,608 50.7 ~ 43.9 „
1918.. 44,029 25,724 16,061 58.4 „ 37.8 „
1919.. 45,372 27,180 15.647 59.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 54,882 29,719 18.556 54.1 „ 33.8 „
1921.. 81,501 44,211 26,033 54.2 ~ 32.7 „
1922.. 90,202 49,031 36,677 54.3 „ 40.6 „
1923.. 94,109 48,299 44.050 51.4 „ 46.7 „
1924.. 99,433 50,084 46,455 50.4 „ 46.7 „
1925.. 92,931 47,022 39,585 50.6 „ 42.6 „
The cut of 4.1 p.c. in the loss rate meant a
gain of about £4OOO, but the percentage of
expenses, being a shade higher, shaved off
some of it. Still, the underwriting surplus
more than paid the div. Interest, etc., added
£2288. During the period of 10 p.c. divs.
the co. benefited substantially from premiums
on new shares, but with the lapse from this
rate that source of additions was cut off.
Reserves, after payment of the div., amounted
to £40,707. £3534 in excess of the customary
40 p.c. looked for to cover unexpired
risks. Nor is there any “organisation
account” to reduce the amount, for from the
beginning the balance-sheet was kept free
from disfiguring intangibles. Funds (capital
and reserves) one and a half times the vol-
ume of premium income is usually reckoned
a fair thing for underwriters to hold. This
co.’s proportion is steadily improving; but
at 126 p.c. it is still £22,250 less than the
amount that 150 p.c. would call for. How-
ever, at June 30. £229,324 was callable on
the 305,766 £1 shares, and a 2s. call would
more than account for the difference.
Capital and reserves were represented by
the following assets :
Government securities, deposits and cash.. £50,400
Mortgages and investments .. .. .. 24,988
Book debts 21,633
Premises . . .. .. . . .. 20,264
Office and field equipment . . .. .. 12,065
£129,380
Less
Liabilities including div. .. .. .. 12,232
Shareholders’ funds . . . . .. £117,148
Field and office equipment is in at £12,065.
That ought to be substantially reduced out
of revenue, and the amount of writing down
should be shown each year. During the
past term the Brisbane branch was given its
own home and the head office, apart from
the co.'s own space requirements, converted
into “a profitable letting proposition.”
*- * * *
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber
goods:—
To
June, Profits. Dividends.* Reserves. Reserves.
1916. .£16,436 124 p.c.= £8,333 £8.103 £39,233
1917.. 25,906 12* „ „ 20,659 5.247 44,480
1918.. 30,873 124 „ „ 26,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38,048 12* „ „ 29,946 8,102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 12* „ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Loss.
1921.. 924 5 „ „ 21,512 42,268
Profit.
1922.. 58,612 10 „ „ 49,086 9,526 51,794
1923.. 66,718 12* „ „ 66,710 8 51,802
Deficit.
Transferred to Capital, £54,849.. 3,047
Premiums on new shares ~ 2023 1,024
1924.. 83,299 12* p.e.= 82,275 1,024 —•
Reserves.
1925. .100,172 12* „„ 91,375 8.797 8,797
"Including 7 "p.c. on £50,000 of prefs.
It doesn’t seem right, somehow. The profits
disclosed were certainly in excess of the
amount required to pay the 12* p.c. div., but
the difference is so small that this Column
has its suspicions. It isn’t a case where
reserves are not required. Goodwill of
£15,000 clutters an otherwise tidy if rather
taciturn balance-sheet; and as visible re-
serves and unappropriated profit total only
£23,797, there is but £8797 left after wiping
out the intangible asset. And £8797 is a
very poor provision for a co. with a capital
of £779,035. Either, then, the profit was
written down by providing internally for
various contingencies or the 12* p.c. div.
was more than the circumstances warranted.
What are the probabilities? In the first
place the directors had a vei*y good excuse
for not paying the 12* p.c.; a big wad of
bonus shares were lately issued, not to men-
tion recent issues of shares at par. That
looks as though the position was so good that
they deliberately let a good excuse go to
waste. Further, Perdriau’s is the sort of
management that has always seemed to have
an umbrella and a pair of goloshes put by
for a rainy day; hence it has only twice
since 1914 paid less than 12* p.c., and even
in those two years, when rubber prices
crashed, it paid an average of 7* p.c. Taking,
then, one consideration with another, it is
likely that the directors showed less profit
than they might have done rather thaai that
they declared a dividend greater than they
should have done.
• • • • * •
The balance-sheet figures don’t help much :
„ . 1914. 1920. 1924; 1925.
Capital .. .£130,000 £373,927 £703,017 £779,035
Liabilities .. 36,644 90,239 193,411 180.290
Stock. . . . 53,960 225,768 404,601 352,687
Freeholds, plant,
etc. 76,600 161,655 362,695 430,385
Book debts . . 28,118 160.748 174,766 235,379
Other assets.. 792 2,944 3,396 3,645
Although gross profits are not shown, output
is understood to have been a record, the
quick rise to favor of balloon tyres helping
to swell the production. Fixed assets ex-
panded by £07,690, plant accounting for half
ot the increase and freeholds for £36,447. The
brisker trading added £60,613 to book debts.
.Before the 1924 capitalisation the balance
sheet carried a “machinery, plant, furniture,
fittings and vehicle reserve”; but it was
absorbed in the gift issue. That there is
now no visible provision suggests, that some-
thing is being done here in the dark. Stocks
were down £52,000. If the blue pencil was
freely used in arriving at that valuation it
would be no more than wisdom dictated.
Rubber has bounced upward lately, but
future values are uncertain owing to the
very large area that can be brought into pro-
duction at short notice when the price and
demand warrant it. Profiting by past ex-
perience it is likely that Perdriau’s have
made provision for contingencies here. The
market evidently takes that view. But
though optimism is apparently justified, two
or three things have to be kept in mind.
Competition in some lines is going to be
keen-—perhaps keener—presently ; and the
public isn’t always going to be able to afford
to spend as much on joy rides as it has done
lately. Perhaps it really hasn’t been able
to afford it lately either. Capital was further
increased by £75.417 last year, representing
7s. 6d. called on 201,113 ordinaries. A simi-
lar sum is callable.
The National Bank of New Zealand :
Net To He- He-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1915. .£122,263 13 p.e. = £97,500 £24,763 £733.080
1916.. 106,529 ,13 „ „ 97,500 9,029 742,109
1917.. 113,145 13 „ „ 97,500 15,645 757,754
1918.. 115,296 13 „ „ 97,500 17,796 775,550
1919.. 136,882 13 „ „ 97,500 39,382 814,932
Premiums on new shares 250,000 1,064,932
1920.. 156,299 14 p.e. == 131,658 24,641 1,089,573
1921.. 206,321 14 „ „ 140,000 66,321 1,155,894
1922.. 176,226 14 ~,, 140,000 36,226 1,192,120
Premiums on new shares 200,000 1,392,120
1923.. 186,147 14 p.e. = 172,700 13,447 1,405,567
1924.. 194,991 14 ~,,175,000 19,991 1,425,558
Premiums on new shares, £200,000 1,625,558
1925. . 230,827 14 p.e. = 208,687 22,140 1,647,698
The shares are £7 10s paid to £2 10s., and
after the accounts were closed 200,000 new
ones were offered to shareholders at a pre-
mitim of £2 10s. Capital has thereby been
raised to £2,000,000 and reserves to
£2,147,698. A million of funds is a big in-
crease, but the management is quite sure
it can make use of every penny. In the past
20 years there have been seven new share
issues, and, including the half-million from
the latest allotment, premiums amounting
to £1,387,500 have been carried to reserves.
In 1906 the 12 p.e. div. took £30,000; in
1915 the birthday-cake was 13 p.e., and
meant £97.500. The last half-million of
capital w T ill be at work over most of the
term, so that divs. for the present year, at
14 p.e., will call, for more than £260,000.
Barger reserves will be assisting, of course,
but allowing for that, total visible funds
will need to earn within a fraction of 7 p.e.
to do it. Nor is there an end to the expan-
sion. Speaking at the annual meeting in
London, where most of the shares are held
(Lloyd’s Bank is a big holder), chairman
Pember Reeves remarked that the additional
million would allow them to cope “for a
time at any rate, with the growing volume
of business which continues to be offered to
the bank.” It is an enviable position, pro-
vided always that the bank has a good win-
nowing machine on the premises. The busi-
ness that is washed up in these big floods
usually takes a lot of winnowing.
On March 31, 1924, property, premises
and furniture were in at £392,230. Last
year new buildings were erected at eight im-
portant centres, premises were purchased in
Auckland and sites in other places. On
March 31 last the item stood at £402,837,
of which £200,000 is said to be revenue-
producing. That the National-of N.Z. made
extraordinarily rich profits during the war
and post-war boom is obvious; even last
year's gross figure w r as not within £14,000
of the 1921 record. Net profits, however,
were larger, owing to a diminution —the
fourth consecutive —in exes.: rates and taxes
took £129,510 last year; in 1924 they took
£165,914. Further light was thrown on
the internal resources when shareholders
were informed that the Income-tax Commis-
sioners had decided against the bank in the
matter of “a large amount” on account of
excess profits. Apparently the directors at
the time of the annual meeting had not quite
made up their minds whether to take the
case to court, but the chairman said that
“large as the sum demanded is, ample P l ' o
vision has been made for it, and, if we have
to pay, it will be provided out of the, fund
which we hold to meet contingencies of all
kinds.”
Balance-sheet movements last year were
unimportant:—
£ £ £ £
1914. 1919. 1924. 1 ® 2 0 5 ;»
Notes . . 255.899 1,177,271 936,541 943,847
Bills, etc. 899,674 951,394 1,701,313 2,328,415
Deposits 4,304,654 6,481,558 11,442,153 10,822.912
Liquid
assets.. 2,527,394 4,175.958 7,200,633 7,104,821
Advances 4,362,893 5,919,219 9,291,646 9,804,215
P r emises 85,756 139,977 392,230 402,836
Gilt-edged securities moved down from
£2,436,527 to £2,000,235 owing to sales and
redemption of N.Z. Government debentures.
Nevertheless, liquid assets on March 31
amounted to 50.8 p.c. of all liabilities, a
strong position. Prior to the allotment of
the new capital the bank was holding only
£4 Os. 7d. of the public's money for each
£ of its own, and that position would be even
stronger when the million of funds flowed in
in \ .Tune. Depositors and other creditors
could hardly ask for better protection, and
in addition ito that strength are the inner re-
serves and (after June) £4,000,000 uncalled
on the 800,000 shares.
* * * *
The Millaqitin Sugar Co. (Brisbane) :
To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1915. . £47,401 8 p.c. = £40,000 £7,401 £71,128
1916.. 45,844 8 „ „ 40,000 5,844 76,972
1917.. 31.746 6 „ „ 30,000 1,746 78,718
1918.. 65,476 10 „ „ 50,000 15,476 94,194
1919.. 61,976 8 „ „ 40,000 21,976 116,170
1920.. 53.564 8 „ „ 40,000 13,564 129,734
1921.. 29,022 8 „ „ 40,000 118,756
1922.. 64,025 8 „ „ 40,000 24,025 142,751
1923.. 71,333 12 „ „ 60,000 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 „ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925.. 71,028 12 „ „ 60,000 11,026 173,389
Besults for last year exceeded the cautious
anticipations of the Board ; the present crush-
ing, though badly affected by labor unrest,
is satisfactory; and, rains having been well
spread, the growing crop is coming along
splendidly. Millaquin’s return last year was
one of the best ever, and net profits have
only twice been greater. Again, therefore,
the directors handed out an extra 4 p.c.,
labelling it “bonus only.” But with reserves
of £173.389 assisting capital, funds need
show a bare 6 p.c. to earn the 8 p.c. div.,
and only twice in the past 12 years have
funds done less. Shareholders have had 32
p.e. in the last three terms, and £30,608 lias
been added to reserves, so that the margins
have not been narrow. There has been heavy
trading in the co.’s shares of late years, and
the proportion held by the Q. N. Bank must
have shrunk a lot (it held the whole half-
million issued in 1911) ; but the presence of
W. Hamilton Hart and g.-m. Haymen on
the Board suggests it still has control.
The co. has a substantial holding in the
Bundaberg Distillery Co.; excluding that,
the liquid position has shown the following
movements: —
1923. 1924. 1925.
Stocks .. .. £144.122 £36,752 £118,385
Book debts.. .. 43,520 30,665 26,314
Cash 108,544 178.840 134,646
Public securities .. 5,000 29,625
£296,186 £251.257 £308,970
Liabilities (inc. divs.) 163,475 109,748 164,755
Liquid surplus .. £132,711 £141,509 £144,215
Fixed assets on June 30 were in the books
at £462,217 compared with £455,474 in 1924
and £481,955 in 1920. Those figures are pro-
bably conservative ; but the real value is their
profit-earning capacity, and unless public
policy with regard to the sugar business is
reversed, a minimum of 8 p.e. p.a. seems
as well assured as anvthing can be that
depends at all upon crops.
* * * *
Mockbell’S, Ltd., who run coffee- and tea-
rooms in Sydney (the opening deficit con-
sists of goodwill and preliminary expenses) :
Towards
Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£1317
Dee., 1920.. £1659 15 p.c. = £1303 £356 961
June, 1921.. 932 10 „ „ 875 57 904
Dec., 1921.. 1250 15 „ „ 1313 967
June. 1922.. 1719 15 „ „ 1406 313 654
Dee., 1922.. 2010 15 „ „ 1750 260 394
June, 1923.. 2126 15 „ „ 2062 64 330
Dec., 1923.. 2346 15 „ „ 2062 284 46
Reserves.
June, 1924.. 2405 15 „ „ 2062 343 297
Dec., 1924.. 3048 15 „ „ 2062 986 1283
June, 1925.. 2172 15 „ „ 2062 110 1393
Ivabell Mockbell is out of the firm and has
started anew under his own name in various
parts of the eity. The result is written
plainly in the last line of the introductory
table. Although £596 net was added to
reserves during the period, the Board seems
to have disclosed greater optimism than re-
sults for the last six months warranted in
maintaining the div. at 15 p.c. p.a. The fact
that the additional branches favorably affected
profits during the December half should have
made for caution when the June figures
were known. The div. has been 15 p.c. from
the start with the exception of one half-year
at 10 p.c., and the consequence has been


The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \
BRTTATV f
2/6
1/3
9d. (minimum
15/-. 20 words!
FI! \NCH
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GEEMANY
SWITZERLAND
Week-end 7$d. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
2/6 1/3
Nil
CANADA .. 2f- 1/-
7 d. (minimum
11 IS. 20 words)
Week-end s§d. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2'4
NEW
ZEALAND. . 4R
[ N.Z. Night Letter
Rate minimum charge
I 3/- for 20 words'and
. 2d. per word thereat ter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street.
Svdney.
Tel. City 1846 and B 7784.
Queen's House, Queen street. Meloourm
Tel, Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers* Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
“IS MY MONEY SAFE*”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
Saturday of every month.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On gale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Tiie Bum.ktin Ollice. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
cost free.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
The economy and efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipe
are strikingly brought out in this report from the
Engineer of the Elmore Waterworks Trust, Vic. An
extract reads: “The introduction of wood pipes allowed
my Commissioners to lay double the length they
would otherwise have been able to lay had they been
forced to use cast-iron pipes.” The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * « *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The National British-made Suction-gas Engines
and Crude-oil Engines are in the opinion of indepen-
dent experts the most modern and economical power
obtainable —one great advantage being that they
synchronise alternators running in parallel. A few
recent Australian orders being: Engines for the
electric power-houses of Bathurst (675 b.li.p.),
Parkes (310 b.h.p.), Dubbo (270 b.h.p.), Dubbo
repeat order (270 b.h.p.), Armidale (270 b.h.p.),
Brisbane Water and Sewerage Board (630 b.h.p.),
Toowoomba, Q. (400 b.h.p.), Toowoomba repeat
order (400 b.h.p.)—and several others. Represented
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne; 21 to
29 Morphett Street, Adelaide, etc. — Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mec'hanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
F
BOORD^soiy
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
fit
DT
Swift tV l/lil.. .\ u-l r:ilii-iiin Asmls. 26 SO Clarence St.. Sydney
IF YOU APPOINT A FRIEND
Your EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
lie may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense to your estate of
appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Co. (Ltd.)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or Call for Free Explanatory Booklet*
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET - - - - SYDNEY.
, Manager:
ft. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
attenuated reserves. This column last year
remarked that a lower div. rate and more
attention to accumulation of profits wo.uld
fit the co. to meet contingencies with mure
confidence. What may earlier have been
choice may now be compulsion. Balance-sheet
movements, compared with the previous
year, were unimportant:—
June, June, June, June, June,
1921. 1922. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Capital .. £17,500 £20,068 £27.505 £27,505 £27,505
Creditors.. 1,079 16,640 1,146 945 1,266
Overdraft 15,602 11,903 10,511
Freeholds.. 18,440 27,606 28,124 28,124
Leaseholds 2,835 4,094 3,363 3,424 3,336
Furniture 7,688 7,581 8,101 8,177 7,813
Stock .. 4,354 2,816 4,376 3,599 3,138
Cash, etc. 3,973 6,129 3,039 488 726
Overdraft was reduced by £1392; other lia-
bilities were a trifle heavier. Liquid and
semi-liquid assets totalled £3864, but the
greater portion of capital is in the co.’s city
freehold, in the books at £28,123, unchanged
on the year. In a business subject to keen com-
petition, open to anyone who can rent a
basement and buy a t.-p. hot-water urn,
attention to reserves was an obvious necessity.
The matter of depreciation—most important
in connection with catering concerns —is not
mentioned. Provided sufficient allowance
has been made, there are tangible assets in
excess of capital.
* * * *
National Portland Cement, Maria Island
(Tas.), has bought the freeholds of the
Maria Island Land and Development Co.,
with various buildings, for 13,000 ordinary
shares. The co.’s scrip is worth about 45.,
so the value of the land, lodging-houses, etc.,
including limestone underfoot, only cuts into
a bit over £3OOO. That isn’t much to pay,
and the big gain is that the co. now owns
the land around its works. So far as finance
goes there isn’t much change in the outlook.
All the profit netted for 12 months’ work
was £1607. But that was declared after
meeting expenditure on plant (£5316) and
writing off £17,851 for depreciation. Time
hasn’t been w r asted. The plant has had
a real spin under the new manager, Maltby
Robinson, and has responded O.K. Capacity
promised was 30,000 tons of cement a year;
the actual result was 38,000 tons, and the
product is of the best. But the plant unit
is too limited to give an attractive return on
present capital. It can carry on all right,
but overhead wants cutting. That can only
follow a bigger production, which in turn
can only be got by having cash with which
to duplicate equipment. There was an idea
that John Grice might raise the wind when
in England; but either he wrnsn’t on the hunt
or the market went cold. On this side most
of the old enthusiasm over shows of the kind
froze during the financial stringency. But
Bowes Kelly isn’t beaten: he still talks of
placing a debenture issue. The remaining
drag is the cost of fuel for the kilns. It
has to be brought from Newcastle, which
means a big charge. Over behind the Schou-
tens the Speck’s East Coast carries several
seams of coal. But where opened they are
mostly full of bands. Dalmayne is an excep-
tion, but a railway 30 miles long has to be
made before its coal can get to port at Cole
Bay. Once there and a proper cleaning
plant up, Maria Island fuel troubles should
disappear. If the co. had had a run of luck
it might have grabbed the East Coast rail
and timber concessions itself, so as to have
two strings to play on. But it owes its
banker £84,800, and sundry creditors £17,623,
against which it can only set liquid assets
of stocks on hand £32,270 and sundry
debtors, etc., £21.200. Plant, buildings, etc.,
stand in the books at £306.124, and freeholds,
leaseholds and rights at £61,210, while there
is the little tag of “preliminary expenditure,
£61,300.” No wonder a bit more cash is sug-
gested.
* * * *
Thanks are offered up in the usual Ballarat
way by manager L. Hansen for what the
directors of Ajax North, Daylesford, have
done during its last campaign. As they got
only £5O between four they deserve all praise 7
but so far they haven’t brought much to the
co. Only 3668 tons went to the stamps in
the last six months, and as the yield was
10440 z. another £2OOO had to be drained
from shareholders to keep the pot boiling.
All told the capital account is £30,983,
while divs. have amounted to £23,625, so
no one has run very short. It has been
worth sticking to, for £192,500 of gold has
come out of it. That it has never blazed out
like the Ajax is because of the absence of
any of the sweetening shoots of gold that
gave the backers of the little wonder and
Ajax Central such pickings both at the mine
and in the market. Shallow-ground working
is now given up at Ajax North. The stone
being broken is from the old reef at No. 7.
level and from the flat formation off McMil-
lan’s reef. Now Hansen has re-opened the
No. 10 level. He soon got the East reef, but
found that it only carries a speck or two of
gold. A flat make was picked up, and as the
country is black slates there is still some-
thing hopeful to show at depth. Another
three weeks’ work should see the main forma-
tion which Hansen is after in the big belt of
eastern dipping slates. Overhead three
formations were got in that belt, so prospect-
ing being done in it is justified.
A co. has been formed in Melbourne to
develop slate deposits near Glenmaggie in
Gippsland. The deposits are said to be vast,
the quality equal to best Welsh. The co.
asked the State Minister for Mines for a
grant of £4OOO to help with plant and in
development. Goudie’s reply was that if
the venture was the good thing stated, the
co. should be prepared to put up more of
its own money.
# * # *
Shareholders of liiverina Collieries who
turned up at the meeting in Albury to con-
sider the position of the co. “unanimously
decided” to raise the £9970 necessary to re-
open and develop the mine. The Board had
taken up £1320, and £2710 had been applied
for earlier. The immediate bugbear is exces-
sive water. If the co. gets the capital the
next trouble will be to find a market for the
coal; if it doesn’t, the trouble will be the
debenture-holders.
* * * f
North Blocks (Broken Hill) shareholders
over-applied for the 400 £1 shares offered at
£5 per share last month. The previous issue
was on the same terms. On the 950
unissued 500 are held under option to be
exercised by February 1, 1926, at £5 per
share. New machinery is on order from
England, and the shaft is to be sunk to
300 ft. The engine and hauling plant are
expected to be in position by the end of the
year.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) has found
the final belt of ground so profitable that a
shilling div. was announced last week, con-
currently with a record week’s production of
2450 z. The co. is still on the lookout for
other areas.
* * * *
With the battery still in process of erec-
tion, a section of Flagstone (N.S.W.) sup-
porters have displayed weakness about the
knees. Since the shares were listed on
’Change, the highest rate paid has been 50s.
• —a mere 10s. premium on a handful of
shares subscribed a year ago. Reports from
the mine state that the manager is still
groping for the lost lode in the eastern tun-
nel ; and very little progress is reported
from the western tunnel. In the West Flag-
stone the tunnel approach has been com-
pleted and driving begun on 2ft. of 10 p.c.
ore. The co. has funds in hand for about
seven months’ prospecting, and in that time
the battery at the parent show should decide
the fate of the field.
« * # *
Judgment was given by the Westralian
Supreme Court the other day in a long-
fought-out case in which certain customers
of the Ravensthorpe State Smelters claimed
that they had been overcharged £30,000 by
the Government in connection with the treat-
ment of copper ores. Plaintiffs were awarded
£6572, plus interest and cost of taking
accounts. Inquiries made by the Master of
the Court indicated that Government officials
showed realisation charges at a figure much
in excess of actual costs, and so misled the
plaintiffs.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance Co. (W.A.) reports
a working profit for the June quarter of
£4651, but all this, plus £421, was spent ort
new equipment, boring and reconditioning
surface and underground. The profit for
the previous six months and £204 besides
was mopped up in the same way. Tributors
who now furnish about half the mill sup-
plies are finding it increasingly difficult to
get tonnage and values to satisfy them. They
have extracted all the known isolated rich
sections.
* * * *
London shareholders in certain West-
ralian gold-mining cos. are fuming at recent
increases in directors’ fees, which they de-
clare might well have been deferred until
dividends, or bigger dividends, were being
paid. Another grievance is that these fees
are free of income-tax. Payment of this tax,
it is argued, is an obligation which the State
lays upon the individual, and the circum-
stances don’t warrant the. assumption that
the value of directors’ services varies with
the rate of tax in force at any particular
time.
* * * *
Radio (W.A.) continues to broadcast
cheerful reports, but the sick market doesn’t
buck up. Broughton Jensen, the Adelaide
engineer who early came under notice by
stating that the mine consisted of an ore
channel of considerable width and not a
series of narrow quartz veins, as stated by
the newspapers, is to again inspect the pro-
perty. An official announcement as to his
Sosition, with values of his samples, would
e welcomed.
* * * *
Brilliant (W.A.) recently cut ore of an
estimated value of £4 per ton at the No. 4
level. The reported width (12ft. > is greater
than was disclosed in any part of the levels
above, and, provided the measurement is
0.K., will mean a bigger tonnage at No. 4
level than anticipated. Average output of
ore per level is 6500 tons, and that figure
would enable No. 4 to yield about £26 000—
a sum that would show a fair profit over
working costs. But there is a Mines De-
partment loan to repay, and a costly shaft-
sinking and a long main cross-cutting policy
to be provided for. So the prospect for divs.
is slender—unless the directors have decided
to abandon the show after exhausting No.
4 level.
* * * *
Borneo Oil Option Syndicate, the Perth
venture holding options over six oil conces-
sions in Borneo, has been granted an exten-
sion of option from March, 15)26, to March
1927, which gives the Syndicate a better
chance. Purchase price originally was
£lOO,OOO cash, but this has since been varied
to £84,000 cash (of which £4OOO has been
paid) and £16,000 worth of shares. Just
now members of the Syndicate are in good
heart, as cabled advice has been received
from Claude de Benales, London, to the
effect that, provided an extension to 1927
be obtained, he is confident he can float the
concern in Europe. De Benales is vendor
of VViluna gold-mining leases, and he cer-
tainly has been successful in bringing that
proposition under the notice of London in-
vestors.
* * * *
Still on the down-grade, Queensland’s gold
yield for the eight months ended August 31
(£147,276) was £110,815 less than for the
corresponding slice of 1924. Industrial
troubles at Morgan made a difference, but
the death of small producers is decking the
State’s gold-mining with crepe.
• * * *
Mt. Isa Prop.’s vertical bore, drilled to
check the results of the inclined bore, entered
the ore body at 192 feet. Details have been
made available. Here is a summary:—
From 192 to 495 feet, excluding 10ft. of very
low-grade ore and sft. that made no core, the
average for the 303 ft. of depth is 5.9 p.c. lead,
13.9 p.c. zinc, 4oz. silver. Average of next 10ft. (495 ft.
to 505 ft.), lead 7 p.c., zinc 11.3 p.c., silver 4.30 z.
Assays of sections below 505 ft. not yet determined.
No. 1 bore showed the lode to be well over 200 ft.
wide. At current metal prices the average value
of ore disclosed by No. 1 bore would be £8 15s. Id.
per ton; and No. 2, £8 4s. 4d. per ton. Working
on Broken Hill costs for similar ore—43s. lid. —
and accepting the lower value, the profit on those
Ibus ores should be over £4 per ton. G.-m.
Rocda’s estimate on the basis of 100 ft. of width
(half that shown) gives 3,264,000 tons to the depth
of 600 ft. reached by No. 2 drill.
Other developments are: —
The Out on Her Own No. 2 shaft has carried ore
from the surface to 300 ft., at which point cross-
cuts are being entered. At 200 ft. the cross showed
45ft. of ore bulking 22 p.c. lead and 20oz. silver.
Below 200 ft. the values in the shaft increased to
25 p.c. lead and 20oz. silver.
The Argyle shaft is now sinking to cut the high-
grade ore outcropping on the western boundary of
the Grandee lease of Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. This lode
should be met in the Argyle at 150 ft.
Water rights have been secured over a fine catch-
ment area with a high rocky gorge easily locked at
small cost six miles from the co.’s mines.
Negotiations are proceeding with American
interests for the issue of the reserve shares
at a premium to provide capital for mine
equipment, a concentrating mill and other
reduction plant.
* # * #
“Kerogen’s” summary:—
Opinions expressed by geologists after visiting Aus-
tralia reveal surprising discrepancies. Ten years ago
Dr. Wade recommended drilling the Vailala oilfield in
Papua. After the expenditure of £131,000, this work
was taken over by the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., whose
experts advised that the field be abandoned. In
1915 Dr. Wade reported adversely upon the south-
east of South Aus., at the same time stating that
the asphaltum discovered on the beaches came from
beds outcropping on the submarine shelf of this
continent. Now he says there is a possibility of
finding oil on the border of S. Aus. and Victoria—
if a closed structure can be found. He adds that
the asphaltum is adventitious, and hints at
whaling-boats in the background, forgetting that
in the early days of Australian whaling-boats the
bitumen used was made from coal-tar and not
petroleum. Henry S. Lyne now claims to have
discovered the structure demanded by Dr. Wade —in
a position splendidly situated for the S.A. Oil Wells
Co. Quite independently, E. M. de Villa, after
three months spent in investigating this district, has
also found a structure —about 40 miles to the north
of the Glenelg. Baragwanath, Vic. Director of Geo-
logical Survey, states that this latter structure is
over 300 feet higher than any other likely formation
previously found, and the Vic. Mines Department now
wants to see this structure tested. De Villa’s pessi-
mism does not allow him to raise hopes that com-
mercial oil will be found there, but of all the areas
in the southern tertiaries examined by him it
appears the most hopeful.
# * * *
Dr. H. I. Jensen is on a visit to Taranaki
(M.L.), at the behest of the Omata Oil
Syndicate, a Sydney concern in 240 shares
of £25 each. In 1907 the New Plymouth
Petroleum Co. bored 1060 ft. on the area,
and then the funds dried up. Omata, which
adjoins the Paritutu district, where the
Taranaki Oilfields Co. is endeavoring to find
oil at Tarata and Moturoa, was floated in a
few hours, largely on the strength of the
strong support given the Taranaki Co. by
Melbourne interests.
* * * *
Bundi (F.M.S.) has got A. W. Freeman
on its Board vice Vince Browuhill. who re-
tired just as the co. entered the dividend
stage. A second dredge is spoken of, to be
installed on the Cheney Valley area ot about
250 acres. Either this will be financed by
a guaranteed overdraft for £30,000 on share-
holders’ account, or the necessary cash will
be loaned by shareholders at bank rate.
There are only 80,000 shares in the co., and
these are valued at about 40s. in the market,
which is about 3s. 6d. below the peak price
before the plant was erected. W. B. War-
ing and J. M. White agree in their boring
charts that Bundi Valley, which has never
been picked over by Chinese, should go 260 z.
to the yard, and manager George Poole esti-
mates that 10 acres at the head of the valley
is worth 31oz. Operations have not yet re-
vealed such values from the dredge. Sub-
merged timber in the upper valley has been
a much more serious obstacle than the pros-
pectus seemed aware of.
* * * *
Selayang, near Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.),
is a London-controlled dredging co. recently
listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange, and
brokers have landed some solid commissions
in the process of hoisting share values from
19s. to 225. Though not a Kamunting pup,
the co. has on its Board John I. Phillips,
chairman of Kamunting, and E. W. Birch,
another Kamunting director, while its Syd-
ney directors are W. Tarleton, local secre-
tary for Kamunting. and J. M. Newman.
Of "the 140,000 20s. shares, 60,000 went to
the London vendors. A bucket dredge with
150,000 yards monthly capacity is timed to
make a move in March. The co. has an
area of about 500 acres, acquired in dribs
and drabs, and the boring charts of J. M.
Newman and a colleague named Gordon
agree that the average should be about 13oz.
to the yard. The bulk estimate is 40 tons
a month from 150,000 yards.


WHIP BEHIND!


eve
. MABB;|JN' LONDON BY ,
ardatr tobacco co„ ltd.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
u
N
N
«
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Feng-Shui”: 'Considering that hundreds
of Australian tourists go through Java annu-
ally without suffering any worse misadven-
ture than the loss of a toothbrush, the Im-
becilities printed by some of the dailies about
the recent murder of an Australian woman
at Garoet were astounding. One returned
tourist told a paper that if you refused to
buy more than a shilling’s worth of goods
from a native pedlar you were a marked
man, and another said it was unsafe for a
European to go out at night. A third thought
the Riffs had done it because the husband ot
the unfortunate victim was N. S. Wales Vice-
Consul for Spain. It would be a fine hair-
comb that would rake a Riff out of Java,
and if it did he would probably turn out to
be a prosperous agent for Ford cars. In
consequence of the general ignorance about
the country, the Governor-General lias been
approached to ask the British Government
to bring pressure on the Dutch authorities
to arrange that the sanctity of human life
shall be respected in their possessions, it
is doubtful whether the British Government
would be so tactless, in view of the fact
that there is less crime amongst Javas oU-
odd millions than there is in London, and
that more white people, proportionately, are
murdered or garrotted in Melbourne in a
month than in Java in a year. However,
if the murderer remains unfound, the Dutcn
will presently be talking, with a drop m
their voices, of stitte krackt. Stille kracht,
is the occult power the natives have, when
they are displeased with you, of turning the
water in your bath to blood, causing showers
of stones to materialise inside your mosquito-
net and otherwise making life full of un-
usualness for you. The Dutch residents m
Java, through over-indulgence in rystajel
and a bad conscience derived from their past
bad treatment of the natives, suffer from
unpleasant dreams, and believe in sUlle
kraeht. Consequently they bolt and shutter
their houses at night, and strange things
happen to them. The British are unbelievers
and sleep with their houses wide open, and
during a long residence in the island I never
heard of stille Icrabht paying a Britisher a
visit.
■*•***
“Merris” i A cona.l cut tlic straight roud
from Mena to Cairo, and the Digger who
wanted to get out of camp without a pass,
or to return thereto, found it a formidable
obstacle, for an
armed guard "was
stationed upon the
bridge. But the
patient Gyppo
came to the rescue,
and for half a
piastre (ljd.) car-
ried the delinquent
across the canal.
It meant a long
detour, however, so
some of the bolder
spirits conceived
the idea of return-
ing by motor, and
t/ribing the driver
to rush the bridge
at high speed. This
plan succeeded ad-
mirably until H.Q.
issued instructions
that the officer of
the guard would
be held personally
responsible if the
bridge was rushed.
So Smithers placed
a man a hundred
yards up the road,
and drawing his re-
volver took post on
the bridge himself.
About midnight a
car came streaking
along; it passed
the sentry without
stopping, so Smith-
ers let fly at the
wheels and rup-
tured a tyre. When
the badly-scared
driver was hauled
out of the wreck it
was found that the
Cairo police were
in urgent need of
him, and that the
car he drove had
been stolen. After
that the practice of
rushing the bridge
fell into disuse, and
the patient Gyppo earned more piastres.
* * * *
“Nance” : They say it's the cobbler’s child-
ren who always go barefooted. Watching
the woodehop at the Show the other day, I
had confirmation of the old proverb from a
flashly-dressed dame with a hacksaw voice.
“That's him!” she said in tones of scorn.
‘‘He’s won woodchops all over the place, ana
never cut mq a stick of wood m ail the
12 years weVere married !’ v
* * * *
“Romeo” : Dr.Adams,R.M..ofWyndham,the
northernmost port of W.A., is a zealous pro-
hibitionist as well as medical officer, magis-
trate and harbormaster of the town; but tew
of the other residents share his views. Re-
cently a trial took place in the iron court-
house with the temperature at 108 degrees in
the shade. The jury became thirsty, and a
water-bag and glass were requisitioned. The
bag, passed from man to man many times.
but, strange to say,
was still full when
the jury returned
its verdict. Half a
dozen bottles of
beer had been
handed through a
convenient window,
and the water-bag
was mere camou-
flage. To cap all
the jurors, who re-
tired into the
“Doc’s” office to
consider their ver-
dict, left all the
empty bottles
neatly arranged on
his table.
* * *
“AG.R.”: Let
me contribute
something defirfite
to the controversy
on the lowering , of
the’, ensign in' the
R.N. at sunset (B.
3/9/’2s>. Up to
the reign of Queen
Elizabeth . the en-
sign was flown at
masthead continu-
ously. On the score
of economy a regu-
lation avus passed
that the flags on
warships were to
be lowered at sun-
set, and to show
they were not
striking the colors
a bugle was to be
blown and a shot
fired —toward the
enemy if in sight.
This practice is
carried out on war-
ships to this day.
It explains also
the bugle-call and
the parade in mili-
tary camps at sun-
set.
“Sixenate” : The Melbourne Divorce Court
has been introduced to something new in
downtrodden husbands, a man who claimed
that, having married a woman with
90 years ago, he had ever since worked toi
5„ J w“tho„t 'wages, getting nothing out of
the contract but Ins board and lodging
scanty clothes. Even when the faim was
sold and the husband went droving, the wife
impounded all his money when he came back
to her, and, buying another farm, put him
to work on it on the old system. The worse
half got away and toiled on a sawmill, but
returned to manage a carrying business his
wife’s sons (she had nine children by a pre-
vious husband) had been runmng. Again
he received no wages, and, finding this sort
of thing monotonous, he faded out ot the
domestic picture, definitely this time, leaving
a final message for liis wife that she could
ioin him if she liked to realise that he was
boss. She didn’t like, apparently, and a
divorce for desertion w r as the outcome.
* * * *
“Northerner”: A divorce can be obtained
without undue publicity in Queensland if one
knows the ropes. Recently a smart young
society woman, daughter of a member of
Parliament, went through the court in l*ns-
bane. The Judge considerately ordered parts
of the evidence to be suppressed ; the news-
papers were discreetly “worded, and they
either ignored the case altogether or dis-
missed it in a few colorless lines. A weekly
paper which specialises in divorce found
something else to fill its columns with that
week, and the lady celebrated her freedom
by attending a garden-party at Government
House.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Conscience still makes
cowards of us all. A young clerk in Mel-
bourne who had been helping himself to the
cash was so overcome by fear of the conse-
quences that he bolted for the wharves and
worked his day to England on a tramp
steamer. Desperate unemployment decided
him to come home, and he worked his pass-
age back again—-only to be arrested when he
stepped ashore. The sum involved was just
£1(3 ; and in view of the circumstances he
was’merely bound over to behave himself for
two years," and ordered to make restitution.
Another youth robbed his employer’s till,
and then,” seared of discovery, fled into the
country. He had tramped it for 11 months,
working wherever he could get a job, before
he returned, much built up in health and
courage, to face the music. His peculation
ran only to 10s. The Bench made it the
same time as in the other ease.
* * * •
“J.A.” : To bob or not to bob is a ques-
tion likely to provide the Adelaide courts
with a breach-of-promise action The couple,
most happily engaged, were, looking forward
to the wedding day until the bobbing ques-
tion bobbed up; then trouble began. The
Indv was the possessor of one of those glori-
BECOMING MODESTY.
THE CAPTAIN: “Has any of your family made a brilliant match?"
THE LADY: “Only one —my husband.”
ous heads of hair that arouse the envy of
her own sex and the admiration ot the otner.
There was no one who prized that head
of hair more than the young man. He coaxed,
pleaded and did all in his power to save it,
but all to no avail, for fashion had spoken. In
his last effort to avert the threatened calamity
he arrived with a beautiful diamond pendant
But he was too late; the lady-barber had
done her fell work. He gave one glance
and without speaking a word bowed and
withdrew. On the following morning he
sent a letter breaking off the engagement,
and now the lawyers are busy.
JUST AS IT STRIKES YOU.
GWENDOLINE : “I have a. passion for the
stage; my one desire is to appear be-
fore the footlights.”
HORACE : “When I hear pour father ap-
proaching my one desire is to disappear
before the foot lights.”
“Runa” •Of the 20 mariners who deserted
from the U.S. Fleet in Auckland, not one
has responded to the American Consul s
invitation to them to return to Pearl Harbor,
to be drafted to their respective ships and
finish up with a court-martial. Maonland
thus gains 20 new immigrants, with a pro-
mise from Uncle that should any of the men
prove undesirables he will defray the ex-
pense of deportation. Which is almost
equivalent to guaranteeing the good be-
havior of the new arrivals.
(Continued on page TV.)
AT POZIERES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Pozieres Hall presented a pretty appearance
on the occasion of a social evening at which Mr. and
Mrs. Bull entertained in honor of Miss and
Mr. ——, whose marriage was celebrated at Stan-
thorpe... .decorations in wild flowers and colored
streamers.... dancing and card-playing and songs.”
—Brisbane Daily Mail item from Pozieres ( Q .).
At Pozieres the other day we danced and played
till ipc cocks were crowing—
At Pozieres, out Stanthorpe way, where sweet the
apple-blossom’s blowing
And life is rather a swell affair, with room for love
and a likely mating;
We drank good health to a happy pair and wished
’em joy in a real old feting,
W hen Mr. Bull he gave a party,
A fine, old-fashioned social party,
A rare good sort of a dancing party,
At Pozieres.
At Pozieres we decked the hall with streamers flaunt-
ing from floor to rafter ;
We had no use for gloom at all, our welcome guests
were the lights and laughter.
But was it a shadow made me stare, a vagrant wind
and a curtain shaken?
Or was it a wraith from over there, that old-world
place of the name we’d taken,
When Mr. Bull he gave a party,
A playing, singing social party,
A rare good sort of a dancing party,
At Pozieres?
At Pozieres was notching fey in all the young and
glowing faces,
But Pozieres, a world away, seemed to leer at me
from hidden places;
And ghosts I saw of a greater pain than ever in
peace may find forgetting;
Like a motif grim through a gayer strain I heard
strange sounds of an older setting,
When Mr. Bull he gave a party,
A singing, swinging social party,
A rare good sort, of a dancing party,
At Pozieres.
OUT OF COURT
“Sadie read such a splendid paper at the club yesterda.”
“Nonsense! Nobody who wears such obviously self-made hats could
be splendid about anything.”
At Pozieres —a life ago—were streamers of flame of
Hell’s own stoking,
With screech of shells as the songs to know, and
grunting guns with their anger choking;
And life was rather a poor affair, and small the joy
of that other trysting
Where youth played a;, hand with stark despair and
danced to a tune of death's insisting,
When Mr. Bull he gave a party—
John Bull and Sons they gave a party,
A raw, damned sort of a devil’s party—
At Pozieres.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


THE MARCH OF PROGRESS IN OUR SUBURB.
1910-
[ 1913 f
1920
1922
1924
1925,
NO ROAD


Ď
SOAP has
6SS
-5 6?
P<?
stood for the highest achievement
in soapmaking for more than a century.
Try this delightful Soap and know the
charm of its actual use in your daily lift
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd.
p-
m
H
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepar ;d in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsapari-la.
“8.M.” : The three birds who lately sawed
through the iron window-bar of a police
cell in Auckland recall Archibald Freeman s
sensational escape from Parramatta Gaol
(N.S.W.) 25 years ago. As he sawed
through the iron bars he replaced them with
wooden ones, and when the time was ripe
crawled out of his cell, which was m the
highest part of tlie wing, and let himself go
on the chance of catching hold of the electric-
light cable below. By a miracle lie suc-
ceeded, and, swinging by it, reached the wall
and freedom. When callous sleuths nabbed
him after a couple of years, and he again
took up his residence in Parramatta, he
found he had been a reformer. Every night
every bar in every cell was tapped; and it is
still the bitter custom.
* * * *
“Nikko”: The ideal lodger was revealed
in a recent court case arising out of the
usual domestic brawl. He was sitting read-
ing in the seclusion of his room when the
lady of the house rushed in, shrieking to
him to save her, closely followed by her hus-
band armed with a bottle. Round and round
the room they whirled, upsetting various
articles of furniture; finally the lady rushed
into the street and sought the protection of
the police. When the case came to court
the lodger was summoned as a witness, but
he disclaimed all knowledge of the disturbance
on the ground that he had been reading, and
had continued reading throughout. He had,
he stated, certainly been aware that there
was something doing, and had heard voices,
but as he had never lifted his eyes from his
book or lost the thread of his story he could
throw no light upon the matter. The
astounded magistrate remarked that, judging
by the landlady’s injuries, the affair had been
one of some intensity ; but the model lodger
was allowed to stand down.
GOOD ENOUGH FOR THEM!
“Just think of it, Kathleen, the mice ate the cakes I
baked yesterday!”
“Never mind, darling. Don’t worry about a few mice.”
“The Skipper”: The night we relieved the
Nth Battalion one of their men was killed
in the outposts, so we promised to send him
down for burial the next evening. A hard
frost had followed three days of snow, and
stars shone brightly in a cloudless sky when
I set out on a tour of the line. At the head
of the communication trench I came upon a
couple of Diggers squatting on their haunches
under cover and sharing a woodbine, draw
for draw; near them a third man leaned
against the side of the trench in an ungainly
attitude. “What are you chaps I
asked. “Oh, we’re just taking that Nth
bloke down for burial,” was the reply. H
was frozen that stiff we reckoned we d cut
TIME AND BEARD WAIT FOR NO WOMAN.
WIFE : “I’m quite ready now, dear.”
HUBBY: “Well, you must wait until I shave again.”
out tlie stretcher.” Snuffing the fag they
hoisted their burden shoulder high; and I
noticed that as they stumbled along the slip-
pery trench their talk was of a girl in
Bournemouth.
* * *
“Pick”: A timepiece with a long Austra-
lian history is in the possession of W. J.
Cartwright, of Temora (N.S.W.). Away
back in the Macquarie era a ticket-of-leaye
mechanic undertook the construction of six
clocks for Sydney clients, one of whom was
the pioneer Anglican clergyman, the Rev.
Robert Cartwright. His selection kept time
for him until his death at Goulburn m 180b',
there it was sold with his other effects. Some
time ago, with the intention of presenting
some relics of the Rev. Robert to the
Mitchell Library, Sophia Cartwright, a
grand-daughter, traced the purchaser of the
clock to Maoriland. There the search was
carried on by W.J. of the same family, who
eventually recovered the heirloom. It now
adorns his home at Temora, and still keeps
fair time.
* * * *
“J.A.”: The new T. and G. Insurance
building in Adelaide, which is near comple-
tion, seems to be out for other records be-
sides that of. being the
highest and most, expensive
structure of its kind in the
city. It seems to be trying
to'find out how many people
it can scare out of their
wits without otherwise
harming them. On several
occasions stray bricks have
fallen without finding a
mark. A heavy plank hurt-
ling earthwards skilfully
missed a party of young flap-
pers. A mason’s chisel fell
through the roof of a wait-
ing motor-car and damaged
a lady’s boot. A fly-wheel
went through the skylight of
the Commonwealth Bank, a
pot of paint fell on a lady’s
umbrella, and a piece of
sheet-lead knocked the pipe out of a man’s
mouth. And it’s not finished yet.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: O’Grady borrowed a shilling
from a friend of mine many moons ago. The
creditor has often seen the debtor since, but
the latter never happened to have the money
on him. The other day I saw the pair to-
gether, and steered them to the nearest bar.
O’Grady didn’t drink, but had a cigar. He
presented it to the third member of our
party with the words, “There s sixpence of
the bob I owe you.” My friend was stag-
gered, but managed to call for a refill.
O’Grady went through the same ceremony
as before. Then the final blow came. He
didn’t ask us if we would have another; he
just thanked us and left.
“T h e Hermit” :
Colonel Light re-
membered other
places besides
Thebarton (B.
24/9/’25) in some
of the names he put
upon the map of
South Aus. During
his first trip to the
north of Adelaide
he traversed the
plains where Salis-
bury and Gawlcr
now flourish, and,
working towards
the hills, was struck
with the similarity
of the ranges to
those he had seen
in the Peninsula
campaign, where his
old friend General
Graham (after-
wards Lord Lyne-
doch) had fought
and won the battle
of Barossa. The
range and adjacent
plain he accord-
ing 1 y christened
Barossa, a pictur-
esque valley about
two miles long re-
ceived the name of
Lyudocli, and a
neighboring hill he
called Mt. Craw-
ford after another
of Wellington’s offi-
cers. On his return
trip he was so
bothered with a
thick, scrubby for-
est that he gave it
the name, still
used, of Humbug
Scrub. Vines now
cover the greater
part of Lyndoch
Valley, and Light’s
spirit would note
a greater reseta-
blance to the Peninsula scene. >
“X.D.”: The Fitzroy (Melbourne) Police
Court was lately brightened by the glow ot
a romance, but it was romance of rather a
dingy sort. The lady was charged with
vagrancy and being the companion of thieves
and undesirables, also with sleeping in a
nark. An apparently hard-working young
man employed as a carter appeared in court
on her behalf, and undertook to marry her
if the Bench would be merciful. The accused
did not seem exactly enthusiastic over the
offer; but the J’s.P. present, having the
matter left in their hands by a lady who
undertook to do “whatever your W orslnps
say,” practically sentenced her to matrimony.
“Caffeine”: It has been so widely circu-
lated that Australians are the most con-
firmed tea-drinkers on earth that the Digger
staying in the hospitable homes of England
generally found himself provided with a
large pot each morning as an eye-opener;
and if he didn’t drink at least three out-size
cups at 4 o’clock his hostess wondered if
the brew had drawn properly. It was just
the same when he visited an English mess;
his host would be sure to say “The kettle
will be boiling in a minute, old man, but in
tlie meantime can I offer you a spot.'” Still,
I never quite credited Connor s story when
he returned from spending Christmas at Lady
Talltower’s that the butler said “Champagne
or tea, sir?” at dinner. However, I may-
have wronged him.
* *
“J TK ” • Young Australia again. Stand-
ing with his back to the traffic a lad was;
unshed over by a passing motorist m Wick-
ham (Brisbane) the other day. Hardly had.
he struck the pavement when the inevitable;
crowd surged around. The motorist pulled
up and alighted, prepared for the worst, but
the youngster merely struggled to his feet,
with “Give’s a sprat, mister, and I won t
squeal on yer.” “Sure you wouldn t like me
to run you up to the ambulance? inquired
the other, vastly relieved. “No !” snapped
the boy; “give’s a sprat instead!” #
“Coppertop” : Add to the. list of Australian
watercourses used for baptismal services (B.
10/9/’25) Kedron Brook, Nundali, near
Brisbane. The rites were performed in the
old swimming hole near the local coalmine,
converts being required to line up on the
bank, walk the length of the springboard and
take “a header.” One timid lass held up
proceedings on one occasion by jibbing at
the last moment. The officiating minister, a
15-stoner. wasted no time in pleading; he
jumped on the springboard, and a tremendous
splash marked the entrance of another Bap-
tist into the fold.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The Providence that
looks after drunken men and little children
put in some good work at Hawthorn (vie.)
tlie other day. Two motorists, moving at
a good speed, almost wheel to wheel, came
round a sharp turn to take a hill, and were
horrified to see a drunken man zigzagging
about in the roadway, and a boy s trolly -
one of those contraptions young Billo makes
by fitting wheels on to a soap-box racing
down-hill towards them. The motorists fran-
tically veered away from one another, and
it was their cars that sustained all the
damage that was done—one struck a tele-
graph-pole and the other ran into a gutter.
The small boy in the trolly, colliding with
the drunk in one of his zigzags and thereby
acquiring a passenger, shot througn the
narrow laneway between the two cars, miss-
ing the diverging back-wheels by inches; and
the motorists, looking behind, saw boy and
drunk, startled but uninjured, sorting them-
selves out in the soft grass at the toot ot
the hill.
* * * *
“Henry Pannikin”: John Chinaman had
his own notion of reprisals. A Hun aero-
plane passed over Etaples at midnight anu
placed a “gooley” fair on top of one of the
tents of the Chinese Labor Corps. It
skittled three Celestials right out and badly
wounded four more, two of them from the
WANTED TO SHAKE
HANDS WITH HIM.
“ There's old Midas Moneybags .
Everything he touches turns
to gold.”
“Oh, Billy, introduce me, quick!”
opposite tent. Matters soon quietened down,
but just on daybreak a tornado of yells
from'the German compound almost drowned
the bugler’s reveille. There was a rush to
the scene. The Pongs, it transpired, had
held a consultation, which ended in each
procuring a jack-knife and scaling the walls
of the compound. Hun prisoners were tear-
ing frantically in all directions with
knife-brandishing Pagans in hot pursuit;
and the Tommy guards had to fire off a few
guns before they could stop what looked like
developing into a massacre.
THE SPRING POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October comes, October
The harbinger of Spring.
Pour me a cup of Robur,
I’ll taste no tids that sting.
A chap must keep him sober
Who. has a rhyme to sling.
Let inspiration’s ember,
Fanned hard, a glow diffuse.
Did Kendall say September
Waved Winter its adieus?
Mayhap. But please remember
He wasn’t at Vaucluse.
Soon Horace and Amanda,
Or Sammy with his Sue,
Shall in the Gardens stand —a
Society of two —
And watch the jacaranda
Let fall its flakes of blue.
Though Britain’s bards with fond eye
May April’s charms remark,
Apostrophising, conned high
In azure skies, the lark,
They cannot surf at Bondi
Or sail to Neilsen Park.
October comes, October
With bees upon the wing,
To grasp the land and robe her
In greens and golds that cling—•
And keep the poet sober
Who’d pen a lilt to Spring.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
BALLADE OF EVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
List, O Man. to the scientists’ views l
We started off an amoeba cell,
Something born in primordial ooze;
Then we developed a frame and shell,
And became a fish, with a lung as well,
And for sons lived by the salt blue sea....
If this be the tale our savants tell.
There’s something crook with our family tree.
Tired of the sea, for a change of booze
We took to the bush with a swoop and yell,
Evolved into apes of gorgeous hues,
Till, suddenly, after this joyful spell,
We found we’d changed, and behold! pell-mell
We were he-men, hairy and huge, perdie,
Just like the heroes of Ethel Dell—
There’s something crook with our family tree.
But yet I doubt if there’s much to choose
’Twixt the man that rose and the man that fell.
For the Fundamentalists’ gloomy news
Few philosophical doubts will quell.
Old Adam and Eve they brought in Hell,
As they know way back in Tennessee,
And a sinful world where we must dwell—
There’s something crook with our family tree.
Envoy.
Anthropologists sound our knell,
And theologians all agree,
And not a soul can the thought dispel
There’s something crook with our family tree.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths de Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
FD
Ď
READY
F
Look for the Trademark ! Agent* Everywhere.
Writ' for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
165 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
The regret at Watt’s decision not to again
offer himself as Speaker of the Reps, is as
general as it is genuine. Undoubtedly he has
hoen the ablest occupant of the chair since
Federation, not even excepting Fred Holder.
On the other hand Givens’s announcement
that he would not seek re-election as Presi-
dent of the Senate has given unfeigned joy
to everybody. A greater contrast between
the heads of two Houses could hardly be
possible.
Some October birthdays :
J. Garibaldi Roberts (Melb.), 65, on 3rd; John
Giico (Melb.), 75, on 6th; Justice Ferguson
(N.S.W.), 64, on 7th; Philip Davey, V.C., 29, on
10th; J. J. G. McGirr, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 43,’and
poet Dr. C. H. Souter, 61, on 11th; Judge Rolin
(N.S.W.), 62, on 12th; Walter Gill, F.L.S. (ex-
Conservator of Forests, S. Aus.), 74, on 13th;
Langdon Bonython (Adel. Advertiser), 77, and N.
G. Bell (Commonwealth Railways Commissioner), 65,
on 15th; C. H. Wickens (Federal Statistician), 53,
on 16th ; E. C. Andrews (N.S.W. Government Geolo-
gist), 55, and Chief Secretary J. Jelley (S. Aus.), 52,
on 18th ; Federal Minister Neville R. Howse, 61, on
26th; Elliott Lewis (Speck), 67, and Archgaiters
Sharp (Brisbane), 60, on 27th; poet John B. O’Hara.
61, on 29th; A. J. Thynne (Q.), 78, on 30th; and
explorer Geo. H. Wilkins, 37, on 31st.
For the first time Vic. had a genuine
xarmcr-Premier at the Royal Show. John
Allan went out twice to study the exhibits
and hobnob with the countrv crowd trans-
planted to town for 10 days. Some of Allan’s
predecessors made a side-line of farming
lmt with him it is the main thing. On his
block of over 1000 acres at Wyuna South
he runs sheep, cattle and horses, but crops
J. D. FARRAR,
chief electoral-
officer for the
Commonwealth,
whose busy season
has begun.
only to a limited
extent since taking
up politics. He
helped with the
milkin' from the
time lie was a nip-
per of 10, and has
therefore had just
on half a century
of eockying. When
a youth lih slept
under a waggon-
load of hay he
carted into Tatura.
From the N.S.W. Gallery:—
Tom Bavin, just elected Leader of N.S.W. Nation-
alists, can be trusted to do the Parliamentary part
of his job industriously, but he has no liking for
the small talk in the electorates—Tom Henley is
better at that. Once Henley showed him how to do
it. It was while Henley was away busy on
work. Empire Day came, and Bavin delivered a!
speech at the largest Ryde public school, the centre)
that returned both him and Henley to Parliament. •
For just one moment Bavin looked the man of the)
moment; then suddenly the headmaster produced a j
letter from the absent “colonel” in which the dominie”
was requested to tell the sunny-faced children of
Ryde and their ever-dear parents that, though far;
away helping the brave Anzacs in their struggle for j
liberty, he was with them that day in spirit, and ;
in fancy he would hear again their fresh young •
voices as they raised them to Heaven in the- !
glorious strains of “God Save the King.” Never,'
Henley thought, had any district been blest with
a finer combination of children and parents to
respond to the good work of a set of public-school
teachers specially selected for their fitness. All
Bavin could do was to groan.
Of the 11 men who were W.A.'s initial
contribution to the Federal Parliament,
nearly a quarter of a century ago, only
Senator Pearce remains on his job. Two
are dead —Solomon, who was an elderly man
when elected, and Forrest, who passed out
at 70. Of the other eight, Stanifdrth Smith
is a Papuan Administrator: Alex. Matheson
has settled down to be a Scottish baronet;
Ned Harney is a Liberal M.P. in the House
of Commons; and Norman I-Xving is a Tas-
manian Judge. Kirwan is a Statje M.L.C.;
Fowler and De Largie fell out of the public
eye when they lost their seats at the last
election. The 11th man is Ifyigh Mahon,
who returned to his native Ireland four or
five years ago.
William Laidlaw had a very brief innings
as Director of Melbourne Botanic Gardens.
While royal-show festivities were at their
height news came to the Lands Department
that he had suddenly got the call. Prior
to succeeding John
Cronin at the be-
ginning of last
year, he was bio-
logist to the Agri-
cultural Depart-
ment. He was only
59. Australia and
Maoriland will be
dredged for a suc-
cessor at £BOO a
year and a nice
home in charming
surroundings.
ELLWOOD G.
BABBITT, Ameri-
can Trade Com-
missioner, whose
office has been
transferred from
Melbourne to
Sydney.
From the N.S.W. Gallery:—
James Dooley does not make nearly as much noise
in the Speaker’s chair as Danny Levy did. Usually
he contents himself with one “Order!” at a time,
and no concussion is felt in the gallery above. With
Levy it was different. On slight provocation “Order! ”
ran up the scale, being repeated three times. If
the watchdog was ruffled a little “Order ! ” was barked
six times. And then the scribes above felt something'
bumping, and craned their necks to ascertain who
was being murdered down below.
Passed out a few days ago while travelling
on the Wyreema for a southern holiday,
Ernest L. Humphry, North Queensland’s
best-known surgeon. For over 40. years he
had stood the climate, having come to
Mackay from Guy’s Hospital, London, about
1884. Townsville attracted him in 1888, and
he built up a very large practice in that
city. Being Government Medical Officer, he
attended the Orphanage, and showed there
his humanity and love of children, finding
foster-parents for many, and giving the more
promising youngsters a start in life—often
at his own expense. He was heading to-
wards 70 when angina pectoris robbed the
North of one of its best.
A victim of the osm iridium rush to the
Adams River (Tas.) was Major Arthur
Morrisby, farmer, miner, soldier and politi-
cian. Morrisby was member for the Gordon
(West Coast) in the Speck’s Upper
House from 1800 to 1010, was Hon-
orary Minister in the W. B. Prop-
sting Ministry in 1004-05, and was
responsible for the Government of the day
making Macquarie Harbor into a port for
the Zeehan fields. Despite his age he decided
to try his luck in the Adams River rush, but
the heavy track was too much for him, and
heart failure brought the end a week after
he had arrived on the field. Two policemen
managed to get the body back over the 27
miles of muddy track, after which his com-
rades of the S’African War gave him a semi-
military funeral at Sandford, near Hobart,
where he started life 79 years ago.
Arthur Searcy, president of the Marine
Board of S.A., is publishing liis remi-
niscences. A bright spot is the account of
the journey to Hobart in January, 1895, as
secretary to Kingston in the conference of
Premiers re Federation. The others were
Reid, Turner, F'orrest, Nelson and Braddon.
Turner and Kingston were deputed to pre-
pare a draft bill, and the latter did the spade
work. Searcy describes vividly the eight
hours’ continuous sitting of himself arid his
chief at Ilea thorn’s Ilotel: “No refresh-
ments, no smoking, no interruptions from
outsdde, as the door was locked.’’ The work
was 1 done between S p.m. and 4 a.m., and
the draft was in the hands of the Govern-
ment Printer before daybreak. Searcy de-
clares that both going to Hobart and return-
ing h<j was wakened from deep sleep by what
he took to be the steamer’s siren hooting;
rushing out to see if there was disaster, he
found on each occasion that it was George
Reid snoring in an adjacent cabin.
Thomas Gcltatly, of Lochaber and Eids-
vold (Q.), has left on the long journey. At
the Brisbane Exhibition every year Loch-
ab<jr buliocks captured many prizes, and the
Gemitly brothers, joint owners of the sta-
tion, wore known throughout Australia as
breeders of high-class stud stock. Forty
years* ago Thomas Gellatly left his native
Scotlißnd, and thereafter sampled life in
Queensland as stockman, station manager
and squatter.
J. Lnmaro, who will carry Labor’s banner
through l Hughes’s safe North Sydney dis-
trict. is a youjtliful barrister who arrived at
the Bar via a clerkship in the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department. Entering the public ser-
vice soori after he left school, he attended
the evening leqtures at the Uni., and gradu-
ated with* honors in several subjects. After
admission he still found time to take an
interest hi Itugby football, and in Labor acti-
vities as well. He is still only 27.
Died in the train between Adelaide and
Mount Lpfty, Fred Chapman, the type of
religious brewer such as E. T. Smith was
in the previous generation. Chapman, who
was only t’4o at the end, gave all his busi-
ness career to the Lion Brewery. He was
secretary to> S.A. Associated Brewers, a
director of the Bottle Co. and represented
the trade at conferences in the other States.
His financial knowledge was largely used
by the Anglican church in his State, and
lie was both synodsman and lay-reader for
many years-
Passed out, at 65, Frank Darlcy, of Nan-
ango (Q.). He was widely known in
Queensland as a breeder of blood horses, and
many of them have carried silk with suc-
cess. Little Bea-nie was the best-known of
the sires he owned. He had an ideal breed-
ing pasture at Kunioon, on the bank of
Barker’s Creek.
Thirty years ago A. E. Dungey, of the
Vic. detective force, had a terrific struggle
with a criminal known as French Joe,
whom he ultimately oaptured. Subsequently
Dungey became Superintendent of Police,
but retired and took up farming on French
Island. Recently he was missed by his
neighbors. Upon looking him up at his
home they found that, three weeks before,
he had fallen from his horse and broken a
leg. He had managed to drag himself to
his home, where he set the leg himself.
Later he discovered he had not set it
straight, so' he, reset it, using pieces of
bark instead of splints. He is still as
game as when French Joe mtet him.
Australia’s record father is probably an
Ararat (Vic.) man, R. Carpenter, who was
before the court recently for having failed
to send one of his children to school. He
said he had had 2S of thciiji. with the help
of four wives. A paralysed Court discharged
him.
Douglas Grant, the full-blooded abo. who
was employed as a drauglitsman by Mort’s
Dock and more recently at the Small Arms
Factory, Lithgow, was recently charged in
Melbourne with assaulting a Chinaman, but
he worded his apology so gracefully in court
that the Bench decided a »s. fine sufficient
punishment. Grant, who served in the A.1.F.,
was taken prisoner by the Germans. The
darkie in the A.I.F. uniform puzzled his cap-
tors, who passed him over airsongst the In-
dians ; but Grant indignantly insisted that
he was a dinkum Australian, and was drafted
back amongst the Diggers. He remained
a prisoner for two years.
Archbishop Kelly (Sydney) is making
prodigious efforts to compete St. Mary’s,
and the financial drive he (set in motion is
likely to see the great edifice finished to the
last stone before 1026 is long out of its
swaddling clothes. The weekly onslaught on
the various parishes is meeting with a re-
sponse so far in excess of early expectations
that the prelate expects* that the opening
will be accomplished with no monetary lia-
bility remaining. It v*ll be the greatest
ecclesiastical pageant Catholicism lias known
this side of the Equator, and Rome is ex-
pected to do something particularly striking
to mark Dr. Kelly’s crowning achievement.
IT. A. Mill left, selected to succeed A. E.
V. Richardson (now of Adelaide) as super-
intendent of agriculture in Victoria, at £BOO
a year, has been senior field-officer for some
years, and will give a good account of him-
self in the new job. His appointment has
given a lift to other professional officers of
the department. W. A. N. Robertson, who
was lent to W.A. to suppress rinderpest,
and did the work thoroughly, will be placed
on the same level as Mullett so far as
salary goes. He, however, has a faculty for
organising and emergency work that makes
him a good Government asset apart from his
job as chief vet. and stock inspector.
James Clark, Australia’s “pearl king,” is
now “out of pearls” as a business, although
ne still cannot resist the temptation to buy a
hue specimen. He has a wonderful collec-
tion of them of all sizes, shapes and colors.
At one time he controlled a fleet of 225
luggers and employed a thousand men. He
lias paid as much as £5OOO for a single pearl,
and on one occasion bought a hatful in one
lot at Sharks Bay (W.A.). Nowadays his
long suit is wool, and he runs a few race-
horses in Brisbane as a hobby.
J. M. BADDELEY, N.S.W Minister for
Mines and Labor, who has charge of the
Government's Forty-four Hour Bill.
Castlemaine’s idol, Harry Lawson, who
has been lying low since lie relinquished the
Vic. Premiership 17 months ago to try for
the Speakership (which he didn’t get), has
thrown his hat in the ring again by taking
the presidency of the Nat.-Fed. Senator Bill
Plain declined to stand again for the job.
knowing that the Nat. Union, which holds
the purse, didn’t want him. Lawson has
found it very restful, after six years’ tur-
moil, to be merely a private member. Now
there is almost as much speculation upon his
future as upon Watt’s. But this seems
sure: neither will be content to become a
benevolent political guide to aspiring youth :
each will want to demonstrate further how
things should be done.
Dr. Robert Marshall Allan, who has been
appointed by Melbourne Uni.’s Council to
the new £2500 a year directorate of research
in maternal mortality, is a Queensland man
still east of 40. He graduated 15 years ago
from Edinburgh, won his M.C. and a men-
tion in the course of his war service with
the R.A.M.C. and A.A.M.C., and after the
peace returned as honorary gynaecologist to
the Lady Bowen Maternity Hospital in Bris-
bane. Something of a linguist and a recog-
nised authority on liis pet subject, Dr. Allan
impressed the council sufficiently to secure
a unanimous hoist to the research director-
ate. His job. which is to be financed by
the Edward Wilson trust, will be to get at
the cause of Victoria's high maternity death-
rate.
There are still good horses as well as good
horsemen back in the mulga. Lately big
Bill Mullins, who stands over 6ft., rode into
Tibooburra Hospital to get attention for his
“trench feet” —one of the little souvenirs he
brought from France. (He had been through
the S’African War, too, so he is no chicken.)
He saddled his horse 65 miles out on a
lonely station on the S. Aus. border at 2
o’clock in the afternoon, “just jogged along,’’
and though he spelled four hours on the way
he was in at the hospital at 2 o’clock the
next afternoon. Next day, his mutilated
ankles having had attention, he put the
bottle of medicine in his pocket, threw his
leg over the same horse, and started back
again.
Queensland’s Master of Titles, ,T. J. Mac-
Ginley, is master of many other titles. He
is an M.A., LL.B. and B.Se., a barrister, a
licensed surveyor, a certificated engine-
driver and a mine manager. In his spare
time he is a newsagent. MacGinley lias laid
out several railway lines in Queensland, and
another little job was the surveying of the
pony racecourse at Coorparoo. He served
his time at sea, and on coming ashore beat
all the land-lubbers in the law examinations.
He has the right of private practice as a
barrister, and frequently appears in the
courts. Recently big cases in which he
starred were the inquiry into the Traveston
railway smash (in which he represented the
A.R.U.) and the defence of the British sea-
men in the strike prosecutions.
THE GOLDEN JOURNEY TO BAGDAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Nairn brothers, formerly of Maoriland, have
revived the old caravan route between Damascus and
Bagdad, limousines replacing camels.”
When good Haroun-Al-Raschid reigned,
And Bagdad was a festive town,
Such sure temptations were retained—
Rose-water fountains splashing down
Stained marble courts, a wonder-show,
Booths gay with silk and rich with spice,
And bright crowds passing to and fro—
Its splendors ever would entice
Pilgrims to take the camel-pad,
The golden journey to Bagdad.
Strange crowds passed through Damascus gate
With strings of camels, laden high
With merchandise, to trust to fate,
A gallant caravanserai,
And cross the plains by day and night
Where bandits lurked and beasts of prey,
To reach the City of Delight,
And hit the high spots, come what may,
Taking, for commerce, sport or fad,
The golden journey to Bagdad.
But long ago the pitch was queered;
No more slow trails this motley crew
That swore upon the Prophet's beard—
Slaves, merchants, jugglers, fakirs, too.
No more are lurching camels seen
Along old Tigris’ banks. To-day
Pilgrims prefer a limousine.
What would Haroun-Al-Raschid say
If he could sec Tin Lizzies had
Usurped the road to old Bagdad?
VICTORIA.
L. E.


m
m
s*
Si
77
£
>r
d
<£?v7
C
om
*0
M
S 1
fir
-M
y
SSI
r-s
5^
9
/
r+'jrs.
¥ l |<g>
SM
* f V|»Mm >•*
£
likW*
S&
<g)
/*£»->
:***V
M *l *V H
v *^
IVV"1 VV "S V
\><\H
VI
•vt.
Wkv
■i'&x
n
&
T‘
L. p-
- '-•'* >
4:c
v<~
Ir\~
r^c
i#-;-
■p ",
er<?
Wfc
(3du/\/s'
fn Unique Packings,
Tins of 20, lfe
Tins of 50, 7/9
Cigarettes
(OVALS )
Ckoice
Virginian
Tobacco
The smoker
who is severely critical
is the first to appreciate
W "POLO” Cigarettes (ovals)
Only from their exquisite ex-
cellence is it possible to realize
the full pleasure of cigarette enjoy-
ment. They will always be
1 the unhesitating choice of ,
k the smoker who sets store 0
on the highest possible
standard of
quality.
W.D. & H.O.WILLS


c
~IM
s B0ok:
PURE
Jit
M
c
VC
Still
tHe Same Price.
‘‘Old C° u rt” remains the same in price notwlth-
htandnig the higher protection. Distilled and
bottled under strict Government Supervision, “Old
Court is guaranteed 100 p.c. pure.
MALT WHISKY.
INSIST ON GETTING.
/ s.'
TO
“The
World's
Purest.'”
wifUS I
MM
Him'
I -
Ss-S‘
Rg*
&
FUMO
BRAND
%
$
more praise for.
CALCIUM CYANIDE
THE CERTAIN RABBIT EXTERMINATOR.
this pest. While digging out is too ex-
pensive for many holders of poor land,
Calcium Cyanide being cheap, will, I
think, be the method generally adopted by
all leaseholders and owners of poor, cheap
country, and may be the boon that many
landholders have been looking for.”
Apply CALCIUM CYANIDE with the Fumo Dust Blower.
Full particulars on request.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co. Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-oi». Union, Ltd.. Adelaide
Queensland: Buzaeott’s (Q’land), Ltd.. Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris. Searfe & Sandovers. Ltd.. Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French. Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Co-, Ltd., Hobart.
Mr. Fredk. H. Pines, Stock Inspector, Gundagai, writes:
“Re my Board’s experience with CALCIUM CYANIDE for
rabbit destruction, I wish to state that the Blower has been
used on Reserves witli very good results. There is no doubt
in my mind that all rabbits in burrows where Calcium
Cyanide is used are killed. It is cheap, and if used properly
will kill everything in the burrows, and will be the means
of saving thousands of acres of grass from destruction by
D
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
, r^'wo keas : All the old salts I sailed
WI , 111 youth suffered from “rheumatiz” more
Z,!T l 1 J’ eVer heard of one gating tattooed
„ _ hls T Jolnts or elsewhere as a remedy (B.
'Z j, \ 5) - In . the old sailing-ship days, when sailors
ent to sea instead of loafing around on strike pay,
tattooing served the purpose of identity discs. The
old shellback’s idea was that in case his body was
washed up on the beach some portion of him might
be recognised by the indelible marks. Young sailors
often got thus decorated because they thought it
was the correct thing to do, and later on were
soiry for it, particularly so when they had tattooed
acioss their chests “I love Sue” and married Poll
<<T * „
J arrau : In writing of she-oak “Coot”
(B ‘ 27/8/’25) that “the prefix ‘she’ was
1 obably used to indicate an inferiority of timber in
[nofTnM 0 teXt " re color -” ago, when farm-
ng in the north of South Aus., we cut hundreds of
tons of oak. There were two kinds; one bore
apples and the other didn’t. We called the kind
that bore the oak-apples “she-oak,” the other kind
bull-oak or black-oak.” But the casuarina of
southern W.A. is quite different from those oaks.
Z IS ] ‘ ke a fir-tree, straight as a gun-barrel, grows
the \arreforest. iS P,incipally tound
* #
~ : In most of the islands of
the Solomon group the more industrious and ingenious
ST r V6 f l he , b ° WS 0f fheil ' canoes to resemble
the heads of birds or fish with gaping jaws and
terrifying rows of pearl-shell teeth and ghastly
saucer-dike eyes. On Santa Anna, a small island
at the eastern end of San Christoval, there is a
fine travelling canoe which accommodates about 40
rowers and a couple of steersmen. It is used occa-
sionally io cross to the mainland of San Christoval
tor yams taro, pigs and other kaikai. The Santa
Anna people are famous in the group for their canoe
ivhfh 16y llaVe also a fine canoe house
™ K no T woman «iay enter-canoe houses
le taboo. In some parts the women may not even use
certain canoes. In the Shortlands and the western
end of the group the natives use little outriggers
generally propelled by one man. Though sometimes
of a larger size, they are invariably flimsy affairs.
Paiadoxically this flimsmess is their strong point
as m a seaway the outrigger “works”—that is’
springs slightly, and thereby avoids straining the
lawyer-cane lashings which hold the outrigger to-
gether. Many varieties of paddles are used in the
different styles of canoes, but they are nearly all
single ended.
* * * *
“AdeL”: During their annual corroborees,
Binghis who roam the wilds between the N. Territory
border and Boroloola,
in the Gulf country, do
a brisk trade. The
mountain blacks barter
carved hunting and war
implements for tobacco,
matches, tomahawks
and old clothing. The
natives of the salt
water, too indolent to
make weapons other
than plain boomerangs
and three-pronged
spears, barter their
da lighters to the
highest bidders among
the station blacks. Of
all the articles that
th e station buck can
offer in exchange for a
wife, nothing is more
eagerly sought than
matches, tin boxes and
bamboos. The bamboos
are not easily got in
the salt-water country.
When the wanderers
return to their native
lands the tin box is
deftly shaped into a
bowl, and, affixed to a
length of small bamboo
by the family crafts-
man, is filled ' with
trade” tobacco. When
this weed is not pro-
curable. the inner bark
of box-trees is used in-
toethP uni n L, eaCh , member 0f the fam °y down
to the little toddler draws at the long stem.
* * * *
“Hunt”: Progress has its little tragedies,
starting when a boy by carrying water from the
ilarcoo with a team of goats, he eventually saved
sufficient money to buy a waggon and horse-team.
01 about 40 years he followed the roads with decent
loads, his chief troubles being about .grass and water
during dry spells, but he always had plenty of work
bringing in sufficient cash for rations and a bit over’
His real worries started when a motor-lorry came
on the road, but he hung on with the thought that
wet weather would pull it up. The last 12 months he
has had a battle to merely live, having carted only
a load now and then. More motor-lorries have taken
up the running, and the squatters are giving them
preference, for they offer speedier transit and save
their grass. For ten years he has watched a big six-
ton Daimler pass him on the road, hoping it would
fall to pieces some day ; but at last a weary old man
realises that he must bow before the inevitable. Anti-
quity and progress pulled out together to-day on
different roads, the teamster with an empty waggon
travelling at three miles an hour, returning a
ANOTHER LOCUM TREMENS.
EDITOR OF BUNGLEDOO BLOWFLY: “Yes, sir; what can I do for
you?”
BELIEVING MEDICO: “What the biases do you mean by saying in
your confounded rag, sir, that ‘during the absence of Dr.
Potts his place will be taken by another mediocre’ ?”
broken old man to the town whence he had started
so hopefully many years ago, while the Daimler on
the upper road rattled along at 12 miles an hour
with 62 tons aboard.
* * * *
“Fitz”: Out Tibooburra way years ago
Charlie Moore made a trap with a rope, stick and
box for catching crows. He eventually caught one.
Then he made a medal out of a tin matchbox, and
decorated the captured crow with it, afterwards
giving the bird its liberty so that its black mates
might view the adornment. They received the
decorated crow cordially and seemed most interested.
In fact, a crow convention was hurriedly called,
and the black carrion-eaters seemed to come from
all quarters. The decorated crow was the centre
of interest,, and appeared to be conveying to its
pals how it came by the tin medal. After that
Moore caught a crow every time he set the trap.
They just rushed it. In a couple of days there
were 20 crows at large with medals. Then the
matchboxes gave out, and the last applicant
met with a tragic death. His neck was wrung
and his carcase thrown at the 20 decorated crows
on the fence. They shifted camp quick and lively
—left the district and were never seen afterwards.
* * * *
“9.2”: My dad tried for 20 years to breed
a black strain of sheep, but without success. From
one flock of 40 black merino ewes and two black
merino rams the residt was one black ram lamb.
Of the 38 lambs dropped 36 were pure white, and
two were white with small black patches. The pure
black ram was saved, and a couple of years later
was mated with a black ewe whose dam had been of
the same color. The result was a pure white lamb:
“Jackeroo”: I have seen one case of a black ewe
rearing a black lamb; also, a black ewe giving birth
to white twins. A freak occurred on one property
during the winter lambing season. Among a mob of
comeback ewes was one with twins, one being black
and the other white. They were identical in every
respect except color.
* * * *
“Cartot”: The markings on meteorites (B.
30/7/’25) are due to the effects of the atmospheric
and other pressures to which they are suddenly
subjected on coming close to the earth. When
they leave their original starting-point they are
molten. As they travel through space they gradu-
ally become harder, but on entering the atmospheric
envelope of the earth are still soft enough to have
their shape altered by impact against the air, which,
so far as they are concerned, plays much the same
part as a solid substance. The really remarkable
thing about these visitors is that, although thousands
of them have been analysed, no form of matter diff-
erent from that which exists on the earth has ever
been found in any of them. This and the fact that
the compounds invariably resemble their terrestrial
counterparts in their proportions indicate that not
only is the composition of the entire universe homo-
geneous, but it is governed by identical physical
and chemical laws.
* * * *
“Moo”: Although the New Guinea native
is frequently given credit for possessing a knowledge
of vegetable arrow-poisons of great toxicity, he
seldom, if ever, uses
such substances for
poisoning his weapons.
Instead, be adds the
finishing touch by plac-
ing the arrows in a
dead body, either
human or animal, and
leaving them there for
a period which may
range from several
days to a week. They
thus become so deadly
that even the slightest
scratch from the bone-
tip of one of then is
likely to produce fatal
results. Moreover,
weapons poisoned in
such a manner retain
their deadliness much
longer than do those
prepared with vegetable
poisons, the bacterio-
logical organisms to
which they owe their
toxic effects being fre-
quently as active years
hence as on the day
they were first made.
Even when death does
not follow the wound,
it is a practical cer-
tainty that a large
ulcer will develop at
the point of injury,
and sometimes bet ome
chronic. Some years
ago a friend received
a slight scratch on the
foot, hardly discernible
by the naked eye, from
a poisoned arrow nearty
five years old. Shortly
afterwards a rash ap-
peared and spread over
the whole foot. It was
accompanied by the
most excruciating irri-
tation, and, despite all
sorts of alleged reme-
dies, is just as bad
to-day as ever it was.
* *
“Nitric” : How does the cocky gauge the
amount of hay in his haystacks so accurately? Gener-
ally, I believe, it is a matter of experience, just as
with a cattleman who can guess the weight of a
bullock to a pound. An accurate method of arriving
at the weight was given me by an old specialist at
the game, an insurance agent. To the height in feet
of the stack to the eaves add one half of the height
from the eaves to the ridge. Multiply this result first
by the length in feet, then by the width in feet, and
divide the result by 27. This gives the contents of
the stack in cubic yards. A cubic yard of new hay
averages 1301 b. in weight, and of old hay from
1751 b. to 2001 b. ; therefore, to get the weight of the
stack multiply by this according to the age of the
hay. Does any Abo. farmer know a shorter and
more accurate method?
CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT.
MISTRESS ( who has just received notice) :
“I think it’s very unfair. You know
very well how I’ve slaved for you. I’ve
done all the work in the house for the
last fortnight!”
LOBELIA : “Yes, Mum. But I don’t like the
spirit in which you done it, Mum.”
“Jimbcr”: Here’s another for the list of
“dopes for dingoes.” Place half a dozen rusty
sardine-tins filled with strychnined water near a
hole which.has almost dried up at the end of sum-
mer. Care must be taken to use the same water as
the waterhole contained, and to handle the tins
with pincers.
(Continued on page 2fy.)
THE BARWON MAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There isn’t any “Outback” now, the old life’s
passed away;
The bush is getting settled fast, and smaller every
day.
The winding tracks the stockmen made are now
surveyed and straight;
And where the station fences cross each sports a
“cyclone” gate.
’Twould break our old horsepoets’ hearts could they
return and see
The mail go down the Barwon, in a motor down to
Bre.
Grey horses loved of Ogilvie, the Banjo’s Timor
crack,
The Breaker’s bucking thoroughbreds, are known no
more out back.
E’en- Lawson’s storied swagmen now have crossed
the Great Divide
To join with Gordon, Boake and those who used to
write and ride.
And where the Breaker gaily rode with Ogilvie and
me
The mail goes down the Barwon. in a motor down
to Bre.
In the old days West-of-Barwon was the edge of
West-away,
But it’s now all “inside” country where City
buslinien play;
Where the shearers come to roll-call with their
gear piled on a “Liz,”
And “pommies” talk of “roughing it,” but don’t
know what that is.
The ghosts qf ancient bushmen stir and murmur
restlessly
W hen the mail goes down the Barwon, in a motor
down to Bre.
When the steel rails joined the city with the
Barwon’s winding course
They closed the book for bushmen there, and tolled
the knell of “horse.”
The red-roan Clydesdales never more will bow their
heads and pull,
And never shall we hear again the ’Ghan’s musth
camel-bull.
For blazing headlights through the gloom light rut
and stump and tree,
While the mail goes down the Barwon, in a motor
down to Bre.
THE UNCERTAINTY OF SEA TRAVELLING.
APPREHENSIVE FERRY PASSENGER: “Do you think there’s any fear
of yon being called out by that horrid Walsh person before
we come back?”
The old-time teamster’s dying liai’d. With heavy
heart and full
tie sees the lorries roaring through with loads of
western wool.
He knows his only chance is when the blacksoil
grips them fast
And far-out settlers use once more a relic of the
past.
He 11 linger till the roads are made from swamp
and quagmire free,
While the mail goes down the Barwon, in a motor
down to Bre.
When once we’d crossed the Barwon, headed on
the western track,
We reckoned, forty years ago, we’d started for
Outback.
Bu; now along the sunset road right out to Cooper’s
Creek,
You’ll see the empty petrol-tins, you’ll smell the
motor’s reek.
And of the dear, old, spacious days, there’s nought
out memory, °
Yhen we rode for West-o’-sunset on the old mail-
track from Bre.
N.S.W.
J. D. C.


?•$ ' ; * IS
; : ■" .'./SS
.... ..
-
>•:
vi
i
.
litfit
IS
■
■
m
m
i
*n
i
t__
s x
■
a
is'
:
,r
m
v
■
T ms
:
mm
*** i
H
'M
m
» -
<
m
i
m


Cbe
€duitai)le
ĎF
Cite
Assurance Company
Queensland Od.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA,-
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing- Director.
-r£»TF
S 3
“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.'’
MALTHOID Floor Covering
RED OR GREY.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe."'
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
“The Rumpus”: “Morob’s” Gulf niggers
who know other human beings by their smell alone
(B. 27/8/’25) had a great champion in an Ash-
burton River (n.-w. W.A.) Binghi, whose proud boast
was that he had the same sniffing power as a dog
and could follow a person through rough country
by mere scent. Nobody ever thought of putting
him to the test until a number of wool-interested
men were staying for the night at the station
which the abo. called home. When yarns had died
out and the evening was tapering to a dull end,
the boss suddenly remembered his gifted blackboy,
and roped him fit for entertainment purposes. Tobacco
being put up as a reward for some demonstration of
Tarpot’s super-smelling sense, the nigger asked
THE BRIOUTER-GAOL MOVEMENT.
“The N.S.W. Minister for Justice, Mr. McKell, has decided to go a step
further in prison reform by allowing prisoners to play games, such as draughts,
chess, dominoes and rope quoits in the exercise-yards.”
Why limit it to these intellectual pastimes when there are so many
other sources of innocent merriment?
for each man’s name and sniffed the owner as he
heard it; then he requested the boss to tie a
handkerchief over his eyes. When he was ready each
member of the company stepped up in turn, and
Tarpot named him correctly by smell. One little
chap got a brain-wave, and, having very small feet,
asked the missus if she would lend him her
shoes, thinking he might thus mystify the black.
Up he walked in a choppy fashion, the shoes squeak-
ing loudly. For a moment Tarpot was taken back,
but quickly recovered and a great grin showed on
the part of his face left visible. “By cripes,
Mister Brown,” he said, “you bin wear boot belonga
missus. You better watch out alonga boss.”
“8.E.”: Tell “Loco” (B. 3/9/’25) that
the flaring of his engine lamp was caused by the
intensity of the vibrations emanating from a shrill
note Of his whistle acting on the flame. The
phenomenon was first noted about 100 years ago in
the Paris music-salons, where it was remarked that
the gas flared when the piccolo played its top notes.
Similar results may be obtained by shaking a bunch
of keys or making a hissing noike between the
teeth in the neighborhood of the flame. It all
depends on the gas pressure and the smallness of
the orifice.
THE SECRET OF HIS SUCCESS.
CURATE: “Look at me! I can go to the village and back without getting drunk."
VILLAGE INEBRIATE : “Oh, but you're different, boss. I'm a popular bloke."
“Curlew”: Concerning springs in hollow
trees (B. 20/8/’25), there is, or was 85 years ago
when I last saw it, a perfect specimen, called
from its discoverer Hickey’s Spring, near Gunya-
waraldi, n.-w. of Warialda (N.S.W.). The tree was
sawiixoff about 3ft. from the ground and contained
a hollowed space, about the size of a half 60-gallon
cask, kept full of water by the spring. It did not
overflow, but if you filled a bucket from it the level
was almost instantly restored. I have seen other
similar springs. The explanation seems to be that
when a hollow tree has a root with a cavity in
the vicinity of a spring, the water naturally com-
mandeers it as a means of exit which offers little
resistance.
* * * *
“Goolara”: As spring approaches, the birds
go house-hunting. Quarrians, rosellas, green-leeks
and red-backs, all very
numerous on the
N.S.W. tablelands, are
now eagerly searching
for nesting-places which
they have carelessly, let
fall into the 'hands of
immigrants. AD
through the winter I
noticed that one star-
ling of a mated couple
remained at home, each
in turn guarding the
family mansion and
querulously complain-
ing. Now’ the two are
needed, and together
they are barely able to
chase away intruders.
The presence of green-
leeks just now seems
to indicate that many
of the eucalyptus-trees
will put on their bien-
nial or triennial dress
of blossoms. If so, a
good honey season is
assured. The green
leeks follow the bloom-
ing of the eucalypts
and do the bee-farmer
a lot of harm. With
their brush-like tongues
they collect the honey
fur sustenance, and
even feed their young
on it.
“Jim Carew”: “Sheepskin” (B. 30/7/’25)
is well within the truth when he says that eels
have been found west of the Dividing Range. Eels
in our western waters are not uncommon. I found
onb in a waterhole about half a mile below the
point where the Fish and Campbell rivers junction to
make the Macquarie. I hooked a three-footer a few
miles below Dubbo, and caught a small one, which
had a sort of horn growing on its head, in the
Bogan, near Nyngan. Thirty-five years ago, or
thereabout, the Bogan River blacks regarded the
eel as the abode of an evil spirit and refused to
eat it.
“C. Coral”: I found out something about
an interesting group of stone figures the other day
at Murray Island. They were fashioned out of large
pieces of light stone in the forms of human heads,
turtle, fish and other things, and were known col-
lectively as pooleb. Each figure bore the name of
a star, and was controlled by the man who claimed
to be under the power of, or to have a proprietary
right in, that particular star. The function of the
group was to produce dysentery, famine and other
disagreeable consequences to any person or section.
When the zaoarab-le. the proprietors, were ready for
action, they proceeded to the spot where the stones were
and carefully cleaned them; they were then painted,
and a certain leaf was chewed by the men as they
stood in line, the spittle being ejected in the direc-
tion of the wind. The figures were next covered with
leaves and dry wangi -branchesj with the faces looking
so that they could “see their own star.” Precautions
had to be taken, by making particular “zoyo-talk,”
so that the spell would not have ill-effects on any
of those taking part. The old fellows who told
me all about it were quite confident that pooleb
had never been known to fail.
* * * *
Do horses’ hooves insulate?: —
“Noot”: An incident at South Grafton (N.S.W,)
during the changing over from the old power-plant
to the hydro-electric current proved that horses can
receive a shock through standing on ,or passing
over a place where there is a leakage. In this case
the escape was apparently from the earth connec-
tion of a transformer. A horse and rider passing
over a wet patch some yards away received a shock,
the horse being killed. It is a well-known fact that
horses are very susceptible to electricity and are
affected by currents which a man would scarcely
notice.
“E.1.C.”: A ease came under my notice in Tas-
mania where the leader of a team and his followers
were electrocuted on passing over an electrified
area. Electricity follows the path of least resist-
ance, and it may be that a stratum of good insula-
ting quality made an island of refuge for the horses
mentioned by “Maffra.”
* * * *
"Mepliisto”: Having worked among bees
for some years, I am now almost immune from the
effects of their sting. Some little time ago I
was stung on the arm, and quietly watched the pro-
cedure. As the bee had struck when on the wing,
the dart was firmly embedded, and she buzzed
frantically in her attempts to extract it. After
some time she abandoned this, and then attempted
to walk away. As the sting is firmly attached tc
the abdomen, she found this would not do, so she
proceeded to walk round and round the weapon.
Finally she succeeded in breaking it off, though
not without leaving behind a portion of her abdomen.
She left hurriedly. I extracted the dart by pushing
the blade of a knife under one of its barbs and
lifting it out. That is the correct way to operate.
St any people catch the projecting end between
thumb and fingernails, and so inject the poison into
the wound-
* * * *
“Nitric” : A farmer at Bathurst recently
succeeded in grafting tomato-plant slips on to an
English pqtato plant. The resulting hybrid bore
potatoes below the ground and tomatoes above it,
but no crossed fruit, such as in the paw'paw and
banana union, appeared. This is probably due to
the fact that the so-called “fruits” are products
of totally different methods of reproduction. A
great number of new varieties of potato have, how-
ever, been obtained by sowing the seed from the
berries obtained by cross fertilisation of the flowers,
though the best of these appear to decline gradu-
ally in value and become less productive. Both
tomato and potato belong to the botanical order of
which the deadly nightshade is a member.
“Arilcurra”: “Wonkonguru’s” theory (B.
18/8/’25), accounting for the difference in “culture”
between the desert blacks and the Arunta and kin-
dred tribes, seems extravagant. There is a simpler
and more natural explanation. It is summed up in
“environment.” The desert blacks are inferior men-
tally and physically, because their surroundings are
so. The food of the desert black is limited in
Variety and often in quantity. He does not have to
exert himself in hunting food, thus developing his
body and brains, to the same extent as his brother
of the mountains and valleys. To secure the lizard,
snake and even the kangaroo of the desert does not
require the same mental and physical agility as
catching the fish of the deep waterholes, the euros and
wallabies of the hills. There is one department,
however, in which the dese.it black is superior to
the hill country native, and that is in tracking.
This is due to the manner in which he has to cap-
ture his food by following it through the scrub and
across the claypans.
* * « *
“L.R.L.”: “Larrapinta” (B. 3/9/’25) says
lie gave permission to the Adelaide Museum to pre-
serve the skeleton of “Dick” Cubbagee. This abori-
ginal was brought to Adelaide by the late David
liindsay, in whose service he remained until his
death in the Adelaide Hospital, and it was Lindsay
who gave permission to the Museum to preserve
the skeleton, he being the only man in a position
to do so. Lady Brassey, in “The Last Voyage,”
says: “Mr. D. Lindsay, the Australian explorer,
came with his aboriginal servant, Cubadjee, whom
he had brought from some place in the interior.
This youth, it seems, is considered the short member
of the family; but,'although only 17 years old, he
is six feet five inches in height, while his elder
brother, they declare, is seven feet six inches, and
the rest of the family are equally tall. Cubadjee
made fire for us with two pieces of wood.” Just
before her recent death Mrs. David Lindsay pre-
sented these firesticks to the Adelaide Museum.
* * * *
“Taharangi”: “Rata” (B. 27/8/’25) is
rather too casual in his par. concerning the non-
transmission -of Maori characteristics to descend-
ants of mixed marriages. I would advise the Euro-
pean party contemplating the contract not to enter
into matrimony with any native who shows a
Melanesian strain. Before their voyage to M.L.
some of the tribes intermixed with Melanesian
islanders, and the negroid type of features has per-
sisted for 500 years. I have an acquaintance whose
only Maori blood is derived from his grandmother,
who was not pure Polynesian. His other forebears
have endowed him with the fair skin, flaxen hair
and blue eyes mentioned by “Rata,” but his
appearance is that of a truculent cannibal who has
contrived to get thoroughly bleached. In the case
of the Polynesian type of Maori, if one parent is
pure European and the other even quarter-caste, the
first baby will very likely show pronounced Maori
characteristics. As Rangi gaily told me: “When
the first one’s coming, you worry in case he’ll be a
little nigger, and sure enough he is. Second time,
you don’ care, so you get a little pakeha.”
THE ARISTOCRAT OF THE ROAD.
PAT : “Sure, it's that stuck-up Mick is since
he got the car, it's nothing less than a
drop of petrol he'll he after cadging these
toimes."
“Wax”: Recently, while engaged putting
the bracelets on bunny, I was annoyed by a pair
of wedgetailed eagles who breakfasted each morning
on my catch. 1 managed to trap one of them, but he
bjroke the chain and got away, with the apparatus.
That, how’ever, did not worry him overmuch, as
he was next seen miles away flying over a paddock
in which some young lambs were grazing. During
the next two weeks he was frequently seen till he and
the trap, which he stiil carried, became tangled up
in a barbed-wire fence and he was blanked out by
a farmer. When the tape was put over him it
showed 7ft. 2in. from tip to tip.
BUNDIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Click, click and turn the key;
Clang, clang, and loose the brakes—
C over the dead atid let ’em be
Dead for aye for their lonely sakes f
No more tiiey ride by Bogan side,
Nor out of Bourke again,
To drink like kings from silver springs
And rule by hill and plain.
No more they sing to hoofs that ring
On sound earth underfoot—
Their prads are trams, their spaces jambs,
Their clean air dust and soot.
No more they shout their eoo-ees out
To wake the starlit nights—
ft’s “Tickets, please,” and “Mind your knees!”
To soft suburbanites.
It’s roster rules and saving fools
And making “scalers” fly;
ft’s jerks and knocks and bundy-clocks—
And will be till they die.
To grab and tear and bag the fare
And hand the copper change—
You’d never think these had a link
With golden plain and range!
You’d never dream that hill and stream
Were theirs, and spreading plain;
That \ Aungs died with lesser pride
And Saxon, too, and Dane.
They keep their dead in hearts unread
By city sharp or snob;
Their freedom sold for paper-gold,
Their birthright for a job.
They plant their ghosts—rthe stringy posts.
The creek, the billabong;
The friendly lights that gleamed o’ nights;
The kookaburra’s song;
The hoofs that rung, the whips that swung;
The kelpies’ yelps, the stock—
They plant ’em well and .ding and ye 11....
And here’s another clock!
Click, click and turn the key;
Clang, clang and loose the brake —
Cover the past and let it be
Dead for aye for its lonely sake!
x.s.w.
CECIL MANN.


A
t
A
R
MOTORISTS
what are you paying for tyres?
Do you buy dependable, high grade
Dunlop Cords at the appended prices
—the lowest in Australia-—-or
do you pay more for other makes,
being unaware that the Dunlop represents a
considerable initial saving besides giving un-
surpassed trouble - free mileage at a running
cost that will please and satisfy you.
Compare these tyre prices!
For your information we tabulate a few
Dunlop prices as against the listed prices of
other makes so that you can see what you
save by buying Australian made Dunlop tyres.
COVER TUBE
D
You also save money by purchasing
heavy weight, high grade Dunlop tubes
* * it
There is no tyre giving better results on
Australian roads, so don’t be put off
u Dunlops.” Fit them, it pays! Garages
stock them. We shall be pleased to
mail you our list which gives instructive
details in reference to the various types
and sizes of Dunlop tyres.
* * +
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Launceston*


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1914.
ToH.M.
King;
George V
HAMPAGNE {
Charles Heidsieck
MMMMU .
Australasian Agents -
Swift & Company Limited
BYDNEY.
swiaa
ipwPPHntwn
JKOWMVHJ
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrenta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Ď
F
The Meeting-place of the
World’s Travellers.
Accepted by all as Premier Residential Hotul
by reason of its noble architecture, solid com-
fort and perfect cuisine and service.
Beloved by all for its gracious hospitality and
inimitable atmosphere of taste and refinement.
Church Hill,
Sydney.
•Phone: BVI3OI
(14 lines).
REVISION OF PRICES AND
NOTEWORTHY INNOVATIONS.
ramn
m
Mon., Tues., Wed.jFri., Popular Nights
DINING
from 7,30.
1016
DANCING
till 12.
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 5/0
THURSDAY AND SATURDAY
(late nights) :
Continental Dinner, 7.30 21/-
Saturday, Reduced, from |25/-
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 .. 10/6
Noteworthy Innovations.
Spectacular Dancing, Song psnd Music.
Two Bands. Continuous ifcnjoyment.
AFTERNOON TEAS, 3.30 i|o 5.30, 5/-
Book early. Order Wines r before 6.
Ring M3G66, M3020*
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
GIOVES
The Society of Artists held its ball at the
Ambassadors with the air of folk accustomed
to the usages of the Higher Orders.
Scheduled to start at 9, it was 9.30 when
the most enthusiastic of the merrymakers
took the floor. Many strolled on much later
with the solemn look of those who have
feasted on funeral meats. Possibly it was
the vibrations from bustle and crinoline
(with striking originality every second
woman hovered sartorially in the eighteen-
hundreds) that gave the affair the atmo-
sphere of a drawing-room at Buckingham
Palace in the days of Victoria the Good.
Ever so many people looked like antimacas-
sars—you know, the sort of look that actors
who are always talking of putting the stage
on a higher footing develop. Worthy, but
wearing. Charles Lloyd .Tones, as Friar
Tuck, opened the ball with a eurhythmie turn
in which his bare tootsies twinkled blithely
after a mechanical crocodile.
Quite half the men and a third of the
women disguised themselves in plain evening
clothes and let it go at that, with the result
that the jesters among the 400 w 7 ere too self-
conscious to let themselves go. A human
crocodile that uncoiled a tentative wriggle
about midnight got shut off with a telescopic
effect; and even those desperadoes who
whirled into a giddy ring-a-rosy, with Mrs.
Venour Nathan billowing greenly in the
middle, gave up the attempt to be different
and melted into the frenzy herd. Mrs. Sep
Levy engulfed her tiny form in the volumi-
nous drapings of a lady of Venice of the
time the lad Marco Polo loitered about the
Rialto. Below the full cloak of old-gold
effulged a frock of old-rose satin and lace.
A black hat as big as a gondola, with a scarf
of black Venetian point sw T atking the throat,
finished a costume which, among its other
charms, was draught-proof.
Altogether delightful w*as Marion Jones
in the spreading golden skirts and powdered
hair of a Nattier lady in the Wallace Col-
lection. Sydney Tire Smith, as a gentleman
of the Georgian period, blushed pinkly above
his high neck ruffles and his buff coat. Ernest
Watt set out as the Laughing Cavalier, but
mislaid the laugh and the beard at an early
hour. Mi’s. Tony Hordern wrapped herself
about in a black embroidered shawl, speared
a mantilla to her hair with a high comb —
result, a daughter of Spain. Will Ashton was
there as a villainous-looking native of Port
Said; Albert Collins as a pirate; the B. E.
Minns couple, the William Moores, the Lane
Mullinses, “Johnnie” Pye (known to every-
body in spite of his domino and mask), the
Lyster Ormsbys (he in a mask, she in a
domino), Barbara Westmacott (the Colum-
bine of poets’ dreams), E. J. Tait and his
daughter of the red-gold top-knot; a hand-
some Highlaud laddie, 50 years young;
Stewmrt Dawson snoozing in his chair; W.
G. Layton as Town Clerk of Sydney: a
Melbourne Madden as Lady Mary Carlisle;
Bertie Kelly as an Alsatian peasant in color
t'ul bags and an amazing hat; some woman’s
wandering vertebrae swathed in a shawi
of old Madrid—of such was the Society of
Artists’ ball last week.
Yellow cabs (it wms the glad day of their
birth in Sydney) and family limousines were
ordered for one; but the real knuts ivere as
hard to wrench away as from any plebeian
artists’ ball of other days. Indeed, one bunch
of diekards kept things going on high spirits
and folk songs in a Bond-street studio til!
4.30.
The pet charity of seemingly half Sydney
the Hospice for the Dying at Darlinghurst
—drew T another full house at the Wentworth
one day last w ? eek. Jazz, mah jongg and
bridge were the attractions, and the greates'
of these was jazz. Hundreds of active
footed maids and matrons one-stepped gal
lantly in each other’s clutch, nor eyed her
with a male partner enviously. These
cabaret days women are used to leading one
another forth in the dance; and, anyway, rich
and rare is the Sydney man who can drop
his job of afternoons to spark up in a merry
whirl. The spring frock and hat gambolled
joyously among the buttered toast, and cajol-
ing vendors under the direction of Mrs.
Magney peddled gay little sunshades and
glowing blooms. Mayoress Cecilia Walsh
purred at the gathering over a wiiite fox fur,
and said the seasonable w r ord to the com-
placent group of treasurers and secretaries
and helpers handy to the same teapot as
herself. The Wentworth’s new exhibition
dancer and his partner trod the rhythmic
maze with the smoothness and celerity of
ice-skating. Such firm Hospice supporters
as Mrs. William Macleod, Mrs. Leahy and
Mrs. W. E. Ward hostessed large parties,
and Peggy Bell and Faith Quinlan tossed a
rainbow ribbon of song across the other
joys of the afternoon.
On an afternoon of last week all our Really
Best assembled at Rona, the Knox strong-
hold at Bellevue Hill, for the making of
“The Amazons.” This film, it is believed,
will put America out of the movie market
and send Hollywood producers by the bushel
to Sydney to implore the flowers that bloom
in our spring to come and Mary Pickford
for them. Tennis girls, swimming girls,
fencing girls, skating girls, all dressed from
head to heel for their parts, swung into the
eye of the camera, while Port Jackson wore
her bluest smile, and the gardens about Rona
were heavy with bud and blossom. That’s
the picture, and stranger things have been
done in the name of charity—the Amazons
labored in the cause of the St. John Ambu-
lance. The State viee-reine driving her pet
car will be a feature of the production, and
a scene full of movement will be a bathing
party at Mrs. L. J. Davies’s home at Point
Piper.
The newly-formed Society of Women
Writers helped Lady Burnham and one or
two other of the Press party to tea the other
morning, hoping that the billy brew would
drown a lot of the misinformation the poor
ladies have absorbed since they put foot
on our shore. “Lo, the poor migrant” is
their incessant cry, while we whose fore-
bears were all “migrants” remember stories
of real and grim hardships they faced and
overcame in the stouter days of old. Mrs.
Henson Infield’s tale of the new arrival in
Queensland whose arm was “rotting off
him because he couldn’t pay for medical
attention at once brought the'query: “Why
didn’t he go to the public hospital?” Evi-
dently somebody hadn’t thought of that.
Mary Gilmore told of our de luxe labor
laws and the benefits of Unionism. Lady
Burnham’s naive “Oh, I couldn’t undertake
to find them employmfent,” in response to a
ky .° ne the older members that
she d do anything she could for members of
the society should they go to London, is,
after all, exactly the attitude the migrant
objects to in Australians. About 50 of the
sisters of the pen (that sounds a bit piggy,
doesn’t it?) draped themselves about the
drawing-room of the Australia for the 11
o clock.
The little Adyar Hall has been crowded
with the shaggy scientific, the beautifully
tailored and students with pocket flashes (held
by a kindly best-boy or -girl) for the taking
of notes when the lights were lowered to
show the merry little electron, which is Sir
Ernest Rutherford’s pet. Even a smatter-
ing of women of what the Girl in the Flat
Opposite calls the ermineous class came, in
the flesh-tinted hose of the evening, and with
now and again the revealing flash of a jewel.
The lectures were highly interesting, and the
title of the atom was so simply told a child
could follow all the episodes. (Indeed, there
were some bobbed and plaited kiddies among
the grown-ups.) S’Ernest is its one pro-
duct that justifies the existence of Maori-
land. In appearance he is more like a pros-
perous sheep-farmer from Canterbury than
a hundred-cylinder scientist. But, then, as
the Girl Opposite remarks, in Maoriland
there’s so little to do you might as well
think about something; and why not the
atom? It can’t bite.
The nice-looking girl in this picture is
Violet Rogers, on e time of Melbourne, but
now adding
her sweet
voice to the
ever - growing
choir of Syd-
ney’s song-
birds. Violet
is one of Fred-
erick Mewton’s
star pupils,
and the organ-
ist of St. An-
dre w’ s pre-
dicts a future
with a great
horizon for
her. She has
already ap-
peared as solo-
ist with the
Sydney Mad-
rigal Society
and the Brit-
ish Music So-
ciety. But her
most notable performance was in Bach’s
“Passion” in St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
With a sense of the fitness of things, the
committee of the Kindergarten Union picked
the Australia Hall for its old-fashioned baby
show; and Saturday afternoon saw between
200 and 300 Australian beauties between the
ages of one month and five years blooming
in Elizabeth-street. Youthful fathers and
mothers or big sisters and brothers cuddled
the flower of the flock, walked it up and
down, clapped hands for it, straightened its
immaculate apparel every second moment,
and generally kept it at its best for the eye
of the judges. Dr. Lucy Gullett, Dr. Kath-
leen Cunningham and Dr. Arthur took the
weights and measures; and, looking around
the gold heads, black heads and red heads,
the lay onlooker wondered how the final
judgment would be arrived at, for there
wasn’t a baby present that wasn’t a beauty.
Most of the prizes went to the lads, and
one winner was the youngest of a brood of
19. Which looks like some sort of an argu-
ment in favor of old-fashioned families.
The cabaret at the Ambassadors, arranged
by Mrs. Monty Severn and Mrs. Frank Ben-
nett, was one of the brightest afternoon
frivols of last week. Walter Kirby came
over from Melbourne to sing for the cause,
which was the popular Infants’ Home at
Ashfield. A fortune-teller who wove glitter-
some futures and lucky envelopes that might
hold anything from a diamond tiara to a
cake of soap (guest size) were highlights of
the afternoon.
The name of this Nightingale is Mary
Livingston, and she is matron of the new
Rachel For-
ster Hospital
at Redfern.
This is the in-
stitution run
by the women
doctors of
Sydney, who
both preach
the prevention
of disease and
practise the
curing of it.
At present-the
work of the
hospital is
mainly con-
cerned with
outdoor
patients, but
next year
when the new
building arises
every sort of
case will be
treated. Matron Livingston trained at the
Western Suburbs Hospital; then came war
service, and, since the war, several years’
work among the wounded soldiers at Canon-
bury.
Both Cranbrook and Shore gave over
their grounds to the merry £@te on Saturday
afternoon ; and each was in the interests of
its school’s playing-fields. Lord and Lady
Burnham and a seven-hole golf course were
the special attractions of Shore, while Chief
Justice Street’s lady, Arthur Mailey’s pencil
portraits and a colorful flight of balloons
were the star events at Cranbrook.
Alma Wright added another to the list
of good-looking brides who have entered
matrimony by the gateway of St. Mark’s at
Darling Point. She flashed up the aisle on
father’s arm in chiffons beflowered with pink
and mounted on lace and satin. Over this
cascaded a veil of Brussels lace sprayed here
and there with orange buds. A silver basket
on her arm filled with forget-me-nots and
pink hyacinths finished the array. Padre
Howard Lea listened to the vows, and Major
Frank Alan Wisdom, of Darling Point, M.C.
and D. 5.0., answering the usual inquiries
in a manner above suspicion, duly became en-
titled to superimpose his name on the one
the bride was born into. Alma’s cousin,
Winifred Nicholas, ’maided in ivory geor-
gettes the color of pale honey, her head
swathed in tawny tulle, and her hands filled
with tiger-brown orchids. Captain G. L.
Massey, R.N., : best-manned. Toasts at the
Australia.
St. James’s was all trimmed up with
favors and flowers for the wedding of Argie
(Winifred) Mitchell and Clifton Hambleton
Kitchen, of Bellevue Hill. (He’s the second
son of the soap-king Kitchens.) Argie, who
is a Darling Point belle, wore gorgeous rai-
ment for the big act. The frock of vellum-
toned satin wore a train of transparent tulle,
like a backwash of foam, weighted with
heavy embroideries and anchored to each
shoulder by a dazzling pendant of crystal and
diamente that dangled below the hem of the
skirt. A mist of white tulle veiling and white
orchids and orange-blossom from the Mitchell
garden at Port Hacking were accessories.
Brother Charles handed the bride over to the
locksmith, and Marjorie Milson (to be a
bride herself before the year’s end) sup-
ported her chum in a symphony of ivory and
silver. Charles Graham best-manned and
Argie’s mother hostessed a group strictly
limited to the families. Melbourne and the
honeymoon will coincide.
Another pretty bride of the week was
Doreen Walters, of Double Bay, who be-
came Mrs. Thorburn E. Suttie, of Lochleven,
Moree. It happened at St. Mark’s by the
decree of Archdeacon D’Arcy Irvine, _ sup-
ported by Padre Howard Lea. One maid, in
fuchsia tones, followed the ivory and gold
bride. The bride’s parents entertained with
all the usual detail at the Royal Golf Club.
Dorothy Boxhall, a pretty and earnest
youngster who went to train at the Alex-
andra Hospital, met romance within its
doors. TT* is Robert Somerville, of Toon-
gabbie, the statistician of the big Ca P
down institution. Dorothy has lefther ]OD
and is busy pursuing her trousseau
wedding’s just as close as that.
A recent arrival of great interest to the
scientific world was the posthumous son ot
greatly mourned Professor Johnny Duntor.
Fifty years ago a North of the Tweed
lassie married a Tynesider named .Jonn
Spence, and presently they made their home
in N. S. Wales. Monday was the anniver-
sary of that wedding. Mr. and Mrs. John
Spence celebrated it with a theatre party to
“Primrose” and a supper party afterwards.
Their two sons, daughter-in-law, adopted
daughter and a few intimate outsiders saw
the cutting of a spectacular snowy cake. t Mr.
Spence (in business life the head of Wash-
ington Soul’s) was for years the president
of the N.S.W. Bowling Association, is now
the patron, and as an after-dinner speaker
is noted throughout Australasia.
Mrs. Robert Williams, president of the
Lyceum Club, brings back one_ deduction from
her travels abroad —that this continent is
no longer on the rim of things. Like Pauline
Frederick, she says anything you can get
anywhere you can get in Sydney. Even our
clothes are no longer behind the times. In
Berlin Mrs. Williams stayed at the Espla-
nade, the favorite hotel of Little Willie be-
fore disaster overtook Germany. Now so
little have the waiters to do that each diner
has at least four to serve lunch or dinner.
The same at the Belle Vue in Dresden —
Dresden’s case is worse than that of the
manufacturing towns; not one new building
did the Sydney woman see being erected,
and there, was a complete absence of repairs.
The book of the hour was Little Willie’s
“I Seek the Truth,” which sets out to be his
quest of the gospel amid the lies of the Ver-
sailles Conference. The most impressive
scene Mrs. Williams witnessed was the
funeral of Dr. Steiner, leader of the School
sailles conference.
Mrs. Marie Irvine has resigned her organ-
ising secretaryship of the Country Women’s
Association to whip up and accompany Pick-
ford’s 1926 Australia-to-Europe tour.
Brisbane wishes to be remembered:—
There was a positively last gathering of regretful
citizens on Central Station to farewell S’Matthew
and press upon him yet another illuminated address.
The week was given up to waving adieus and making
pretty speeches, and into these events the Empire
Press tourists occasionally strayed. For the most
part, however, the tourists were away in the Near
North practising with the canecutter’s knife and
admiring the farming districts. They also got a
good deal of amusement out. of the kookaburra, which
laughed just as they expected after hearing Ethel
Osborn sing in Sydney. On the night of their re-
turn to Brisbane, some of the party, including Lord
Burnham, had a box at His Majesty’s to see Pauline
Frederick in “Spring Cleaning.’’ Afterwards the
Savage Club supped Pauline and “Snowy” Baker in
the club rooms, which were decorated with spring
blossomry. The chief guest of honor wore a pretty
black and silver frock and some wonderful diamonds,
as well as a nosegay of purple orchids presented
by Mrs. Charles Gamin. Amongst the singers were
Ruth Portraite, Mildred Bell and Fred Homer.
Dorothea Spinney has also been fGted. Barbara
Sisley set the ball rolling with a big crush in the
Women’s Club, which was charmingly decorated with
Iceland poppies, lilies and gerberas. A poem dedi-
cated to the lady and written by Mrs. Vance Palmer
was read by the hostess, who looked very nice in
cinnamon.
On the same afternoon the wildflower show attracted
700 blossom-lovers to the Albert Hall. Westralia
sent some interesting exhibits, including a kangaroo-
paw blossom and some sunset-pink everlastings.
Stradbroke Island, as usual, contributed a spicy quota.
Charlie Chauvel arranged a private screening of
“The Moth of Moonbi” film this week in the Elite,
and Pauline Frederick and “Snowy” Baker came
to see the younger brother’s work, and had a lot
of good things to say about it. Amongst those who
looked on was Mrs. Forrest, who wrote the book from
which the film is made. The Bulletin, of course,
figures in a Backbloek scene, and there is a famous buck-
jumper, and some fine specimens of Queensland cattle
move along the screen. All the scenes were shot
in Queensland. The finished product will meet the
public eye very shortly.
Seventy strong, the Country Women’s Association
gathered in the Longreach shire hall. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax spoke the first word. One w r oman sped 100
Tn.los by ear, with a day’s joi**ney by rail, to attend
Sir -Matthew, who travelled on the same train as some
of the delegates, had entrusted to them a parting
message, “Keep Going.” Th£ annual ball, given by
the Longreach Club, provided amusement for frivolous
hours, and the company wc(re guests at the Long-
reach races and at a morning tea given by Mrs. Roy
Peterson.
Thelma Amesbury accepted the gold band from
Milner Forbes, amongst clumps and bowls of arum-
lilies in All Saints’. The* bride was given away
by her father, Hugh Amesbury, of Kangaroo Point.
She wore pale pink with silver Venice lace and a
tulle veil and band of orange bloom. Lyndal
McPhie (Toowoomba) and Connor (Sydney)
’maided in fuchsia-pink) with ‘ silver-lace hems.
Turbans were worn and j*osies of pink camellias and
carnations carried. The i6O guests were fed at the
Bellevue.
Pauline Frederick heftied with a Queen-street stall
for Humane Week on the 26th, selling sweets and
flowers (and giving in •smiles), for the benefit of the
stray cat and dog antmgst us. •


HAR_DY BFLOS LTD.
J EWE LLER.S
kskes
Zeiss Sporting Glasses
Zeiss Sporting Glasses are acknowledged as supreme
for sharp definition, wide-field of vision and great
light-gathering power.
For Sporting use where clear and instantaneous
definition is essential Zeiss Glasses are undoubtedly
the best obtainable.
Hardy Brothers’ selection of Zeiss Glasses is
unusually extensive, featuring several new and
handsome Sporting Models particularly suitable for
racegoers’ use. The prices range from £16.
An attractive Catalogue will be sent on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
( 3Jve°Hbus& oP&cciuswcUcwellesy
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Awl at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
tst
*3
W 2
8278
12
*3
8279.
Jar
&
*
■*'V
fe
8288
sa®
:v K -
<®
VMr,
8289.
Qp
A
8287.
A. SAUNDERS’
FASHIONABLE FANCY-SHAPE WRIST
WATCHES. RELIABLE JEWELLED
LEVER MOVEMENTS.
8278.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady's 9et.
Gold Lever Watch, Gold,
Expanding Bracelet, •
£7/10/- Guaranteed.
8279.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Lever Watch, Silk
Wristlet, Gold Snap,
£6/10/- Guaranteed.
8288.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s Bet.
Gold Lever Watch, Silk Wrist-
let, £2/10/.
Extra jewelled, £3.
With Gold Expanding Brace-
let, £3/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £4.
Guaranteed.
8289.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Fancy-shape Lever
Watch, Silk Wristlet,
£3/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £4/10/-,
£5.
With Gold Expanding Brace-
let, £5/10/-, £6.
Guaranteed.
B 28".
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Lever Watch, Silk
Wristlet, £5.
Extra Jewelled, £5/10/-
With Gold Expanding Brace-
let, £6/10/- Guaranteed.
SENT POST FREE.
WRTTE FOR WATCH
BOOKLET.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
The Guarantee in the ante
Exclusive English Smoking Mixtures
c iAt Teapes ’ Tobacco Department
When Peapes attach their registered “ Warrigal 55 Trade-
marh to any garment it is tantamount to giving their
personal contract that it conforms to the highest stand-
ards of quality and that it is all-Australian.
Peapes 5 “Warrigal 55 Undertuear is popular tuith men all
over Australia to-day because they have learned from ex-
perience hoiu soft, comfortable, neatly fitting and durable
it is. Another reason for the general favour bestotued on
it, is the fact that Peapes guarantee it to be unshrinkable.
Peapes "Warrigal” Underwear
The finest Australian wool —the wool that is eagerly sought in the
markets of the world —is utilised for this excellent Underwear. In
the lighter weights it fufils the needs of men who recognise the
advisability of wearing wool as a protection from chills even during
the changeable Australian Summer.
Summer Weight “ Warrigal ” Pure Wool Undershirts, with half sleeves.
36 ins., 12/-. 38 ins., 13/-. 40 ins., 14/-. 42 ins., 15/-. 44 ins., 16/-
Summer Weight “Warrigal” Pure Wool Underpants full length. 34 ins., 13/6.
36 ins.,l4/-. 38 ins., 14/6. 40 ins., 15/6. 42 ins., 16/6. 44 ins., 17/6.
Summer Weight “Warrigal” Pure Wool Trunk Drawers. 34 inches, 13/-.
36 ins., 13/6. 38 ins., 14/-. 40 ins., 15/-. 42 ins., 16/-. 44 ins., 17/-.
Peapes pay postage. Please state chest measurement.
& Co. Ltd,
Men 5 s and Boys 5 Outfitters,
George St., Hunter Street. Sydney.


is the
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
tJRe. Greiit
Toti Dal Monte obtainable
stysitis'MAmiLOVS °~, LV
Home Recreations H
388 George St. Sydney.
(opp Watson's)
D
mm Home
To Home
you are assured of an unrivalled
standard of comfort, convenience and
pleasure when you stay at “Scott’s.”
This magnificently appointed and most modern
of Melbourne’s residential hotels has the de-
lightful, cheery atmosphere of the true “home
from home.”
1
The New Extension
provides an enlarged Dining-room, spacious
Lounge, Bedrooms with Baths attached and
Telephones. Completely appointed on the same
magnificent scale as the original section of this
popular and centrally-located hotel.
\
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or
Bed and Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
’Phone: Central 9012 (4 lines).
Melbourne i
HOTEL
"St JAMES"
Corner of
Elizabeth and Market Streets,
SYDNEY’S NEW HOTEL,
Offers the last word in modern comfort and
cheery environment. The helpful, trained ser-
vice, excellent cuisine and luxurious appoint-
ments of this up-to-date hostel will add con-
siderably to your enjoyment of a visit to
Sydney. Centrally situated within three min-
utes of the best stores, chief business houses
and theatres.
Moderate Tariff, Single Room and
Breakfast from 8/6.
The “St. James” Business Man’s
Luncheon, 2/6, is a special
feature of excellence.
'Phone: City 1475.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Picturesque Moonee Valley witnessed two
vice-regal events on Saturday; the G.-G. and
Lady Forster had a final flutter there and
lunched with the committee, and State
Governor Stradbroke. bowed to the cheers
of the crowd wdien his Night Patrol beat
Heroic in the September Stakes. The start
of this star-turn was as eagerly watched
as the curtain-rise on an opera gala-night;
and the win seemed very popular. The
weather was mostly wind and dust, so a
majority of fair patrons fell back on coats
and skirts for safety. Lady Forster bright-
ened a nattier-blue suit with collar embroi-
dered in cream and gold, topped by blue
millinery. Miss Carleton chose a wrap-coat
of navy with squirrel fur and black-
feathered hat.
Lady Forster, when having a farewell cup
of tea with the wives of Federal Ministers
at the Hotel Wiudsor on Thursday, hinted
at a fellow-feeling for her hostesses. “I
know what a political career is,” she said;
“I had 27 years of it with my husband, and
much experience with my father.” The party
was a nice, informal affair in the private
drawing-room, the flowers a perfect joy-
baskets and bowls of daffodils and wall-
flowers and heaps of golden-brown pansies.
Her Ex., who was accompanied by Miss
Carleton, wore black coat-frocking em-
broidered in green and rust tones, with black
millinery. Eileen Castles sang charmingly
to the company.
While local housewives were gathering
samples at the R.A. Show the G.-G. and
Lady Forster were collecting addresses,
mostly the neat leather-bound booklets, which
take the place of the framed illuminations
of the past. Mayor Brunton and Mrs. Brun-
ton had a tea-drinking on Friday afternoon,
when the civic regrets at their Excellencies’
departure were conveyed; Town Clerk Mc-
Call read the sentiments expressed within
(iark blue leather covers. Lord Forster re-
ferred to his term here as “five years of
unalloyed happiness,” and added his tribute
to his wife’s help: “I share the appreciation
which you have expressed for what Lady
Forster has done. And I know her better
than you do. She is worthy of it.” Lady
Forster buried her blushes in a presenta-
tion posy. Archbishop and Mrs. Harring-
ton, Lees and the Chief Justice’s lady were
among those who shook the vice-regal hands
in farewell.
Lady Forster, charming in blue velvet with
girdle, of diamente and an ermine stole, re-
ceived a new history of France in red leather
binding as a souvenir from the Alliance
Franc aise. The presentation was made at
the French-music lecture on Friday night at
the Assembly Hall. President Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, shimmering in white satin and bril-
liants, handed over the volume in her best
French. And the Consul for France, M.
Rene Turck, had his say also. Her Ex.
said her thanks in the very nicest English.
A crimson tooled leather blotter and book-
let address adorned by Miss L. Dunn, of the
Arts and Crafts, were parting remembrances
to Lady Forster from 135 women’s societies
affiliated with the National Council of
Women. Lady Stradbroke handed them
over at a big gathering of the sex, organ-
ised by the Red Cross and N.C.W., at St.
Kilda Town Hall. In coat frocking of nat-
tier blue and blue velvet millinery, and clasp-
ing a garden of daffodils and boronia, Lady
Forster said her thanks with much feeling.
Lady Helena Rous, uplifting buff touches
upon black frocking; the Irvine dame, and
Mayoress Brunton, a study in brown tones
with a dash of flame upon her hatting, were
on the platform; and Mrs. S. M. Bruce was
there, deep in conversation with that grand
old lady of the N.C.W., Mrs. Henry Dobson,
of Apple Land.
Melbourne’s upper few hundred womenfolk
met at the Town Hall on Monday morning
to say good-bye to Lady Forster. The
Mayoress, who arranged the affair, presented
an address in book form with a Herbert
water-color painting of Government House
from the Botanic Gardens. Her Excellency,
who was frankly delighted with the gift, ex-
pressed the hope that she would return to
Aussie some day and renew friendship with
the givers.
The Stradbrokes are giving bed and board
to the elect of the British Press party. The
Burnhams, Sir Harry Brittain and Lord and
Lady Apsley are their guests. The Apsleys,
who came this way via Adelaide on Satur-
day, put in an appearance at Moonee Valley
races, the lady topping a squirrel coat with
a hat of powder-blue felt.
Dame Clara Butt arrayed herself at her
concert on Saturday night in garments
which shone green, mauve and blue. Neck-
laces of diamonds met more on the corsage,
and melted in with emerald and moonlight
beads and jewels which formed a girdle at
the hip line. Her unshingled locks were
adorned with strands of green and crystal
gems. The contralto, showing signs of a
cold, draped herself at intervals with a shawl
which caused her audience to gasp—-it was
French blue, with huge flowers in rose-pink,
purple and. gold. A stole of ermine was
quite a relief. Popular enthusiasm led the
audience to form a regular guard of honor
for her and her tuneful husband as they
departed. Pianist Marie Aussenac wore a
toga-like lace adornment to her cream satin
bodice traced with pink roses attached to
lace flounces and bands of black fur.
Australia has waited 134 years to hear
a staged performance of “The Magic Flute.”
The premiere of the Mozart opera in Vienna
was September 30, 1791, so by extraordi-
nary coincidence Fritz Hart, when he
arranged the opening of the short season
by the Albert-street Con. Opera Society, hit
upon its birthday.
For the next week or so some Melbourne
housewives will run the menu on samples.
The R.A. Show offered wonderful facilities
for collectors, and Thursday, Melbourne’s
public holiday for the annual event, saw
patrons in their thousands returning with
crammed suit-cases. The fixture put up a
record in entries and attendance, live stock
and ring events were the best ever, and the
man from the country was glad he came. So
everyone was happy.
Another ladies’ petrol club chugged into
notice with the official opening of the rooms
which the Royal Automobile Club has handed
over to its women members. President E.
W. Cox and his lady scattered invitations
for music and boliea in the ladies’ lounge,
with its blue, silver and fuchsia-brocaded
furniture against rosewood panelling. Spring
millinery made cheerful offset for furs and
winter frocking. The hostess wore a picture
hat of petunia hue, with a gown of beige
georgette inlet with silver and coffee-toned
lace, covered by a coat of black seal-skin
and squirrel fur. Her daughter, Mrs. Ricker,
brightened black with a cherry ribbon head-
piece. Mrs. Kroef, who was hatted and
clothed in wallflower shades, was of the com-
pany of music-makers, which included Mrs.
Tilbury, Mrs. George Haines, Paula Deegan,
Miss Cox, Tom Downie and James Fraser.
Teacups were handed round in the dining-
room amid the murmur of a string orchestra.
Government House had a night at the
movies when the Regent, at Gardiner,
opened its doors for the first time. The
new flicker-house, which is the latest enter-
prise of the Associated Theatres Pty., Ltd.,
is a Theatre Royal dropped into the wilds
of Malvern, or thereabout. Cream and gold,
light wood panelling, Wedgwood cameos and
hidden lights make an effective surround for
strawberry- and cream-hued carpets and up-
holstered furniture. The usherettes are
nicely in the picture, in vivandiere costumes
recalling a strawberry sundae. The Governor
and his lady and Helena Rous deserted their
fireside really because the proceeds of the
premiere were to be handed to the Countess
as the nucleus of a trust fund for the benefit
of sick children. Splendid orchestral num-
bers, rather weary singing by Kitty Reidy
and Howett Worster and delightful dancing
by Max and Babette were sandwiched in be-
tween the two films.
Pictured here by Peg Clarke is Banana-
land artist
Miss F. V.
Laliey, whose
canvases are
adorning the
walls of the
top floor of
the Athenaeum.
Her work has
received kindly
criticism when
exhibited in
mixed com-
pany here be-
fore. S h e
studied under
Bernard Hall
and the late
Walter Wit-
rus, and after
the war years
France an d
Italy helped
to polish up
her talents.
Friday, Rose Day, the yearly plea for Vic-
toria’s Free Kindergartens, found Lady
Forster for the last time here saying “I de-
clare the appeal opened.” The quadrangle
of St. Paul’s was the scene of the rite, her
Ex. having the Mayor to recite her praises
and his Grace of Melbourne to wish her God-
speed—a wish that was echoed by Mrs. T.
a’Beckett.
At Carlyon’s on Friday night society
stepped at a carnival-dance for St. Martin s
and St. John’s C. of E. homes for orphaned
and destitute boys. Mrs. Fred Krcrouse,
once popular stage-favorite Essie Perrins,
was secretary, in a confection of gold lace
and tissue, with fur additions. Proceeds
were increased by the enterprise of Mrs. R.
Pitcher, who furnished a stall with pretty
trifles, sweets and flowers; and Beryl Fitts
and the secretary had side-lines. Govern-
ment House was represented by Lady Helena
Rous, in mauve georgette crystal-beaded.
Group-Captain R. Williams and Mrs. Wil-
liams (her frock was glistening pale pink),
Mrs. Hamilton Fitts, Captain Keppel Palmer
and Wilma Clarke (shot silver and lilac
tissue) w r ere of those who fed at the official
table. Some unusual robing was noted.
Cloth of silver with attachment of brown
fur was Mrs. Gilbert Lodge’s fancy; Mrs.
H. J. Robertson wore wrapping the color of
a Canterbury bell; and Mrs. W. Pulteney
Mein displayed upon soft pink satin Chinese
embroidery in crystal and gold. St. Kilda’s
new Mayoress, Mrs. Cummings, attended in
a robe of black.
Of course you know Margaret Basker-
ville, sculptor. She taught art in the Edu-
cation Depart-
ment here for
16 years, but
her first steps
were made at
our National
Gallery under
the guidance
of Douglas
Rich ardson,
sculptor an d
painter, who
is now her
husband. In
England under
Lanteri she
perfected her
craft, and to-
day she is one
of the few pro-
phets who
have honor in
their own
country, for
orders keep
her busy. After completing the memorial
to Edith Cavell next month, she will go on
to the heroic figure of an Anzac in action
which is to be the gift war memorial of
the women of Maryborough (Vic.) to their
town. A rattling good housekeeper as well
as a sculptor, she takes just as much pride
in the preserves and jams she makes from
her own home-grown fruit as in moulding a
figure for the eyes of all the world to sample.
St. Pat.’s College has just had a diamond
jubilee. The oldest R.C. College in Vic-
toria, it is the second-oldest public school in
the State, Scotch College beating it by a
few months. In its first year it was con-
ducted by Father Shiel, who afterwards be-
came Bishop of Adelaide; but in 1865 it was
taken over by the Jesuits, by whom it is still
conducted. One of its most brilliant pupils
was Louis Brennan, the torpedo and mono-
rail inventor.
The Newman Society scattered cards around
last week for a party at Ormond Hall.
Guests one-stepped to music played admir-
ably by the orchestra of the Blind Insti-
tution, and between dances Victoria Anderson
and Joseph Foster sang and Bernard Heinze
fiddled.
Art students of the Workingmen’s College
had their annual fancy-dress jollo at St-
Kilda Town Hall on Friday night. The
frolic was set in a South Sea Island atmo-
sphere of native shields, banners, myriads
of butterflies and tropical pictures executed
by the students —you could have believed it
was all an ad. for a Burns-Philp tour.
Costumes were culled from everywhere—
from Hollywood to Shakspeare. It was a
great night of much fun. Stanley Rhodda,
principal of the Arts School, accompanied
by Mrs. Rhodda in floral georgette, was of
the gay company. Proceeds go to the library
and prize fund of the school.
The lounge and vestibule of Scott’s looked
like a Manchester department when the linen
cupboards of the Homoeopathic Hospital
were replenished by a gift tea-party. Mrs.
David Carnegie and the committee of the
Women’s Aid Association of the institution
were at the tiller. Mrs. Barry Thomson
and Mrs. Albin Walkley called up many fine
artists, who entertained a crowded house with
song, and did it without fee. Mrs. Howard
Jolley, Muriel Benton, Dr. Bartolini, Marie
Burke and Noel Allan were of the melody-
makers. Mayoress Brunton, in tailored
gown of grey topped by flower-trimmed mil-
linery, graced the par* along with her
Mayor.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer’s special treat last week
for members of the British Music Society
was T. P. Fielder, examiner for the Associ-
ated Board of the R.A.M. and R.C.M., who,
amid the soft lights of many candles and
the shadows of Japanese bamboo, peach
blossom and gum-tips, chatted on musical
form at the Kinnoull piano. The pianist,
whose countenance calls for a pointed beard,
has a rare store of humor and a European
reputation, and gave splendid performances
of Beethoven, Chopin, Scriabin and Mendels-
sohn. Mansley Greer and J. Sutton- ?
of the University Con., said the . '
thanks, after which Mr. and Mrs.
entertained the large gathering at ' ll i
The hostess wore mediaeval gowni g
powder-blue velvet embroidered m goi. ■
Women’s Automobile Club members Parked
at their rooms the other afternoon to uis
future activities between excellent reive '
ments and still more excellent musical -
ings. Mrs. Howard Jolley, Eileen fe tai ,
and Dr. Bartolini were heard in
Hamilton Bateman fiddled and Lilian . '
tinson commanded attention in her piano
solos. Mrs. 11. J. Robertson presided m a
frock of sand-liued marocain with ecru lace
adornment and millinery in tune.
Alice Henry, the white-haired Labor lady
who came home from America a few months
back, talked to the ’Varsity Labor Club
the other day on the women’s movement m
the United States. She mentioned that the
slogan “Equal pay for equal work is at
least as old as the period after the Civil
War of 1861-65, when the Knights of Labor
agitated for payment by work and not by sex.
The Lyceum Club’s committee-room saw
a wee but fascinating art show when Mrs.
A. GiMllan (May Vale) exhibited small oil-
and water-colors of flowers and landscape,
including a picture of the spot where Edward
P. first sampled Australian billy-tea. “ Just
the things for Christmas gifts,” said visitors,
and their verdict was promptly translated
into red spots. Incidentally, meeting with
an accident to her right hand a few weeks
ago, Mrs. Gilfillan has since done much
clever work with her left.
Margaret Baskerville (Mrs. Douglas Rich-
ardson) is hard at work again after her
holiday. The Aussie sculptor is at the
moment finishing a memorial of Edith Cavell,
which is to adorn a rockery on St. Kilda-
road. It consists of a colossal bust in Carrara
marble, mounted upon a column with square
base of granite, having four bronze panels
depicting scenes in the famous nurse’s career.
Steps of blue stone lead to the monument,
which will be about 12ft. high. Before
handing Over her work to the Edith Cavell
Memorial Fund Committee, the artist hopes
to have a private viewing at her studio early
next month.
The Bush Nursing Association takes the
profits of the Field Naturalists’show of wild
flowers at St. Kilda. Exhibits came from
all over the continent except Bananaland:
and specially interesting were the ground
orchids. Minister for Railways Eggleston
said the foreword.
Sister Adelaide’s P.S.
The English-Speaking Union seized Edna Thomas
before she was well off the train and tea-ed her
at the Town Hall. There was a speech or two, of
course—Miss Thomas- in grey-furred black with a
touch of blue and gold, the oratorical success of
the afternoon. She made her bow at her first concert
from a curtain-hung stage glowing in one corner
with a huge bowl of Iceland poppies and in the
other with the warmth of a Paisley shawl flung
over the piano. Half-way through she changed a
frock of jade velvet, cream satin and tulle with
glimmerings of gold, for one of taffeta shot with
pink and silver, with laee about the tight bodice and
a hint of green and red and silver on the billowing
skirt. She sang generously and the audience was
generous too.
If you want to give your opinion on the respective
merits of bobbed and non-bobbed hair, and help
the Children’s Hospital at the same time, you can
go along to the Kodak window, gaze awhile on
photographs of the rival modes and drop a coin, plus
your vote, in the box. •
The new building for the Boys’ Home at Walker -
ville has had its foundation (ablet unveiled, the
ceremony being performed by Miss E. K. Barker,
whose father, the late John Barker, was a generous
subscriber,, The £6OOO collected included £5OO
each from him and Mr. Barr Smith and £2OOO from
Mrs. Keith Bowman.
There may be some interesting interchanges as
the result of Van Raalte’s resignation as curator
of the Art Gallery. So far his only utterance has
been to announce that he is going to open a school
of his own and to hint that he is a-veary of
“interference” and of seeing the Gallery’s standard
decline. Meanwhile President W. J. Sowden wishes him
well in his new job and offers the “friendly opinion - ’
that it would be well for him to remain silent.
The feminine young person, after a double post-
ponement, has completed her school sports and seen
the Wilderness school march off with the Cup by
a comfortable lead of eight points.
Scotch College, the old Barr Smith home at Torrens
Park, is having a two-days’ fair to raise funds for
putting its sports grounds in order. Professor
Darnley Naylor gave the official benediction, and
there was a mighty gathering of local clans.
Huntsmen on Saturday finished their run at
O’Halloran Hill, where a horses-in-action show was in
progress, with one event specially dedicated to those
who had “followed.” It was annexed by W. P.
Lapthorne on After Six; and Miss Phyllis Bray,
another of the hunting fraternity, got Rimlock home
first in the Bending race.
Fourteen pictures by the late Gustave Barnes are
among the most important of the exhibits in a
joint show now being held in the Dunster Galleries
—the other exhibitors Goodchild (two of his best
of Sydney), F. C. Britton, Boxall (all oils and
etchings), Van Raalte and Trenerry.


i
is
1
m
m*
*
A Selection of loose Round Pearls of
finest quality is always maintained for
adding to customers’ own Necklaces.
Specialists
in
Fine Pearls
Pearl
Necklaces
Earrings.
[A RUMMONDS are
at present display-
ing an unusually large
selection of fine Pearl
Necklaces in wide range
of tint and lustre.
Strands of small gradu-
ated bright Oriental
Pearls, with white gold
snap, can be obtained
from £5. Larger strands
range from £2O to
£5OOO. A comparison
of quality and value is
invited before purchase.
W?©ruttimon&&(3
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TWO GREAT WRITERS
In the Famous Shilling Series of Bookstall Novels:
Arthur Wright & Steele Rudd
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS
A USTRA LI AN NOVELS.
Back at Our Selection
Dad in Politics
Duncan McClure
For JLife
From Selection to City
Grandpa’s Selection
Memoirs of Corporal Keeley
On an Australian Farm
On Emu Creek
Our New Selection
On Our Selection
Sandy’s Selection
Stocking Our Selection
The Book of Dan
The Dashwoods
The Old Homestead
The Poor Parson
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING
NOVELS.
A Colt from the Country
A Game of Chance
A Rogue’s Luck
A Rough Passage
Boss o’ Yedden
Fettered by Fate
Gambler’s Gold
In the Last Stride
Over the Odds
Rung In
The Breed Holds Good
The Outlaw’s Daughter
The Sport from Hollow Log Flat
Under a Cloud
When Nuggets Glistened
Price 1/- Posted 1/H
If the Bookstall Series is not procurable from your Bookseller, write direct to us.
Complete Catalogue, comprising 150 titles, post-free.
Four Splendid New
Australian Novels.
Cloth Edition, with Picture Wrapper,
Price 2/6 Posted 2/8
MURTY BROWN. By Edward Sorenson.
Murty, a shrewd bush humorist, whose quaint sayings and an aptitude for
extracting himself from difficult situations keeps the reader amused from start
to finish.
THE BOY FROM BULLARA. By Arthur Wright.
Another dashing story from the pen of Australia's foremost sporting writer.
OVERDUE. By J. M. Walsh.
“Overdue" is a splendid romance of unknown New Guinea and shows this writer
of South Sea romances at liis best.
SPEAR EYE. By Jack McLaren.
A vigorous and exciting Island story by the author of “The Skipper of the
Roaring Meg."
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Corner, CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Australian-made Farm Implements are
Better. They are also much Cheaper.
Compare Prices.
Write for Catalogues and Price Lists of
Tilling, Cultivating, Seeding and Harvesting
Machines. Sent post free on request.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine, Vic.
Branches and Agencies:—-
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE. 664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY. 105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
Corner MURRAY & KING STREETS, PERTH.


Construction
F
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Laike, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Republic Motor Truck Sales,
212-216,Pirie Street (East),
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
If Republic were not a truck with a phenomenal capacity
for earning big profits - -
- - ~ ~ ~ would Republic have more trucks in active
service than any other exclusive truck
manufacturer?
- - - - - would 70,000 Republic owners publicly
state their absolute satisfaction?
In order to cope with the demand for Republic Trucks, a
factory occupying 600,000 square feet of floor space is
working to capacity. When you know the Republic, you will
know the reason.
Every Republic Truck in the world is constructed as though
it were to be the factory’s sole output. Every Republic
Truck has that remarkable degree of stamina which is
occasioned by such features as faultless engineering, special
ease of springing, scientific distribution of weight, and the
careful selection of components.
7ft
/
% v. , \
(6.
V
C
*
ffitf
ivy
tv*
sj-
W. A. CROWLE, Factory Distributors, Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


tIQUEUK
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth sn4 Gcraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
. Sals Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Fields were small at Warwick Farm
(N.S.W.) on Saturday, although the prize-money was
substantial. There were six starters in the £3OO
Hurdle (the lot would be dear at £300) ; six in
the Campbelltown Handicap, a £750 sprint; and
four in the w.f.a. Warwick Stakes, a £lOOO affair.
The £l5OO Spring Cup certainly attracted a field
of 17, but, all told, the A.J.C. got only 56 accept-
ances for the £4160 it distributed in stakes. Certain
owners and trainers are assuredly not helping the
club to make a success of its expensive Warwick
Farm investment, and it is a very stupid policy on
their part. The Campbelltown Handicap was the
means of Valiard disappearing from tne list of
horses fancied for the Epsom at Randwick next
Saturday. Favorite at 6to 4, the Newmarket horse
ran shockingly, Bairn (s’s) winning as she liked
from Quan Tart (12’s) and Quixotic (4’s) and
completing the six furlongs in lmin. 12|sec. As
the slippery Linacre—Reap mare reached the home
turn lengths in front and the race practically over,
one or two “mug” fielders could be heard shouting
“Two t’ one, Baim.” Had Eric Connolly or some
other big operator who bets “in running” been
present, those fielders would have had cause for self-
pity.
_ For a time the betting on the Warwick Stakes was
5 to 4 on The Hawk, 7 to 4 against Whittier,
4 to 1 Admetus and 10’s to 15’s Pantheon. At
barrier-rise it was 10 to 9 on The Hawk, 5 to 2
Whittier, 9 to 2 Admetus and 14's Pantheon. The
Hawk looked bright enough, but either Warwick Farm
does not suit him or his race at Rosehill in his
unripe condition did him no good. At all events,
■Whittier started to go away from him at the half-
mile, was clear at the home turn, and. without being
punched out, increased his advantage to two lengths
and a half in the straight, Pantheon, who made up
a lot of ground over the last half-mile, being
a length or so behind the favorite, and Admetus
a bad last. The seven furlongs took lmin. 26£sec.
Whittier, who was judiciously ridden by Duncan, has
never looked better, and would be worth a tote
ticket in the Epsom with 9st. 91b., which is only
fib. more than the weight he carried to victory in
the 1924 Doncaster, when he and Trimacre gaUoped
right away from the field. But it is doubtful at the
moment whether he will start. Pantheon, an
impressive-lopking bay stallion, by Tracery—Scotch
Rose, may not be forward enough to win the Epsom
with 9st. 31b., or the Metropolitan with 9st. 21b.,
but he will trouble the Australian horses when (or
if) he reaches his top.
Most of the competitors for the Spring Cup are
engaged in the Metropolitan Handicap. Wallace
Mortlake and Virgin Gold were the favorites, and
three furlongs from home it looked as if one or
other might win, so well were they travelling.
However Riga (14’s) singled out in the straight
and gave nothing else a chance, finishing two
lengths ahead of unlucky Royal Rou6, with Ludden-
ham a close third, Wallace Mortlake fourth, Meenah
fifth and Virgin Gold—who was last at one stage
and died on his long run—sixth. Riga, who
carried 7st. 121 b., his Metropolitan weight, was
piloted by Bartle—- a strong boy who rides a good
finish—and his time for the 11 furlongs was excellent
—2min. 19sec. Once a “picnic” horse, he proved
very useful last season, but the last furlong at
Randwick may Worry him. He is an aged gelding
by Eaton Had—Lady Melba, and though Eaton
Lad has sired first-class jumpers, none of his progeny
has shown much liking for a journey on the flat—-
Easingwold, his best son, could not go 13 furlongs.
Virgin Gold did not disgrace himself, and will .be
better suited by Randwick conditions, and Meenah,
who was first into the straight, showed a glimpse of
her good three-yea/-old form. Wallace Mortlake,
with whom John Brown has had rotten luck, broke
down.
In the other flat races Eridanus (f> to 4) donkey-
licked a poor field in the Guildford Handicap, for
three-year-olds; and Undaunted (7’s), an English-bred
horse who has done a bit of racing in Queensland,
landed a mile welter In capital style for E. Steele,
the Queenslander who owns Honan. Undaunted was
steered by Pike and is trained by the 22-year-old J.
Kelso, whose father prepares the speedy Bairn.
Results, on the whole, were very much in favor of
MeShortodds, for whom 1925 has been a wonderful
year,
* * * *
Although the A.J.C. does not expect its
1925 Derby to be as thrilling as last year’s race, in
which Heroic, Nigger Minstrel and Spearfelt galloped
the last two furlongs almost in line, the meeting
of Manfred, the Victorian colt, and Amounis, the
hope of N. S. Wales, at Randwick next Saturday
should be sufficiently exciting. On form the chestnut
son of Valais—Otford and the brown Magpie—Loved
One gelding stand out from the others; however, the
Vaals people have a good opinion of their colt and
Sum King finished like a stayer in dead heating
with the seasoned Feathernest at Randwick on
Chelmsford Stakes day. By Comedy King—Sumurum,
this brown colt of Mick Ryan’s is well-bred enough
for anything. Then Petunia, who won two seven-
furlong races with big weights up at Adelaide last
May, has been galloping nicely on the track, and so
has Hampden, who is by Rossendale —Ferry Maid. This
page fancies Manfred mainly because he is in a
clever stable with a first-class trial horse in Whittier,
and has shaped respectably against older animals
of excellent repute. On the other hand, Amounis
is an unknown quantity in open company. So far
he has beaten only youngsters of his own age, and,
with one or two exceptions, they have been a poor
lot. It would not be surprising if Manfred’s most
dangerous opponent turned out to be Sum King.
The Epsom is generally a puzzling race, and this
year, what with doubtful starters and mishaps to
fancied candidates, it looks harder to pick than
ever. On paper, Whittier (9st. 91b.), Metellus (Bst.
71b.), Boaster (Bst. lib.), Honan (8,t.), Red Gauntlet
(7st. 101 b.), Baldwin (7st. Tib.), Irish Prince (7st.
sib.) and Hit (6st. 121 b.) have unquestionable
chances, but Whittier may be reserved for the
Caulfield Cup, and ailments have interrupted the
preparations of Boaster and Irish Prince, while
Honan’s trainer has had to go easy with the English
chestnut, who suffers from shin soreness. Fit and
well on the day—-and it would be silly to back any-
thing before the day—Honan will be this writer’s
first choice, with Whittier (given a start) and Red
Gauntlet next. The best outsider is, perhaps, Hit.
The Metropolitan Handicap, which is to be run
on Monday, is even more of a conundrum than the
Epsom. Had Pilliewinkie remained in he would now
be favorite with all his weight (9st. 71b.). but the
solid little M.L. gelding has been bought by
(Samuel Hordern and reserved for w.f.a. races and the
Melbourne Cup, in which he has Bst. 181 b. In
Piliiewinkie’s absence, Virgin Gold (Bst. 131 b.) is
at the shortest price, but his recent performances,
though not discreditable, inspire no enthusiasm, nor
ran one go into raptures over Strongbow (7st. 131 b.),
who may have a better chance, with 4lb. less, in
the Melbourne Cup—he should certainly be in better
condition by then. Solidify (Bst.) is more attractive,
for he was a close third to Lilypond and Windbag
in the Sydney Cup, after leading most of the way,
and has improved in appearance since. The doubt in
Solidify’s case is whether he has done enough work
for a trying race like the Metropolitan, but the
same doubt applies to nearly every horse engaged.
Very few Sydney Metropolitan candidates get such a
preparation as was given to Sir Andrew in 1923 before
he won by the length of a street. Other horses not
badly handicapped are Frances Tressady (Bst. lllb.)
Meenah (Bst. 31b.), Feathernest (7st. 131 b.), Riga
(7st. 121 b.), Friarsdale (7st. 121 b.), Ceo (7st. 101 b.)
Confusion (7st. 41b.), Royal Roue (7st. 41b.) and
Chancellor (7st. 21b.). Solidify is here selected, since
THE ONE THING WANTING.
McTAVISH : “Laddie, are ye guid at findin ’
gowf-balls?”
THE KID: “My oath!”
McTAVISH : “Then gang an ’ find me one, an ’
I’ll hae a game.”
a selection must be made, but it will not be astonish-
ing if one of the “roughies” comes home—possibly
Ludtfenham (Magpie—Skyland), who has been running
on in his races and is pretty well.
Windbag and Spearfelt should have a great tussle
in the A.J.C, Spring Stakes. Duncan is to ride
Spearfelt, who may prove slightly superior as a stayer
to the Magpie—Charleville horse, though he would
have no chance with Windbag over the Graven Plate
distance.
* * * *
Going out at 11 to 2 for the w.f.a. Sep-
tember Stakes at Moonee Valley on Saturday The
Night Patrol ran the mile in lmin. 37£sec.—a
course record—and made Heroic (2 to 1 on) look
very ordinary indeed. Kqllqw’s chestnut behaved
tractably enough at the barrier, but another Valais
in Fuji San showed temper and got away last. The
Night Patrol was soon in front, and, bowling along
in great style was three lengths ahead of Heroic
at the turn. He kept this advantage to the winning
P°?’r, an ? have made the margin greater
had Reed been willing. Mercian King (10 to 1)
was third, Adrift fourth—he ran a fair race—and
Fuji San last. There can be no excuse for Heroic,
who was fairly and squarely beaten by the English
horse, and Sydneysiders are well aware that The
Night Patrol is no wonder, though he probably likes
Moonee Valley more than he did Randwick, where he
failed badly in the All-Aged Stakes at Easter. In
the Tullamarine Handicap, 111 furlongs, several horses
were backed, but Our Prince, who had been un-
lucky at Mentone the previous Saturday, finished up
favorite at 3 to 1, with All Sunshine at 7 to 2.
Susie Pye. who started at 7’s, led into the straight,
and there looked a certain winner, but Tieh Wilson
on Our Prince was a little too strong for Susie’s
rider, and in a thrilling finish the English-bred
horse won by a neck, with Batteryman, who ran a
good race with 111 b. more than his Caulfield Cup
weight (Brt. lib.), third. The winner is in both
Cups having 7st. 121 b. in the Caulfield and 7st.
81b. in the Melbourne. He may not win either,
but other successes should come his way, for he is
not cuite at his best yet. Susie Pye, who has
7st. 61b. in the Melbourne Cup—she is not in the
Caulfield—is improving with racing, and is fancied
strongly by her connections for the Flemington two-
miler. All Sunshine ran a fair race, but Smoke
Bomb and Valwyne disappointed, and the imported
Bolet Satan was last. Brimming (11 to 8 on), who
has_ been withdrawn from the Epsom, took the
Maiden Plate with ridiculous ease, Solus and Bonne
Reine following her home. And Kaiwarra (5 to 1)
had almost as comfortable a time in the Ailsa
Hanrlicap in which Swift was second and Manacre,
the favorite, third, and the six furlongs were traversed
in lmin. a course record. The winner, who
was a top-notch two-Vear-old, must have landed a
nice parcel in bets for Morrie McGrath, who owns
and trains him.
* * * *
“Ascot”: Tote tickets in Queensland bear
the legend “Payable only on day.” This brings a
little grist to the Treasury, which annexes all
unclaimed money. Absent-minded punters, who have
neglected to collect on race-day, sometimes throw
away their tickets, thinking them worthless; as
a matter of fact, they can be cashed at any time
at the Justice Department, which takes over the
surplus from the tote at the end of each day’s
racing. Big bettors, knowing this, hold their winning
tickets in order to avoid carrying too much ready
money about. On one occasion a trainer risked £l5
on his horse, an outsider, in the last race. The
horse won, and the trainer went home without wait-
ing to collect. On ’ Monday he produced his tickets
at the Justice Department and received a cheque
for £l5O.
* * * *
“Gris”: A Queensland politician of some
tonnage was having a bad day at the Albion Park-
races. He had run out of cash and was half a
hundred to the bad towards the end of the day. He
borrowed a pound from a friend, took a brandv
to give him courage, went back to the ring and
booked a tenner on the last race. After another
brandy he booked another tenner. There was no
time for more before his horse romped home, putting
him £4O ahead on the day. “With a couple more
brandies I would have broken your flaming ring,”
he said when collecting.
* * * *
“Topee”: “Henry Pannikin’s” whiskered
cocky (B. 24/9/’261 may not have been a champion
caber-tosser, but he certainly knew the rudiments
of the sport. The method of preparing the “cah- ■
bor” as described by him was that used at small
Highland gatherings in my boyhood, half a century
ago. The starting weight was calculated to be
just beyond the capacity of the strongest competitor;
and the_ sight of an infuriated red-bearded gentleman
in petticoats reeling about under the influence of
an inverted tree trunk, and then being j'ei'ked back-
wards just as he had made up his mind to toss it,
was unforgettable.
* * * *
“O. McKay M.” : Among the 57 young doc-
tors decked out in pink and searlet by Melbourne
Uni.’s Vice-Chancellor, John Monash, the other dav
was lan Mclnnes, three times under-21 tennis
rhampion of Victoria and member of the 1923 Davis
Cup team. lan, who is still only 23, is captaining
the ’Varsity A pennant team, which has fought its
way to the top of the list in Victorian senior
tennis. Another noted sporting man to be crowned
w-as J. R. Hasker, twice double-blue and vice-captain
of the Melbourne 'Varsity football team that so
soundly trounced Adelaide in the inter-university
championship.
* * * *
F'w 3D mOes n young Bendigo rider. Bob
Hartley (30min.), made the Victorian Cycle Traders’
road race a one-man show. At Woodend
(70 miles) Hartley had got the lead with 0. Colvin
(34min.) and C. Crump (28min.) ; and when these
two punctured he was left out oh his own a mile
ahead of the next lot. So well did he pedal over the
remainder of the journey, unassisted b” pacers, that
hp arrived home six minutes ahead of C. A. Cooper
(?ondn.). ITarold Smith (Westralia). from the
scratch mark, again scored fastest time (shrs. 57min.
40sec.). He finished eleventh.
* * * •
The Vie. Leoee-Vq second sepii-final, be-
tween Geelong and Melbourne, was Viewed by an-
other huge crowd. Melbourne started business as
soon as the ball was bounced and got a 20-point lead;
and though Geelong kept within coo-ee it could never
overhaul the Red Legs, who finished up 15 points «to
the good—Melbourne. 14 goals 17 behinds; Geelong,
13 goals 8 behinds. The winners marked better,
handled the ball more cleanly and showed superior
system; but, above all, they set too swift a pace
for the Geelong men. Coy, Wame, Smith, Collins
and Tullah—only played as an emergency man—
were conspicuous for the winners, and Rayson, Oreeves
and Hugger f»r the losers. It was 28 years since
these two old "Subs Rad met in a final.
•‘G.0.8.”: As a spectacle, Australian football has
improved this season. The new rule by virtue of
which a free kick is given against the side which
boots the ball out of bounds after the umpire has
thrown it into play is a success, and is sure to be
retained. It has eliminated brutal struggles in the
ruck, and will be the means of banishing from the
game those burly ruffians whose only duties on the
field were to hurl their mighty carcases about to
spoil the play of opponents and to plug them when
plugging was reasonably safe. Another innovation
that has solved an old problem was the reporting by
Richmond, and the subsequent disqualification by
the League, of a North Melbourne player who struck
a Tiger off the ground. Stoush Melbourne has followed
Richmond’s lead by asking whether an umpire who
stopped a game to caution a pugilistic player did
his duty in not sending the League details of the
occurrence and the offender’s name. In the past,
incidents of this nature generally escaped the notice
of the umpire, and nothing was done. With the
clubs acting as vigilance committees, the sport would
soon be rid of the bruising element.
.** * *
In an exciting match on the Adelaide Oval.
Norwood wrested the S. Aus. premiership from West
Torrens, Victorious last year. With two minutes to
go West Torrens was in the lead; then Norwood
rallied desperately and Bent came to light with
a great goal (his sixth), which put his side ahead by
a point: Norwood, 8 goals 4 behinds; West Torrens,
7 goals 9 behinds. There were 38,000 spectators.
* * * *
Mariano Adriano, billed as the light-
weight and welterweight champion of the Orient, proved
at the Rushcutter Bay Stadium on Saturday night
that he can fight quite a lot, but in science he was
merely an also-ran in comparison with our light-
weight and fedder champion, Billy Grime. Weights
were: Grime, 9st. lib.; Adriano, 9st. 91b.; in effect,
a featherweight was opposing a lightweight. If
points had been allotted as the rules presuppose
they will be, Grime won by a wide margin, for he
ducked, slipped and back-moved the colored chap’s
ferocious rushes and ponderous swings, ripped the
body, banged the head, blocked and claimed in his
own brilliant fashion, keeping himself safe and
punishing the enemy whenever opportunity offered.
But after they had gone 20 rounds, with the white lad
on top nearly all the way, the referee declared it a
draw-. The verdict was received with a storm of
hooting by the large crow-d.
* * * *
That other Filipino, De Leon (Bst. 131 b.),
gained a points decision over Bert Spargo (9st.
l^lb.) at Melbourne Stadium. Considering that De
Leon came with a great Sydney reputation, and that
the event was billed as Spargo’s last appearance in
the ring, the house was not particularly good, but
RICHARD LEAH,
manager of Mel-
bourne Stadium
and Motordrome.
the mill was bright
and interesting though
devoid of sensational
moments. De Leon
carried the fight into
the enemy’s camp all
the time, and his two-
handed attentions to
Spargo’s ribs shook the
Victorian considerably.
Spargo showed all his
old skill in defence,
covering up effectively
and occasionally land-
ing cleanly with his
left as the Manilaman
came in. But Herbert
was much the more
distressed of the two at
the finish, and the ver-
dict in favor of De
Leon was correct.
“Bris”: When Jamito fought Gene Fer-
nanclez m Brisbane, his chief second, George Boxhall,
had to resort to extreme measures to stir him into
vigorous action. At one stage Boxhall was cheering
on the other man. “Go on, Fernandez,” he shouted.
Knock him over. Gene!" Poor old Jamito didn’t
know whether he was fighting his own second or
f“ e ™ coon - In between rounds Boxhall told
the Filipino what he thought of him. “Why don’t
you do something?” he demanded. “Don’t carry
• o?» a^on ** like that.” “But it’s 20 rounds, ain’t
jf' y” protested. “Me want to get another
nght. “And who’ll come to see you?” growled
Boxhall. “I won’t, for one.” George won that
round. Silvino won all the rest.
* * * *
Gone to join W. G. Grace and Victor
Trumper—and he would have asked for no higher
reward—C. S. Hobbs, of Adelaide, aged just on 87.
Born and brought up in Sydney, he was on the
Empire. Henry Parkes’s paper, about 1857. Then
he moved over to Melbourne, and as an Argus
reporter toured Australia with Grace’s English XI.
Half a century ago he took root in Adelaide, where
he W'orked up to be overseer in the Government
Printing Office. In private life he was a devoted
supporter of the Norwood football club (which made
him a life member on his 80th birthday) and of
the League. For many years he was official scorer
to S.A. Cricket Association and made Inter-State
trips with it. and his short sturdy figure was, to
the last, notable at all athletic fixtures.
* * * *
* : P ne s °t so used to putting
Clem Hill and Noble into any imaginary XI of
the world’s best cricketers that the list given by
* ?* P # (who has known pretty well all
ot them) in his recent book of reminiscences comes
as a shock. He puts Grace. Ranji and Trumper
on pedestals by themselves,” after which he proceeds
confidently to “rank” the best batsmen right down
to 27. It is a queer list. Hobbs is 12th. The
Australians are: Hill. 16th; Noble, 16th; Macartney
19th; and Bardsley, 25th.
THE LITERARY GOLFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Compston, who is 6ft. 4in. tall, is hailed as the
corning- professional golf champion of Great Britain.
He was intended for the priesthood, and is well read.
' recently he startles his opponent with literary
quotations.”
Over the odds? Yes, but we wouldn’t mind
His whirling arms, his height and reach and swing,
Even his deadly aim, but strike me blind!
The blighter’s language isn’t quite the thing.
1 rom out the trees behind us piped a thrush,
' Elutes on the elm,” he cried, “the mellow ousel.”
It put me oil my stroke, such blithering slush,
And nearly made me foozle.
1 thought I held him till we turned for home
And foreign gibberish he began to yap
Prom blokes he called Chrysostom and Jerome
(I wonder what was Jerry’s handicap).
Dunno if those old geezers are alive
Or if they coached him when he was a younker,
1 only know I sliced my blooming drive
And landed in a bunker.
He didn’t beat me fair. His learned jaw
Was wagging all the sanguinary round;
He rattled me with slabs of Bernard Shaw
And queered my pitch with chunks of Ezra Pound.
I tell you straight it gives a man the spike,
There’s nothing tends to make your outlook bluer
Than muttered gibes and maledictions like
“0 miserandc puer.”
orse than the rubbernecks about the greens,
tVorse than the weather’s keenest tricks, methinks,
The golfing pro. who snatches every means
To slop his education round the links.
Near the last hole I stood, intent and wary
And confident to outward seeming, but
He merely croaked “Bumanum est errare”
And s’truth! I mulled my put!
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


VENUS
V PENCILS*
largest selling
quality pencil
in the world
A
1? degrees Black
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
For ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere
VICHY WATER
“Celestins”
Taken
particularly
during
warm
weather,
will ensure
perfect action
Liver,
Kidneys,
preventing
Rheumatism,
Gout.
Insist on
‘Celestins.”
Refuse
imitations.
Obtainable
everywhere.
de-la Spurge ea> au» laC.
rABUSSEM~ENT THEJIUAL
VICHY
mm
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, SYDNEY.
Lefever
NITRO-SPECIAL
Only £lO 10s.
DFD
O.K.’ed and purchased in
quantities by the U.S. Navy.
Well finished considering
the price. Built to shoot
right and stand as much
use as the most expen-
sive gun. Most dur-
able lock ever put
in a gun—first
lock fired
over 77,000
times.
Every gun
tested with an
extreme load. 12
gauge 30-in. steel
barrels, right modified,
left full choke. Also
410 Gauge, £7 10s.
A Lefever won the world’s
championship at the Olympic
games in London. Lefever has
stood for service and durability for
over 50 years. Write Jor Catalogue.
SOLE AGENTS:
GUN & CARTRIDGE MASERS
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
Australian Mutual “'SS*-
ejmst,"s c ydn.y Providcat Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reverfeionary Additions to
Bolicies of over .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. • • • • .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager,
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Hall-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Tuneheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Hoard.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 p . m Ad
Tels. : 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
<o he Open Road
■a
PICTURE YOURSELF on a lively,
though economical, Motorcycle,
with your best pal in the Sidecar.
Jind a Sidecar that IS comfortable.
The days of uncomfortable sidecarring
are gone forever. Today your Goulding
Sidecar gives your passenger an easy,
jolt-free ride, and by reason of its
floating axle, imposes the least possible
strain on motorcycle and rider.
See your Nearest Motorcycle Dealer
GOULDING SIDECARS
Sold by most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
A. G. HEALING &. CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, MELBOURNE. 27 Hyde St., ADELAIDE
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
%
%
%
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTERIES
The Fame of a Great Name
Lives in the Westinghouse Battery.
A Vital Necessity.
The need, for a battery that will give dependable service
is recognised by every car owner. 1
The huge resources of the Westinghouse Company
enable them to build batteries that give the utmost- in
service at a price within the reach of all. When you
inStal a Westinghouse you invest in satisfactory service
and protect yourself from those annoyances which
inferior batteries entail. Any Westinghouse dealer will
be glad to show you the type of battery you need.
ĎF
A Hint to Motorists*
No matter what type of battery
you use, periodical inspection
by a competent battery man
will greatly assist in preserving
the.life of the battery. Many
motorists neglect this important
point and wait until trouble
occurs. Too often they find the
battery is beyond repair.
DISTRIBUTORS:
XEW SOUTH WARES: Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Rittli Ratrobe Street, Melbourne.
tjUEENSRAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRARIA: Wm. Hudd & Co., 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaid*
WEST AUSTRARIA: M. J. Bateman Pty. Co., 83 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Automotive Electric Equipment Co., 19 Argyle Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEARAND—North Island: Cars Rimited, Albert Street, Auckland.
„ Canterbury, etc.: Freeman & Toom, 27 Ritchfield St., Christchurch.
„ Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.
Sales Representatives in Australia and New Zealand:
James Wilson, 127 York Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
George H. Sample, 452 Flinders Street, Melbourne, A ic.
THE INKY WAY.
. Tile of the Melbourne Anars staff have
just put wreaths on the grave of James. Berwick, who
was an original member of the Typographical Society.
He had reached the age of 76.
Charles Watson, who for a dozen years past has
been the Age’s rep. in London, is coming back to
Melbourne to join the Symese editorial staff. While
he was away Watson found time to Write a number
lovels ’ c . hlefl y of the scientific detective-cwm.-
mystery species.
, A in the Melbourne Argus office
has resulted in Roy L. Curthoys, a Groperlander, who
has peon only a little time on the premises, being:
appointed associate-editor, and H. A. Fitzhenry a
leader writer. Fitzhenry has for some years been
responsibk tor most of the verse in the Saturday
‘Oriel” column.
The Vic Railways Magazine, launched in con-
tormity with Commissioner Clapp’s repeatedly voiced
idea that, as the railways belong to the people, the
people should be interested in reading about them,
now appears each month, and its sales have reached
the respectable figure of 12,000. It contains much
interesting matter regarding the railways, most
°L c Propaganda. Roy Goilan, railway 'publicity
officer, edits the mag.
. J * le Farmers’ Union daily, the Morning Post
rs to make its first appearance at the end of October,
it is to be published from the old home of the
Melbourne Herald, on the corner of Flinders and
Russell streets. Already Tom Fitzgerald, editor, has
started to gather a staff about him. Jack Beilew
a young man with newspaper experience on the
Argus and the Sun-Pictorial, is to be chief of staff
He. is a grandson of the late Kyrle Beilew, actor
and journalist.
t <^ se to the 'eighties, veteran journalist
b. J. O Toole, founder of the one-time Candelo and
Fden Union, Eden Propeller, and other NSW
newspapers which formed the basis of Successful
piesent-day papers, now lives in retirement near
Sydney. Though southerners no longer enjoy the
witticisms and quaintly-coined words that used to
appear over his signature, “021.,” his faculties are
undimmed, and his carriage suggests a soldier on
parade.
. ‘‘ E * n Quad”: Re old printing-presses, one reliably
stated to be that formerly used to print Louisa
Lawsons paper, the Dawn, is still at work in the
Magnet office at Eden (N.S.W.), and for very many
years has not cost a penny for repairs. As for
old-time Albion and Columbian handpresses, far
more of these than the public dreams of are still
printing newspapers—Burrowa Times, Cobargo
Chronicle and Delegate Argus are the first I call
to mind—while plenty of such presses are still in
use for proof pulling and poster printing. The one
at which W. A. Holman once slaved to bring out
the. Grenfell Vedette (now the Observer) is still
in the office, and the writer has printed on it show
ribbons for the district’s prize stock.
Tiie New Nation, the first issue of which smiles
on the bookstalls through a nice cover-design by
Albert Collins, is a quarterly with a history. Form-
erly a hobby of H. Chilton Young, general manager
ot the Pastoral Finance Association, it circulated
exclusively amongst the clients of that wool-gathering
concern. When the firm’s big store at Kirribilli
(Sydney) and its future went up in smoke in the
same night, the N. Z. L. and M. Co. bought Chilton
Young and his hobby along with the other assets.
As the N. Z. L. and M. quarterly it has carried
a brightly-painted picture of Australia and the
outside world into the homes of many coekies. Now
it is open to public purchase and appreciation for
the first time under its new name, and looks a
good two shillings’ worth.
“Knib”: It is not the fault of the inky-wayfarers
of Vic. that they will not meet the overseas “dele-
gates” of the Empire Press Union in Melbourne.
The Federal Executive and Victoria District of the
A.J.A., in conjunction, asked the people who are
making the arrangements to set apart one hour
for a sliivoo late some afternoon, but the replv
was that the 60 minutes couldn’t be spared. If
the A.J.A. had been a futile social body and not
an organisation registered under the Federal Arbi-
tration Act, the answer might have been different.
The late Lord Northeliffe declared that he would not
have missed the reception the A.J.A. gave him in
Melbourne for all the other social functions put
together, and possibly it was feared that Lord
Burnham might say something similar.
“lan C.”; Arthur Walter, who was elected M.L.A.
for Gippsland West when Speaker Mackey died 17
months ago, is chairman of the co. which runs the
Countryman weekly and proposes to start the
Morning Post next month. He is a farmer at Little
River in the South-Western district, and is the
antithesis of the ex-member for Jolimont, Theodore
Fink, the stocky lawyer who rules the Herald
company. For 26 years the Herald occupied the
premises now held by Walter and his company, ahd
built up the capital which enabled it to establish
its present organ. Time will show whether it
is possible to do the same thing twice. Walter
has a vigorous vocabulary, and if he could be
persuaded to attend the Empire Press conference
and give his opinion on all or some of the overseas
personalities, the stuff would make better reading
than Melba’s memoirs.
“The Rumpus”; There’s a black countryman of
mine who comes around our suburb selling clothes-
props and doing odd jobs to earn an honest pipeful.
Sometimes he stops for a feed at my house, and
when he is satisfied we sit on the woodheap and
smoke. The nig.’s voice is soft-toned and musical,
and I want to listen more to it than to his
vocabulary. Being stuck for a suitable subject the
other day, I brought out some old Bulletins for
his edification. He was delighted With the draw-
ings, specially of Binghfe; but what puzzled him
was the little oblongs snipped out at various places
in the pages. At last I told him that they were
the paragraphs I had written, and were sent back
for payment. He nodded hi 3 head
“I bin see, boss,” he saifl softly, pointing to one
square vacancy in Aboiigijialities. “this place where
you bin cuttem out fat piella bardie [worm],”
THE HIDDEN HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a man anonymous
Whom some would shoot at sight.
He gets small thanks from bards like us.
Although by day and night
He pounces on our metric crimes,
Corrects our errors, mends our rhymes,
Adding a touch of style betimes.
And makes false rhythms right.
The author of that work of wit,
“Dead Dingoes in the Scrub,”
On no account will he admit
His debt; and (here’s the rub)
Now pleased with everything he writes,
He clean forgets the dizzy heights,
The sparkling jests, the lyric flights,
put in by the
But mum’s the word. Pew bards confess
He’s tampered with the type,
Set out their stuff in fancy dress;
Or, when the time is ripe,
Has turned their common Irish stew
Into a dainty French ragout;
Tis he who puts, not I or you,
The trimmings round the tripe.
VICTORIA.
CANESHA.


This booklet costs
nothing
im
%
m
Ul
.
r a
f
/*
Ufveves
money
in frees
f
—but it tells you how
to gain a great deal
Some people make enough money to be independent. Others fail to do so.
Perhaps you have wondered' how to provide against financial difficulty
later on. We offer you the best answer to your problem. Money will be
made from timber-growing. The terms for buying bonds are absurdly easy
and the profits should be very great. It’s worth looking into, anyway, and
it costs nothing to get our interesting little book, ft tells you why you should
get £2OOO from £lOO invested, and how easy it is to pay for.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Limited
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD. - - - Agents
N.S.W.—Kembla Bldgs., Margaret Street, Sydney.
Victoria —Collins House, Collins Street Melbourne.
S.A.—Liberal Club Bldg., North Terrain, Adelaide.
W.A. —5,3 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Queensland —Parbnry House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Newcastle—Scottish House, Hunter Street.
Tasmania —Cr. Collins & Victoria Streets, Hobart.
North Queensland —Flinders Street, Townsville.
FOR FREE BOOK. , FILL IN
AND POST THE COUPON
Coupon.
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD., Agents
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Please send me your fre-e
booklet on afforestation,
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin. l/10/’25.
«
I!
r>
-
. Mb
4&; 41
W£-i
L
&
IS
4
•M!
Si
m
«
V\
-4f
f|
m.
Si/
§
:\
■J-V.
sit"
li
U)
vw'
3'
-.>•■
y;; *
•< •
SS!»
?i
ri


NATIONAL HOTEL
Strictly
First
Class.
Brisbane.
S 3
<n
w
//
‘Howe's," Cate and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
ABBOTS
LAGER
PATOM
jh
T-
%
1/
■for a good
/ nights rest
lake
ƑD
// will ensure
a good day 's
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Primrose”
Criterion “Snap”
Royal “The Nigger”
Grand Opera House The Music-box Revue
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers' Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Town Hall Clara Butt and Kennerley Rumford
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Wildflower”
Royal “The Silver King”
Princess's “No, No, Nanette”
Athenaeum Edna Thomas
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
This afternoon will see the last concert
of the Kennerley Rumford-Clara Butt sea-
son at the Melbourne Auditorium. Great
houses have given the artists the spur of
tumultuous applause; the sonorous dignity
of the lady’s singing, her personal magnetism
and the beauty of her resonances blind her
public to her faults—her selection of tone-
colors is crude and surprising. Amongst her
chief successes has been the “Alceste” aria;
and there was delightful delicacy in the sing-
ing of Craxton’s “The Snowdrop.” “The
King’s Highway” and “Go Not, Happy Day”
were well sung by Kennerley Rumford, who
gets most tumult, however, for his sea
chanties and the duets with his partner;
but one wishes that “The Keys of Heaven”
might sometimes be lost. The feeling “Night
Hymn at Sea” (Goring Thomas) has been
one of the most likeable of the duets. Marie
Aussenac has gathered good opinions by
work on the piano which shows more bright-
ness than depth; and Roy Ellett is an en-
tirely satisfactory accompanist.
** $ *
George Bernard Shaw r ’s lady friend “Can-
dida” has been explaining to Melbourne
audiences that the men who regard them-
selves as strong are the most weak and de-
pendent. Outside J. Beresford Fowler, who
played the money-grabbing Mr. Burgess on
broad lines and was responsible for the
show, the company w T as composed of ama-
teurs ; and the occasion gave Dulcie Bland
an opportunity to offer a well-considered
Candida. The main difficulty of the piece
is Eugene Marchbanks, in whom Pshaw,
for his own purposes, has sketched a boy,
entering manhood, with a deplorable habit of
“THE NIGGER,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Clifton Noyes ( Winnington Barnes) declares
Philip Morrow (Guy Bates Post)
“black,” blackmails him and proves him
a nigger.
self-revelation excused by the fact that he is
a poet—a characterisation which seems
libellous to those who know poets as people
with an infinite capacity for taking beer as
a consolation for troubles such as those
which cause Marchbanks to bury his head
in his hands from time to time. Eric
Donald could not be expected to have that
experience which would have alternated
gawky shyness with outbreaks of revelatory
self-esteem; but he helped to keep the
audience laughing at the play’s whimsi-
calities. A Dickens interlude between Mrs.
Gamp (Sylvia Archer) and Betsy Prig
(Myra Williams) was also on amateur
lines, but entertaining. In a short season
at the end of October “Hedda Gabler” and
“Rutherford and Son” will be introduced.
** * *
Not even Rumor dare hint at a change
at the New Princess (Melbourne), where
“No, No, Nanette” some time ago passed its
century.
“Wildflower’s” fragrance is likely to re-
main at Melbourne Majesty’s for some
time yet.
* * * $
The success “The Silver King” has
brought to the previously languishing combi-
nation winch Muriel Starr leads has in-
spired fresh ventures amongst the shelves
where the scripts of old classics repose, and
next Saturday Frank Harvey Napoleon will
obtain his separation from Muriel Starr
Josephine in "The Royal Divorce” at the
Theatre Royal (Melb.). Gaston Mervale
will join the co. to play the Marquis de
Beaumont.
sis Si: Sis Sj£
The alluring Edna Thomas will return to
Melbourne Athenaeum next Saturday. To
make room, the amusing “Diggers” pass
along.
* -f * *
Maurice Moscovitch has shaken off the
dust of a city which treated him less well
than his merits deserve, the curtain having
fallen on the final Melbourne performance
of “The Outsider” on Tuesday night. The
shadows now occupy the King’s.
Melbourne’s farewell tribute to Maggie
Moore is listed for Tuesday afternoon,
October 13, at His Majesty’s. All hands are
enthusiastically working to make the matinee
a success—including those who feel that the
best way they can help is to send along
their guinea (plus tax).
# * *
Beethoven’s “Eighth Symphony” had some
of its laborious passages more labored than
need have been by the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra at the Auditorium. The work
gave Beethoven much more trouble than
usual; but the heavy passages link together
such joyous things as the Allegro Scherzando,
which justify Berlioz’s eulogy that the com-,
plete composition fell from Heaven. In
spite of a few promptings of the Devil, the
Symphony Orchestra kept it celestial. A
fair success was made of Ireland’s “Forgot-
ten Rite,” and the “Nutcracker Suite” of
Tschaikowsky was acceptable. If the wind
instruments had not occasionally threatened
to become becalmed, the recital might have
been classed amongst the excellent.
❖ * *
Neil McKay makes his first appearance at
the Melbourne Tivoli as a Scot who has gone
Bolshie. Though suffering somewhat by follow-
ing upon Will Fyffe, he gets plenty of laughs ;
but his humor is rather crude. The Three
Swifts do their best to take the monotony
out of a club-swinging act, and they are so
slick that considerable success can be
credited to them. Lee Mason and “Sunny”
continue to amuse, and Hersehel Henlere
remains the brightest star in the firmament.
# & sS *
A grotesque pantomime effect is provided
at the Melbourne Bijou by El Radianto.
Weird birds lighted from within do a comedy
dance, and gollywog figures and two skele-
tons make weird movements about the stage,
the manipulation of the figures being very
clever. It is an unusual act. Harold
Walden adds to the long list of piano-
monologuists, his act being equal to most of
them; and the La Morte Trio give reason
for their name by some daring cycling in
the air.
❖ sit * *
The slickly humorous Harold Lloyd has
taken possession of the Melbourne Majestic,
where his shadow-form springs gaily from
incident to incident in “Why Worry?” A
monstrous person, one .John Aasen, who is
alleged to stand Bft. 9iin. in his socks,
and looks it, provides assistance in the
comedy. This film is also being shown at
the Paramount. At the Majestic “The
Bridge of Sighs” helps out the programme.
Hoyt’s De Luxe sees trouble come to
Hoot Gibson in “The Saddle Hawk”; he
engages to escort a lady to an out-back ranch,
and, by the time the shooting and the tumult
die, the cowboy has established his right to
the hand of his Lynette. Also screened is
“Isn’t Life Wonderful?” At the Capitol
Master Harry Klass and his violin are earn-
ing some of the money needed to take them
to studies abroad.
* # # *
The evergreen “Peg o’ My Heart,” which
is receiving an enthusiastic welcome at
Sydney Palace, might be summarised as an
indictment of English snobbishness in a rich
brogue. Red-headed Peg O'Connell, daugh-
ter of a liard-up Sinn Feiner. descends, wjfh
cardboard boxes, a tousled dawg and a habit
of expressing herself with uncompromising
frankness, upon her haughty relatives, the
Chichesters, mother, son and daughter, once
wealthy, but with their assets seriously re-
duced at the opening of the first act. They
undertake for a consideration of £lOOO per
annum to chill their tempestuous relation to
the proper Vere de Vere temperature, and
the bulk of the play represents Peg’s sturdy
resistance to their well-meaning efforts. In-
cidentally, there is a love pasasge between
the daughter, a plump and taciturn icebprg.
and a portly Lothario with a toothbrush mo
and a wife and child, who makes love like
a picture-show spruiker and believes in the
old-fashioned dead-of-night elopement. Also
there is an unattached male who looks like
a spare part at the outset, but turns out to
be Peg’s senior guardian, bowled over by
her charms, and possibly the £5OOO per annum
she is about to inherit. Peg hangs out for
a month, and with her pugnacious dog, self'
starting tongue and lack of decorum under-
mines the morale of the household. Before
her departure, however, she prevents the
pre-dawn exit of her cousin with the married
swain, and, renouncing her intentions of re-
turning to “me farr-ther,” consents to carry
on with her senior guardian.
» * * *
Nellie Bramley is an ideal Peg, alternately
winsome and fiery, and full of Celtic scorn
for her would-be educators. Beatrice Day,
who bears the brunt of the outbursts as Mrs.
Chichester, is a religious stickler for pre-
cision ; and J. D. O’Hara’s crisp voice and
quaint gestures come handy in the fatherly
rfde of a soft-hearted lawyer. There fs no-
thing very brilliant about the rest of the
cast: some are stiff, like Guy Hastings
1, and John Galway, as Alaric, is
stiffer.
MELBOURNE
ATHEN EUM.
The popular Butt-Rumfords.
Humor and song, gay dance and dainty
frocks,
Sparkle and melody that never stop
Or flag, await the crowd that nightly flocks
To see Dot Brunton in “The Music Box”
At Sydney Op.
* * * *
“Primrose” gives no indication of fading
at Sydney Majesty’s.
* * * *
“Around the Boree Log,” of Australian
manufacture," built on the verses of Father
Hartigan (“John O’Brien”) and released
at the Sydney Crystal Palace, is a good film
of its class and one that Australians will
like. As an advt. for our scenic beauty-
spots it could hardly be surpassed; the
views of mountain and bushland and plain
are magnificent, and constitute three-fourths
of the film’s attraction. The actors are an-
onymous, and they present every-day bush
characters. On the whole they act. without
exaggeration, but at times they seem to be
just standing around awaiting the producer’s
orders. The verses lose some of their charm
when flashed on the screen as sub-titles, and
audiences may resent the over-employment of
them, for, after all, in a film it is incidents
and not letterpress that count. If the author
had weaved a continuous story, with even the
merest of plots, it would have carried more
appeal. As it is, a review presented in a
series of scenes, moving towards no definite
goal, but wandering aimlessly and doubling
back on its tracks, demands a sympathetic
audience, and this it is hardly likely to find
outside Australia. When Phil Walsh gets
the right material he will do big things. lie
has ambition, imagination and a knowledge
of his business.
$ V
The pirouetting ballet charms the stalls,
The infant penguins make the children
happy,
The lyrics ripple and the fun enthrals;
“Snap” at the Cri. is—snappy.
* # * Si«
“The Nigger” will tread the boards for
another eight nights at Sydney Royal.
* * # # -
“Not failure but low aim is crime” is evi-
dently the slogan of the Sydney Con. pupils,
and on Saturday night they opened their
five-night season of “The Marriage of
Figaro.” With a braver that explains why
we won the war, the singers bit into a work
that finds the finished operatic artist some-
what apprehensive. Vocally, there were
great rents in Mozart’s music, but the orches-
tra, directed by Arundel Orchard and with
Cyril Monk as leader, was all that could be
desired. Charmingly delicate, it was as full
of nuances and as spontaneous as the acting
was labored and the dialogue monotonous.
The scenery was effective, and the groupings
were excellent. John Gibbs was not the
brightest blade of a Figaro, only now and
again emitting a flash, and his singing, though
not without authority, missed the gaiety ot
Figaro. Nellie Chadwick’s Susanna failed
to explain why both the Count and Figaro
doted on her, though her voice towards the
end had pleasing things to say for itself.
Nora Mack as the Countess failed to charm,
and Eileen Ferry’s page wasn’t enough of a
rogue, but her singing of “Voi Che
Sapete” had sympathetic charm. To-
morrow (Friday) and Saturday the comedy
will be repeated at the same address. Gregau
McMahon directed the show, and Daphne
Dean arranged the dances.
** * *
For her recital at the Adyar Hall, Sydney,
on Monday, Bessie Griffiths’s art was at its
richest, and gained in its appeal from the
intimate surroundings. One of the early
works of Richard Strauss, a concerto for
’cello and piano, was the outstanding tiling
of the evening. In this Laurence Godfrey
Smith was at the keyboard, and the two
artists were in the most sensitive accord
throughout. Then came a number of smaller
works for which Mrs. Walter Swinson
(Bessie’s sister) supplied the piano part.
Notable were a Spanish Dance by Granados,
a Rameau Gavotte and a brilliant caprice
by Servais. Arthur Benliam was the even-
ing’s vocalist. Another concert is announced
for this (Thursday) afternoon.
Eveq the troubles of Walsh and the tur-
moil of a Federal election can be forgotten
by those who visit the Sydney Tivoli, where
Will Fyffe and the juggling of hats, plates
and balls by the inarticulate Willie Woltard
are contributing to the brightness. Maurice
Diamond and his girl friends continue to
display legs and rhythm; and six feet-odd
of Tier with the help of Ross is cheerful
enough for the most discriminating. A
Suicide Club would find it hard to recruit a
single member from Tivoli audiences these
days.
<s * * *
There is nothing about Fullers’ Sydney
show this week that demands the printing
of this paragraph in either capital letters
or red ink; on the other hand, there is no-
thing in it deserving of censure. It is just
ordinary, and everybody is carrying on in
an ordinary way. Harry Taft, who whistles
and cracks jokes, made a first appearance,
and Frank Gorman is beginning to be.known
as the parson who never sends round the
collection-plate.
#* $ *
A minor show at Melbourne Assembly
Hall was given by Miss Vera Bradley, who
patted the piano with technical nicety, but
rather as if she regarded it as a domestic
pet; and Roy Warren, who has a bass-bari-
tone which best revealed its quality in Buon-
oncini’s “Love Leads to Battle.” _ It was
not a very distinguished show, but it pleased
the performers’ friends, and gave no dis-
pleasure to anyone else.
* * if *
Bert Bailey is repeating his old success in
“Our Selection” at Adelaide Royal. It is
pleasant to find that long use has not made
him broaden his effects overmuch, as it did
Cyril Maude and other players of Marathon
parts. Fred Macdonald and other cleyer
members of the original team are still with
him. The most exciting picture in sight is
Conan Doyle’s “Lost World” at West’s,
where admission is difficult to obtain, so
keenly have the prehistoric monsters gripped
the fancy of the public. Jane Novak, always
attractive, is a Marie Corelli heroine at
Henry Penn, of Sydney Conservatorium,
pianist.
the York; and Wondergraph’s chief draw
is a rough marine-life story, with Blanche
Sweet on Broadway as a balance. The
earthquake scene in “The Monk and the
Woman” at the Prince of Wales is well
staged, and the play has received an extra
boom through the (apparently genuine)
newspaper denunciation of it in advance.


V
M
Ď
The illustration below shows one of
our Standard Sets, containing every-
thing of the very best. Heavily
silverplated razor, twelve tested
“Valet” blades, and strop of selected
shell horsehide in handsome nickel
case . . . 25/-
tl
Other sets,
of a perfect
containing the essentials
“Valet” shave, 3/6 and
7/6
Will your Razor be
as sharp to-morrow
as it is to-day?
IT will be if you use a “Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor —the only
R razor that strops its own blades.
By slipping the strop through the razor head and moving it to and
fro for about ten seconds you have a keen edge that will ensure a
close and velvety shave to-day and for forty or fifty to-morrows.
Just think of the blade economy that the Valet provides.
There is no removal of the blade either for stropping or cleaning.
Only a rinse and a wipe are necessary.
BRITISH
MADE
“VALET"
Safety Razor
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LTD.
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, ENGLAND.
OF ALL
DEALERS
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Crossley Motors, Ltd,
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H 31. THE KING
Let a British Car reflect the pride of your ownership
CARS
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
a
01EN
ICH
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES'
Here are just a few of the Prominent People to whom CROSSLEY CARS have been supplied:
Ilis Majesty The King.
His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales.
His Majesty The King of Spain.
Her Majesty The Queen of Spain.
His Majesty The King of Siam.
His Majesty The late King of Greece.
The Marquis of Downsliire.
His Excellency The Earl of Atlilone, G.C.8.., G.C.M.,
G.C.V.0., Governor-General of the Union of South
Africa.
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Buckinghamshire.
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Roden.
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Essex.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Colwyn.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Beaverbrook, P.C.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Glentanar.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Inverclyde.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Somers.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Garvagh.
The Rt. Hon. Viscount Fitz Alan, of Derwent, late
Viceroy of Ireland.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Donington.
Ilis Serene Highness Prince Fhaisang Rabi.
His Excellency Sir Percy Loraine, Bart., C.M.G.,
British Minister to Persia.
His Excellency Lt.-Col. F. H. Humphreys, British
Minister at Cabal.
His Excellency The Rt. Hon. Sir John A. C. Tilley,
K.C.M.G., British Ambassador to Brazil.
His Excellency Admiral Sir Dudley de Chair, K.C.8.,
M.V.0., Governor of New South Wales.
His Excellency General Sir T. M. Bridges, K.C.M.G.,
Governor of South Australia.
His Excellencv Sir Reginald Stubbs, K.C.M.G., Gov-
ernor of Hongkong.
His Excellency Sir Geoffrey F. Archer, K.C.M.G., late
Governor of Uganda.
His Excellency Sir Frederick James, K.8.E., Governor
of the Windward Islands.
His Excellency Sir Lawrence Guillemard, K.C.8.,
Governor of the Straits Settlement, and High
Commissioner for F.M.S.
His Excellency Sir Herbert J. Read, K.C.M.G.,
Governor of Mauritius.
The Rt. Hon. Sir H. N. Harwell, K.C.M.G., Premier
and Attorney-General of South Australia.
The Rt. Hon. Austen Chamberlain, M.P.
General Sir H. L. Smith-Dorrien, G.C.B.
Sir Charles C. Wakefield, Bart., C.8.E., ex-Lord
Mayor of London (1915-191 G).
Sir Charles Cayzer, Bart.
Sir John Holden, Bart.
Sir H. A. Robinson, Bart., K.C.B.
Sir John Anderson, K.C.B.
Sir Andrew Caird, K.B.E.
Sir John Cadman, Iv.C.M.G. ,
Sir Guy Gaunt, K.C.M.G.
Sir Montague Turner.
Sir Percy Thompson, K.8.E., C.B.
Sir George Anderson, C.1.E., Director of Public
Instruction, Punjab.
General Sir William Horwood, K.C.B.
Lt.-General Sir Cyril Brudenell White.
Lt.-General Sir Alexander S. Cobbe, V.C., K.C.B.
Col. Sir Rhys H. Price, K.8.E., C.M.G.
Col. The Rt. Hon. Lane-Fox, M.P., Secretary for
Mines.
Lady Loreburn. 4:
The Hon. Sir George Perley, K.C.M.G. #
The Hon. Sir Edward Lucas, late Agent-General for
South Australia. ,1
The Hon. Robert Bruce.
The Hon. John Dewar.
The Hon. E. R. Drummond.
Dame Lloyd George.
The Hon. Edward F. L. Wood, M.P., Minister for
Agriculture.
Captain The Hon. B. E. H. Clifford, C.M.G., Secre-
tary to the Governor-General of South Africa.
Major-General Hickman, V.C.
Lt.-Col. Phillip Neame, Y.C.
Major W. A. K. Fraser, Military Attache to the
British Legation, Persia.
Persian Prime Minister, Reaa Khan.
Env. Ex. and Min. Baron Ei:ik Palmstierna, Swedish
Minister in London.
The Maharajah of Jodhpur.
The Maharajah of Bhavmftgar (Sir Prabshanker
Pattani).
Col. The Rt. Hon. Sir Hnjmar Greenwood, Ltirt.,
K.C., M.P.
Col. The Hon. Guy Wilson.
The Hon. Graham Murray.
Sir lan Walker, Bart.
Sir A. Lascelles.
Sir Harry Smith, K.B.E.
Sir A. Brocklebank.
Sir James Henderson, D.Sc., M.1.E., En.
Sir John Ganzani.
Sir Robert Woods.
Sir Herbert Vernon.
Sir Alfred Cope.
Sir J. Rhodes.
Rear-Admiral Beamish.
Brig.-General T. C. Porter.
General Patch, C.M.G., D.S.O.
After deliberate consideration of all the hundreds of different makes of ckrs available these prominent people in the World s affairs
chose a Crossley.
The united choice of such important people is more than sufficient proof that the reputation of the Crossley car ranks as second
to none in the world to-day. " ' if
If you are considering purchasing a low or moderately priced car, why hesitate any longer when Crossley cars can now be
bought at the ridiculously low figure of
£495
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.), LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
MORRISON MOTORS, 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH LTD., Grote Street, Adelaide.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
ĐF


MACNAUGHT’S
“HARVESTER”
BOOT
25/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE
* :
Constructed from
selected leathers in
Black or Tan. Extra
high leg. Sewn and
screwed- eStra stout
sole.
W ■
MACNAUGHT SHOE STORES, LTD.,
189 Pitt Street - - 135 King'Street - - Sydney.
And at Burrowa Street, Young, N.S.W.
«TT
whum hip iinn.
iiiil !!!$!!!!
il: > i 11
mm
i ij ;i|l!j
»ii !ii!!l
f
= !►
VB: =
■ftm §g
ifil
' u
imm
7;' wMMff/fi'/rtm
D
THE WHISkV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBDORNE
‘‘Flaming Youth”: Bob Greig found him-
self among friends when he set foot in New
York. Emelie Polini, Louis Bennison and
George Highland he met there; also Judith
Anderson, now a Belasco star ; Andrew Mack,
who dates back to the days when his £6O
per week was regarded as an enormous
salary in Australia, and who is sharing the
prosperity of “Abie’s Irish Rose” ; Leonard
Willey and his wife (Irby Marshall, the
Brisbane girl), both doing remarkably well:
and Freddy Quintrell, a brother of the leader
of the Sydney Tivoli orchestra (Freddie is
conducting in “The Student Princess,” with
which Leo Stark is appearing). Then there
were Hugh Huntley, in musical comedy on
Broadway; Harry Plimmer, in stock; Rey-
nolds Dennistoun, who runs stock cos. of
his own ; and Toots Pounds, who was about
to play lead in musical comedy in Phila-
delphia and N’York. Greig has a special
word for the success made by “Mercenary
Mary,” one of the pieces Hugh Ward secured
for Australia; and he remarks of Eugene
O'Neill's “Desire Under the Elms,” which
has been banned in England, that it is “a
wonderful tragedy, superbly acted.”
“Hamfat” : Frank Harvey’s recent slip in
“The Silver King,” when he agitatedly urged
little Cissic to “give your money the mother,"
went unnoticed by most of the audience:
but audiences usually miss these things. 1
recall a play in which an old servitor was
expressing tine fidelity which is so common
amongst stage servants. “I must stand by
yew now,” he dutifully quavered; “I who
have watched yew grow from —uh —girlhood
to —uh —manhood.” Neighboring stallites,
who were too busy applauding the sentiment
to observe the slip, snorted with indignation
at us who laughed. “Some people have no
soul!” was the outburst of a woman ljext
to me. I let it pass with the reflection that
others have no humor.
“C.K.” : “Utopia, Ltd.,” was the most ex-
pensive of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas
at the Savoy. It cost £16,000 before the
curtain went up on the first performance,
which was also the first occasion on which
a London theatre was lighted entirely by
electricity. A floral border composed of just
under 1000 colored lights was disclosed on
the opening of the second act. The entr'acte
was practically an introduction to my
recit. and song, “A Tenor Can’t Do Himself
Justice,” but the first “Oh!” of admiration
was succeeded by such prolonged applause
that Sullivan stopped the orchestra, thus
saving me the embarrassment of having to
sing while the noise continued. The uni-
forms were made by a famous military tailor
—Firmin, of the Strand. My uniform-y-
-captain, First Life Guards —ran into £157,
and was by no means the most expensive on
the stage. The ladies’ dresses for the “pre-
sentation” cost an average of £3O. and £3OOO
worth of artificial jewellery was displayed
on them. At the end of the run Cliarlid
Harris, the resident s.m., was asked by the.
girls if they might retain some of the orna-
ments as souvenirs. Mrs. Carte told them
that each might keep the bit she liked best.
“Hamfat”: Probably the proudest people
in Melbourne last week were the eight bell-
ringers of St. Paul’s Cathedral, who suc-
ceeded in the latest of several attempts to
let the city hear Holt’s ten-part peal, Grand-
sire Triples. The performance lasted from
3.20 p.m. to 6-45 p.m. : and in all that 20r>
minutes the tenor was swinging on a load
of 31|cwt. The Grandsire Triples have
been rung only three times in Melbourne.
It is 21 years since the last performance.
"Caesar’s Ghost”: Herbert Leigh, who is
Coombs in the Muriel Starr production of
‘‘The Silver King,” ran his own company in
South Africa, the “King” being a stock
piece. On one occasion he staged the old
drama with a company of six pros, at Fort
Salisbury; amateurs helped him out. During
the Boer War, when troops formed a good
part of the audiences, a boozy trooper set out
to enjoy the show by promptly falling to
sleep. The shot which killed Geoffrey Ware
disturbed his slumbers, and then the
serenity of the audience was disturbed by
a warrior who leapt wildly to his feet,
grabbed the umbrella of the man next to
him, and yelled “Where are the blankardsV”
“Tay Pay”: It’s a wonder Hugh Ward
let Leyland Hodgson slip over to the oppo-
sition. Though not exactly a genius, Hodg-
son has a good voice and presence, and a
nice easy style of acting, and troops of play-
goers like him. Very often the baritone in
a musical-comedy cast gets on his own sex’s
nerves, but Hodgson has n®ver aroused this
hostility. He may be destined to fill the
shoes of Andrew Higginson, who captivated
the flappers of the last generation, and whose
equal has not been found among the many
J.C.W. baritones who have succeeded him.
“Satis” : Dion Titheradge, who was respon-
sible for the "book” of “Snap,” now at Syd-
ney Criterion, is a busy author and producer
in England nowadays. He recently tried
“.Tim Quixote,” his new comedy, at Notting-
ham, playing the lead himself. Annoyed
by the poor support of the lace-makers, on
the last night he upbraided them in a cur-
tain speech, finishing up a lengthy harangue
by saying: “Everything goes to show that
the great bulk of the public is asking for
something that will raise a snigger with its
suggestiveness; it does not want clean plays.”
It was a poor advt. to give his own goods :
he will know better some day.
Harry Neville, from New York
An article was based on my letter to Tiie Bulletin
regarding the fund raised by Australians in America
for the repatriation of one of their number who
had fallen on sad days. Many who have spoken to
me on this subject are under the impression that
I wrote the article; and I didn’t. Though many
of the subscribers are quite in accord with the
remarks as to Australians being- driven from their
own country to obtain work, it would not have been
fair for me to write in that strain under'the
pretence of sending in a subscription list, especially
as representatives of the two big Australian theatrical
organisations contributed to the fund.
SUBJECT FOR BOTH.
THE GIRL : “If an artist was here I wonder
what he would choose to paint?”
THE MAN : “Mean a landscape or figure-
painter?”
“Poupee”: Our premier theatrical direc-
torate seems to be having difficulty with
some of the more temperamental of its
musical-comedy merchants. Anyhow, it has
lately severed connection with its star
comedian, the swankiest of its baritones and
one of its principal ladies. Its prima donna
is also talking of finishing her Australian
contract and seeking fortune overseas, at the
same time protesting that she and her mana-
gers are the best of friends. It strikes an
outsider that work may not be so readily
found abroad at the price it commands in
this Tom Tiddler’s ground for song-and-
dance pros.
“First Old Man”: A valuable member of
the little company known as the Diggers,
now at Melbourne Athenamm, is Bert Gil-
bert, who in former years was the boss
comedy purveyor of many Williamson musi-
cal pieces. Gilbert comes of English theatri-
cal stock and knows his business from A to
Z. Also he wields a bright pen, which he
employs nowadays to turn out tbe sketches
he appears in. Evidently he likes Australia,
for this is his fourth or fifth visit.
“Jeune Premier” : The P. and O. steamer
Mongolia took away enough theatrical per-
formers to make up a useful stock company,
with a vaudeville combination thrown in.
Among them were Thurston Hall and Gladys
THE POETS’ CORNER.
"See that little thing of mine in this morn-
ing's paper?”
"Congratulations!-where was it?”
“In the ‘Positions Wanted’ column.”
Webster, of “So This Is London” ; Charles
Mallard, of the Boucicault co.; Madeline
Rossiter and Chris. Charlton, of recent
Tivoli bills. With Madeline went 10 Aus-
tralians booked for a tour of India and
neighboring parts in musical comedy, among
them Connie Milne, Anona Wynne, Harold
McCulloch and Harrington Reynolds.
“Midchannel”: “Ancient Prompter” (B.
17/9/’25) omitted Wilson Barrett and Scot
Inglis from the list of Silver Kings seen in
Australia. Barrett was a failure in the
part, but the ill-fated Inglis (he died by his
own hand) was the finest Silver King I have
known. Harrie Ireland was his Nellie
Denver, and a good one, too.
“Imogen” : If there are two “pieces” which
have been elocuted to death by Suburbia
and the Annual Competition they are “The
Green Eye of the Little Yellow God” and
“The Whitest Mate I Ever Had.” Yet Mil-
ton Hayes blithely inflicted the maudlin
atrocities nightly on a long-suffering collec-
tive parenthood. The Butt-Rumfords also
take liberties with us benighted colonials.
They invite their audiences to sing all the
National Anthem and verses of done-to-
death “Land of Hope and Glory.” They
also simper through “The Keys of Heaven.”
Delaighted, of course, to know that Kurnley
and his Dame have stuck out 25 years of
married life based and maintained on that
sugary canticle; but many others of us have
shown the same fortitude without wanting
to publish the fact in mawkish song at
10s. 6d., 7s. and 55., plus tax.
“Erua”: I agree with “Maolsa” (B.
17/9/’25) that to listen to cathedral choris-
ters is a joy and frequently a revelation.
Anyone who drops into St. Andrew's, next
the Town Hall (Sydney), when the young-
sters are singing at their brief 4 o’clock
service will be convinced of this. A greater
contrast to the singing of the average school
class could scarcely be imagined, and yet in
each case the original material is much the
same. Admittedly the choristers are care-
fully selected, but the number offering who
have fine voices is large. Their proficiency
is largely a matter of training and example.
“Lud”: The author of “Spring Cleaning”
has a new play ready for production at Lon-
don St. James’s this month. The piece is at
present called “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,”
but the title may be altered to “Most of Us
Are,” which is rather a cute way of remind-
ing playgoers of Lonsdale’s earlier money-
maker, “Aren’t We All?” Beauteous Gladys
Cooper will be hi the leading part.
“R.K.D.N.”: An out-of-work mummer,
very dandified in his newly-pressed lounge
suit, 1920 vintage, strolled down Pitt-street
a week or two ago, cynosure of all eyes.
There was an affluent look about him, though
he had but two florins and a sixpence in his
trouser pocket—his entire worldly wealth.
He halted as lie heard a voice say, “Did you
drop this, mister?” Turning, the mummer
saw a boy with a shining sixpenny-piece m
his out-thrust hand. “No, no,” the grease-
paint artist exclaimed in his loftiest manner ;
“it's not mine. Keep it, my lad ; keep it.
Then he thrust his hand in his pocket, and to
his dismay found the hole through which
the small coin had dropped. Moral (he sup-
plies it himself) : Actors, like managers,
should never refuse money.
“Forebridge” : The theatregoer of the eight-
eenth century needed to be an enthusiast, for
he endangered his very liberty by attending
the local playhouse. I have by me a play-
bill dated November 24, 1794, announcing
the production of a new comedy, at the
theatre in North Shields (Eng.), called “The
World in a Village; or the Trial of Friend-
ship.” The performance is described as be-
ing “By desire of the members of the Jerusa-
lem Coffee-house,” and. an interesting fea-
ture is the announcement that after each act
one of the cast will sing a song. “At the
end of the play,” says the bill, “Mr. Caw-
dell will sing a comic song called ‘The
Tippies of Ninety-four; or the Golden Days
We Now Possess, Sir,’ whilst before the
farce Mrs. Huggins (by desire) will sing ‘Yes,
Kind Sir, and I Thank You Too.’ ” But
most delightful of all is the following, which
appears at the head of the document:
“Lieutenant Kelly, Lieutenant King and
Lieutenant Bevis Pledge their Words of
Honour that no Seaman whatever shall be
molested by their People, on Play Nights,
from the Hours of Four in the Afternoon to
Six the following Morning, after which time
the indulgence ceases.”
“C. Oekney”: The British play-censor,
much to the surprise of theatrical managers
who are still giving the public what it wants,
refused to license an American play from the
David Belasco factory. The piece is “The
Harem,” one of David’s big hits in New York
last season, and a product of what some Yan-
kee wag calls “the Buda Pestiferous school"
—it was written by the Hungarian author
Ernest Vadjaj who has already shocked
London with his “Fata Morgana.” Its big
scene shows a Hungarian actress, disguised
as a Turkish princess, attempting to seduce
her own husband. Belasco can’t understand
what English people are coming to.
“Lond.”: Chance Newton (“Carados” of
the Referee) has dug up in his recollections
some stories of Clarence Holt, “quite a
theatrical god in Australia,” whose real name,
he insists, was Joseph :
His language was of the most volcanic type. One
day lie swooped down upon me fuming with enthu-
siasm and expletives. On my inquiring’ the reason,
Joe told me that he had, after deep (condemned)
consideration, formulated a new production of “Mac-
beth” which would show for the first time that play'
as the (so and so) author intended it. “My idea in
presenting this (so and so) .sublime tragedy of the
(sanguinary) author’s as he obviously intended it is
to. present the (sanguinary) banquet scene with a
balcony across the stage, in which 40 (sanguinary)
harpers will be shown harping their sanguinariest! ”
Pity Clarence didn’t live long enough to do
justice to the production of “Hamlet” at the
London jKingsway, in which, the cableman
assures us, the Prince sports plus-fours,
Ophelia a short skirt, Polonius a morning
coat and spats, and the Queen’s hair is
bobbed.
“Lud”: What a feast of good turns patrons
of vaudeville get in London West End
variety palaces! In the second week of
August Jose Collins, Clarice Mayne and Ada
Reeve were appearing on the same bill at
the Coliseum, and there were half a dozen
top-notch turns besides. There was no in-
crease in prices either.
“Flaming Youth” : The lure of the stage
affects all sorts of people. A heartless joker
on the Tivoli circuit discovered that the char-
lady in one of its houses entertained the idea
that she was another Marie Lloyd, and.
enlisting the aid of others just as cruel, he
extracted much joy from rehearsing the
lady for an appearance. They kept
it up till the evening of the debut,
• when she was suavely informed that,
on account of the arrival of booked
turns which had to be used, her act was cut
out. “I didn’t care for myself,” she confided
afterwards. “But there were five gentlemen,
all in the front of the dress-circle, who’d
hired dress suits specially to see me act!”
Minor art shows in Melbourne:—
The art of Miss E. W. Syme is of the Pomeranian
variety—quite a nice dog of its kind. There
is nothing inspiring about her show of 37 water-
colors at the Queen’s Hall, where the odor of
Theosophy meets the visitors in the doorway ; but there
is conscientious drawing, and, apart from the attempt
to fit European shies over Australian landscape, a
good idea of color effects, although the unfortunate
who was asked to walk into some of the pictures
might be suffocated by the lack of atmosphere.
Decorative work suits the artist best; and for
decorative purposes a majority of the pietui’es pass.
Little things occupy the mind and brush of Miss
May Vale (Mrs. Clilfillan), but she puts much deli-
cacy of treatment into the paintings of flowers
and small still-life subjects which have been
oh view at the Lyceum Club—a sort of semi-private
show. The collection consists of water-colors and
enamels; and, on the whole, this showman prefers
the enamels.
LIFE LINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A New York theatrical manager proposes giving
each member of the cast of his plays a number of
‘emergency lines,’ so constructed that they are appro-
priate to the general idea of the play and so may
be spoken with perfect applicability at any moment.
Thus, whenever an actor is late in making an
entrance, there will be no necessity for a ‘stage wait.’ ”
One night at the Show-box, when business was great,
The “comic,” De Dopey, arrived father late;
He’d been out with tdie boys and (the bare truth to
state)
The outing had not done him very much good.
For he’d sampled the “hootch” rather more than
he should,
And been “sleeping it off”—well, as much as he
could.
He found w'hen he entered the playhouse at last
The curtain w T as up and the play in full blast,
And for once he looked like being out of the cast.
He blinked at the players a moment or two
From the side, of the stage, and the notion it grew
That without any doubt he’d be late for his cue.
He pushed past the prompter, who staggered back
dumb,
And thrust his head out past the proscenium.
The audience laughed—seemed quite glad he had
come.
No terrors for him had dismissal or fines.
To the actors he yelled, as he made frantic signs:
“Say, throw out those doggone emergency lines!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


SPEED
WORLD’S MILE RECORD.
150.766 M.P.H. (Mean Speed).
WORLD’S KILO. RECORD.
150.369 M.P.H. (Mean Speed).
ON
WAKEFIELD
ĎFD
IJ'EdMW
At Pendine Sands, Wales, July 21, Captain Malcolm Campbell, in
a 12-cylinder Sunbeam, beat all records for Flying Mile and b lying
Kilometre. His car attained the tremendous velocity of 152.833 m.p.h.
(highest speed).
W.A. State Motor-car & Motor-cycle Races,
Lake Parkolilli.
Out of 9 EVENTS—
-9 FIRSTS,
7 SECONDS and
3 THIRDS,
Including STATE CHAMPIONSHIPS, were won by
“CASTROL” users.
Tlie outstanding qualities which make “CASTROL'’
the choice of the world’s greatest track performers are
equally necessary for the general motorist who expects
to get the highest road performance out of any standard
model roadster.
Every “CASTROL” success has been achieved on
regular grades, obtainable from leading garages.
ĎF
D
C. C. WAKEFIELD S GO.. LTD.
THE ALL-BRITISH FIRM,
All States and New Zealand. Head Office for Australasia,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
vSAVfc
v:v '
wmo.
JUII’MI
KKyZSS
1
&
-Vr
Cv
v*i-
B*
Jy/'*
IKWvIt
;..lu
Ran Dramas
Little talas with Onoto the Pen as He.r'O*
In Garden for Fourteen Months.
I send it because it may interest you to
know that your pen lay out for fourteen
months, lost in my garden, and subsequently
found by myself on a heap of garden rubbish.
To my great surprise I found the pen practically
uninjured and 1 was able to use it at once.
T. R„ Worcester,
Rim
From 15/* to £B*B*o.
TWO PERFECT PENS.
PLUNGER FILLING SAFETY
OR
LEVER FILLING.
Of all Stationers and Jewellers.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD*
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst, Ltd*
Sydney, Melbourne, Wellington, N.Z.
USE ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS.
i
fcrfc *
M
UtiW
M
ii2s , »*
lit
m
r&V,
JJ-*M*
u
►4.
**
Sf*
u -“ii'"^
*V
*'l*
ill""
Ď
FD
Ď
F
D
ĎF
For
100 years
a
favourite
in
Britain.
The Famous Argyll and Sutherland
Highlanders’ Military Band
Specially imported at a cost of £30,000 for the
New Zealand and South Seas
'iofutl
GRAND OPENING: NOVEMBER 17th. CLOSES APRIL, 1926.
65 ACRES OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH SEAS EXHIBITION
CO., LTD.,
Rattray Street, Dunedin.
Chas. P. Hainsworth, General Manager.
H. R. Spence, Secretary.
BOOK YOUR ACCOMMODATION NOW.
Full Particulars from—
N.Z. Trade Commissioner,
59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
N.Z. Government Agent,
Corner Pitt and Moore Streets, SYDNEY.


. . Why Ford is the
universal quality car.
\
M
Ford quality and accu-
racy of •workmanship
are unsurpassed in any
car, regardless of price.
'Because quantity out-
put has lowered Ford
prices the Ford repre-
sents the greatest value
the market offers .
VAL
Cr HE Ford is the most widely accepted standard of
-*■ motor car value. Quality in materials and work-
manship gives it endurance, simplicity of design
makes it dependable, adaptability makes it universally
practical in every phase of transportation.
Embodying these qualities in a car which is sold at a
lower price than any other, has won public recognition of
the Ford as outstanding value throughout the world.
Easy teims of payment.
See your nearest Ford Dealer .
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
CARS - TRUCKS - TRACTORS
MADE BY ANY BUT FORD METHODS, THE FORD WOULD COST TWICE AS MUCH
FIS


behind time!
WHEN YOU’VE
ftoUx'
WHIST C POCKET
WATCHES
Tor/fen orkomen
'from Up-to-date Jewellers
fl
%
7.
iPOLm
SUPPLIED IN WHITE
AND 65 ARTISTIC
SHADES.
LESS EXPENSE AND BETTER
RESULTS WHEN YOU USE
WORLD-FAMED
ENAMEL
It Is better to paint once with the best Paint than
several times with inferior Paint.
For Motor-cars, Launches, Hospitals and all
interior and exterior Painting.
Send for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY„ LTD.,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11054.
L. A. Connack (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
gYI)NE Y’S CHI EIT TIIEAT K E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: PRIMROSE.
CRITERION: SNAP.
ROYAL: THE NIGGER.
TOWN HALL: DAME CLARA BUTT
AND MR. KENNERLEY RUMFORD.
J RAND OI'EKA HOUSE. SYDNEY.
" Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh .1 Ward Theatre* Ptv., Ltd.
Nightly at 8. MatineSs Wed. and Sat. at 2.15.
THE MUSIC-BOX REVUE.
Plans at Nicholson's.
DiCliAI! I)S' TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pC LLEIt S’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
* ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
WILDFLOWER.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE SILVER KING.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NO, NO, NANETTE.
HUGH J. WARD’S WONDER MUSICAL COMEDY.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ISN'T LIFE WONDERFUL?
A D. W. GRIFFITHS PRODUCTION.
HOOT GIBSON in
THE SADDLE HAWK.
Prices as usuaL
|y|AJESTTC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EDNA MURPHY and LEON BARRY with REX,
the wonder horse, in
KING OF THE WILD HORSES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
AT H E NJE U3l THEATRE, 3IELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Taibot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
THE INCOMPARABLE AND FASCINATING
. EDNA THOMAS.
Farewell Season: Saturday, October 3 ; Tuesday,
October 6. Matinee, Wednesday, October 7;
Thursday, October 8; Saturday, October 10.
Plans at Allan's.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
ltQ BIG PRIZES!
IN THE
MOSMAN 1000
£4016
VALUE
» FOIL
l/i
Rolls Royce, Ist Prize. .£1750
2nd, Morris Oxford. . . £6OO
3rd, Morris Oxford . . . £4OO
4th, Diamond Necklet. . £2OO
5 th, Canteen Cutlery . . £lOO
119 Prizes in all ...... £4Ol 6
ALL. WINNERS NOTIFIED BY
LETTER.
This Art Union —in aid of the Mosman
Anzac Memorial Hall, is organised by
Colin A. Drysdale, who is well known
to Art Union patrons all over Aus-
tralia—is subject to all the regulations
set down by the A.-G. of N.S.W.
DRAWN IN DECEMBER.
See Ticket for Particulars.
TICKETS only \/\\ by Post,
or 8 or more post free. 6 for 5/-
from the Secretary,
COLIN A. DRYSDALE, 9 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Send a stamped envelope for results.
Amusements.
NEW 151.101 Til MAT It 12, >IELUOU ltN'E.
Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8.
FUT.T.ERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSEEAREAN
PRO 111 TTIOXS.
N.S.W. COUNTRY TOUR:
Singleton, October 2 ; Maitland W., October 3 and 5 ;
Newcastle, Victoria Theatre, October 7 to: 16.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. Do Batyn.
Missing Friends.
/ 1 OOLEY, CATHERINE.—The address
VJT of Catherine Gooley, sister of Mary
Gooley, also Known as Mary Elisha Gooley,
late of Bendigo, Victoria, is required by
A. M. POOL, care of Luke Murphy & Don,
Solicitors, ffendigo. _■
BUDD. —HENRY, formerly of Dicka-
bram, Queensland, or his children,
Arthur, Frederick and Ada R. Budd, kindly
communicate with W. E. GUNDRY, Central
Technical College, Sydney.
mm
mm s?-.v
fi
s
m
m
■m
m
tmsmm
m
The Major
Army Club is \he only
cigarette the superb
quality of uilttcb
remains constant
Army Club
Cigarettes
9n fauk *Med ikepopeh
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
u Pure Ribbed Rice Paper”
Cavanders Ltd., London. Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
7W7.
legal Notices.
TiN THE MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF THOMAS
x LAWTON DECEASED.
LAWTON v. LEACH.
ROBERT MELVILLE TAYLOR LAWTON—
Pursuant to an Order of the Court of Chancery of
the County Palatine of Lancaster made in the
matter of the Estate of Thomas Lawton deceased in
an action “Lawton v. Leach” 1925 Letter L. No.
130 whereby an inquiry was directed whether the
said Testator’s son Robert Melville Taylor Lawton
in the Will of the said Testator named is living or
dead and if dead when he died and Whether he
married and if he married whether he left any and
what children.
j The said Robert Melville Taylor Lawton or his
I personal representatives or any person claiming
through or under him are by his or their Solicitors
to come in and prove his or their claim before the
Registrar at his Chambers situate in Duchy Chambers
1 Clarence Street in the City of Manchester England
on or before the 21st day of December 1925 or in
default thereof after the expiration of the time
so limited they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the sth day of January 1926 is fixed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the said claims.
NOTE—-The said Testator late of Greave Mount
Rochdale in the County of Lancaster died on the
21st day of January 1904. Under his Will the
said Robert Melville Taylor Lawton if living is
entitled as from the 24th day of June 1914 for
life to one fourth of the income of the said Trust
Estate subject as in the said Will is mentioned.
The said Robert Melville Taylor Lawton formerly
resided in or near Los Angeles United States of
America and was last heard of on or about the
15th July 1915 in Sydney Australia.
Any person or persons having any knowledge or
whereabouts of the said Robert Melville Taylor
Lawton or of the date or place of his death if
dead are requested to communicate with the under-
mentioned Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
A. ERNEST STEINTHAL,
Registrar!
TAYLOR, KIRIiMAN & MAINPRICE, Plaintiff’s
Solicitors, 8 John Dalton Street, Manchester, England.
■p URSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery
x of the County Palatine of Lancaster made in
the matter of the estate of ANN ELIZABETH
WHITTAKER deceased an'd in an action by Whit-
taker against Whittaker —1925 Letter W. No. 140 —-
the persons claiming to be the persons who upon
the death of Ann Elizabeth Whittaker late of 18
Partington Street Castleton near Rochdale in the
County of Lancaster Spinster who died in or about
the month of August 1924 became beneficially entitled
to any personal estate of hers as to which she died
intestate or to be the legal personal representatives
of any of such persons who are since dead are by
their Solicitors on or before the 23 rd day of
December 1925 to come in and prove tjheir claims
at the Chambers of the Registrar of the Manchester
District of the said Court situate at Duchy Chambers
Clarence Street in the City of. Manchester England
oi- in default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order. Friday
the Bth day of January 1926 at 11 o’clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating on the claims.
NOTE —Ernest Whittaker a brother of the said
Ann Elizabeth Whittaker is believed to have died
at Holbain or some other place near Sydney New’
South Wales about 1903 without issue.
Herbert Whittaker another brother of the said
Ann Elizabeth Whittaker many years ago lived in
Clegg Street Failsworth where he carried on the
business of a Coal Dealer and he afterwards lived in
Carmichael Street Stockport. When last heard of
he is believed to have had a son and two daughters.
A son of the said Herbert Whittaker is said to have
been engaged in a Shipbuilding Yard at Belfast and
the family are said to have gone to reside in Ottawa
Road Belfast.
Dated this 14th day of August, 1925.
A. ERNEST STEINTHAL,
Registrar.
SAML. HOLROYD, 11 Clegg Street, Oldham,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
1 Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 267 of 1925.
To JOHN MORRISON formerly of Townsville and
Maryborough in the State of Queensland lately of
Redfern Sydney in the State of New South Wales
but whose present whereabouts are unknown Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane No. 267 of 1925 by Annie Louise
Morrison your wife wherein she claims a dissolution
of her marriage with you and the custody of John
Edwin Morrison one of the children of the said
marriage and by a petition filed in the said Court
on the twenty-second day of June 1925 she alleges
that in the month of January 1917 at Maryborough
aforesaid you the said John Morrison without cause
deserted her and have never since returned to cohabit
with her AND TAKE NOTICE that the said Court
has by order dated the sixteenth day of September
1925 authorised the service of the Writ and
Petition on you by fixing on the Notice Board in the
Registry of this Honorable Court at Brisbane a
copy of the said Writ of Summons and an office
copy of the said petition and by the insertion of
this advertisement once in the Sydney Bulletin and
the Sydney Morning Herald two newspapers pub-
lished at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
and once in the Maryborough Chronicle a news-
paper published at Maryborough in the State of
Queensland and also by sending a copy of the said
Writ of Summons and an office copy of the said
petition together with a copy’ of the said order
by prepaid registered post letter addressed to you
care of your mother at the Post Office Granville
Maryborough aforesaid AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required within thirty days from the last
act done in pursuance of the said order to cause
an appearance to be entered for you at the Registry’
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and
that in default of your so doing the plaintiff may
proceed in this action and that the judgment may
be given against you in your absence.
Dated this twenty-third day of September 1925.
(1.5.) F. S. KENNEDY,
Acting Registrar.
Gorton i Hartley,
Solicitors for the said Annie Louise Morrison,
Mackay.
Town Agents; Tully & Wilson, Solicitors, London
Bank Chambers, Creek Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


SAWS
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSTRUCTED
FOR
SERVICE AND SAFETY
FROM
FIRTHS’ SPECIAL SAW STEEL
BY
SHEFFIELD’S SKILLED SAW-
SMITHS.
Circular Saws, Crosscut Saws,
Vertical Saws, Band Saws, etc.
ALSO
Firths’ Famous Millsaw Files.
Machine Irons and Knives
made from Crucible Cast Steel on Iron
Back, or High-Speed Steel on Mild
Steel Back.
THEY CARRY THE NAME OF
FIRTH
WHICH IS WORLD FAMOUS FOR
HIGH QUALITY.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth & Sons
(AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
311 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
•-’O7 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
MODERN COOKERY
THE “UNIVERSAL” ELECTRIC WAY
Electric cooking is perfect. Oakes and
pastry baked in the “Universal” Electric
Stove are always light and dainty; joints
are roasted just as you want them. You
have absolute control of the heat, so that
nothing is left to chance. The oven being
completely enclosed, there is no shrinkage
of meats, etc., with a consequent loss of
food value.
gtt
“ UNIVERSAL”
Electric Range
Model E 973.
Black enamel or grey
enamel, and white fin-
ish, with nickel-plated
trim, 3 hot plates, very
fast. Large coil unit in
top of oven for broiling
and speed in preheating.
Temperature indicator.
Oven heavily insulated.
Floor space 23J inches
klB inches. Height 52
inches over all.
Electric Cookery saves time and trouble.
Pots and pans have not to be scoured and
scrubbed after every using, for electric
heat creates no dirt, soot or smoke to
soil the utensils and the kitchen.
vasmss^m
Electric Ho- Needs
The line of Electric Home Needs,
including Toasters, Kettles,
Vacuum Cleaners, Cookers, Orillers,
etc., are of the finest manufacture,
built for service and. economical
handling. Sold by all Electrical
Dealers in the Commonwealth.
Factory Representatives:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.,
270 Clarence Street, Sydney.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BUSINESS
OPPORTUNITY
Exclusive distributer wanted for wonderful
new Adding Machine. Retails for Three Pounds
(£3.0.0). Does work of machines costing Fifty
Pounds (£50.0.0). Adds, subtracts, multiplies
fnd divides automatically in Sterling Money.
Weighs three pounds. Five year guarantee
Over 200,000 sold in U.S.A. Quick liberal profits.
Write or cable for details.
Lightning Calculator Co.
Grand Rapids, Mich, U. 8. A.
Cable Address: “Calculator” Grand Rapids
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II J r *** ,# troubled with the complaint, write m and
we will aend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling ol ease and comfort from the
first day a use. It ts the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint It will hold • ruptuie
firmly and comlortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street. Melbourne
THE "BULLETIN” STOCK SADDLE
J
k
m
A GOOD SADDLE AT
A MODERATE PRICE
£9/17/6
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATIONS.
The “Bulletin” is a very serviceable saddle
with handsewn knee pads, short panel
with broad leather sweat flaps at sides.
The tree has steel stirrup bars, and the
mounts included are folded girth, leathers
and nickel-platad stirrups.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY,
INCLUDING TEXAS COWBOY SADDLE
OUTFITS.
Remington
Pocket Knives Are Good.
Bls.—Ballet Knife, with
grained colored pyremite handle,
nickel shoe forming a bottle cap
lifter, and 2 good blades.
7/0 each, Post. 6d.
UK
Walther § Stevenson, Ltd., Saddlers,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mi*>«ilng Friends
]) EID, JAMES DUNLOP, motor mechanic or
engineer. Last heard of at Mount Aberdeen, Queens-
land, formerly of Ayr, Scotland; or anyone knowing
his address, communicate with WILLIAM REID,
15 Nora Street, Maylands, South Australia,
aundrena
THE PAINTY WOMANS FAVOURITE STARCH
Waites ironing ajop /
'""Manufacturect, by"'
CLIFFOR.D LOVE £r CO. LTD
a Y ON EV”>
Missing Friends.
\\7 ANTED the present address of Mr. ELLIS
vv KITCHEN, formerly of Geelong, Motor
Mechanic, aged about 48 years. Something to his
advantage. Communicate with T. W. TOBIN. 418
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TWENTY-SECOND REPORT
OF
PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
To be presented to the Members at the OrcTnary General Meeting to be held
on 30th September, 1925. ,
The Directors submit to the Members a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the
Company on 30th June, 1925, and a Statement of Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30th June,
1925, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account brought forward is .. £2,058 7. 5
Tnis, added to the Net Profit for the year, after Depreciation .. .. 100,171 10 1
Makes a total of £102,229 17 6
Daring the year the Directors paid to the Members an Interim Dividend on
Ordinary Shares amounting to .. .. .. .. .. .. £33,899 18 8
And Dividends on 50,000 First Preference Shares at the fixed rate of
7 p.c. per annum, amounting to .. .. . , .. .. .. 3,500 0 0 1
Making a total of .... .. 37,399 18 8
Leaving a balance available of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £64,829 18 10
Out of which the Directors recommend the payment of a dividend to make
the Dividend for the year on the amount paid up on Oi-dinary.
Shares equal to 12| p.c. per annum .. .. .. .. . . £53,975 1 6
Balance carried forward .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,854 17 4
. _ £64,829 18 10
HENRY PERDRIAU,
chairman.
PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED.
Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1925.
LIABILITIES.
Capital issued .. £854,452 0 0
Less 7/6 per Share
uncalled on 201,113
Ordinary Shares. . 75,417 7 6
—-£779,034 12 6
Sundry Creditors .. 180,289 17 0
General Reserve .. •• •• 12,942 8 7
Profit and Loss ~ £102,229 17 6
Less Interim Divi-
dends .. .. 37,399 18 8
—* 64,829 18 10
£1,037,096 17 8
ASSETS.
£352,687 1 3
Stock
Freehold Property
and Buildings ..£170,364 19
Leasehold, Drum-
nioytie
Machinery, Tools and
Plant, less Depre-
ciation
Furniture and Fit-
tings .. *
Goodwill
Sundry Debtors, less
provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts
Insurance Unexpired
Cash in Hand
587 18 1
246,900 18 3
12,531 13 10
£3.120
525
7 10
1 3
430,385 9
15,000. 0
235,378 18 1
3,645 9 1
£1,037,096 17 8
We hereby certify that we have examined the Books and Vouchers of Perdriau Rubber Company
Limited, and find that this Balance Sheet exhibits the true position of their business affairs, as shown by
‘he books, and is, in our opinion, a correct statement of the affairs of the Company. We have accepted
the certificate of the General Manager for the amount of stock on hand.
KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY,
Sydney, 18th September, 1925. Public Accountants,
Auditors.
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30th June, 1925.
19^5.
June 30—To Balance..
.. £64,829 18 10
1924.
June 30 —By Balance £50,487 6 9
Less Appropriation
to make the Divi-
dend for the year
on the amount paid
up on Ordinary
Shares equal to 12 J
p.c. per annum .. 48,428 19 4
£2,058 7 5
1925.
June 30—Bv Net Pro-
fit for the year ..£100,171 10 1
Less Interim Divi-
dends paid by the
Directors during the
year ..
37,399 18 8
Sydney, 18th September, 1925.
Audited and found correct.
KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY,
Public Accountants,
Auditors,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
iVo notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications wsu/Ucientlu stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Kooweerup * Yes, and with a protective
tariff such reparation payments in kind wouldn’t have
been thought of. It. was only the freetrade habit of
mind that made them possible... ,G.K.: It’s sad
doggerel....Old C.: Certainly. For The B.’s part
it would say yes to No. X and no to No. 2—
the latter on the simple ground that the Common-
wealth has already accepted payment for taking the
line by another route.—Maolsa; But if it isn't
true to the last dot the captain would probably ask
for about £10,000 T.W.W.: Already had atten-
tion... .Brady’s Lookout: We’d like something better
than somebody’s second-hand say-so before we raise
ahy bright hopes in that matter... .E.J.R.: Discussed
at great length only a few months ago... .H.R.M.:
Not badly done; but you can see it all coming....
F.S.H.: That little darling has vamped too often.
But you don’t do it badly... .D.M.G.: Both miss.
• ...A.E.C.: Too many lines limp.... John M.:
•'Proper Mates” gets near; the others are off our
beat....E.M. (Bendigo): “Broom” must go back.
. ...N.L.R.; Not badly done; but don’t imitate.
Also, you cannot rhyme “nephew” with “left you”
and “faster” with “asker”... .P.E.S.: Not meat enough
in “ Visitation”... .J.C. (Paddington): Terrifying
verse;.. .Warren G.: Doesn't do much more than
repeat the paragraph heading it Sibyl P.: The
verses are young and crude... .R.G.H.: Poor stuff.
....Frances Q.; No use to as.... A.D.M.: Nothing
there to make a yarn... .C.E.L.P.; Too long and
rather dull... .M.II.H.: “Toothache” doesn't strike
us... .Ripponlea* The spring poem Is moving:—*
With the advent of Boronia,
Daisies, Roast Lamb and Pneumonia,
Sunbeams coming by the million
Turn my nose a bright vermilion,
Play the dickens with that section
Of mine delicate complexion.
But the limit is those speckles
Known in chemists’ shops as freckles.
Blissfully I lie, a loafer.
On our mid-Victorian sofa,
List’ning to the faery lutes
Of mine Granpa’p squeaky boots
As he prunes his standard roses
Heeding not inflammerd noses;
And the nasty problem heckles,
“How to lose those measly freckles?”
.... Mombak: The slaughter is not bright enough....
Jack R,: Even for verses addressed to spring they
are pretty weak... .S.C.C.: Doesn’t move us... .Alan
B.: Irritating verse that says very little... - Louis
S.; Not well enough carpentered Millewa: The
first stanza is good; the rest is nothing... .W.E.B.;
Misses, but not by much... .P.H.B.; Wobbles and
staggers over its own feet... .Alice N.: Weak verse
about nothing in particular K.F. (Roseville): The
yarn tramps heavily on without getting to anything of
interest J.L.A.: Not up R.V.D.: The lost
championship verse is too thin and crude... .F.F.G :
Too slight.... Dinkum Oil: The verse slithers along
gathering up old print-worn phrases.... L.O;
(Wynnum) ; Some distance to climb yet... .Tully O.:
Not for us.... Kid M.: A good suggestion, but fails
in the handling. Try again... .N.D.R.: That has
been done too often... .M.N.O.: See if you can’t
get more life into it S.S. (East Brunswick);
Commonplaces in fair verse Margot: It captures
even the well-known rhyme of a well-known poem.
. ...C.S. (Elsternwick) : Nothing in it Mavis O.:
Far too long....May B.: None of them up....
Donald A,: Too thin and slight... .Marjorie P.: The
idea is very good. Try to improve the verse....
Harry P.; Get rid of those wooden tags....E.D,
(Perth): “Poetasters” fails ..John McG.: The verse
is too weak to carry anything, let alone an idea
like that.... Edwin W.: Two men go out into the
country and get thirsty. Well, well 1.... Bellerive:
It has a simple grace all its own:—
An urgent message, in a hasty tone.
From the exchange is sent through the telephone.
Business orders and jokes which annoy.
To a flirty girl’s chat with an office boy.
Invitations to parties, a social or play.
Here and there are delivered throughout the day „
From old and young, in mill and sharp tone,
Daily flash through the wonderful telephone.
... .Nomad; You spent 30 minutes in re-writing what
100 others had written before yqu, and then you
called it “thought” Joan H.: Not enough there.
. ...A.E.G.: Nothing new.... J.M.B.: The yarn is
too mechanical Alpha S.: We are not attracted by
a moon that rhymes “more” with “awe”... .H.M.J.:
Not much in our line... .A.R.L.: Doesn’t move us.
Marjory B.: Far too weak and thin Bert
W.: It’s a very long way off O.F. (Atherton):
The crocodile yam doesn’t read true Muzaffer:
Not well enough told H.J.C.: Too little in it.
....Percy: Good. You’ll see it presently... .L.S.J.:
Too dawdlesome. This paper has to cover a whole
continent once a week... .Provo: Take your ears to
a tuner. The rhymes are very terrible... .W. Reel:
Said already... .S.B.O.: Tidy it up a bit. The
grain is there, but it is hidden in a tangle of
words... .11,B.: "Wolves” conventional ; and the
atmosphere isn’t very well maintained.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.O’T.: Miles avay*from Nature and leagues away
from Art... .H.W.T.; Smother your craving for pub-
lication and learn to draw better... .R.M.: The
drawing nearly passes, the joke sags in the middle.
H.V.B.: Other things have bitten us harder
than those suggestions A.B.: The gee-gees are
not without their points D.G.L.; Thanks for your
upland breezes. Drawing’s out, unfortunately....
R.F.H.; We hope you are young... .J.H.F.: It
wouldn’t be necessary for Charlton to pull the
Labor horse if the animal had already been doped
in the stable.
“Kobbi”: F. O. Urquhart, who used to
be Queensland’s Police Commissioner and
now is Administrator of the Northern Terri-
tory, has issued a report which doesn’t make
pleasant reading for White Australians. The
British attendance at the Darwin school is
34; the Chinese, aboriginal half-castes,
Malay half-castes and Chinese half-castes
number 63, Eight Greeks and Spaniards
bring up the total to 105. Parap school,
two and a half miles away, hnR 24 white
children. Add the tallies at Alice Springs
and the Kahlin Compound, and there are 92
white children to 130 colored, the predomi-
nant element being Chinese.


J\(oz&- a One-Profit Car
in the Fine Car Field
STUDEBAKER has achieved one-profit manufacture in the fine car field. This marks
a new era in the automobile industry. Studebaker’s achievement eliminates unnecessaiy
profits running up to £lOO on a single car. It banishes double overhead. It results in
quantity production of quality cars. It vitally affects pricing by establishing a new
criterion of value in the fine-car field.
D
WENTY-PIVE years ago
practically all “manufacturers”
of automobiles were nothing
more than assemblers. They
purchased motors, bodies, hoods,
axles, etc., from parts makers who were
the manufacturers in reality.
On this basis it was easy to become an
automobile “manufacturer,” and more than
five hundred makes of automobiles have
had their day and disappeared, in the Amer-
ican market alone (to say nothing of the
European field). They are represented
only by “orphan cars” with practically no
resale value in the hands of the public.
Notwithstanding this writing on the wall
many manufacturers still assemble their
product, piling profit upon profit for the
ultimate purchaser to pay. Each profit
which a maker pays to a body builder or
parts supplier enters into his cost just as
though he had spent the money for steel
or plate glass or upholstery. Although it
represents no value he not only passes it on
to the purchaser but figures his own profit
on top of it.
* * *
The Ford is a one-profit car and reigns
supreme in its field.
In the fine car field Studebaker —and
Studebaker alone —now offers the Austral-
ian public one-profit values.
During the past seven years, when de-
mand for automobiles exceeded supply,
Studebaker has been plowing earnings back
into plants and machinery until we are now
able to make this announcement.
Foundries, stamping mills, machine shops,
are now complete. As final links in the
chain of one-profit production, the enor-
mous Studebaker body plants have been
operating for months at peak capacity. Re-
sources totaling twenty million pounds are
concentrated on the production of this
one-profit car.
No other manufacturer in the world (ex-
cept Ford) possesses such facilities for the
complete manufacture of automobiles.
That is why Studebaker is able to put
finer steel, finer wood, finer upholstery, bet-
Why Studebaker is the
“one'profit” car
There are more than 60 makes of passenger cars
built in the United States, but very few are manu-
factured complete in the plants of the producers
who sell them.
Only 42 build all their own motors —and one of
the 42 is Studebaker.
Of the 42 which claim to make their own motors
many merely machine and assemble the parts made
by others. Only 14 of the 42 make the iron castings,
stampings and forgings which go into their mo-
tors —and one of the 14 is Studebaker.
Only 5 make all their own bodies and .one of the
5 is Studebaker.
Only 3 make all their own springs, stearing gear,
differentials, gear sets, and clutches —and one of
the 3 is Studebaker.
Only 2 make all their own motors, bodies, clutch-
es, springs, axles,gear sets, differentials and steer-
ing gear. One of these 2is Studebaker and the
other is Ford.
** * *
Studebaker has achieved One-profit manufacture
without expensive financing, mergers,holding com-
panies, or other agencies which create overhead.
Studebaker has no bonded debt and no bank loans.
The tremendous plants which permit such efficient
manufacture of fine cars are the result of 73 years of
sound conservative business. The 14,000 stock-
holders who own this corporation have been con-
tent with reasonable returns, and earnings have
built the solid foundation described on this page.
ter workmanship, hundreds of thousands of
miles of reserve transportation into every
car —yet keep down the price to you.
This sound manufacturing principle not
only holds down price, but it insures a better
car regardless of price. The car is a thor-
oughly coordinated, harmonious unit.
Remember that no outside supplier is
able to build bodies a whit cheaper than
Studebaker with its vast modern plants
and tremendous volume.
With Studebaker, the entire car is de-
signed and built as a unit —and engineered
complete. This construction means (l)
longer life —(2) greater comfort in riding—
(3) greater freedom from repair expense—
(4) greater resale value.
Longer life because —all vital units are espe-
cially designed to operate in harmony—one with the
other. Thus preventing unnecessary wear and tear.
Greater riding comfort because —springs and
chassis are scientifically designed to function most
efficiently with the body also designed and built by
Studebaker.
Greater freedom from repair expense be-
cause —strains and stresses of each moving part are
accurately determined before the car is built.
Greater reside value because —the tremendous
reserve mileage, the rugged dependability and amaz-
ing stamina that are built into every Studebaker
car cannot be exhasted in years of service.
With the advent of this one-profit-one-
overhead plan of motor car manufacture,
it is folly today to buy a car by the same
comparisons you used yesterday. Today
you must measure all cars with this “one-
profit” Studebaker.
* * * *
There are 21 Studebaker body styles available on
three different six-cylinder chassis. The Standard-Six
Models, 113-inch wheel base, 50-h.p. engine, £425 to
£605. The Special Six Models, 120-inch wheelbase, 65-
h.p. engine, £525 to £740. And the Big-Six Models,
127-inch wheelbase, 75-h.p. engine, £660 to £B6O.
Whether you buy the highest priced or
the lowest priced Studebaker you always
receive highest quality materials, sound engi-
neering design, integrity in workmanship
and the utmost value for the money.
And you may buy your Studebaker to-
day with the assurance that it will not be
arbitrarily stigmatized by any act of ours
as a “last year’s model.” Instead of spec-
tacular annual announcements of “new
yearly models,” Studebaker has adopted
the policy of keeping its cars up-to-date in
body styles and chassis design every day
in the year. Therefore, buy your Stude-
baker now!
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Indiana, U. S. A.
JT7/64S
BUILDERS OF
DEBAKER
QUALITY VEHI C L E S FO R 7 3 YEA R C?
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY (Q’land), LTD., Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisba
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROP’TY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.


SEND YOUR
as
WINCHCOMBEI|
CARSON Jg
®«
THE
SEASON
MESSAGE
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAIiOO and all
other skias —for top values consign to
WINCNCOMBE* CARSON
i (SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
POWER
Transmission
ENCIRCLES
A'jyTRAO.IA
Tunned and processed under Uie most
improved methods of manufacture,
HARDIES LEATHER RELTING en-
sures the most dependable and
economical service in the efficient
transmission of power.
Only specially-selected bends are used in the
manufacture of lIARjDIE'S LEATHER
BELTING, with the result that there is no
stretching, and conseqitently no loss of
power through slippage.
Specialising in everything used in the trans-
mission of power, we can quote for all your
requirements at lowest bedrock prices.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Street-
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 103 Collins Street
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE
Contains ever
3d.
■yihiinj a woman needs
to know
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
■ actual sl?t
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rumfords
Groats
Best for* Mothers,
Young Children
Si Invalids .
Obtainable from
ALL CHEMISTS & GROCERS
Stewart Dawson’s New Shipment of
WADE & BUTCHER CUTLERY
C 2
86187. —Wade S Butcher Stainless Carvers,
Xylonite handles. Price, 35/-, in case.
BUTC*,.
■
86191. —Wade & Butcher Stainless
Carvers, stag handles, -with sharpener.
Price, 37/6, in case..
BCI9O. —Wade & Butcher Set of
Stainless Carvers, with sharpener.
Best Xylonite handles. Price, 45/-,
in case.
This latest shipment of the
noted Wade & Butcher make
of Cutlery includes some splen-
did values in
STUNEESS CARVERS.
The name “Wade & Butcher,
Sheffield,” is a guarantee of
their quality. The shipment also
includes Wade & Butcher
STAINLESS KNIVES.
Stainless Table Knives, round
or square, Xylonite handles.
Per doz 50/-
Ditto, Dessert, per doz.. . 47/0
mm
86190.-— 45/- the set.
Write for Stewart Dawson's Handsome Catalogue
of Jewellery, Silverware and Watches.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
Established 1871, (N.S.W.) LTD.,
Two Sydney \ 185-187 PITT STREET (near King Street).
Establishments j"412 GEORGE STREET (Strand Corner).
Delicate Children should be given Hypol during the wintei
jnonths. It will build up resistance to illness and disease,
and improve their condition generally.
There can be no failure with HYPOL. Try a Bottle
Sold Everywhere at 2/6 per Large Bottle
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Hypol is a friend indeed to the precious
tittle folk. It chases away gloom and anxiety,
by restoring sick Children to the bloom of health.
For racking Coughs and Colds, the prevention of
Rickets, or for keeping up the strength of Children
who are growing rapidly, there is nothing so reliable
and sustaining as
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Umber”: The making of chalks, crayons
and artists’ colors is to provide Melbourne
with a new minor industry. An English
colorist who has been through the practical
side of the business is half of the neAV
venture. It seems an absurdity that chalks
for use in the schools should hitherto have
been dragged from the other side of the
world ; but our importing habits are full of
absurdity.
“Polycarp”: It is a fine sight when half
a dozen of the giant black-and-green “butter-
fly-moths” of North Queensland appear at
once, floating about in the sunshine over the
tropical flowering shrubs. Quite a number
of people in tire North make pocket-money
by collecting the larvae of these beautiful in-
sects from the trees and breeding them for
foreign fanciers.
* * * *
“Wart”: An influential crowd with Mal-
colm Kennedy as chairman has secured
30,000 acres of Crown lands in the Upper
Huon district (Tas.), to start fur farming.
An incidental object of the promoters is to
educate the community into putting less de-
pendence on the tourist traffic, which lasts
for only about three months out of the 12
even in a season when the annual seamen’s
strike is not in bloom.
® «• * *
“Sturt”: Wallaroo, the once famous but
now decayed copper-mining town of S.A.,
has lost a landmark, the lead-works stack
which was built last century. Its 120 feet and
400-tons weight were neatly felled, and most
of its 200,000 bricks are good for re-use.
Wallaroo will still cling, however, to its
main chimney-stack, which is of such im-
portance to local navigation that it has a
prominent place on all Spencer’s Gulf charts.
* *• * *
“Bio”: Just as in Melbourne the tram-
way strike of a couple of yeai-s ago gave a
life to motor-’bus transport, so the Queens-
land railway strike has directed attention to
the economy of the motor-truck. Between
Ipswich and Brisbane particularly, and gen-
erally from the dairying and fruit-growing
districts, the carriage of produce and goods
by motor-lorry increased enormously during
the ten days of the strike, and much of it
will never be recovered by the railways. The
lorries charge a bit more; but the handling
charges are much less.
“J.A.”: Adelaide for eggs. The Dairy-
Produce Department of the South Aus.
Farmers’ Co-operative Union shipped by the
Jervis Bay on September 5 what is claimed
to. be a record consignment. There
were 1700 cases, or 51,000 dozen. It needed
a special train to carry the load from the
stores at Mile End to the Outer Harbor,
the total weight being about 100 tons. So
plentiful are eggs this season that the com-
pany anticipates being able to bring the total
export up to 300,000 dozen before the end
of October.
* * * *
“Nikko”: So-called art unions have
earned the hostility of the M.T>. Minister for
Internal Affairs, R. F. Bollard, who lias cut
the maximum value of all such affairs down
to £5OO. The original idea of the art union
was, he maintained, to help charities and
organisations in financial difficulties, and not
to support large numbers of parasites under
the guise of philanthropy. Should the £5OO
limit be abused the Minister intends to
further cut the limit down to £250, at which
price even the most astute promoter will
find it difficult to retire with a fortune.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Blatant Australian”' suggests
(B. 10/9/’25) that the Federal Commis-
sion which is taking evidence about the
stone for building Canberra should consider
the marble at Benambra, in Victoria, 150 miles
from the Federal city. Why not first give
the local deposits a show 7 ? At Windellama,
only 40 miles east of Canberra, immense
cliffs of blue marble await the quarryman.
It has been tested and found to be excellent
building material. Many Sydney verandah
columns, hearthstones and doorsteps came
from there. And at Carwoola, on the rim
of the city site, 15 miles from Duntroon, lie
immeasurable quantities of white marble.
“Unsuitable for sculpture” has so far been
the only thing said against it, and that by
only one man.
* * * *
“H.K.”: September 26 marks the 70th
anniversary of the opening of the Sydney-
Parramatta railway. Contrary to general
belief, this line was not the first opened for
traffic in Australia. It certainly was the
first Government railway, but the Hobson’s
Bay Railway Co.’s line from Melbourne to
Sandgate (now Port Melbourne) w r as used
on September 13 a year earlier. Incidentally,
a bill providing for the formation of the
latter co. wms passed in 1853, and 18 months
later the line wrns ready for traffic. The go-
slow policy didn’t operate in those days.
The company placed its order for an engine
with a Melbourne firm, Robertson and
Smith, while the making of the boiler was
entrusted to the Port Phillip Foundry. With-
in 10 weeks of the placing of the order the
locomotive was delivered.
“Ces”: Victoria’s Better Farming Train,
a collection of yellow-painted carriages and
cars, is more than justifying its institution.
The idea of touring the State and exhibiting
cattle, horses and sheep, and demonstrating
methods of growing pasture and crops, the
right way to use supers and other manures
and to detect and get rid of insect and
other pests, w T as Commissioner Clapp's, and
the success of the first tour has made it a
permanent feature of the work of the Agri-
culture Department. Farmers flock to it
in every part of the State and absorb instruc-
tion from experts. Between 20 and 30 of
these experts travel, and at each stopping-
place deliver lectures to the assembled
cockies. That the travelling stock are
treated well is shown by the fact that a
scrub cow on the train has developed into a
first-class milk-giver. Cameron, Director of
Agriculture, is vastly pleased over the suc-
cess of the experiment and his chest grew
even broader the other day when requests
came from South Aus. for the loan of the
train for a few trips in that State, and
from the Chamber of Commerce at Albury
(N.S.W.) for a special trip to that centre.


*?=;- >
.2A
' i i
) r
r-
mm
2
'V
no38
5>.
Radiators can be
attached for warm-
ing rooms.
'oi Water, the life of the
‘A, kitchen
HOT WATER
MUST BE PROVIDED
under the new regulations
by establishments catering
for tourists — travellers —
and the general public.
Ideal
Domes
BOILERS
hot water
fit snugly into any kitchen scheme.
They maintain a constant supply of
hot water to every “hot" tap in the
house at such a low upkeep for fuel
that they are universally used in
Britain, America, on the Continent, and
in the leading cities and towns of Aus-
tralia.
Call and inspect. Booklet posted for
your address.
TIC
Q
a
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Invest in Happiness Unlimited
*
4'
ft-
\
a/
J£
*
(B
Music Transforms and Exalts Home-life.
It will certainly serve your own best interests to pay a visit
to Paling’s or send for a free copy of their Player Piano
Catalogue, showing prices and
Easy Terms.
Your present Piano will be taken as part payment if desired.
purchasing one of
PALING’S
Player Pianos.
The possession of a Paling Player Piano
will establish yourself and family as
permanent shareholders in Happiness
Unlimited,’’ from which big dividends oi
joyousness can be drawn whenever
desired.
Right from the first time you play the instrument or
listen to its glorious tone you feel proud of possessing
such a dependable Player Piano. And the more you
play it the greater will be the recognition that a Paling
Player Piano is an inexhaustible treasure trove of musical
gems.
The appreciation of family and friends will serve as a
constant endorsement to your good judgment in purchas-
ing an instrument of high quality from such a reputable
firm as Paling’s.
ĎF
“Quality our Keynote since 1853,”
338 George Street, SYDNEY
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore and Rockhampton.


ill
COUGH
Coughs.
CROI
Q H AMBERIAINg
COUGH
REMEDY
(Si!
iSri
SORE THIj
INFLUE
IVND OTHCfI AFftCTK
THROAT and
iSji*!
55
Tltiji
MADE INAUS
s
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY N
b* SMALL;
%
ssfSs
This medicine robs ’Flu
of its after effects.
Never neglect ’Flu. Go to
bed at the first symptoms.
Take Chamberlain’s freely
till the fever subsides and
all the pain disappears.
An attack of ’Flu treat-
ed with Chamberlain’s
never leaves any bad
after effects behind it.
ItiAMBERIAItj;
' COUGH REMEDY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD —
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
: Five New Patented Features
OV
m
L
///
//
SBBnmite
N3d
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Ba r.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FTLLED BAND.
And last, hnt*not least:
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 80/-, 40/-,
50/-, 00/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t delay. Get yours
NOW. State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’LL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAI,
• Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872. .
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. li. Hart, L.sq.,
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia ana
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
ALBEC”—the Sweetest, Coolest, Smoking Pipe
That’s what hundreds of Smokers are saying who have used the
AEBEC PIPE.
A richly - grained
London-made Sil-
ver-mounted Frencli
Briar, matured by
a Special Seasoning
Process, and fitted
with a Hard, Scotch
Vulcanite Mouth-
piece.
D
The World’s
Best.
It is equal in
value to pipes usu-
I ally sold at £l.
Possibly your to-
bacconist or store-
keeper stocks these
pipes. If not, don’t
be put off, take no
substitute; there is
no other pipe just
as good or cheap.
You’ll be abundantly satisfied on sight, or your money returned. .
Send 8/9 any convenient way. Made in 15 different shapes. State shape required, and the
Albec Pipe will be posted to you, prepaid, the same day. Every pipe is fully guaranteed to
give satisfaction.
D. W. KETR, 90 SMITH STREET, COLfLINGWOOD, VIC.,
THE OLD HIGHLANDER TOBACCO STORE.
Ď
dependable
What points do
you look for in a
Plough Chain?
•—strength!
—uniform, smooth,
non-chafing links!
—neat appearance!
You get all these
and more in ACCO
Plough Chains. Ac-
co Chains are made
of the best materi-
PLOUGH CHAINS
als on automatic
machines that en-
sure even finish
and extra-great
strength. Each is
tested to maximum
strain before it
leaves our factory.
Of good store-
keepers and sad-
dlers’ ironmongers,
or write our repre-
sentative direct.
F
Look at that Hook!
The drop-forged hook
on the Acco Plough
Chain is just the
proper weight. And
it’s strong 1
(g®>
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY. Inn.
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Bldg., New York. U. S. A.
Representa five:
Edward G. Vaughan, P.O. Box 845, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ď
m.
41
%
w~
it
i /y
M
m
IssgS.C
if
mm
* (
j
“Yes, Sir, you are quite right. If you want
to keep the leather supple, apply ‘Nugget’ Boot
Polish regularly. We have found it is the
most reliable polish on the market.”
Tsdade B d 't Tan,
LigltTan, urkTan,
Nigga- — roum, Red
Stain, Patent und
White.
NUGGET
BOOT POLISH
“(r. Emeeyj”: A link with the Cutty Sark
was vnapped when W alter Gerard died the
other day at Townsville (Q.). Gerard,
thought a Customs official at the time of his
demist), had been a sailor from his youth,
and was at one time a mate on the famous
old clipper.
“G.I. r : “X.N.O.’s” statement about _ the
ensign beirug lowered at sea (B. 10/9/’25)
is too sweeping. The ensign is only lowered
on nuttiVig to sea if the ship is fitted with
peal? hal.Yards; otherwise it is never lowered
except, wfien a 'ship anchors or ties up m
harbor bitfore 8 a.m.
“Keppeif : Mone coincidences? A Mackay
(Q.) cane tfarmer recently set out on a trip
to his birth place, Carlow, Ireland. On
going aho.trd the Jervis Bay at Syd-
ney, he fckmd that his cabin-mate was
the man 'Who had come out with him
in 1884 in the ijVesthall, and whom he had
not seen or of since. The two went
to Ireland to£etb|er and returned together.
Though S. Aug., like Victoria, allows
motor-vehicles Ho slither past stationary
trams that are setting down and taking in pas-
sengers, it falls', much more heavily than any
other State on ?the road-liog. The proces-
sion of offenders,' through the ordinary courts
in Adelaide has become so great in conse-
quence that a Traffic Court is to be set up.
It is to occupy jthe premises near Victona-
square formerly used by the Glenelg rail-
way as a ticket-office and waiting-room.
The Royal Geographical Society of Aus-
tralasia and the I) istorical Society of Queens-
land are co-operai ing in a movement to erect
a monument to \ Captain Cook at Bustard
Bay, the great ntavigators landing-place on
the Queensland q oast. The memorial will
take the form of 1 a camp about. sft. high,
with an inscription attached. The sum ot
about £75 is required to complete the work:
the hon. secretary of the fund is Dr. Cum-
brae Stewart, the ■ University, Brisbane, who
will be pleased to. ractfve donations.
“Bio”: The record claimed for Joseph
Vernon (B. 27/J4/’2sf), who was a Leigh
(Vic.) councillor for- 57 years, isn’t. Dan
Burke, of WestbUry (Tas.), was a member
of the local council ;for 61 years, and was
Warden (president) for 40. He is still
smart and active 99- He was the young-
farmer who hid thei Irish exile, John Michel},
an uncle of Irvitfcp, C.J., when the null-
tary were looking for- him after he had sur-
rendered his parok; and bolted away from
an astonished magistijate at Both well in the
ea rly ’fifties. Burbe was a member ot the
Speck’s Assembly for a mere 20 years or so,
quite an insignificant, span in Ivis life.
The just-dead Reginald Murray, Vic. Gov-
ernment Geologist from lpBl to 1897, had
an impediment in l#s speech, and was ap.
to get sore about it. On one occasion in a
village on the Ujpper Murray, Craven,
M L.A., introduced Murray to a publican
who also stuttered. Murray spluttered that
from what Craven l*id told him about Boni-
face he was “pu-prcfcid to m-mum-eet him.
The publican, delighted, jerked out that the
pup-pup-leasure was aw-aw-awl his. Mur-
ray couldn’t stand that sort of joke, and
things were getting willing when Craven
intervened, and the publican insisted upon
standing the first drink.
“TP.”: The yarn of W. A. Trenwith (B.
10/9/’2s)’ smiting the man who styled him a
sanguinary liar has a sequel. Years after-
wards the son of the smitten interviewed the
1 abor leader, whom the whirligig of time
h a d made Minister of Railways, protesting
that he had been denied a fa£r spin as an
employee. “Father tofd me not to come; but
I was full up and clianced it, he said. The
Minister delved personally into the case, and
saw that the lad got fair play. Then: ‘ A
week later my old enemy bailed me up m
Bourke-street, and, thrusting out his fist,
said, ‘Damn it all, Bill Trenwith, I never
thought to shake hands with you; but tor
the sake of my kid put it there—and I
put it.”
“Only Australian”: “Forebridge,” con-
trasting Hobart unfavorably with Rio as a
harbor (B. 10/9/’25), is unfair to the former.
Hobart is 12 miles up the Derwent from the
sea - Rio is right on the ocean. Hobart is
well sheltered from all winds,; Rio is not.
At Hobart the tides matter little. At Rio
they matter a lot. Finally, Hobart’s 40 feet
of deep water along the wharves beats Rio’s
figure. As a world-traveller in all the seven
seas, I rank Galway (Ireland) and Hobart,
from the shipping point of view, as the next
best to Sydney, although both are only
partially developed. ’Frisco is a fine harbor,
but too windy and foggy. San Pedro, the
harbor of Los Angeles, is the best ‘made
port on the globe: Quebec the most pic-
turesque; Auckland one of the finest; and
New York the best equipped.
“Adamascus”: Queensland meatworks
should be able to report a record season at
the end of the year. In the first eight
months the tally was 480 269 cattle and 255
calves. The biggest number for a full year
was 546,000 cattle in 1914, when 737,000
sheep were also converted into foodstuff. In
1913, 453,000 cattle were treated, and in
1915 425,000. The railway strike put the
industrv back considerably, for numerous
mobs on their way to be slaughtered had to
be sent home to their stations; but the
meatworks are gradually getting into their
stride again. During August there were
exported 1444 forequarters, 82016 crops,
162,055 hindquarters, 329.7801 b. of beef
and 599,4081 b. of boneless beef. And
the quantities in store at the end of the
month represented 80.000 cattle.
“777”: “Wallaby” (B. 3/9/’25) is right
when he says tho “non-military employment”
scheme suffered much from the ingenuity of
the nimble-minded Digger. With activities
which extended from courses in dairying in
Denmark to irrigation methods in California,
there is little wonder that it tended to be-
come a medium for joy-trips. Travelling
through Italy in 1919 I ran across a one-
pip artist, hailing from the backblocks of
S.A., thoroughly enjoying himself in Flor-
ence. He told me he was on “bon-military
enjoyment—perfecting his Italian accent.”
In England I met a Digger who manoeuvred
skiffs and punts at the landing to Eel Pie
Island on the Thames, pocketed the tips from
his patrons, and, incidentally, drew his allow-
ance under the “employment” scheme. He
was learning to become an “expert water-
man”!


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - -
Viii SUEZ.
FLEET.
LONDON
ORAMA
ORONSAY ..
OTRANTO .
ORMONDE .
Tons.
. 20,000
. 20.000
. 20,000
. 14,853
Tons.
ORMUZ ...... 14.588
OIIVIETO ... 12.133
OSTEREEY .. 12.129
ORSOVA 12,041
REGULAR SAILINGS.
First Saloon and Third Class.
2-4-C Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
H onolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra- -Ventura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
81 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Bj'ron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Everv Tuesdav, 10 p.m. ;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FAKES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail —£2)13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
1 he Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925.. £15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarvvood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Dull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (261 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manage »■; G. H. Hoivell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARR
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,958
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,060
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3, 055,299
GRANTS DRAFTS Nt sa£;
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also. Fremantle. W.A.
Melbourne Office:
Sydney Office:
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
267 Collins Street.
105 Pitt Street.
£2,000,000
875,000
.. £875,000
780,000
£1,655,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2^530,000_
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 100 Branches and Agencies, in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL - -STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
TH OS. COOK AND SON,
RAILWAY AND STEAMSHIP AGENTS.
1841. Established 1841.
150 Offices Throughout the World, 150.
PASSAGE TICKETS ISSUED BY ALL LINES
AT TARIFF RATES.
Sailing Lists, ALL ROUTES, Post Free.
Passengers’ Baggage Insured.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
CONDUCTED TOURS IN EUROPE.
Leaving Sydney March 10 .... £325 0 0
Leaving Sydney March 17 .... 220 0 0
Leaving Sydney March 31 .... 445 10 0
Leaving Sydney April 14 615 0 0
PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
TIIOS. COOK AND SON,
Challis House, Sydney. City 6011.
Also at Melbourne, Auckland and Wellington.
Shipping:, &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
*MAKURA 13,000 tons disp. OCT. for San Francisco.
tAORAXGI 23,000 „ „ OCT. 22 for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ NOV. 5 for San Francisco.
NIAGARA ..... 18,600 „ „ NOV. 19 for Vancouver.
*MAHENO from Sydney, Oct. 8, connects.
fQuadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
d
S'
~ ' -
i SLy
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTEKCUANGEAKLE FOR RETURN
D\ OTHER LINKS.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
JUnion House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TO UR S
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3a to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
mm
A
i'.-rs
am
r 4 Jw
>
i-:
lj _ -
PASSAGES TO ALL PARTS
OF THE WORLD.
Steamer tickets issued to—
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
BY ANY ROUTE.
JAPAN
CHINA
INDIA
JAVA, BURMA
ALL STEAMSHIP LINES
AND IN ALL CLASSES.
No extra charge.
TRAVEL to JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE
by the popular steamers MARELLA and MONTORO, monthly
sailings from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Round Eastern and Around the World Tours arranged.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve l'und
Reserve Liability
pi|
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 0,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!,’ Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A, G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street. Sydney. Lnmlnn Office —?!> Tlireadneedle Street. E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London!
\gents and Correspondents uirougnout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreisrn places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throuebout the World
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASIITOX. M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C. 3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
Shipping!
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
Brisbane (Transhipping for Maryborough) and
Townsville only.
Huddart Parkei Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney io New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Co;iins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
l.autoka, Suva and Leruka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 20 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
l or all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
i'sniilton & Co., 409 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
< Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
.Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisgp Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of NfewJjZealarid, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Message flea Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea in sun rice Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, I’remantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney) Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
AVIATION
BY
AIR
Broken Hill,
Adelaide,
Riverina,
Sydney,
Melbourne.
PARCELS
F
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Airport.
ADELAIDE
MILDURA
lIA'Y
NARRANDERA
COOTAMUNDRA
SYDNEY
BROKEN HILL
DENILIQUIN
ECHUCA
MELBOURNE
Agents.
M. G. Anderson & Co.
•T. H. Bayliss Pty., Ltd.
Wilkinson and Lavender.
Culley & Co.
G. A. Fitzpatrick.
C Rudders Ltd.
\ Tourist Bureau.
McCulloch Carrying Co., Ltd.
11. Lloyd & Sons, Ltd.
Murray Shipping Ltd.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Managing Agents:
Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Ltd.


□ odgeßrothers
TOURINE CAR
Its simplicity is as notable as its good
looks
Dodge Brothers Touring Car is easy
to operate and with reasonable care
the owner rarely finds it necessary to
employ the services of a garage.
• .
,r *
/* ,
S'llitai l '
; I
3W.
€
32
rr-V.
rn
rcr
&
'I!
s
E
m
a,E Sl>'^
<l r v % 1
S \
SNV
to
(WX
•SfNV
1
V-tI
w
0
(
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Way mouth Street.
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
l/10/’25.


D
Mothers! Protect your
'm
m
Little
Miss
MAUD
ALDERSEA
(Jrom a
photo).
Rexona—The
Rapid Healer
Home with
Rexona—The
Rapid Healer
“I consider Rexona the best ointment there is.
My little girl, aged eight years, was so badly
burnt about the body, arms and legs we thought
she would not live. For three months she was
helpless and had to be fed and lifted from bed to
bed, but 1 kept on with Rexona and now she
runs to school as well as her sister, and can use
her arm although the scars arc terrible. She is
not a cripple, and it is due to Rexona. I will
always look on Rexona as a life-saving ointment,”
(Sgd.) Mrs. A. ALDERSEA,
Xrerim Fast,
Victoria.
A Medicine
Chest in Itself
Mother is the home doctor. Every day she is
confronted with some kind of little hospital
work —either a cut finger, a rash, bruise 01' burn.
She must be prepared by having something
handy that she knows she can rely on, and
for that reason she should always have lie p: on a,
the Rapid Healer. Rexona is a complete first-
aid cabinet in itself. It cleanses and heals and
quickly gives relief from aches and pains. See
that you get the genuine Rexona, the R:\pid
Healer, in the triangular box.
[ifmmili,
iff Cooling
rj/SoolhmQ,
f Mealing
Antiseptic Ointment
WDtiT» ]CS 1 Absolutely
$ Heals 1 Reliable
m
ehuiftoj
r-tr
A Reliable Henlrr for aft Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin Ec/ema Sores Gils.
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles S%nf>s oflnsecb
and nil kinds of Inflammation
HtXQHA OEP- SHELDON DRUG C<> L TD SVDNfY.
Ď
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specialty
Suitable for Mailing.
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
&H£At HiiiieJL
102-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Law.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BARTTI grew her trees from the sun
and shade,
Leafage and branch and all.
Married the man tree unto the maid,
Beautiful, strong and tall.
Children they bore from the pollened flower,
Acorn and nut and cone,
Mighty, magnificent, born to power—
Hers was the work alone.
Earth made her trees of a spread and span
Meant to withstand the gale,
Shaping a shelter for beast and man,
Rooted in hill and dale.
Column and column and all a-row.
They are the soldiers fine,
Fniformed green in a great brave show —
Kani’i and birch and pine.
Some have a twist or a crook or gnarl,
Brands of a bitter wind-;
Some are as grave as a northern Jarl
Judging liis fellow-kind.
Some rise up with their raking spars
Gripping the upper gales,
There they race with the rushing stars
Lighting their hurricane sails.
Prideful the knights of the forest stand —
_ Redwood and spruce and fir—
Templars avowed to the Holy Land
Seeking the Sepulchre.
Once, when the Germ through his ardent wife
Fathered a thousand shapes
I Afferent all in their modes of life—
Giants and dwarfs and apes—
Eager as ants in the noonday heat,
Seeking new paths to roam,
Need was a guide to their wayward feet,
Sleep was their urge to home.
Home they found and they made it good—
Creatures of keen desire —
There in the deeps of the primal w T ood
Waking the wood-hid fire.
Man grew up in the woodland trade,
Never was such a soul;
Bow and arrow and spear he made,
Platter and club and bowl.
Ever he sought for a couching place,
Weary, as fell the dark,
Bending the boughs o’er a littered space,
Roofing the limbs with bark.
Never through life has the forest failed,
Ever the tree proved true,
Breeding the junks that have seaward sailed,
Oaring the long canoe.
Earth made her trees from the shade and sun,
Leafage and branch and bole;
Alike to the high and the lowly one,
Brother, she gave a soul.
Earth made the trees and tne trees agreed
Under a bond and seal
Law was the. limit of human need,
Law was thte common weal.
Careless were we of the ancient rule,
Filling in wanton mood;
Kingsman and commoner, sage and fool
Entered to slay the wood.
Brother, beware how you light the brand;
Beware how you bleed the tree!
This was the land of the simian band.
Earth and the. ape agree.
MAORiXAxm.
DARIUS.
The Missus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAD TOM the Governor, as they used
, to call him in Van Diemen’s Land,
strolled out on to the verandah of
Government House? in Hobart Town, smok-
ing a clay pipe, clad, in his shirt-sleeves, and,
as his butler used to put it, in a “life-saving”
frame of mind. The significance of this
phrase is not at first obvious, but a brief
explanation will make evident the fact that
the vice-regal butler, -Mr. George Cantiman,
Artis Magister of Cambridge, scholar and
murderer, very happily describes by means
of its employment a certain mental condi-
tion in his Excellency ■ that was not infre-
quent, and was always welcome to those for
whom much depended upon his viewpoint of
their transgressions—-as welcome as a cool-
ing breeze in Bourke.
Lieut.-Colonel Thomas Davey, of the Royal
Marine Light Infantry, Lieutenant-Governor
of A'an Diemen’s Land from 1813 to 1817,
was as unconventional a ruler as any part
of Australia has ever been governed by. As
a contrast with his immediate superior,
Brigadier-General Laofclan Macquarie, C. 8.,
Captain-General and ; Governor-in-Chief in
and over his Majesty’s Territory of New
South Wales, he is more than remarkable.
In a formal age of 'officialdom he was emi-
nently easy-going. Thege was nothing at all
about him that was starched or . stilted. He
was all that Avas good-humoredly undignified.
It had been a \iery warm day when he first
landed in Hobart Town, in the middle of
February, 1813, i so the pompous beauro-
cratic world was as scandalised as the
scurrilous vyorld of felonry was edified by
the spectacle of ljis Excellency carrying his
red jacket on his arm when he stepped
ashore. There was further scandalisation
and edification when lie made it his first act,
within the boundaries of the colony, to
adjourn to a public-house in the neighbor-
hood of the landing-place, where he bought
himself and those who accompanied him, as
well as all who wjere in the bar and taproom,
sundry measures of refreshment, before pro-
ceeding to play his part in the formal wel-
come awaiting him by the dignitaries of the
community.
“Too d —d hot to do this job thirstily,”
said the Governor. “Let’s go and have a
drink.”
“Dreadful!” gasped officialdom.
“A good covey!” applauded the prisoners.
llis “life-saving” moods were notorious. If
he had dined well and wined well before
being called upon to give the final decision
in matters of life and death, such as the sign-
ing of warrants for capital executions, there
were ten chances to one that he would exer-
cise his prerogative of mercy. So it came
about that usually the administrators of his
Government brought him death warrants to
be signed in the forenoon —supposing that
they had particular reason for wishing to
see the last of any person, or persons, lying
under a capital sentence. Hence, hanging
matches in Hobart Town had become after-
noon rather than early-morning diversions.
It was a glorious evening in December,
and the stately columnar ramparts of the
Table Mountain —it had not yet come to be
popularly styled Mount Wellington—had
their sombreness a little softened by the
golden rays of a declining sun. Down below,
the Derwent stretched east and west in placid
blueness, lying like* a sheet of glass in its
mountainous, wooded valley. The sky was
clear and cloudless overhead, the air was
pleasantly balmy, and his Excellency had
dined well and agreeably in the congenial
company of the Rev. Robert Knopwood, who
followed him, a little unsteadily, on to the
verandah.
“Well, my dear Chaplain,” remarked the
Lieutenant-Governor, “ ’tis a beautiful even-
ing, ain’t it? Wotta say to lil’ stroll? Bit’ve
walk roun’ tli’ town. An’ we might take a
bowl of punch at th’ Ship if tlr comp’ny’s
suitable. Wbat?”
“Splennid, y’r Ex’leney—splennid idea!
Settle our dinner with a bit of a walk, eh?
Jusser thing. But, no, I forgot. I’ve gorrer
go’n’ shee a d—d fellow scragged at G o’clock.
’Ford him spirishuai ccns’lation. Gobbless
me soul, ’tis a quarter after 5 now. What a
confounded nuisance! But the reggleations,
you know, sir—the reg-reggleations !”
“Oh, damme —too bad! Never mind —I'll
come with you, parson. Len’ you moral sup
port in on’rous an’ distressin’ duty—eh?
Good while since I’ve seen a scraggin’. Who’s
the joker?”
“ ’Tis a young fellow, y’r Excellency, of
the name o’ Spittle—unpleasant sort of
name, to be sure. A bushranger. Tobias
Spittle. Taken a fortnight since, near New
Norfolk. I think you signed the death-
warrant just before my arrival at mid-day.
I met the Provost-Marshal going away as
I came up here. But, pray, y’r Excellency,
do not incommode yourself on my behalf.
These affairs are not really so very trying
as convention impels me to pretend they are.
I am quite accustomed to them. They do
not, I assure you, distress me half so much
as they do the principal party concerned in
’em. I’m quite used to the job. Do not,
pray, trouble to accompany me, unless you
are good enough to flatter me with your
company for the sake of my own uninterest-
ing society.”
Colonel Davey clapped the Chaplain jovi-
ally on his broad back.
“Damme, my dear Bob Knopwood, you
don’t do yourself justice. Uninteresting?
Nonsense! Best comp’ny in this dam’ dull
place. ’Sure that you are. ’Course I’ll go
with you, an’ see th’ bushranger turned off.
Then we’ll go down to the Ship. Make a
night of it. By George, yes! Come, Igo
with ye.”
So, having called for his walking-cane and
been supplied with it by his scholarly butler,
his Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor of
Van Diemen’s Land set forth to take his
exercise, and, incidentally, to lend his moral
support to the Senior Chaplain of the colony
in carrying out a duty which, if not exactly
unfamiliar and distasteful, might be regarded
in the present instance as inconvenient.
Below the black uprights of the gallows,
erected in the street before the gaol, a large
crowd had assembled to view T another of
those frequent exhibitions of the stern award
of justice which were not altogether uncon-
genial or depressing to the felon population
of Hobart Town at the beginning of the
nineteenth century. It had not many diver-
sions. Race meetings had already achieved
popularity in Sydney, and there were even
theatrical performances to enliven _ the
monotony of existence in that metropolis of
the South Seas; but the Derwent settlement
as yet lacked any form of popular amuse-
ment which could hope to rival those inter-
ludes so frequently ‘and efficiently staged by
the Provost-Marshal and his deputy, Mr.
John Ketch. Old age and childhood alike
took delight in those fascinating spectacles.
They had their appeal to sportsmanship, too,
for the odds were freely exchanged as to
whether the lady or gentleman about to be
launched into eternity would “die game” or
otherwise, and pleasant little sweeps were
arranged with regard to the number of
minutes that would elapse between the
moment when the condemned set foot upon
the scaffold and that which was marked by
his precipitation through its flooring boards.
And, on the whole, the crowd that witnessed
them was not a very different sort of crowd
from those which attend at present-day race-
meetings in Sydney and Melbourne and
Hobart—especially pony race-meetings.
Arrived on the outskirts of the mob, Mr.
Knopwood begged his Excellency to excuse
him, so that he might enter the gaol and
discharge the functions of his sacred office.
“I’ll tell ’em to hurry up, y’r Ex’leney,”
he said as he departed. “Tell ’em to make
a quick job of it. Then we can resume our
little stroll.”
Feeling mellow and good-humored, the
Governor surveyed the crowd, which of
course recognised him and regarded his
somewhat podgy figure not altogether with
disapproval.
“ ’Tis Mad Tom,” they said to one an-
other—-“a-joinin’ in the sport like any one
of us.”
“Three cheers f’r th’ Gov’nor!” cried a
lusty rogue eating an apple hard by; and
the cheers were given.
“There’s th’ Gov’nor, dearie—ain’t ’e got
a pretty red jacket?” said a mother to her
infant, lifting the child up so that it might
behold the greatest man in Van Diemen’s
Land.
An important personage fussed up to him
—Mr. Adolarious William Henry Humphrey,
Justice of the Peace —holding out his hand.
(Continued on next page.)


!>
m m
"VuiumiiiMnp,.
wm
is
S it
\**
25
5^5
* Every Picture
Tells a Story'
Tells on the Kidneys
Many People have found this to he true.
The strain of overwork tells on weakened
kidneys. The hurry and worry of business men,
the heavy lifting and stooping of workmen, the
women’s household cares tend to wear, weaken
and injure the kidneys until they can no longer
filter the poison from the blood, and the whole
body suffers from the waste matter that
accumulates. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
prepared especially for weakened kidneys; tired,
worn-out backs have proven their merit in
thousands of cases. Convincing proof of their
worth is here told.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. H. Holder, 235 West Street, North Sydney, says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful
kidney medicine. I have proved this. _ For a long time
I suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this way have any
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my ; back. 1
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of 'remedies,
but nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally
very worried about the serious statu of my health, and
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for .seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too hit'llly of Doan’s Pills
and recommend them wdth every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder saysfc ‘‘l have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Bacl/ache Kidney Pills.
They cured me of kidney disorder eigjht years ago, and 1
have had no return of the since.”
At All Chemists and Stores, 2/9> per bottle, or from
Foster McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: A member of
my family suffered terribly with Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
Would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy
is a certain cure for Piles.”
DOAN’S
OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY 30.
Mr. ,T. Ml tchel'l. 56 Campbell Street,
Glebe, Sydney!, s:tyS: “I was a sufferer
with Itchinjg'Piles*. for years, and I
cannot describe the* agony of this ail-
ment. Scares (of times I have lost
my rest, slqep l|ieing out of the ques-
tion. I use! Ift great many Pile reme-
dies, and wa s treated by a doctor, but
got no relief! Reading of cures effected
by Doan's dfinfcnment, I decided to try
it. A few i ippfictations gave me ease,
and by con tinmiUg the treatment I
found, to m y dr eat satisfaction, that
all the pain aiil irritaticfti had gone.
I am very graceful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for mj cui-e. arfcd advise sufferers
to try this' remedy, and am satisfied
that if the\i follow the directions they
will soon cured. ■
Ten year* : later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My hushaj d litis bden free from Itch-
ing Piles; sil iw Doait’s Ointment cured
him, but hd /still uses this remedy now
and then* just ms a preventive
against aii/y return of his old com-
plaint. 4 1
Price 2/9 per tin,
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINK REMEDY.
“Aba, your come to see justice
•lone to this miscreant Spittle, eh? A beau-
tiful evening. Just see how the Table Moun-
tain stands out against the blue sky! Mag-
nificent, is it not? Very glad to see your
Excellency looking so well. I trust your
Excellency is well.”
“Ah, Mr. Humphrey”—in spite of Gov-
ernor Macquarie’s confidential warning
against this gentleman, amongst others ot
some importance in the colony, Colonel
Davey had not found his society altogether
disagreeable, and was disposed to welcome
his appearance. “ ’Tis indeed a fin'e even-
ing. Now look here,” he said, “I think its
almost too d—d fine an evening for to hang
a man. Bless my soul, I do. I think we’ll
give this fellow another chance. AY hat dye
think of the idea? I feel too d—d comfort-
able to hang a man to-night.”
“Oh, well now, really, your Excellency,
'tis a very humane idea indeed. But I fear
the populace will be a little disappointed—
don’t you think so? There has been some
amount of wagering as to how the fellow
takes it. Perhaps it would be hardly fair
to interfere with our sportsmen, eh? How-
ever, ’tis for your Excellency to say, of
course. For my part, I should not care to
leave the world on such a pleasant evening.”
“Oh, d —n the populace! They will have
plenty of others to bet about. I think I
will reprieve this joker. Will you do me the
favor of taking this note in to the Provost-
Marshal, Mr. Humphrey? And —er —you
might announce to the crowd that there will
be no execution this evening. Tell ’em better
luck next time, and that all bets are off.
Spittle’s scratched. I haven’t the stomach
to send him aloft on such a fine evening.
Right. Thank you.”
He scribbled a few lines in his pocket-
book, tore the leaf out, and handed it to the
magistrate, who received it with a bow.
“Very good, your Excellency. I’ll an-
nounce your Excellency’s pleasure to the in-
habitants. And I will take this pardon into
the gaol. Doubtless it will be a source of
gratification to Spittle, at any rate.”
He addressed the crowd. “Gentlemen—
gentlemen,” 'he bellowed —the sea of _ faces
turned towards the doorstep upon which he
had elevated himself beside Colonel Davey—
“a moment, pray—a moment. His Excel-
lency the Lieutenant-Governor has requested
me to inform you all that he has decided to
pardon Tobias Spittle, and that his execu-
tion will not take place. All bets are off.”'
A howl of disappointment followed Mr.
Humphrey into the prison. The crowd felt
vaguely that it had been disgustingly spoofed.
* * * *
“Well, now, my good woman, this is the
seventh, or it may be the eighth, occasion
when I have been compelled to give you the
same answer. Your request is unreasonable
—altogether unreasonable. God bless my
soul, you ought to be a widow! You should
be sufficiently grateful that you are not a
widow. I cannot think what could have
impelled me to pardon your husband in the
first instance. He certainly did not deserve
such an indulgence. He was caught red-
hauded in an act of bushranging, in which
a corporal of the 78rd was unfortunately
killed. The Court found him unquestion-
ably guilty of murder —if not of the actual
act of killing, then as an accessory. He has
but served twelve months on the public works
—and now you want to have him assigned
to you! I never heard of such a thing!”
The woman who sat opposite to the
Lieutenant-Governor in his office could in
no sense have been deemed attractive. She
was but little under middle-age, and although
her figure was good and her carriage erect
and suggestive of activity and vitality, there
was something in her aspect that his Excel-
lency found a little depressing. t?he seemed
to rub him the wrong way. She jarred upon
him. He felt ill at ease in her society—lie
did not know why, but was conscious that
he did. For one thing, she had the look
of an ascetic monk disguised in woman’s
clothing. For another, there was an air
of steely and unswerving purpose about her.
Colonel Davey felt that she would probably
have her way, and the feeling irritated him.
He w r as conscious of his own good nature,
and occasionally deplored it. It got him
into trouble. Governor Macquarie, up in
Sydney, was continually disapproving of
things he did with the best intentions. There
was no pleasing that autocrat. Colonel
Davey was very worried. And now this
stern-faced, mannish woman had come to
worry him further. He wished her to the
Devil. D —n her!
“Your Excellency”—she spoke in a deep,
firm voice, with no sign of nervousness or
hesitation —“ever since I married Tobias
Spittle, in Dover, it has been my constant
endeavor to save him from the Devil —from
many devils. ’Twas for that reason alone
that I did marry him. His immortal soul
was to be taken out of jeopardy, was to be
ensured salvation, was to be uplifted to
those blessed regions wherein the souls of
the saints do dwell. I come of old Puritan
stock —my great-grandfather was a trooper
and afterwards a sergeant and an officer in
the Lord Protector’s famous regiment of
Ironsides. Praise-the-Lord Smithers—a
famous warrior and saint. Since those
great days my family have ever striven to
emulate the ideals and the practice of living
which did so much to shape the destinies
of England. Would that such practices and
ideals obtained to-day! ’Twas to save his
immortal soul that I wedded with Tobias
Spittle. I have some means, and he was a
poor young man—a Kentish peasant. Good-
looking, I admit, but I cared nothing for his
bodily attributes. To pluck a brand from
the burning, to save a God-given spirit from
Hell fire —that was why I married him. I
am, sir, still a virgin—and I am proud to
say it. ’Twas not his body I sought—’twas
his immortal soul. Again I ask you to aid
me to save him from damnation. At your
peril, Colonel Davey—at peril of the judg-
ment of God —you will refuse. Consider
that, sir— consider the wrath of God!”
A little bewildered by this strange speech,
and more particularly by its revelation of
the queerly assorted pair’s marital relation-
ship, his Excellency for a little while could
only gape in astonishment at the grim female
confronting him. He felt a vague sympathy
for this husband who was doomed to be
saved. He must try and save the man him-
self. He would have to temporise with this
formidable person. He must humor her.
“Mistress Spittle,” he said, “I think I see
your point. All the answer I can give you
now is that I must have time to consider of
your request. Pray, where is your husband
at labor?”
“At the harborside, your Excellency. He
is one of the gang that is building the new
wharf. His number is 301. I thank your
Excellency—and I pray that your spirit
may be moved to a righteous decision. I
will wish you good afternoon.”
“Good afternoon, Mrs. Spittle.” Colonel
Davey rose and bowed. “1 will give the
matter my closest consideration. If you will
leave your address with my secretary, Mr.
Lascelles, he will communicate with you in
due course. Good afternoon, ma’am.”
As the door closed behind her, his Excel-
lency leaned back in his chair and whistled.
“Well, I’ll be d —d!” he murmured. “By
gad, I’ll go see the poor devil myself.”
Down in the Goat Tavern, near the water-
side, three-quarters of an hour later, his
Excellency seated himself in the back parlor,
tinkled a little handbell that rested on a
•woollen mat in the centre of a round table
that was covered with a patchwork cloth
and awaited the landlady.
“Well, Polly,” he greeted that buxom indi-
vidual genially as she executed a clumsy
curtsey—“blooming as ever, I see. I trust
that business is good? Now I want a bottle
of rum and glasses—and I wish that you
would find someone to carry a note from me
to the overseer of the labor gang at work on
the new wharf. I will write it whilst you
are getting rhe rum. Your best Jamaica, if
you please, Polly—l don’t like that d —d
stuff from Bengal.”
Whilst she was away he scribbled a note
in pencil, folded it up, and addressed it to
the overseer of the gang with which Tobias
Spittle was -working. It was an order that
the latter should be sent immediately to
attend the Lieutenant-Governor at the Goat
Tavern.
“Tell your messenger to hurry—’tis
urgent,” he said, as he handed the missive
to the landlady.
In about twenty minutes, footsteps and a
faint rattle of chains sounded in the passage
without, and there was a knock at the door.
“Come in !” called the Governor.
Slowly\ the door opened, and a tall, sun-
burnt young man, clad in the motley, ill-
fitting garments of a “lifer,” shuffled into
the room, with a peculiar dragging gait that
was well accounted for by his leg-geax l . From
his slim waist a leathern thong depended,
which held up four long links of heavy chain
attached to iron rings riveted about his
ankles. The thickness of the links was about
that of a man’s middle finger, and they were
obviously no light burden —they might well
explain the reason why their wearer dragged
his clumsy shoes across the floor. He stood
before his Excellency, and raised a hand to,
his cap, -which he removed after executing
his salute.
“You’re number three-nought-one, Tobias
Spittle?” asked Davey.
“Aye, y’r honor —I be three-nouglit-one,
Toby Spittle, y’r honor.”
“Well, sit ye down, my man —and take a
glass of rum. ’Twill do ye no injury.”
It was a strange invitation to be extended
to a member of an iron-gang by the head
of the local Government —but all men knew
that Mad Tom the Governor did strange
things. So the prisoner helped himself liber-
ally, sat down on a chair with a clank of
chains, holding the glass in his hand, and
awaited his Excellency’s pleasure. Anything
might be expected from that eccentric indi-
vidual.
“D’ye remember my saving ye from Jack
Ketch last year?” asked Davey.
The young man nodded. “Aye, y’r honor
—I thankee kindly.”
“What made ye go a-bushranging?”
For a few moments the prisoner regarded
him dully. Then his face flushed, and his
mouth set in a hard line. His voice was
hard and defiant when he spoke.
“I w r ere druv to it, y’r honor.”
“How —who drove you to it?”
“Th’ missus!”
Colonel Davey banged his hand upon the
round table, so that the glasses rattled.
“I knew it!” he cried. “What did she do
to you, my man? Come, you may talk
freely. I wish to be your friend. How- did
she drive you into outlawry?”
“A-savin’ o’ me soul, y’r honor.”
The Governor nodded. He liked the look
of this young fellow. He had all his sym-
pathy.
“Well, now, listen here, Spittle. Your
Avife has been worrying the life out of me
to have you assigned to her again—-as you
were before you went into the woods. Sup-
posing I accede to her request, would you
promise to be of good behavior?”
Promptly the young man shook his head.
“No, zur—l’d take to th’ woods again. I
would that!”
“But why? You’d be practically free,
if you were assigned to Mrs. Spittle, on her
farm at Glenorchy. Better than the iron-
gangs, I take it.”
“Ye doan’t know th’ missus, zur—ye
doan’t that. I’d as lief ye’d ha’ let me hang
last year as put me back in her hands. I
Avould so. Th’ missus she be a fair devil
of a good woman, y’r honor —a fair devil.
No peace she give me, by day or by night,
a-savin’ o’ me soul. I got meself transported
from the old country on account o’ it. But
she follied me out here, an’ got me assigned
to her. So I took to the mountains. Y’r
honor, I’d rayther do murder than be saved
again by th’ missus!”
The Governor looked at him curiously and
sympathetically. “Well, now-, Spittle, I’ll
tell ye what I’ll do. I’ll send ye up to Syd-
ney, with a recommendation to Governor
Macquarie that ye’re an incorrigible, and
that ye should be sent to the Coal River
settlement. No doubt your wife will follow
you to New South Wales, but ye’ll be quite
safe under General Macquarie. She’ll not
frighten him —as she does me. If you stay
here she’ll have ye. What say you, my
man ?”
“I thank ’ee kindly, zur.”
“You’ll probably be flogged and hanged
up there. ’Tis a rough place, I’m told.”
“Y’r honor, Hoggin* an’ hangin’s nothing
to bein’ saved by th’ missus.”
“I believe you, my lad,” said Colonel
Davey feelingly.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


ir
¥ mm
«■«
&
■!:■■■■
WAM
i i
♦#!
iMttmi; I
±Uri,
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —•
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOl.MlSS & CHCRCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Yictorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LID.
Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S WALES.
BITUMASTIC
(REGISTERED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of “Bitumastic" is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use “Bitumastic” only.
Sold* in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR. LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
500-592 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 289-241 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Fanshavve Street, Auckland.
K
3
a—
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO.,
Melbourne.-Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide Arthur Glover
Ltd. Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured ly
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
Remington
Pen and Pocket Knives
“They cut keenly ”
IN choosing a penknife, the important
thing to know is how good it is,
not how little it costs.
Scientific heat treatment, hardening
and tempering produce the fine blades
in all Remington penknives.
FD
To be certain ifs
a Remington, look
for the mark of
quality stamped on
every blade.
Stocked by first
class dealers.
Ď
No. Rl5
Ballet
Knife
&
r No. 116719
Stag Handle
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc*
IX D. BRYANT, Repreuntative —G. P* O. Box 686, Melbourne
F
-
When you meet a chap who ’$ looking
“ White about the gills, ”
That ’s a sure and certain sign
That he needs Beecham’s Pills*
W:
If so, you cannot do better than
take Beecham’s Pills. They
stimulate the appetite ; promote
sound digestion; correct irreg'
ularities of the stomach, liver and
bowels; assist in the proper
assimilation of food and reinvig-
orate the entire system. If you
are “ out of sorts ” try
?*»
Wfl
y.rti
m
\\i}-
t
D
WOLFFS
3EK
ZES
I fflfcj II »«&
s
*2
BRITISH
SO
6 V s Wg
ground unofi sjr
BW
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
« E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
iNOB
HNHnO9T3J\[
X33HXS KVmiM 06
as n o h h sixxo os
These Products are shown in the JJobel
Exhibit, British Empire Exhibition.
For
all engines
in
all climates
under
all conditions
there ie no sparking plug equal to a
LODGE
The name LODGE on a sparking
plug is a definite guarantee of its
inherent high quality and efficiency.
Made in different models, and obtainable
from all accessory dealers, garages and
stores. State make of engine when buying.
Illustrated in standard model (OS)
for nearly all engines screwed metric,
PRICE 5/6.
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
IJJP
!#■
It
M
so
ss


>« ■»«!< ft V N :<// >,
(Hamlet & Horatio)
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDSHIP
Friendship is the sunshine of life. Its rays reveal in the hearts of friends
unswerving loyalty, unfailing understanding and mutual appreciation of all things
that strengthen comradeship, not least among them the unchanging friendliness of.
DEWAR’S
