

m
m
r
'/S/A
ma
SL
HI
sn
s
Nil
■•N'.l
K
s
9$
ZJ!
-«J
€
J.
m
Ullllli
lIIIIUIIUU
KliSi
m :
fiifgsss.
r
sf^g&NA
r
N >
•:•>■•..
;
WASH CAY DRUDGERY
ELIMINATED /
That is just what the Electric
Clothes Washer will do for you.
The Hurley Superior washes without harm the
things you would not dare rub on a washboard—-*
dainty laces, lingeries—anything. t
It is so simple to operate.
The clothes are washed sweet and clean—every-
thing front a handkerchief to the heaviest bedspread
—with no wear whatever.
Wash without work.
Upon the payment of a small sum down and easy
monthly instalments, either machine illustrated is
yours to perform all your arduous washday labors.
Illustrated Thor Booklet ALSI. 2 mailed free
Australian General fjechle 0 [fcl.
Sydney Office, er. Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street.
Melbourne Office, cr. Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Branch Offices: Adelaide, Brisbane and Newcastle.
• Agents:—
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 89t Hay Street, Perth.
Oliver & Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., cr. Edward and
Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.
HURLEY
SUPERIOR.
WASHING MACHINE
I
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2368
Thursday July 2, 1925.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T for 1925 is now ready and
post free, with full terms and particulars’
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD..
428 George Street, Sydney.
iliHiiHHiaSS
SiIaSIBIIIItSSB
1
Hi-
ill
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELONG
Consistently Registers the Highest Efficie
Manufactured in Australia, it is the most reliable belting
important main drives ami will deliver more pVwer at
cost under the most unfavorable conditions. Not
cheaper in nlnning expenses, “Mungrovite” has, W reasol
of, its inherent strength and toughness, a longer life
service, and there are no unnecessary delays for repairs, \
MANGROVITE UELTING
CHARLES LUOOWICi, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDN
NEAVCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Lti
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs. Bright; &'Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 EdwsW
Street, Brisbane. V
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Matin, 212 Madias St.. Christchurch
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers,■ GrenM
Street, Adelaide. 1
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbournj
TASMANIA: AV. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobari
@1
xcvb
*
tar
a \
v-
Look for th
T-JORSES without pedigrees
A ’ never become popular
favourites. The best always
wins in the long run. Choose
a Loewe Briar and you are
smoking the most perfect pipe
it is possible for skilled London
craftsmen to produce. For 70
years the Loewe has been re-
garded as “the best pipe of all ”
in the Mother Country. Made
throughout by hand from the
finest materials.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect ,
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen.
L&C®
"Jhe 'Pastime'*
ONE OF THE MANY
LQEWE SHAPES
9UI LOEWE
shapes
2Y-
SILVER
MOUNTED
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET. BOX 555 G.P.O. SYDNEY. N S.W.
C. BRAND AUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
ens.
Seven
P«*l*e Medals.
Works : Birmingham, England*
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt,
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of &
Soft lead pencil.
cvbn
•ECISTERB*
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed,
WtST
s«ep
to sssssa
iltywi-p
f, BL 0
Wlm
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Raker k T-ondiu*st
■ 60 York gtrept. Sydney,
alfalex, too!
~-~^r^nxm.sma^baarsiSXCaaummßKStm^t^e>mraßammmmmmm
What pride there is in the possession of Reliable'
*' Rolex” Timepieces! Always Accurate. Give a
lifetime of Faithful Service !
WATCHES
WRIST &
POCKET
Cfor both {adies c. 9entlemen
SOLD BY UP-TO-DATE JEWELLERS
■«77T!
a
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
arc the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and' Young.
For,the. cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON'S EUMENTIIOL
JUJUBES do not .interfere with the digestion: on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion a lid. 'D.vspepsf.v if /taken) after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
cvbn
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice...
B. The Traehpa or
Windpipe. • '
cvbn
The Red Page
A Crow-eater in the Stone Age
Herbert Basedow, M.A., one firie Spring
day stepped out of. his front door in Adelaide
into the year 25,000 me.. It was fortunate
that this unique experience befell a man who
combined an acute observing eye with scien-
tific attainments and the ability to set his
story down in terse and vivid English Vit
might have happened ,to a theological stu-
dent or a congenital golfer. Herbert Base-
dow had his wits about .him. In due course
be returned, but kept his counsel,,-and from
time to time repeated'’ his extraordinary
adventure. After 30 years of sojourn
amongst the Stone Age men he has at last
been constrained to tell his story.
It is a record that excels in interest the
imaginings of 11. G. Wells aiid all other
modern Mandevilles who have stayed at
home and let their fancy roam in the same
period. Basedow is able to take the reader
with him, and in a multitude of little pen-
pictures makes the spool of time roll back
with a verisimilitude that is often quite
uncanny. Here is a study of the S,tone Age
woman, surprised by the advent in her im-
memorial haunts of the man of 1925:
Two of the gins scampered off ,post haste, but
the third -was so terror-stricken that her legs re-
. fused to move her from ' the spot. In her be-
wilderment, however, she bad sufficient presence of
mind to think of seizing her breasts with her hands
and squirting fluid in the direction of the strangers
to indicate that she was a mother, and on that
account had a special claim to hog for mercy.
In the simple expedients of these people of
the mist are to be seen the beginnings of
modern institutions. Thus education :
It is a common thing for a mother to purposely
slip away from her child and not to respond to the
imploring wail which follows when her absence is
discovered. The only sympathy some relatives or
friends might proffer is to direct the child’s notice
to its mother’s tracks.
And trade:—
The most common article [of adornment] thus
prepared is ochre. Many tribes do not possess a
deposit of this natural pigment, and they are .most
anxious to do business with their neighbors. In
exchange for the ochre they offer such things as
weapons, pitjuri-leaf, fish or yams.
And the economic subjection of women:—
When moving the women pack themselves with the
domestic implements, collecting vessels, personal
paraphernalia and their infants, whilst their hus-
bands burden themselves only to the extent of a
few spears, a spear-thrower and the fire-producing
stick. The men declare that it would he most
unwise to be burdened with any impediment them-
selves, because at any moment.... they might he
pounced upon by an enemy. So also, should game
suddenly come into view, the men must be in a posi-
tion to take up the chase immediately.
The machinery with 'which primitive man
maintains his struggle . against almost over-
whelming natural forces is simple but in-
genious :-
Where there are suitable constrictions in shallow
tidal inlets and creeks, the natives sit in a line
across the opening at ebb-tide... .the fish . endea-
vor to make through the line of the fishers, hut
the moment one invades the angle contained by
an aboriginal’s thighs it is immediately pounced
upon, caught and thrown across to the women wait-
ing on the shore.
In the frequent operations on the young men
entailed by tribal law a club is the anaes-
thetic mercifully applied to the sufferer.
The materials for expressing the innate artis-
tic impulse are equally simple- Numbers
of large beetles for which light has a faseina*
tion are attracted to the camp at night:—
When a dance is on, a collection of these beetles
is made, and short, glowing embers inserted into
their anal apertures; whereupon they are released
.again. As the naked figures mb the men are moving
to the sway of. song, these little fireballs buzz and
flit in among, and greatly add to the weirdness of
the din.
And in “mothers gently slapping the buttocks
of their babies-in-arms. till, ijinder the impulse
of a catchy air,” can be. recognised the first
parent of the modern symphony orchestra.
With an astonishing . attention to detail
Basedow notes how on the march “a Wogait
warrior was seen with a tomahawk....
placed at the back of his body: to stay tlie
swinging of the'handle he held it securely in
the cleft between his buttocks.” lie relates
how when a trespasser is killed he is placed in
a cavity scooped out of an anthill and cov-
ered up. The ants soon repair the damage,
and the presence of a corpse is not suspected
by aii avenging party, even if it follows
close on the heels of the murderers.
The Australian Aboriginal, published by
Brecon and Sons, of Adelaide, and admirably
illustrated by photos, is quite unique in
ethnological literature. Not only did the
author catch with liis all-observing eye every
unstudied gesture of bis hosts, but he dis-
sected and measured tlieir bones, muscles
and sinews: investigated their religion, arts
and crafts; and traced, as far as it is pos-
sible, to trace, tlieir origin in the now van-
ished continent of Goiidwana. He lias writ-
ten probably the last book that can or will
be written giving a complete and satisfac-
tory picture of tlic contemporary of pithe-
canthropus erectus as lie is anti was, and
as lte soon will be no longer.
M. G. S.
What is Genius?
Why is a genius?
One definition of genius implies an infi-
nite capacity for taking pains. The man
who made that definition was no genius. No
genius ever took pains. An infinite capacity
for taking beer is nearer to the truth.
The modern psychological definition of a
genius is a being whose sub-consciousness,
his deeper self, lies nearer the gates of con-
sciousness and is more liable to well up than
that of the rest of humanity. Genius is due
to the spontaneous up-rush of the racial
self into the regions of the, individual con-
sciousness. We all have two memories, one
racial and the other personal. Our personal
memory serves practical uses, but is limited
to ourselves and the experience we have
acquired in our lifetime: but'we all inherit
a racial memory, which usually functions
unnoticed, lying below the level of our per-
• opal consciousness. It is the occasional or
irequent gushing forth of racial experiences
and concepts into the mind that marks the
genius, Tic has the ability to Jap the vast
! iddon reservoir of experiences of tlic race.
deposit of racial knowledge of which wo
rdinary folk have no cons.cious inkling. It
is a gift, often a fatal one, for a mind to He
flooded with thefie racial memories. The
stories of geniuses’ show us that this endow-
ment does not lead to happiness, though
they may give the race the rarest, of all
happinesses.
What makes the exact turn of diction, the
exactly right word, the perfect rhythm leap
to the mind of the searching poet? It was
lying there, hidden in the deep-self, as all
human experience is hidden there; and, fit
some obscure stirring of the consciousness,
it fitted itself, into the desired pattern of
words or imagery. What had happened was
that the poet, concentrating with a pas-
sionate desire for expression, tapped the
vast reservoir of the racial memory and
brought what lie wanted to the surface of
his consciousness. Take eight lines of
Wordsworth:
A slumber did my spirit seal;
I had no human fears ;
She seemed a thing that could not feel
The touch of earthly years.
No motion' has she now, im foi't e;
She neither hears nor .sees;
Rolled round in earth’s diurnal course
With rocks, and stones and trees.
Just a simple story of life and death: a
young girl with a heart for ever young, look-
ing eagerly and happily at life. Then tlic
knell of death; that pitiful dream of happi-
ness dead; then the magnificent conception,
lifting this trivial tragedy of humanity to
the enormous magnitude of the globe, itself
just as helplessly caught in the wheel of
fate. Does anybody mean to say that Words-
worth deliberately wrote that perfect, poem
by an infinite capacity for taking pains V
Did be decide to turn out some pretty verse,
with a tear or two in it, about a young girl
who had untimely died? Reams and reams
of that sort of thing this poet painstakingly
reeled off in his many dull moments: but
by the fluke of having struct oil in his deep-
self, those last two lines glowed vivid and
distinct into liis startled conscious mind, and
lie got them down on to paper before they
evaporated from his consciousness. The Whole
thing flashed upon him, all the long past of
the human race, all its concepts of life and
death, rushed up and. was captured, to be-
come a conscious part of humanity.
Such moments do not come often in the
lifetime of even a Keats. The collected works
of any poet—such, for instance, as myself
—are nothing but the infinitely painful
attempts of a practised verse-weaver, in
which a few of these up-rushings of that deep,
hidden, dark reservoir have been captured
before they evaporated. The poet may have
the infinite capacity for taking pains in im-
proving the spelling or altering the form of
his inspiration, lopping off excrescences and
polishing them with the implements of the
skilled artificer; but that is all that is left
to him. He has to see that this offering
from the gods within him has the right
rhythm and, often, the right rhymes. Ilis
job has really been done for him by his
hidden racial self. All he has to do is to
pin the inspiration down on paper, often
bruising the fragile of the captured
butterfly—and sell the product for what
it will fetch in the open poetry market.
This faculty of inspiration is a rare one:
fortunately so, else we near-poets would
starve or take to journalism. It has long
been regarded as a faculty that could not be
induced or trained ; but my own experience,
which I kept hidden because I did not know
any other experiences, is that genius can
be made to work. In other words, there
are moods, which can be induced, that facili
tate the up-rising of the racial mind into
the sphere of consciousness. Mary Austin
has scientifically examined this phenomenon
in an American publication; and slio lias
found that genius can be educated. There
are practical aids to inspiration, which means
simply that the racial heredity can he
brought by tlic right means to the conscious
surface. Looking back on some of my
early work, I find that I have written things
that, at that time, must have been right out
of my experience. And unconsciously I early
found that there were moods that strangely
facilitated the composition of poetry. The
only way I can explain these moods is that
F 1 sput my -onscious mind out of focus and
allowed my deep-self a chance to play about.
Like the hen I brooded. I day-dreamed. I
did not consciously do so, for any interfer-
ence from my consciousness killed the mood,
and back to the deep-self the ideas sank.
But there were certain physical aids that
helped. Walking, for instance, gave a rhythm
to my broodings : and I now find that Mary
Austin insists on rhythm as a great help in
inspiration.
There arc other equally practical methods
of inducing the deep-self to come up to tlic
open. The infinite capacity for taking befer
is one of the commonest methods. The cen-
sorious public deplores the pojpt who has a
periodical alcoholic orgy. Is his eritio quite
sure, however, that the poet’s “bursts” do not
help liis deep-self to unbosom itself and
flower into poetry? Is he sure that beer
does not loosen the whole racial self? Is lie
unaware-that its froth may be transmuted
into sonnets?
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Mr. Pickwick in Court
Lovers of Dickens—and there are still
•some living—will he interested in .reading
that Mr. I’ickwick’s immortality has-been
confirmed by his re-appearance in court. Npt
in the role of chief figure in the proceedings,
as in the celebrated case of Bard ell r. I’ick-
wiek but incidentally in the recent came
(■{■Mire of Robinson r. Midland Bank.
In Mrs. Bardell’s matter the Judge was
“a most particularly short man, and so
fat that lie seemed all face and waistcoat.
He rolled in upon two little turned legs:
and having bobbed to the Bar, who bobbed
to him. put his little legs underneath his!
table, and his little three-cornered hat upon
it.” Not so in the Robinson case. The Judge
there, Lord Darling, if not the very glass of
form, is still somewhat an elderly beau.
Forty-eight years ago. when a rising junior
at the Bar, he committed an offence which,
(Continued on page 3.)


m
aee
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
FOR
TRAVELLERS’
Kit Bags, Suit Cases,
Pure Wool Rugs.
The Handy Kit Bag, made from
genuine cowhide, has piped
seams, heavy ring clips, and
is lined throughout with
strong canvas.
12in. Min. 16in. 18in. 20in.
14/6 17/6 19/6 22/6 25 -
Strong Fibre Suit Cases, with a
steel frame on body and lid
of case; nicely grained in
dark tan color; lined through-
out. Secure locks and clips.
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in,
9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
Solid* Leather Suit Cases, made
from specially selected cow-
hide, and fitted with two
sliding nozzle locks. A case
to give good service.
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
37/6 42/- 45/- 49/6 54/6
Warm, Serviceable Travelling Rugs
The Carlton” Pure \\ 00l Rug, of medium weight.
There are many pleasing designs and color- -g a'/**
ings to select from. Size 54 x 70 in. Price
Pure Wool Rugs, in
ings and designs.
Price
a wide
Sizes
range
60 x
of serviceable color-
-84 inches.
21/-
“The Hood” Pure Wool Rug,
beautiful designs and colors,
inches. Price
of Heavy weight
Size 60 x' 72
25
in
“The Bovvral” Rug, of pure wool, winter weight.
Attractive patterns and colorings. A Rug ex- 0/\ /
cellent in finish. Size 60 x 80 inches. Price «5U -
“The Kingston” Rug', heavy weight and extra large in
size, which makes this particular Rug a great favor-
ite for home use as well as travelling. Size onr /r»
72 x 90 (double-bed size). Price Of/O
“The Davidson,” medium weight, Pure Merino Wool
Rug, in good serviceable colors, mostly Fawns AO /
and Browns. Size 60 x 80 inches. Price L x£t! -
‘The Albany” Pure Merino Wool Rug, in exquisite
designs and colors. Reversible patterns. PO/£»
Size 60 x 80 inches. Price
“The Bingham” Pure Merino Wool Rug, made from
first-quality Wool. Reversible patterns, en/
beautiful colorings. Size 60 x 84 in. Price "U/"
(Travel Requisites, Ground Floor.)
cvbn
Reliable Radio Equipment
The display of Radio Equipment will win your
approval, but when you reflect that it is merely
representative of a vast and wonderful assortment
offered at very low prices, you will realise that it
is also valuable as pointing the way to economy.
Four-Valve Receiving Set, as illustrated, in self-
contained cabinet, of our own design, and has
been thoroughly tested by us, giving loud-
speaker results;, with clarity and good volume
up to 500 miles from Sydney Broadcasting
Stations. PltK'E, complete with valves, bat-
teries and pa'r head-'piiones.
but without loud speaker. . . .
£5210-
The Best Loud for use with valve set —
Brandt's /Price 70/-
Pathe . Price £0
Magnovox Type Ml Price £lO/10/-
The “Hordernia” Crystal Set is made expressly
to our order for use with liead-'phones. The
Double Slide Controls give a broader tuning
and make the receiver more selective. The
Tuning foil is wound with two gauges of wire,
thus assuring a liner adjustment for lower
wave lengths. It will pick up any Broadcast
Concert within a radius of 20 miles.
Price, complete with Head-'phones, AEL/
and Aerial "
SUPERIOR HE A D-’ PHONES.
Western Electric Price 37/6 set
Manhattan, 3000 ohm. .... Price 30/- set
True Tone, 4000 ohm Price 30/- set
Trimm’s Professional Price 45/- set
Trimm’s. Dependable Price 32/6 set
(Radio Department, Second Floor.)
Men’s
Winter Overcoats.
New English Models.
In Fawn Gabardine.
Prices *
75/-," 80/-, 90/-, 95/- to £B/8/-
In Fawn Gabardine, Single-breasted
style, with all-round belt.
Prices £5/10/-, £6/6/-
In Navy Gabardine, Single-breasted
stylo, with bolt all round.
Prices: £4/10/-, £5/5/-, £6/6/-
Ln Navy Gabardine, Double-breasted
style.
Prices £5/15/-, £6/15/-
Light and Dark Tweed Mixtures,
Single-breasted style.
Prices : £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-
Fancy Tweeds, in smart effects,
double-breasted style.
Prices: £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-
Fancy Tweed Overcoats, made in
our own workrooms, well cut and
finished, attractive designs and color-
ings. Single-breasted style.
Prices .... £3, £3/15/-, £6/6/-
With Belted back —
Prices £5/5/-, £6/6/-
(Clothing, Ground Floor.)
Economise on
Winter Mercery.
COAT SWEATERS.
Exceptional value in an extra warm
All-Wool Cardigan of best English
make. In smart Mid Grey and
Heather shades. Sizes: 34, 36, 40
inches.
Price 16/6
HALF HOSE.
-Men’s Black Cashmere Half Hose.
Winter weight, seamless and with
extra spliced heels and toes. Best
All-Wool. In sizes 10, 10J, 11 inch.
PRICE “2/6 pair
Half-dozen Pairs 14/3
Men’s Heather Knitted Half Hose.
All Wool, stout, seamless, fluted
knit. In various wanted shades.
Sizes !M to 11 inches.
PRICE 2/6 pair
MEN’S PYJAMA SUITS.
These Excellent Winter Pyjamas
are made in our own workrooms
from Horrockses’ Double-warp
Striped Flannelette, a stout, strong
and warm fabric. Well cut to allow
' freedom of movement, strongly
sewn, and neatly finished. In all
sizes.
PRICE 14/6
(Mercery, Ground Floor.)
“Tree Brand”
Footwear.
Men’s All-Patent Lace Boots, with
genuine welted soles, smart pointed
or extended last.
PRICE 19/11 patfr
Men’s Genuine Box Calf Lace
Boots, with welted soles; leather
lined. Stocked in three shapes.
PRICE 19/11 pair
Men’s Tan Willow Calf Lace Shoes,
pointed or extended last; welted
soles.
PRICE 19/11 pair
Men’s Box Calf Lace Shoes, welted
soles, extended or medium-shaped
toes.
PRICE 19/11 pair
Men’s Nigger Calif Lace Shoes,
welted soles, smart extended last.
PRICE 19/11 pair
Men’s All-Patent Lace Shoes, welted
soles, extended or pointed shape
toes.
PRICE , 19/11 pair
(Footwear. Second Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
C.P.O- B„ BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
TelepiSore: City 9440.


'/z-y/A
wm
mmmmm
II ill!
:|||B|®i
■::pS|f
m
m
m
mi
■4
m
m
m
jr 7*l
W*
' i
- s'
•:>><
m
■im
■y.
m
-S.
w.';:
mm
yyy.
mmmmm.
mmmmmym#mmyyyyyyy:-.
MR
Wmmm& 9
m.
Pi 111
Its /
mmm : imm- 1
1
*
M 1
iSBSIiI I **
m
tlftl
SSaSSstpS
yyyym//s//AAs/AvsssA/msy'.
' n tm
immw' jz
I,* •? p
i, ' i>" / '- ' >
;>v.'<
- | v %'% mm*
f ’'W&
sSfi
mmmm
I?
■• ■ s--:
1
m
m
im
Wmmm
tm
/ V,
I v i
i <
»**
m
wy.
JL; :
■m
mm
yy
yyyk
W&
■m
m&
\~
liili
ftliil
SS&
i
p j
iWx
liipili
psssvgppyp
xX+fcxyXyXOCy :■:•:■:•:•
¥&
mm
y'yy
llliill
Sw
s#
SwS
§g§l»l
;s§;
1
sf
iiiiHiii
mm
mm
y.y:
liiliil
ymym.y.y//
mm
sr#A*M
■BUI
iiiii
%%v
v:«x
x>+v*:k:kx>:x>kx
yy.yyyyyyyyyyyy.yyy-.
mm
m
y/.-y
rnmm
§§-' /*
ppm
14,000 MILES in
140 HOURS
cvbn
Italian Airman’s Tribute
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL
OIL COMPANY LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND
In a cable of appreciation to the Shell Company, London, the Marchese de Pinedo
states: —“I am so pleased to tell you that the Lorraine-Dietrich engine of my
seaplane ran smoothly on Shell Spirit all through my flight of 14,000 miles
from Rome to Australia. We had some rough experiences flying through the
rains and gales of the monsoon in Siam and the storms along the Australian
coast; then there was the 750 miles stretch across India; but the power we
asked from Shell never once failed. I am delighted with the condition of the
engine, not overhauled since we left Rome, which proves how clean the Shell
Spirit is. There remain 20,000 miles to fly before we get back to Rome, no
doubt under many different conditions, but through these I am sure Shell will
carry us safely. This is the first time an engine has flown 14,000 miles
without overhaul —a great tribute to Shell.”
The remarkable engine-cleaning properties and power
capacity of Shell Spirit so strongly evidenced in
this great flight will be found in every drop of Shell.
S 70 F


Amazing values for MEN at
DAVID JONES’
SALE
Every item except proprietary lines
less 2/' in the £ for Cash.
100/- Sac Suits now 70/-
Tailored readv-t »• we ,r from Vicuna finish all-
wool Tweed. Coat is a two-button Model with
four buttons on sleeve. In mid and dark grey
and brown. Usually, 100/-. Sale Price ... 70/-
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash.
70/- Gabardine Coat lor 60/-
Wool Gabardine Raincoat, with Raglan sleeves.
Check lined- Fawn shade only. Usually, 70/-.
Sale Price ... ... ... ... 60/-
L ess 2I- in the £ for Cash.
10/6 Shirts reduced to 7/6
Zephvr Business Shirts, made by David Jones',
with soft doub e cuffs and reinforced necks. In
range of striped designs. Usually ... 10/6
Sale Price ... ... ... ... 7/6
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash.
Broad-end Ties —Half Price
500 dozen Broad-end Ties in striped and figured
designs. Made from the best English and Conti-
nental Silks. Usually 4/5. Sale Price ... 2/3
Less 21- in the £ for Cash.
in the grave and ponderous days of the good
Queen, might, have wrecked the legal
career of a less resilient mortal than (_ hai Jes
John Darling. He actually had the temerity
to publish a little volume labelled ‘Scintilla;;
Juris," striking sparks of wit of more 01
less brilliance out of the dull metal ot the
law. Evidently he repented his sin, tor
it was not till 33 years later, having in the
meantime climbed high on the legal ladder,
that he lapsed once more into attempted wit.
He then published “Meditations on the Tea
Room,” an ambiguous title that might well
have suggested an improving polemic, but
was merely the cover to something frivolous
—such as might be jazz in a Judge’s cham-
bers. This was his Lordship who presided
in Robinson v. Midland Bank. With such
a one on the Bench, it was not surprising
that, when he and Sir John Simon got some-
what bored with the long and prosy address
of the latter, the one in delivering it and
the other in having to hear it, somehow
Mr. Pickwick got mixed up in the argu-
ment. It was Sir John who introduced
the general chairman of the Pickwick Club
into the matter; and Robinson and the Bank
were unceremoniously shelved, while his
Lordship and Sir John discussed “llow did
Mr. Pickwick come by his name?"
Said Sir John: “Dickens was staying at
Bath when he commenced his famous novel,
and he wanted names for his characters, so
he went for a walk in the streets, and
picked out the more curious of the designa-
tions over tradesmen’s shops. Pickwick,
Snodgrass, Tupman, Wardle and Winkle
were acquired in this way.” His Lordship
moved uneasily in his seat as if ready to
explode. But Sir John had something at his
back, for it wan a habit of Dickens to do just
that sort of thing. After his death among
his miscellanea were found several lists of
Christian and surnames for fictional charac-
ters. They were odd, grotesque names, some
doubtless manufactured, but others probably
authentic—-Thomas Fatherly, Robin Scrub-
barn, Stephen Marquick, Matilda Raiubird
and Sarah Goldsacks. So it was not at all im-
probable that Mr. Pickwick’s name had been
found for him that way.
But his Lordship knew better; in fact, he
knew all about it. When life was a lad he
used to follow the hounds in the country
round about Bath, and remembered the last
few of the old stage-coaches that clattered
along the highway between there and London.
At one of the old coacliing-inns on the Bath-
road a landlord had adopted a foundling bear-
ing the name of Moses Pickwick. Young
P. was a smart lad, and in course of time
took his master’s place and became the pro-
prietor of the line of coaches. His Lord-
ship could even recall noticing the name
painted on these vehicles. And in support
of the learned Judge there is some corrobora-
tion. There is, first of all, the testimony
disclosed in the Papers themselves. In the
account of the journey to Bath, which Pick-
wick and his companions took after the close
of the famous trial. Sam Weller came up
to his master and whispered in his ear with
an air of profound mystery:—-
“I’m werr.v much afeanl. sir, that the properiatov
o' this 'ere coach is a-playin’ some imperence vith
us.”
“How is that. Sam?” said Mr. Pickwick; “aren't
the names down on the waybill?”
“The names •is not only down on the vavhill,
sir,” replied Sam, “but they’ve painted vim on ’em
up on the door of the coach.” As Sam spoke he
pointed to that part of the coael!,-door on which the
proprietor’s name usually appears; and there, sure
enough, in gilt letters of a goodly Size, was the
magic name of Pickwick.
“Dear me!” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, quite stag-
gered by the coincidence, “what & very extraordinary
thing!”
: “Yes, but that ain’t all,” said Sam, again direct-
ing his master’s attention to the coaeli-door, “not
content vith writin’ up ‘Pickwick’ they puts ‘Moses’
afore it, rich I call addin’ insult to injury, as the
parrot said veil they not only took him from his
native land, but made him talk the English langwidge
afterwards.”
“The ludicrous name of Pickwick,” wrote an
authority of over 30 years ago, “is not a
fabrication of the novelist. It, was actually
borne by tbc proprietor of a line of stages
running between London and Bath.” And
more recently in Leopold Wagner’s interest-
ing volume on “London Inns and Taverns”
an additional item of possible value is given.
In the last decade or thereabout there has been
razed to the ground all but the cavernous
gateway and the cobbled entrance to the ori-
ginal coachyard of the Bolt-in-Tun on the
south side of Fleet-street. It was a relic
of the last remaining coaching inn, dating
back at least 500 years, anciently belonging
to the Carmelite Friars, and having its
stables underground, with a steep incline for
the horses. In ISI7 26 coaches started from
here for the west of England and the south-
east towns. A copy of the coaching poster
displayed in the front window of this book-
ing-office in early-Victorian days has on
it the names of the then proprietors “Robert
Cray and Moses Pickwick and Co.”
Who shall judge between his Lordship and
Sir John? Did Dickens pick up the name
on the road to Bath, perhaps in a casual
meeting with Moses Pickwick at the old
coaching inn, or did lie copy it. from the
poster in the booking-office of the Bolt-in-
Tun? Fleet-street —beloved by Dickens—
lias boon the christening-font of so much
lettered fame that one is naturally inclined
to look that way for the baptism.
T. B. C.
Instructive Ignorance
“The history of the Victorian age will
never be written—we know too much about
it,” Lytton Strachey says in the preface
to his biographical essays on eminent Vic-
torians: “for ignorance is the first requisite
of the historian, ignorance which simplifies
and clarifies, which selects and omits, with a
placid perfection.” This is veritably and
valuably paradoxical, lour expert knows
too much if you want criticism or history
written, and. assuming that everyone else
knows as much as lie does, writes over their
heads. Or he has become the slave of “stan-
dards” and measures men and events off by
arbitrary rules and settled theories, fitting
the object to them when they do not fit the
object. Or bemuses the reader with an argot
which to them is as a foreign tongue, as
when a musical critic, by remarking on the
“-port omenta rub a to of a singer, once sup-
plied the rude wits of a Maoriland town
with a new term which they joyfully accepted
as one of opprobrium. The know-all tends
to lose the faculty of independent judgment,
having passed under the tyranny of exact-
ness: yet. as Pontius Pilate asked (or words
to that effect), what is exact? By contrast
ignorance starts untrammelled by traditions,
“standards.” or set notions that certain canons
are prescribed and absolute. If it possesses
knowledge, there is very little of it. And a
little knowledge is not necessarily a danger-
ous thing. Having long held this truth, I
was greatly gratified to read that such a
learned and wisely observant man as Bryce
had pulled the straw out of two old aphoris-
tic bogeys, the one about the Pierian spring
and the other preposterously proclaiming
that whatever is worth doing is worth doing
well. To the man who knows that his little
knowledge is only little, his little is a very
valuable thing. As Schopenhauer puts it, to
know what you know and what you do not
know is true knowledge. The man who
realises that lie has all or most of his sub-
ject to learn is likely to produce a history
or criticism easier to read and more in-
structive than will be served up to you by the
man full of his subject, too often so full that,
as Carlyle said of Mahomet, for very multi-
tude of things to say he can get nothing said.
This presumes intelligent ignorance, not
the ignoramus, an unfortunate born to
remain unperceptive and unreceptive, to
whom knowledge is for ever as the “book
written within and on the back side, sealed
with seven seals” which no man could open,
of John the Divine. Most journalists have at
one time or another been cynically told, when
they demurred to writing on a particular
subject because they were “not up in it.”
“So much the better—you'll come to it with
an open mind,” which was paradox again, on
the assumption that the mind was absorptive
and selective as well as open—such a mind
as would intelligently prospect among out-
cropping facts, arrange them orderly, and
present them lucidly and with circumspect
recollection of limited knowledge, and there-
fore with accuracy.
Criticism, in whatever form, historical or
current, is impudence, yet as characteristi-
cally and iiiveterately human as eating and
drinking. Man will have his say, as woman
her way, and pronounce offhandedly and con-
fidently upon whatever comes within his ken.
But the criticism of assumed authority, ex
cathedra criticism as they say, is insolence.
It is to postulate that the self-elected critic
knows what is good and what bad, and
must dictate to the mass accordingly be-
cause they do not know and sometimes are
quite mistaken in enjoying something which
he finds only ircprobable. William Archer,
himself one of the cockiest of critics, realised
the futility of his trade. "Rules and canons,
theories and generalisations, are for us poor
devils of critics, who have to docket and
classify because we cannot create,” he rue-
fully confessed; '“no artist, at any rate, ever
achieved greatness by doing homage to the
theories even of the greatest critics.” Of
course not. The artist who became great
owed his uprise to the selective approval of
the ignorant and clear-minded, whose true
reflector and guide, if they must be reflected
and guided in print, is the intellect on theii
own plane which can describe without docket-
ing and record without prejudice. And what
applies to criticism is also applicable to his-
tory, so often is * the professional historian
dominated by predilection, or reduced to
flatulence by excessive consumption, or hope-
lessly prone “to think that what lie merely
thinks is what he really knows.”
H. J. T.
Subconscious Creation
Hattie Knight (It.P. 4/6 /’25), following
on tin; philosophies of Blamire Young,
strives to throw some light on the vagaries
of the artistic mind. Miss Knight says:—
The artist is very often a shallow, almost uncon-
scious vessel through which some divine message of
beauty is conveyed to the world. This, at any rate,
is how we explain to ourselves the disappointment
experienced in making the acquaintance of some
soul-stirring tenor who has exalted us to spiritual
heights that he personally seems never to have
known, or when we learn of the ugliness and petty
foolishness of the lives of poets who have set our
hearts afire with noble inspiration.
No doubt flic explanation given would apply
in some instances. But surely it is ridicu-
lous to expect one explanation to cover the
whole army of artistic creators. Artists arc
essentially individualistic-—they cannot bo
classified holus-bolus as a type.
Several other possible explanations of the
conditions described by Miss Knight are
appended:—
(1) There is the case of the artist who is really
not an artist, but has been boomed into prominence
by some “cute” publicity agent.
(2) The artist is, after all, a human being. In
the expression of his art he is using up his nature,
spiritual, mental and physical—using it up so strenu-
ously that it becomes necessary for him to call a
halt. It is probably at such times that we have
the disappointing experience of meeting him. As he
has riot been reading the newspapers, and is thus
unconversant with the latest polling returns and
the like, he strikes us as being dull. We ask him
about his work, but lie lacks the politician's ability
to talk about it.
(3) And there is the artist who has still more of
the human being in him than the ease just cited.
An artist of this variety will undoubfedly exalt us
to “spiritual heights.” He himself has really scaled
those heights ; but, like Moses, who came down from
Sinai and smashed the Ten Commandments into a
thousand pieces, so our artist comes down from his
exalted heights and lives for a while. He does this
because he realises, sub-consciously perhaps, that if
lie doesn’t he.’ll go off his head. Nature declares that
all wearing human flesh and blood shall remain
human, or be set aside as dangerous to the remainder
of the community. If a man strives to rise to
heights undreamed of by the ordinary mind, Nature
lets him climb—for a while. But presently # she
says, “Whoa, my lad ! What of the flesh, and the
throbbing blood, of the straining muscles, and the
nervous system I have giver, you? Be balanced! Be
natural!” And the artist takes her advice, in his
own characteristically human fashion.
No doubt there arc a thousand other expla-
nations, all going to show that the vagaries
of the artist are no more mysterious than the
vagaries of the remainder of human kind.
Indeed. I am beginning to wonder whether,
after all. the work of a business man. or any
other brain toiler, is not as “sub-conscious”
as that of Miss Knight's artist.
P. P.
A Satchel of Books
Colette, by Josephine de Noroc (Geoffrey Bles). A
commonplace plot redeemed by picturesque setting—
in Bukarest, the Roumanian capital. Brightly
written.
The Alarm, bv John Rhode (Geoffrey Bles). An
ads i'iitlire in gun-i mining to supple the revolutionary
needs ot' a monarchical conspiracy in Portugal suggests
plenty ot' action and dramatic liigh light. The reader
gets both in a novel which moves with the rapidity
of a cinema film.
Sailors’ Wives, by Warner Fabian (Stanley Paul).
Presumably a sequel to the erotic and stupidly vulgar
“blaming Youth.” There may have been some excuse
for liis former book on the grounds that it revealed
the self-indulgent and hysterical in their true colors,
but one suspects the author now of merely regarding
his unpleasant material as a profitable gold-mine.
Numerous Treasure, by Robert lveable (Constable).
Keable, once an Anglican padre, descends upon .what
he terms “a corrupted island paradise,” and sketches
it and its care-free inhabitants in his own unconven-
tional manner. He can paint bis scenery well, and
his pictures of the coral gardens are excellent —it is
a pity his characters are such hopeless degenerates.
The Courtyard, by Neville Brand (John Lane).
Hernando Comar, dictator of a lawless South American
coast town; Harris, a reserved Englishman with an
obscure past, in Comar’s power; and Harris’s beauti-
ful daughter Margaret—these chief characters are
etched on !i background of mysterious intrigues., in
an absorbing book the author explores a vein opened
up by the master-hand of Joseph Ccnrad.
Seventy Times Seven, by Archibald Luck (Collins).
A beautiful dollar-plated American maid has an
ecstatic time with a foreigner of pleasing manners
cn 1 nasty morals, whom she marries. One day
M’sieur le Mari arrives home with an infant, the
gurgling offspring of another lady. Thereupon the
heroine finds what is defined as her soul. It took
some finding.
Waterside Creatures, by Frances Pitt (Allen and
Unwin). This delightful book of nature studies is
by a writer who, following in the steps of Richard
Jefferies, has already published several volumes, all
showing a very genuine sympathy with wild nature
and an intimate knowledge of birds and beasts.
The present volume deals, with the waterside life
of the Bi'itish Isles, and is handsomely got up and
generously illustrated.
The Son of the Bondwoman, by Josephine Ansted
(H. G. Forster). Written, printed and published
in Australia, this novel is singularly devoid of any-
thing characteristic of the land. The author in
a foreword declares herself a realist, as if anticipat-
ing some criticism of the morbid strain and sordid
environment of her story. It has an element of
interest in it which is overladen bv a prolix and
involved style. In matter and get-up the book-
bears the stamp of the amateur.
The Marvels of Modern Physics, by Joseph McCabe
(Watts and Co.). The present volume, dealing with
atoms, electrons and wireless, completes a series of
five popular handbooks. The object is “to tell the
marvellous work of our modern physicists, to make
Plain the principle ot half the practical wonders of
modern life, without using a single mathematical
expression, n I in language that is familiar to
everyone.” Within these limitations the work is
well done.
The Boost of the Golden Snail, by Victor MacClure
(Harrap). A subtitle to this novel is “A Fantasy of
London,” and the phrase well indicates the contents.
An impecunious artist, contrary to the ethics of all
his tribe, suddenly displays a marvellous business
capacity, and by its exercise boosts a down-and-
out cabaret in Soho, the home of polyglot refugees,
into a fashionable restaurant. An amusing bunch of
characters and the necessary charming girl make
up an entertaining hash for the rliner-out in fiction.
Places and Persons, by Margot Asquith (Thornton
Butterworth, Ltd.). Afore indiscretions of Margot,
now Countess of Oxford and Asquith. AVhether the
weight of a coronet will repress this “irrepressible
she” time will tell, but the present volume shows
no flatness in the heady champagne. At one
moment she is rhapsodising over the Si'stine Chapc-J
and Michael Angelo’s ceiling as “feasts of beauty”
and the next lunching at “a pothouse off macaroni
and salad.” She meets and interviews all sorts of
folk, and what they said and more especially what
“I said” is recorded with less or more accuracy and
still more bubbling vivacity. Iler impressions of
America are what its citizens would doubtless call
“some,” and in Canada she recounts that she delivered
a lecture and was listened to “by an attentive Slid
intelligent audience.” To be one’s own reporter has
its points. The book is worth its published price
of a guinea if a friend presents it.
The Justice.?’ Manual and Police Guide, by Daniel
Stephen (N.S.W. Police Association). A fourth
edition of this useful handbook, containing a
synopsis of offences punishable in N T . S. Wales by
indictment and on summary conviction, together witli
definitions of crimes, meanings of legal phrases, etc.
To Justices in search of the informati n which they
so rarely have, and to the Police for guidance in
their duties, this compact and well-arranged volume
should be invaluable. Without claiming to be a
professional text-book for the legal practitioner, it.
c ontains all that, generally speaking, is essential to
either the Justice on the Bench or the police-officers
appearing before him, for the administration of the
law in Courts of Petty Sessions. It is well printed
and got up.
The Marxian Economic Handbook, by W. f I.
Emmett (Allan and Unwin). Though the name of
Karl Marx falls glibly from the lips of candle-box
orators, it is exceedingly doubtful if cne in a hundred
of them could pass an elementary examination on
the pseudo-economic system of that tin god of
Bolshevism. If ever language were used with
supreme success for the purpose of concealing
thought, the author of “Capital” attained it. it
has remained for a Sydney citizen to throw some
light upon the dark path. Says the author with
refreshing candor: “Although more than half a
century has passed since Marx’s epochal work
appeared, it would be a rash statement to say that
many English readers understand it. All sorts and
shades of so called ‘Marxists’ very lamentably mis-
understand even the very rudiments of Marx’s great
work; and they therefore inevitably misunderstand,
also, much of the colossal superstructure.” The
author protests that he is not attached to am
party; “The parties of my experience have all
shown a lamentable unworthiness.” Apparently all
they wanted to know about their prophet was that
he was the man of many volumes who set out to
show that capital exploited labor, and they used the
word “exploit” in a sense not contemplated by their
Marx. “The Marxian term ‘exploit,’ ” says the
author of this handbook, “has been converted into
a wretched and vulgar banality.” This author setx
about his work of elucidation in a very earnest
spirit, seeking to disentangle what Marx really did
strive to say. Marx’s meaning appears to be difficult
to convey in English, and if the truth were manifest
it was probably no easier to contey in Russian;
and probably Lenin and Trotsky knew as little about
what their oracle meant as our own proletariat know.
*
“Morehead”; London booksellers find it hard to
coax the crowd away from radio concerts and cross
word puzzles, and are resorting to many devices
to push sales. A recent innovation is a series of
lectures at bookshops by' well-known figures in
the literary world. One Charing-cross firm is already
in the middle of a programme which includes
Chesterton on “Books and Bonfires,” Frankau on
‘The Functions of a Good Bookseller,” Francis
Meynell on “Something Select,” Michael Sadlier on
“The TroUope Tradition,” Shane Leslie on “Baron
Carvo.” H. W. AValbrook on “Gilbert and Sullivan
Opera” and Sidney Dark on “Charles Dickens.” How
would it go in Sydney if Angus and Robertson or
Dymock’s were to fellow suit by securing J. H. M.
Abbott to talk about the Macquarie period, and
Rod Quinn to descant on the ways and byways of
Australian poesy?


SM
Mr
m
m
28S§
HI
*
■
Ah
W „ . 'f*‘
. &,, I ! ... N
-V.
mm
m
i::
bTWBE
m
■
; ■
Am.
•mm s; "•
cvbn
Car Washing
Without Work.
A CLEANER, easier job that you can do
in half the time—that’s car-washing
with a “Turbex” Flushing Brush. Great-
est advantage of all—the continual flow of
water from the revolving brush washes off all
grit instead of rubbing it in-—the paintwork
of your car is never scratched.
Why not make your motor-
ing a greater pleasure by
taking the bother out of its
cleaning—with a “Turbex”?
cvbn
Price
55
Complete with
3 Special Brushes.
Obtainable from leading gar-
ages. If unobtainable locally,
communicate direct with the
Sole Distributors:—
k y. -M
mmJWF
The “TURBEX”
FLUSHING BRUSH
FITTED to any ordinary hose having the usual domestic
water-pressure, a continual stream of water revolves the
brush and' flows on to the brush itself. Strong made,
you need only buy one outfit. There are three brushes
of special types to wash the car. You should possess one
of these outfits, which save time and toil and help consider-
ably in saving the paintwork of your car. Ask to see one at
y our garage, or write for free illustrated pamphlet.
vbn
175 Clarence Street Sydney
And at
%
MELBOURNE:
521-528 Collins Street,
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
*3-35 King Street.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth and Morphett Str
NEWCASTLE:
53 King Street,
Arlsheatl-Rose,


'
:"V-
-r%
in
■
SINGLE-SIX SEVEN PASSENGER TOURING CAR
What Packard offers you
n pHERE is 26 years acknowledged leadership in the manufacture of fine cars
behind the cars which Packard offers you to-day. In your own mind you
instinctively award a high place to Packard, and this is due to Packard’s strict
adherence to a traditional policy of manufacturing only the very best. You may
safely trust your own instinctive recognition of Packard’s known goodness and
leadership in selecting your car.
THE Packard Single-Six represents every inherited tradition of Packard standards carefully con-
sidered design, the best possible materials, the most painstaking workmanship in the industry. Eco-
nomical to operate and maintain, and moderately priced, it has brought the possibility of owning a
"fine”car to every man who is buying a low priced car every year or so.
THE Packard Straight-Eight was designed and built to satisfy every requirement of those who seek
the very best in every phase of motoring. Here is a car not excessive in price, yet one that repre-
sents the greatest possible luxury in motoring. Packard Straight-Eight beauty and charm are quali.
ties that can be easily seen at a glance. They are without parallel. In no less a degree do the perform-
ance of its motor, its steering and riding ease, and its comfort represent the acme of perfection in
motor cars.
"AS K . T H E MAN WHO OWNS ON E”
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261,263,265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Foy’s)
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight , Brisbane.
5. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide.
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
PACKARD


New Studebaker Duplex Is
An Open-Closed Car
Combines freedom of open car with
protection of enclosed car; changed
from one to other in 30 seconds.
Studebaker has introduced an entirely
new-type car in its exclusive Duplex body,
which combines open car freedom and
enclosed car comfort.
In 30 seconds —without getting out of the
car—roller side enclosures may be drawn.
As simple as lowering a window blind!
With equal ease, they can be rolled up-
out of sight. Thus the Duplex owner has
both the airiness of an open car and the
protection of an enclosed car —always at
his command.
The Duplex body was designed and
developed by Studebaker engineers. Only
Studebaker builds it. It is but one of the
many features that brand the New Stude-
bakers as being a year ahead of current
motor car design.
The car of tomorrow is the
Studebaker of today
The design of the new Studebaker is
distinctively different. In line, finish, fea-
tures of construction and refinements, the
New Studebaker cars of today express the
design of tomorrow’s motor car
Long, graceful bodies —finished in durable
lacquer or enamel; high nickel-plated radia-
tors; the oval grouping of all instruments
under glass; the lighting control on the
steering wheel; new type emergency brake;
half sphere accelerator; completely ma-
chined crankshaft; force-feed oiling system;
and big, full size balloon tyres —with steer-
ing gear, springs, even the mudguards,
especially designed for their use —these are
a few' of the features that the
advanced design of the New' Studebakers.
Abundant power; high economy
Studebaker features
Motor cars must now be judged by a new
standard of performance. For the six-
cylinder Studebaker Big Six, Special Six
and Standard Six engines offer an entirely
new conception of smooth, responsive power.
And not only is the power of the new
Studebakers offered in abundant measure,
but with a high degree of economy as well.
The combination of fine materials, careful
workmanship and advanced design in the
new Studebaker engines ensures a very con-
servative operating cost.
Force feed oiling>system;
and oil strainer
This system not only ensures perfect
mbrication of the engine at normal speeds,
but at high speeds as well. Oil circulates
three times for every mile of travel, and
through a strainer it is filtered clean of all
sediment before returning to the crankcase.
Even the seat cushions are
new in design
✓
..VM
Studebaker engineers realize that car com
fort begins with the cushions upon which
rider sits. So special attention has
paid to cushion construction. In
addition to the vertical spiral s
giving up-and- down resiliency,
are horizontal springs to give sid
wise spring action. Makers of
bed springs have followed the y
practice of using the two types of-
springs for some time, but
remained for Studebaker enginee
incorporate the idea into autom ‘
seat construction.
Supplementing the
comfort provided
unique spring desigi!
there is aIH inch
layer of finest curled
hair on top of the
springs, then 2 inc
of quilted cotton
padding—the kind 1
used in the finest
upholstering. The
hair and cotton are separ
from the springs and the
side covering of leather,
sheets of heavy
Incidentally the 1
used in Studebaker
is the finest grade
genuine leather.
The 21 New Stua§
are built to last
Like their long-lived predecessi
the New Studebaker cars are A
built to endure. The frames v*
are deeper and stiffen and therl
are more cross members. TH) .
engine is mounted on a strong’
sub-frame which keeps it securely t
alignment. Twisting chassis strain
prevented by torsion tubes, one at each
end of the frame.
m
ss
£0
Ml
SS
•••I
Am
Studebaker has new-type
emergency brake
The inconvenience of the old-fashioned
emergency brake projecting from the floor
board has been eliminated in the new
Studebaker models. It is now on the dash
within easy reach of the driver’s hand.
Only a slight pull is necessary to exert its
full force. Incidentally, the new position
of the brake control adds 10 per
more space to the driver’s compart-
ment.
The New Studebakers are
easier to operate
Lighting control is conveniently located
on the steering wheel. Spark control is auto-
matic. Emergency brake, of a new type, is
operated from the dash. A one-piece
windscreen; glare proof visor, foot-operated
cowl ventilator; automatic windscreen
cleaner, and a new ball type accelerator are
-features adding to driving comfort,
is a new steering gear especially
|:d for use with balloon tyres.
V
Volumes
could be written
about the
New Studebaker
Cars!
They are a year ahead of current motor car
design—embodying features never shown
before. See them whether or not you intend
to buy. To know the New Studebakers is
to know the motor car design of tomorrow.
Australian Prices of Studebaker M Cars
STANDARD SIX.
113-in. W.B. 50 H.P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton, £490
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster, 465
5-Pass. Coach ... 540
S-Pass. Country Club
Coupe 570
5-Pass. Brougham .... 575
5-Pass. Coupe 590
5-Pass. Sedan ... 625
5-Pass. Bel li ne . . 650
5-Pass Phaeton, A us. Body 430
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body 420
J/-wheel brakes, .) disc wheels,
£l5 'extra.
SPECIAL SIX.
120-in. W. 8,. 65 H.P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton, £5BO
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster, 545
3- Sport-Roadster. . 575
4- Victoria .. .... 735
5- Brougham ..... 685
5-Pass. Sedan ... 765
5-Pass. Berline 785
5-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body 535
7-I’ass. Phaeton, Aus. Body 550
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body 515
.])-wheel brakes, 5 disc wheels,
£2O extra.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS.. 390-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE > MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
ISLAND MOTORS PTY., LTD., Arcadia Garage, Hobart.
f The spark on the new Studebaker engines
is automatically regulated. This means that
.relation to the engine speed is
ydght, because it is aulomatic-
pvery engine speed with the
Kthanical action.
*§£udebaker Duplex —
all-weather car
k Easily raised and low-
ered roller curtains, op-
by a touch of
d, make the new
|ker Duplex the
neither fair
4-Wheel Brakes
Hydraulically operated
J Although the New Studebaker models
Jre equipped with larger and more powerful
2-wheel brakes, Studebaker hydraulic servo
4-wheel brakes are optional.
21 Distinctive Studebaker
Models-All “Sixes”
Three sizes of six-cylinder chassis and
twenty-one body models provide a
Studebaker car to suit every buying
taste and to fit practically every
pocketbook
Never have motorists had a greater
variety of smart new body types to select
from than is offered in the 21 New Stude.-
baker models. There are 15 luxuriously
equipped enclosed cars and 6 new-type
Duplex models. The Duplex body is a
New Studebaker development offering an
open and an enclosed' car in one. There
are three distinct six-cylinder chassis, the
Standard Six, 50 h.p. engine; the Special
Six, 65 h.p. engine; and the Big Six, 75
h.p. engine.
All the New Studebaker models are equip-
ped with full-size balloon tyres. The design
of each chassis has been adapted t 6 balloon
tyre equipment.
Engines are more powerful. Bodies are
longer. Refinements are numerous. Some
have never been shown before on any other
cars. In addition to the host of new fea-
tures, there is the traditional Studebaker
durability that has made Studebaker cars
famous throughout the world for long,
economical and dependable service.
“J Extras” of yesterday —standard
on New Studebakers
Motorists express surprise in learning of
the host of conveniences that are standard
equipment on the New Studebaker cars.
An automatic windscreen cleaner, rear view
mirror, 8-day clock and petrol gauge on the
dash, combination stop-and-tail light, and
an improved spare tyre carrier with lock
are a few of the “extras” of yesterday that
are standard equipment on the New Stude-
bakers.
Waterproof ignition on
New Studebakers
Rainstorms, washing the car or water
splashing on the engine when fording a
stream cannot affect the ignition system on
the New Studebaker cars under ordinary
circumstances. Not only is the distributor
set high and water-proofed, but the sparking
plugs are protected by rubber caps.
Luxurious comfort in the
New Studebakers
Bodies are longer and roomier; full-size
balloon tyres are complemented by espe-
cially designed springs. Deeply stuffed,
genuine leather upholstery is supported by
new type cushions consisting of horizontal
springs in combination with vertical coil
springs. This construction adds side spring-
iness to the usual up and down spring action.
£ 120,000 a year to produce
Studebaker Smoothness
Vibration has been reduced to a minimum
in the New Studebaker engines by machin-
ing the crankshaft on all surfaces—not just
the bearing surfaces. This is a feature
usually found only in the most expensive
makes of cars. It costs Studebaker £ 120,000
a year to perform the extra machining on
Studebaker crankshafts, but it gives a
remarkable degree of smoothness to Stude-
baker engines, and materially decreases wear
and tear by reducing engine vibration to an
absolute minimum.
Studebaker Cars Hold
Many Records
Although the fine reputation that Stude-
baker cars enjoy is based primarily on their
day-in-and-day-out service, it is interesting
to note that these cars are continually win-
ning important speed and endurance con-
tests in various parts of the world.
It will be remembered that it was a Stude-
baker Special Six which last year set a new
Trans-Australian record between Freeman-
tie and Sydney. Studebaker also holds the
speed record between Johannesburg and
I Capetown. Only recently a New Stude-
baker Standard Six made a record-breaking
non-stop run from El Paso to Los Angeles
(U. S. A.), a distance of 900 miles. This
year a Studebaker won the Gran Premio of
Argentine—South America's foremost race
£3 —for the fourth consecutive time!
The Eyes of the World are on
the New Studebaker Cars
In no new models ever introduced has
the public registered as great an interest as
in the New Studebaker cars. In the United
States over two million people visited
Studebaker showrooms to see these new
cars—the forerunners of a new era of motor
car desigh.
In Australia, South Africa, Europe—all
over the world —the reception has been the
same. People came; they saw; they bought
—bought in such number that Studebaker
sales for the last quarter of 1924 were the
greatest in history—that every month,
since November, has seen a new high record
established for Studebaker export sales!
STUDE BARER
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73 YEARS


Cuticura Shaving Stick?
'phis deiic&iely riiediSiteli aiitiseptid
Sddp produces § rich eie&ftiy Idstifig
iktiier, &Hdbiiiig ySti td sHaVdWitfi-
-Btit the slightest irritatidii; iiitiis-
pensadie for those Wlid §Mve tWide
daiiy. ftoperljr vised j it wifi prevent
ingrowing hiirS.
Soap Is., Talcum Is.3d., , Oirtihieritis.;£ihti
!!>; For sample Soap and Ointrfidjit .aid-
-Bi@&§: & Co. . Sydney. N-S-Wi’*
Try our new Shaving Slick.
A Skin Like
& Rose Leaf
Photo Broothorn.
’fha Beautiful Vaudeville Star
tharrriiitg Stage favourite admits
-ms! §H€. depends largely upon pure
tnSFeSiizgd WB)t to maintain her marvellous
riaifttfai .gsfnpiexidfi; Stage and society
ivomehj ifi aft leading countries are adopt-
ing this harmless wast i« place of face
creams,- because the wax has a “two-in-
one” action. If iiSt only removes dull-
ness from the Skirr,- but it filsO preserves
and protects the heaiitiful natural com*
plexion thus revealed. Any chemist or
store can supply Dearborn’s genuine
mercolized wax. (Try the new 2/6 jar).
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
_tL should read the British Australian
and Nev t Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Hurope and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
vbn
'Middle
Age .
In middle age men and
women alike undergo many
natural changes.
It is noticeable *hat the
digestive and nervous sys-
tems become upset more
easily. Then, because the
ability to obtain nourishment
from ordinary food is im-
paired, health fails “below
par” and the little things of
life continue to fret and
worry.
vbn
Food
rests and soothes the diges-
tive system, and is a power-
ful aid in restoring health
and natural nutrition.
“Benger’s Food and How to Use it.”
Post free on reauest from —
EENGEI’S FO3D, Ltd., 117, Pti Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S POOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
Keep Your
Stock “ Fit ”
An unlit horse or a sickly cow is not
only of no value itself, but is a real
menace to the health of the rest of the
live stock. Keep all your animals '‘in
the pink” by the intelligent use of
Denyer’s Veterinary Instruments and
Supplies. Every line we sell has been
proved thoroughly reliable.
Write to Department 1 for
Free Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Supplies,
281 George Street, Sydney.
jEumlMji
Groats
Best for MoihersYounq Children,Clrtvalids
Obtainable from all Chemists & Grocers
IX
ex
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels
_ tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. i
a
S?SS
a
CRAIG AND AITKEN
cv nM rv DISTRIBUTORS FOR
O Y T CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
cvbn
Beautiful Diamond Rings
of Authentic Quality in
Artistically-designed Settings
Fairfax & Roberts’ exceptionally long experience,
expert knowledge and wide cash-buying powers enable
them to obtain and pass on to their customers unusually
good values.
Choice Emerald an.l
Fine Diamonds.
£2O.
Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum and
18ct. Gold,
£55.
Australian Whole.
Pearl and Choice
Blue White Dia-
monds,
£lB.
Choice Diamond set
in Platinum and
ISct. Gold,
Whole Circle of
Diamonds in All
Platinum King,
£35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25.
Selected Diamond
in hexagonal setting
with Smaller Dia-
monds at sides,
£2O.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OfiDEST JEWEU.EUY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
fairfax&Roberts U?
Zb &25 Hunter Street Sydney
VARLOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter Song.
llulca, llnlca,
Oh, this teas in Iluku;
I found, it in llulca,
And offer it to thee.
As 1 came walking down the hill
(Iluka, Iluka, Iluka by the sea),
I thought the season Spring until
1 heard a wintry wind go shrill
Above the head of me.
It left no echo in its wake
(Iluka, Iluka, Iluka by the sea),
It tarried not by hill nor lake,
But whistled on without a break'
„ Above the head of me.
Quoth I unto a bird that cast
(Iluka, Iluka) two feathers in the sea:
"Why rides that soul upon the blast
That it should speed so swiftly past
Above the head of me"?”
The bird laughed hearty to the sun
(Iluka, Iluka). “I heard it not,” said he,
"But in this land the Winters run
So swift a race their songs are done
Before they really be,”
Iluka, Iluka,
Oh, that was in Iluka,
I brought it from Iluka
To offer it to thee.
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.
Sonnet.
The serried splendor of the purple Night
Fell back, the fiery phalanxes of Day
Charged redly upward to the zenith’s height,
The last stars paled and wavered, and gave
way.
In Bethlehem the folk began to wake;
Cocks crowed, a donkey brayed ; along the
street
A little wind laughed in the leaves to make
A dusty riot round an urchin’s feet.
More softly than the lisping, lazy drift
Of leaves wind-blown along old wooden
walls,
Slow sleep on Mary crept, Hod’s equal gift
To women who have lately passed those
halls
Of fear and utter pain, from which they
bring
Some beggar's base-born brat, or Christ the
King.
N.s.w.
A. S. T. ALLAN.
Becalmed.
’The blue shark pushes up a slimy wing;
We’re poised within a globe of spaceless
days;
Our ship has wandered into wipdless ways,
And that’s the end of all adventuring.
Afar from men and all bird’s hazarding.
In scorching patience or in mad amaze,
Wo ,can but watch with slow and frantic
gaze
The closure of the steel horizon-ring.
The ring will lessen, brass burn out our
sight,
The food and water fail; then soon (how
soon!)
The boys, the supercargo, every one
Will melt into the horror of this noon.
When Michael calls our names on Judg-
ment Night »
He’ll find our ashes in that brazen sun !
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Flute-Player.
Once to a valley
Holden and mute,
Came a flute-player',
And played on his flute.
As he played sweetly
Love melodies,
Harkened the thrushes
Aloft in the trees.
Spellbound they listened,
Making no stir :
Surely ’twas learning
His measures they were!
Out of the valley,
Bright in the sun,
Went the flute-player.
His flute-playing done.
Th°n all the thrushes,
Singing, rejoiced—
Love with its raptures
And gladness they voiced.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Dorothy.
She used to sit upon a broken stile.
With locks of auburn glinting in the sun,
When yet the tale of love was scarce begun.
Iler grey eyes, how they sparkled! And
her smile
Had all a maiden’s freshness, free of guile,
And sweet as fountains where the waters
run
And sing and dance and shimmer in the
sun,
Take seas of opal round a golden isle.
Now shingled is her crop of auburn hair.
And slightly marked her brow with care-
worn seams.
At times she plaintive sighs and frets the
while,
Till Babe and I have coaxed her out of care.
Sweet joy! Again the jewelled sunshine
gleams
From shimmering fountains in her radiant
smile.
FED!'.'KAL TEKBITOB Y.
P. E. S MYTH[?].


c Meilcto
a
■■• JP
jrf
m
mm
.. .1
■MB
jJHB
■ i
*
■
llsill
/
M—
s. *
m
mu
m iiifiii
i M i
... n
■I
i ■
mi
i
.
■
■
%
ii
1
8
; m i
mi
■
II Ri
IKS
ksl.
B v
■SiS
m ■
Ifjp- !
i.vjj*, ■ <* , ~ ■ ,< t $% ■. , , ' t
m i
LORD NOLAN,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1908.
Owner - - - - J. Mayo.
Trainer- - - - E. Mayo.
Jockey- - - - J. Flynn.
Weight- - - - 6st. 101b.
Time - - - - 3min. 28fsec.
Australasian Agents- BSEPPEUfiSONS, L t -
SYDNEY• MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE ■ FREMANTLE e BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
-Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46. —No. 2368.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, 1925.
Pkice 6d.
THE MESSAGE OF THE FLOODS.
COCKY (to the tree): “Well, thank God for you, old man.”
SPIRIT OP THE TREE: “Hm! If you hadn’t destroyed so many of my brothers you mightn’t have had to come to me for help.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, o!
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Rydnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, YV.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv address in Australasia, weekly l
IS months, £1 65.; 6 months, ]3s. 6d. : 3 months, ‘is.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager .
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘•Correspondence” co rmn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SO6O words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing u good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which lias to le re-drawn —will he paid for as a
suggestion onlji. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are tfiost
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
It. St. C. Grondona. Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London.
E. E. T. Hole,, Holerth Satire Service, )6 Elect
Street, London, E.C. : “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.i ;
F. Algor, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.B.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
Town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban.
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 3d West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co.. Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., 1 id.; each
additional )oz., Id. ; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'Z&xzlleiim,.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, 1925.
COBDENISM IN DECAY.
A thing which may signify the breaking of a
new day is the changing attitude of British
Parliamentary Laborites towards Dominion
preference. For several years the British
Government cheerfully accepted all the pre-
ference it could get from Greater Britain
and signified its willingness to accept any
quantity more. The general attitude was that
Protection was a very good thing when it
meant that the Dominions protected the Cold
Country’s industries, which industries the
starchy mandarins of England wouldn’t pro-
tect themselves lest they should thereby climb
down from the pedestal on which, they had
roosted since the days of Cobden. True, some
preference was given in return for benefits
received, but it was as small as possible.
Prime Minister Baldwin broke new ground
when he went to the country on the fiscal
issue, and took an astonished community be-
fore it was ready. The result was that the
Protectionists came back much the strong-
est party among three, but not quite strong
enough to outvote the alliance of Freetrade
Communists under Ramshackle; Macdonald
and Freetrade fossils under Chameleon
George. The former’s Labor Government
declared for the abolition of all preference
in the sense that it would take any that came,
and give nothing. The next turn of the elec-
toral wheel, 10 months later, made almost a
complete end of the ancient and historic. Free-
trade party of Bright, Gladstone and Co.,
it grievously reduced the Freetrade Laborites,
and it gave the Protectionist party an over-
whelming majority, yet without a definite
Protectionist mandate, because the leaders
hadn’t risked their fortunes by directly asking
for it a second time. When this party
set out the other day to restore, with
some improvements, the preferences to the
Dominions which Macdonald wiped out, and
a Laborite moved an amendment in favor of
that discredited idol’s policy of monumental
ingratitude, he failed badly in rallying the
party. Twenty Laborites voted for prefer-
ence and about a dozen absentees let it be
known that they were on the same side. The
fall of the house that Ramshack built in
1923 had begun in earnest.
* * * -X-
The British Liberal party spent most of
its existence dabbling in Freetrade theories
after one fashion and another. Being the
only convinced and reliable dabbler in the
birthplace of the cult, it would be only logical
if it and its fetich died together, just as a
sect with only one adherent ought to perish
when he perishes. The beginnings of prac-
tical Freetrade happened here and there be-
tween 1846 (which was just before the Aus-
tralasian gold boom put the Empire on a new
financial wicket) and 1860. Britain was
then the only manufacturing country which
counted. This was partly because it had
contrived for two centuries to avoid being a
theatre of war (for even, when it was so
badly licked that an army or two surrendered,
the event happened on foreign soil) and
partly because its people (or at least the
English and Lowland Scots) had the manu-
facturing and commercial instinct well
developed. Through the same causes it was
the world's great carrier and creditor. It.
possessed iron and coal in abundance, and
it owned the one complete and authentic set
of promising colonies (“Crown” colonies then)
as a ready-made market. So the Cold Coun-
try made a hard-and-fast agreement with it-
self that its three practical monopolies—
manufacturing, finance and trade, and carry-
ing—would continue, any serious competition
being an unfriendly act. It also arranged
with itself, as a further precaution and a
species of reinsurance, that the Freetrade
gospel would spread and become universal. At
the same time it had very little fear of
foreign competition run on a tariff basis. In
the years when it was building up its great-
ness amid the debris of a very disordered
world, it was the proprietor of what might
almost be described as the only scientific
Protectionist system on earth. Even if it.
had outgrown the need for the system it had
no intention of selling the patent to anybody.
For a time luck was remarkably good.
That purple-clad and over-rated adventurer.
President Bonaparte, who waded through
blood and treachery to a throne and became
Napoleon 111., was a professed apostle of
Freetrade and Adam SMiTH-ism. just as he
apostled many things in the course of his
shifty career. The presumed advantage of
having a Freetrade homicide reigning next
door was probably, more than anything else,
the reason why Britain recognised him in
haste and took his gory paw in amity. A
mutual and comforting trade arrangement
lasted till after Napoleon’s fall and death.
The German Customs Union was strongly
Freetrade till 1879, which fact gained it
much British sympathy during the three
wars which made the Empire. But in 1879
it dawned on Bismarck that his empire was
altogether too much of a dumping-ground,
and after that the door closed by instalments
till there was very little room for any
manufactured goods to crawl in unless at
ruinously low prices. The United States had
various comings and goings between low-
tariffism and high-tariffism, but after 1890
the glad hand became less and less in evi-
dence for the British manufacturer and ex-
porter. Now it is hardly in evidence at all.
The blood-stained Turk engaged to be a low-
revenue-tariff man in return for services
rendered to him against certain Christians
who had Protectionist tendencies among their
other drawbacks; and the Chinese Empire
was converted to low-revenue-tariffism at the
muzzle of a gun. But these converts lacked
enthusiasm. The eternal trouble was that
Britain couldn’t demand trade concessions in
return for concessions, because it had con-
ceded everything already. The Old Man in
London was still reckoned, in 1923. to have
a net. income of £150,000,000 per annum from
■'o reign investments, and to earn another
£150.000.000 abroad as a sea-carrier and
commissi on-a gent. This “invisible” income
of £300000.000 (which, by the w r ay. was
estimated at £595.000,000 in 1920) paid for
the surplus of imports over exports. That
was good for the country as a whole, but
cot much good for the individual factory-
"liand” whose factory was closed by reason
of these multitudinous imports.
So the Cold Country is in a remarkable
situation. The great system of unemploy-
ment insurance covers trades which nomi-
nally provide work for 114 or 12 million
people. From one to two millions of these
are in receipt of a weekly allowance for self
and, in case of adult males, for wife and
children, if any. Eked out by parish relief
the amount is enough to idle upon in a Door,
one-roomed, unambitious way. The qualifica-
tion for the allowance is losing one’s job but
not resigning it. Any person who wants a
life of stagnant calm can be unsatisfactory
enough to lose any job. Young women marry
into the allowance, and children leave school
and grow into it. It has facilitated the go-
slow habit, and the habit was there in any
case. A feeling begins to assert itself that
the Briton won’t recover his full energy and
improve his standard of living until he has
more work to do. and that the way to supply
work is to regain some of the home market
by Protection, and by the same device to
get into a position to argue about foreign
markets. The position is bad. and if that
good old standby, the income from “invisible
exports,” gets into a serious state of decline
it will be worse. Incidentally. Australia
doesn’t collect tribute from foreign debtors
or payments as a sea-carrier for anybody.
Instead it has a heroic annual bill to meet
under both headings. Wherefore its Free-
traders. who begin to wander around in Aus-
tralia under the new guise of the Country
party, are worse fools than the boys of the
old Cobden brigade in England at their
worst.
TROPICAL AUSTRALIA PUT INTO
FIGURES.
Deab Bulletin, —Much dissipated guff Inis
been served out of late to the Australian
people about their success —their quite 'un-
suspected success—in putting population on
what they have called at times the Empty
North. One recent writer went so far as to
declare passionately that “the population ot
the North is growing faster than that of
any other part of Australia,” which, if true,
would have been the best news of the century.
In such a case it is as well to flee the
realms of fancy, and put in some brain exer-
cise, and get down to official statistics so
far as they go. Those I have found go
back to 1881:
Forty Years’ Increase of Population.
Tropical Temperate
Queensland. Queensland.
359,000 311,500 All
sq. miles. sq. miles. Queensland.
1881-1891.. 52,945 127,248 180,193
1891-1901.. 36.990 67,415 104,411
1901-1911.. 11,130 96,554 107,684
1911-1921.. 24,285 127,536 151,821
Tropical Temperate
Westralia. Westralia.
364,000 611,920 All
sq. miles. sq. miles. Westralia.
1881-1891.. 3050 17,024 20,074
1891-1901.. 953 133,389 134.342
1901-1911.. 334 97,656 97,990
1911-1921.. 693 49,406 50,099
Tropical Temperate
N. Territory. A. Territory.
426.320 ‘ 97,300
sq. miles. sq. miles.
1881-1891.. 1447 \
Decrease I Increase
1891-1901.. 802 ! doubtful.
1901-1911.. 786 f say 100
Increase I or so.
1911-1921.. 464 J
All that is interesting so far as it goes, anu
more points develop as the matter is pur-
sued further. Tropical Australia didn’t go
short through any general lack of new people,
but through remoteness from the places
where the high political gods served out
people. The matter divides naturally into
a fairly good period of 10 years and a miser-
able one of 30 :
Forty Years’ Increase of Population.
Tropical
Westralia and Tropical Temperate
N. Territory. Queensland. Australia.
790.320 359,000 1,825,261
10 veal . sq. miles. sq. miles.' sq. miles.
1881-1891 .. 4497 52,945 866,756
30 years,
1891-1921 . . 856 72,411 3,185,540
As regards more than two-thirds of tropical
Australia, it is a record of shameful and in-
creasing failure. As regards the rest of
tropical Australia, it is a record of partial
failure and slackening down. And no matter
what polite false prophets and affable tripe-
mongers may say to a credulous community
which only craves to be comfortably deceived
and left at peace, it is impossible to imagine
that the failure isn't known. it is diffi-
cult to disguise the existence, in one solid
block, of 790,320 square miles of fairly
promising country which had 8609 inhabit-
ants, apart from aboriginals, 30 years ago
and lias added only 856 since; also the exist-
ence of adjacent scraps ot temperate country
which have done just about as badly.
* * * *
The matter isn’t one of climate, for the
phenomena of Tropical Australia are also
to be found in temperate Australia. One
outstanding trouble is the policy of bloated
States, and the attempt to maintain a sem-
blance of government over impossible dis-
tances by delayed telegram. Brisbane is a
seat of government and a railway centre,
and it lias rapidly grown a population of
about 250,000. Carnarvon (W.A.) is in
much the same latitude and is blessed with
a harbor, but it has no railway and is gov-
erned by preoccupied people of no great
mentality 562 miles away. The municipality
runs to 954 people. Alice Springs, in the
Macdonnell Ranges, about halfway between,
is an inland centre which might be another
Ballarat. It has no railway, and it is ruled
(or forgotten) from a distance of about 1800
mues. It has, or had, a population of 231.
It is possible that tropical Westralia and
the tropical N. Territory would progress
as well as tropical Queensland if they were
nearer their respective seats of administra-
tion and had railway communication with
the South, which has, by comparison, popu-
lation to spare. And it is possible that North
Queensland would make the same remarkable
progress as South Queensland has done since
separation if it was also separated and
allowed to manage its own affairs at close
range. Only a wildly sanguine person can
see hope for tropical Australia in sending a
bicyclist there to view the South-to-North
railway route for the billionth time, and come
back with a proposal that the place should
have more motor-cars, things being other-
wise left as they are. Nor in the appoint-
ment of three commissioners to go north and
commish among the old conditions. Nor in
the amazing proposal to build a long and
costly tropical railway from East to West, so
Hi at the 190.862 inhabitants of the three
tropical divisions may exchange visits, and
be about as badly off for communication with
the 5,600,000 or so down south as they are
now.
* * * *
Railway-building lias become a matter of
politics, and politics are a bitter struggle
for votes, and most votes are to be acquired
by making most railways where there are
most people and most railways already. It
really looks as if the best hope lies i v < rever-
sion to private land-grant railways in S9me
of the empty places. Private Enterprise likes
the empty places, because it is only there
that big land grants can be given away, and
it likes to till them because it wants to get
customers and to sell its land at a profit.
Public Enterprise once looked like the ideal
mode of development, but the frost which
set in after 1891 makes it appear a case for
revision of opinion. Australia’s creat North
is really a good healthy place for the Gov-
ernment stroke to work upon. The most
up-to-date record of infantile mortality
covered 38 States, and Queensland was second
best (after Maoriland). only 54 babies out
of 1000 dying before the end of their first
year. Also among the 13 districts into which
Queensland is divided, Rockingham (Cairns)
had the smallest proportion of dead baby.
The two worst records were Russia and
Chile, with 248 and 286 defunct infants per
1000 respectively. A political system which
can’t make a tropic land like ours put up
a glorious boom is rotten to the core. —
Yours, etc., James Edmond.
EVE IN POLITICS.
Peter Airey subscribed to a popular delu-
sion in assuming (B. 18/6/’25) that every
woman is born with an aptitude for domes-
tic duties, and that her desire to undertake
other work is due to pure cussedness. It is
no more true that every woman is naturally
fitted to be a housewife than that every
man is naturally fitted to be a farmer. It
is quite as absurd to state that a woman-
doctor, for example, would be “far more use-
fur’ washing dishes than in healing the
sick, as to say that a man-doctor would be
far more useful cutting wood or following
a plough.
When a man objects to his wife or sister
or daughter taking up a career outside the
home, it is usually on the ground that any
work she could do would be valueless. She
would be “far more useful” in the home—
incidentally ministering to his comfort. He
does not like the idea of women competing
with men, and often he is quite sincere in
his belief that this is because he wants to
protect the women. So he tells her that
she would lose her “bloom” in contact with
a rough world; that the part she has “to
play in the regeneration of society” is to
remain on her pedestal and be an inspira-
tion, etc. Sometimes she is surprised to hear
about the “pedestal” ; she has been thinking
it a cellar. And though she is sorry about
Ihe inspiration and all that, she feels she
needs a little fresh air. Or lie tells her that
she is “not physically fit.” Oddly enough, it
is only for the interesting and well-paid jobs
that she is unfit. No man ever disputes
woman's physical fitness to go out charing
by the day, do her own housework when she
returns home, and be kept awake all night
nursing a sick child. Men do not compete
for those jobs, so it seems that women are
always physically fit for them. Men take
up this attitude because, as Mr. Airey tells
us, they “arc not eternally swayed by emo-
tionalism and cheap sentiment to the swamp-
ing of their reasoning faculties.”
That women are so swayed and their
reason so swamped he considers proven by
his inference that women would abolish pros-
titution if they could ; if a. vote? were taken
among women on a proposal that “Lais
and PiiRYNE should be banished to Terra del
Fuego, one might easily anticipate the re-
sult,” lie says. This is. I suppose, a sneer
at the hazy notions that “nice” women are
supposed to have about such subjects ; but in
these days notions are not nearly so hazy
as they were. At one time there was a side
of life that was hidden from the mothers and
wives and sisters, and for some strange
reason this secret knowledge contributed to
a man’s self-imposed idea of superiority.
But now that there are so many women-
doctors, journalists and social workers. Lais
and PriRYNE are no longer objects of mys-
tery and vague loathing. They are part
of a many-sided social problem that we
know will not be solved by sending them to
Terra del Fuego, by the “suppression of
vice,” by rescue-homes, or religious organisa-
tion. These efforts touch but a small part
of the fringe of the nroblem with which
are associated many other social factors in
the way of heredity and environment, such
as slums, feeblemindedness, insanity, crime,
drunkenness, drug-addiction, venereal disease,
poverty, dirt, overcrowding, tuberculosis,
ignorance, etc. While these remain prosti-
tution will remain; and while prostitution
remains most of these evils have a fertile
soil in which to grow. It is almost amusing
to find that anyone—-man or woman—can
believe that because women resent the de-
gradation of other women, and would like to
banish prostitution and its attendant evils,
thev are therefore unfit to vote.
Women who live “sheltered” lives do not
always realise the magnitude of the problem,
of course, and Mr. Airey says “it would be
better for us all” if every woman led that
kind of life. Why would it? That it has
not been better, at any rate, for women in
the past is amply proved by the existence
of the very laws regarding divorce and pro-
nerty which Mr. Airey cites, and it will not
be better in the future unless women make
sure that more equitable legislation shall be
enacted. This they cannot do except by
securing adequate representation in Parlia-
ment. It. is inaccurate to state that the
women of Australia are indifferent to the
injustice of the existing divorce and pro-
perty laws. Almost every women’s associa-
tion in Australia has been concerned at one
time or another with (unsuccessful) depu-
tations to male Ministers of the Crown, re-
ouesting reform in the laws relating to
divorce, women’s property and the legal
ownership of children. Mr. Airey’s belief
that we are indifferent is due to auto-sugges-
tion. based on a preconceived idea.
In regard to prohibition, many of us while
knowing full well the ruin that has been
wrought in many a home by drunkenness, do
not believe that prohibition is the best way
to cope with the problem. A number of
women holding these views voted for Miss
Preston Stanley —as did a lot of men —•
not because she is a woman, nor because she
is a prohibition advocate, nor even because
she was the most brilliant speaker among
the candidates. We voted for her because
she put up a sounder and more constructive
policy than did any other candidate, and
because we believe she w r ill adhere to it
not merely at election time, but throughout
the term of Parliament, knowing as we do
that she has the courage to stand to her
convictions even at the expense of party pre-
ferment and in the face of narty disappro-
val. And there’s the rub ! Women are less
amenable to party “discipline” than men
are, and may even be capable of voting with
the opposition when a principle is at st”ke :
and a part at any rate of the male politician’s
opposition to women in politics is due to
the fear that partv politics may crumble, and
with it the time-honored system of “spoils
to the victors.”
“In 99 cases out of 100 her vote is inst
a duplication of her father’s, her husband’s


fit her lover’s” is another argument used to
show that WOm eil are incapable of voting
intelligently aiid should Dot be allowed to
vote at all. It looks like a sound argument,
too, but the statement also happens to be
-inbeeurate. Ih the recent electoral cam-
paign I knew of several instances where the
husband and wife were working for rival
Candidates, and quite a number where iio two
trifembers Of a family voted alike. But if
this principle—rbf disfranchising bn elector
fbr voting in tile. Same way as .anyone else;
or allowing anbtbef. electoj- to influence' liis
vbte—•were carried. tb,, its logical conclusion,
probably none but the several candidates
would be eligible to vote in any electorate;
There is no other way to make sure that rid
two papers will be marked alike. Appa-
rently, though, it is only male influence that
Mr. At key objects to; and what is the logical
conclusion to that? Although some women
do agree politically with their male relatives,
this is really no proof that they should be
disfranchised, unless the male relatives are
to be disfranchised too. The fact that women
look at life from a different angle to that
from which men view it makes them not less
hut more valuable in helping to frame the
laWs bndef Which bfitll men and women have
to live.
A.[?]. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Preference to the Australian Communist.
After something approaching a year of in-
sult, contumely and vast financial loss and
open threats of insurrection, borne with the
patience qf the ass which ultimately rounded
fin Balaam, the Australian Ministry has
made the beginning of d fflfivenienf; If it
had moved a year earlier its path would. Have
been easier, for the self-confidence fi£ tlie‘
push which takes its instructions from Mos-
cow has grown with continued impunity, and
its hold-up of Australian shipping and other
industries has almost become a vested in-
terest. At the same time the way is easier,
if the Ministry shows a semblance of grit,
than it would be a year hence, when Walsh,
Casey, Joiianson and Co. might be so far
advanced that they could sell their insurrec-
tion to a company and secure a large amount
for the goodwill. The measure which Prime
Minister Bruce has introduced gives, in the
first place, enlarged powers for the exclusion
of immigrants and visitors who are considered
undesirable. The authority asked for would be
considered moderate in Great Britain, which
turned back 1712 strangers from its gates
Iff 1921 and 1997 in 1922, and then, accord-
ing to fepoft, proceeded to get a move on, the
results of which should he published shortly.
But the Labor party, in its new guise as a
Semi-Communist or Communist-bossed organ-
isation, is already being Toused, so far as
certain Of its leaders can contrive, to a frenzy
of opposition to' the Ministerial plan, and as
it is difficult for such a party to oppose logi-
cally it will doubtless dispense with logic.
It is bitterly hostile to any form of assisted
immigration, and it bombards the Cold Coun-
try with periodical protests against volun-
tary immigration, for which, it alleges, there
is no room. When it discourages immigrants
in general it can’t object to the discourage-
ment of undesirable immigrants unless it
wants undesirable immigrants, and no other
sort. The other outstanding feature of the
measure is that a locality which is in a state
of industrial upheaval, as Sydney is now and
as Perth is often, may be “proclaimed.” Then
any persistent upheaver and strike-maker
and preacher of revolution who is not born in
the Commonwealth may be called before a
Board to show cause why he shouldn’t be
sent comfortably home to his native kingdom,
republic, dominion, colony or what not,
With orders not to return. Also, appa-
rently, the non-Australian may be sent home,
apart from any proclamation, if convicted, in
the ordinary course of law, of being a person
similar to the above. This is, in the simplest
form, Preference to the Australian Com-
munist, and why that Australian product
shouldn’t enjoy preference just as much as
the Australian State Governor or the Aus-
tralian-made cruiser only the high gods
know. The usurpation of the big offices and
the brilliant limelight in the industry-
destroying and insurrectionary movement by
Swedes, Russians, Scots. Irish, English and
Welsh has become a public scandal. The de-
portation scheme would probably be con-
sidered rather weak in Britain, where not
only is there a comprehensive deportation
law, but “his Majesty may by Order in Coun-
cil” make more law if it seems desirable, and
it would be considered really weak in many
European countries —especially so in Italy,
which has not only a short way with alien
undesirables, but a habit of passing sentence
of exile on its own undesirables. As an in-
stance, the minor courts called Pretori have
jurisdiction in cases where the penalties don’t
exceed six months’ gaol, £2OO depreciated
paper money fine, or one year’s exile. In
the last year for which figures are available
they convicted 303,674 persons, but how
many were banished to the Queensland cane-
fields and elsewhere doesn't appear. A plea
which is certain to be employed by the Oppo-
sition for all it is worth is that the proposed
law, even if it does no harm now, may be
used as an instrument of tyranny and griev-
ous wrong in the future. In other words,
they may so use it w T hen they come into
power; lint if they propose to do wrong, the
law, or the absence of it, won’t stop them.
Law can always be manufactured. The
worst danger is that, though the new statute
may be reasonably strong, the administra-
tion of it may be unreasonably weak. There
will probably be some genuine hostility to
reform among Labor supporters of the rank
and file, but that will be chiefly because
they have grown so accustomed to the liberty
of the Walshes and Johansons to deny
any liberty to others that they have tempo-
rarily lost their mental focus. On the other
land it is likely that the majority will
approve, and would say so but for the fact
that free speech is very unsafe in unionist
circles under the present reign of terror.
+
The Work-Reducing Craze.
Last year Queensland’s one House of Par-
liament passed a bill providing for a general
reduction of four hours in the working week,
but suspended its operation until July 1,
192°. That date having beeu reached, the
44-hour week now obtains in the Govern-
ment, municipal and kindred services, and
those who have the fixing of rates, taxes,
railway and tramway fares, freight charges,
harbor dues and the like will “have to make
the necessary adjustments,” as Lang, the
new less-Labor Sydney Premier, put it to
the N. S. Wales manufacturers. According
to an estimate furnished to the State Arbi-
tration Court, the Queensland Government,
in its capacity of benevolent employer, will
have to dig up another £300,0(H) p.a. for
wages alone; and an 81 p.c. addition to the
cost of constructing and looking after pub-
licly-owned bridges, railways, tramways,
roads,, schools, courthouses, hospitals and
other institutions, and of carrying out harbor
improvements and so forth, will necessitate
other “adjustments” from time to time. Still,
as long as private wealth can be borrowed or
taxed, the Government will have no great
trouble in making its own “adjustments,” even
though the railways, under its management,
lost £1,593,000 in 1923-24 (£11,420,000 in
nine years), the State smelters at Chillagoe
£103,100, the State cattle-stations £101,900.
the State cannery £9500, the Mt. Mulligan
coal-mine £17,500, and the Styx No. 2 mine
£14,300. The operation will be much more
difficult for enterprises which cannot charge
their losses up to the taxpayer or to future
genel'afionS; Owing to the persistent slump
in copper the Mount Morgan co. has in three
years spent £323,650 more than it earned;
the debit balance on last year’s operations
was £159,098. In a similar situation the
Chillagoe State mining enterprises have
drawn on the Treasury to the extent (as at
June 30, 1924) of £974,830 and had accumu-
lated losses amounting to £281,821 written
off. Being without these resources, and
having been served with a demand for more
wages, on top of the claim for less work,
the Mount Morgan people talk of closing
down; The state of affairs in the sugar
industry Was discussed in the following terms
by the Ftill Arbitration Court in refusing
an application for an increase in the basic
wage:—
It is the largest wage-earning industry in the State,
The biggest crop on record is expected this season,
it being estimated that there will be a surplus of
175.000 tons,'which will have to be exported and
sold in the world’s market. The effect of this,
according to a confidential statement furnished to
us and to the‘representatives of the A.W.U. by the
Australian Sugar Producers’ Association, will be
to reduce greatly the price that can be paid for
sugar-cane to the growers; to such an extent as
possibly to leave them without any profit or even
with a loss on the season’s operations.
Turning to the cattle industry, the Court
mentioned that station-hands on Queensland
cattle-runs are getting £1 a week less than
station-hands on sheep runs, “owing to the
low price of cattle.” It has also been re-
vealed that Queensland meatworks have re-
ceived £119,515 in Federal bounties on beef
exports to enable them to keep going. And the
capacity of the dairying industry to pay a
48-hour week wage for 44 hours’ work may
be judged from figures quoted by Forde,
Labor M.H.R. for Capricornia, in the House
of Reps, on September 18: —
I have obtained [the] figures from the Queensland
Co-operative Dairy Company at Boonxh, probably
the largest company in Queensland, to support my
contention that the average dairyman is struggling
to eke out an existence. In 1921, 9,312,0001 b. of
butter was made; in 1923, 4,692,0001 b. The total
amount paid for cream in 1921 was £664,925 ; in
1923, £323,808. The average amount paid to, each
supplier in 1921 was £233 11s. ; in 1923, £123
6s. lid. The average quantity of butter produced in
1921 from each supplier’s cream was 32711 b. ; in 1923,
20551 b. The average number of suppliers in 1921
was 2807 ; in 1923. 2283. Those figures show that
the gross return to each farmer in 1921 was £4
10s. per week, out of which he had to pay the cost
of production; in 1923 it was only £2 10s. per
week. And the figures relate to farmers in some
of the richest dairy land in Queensland. Returns for
drier areas, such as Central Queensland, would be
even more unfavorable.
As for the manufacturing situation, Queens-
land on December 31, 1923, had 1912 fac-
tories employing 44,948 hands, whereas South
Australia on June 30, 1924, had 1698 fac-
tories employing 37,275 hands. The increase
for five years in South Aus. was 385 estab-
lishments and 9360 hands ; in Queensland
only 134 establishments and 3958 hands. Yet
South Australia has 300,000 fewer people
than Queensland’s 840,000, and vastly in-
ferior ■ resources. Unlike the State which
has enjoyed the blessings of Labor Govern-
ment for 10 years, it has no coal and very
little timber; nor does it possess sheltered
industries like sugar and cotton or big
bounty-fed beefworks. Neither have the S.
Aus. manufacturing returns been inflated, like
those of Queensland, by a huge loan ex-
penditure on Government sugar-mills, saw-
mills, cool stores, meatworks, iceworks, can-
neries, batteries or smelters, which huge
loan expenditure has given an appearance of
slight progress to an actual slump. Sydney
Premier Lang, whose only experience of in-
dustrial enterprise has been gained in a
house-agency, is persuaded that by taking four
hours off the working week unprecedented
prosperity would be brought about in N. S.
Wales, “my native land.” If the gentleman
could manage to restrain himself until the
thing has had a 12-months’ trial in Queens-
land, he might change • his mind.
4
A Creed That Failed to Work.
Two anniversaries have just fallen close to-
gether. One was the sixteenth centenary of
the Council that produced the Nicene Creed
and the other the sixth anniversary of the
Creed according to Versailles. Both emerged
from a sea of bloodshed and disturbance,
and each was an attempt to reduce to for-
mula the multitude of faiths that possessed
their tranters. The disputation at Ver-
sailles lasted several months longer than the
argument at Nicsea. but it is doubtful
whether the younger creed will have as long
a currency as the older. One thing Athana-
sius and the learned Eusebius were wise
enough to do—they declined to tamper with
the economics of their period. The politicians
who produced the Versailles settlement with
its endless interferences with the business
and industry of Europe had hardly hung
their hats up in their home offices before the
need of something different presented itself
on the doormat. Just as Christendom went
hack to its fighting, cheating and suborning
after the Council of Nicsea had gone its way,
so Europe started robbing and trading in
spite of the prohibitions of Versailles; and
the creed-makers, in a series of hurried con-
ferences, undid as much of their pr’viou*
work as they dared, while still declaring that
their liturgy remained the public faith ot
Europe. Nevertheless, the vaunted vehicle
of peace was a dubious anomaly that was
doomed from birth. It had attempted to
reconcile the altruism of an American
schoolmaster enormously ignorant of world
affairs with the primitive craving for secu-
rity of a people that had just been the vic-
tims of an unchastened philosophy of force.
The efforts of a nimble Welshman, anxious
to present his country with a temporary
arrangement that would see him through
the next elections, achieved a compromise
which was quite grammatical but did not
succeed in doing a single one of the things
it set out to do. Its economic clauses, de-
signed to retard German industry and give
the Allies time to get upon their legs, had
the opposite effect. The proposition that
Germany should repair the damage she had
caused ended in France doing the job her-
self. The endeavor to pacify Woodrow
Wilson by rearranging boundary pegs along
the lines of race resulted in large
blocks of civilised people being put under
the control of other people not so civilised ;
and when any nation felt strong enough to
shift the pegs it did so, despite the mild
protests of the League of Nations, a court
of inquisition set up by the creed-makers to
see that heyesy should not go unpunished.
The doctrine of self-determination became a
familiar catclkword in the bazaars of the
Orient, and caused, and is causing, a fresh
crop of sturdy wars; and finally the perma-
nent security of France remains as remote
an ideal as ever. During the six years since
the new doxology was published to the world
such enormous changes have happened to the
international Kriegspiel that the question of
whether Germany omn or won’t pay the
whole cost of the war and other issues dealt
with have become as shadowy and unreal
from the Australian viewpoint as the quar-
rel that made Nicholas of Myra smack the
venerable Arius in the face in a.d. 325. One
of those important changes has been the
re-emergence of Russia as a military despot-
ism still aching with the old imperialistic
hunger, but waving a new doctrine of emanci-
pation for the oppressed millions of Asia
in its paw. Another is the naval war be-
tween IT.S.A. and Japan for possession of
the Chinese market, a war still in its peace-
time phase of exchange of sentimental greet-
ings and feverish building of warships.
These two potential earthquakes are of para-
mount importance to Australia, which lies
well within the area likely to be affected,
and the question of the Ruhr, the Saar and
the Polish corridor would be of only relative
significance if it were not for the fact that
this country’s senior partner is apprehensive
that they may drag her into more Continen-
tal wars. There is a grave fear also that
Germany may be forced into Russia’s arms,
and thus give Asia the opportunity of linking-
hands with part of Europe in a racial dog-
fight that might entail the disappearance of
white civilisation. Britain’s statesmen have
been making strenuous endeavors to avert
this peril, and a protocol and various pacts
have been advanced. The latest pro-
position is for a pact between Britain,
France, Belgium. Italy and Germany guar-
anteeing the western frontiers prescribed by
the Versailles surveying party and allowing
for arbitration if required in the matter
of the eastern boundaries. From an
Australian viewpoint, it would be a more
hopeful document if it had less of a
martial air about it. Italy wants some
rectifications of her boundaries for stra-
tegic reasons, France requires the right
*o transport troons across Germany should
Poland get herself into trouble, and there
is a large susnicion that Britannia’s signa-
ture would reader her liable to go on far
military expeditions she can ill afford, and
pledge this country to join in distant argu-
ments that are no concern of ours, at a time
when the chances of a row developing nearer
home are particularly bright.
4
The Gentle Art of Making Enemies.
The disproportionate part that trifles play
is characteristic of the human comedy. Some
little ill-considered doing, and friend is
estranged from friend, adherents are antago-
nised, and the end of it all, in Mr. Pepys’s
phrase, “God knows!” So it may well be that
Mr. Lang and a Labor Government are the
price N. S. Wales has to pay for the small
indiscretions of the Fuller Cabinet. That the
late Government lost the sympathies of a
large body of the public service by its atti-
tude to Arbitration was undoubted ; but that
estrangement was on a clear-cut issue of
principle, and the more sober-sided section
of the service had little time for the claims
of the younger hot-heads. It would then
have seemed particularly good policy to have
avoided the estrangement of the more con-
servative element by keeping well within the
nmvritten law that secures a loyal return
to the State from its servants. That unwritten
law amounts to this: that where meh special-
ise in the work of any branch of the service,
and by faithful and intelligent effort make
themselves proficient in all its technical re-
quirements, they shall be entitled to steady
promotion within its limits from bottom to
top, as opportunity arises; and especially
that the few prizes at the top shall not be
snatched from them and given to men out-
side unless they have overwhelming ability
and special training. There are obviously occa-
sions of reform or reorganisation which, in
the public interest, necessitate the introduc-
tion of new blood in some department of
State. Such an appointment was that of
Mr. Eddy when the State’s railway service
galled for a wider experience in administra-
tion than local circumstances could then pro-
vide. But could the same be said of the
Fuller Government’s appointment to fill the
office of Controller-General of Prisons? There
was no call for the reform of the system,
no need of re-organisation. Had there been]
would the appointee to carry out such a task
have been chosen from the ranks of men
without training in prisons administration
and without, on the face of it. any outstand-
ing ability for the task? Apparently the Gov-
ernment. with or without the support of the
Public Service Board, treated the legitimate
claims of the administrative officers with in-
difference if not contempt. From bottom to
top of the service it was felt that
the unwritten law had been violated.
Anyone acquainted with the body, especial!v
that section of it where men, after long labor,
have accumulated large experience and made
themselves experts in theory as well as prac
tice, will realise the deep feeling of resent-
ment which the impolitic act created. It also
shook the confidence of the service in its
Board. The alternative propositions ap-
peared to be that the Board had dealt the
blow on its own initiative or had yielded to
that vei’y political influence it had been con-
stituted to withstand. The appointment of
Mr. McDougall, excellent P.M. as he may
be, was that of a man outside the adminis-
trative personnel, untrained in executive
functions and without any Goo-given gifts,
apparent on the surface, that would specially
qualify him for the post. The officer at the
top of the administrative staff had the prize
of his life withdrawn from him, and all down
the rank the bitterness of having ultimate
reward transferred to an outsider was felt.
It was an indiscretion which this paper im-
plored the late Government not to commit, and
the ex-Administration is suffering the humilia-
tion of having it rectified promptly by its
opponents now in power. Almost inevitably
it is claimed to be only one unwise act of a
number; the service is said to have had'
unusually quick promotions not adequately
accounted for, and has seen new functionaries
appointed at salaries far exceeding the
average reward of the average public servant.
If it were possible to analyse the vote given
at the recent elections it might thus be found
that no inconsiderable element in the defeat
of George Fuller and his followers was the
reprisal policy of a far greater number of
public servants than the issue of Arbitration
would account for.
4
The Perfunctory Campaign Against V.D.
With courage and energy venereal disease
could, in a comparatively few years, be made
as rare in Australia as bilharzia or leprosy.
But, owing chiefly to the cowardice of politi-
cians, the campaign against the horror is
being waged perfunctorily and is yielding
poor results. In South Aus. there is no
V.D. Act in force. The other States have
hospital and Health Department clinics, to-
gether with what is called compulsory noti-
fication, but the exertions of the doctors are
nullified in many cases by slackness and
timidity on the administrative side. In 1923,
the latest year for which statistics are avail-
able, 6829 cases of V.D. were reported in
NT. S. Wales, 4541 in Victoria, 1458 in
Queensland, 843 in Westralia and 384 in
the. Speck. Of these, 1749 cases in N. S.
Wales, 633 in Victoria, 483 in Queensland,
387 in Westralia and 4 in the Speck failed
to continue the treatment, and were dealt
with as follows, according to the Common-
wealth Government publication Health :
N.S.W. Vic. Q. W.A. Tas.
Defaulters not traced . . 964 355 162 57 Nil
Defaulters traced. . . . 785 278 276 251 4
Number who resumed treat-
ment 240 166 276 289 4
Orders issued requiring
patients to attend . . Nil 5 87 6 4
Prosecutions for disobeying
order . . . . .. Nil 3 3 15 Nil
By way of explaining the discrepancies in the
Westralian figures, it is stated that 290
patients were concerned in the 387 cases
of default, and that “50 patients who were
reported resumed more than once.” As re-
gards the 57 “not traced” it was found that
nine had left the State, and the others (the
number is not given) were sufferers from
tertiary syphilis “who could not be prose-
cuted.” Another footnote explains that
there is no provision for punishing defaulters
in N. S. Wales; hence the fact that only
240 of the 1749 uncured persons who left off
attending the clinics could be persuaded to
return. And although Victoria, alone among
the States, has established prophylactic
stations, “pi'ovision being made at all clinics
for the disinfection of persons exposed to
risk,” the fact is so little known or so im-
perfectly appreciated that “the departmental
clinic remained open for three months with-
out one applicant attending.”_ One lays the
disheartening record down with the convic-
tion that little good will be done until the
Commonwealth Ministry of Health assumes
the direction of the campaign, adds capable
journalists to the organisation, frames ad-
equate regulations for use in South Aus-
tralia as well as the other States, and en-
forces them without respect to persons.
4
Small Sister’s Claim for Motherhood
Endowment.
It was pointed out by a candidate at the
recent Speck elections that the breeding,
rearing and education of young Tasmanians
for the market of the mainland States has
been the island’s chief industry for the best
part of a century. Since Federation at least
1000 young men and women of working age
have quitted Tas. for the mainland States
every year. Taking the American estimate
of about 4000 dollars (say £800) as_ the
value of a healthy young adult, the 25,000
migrants lost to Tasmania during the 25
years of Federation represent a clear gain
to the mainland States of £20,000,000: —
That sum, ladies and gentlemen, is what the
Commonwealth owes Tasmania, yet so far we have
received by way of special grants less than one year’s
interest on the indebtedness at five per cent.
( £1,000,000). We must send the Commonwealth the
bill for the full amount (Loud applause).
Since that outburst of hustings figures, local
statisticians and economists like Professor
Brigden have been investigating the exodus
question with something like scientific pre-
cision. It is understood that, basing their
calculations upon Commonwealth Statis-
tician Wickens’s estimate of the cost of
raising a productive Australian (about
£450), the investigators expect to be able
to produce a balance-sheet showing pretty
conclusively that the mainland States should
pav Tasmania something between £200,000
and £300.000 a year. East year Premier
Lyons told Treasurer Page that the mini-
mum amount required by Tasmania to
“square the ledger” was £200,000 a year for
ten years, basing his claim solely on the
ascertained low “taxable capacity” of Tas-
manian citizens. If, as alleged, the recent
dissection of the inter-State migration figures
shows a quarter-million financial shortage,
it may be fairly taken as providing strong
confirmation, from a fresh and independent
source, of the lack of extravagance in Mr.
Lyons’s original story. In the circumstances
there would appear to be nofliing the Coxa-


o
TURKISH BATHS
on the Seventh Floor. Note the additional day
(Monday) for Ladies, also the extended time for
Gentlemen on week-days.
GENTLEMEN. Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday,
Saturday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. ■ - Sunday, 7 a.m.
to 1 p.m.
LADIES. Monday, Thursday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
vbn
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon
or Dinner from 1/1-; Light Luncheon in the Winte-
Garden from 2/6.
Write for magnificently illustrated 20-page folder
if you intend visiting Sydney.
l!ilWjiUUbUl'M4U.i.
m
wmrmmwtitti
psaiilasßß
m fLi
«
2WIM-
> *2
S: £
vbn
THE WNISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
mon-wealth Treasurer can do but budget for
an annual payment of. say. a million every
four years to Small Sister —at least, until
the clouds roll by.
♦—
Estate-agents, Land-hawkers, etc.
Any X.S.W. Government with a turn for
work and a passion to do good might find
the estate-agent a person worthy of consid-
eration. In Victoria he is now required to
hold a license, which document may be re-
fused in the case of a dubious applicant, and
summarily cancelled in the ‘case of one who
becomes dubious. The law is administered
after the flabby fashion of a State where the
J.P. is altogether too much in evidence; still
it is administered —more or loss. There are
plenty of occupations which can't be legally
pursued in the Ma State without formal
authority, including those of the pawnbroker,
fisherman, second-hand dealer or johnny all-
sorts, hawker and collector of oddments, and
the addition of the estate-agent to the list
seems desirable. It would at least let the
public know how numerous he is. A search
of the Sydney directory lias revealed 969 of
the clan in the metropolitan district alone,
but some of them have branches, and an
extra hundred or two may have opened since
the volume was compiled. Seeing that the
entire State was lately struggling along with
2470 public-houses, and they are a con-
stantly diminishing flock, the Sydney and
suburban dealer in real and imaginary estate
appears excessive. The inferior type of agent
has been divided into several categories
which frequently overlap, and, in fact, tliey
overlap so much that some members of the
craft belong to all of them at once. They in-
clude :
Tlie species which sells houses for clients and
loses the proceeds on a horse. Two samples were
recently tried, and the terrors of the Law ordered
them to be of good behavior for a period, and to
refund the money by gradual instalments without
interest. That being all, they were probably glad
they didn’t abscond. They weren’t struck off the
roll, there being no roll.
The species which collects rents, and acts similarly.
The sort which sticks its “For Sale - ’ notice
promiscuously on any vacant bit of land in sight.
What the purpose or the profit may be is uncertain,
but it is assumed that it isn't done purely for
exercise. Seven different agents’ “For Sales” have
been counted on one allotment.
The class which sells bits of land, allegedly within
a stone’s throw of a rising suburb, or prospective
new port, or country town with a boom in prospect.
Some of this lot send' out a swarm of land-hawkers,
suspected of not even possessing- a hawker’s license,
whose business it is to speed from door to door,
and get the contract signed, and collect a deposit.
The contract is sometimes rather vague about the
identification of the block, but there is no uncer-
tainty about the obligation to pay for it.
At one time the custom scents to have been
that when the fool who was soon parted from
his deposit failed in his instalments the worst
that followed was the forfeiture of the money
paid and of the block, the latter being sold
to another fool, or sundry fools. But recently,
in Sydney, a harmless necessary butcher
was made bankrupt and lost all his meat
through inability to pay up £l5O on two
blocks in a [prospective town some 190
miles from the city. If the meat was in-
sufficient to pay for the land, there seems a
chance that lie lost the lot. The peremptory
method of collecting grows common, but
generally the victim can be squeezed without-
dragging him or her into the glare of the
bankruptcy court. Estate-agency is a stir-
ring business, hut there appears to be too
many people in it. and too much variety, and
too little supervision.
♦ :
The Obligations of a Guest.
"i>oL. Mai. a prop" has a reminiscence:—
I suppose every visitor is, in a sense, the “guest - ’
of the State he visits, just as George Buchanan was
in Queensland, and the extent to which he may
criticise it and still remain a gentleman lias never
been quite settled. If lie is of sufficient note to
be pursued by interviewers the fait that criticism
was invited may excuse him making remarks or it
may not. That hasn’t been settled either. It hasn’t
even been decided whether lie makes his offinco
better or worse by speaking his mind while he is
still there, instead of uttering his aspersions from
a safe distance. Charms Dickens did the latter
when he wrote “Martin Chuzzlewit,” and it is
doubtful if his ghost has been forgiven in tin; U.S.
yet. 1 can recall three leading instances (there were
minor ones) when 1 happened into print in a strange
country about some of that country’s affairs, and
it never occurred to me till now to wonder if I had
become a degraded hoodlum in the process.
One event was at Manila. I had been among the
mountains in the interior, and I returned to the
capital by a train which outraged my finer sensi-
bilities. They had been outraged going up, and
they were outraged worse coming down. The line
is a U.S. Government concern now, but I think it
was Private Enterprise then. (That was the year
when the Balkan Confederates were wiping the
door with the Unspeakable, and we had dead Turks
for breakfast every morning, and all the world
looked bright and young, as it is never likely
to do again in our day.) The railway in question
wasn’t so bad as some Queensland ones, but I was
faddy about my railways then. I wrote two columns
which I intended to be humorous, and a daily paper
accepted the itehi with both hands. Perhaps the rail-
way manager was a personal enemy. Nobody seemed
to mind. Perhaps the manager was a general enemy.
First result was a visit from a rival paper’s man. He
asked me if 1 had another story to give away, and
hinted that I had shown lack of judgment in not
coming to his superior organ in the first instance.
My paper invited the railway manager to state his
opinion of my comments, and, I suppose, of me.
He didn’t call me a globetrotter, nor even a cow.
but merely remarked that there were some minor
defects about his line which would be remedied
when certain materials came to hand. The inhabit-
ants made me an honorary member of two clubs.
1 had another trouble with a railway. This was
a Turkish Government line, and these were still
the Turk’s palmy days when 1 met it. There were
other Government lines, 1 suppose, let on lease,
but this was the only one in the empire which
Abdul Hamid 11. worked with his own hands. I
saw him collecting tickets myself, or at least it looked
bad enough to be him. The train was six times
worse than anything in Queensland, or anybody
either. It hadn’t a good feature, and it had so
many bad ones that another train had to. run behind
to carry the surplus features. Finding at Beirut
a polyglot paper issued for the benefit of the foreign
community. 1 served on the black-bearded editor a
written legal opinion about Abdul Hamid’s very
own train, though without specifically mentioning
Abdul, and lie published it with the calm of a
wooden image. Nothing happened that I ever heard
of. Perhaps the journal had no circulation, and
probably the local authority could read no language
save its own, and that badly. I wasn’t arrested,
THE IMP OF MISCHIEF.
“Bolshevik emissaries are responsible for most of. the present great trouble in China and other parts of Asia.”
HIS SATANIC MAJESTY: “ That's right, Bolshy, my boy. Prick '[?]m, prick '[?]m hard."
nor warned off the grass, nor made a member of any
,club.
On an occasion 'a - chronic . turn for discontent,
and a - habit Of - worrying- about details led me to
feel hostile' to the quarantine department at Alex-
andria. Our ship, which was an Italian proposition
from Naples, was held up for a long day on suspicion
of cholera. Egyptian troops occupied the deck in
force. A medical ” Board of four dark men with
fezzes sat at a table on deck. The passengers, who
numbered five, appeared before it. I wasn't medically
examined, but 1 paid a small fee, and declared in
writing that I had sent my bag of soiled linen ashore
to be disinfected: I said 1 hadn’t sent it, but
the Board said I was going to, so I declared. Three
times that day the Board met —either the same Board
which forgot that it had been there already, or
different Boards which didn’t know that the others
had been there. Each time I paid a small fee and
committed perjury, for the sake of peace, about
my bag of soiled linen. In between times I offered
the steward every reasonable inducement to get the
bag sent to the proper quarter. He assured me.
almost in a frenzy, that he had been on that coast
for years, and that there was no such quarter.
There never had been. It was a polite fiction or
figure of speech. 1 got ashore at dusk, a colored
character walking in front of me with the bag of
soiled linen conspicuously in evidence. I made a
final effort to hand it, for disinfection, to a brazen
hat who looked like an aide-de-camp, but I was
moved on. The column of derision which the
Egyptian Gazette published for nth raised no
visible ripple on the Nile. The High Commissioner
didn’t invite me to his stately halls. I received no
communication from the Counsellor, the Consul-
General or the Sirdar. And the guide at the
Pyramids went on robbing all anl sundry as usual.
♦
Water-spouts and Other Portents.
11 is: USUAL visitors to Sydney the other day
were four water-spouts. They were visible
to excited residents at Bondi and Watson's
Bay for a long time as they jazzed gracefully
up the coast and gradually dwindled away.
Water-spouts don’t often travel so far from
their usual habitat in the tropics, and what
with the cyclone that carved such a clear
swathe through Sydney’? suburbs recently
and the present floods there is an excuse
for tlie Oldest Inhabitant’s assertion that the
climate is changing, and the Millennialist’s
belief that the world is coming to an end
shortly. The 130 prophecies of Alfred
Kilmer, which this office keeps handy for
occasions like the present, have nothing rele-
vant to say about 1925, but they affirm that
in 1985 people will be dwelling upon the now
glacial continents of tlie South Pole under
the British flag. This doubtless refers to
(lie remnants of the Australian people who
will have found refuge there when, the
climate having gone on changing, the rest of
Australia will have followed N. S. Wales
under water. There are a lot of people in
this country who would like to believe the
recent inundations were the act of God, and
that action to avert the devastation in the
future would savor of impiety. The statis-
tician, however, denies that the climate shows
any signs of change. He has figures to show
that variations in the seasons revolve in
circles of only a few years’ duration, and
that the climate, when it wanders, invariably
returns to the place it started from. If
there is any larger alteration going ou. it
moves in cycles beyond the range of both the
Oldest Inhabitant and the prophet Kilner —
something in the region of 30,000 years or
so. Some other explanation must be sought
for the fact that floods do grow more destruc-
tive as the years roll by, and it is likely to
be found in the wholesale removal of timber
that has gone on along the watersheds and
in the valleys drained by the big rivers. It
is an unattractive explanation, because it
requires long views and national self-sacrifice
for a solution instead of prayers to stay the
rain ; and it is not likely to be in the least
alluring to the politicians. A large plan of
re-forestation for the areas which have been
denuded and are now being robbed of soil by
every shower is feasible; it is even demon-
strably a paying proposition. But the profits
lie in the distance, and the political advan-
tages are not so obvious as an agitation to
abolish imported Governors or to establish
a 44-hour week for dry-footed city workers.
-- : ♦
The N. S. Wales Ministry took office on
Wednesday, and by Friday Premier Lang
had gone into the vast and complicated
accounts and assured the public that his pre-
decessor’s surplus of £5OO 000 was a myth.
He added, by way of. tautology, that if the
Treasury kept its accounts as an honorable
business man (like Brutus) would there
couldn't be a surplus. Which was rough
on previous Treasurers, including Lang. It
would be an interesting experiment to begin
keeping the accounts of N. S. Wales (or any
of its neighbors) on a strictly honest method,
let alone putting them on an honest footing
by paying off accumulated swindles, and leav-
ing posterity no bills for “permanent and
reproductive works” which weren’t repre-
sented by permanent and reproductive assets.
The finances of Ma State took a turn for
the worse when George Reid, 30 years ago.
manufactured his one blatant surplus by not
charging himself, on June 30, with some
hundreds of thousands of interest _ money
which had left his hands on June 15. The
Sydney morning papers whitewashed that
and the wholesale debiting of bridges, roads
and odd jobs to loans, for the sake of keep-
ing Foreign-trade and Imported Shoddy in
office, and the great fraud habit grew. This,
for instance, is how the Federal Statistician
summarised the loan spendings of N. S.
Wales for the two years 1920-22, when
Labor and Lang were last in office:—
Railways and Tramways ... .. £8,814,55 j
Water Supply, etc. .. .. .. 5,599,186
Harbors, Rivers, etc. . . .. .. 1,336,505
Roads and Bridges .. . . .. 334,382
Public Buildings .. .. .. 314,801
Purchase of Land for Settlement .. 4,258,009
All Other . . 4,486,331
That was a trifle over £25,000,000. Many
of the railways are run at a loss. A lot of
1 lie land-purchase money is to be written
off as lost. Other items were never expected
to pay. Revenue from sale of the public
estate was, treated as income and spent, and
the sinking fund grew by only £33,000. That
sort of thing has been going on, with varia-
tions, for years, so any Treasurer who pro-
poses to fix the public accounts “in the way
that an honorable business man would"
shouldn’t lack for employment.
«
Matthew Charlton, leader of the Federal
Labor party, recently stumped this country
in defence of militant internationalism, as
embodied in the late unlamented Protocol.
The article of that piece of potential
gelignite about which he was most enthusi-
astic was the one providing that any nation
offending against the Covenant should be
crushed by the joint armies of the League
or starved into surrender by their navies.
The present row in China, where thousands
of Europeans, including many Australians,
are in danger of massacre at the hands of a
lawless mob. has provided Charlton with
the wherewithal for practising his faith.
Actually what he has so far done is to throw
out dark hints in Parliament that his party
may think it advisable to kick up a row if
H.M.A.S. Brisbane, which happens to be in
the vicinity, isn’t told to turn tail and run
from the scene of international upheaval.
♦
Hong 'Kong is having a repetition of tin-
seamen's strike of 1922. with all the old
♦features. In the previous upheaval the
native matlows held up the shipping of half
the Pacific for three months. The strike
was directed, as to-day. from Canton, and
there was a general exodus of sympathisers
from the British settlement which so alarmed
the authorities that they fired on some of
the migrants who could not show passports,
and several were killed. The general strik"
that followed needed no union organisation
—it was the usual mysteriously spontaneous
reaction of a Chinese community to any
display of European force. After a short
experience of cleaning its own boots and
mixing its own cocktails, the foreigners
capitulated ingloriously. Latest reports of
the present stoppage represent the European
population of Ilong Kong as largely engaged
in looking after its own primitive needs.
If all Asia simultaneously decided to go on
strike in the same way, the West would pro-
bably start, packing its trunk and making
for home after the first fortnight. It would
be a peaceful method of settling an other-
wise insoluble argument.
*
“Caractacus” : A staggering amount of
charitable money is running along ill-advised
channels. Melbourne altruists recently
evolved a plan for giving hot soup to State-
school children, starting with a South Mel-
bourne school. The Education Department
viewed the scheme dubiously, and seemed at
first inclined to veto it: but evidently fear
that some democrat would raise the cry that
the Department was dashing the soup-spoon
from the lips of the poor caused it to give
grudging consent, or at least to refrain from
interference. In recognition of the demo-
cratic passion which causes a self-reliant
populace to accept any dole as long as every-
body is getting it, the soup is free to all
scholars. Doubtless there are hundreds of
children in wealthy Melbourne who go to
school (and alas! return from it and remain
overnight) ill-fed, perhaps hungry; but even
in the so-termed “poorer suburbs” it is safe
to say there is no State school where broad-
cast soup is a need. Meantime several regular
small charities attached to back-lane churches
and such like appeal piteously for holn


vbnc
Abbots
lager
Is Aliyaijs To Hie Fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
&
7209
GEORGE ELLISON’S
Circuit Breakers (Air and Oil), Disconnectors,
Switch Gear (High and Low Tension), Crane
Equipment, Starters and Panels, Oil Break Panels,
Trailing Cable Connectors, Rotor Starters,
are of world-wide fame.
NEW CATALOGUES AND PRICE LIST.
Australian Agents (except W.A.): —
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS.
From the Gallery :
Unlike the bitter Hughes and the bleating Charl-
ton, Bruce bids fair to add to his political stature
this session. His speech on the cruiser-building
amendment was skilful, to say the least, and the
tacking of a deportation section, applicable to the
Labor party’s very frowsy friends, on to the strongei
Immigration Restriction Act for which the same
party has been howling, is a i lever move. If the
Priminister gives the country proofs of sound Aus-
tralianism on the fiscal and national-defence issues,
the former by bringing in a tariff as high as the
Fordney-MeCumber schedule, which provided work
in no time for 2,500,000' U.S. unemployed; and if
he can then contrive to make the right to deport
foreign-born nuisances the leading issue at the
election, he will get a very different reception in
the constituencies from that given to Fuller, Bar-
well and Mitchell. There is little enthusiasm for
the Labor party even though it has gained (or
fluked) office in five States, and there would be less
if it were shown that it stood for the principle
that King Walsh can do no wrong.
The last days of the N.S.W. financial year
were occupied by the new Government in
a stern effort to pay bills in advance and
collect as little as possible, thus making a
deficit, for its predecessor and saving up
something to begin its own fresh year with.
And the head of the old Government busied
himself with futile threats to tell Parlia-
rnent all about the sin. In three matters
h uller made himself ridiculous. He left
as many Upper House vacancies as possible
tor his opponents to make use of. He didn’t
do away with the undemocratic system of
tilling casual vacancies by nomination, and
give the people the chance to record an
opinion of their “uncouth crooks” at inter-
vals. And lie didn’t hold on to office while
he could, and safeguard his party’s financial
reputation by completing his own financial
year. When a general has such a diseased
sense of fairness that he must share his
ammunition and his entrenchments with the
enemy it is time he gave up generailing and
became a monk.
The conference of Sydney unions which
agreed to support the latest lot of Walsli-
Johanson strikes had significant features,
b irstly, two unions with branches at Cocka-
too Island, where it was requested that
cruisers should be built regardless of cost
and time,. “endorsed the action of the Sea-
mens Union in its demand,” etc. Next, the
Moscow pilgrim, Garden, was delegated to
interview the Priminister on behalf of “the
movement,” although he was supposed to
have disqualified himself by standing for
Parliament on the Communist ticket. Again,
these words were added to the supporting
resolution:—
VVe ask the Federal organisations involved, in
conjunction with the gasworkers and the electricians,
to assemble in Sydney in order to render the seamen
every assistance in their power to compel the ship-
owners to accede to the said demand.
When the 3919 shipping strike was raging
the boss of the Seamen’s Union threatened to
BUMBLE IOGIC.
“The Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works has published a protest against the Greater Melbourne
scheme, in the course of which it says: 'There is. certainly nothing to be gained by destroying a number
of successfully working and experienced public bodies and substituting an unreliable form of administra-
tion.’ ”
THE OLD BLOKES AF HO ME: "Tul, tut, me lad; you can't butt in here —were bin
nursin' this ’erc job the larst fifty year. So what’s the sense of lettin ’ you
rush in and finish it off[?]”
“plunge Melbourne in darkness,” or words
to that effect. The reference to the gasmen
and electricians suggests that Sydney, of
which Walsh is now a resident, may be
deprived of the services they operate. (Loud
and prolonged applause from the oppressed
criminal classes.)
The marine firm of Workman, Clark and
Co. ranks third among British shipbuilders
and marine-engine makers, and it lost
£182,000 last year. This makes it £2,572,000
to the bad. It has paid its shareholders no-
thing for five years. Beardmore and Go.,
which has paid no dividend for six years,
issued its accounts the same day. Its loss
for the year was £503,000.- Even working
at these losses, which threaten the end of
British shipbuilding, John Bull somehow
can’t built vessels so cheaply as some of his
Protectionist rivals, and without a supply of
cheap ships his sea-carrying trade, believed
to be worth £110,000,000 per annum, must
suffer. In the general frost and dismay the
Old Man grows suspicious of many things,
including his big landlord system, his 740
peers, his Communists, and, above all, his
little Freetrade Cobden.
“Drastic regulation of art unions” is said
to be among the projects of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment. Drastic extirpation might be
better. On any ordinary day three art
unions, and the big prizes, three motor-cars,
and from three to a dozen persons selling
tickets may be seen outside the Sydney Cus-
toms House. If Sydney is the front door of
Australia there shouldn’t be so many gambles
on the doormat. It is impossible to say bow-
many people live on the game, but the law
recently awarded six months to a young man
charged with 75 sales of bogus tickets in a
single one of the petty events.
The law is gentle with the shifty male-
factor. In Sydney the other day there was
a very definite case of attempting to raise
money by the sale of a bogus business, but the
Court decided reluctantly that, though the
ad. was “false and misleading,” that was
insufficient. It had to be proved that defen-
dant knew it to be false and misleading. He
refused to admit that he knew, and no one
had the courage to cut him open and get
at his inmost sentiments. On the same
basis it should be impossible to convict
Smith of anything without first proving that
he knew he was Smith. And he might not
know. He might imagine he was Smytlie.
The most obvious remark to make to
Prime Minister Bruce when he introduced
his bill giving preference to the Australian
Communist was “You have struck a hor-
nets’ nest this time.” and Opposition-leader
Charlton made it. The hornet is a vile-tgm-
pered animal which serves no known useful
purpose but lives for itself alone. It has
a yellow stomach and a habit of dwelling in
hollow trees and outhouses. Some authori-
ties consider it best to strike its nest very
hard and get rid of it.
The N.S.W. less-Labor Government was
just about a week old when the death of Birt,
M. for Sydney, supplied what would have
been a brilliant chance to wipe out its
majority—only for the fact that George Ful-
ler, being a man of no foresight, never took
the trouble to abolish the undemocratic de-
vice of filling casual vacancies by nomination
and re-establishing by-elections instead.
The farmers laid a wreath of rosemary on
Bill Massey’s grave by voting solidly the
Reform ticket in the Franklin (M.L.) by-
election, and Ewen D. McLennan got a
thumping majority of 3700 over J. S. Mont-
gomerie (Labor). He topped the poll in
all the 41 places. The figures were 5865 to
2159, a big improvement on the 1922 elec-
tion, when Massey polled 5276 against J.
Rea’s 2526. McLennan was born in Papa-
kura 64 years ago, and is never too busy
to argue Jerseys against all other cattle
breeds, and Romneys and Southdowns among
jumbucks.
Minister Pratten described his measure
for promoting the production of power-
alcohol as a “modest little bill,” and it is
more than that. It is even shy and bashful.
The idea is that cassava, sweet potatoes and
other tropical produce shall be planted by
willing hands in Queensland, for the Com-
monwealth never plants anything in its own
Northern Territory. Queensland, at last
advices, had 1157 acres under sweet potatoes,
which was less than it had 40 years previ-
ously, and cassava wasn’t mentioned in the
returns, but there is no reason why both
shouldn’t grow in abundance. Out of these
and other_ herbage it is proposed to distil
motor-spirit, £5OOO a year being provided for
five years, with which to pay a bonus of 4d.
per gallon. (Sugar-cane spirit is to get no
bonus, it being presumably able to shift for
itself.) If the £5OOO is fully earned the
output will be 300,000 gallons a year, and
the quantity of imported liquid fuel used
last year was 82,000,000 gallons. This is
sending a very small dog after a very large
elephant.
It is not usual for Vic. Uppali Chambah
to wrangle in public over the elective officers
of the House. So a private meeting has
been convened for July 8, an hour before the
time fixed for the official swearing-in of
recently-elected members, to pick President,
Chairman of Committees and two Railway
Committeemen. There will be no changes.
Frank Clarke will get the Presidency (£750
a year). Edgar the Chairmanship of Com-
mittees (£400) and the other two jobs (£240
each) will go to Bell and Chandler.
The personal feeling in S. Aus. Labor
circles against J. S. Verran, son of the old-
time State Premier, has not abated to any
extent. Driven from his safe seat at Port
Adelaide to seek (and lose) oue in Sturt,
Verran was officially asked to come back as
Labor candidate on his old colleague, J. S.
Price, going to the London Agency. But
A. O. Tapp, the local mayor, threw his
hat into the ring, expressing an acid “desire
to make it clear that I am opposing Mr.
Verran as a candidate, and not the party he
represents.” Verran got in, but his majority
was only a fraction of what Labor usually
receives in Port Adelaide. And there will
be another selection-ballot next year.
Unley, the suburb adjoining Adelaide on
the south side, has now just passed the city
proper in numbers, and left Port Adelaide
well behind; other adjacent municipalities
swell the metropolitan total to something like
290,000, out of a total for the whole State
of 538,000. Of the country towns Port
Augusta and Victor Harbor are the only
two to show any substantial increase in the
past 13 years. Port Pirie remains top with
close on 10,000, and Mt. Gambier is a bad
second with 4000. The old-established
Gawler, Kapunda and Moonta have actually
lost in numbers.
P. G. Stewart, sometime Minister for
Works and Railways, ploughed a lone furrow
in the Reps, last week. Bidding for agri-
cultural support, Labor put up McNeill
(Vic.) to move that the amount of the
Supply Bill be reduced by a Sovereign as an
indication of the feeling of the House that
a compulsory wheat pool should be estab-
lished. When the division was taken Stewart
was the only non-Laborite who voted Labor.
Naturally Vic. Premier Allan and the 13
Central Councillors of the State Cocky party
who squashed Stewart and his four hench-
men earlier in the month were not sorry at
his discomfiture. But Stewart will ‘con-
tinue to think that it is they who are all
out of step.
When Lang into office was rubbered
George Fuller distressfully blubbered;
But, recovering, he cried
“Well, it can’t be denied,
And 1 mention the fact with legitimate pride,
That there’s five hundred thou, in the cupboard.
“Did you come on it where it was hidden?”
He asked. Replied Lang “No, I didn’ ; '
The cupboard was bare.”
Said George. “I declare
It’s really an ultra-mysterious affair—- ;
You must thrash out the matter with Whiddon.”
N. MIDFORD,
THE DANGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If an imported Governor t fakes to drink or
associates with women of questiokiable character, he
can be reported to the ‘Home’ authorities by an
archbishop, by a bishop, or even by a junior press
reporter. If a local politician obtained a similar
post by party services he could wallow in champagne,
go to three theatres a night, and never sleep at
home.”— Sir Gerald Strickland, a former Australian
Governor.
The Governor from overseas must mind his p’s and
q’s
And dot his i’s and cross his t’s; i.e., cut out the
booze,
Nor get him tangled up with shes Society eschews.
Ev’n if he isn't as discreet as most vice-regal guys
And finds the chase is passing sweet of Folly as it
flies,
He has the fear of Downing-street always before his
eyes.
Though sworn to silence were his staff and safely
in the bag,
’Twould only need a paragraph in some sensation'l
rag
To blow (across the world) the gaff about a satrap’s
jag.
Who would embark —no decent gent., I think—upon
a fling,
Aware that if a rumor went to England it would
sting
A highly moral Government and pain a virtuous
king?
But just supposing we’d a Gov. appointed by the
State
Whose fancy strayed to lights o’ love and, now and
then, a “skate,”
With no punitive power above, how should we keep
him straight?
He might absorb in taverns cool enough to float a
ship,
Ur spend his evening at the school where players use
the kip,
And who’d there be to run the rule over the festive
rip ?
His pay whate’er he did he’d draw. Why should
he give a toss
Ur care, with none lo overawe or scold him, who
was cross?
A man unto himself a law can be while lie’s file
Boss.
He might be like the second Charles —and madcap
H'il. to boot.
M hat did they reck of common carls when they
Were on the .scoot?
Or agitated wowsers’ snarls? Lord love you, not
a hoot!
The Governor from overseas has got to mind his .
stops ;
He can’t pursue a strange chemise or steep his soul
in hops :
He can’t indulge in jamborees—or, if he does, he
flops.
The Ex. from Parliament amid, some former M.L.A.,
Suppose he lean cl to Floss or tid ? Impossible,
you say.
Perhaps, but just suppose he did ! I Vho'd slop him
going gay ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE ELEVENTH COMMANDMENT.
Moses Walsh lavs down the law for the Seamen’s Union.


vbnm
xcvbn
it 's a 333 -there is no
throat-harm in a million
STiSTE(XPI*BS
MADE IN LONDON BY
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Harold Hardupp” : A Melbourne hostelry
has had a “What Happened to Jones”
comedy in real life. Apparently each of the
two pairs of Joneses would have been entirely
oblivious of tlm other’s presence in the hotel
had not an obliging hall-porter, after a hasty
THAT WAS TOG ELEVATED.
Agent: “The beauty of this flat is that you [?]look the harbor:"
PROSPEOTIVE TENANT: “Yes, but one can’t the rent,"
glance at the room register, steered a com-
pi etely “blotto” Jones to the wrong Jones
apartment and put him to bed there. It can
only be surmised that the Mrs. Jones who pre-
sently arrived was used to her own husband
being in that condition, and that when she
saw the huddled, snoring figure in the bed
turned disgustedly away without inspecting
it and proceeded to disrobe for the night. The
trouble started, not unnaturally, when her
lawful spouse arrived and found his wife in a
state of undress whilst a complete stranger
snored on the connubial couch. Without wait-
ing for explanations he proceeded to hurl the
intruder out, an embarrassing proceeding, see-
ing that the hotel porter had been unable to
find the sozzled person’s pyjamas and that the
wakened man struggled lustily. The disturb-
ance attracted a crowd of boarders, among
them the other Mrs. Jones, who saw her hus-
band, preposterously underdressed, being
ejected from a strange room, where an in-
adequately attired woman was desperately
trying to screen herself from public notice,
and went into immediate hysterics. Whether
the explanations subsequently made will ever
be completely accepted is doubtful; the only
thing certain is that the hotel porter is look-
ing for another job.
“Verri”: At one of the smaller polling-
places in the Goulburn (N.S.W,) electorate
on election-day a bulky old lady was dis-
cerned slowly approaching, and alert
adherents of the Progressive and Labor
causes sped forth to meet her and solicit her
support. “No, my dears,” she said firmly,
waving the voting instructions away; “them's
no good at all to me. I’m a Naturalist.”
•x- * *
“Harry J.” : Queer how a soldier’s memory
often retains the most trivial things. Huddled
with half a dozen others in a shelllmle when
anything might have happened—when, in
fact, there was little that wasn't happening
—the most lasting impression l took away
was that of a Digger cursing his mate for
bumping a cigarette out of his mouth. On
another occasion in a forward movement
when shells were falling two to the square
yard (approx.) I was cheered by a burst of
profanity that rose above.the noise. “What's
up, Snowy V” T shouted to the man ten paces
on my left, and it struck me even then how
shaky my own voice was. The answer came
clear and invigorating ; “I’ve got a —— nail
in me boot.”
-X- £ -X- * -X-
-“Cy Cyclone” : The casual young Austra-
lian ! Tip; other day in Warragul (Vic.)
a motorist was horrified to see a small boy
dart out from a side street right in front,
of the car. He jambed the brakes on. but
too late to avoid knocking the lad down.
The driver jumped out to render what assist-
ance he could, but all he saw was a small
figure spring up and run madly down tic
road. He gave chase, and caught the boy.
who breathlessly appealed: “Don’t stop me,
mister; I'm goin’ to the pictures, an’ I'm
late already !”
“Black Rod": Mr. Dooley has discarded
the Speaker's wig in N. S. Wales. As a one-
time draper .) assistant and subsequently a
tailor on his , own account, the sartorial im-
portance of j this millinery ought to have
appealed to him in a very special manner.
With liis trained eye for the cut of a gar-
ment and the risiit adjustment of a tie, the
quiet contemplation of his face in a cheval
glass should have convinced him that the thatch
was really essential. It would, for instance,
have chastened the outlines of his face, taken
a little off the genial roundness of his cheeks,
tempered by its overshadowing frown the
Celtic twinkle in his eyes. The Speaker
should, so far as may be possible, emulate
the Sphinx in severity and fixedness—a
mercurial Irishman is not at all the thing
in such an office. A tailor ought to have
seen that. The toning down of Dooley with
a wig is really a matter for Cabinet con-
sideration. The Administration requires all
the dignity it can annex, and if it can simu-
late the article bv gowns and wigs and
swords—why, that may be the next best to
the real article.
A LIFE-LONG SOLUTION.
"Cheer [?], Shorty—Why so down in the month? Haven't you bern able to solve a cross-
word puzzle or something?"
"Cross-word puzzle! Ub. I married one!"
“Miro”: The potency of M.L. beer (B.
■Jb/G/’-S) was one of the things discovered
by the American Fleet in 1908. Under its
influence Uncle Sam’s youthful sailors went
down like ninepins, and before midnight on
the first day of tlieir visit they were being
collected by scouts from all over Auckland.
I)id the inebriated one seem truculent, a
knock on the head from the scout’s handy
little club settled the argument summarily ;
the victim was bundled into a kind of bag,
and with a captor holding each end was
lumped back to his ship. Quite a lot of kind
people in Auckland became agitated over the
"cruelty” of these tactics; but Uncle Sam
having haughtily remarked that it was hi.s
durned Navy, the protests died to silence.
“Hasen” : Melbourne of recent nights has
been staging the best home-made imitations
of London fogs that I have yet seen. Ship-
ping and train services have suffered ; motor-
ists have been in difficulties; even pedestrians
have, been hung up. And for that reason, no
doubt, on this particularly fog-bound night
Bulter wasn’t worrying much about being
later home than usual. Anyway, he stayed
for the “last” drink; also the next one, and
the one after that. Finally I saw him to Ins
e, and was still within hearing distance
when Mrs. Bulber met him at the front door.
“'8 the fog, m’ dear; ev’rytliing’s late,” I
heard Bulber say. “It’s ter —t’riffic ! Jus
like London.” I also heard the cold answer.
“Yes,” said Mrs. 8., “they call them pea-soup
fogs over there, don’t they? I was just
thinking, dear,” very acidly, “that this one
looked more like a whisky-and-milk fog. ’
“Quilpen”: Three days before he crossed
Life’s frontier and presented arms to Death
I met Colonel J. B. Nash. M.L.C. At a din-
ner to celebrate the 70tli anniversary of the
birthday of Brig.-General Fiaschi, D. 5.0..
two years previously, I had quoted the gallant
Colonel, whom I had heard at Abassia V.D.
Hospital, Cairo, haranguing liis patients,
waxing eloquent on the Anzae, and asking
that his reputation be not sullied. “In the
city lie feared not God.” the doctor had said;
“in the field he feared not man. In Cairo
he was careless, of his reputation and hi.s
money. On the Peninsula he was equally
prodigal of his life.” The Colonel had not
remembered his words when I quoted them,
but on our last meeting he asked me if I had
received a letter from him. Next day, just
after reading of his illness, I received the
letter with the original notes of the Colofiel’s
speech, which he had found among some old
scraps of paper. A few nights after the
speech at Abassia, when Colonel Nash had
declared to General Sir John Maxwell,
G.O.C. Egypt, that in neither military nor
civil law could the latter show that the con-
traction of V.D. was a crime, Sir John Max-
well said at a dinner at the Residency: "But
where is our orator, Colonel the Hon. J. B.
Nash?” “No orator, Sir John, hut a plain
blunt man that doth love his friend,” came
the ready response of the genial doctor.
Colonel Nash’s methods of control were not
always in accord with the letter of field-ser-
vice regulations, but he seldom failed to win
the respect and esteem of those Diggers who
insisted on tlie more turbulent spirits playing
the game. Thus he was able to carry on the
routine of a large detention hospital without
a squad of military police, and possibly there
were no more escapades than when there was
a cordon with fixed bayonets. Many a sol-
dier and many a mother and father has
cause to remember with reverence a man
who served his day and generation, both in
peace and war. “For all lie did he had a
reason, for all he said a word in season, and
over ready was to quote authorities for what
be wrote.”
“Lex”: I doubt that picturesque story
<B. 18/6/’25) about Father Woods cele-
brating a marriage from one bank of a
hooded creek while the bridal party stood
upon the other. The South Australian Mar-
riage Act says that the ceremony shall be
performed in a “church, office or private
dwelling-house,” and I fail to see how a gum-
tree, however stately, can be brought under
any of these specifications. Permission wa •
once given by the Registrar-General for r
marriage on a steamer on the Murray
but it was stipulated that the boat should
he made fast to the bank, so that it miglP
be regarded as the “private dwelling” o'
one of the parties.
“Quero” : I knew an old gardener employed
by a suburban family who all his life per-
sisted in reversing the usual order of dinner
(B. 11/6/’25), and incurred the wrath of a
long procession of cooks by demanding “pud-
den first and meat afterwards." He explained
that his preference was due to training in
days when the price of meat was high and
edges were taken off young appetites by the
rule “No pudden. no meat.” It holds good
in some English counties to this day.
(Continued on page 16.)
SONG OF DISILLUSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The stuff a man is made of, according to Dr.
Charles Maye, an American surgeon, comprises far
enough t,o make seven bars of soap, iron enough for
a medium sized nail, sugar enough.... The value is
said to he 4s. 1-Jd.” —Anou.s.
Lover, sighing lustily
In unlikely places,
Sing no more your songs to me,
Still your mournful melody
Of milady’s graces.
Faint their traces,
Since to me their worth is known,
Dimpled skin and dainty bone.
Hush, I say, your elmisonet
Listing all her
Teeth of pear] and eyes of jet,
That the richer rhymes beget-.
Each delight that pleasures.
False your measures!
Tell me, though, and tell me fair,
How much soap or sugar's there.
Is the blush that stains with rose
This entrancing maiden,
From the bosom’s tinted snows
To the tip of tilted nose,
Haemoglobin-laden ?
Red or laden?
Would the iron that tells the talo
Serve to make a decent nail?
Rave not, then, of riches rare
In the one you’re wooing,
Ivory neck and silken hair.
Ruby lips that bait the snare
For your soft undoing ;
End your rueing.
Lull the pain and hue the tlc-ib ;
All in all she's worth —four bob!
VIOTOIIIA.
HASEN.
SMOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Asked whether there was any truth in the rumor
that he was engasred to be married to a lady whose
portrait he carried with him over his heart, the
"aPa"t Italian airman plunged his hand into his
inside breast-pocket and produced—a packet of
Egyptian cigarettes.”
Though fires of love
May burn awhile
When pulses move
To glance or smile,
The ecstasies
That they provoke
Are just like these —
They end in smoke.
Swift pleasures flow
With young desires,
And bright the glow
That passion fires;
But make its hold
The household grate,
How soon ’tis cold
And desolate!
Though Cupid’s torch
May flame and flash,
Sparkle and scorch,
It ends in ash.
My cart’s upset
Too oft, 1 vow;
A cigarette
Suffices now.
VICTORIA.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


STRANGE—
How Australians boast their human champions—their soldiers —their
masters of sport —and their art!
The life-blood of the nation —its industry—is often forgotten, although
its products have beaten the world in competition against all comers.
GRAMPS’
ORLANDO WINES (S.A.)
Port, Sherry, Hock, Claret, Frontignac,
Won Special Gold Medals at the recent Wembley Brewers* Exhibition.
Agents: GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
STILL A KEEPER.
CYRIL SOFTIE : “Last valet I had is—aw—
lookin’ [?]fter a ravin’ lunatic.”
MAJOR WAGGE: “Good lord, I thought he
said he was going into quite a different
line of business!”
“Sturt”: Gawler, the country town in
South Aus. which used to call itself the
local Athens and was famous for engineering
works, has had an unaccountable tragedy. A
boy of 14 or 15, from Tanunda, was boarding
in the town with a well-to-do family while
he attended high school; apparently a
thoroughly healthy, studious, football-playing
boy-scout. He attended afternoon school, left
for the football field, made an excuse that he
had a letter to write, went home, stabbed his
hostess fatally a dozen times with a scout
knife, struck a girl of nine on the head with
a gun when she looked in on the scene, and
finally shot himself through the heart. In
his own room were found three guns and a
fragment of a letter: “Dear Mum, —Just a
few lines to let you know that I have found
out” And the rest is a mystery.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: Some people take things
too seriously. In a recent instance the first
man had a dispute with part of the second —
at least the second had lost one arm and a
piece of the other. It happened in Tas-
mania, which is a quiet State, and at Quamby
Brook, which is a peaceful corner of the
State (population 129 or so), and on a Sun-
day afternoon, when the average Tasmanian
torpor passes understanding. The subject
of discussion was a ferret —an animal which
is hardly worth discussing at any time. Yet
the whole man got excited and fell down
HAD BEEN BITTEN.
THE GIRL: “A little knowledge is a dangerous thing."
THE MAN : “Not in it nowadays with a little flapper!”
dead, leaving the part of a man standing.
The ferret, if it was present at all, probably
escaped and fled to tlie mountains amid the
commotion.
“Sidweelan” : 1 suppose it is second nature
with my old undertaker friend to introduce
the technical terms of his trade into ordi-
nary conversation, but I have never got quite
used to it. “Just the man I wanted to meet!”
he exclaimed gleefully as we shook hands
yesterday. “Look in at the fam’ly vault for
an hour or two this evenin’. It’s the young-
est’s birthday and we’re ’avin’ a bit of a
wake. JEtat XXI, you know,” he added
informatively, and I could almost fancy he
spoke in Roman numerals. “Don’t dress up.
It’s a plain pine family affair, so don’t go
and get into cedar and silver mountings.
And don’t bring anything. Sort of “no
flowers by request,’ ” he fired after me as
I murmured a hurried acceptance and raced
for the approaching train.
“II.M.”: The 20-year-old girl at Armidale
(N.S.W.) who created a sensation by dis-
appearing upon her marriage morning and
was subsequently located with relations in
Queensland—she had suddenly become con-
vinced that she was too young to marry—
is not a very infrequent type. Every marry-
ing parson has had some experience of the
reluctant bride who holds up proceedings
with a last-hour hysterical protest which her
friends have to overcome, if they can. Sojne-
times it is the matrimonial courage of the
’groom that oozes away so completely that
he bolts from the altar. A recent spirited
incident in South Melbourne was a sudden
breakaway from a wedding party, already
arrived at the church, and a pursuit. As the
best man and the bride's brother lugged back
the fugitive, the latter himself explained to
an inquisitive policeman that, being of a
“nervous temperament,” he had authorised
the other young men to act as they had
done in the event of an attempt of his part
to bolt.
* * * *
“Cartot”: “Centurion.” running over the
duties of a mediaeval executioner (B.
18/6/’25), omits the ordeal by water, which
was regarded as the supreme test of the
artist’s abilities. The subject was strapped,
face upwards, to a sort of wooden trestle,
and the spout of a funnel placed between his
teeth, after which water was poured into
the funnel by the bucketful. It depended
wholly on the skill of the operator whether
the agony was long drawn out or ended
abruptly in the drowning of the victim. Some
executioners were said to be able to admin-
ister five or six gallons without causing death
or even serious injury ; Madame Brinvilliers,
who was sentenced to the water punishment
before decapitation for her poisoning ex-
ploits, was given four gallons. Frequently
the method was used in the same way as the
English “ peine et fort dure,” in order to
compel accused persons to plead or to extract
testimony from unwilling witnesses.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Reverence for the dead is a
characteristic of the Maori. Recently five
natives, taking the body of a relative from
Nelson to the French Pass, had their launch
wrecked. Scrambling to a rock they remained
there up to their waists in water, hold-
ing tenaciously to the coffin lest it should be
carried away. There was a similar manifes-
tation of sentiment at a Maori funeral in the
Wairarapa when, owing to the hut in which
the coffin was lying catching fire, the burial
was nearly a cremation. The place was
well alight, but the corpse was heroically
rescued, after a number of Hen ares and
Horis had been more or less severely burned.
(After the partially-grilled body had been
duly buried, with the customary feasting and
generous consumption of illicit refreshment,
I asked one of the Maoris how it was that
so many were prepared to risk their lives for
a corpse. “No body, no tangi,” he replied,
succinctly.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A new job for the woman who
doesn’t mind being addressed by the casual
male was disclosed in a Melbourne cheque-
fraud case. The lady met an affable stranger
in a wine-bar; over a small bottle he asked
if she would do him a favor, and after learn-
ing what it was she accompanied him to the
premises of a machinery firm, where he dis-
cussed the purchase of a cliaffcutter for his
farm. All his companion had to do was to
say, when he turned and asked her how she
was off for money : “I’ve only got a pound ;
and I want 20 or 30 pounds to do some
shopping.” The casualness of the remark
smoothed the way for the presentation of a
cheque on a Sydney bank for £llB, from
which the man extracted nearly £5O change.
Of course the cheque was valueless; but the
trick was worth £5 to the lady who posed
momentarily as the con. man’s missus.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: Now that the merits of
crutches and artificial limbs as weapons have
been fully discussed, I want to put in a word
for trombones. A Sydney Municipal Band
was discoursing stirring music on a recent
holiday in one of the suburbs, when a healthy
row, fanned by sectarian influences, it
is said, started outside a pub. In a few
minutes over a score of men were
mixing it with immense gusto. The
screams of the women-folk attracted
the band, which waded in to restore
order with its instruments. And
the job was done so effectually that
no less than three of the brawlers
were cot cases before nightfall.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The North
Shore Bridge will alter some historic spots
out of recognition. Milsom’s Point (we used
to spell it with two m’s) was once the pro-
perty of “Campbell of the Wharf” ; deciding
to subdivide and sell, he employed one Wil-
liam Dind, well known in connection with
theatrical enterprises. Part of Dind’s re-
muneration was an allotment on which he
later built Dind’s Hotel, which will stand,
though no longer licensed, for a few months
longer. At the rear of this house was the
villa in which Bertrand the dentist in the
mid ’sixties was alleged to have murdered a
city bank-teller. Bertrand was convicted
and sentenced to death, but Julian Salomons
appealed on behalf of his client to the Privy
Council. The appeal was dismissed, but so
much time had elapsed since the sentence
had been passed that it was commuted to
imprisonment for life. In Bertrand’s case
it meant 30 years in gaol.
* * * *
I’ve just paid off a mighty slug
Of Income Tax. Yes, like a mug,
I paid, nor know exactly how.
But this I know, for here’s the sting:
My bank account is suffering
From Locomotor Taxia now.
x.s.w. BART.
* * * *
“T.A.”: “Honest Diggers?” said Bleary.
“Well, I struck one, anyway. It was on
the post-office corner soon after we got back.
‘Hullo, Dig.,’ he sez, ‘you’re the very man
Eye been looking for —I want to return that
trifle I borrowed over at Peronne,’ and off
he ducks with ‘Meet me here at 2 o’clock.’
Then I starts to think what I had lent him
over there. Of course, I knew it must have
been money he meant, because a bloke over
there was always lendng when he wasn’t
borrowing; but I couldn’t remember anyone
touching me for more than two frogs. But
there was just a chance of this chap taking
me for someone else, so I began to reckon
on maybe half a quid. Anyway, I goes
to the corner punctual and finds him waiting
for me with a parcel under his arm. ‘I bor-
rowed this from you over at Peronne,’ he
sez, “to get a Fritzy watch, but when I got
to the prisoners’ camp all the watches were
gone, and when I went over to return it
you d shifted camp, so I put it in my kit-
bag and forgot all about it till I saw you
this morning.’ He hands me the parcel, and
it felt hard and heavy. Must have the coin
well wrapped up, thinks I. So I opened
it, and, strike me pink, what do you think
it was? Four tins of bully-beef! Four tins
of blasted bully-beef!”
* * ' * *
“Yarra Bend”: The Victorian is an
absent-minded beggar. Every day the post
office receives about two thousand wrongly-
addressed letters, apart from the thousands
that are insufficiently addressed. Last year
8960 letters were, posted without any
address, and, amazing as it may appear,
these contained articles of an aggregate value
of £2545. Among the unclaimed goods at
present in stock are cheques, postal-notes, a
kettle-holder, false teeth, spectacles and a
velvet model of a lady’s leg complete with
“diamond”-encrusted garter.
“Gerphlin” : Out in the scrublands of the
Bogan River (N.S.W.) the other day, about
a mile inland from that trickle, I came across
a broken stone tablet, on Burdenda, that
marks the place where Richard Cunning-
ham, the botanist attached to the Major
Mitchell exploring party in 1825. was clubbed
to death by the then ferocious Bogan blacks.
The stone is broken in two, but the inscrip-
tion is still decipherable. It sets out the
date of the botanist’s death —April 25, 1835
—and tells how he wandered from his com-
panions in search of botanical specimens,
became lost, and, encountering a party oi
blacks, was killed by them at the age of 42.
ABSOLUTELY.
“Our engagement is to be a great secret.”
“Oh yes; I’ll impress that on everybody.”
The tablet was erected at the instance of
S. R. Daniel, Lands Commissioner of the
Wellington land district. It seems up to the
Government to re-erect this tablet, and so
preserve the memory of one of the pioneers
of the western hinterland.
THE JACKIE WITH THE “JACK.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ten thousand men of the IT.S. Fleet will have
shore leave in Sydney on the first day with probably
115 each in gold. They intend to return to their
ships broke.” —Stjn.
Here’s greeting, nevvies of Uncle Sam from over the
swirling foam,
From the far-off land of the wooden ham (and eke
of the Teapot Dome) !
\> e’ll whistle the welcome out with a will to our
cousins from overseas,
While the jodel -echoes from liil.l to hill o’er the hum
from the crowded quays.
You come on a friendly jaunt, no more, prepared for
feathers and fuss —•
Some day you may come in time of war with a
helping hand for us_-,
We’d ha’ bidden you welcome anyway, had you rath
been stiff as a crutch.
But when you call with a fortnight’s pay
(Some fifty thousand “smackers,” eh?)
To blew in a fleeting winter day,
Why, 80, it’s ’most too much!
Come, up with arches and out with flags, from Wool-
loomooloo to the Rocks,
Encase your frames in your gladdest rags, and your
feet in your dearest socks!
Let bells and bandsmen a greeting crash for our
friends from the further shore
Of the vast Pacific —with more in cash than ever
fleet brought before.
There are hearts of gold, you needn’t be told,
beneath those tunics hid;
But think, beside, of the pockets wide well-lined
with the golden quid !
They have fifty thousand or so, you ken, in Sydney’s
lap to chuck,
A quarter-million of “iron men”
To scatter round. Now I wonder when
Such well-heeled seamen will come again?
Here’s luck, you Yanks, here’s luck!
Ho, traders, hustle some extra hands ere the wave
on your counters beat!
Ho, vintners, out with your choicest brands—here’s
an o.s. thirst to meet!
Ho, everybody with wares to vend, from chewing-
gum to pie,
Stand by for the rush of the Men who Spend, the
shower of the coins that fly.
Though they only come on a picnic trip, our staunch
Allies and true,
Bethink that the hands first day you’ll grip will
have fifty thou, to blew.
Here’s luck to the flag of the Stripes and Stars, the
land of the Vanished Dram !
Joyrides, you Jackies, ad lib. in cars,
And juicy sirloins and prime cigars.
P.S.—’Tis at 6 we close the bars,
You nevvies of Uncle Sam!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies /•'t 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne. A. AUBREY, General Manager.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland, Wellington and
Capetown.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Napier, Durban, Johannesburg and Bloemfontein.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and. Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
f A £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.e. 6 p.c. 41 p.c. serves, will).
1914. . £17,084 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions . . 4,692 12,330
7 p.c. 5i p.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3,840 16,170
Written off, £3955 . . . . . . 12,215
8 p.e. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42,349 8400 19,200 496 )
Voted to Employees’ Profit Shar- )- 4,253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. .. |
7 p.c. 5:) P-C.
1917.. 29,838 8,400 16,800 434 4,204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9,450 19,200 496 10,371 31,043
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19,200 496 8,909 39,952
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19,200 496 15,612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19,200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41,020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
Inner reserves disclosed . . 80,000 154,109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19,200 600 15,716 169,825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925. . 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
The public is interested chiefly in the prefs.
Two years ago the family circle lifted the
restrictions on ordinaries; but, although
some have drifted out, the scrip is tightly
held. Recent sales at 255. 9d. illustrate the
market’s opinion: the return at that price
is only 6.2 p.c. Buyers doubtless consider
that a higher div. rate at least cannot much
longer be delayed, a not unreasonable assump-
tion in view of the substantial reserves—•
now £129,907 in excess of the goodwill item
—£Bo,ooo of which was shaken out of a
hidden pocket three years ago. That
£209,907 of profits have been accumulated in
12 years is an evidence alike of remark-
ably healthy progress and very conservative
finance, and the way to still better pi'ofits
is made easier by the assistance which the
reserves now render. Of the assets £64,780
is in Government securities; and of £38,247
“cash at bank, on deposit and current
account” it may be accepted that by far the
greater portion is earning money. The in-
vestment of such a substantial amount out-
side the business is, primarily, an evidence
of the caution which has marked the opera-
tions of the co. since its accounts became
public property. The report has nothing to
say further than that conditions are “gener-
ally satisfactory”; yet with the cut-throat
competition at present ruling in N.S.W. in
many of the lines in which the co. is in-
terested, there can be little in the business
in that State for the moment. These figures
tell of the co.’s growth:—
1914. 1919. 1924. 1925.
Mortgages.. . . £27,500 £ 35,7.33
Deposits .. .. 36.775 31,318
Overdraft . . . . 67,367 72,103
Sundry creditors.. 42,620 94,014 £49,034 £54,158
Freeholds . . . . 109,602 135,682 146,624 146,051
Plant, etc. . . 96,808 81,769 72,456 69,281
Leaseholds .. 1,110 400
Stock . . . . 150,564 234,710 143,481 173,177
Sundry debtors . . 125,607 145,856 135,546 122,916
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc... 121 22,367 85,921 103,240
And this summary gives a view of the im-
provement in the balance-sheet position since
1914 :
1914. 1925.
Liquid assets . . £276,292 £399,333 Inc. £123,041
Fixed assets .. 207,520 215,332 Inc. 7,812
Total assets .. £483,812 £614,665 Inc. £130,853
Liabilities.. .. 174,262 54,158 Dec. 120,104
New capital issued during the period
amounted to £48,530, so that the net visible
improvement in the 11 years amounts to
a very fine £202.427. As at March
31 cash and gilt-edged stock alone were
equal to almost twice the total liabili-
ties. After final appropriations there
were net visible tangible assets equal to £3
12s. Bd. per pref. share; and as the disclosure
of inner reserves showed that the profits or
preceding years were much greater than the
accounts exhibited, it is probably a safe guess
that the same thing is happening to-day.
And disclosed profits last year were almost
five times as much as was necessary for the
pref. div., while the visible lay by was nearly
sufficient to have doubled the ordinary divi-
dends. Incidentally, the co. has done a large
service to Australia by preparing foodstuffs,
starch, etc., that have greatly displaced im-
ported goods. Certainly far too much of the
latter are still consumed, not because they
are cheaper, but in scores of cases because
they are high-priced. That seems mad ; but
there it is.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd., drapers, etc., of Syd-
ney :—-
r~ Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. selves.
1915.. 74.032 16,374 10 p.c. = 30,000 27,658 75,596
1916.. 68,200 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 21,826 97,422
£lOO.OOO of Reserves capitalised.
1917.. 71,076 16,374 10 p.c. = 40,000 14,702 12,124
1918.. 87,804 16,374 13 ~ „ 52,000 19,430 31,554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,554
1919.. 117.359.16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 48,985 121,539
£50,000 of Reserves capitalised .. 71,539
1920.. 912 16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 43,038 114,577
1921.. 311 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 ~ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets . . 29,338 211,296
1923.. 119.497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 246,919
1924.. 321 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.366
1925.. 122.395 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38,521 317,857
It has been .a remarkable procession of
lioorays from the time the public became in-
terested, and that was in 190!), when the
co. sought pref. capital; £272,902 of 6 p.c.
was raised. Ordinary capital was then
£29.8,500, of which £lOO,OOO was issued for
goodwill. (This unsubstantial asset was ex-
pelled from the accounts in 1915.) Prefs.
have been left undisturbed through the years,
but holders of ordinaries have had a rich
time. Apart from splendid divs. over most
of the period, there have been distributions
of bonus scrip amounting to £150,000, which
makes divs. of the past three years worth
20 p.c. p.a. And reserves are now at a
higher point then ever before in the co.’s
history, amounting to 70 p.c. of ordinary
capital. However, ords. are not released at
all freely, and buyers have been vainly seek-
ing sellers at 525. Despite their low interest
rate the prefs. are popular on account of the
protection they enjoy. Here is the balance-
sheet position :
1911. 1920. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. £6,718 £27,181 £43,199 £21,860
Property .. .. 202,400 306,000 354,161 368.208
Plant, etc. . . 4,450 20,805 75,885 74,980
Stocks .. .. 270,394 494,611 621,867 624,972
Book debts . . 14,490 17,114 61,428 61,025
Cash, etc. . . 70,920 92,818 7,831 9,151
Liabilities are little more than nominal con-
sidering the co.’s huge turnover: the co.
favors prompt payment, which enables it to
get all the discounts going. After providing-
cover for these liabilities, and for payment
of final divs., there w-ere tangible assets
amounting to £3 16s. 3d. for each pref. share,
or, allowing bare cover for the prefs., £1 14s.
Id. for each £1 of ordinary capital (100,000
of the half-million ords. are paid only to
10s.). _
Foy’s had its Sydney start in Oxford-
street, a spot which saw the beginnings of
three of the city’s greatest retailers. From
there a move was made to an architectural
curiosity in the city, and now the stores
form a group with big buildings housing the
manufacturing side of the business. For a
long time Foys had manufactured knitted
woollen goods, and in later years blankets,
flannels and other lines have been added.
Although there is no separation of manu-
facturing from trading profits, total earnings
and the continued expansion of workshop
activities indicate that the co.’s enterprises
have been successful. The expansion policy
is worth a cheer, apart from anything it may
yield the co. in the way of profits. Foy’s
passed through the slump period with hardly
a visible falter in its progress; profits de-
clined, but shareholders received the same
div. as in the boom years, and reserves were
added to. This also speaks of the wise man-
agement that helps to justify the market’s
opinion of the scrip.
* * * *
Busiiell’s, Ltd., importers and blenders
of teas, coffees, etc. < Sydney). The present
co. began with £50.139 of capital represented
by goodwill (£45,000) and preliminary exes:
r Dividends N
Pref. To-Re-
Mar., Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£50,139
1921. .£14,456 £4326 4 p.c. = £4.509 £5,621 44.518
1922.. 31,674 5600 10 „ „ 11,273 14,801 29,717
1923.. 30,092 5600 10.6 ~„ 11,899 12,593 17,124
1924.. 36,836 5600 16.6 „„ 18,789 12,447 4,677
Reserve taken in, £1989 .. .. 2,688
Reserves.
1925.. 41,315 5600 11.1 p.c.=12.526 23,189 20,501
Divs. for the last two and a half years have
been paid on the nominal value of shares
(they were £1 shares, but are paid to only
18s.). which accounts for the decimals in
the div. column. The practice was started
with the final div. for 1923. Of the 1924
distribution one-tliird was bonus, but that
was dropped last year, despite total profits
far in advance of earlier figures. Maybe the
Board took its P. and L. figures seriously:
the profits claimed by the accounts were
£29,488 compared with, £31,864 for 1924. But
that ignored the tidy sum of £11,827 which
■was dropped into the tax-free income reserve.
That sum speaks loudly of the amount the
co. has invested in tax-free Government secu-
rities, for it is only the return from such
stock which goes into that reserve. Gilt-edged
holdings must account for a great part of
the £288,106 which is in the assets as “in-
vestments —including Federal and State
loans, shares in other companies, fixed de-
posits, advances, etc., less provision against
fluctuation.” Without some explanation it
seems queer that a co. should have sundry
creditors for £353,328 —very nearly twice the
amount of the capital—and on the other side
hold £288,106 of investments, most of them
apparently quite outside the business. The
co.’s reserves are interesting. In 1924 £1989
stood in a capital reserve; now it has been
merged into the general reserve. There is.
in addition to the reserves reckoned as such
in the table, one for depreciation, replace-
ments, taxation and contingencies which is
equal to more than half of all fixed assets ;
and it went up no less than £22,703 during
the year. Probably a fair portion of that
amount was also true profit. The public is
interested in the prefs., and there is com-
fort to holders in the profits, which were
equal to more than seven times the amount
necessary for the pref. div. Security is
ample:—
1921. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. £3,259 £135,785 £250,810 £353,328
Premises .. 21,406 17,142 58,724 f in 9 09l)
Plant, etc. .. 18,762 26,675 38,157 j
Stocks. . . . 62,269 79,415 95,021 137,485
Book debts . . 43,067 50,827 64,538 74,218
Investments, etc. 14,453 152,068 222,778 306,733
Liabilities were £102,518 greater than a
year ago; cash and investments, etc., were
£83,955 and stocks £42,464 heavier. In all
£518,436 of liquids and semi-liquids were
available to meet £353,328 of liabilities. After
final appropriations there were tangible
assets equal to £2 ISs. per £1 pref. share.
Meantime in five years surplus profits have
swamped the intangibles by the amount
shown in the introductory table. The co.
is at last established in its new premises,
and there are indications of still further sub-
stantial progress in the current term.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1915.. £2,956 3| p.c. = £2469 £l5OO £8,187
1916.. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 £326 8,513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ „ 6585 1976 8,513
1918.. 8,924 10 „ „ 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 124 „ „ 8231 4000 1114 9,966
1920.. 11,014 10 „ ~ 6585 2650 1779 11,745
Transferred to capital, £9150 .. 2,595
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 1,656 3£ p.c.= 2813 1,874
Nominal
Profit. Reserves.
1922.. 2,092 Nil 2092 218
1923.. 7,316 8} p.c. = 6562 646 108 326
1924.. 2,847 24 „ „ 1875 646 326 652
1925.. 6,721 74 „ ~ 5625 1096 652
“The business of the company has been
well maintained, but competition checks
expansion”: thus lately spoke Chairman S.
J. Jacobs. That has now ended, so far as
local manufacture is concerned, in an agree-
ment ; and there is to be a revision of prices.
The in-and-out behavior of profits, how-
ever, was due not so much to competition
as to weather. Protection has given the co.
a chance against the overseas article, but
the weather is monarch absolute. During
the - winter the co.’s areas at the foot of
Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) are covered with
water. Evaporation under the summer sun
leaves a deposit of salt which is collected
and refined. With nature in a tearful mood
the co. gathers less, and so do the share-
holders. Harvesting conditions last year
w T ere again unfavorable, so the profit w T as
poor and the Board contented itself with a
div. and a little writing off, leaving reserves
unaltered. As given in the introductory
table, these reserves are nominal because
there is an unspecified amount of goodwill
in the entry of £53,385 which covers the
fixed assets. But reserves have never been
treated kindly. In 1920 when they had
reached £11,745, rough hands were laid on
£9150 for a one-in-seven gift issue. This
eating up of profits has not made for
strength, but the (more or less) liquid posi-
tion is comfortable enough :
IQ9I IQOQ 1094 IQ9K
Stocks .. .. £45,201 £31.695 £26,654 £29,633
Book debts .. 4,845 4,230 2,741 2,547
Cash, etc. . . 399 -232 3,357 20
Liquid assets . . £50,445 £36,157 £32,752 £32,200
Liabilities .. 30,990 8,011 4,493 5,444
Liquid surplus.. £19,455 £28,146 £28,259 £26,756
Liabilities are small, but the cash holding
dropped from £3269 to £2O during the year.
Stocks, however, increased by almost £3OOO ,
the year’s position is governed by the accu-
racy of that valuation. The supply of salt-
in the co.’s areas is probably not everlasting,
but tnere is no anxiety on that score. Mean-
time the sun may shine more brightly for
shareholders if it shines more brightly next
summer over the fields. After a glance at
the introductory table it is almost super-
fluous to state that the scrip is not popular.
* * * *
The Argus Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1915.. £2640 7 p.c. =£1624 £lOl6 £6,301
1916.. 2085 7 ~ „ 1646 439 6,740
1917.. 1706 7 „ ~ 1646 60 6,800
1918.. 1934 7 „ „ 1646 288 7,088
1919.. 2070 7 „ ~ 1646 424 7,512
1920.. 2139 7 „ „ 1646 493 8,005
Written off, £3OO .. 7,705
1921.. 2973 9 p.c. = 2161 812 8,517
1922.. 2728 9 ~ „ 2208 520 9,037
1923.. 2870 9 „ ~ 2250 620 9,657
1924.. 3186 9 „ „ 2250 936 10,593
1925.. 2831 9 „ „ 2250 581 11,174
With gilt-edged securities offering at 61 p.c.,
the Argus suffered further withdrawals of
deposits—they are £2739 less than they were
a year ago. The Board apparently decided
that property values are too high to warrant
a greater dependence on the bank, and over-
draft was brought from £11,626 to £9940.
That, of course, meaht a slowing down of
advances. But here are the year’s changes
with a comparison back to 1914: —
1914. 1922. 1924. 1925.
Capital .. £22,462 £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Deposits . . 23,649 19,067 20,363 17,432
Other liabilities 7,133 6,067 18,366 13,549
Advances . . 56,065 60,573 75,799 68,480
Other assets.. 4,033 807 944 1,053
There is little chance of the society attract-
ing deposits in volume these days, and its
capital is not so great that there is much
in the proposition without outside help. Yet
from the viewpoint of security the position
is attractive: for every £1 of outside money
there was, on April 30. assets with a book
value of £2 4s. lid. The lessened volume
of new business, paradoxical as it may seem,
strengthened the position, for advances made
on present high property values carry more
risk than the old, made on lower values and
on which repayments have already been
made. The 9 p.c. div. was paid comfortably,
although the return is only moderate con-
sidering the reserves that are helping; and
progress beyond the present dividend-level is
likely to be slow.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees. Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1915.. 15 p.c.=£1406 £853 £15,658
1916.. 3013 15 „ „ 1406 1607 17,265
1917.. 1610 15 „ „ 1406 204 (
Written off, £lOOO (
Transferred to capital, £3125 13,344
1918.. 2353 15 p.c. = 1679 674 14,018
1919.. 2851 15 „ „ 1875 1362 14,994
1920.. 4137 15 „ „ 1875 2262 17,256
Transferred to capital, £2500 14,756
1921.. 3652 15 p.e. = 2250 1402 16,158
1922.. 4436 15 ~ ~ 2250 2186 18,344
1923.. 3700 15 ~ ~ 2250 1450 19,794
Transferred to capital, £2500 17,294
1924.. 4170 15 p.c. = 2625 1545 18,839
1925.. 4912 15 „ „ 2625 1805 ) on raj
Written off, £482 .. f ’
Considering the .competition—a strong State
office and the solid T., E. and A. doing busi-
ness over the same territory—progress has
been satisfactory. The volume of trust business
handled is not disclosed, but a few years ago
it was over three millions, and as new busi-
ness in 1924 was half a million total trusts
administered should now be somewhere about
four millions. The steady accumulation of
funds has built reserves to £3144 in excess
of paid capital; this despite three gift issues,
which have accounted for £8125 of the paid
capital of £17,500. The co.’s own funds have
to earn less than 7 p.c. to pay the 15 p.c.
div., which is worth nearly 30 p.c. to old
holders. Incidentally, it is almost impos-
sible to find a seller, and most of the scrip
has been in the same hands since before the
first capitalisation. The co. uses £82,990 of
outside money—“balances dhe by company.”
Most of it is trust funds handled by the co.
in connection with various estates. The item
is offset by “balances due to company”—
mostly advances to trust estates pending
realisation. The position in some respects
is not as plain as a trustee co.’s should be.
Debentures of £19.559 are not itemised, and
mortgages are lumped with leaseholds and
premises. A co. with 41 years of service
behind it and headquarters at Dunedin ought
to be more specific than that.
# * * *
Bon Marche, Ltd., drapers and t.-p.
specialists, of Sydney. In the table the
£60,000 paid for goodwill is not regarded as
an asset:—
f Dividends. Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 7i p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£60.000
1921.. £18,760 £6OOO 71 p.c. = £7500 £5,260 54,740
1922.. 14,565 6000 7| „ „ 7500 1,065 53,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 71 „ „ 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 7f „ „ 7500 10.161 28.395
In this subsidiary of Marcus Clark. Ltd.,
the public is interested only in the 71 p.c.
cum. prefs., which form £BO,OOO of the paid
capital of £lBO,OOO. From the time when
Marcus Clark separated the business in
order to get capital for the kid’s expan-
sion, and some money for the parent’s own
needs, pref. holders have had not a moment
of doubt, and for the past two years profits
have been equal to almost four times the
amount necessary to pay their dividend.
Meantime, although all the ordinaries are
held by Marcus Clark, reserves have accumu-
lated to provide still further strength for
pref. capital. The div. rate on ords. stands
at 71 p.c. until reserves amount to £40,000.
This they will probably do next year, and
then the parent will be at liberty to carve
itself a bigger piece of the cake. Even with-
out that Marcus Clark has done well, seeing
that it received £60,000 for goodwill: and
any increase in ordinary div. should favor-
(Continued on page 19.)


BUT THE PICNIC PARTY REMAINS HAPPY.
“The first act of the Lang Labor Government in N. S. Wales will be to establish by law the 44-hour working week.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Olfice. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/0 per annum,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney; and Taylor and Elliotts, Charlotte
Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The adaptability of Pioneer Wood Pipe to all
industrial purposes is again instanced by this report
from the Wellington Meat Export Co., Ltd., N.Z.,
which says: “W r e used the pipe for a rather unusual
purpose, namely, as a shoot to carry chemical refuse
etc., from the top floor of our fellmongery building
to the ground below, and for this purpose it has
answered very well.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
Of Of * *
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product ot many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls; etc. They
produce a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp.
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part of the plant. The price of a two-
liglit plant, complete and, installed, is only £2O.
There is practically no ‘ additional cost, the only
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station —positively no wages or train fares.
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.— Advt.
* » * *
Patents. —Have' you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilasseli Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * «.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Aimiun Leplastbieu & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
♦ * * #
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty'., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
■ sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —AnvT.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic,, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.
ESTATES UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £9,000,000.
To those considering the appointment of a trustee this Company offers
special advantages.
All the Capital and Assets —over one million pounds—is security for clients’
interests. All the disadvantages of the individual trustee are eliminated —
the Company cannot travel, disappear, or die.
Directed by practical business men, its officers are thoroughly experienced
in the handling of trust estates.
Write for booklet giving full information.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman).
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
O. E. FRIEND.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd.
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO - ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London :
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch:
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
ably affect the parent co.’s scrip. Pref. capi-
tal is secured by:—
Book debts and t.-p. balances ..£129,845
Stocks .. • ■ • • • •
Plant and fixtures 4,545
Cash I k’k9o
Investments .. .. • • 5,520
Sundry creditors on January 31 amounted
to £lB 048. There were thus net tangible
assets equal to £1 17s. lOd. for each pref.
share.
* * * *
A committee of American experts on fuel
will report to the meeting of the Interna-
tional Chamber of Commerce at Brussels
this month that so far as the United States
is concerned “much the greater part of the
natural liquid and gaseous fuels will have
disappeared by 1950,” leaving only coal as
fuel. This committee of seven men repre-
sents the petroleum, natural gas and coal
industries of the United States and includes
the director of Geological Survey and the
director of research of the American Petro-
leum Institute. The committee states that
the present methods of using coal are waste-
ful, that the present practice of drilling for
oil is wrong, and that coal at the mines
should be subjected to complete gasification
or to carbonisation, with complete by-pro-
duct recovery; the gas to be transmitted by
high pressing and the coke to be used to
generate electricity. The committee draws
attention to the vast resources of fuel in
oil-shale reserves, awaiting the time when
they can be mined and marketed economically.
It looks as if Australia may come into her
own some day with her big bodies of oil-
shale and brown coal.
* * * *
The conference of Commonwealth geolo-
gists in Melbourne got to work quickly. It
was decided that the first locality to be
examined for petroleum is that situated be-
tween the Glenclg River and Casterton
(Vic.), and Narracoortc (S.A.). It was also
decided that Dr. A. Wade (Federal Govern-
ment Oil Geologist), W. Baragwanath (Direc-
tor of Geological Survey in Victoria), Binne.v
(Drilling Superintendent for the Vic. Geolo-
gical Department) and E. M. De Villa (as
Superintending Adviser) should examine
that portion and also other areas. It is
stated that, owing partly to the fact that Dr.
Wade will shortly leave for England, there
has been a slight delay in starting the first
examination; but De Villa will proceed alone
immediately to make investigations in that
area, and will be joined later by Barag-
wanath and Binney.
* * * *
From London: The new Associateds which
divided the Westralian and Canadian assets
of the old Associated Co. are now quoted
on the London Stock Exchange. The new
co. which took over the Canadian interests
has the following assets: 225,000 Keeleys,
270,000 Vipond Consolidateds, £90,000 in
cash and various smaller holdings. The pre-
sent market valuation of these items is over
£240,000. or more than the issued capital at par
value. This co. virtually controls Keeley and
Vipond, arid is closely allied to the Iluronian
Belt Co., which is an expanding concern. The
co. which has taken over the Westralian in-
terests has an issued capital of £119,073 in
4s. fully-paid shares. It owns the old Asso-
ciated mine at Kalgoorlie, and has an interest
in the Wiluna Syndicate, which holds an
option over the Gwalia Consolidated group.
Imported mining-commissioner Kingsley
Thomas handed in his report on the West-
ralian mining industry the other day, and
was wined and dined by the State Govern-
ment before leaving for other parts. Speak-
ing at this function, Thomas said: (1) To
date 30,000,000 tons of ore had been crushed
and 15,000,000 tons of firewood consumed in
the process, which was a wasteful consump-
tion of a valuable commodity; (2) mining
was doomed in the West unless 7dwt. ore
could be made to pay. To these assertions
Ge.orge Ridgway, mining engineer, mine-
owner and speculator, retorts: (1) No other
known fuel can be obtained as cheaply as
firewood, and the particular wood used by
the Kalgoorlie mining cos. has no other value
whatever; (2) if Thomas can make 7dwt.
ore pay in the West there is a fortune star-
ing him in the face at the Lancefield, where
300,000 tons at 325. are practically blocked
out ready to mine above the No. 11 level and
probably millions of tons below it of an
equal value. Ridgway, who owns half the
mine, offers to give Thomas his half and
get him the other half at the same price
provided he will work it and give the pre-
sent owners £5OOO out of the first £lO,OOO
profits made. Ridgway adds, as a parting
shot, that if the kernel of Thomas’s report
is similar to the shell which he peeled off
at the Ministerial banquet, a lot of good
money and time has been wasted.
* * * *
Hansel Mundy Co., holding an option over
the Radio Deeps, adjoining the Radio on the
east, has commenced diamond-drilling with a
view to locating the continuation of the
Radio reef at a depth of between 300 and
400 feet. At the same time Radio option-
holders are sinking Radio shaft on the in-
cline from a point directly opposite, and
during the next few weeks reports from
operations on both leases are expected to
have a cheering effect on the market.
* * * *
From a man on the spot:—
Radio (W.A.), in which Adelaide and Perth have
recently become interested, has so far yielded
£50,000 worth of gold from 4000 tons crushed.
Allowing £2 per ton for mining and treatment, plus
a liberal estimate for main-shaft sinking and equip-
ment, the owners have realised £35,000 net, or
thereabouts. Three parallel lines of reef have been
worked over a total length of 500 feet, and an
inclined main shaft sunk a depth of 185 feet,
including 25 feet of sump. Levels have been extended
at depths of 60, 120 and 160 feet as measured down
the shaft; vertically, the 160 ft. level is 93 feet
from the surface. Reefs dip at an angle of 40
degrees, and range from 9 to 36 inches in thickness
over the greater portion of their length, but at
Various points there are bulges from 6 to 10 feet
wide, and as these appear to be lengthening at the
160 ft. level they are likely to have an important
bearing on the value of the proposition. The sump
also has bottomed on what appears to be the
Western reef, which is here wider than at corres-
ponding points above. The option now held over
the property is a favorable one to the option holder.
The purchase price ( £45.000) is payable in easy
instalments over 18 months; all gold won during
the option is to be credited, less working costs, to
the purchaser in the event of the option being
exercised —a provision that will considerably reduce
the cash consideration.
* * * *
Some Westralian shareholders reckon that
Mararoa Co. should have held on to the old
Mararoa, at Norseman, a bit longer. Since
it wa,s abandoned by the co. for “distant
fields” over SOOOoz. of gold has been ex-
tracted by a party of practical miners who
have now sold out for £2500. The new
owner is spending several thousands in
equipment and development, and declares
that the prospects justify this outlay.
* -X- * ' *
At the moment the closure of the Mt.
Morgan mine appears imminent. The 44-
hour week is now in force in Queensland,
and with the reduction of hours the co. was
served with a notice that employees are
applying to the Court for an increase in
wages of Ifd. per hour. Apart from .the
latter claim the shortening of hours will
seriously hamper operations. Since the 1921
shut-down the co. has lost £323,650, the
last 12 months’ loss being £159,098. The
position has got steadily worse, due to a
further fall in tin 1 copper market and higher
underground costs following creeps in the
workings. The mine has been stayed up
for years past by the Government with a
substantial subsidy, and tbe momentous
question has at last to be faced whether the
mine shall be closed down permanently. The
position looks hopeless. The industry has
absorbed State revenue for years in producing
copper at. a loss, and there seems no likeli-
hood of an early rise in copper. The extra
money can only be got by dipping into the
Treasury for it.
* * -* ' *
Ravenswood Gold Mines (Q.), by driving-
on the No. 6 level, has located the rich shoot
worked in No. 5. The No. 6 North is now
out 136 ft. from the shaft on six inches of
payable quartz. Both north and south levels
are on payable stone, and rises are being put
up on it. The last crushing from No. 5,
totalling 52 tons, returned Slloz. of amal-
gam. In addition 23 tons of prill ore and
concentrates have been forwarded to Port
Kembla, and these are likely to average over
lOoz. a ton. The reef continues small, but
what there is of it is very sweet.
The Queensland Government is not happy
over the baby left on its doorstep by the.
Chillagoe Co. in the shape of the Mt. Mulli-
gan coal-mine. Minister McCormack told
liis Cairns electors the other day that the
position was tragical owing to the way the
coal-faces had cut out and faulted, and that
the Government couldn’t help it. This was
to appease the wrath of the people over the
recent increase in the price of Mulligan coal
after being promised a price not exceeding
275. 6d. a ton. Actually what is happening
is that the management is striving despe-
rately to make the mine pay. Hitherto it
has been a badly-losing concern and any-
thing but a bright advt. for State control.
* * * *
The disappearance of the Bribbaree Bon-
anza Co. (N.S.W.), after being “under-
written” nine months ago, directs attention
once more to the need for an amended Com-
panies Act. Promoters under existing con-
ditions may “underwrite” as a stimulus to
wavering subscribers. If the float makes
good, and scrip goes to a premium, they may
collect their commission and any marker
accretion on their reserve wad. If the public
shies off, they may “hold a meeting” and
cancel their underwriting agreement, which
was a scrap of paper from the beginning.
When the Crown boom was on in 1923, the
Crown South prospectus declared that “the
issue has been underwritten,” and that the
prospectus was only being sent out for public
information. Holders of syndicate shares
were to get £2 dividend from the proceeds of
the float. On this, speculator's bought them
up to £6 ss. Just then came the first big
collapse in the parent co.’s shares. Immedi-
ately the Crown South “underwriters” washed
their hands of the concern, and the £6 ss.
scrip withered into waste paper.
* * * *
Great Britain, Emmaville (N.S.W.), dis-
tributed 4s. in divs. on its 10,000 10s. shares
for the half-year closing April 18, but in
doing so the P. and L. debit was raised from
£513 to £1046. From the Britain and Y
Creek plants, the co. had a yield of 42 tons
17cwt., which brought £lBl a ton against
£172 for the preceding output. Yardage
values w’ere lower, the Britain plant getting
2.671 b. against 3.031 b., and the Y plant
1.281 b. against 1.41 b. Heavy cement deposits,
which had to be attacked by explosives, im-
peded the Britain plant; and a high bar of
solid granite right ahead of the Y barge
necessitates a heavy job in the shape of a
high and strong dam to float the plant over.
At the balancing date, reserve fund of £5OOO
.was mostly invested in war loan, and
creditors were owed £1661. Plant is valued
at £5195, fuel and stores at £1278, and cash
items and tin ore in hand at £1448.
* * * *
Owing to the platinum production of
Russia being still suspended, world supplies
shrank to 80,000 oz. in 1924, or less than
one-third of the 1913 output, when Russia
alone contributed 250,0000 z. [At that stage the
Russia of the Czars mined from 90 to 95 p.c.
of total world supplies. The war cut down
production to some 25,000 ounces at the
time of the Armistice, Russia being then
right out of the hunt. The metal has rather
increased in demand than otherwise, the
best customer being the United States, where
106,0000 z. were used in 1923, besides an addi-
tional 38,0000 z. of iridium, palladium,
osmium, rhodium and other allied metals.
New fields are such a rarity that the cur-
rent nominal quote of about £25 an ounce
should be maintained, at any rate until
economic and political stability assists the re-
sumption of Russian production on a telling
scale. South Africa has lately entered the
market, but no other new source of supply
is reported. In N.S.W. the one steady pro-
ducer is Fifield, near I’arkes, whose 6460 z.
in 1924 realised £12,422. Twenty years ago
the crude metal from that field sold as low as
18s. an ounce.
* -X- * *
A valiant press effort to discover a new
field “better than Coolgardie” on the site
of the old Lucknow shafts (N.S.W.) has
tapered off. A “special representative”
visited Lucknow, descended a pothole 15ft.
deep, and was dazzled by the glitter he saw
around him. Shares in a new co., called
Lucknow North Extended, paid to a few
pence, were snapped up at 10s. in the street
. —dr, rather, so ran the report from the same
source. The 100,000 shares in the new co.
at: this figure gave the find a value of
£50,000 right away. Then came the story of
some mythical £lO,OOO the State would give
if the resurrection became a reality (the
State reward, of course, refers only to new
fields), and there was the unnamed sailor-
boy on an unnamed ship who had put £l3
into the concern instead of on a horse, and
was “set” for life. ' Then the enthusiasm
waned. Rain had stopped further develop-
ment. People were warned against “down-at-
heel wild-catters.” Two big Government men
went up and went down and came back, but
said nothing about values of any kind. An
obscure paragraph announced that, “as soon
as possible,” a crushing of 20 tons would be
taken out. Perhaps this would go 20oz.
And again a warning to “'ware the wild-
cat people.” The facts disclose that only
one new co., the North Extended, was
assisted off the stocks by the boomlet, though
the Amalgamated and Extension, two others
in 400.000 shares each, long since registered
in Melbourne, got rid of surplus scrip dur-
ing the brief period of excitement.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), has
returned to the call list after a flash among
the dividends. The official version places all
the blame on the floods, and turns a blind eye
to the gradual diminution in yields. The
“Wild Cat” forecast last year that the east
and west pipes meant four months of profit-
able yields caused much fury at the official
headquarters, but the forecast was pretty
right. Three dividends of 6d. were earned
during those four months; subsequent work
has hatched the 3d. call.
* * * *
The Federal Public Accounts Committee,
recently returned from Papua, should soon
enlighten the taxpayer on the oil-prospecting
question. It is about time somebody estab-
lished some values for the half-million or so
expended by the Commonwealth in conjunc-
tion with the Anglo-Persian group. Mean-
time, the Haynes Brothers, nephews of John
See and ex-employees of the Anglo-Persian,
are busy in the interests of the New Guinea
Oil Co., with only £50,000 subscribed. They
still pin their faith strongly to a reject of
the Anglo-Persian. and their optimism seems,
warranted. The- first annual report by man-
ager R. S. Haynes states that the location
of the test well will be close to the coast at
Orokola Bay, Gulf of Papua, and about 170
miles west from Port Moresby. “Domal
conditions proved by mapping to exist at
Hohoro-Vaiviri are regarded as the most pro-
mising structure connected with the storage
of petroleum at depth. The many gas vents
and oil seepages occurring along the crest of
the anticline prove that oil does exist in the
underlying strata. The volume of gas and
oil escaping shows that the petroliferous
rocks are at a shallow depth.” Haynes
states further that the escaping gas contains
such a high percentage of light oil, obtain-
able in such volume that, even if the drill
fails to locate oil pools, the treatment of
the gas should be payable. The co. has had
to construct a corduroy road through dense
jungle for 3-J miles, and land over 200 tons
of plant in a country where transport facili-
ties are non-existent and have to be im-
provised. The rotary driller is of the type
which cut a hole 3500 ft. in three weeks in
California; and there will be a galvanised
steel derrick, ant-proof and fire-proof.


FLEET WEEK
BOOK FOR
CLIFTON GARDENS
HOTEL
view arrival of Fleet
through the Heads and coming
up the harbor.
25 Minutes from City.
Ferry service passes through the
Fleet at anchor.
Apply Manager, Mosman.
Tek: Y 3012, 3013, 4 lines.
For Hard WorK
in All Weathers
MACNAUGHT’S “HARVESTER”
BOOT is specially made for
the man on the land, of water-
resisting Chrome Leather, in Black
or Tan. Extra High Leg. Stout
screwed and sewn Soles.
Will give you the maximum of wear and
comfort. Send for yours to-day.
251
m
We
Pay
Postage.
Send us your repairs.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 Pitt St., 22 Strand, 135 King St., Sydney. Burrowa St., Young.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some July birthdays :—-
Major-Gen. Granville Ryrie, M.H.R.. 60, on Ist;
Acting Chief Justice Poole (S. Aus.), 52, on 3rd ;
Federal Auditor-Gen. J. IV. Israel, 75, on 4th;
A. W. Piper, K.C. (Adel.), 60, and artist M. J.
MacNally, 53, on Oth; W. J. Isbister, K.C. (Adel.),
59, on 7th; pianist Percy Grainger (b. N.
Brighton, Vie.), 43, Canon Portus (N.S.W.),
51, and H. C. E'. Mueeke (S. Aus.), 83,, on
JIM DOOLEY, M.L.A., the new wigless
Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly.
kth; Canon F. Slaney. Poole (S. Aus.), 80, on
9th; engineer Percy Allan (N.S.W.), 64, on 12th;
!>v. G. A. Syme (Melb.), 66, and S. Aus. Railways
Commissioner McGuire, 69, |on 13th; Crawford
Vaughan, 51, on 14th; Prof. E. Harold Davies, Musi
Doc. (Adel.), 58, on 18th; Tetley Gant (Speck),
69. on 19th ; Admiral W. R. Creswell, 73, on 20tli;
Vic. barrister E. F. Mitchell, K.C., 70, and Dr.
E - s - Cunningham (Argus), 66. on 21st; Govt.
Astronomer W. E. Cooke (.Syd.), 62, on 25th;
Surgeon Alexander MacCormick (Syd.), 69, on 31st.
Politician, pastoralist, novelist and life-
long battler for tlie full utilisation of two of
this country s greatest natural resources, the
Aortherji Territory and the river Murray.
Nimpson Nowl and lias just laid aside a busy
lire at JO in Adelaide. Born in the Cold
Country, he landed with liis parson father at
Encounter Bay (S.A.) in 283!F, and repre-
sented the granite-strewn electorate from
18S1 to 1887. He was Treasurer of his
province in the first Downer Ministry, just
40 years ago, and there has been no finer
fighter throughout for the North-South rail-
way. A great literary figure to an earlier
generation, he published a multitude of short
stories and political fragments, but his repu-
tation rests on that fine narrative of early
pioneering life, “Paving the Way,” of which
the public demanded five editions.
A spectator on board one of the visiting
American warships will be Admiral Sir Hugh
Rodman, K.C.8., who commanded the five
U.S. battleships which, after America entered
the war, worked with the Grand Fleet and
were known as the Sixth Battle Squadron.
Rodman’s flag flew in the U.S.S. New York.
In spite of his title he is an American, the
K.C.B. having been given hiip for services
rendered with the R.N. during the war. In
democratic and untitled America Rodman’s
title is not used, and the question arises
whether we are to follow American usage or
pick him up bv the handle conferred by his
Majesty.
Dooley is the 17th Speaker of the
N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly. The first was
Daniel Cooper, elected May 22, 1856, re-
signed January 31, 1860. Arnold, Abbott
and MeCourt each reigned to the 10th year.
The shortest term was that of Simon Hickey
—Seven days. The first eight gained knight-
hood, the other eight didn’t.
His luck and the solid votes of the railway
workers got A.R.U. general secretary R. V.
Keane the fourth place in the Vic. A.L.P.
ballot for the selection of Senate candidates,
the other three being E. J. Holloway, Senator
Hannan and ex-Senator Blakey ; Keane just
beat R. S. Ross in a hard fight. With the
exception of Blakey, who has already been a
Senator and a dull one, and whose selection
is the surprise, of this ballot, they make a
strong team, the other three being amongst
the most capable of organisers ; and they can
travel the length and breadth of the State to
organise the campaign—Hannan on his pass
as a politician, the other two on their busi-
ness as union officials.
When the Soudan veterans meet in Syd-
ney next year for their annual meal Ser-
geant Shipway will not take his accus-
tomed place at the head of the table: he
died at Mosman on Sunday. In private life
he was W. C. Shipway, of Shipway and
Berne, solicitors ; and once, over 30 years ago,
be was M.L.A. for Paddington. But he
found he had little liking for Parliamentary
life, and he went back to his law and his
sailing-boat and his Masonry, and won the
esteem of a very wide circle of friends.
The Speck's old champion cricketer,
Charlie Eady, is now, like Joe Darling, an
M.L.C. Incidentally, the popular lawyer's
matrimonial network is a cross-word puzzle.
W. A. Guesdon married Eady’s sister, and
he married his (Guesdon’s) daughter, there-
by becoming son-in-law to his brother-in-law,
and son-in-law to his own sister, while his
wife became her stepmother’s sister and
sister-in-law to her father, who became both
uncle and grandfather to her children, their
aunt being also their grandmother.
Another link with the early days of Vic-
toria snapped with the death of Mrs. James
Balfour, daughter of one of the Hentys. They
landed in Portland in 1834. but she saw
the light in Tasmania four years later.
Blacks frequently mustered for corroborees
in front of her parents’ residence in Spring-
street, where now are the Treasury Gardens.
Her husband was an M.L.C. who established
the long-distance record, being 40 years a
member of the House.
Theodore Fink, Victorian lawyer, ex-
M.L.A. and money-spinner—-among other
things he is head of the Herald proprietary—
will be 70 to-morrow. . Twenty-one years
ago he was summoned to the bar of the
Assembly and presented with the House’s
thanks for his work as Chairman of the Uni-
versity Commission. His most notable speech
while in the Assembly was the one which
killed the proposal of the Irvine (Kyabrama-
pootra) Ministry to levy a charge on pupils
over the compulsory age who continued at
State schools after passing a certain stand-
ard. Since then Irvine (now C.J.) has advo-
cated a free university.
On some figures in a much-discussed case:
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the twice-
tried • Faieke libel case, which has made history in
Australia as the most prolonged litigation concern-
ing Art, the crowded gallery showed a lot of sympathy
for the Falekes. The pluck and pertinacity of the
art expert in his fight against heavy financial odds
doubtless contributed to this; • and another factor
was the picture of husband and wife standing
together in the action. Pretty Marjorie Hardie
(that was) appeared in court with her husband
day after day. There was another touch of wifely
devotion in her return to the stage to keep the
domestic pot boiling whilst Faieke was busy bringing
his action. “Jimmy” Macdonald, the best known
of Melbourne’s art critics—although sometimes erratic
in his judgments he Is recognised as having sound
knowledge—was the next most prominent of the
dramatis persona. A carelessly Bohemian personality,
he was not at all oppressed by the surroundings;
speaking with an offhand assurance, he made it
appear that in the “gruelling cross-examination” to
which he was subjected, Palc-ke, his cross-examiner,
was getting most of the gruel. “Jimmy” is secretary
of the New Gallery, and still manages to maintain
a critical mind in regard to the shows in his own
premises. Keith Murdoch, with a face and jaw
which suggest a successful boxer rather than a
journalist, posed as a genial Napoleon who i,s proud
of his, conquests but wants all men to feel that
lie has the best of good feeling towards them. And
Murdoch is genial; though somehow there remains an
impression that he finds it a task.
Horsemen all over Australia will bear with
regret of the breaking up of T. FI. S. Barnes’s
stud farm at Canning Downs station, War-
wick (Q.). Barnes did a great deal to im-
prove the breed of Ban anal ami’s horses, and
representatives from his stables have had
racing successes all
Over the Common-
wealth. The year-
ling sales have
fallen away in
Queensland much
more than in the
South, and it is
suggested if there
were more two-
year-old races
there might be
much more busi-
ness for the breed
ers, Barnes is
owner of Rivoli,
who ran second in
the Melbourne Cup
two years ago, and
is now doing stud
duty at Canning
Downs.
GEO. BARBER.
Labor member for
Bundaberg ( Q. ),
He has held the
job for 23 years.
John Lumsden, who died a few days ago.
aged 82. was for half a century with the
Haymarket Horderns. He made the firm’s
fourth employee when he joined,- and when
he retired 12 years ago from the manager's
chair the number had climbed to the neigh-
borhood of 4000.
Of the 16 Labor men elected to Tas.
Assembly all but four sat in last Parliament.
The new arrivals are W. A. Woods (journal-
ist), Ben Watkins (hotelkeeper), R. Cos-
grove (grocer) and Vic. Shaw (hairdresser).
All but the last-named have had previous
Parliamentary experience—Woods 11 years
(two years as Speaker), Watkins 13 years (11
years Whip), and Cosgrove three years. The
14 Opposition members include five new men—•
11. M. D. Thomson (Nat.), C. E. W. James
(Lib.), J. Loundy (Nat.). H. H. McFie
(Nat.) and Norman Cameron. Of these only
Cameron (ex-State and ex-Federal member)
is known to Mr. Speaker. The slain are
Blyth and Bendall, who both made some
noise in last Assembly on behalf of the Coun-
try party, Marshall (Chairman of Commit-
tees), Shields ( ex-Mayor of Launceston),
Grant (chief of the Cascade Brewery) and
ex-Federal Minister Jens August Jensen. The
last was displaced in Bass by a Launceston
Laborite known as “Father” Shaw.
Henri Verbrugghen, formerly director of
t’ ; Sydney Conservatorium of Music, says
that Minneapolis (U.S.A-) pays hint in two
months ~s much as N. S. Wales used to in
twelve.
N. S. Wales yachting lost one of its oldest
enthusiasts by the death at Newcastle of
James Ingham, managing director of Ing-
ham’s, Ltd. Before he went to Newcastle
to live, about six years ago, lie was commo-
dore of the Sydney Motor Yacht Club, and
in earlier years took a prominent part in
most aquatic events on the harbor. He was
57.
A noted pioneer, James Reid Skene Mc-
Lellan, an old friend of Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s, got the call at Oakey (Q.). aged 79.
He lived in M.L., Victoria (he pioneered the
Yarrawonga district) and Queensland, and
in all these places he bred horses that won
many prizes in show-rings. But of all his
trophies lie was proudest of one he got in
Victoria in 1877 after a contest to find the
“champion ploughman of Australia.”
A great lover of Shorthorn cattle was
Alfred Foot, who built up the large herd on
Christmas Creek station, which he managed
until 25 years ago, when he purchased Card-
ington. There, at the age of 75 years, he
has been laid to rest beneath the shade of
the large poplar gums in his open bushland.
A pioneer bushman and a great judge of
a beast, the owner of Cardingtou was the
best-liked employer in the west of Queens-
land.
Allan Oxlade, now a grave and staid
Brisbane city father and a candidate for
Parliament in the Merthyr by-election, was
one of the star Rugby reps, of a generation
ago. Even in his ’teens he was an idol of
the Queensland crowds. At 20 he wore
the maroon guernsey against N.S.W., and
played in every inter-State match for the
next five, years. In 1904 he was one of
Australia's chosen XY against the visiting
Englishmen, and after that he toured the
Trembly Islands with the Kangaroos.
W. T. Cunningham, who collapsed at the
Sydney Journalists’ luncheon to Mr. and
Mrs. Kreisler at Farmer’s and died , shortly
after, established the business of Thomas
Cook and Son in Sydney many years ago,
and afterwards did the same service for the
firm in Maoriland. But he had turned to
the “pictures” of late.
Adelaide Art Gallery has accepted a por-
trait painting, by George Webb, of Captain
Ilarry Butler, the Yorke’s Peninsula airman,
pioneer of practical aviation in South Aus.,
who died as an indirect result of a crash at.
Minlaton, his home town. It was commis-
sioned by a committee with Evan Ivyffin
Thomas as chairman, and paid for by a host
of small subscriptions from the public—in-
cluding many children.
Robert Iv. Doherty, assistant manager of
the Union S. S. Co. of Maoriland in Sydney,
lias reached 50 years’ service. He was a
legacy from the old Tasmanian S. N. Co. to
the Union Co., and has proved a good be-
quest. He is probably the best-known ship-
ping man in the Commonwealth, for he has
served in the Hobart, Launceston, Strahan,
Melbourne and Sydney offices of the Red
Funnel. He is now retiring from business
to lift heavy weights and toss the caber ar
leisure, He was once one of Melbourne’s
best amateur athletes.
“Alastor”: Donald McGregor, a returned
man, on June 13 set out from Brisbane for
a three years' walk around Australia to
prove that a man can get work anywhere “if
he is an honest trier.” He takes no money
with him, and he lias wagered a considerable
Sum that he will return with £l5O. The
conditions are that he must, obtain work in
75 per cent, of the towns he visits, and he
must circle the continent.
Blackwell, Registrar-General of Deeds in
the Lands Titles Office of S.A., where Tor-
rens titles started, retired at the. end of June,
having touched the age-limit. He is still
fit and strong, and the Licensed Landbrokers’
Association asked the Government to give
him another year or two, but without result.
Blackwell was an English sailor in his youth,
but has given his life since 1882 to the Lands
Titles Office.
Gone to his higher waterfrontage, at 84,
ITughie Conroy, of Deep Creek, Queensland’s
oldest J.-P. His father was a N.S.W. police-
man, and the son went to the Upper Brisbane
River when blacks roamed wild. At a re-
quiem Mass at St. Anne’s. Archbishop Duhig
recalled the days when Mass w T as celebrated
at the Conroy homestead, and Mrs. Conroy
provided for 50-odd Catholics, her husband
sitting at the head of the table dispensing
hospitality with a generous hand.
Alfred Cooke Yarborough, who died at Kohu-
kohu (North Auckland) the other day, aged
77, was one of the crew of Oxford oarsmen
that beat Harvard in 1869. This race created
enormous interest, and Oxford’s crew was
regarded as faultless. It comprised F. Wil-
JOHN “BAWRA”
HIGGINS, the
metallurgist whose
scheme to tide
the [?] trade
over the present
crisis is note
being debated.
lan (bow), A. C. Yarborough (2), J. C. Tine
(3), S. Darbyshire (stroke) and F. H. Hill
(cox). Yarborough was also a member of the
crew that beat Cambridge in the fastest time
on record for fixed seat.
T. W. Iredale, another brilliant Australian,
acquired with honors a degree at London
University which is a sort of scientific blue.
A native of Sydney, he was educated at
North Shore Grammar, got his B.Sc. at
Sydney, bolted to London, and soon attracted
attention there by his original research work,
capping his labors with the D.Sc. A son of
F. A. Iredale. of the Cricket Association, he
has crowded it all into 27 years.
THE CALL OF THE SE?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The call of the sea got in me bones
When I was a kid without no sense;
Me mind was just ships and Davey Jonas,
A chap what needed no recompense.
A good sort o’ feller wa.s Davey Jones
When the call of the sea got in me bones.
The call of the sea was in me bones....
An’ they set me on an office stool
To learn me to think of stocks an’ loans;
out back l sneaked to the swingin’ pool
Where they turn the ships. Could 1 think loans
When the call of the sea was in me bones?
The call of the sea was in me bones
When I shipped to Rio in ’sixty-one,
An’ 1 ’eard the sea in all its tones,
An’ felt the bite of a coastal sun ;
I loved the life with its sights an’ tones,
The call of the sea bein’ in me bones.
The call of the sea was in me bones
When I lost me leg in ’eighty-two,
An’ 1 went nigh mad with fever-groans
When the scurvy gripped the ’ole damn crew—
Oh, it’s ’ell to listen to fever-groans.
But the call of the sea gets in yer bones.
The call of the sea is in me bones,
An’ it’s broke me ’aid. God blast ’is eyes,
For ’e’ll get me yet, will Davey Jones,
With ’is dirty tricks, an’ is’ lurin’ lies—
So ’ere’s to a voyage with Davey Jones,
An’ the call of the sea what’s in me bones.
The call of the sea is in me bones,
An’ it’s Davey’s craft for my last wheel:
When there ain't no bell nor ’oly-stones,
An’ yer always ride an even keel.
But they bury yer tied to ’oly-stones
When the call of the sea gets in -yer bones.
VICTORIA.
McCOWAN RUSSELL.


Q
IV
wsm
i
mm.
u
mmmm
m, ■;* , ■-.v
mmm:- wm
m i
fia
nea
A I ,t
m
A
* mt
y iii
H
* , ;•
FINAL
ND I ■
m
Citroen Successes
&ergone @wclaiws/
CITROEN SUCCESS/
SEVEN BIG VICTORIES THIS YEAR
World’s Stock Car Economy Record 104.2 M.P.G.
Sydney-Newcastle Record 3hr. 46min.
R.A.C., Queensland, 9-days’ Trial, Ist Petrol Consumption, 5-seater Citroen, 54.34 miles per gal.
R.A.C., New South Wales, 6-days’ Trial, Ist Petrol Consumption, 79| miles per gal.
R.A.C., West Australia Ist Petrol Consumption
M.C.C., South Australia, 24-hours’ Trial Ist, Citroen
“Guardian” Trial, Sydney, Class A Ist, Citroen
IT’S PERFORMANCE THAT COUNTS.
CITROEN
AGENTS:
Salmon’s Motors, Ltd.,
143 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Maughan Tliiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Mohr, James & Robinson
Pty., Ltd.,
29 Cameron St., Launceston,
Tasmania.
James Tombs & Co., Ltd.,
Albert Street, Auckland, N.Z.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
I,
Q
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


DEAF?
Socially and commercially, Deafness is a
handicap.
You can hear, and we are ready to prove it,
entirely at our expense, by sending you an
ACOUSTICON
ON TEN DAYS’ TRIAL.
We do not ask you to part with one penny
until we have PROVED to you that you can
hear.
Worn by the ex-Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
and selected for the use of the Deaf at the
Wembley Exhibition.
Call or write for full particulars.
Store P. 102 Daking House,
LdnUOU Service. v 0. t Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor, 200 High Street, Christ-
church.
W.A.—H. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
NOTHING COULD BE SIMPLER
THAN EXTERMINATING RABBITS
with
CALCIUM CYANIDE.
A child could do it with perfect safety. It has met with
unprecedented success wherever used.
CALCIUM CYANIDE is blown into the warren like dust.
This dust generates deadly fumes for at least twenty-tour
hours, so that the rabbits have not a chance of escape. L\ ery
opening is indicated by a smoke cloud,
every deepest dead-end is penetrated.
It’s cheaper and surer than other methods.
Write and ask for full details of it and
of the Fumo Dust Blower, specially de-
signed for its application.
&
FUMO
BRAND
$
%
0
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Ueggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op, Union, Btd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Btd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, F,td., Perth.
cvbnm
Imitation Wieneke
xcvbn
Saddles are
being adver-
tised. This
ad. is a
warning to all readers
that the original
Roma Genuine
Wieneke
Saddle is my own
make only.
Send for my look of the
Champion Saddles of Australia.
John J. Wieneke,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
432 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
371 George St.,
SYDNEY.
ABOPIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
MOOKTS DIGNITY.
JACKEROO: “Why don’t you put your boots on, Mooki?”
MOOKI: “Can’t get ’[?]m on, boss — too plumy little.”
JACKEROO: “Well, why don’t you leave them at home?”
MOOKI: “Phella looks such a plumy fool gain’ to a show
without boots.”
“Munjong”; During the recent flood in
the Murrumbidgee losses of stock in the river valley
were heavy. The rise in the river about Gundagai
was so rapid that owners, particularly those of sheep
and pigs, were unable to move the animals the
necessary distance to high land, and in many in-
stances the behavior of stock made it impossible to
save them. One owner had ten horses marooned in
the centre of the flood. They stayed in the one
spot for 12 hours with the water up to their necks,
and acted in a generally rational and stoical manner
until the water receded and left them on compara-
tively dry land. Then, after roaming several times
round their extremely muddy island, they suddenly
took to the water again, with the result that every
one was drowned.
* * * *
“Verri”: Recently some men engaged in
blasting operations in the Waikato (M.L.), noticing a
cavity a few inches across, enlarged the aperture
and investigated the space beyond. It led them into
a limestone cave about a quarter of a mile long, whii
a wealth of beautiful formations. The fairies’ hiding-
place is just outside the town of Hamilton, which
gains thereby another tourist attraction.
“Sucre”: “S.C.’s” (B. 11/6/’25) lung-fish
(Ceratodus josteri) story is all right for the Anglers’
( l"b, but not for a scientific essay. The writer musx
have heard the yarn about them climbing out of
the water and basking on logs in the sun from a
Laplander. When he further states that they make
nocturnal visits to the shore and browse on succulent
grasses, I’m quite satisfied he has. been studying
reindeers. A man once told me he saw three of
the fish in the bar of a country pub; but, then,
the poor fellow had been seeing blue snakes too.
The perch of the Fitzroy (Rockhampton) is a genus
of the Ceratodus, but Ceratodus forsteri is not a
barramundi. The lung of the Forsteri is really only
an air bladder situated on the top of its head
between the gills, and furnishes an auxiliary power
of respiration. Overmantled by four-inch scales, the
creature has a snalcish head with a close-lipped mouth
armed with razor-edged molars nearly 2in. long.
In 1897 D. O’Connor, of Oxley, took two live speci-
mens to the London Zoological Society and sold
them for £9O. The Jardin des Plantes, Paris,
offered him £lOO for two other specimens. “S.C.”
can swell his banking account by a couple of millions
if he can produce one that lounges on sunlit logs
and browses like a Hereford.
* * * *
“Gelto” : It was during the erection of a
bush-material house in the Aitape district (New Guinea)
teat my attention was first drawn to a simple native
practice to prevent sores from festering. Kalang,
the native carpenter, hailed from Suein, and was
using the popular sixteen-inch knife; it slipped
and cut his finger, causing the blood to flow freely.
Building operations were suspended whilst he tapped
the injured member with a short stick until the blood
ceased to flow. He then carefully picked up all the
blood-bespattered grass and tied it into a neat
bundle. “Belong what-name something?’’ I asked
him, indicating the grass. He informed me in a
quick flow of pidgin English that in due time the
bundle would be burnt, which would make the
wound heal quickly. On the other hand, if the grass
remained unburnt, with the first shower of rain the
wound would fester and take many moons in healing.
As a matter of fact, the cut finger healed up wonder-
fully quickly for this climate, where such wounds
often fester on the slightest provocation.
* * * *
“8.J.D.”: On the question of “tarantula”
or “triantelope,” William Gillies, M.A., author of
“Nature Studies in Australia,” says “triantelope,'’
and who dares to say that Gillies is wrong?
“ J.D.C.”: Is there any
explanation for the growth of
horn in cattle following castra-
tion? It is noticeable that the
bull has short, heavy, powerful
horns, while the horns of the bul-
lock, though not so strong, have
a much greater length and
spread. In sheep the exact oppo-
site is apparent; the wether has
only a light shelly growth, while
the ram’s horns are, by compari-
son, tremendous. The gelding
also loses his masculine appear-
ance, and the growth of mane,
crest, etc., is all in favor of the
stallion. As the bullock develops
lighter bone, a more cow-like
head and softer hair and skin, I
am unable to understand why the
growth of horns (primarily
weapons of offence) should be in-
creased by the operation. It is
also noticeable that if the opera-
tion is performed at, say, six
months old, the animal will
develop a much greater length of
horn than if allowed to run to IS
months or so, as by that time the
“staggy” type of head will result.
It has been pointed out that long
horns are of great assistance to
the animal in times of drought
when tearing down scrub for food,
but as this applies equally to the
bull it can have no bearing on the
question of length. Occasionally
a “snaily”-horned bullock is seen,
but this is usually the result of
early injury, or a “poley” strain
in his breeding. The direction of
growth is altered also; the bull’s
short, heavy weapons tend for-
ward and down, while the bul-
lock's horns are generally out and up.
* * * *
“FY7” : The old legend that the Queens-
land “lung fish” ( Ceratodus ) crawls out of the water
to sun itself on logs (B. 11/6/’25) has long been dis-
credited by naturalists, together with many other
legends attaching to the prehistoric fish. Except
that it breathes air on occasion and can live much
longer than other fish out of the water, its habits
are very much those of the rest. 1 have heard of a
Burnett River manager who explained the eaten-out
state of his river frontages to the English owner as
being due to night-prowling mobs of ceratodi which
chased the stock off the ground and ate the grass.
Outside that I never met corroboration of “S.Cl’s”
contention that the “salmon” comes ashore and eats
“tender grass and leaves.”
HANDIER.
MAS. WREDFURN: “My husband goes out every morning for his constitootional.”
MRS. BALMANE : That wouldn’t do me ; I make my old bloke keep it in the ’ ouse.”
“J.A.E.”: “Sierra” (B. 4/6/'25) quotes
the slang terms “wash out” and “swinging the lead”
as possible products of the late war. These expres-
sions were used in the Navy at least 20 years ago
to the writer’s knowledge, and probably many years
before that.
* * * *
“Bill o’ C.”: I have no doubt the whip-
cracking, head-severing stunt with live snakes can be
done by anyone with the nerve, for the reptiles—the
smaller ones, at all events —-are notoriously fragile.
A nephew of mine has the uncanny hobby of killing
them by hand. As done by him it is simple and
harmless enough to the operator. He grabs the snake
by the tail, pulls it backward a foot or so, render-
ing it helpless; then swinging it round brings
it with a thump on the ground, thus breaking its back.
All the same, it is not a practice to be encouraged.
A hefty young farmer on the S.A. Murray Plats some
years ago came across a red-bellied black snake
asleep, and was fired with ambition to add it, alive,
to the local schoolmaster’s museum. He seized the
snake by the neck, and was about to carry it off in
triumph, when 'the' red horror suddenly whipped hi«
nether end round the man’s forearm, and with the
great leverage thus obtained proceeded to pull his
head backwards through his captor’s hand. Nor
could the latter, even with both hands, stop the
gradual creep back of that venomous head. It was
only when the head was right in his palm that,
making a last desperate effort, the too-adventurous
cocky succeeded in disengaging and hurling his
deadly prize from him.
“Albite”: “Jesmond” (B. 12/3/’25) sayi-
that the principal cause of disintegration in adobe
houses is a humid climate. Well, the climate of
Devon (Eng.) is humid enough to make buckshot
sprout; yet the Old Vicarage, East Budleigh (Sir
Walter Raleigh’s home), was sound enough when it
changed hands recently. It was built of adobe—
“cob” they call it there —about the year 1480. In
the neighborhood there are plenty of these cob
houses in their second century.
* * * *
“Dry”: It should have been obvious to
an old sleeper-cutter like “Mullarula” (B. 4/6/’25)
that my 100 per cent, meant payment for that
amount. A saw-miller sometimes gets 120 per cent,
out of a log, or, rather, is paid for it, half-inch
boards being sold as inch boards. Also a cutter
sometimes makes, say, five sleepers out of a log that
measures up for only four with a big half over.
It is not honest; but the Forestry Department takes
the 9d. each for royalty just the same. These
sleepers can only be got by grooving or tracking.
“Coolabali”: How did the name of oak
first come to be applied to the easuarina-tree? Some
people say that the early settlers named it so because
of a slight resemblance in the wood to that of the
English oak. Others say that the name came from
America, as “sheack”; but I can find no American
tree of that name. Still others think “she-oak” is
a corruption of some aboriginal word, but I have
failed to find an abo. word that could be altered
into it. Ile-oak is another misleading name. Some
bush dwellers believe that the trees represent the
male and female forms of the same species, but in
-reality they are quite distinct though related.
“J.H.S.”: That Coolgardie Greek who re-
surrected defunct oysters and used their cases to
camouflage the tinned variety (B. 28/5/’25) must
have had a special recipe for fumigating the shells.
A dozen years or so ago I made a set of draughts
out of the fin-bones retrieved from the decayed
carcase of a huge saw-fish caught on the Banana-
land coast. But although I boiled the bones, buried
them in the ground, drenched them with turpentine
and sun-baked them, the vile odor of dead fish
still offends my nose every time I open the box. If
Tony the Greek, is still in existence, I’ll shout him
the longest beer he ever strained through his
whiskers if he’ll only tell me how to purify those
bones, without destroying their shape and polish.
* * * *
“Flicker”: A request to our country
friends to procure us a successor to a pet owl
destroyed by a mongrel dog brought fruit, and we
received word that the bird would be forwarded as
soon as we were ready to receive it. My father,
being an ultra-conscientious person, sought the consent
of the Minister whose duty it is to look after the
interests of protected birds in S. Aus. He was
austerely received by the Department, and told that
he must apply in writing to be allowed to catch the
creature, and that until the permission was granted
the bird must be set at liberty—it could be re-caught
EXPERIENCE.
“But why don't you work? Hard work never
killed anybody.”
“You’re wrong, lady. I lost both me poor
wives that way.”
if the permit were granted. The Dad wrote his
application, and in due course a formidable docu-
ment arrived asking as many questions as a Lodge
might ask a candidate for election ; and finally the
consent was given. We notified the bailee of the owl,
who said that the bird had (ahem!) been re-cap-
tured, and was on its way. Yet every steamer that
leaves Australia carries away hundreds of Australian
birds to cold, bleak cages in foreign lands. Do the
exporters of these little Australians have to go to
all that trouble to obtain permission to “keep in cap-
tivity a bird protected within the meaning of the
Act”?
(Continued on page 21f.)
JULY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 dread the chill mornings when the grey mist comes
creeping
Through lattice and casement while yet I am
sleeping,
And sets the eaves dripping till pathways are sodden
And puddles the place where the poddy has trodden.
Then rises and hangs like a shroud in the sky,
The white mist, the night mist that comes in July.
Then come the bleak days when a west wind is
blowing
That chills to the bone where the old blood is
flowing;
When sturdy plants droop and trail seedlings perish,
And lost are the choicest of blooms that I cherish ;
The old hens cease scratching, no worms do they spy,
And there’s never an egg in the month of July.
Head lowered and restless, the sheep face it bleating,
Its breath taints the herbage and grass that they’re
eating ;
And cattle and horses, all four feet together,
Stand rough-haired and huddled, their jumps to
the weather,
And snuggled up close to the sow in the sty
The suckers lie swaddled in straw in July.
A wayfarer passes, his shoulders well muffled,
A lank fringe of hair ’neath his hat brim is ruffled,
His trousers are billowed, his coat-tails are flagging,
But low is his head and his footsteps are dragging;
No lift is he offered by those passing fey—
It’s a lean month, a mean month, the month of July.
The stove will not heat, and so trouble is brewing,
For worried ofel housewives scarce know wdiat they’re
doing,
And outside the washing is flapping and flying ;
For nearly a week it’s had no chance of drying.
Each day brings a fog or a squall scudding by,
And the sun has no warmth in the month of July.
I dread the dull days that I know well are coming,
When light wires are tight wires, and droning and
humming
A sorrowful dirge, like some lost soul singing
Of bad news or sad news, or ill luck it’s bringing.
And the she-oaks bend low with a groan and a sigh
In the chill wind, the ill wind that blows in July.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


&6aC meui
WW3V
I®
I
r
i
M
p
S'
a
■SI
;
V •
WHAT’S the use of liv-
ing if a man mustn’t
smoke as often as he
feels like it —or take a drink
when he’s thirsty? You might
as well he a slave!
The right kind of drink never
hurt a man yet —nor the
right kind of smoking; and
the right kind of smoking
can be summed up in two
words, “Matured tobacco.”
When you mature tobacco
for at least 3 years in the
wood you take away from
it all impurities, all harsh-
ness and bitterness, and if
you want to preserve your
health take my advice and
smoke nothing but matured
66
TURF
99
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
“BIG” SIZE - - 20 for 2/.
d
0
c
Q
i
*0
?!
$
*?
f^-ut-
e
f%4
0
/t
THE NEW-SIZE “TURF”—
“JUBILEE.”
Look for the
BLUE BAND
20 for 1/6
10 for 9d
GUARANTEED MADE FROM TOBACCO AGED IN THE WOOD FOR AT LEAST 3 YEARS.


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Soap, and nothing
but pure soap
When you buy Pears’ Trans-
parent Soap, whether scented
or unscented, you know that
what you are getting is soap
and nothing but pure soap. The appearance of each
tablet is that tablet’s certificate of purity. Your own
eye is as good as an analytical chemist.
ears
UNSCENTED
The above wrapper has re-
presented soap excellence
for over 100 years.
xcvbn
■ transparent
Iso a p
Matchless for the Complexion
“Up Top”: A superstition whicli has
caused thousands of deaths among North Australian
abos. is connected with the pointing of the death-
bone No white man has the slightest chance of
shaking their faith in the power of the bone to pro-
duce a corpse The instrument itself is sacrosanct; for
a woman even to look at it means death. It is of
three parts. The actual pointer, about sin. long,
is a piece of bone taken from the human fore-
inn and ground down to taper at the point. Affixed
by bush gum to the blunt end of the pointer is
the “string,” made of human hair and in some
cases 20ft' long. The other end of the string is
attached to the bottom of the “case,” which holds ck<-
pointer and string when out of action. This casv
is a cylinder of shin-bcne, and when dirty work is
done holds the victim’s blood. The witch-doctor
who points the bone does so at night only, and
is very secret, about it, as the prospective victim
might employ other doctors to retaliate on him.
If within a few miles of his enemy, he does the
job alone. The cylinder is placed upright on the
ground with the pointer between the operator’s
toes and adjusted in the direction of his.victim. lit
holds the string with his hands, and never on any
account lets it, touch the ground. At times, however,
the victim is a long way off, and for reasons of
native etiquette it may become imperative to call
in other doctors. The receptacle is then lasneu to
a tree, the string tautened and the bone-pointer
placed within a forked stick pointing in the direc-
tion of the doomed man’s camp. There may be at
the one time four doctors kneeling and holding up
the connecting string. The chief of them mumbles
snatches of corroboree song, alternately making passes
with his hand towards the enemy’s camp, each
sweep ending up at the sharp end of the pointer
This is supposed to make the blood flow freely through
the intervening space on to the pointer, then along
the string and into the open cylinder. But perhaps
the “patient” lias a friend among the operating
doctors. In that case the connecting string suddenly
breaks. It is solemnly bound up again and the
ceremony proceeds; but if the string breaks again
the whole business is declared off and the apparatus
wound up. The doctors may have a very fair
idea of the one of their number who cut the
string, but say nothing. One doctor can point the
bone at another, so they never know whose turn
it may be next. The curious fact is that once they
fully carry out the rite the man nearly always dies.
If, however, he is a very selfwilled abo. and doesn’t
in the least wish to die, he may possibly find some
extra-strong witch-doctor who will ferret out the
man who has pointed the bone, and in turn point
it at him. In that case the witch-doctor himself
dies.
* * * *
“Esmond”: Two officials of the W.A.
Mines Department were travelling by buggy through
a lonely part of the goldfields when they sighted a
prospector sprinting round and round a small mine-
dump pursued by a camel. When rescued the pros-
pector casually remarked that he and his brute had
had a disagreement. He went on to explain that
on previous occasions when he had offended the
animal he had always made up a bundle of his
ilothes and retired to a secluded spot, leaving the
camel to work off its feelings on the inoffensive gar-
ments. On this last occasion he had neglected to
take the precaution.
THE FLY IN IT.
PERCE: “There’s plenty cr chances, yer know, fer a
bloke to ’are a regular income.”
’URACE: “ Yai[?]s: but a man ’as ter wait sich an
elluratime fer the old-age pension.”
“ Jimsy” : “Zululamler's'’”'Papuan bow (B.
U/G/’25) is not nearly a record. I have one which
measures exactly 96 inches point to. point. Inci-
dentally, I have also a club which measures 45 inches
in length and is the biggest one of the “sling” or
wrist variety I have ever seen. My dad got both
cn ue sland some 30 years, ago.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : The Torres Strait mummy
found by “Atherton” (13. 11/6/’25) represents a lost
art, as far as Australia is concerned and “Atherton’
would have been well in pocket had he run away
with the deceased lady. Few, if any, really primitive
peoples mummified their dead as well as the Torres
Strait natives, and their work was much superior to
that employed in the cheaper Egyptian processes,
but the lady in question could not have been com-
*' if she "as “blacky-brown”, in color. The
mshmg stage was a beautiful coat of crimson
? c V"! "hich no modern flapper’s pigment could excel
m m mess and vividness. Great skill was exhibited
ic removal of the interior fittings, but these
were not eaten, as “Atherton” thinks—they were
taken to the edge of the sea at low tide to be
floated away with the rising flood. The coming of
the pearlers put an end to the art and many of
the artists; but if “Atherton” ever visits Brisbane
Museum he will see two perfect specimens, once
man and woman.
* * * *
“W.J.C.” : “Bioko’s” kangaroo that made
a ball of himself to roll down a steep slope (B.
23/4/’25) was either an acrobat or suffered from
TACT.
HOUSEWIFE: “Is that you, John?”
BURGLAR: “Yes, darling.”
atrophy of the caudal appendix. I have seen 'roos
get dow'n the steep slopes of the ranges round llci’-
berton (N.Q.) 40 feet at a bound. In this act the
heavy tail prevented toppling and the rolling men-
tioned by “Bioko.” When the hind feet find rest at
the completion of each leap, the tail action overcomes
the tendency of the upper part of the body to keep
moving, which would result in toppling. “Bioko”
obeys a similar law' when he jumps off a moving tram
in the right direction. This tail action gives rise
to the thumping accompanying the ’roo’s movements,
recently much discussed by the Council.
“Chris” : J. L. Heckler, of Ihuraua (M.L.),
lately shore thi'ee six-toothed sheep for the first
time. The weights of wool were 541 b., 441 b. and
331 b. respectively. The first-named is believed to
be the world’s record for a fleece.
* * * -X-
-“Curlew”: I will not comment on
“Niti’ic’s” theoi'y of Lake Eyi’e grass-seed passing
hundreds of miles through the sub-ai'tesian strata, in
some cases with water up to 210 degi’ees in tempera-
ture, and springing into fertility in the bore water.
No such theoi-y, however, is necessary to
explain bulrushes in bore-drains. The
seeds, like thistledown, fly hundreds and
sometimes thousands of miles, and only
descend from the air w’ith rain. Prob-
ably a microscopic examination of roof-
dust in Sydney would discover some of
the seeds. Then with the rain-water
they are carried into the creeks, gullies
and drains. Although rushes will only
grow in stagnant water, they require
such water to maintain a fairly con-
stant level around their roots. Conse-
quently, although they grow freely in
England in stagnant ponds standing, as
a rule, at the same level, in Queens-
land they are only found to any extent
in boi-e di’ains. The rivers rise and
fall too much in sympathy with the
seasons; and permanent ponds, unless
artificially kept full, are practically
unknown. Still, 1 have seen them make a fair
start • for a year or two in a western river and
kee P going <bntil a drought came,
* * * *
“Veronal” : One of the most remarkable
0 f the bower-bird family is the tooth-billed ( Sceno■
pceus. denlirostris), which homes in North Queens-
land scrubs and jungles. Its plumage is greyish
and somewhat resembles that of the cat-bird fairly
common in N. S. Wales. It selects an open level
space in dense scrub and strews an area of about a
yard square with green leaves. As the satin bower -
birds of the South do with regard to their decora-
tions, the northerner carefully replaces the leaves as
they wither with fresh ones, piling the dead leaves
in a heap close by its playground. In forming the
square the bird scrapes aWay every thing on the sur-
face, so as to show tlie dark soil beneath, with the
object, it is conjectured, of affording a dark back-
ground for the subsequent covering of green leaves,
There is no doubt that bower-birds possess consider-
able artistic and color sense. This is strikingly
manifested in the satin bower-bird’s habit of choos-
ing almost exclusively feathers, flowers, scraps of
glass, etc., of a blue tint for the decoration of its
play arbor. I have hung scraps of red rag near a
bower, but though the birds pulled these down they
did not use them as decorations.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: In spite of all yarns to the
contrary, the petrified bodies of only three abo-
riginals have been found in Australia, and there
are people who won’t believe even in these. The
first tw r o were found on the
Upper Murray in 1854 and brought
to Sydney. The other was dis-
covei'ed in a cave near Mount
Gambier (S.A.) in 1862. Shortly
after being found, someone stole
it, aird, although there were
rumors of its exhibition in Eng-
land some time later, it was never
recovered. All ti’ace of the others
has been lost, too —which is most
unfortunate.
“Centre” : Some new neigh-
bors had taken the house next
door, and with them came a cat.
The animal promptly started hunt-
ing the birds on my side of the
fence, where there are tw T o gums,
one leaning over at an angle of at
least 45 degrees. This tree carries
a shallow box in which I place
food scraps for my feathered visi-
tors, amongst whom are five
kookabui'ras that have been
friendly for over 12 months. The
five watched the movements of the
cat, but made no move while it
roamed through the garden. Re-
cently it climbed the tree that
carries the food-tray and started
to stalk some small dinei's. Then
the ructions began. The kooka-
burras made a concerted attack
from all sides with beaks, wings
and bad language. The cat
attempted at fii'st to argue the
point, but numbei's told, and in
her hurry to let them have the
last word she made a bad landing
into some wire netting. The
Jacks -were after her instantly,
and fairly hunted her off the pre-
mises. Then they returned to
their favorite bough in the tree,
and thoroughly enjoyed the joke.
That cat has not been my side of the fence since.
“Spenner”: A crow at Banyena (Vic.),
having overcome his natural v’ariness, has attached
himself to a gang of wheat lumpers. As each bag
is turned he makes shoi’t work of any mice sheltering
beneath. His brain hasn't grown dull on the job
either ; for, if this supply be unequal to his demand,
he’ll jump up and down the sheets of iron lying
about, and then good-bye to axiy mouse that breaks
for fresh cover.
“Jimmy Possum” : There has been gnash-
ing of teeth among the skin-collectors in Bananaland,
owing to the close
season for native-bears
and ’possums being ex-
tended for another 12
months. In some locali-
ties the bears, which
have now enjoyed
several years’ protec-
tion, have increased
noticeably in numbers,
and the hide-lifters
had been hoping to be
allowed once more to
work destruction among
the innocents. Pro-
bably not a few have
a tidy pile of pelts
stowed away some-
where, and are anxious
to realise on them. Of
late years considerable
tracts of country along
the Bananaland Noi’th
Coast have been ringed,
with the result that
the presence oi furred
creatures in th es e
localities is now' more
readily noticed, giving
to casual observers the
misleading impression
of a vast increase in
numbers. Nature-lovers
rejoice that the quaint,
harmless and lovable
koala is to enjoy at
least another 12 months’ respite from its greatest
enemy.
“Te W.”: Up to about 1870 the Acclimat-
isation Society of Victoria had liberated at the
Botanical Cardens, Melbourne, 18 caniries, 18 black-
birds, 14 European thrushes, 35 Java sparrows, six
Californian quail, four English robins, 50 “mainas”
(minas), 8 Indian turtle-doves and 80 English
wild ducks. Most of these have disappeaied. being
unable to contend with their new natural enemies.
The wild ducks, blackbirds and turtle-doves, however,
have made good, and the doves have spread widely.
I have seen them breeding on the berries -of
a native cedar in the N.S.W. South Coast scrub in
company with wonga-pigeons, satin-birds and parrots.
The Californian quail and the common English
pheasant were introduced in the Bega (N.S.W.)
district about the ’eighties. They flourished for a
time, but gradually disappeared, the eggs and young
being no doubt largely preyed on by native-cats
and goannas. I flushed the beautiful Californian
quail about that time in grassy gullies on the
Kameruka estate, and occasionally have seen pheasants
“rocketing” from the tall maize crops near the
town of Bega.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Will some Abo.-liar please
identify this fish? It was caught in a tidal ci'eek
near Darwin (N.T.). Its flappers and tail were like
a shark’s, its head like a rock-cod’s, its scaleless
body resembled that of a catfish, and it was furnished
with two tiny legs about 2in. in length, placed close
to the tail. The fish itself was about 18in. long,
with a very wide mouth, short whiskers and sharp
teeth. The niggers reckoned him “a cheeky-feller
debbilrlebbil” and they say he is deadly poison to eat
“I'arama”: One finds some outsizes in
clams, starfish, pearl oysters, sea-urchins, cpnch
shell and other marine oddments on and about the
Barrier Reef. The largest mussel I’ve yet seen was
dragged off worm-eaten timber that was firmly Em-
bedded in the coral half-a-day’s sail north of Rhine
Island. The “boy” who brought it up informed me
that it was good kaikai for him, though a “too-
rnuch big one.” He opened it, and showed me the
inside of the shell, which was as black and shiny
as jet, and entirely without any of the usual irides-
cence found in mussel shells. There was a small
pea-sized “pearl” in the flesh of the mussel, but that
ag,gin -was quite lustreless and of a dark grey. The
shell measured 13 inches from top to bottom, 7§in.
across and 4-|in. through. Is it a record ?
* * * *
“Goolara”: It is a common belief that the
bi'ush-turkey lays her eggs in the centre of the
characteristic mound and covers them with leaf
mould. I cannot say that this has never been done,
but my experience points to a different method. In
the belah forests not very far from Gulargambone
(N.S.W.) 1 saw several mounds which had been
built by a party of turkeys or mallee-hens. When
an egg was laid at the side of the mound the owner
kicked dirt and leaves backwards till it was covered.
Other birds did the same at different points, thus
keeping the mound in a circular form. It is easy
to understand how the central well becomes more
pronounced day by day. When the young turkeys
are hatched the parents are in attendance or close
at hand, but that they know their own chicks seems
doubtful.
* * * *
“ Jackeroo” : Once in Central Queensland
1 helped to make a blacks’ camp haunted. A
cfi'owd of us were in a tiny township for a New
Year’s spree, amongst the number being a newly-
afrived Scotchman, the proud possessor of a set of
bagpipes. Towards midnight we took Mac, who
w,.s by then scarcely able to stand, through the bush,
gave him his, pipes and started him in the direction
of the camp of sleeping blacks. The binghis when
they heard the row thought that their tribal devils
were after them, and fled, shrieking, into the bush.
Afterwards we headed Mac back to the pub, but
the binghis did not ifeturn' till noon the next day.
Collecting their belongings, they struck camp and
moved on. That happened 25 years ago, but
STRATEGY.
MA (to her daughter’s “boy”) : “Two ez company and three
cddcn, m' son. So, good night: I think I’ll he off to bed.”
such a web of superstition has been spread round
the place that even to-day it is regarded by abas,
and drovers alike as haunted.
* * * *
“Nitric”: Some fishermen after mackerel
Were lately cruising about Stradbroke Island (Q.)
and noticed a strange thing in front of their boat,
fnvestigatic n brought to light a large wallaby almost
exhausted. It w r as surmised that it had been pur-
sued by dogs and chased from Stradbroke, no less
than three miles distant, as the animal’s hindquarters
were mauled considerably. The fishermen landed at
the island to put the beast ashore, and for a while
it stood hesitatingly and had to be driven with sticks
t-> safety.


The dump with the hydraulic hoist
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Republic Motor Truck Sales,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
47 King Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factorj r Distributors:—
W. A. Crovvle, Ltd.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
cvbnm
just as thousands of Republics
are doing in road work—
-44
It gives us great pleasure to recom-
mend the 3'/2-ton Republic truck,
equipped with hydraulic dump,
as being one of the best pieces of
machinery that we have ever
seen. We are well pleased with
the truck and are glad to state
that it has done a great deal more
work than we expected it to do.
We use it for pulling the grader, for
plowing up our streets, for digging ditches
and pulling our ten thousand pound roller,
also for packing the streets. We have
run it since July 18, 1918, and outside of a
three dollar repair bill caused by driving
it into a bad bridge, we have not paid out a cent on the
truck and we are glad to recommend it to any person desiring
a truck that will do all kinds of work.
w
(Signed) R. W. LINDSAY
City Clerk, Dothan,
k i
wm
m
KU
r
if
II
pnrnm
i
*
wm
•« «^V
i§*
H
1
Ik
■
%
1
k
■
A
Hi
56
iu
s
-4


A. SAUNDERS’
“WESTMINSTER”
CHIMING CLOCKS
11 12
£
7 6 §
m
pil'j
s§=<!U!l
i-iii
F 888.
A. Saunders’ “GRANDFATHER,” full
“WESTMINSTER” Chimes, “LITCH-
FIELD” Strike at the hour. Dark Oak
Case, Mission Design, £2O, £25,
£35.
Full “WESTMINSTER” and “WHIT-
TINGTON” Combination Chimes,
“LITCHFIELD” Strike at the hour.
High-grade movement, £55, £75.
GRANDFATHER
and
HALL CHIMING
CLOCKS
we stock in various
designs.
The Cases are
perfectly made and
the movements
unsurpassed for
their accuracy.
All Clocks are
packed and sent
to youi* nearest
Railway Station
or Wharf FREE
OF CHARGE.
wm
fv
iwr
n
f!
K'
m
uj
n
V>=
jjiil,
M
1U
. F 843.
A. Saunders’ HALL CHIMING CLOCK,
“WESTMINSTER” Chimes, strikes
“LITCHFIELD” at the hour; 8-day
movement. Walnut case, £lO/10/-;
Mission Case, £l2/10/-
With Full “WESTMINSTER” Chimes,
Oak Case, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
Maximum Results
with
Minimum Effort
is what
All Owners of the
GULBRANSEN
Zfiuc^&cncertd
Registering Piano
L EXPERIENCE.
Don’t Forget the Fact that this Instrument,
though played by Music Rolls and Pedals,
is not a Player Piano in the ordinary sense.
Every note on the keyboard is controlled directly, separately and
individually. This is the thing about the Gulbransen that has
so stirred the imagination of the music-loving public 111AJ.
has awakened the interest of so many capable musicians m
the artistic possibilities of this instrument.
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE AGENCY: 10 HUNTER STREET.
Telephones: City 10751 and 10752.
m
6- v' #
1 Mi
&
i
P ,::
m
Q
i
m
i
:•
mmL
M m v
WU
m
mm
!.m *
WAX Your Linoleum
JOHNSON'S POLISHING WAX (Paste and
Liquid) is endorsed by all the leading manufac-
turers of linoleum for polishing, preserving and
protecting their product. Read the paragraphs below,
which are quoted from a letter written by the
Armstrong Linoleum Co. on July 5, 1923, to S. C.
Johnson & Son:—
“Our Research Department has tested John-
son’s Wax on a number of occasions, and has
approved it very highly for use on Armstrong’s
Linoleums. We have been recommending John-
son’s Wax in our advertising literature for pro-
bably ten years, and no user of our goods has
ever made a complaint to us regarding the satis-
faction secured by the use of Johnson’s Wax on
our linoleum.
“An application of a good wax, thoroughly
rubbed in, provides a film of wax over the surface
of the linoleum which hardens and prevents dirt
from being ground into the linoleum itself. It is,
therefore, much easier to clean a linoleum floor
that has been properly waxed, because the dirt
is readily wiped off the surface. Wax also pre-
serves linoleum and takes off a good deal of the
wear.
BTC
1
i
,jOKHSa\&
JOHNSONS
PREPARED WAX
Polishes EvEinrTHiNoterias*
FLOORS-L INOLEUM
WOODWORK
FURNITURE “
SHOES |
\AUTOMOBIL ES £,c f*
CJOHNSON&SOH
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia—
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
* v om your local dealer—write us, mentioning his name
and v* j will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by
A 834
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
otel IftwvcLi
I®i
gwl
**«'•
-lUllI'I'll It
Spring Street, Melbourne.
It is ideally and centrally situated in surroundings of
quietness and beauty, yet is within easy walking dis-
tance of the theatres and principal stores.
The complete and artistic furnishings, modern conveni-
ences, perfect cuisine, and quick courteous service com-
bine to produce the acme of comfort for every guest.
Hot and cold water and telephones in all bedrooms.
Minimum Tariff from 20/- (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 13/6.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwlnsor,
■ Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Manager: B. C. Jones.
u,
Melbourne
Cha tter.
The Occidentul
collins St. melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1533, 11609
Florists did a rare business on Saturday
night, with three theatrical first-nights, and
a revival of “Whirled Into Happiness” at
Her Majesty’s. Flowers everywhere were
gorgeous—baskets, boxes, sheafs and bou-
quets without end. A full house and
much enthusiasm pronounced Muriel Starr’s
“Secrets” at the Royal a winner. A charm-
ing piece it is, with frocking that runs the
gamut of fashions of the crinoline period to
the present day. Muriel, slimmer than of
old, is hardly recognisable in auburn wigs
of youth and maturity or the marcelled white
locks of old age. As a maiden of 18 she
lias corkscrew curls pink wreathed,, and
wears a hooped frock all lace frills and rose-
buds allied to pink satin bodice; in eloping
down a ladder she dons a crinolined incon-
venience of shot blue and green taffeta, with
a jacket of beige velvet and a pillbox hat
blue-feathered. A later gown is of rose-
flowered and blue-striped silk, with bustle,
opening over a' petticoat of rose-pink silk.
Jessie Page has dashing get-up of shot-blue
taffeta puffed over plaid silk, a headpiece
of the same with really naughty blue
feathers.
The principals’ clothes in “No, No, Nan-
ette,” and the costuming of the ballets are
delightful. The plump, diminutive Elsie
Prince wears among her frocks one of black
and grey check georgette showing accordeon
pleats beneath, and cheered with touches of
red; also a glistening silver frock belted
with parma violets,, and muff of same.
Pretty Madge White has lovely glad-rags,
but none so attractive as a frock of apple-
green georgette embroidered in mauve and
pale gold, the long coat of reseda hue with
squirrel fur allied to a green toque. Like
a snow maiden is dancer Constance Evans,
in flared skirt of white georgette edge I
with feathers, topped by crystal-adorned
bodice and headpiece. She dances like a
snowflake, too. Most effective of the ballets
is that wherein the shapely maidens sport
white satin bathing-suits, having shawl
wraps of the same material, with painted
designs to tone with the fringe A hilarious
night at the Princess ended after 11.30 in
speeches from Hugh Ward and garden stuff.
At the Athenseum’s mannequin parade Lee
White (a.plumper Lee than we have known
her) and her husband, Clay Smith, hoped to
be no longer visiting artists, but local celebri-
ties, or words to that effect The stage at
this period was a garden of bright
peaches arranged in pierrot dressing of
orange velvet with blue ruffles as effective
background to a huge ladder of yellow blos-
soms, a horseshoe of gilded laurel leaves, and
much scattered flowers and foliage. Lee’s
clothes chiefly were of the sheath variety and
somewhat longer than worn here. The pretty
theatre would not accommodate all the folk
who wanted to see the gay “Let’s Go.”
Patrons and performers, violinists in par-
ticular, in bud and abloom, came to Kreisler
on Saturday _ night to criticise, and only
dared to praise. Not a cough was heard
above the brook of melody flowing from a
perfect instrument, played by a master crafts-
man who loves his art. The violinist gath-
ered in a rare collection of laurel wreaths,
gilded and nature’s own. Of the first appre-
ciators were Governor Stradbroke, Arch-
bishop Lees and Mrs. Lees, the E. J. Car-
roll pair, pianist Edward Goll, his wife and
daughter, the Charlie Tait and .T. Scott
dames, Madame Rubara, Eileen Castles,
Pauline Bindley and Dr. and Mrs. Jona.
Italian Consul-General Grossardi and his
charming lady fed Melbourne resplendently
on Monday night in honor of aviators Di
Pinedo and Campanelli. No less than 174
covers were laid at Menzies’, where Italian
colors intermingled' on the menus and even
dolled up the fish. Turkey and cranberry
sauce were digested to the strains of “Fini-
culi Finicula,” and toasts were proposed by
the host and Chief Justice Irvine, with
Chorus by Priminister Bruce. The hostess
was in black raiment moonlight-beaded, and
daughter Francais’s black taffeta had many
wee frills. Among the guests were violinist
Kreisler and his wife, who wore black velvet
with crystal fringe; birdman Keith Smith;
Mrs. S. M. Bruce, in mauve; the Mayoral
Bruntons; John Monasli; General Chauvel,
accompanied by his pretty wife, in pale
blue; Admiral and Mrs. Hall Thompson:
shoals of pretty girls, accompanied by some
dashing members of the Air Force, and a
drove or so of Consuls and their wives.
Melbourne Society had a double thrill
when Mr. and Mrs. John Winter-Irving
parted with two of their daughters simul-
taneously—their eldest, Helen Margaret, to
Bruce Mead, and Joan to Geoffrey Vivian
Heath, youngest son of the F. W. Heaths,
of Malvern. Brides’ father owns a station
and a St. Ivilda mansion, and the family is
among Victoria’s best. A shower of rain did
not prevent crowds of onlookers rushing St.
Ivilda’s All Saints’, and mixing with the
elect in the flower-decked pews.
The brides, pretty and slim, who in-
herit mother’s good looks, wore gowns
that were short and much trained. The
elder was in cream and gold brocade,
sprinkled with diamente. Her veil of rare
lace came from ma-in-law in London, while
Mrs. Norman Falkiner lent the old Mechlin
which covered Joan’s fair shingle and floated
over white satin, crystal-beaded. A choker
necklet of orange blossoms gave prospective
brides something to copy. Each had
a quartette of maids, all in pink georgette
and gold lace, and the train-bearers were
wreathed with roses. Of the bevy were
Janet Winter-Irving, Shirley and Barbara
Bayles and Margaret Robertson, with Tempe
Falkiner, Joan and Elizabeth Darling and
Frances Winter-Irving as train-bearers.
Keith Stanton came over from the Harbor
City to see Geoffrey Heath through, and
Bill Winter-Irving was best man to Bruce
Mead. Presents-viewing, etc., was at No.
9 Darling-street, of the guests being Prime
Minister Bruce, who is a cousin of Bruce
Mead.
Members of the Women’s Art Club gave
an at-home in celebration of their annual
exhibition in the upper Athenaeum Hall. The
chief offering was a lecturette by Blamirc
Young on “The Difficulty of Self-expression.”
which threatened at first to be entirely dull.
“But,” went on the placid brushman, “modern
high-school training hampers embyro artists,
especially girls, because much of their natu-
ral emotions, instincts and thoughts
undergo repression, damaging to the ego.”
“How?” demanded a chorus of feminine edu-
cators of the young. “An artist’s attitude to-
wards life,” replied the untroubled Blamire.
“must be positive, not negative.” Things looked
promising for some fun, but the gentle crea-
ture was very diplomatic, even when he
stated that “an artist must be unmoral,
which does not necessarily mean immoral”—it
recalls the dissertation of a certain Sydney
Judge upon the difference between the nude
and the naked. When the company’s raised
fur had been smoothed again, it found further
calm in coffee and buns.
One of the chief speakers at the C.M.S.
annual meeting was H. C. J. Asche, a
nephew of the redoubtable Oscar. Tall and
spare, he is as unlike his rotund uncle as
it is possible for one of the same species
to be. After a brilliant career at Mel-
bourne ’Varsity, where he graduated M.Sc.,
B.C.E. and Dip. Ed., he cast in his lot with
the Church Missionary Society and became
head of its college (Trinity) in Canton.
He and his wife—she is a daughter of the
late Professor Adam —are on a visit to their
home town.
You will see lots of photos of this lady
during the next four or fivp years; but a Lon-
don camera
has made us a
first picture
of Lady Stone-
haven, wh o
until the other
day was Lady
Baird, and
who in a few
months will be
mistress at Fed-
eral Govern-
ment House.
Australia knew
her once as
Ethel Keith-
Falconer, Lord
Ivin tore’s
daughter
(father was
Governor of S.
A us.) ; and
her husband
was on Gover-
nor Duff's staff
in N. S. Wales in his youth. Three daugh-
ters will come to Australia with the new
Excellencies.
The Leslie Stuarts staged a dance as a
preliminary canter to the Bridge and cafe
chantant arranged by the Countess at Gov-
ernment House in September for the Girl
Guide movement, and jazz was engineered
by the hostess, whose apple-green raiment
glistened with diamente, and by daughter
Nanette, who wore black lace; their sup-
porters were the Tallis lady and daughter
Biddy, Mrs. Walter Bayles, and Vera de
Bavay, whose rose georgette was traced with
crystal beads. Patrons revolved in a ball-
room dolled up with real crimson holly and
autumn foliage. The thrilling moment of the
jollo was the arrival of airman Pinedo, with
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Knox, who had dined
him that evening, along with Italian Consul
Grossardi and his wife, whose frocking was
black with a dash of crimson. Melbourne’s
younger set was represented by Wilma
Clarke, Gertrude Dix, Norah Currie, Nancy
Barrett aud hosts of others.
One of the few Australians permitted to
sing minor parts in the recent Melba opera
company was
Rosa Pinker-
ton, here pic-
tur e d by
Broothorn. As
M i cae 1 a in
“C a r m e n.”
when the co.
appeared in
Adelaide, and
as Siebel in
the Dame’s
last perform-
a n c e of
“F aus t” in
Australia, the
promising
young soprano
delighted
li e r backers.
Spurred on by
their encour-
agement, she
is now buy-
ing staff and
shoon for the pilgrimage to the London
Mecca. The Osterley will take her, hut
before she goes she will sing her swan song
at a concert on July 6.
June Elvidge, in black satin bead-belted,
had bridge and a dish of tea ready at her
apartments the other day for some of the
folk she has “gotten acquainted” with here.
Star Pauline, whose long suit is not tea-
parties, patronised the gathering, also
apparelled in black with squirrel-fur addi-
tions. The Tallis dame, who brightened
sapphire-blue frocking with Oriental em-
broidery, was of the card-sliufflers, and had
daughter Biddy with her. Posies for all and
pretty trifles for top-scorers were surprises
of the farewell occasion.
Judging by advance models, the Spring
will find woman still going upon an em-
broidered and beaded way, only more so.
Lines will lean to the straight, with an occa-
sional break in a flared apron-like flounce
across the front width. French houses of
fashion send dreams of frocks at prices suffi-
ciently large to cause a painful awakening
to some of us.
The rush of nuptials suggests the week
before Lent. At St. Patrick’s Cathedral
yet another woman-doctor, Dr. Lorna Bray,
faced the altar, when she became the help-
mate of Dr. H. Newman Mortensen. The
frocking was all cream and gold. The bride,
who is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T.
J. F. Bray, and has only just qualified, shim-
mered in gold brocade and lace with cream
tulle veil and a shower bouquet of roses.
Dr. Doris Grant and Kathleen Dillon
’maided in similar apparel, with scarfed
headpieces of tulle. The bridegroom had two
brother-doctors to support him. The feast
was at No. 9 Darling-street.
Members of the Austral Salon said their
farewells to their popular secretary, Mrs.
Quinnell, in music, coffee and cake. The
guest of honor, having an honorary-service
record approaching 20 years, was handed by
senior vice-president Mrs. Thomas Baker a
bit to spend abroad. The cheque for £10(1
10s. came as a genuine surprise to and quite
overwhelmed the usually placid lady, who
larded her thanks with good words for Miss
Alice Richardson, her successor. Soprano
Pauline Bindley, who lias also packed her
pretties for Europe and travels with Mrs.
Quinnell by the Baradine on July 11, was
one of the warblers, and was wished bon
voyage. The singer, though recovered from
a recent accident, is still a bit nervy. Con-
tributors to the evening’s melody were tenor
Walter Kirby and a pupil, Miss Rochfort.
Illness kept the Salon’s president, Dame
Madden, away, and a crowded house expressed
regret at her absence.
About a month ago Governor Stradbroke
did the opening sayings of the Auxiliary
Convalescent Hospital at Caulfield, which
is to relieve congestion at the city’s public
hospitals, taking over a number of recover-
ing patients. Since then the ladies’ commit-
tee has run a jazz with cards, to raise funds
for providing something in the way of a
little tuck-shop for patients and staff. The
function drew nearly 400 patrons. The
president of the committee of 11 ladies re-
sponsible for the jazz was the Mayoress
(Mrs. A. E. Morris), whose coral-pink gown
was crystal beaded. Dr. Fleming Dunstan’s
wife seeretaried in cherry satin and tulle,
and treasurer Mrs. Bickford wore black rai-
ment. Of the hospital staff present were
matron Kitson and Drs. Heale and Fone.
A Wagner programme was the offering of
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, under
conductor Alberto Zelman, at the Auditorium
on July 1. Memory recalls an in
Sydney during the Great War when Ver-
brugghen announced two all-Wagner con-
certs. But the Belgian had to call the events
off; and nothing of the sort has been tried
until now r .
Melbourne Hospital on Friday afternoon
house-warmed quarters costing £40,000 to
accommodate a nursing staff of 112. Countess
Stradbroke in tuniced frock of black sarin,
fur-collared, with ditto millinery, showed her
appreciation of the ministering angels by
throwing the door open. Coming in out of a
heavy shower of rain, crowds of visitors in-
spected bedrooms and sitting-rooms, upstairs
and downstairs, and found tea and cake on
the skyline. Medical staff, matron, hospital
committee and auxiliary welcomed the Gov-
ernor's lady, president Mrs. A. V. Hiskins
making the formal introductions.
Mrs. Fred Fairbairn, now wending her
way homewards from Honolulu, comes back
to a new country residence at Frankston.
The dwelling has the latest in roofing—slabs
of good old stringy-bark.
Quite a distinguished company was at
Signor Pietro Sarcoli’s violin recital at the
Assembly Hall. In the front seats were
Papal-Delegate Cattaneo, Italian Consul-
General Grossardi, birdman Di Pinedo and
his nut-twister Campanelli. The violinist's
chief offering was a pleasing performance of
the Cesar Franck Sonata in A Major, in
which he had the splendid support of Edward
Goll at the piano.
That hard worker in the cause of charity
and Melbourne’s artistic and intellectual
betterment, Miss Charlotte Hemming, is due
to receive some tangible recognition of her
manifold services. In 1923 a concert was
organised for the purpose ; but the lady in-
sisted that the proceeds should go to sufferers
by the Japanese earthquake. Now an acci-
dent in which her hip was broken has given
additional reason for her friends to remember
how their intention of two years ago was
so generously diverted, and G. E. Newton,
secretary to the Melbourne Shakspeare
Society, is shepherding a committee which
is getting busy upon a benefit entertainment.
Just before Dorothea Spinney packed up
her Greek translations and took her ancients
off to Adelaide, there was a Sabbath-after-
noon reception at Linden, St. Ivilda. Mrs.
Garden and Miss Michaelis hostessing. The
willowy tragedienne, gathering her floating
draperies around the piano-stool, sang some
attractive melodies to her own fingering.
Among the numerous tea-sippers were Little-
ton Groom and his lady, Dr. Barrett and
his wife, the Herbert Brookeses, Mrs. Hugo
Wertlieim and Dr. Constance Ellis. Miss
Spinney promises to look in here on her
way to Sydney and give Hamlet an outing.
There was much old ivory-toned velvet dis-
played at the Keith Klingender-Betty Ful-
larton wedding the other night, both leading
lady and her two ’maids being so wrapped,
with incrustations of gold. The bride wore
her cousin Mrs. M. Morgan’s choice veil of
Brussels lace. The ’groom is the only child
of the F. L. Klingenders, of Toorak, and the
bride a daughter of the Consul for Japan and
Mrs. Fullarton, of Elsternwick, where amid
gold draperies and blossoms friends were
feasted and cast admiring eyes upon a wealth
of gifts.
From Adelaide, wlnye the cross-word is a
crime:—
The Conservatovium Association, now with 300
members, staged its President’s Night in the Elder
Hall, where Frederick Bevan made Sullivan the sub-
ject of a delightful address with food and (hatter to
follow. The newly-fledged association promises to
“foster music” and “provide friendly eo-operation”
on a satisfactory scale.
The legal sleuths who watch our morals suddenly
decided that cross-words were illegal, and the dailies
dutifully dropped their competitions. Now, however,
they’ve circumvented the element of chance by giving
the prize to the correct solution plus the best
Limerick on the words, instead of to the first correct
answer to come out of the bag.
The Government has at length declared for the
removal of the vice-regal dwelling, but hasn’t yet
made up its mind whether the Duncan or the Rymill
home is to be the new location.
North Adelaide mourns the death of Mrs. G. IT.
Jose. The Joses came here from China in 1903, and
have been at Christ Church rectory almost ever since.
All their three sons served in the war, and one was
killed.
Mayoral and Bachelors’ balls have been the frivol-
of the week, the former in the Town Hall under the
Glovers’ hospitable wing and the latter at the Maison
de Dance, Glenelg, with 14 bachelors as its sponsors.
Mrs. Glover veiled gold satin with gold lace, put a
touch of fur at the hem and a rust-colored rose on
her shoulder, and braced herself for threequarters
of an hour of handshaking. Mrs. Poole’s brocaded
tissue was fur-bordered, too, as was her daughter’s
mauve crepe de Chine. Poinsettias and palms gave
the color note to the ballroom, and the supper-tables
were abloom with Iceland poppies and ferns.
The Charity Carnival on the Oval was a varied
and joyous thing, and brought a record crowd and
receipts. Hockey for men and for women; soccer;
Rugby, a game unknown to Adelaide, which amused
the crowd immensely; football between blackfellows
and a B-grade eighteen (Black Brother did not
score at all in the first half, but ultimately made
it a tie) ; physical displays, wrestling, Chinese resi-
dents inside dragons, a football veterans’ game in
which the sphere was bounced by a low-swooping
aeroplane, and massed bands of several hundred per-
formers —could you ask for more? The management
was good, and the long waits generally endured
at carnivals were missing.


REDUCTION the PRICE
OF
HIGH-GRADE BRITISH CAMERAS
at HARRINGTONS
The No. 4 Watch Pocket Carbine
xcvbn
The British-made Camera which is sold with a
guarantee that it will give real service of a standard
that only Carbines can maintain.
The pictures are x 2|, and daylight-loading roll
films are used.
Lens.
| Single
Rapid Rectilinear
1 Aldis-TJno Anastigmat
Price.
£2 12
5
12
6
0
6
Reduced To
£2 1
3
3 1
*uso
The No. 1 Watch Pocket Carbine
takes pictures 2} x 2}, and is a thoroughly reliable little camera small enough
to be carried anywhere without inconvenience.
xcvbn
The No. 6 Watch Pocket Carbine
stands in a class by itself, and is the finest value obtainable. For pictures
3£ x 2\.
cvbn
Various Models of the Famous British-made
ENSIGN CAMERAS have also been REDUCED IN PRICE.
Call or send for a Special Price List.
(TO
The House for
Good Cameras,
SYDNEY: 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE: 366 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
KATOOIIBA: Katoomba Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS
MUSIC LOVERS are hereby requested to obtain the following OPERATIC
and GILBERT & SULLIVAN MASTERTOUCH WORD ROLL
SELECTIONS:—
D. 417 One Fine Day (“Madam Butterfly”).
D. 460 Favourite Strains from “La Boheme.”
D. 464 Favourite Strains from “Madam Butterfly.”
D. 465 Softly Awakes My Heart (“Samson & Delilah”).
D. 460 Barcarolle (“Tales of Hoffmann”).
D. 472 Favourite Strains from “Pagliacci.”
D. 482 Favourite Strains from “Rigoletto.”
D. 491 Favourite Strains from “Pirates of Penzance.”
D. 1004 Favourite Strains from “The Bohemian Girl.”
D. 1005 Favourite Strains from “II Trovatore.”
D.IOIO Favourite Strains from “Carmen.”
D. 1016 Favourite Strains from “lolanthe.”
D. 1021 Favourite Strains from “The Gondoliers.”
D. 1027 Selections from “The Belle of New York.”
D. 1029 “H.M.S. Pinafore” Selection.
D. 1036 “The Mikado” Selection.
D. 1044 Favourite Strains from “Faust.”
THE MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLLS contain the full score of the words
in English with every selection, opening up a new field in Music Rolls.
Never before have you been able to fully enjoy Operatic Music as the most
vital part of the Opera has been omitted. Remember the MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS are the only ones containing this feature.
All of these selections are beautifully played and should appeal to the most
discriminating musician.
Obtainable from all MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLL Dealers.
MASTERTOUCH
- - Hand Played ■=■.■
A\
Rolls
us
tb
are
EST
B
EST
AT
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.
HAR.DY B FLO S LTD. '
jEWELLEHS I
of guaranteed reliability.
xcvbn
Illustration shows:
Handsome Westminster Chime
Clock, in attractive Oak Jacobean
Case, with silvered dial: ohi>n-
iug quarter-hours on symphnn y
rods. Filled with h ighest-grade
eight-day pendulum movement
and fully guaranteed. Height of
clock is Jill inches: width across
base 101 inches, diameter of
dial 51 inches.
price £l2\l2j~
HARDY BROTHERS’ selection of handsome Clocks
features many attractive and unusual designs of the
unequalled standard of quality and dependability associ-
ated with the name of Hardy Brothers for a period of
over seventy years. All clocks purchased from the
Company will be kept in going order free of charge for
twelve months—actual breakages only excepted.
Five per cent, discount allowed on all cash purchases.
Hardy ; Brothers' Catalogue will he sent to any address on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
( 3Jve c House of* Occlusive SeweUenj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
WAKEFIELD
xcvbn
MOTOR oil
goes to the Pole
AMUNDSEN is Safe! The tension relaxes and a
relieved world quickens with admiration at the
end of a marvellous achievement.
In the belief that he was at the Pole the brave
Norseman alighted, only to find himself a paltry seventy-
five miles from the great objective. Not at the Pole truly,
but so near to it that the goal was practically won.
The triumph of Man and Man’s ingenuity over
the almost insuperable forces of Nature remains.
“CASTROL” helped in the epoch-marking flight. Chosen
by experienced men for the vitally important function of
lubrication in an arduous undertaking, where mistake or
inefficiency would be fatal, “CASTROL” played its
honest and loyal part. Heroic men staked their lives on
its service—and it did not fail!
lohe supreme test:
The 'planes were frozen into a lane in the ice, into
tchich they had descended, hut one teas cleared.
The freed 'plane flew hack with the whole party to
the point where they were taken aboard hy the sealer.
C. C. Wakefield 8 Co., Ltd
The All-British Firm,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. B7465-6.


Under
Royal
Warrant
xc
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1914.
HAMPAGNI
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
OiariesHcidsieoC
REIMS
Uj I , u o t**"
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
SYDNEY’S LEADING RESIDENTIAL HOTEL
“Where you and I meet.'”
Steam-heated throughout, its sumptuously-furnished lounges and
delightful suites are a haven of simple luxury and refinement.
UNRIVALLED CUISINE AND WONDERFUL SERVICE
Guests of the Hotel are cordially invited to the world-famed Ballroom
and Palm Court for dancing to the strains of its inimitable band each
afternoon or evening.
TARIFF FROM 25/- PER DAY INCLUSIVE.
Church Hill, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W1361.
REVISION OF PRICES AND
NOTEWORTHY INNOVATIONS.
ffl
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Popular Nights.
DIKING
from 7.30.
1016
DANCING
till 12.
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 .... 5/6
THURSDAY AND SATURDAY
(late nights) :
Continental Dinner, 7.30 21/-
Saturday, Reduced, from 25/-
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 .... 10/6
Noteworthy Innovations.
Spectacular Dancing, Song and Music.
Two Bands. Continuous Enjoyment.
AFTERNOON TEAS, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Book early. Order Wines before 6.
Ring M 3666, M 3020.
AWOMANS
LEŢER
SAY
Kayser
GLOVES
The banner-bearers of every woman's orga-
nisation in Sydney marched to the Went-
worth one afternoon last week to drink a
round or two of tea to the glory of Woman
in the person of the State’s first lady
M.P. Miss Preston Stanley, looking at once
radiant and shy. glowed from under a new
hat that has been bought expressly, this
Letter avei’s, to catch the Speaker’s eye, and
will without doubt give her an unfair advan-
tage over the merely bare and bald heads of
her associates. Woman, wise and other-
wise, swung the censer of praise, and of the
acolytes none was more graceful in the act
than those good losers, Mrs. Jamieson Wil-
liams and Mrs. Laverty. Dame Mary Hughes
queened it over the tea urns, and music
purred an undertone to the afternoon’s
hallelujah.
The drawing-room of the Australia was
rather like a scene in a ,musical comedy the
other morning when the first meeting for
establishing a canteen for America’s Jack-
ashore was in progress. Snake-skin shod
and fur-wrapped, Sydney’s very best purred
over the matter for nearly two hours. Mrs.
Fred Aronson with Mrs. Tony Hordern and
a handful of the city’s super-dreadnoughts
sat behind the footlights, and advanced and
erased resolutions and amendments with an
alacrity and urbanity that was a joy to the
beholder. Hugh D. Mclntosh, Henry Braddon
and knight MacCheyne Anderson, sitting on
the outposts of the big alcove, were like the
corner men in an old-fashioned “variety”
turn. As one sat down the other jumped up
to add to the vortex of suggestions that
threatened to engulf the business till Lady
de Chair, who was presiding, rather neatly
put the meeting back on its rails. American
citizens—the Consular Lawtons among them
—were present in numbers, and uttered a
polite protest against the city making the
canteen a guest-house. They thought the
American sailor would prefer to pay a little
for his entertainment. But the meeting was
firm that “No charge is to be made.” Still,
after about 15 minutes’ dialogue it was de-
cided to supply the premises with collection-
boxes for local charities. The meeting ended
with Henry Braddon opening a subscription
list, to which Hugh Mclntosh shyly contri-
buted £lOO. The Orient Co.’s old wharf
at the Quay will be the canteen’s address.
The meeting was about to go its ways
when the word ran around that the Ameri-
can Admiral’s newly-arrived wife was com-
ing down to pay her respects to the State’s
vice-reine. For 10 minutes the committee
and her Ex. prowled about. Captain Coote
in grey tailorings smiling all things to all
men ; but no sea lord’s lady appeared. Finally
it was whispered that the lady was away
having a wave put in her hair. No doubt an
ocean wave.
Mrs. Coontz, looking rather like the prin-
cipal of a girls’ college who perhaps lectures
on bird lore in her vacations, has, in common
with all American mothers this Letter has
known, silvery hair. So far she has uttered
no word that would add to the gaiety or the
wisdom of the nations, but has under her
wing two jolly girls—daughter Bertha and
niece Frances Green —and they look as
though they have spark enough to put a curl
into even a mah-jongg party. Another pretty
sailor’s lass who came to Sydney by the
Aorangi is the blonde-haired daughter of
Commander Maclean, of the U.S.A. cruiser
Colorado. She’s a distinctly Highland type,
aquiline as to nose and grey-blue as to eyes.
Padre Toe 11. Clayton, in spite of damag-
ing his kneecap on the way out to Rose Bay,
kept his tryst with the ladies of Kambala,
The two Misses lioseby had sent out cards
for a garden-party, but the weather being
particularly dirty the adventurers went into
the big old-fashioned drawing-rooms; and
here with smiling fortitude and the grim
determination of the misguided Casabianca
the padre told the legend of Toe H. After
which he whispered his shameful secret and
allowed himself to be tucked into a car and
returned in a damaged condition to Admi-
ralty House, while pianist Paul Vinogradoff
poured a stream of exquisite melody over
the gathering—his reading of Chopin was as
fervid and inspiring as the temperamental
poinsettia in the old Dutch bowls.
The big Society crush of the week was
the wedding of ex-Premier Fuller’s only
daughter, Gwen, to Frank Longwell Wharton,
of Queensland. Four hundred invitations
had been sent out, and everybody cashed up
cheerfully, for Gwen is one of Sydney’s best-
known and most popular girls. St. Andrew's
was chosen for the tying, and simply hun-
dreds of lookers-on camped in the Cathedral
grounds from early evening—many of them,
it is true* were the “early doors’’ for the
Kreisler concert in the neighboring Town
Hall, but they helped to swell the throng
that gave the waving bride and ’groom a
cheer as they finally drove off under a brand-
new moon to the Ambassadors.
Within, St. Andrew’s was packed from
the chandeliers downwards. Some persistent
thrusters even got as far as the pulpit; and
multitudes of the uninvited stood on thl
seats during the passing of the bride up the
length of a cathedral that looked like a
harvest-home festival prinked out with palms
and blooms and coquettish white ribands.
Gwen stepped with a soft sweep of satin,
short as to cut, draped with Brussels lace
on its left side. Frills of the same lace
edged the satin train, and the same soft-
mesh veiled the bride’s dark head, while a
great sheaf of gladioli, pansies and orchids
languished and glowed in the crook of her
arm. Noni Robinson, Doreen Gale, Nell
Charley and Mollie Whitney, carrying high
.white staves pink-garlanded, ’maided; all in
white except for their head-veils, which
were of pink tulle moored by bandeaus of
brilliants and pearls. Two small train-bearers
lent pictorial aid. Bride’s brother George
best-manned, and Claude Pain, Dr. Herbert
Maitland and Neville Body (Q.) were the
other male supports. The Ambassadors,
whither the 400—included were the State
Fx.es. and daughter Elaine—hastened after
Canon Lea and the press photographer had
played their parts, was simply saccharine
with hearts and darts, pink wedding-bells and
true-love’s knots, while the gold-leafed pil-
lars shone tolerant through rosy wreaths
speared with the initials of bride and ’groom.
Amid the horticulture the bride’s mother did
the honors, in handsome black upholstery
cheered with embroideries of a steely nature
and a posy of red carnations. The ’groom’s
mother also enveloped herself in black topped
by a plumed black hat. Lady de Chair
mingled ermine wraps and sable velvets w T ith
a happy result, and Elaine’s radiance was
sheathed in a shimmer of silver.
The Institute of Journalists spread a
lunch at Farmer’s for Kreisler, and in re-
turn, like Tommy Tucker, he sang for his
supper, and the theme of his song‘was the
mission of Music in breaking down the bar-
riers that Commerce and Politics build up
between the nations. “Music,” he said,
“opens the portals of the mind.” Yes. and
opens the portals of the pocket, as Mr.
Kreisler’s bank balance can testify! Why
will these foreign artists talk to us in Aus-
tralia as though we had not the intelligence
to understand that professional music-
making, even as cobbling, is a matter of
supply and demand, of buying and selling?
If Australia had not possessed the thou-
sands to pay Kreisler for his art, then
Kreisler, in spite of his mission, would not
have brought his muse to our doorstep.
The pretty Y.A.D. who looks out from
this May Moore picture is Florence Ellis,
who has been
war - working
since the
founding of
the Y.A.D. in
X. S. Wales.
She was secre-
tary to Mrs.
Chris. Be n-
nett, who was
the High
Priestess of
the movement,
and only left
that job to
work in the
Blinded Sol-
diers’ Cafe in
Pitt- street.
There she was
in charge till
a week or two
ago, when
home - duties
made a stron-
ger claim than even her blinded Diggers.
Under her and her splendid helpers the cafe
has grown from a small room furnished with
two or three tables to a two-floor establish-
ment, with kitchen and everything complete.
Merely a heroine, like scores of other large-
hearted girls who carry on even in this day,
so far removed from the cheers and en-
thusiasm of 1914.
St. John’s within the Uni., very spark-
ling through the murk of one of the dirtiest
nights of last week, threw its gates wide
to a long string of cars that more or less
squelched their way to the entrance of the
college. Here fireglow, softly shaded lights
and a wealth of poppies streamed down the
panelled hall and brushed away the fog
from the eyes and the minds of even the
chronic weather-sufferer. President Dr.
O’Reilly, urbane and dominating, greeted all-
comers, and was aided and abetted in his
scheme of hospitality by St. John’s vice-
president, Father Templeton. Grey matter
as active as seething lava jazzed in every
headpiece in the assemblage, and the dancing
was none the worse for it. Evidently the
bluer the stocking the greater her potentiali-
ties as a tango-tripper. Frencli-lecturer
Gladys Marks was among the revellers, and
the Women’s College came in the person of
Miss Tildesley. Attorney-General McTier-
nan was there —too shy to really give the
girls a thrill—and the principals of St.
Paul’s, St. Andrew’s and Wesley, and Cecilia
Walsh, Mayoress, were others who danced
amid the blaze of green and gold that gave
the ballroom an invigorating top o’ the morn-
ing look.
The Dudley Cup dance is expected to be
the high ball of Polo Week. The very tiara
of Sydney Society, so to speak, scintillates
on the committee, which has Mrs. Tony
Hordern as president. The plan of the
boxes is at Nicholson’s.
Success, pictorial and monetary, crowned
Mayoress Cecilia Walsh’s first effort for the
T.B. soldiers and sailors. Hundreds of
dancers, in and out of fancy costumes, came
to the Town Hall ball, and 16 pretty debs,
fluttered before two sets of vice-regals, with
whom was knight Owen Cox. Naval gold
braid was represented by the Robins couple,
and military ditto by General Brand and his
lady. The Chief Justice Streets were also
among the notables.
Half of Sydney is waiting to welcome this
clever singing-girl, Dorothy Helmrich, who
is eom i n g
home for :i
six-weeks' holi-
day after three
years of suc-
cess that
almost reaches
ihe altitude of
a triumph in
Europe. A
pupil first of
Will Beattie
and later of
\f a vrogordato,
Dorothy was
altogether Syd-
ney - trained,
and on her
arrival in Lon-
don had the
great delight
of hearing one
of England’s
greatest teach-
ers say: “You
have nothing to unlearn.” Mosman Musical
Society is arranging a monster welcome-
home for one of its most popular ex-members.
She arrives by the Osterley.
Knowing only its own language and the
French of the menu, this Letter confesses to
not understanding a word uttered by Medea
and her contemporaries last Friday night
at the Con. The youths of the Armidale
School Dramatic Society had decided to put
the lady’s case in ancient Greek before an
impartial audience. With intrepidity the
participators in the general ruin made their
appearance, then suddenly seemed stricken
self-conscious, and mumbled and savaged their
lines in a kind of bitter shyness. In the
name-part and a flowing garb of red and
black an adventurous descendant of pioneer
Wentworth shrilled and piped Medea’s woes,
nearly splitting the ears of front-seaters
with the punch he put into the tragic muse.
Both the G.-G. Fosters and the State Viking
and his lady drank in the lines as though
a quart or so of the ancients was their
usual nightcap.
Contralto Kate Rooney-Kirkham leaves to-
day (Thursday) by the Aorangi for her home
in New York. It is now six months since the
lady brought her warm smile back to her
native land, and in that time she has pro-
bably put up a record in charity perform-
ances. She has also become a favorite with
listeners-in, and last Monday not only sang
into the starry blue, but sent a farewell
speech winging to her admirers. The singer’s
mother, who is 82, has been a proud front-
seater at the many concerts enriched by her
daughter’s contralto for the past half-year.
Father Hartigan, of the famous “Boree
Log,” had scarcely reached Rome when he fell
ill. He had gone to Europe for the Holy
Year celebrations, but continued so long on
the sick list that his party went on without
him. However, his illness was not of a seri-
ous nature, and probably by this time he is
cruising around the south of France and in
his heart saying “These Mediterranean blues
are all right: but you should see my Nar-
randera.” Incidentally, Brisbane’s R.C. bishop
has just had a screening of “The Boree Log”
put on for the clerical convention in the
Northern capital.
How strangely the last call comes! Even
as a man absently crumbles his roll and sips
his wine in expectation of the next course,
he feels a stir beside' him and, glancing up,
looks into the eyes not of a solicitous waiter
but of commanding Death! Such was the
passing of W. T. Cunningham, a visitor at
the Journalists’ luncheon to Kreisler. Mr.
Cunningham, who is a Londoner, had been
associated with the Australian screenings of
Alleuby in Palestine and “Climbing Mount
Everest.” But apart from these ventures he
was widely known both here and in Maori-
land as the original man from Cook’s in
these parts, being the founder pf the local
branches.
Henri Verbrugghen lias come back from
Minneapolis, his fpce wreathed in smiles, to
visit Sydney. He is as musical as ever.
The night of his arrival he was seen drunken
on the classic melodies of “Kid Boots.”
They whisper of a recent Society bride
that among her wedding gifts were 36 crystal
waterjugs, same design, and six sets of table
glasses, similar pattern. There was no firm’s
name on the packages in which these gifts
arrived ; but a large store, Oxford-street way
—which the Really Best people have never
heard of, of course—has been advertising a
clearance sale of cut glass!
Ellis Silas, the artist who spent a few
years in the friendly Trobriands, caused a
riot at this year’s London Sketch Club’s
fancy-dress ball by appearing as a Papuan
in full dancing regalia. The skirt and the
accessories he had brought from Papua with
him, but the large feather head-dress he had
made himself. Then he colored himself from
head to foot, and finally burst into the ball-
room, Trobriand fashion, dropping magic
leaves to exorcise the evil spirits, whirling
and beating out the rhythm of a Trobriand
dance. The populace thought he was a
special native turn engaged by the committee,
lie plucked the cup for the best costume, but
it took him four hours to remove the make-
up.
Walked down the Niagara gangway the
other day, Norman Tate, who has been IS
months in Maoriland on his self-imposed
mission of cheering the sick. Norman takes
his one-man act of juggling and freak gym-
nastics around the hospitals; and nothing
pleases him better than doing his piece for
the amusement of the disabled soldier.
The Hordern galleries hold a treasure that
is drawing the historian and the romantic as
the clover draws the bee. It is a papier-
m 'iche table, its top carrying a design in red
poppies, and it was brought to Australia by
Governor Lachlan Macquarie and his “dear
Sophy.” How many tales of the young
military rips under him has that piece of
furniture heard Macquarie confide to his
lady? A good few, probably. In spite of the
passing of the years the poppies still blush
rosily.
Brisbane’s miscellany
Daphne Mayo is back after five years in the Cold
Country, where she won a scholarship that took her
to Rome, as well as the Landseer medal for sculpture.
Sir Matthew laid an extra knife and fork one day
at luncheon for the Brisbane girl.
Fifty thousand pounds was paid this week for the
Hotel Daniell. Lennon's owner passed it over.
W hen our new Town Hall is finished, visiting com-
edians will have to find another gag. The main hall
is to seat over 3000 people. Helidon (Q.) freestone
and granite are to play their solid part in it.
Sir Matthew went to the Randall Art Gallery to
unveil the bust of R. J. Randall, who died at 37,
leaving behind him some 800 pictures, many of which
for years hung in his aunt’s home near Stanthorpe
unnoticed except by a very few art lovers. His Ex.,
whilst on the subject of monuments, cast a pebble
or tw'o at this State’s monumental indifference to its
home-grown artists. Still, one patriotic citizen has
been found to promise a big donation if the trustees
will take up the matter of a new building seriously.
Sir Matthew opened the front door of the kiddies'
holiday home at Palm Beach with a gold key handed
him by Barnes, M.L.A. The new home has a dorm,
holding 12 beds, and a few score like it would go
a long way to solve the “tin-box” problem of the
Outback.
Lena Hammond had a crowd for her concert.
Mabel Malouf and Mrs. Ferrier were soloists, in maize
and black respectively, and they had a haul of
flowers and more substantial presents. There was
a big roll-up of music enthusiasts.
The Savage Club supped the Allan Wilkie co. at
the club rooms, which were dressed in gerberas and
roses. Dancing, billiards and music sped the hours
into the very small ones. Amongst the speedsters
were the two chief mummers, Mrs. A. P. Greenfield,
Barbara Sisley, Mrs. M. Forrest, Jean Athol, Claude
Saunders, Ellis Irving, the Cherry and Drayton
maidens from the Theatre Royal co., and Kathleen
Forrest.
One man thought he deserved to get his money
back at the Allan Wilkie presentation of “Romeo and
Juliet.” After sitting restlessly through the first act,
he got up to go. “Think of that!” he snorted to
his next-door neighbor, “this is the same show they
put on five years ago, and they didn’t advertise it
as a revival!”
Our own Mary Macgregor had to come forward
and make a speech at the opening night of “So
This Is London,” at His Majesty’s. She collected the
biggest floral avalanche, and mamma and the boys
were in the audience to see her do it. On the same
night Allan Wilkie was Mathias in “The Bells” for
bis 600th time.
A gold-mounted pen was the Women’s College
Appeal committee’s way of showing their appreciation
of the service Mrs. A. J. Thynne has rendered. Tea
washed down the ceremony, of which Mrs. J. D.
Cook was the High Priestess.
Died last week, in Sydney, after an illness that
confined him •to his bed for 16 weeks, that Dr.
Francis Pain who for over 30 .years had practised
around Allora on the Darling Downs. The early
years of his work are still remembered as a miracle
of unselfishness. He leaves a widow and a daughter
in Sydney, and a son who is studying medicine at
Edinburgh University.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors; BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth sad Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
WHEN A MAN
PACKS - THE
FI RST THING
HE MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
SO SIMPLE
CARD
TRICKS
rjrs
ArtDRADE
50 SIMPLE CARD
TRICKS, 1/6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/6.
Levinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
Easy Conjuring
Tricks, 2/6,
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
free catalogs—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 201 Bourke Street,
SYDNEY, and MELBOURNE.
[4
SPORTING
NOTLONS
It was Sir Charles’s turn to win on Satur-
day for H. E. Connolly, who has been harvesting
hurdle-races in Melbourne for the last six weeks.
Pildin, of Randwick celebrity, was made a 5-to-2
favorite for the Windarra Hurdle at Moonee Valley,
but Sir Charles (7’s), delivered in splendid order at
the post, came right away from the topweight at
the finish, with Buzz (20’s, and last early), a fair
third. Sir Charles, who was ridden by Dinsdale,
had 191 b. more than his G. National burden, 9st.
He beat a few National candidates, including Sir
Myram, but there were more in the Marne Jumpers’
Plat, 15 furlongs. For this race Gay Serenader was
firm at 3’s, Valbee, Green Gage and Woolpack being
at 7’s, and Bendoc, Eric the Red and Berrinbo at
(,12’s). Gay Serenader got away badly and was
always unfavorably placed ; and Bendoc, who carried
lOst. 41b. (he has 3lb. less in the National), won
nicely from Fairland and Valbee, running the distance
in 3min. 25sec.—not bad time considering that the
going could have been firmer. Erie the Red, finishing
resolutely, was fourth, after having been a long way
behind the leaders, and Berrinbo also shaped well.
Fiscom was last. His 13st. 51b. notwithstanding,
Haoma was backed at 6 to 4 to win the Travencore
Steeple. The sturdy little gelding was brought down
by Fortasse, who had stumbled over Brenda’s Son,
with 11 of the 17 furlongs to go. Sing remounted
Haoma, and the game little beggar, albeit unhurried,
did enough to show that he would have given Dorney
(12’s) a headache but for the mishap.
If the man who framed the G. N. Hurdle weights
could do the job over again, Eric the Red would
probably get lOst. 71b. instead of 9st. 21b., and
Sir Charles lOst. 41b. instead of 9st. Everything
points to one of Connolly’s pair, Eric for preference,
winning on Saturday, and Rahda may prove their
most dangerous opponent.
* * * *
The V.R.C., Y.A.T.C. and A.J.C. handi-
cappers have an exalted opinion of Bolet Satan, a
French horse with a second in the Cesarewitch to
his credit. Bolet Satan is topweight in the Metro-
politan with 9st. 10lb., in the Caulfield Cup with
9st. 71b., and in the Melbourne Cup with 9st. 51b.
In the latter race, however, he is bracketed with
Stand By, whereas S. Griffiths reckons him 21b.
better than the Adelaide horse at 12 furlongs, and
S. F. Wilson considers him 4lb. better at 13. Other
nine-stoners in the Melbourne Cup are imported Moab-
ite and Windbag (each 9st. 21b.), Heroic, Spearfelt
and Nigger Minstrel (each 9st.).- Lilyveil, who
was hurt in Sydney at Easter, is an absentee. Man-
fred, the champion two-year-old, has 7st. 9lb. in
the Caulfield and 7st. Blb. in the Melbourne, and he
will be dangerous in one or both if he trains on.
The Epsom list is headed by The Hawk, who has
lOst. —lib. more than The Night Patrol, 51b. more
than Heroic and Whittier, and 91b. more than Quintus
and Fuji San, the Doncaster winner. Neddies that
take the eye in running through the handicaps are
The Hawk, Blackadder (9st. lib.), Leslie Wallace
(Bst. lllb.), Metellus (Bst. 71b.), Brimming (Bst.
31b.), Bunting Wallace (7st. 121 b.) and Heloise (7st.
101 b.) in the Epsom; Virgin Gold (Bst. 131 b.),
Wallace Mortlake (Bst. 10lb.), Valamita (Bst. 21b.),
Solidify (Bst.), Strongbow (7st. 131 b.), Feathernest
(7st. 131 b.) and Royal Dighton (7st. 71b.) in the
Metropolitan; Virgin Gold (Bst. 10ib.), Meenah (Bst.
31b.), Solidify (7st. 121 b.), Manfred and Royal Roue
(7st. 21b.) in the Caulfield; and Windbag, Spearfelt,
King of Mirth (Bst.), Strongbow (7st. 91b.), Manfred.
Wallarak (7st. 51b.), Manacre (7st. 41b.) and
Houdini (7st.) in the Melbourne. All the same,
backing horses for races three and four months ahead
is a mug’s game.
* * * *
“Frinigga”: The first two-year-olds by
Man o’ War, the unrivalled flier of the last genera-
tion on the American turf, have appeared lately.
One of them takes its name from a famous joke about
the sire. A nigger admirer, when asked “Who dat
Man o’ War by?” is supposed to have answered:
“Well, every time ah see him, he by hisself! ’ And
the colt By Hisself —which luckily seems likely to
be a champion too—-enshrines the wheeze for posterity.
* * * *
“Hasen” : It was the word “dream” that
got a hearing for the glum-looking butter-in on the
little group in earnest discussion of “National
chances. “Me dream was plain’s plain,’’ he said.
“But the funny part was 1 c’d'on’y pick out the
colors of this one ’orse. The rest was all sort of
blurred. Even when they was passin’ the stand it
•was the same. ’E was in the middle o’ the field, but
1 couldn’t see any of the others—not reely see, like
—on’y this one ’orse. Then, of course, I knew it
was the office. Round
the back ’e began to
move up, and”
“What were his
colors ?” they asked
eagerly, but th e
dreamer was not to be
hurried. He went on
with his long and cir-
cumstantial account of
the race. “An’ then
they come to the turn.
I could still see ’is
colors plain. And ’e
left ’em standin’.”
“But what colors ?”
asked the now
thoroughly interested
a u d i e nee. “Yeller,
’eliotrope spots an’
green c a p,” h e
answered. “Ah, Pil-
mond!” they said, and
wagged their heads
wisely. “Yairs, it
was the office, all
right,” said the glum
man. “But, cripes, I’m
an unlucky cow. In
me dream I saw ’im
fall at the last fence.”
H. E. CONNOLLY,
whose horses are
having a pheno-
menal run of
victories over
the sticks.
“Nitric”: A great little mare in Molly
Cyrus ran her last race in Brisbane the other day.
She goes to Scone (N.S.W.) to. be mated with Sar-
chedon, the English-bred grey whose first lot of year-
lings made such an impression on buyers at the Easter
sales. Only a 14.2 pony, Molly Cyrus won a Strad-
broke and an Ascot Handicap, together with a score
of other races, and was twice placed in the Albion
Thousand. Her small size and wonderfully game
finish endeared her to crowds from Townsville to the
N. S. Wales border, and the form-followers will miss
her.
* * * *
Championship sculling has lost a bit of
its old-time glamor, but a pretty fair crowd saw
Major Goodsell (N.S.W.) beat Pat Hannan (M.L.)
for the world’s title and £lOOO on the Parramatta
River. Goodsell, who was in better condition than
Hannan and is 15 years younger, took the lead
from the start and was never headed. Hannan made
a few desperate spurts, and gained perceptibly off
Tennyson, but Goodsell, who has a nice style, pulled
away again and won easily by three lengths in
21min. 3lsec. He has improved a deal since George
Towns, took him in hand, and Paddon will find him
a tougher proposition if the ex-champion Teturns to
the game. But Tom Saul, of Macleay River, was
first in with a challenge. The race was umpired
by veteran Bill Beach, who pleads guilty to 70
years, and other old-timers among the spectators
were George Towns, Jim Stanbury and Harry Pearce.
* * *
Although Bill Grime is featherweight and
lightweight champion of the Commonwealth, Sydney
thought little of his boxing until Saturday night, and
probably 7000 of the 10,000 onlookers at the Stadium
expected to see him knocked out by the tough
Filipino, De Leon. They were disappointed. The
Australian boxed superbly, demonstrating his superi-
ority in every department of the game. His footwork
was an eye-opener for his dusky opponent, while
his left fist pumped into that gentleman’s dial with
a frequency and monotony that disgusted the recipient,
whose battered features presently became an easy
target for a wicked right. Billy didn’t quite knock
De Leon out, but he did everything else to him
that the Queensberry rules allow; and the paleface,
who was lib. lighter than the Manilaman, ran out
the easiest of winners, himself practically untouched.
And now people are cynically recalling that the
Filipino has been petted and boomed by the Stadium
management, whereas the Australian, his conqueror,
was practically frozen out of Sydney and had to go to
Melbourne to get the opportunities which he has
turned to such good account.
* * * *
There were stacks of empty seats in the
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, but the build-
ing filled up with hoots when Walter Miller threw
Peter Limutkin for the second time in 101 minutes
and was crowned by the referee. - By way of work-
ing up interest in the lugubrious affair, it had been
alleged that Peter was seriously annoyed because
Miller had called him “easy.” Easiness was hardly
the word to describe the American’s handling of the
massive but cowlike Finn, who, if he wants to do any
more wrestling, might try wrestling in prayer.
.Toe Kirkwood has had another shot at
the British open golf championship, only to finish six-
teenth, with a score of 314. Jim Barnes {300) was
first, Ted Raj' and Oompston (301) second, Macdonald
Smith (304) fourth, Mitchell (305) fifth, and Taylor
(310) sixth. They were all born in Britain, but
Barnes, formerly a Cornish caddie, and Macdonald
Smith have lived in the U.S.A. for years. Mac-
donald Smith, an expatriated North Briton, led by
five strokes at the end of the third round, and
blames the Prestwick onlookers, mostly brither- and
sister-Scots, for his bad finish. “They crowded me
sae,” he complained, “that I couldna play ma shots.”
* * * *
The Queensland open golf championship
was won by 11. R. Sinclair, the Moore Park (N.S.W.)
crack, whose 301 was seven strokes better than the
score of Dick Carr, the runner up. Carr is not
yet 18. Howard, sometime open golf champion of
Australia and a previous holder of the Queensland
title, was third. Sinclair’s second round was done
in 68, a record for the Yeerongpilly course.
The golf championship of Seaton club,
which still comes very near to being the champion-
ship of South Aus.- —though the game is now spread-
ing rapidly—is again in veteran hands. On the first
day’s play Legh Winser, back from an English visit,
tied with Gunson. On the second, Cheadle came with
a fine 74, and tied with Legh Winser at 156. On
the aggregate, Winser won by two strokes from
Cheadle, though Dr. Nott had easily the best round
on the third day. A new Scotch pro., Harvey, of
•Turnberry, has been engaged for Seaton, and will
arrive in August.
* * * *
The first inter-State hockey tourney since
1914 opened at Rushcutter’s Bay on Saturday, four
States being represented. Victoria had an easy
run against South Australia, winning by 10 goals
to 1. This is S.A.’s first season since the game
was dropped for more serious things; in the cir-
cumstances, the Croweaters were outclassed by the
well-combined Victorians, whose stickwork was very
good. Queensland won a rattling game from N. S.
Wales by 3 to 2, thus repeating last year’s dose m
Brisbane. The Bananalanders’ hockey is much like
their polo—they are very fast on the ball, and hit
like Jehannum. Withal, the forward line is in close
understanding, and had the Blues on their mettle
throughout the game.
i** * *
“FY7”: A recent cable from America made
much of Parvo Nurmi’s achievement in defeating,
at Los Angeles a “specially-selected team of eight
fleet-footed Indians, descended from the tribesmen
of the plains.” It is not necessary to go to fire-
water as*a reason for the noble red mens inability
to pace it with the Finn, for the “tribesmen of
the plains” were horsemen to a man, and. there-
fore, almost certainly rotten footsloggers. The tire-
less runner of legend and romance was a forest
Indian from the eastern woods, member of one of
the tribes which made up the Iroquois confedera-
tion. Those red men travelled on foot or by canoe,
and knew nothing of the horses of the Comanches,
the Blackfeet, the Sioux and other riders of the
prairies.
* * * *
J. O. Anderson has figured in some exciting
tennis at Wimbledon. Andreae, a little-known
Anglo-Indian, carried him to file sets in the first
round, and was leading 3—l in the fifth set. then
J.O. came to light and Andreae didn’t win another
game. Against Brugnon in tlic fourth round the
tall Sydney man looked a certain loser when the
Frenchman was 2 to 1 in sets, 5 to 3 in games and
40 —15 with the service. Rallying magnificently,
Anderson won that game and the next three ; and in
the fifth set he overwhelmed the tiring Gaul, 6 —2,
getting a great reception from the crowd. Though
not the equal of Lacoste or Borotra, Brugnon is a
good man. Miss Boyd and Miss Akhurst reached
the fourth round of the. women’s singles, but seem-
ingly none of our girls is quite up to the standard
of Miss McKane and Miss Fry, and they in turn
are outclassed by Mile. Lenglen.
* * * »
The first Soccer match between England
and Australia was easy for the invaders, who scored
5 goals to 1. The home side was not the best pos-
sible, but some of the second choices made good,
notably Gallen, the little Pyrmont back, who did so
well against the Canucks. There was a big attend-
ance for Brisbane—2s,ooo, the offertory being just
on £2OO0 —and the spectators witnessed a. fast
game, in which the combined work of the visiting
experts once more nonplussed our men, drawn from
all over Australia, with little time to combine. The
English forwards took command from the jump,
and the shooting centre, Batten, was given every
chance to warm Cartwright’s fingers. Edwards,
Australia’s centre-half, again played great football,
his experience of modern English Soccer again stand-
ing him in good stead. Hardy was weak in Eng-
land’s goal, but his backs, Poynton and Charlton,
covered him magnificently. Australia’s first point in
Soccer Tests goes to the credit of Leonard, the
Newcastle forward, who beat Hardy badly, after a
splendid centre bv another Northerner, McNaugliton.
Australia will be more strongly represented in the
Second Test at the Sydney Showground on Saturday.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Professional Soccer, which
had been looming for a long time in N. S. Wales
has definitely arrived. The big South Coast Associa-
tion has broken away from the central control, and
a couple of leading State and Australian representa-
tives in Masters and Thompson have been lost to the
international games. The trouble was inevitable
when the big gates began to come along. The British
Association was similarly hit with its own boomerang
in the 1880’s; so was the N.S.W. Rugby Union when
the founders of the Rugby League woke up to the
possibilities of staging the professional version of the
handling code. In the South Coast scheme the clubs
will divide the gate-money, winner taking 60 p.c.
and loser 40 p.c., a proviso which should lead to
some willing finishes. Already some of the clubs
have touts out, and several Sydney players have suc-
cumbed to their wiles. There are interesting possi-
bilities here, for in the early days of British Soccer
touts for the big professional clubs who ventured into
Scotland or rival districts in search of material
literally took their lives in their hands. Those who
stuck to it invariably acquired a fine seat on a rail,
and a knrKvleds'e of all existing recipes for removing
tar and feathers.
Saturday s round of N.S.W. Rugby League
matches caused no alteration in the premiership
table, but South Sydney, the leaders, had a very
bad quarter-hour. It was popularly expected that
they would annihilate Western Suburbs, and when
they led by 23 to 7 early in the second half, the
game looked all over. Then West awoke, and
tor 30 minutes ran over the Southerners, putting
cn 13 points to nil. South's tail was well down
when the final whistle came to its rescue with me
board showing 23—20 in its favor. North Sydney
was likewise all out to beat the youthful Eastern
Suburbs side. Steele (East) got the only try of the
match; it was Courtney’s two goals that saved
North. St. George’s defeat of Newtown (23 to 12)
and University’s conquest of Glebe (21 to 15) were
other features of an interesting day’s football.
After a first-class game, the Maorilanders
accounted for N. S. Wales again at Newcastle on
Saturday, scoring 20-13. The tourists made the
pace a welter in the first half, closing with a lead
of 12 P? ints » b«t the Blues rallied after the interval,
and Reid, the Glebe-Balmain centre, added a fine
try with a regular old-fashioned run through the
opposing field. Scores were 14-13 just before time;
then a fumble gave the Black backs a chance, and
Wise went over. Ross was again the star of the
local side, and Blake, the Black centre, showed his
best form of the tour, as also did Wright behind
the pack. There was a big crowd, and the match
will do the game a lot of good in Newcastle, once
a leading centre of Australian Rugby. The last
visit of the All Blacks to Newcastle was in 1897;
Tom Pauling, now a Randwick alderman, was a
member of that great side.
* * * *
Those ancient football rivals, Geelong and
Melbourne, drew a crowd of 19,475 (and a gate
of £514) to Corio Oval on Saturday, but the game
wasn’t worth it. The Seasiders played so brilliantly and
coneertedly that at quarter-time they owned 40
points to Melbourne’s 1, and at the end it was
99 to 75. Geelong is cock-of-the-walk now, and
looks like retaining its supremacy. Kssendon and
Fitzroy, on ’Don’s ground, indulged in a heated
argument which became so close and eager towards
the finish that the umpire suspended the sitting a
few niinutes while they cooled off. ’Roy had a few
points to the good as the timekeepers reached for
the bell, but at that moment ’Don's rover-captain,
Maher, sent the ball through, and the Same Old
won by 61 points to ’Roy’s 57. Reinforced by
Carlton’s former star, Paddy O’Brien, Footscray scored
84, enough points to win most games, but simul-
taneously St. Kilda idled up 132, so ’Scray went
down wallop. Carlton trounced North Melbourne
with 95 points to 67 ; Collingwood compiled 80 to
Richmond’s 60, and South Melbourne jumped on
Hawthorn with 104 points to 37.
“Winkle”: Derision is the portion of those Mel-
bourne footballers who linger on the field a season
too long. When Dick Lee, after 16 years in the
champion class, began to lose his precision shouts
of “Get into the museum” took the place of the
usual cheers. Old Chris. Lethbridge in his last
year at Fitzroy sometimes played like a dromedary,
and insulting references to his bald head and sugges-
tions that the old-age pension was his for the asking
greeted his efforts. This year Paddy O’Brien has
been “cleared” to Footscray by Carlton; Paddy’s
reward for 12 years’ service. Richmond’s great
captain, Danny Minogue, is now slow and very podgy
on the waistline, so his. every mistake brings howls
of ribald advice. These signs should convince Dave
McNamara of the fleetingness of popularity, especially
as his last season with St. Kilda, two years ago, was
DONALD, the M.L. captain.
not a success. \et ne is going to strip again, this
time with North Melbourne. There has never been
a finer high-mark or a longer kick than Dave, but as
his League career began over 20 years ago his great
reputation is sure to be tarnished by this come-back.
“H. Hardupp”: Marcus Clota, who manages the
Victorian League XVIII on its visit to Adelaide, is
a Spaniard. Coming to Australia 43 years ago, he
developed such an enthusiasm for the Australian game
that when he revisited his native country he cabled
for results of the League finals. He also tried to
introduce Australian rules amongst his compatriots,
but perhaps because he was unable to stage the
after-game scraps popular in Melbourne, the Dons
decided that they preferred bullfighting. Clota is
not the only missionary to the football heathen the
Australian game has known. A young Melbourne Jew
who joined the Zionist venture took some footballs
and books of rules with him, but he found people
in Palestine already acquainted with the game. They
had learned its rudiments from Victorians among
the Light Horse regiments.
IN THE DUMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Lawn Tennis Almanack (1925) Britain’s
failure to produce players of outstanding ability is
mournfully admitted. The editor classes the first ten
players in the world thus: 1, AV. T. Tilden; 2, Vincent
Richards (both U.S.A.) ; 3, J. 0. Anderson (Aus-
tralia) ; 4, AV. M. Johnston (U.S.A.) ; 5, R. Lacoste;
6, J. Borotra (both France) ; 7, H. Kinsey (U.S.A.) ;
8, G. L. Patterson (Australia) ; 9, H. Cochet
(France) ; 10, M. Alonso (Spain).
What makes you look so gloomy? asked the oversea
brigade.
I’m dreading what I’ve got to see, John Bull a-sighing
said.
The season comes when rackets swish and tennis
history’s made,
AA r here are our home-grown champions, where? J.B.
dejected said.
From far Australia victors come and cocky U.S.A.,
They face each other o’er the nets in many an
epic fray;
They lob across from France and Spain to bear the
palm away,
It’s enough to put old England into mourning.
A’ou’ve got ten thousand clubs, remarked the over-
sea brigade.
The club is what we mostly get, John Bull despon-
dent said.
O for some nymph in blouse and skirt, some wildly
leaping maid
To give “Six-love” Suzanne her gruel! J.B. morosely
said.
The stage is set at AVimbledon, into the lists they
prance,
Against Australia’s elect we haven’t got a chance;
Lean Yankees for supremacy contend with stars from
France,
And it sets the patriotic Briton mourning.
You’ll come again at cricket, said the oversea brigade.
With Tate and Hobbs too right we will, John Bull
less glumly said.
But ’tis a bullet tough to chew we cannot make
the grade
AVhere Davis Cups are lost and won, J.B. despairing
said.
There’s ten are in the class to which earth’s loftiest
attain,
They come from the Antipodes and o’er the Atlantic
main,
There’s three Mossoos from Froggy land and a bloom-
ing Don from Spain,
And they're busy putting Britain into mourning.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


1 xK$
T
'it:
#
“How They Brought the Good News
from Ghent to Aix.”
“1 sprang to the stirrup, and Joris, and he;
I galloped, Birch galloped, we galloped all three;
‘Good speed!’ cried the watch, as the gate-holts undrew ;
‘Speed!’ echoed the wall to us galloping through;
Behind shut the postern, the lights sank to rest,
And into the midnight we galloped abreast.”
Who has not thrilled on reading Browning’s poem of brave hearts and staunch
horses? But the world moves ever onward—the steeds that so gallantly carried
the news in those days gave place to motors, and now to wireless!
Words that are breathed a thousand miles away —news perhaps for which the
world is anxiously waiting—are borne along by the magic waves of air—and in
an instant tell their tale, and pass along to spread it to the furthest corners of
the earth.
THE AIR IS FULL OF MESSAGES FOR YOU!
Full of songs, music, lectures, market and sport results —and will tell you of the
danger of the flood-waters in the upper-river reaches and warn you in time : —to
save your stock —your home—your life perhaps! Or, perchance, it may bring
glad tidings of broken droughts in the far-off “Never-Never,” where we have
invested for generations yet to be,
“SIMOLIAN” WIRELESS RECEIVERS
embody all the latest features and improvements. They are faithfully constructed, and have a wonderfully
clear reception and true tone.
Prices range from £8 for a 1-Valve set to £75 for a 6-Valve set.
Special Talking-machine-Radio Combination, £l2O.
Deferred Payments Arranged if Required.
“B” Batteries—
Ever-ready Batteries 9/6, 12/6, 21/
Winchester 22-| V., large capacity cells. . 13/
45 V., large capacity cells 26/
Radiotron 201 A and 199 Valves 22/6
Dutch Valves each 8/6
Genuine Bakelite —cut to all sizes and drilled free.
Special Purchase—1000 pairs Genuine Repeater Headphones, 21/- .... Usual Price, 30/-
IMPORTANT —Secure a copy of Mick Simmons’ New Illustrated Radio Catalogue. It shows a
complete range of sets, component parts, etc., and also gives circuit diagrams with
instructions how to build your own receiver. Post free on request.
TALKING MACHINE DEPARTMENT.
The extensive stock includes all the latest records, needles, talking-machines, etc. Also
“His Master’s Voice” Gramophones and Records.
r td
Win
m
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
BRANCHES—CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE,


Beauty is Only Skin Deep
But Ripoiin also
“HAS THE GRIP.”
It is Quality and Permanency
that Count.
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL PAINT
for
MOTOR CARS,
applied over special Ripoiin Undercoat-
ing, will outlast any other Enamel or
Paint and Varnish.
White and 100 shades procurable.
Send for Color Card and Booklet to
S. J. Squires 8 Co. Ltd.,
171 Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE,
Agents for Queensland.
Telephone: Central 960.
Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd., 379 Flin-
ders Street, Melbourne.
L. A. Cormack (Factory Rep.), 4 Under-
wood Street, Sydney.
xcvbn
Ditching-
Terracing
Made Easy—Bigger _
crops, better farms with
Gftia£ Farm Ditcher
t l«mw & Road Grader
Cuts a mile of ditch 3 to 4 feet deep in a
day. Cleans out weed-grown ditches.
Moves dirt.
SAVES WORK OF 100 MEN.
J. B. WALLIS LTD,
Legal Notices.
T F the children of MARY PRIGG, deceased (formerly
h Mary Finigan), a half-sister of Florinda E.
McCall, deceased, will communicate with the under-
signed, they will hear of something to their advantage.
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited, 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
1925 No. 57.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
BETWEEN IVY MELSOME Petitioner and
EDGAR WILLIAM MELSOME Respondent.
To EDGAR WILLIAM MELSOME formerly of
Mosman in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of this Court citing you to appear and answer
the petition of Ivy Melsome of 17 Adelaide Street
Fremantle in the State of Western Australia praying
for a dissolution of marriage. In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within forty-five days
from the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth in the said State and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
E. E. FEWINGS,
Acting Registrar.
CHARLES C. CIIEYNE,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
National Mutual Buildings,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
(To be inserted twice in the Sydney Bulletin.)
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
* Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
The Chief Justice Mr. Justice Lukin.
BETWEEN DAISY KEN WARD (wife of Thomas
Ken ward) Plaintiff and
THOMAS KENWARD Defendant.
To the abovenamed defendant THOMAS KENWARD.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the ninth
day of June 1925 commenced against you and that
the plaintiff by her Petition and Writ of Summons
claims a dissolution of her marriage with you tne
said Thomas lienward AND TAKE NOTICE that
the Court has by order dated the twelfth day of
June 1925 authorised service of the said Writ of
Summons and Petition on you by the insertion of
this Notice cnce in the Queenslander a newspaper
published at Brisbane in the State of Queensland
and once in The Bulletin a newspaper published at
Sydney in the State of New South AVales and the
sticking up of an office copy of the said Petition
and a copy of the said Writ of Summons and a
copy of the said order bn the frame provided for
Chat purpose in the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane such service to be effective
SO davs after the last act done in pursuance of
the said order AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that you are required within thirty days after
such last mentioned act to cause an appearance to
be entered for you at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane and that in default
of vour bo doing the plaintiff may proceed with this
action and judgment may be given against you in
>ur absence. . ~ , . T
Dated this twentieth day of June 1925.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Acting Registrar.
J F. F. LOCKETT, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Charleville.
Town \aents: OSBORNE & WAUGH, Solicitors,
3 Queen Street, Brisbane.
The Standard Portland
Cement Company Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act 1899).
Final Public Issue
Authorised Capital:
£500,000 in 500,000 shares of £1 each.
Issued Capital:
£279,575 in 279,575 shares of £1 each.
DIRECTORS:
Chairman : P. R. HIGGINS, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Phillip Street, Sydney.
Managing Director: A. J. SWAN, Esq., Sydney.
The Hon. JAS. A. MURDOCH, C.M.G., M.L.C., Merchant, Sydney.
E. ,T. GORMAN, Esq., Grazier, Berrigan and Manly, N.S.W.
L. NAPIER THOMSON, Esq., Engineering Contractor and Manufacturer, Cremorne,
Sydney.
W. W. KILLEN, Esq., M.H.R., Grazier, Barellan and Manly.
BROKERS :
Applications may be sent direct or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
SUPERINTENDING CONSULTING ENGINEER;
FRANK OAKDEN, C.E., M.I.E. (Aust.),
SECRETARY:
W. S. BAIN, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
279,575 Shares of £1 each have been issued.
150,000 Shares of £1 each are now offered for subscription, payable
2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment, and the balance in calls
of not more than 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than
two months.
70,425 Shares are to be held in reserve.
500,000
It has been decided to in-
crease the productive capacity
of the works.
Establishment work is far
advanced. Plant is being manu-
factured and installed for a first
unit of 50,000 tons per annum
capacity.
The Company has ample
capital for this and to provide
quarries, water and railway
works, buildings, etc., for pro-
duction on a much larger scale.
Plant for greater capacity
can be installed much more
cheaply now than later, and
production costs will greatly
benefit by the increased output.
The entire output of the first
unit has been sold for three
years to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment, and the Company is well
ahead of time against delivery
date.
Many thousands of shares in
this, the Final Public Issue, have
already been applied for and
allotted.
Applications will be treated
strictly in order of priority.
Enquiry Form
w. S. BAIN,
Kcmbla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Please send me Final Prospectus and a free copy of a fascinating history
of the Cement Industry entitled “A Quest of the Centuries ”
name in full
address
OCCUPATION
Bulletin.
THE INKY WAY.
Gone from the Inky to the Heavenly Way,
Thomas Peirce. An Adelaide native, for many years
he wore the collar of the Congregationalists and was
for some time sec. to their Union. Leaving the
pulpit, though never losing touch with it, he became
editor of the Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury in 1905,
and was there till the time he signed Peter’s book
at 64.
Alan Melville, formerly State Parliamentary rounds-
man for the Sun Pictorial, has been appointed
publicity-man for the Australian Industries’ Pro-
tection League. Melville, who has had a varied
career, was for some years an officer of the British
mercantile marine; he is a sound political writer,
with a knack of making the 'dullest subjects inter-
esting. He should be an acquisition to a concern
which urgently needs bright brains.
The Bulletin’s circulation department has just
received a brand-new apology for a delay in paying
a renewal subscription. The subscriber, who writes
from very near the centre of Africa, says: “I’m
afraid this will be late, and if it is I hope you’ll
come and shoot the lion that is responsible. He
got my last messenger—the one who was carrying
your remittance with the rest of my mail —and ate
most of him. The mail was recovered, or part of it,
but, of course, torn and discolored.”
“Mel. B.”: Commissioner Clapp’s Vic. Railways
Magazine is an artistically-printed monthly with fine
illustrations and well-subbed letterpress. Attention
is given to literature and art as well as the technical
needs of the periodical. Editor Jack Michie is a
lover of letters, an amateur astronomer of parts, and
a landscape painter. He is the ex-librarian of the
successful Victorian Railways Institute. In collabora-
tion with H. R. Gollan (lately of the Sun), the
Railway Department’s new Publicity Officer, Michie
will doubtless further improve his pages.
“Etho”: G.K.’s Weekly is Chesterton emulating
T.P., only with paradox instead of platitude and
much less small beer. Is the day coming when every
literary celebrity will be his own Boswell and North-
cliffe combined? The new publication is smart and
attractive-looking, but seems a skimpy sixpenn’orth.
“G.K.” spreads himself plentifully and tilts at every-
thing but the Middle Ages. He yvrites, however, with
a large tolerance and a pretty wit. On politics
and the press he is acrid beneath the Falstaffian
pose. He hopes to feature epistolary debates, and
will thus, doubtless, get good “copy” gratis. Belloc
is among the contributors.
“Southern Cross”: Cable bloomers? How about
this from the Kalgoorlie (W.A.) Miner (10/6/’25) :
“BISHOP’S QUEERNESS.
“Detained by the Police.
“London, June 8.
“The police have detained the Bishop of Sevenoaks.
The Bishop was recently living in a disused hut in the
woods near Aldershot, where he was charged with
housebreaking. He pleaded hunger as an excuse.
The Bishop is of gloomy disposition and reads many
detective stories.”
The explanation of course is that an ex-pantry boy
named Bishop, wanted in connection with the murder
of a butler, was apprehended somewhere near Seven-
oaks ; but Miner readers, unacquainted with this, and
unused to the vagaries of cable-interpretation, must have
finished the paragraph with a dismal picture in
their minds of the straits and shifts to which post-
war conditions have reduced the English clergy,
including the episcopate itself.
“Iford” : London Graphic devotes a page (and a
photograph) to the discussion of a painting of
Shakspeare in the possession of G. H. Barlow, of
Brisbane. The picture, it is claimed, has been in
the Barlow family for over 200 years; its previous
owner was one Anthony Nicholas, a relative of the
Sir Edward Nicholas who was secretary to the Duke
of Buckingham and died in 1681. Judged from the
photograph, it presents a slightly more saucer-eyed
Shakspeare than those with which most people are
familiar, with an extraordinary high, bald forehead
and the egg-shaped dome of the skull more accentuated
than ever. It is claimed for the work of the Dutch
painter Cornelis Jansen (1588-1638), who seems to
have been bishop of Ypres.
“Lacmalac” : Mention of the Windeyer family’s old
connection with the press (B. 11/6/’25) recalls that
a Windeyer was proprietor of a newspaper in Tumut
in 1871. He was one of a succession of owners, few
of whom lasted long. The Tumut journal eventually
came into the hands of a young comp., Spencer
Groves, who held it for 50 years ; he died in Tumut
a year or two ago, but sold the paper shortly before
his death. To counteract a move by W. H. L.
Bailey, a founder of Sunday papers, Groves launched
also the Adelong Argus. It was Bailey who en-
deavored to give Melbourne a Sunday paper, as he
had done in Sydney; but Wrixon, law Minister in
the Gillies Government, obtained Parliamentary sanc-
tion to nip it in the bud. Bailey is still living in
easy circumstances in England, but he did not
make his money out of newspapers.
“Vama”: There is no better known habitue of the
Mitchell Library than George Gresham Reeve; no
pair of eyes that have scanned more columns of
those carefully filed records of Australia in the
making, no pair of hands that find their way so
readily about the shelves. His latest investigations,
have mostly been directed to the Hawkesbury, and
he is credited with knowing more of the genealogy,
history and folk lore of this region than the
families who still live on the old original land
grants and bear the names of the First and near-
first Fleeters. Reeve’s “Ebenezer Pioneers” is appear-
ing in series in the Windsor and Richmond Gazette
to allow comment and possible rectification prior to
its production in book form. Australia is now old
enough to need historians and ehronologists, and
Reeve, a native born, is helping to supply the want.
Ted Sorenson, whose latest book, “Murty Brown,”
has just been published by the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., is no Pitt-street bushman. Ilis father was
Norse, his mother an Australian with a dash of
Irish. He first exercised his lungs at Dryaaba, near
Casino (N.S.W.), in 1869. Before he reached his
teens he was rounding up cows. He was apprenticed
to carpentering for a couple of years, but the call
of the open air proved too strong. For 17 years
he roved about, his occupations including those of
dairyman, bullock-driver, fencer, stockrider, drover,
shearer, rouseabout, miner, wool-classer, boundary-
rider, book-keeper and publican. Most of his
education was acquired at Greenridge public school
in between jobs, but he studied at night, and years
later attended evening classes at the Sydney Com-
mercial College. He has contributed sketches and
stories to the press for neary 30 years, and has
several Bookstall novels to his credit; but he is
still the shyest bushman that tiptoes up The
Bulletin’s stairs.
“J.H.M.A.”: The death at nearly 90 of that fine
old pioneer, and at one time recklessly daring horse-
man and scourge of bushrangers, Outhbeit 1 ether -
stonhaugh, reminds one of the painful fact that, with
a few exceptions like himself, the late T. A. Browne
(Rolf Boldrewood) and The Bulletin’s “T. 0.1.,” the
Oldest Inhabitant is, to the student of Australian
history, a grievance and a despair. His gift of
inaccuracy is remarkable, and his capacity for ie-
membering things that happened before he was born,
or did not happen at all, more than uncanny. Only
recently an old gentleman in the Rookwood Asylum
(N.S.W.), who claims to be 108, has been featured
in a Sydney paper as having been born in the
immigrant ship Red Rover, which somewhat celebrated
craft however, did not sight the Sow and Pigs until
the early ’thirties. About 20 years ago Jack Fitz-
patrick, M.L.A., then editing the Windsor Gazette,
published a valuable little book called “The Good
Old Days,” which was made up of records and remi-
niscences of old-time Hawkesbury inhabitants. His
most interesting character was an ancient named
Mackellar, whose father had been an n.c.o. in
Macquarie’s regiment, the 73 rd Foot. “I lived
eight years in Parramatta,” said this veteran, and
my father was then sent with a detachment of the
73rd Regiment to Windsor.” But the 73rd was not
here for anything like eight years, and at the time
he speaks of had been gone for five. It is the same
with nearly all of them.


Leadership
and why
Graham Brothers impressive advance to first
position in the la-ton truck field, and second in
the 1-ton and the H-ton fields combined—
during the first quarter of 1925—is explained by
four vital reasons:
1. Distinct price advantage.
2. Pronounced quality
advantage.
3. Dodge Brothers engine.
4. Substantial character of
Dodge Brothers dealer
organisation.
Ordinary logic demands that these facts receive
your immediate consideration if you have any
need whatever for a truck.
GRAHAM BROTHERS
Detroit, U.S.A.
A Division of- Doose Broths-rs. Inc.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbotton Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
2-7-25.


BLACK & WHITE
■
m
m
F
y
■v , , ■ '*:• • . .
. yy *■ ■ ... ... . .
-, . ‘ ’ &
'
■4.
;
4-v ■" . ' . ? ' '
.. -p? ■
: ■ ■v>-
! fr i
»■., V
islii i
'
.. ",
sm
4*V f
■
fXi, 4
• ,4 4
• ••• •
*
4
■
:•
/ :
/•* *
&
REAL SCOTCH ,
SCOTCH WHISKY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, are in the
predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards of 29,000,000 GALLONS of
Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks of this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky.


20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
\ J
GREYS
silk cutAvirginia
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores ererywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN Sc CO. LTD.
LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdcun
Tobacco Co. Ltd.
as
ig
■S
3*
&
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty's “The Street Singer”
Criterion “Spring Cleaning”
Royal Harry Lauder
Palace “Cappy Ricks”
Grand Opera House “Little Jessie James”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Kid Boots”
Royal “Secrets”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Princess . “No, No, Nanette”
Athen.eum “Let’s Go”
Playhouse “A Bill of Divorcement”
Auditorium Kreisler
Tivoli * Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Secrets,” presented before a crowded
house at Melbourne Royal on Saturday, is an
cpisodal drama wedged in between a pro-
logue and an epilogue-—the life-story of a
woman completely satisfied in the love of
the man she has chosen, whatever his fail-
ings, reviewed in her old age while she
awaits the doctor’s verdict upon his illness : a
pleasant play in which Muriel Starr, as an
almost impossibly sweet-natured wife, pre-
sents a shining example to feminines who
possess anythin o- but tile “Yes, John,” prin-
ciples she espouses. That agreeable response
is a recurring note, and they are the last
words spoken by the dear old lady as, thrilled
with joy that his first conscious thought
should be of her, she turns to go to her
husband, in his sick-room in response to his
“Mary, I want you.” Each act covers a
different period, the first opening in 1867 in
the bedroom of Mary Marlowe, from which
she elopes with her lover. The second shows
the runaways, three years later, doing rather
well, and making the beginnings of a family
in a two-roomed shack in Wyoming, U.S.A.;
and Act 111 places them with a grown family
in affluent circumstances in London, in 1888,
where the hardly credible wife forgives her
husband for much marital unfaithfulness,
satisfied that his real love is and always has
been for her. The divergent sentiments and
costumes of the different periods make up
Weight in a play which, although entertain-
ing, is rather light in story.
Muriel Starr and a red wig made the
almost-too-good-to-bc-true wife believable,
and played with a nice restraint; but Frank
Harvey, otherwise robust, was stagey as the
penitent husband in Act 111. Lorna Helms,
perhaps as a tribute to her showing in “The
Laughter of Fools,” was given special
applause for her work as Susan, the maid
who aids a pair of secret lovers; Sidney Stirl-
ing gave an admirable picture of a stiff,
pompous housefather of a previous genera-
tion ; Mildred Cottell likewise succeeded as
MELBOURNE
TIVOLI.
Ernest Hastings monologues at the piano.
Wish Wynne recites.
Mrs. Marlowe, and Eil,y Malyon as a roman-
tic maiden aunt. And Frances Ross, who
years ago used to be a stately figure with
Bland Holt, had a small part in the prologue
and epilogue.
$ :I:
The house was “sold up” two days ahead
of the opening night of “No, No, Nanette,”
at Melbourne New Princess, though the
actual first performance was at the matinee,
and that, was almost equally thronged. At
the end of each performance the crowds
melted away in saccharine superlatives,
nearly all of them deserved. It is the hilari-
ous “His Lady Friend” set to music, with
those frills which go with musical comedy.
The show sparkled from curtain-rise to -fall,
for the story of the wealthy Bible publisher
with a wife who, when he gives her money
to spend, buys a money-box and becomes an
innocent benefactor of sundry girls who land
him in a matrimonial mess, was delivered
by a company which lost none of the laughs
provided by their material. Jimmy Godden
as the Bible merchant, Jimmy Smith, made
a very good impression with his easy
methods; and Charlton Morton, as Billy
Early, though he pursues his laughs too fren-
zicdly, was acceptable. Oliver McLennan was
a stiffish Tom Trainor, but his voice showed
signs of improvement. Among the women
the chief honors were with Elsie Prince,
who gave the right touch of innocence to
Nanette; Madge White, a lady of sparkling
eyes, who was Lucille, Billy Early’s wife;
and May Beatty, who robustly rendered the
humor of Pauline, the Smiths’ cook. Anita
Shawe was Sue, the careful wife of the
money-spending Smith. Of the three girls
upon whom he spends money, Winifred Dalle
(Betty from Boston) was best; but Con-
stance Evans (Winnie from Washington),
though she can’t sing and speaks her lines
amateurishly, has fine points as an acrobatic
dancer. Olive Grant, a massive lady who
was Flora from ’Frisco, had little to do,
but did it energetically. The stage pictures
were alluring, and the ballets well arranged ;
one which introduced a screen of painted
shawls earned particular approval.
¥ V V V
Kreisler held the rapt attention of a
crammed audience at the Melbourne Audi-
torium on Saturday night. At times silence
was so profound that a moved foot coming
in contact with shed beads from someone’s
glad rags sounded like a pistol shot. The
artist, tall, well built, middle-aged, very pale
and with tired eyes, but with no weariness in
his playing—playing which was refined,
beautiful, effortless- —-held his listeners en-
tranced. It was music that renewed illusions
of youth and made the world seem very
good, Walsh and Johanson and all. Tones
as of an organ and notes clear and sweet as
a bird’s filled the hall and set heads wonder-
ing and hands clapping. What rhythm, what
accent, what phrasing he has, the last sug-
gestive of perfectly-formed circles ! There are
no mannerisms, and the greatest difficulties
of technique or tempo are mastered with calm
ease. Kreisler finds a song in everything,
and soulfully and simply his violin sings it.
A varied programme of many schools in-
cluded the Sonata in A Major of Handel, the
Bach Suite in E Major, and the ever-popular
but much-bruised Concerto in E Minor of
Mendelssohn of which a colorful Andante and
a still more marvellously rendered Allegretto
movement were features; and among the
extras were the lovely “Hymn to the Sun”
of Rimsky Korsakoff, his own “Caprice Vien-
nois,” and “Tambourin Ghinois.” Pianist
Carl Lamson deserves a clap for his admir-
able support in a memorable evening. Con-
certs are announced for to-night (Thursday)
and Saturday.
* * * *
Infinite variety and Lee White were the
ingredients of the bright revue, “Let’s
Go,” which most commended it to the
crowded house at the Melbourne Athenseum
on Saturday. Aiiy stale dishes served in
the gay compote of nonsense were garnished
with sauce that made them as good as new,
and the performance throughout had a merry
swing. Billie Lockwood, matured but viva-
cious earned most approval next to Lee
White; and Jack Cannot, George Welch and
Ernest Sefton were very entertaining too.
S&ranova supplied some energetic dance
specialties, Clay Smith was as helpful as
ever at the piano, and there was other assist-
ance, including the Peaches, who looked just
like that. Melbourne will take many doses
of this delightful medicine for the cure of
its winter megrims.
“Whirled Into Happiness” whirled into
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, for a week's run
last Saturday. There were many changes
in the cast. Kitty Reidy’s old part of
Florence is now played by Maud Fane in a
mechanical fashion; and. as far as Mel-
bourne is concerned. Winnie Collins was new
to the part of Delphine and Hugh Steyne to
that of the Marquis of Brancaster. George
Jennings took Frith’s old part. As Frith’s
understudy Jennings showed up very well
during the last week of “Primrose” : and few
people who heard “Whirled Into Happiness"
broadcasted suspected that the real Frith
wasn’t at work. “Kid Boots” will be the
wear next Saturday.
Next week “On Our Selection” will com-
plete its most successful Melbourne season to
date. It has to move out of the King's to
make room for Thurston Hall, who arrives
with “The Broken Wing” on July 11.
* * * *
The electrics will twinkle on the Playhouse
front on Saturday to indicate that the Mel-
bourne Repertory playei's are busy with
Clemence Dane’s “A Bill of Divorcement.”
❖ * * £
The Franck Sonata in A Major, in which
he had the assistance of the delicate-fingered
Edward Goll at the piano, was the most de-
lightful of the items at Signor Pietro Sar-
coli’s Melbourne recital at the Assembly
Hall, the echoes of the violin phrases on the
piano, and, in the last movement, of the
piano by the violin, being very excellently
worked. Apart from that, however, with the
exception of some inspired moments in
Tschaikowsky’s “Serenade Melancholique,”
the recital was not as exhilarating as it might
have been, the violinist lacking fire and
frequently showing an uneven tone-quality.
He seemed to be overcome by self-conscious-
ness, which became more rather than less
marked.
“CAPPY RICKS,” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Cappy Ricks (Ward Lyons) interviewing
Cecil (Donald Nicol) , a comic sailor
from one of his boats.
Another wholly delightful evening was
given by Edward (101 l at Melbourne Assem-
bly Hall when the "Allegretto Moderate'’ of
Suk. a whimsical composition of a strange
fascination, was offered. The two Schubert
impromptus were, by comparison, rather dis-
appointing ; but the Sonata Op. 109 of Beet-
hoven was worth the attendance of a good
audience which even discovered enthusiasm
for a very weak item by Haas.
Ernest Hastings remains the best item on
the Melbourne Tivoli bill, which has lost
Traps and added a few inconsiderable items,
including the melodramatic Dickensonian
Clement May. Fred Bluett exhibits once
again his capacity to wake laughter as he
tells about his heartbreak when he put the
acid on the goldfish and found them fraudu-
lent imitations ; after the straining for laughs
of some imported comedians, Bluett's easy
style is a relief. Zorondo la Bella continues
to cause nightly annoyance.
The George Wallace co. got itself into “A
Dancing Delirium” at the Bijou (Mel-
bourne) last Saturday, and found far more
opportunities than in the previous week’s
bill. Charleston’s “Super Six Jazz Sympho-
uists” eliminate the banging of ironmongery
and drums from a syncopation seance which
really raises the spirits, and the Mullaney
Brothers produce some slick patter.
Mix and Shakspeare join forces at the
Majestic (Melh.) this week to provide a
show in which Tom is a greater favorite
than William. “The Deadwood Coach” is
his medium; the Shakspearean spasm is
“Othello,” as done by Emil .Tannings; and
Desdemona is murdered to very nice music.
“Fifth Avenue Models” prevail at Hoyt’s
Do Luxe, and “Desert Driven” is a sup-
porting feature. “The Ten Commandments”
is being given a turn now at the New Gaiety.
About a film that speaks
The separate offensives of Hollywood and radio
against the legitimate stage unite forces in the latest
invention, the De Forest Phonofilm, to a private
screening of which this Page was recently invited in
Sydney. Previous efforts to make the heroes and
heroines of the silver sheet vocal to their admirers
by means of a gramophone off-stage failed owing to
the voice-machine and the instrument that makes
the flickers getting out of step. No gramophone is
Used in this new device; the speaker and the
speech, the singer and the song, the sneezer and
the sneeze are canned on the film together. The
visible image is recorded as usual, while the words
and music are converted from waves of sound into
waves of electricity, which operate a flashlight
apparatus and mark the strip of film with little
bars of light and dark. When the picture is run
off, the bars pf light and shadow cause variations
in a light-sensitive cell, which set up vibrations in
an ordiniry valve radio-set equipped with a loud
speaker, and the synchronism is so perfect that the
bursting of the custard-pie and the report thereof
are seen and heard together.
The dramatic effects, however, are not altogether
happy, possibly because the speakers belong to a
nation that suffers from the American accent. During
the screening of portion of “Traviata” this critic
momentarily got the illusion that the image of the
singing damosel .was made of flesh and blood; but
it wasn’t sufficient of an illusion to make him want
to rush round to the stage-door with a box of
chocolates and a taxi after the performance. Still
the thing is only in its infancy and infants grow
rapidly these days. Its chief usefulness will prob-
ably be in the educational sphere to begin with.
«?*'•* *!■ •!*
Among the really intense moments (of
human experience may be catalogued Paul
du Chaillu’s meeting with the genuine pyg-
mies, Orellana’s encounter with real Amazons,
and the Sydney Criterion audience’s dis-
covery on Saturday that Pauline Frederick
really existed in space and time. Loud
shouts of astonishment and delight held up
the action for several minutes while the film
idol .touched her toes repeatedly with her
shingle and tried to gather up the threads
of the story. AYhen she was permitted to
proceed she disclosed herself as an actress
of considerable address. Being rolled on and
off a spool for half her stage career would
naturally be expected to cramp the lady’s
style, and evidences of this appeared in a
slight tendency to sub-title her emotions in
the manner of the screen ; but despite a not
very impressive presence she succeeded in
creating with the indifferent raw material
of Frederick Lonsdale’s “Spring Cleaning”
a state of high tension in the theatre which
brought tears to the backs of many noses.
As Mrs. Sones, married to an author whose
devotion to his books and wife becomes more
unevenly divided with the passage of the
years, she seeks in a somewhat tragic manner
the company of a dissolute gang of gay livers
who turn the bookman’s home into a bear-
garden, while providing him with priceless
material for his books. He repays this in-
estimable service by laying an extra place at
one of his own dinner parties for a prosti-
tute whom he procures from the nearest
beat. Introducing the professional lady to
the gilded amateurs, he has a perfectly splen-
did quarter of an hour of triumph only
possible to a really bookish person on the
stage or in his books. As a result of this
exposure his own lady is able to see the
error of her ways, the frivolous intentions
of her lover and the sterling qualities of her
spouse, the final act, after the manner of
most modern dramas, being devoted to a
debate on these somewhat obvious facts.
Why this highly proper exhortation to virtue
should have been denounced in London
(Hyg.) and Melbourne (Vic.) as an immoral
play is to this Sundry Showman a dark
mystery.
* -X- -X- .ffr
Richard Sones, the author, may have been
temperamental in his books, but in the (edition
published by the capable Mayne Lynton he
was a very s’, ong and forthright person,
and made an infective foil to the changing
moods of the principal. June Elvidge, an-
other film lady who took the part of the
street-walker, is not very convincing in three
dimensions, whatever she is like in one.
Charles Coleman, Austin Davis and Norman
Lee mixed cocktails, and Thelma Burgess,
Rose Dione and Nancy Stewart drank them,
while George Barraud, as the handsome but
Satanic lover, ably assisted in creating an
atmosphere of depravity and corruption.
Miss D. Brunton is farewelling Sydney
audiences in “Little Jessie James” at the
G.0.H., and if the tear that glistens: in her
eye is artificial it shines none the less brightly
for that. There is the real spirit of comedy in
the lady’s performance ; while Harry Angers, a
new, hard-working importation, supplies
broad and effective farce. There is a double-
bed, but it is the innocentest double-bed that
Pauline Frederick bows her acknowledg-
ments at Sydney Criterion.
ever breathed. The rest of the plot also
cii’cles round the furniture and the endea-
vors of Bert Escott —also his first appear-
ance—to collect the payments on it. The
humor provided by this gentleman does not
clamor for mention in despatches, but liis
batman, Harry Burgess, makes a strong im-
pression by his remarkable get-up and his
eight-foot-odd of stature. Leslie Pearce makes
love with all the suppleness of a Stadium
ring-star in a Potts Point drawing-room, but
maybe that is what he is intended to do.
The remainder of the brew is jazz, the acro-
batic dancing of the three McLeans and a
(Continued on page 37.)


an
ah
at
jes>
re
i
ss §
' ••••:.
■
. 4 *
s - SB
; .•:••:■•
m
t /
1
■
• Mfe? -s
ari
m \
11
' : ;l ?5-
■IV
K
H i
'
xcvbn
xcvbn
THE FAVORITE OF A FAMOUS FAMILY.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD Melbourne, Vic.
GARRATTS, LTD Sydney, N.S.W.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD Adelaide. S.A.
ARTHUR ANDERSON. LTD
FIAT SALES AGENCY, LTD
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY.. LTD.. Sub-Agent
Perth. W.A.
Brisbane. Q'lanti
for Tas., Hobart.


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
REENER
S
""m
m
m
WM
WML
W&
W
W. W. GREfNfftf
CDNMAKERS, BIRMINCHA
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON Si CO, PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Swallow i Ariell’s
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
m
te;*a
llDnh Wticm
NATIONAL HOTEL
Strictly
First
Class.
‘Rowe’s,” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Brisbane.
radium ballet with remarkable lighting
effects, which, however, reminded this Show-
man too poignantly of an X-ray portrait of
himself that he doesn't hang in the best
parlor. Some of the music was provided by
the James Elkin Boys’ Symphonic Jazz
Orchestra. The Office Legal Adviser regrets
to state that there is as yet no law on
the statute-books to meet offences of this
nature.
¥ ¥ *
“Sally,” which is mainly the charm and
lissomeness of Josie Melville plus the facial
contortions of George Gee, was revived at
Sydney Majesty’s for a short canter. No
wrinkles have accumulated on the lady’s
smooth forehead in retirement, nor do thesenti-
mental notes emitted by George Vollaire show
any signs of breaking with adolescence or
cracking with old age. Percy Le Ere as a
duke, and also as a waiter, evokes laughter;
and the bloom remains untarnished on the
wings of the Butterfly ballet.
Miss Gladys Moncrieff and most of her
collaborators in “The Lady of the Rose” re-
appear in “The Street Singer” at Sydney
Majesty’s on Saturday, the coming produc-
tion, direct from London, being certified as
even madder and gladder than the going one.
Britannia rules the waves—and Coontz the
fleet
That ere the month is out we’ll warmly greet.
But still at Sydney Palace patrons fix
Their whole attention upon “Gappy Ricks.”
Of the two singers now at Sydney Town
Hall, Arthur Middleton, the bass-baritone, is
the great artist. Besides having beauty of
tone, his voice expresses the finest shades
of sensibility; and never once during the
season has he let his audience down by sing-
ing an encore poor in either theme or com-
position. Mr. Althouse, the tenor, has the
notes, but is often over-fervid, and is at his
best in the robust and tumultuous, though
strangely enough the tenderness of the
“Page’s Road Song” falls from his lips as
gently as snowflakes. The duets of the two
singers are a feature of each programme.
The attendances continue excellent.
Wee Georgie Wood’s spirited stand at the
Sydney Tivoli against compulsory ablution
earns the admiration of boys who resent the
application of a nailbrush to their dirty
necks. In' addition to his defence of the
liberty of the juvenile, Wee Georgie Wood
lets loose a number of excellent whimsi-
cal turns. The rest of the bill is fair but
undistinguished.
#¥ * *
The announcement that “The Rats of
Montmartre” are at Sydney Fullers’ has
attracted crowds of people interested in the
cheese business. Investigation reveals, how-
ever, that these rodents have but two legs
apiece, go by the names of Max Sandrisi
and Rita Copelli, and earn their salary with
an Apache dance—an entertaining turn, and
a novelty. Henri French appears in imper-
sonations of Sir Henry Irving and Franz
Liszt, but lie isn’t much of a ghost. The
Veterans of Variety, who are putting monkey
glands in the song hits of 30 years ago, are
much more popular.
While Pauline Frederick is in the flesh at
(he Cri. her sccreen ghost is haunting Sydney
Hoyt’s alternately as a wealthy and charm-
ing wife and as a slatternly keeper of a lodg-
ing-house. The theme is hackneyed, and the
whole business is forced, but the faults can’t
be laid at Pauline’s feet.
'C
Audiences at Adelaide Royal have been
trying loyally to appreciate G. B. Post’s firm
conviction that a State Governor must give
ui) both his office and his girl on finding
that he is about 6 p.c. Nigger blood. Doubt-
less Americans feel that way about it, and
it is one more argument for keeping Aus-
tralia white. The support is strong, especi-
ally on the male side, notably Leslie Victor.
But deliberation and “restraint” are so over-
done that “The Nigger” drags at times, and
at others cannot be heard. At the P. of
Wales, Sherlock Holmes is doing well in
the bands of George Cross, while Guy Hast-
ings, is the faithful Watson, Rutland Beckett
the arch-criminal and Leslie Adrienne the
girl tvhom the dramatist has dragged into the
case.
** * *
From an Adelaide critic
Will Ashton tomes back to his old home town
with a batch of European scenes which he is showing
at the Society of Arts. His work has sobered down
since the early days, and the paint is dashed on
less defiantly; in his own phrase, the canvas is less
“overcrowded.” He still delights in the combination
of buildings with water, and two bridge pictures,
from Paris and Avignon, are the most attractive of
all. But he is experimenting in pure landscape, and
it was a picture of this kind that Hans Heysen
bought for himself before the show was well open.
Adelaide has rallied round its Prodigy Son, and took
nearly £5OO worth in the first 24 hours.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MEIDOURNE
“F.T.K.”: Grateful as I am for the work
the Sydney Playbox Society is doing, I wish
Duncan Maedougall would let someone else
play lead now and
then. In “The
Hairy Ape,” “The
Adding Machine,”
“Masses and Man,”
“Morality” and
“C r a i n quebillc”
physical and artis-
tic disabilities were
treated as non-
existent, and a
small Scotchman
who is understood
to abominate the
"star” system
essayed to exhibit
a versatility which
he certainly does
not possess. Dun-
can was a game
man when, his
female, lead having
dropped out of the
cast in “Masses
and Man,” he him-
self donned a wig
and played Sonia,
a German abstrac-
tion, with a pro-
nounced Highland
accent, but an en-
core is not de-
ni a n d e d. Mac-
dougall threatens,
if the Censor per-
mits and the public
stands it, to give
us a dose of the
neurotic Wedekind.
Tli e experiment
will be interesting,
but if the manager
casts himself for
the part of Lulu.
I'm going to a
Salvation Ar m y
meeting instead.
“Lysander” : Clara Butt, now on her way
to Australia for another concert tour, was
a pupil of Rootham of Bristol, father of
that Dr. Rootham who was in the Common-
wealth about a year ago on behalf of the
Royal College of Music. Clara’s first public
appearance was made at the annual “week”
of sacred and semi-sacred music conducted
by the three cathedral choirs of the Worcester,
Gloucester and Hereford dioceses; and, once
started, her tremendous voice and tremendous
presence kept her well in the foreground of
popular notice. Time has been good to the
big voice, and baby Joy, no longer required
as peg upon which to hang a puff-par, is now
a woman. Ethel Hook, here as a singer in
vaudeville last year, is Clara’s sister. Ethel
is not in Clara’s class, but she earned respect
and appreciation for herself and a tuneful,
well-used voice by not attempting to exploit
the relationship.
“F.T.K.”: “Rose Marie.” shortly to be
seen in Australia, was produced at Drury-
lane by Oscar, son of the famous Hammer-
stein of Opera House celebrity. The old 'man
was responsible for the erection of the un-
sightly theatre in Kingsway, London, which
is now a Stoll cinema house. A shrewd little
Jew with a sense of humor, he made a mint
of money out of tobacco before turning his
attention to the theatre. He started off by
building a huge theatre at Harlem (U.S.A.),
and experimented very expensively with
grand opera and drama before turning it
into a music-hall where, in the days before
prohibition, drinks could be bought and sur-
rounded in the auditorium. Oscar’s com-
ments on the vicissitudes of his theatre are
worth recording. “First I try Meyerbeer;
no good. Then I try Bernard Beere; no
good. Now I try lager beer. Full every
night.”
“Caractacus”: Coincidence has been hard
at work again in Melbourne. Evidence in
the inquiry into the crashed concrete of the
Tobacco Co.’s half-built structure in Stewart-
street shows that the walls and beams flaked,
split and tumbled in exact parallel to those
in “The Ten Commandments” film-play. The
disaster recalled that long-run movie in the
widest way. Concrete construction generally
in Melbourne has been little affected by the
tragic crash: the place that was hit was
the Capitol, where “The Ten Command-
ments” was first shown. By an extraordinary
mischance the fallen building and the Capi-
tol, one of Australia’s biggest ventures in
concrete construction, were associated in the
public’s mind. Psychology did the rest —
smaller attendances which no amount of re-
traction, denial or explanation would counter.
“Miro”: I heard a man the other night
remarking that he had enjoyed a local con-
cert —there were such a nice, chatty lot of
people in the audience. When Paderewski was
in Maoriland lie, too, encountered an audience
inclined to chattiness. His slow turn on the
piano-stool, after striking a few chords, and
his polite “Shall 1 play, or will you talk?”
is still a joyful memory.
ALWAYS A FLY IN THE OINTMENT.
SAN DY: "You wireless is wunnerful. Think o' bearin' the sairmun
frac the kirk in yer ain hame an' nue collection lac worry
aboot!”
JEAN : "Aye, bat ye ken ye ho’c to poy a license lac the Govern-
ment afore ye can listen in.”
SANDY: “ Oc h! aye—I thocht there wis a catch in it somewhere."
“Charlik” chides a lady:—
The reported skirmish in London between Toots
Pounds and Nattova, the Russian dancer, reminds me
of something similar that happened at the Savoy
when Ilka Palmay (Countess Kinsky) was the lead-
ing lady. This fine artiste appeared in “The Grand
Duke,” Gilbert and Sullivan’s last, and “His Majesty,”
the work of Sir Frank Burnand, It. C. Lehmann
(both of Punch) and Sir Alexander Mackenzie. Ruth
Vincent, a beautiful girl with a sweet disposition,
then in her teens, was her understudy. Though
Ruth never had a chance to play either part, Ilka
missed no opportunity of showing her hatred. One
night Ruth came crying to me that Palmay had spat
at her and slapped her face. I went at once and
remonstrated with the lady. Her explanation or
excuse was: “That Vincent girl vould poison me if
she could. She wants to get me out of the theatre!”
As it happened Ruth did get her out of the theatre.
On the revival of “The Yeomen of the Guard,” Ilka’s
accent as Elsie proved so unsuitable that, after a
week, Ruth took up the part. In later years Miss
Vincent distinguished herself as the original Vero-
nique at the Apollo, and in grand-opera r6les with
the Beecham co.
“Veteran”: May I correct “Caesar’s
Ghost” (B. 11/6/!25,) in an essential detail?
Torzillo was “acquired” for the Smart Set,
the 4th Divvy concert party, in May, ’IS, at
the instance of his present partner, then the
show’s leading tenor. A harpist without a
harp being just about as useful as an empty
beer-bottle as a means of entertainment,
Castles (who knew his Paris) and Torzillo
were despatched to the gay city with the
necessary funds from the Smart Set takings,
and they discovered, amongst others in an
old shop-basement, the harp now in use.
After some haggling, the owner not wishing
to part with it, the purchase was completed
for nearly 3000 francs. The pair were the
Smart Set’s star turn ; they always delighted
French visitors in their audiences with their
rendering of “L’Obstination.” Torzillo,
when quartered at a school in a suburb of
Amiens, discovered in the library a book on
famous harps, in which there was an account
and a photograph of the actual instrument
purchased at Paris. On the disbandment of
the concert party, Torzillo was allowed to
retain the harp in place of his own, now
perhaps twanged by some light-fingered Fritz.
“Hamfat”: “Secrets,” now at Melbourne
Royal, is another of those plays which con-
duct the characters from the present to the
commencement of their life-story, the more
or less satisfactory conclusion of their
troubles being reached in an epilogue. Stage
history repeats itself in cycles; just half a.
century ago this type was popular. “Out of
the Past” and “The Secret of Felton Castle”
were particular favorites. Now the formula
has been re-discovered, and the fashion is
being exploited again.
“Verri”: Touching stage directions (B.
1.8/6/’25), the most comical I have read are
those given to Hannibal, the bulldog, in Gals-
worthy’s one-act play, “Hall-marked.” Han-
nibal, appearing on stage after a fight with
another dog, is directed to snuffle four times.
Then he has to break loose, snuffling again,
and show himself at an open casement with
broken braces hanging from his collar. Next,
Edward, the other dog, “comes out briskly,
with a neat little white-pointed cap on one
ear.” I have never heard of any ambitious
society staging “Hall-marked”; doubtless
Hannibal and Edward would impose too great
a strain.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: My pen did slip, as
“Coot” points out (B. 11/6/’25), in making
Knowles appear at the opening of the Queen-
street Theatre, Melbourne, in "Othello.” On
October 4, 1843, that play was staged by
Mr. and Mrs. Knowles at the re-opening of
the Pavilion Theatre (also known as the
Royal Victoria) under its new name of the
Melbourne; the second production was “The
Merchant of Venice.” But “Coot” is also
Wrong in his dates. Knowles died on May
19, not, as “Coot” states, on June 19; as a
matter of fact, a benefit to his widow was
given on June 10. The lady herself took
part in a piece called “How to Die for
Love,” and sang three songs, one of them
“Happy Land!” Nesbit made his first
appearance with Mrs. Knowles in February,
1845. at the same Melbourne theatre. The
opening of the Queen-street Theatre did not
officially take place until May Day, 1845,
when “Othello” was again the bill—the idea,
no doubt, being that a new playhouse should
be christened with a good murder. Om-
“J.R.M.” composed an inaugural address of
00 lines, in which lie floridly referred to
A classic ground for elegance and taste,
A Theban temple from a forest waste!
“Flaming Youth”: Charlie Chaplin, now
rich enough to gratify that perverted ambi-
tion to appear in serious stuff which nearly
every born comedian cherishes, hasn’t been
seen in a new pitcher for ever so long; but
the name of Chaplin is being kept alive by
his brother Syd. Long ago Nathan, the U.S.
critic, wrote that Syd was funnier than
Charlie, and a screen version of “Charlie’s
Aunt,” with Syd in Frank Thornton’s old
part, has prompted London newspapers to
endorse Nathan’s verdict. If his tempera-
mental theatrical character holds good, this
ought to bring Charlie back. Rignold once
had difficulties with an actor who, having a
share in the management, insisted upon "de-
parting from “character” and playing
“straight heavy.” George, who could be
overbearing enough, saw only disaster in
fighting his colleague, and tried diplomacy.
A friendly newspaper man described a new-
comer who played Mulligan in “The Flying
Scud” as “even better than Blanksby Dash."
Half an hour after seeing the notice- Blanks-
by Dash was howling to have his old parts
back.
“Marmion”: Jean Robertson (R 18/6/’25)
graduated from the original Repertory
Theatre of Adelaide (the Adelaide Amateur
Company). For a while she appeared with
George Willoughby in bellowdrama at the
Sydney Adelplii (now the Opera House) ; and
then she was with the Julius Knight co. Jean
figured in two Willoughby-made photo-plays,
“Joan of Arc of Loos” and “The Woman in
the Case,” and did picture-work for a time
in the U.S.A. She was in several of the
Crest company’s films, including the blatant
“Children Not Wanted.”
“Lond”: “Empty Chairs.” the new book
of Bancroft recollections, gives a forgotten
sarcasm of Bernard Shaw at the expense of
Wilson Barrett, of “Sign of the Cross” cole
brity: “Barrett has so evident a desire to im-
personate the Messiah that we can depend
upon seeing him crucified yet.”
AUSTRALIAN ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Frank Rutter, the well-known London art
critic, wants to know if the prevalence of the nude
in painting is characteristic of art in Australia.”
Ah, not la vie Parisienne,
The lure of frills and laces,
Inspires our artists’ brush or pen,
Of chic no slightest trace is
To shock our solid citizen,
As with the Latin races.
Our artists take a nobler view.
Unmoved by powdered faces,
Or garments of transparent hue,
.Half-hidden curves and grates,
Australians, to their country true,
Prefer the open spaces.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


Amusements.
gYl> N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE STREET SINGER.
CRITERION: SPRING CLEANING.
ROYAL: HARRY LAUDER.
PALACE : CAPPY RICKS.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
Plans at Nicholson's.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pu L I/E R’S THEA T R E, SYDNE Y
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD., /MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KID BOOTS.
THEATRE ROYAL
SECRETS.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBO U It N E
Lessees and Direction: Bert Bailey & Julius Grant
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY & GRANT Present
Steele Rudd’s Famous Australian Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
. AUSTRALIA’S FAVORITE.
BERT BAILEY AS DAD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 5/-, 4/-, 2/-, 1/4J.
MatinSes Wednesdays and Saturdays: 47-
Plus Tax.
Plus Tax.
3/'-, 1/4}.
A
XHEN AS U M THEATRE, MEEBOURN E.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Ptv., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
K. J. CARROLL presents MISS LEE WHITE.
“The Personality Artist,” with Clay Smith in their
latest Revue,
LET’S GO.
Plans at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE. MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NO, NO, NANETTE.
HUGH J. WARD’S WONDER MUSICAL COMEDY.
H
O Y T
S D E LU X E THEATB E.
MELBOURNE.
NORMAN KERRY and VIRGINIA VALLI in
FIFTH AVENUE MODELS.
HARRY CAREY in
DESERT DRIVEN.
Prices as usual.
H E PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
THE MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Presents
A BILL OF DIVORCEMENT,
by
CLEMENCE DANE
(from the St. Martin’s Theatre, London).
SATURDAY, JULY 4, to SATURDAY, JULY 11.
Box Plan now open at Glen’s.
Admission: Reserved, 5/5, 2/9; Unreserved, 1/1.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHA KSPEA KEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
QUEENSLAND TOUR: THEATRE ROYAL, Brisbane.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
POWER TRANSMISSION.
We desire to inform our numerous clientele that we have
relinquished the Agency of SKF Ball Bearings, etc., a§ and
from the 30th June.
Henceforth our policy will be that of factors and stockists
of all well-known makes of Ball and Roller Bearings,
including SKF.
Our wide experience, coupled with our expert organisa-
tion, will be available in the interests of all transmission and
ball- or roller-bearing problems, with the advantage of supply-
ing the most suitable bearing, irrespective of any particular
make.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty., Ltd
481 FLINDERS STREET, 225 CLARENCE STREET,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
Amusements.
E\|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
GEORGE WALLACE IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Florence 1 Vidor in
Welcome stranger;
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
AinTl 1’ bKI C M, MELBOURNE.
“ Lessees: J. & N. Tait. Direction E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents
KREISLER,
The Supreme Genius of the Violin
THIS WEEK’S CONCERTS:
THURSDAY, JULY 2—SATURDAY, JULY 4.
Plans at Allan’s.
Legal Notice.
TO LAZERIAN RAFTER AND NICHOLAS RAFTER
sons of Patrick Rafter or the children if any of
the said Lazerian Rafter and said Nicholas Rafter.
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court of Justice
Irish Free State made in the matter of the Estate.pi
JalUes KthVaihl Raftet Deceased Alice Raftei' Plalji-
tift' donn Rafter Defendant the persohs claiming to
be n'ext of kin of Janies Edward Rafter late of Bally-
tafsna in the County of Carlow who died on the 26th
day of March 1924 and particularly the said Lazerian
Rafter and the said Nicholas Rafter or their children
if any are by their Solicitors on or before the 2nd
day of October 1925 to come in and prove their
claims at Chambers Law Courts The Castle Dublin
or in default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefits of the said Order Wednesday
the 14th day of October 1925 at 11 o’clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated this
sth day of May 1925. JOHN HEALY, Chief Clerk.
Brudh
ORIGINAL AMERICAN
427
W\
©
Reaches Every Part of Every Tooth
TINY food particles cannot remain lodged between your
teeth and become decayed if you use the Pro-phy-lac-tic
Tooth Brush.
The scientific construction of the Pro-nhy-lac-tic enables it
to reach every part of every tooth and to thoroughly clean both
the teeth and the gums at every brushing.
The curved surface of the Pro-phy-lac-tic fits the mouth per-
fectly. The tufted bristles reach in between the teeth* While
the large end tuft cleans the backs of the front teeth as well as
the backs of the hard-to-reach molars. To keep your teeth
sound and clean, always insist Upon the Pro-phy-lac-tic.
Made in three sizes; Adult, Small and Baby, in medium, soft and
hard bristles. Always sold in the yellow box. Look for the fac-simile
hyphenated name |>ropfyfyfic on both box and brush handle.
Representatives: AYERS & JAMES PTY., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Pert! A
Clean Tooth NeverjDecays
mHpnm**
ADULT
PAT. OTT
bristles
THK COR« gCT ftP?UgH
NOTICE
As a result of expansion of business in Australia direct factory
representation has become necessary.
On Ist July, 1925,
We Open Our Own Offices and Showrooms
in Melbourne and Sydney
at the following addresses:—
MELBOURNE:
Office and Showroom—
Ball Bearing House,
595 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Store—
-116 Rosslyn Street, West Melbourne.
SYDNEY:
45 King Street.
IN OTHER STATES
we are represented by:—
ADELAIDE —
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
157 Waymouth Street.
BRISBANE —
Wm. Adams & Co.,
Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH—
Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.),
Ltd., 377-91 Murray Street.
HOBART—
Charles Davis, Ltd.
The SKF Ball Bearing Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Made by the “Swan” pen people
it
BLACKBIRD
9
SELF-FILLER
A good self-filling pen is part of the
equipment of every up-to-date writer,
and its use ensures quick, clean filling
and easy writing without blots or misses.
The “Blackbird” self-filler is recognised
everywhere as the standard of
low - priced self - fillers —the
best pen obtainable for 9/6,
Catalogue post free
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,l33 &
135 Oxford Street, London, W.l. And at
Manchester, Brussels and Zurich. Depots at
Cape Town, Johannesburg, Sydney, Welling-
ton, Paris, Rotterdam and Barcelona.
Australian Distributors : Phipson &Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence St., Sydney.
Self-filling "Blackbird” 9/6
Non-self-filling „ 7 16
(Postage extra;
OF STATIONERS
& TEWELLERS
xccvbvbx


The Clean, Safe and Economical
Way to Handle Oils
Expensive machinery is often
ruined by impure lubricating
oils. Wayne Model 65, consist-
ing of a battery of four storage
and dispensing units, shown be-
low, not only keeps oil free from
dust and dirt, but also assures
complete drainage of oil barrels
or steel containers, and supplies
fire-proof storage.
Tanks in any quantity, and
ranging in capacity from 118 to
1000 gallons or more, may be
installed in a row to handle
various kinds of oil Tanks are
made of 14-gauge, open hearth,
soft tank steel, heavily galvan-
ized, spot welded and flushed
with solder.
Drip gates are locked
to the tank —thief-proof.
Filling and inspection through a
15-inch manhole. Pumps are of
all metal construction—dis-
charge quarts, pints, or half
pints per stroke, at the option
of the operator. An automatic
registering meter is provided,
if desired. One gallon pumps,
also optional.
Thousands of these Wayne
units are being used with great
success in railway shops, facto-
ries and other industrial plants.
For complete details, address:
Robert F. Lee, Res. Representative
mo Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Shipman, King & Co..
400 Boiirke Street. Melbourne,
Mechanical Supplies, I.td..
TO Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
Hawkins Equipment Company. T.t<!
1 ; 0 Castlereagh Street. Sydney:
AValsun's Buildings*. Wickham Street,
Brisbane.
Arthur H. Christian.
805 Hay Street, Perth. W.A.
M
0
sss
:--rr:
Established 1891
u
o:
I L STORAGE SYSTEMS
THOMPSON
CONDENSING PLANT
Condensing Plants of all
Types and Capacities for
Power-Plant Installations.
Correct Design. Best Materials
Good Workmanship.
Specify Thompson Plant
and
Ensure Satisfaction.
r
■Ff.-'•’T^-
Surface Condenser for 1000-Jk.w.
Steam Turbine.
THOMPSON 8 CO. IC *"
ENGINEERS
CASTLEMAINE
Pty. Ltd.
■ VICTORIA.
MELBOURNEt
Melbourne Office, Chancery Hoti*e.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Rt<l.
Li.
AGENTS.
SAI) \ p:A’ :
Hinks * Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Kenton, McLaren Ltd.
THK EAST:
SUcAlister & Co. Ltd.
PEKTH:
tins Hay don.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London
i ,i\ i\ i'
1/ 111
in
'^fr/zn/77+rrr/y
ry*Q ,
,AXj/;!,■', ./,, l l/i| !/| /a, Ji I i\i
M! ' ‘ -i, j • ' 1 t ! , • • ‘ ‘ ' 1 • 1 '
V
=*3
-•■ • N . ; 7>>^
-'I
or
■ \
PLENTY of Safe Light is a nightly need" in and around the house. In C.O.R. Kerosene
you 11 find the clear, penetrating illuminant you’ve wished for—and it is SAFE.
Your Government is interested in its quality—for the Commonwealth is a half-owner
of the. enterprise which produces C.O.R. Kerosene. Refined in Australia to suit Australian
conditions and needs, C.O.R. has nothing to fear from competitive foreign Kerosenes.
Try C.0.R,. with an open mind. When you’ve proved its excellence—realise that you are
a partner in its production and continue to order it!
C.O.R. Deserves Your Preference
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES, LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil
Company Ltd.).
■ BO
4155
KEROTEXE
Victoria: Poolman St., Port Melbourne.
N.S.W.: Cathcart House, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Agents for Queensland, S. Australia
and N.S.W. country districts:
Daigetv & Co., Ltd.
V 777
■ ■
paton


FOR
architects, artists, designers,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
•• #
a m
BRITISH
(\DE
Perfection
F>ITSP£ RUBBER.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
"'I
SCHUTE,
BELL &C °i<..
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
D
übte
*■
EUCALYPTUS
sr/ £
or
BE
S7A*
COLD?
COUGHS
backs
lame
l'3
Macmi Han’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fired by the importing
bookseller.
King Edward VII. By Sir Sidney
Lee. Vol. 1. From Birth to Acces-
sion. 31s. 6d. net.
Taxation in Australia. By Stephen
Mills, C.M.G., Barrister-at-Law. 12s.
net.
Systematic Pomology. By U. P.
Hedrick, Vice-Director and Horticul-
turist of the N.Y. Agricultural Ex
periment Station. With 24 Full-page
Plates and 304 Figures in the Text.
17s. net.
[Rural Text-book Series.
THE
ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum post free to
any address >vithin the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:
LORD MILNER.
COLOGNE, THE SECURITY PACT AND THE
LEAGUE.
PRESIDENT AND SENATE.
LETTERS FROM AN ENGLISHMAN ABROAD.
INTROSPECTION IN INDUSTRY.
THE INDIAN RURAL PROBLEM.
IRELAND: THE POLITICAL SITUATION.
Also Articles from “Australia“ New Zealand,”
“South Africa” and “Canada."
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
Personal.
MICK SMITH, who was in Camiers Hospital with
me, July, 1916, write to old Enzed cobber TOM
CASEY, Box 46, Inglewood, New Zealand.
Public Notice.
MR. J. C. GLYDE, Kamo, North Auck-
land, New Zealand, has published a
further edition of his Musical Composition,
“The Earthquake.” Price 2/1 post paid.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Skin and Wool Merchants.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
Uncle Tobys
Oats
jlTlairnfaetupecL byo
glifforct Love&, (So. Ltd[. gudneif
xcvb
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
lZe
a
POST FREE
THE PL
m
cvbn
cvbn
Note the
simplicity
oftheLever
Locking
Connecting
Hook.
Weed De Luxe
Tyre Chains have two distinct advantage
over all other tyre chains:
One The simple lever lock draws the side
chains together with little effort and
keeps the chain firmly locked, yet allows
free “play” to prevent tyre injuries.
Two —The cross chains have specially re-
inforced links. More of the chain now
“grips the road.” It means greater
strength where needed.
Made by the manufacturers of the original,
always reliable “Weed Chain.”
Your accessory dealer carries the original
Weed and the “De Luxe” Weed tyre chains.
Select the one best suited to your needs.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative: Edward G. Vaughan
P.O. Box 848, Sydney, N.S.W.
E 4-8-24
“De Luxe ”
j re Chains
This is the Rein-
forcing Link that
gives more road
contact and longer
wear.
cvbn
Weed tyre chains also obtainable for semi-balloon and balloon tyres,
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Cranbrook: Maybe; but his Ex. will prob-
ably be surprised if they call him “Stanehi.”
Anyway, this paper’s burriest Scotsman tells us
that a “haven” in the local dialect is a “hive” ;
hence “Stanehive”.... James B.: But that isn’t put-
ting it quite fairly. The £5O obviously isn’t sup-
posed to be interest; it is the annuity that £5OO
could have purchased. As a matter of fact, £5OO
will buy an annuity of £5O for about 15 years....
John Iv. E.: Already handled.... Snow Storm: Well,
there are very complete American statistics on the
subject, and they show that less factory work is
done per hour in a 44-hour than in a 48-hour week.
.... Frank S.: Very well done; but a week too
late... .K.T.M.; It straggles about like a homeless
dog. .. . Boonally; Send your claim for printed pars,
(specifying date, page and column) to the accountant,
who will post you payment.... J. Beesy: You spoiled
six perfectly good sheets of paper. .. .Yandanooka:
Hasn’t that bob-in been thrown for yet, either?
They’ll be all early-Victorian heads on the coins
when they are collected. .. .K.C.: “Ardlicka” never
rhymes with “Java” in July.. .. Bellerive: That’s
the style. There is always a keen interest in know-
ing how a craftsman does his work:—
I require no stool to rest my feet
A!or desk in my little Den;
I puff my pipe, or whistle a tune
To the strokes of my common pen.
The past is dead, but memories live
As the days did come and go,
I battled my way to tile literary gate
Like a sledge-dog through the snow.
I never muse in a doleful way,
With my hands pressed to my head;
I can always write a poem or two
Before 1 go to Bed.
I never await the posey queen
To wave her wand o’er me,
I can scribble a verse on anything
From an elephant to a Flea.
I have no fad for dainty words;
My task 1 never shine—
There’s always a chance in a col. for the
Poet who know’s he’s work.
. ...G.E. (Richmond) : The idea is good, but the
verse is not strong enough to carry it. . . .I.S. (East
Brunswick) : Flutters feebly and falls flat. . . .K.H.L.:
Don’t call; for it. .. .E.J.W.: “Sea” has not been
allowed to rhyme with “see'' since the spacious days
of great Elizabeth; and even at that remote period
they would not have liked your verse....B. O’Beer:
It’s not badly done, but it is built on a very old
plan and has too many twin sisters... .W.D.F.:
Both miss... .N.E.R.: Doesn’t make a yarn as
told. . . .Wattle Bark: Still far, far off. . . .B.I.: Your
“Dead Leaves” are like too many others. ...H.S.
(Warrack) ; The verse is crude; and the mere fact
that a man appeared in public in pyjamas isn’t
thrilling, if he had done it in a bootlace it might
have been different... .W.A.P.: They are very un-
interesting “Shadows”... .E.S.P.: The story is poorly
told; the verse limps. ... E.T. (Armadale): Doesn’t
strike us hard enough... .L.1.K.: Not well handled.
.... Dugol: Doesn’t make much of a story....
E.A.A.: Nothing in it....lan S.: Sorry, but it
won’t d 0.... Nance S.: Story too slight; verse is
on the road. .. .0.W.P.: Very p00r... .G.T.C.:
Labored and weak... .D.M.C.: Too thin and frail.
. ...L.H.E.: Has some force, but the lines are too
roughly carpentered... .1.D.R.; Not enough there. .. .
B.M. (Goulburn) : Awkward and empty... .T.H.T..
Clumsy prose masquerading as verse. .. . W.A.M.: Not
the pigs for this poke. .. .S.F.A.C.: Not enough
interest in it.... James D.: Avaunt! The fox cannot
carry his stiff neck here....No Name: “The Triers”
wouldn’t get much inspiration from verse as weak
as that. . . .D.P.F.0.: Can’t guarantee its effect on
“all humanity,” but a bit of humanity will find
it joyous:—
1 have sipped at the Pierian spring,
It has bade my tongue to sing,
in order it may pleasure bring
To all Humanity.
I enter in a world of hopes,
Of joys entrancing and elopes
Far from Humanity,
A world of seers, a world of tears,
A world of Pompous Vanity.
I hope that God will spare for me
Still yet a day for me to see
My model work, not of glee
But a lesson to Humanity.
. ...J.B. (Perth): No use... .C.McE.: Not enough
marrow in its bones... . V.M.T.: There seems to he
a lot of hysteria over a little happening. .. .W.J.W. (
Nothing there to make a yarn. . . .E.P.D.: “Morning”
fails. .. .Gerald D.; A bad sample of a tedious way
of telling a tale... .Butten: The injured wife who
invented a new torture hasn’t enough interest....
Tarra: The horse sat down in the doorway. Well,
well!. . . .Namoi: “Premonition” is a tale that re-
appears in one of its thousand forms twice a week.
. ...D.M.G.: One may d0....H.5. (Tweed Heads):
Too loose and too 10ng....W.U. (Christchurch):
Doesn’t get near enough even to let us ask it
what it thinks of our harbor.... Jack F.: Goes
very heavily. .. .M.lt. (Perth): “The Woman”
tempted us only in moderation.... Lucifer: Not well
enough done. ... V.L.G.: Not attractive; and your
statements are not correct. .. .William C.: “Nocturne”
doesn’t sing to u 5.... W.11.L.: None of them come
close enough to be bitten by the office dog. ...
Dodo: It isn’t even like verse.... F.W. (Canter-
bury): Not enough there... .F.J.C.: Too much com-
monplace. .. .W.A.D.: Pleasant enough, but not well
enough done. .. .R.K. (Darlinghurst) : Not up to the
mark... .T.A. (Toorak): Nicely done, but very slight.
. ...J.A.D.; Far too sober as a tribute to those gay
spillers of inconsequential.gore. .. .Jim M.: The verse
has a good way to go. ... J.D. (Dubbo): More skill
is needed... .John M.: They both fall down too
often.... G.T.S.: The lines say practically nothing.
.. . .W.D.T.: A bit too rugged. . . .W.C.: The idea of
“Day” is good ; but your nag wants more training,
J.E.Y.: Not neat enough for a thing of that
sort Tiwa: But how can you judge in the case
if you don’t know the circumstances?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.C.: You show signs of a talent that may oe
worth a run H.E’.A.: Bears the same relation
to art as the late Felicia Dorothea Hemans bears
to poetry.... G.C.: A blythe fancy, but not in our
line... .M.G.: Your cockie is on the homeward
trail J.H.: No indications of an Alpha Pictoris
rising in the North H.R.M.: They didn’t remove
our gravity worth twopence .J.N.K. : Why did
you saddle those reasonably healthy flappers with
such a sickly joke? W.D. : Not half well enough
done L.T.D. ; No J.E.P.: That moon-clock
wheeze was a contemporary of the first clock, if
not of the first moon.


Inspection
is Protection
\
r
/a
/a
'fti
o y
Inspection service rendered
in Willard Service Stations
covers these five important
points:
1— Testing each cell. •
2 Replacing evaporation.
3 Cleaning, greasing and tighten-
ing terminals.
4 Cleaning top of battery.
5 Tightening hold-downs and
grounds when needed.
Willard Service helps to make
your battery last longer.
These passenger cars and trucks are equipped by their makers
with genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Cole
Cunningham
Daniels
Davis
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Export)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Franklin
Delling
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
McFarlan
Oakland
Ogren
Oldsmobile
Packard (Export)
Peerless
Pierce-Arrbw
Reo
Steams
Studebaker
Stutz
Westcott
Wills St. Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All-American
American -
La France
Atterbury
Bridgeport
Case
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dodge
Dorris
Fifth Ave. Coach
Ftemont
F. W. D.
Fulton
Garford
Giant
G. M. C.
Graham Bros.
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Independent
Indiana
Kankakee
Kissel
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Meteor
Miller
Nelson & Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Riddle
Ruggles
Sandow
Sayers & Scovill
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Velie
Vim
Ward-La France
White
Wilson
mm
m
:
gSE: H i
mm
STORAGE
BATTERIES
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A


Build Better !
Walls and
Ceilings!
Save money and bu lil real charm
and beauty into your new home
by using “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets for lining all its walls
and ceilings.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than lining-
boards and is Fire Retardant, White-ant
Proof, Hygienic, and Improves with Age.
The big sturdy sheets are easily and
quickly fixed without waste.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY., LTD.,
I SYDNEY: Cr. York and Wynyard Sts.
1 BRISBANE: A.M.P. BTd’gs, Queen St.
1 MELBOURNE: 581-83 Little Collins St.
I ADELAIDE: 30 Currie Street.
| HOBART: 103 Collins Street.
1 NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
I Grey Street, Wellington.
-■
- —r
On the Wool Track
Follow the road which leads to top values.
SEND YOUR CLIP TO
WINCHCONIBE, CARSON
Selling; Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY OK BRISBANE.
[2
“WARWICK
Riding
Trousers
10/6 Pair.
Three Pairs for
30/-
POST FREE
aTftail to "Desk 'SfJ:
staring Size~>
Vi
A tough customer, in
Oli’Je Shade Twill.
Stockman cut. Cross
Pockets and Loops.
A Great W earer.
cvbn
PIKE
BROTHERS - LIMITED.
In Queen Street—
BRISBANE (Q’ld.)
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
cvbn
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUY ATT & CO.j Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
nnoosite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
I HUFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of lanff
and all particulars posted on application
to
The Manager.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office^
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING ANb GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ET&
Our CATALOGUE of IRISH
LINENS
will save
you many
pounds
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Ir.sh linen double damask
by the yard. Any length cut. A \ery
fine heavy make which will give good
dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/it
54 .. .. .. .. 8 /' 6
72 tl/l
LINEN TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all linen huck
towelling. By the yard. Will give endless
wear. 17 inches wide per yaid 1/4
24 .. 1/8
OUR Mail Order System
enables you to purchase
Genuine Irish Linen goods
at Manufacturers’ prices. In your
own home you choose just what
you require from our Il.Ustrated
Catalogue No. 5:54 . Overseas
orders receive special attention
and goods are promptly delivered
with our full guarantee of satis-
faction.
LINEN SHEETING
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wtar.
70 inches wide pet yard 4/6
LINEN PILLOW CA ING
Bleached iinen pillow casing. Our
Standard make.
46 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 5/3
54 .. .. .. ■■ 6/6
““ %iaXUt ---
IRISH LINEN
ROBINSON t CLEAVER
Line* KUnuhriurerv
BELFAST
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUE WITH
SAMPLES , POST FREE
A SPECIAL OFFER
Brown Linen-topped Bath Tone's. Very absorbent.
Good friction towel for bathers.
22 x 42 inches, each 3/9
24 x 50 inches, each 4,9 27 x 56 inches, each 6/-
ROBINSON &
CLEAVER Ltd.
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Verri”: A unique “libel'’ case was heard
recently in Dunedin (M.L.), when the in-
spector of awards sued a well-known local
firm, under the Grocers’ Assistants’ Award,
for refusing to give a departing employee a
reference. The youth incurred his employer’s
displeasure by leaving just before Christmas,
and after being interviewed the firm Vouch-
safed a reference which stated the boy had
been “discharged.” As he had left volun-
tarily, litigation followed, and a sympathetic
magistrate, after pronouncing the letter
libellous and liable to seriously prejudice the
youth, awarded the full penalty of £lO, plus
costs.
* * * *
“Hora”: Those few of the population of
Maoriland who are enthusiastic over its
scenic wonders are fighting a suggestion that
a nitrate syndicate be allowed to harness
Bowen Falls, on Milford Sound. Of all the
attractions on the Milford trip these falls
are the most wonderful; one shudders to
think of them denuded of their surrounding
forest and disfigured with a power-house and
other buildings. Many of the most lovely
spots in Maoriland have already been ruined,
for commercial purposes. As the Milford
trip is one of the greatest of the Tourist De-
partment’s attractions —-B. E. Baughan wrote
it up as “The Finest Walk in the World”—
there is still some hope that the Government
will conserve the West Coast Sounds for all
time.
* * * *
“8.L.” : Bobe, in the south-east of South
Aus., once a thriving country town, is now
an isolated port where hardly a vessel calls
in a decade. Yet big wool shipments once
went from there to London. Long ago some
of the magnates of the district opposed the
building of a railway line because they
thought it would interfere with their bullock-
teams, so the chance went, and Robe is still
without a line. When the gold diggings
were booming Victoria forbade the landing
of Chinese, but South Aus. was quite willing
to make a little easy money, and Robe be-
came one of the gateways to the new gold-
fields. Old residents remember the time
when there were between three and four
thousand of the yellow men camped near the
town waiting for the word to start. Hun-
dreds of them came by each boat; some-
times a vessel would land as many as a
thousand.
* * * *
“Whales”: The Norwegian co. referred
to by “Mercator” (B. 4/6/’25) as having
erected an up-to-date whaling-station costing
£60,000 at Point Cloates (W.A.) spent most
of the money in shifting its factory and plant
from Maud’s Landing, a little north of
Sharks’ Bay, when that site was found un-
suitable, to Point Cloates. It was this re-
moval and the erection of new jetties and
the like which cost the £6O 000; this sum
does not include the original cost of the
plant, which to-day could not be purchased
and erected under £160,000. “Mercator”
says that the local co. which took over the
business was handicapped by the smallness
of its steamers. A much more severe handi-
cap was the abnormal decline in the price
of whale-oil, which fell from £9O a ton in
1915 to £25 (and in some cases less) in
1922. The local company made its worst
error at the outset in its under-capitalisation!
“Tabac”: The principles governing a
donatio mortis causa —that is, a conditional
gift of personalty made in contemplation of
death—are, broadly, these: the gift must be
strictly confined to personal property, there
shall be actual delivery of it, and the sick
man must part not only with the possession
but the dominion of the gift. Finally the
invalid must die. If after having had the
jewels or the cash delivered into your hands
your dying friend refuses to die, then you
must hand them back if he wants or demands
them. There have been gross cases of negli-
gence on the part of donors in not dying de-
cently and promptly after making such gifts.
Also it is well for the donee to get out of the
way as soon as possible lest the dying man
may revoke the gift. An interesting case on
these pretty points (Watts v. Nash) came
before an English court. The dying man
handed a bundle of banknotes to his niece.
The lady, instead of putting it in her stocking,
placed it in her uncle’s safe. Ha! The
executors, after the donor was properly dead,
found the money in the safe, and with the
greed of their class claimed it for the estate.
They argued that putting it there was a re-
sumption of the property. But the villains
were foiled.
WHO’D SELL A FARM?
[For The Bulletin.]
The agent called it a farmlet, I call it whatever I
choose;
If the agent could hear me sometimes he’d faint at
the words I use.
A shack and a million gum-trees, for there’s clearing
work to do,
And a million seems an estimate too low from my
point of view.
I’ve turned my back on the ocean where the combing
greybeards roll,
And I’m swinging a flaming mattock for the good
of my salt-stained soul.
So it’s good-bye, salt water, a dinkum last good-bye.
No more I’ll keep the “jour-to-eight,” well named
the “gravy-eye.”
I’ve sold my sacred sextant, and I’ve burned my
boats galore,
And I’m smiting the earth with an implement I never
swung before.
I followed salt water faithfully for over thirty years;
But a man may be dragged to a farmlet if his good-
wife grasps his ears.
“What is the use of going to sea at your time of
life?”
I harked to the voice of the tempter, and fell; and
I blame my wife!
I have left behind for ever the water-front’s great din,
And I’m teaching the pullets how to pull and the
spinach how to spin.
And it’s good-bye, salt water, or maybe “an revoir”;
I may come back to you again when tired of life
on shore.
I can’t forget old ocean where the combing grey-
beards roll —
And meantime I'll assault the earth to soothe my
salty soul.
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


Haily Mishaps
§
m
Make ZAM BUK a Daily Need
/
a
1"/
rr
v
A 4
/
V
ftf
■m
w//"
•m
WrS3f
First wash away any dirt or grit from the
wound; cover it with a piece of tint or any
bit of clean rag on which Zam-Buk has been
spread. Rub gently with Zam-Buk for
bruises and sprains. Then coyer up
(especially in burns and scalds) and let
nature and Zam-Buk do the rest.
FREE
TEST
The proprietors of Zam-Buk invite you to
make a free test before buying. Simply
send your request to 0. E. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Sydney, and a trial sample will be
sent you by return mail free and post paid if you
mention The Bulletin of 2/7/’25.
ACCIDENTS in the home occu: when least expected—the slip with
the knife or tin-opener—the hot oven door against your bare arm
—the kettle that boils over —the bruises and bumps of play, and the
children s cuts and hurts.
Injury to the skin means a
breaking of the protective layer
and the admission of hordes of
harmful germs that set up a
kind of local poisoning. There-
fore, be ready to apply at once
to any injury a piece of lint
or clean rag smeared with
Zam-Buk, and keep the place
covered up.
This antiseptic balm kills
disease germs, draws out all
poisonous matter, soothes pain
and quickly ends what is a
peril to even healthy people.
If you had the eyes of a microscope
and could see Zam-Buk knitting the edges
of a wound together you would witness
one of Nature’s miracles—the creation
cell by cell of new living tissue. You can
always feel safe in accident or skin trouble
with a box of Zam-Buk close at hand.
Tt is important to select Zam-Buk for your
regular home first-aid and healer, because Zam-Buk
means “safety first.” Unlike ordinary ointments
Zam-Buk contains no coarse mineral drug or rancid
animal fat to corrode or harm the skin. Zam-Buk
has proved as wonderfully effective in cases of
eczema, pimples, rashes, poisoned sores, ringworms,
piles, ulcers and deep-seated disease as it is sooth-
ing and healing for cuts, burns, scalds, etc.
Obtainable of all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 per
box, or 3/6 (family size), everywhere.
Bur
am
ENSURES SAFE, CLEAN HEALING
For every occasion—Ride a B.S.A. Bicycle!
TO tennis, cricket, golf and the
numerous open-air activities
that feature so largely in Aus-
tralian life —the B.S.A. Fittings
Bicycle will take you —quickly and
easily.
Every component used in the construction of
the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is made with scrupu-
lous care, and, being tested and gauged at various
stages of manufacture, it carries a guarantee of
absolute interchangeability. Thus when mishap
makes replacement necessary, a new component
may be obtained with a minimum of trouble and
expense.
For Business or Pleasure-Ride a B.S.A,
Have your "bicycle
fitted with the
EADIE COASTER HUB.
i
i
»
i
i !
VL
:
i
i
i
i
i
*4* -* ;
□
D
FITTI NGS
BICYCLES
Look
jor this
Trade-
mark
TJMDC Mints
k
B.S.A.
on every
B.S.A.
Cycle
Filling,
Illustrated Booklet may be obtained on
application to B.S.A. Representative:
D. Y. RENNIE,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Do You Use a B.S.A. Gun ?


COUGH
REMEDY
Cougtis.g
CROt
[HAMBIRUUifP
COUGH
REML.DY
i*':*
Wtt °HOARSCN
BROI
SORE THI
INFLUE
C «S:
tPi
THROAT and
Si
MADE :n AUS
;!iii
CHAMBERLA
SYDNF.Y N
tliji
Nothing equaßs it for
clearing up Bronchitis.
There’s nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s for clearing
up Bronchitis. It cuts
away the mucus, and
heals the bronchial tubes.
An occasional dose of
Chamberlain’s during the
Winter months will help to
keep bronchitis in check.
Chamberlain's
u cough remedy”
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five NttW Patented Features
\9<^
dv
3v
V«v
o<-
€
L
//
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14 kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib, TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Ba r.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DR’OP.
4. New SCREW Pressrfre
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
. pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don't delay. Get yours
v ‘ 'W. State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’LL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne. Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq,;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Rvan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
cvbn
Bear this in mind
when buying a
new bicycle.
IF it’s built to a
1 quality standard
and not to a price
limit it will be fitted
for comfort with a —
GOD
LD
SADDLE
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, LTD.,
Eagle.v Building.
.143-45 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Agents tor J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
B i nil i ngha m, K ngl a nd.
Your health’s best friend
—the daily ‘dash’ of ENO
Give Nature the gentle aid she sometimes needs
in resisting those little ills that make life a
burden —follow the time proved practice of
drinking, first thing every morning, a glass of
water sparkling with a ‘ dash ’ of ENO'S
“ Fruit Salt.”
NOW SOLD IN TWO SIZES
Sales Agents: —
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO ..LTD.,
SYDNEY.
%?■
.v
8
r.
Or
SSSi
'<-
a
o
V
<<✓
B
A
SB
stt
m
t£5S
The words “ Fruit
Salt” and ENO, and
the label on the
package are regis-
tered trade marks.
THE
e
esiSi
£.
m£~ 'T.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1338.
HEAD OFFICE —273 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital ** nj U £lo,ooo,ooo
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund • • 2,300,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 1,500,000
Total . . . • • • • • • • £7,800,000
Total Assets, 31st March, 1925, £41,177,775.
Directors :
SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C,
BOWES KELLY.
F. M. STRACHAN.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept.: E. J. OSBORNE.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N s> WALES— Principal Office, 342-340 George Street, Sydney, and 31
branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies;
0 E. H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Principal Office, King William
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George's Ranches
T ISMAMA— Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobait (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE —7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand. ,
Agents throughout the v\ orld.
The surviving members of the last Parkes
Ministry are J. H. Carruthers, Wm. McMil-
lan, Syd. Smith and Albert Gould, of whom
The Bulletin’s old "Pumpkin” is the only
one unknighted.
The Ma State lost a fine pastoralist when
Norman Nivison, of Ohio station, W alclia,
went over at 4ti the other day. Taking
charge of the station at an age when most
boys are still at school, he made it one of
the most valuable sheeperies in N.S.W., its
clip always being eagerly competed for by
buyers.
The Seamen’s Mission (Melb.)had its Flying
Angel flag half-mast the other day for ( ap-
tain R. C. Denny, whose death occurred
through a fall from the running-board of a
car in Flinders-street. He had been assistant-
harbormaster for the past six years, and
was a very live member of the committee of
the mission.
Adelaide Uni. is to lose Herbert Heaton,
LL.D., lecturer in economics and head ot
the Workers’ Educational Association since
1917, when he came from similar good work
in Hobart. He lias a theory that no man
under 50 should settle down in one place,
and, being only 35, is moving on to a profes-
sorship in the Kingston Uni, of Canada.
Fine old Joseph Mack, of Berry Bank, has
been celebrating his 80th birthday at the
family homestead, which is said to be the
Vic. Western District’s first double-decker
stone dwelling built outside Portland, in a
countryside studded with similar solid relics
of an ancient day when labor was cheap and
time didn’t mean so much as it does to-day.
The house is dated 1852.
Passed out the other day, at 8(X Robert
John Fair-weather, who played against Dr.
Grace’s English cricket team when the "green
was in the Sydney Domain. In liis later
years he was the patriarch of the Waverley
Bowling Club. His dad was that Captain
Eairweather who kept the whole history ot
Australian shipping tucked away in his
memory.
Mrs. Melanie de Mestre Lovegrove. who
died last week at Lindfield, Sydney, at 96,
was the widow of that William Lovegrove
who helped to open up trade with the South
Coast ports of N.S.W. Her mother was the
original owner of the Terara estate, on tni
Shoalhaven River, which once belonged to
Etienne de Mestre, well known in the turf
circles of a previous generation.
Should you be pining to know what
sort of place Yaapeet is or the whereabouts
of Pannoobamawn or Ozenkadnook, there is
nothing so informative as the “Victorian
Municipal Directory.” This guide has been
going for 60 years, and will tell you all there
is to be told" about every town in Victoria,
big and small. There you may learn that
Cressy owns a courthouse, bank, public hall
and library. State school, two churches and
one pub, whilst Pirron Yallock is similarly
placed in regard to religion and sin, whereas
Irrewillipe has only a post office, a State
school and an Oddfellows’ Hall.
The Chair of Mathematics at the Tas-
manian Uni. is to be filled by a brilliant
young Melbourne product, E. J. G. Pitman,
M.A., B.Sc. After eating up various scholar-
ships he enlisted in the A.1.F., and arrived
in England just too late to stop the Armis-
tice, so wrestled with more learning at the
London School of Economics. He started
his professional career in 1922 by acting as
locum tenens for the professor of mathe-
matics at Canterbury University College
(M.L.), and did so well that he was given
full professorial status.
Alec Peacock, as Vic. Minister for Educa-
tion, had to listen for two hours to teachers
making claims for better pay and conditions.
With one exception the speakers presented
their case poorly: they browsed over then-
story like a herd of grazing cows. Later in
the "day a group of railway men came to
Peacock as Treasurer to support superannua-
tion proposals. Speakers were concise, mar-
shalled their facts well, and wasted no words.
If the schoolmaster would become the master
instead of the slave of words there would be
more wit in the world and more brevity to
supply a soul for it.
A man to whom the N.S.W. elections had
a thrilling interest was Alfred William Me-
Innes. who murdered a woman last Sep-
tember and then shot himself. That shot
saved his life. It kept him in hospital for
months, and it was not until March that
he was tried and sentenced to death. He
lodged an appeal, which failed ; but by the
time it was decided the elections wei-e due,
and, not wanting to give the Labor party a
chance to call it a “hanging Government,”
Fuller’s Ministry deferred consideration until
after the elections. One of the first admin-
istrative acts of Labor was to commute Me-
in lies’s senteuce to imprisonment for life.
“Hasen”: Ship-chandlers should find
something of interest in the statements about
the provisions likely to be taken on board
in,..Melbourne by the American fleet. Little
lots like “15,0€01b. of fresh fish, 20,0001 b. of
cabbage, 12,0001 b. of cauliflower” and the
like should' be worth supplying and sound
reasonable enough. But the reading of one
item leaves me cold, and a bit doubtful if
someone hasn’t forgotten for the moment
on which side of the equator we are. Among
the “supplies required at Melbourne between
Julv 24 and August 6” are “1200 gallons of
ice-cream brick.” As the Yanks themselves
might put it. anyone who would ask for ice-
cream in a Melbourne July would be likely
to howl for a hot-water bottle in Hell.
The Rev. J. B. Ronald, who has had many
troubles since be abandoned his kirk at South
Melbourne in 1901 to become a member of
the first House of Reps., was in the dock
ol the Criminal Court last week answering
a charge of having performed a marriage
when lie had ceased to possess the Qualifies.-
tions. After having been removed from the
list of ministers entitled to celebrate mar-
riage in 1903, he was later appointed a civil
registrar, but was removed in 1925. Well
defended by T. C. Brennan, he was acquitted,
his defence being that he honestly believed he
was entitled as a clergyman to perform the
ceremony. Under Vic. law a marriage is
good if even one of the parties believes that
the person lying the knot is a qualified prac-
titioner.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
OIiAMA SO .500
OKONSAY .. 20.500
OTRANTO .. 20,500
ORMONDE .. 11.853
ORMUZ
ORVIEtTO ...
OSTEIU,EY ..
ORSOVA
Tons.
14.588
12.133
12.129
12,030
First Saloon and Third Glass.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
2-4-0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
B7981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued..
S.S. ORARA— Every Saturday, 9 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m. ;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail —£2713/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp and Co., Ltd.
Uanking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,490,435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman ;
Frank Ns Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson;
II. 11. Lysauht, O.B.E. ; Gkoiiue J. Soy, LL.D. ;
Lieut. Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Cliiej Inspector /or N.H. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY i Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyaiid.
Manager: G. II. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
T.ondon Director: A. Dodds Faiiuiaiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. ..1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain
on Australia, N e\v Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
MEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
|MQ||Moy|f\po i'llccted on all classes of
Fire insurances felliMin „ t , s toekS) Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
■i ai> : nD pioi/c on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine BISKS Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
n,|.A “United” is an Australian institution.
* BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
ICstaUlisliccl
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt. St., Sydney
ProvideivtSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Yeai.
Amount for single year 1924
Yielding Reversionary Auditions to
Policies of over »»
Accunrulat ed Funds* • •
Annual Income . .
£2,370,000
£4,000,000
£55,800,000
£8,400,000
The
Sot’iety transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERI.Y, F. 3.5., General Manager.
■ajr ‘KniddiqS
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAL ASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI. .
NIAGARA
MAKURA
AORANGI
13,000 tons disp. JULY 16 for San Francisco.
18,600 „ „ JULY" 30 „ Vancouver.
13,000 „ „ AUGUST 13 for San Francisco.
23,000 tons disp. AUGUST 27 ,, Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
Fast anfl splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Fnriv a 1 1 e d
Cuisine.
/ *M >S
& < • ' 'iiMilli
j I MP
T he Scenic
lloutes to tlie
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED 1 ,lAXGBABLK '°“ nKVVKS
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., j William street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO.. Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of $2 to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
■Hi
■
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
w ; j
M
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of tile following routes to England:—
Vl , a aTi'eRICA^tc'aNADA AND UNITED STATES).
THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
” SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to — ttlp
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and &INGAI OKU bj the
niagnificent steamers “MAREEEA or MONIORC. ■ =
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £9O, Bust-.
class Return. , ~ . , „ cnri
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
UK
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
KUUI.AU SAILINGS OF THE l-'INE AND
FOFUL.AU STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,o00t°n8
SUE VIC ••••••••••••* 12 ,000 tons
MEDIC ,•••••••••••••* 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Ile°ular Service Between Australia and
Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES
TUE.MISTOCLES
DEMOSTHENES
‘SOPHOCLES
•DIOGENES
*Npw
Interchangeable return tickets issued
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
at ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
15,000 tons
11,250 tons
11,250 tons
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
NESTOR
ULYSSES
/ENEAS
Tons.
. 14.500
. 14,500
. 10.000
Tons.
10,000
10,000
ANCIIISES ..
ASCANIUS f ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BA LRARAT .. 13,100
B-\RADTNK .. 13,100
BENDIGO . - 13,100
BELT AX A .. 11,
BEN ALLA .. 11.
BOBDA .. 11,
BE BRIM A .. 11,
,100
,100
,100
,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
A GENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
bank.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
)***<:
’vsijir
esmP
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6.000,000
£16,150,000
Tliomas Buckland, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Es
President.
q.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A.
Head Office —George Street. S
402 Branches and Agencies
Agents and Correspondents throuj
Cable remittances made to,
negotiated and collected. Letters
r Milton Esq. General Manaoer: OSCAR LINKS.
vdneV London Office-29 Tl.readneedle Street E.C.2.
in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
? and l draft s'" drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the ttotld
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
■OR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTbR
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong an
Victorian ports: at Adelaide for S A. «»«
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, *
and North-West Ports). —_—
Leaves I Leaves I Svducv Agents.
Svdnev. | Mclbournel
Steamer.
ZEALAND! A
(All Ports)
KANOWNA..
(Melb. only).
KAROOLA. ..
(All Ports.)
WYREEMA. .
(Melb. only.)
C00MA.:...
(Melb. < nlv).
DIMBOOLA.
(All Ports).
LEVUKA. . .
(Melb. oily).
Sat.,
July 4.
Sat..
July 4.
Sat.,
July U.
Sat.,
July 11.
[Tues.,
| July 14.
Fri.,
July 17.
Sat.,
July 18.
Wed.,
July S
Wed.
July
Tues.,
July 21.
Huddart Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,
350 George St.
Mellwraith.
McEacharn, Ltd.,
01 Pitt Street.
A U.S.N. Co.. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,
350 George St
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
i A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR QUI
CTranrliinning at Bri
ENSLAND PORTS,
sbane for Maryborough. Bttnda-
iid at. Townsyille for Out ports).
* Brisbane, Macuay,
tßrisbane, i’ort Alma (no cai'SO
fackay Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Alma),
Huddart Parker Ly^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Stsamsliips
QTFAHFRS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular Bailings
from' Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA-E.rom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papeis. Retween
bourne and Launceston as per . daily pa per-
For full particulars apply HUDDABT PAllKtlt LIMITED
Soil ims Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telosrrnphic address
“NALDHAM.
rnlile jiil<lr<"=s:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdoaald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
l ilyroy Estates, Ltd.
Itluekheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. I’. *O. 8.. N Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Slme lane
Martin & Co.). New Zealand Slopping Co
I y p>ilpidiu ii* \usirulusian Bo.'al hi
■ ■ i. n CL‘ l iiioii S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
MW Zealand! fid.” Halt. Line. Uuddart Parker,
Itd London Assurance Corporation (Mamie). Mel
bourne °A gents for Memories Man tunes Co. Queens-
lmd Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
uwWritFS a f ' Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, 1 ort
Adelaide, Sydney! Su’va (Fiji). Brisbane. Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
RUPTURE:
A FREE TRIAL*
II foo im troubled with the complaint, write us and
u are troubled with the complaint, write aa i
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditio®*
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, find the price ta within
the reach of all,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street. Melboum*
(^LTEOMILk
v:
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food- I 'rink m concent red
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MAITED MILKy
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng. Ji
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


-Shearing m
Si
LISTER
Overhead* Bracket,
cvbn
't-mjbaJif't a/ur/fu,
because LISTER design provides for a more thorough and more positive system
of Oil distribution to all moving parts. Thus the main spindle in the LISTER
Handpiece runs in a long oil-bath—there is no friction, therefore no running hot,
and only a minimum of wear. Further, the oil-returning grooves on the spindle
keep the oil from running out the tail of the shear, so that lubrication is certain
and waste is cut out. On the overhead bracket a syphon feed to the frictio 1
arm bearing—instead of the more usual needle-feed—not only ensures that oil
does get through, but also that only clean oil gets through.
fjetuACcn
because LISTER Handpieces are easier to keep up to the mark. Perfectly
level tension—seldom obtained witli other pattern Crown Plates and the
source of constant trouble between shearers and expert—is automatically
guaranteed by the LISTER Patent Crown Plate. Tension Nuts give no
trouble when the LISTER Adjustable Split Lid-Busli is fitted, and so with
many other parts of the Handpiece. LISTER Combs and Cutters take a
keener edge and hold it longer than any others.
Apart from the grinding, shearers using LISTER Machines very
rarely have to trouble the expert from first blow to cut-out.
-M
attcti
because the shearing expenses and the annual repair bills are ever so much
TTomrDo LISTER than with other machines. Shearing costs less, because
LISTERS are on the job the whole time—no vexatious or expensive delays
because a stand is out of action every now and then. Shearers are kept
in good humor, and work quicker and cleaner. Repairs are less, because
firstly, LISTER Machines are a British-built product of the higliest’standard’
both in material and workmanship. That is a guarantee of longer life!
Secondly, the LISTER design allows for so many more “on-the-spot”
repairs than other machines that the expense of' sending work away
hundreds of miles is avoided.
Altogether, LISTER is the “one best bet” for anyone needing Shearing Machinery, whether
of the Standard Overhead Type or for a Portable Outfit. Our Catalogue “3” will remove
any hesitation you may have about the value of LISTER Machines. Write for a copy to
your State agent:—
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
Perth, W.A.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Mitchell & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tas.
MANUFACTURED BY
Clutterbuck Brothers, Ltd'.,
Hindley Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington-, N.Z.
R. A. LISTER & CO. LTD., DURSLEY, ENGLAND
yin
m
a
<2>
The Latest Model “S” Handpiece.


Here’s the Remedy
for Eczema-Rexona
L;
Q
□
Q
cu
CO
LP
riX£
vsAT' W
7*
r
VOS
• ■
Mr. R.
WEBSTER
{from a photo).
The Rapid
Healer
“It is with much
pleasure I write and let
you know what a wonder-
ful Ointment Rexona is.
For years I suffered from
Eczema and could not get
anything to give me relief
from this awful skin
trouble. 1 had doctors’ and
chemists’ prescriptions of
Ointments and Lotions,
but everything seemed to
irritate more, so I decided
to try Rexona Ointment,
and after two weeks’ treat-
ment received great bene-
fit. I shall always recom-
mend Rexona Ointment to
all who suffer in the same
way as I did, and will
always keep a tin of it in
tlie house. It is worthy
of the name —The Rapid
Healer.”
(Sgd.) R. WEBSTER,
112 Blaxcell Street,
Granville, N.S.W.
Rexona —A Medicine
Chest in Itself.
Unequalled for Cuts, Sores,
Rashes, Bruises, Scalds,
Burns, Chilblains, Chapped
Hands, Cold Sores, Bad
Legs, Piles, Eczema, Ring-
worm and all Skin Eruptions.
•fl
'Cooling'
fiooihing
Healing
jfflnliseplic Oinimenl *
$ Absolutely'
>» Heals * Reliable
THE RAPID HEALER
r A Reliable Healer (or all Eruption;
and Irritations of the skin. Eczema. Sores Oils
Burns Bruises. Sores Sciatica. Piles Stings ot Insects
and all kinds of Inflaminalion
r REXOHA PEP* SHELDON DRUG C° L IP SYDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
1/6
.V
dill
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing.
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
41~ per lib. box
4/
Red Metal Box
lib
8/
21b.
12/
31b.
16/
41b.
20/
51b.
N.S.W. Other States.
Tostage, extra 9d. 1/2
1/- J-/S
” ” i/a 2/2
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HOLIER £°nf^^iy the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used. andlong
most highly skilled workmen and the most emcienu
employed. . . *.
Each step in the process of manufacture is witherfection as
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to pertecuon a
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
tiUiieA
102-ICG Pit* Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Unhappy Satyr.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WILL go out into the golden noon.
Some panther passion, prowling in my
blood
With pricked car. sniffs where tar
the dim wood , , ,
Its- quarry slips, a white gleam m t ic siact.
Dryad or naiad, witch or wandering ma ,
Long have I sought her; I shall find her soon.
The dragon-fly, a droning sapphire star.
Hovered above the shadow ot Ins
Burns in the vault; such sapphire shadow
I her head once when i&e slept.
I swear no wood-mouse could have sott 1
And yet P she woke and slipped me and fled far,
Far through the forest; down one long green
Whose U lironzen columns heavily backward
The as I followed with parching
I caught the flash and glimmer of splendid
But a™the young moon into darkness swims
The trees received her, safe m then d .
shade. *
Long have I watched beside this silver pool
Where the moon bathes at midnight, so
does she. , ,
The warm wind in the rushes sang to me
A low sweet song that stirs my shaggy hair,
Telling me all the loveliness laid baie
To its unrippled silence deep and cool.
What’s that soft sound through the en-
chanted night, .
That tremor of dim silver? W hat light foot
Has crushed the folded wood-flowers and put
Some strange new sweetness into the stm
air? , ~ .
Do, what the moon can never make more fair
But only bathe in streams of liquid light.
I should have leapt before I looked, for now
T must look longer, though I turn to stone
As lifeless as the rock she stands upon,
r,caning with parted lips, as though to tell
Some secret, tender but inscrutable,
To her smiling sister in the pool below.
The pulse that in my forehead like a drum
Beat to the music of my leaping blood
Slackens till I forget my satyrliood.
There’s some moon-magic welling out ot her
That will not let my eager body stir.
Though every curve about her murmurs,
Come!
And now she turns to me, and in her eyes
I read her secret; there’s a loveliness
None but the high immortals may possess.
Since like her shining image it is gone
To nothing in the moment it seems won.
O secret that both damns and deifies!
T must go out into the golden noon.
This panther passion prowling in my blood
Claws me to madness; O in what dim wood
Wanders she now, whose sweet eyes set her
free?
V dream in silver has enchanted me .
Would I might wake and seek and find her
soon!
N.S.W.
II. M. Green.
The Book, the Bishop and the Ban.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF Esmerelda’s father, the Peanut Brittle
King, could have seen his daughter as
she sat reading Eustace's book (in
manuscript) under the wattle-tree that fine
morning, he would have been horrified. He
had given her a costly education, and being
old-fashioned in some ways he expected that
it should have taught her to be ladylike.
As she turned the pages stifled murmurs
escaped her. “‘She received him in the
drawing-room'—Cripes!” “‘He loved her
nobility of character, and the stainless purity
of her soul’ —Gosh! ‘He kissed her hand
Esmerelda jumped up and hurled the manu-
script to the ground. “ ‘Her hand. Hei
hand, he says, the great idiot!”
She stared down at the disconsolate-look-
ing mass of paper and shook her head mourn-
fully over the title which stood out brazenly
in block capitals. “The Gates of Paradise.
Oh, the boy was a dithering donkey, and the
dad was quite right. And yet ——
Esmerelda smiled wistfully to herself and
fingered the locket of platinun and diamonds
which she wore. Eustace was a dear boy,
and it was Spring, and they were so much
in love.
She looked up to see him advancing across
the lawn to her. He was a dark-eyed, moody
young man; his clothes were in a state of
picturesque disrepair, and he twirled a cane
with an air of artistic boredom. He con-
templated the manuscript on the ground and
spoke gloomily.
“Wei l ?" „ , , -
“Darling Eustace, you wouldn t make five
pounds on it." , , , ~
“That is Art." announced Eustace darkly.
“Bosh!” said Esmerelda.
He sat beside her on the garden-seat and
uncovered his thick, curly hair. She patted
it admiringly.
“You do love me. Eustace?”
“You live for me again,” began Eustace,
and then sneezed violently three times.
• This wattle.” he complained, “gives me liay-
fever. As I was saying, you live for me
again in the sea and the sky and all lovely
things. I can hear”
“Yes, darling, I’m sure you can. But the
point is. can you make five thousand pounds?
The Dad won’t, let me marry you unless, and
I won’t be twenty-one for a year yet.”
“You have read my book. It is my master-
piece. I can do no better.”
“H'm-m-m!” she frowned dubiously at the
masterpiece and then at the author of it.
“Look, dearest —take a stroll about the
lawn while I think. I have an idea.”
Not for nothing was Esmerelda the daugh-
ter of the Peanut Brittle King. Something
of her father’s depth of brow was hers, some-
thing of his chin, too, and a considerable
amount of his energy. The sun shone, the
birds sang-.. Eustace stalked tragically on the
lawn, and Esmerelda sat witli frowning
brows, pondering deeply. .
She glanced up at last to see the author
before her. n ~ ,
“I have strolled,” he announced, and now
l am tired of strolling. Have you thought.
‘1 have.” Esmerelda’s bewitching face
was set in a mask of determination. „ us '
taco, you must let me revise your book.
“Never!”
“Eustace!”
“No!”
“Darling!”
“No-o.”
“Don't you love me?”
“You live for me again m the sea
“Well, then, will you let me revise your
book?”
“I will consider the m'atter.
“Yes, do, precious. Have you a pencil/
What a stubby one! We’ll start straight
nwav. The first thing to alter is the title.
“It is a good title,” Eustace protested
with dignity. “The implication is that the
—or —the”
“Lovers?” , ...
“The betrothed couple know that they will
enter through the gates of Paradise when
they are married” ~ .
“Yes, it’s sweet. Now well cross it out.
and write the new one Des.ie
and Damnation’ —I think that 11 do
“Esmerelda!”
“What, dearest?”
“I will not permit this mutilating ot my
work.”
“P.ut, sweetheart”-
“Never.”
“Listen.”
“No!” „„
“Don’t you love me, Eustace:
“You live” , AT ,
“Well, then, don’t be a cuckoo. Now let s
turn on, to the second chapter. Ihe nrst li
do ‘She received him in the drawing-room.
We’ll alter that to ‘bedroom.’ Here, sit
down and don’t get so hectic. M ell, I don t
want to be unreasonable: we 11 compromise
with ‘boudoir,’ though it’ll mean £ 5OO _ ofl
the profits. And as for the hand-kissing,
treasure, it simply isn’t done. I suppose
vou wouldn’t make any advance on bps /
Oh, well, it’s only the second chapter. Y\ ell
advance about the tenth.” . . ...
“I am going.” said Eustace rising with a
certain hauteur. “I cannot remain and wit-
ness this sacrilege. I place my artistic re-
putation in your hands, Esmerelda, and I
trust that you will” , ... ...
“Make it pay? I’ll make it pay like —like
Peanut Brittle!” . .
“Ah well” said Eustace, resigned.
* * * *
For a fortnight Esmerelda worked hard.
She proceeded methodically, as might have
been expected of her father’s daughter. I irst
she went right through, eliminating the
“sweetheart” and “betrothed' and substitut-
ing “mistress” and “lovers.” Then, where
practicable, she refurnished the drawing-
rooms as bedrooms or boudoirs. M herever
the hero had “gazed reverently at the
heroine he now “devoured her passion-
ately with burning eyes.” Esmerelda was
as good as her word. She advanced consider-
ably in the tenth, and in the fourteenth she
went right over the edge. Then she rescued
the heroine from the sticky suicide to winch
Eustace had condemned her and married her
in the last chapter, with a clergyman and a
ring and everything complete.
While it was in the first stages of publi-
cation she commissioned an artist to design
- cover while she stood at his shoulder direct-
ing. There was a luminous cross and
a devil and a man in evening clothes and a
woman in none at all. It was most satis-
a<Then she rested from her labors. Not
for long, however. There came at last, the
day when she held the completed book m her
hands and saw that it was good.
She rang up Montague Muffat and de-
manded his instant presence. He arrived
within twenty minutes and handed his r,
over to Jenkins to be repaired. Then lm
brushed his coat, settled his tie and tripped
across the Dwn to Esmerelda. (He was in
love with Esmerelda. but, neither of them
allowed a little thing like that to disturb
tll “Monty Muff,” began Esmerelda with char-
acteristic directness, “how’s the Bishop:
Monty, who was the Bishop’s nephew,
smoothed his sleek hair, mopped his pink face
and debated the matter.
“Well, you know. I think, if you see what
I mnan. not too good.”
“How?” „ ,
“Er. you might say. in a manner of speak-
ing. as it were—kidneys.”
“Oh! Affect his temper?’
“Yes,” mourned Monty speaking for one?
tersely out of the fulness of his heart.
“Good. Now* see this book.” „
“ ‘Desire and Damnation —looks hue.
“Well, you’ve got to show* it to the
Damnation’s in his line all right,
but the Desire— really. Esmerelda!
“And tell him it’s immoral.’’
“Gripes ! Have, you read it?
“T wrote it—all the immoral bits.
“But it says ‘Eus’ ” , , ,
“Of course it does. But we ve got to. make
it nav or I can’t marry him. It was impos-
sible the way he w*rote it. The hero kissed
“Good heavens!” said Monty in disgust.
“ ‘And gazed reverently.’ ”
“The cad!” , ..... ,„
“ ‘And loved her spiritual nobility.
“Tut. tut!” murmured Monty, really
shocked.
“Oh. I can see you’ve got it all wrong—
you’re such a coot, aren’t you. But all
you’ve got to do is to get the Bishop to
lunch with -nou. and to give it to him and tell
him it’s a fair sample of the pernicious litera-
ture. of the day.”
“Hold on ! Per-what literature ? _
“Nieions. And say that for licentiousness
nnd salaciousness you have never read its
euunl.”
“Hare. come off, Esmerelda. How do yon
•spell ’em?” . .
He produced a fountain-pen and an en-
velope. and wreto laboriously.
“T.-T-0-E-N-S.”
“T.”
“Rot! On my driver's license^ ——
“810w r your driver’s license. It’s t.
(Continued on next page.)


GREATEST ARTISTS—FINEST RECORDING.
.
m
#
IP
ym
%
'i/m
IMI
«fc
HIS MASTERS VOICE
Paul Althouse
When this lovable singer toured Australia a tew years §go, his success was
instantaneous wherever he was’ heard'.
Returning to Australia with fresh laurels, his triumph has already been assured.
Resonant and true, his beautiful tenor voice is at once wonderfully powerful and
perfectly controlled, so that he can interpret the most virile music or the
tenderest passages with equal ease.
“His Master’s Voice"
brings this splendid artist into your home for your repeated delight. On these
perfect records he can be heard at his best.
E., 10-inch Double-sided Black Label, 5/6
D., 12-inch Double-sided Black Label, 8/-
E. 378— Vest! la glubba (Act 1). “Pagliacci” Paul Altliouse
E lucevan le stelle (Act 3), “Tosca” Paul Altliouse
D. (104— Celeste Aida (Act 1). “Aida” Paul Altliouse
Standchen (Serenade), (Schubert) Paul Keimers
D. 076— Ah! Moon of my Delight (from “In a Persian Garden”) Paul Altliouse
Onaway! Awake, Beloved! (Coleridge Taylor) Paul Altliouse
D. 003— Fuggiam gli ardori inospiti (Act 3). “Aida” Paul Altliouse and Lucy Marsh
O quanti occhi flsi (Act 1), “Butterfly” Paul Altliouse and Olive Kline
For absolutely natural results, play “His Master's
Voice” Records with “His Master’s Voice” Needles
on an “His Master’s Voice” Instrument.
Instruments in many styles at many prices.
Terms arranged.
Illustrated Catalogue of Instruments, Com-
plete Record Lists and name of nearest
* dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-marie.
“Gramophone"
Begd. Trade-viarlc.
cvbn
GREATEST
ARTISTS-—FINEST RECORDING.
“Oh, all right. T-I-O-TJ-S-N-E-S-S. Now
the other. S-A-L-A-S-II What’s it
mean, anyhow?”
“Never you mind what it. means,” admon-
ished Esmerelda severely. “And it isn’t
sh at all. it’s ‘c,’ and the ‘iousness’ is the
same as the other. Now take the book.
Monty Muff, and mind you don’t lose the
l>aper cover before the Bishop sees it. And
make him, pursued Esmerelda reflectively,
“drink as much alcohol as possible. I know
it s bad for the kidneys.”
* * *
Like a skilful general Esmerelda kept vast
numbers of the book in reserve. A few 7 only
appeared on tin* bookstalls, tickling the
"palate of the public with their seductive
covers.
And on the following Sunday Esmerelda
w’ent to church. The Bishop's kidneys were
obviously bad. When he ascended the pulpit
the thunder of his brow 7 made the congre-
gation quail. He bellow r ed his text like a
trumpet-call: “Therefore I am filled with
the fury of the Ijord.” And he was.
There w*as a book, a foul and pernicious
book, whose influence could be only evil.
Shall the young minds of our growing child-
ren be polluted? Shall our innocent homelife
rock on its foundations that an evil-minded
degenerate may wallow in ill-gotten gold?
Esmerelda relaxed. All w r as going w r ell;
she dozed comfortably to the peroration.
Just before the service ended she slipped
out to see that the errand boys were handy.
And as the congregation poured forth into
the sunlight little dodgers circulated from
hand to hand: “ ‘Desire and Damnation,’ by
Eustace Neville. Read this powerful an-
swer to the sex problem at Six and six-
pence.”
The next day Esmerelda flooded the shops
and bookstalls with the masterpiece, and
the Bishop’s sermon w 7 as reported in the
daily papers.
“And now,” she said to Eustace a week-
later, “is the time to get the Dad’s consent.”
Together they invaded the study of the
King. A lofty and austere room this, as
befitted the place where a Great Brain pon-
dered on Great Matters. Realistically-
colored prints, showing the Peanut Brittle
'u all its forms, decorated the walls —the
heart-shaped cakes to present to one’s lady-
love ; the slender stick in its tiny wooden
holder, to be eaten daintily from dainty
lingers; the separate fragments, each ex-
quisitely clothed in glittering transparent
paper, for the wealthy; the grosser blocks,
twelve to the packet, for the poor. The
Great Brain was considering a new feature,
Peanut Brittle for the Aged and the Tooth-
less, and a sample lay before him on a silver
plate. The whole peanuts, rounded, white,
succulent, were entangled in a mass of deli-
cate toffee filaments. The King bit a piece
thoughtfully; the sweet, crisp, cobwebby
strands melted in his mouth deliciously. He
smiled.
.The.smile faded somewhat when lie saw
his visitors. He disapproved of Eustace.
“Daddy.” announced Esmerelda, “Eustace
is now a famous man, and in a week he will
be a wealthy one, and we want to get married
at once, please, so will you sign this?”
“How famous?” inquired the King cau-
tiously. “And how wealthy?”
"Here you are,” replied his daughter,
business-like as always, laying a mass of
newspaper cuttings before him. The King
ran a casual eye over them and surrendered.
He knew Fame when he saw it. lie laid a
fatherly hand on Eustace’s shoulder.
"I congratulate you, my boy. I never
read anything but advts. myself, but 1 can
give you a bit of advice all the same.
Whether you deal in books or. peanut brittle
1 guess the principle’s the same. Keep your
goods pure, my lad. that’s the secret—the
public likes purity.”
And he signed his consent in high good
humor.
* X- * *
Eustace was made. His bank account
swelled rapidly, and it was wonderful that
his head did not follow’ suit.
“You are a remarkable woman,” he told
Esmerelda under the wattle-tree. “My
artistic reputation is ruined, but there are
compensations. My fortune is made.”
“And you have Me,” Esmerelda reminded
him.
“So I have, my dear. Decidedly there at**
compensations. How long will this happy
enthusiasm for my book last?”
“Oh, a while longer. I bribed three of
the leading libraries to ban it yesterday, and
that ought to keep it going for a bit.”
“And then”
“Then you’ll write another and I’ll revise
it. and the libraries will ban' it, and ihe
Bishop will bish against it, and the six-and-
sixpences will roll in.”
“Again ?”
“Mv dear,” said Esmerelda, “it always
works.
PATRICLA O'RANE.
Cupid and Karl Marx.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
working class and the employing
class have nothing in common.”
Perhaps you have heard this in
the Domain, where full-lunged young irre-
• concilables have the right to say what they
please and usually please to say that they
are slaves without rights. You may have
heard Dick Greem himself make the state-
ment, for in Sydney Dick is the most vol-
uble of all revolutionists. A great many
people think that revolutionists never work,
but that is a mistake ; Dick worked for Dart-
worth and Son. He earned good wages,
rested from Friday night to Sunday after-
noon, and then came out upon the Domain
to tell people that lie was a downtrodden
slave of ruthless Capitalism. Some people
believed him, and Molly King was among
these. '
Molly was a typist employed by the firm
for which Dick worked. She admired Dick
from the distance, and no doubt the admira-
tion was mutual, for when Dick recognised
her in the crowd that pressed round his
“stump” of a Sunday he put unusual lire
and enthusiasm into his speaking. The atmo-
sphere vibrated with his closing sentence:
■'lhe working class and the employing class
nave nothing in common.”
Molly was captivated, and she told Dick
so. She believed every word that he said
because it was he who said it. Consequently
their friendship grew in intimacy until one
evening Dick told Molly that he loved her.
Molly was pleased to hear this, and she men-
tioned something about marriage. Dick told
her that the working class and the
employing class have nothing in common,
to which Molly agreed. She had heard
it so often, and had always agreed.
Then Dick said—but I had better say it
for him, because Dick was a “soapbox
orator,” and I have to tell this story
iit about 10(10 words. lie said that marriage
was an institution of the Capitalist class, and
that genuine revolutionists would not marry.
-'■lolly then wanted to know if two eouid
live on Dick’s wages. This annoyed Dick
also. “Why,” he said, “the idea of the Man
supporting the Woman is based upon the
principle of Private-Property-Ownership, and
is purely a Capitalist conception. The work-
ing class and the employing class have no-
thing”—
. Eventually Molly was convinced. Unmar-
ried she lived with Dick and continued to
work for Dartwortli and Son. contributing
her wages to the “family” fund.
Rut now it is high time I completed the
triangle by adding a third side. You can’t
have a love story without a triangle, and
in this case it is completed by a wealthy
villain or a Prince Charming, just as you
please. George Dartwortli, jun., was the
“son” mentioned on the name-plate of the
firm for which these libertines were working.
I.eing still in his early twenties, he always
found that during the cricket season it was
necessary to do some dictation after office
hours. The plot began to thicken when Miss
King was asked to remain. She remained ;
and thereafter business continued to thrive
so surprisingly that pretty Molly worked
overtime nearly every evening. It meant
more money in the revolutionist home; and
Dick, being a materialist, looked no further.
Rut one evening Molly astounded her be-
loved agitator. “Dick.” she said, “I want
you to marry me.” Dick was indignant. He
could hardly understand so unreasonable a
request. Molly explained, and the man, de-
spite his knowledge of elementary physio-
logy. was genuinely surprised and deeply
worried.
“Will you marry me now. Dick? For the
baby’s sake?” Rut Dick vjas resolute. They
must face the situation bravely ; must stand
by their principles; must not bow down be-
fore Capitalist morality. He became quite
eloquent on the subject. He raised his voice,
thumped the table, and concluded as was his
habit with “The working class and the em-
ploying class have nothing in common.”
Rut his words had lost their power to
charm Molly. They produced, rather, a con-
temptuous smile to which her face had be-
come accustomed of late. She said nothing
more, but quietly slipped out of the room.
The last words of Dick's speech were deli-
vered to the closing door. His impulse
was to follow Molly, but something stopped
him. He felt that bis nrinciples were at
stake. Pie assured himself that far too many
other great men had sacrificed themselves
and their principles for the sake of shallow
women. Illustrious names ran through las
mind. lie had always classed himself with
the great, but now he would rise above them.
Besides, lie felt certain that Molly would
return, for how could she stay away front
him? She needed him now more than ever,
so lie would wait.
Dick waited, but Molly did not return.
On the following day the papers surprisingly
announced that George Dartworth, .inn., of
Dartworth and Son, had married his sten-
ographer. They had left on a long honey-
moon to England and America. Needless to
say, this news startled Dick Greem as much
as anyone, but what could he do? • There
was nothing to be done except “fan the
flames of discontent,” and lie kept on doing
that.
In twelve months’ time Molly returned
with her newly-acquired husband and child.
Dick encountered her as she was driving in
the park. Of course. Molly should not have
stopped to talk to him. Sh<> should have
driven by majestically in cold disdain • but
Molly was a woman and Dick was a man
who had given her second place in his mind
and heart, so she stopped. After expressing
a few somewhat embarrassed vagaries, Molly
held up the baby.
“Isn’t he like George?” she asked with
poisoned sweetness.
“Like George! I thought”
“But then a lot of your thoughts missed
the mark, Dick.”
“But you told me”
“Of course, you silly goose!” she laughed.
“Two months of it. and you never guessed.
But then you always said that the working
class and the employing class have nothing in
common, so how could you have guessed?”
LESTER WAY.
Sentinels.
[FOR TH E BULLETIN.]
Lights glimmer out
Till the harbor is bright,
Burn on the beaches
And pulse on the height;
Seas are alive
With toe glittering play of them,
Dancing on boats
To the swing and the sway of them,
Dipping to waves
Till the feathery spray of them
Takes them and holds them
A moment from sight.
In alien cities
A-glitter with light
Are many with memory
Awakened to night
Who. wild for a breath
Of the sea-wind that plays on them.
Thrill with a passionate
Longing to gaze on them,
Burning through Spring
Or. with Winter’s grey haze on them,
Guarding the harbor
Till shadows take flight.
N.S.YV.
N. A. EVANS.


I
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
fefficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements. ,
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
taraagaasrcft asga— * ™. -™ ~
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
;• Ir
SIWHI
c
Sill
•■ •,*
4,r
&
y
**
<si
The Major,
H|
Of Course
So are Cavanders. Imagine the pride of a Firm making only
good Tobaccos for 150 years! A pride reflected in the careful
choice of the matured Golden Leaf. “ARMY CLUB aie
made from the best Virginia crops blended in the best possible
way. Their size is sufficient to allow of a full and long
appreciation of the delightful tobacco.
YET
“ARMY CLUB” Cigarettes have SOMETHING MORE. The
Tobacco is wrapped in pure ribbed rice paper to enhance its
perfect flavour and aroma, and to distinguish this Cigarette
from all others the name “ARMY CLUB is wzter marked
in the paper, obviating the use of Printers Inks.
SmoKe Cavander's
‘PURE RIBBED RICE PAPER"
10 for
20 for 1/6.
Cavanders Limited, Estd. 1775, London, England!.
R TOWNS & CO., Reiby Place, Sydney,
Agents.
Goldberg S
cvbn
A dose at
night
will keep you
right.
Reflect
for a few moments and you may
conclude that the unsatisfactory
state of your health is due to faulty
digestion. When you have arrived
at this conclusion the next step
towards Good Health is to remove
the cause of your trouble. With
this end in view you will again
have to consider
And Select
a good and sure remedy. hi
Beecham’s Pills can be placed the
utmost confidence. They are the
best of all family medicines and are
appreciated the world over. In
cases of biliousness, constipation,
flatulence, headache and similar
disorders relief is often obtained
after the first dose of
m'.
3
'y#
-KtCO
p
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
5Ve have been appointed 'sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
Hardware Merchants
D. & W. CHaiidler Limited,
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
A-2
‘ V
t
Host Holbrook Saus~
,
“ I assemble my ingredients from
distant climes. I blend, I stir
and I brew the sauce of the House
of Holbrook. Aye, and then it
is matured like an old wine.”
Repeating Rifle
Modei 12
.22 CaL
,
K 5
m,-mPM;^
«®SCh ! )
m
-
~:W‘
‘•J&S3
\
; rv; : S';- :
m
; C
■HHHHH
808
CHAMBERED for three
distinct cartridges
.22 Short, good for 75
yards; .22 Long, 125 yards;
.22 Long Rifle, 200 yards.
Excellent for small game with
hollow point cartridges. Maxi-
mum range and accuracy with
Remington UMC .22 Long Rifle
PALMA.
Magazine holds 15 Short, 11
Long or 10 Long Rifle Cartridges.
Ask Your Dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative ■
G. P. O. Box p B6 , Melbourne, Victoria
dfghj


P
urn
V i &e ]
m .
.S
». k :- '
1.-"
•.Y . s Av.i-'S
h:.-'
•‘ ?
V
V
«/
o
oQ
EM
£
&
KM
i
j?
w/,
W/A
wm
m
«
II
w,
wm
4f,
■
ftvK
i
Mi
vm
m
m
m
W.
m
m
m
HHi
!U
m
m*
Ilißß
5
mu
m
m
LIGHT/ ■ *
AND STAYS
ALIGHT
m Wind d Weather,
C&fe 76x/ajCcieir6
m
Vy/S*OC N/E/'TA/'
(BOSS
They come to you in a neat, easily-pocketed box. They strike
anywhere, hold their flame in the wind and burn longer than their
wooden rivals.
The outdoor man with a pipe to light when the breeze is blowing
swears by (not at) MALTESE CROSS MATCHES.
You should use them too.
cvbn
cvbn
