

. ‘S .. rW
a-jsf
4* *d§ St I* &W * * .
jjfcSW*' I .;*£ L | ■ 2!
ALiJi iH
\ \ ' y* \ - * '» C|
i * -W. «. . • ' _. %&#
% %
■lk ■ - .i w
Hk|.
PmT I
"Jliillfk
**
• KSia
,;: . ' 'V-T/Ts!
M Ml
IS#w^
II
H
V
\
W^iSfpjSKS
.
\ \
~'' . \-\x\ A
N <v- •
An
-sf*
A \
If
.:a
;• v*.. \
None Genuine
without the Brand
feq HATS
Australian Made
J/ie only Standardised Jett Jtuls in Australia
Obtainable at all Leading Mercers
m
%■
a
o
a
&
%
%
I BY THIS RESSEvE WEBUjLDANATjMj
LEAGUE|
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2354.
Thursday, March 26, 1925.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Library Catalogue and full terms
and particulars and lists on all subjects.
Post free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
J&8 George Street, SYDNEY.
mmk
l| l ! l |K!«S l l l fl| l l l |i|!
mpHiUHRS
m
1?JI !h
*s*
i
BELTING SATISFACTION
vaTiab h le a Yrives gle Cr ° SS driVe8 ' f ° r great speeds and
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is unexcelled. Strong, tough, flexible and durable, it succeeds
invariably on every drive.
Our engineers are experts on belting problems and will
freely advise on the subject.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co ltd
WEST AUSTRALIA:'Gibbs. Bright & Co. Perth
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND : P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers G“3
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launcestoli & Hobart
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
nth
!»»!*>
£ *ei«S,V !
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
baa a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
CO York Street. Sydney.
A
s
ww
The Major *
It’s Worth It !
In the Pure Ribbed Rice Paper used on CAVANDER’S “ ARMY
CLUB ” Cigarettes the name “ ARMY CLUB ” is water-marked in the
paper, obviating the use of Printers' Inks with their attendant dangers to
health, and costing two-and-a-half times as much as ordinary printed
paper, but CAVANDER’S say “ It’s Worth It ” and so will you. You
only taste good matured Virginia, when smoking CAVANDER’S
“ARMY CLUB” SANDHURST CIGARETTES.
SMOKE CAVANDER’S
* CIGARETTES
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
CAVANDER’S LIMITED. Established 1775, London, England
Agents : R. TOWNS <Sc CO., Reiby Place, SYDNEY
Unde Tobys
Oats 4 Plates
byo
Clifford Love &.(Sa Ltcj gqdneiP,
m
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Kiliarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay. 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
IMUSTDIE.
non poisonous powder.
# Fl ies.
) Fleas.
) Bugs.
S MosflritaOk
MUSTDIE’
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE 1 ' contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. £J
The Red Page
The Freelance in Australia
The freelance has been a useful factor in
Australian contemporary and temporary
literature; and if his copy is frequently hard
to read, he can at least claim that the track
he has to travel is much harder. In time
past it was the narrowness of it that was
tiie major trouble of the professional free-
lance. It is rapidly becoming broader, but it
is still very hard.
Roughly, there are four classes of free-
lances. (1) The army of people who in
a country where nearly everybody can write
and has the ambition to see something of his
own in print are responsible for a multitude
of more or less accidental paragraphs and
articles. (2) Those who from the safe fort-
ress of some other sort of job make periodical
adventures into the fields of journalism for
the extra money that can be garnered, (3)
Specialists who find a market for articles,
on subjects in which they are experts.
(4) The professional full-timer. The hard-
ness of the freelance life is not felt by the
first three; they are the casual bearers of
vegetables to the market, where it is the regu-
lar vendors who really matter.
Every journal which lias sought after
brightness has enlisted the help of the free-
lance, who in the very nature of his calling
is a seeker of rare flowers to grace the liter-
ary bouquet—the flowers which the staff
man," set to his regular routine, usually
misses; but until sundry new journals sprang
up during recent years The Bulletin was
the one consistent supporter of the freelances.
There were, of course, avenues existing even
before The Bulletin came into existence,
40-odd years ago, but they could not be
relied upon. For weeks they might accept
a substantial quantity of the contributor’s
output, and then fail; but even although the
cheques might be painfully small in some
weeks, The Bulletin’s contribution to the
weekly harvest could be relied on—it was
at least something certain ; and so the. pro-
fessional freelances to a large extent made
its office their centre and still do.
When first I was introduced seriously to
freelance journalism, I was struck by the
boast of .one of the best-known of the practi-
tioners of the day that, during a year, his
earnings had averaged £3 10s. per week!
Pathetic as it seems, it must be recalled that
these were the days when a very capable
journalist like Arthur Edwards forsook a
sub-editor’s job on the then fairly prosperous
Newsletter to become editor at 30s. per
week of a country paper with a reputation ;
and when the S. M. Herald did not blush
to offer 30s. “as a start” to adult journalists.
In recalling past payments, the vastly greater
value of money of the time is, however,
frequently overlooked. My own experience
was that the Queenslander, having printed
a set of verses, replied in a surprised fashion
to a request for payment that payment was
never made for verse unless specially ordered ;
but finally they sent me 2s. 6d. And a
Sydney paper which accepted two stories (at
30s. each for approximately 2000 words)
suggested that a couple of sets of verse also
submitted should be thrown in, as it was
impossible to pay for verse! Yet these cir-
cumstances were not so remarkable. In an
America with a more advanced culture in
his time than was supposed to exist in
Australia 20 years ago, Edgar Allan Poe
received only £2 for “The Raven” and 10s.
6d. for “To Helen” ; arid Bayard Taylor, the
first of America’s great poets, acknowledged
gratefully trie receipt of £5 for a poem with
the remark that he had never previously
been paid for one.
It was in the conditions mentioned that a
brilliant band of freelances, most of whom
could manage a bit of verse, contrived to exist.
They gradually hiade some sort of a market
for topical verse, which, indeed, W. T. Goodge
turned jnto quite a good one—and then got
the habit of making a single word do for a
line! He actually worked this into one
jingle:—
Hullo!
To and fro
Past they go—
A giddy row.
The rising of the Sun from the ashes of the
Star was one of the best windfalls we had.
David Wright, McCulloch, Ryan, 11. C. Cogh-
lan, Fred Broomfield, Tom Beasley and
Ilegarty were amongst the crowd which
helped to put a burnish on the newcomer.
But it replaced the freelances by staff men
directly they had established its reputation
for smartness—a change that invariably
happens. Yet there is this to be said —
the Sun and a few others have absorbed
those who in former times would have been
amongst the freelances.
The methods of making a living on the
limited market were—and still are—many
and various. W. B. Melville, for instance,
did not expect to gather his real income from
any papers, tie supplied the dailies with
personal references to politicians and other
aspirants for public glory who were on his
list of clients; and every now and again
he called upon them for a cheque whose size
greatly depended upon the liver, banking
account and generosity of its donor. At
one time in his career he actually struck
a wealthy political honors-seeker who for a
while paid him £lOO per month!
When in May, 1922, I set out again on
purely freelance work after an absence of
some time, I faced the position with much
trepidation. But I found the conditions
altered and garnered £lO7 for five weeks’
work. Yet considering that during the fol-
lowing 18 months I held, probably rightly,
the reputation of being the most successful
freelance in Sydney, there was nothing magnifi-
cent about that. I know a very competent
winter of stories and articles who says that
with him £6 makes quite a good week. The
most successful man is the one who can
instantly spot an opening and fill it quickly.
m **t n °t a , s tar, then he ought to be
able to do anything. In my own experience,
one weeks work included the writing of a
special sermon for a nerve-wracked Presby-
terian parson (who afterwards said that liis
congregation had thought it the best he had
preached for mouths), a prayer for the pastor
of a non-Christian sect who found difficulty
with his English and had to render this one
in that language, and a patent-medicine puff.
The life is still hard; but the larger
market has come, and generally the rates
are much better than they used to be. Cer-
tainly the market fluctuates; but that is
inevitable so long as newspapers view the
freelance merely as a convenience, to be
drawn upon or not as it suits them.
HAMER.
Don Quixote and Some Others
What manner of character was Don
Quixote? It has become almost a common-
place to call Mr. Pickwick a quixotic char-
acter and to compare him with the melan-
choly Spanish knight. But Don Quixote
was something vastly mo. -> than Mr. Pick-
wick. Mr. Pickwick is he. vt-goodncss per-
sonified. lie gives to all ami suffers for all.
He is a brave fighter on the side of righteous-
ness, and is always, because of .his goodness,
finding himself in painful and pathetic pre-
dicaments. Don Quixote is and does all
these things. But, then, Mr. Pickwick is
simple-minded, and Don Quixote is far from
that. Mr. Pickwick is imposed upon by
rogues who deceive him; Don Quixote is
imposed upon by rogues about whom he de-
ceives himself. Mr. Pickwick is a victim
of his heart; 'Don Quixote a victim of his
head. Mr. Pickwick is an amiable, benevo-
lent gentleman. He conforms to his country’s
conventional ideal of the good man. He
compares himself and all things with a con-
ventional standard, and he must never doubt
the right of that standard. Don Quixote
conforms to a' conventional ideal of his age
too. Convention assigns qualities to ideal
leaders as well as to ideal servers. And
whereas Mr. Pickwick will play the part of
the good man, the server, Don Quixote will
play the part of the noble man, the leader.
Mr. Pickwick is too simple-minded to be
imaginative, and he accepts the little part
granted him by circumstances and the powers
that be. Don Quixote is a splendid drea'mer,
and in his dreams he shapes a part mightier
and more glorious than that the world would
give him to play.
For w'lmt he believes a good* cause, Mr.
Pickwick will do all that he believes a good
man can do; but he will not attempt the
impossible. The impossible will never deter
Don Quixote. Mr. Pickwick’s philanthropy
is confined to his native town, and his finest
dreams will never carry him beyond its en-
virons. It is his world —a real, substantial
little world; and the sick and suffering of
it will earn his pity and will gain from him
all the relief it is possible for him to give.
But Don Quixote lives in a boundless world
of imagination, and there the impossible is
often attempted and achieved by the hero”
of his dreams. He would be as that hero.
Mr. Pickwick will sue in courts of law for
justice for individual men, but nothing so
worldly and practical will do for Don Quix-
ote. He will take up arms on mankind’s
behalf against Fate and all the invisible
oppressors and suffering-causers of the world.
Mr. Pickwick will, as he believes every good
man should, aid his neighbor, but Don
Quixote "“will, as would the knight of his
dreams, liberate mankind. Mr. Pickwick’s
vision of things is never hampered by his
imagination. He sees what his eyes see.
A man is what he appears to be, a rose is
but a rose. Don Quixote sees always beyond
the man and the rose. By his imagination
all things are exaggerated and glorified. His
life-tragedy is caused by the hard, relentless
reality, about which are formed the dazzling,
deceptive shapes of his dreams. He charges
a lordly knight, and is unhorsed by a wind-
mill. A barber’s brass basin becomes for
him the golden helmet of a hero of romance.
A poor washerwoman is glorified into Dul-
cinea, the fairest lady in the land. Mr.
Pickwick is good, amiable, philanthropic;
but he has not the imaginative temperament,
the enthusiastic life-love that lends itself to
such illusion as this.
Turgenev has found in Don Quixote the
direct antithesis of Hamlet. But Don Quix-
ote is more akin to Hamlet than to Mr. Pick-
wick. To begin with, Don Quixote comes
from within his author whilst Mr. Pickwick
comes from without. Don Quixote is in
many ways a psychological, objective char-
acter ; Mr. Pickwick is purely subjective.
Mr. Pickwick is not Dickens, but who will
say that Don Quixote is not Cervantes? He
is not the Cervantes who turns a prison
cell into a paradise by writing the story
of his hero, but the younger Cervantes, the
dreamer and idealist, seeking ever the fulfil-
ment of his ideal, and finding ever the reality
of things and the base ingratitude of the
world that Don Quixote found. In the same
way Hamlet is Shakspeare. Not Shakspeare,
the writer of the plays, who has found a
language wherein to express himself, but the
younger Shakspeare who sees all about him
lesser men succeeding in life, while he seeks
everywhere, almost hopelessly, for that lan-
guage. Hamlet, like Don Quixote, is a
mighty dreamer and idealist. He has all
Don Quixote’s splendid enthusiasm, but he
has been disillusioned as Don Quixote has
yet to be. He is infinitely wiser in experi-
ence. He sees all about him men accepting
without questioning the little parts that
Fate has given them to play. They are not
imaginative, and they cannot conceive of
mightier parts. But he can. He can “en-
close himself in a nutshell and dream himself
a king of infinite space.” But he has found
the substance, the reality, whereof his dreams
are but glorified, far-flung shadows. He has
tasted and experienced as Don Quixote has,
not. He has found the thorn beneath the
rose, and the deadly peril that lurks behind
the fairest appearance. He is now a Don
Quixote smitten by doubt. Where he has
looked for strength he has found weakness;
where he has looked ror truth he has found
deceit. He is distrustful of everything. In
all men and women he will believe now are
the deceit and weakness he has found in
some men and women. He will doubt every-
thing, appearance, man, woman, the Devil,
God. He will still dream, but he has lost
forever the old quixotic faith he once had
in his dreams. And the loss of that all-
(Continued on page 3.)


JL
a
ANTHONY,
HORDERNS
FOR
TRAVELLERS'
REQUISITES
S’
SB**
4
m
m
m.
spsg
n
m
m
Wmmm
: 'y':'y'-''\ : ..
Kit Bags, Suit Cases,
Pure Wool Rugs.
The Handy Kit Bag, made from
genuine cowhide, has piped
seams, heavy ring clips, and
is lined throughout with
strong canvas.
12in. 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
14/6 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/-
Strong Fibre Suit Cases, with a
steel frame on body and lid
of case; nicely grained in
dark tan color; lined through-
out. Secure locks and clips.
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
Solid Leather Suit Cases, made
from specially selected cow-
hide, and fitted with two
sliding nozzle locks. A case
to give good service.
20in. 2 2 in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
37/6 42/- 45/- 49/6 54/6
Warm, Serviceable Travelling Rugs
‘The Carlton” Pur£ Wool Rug;, of medium weight.
There are many pleasing designs and colorings to
select from. Size 54 xTO inches. 1 Qk/C
PRICE I £7/ O
Pure Wool Rugs, in a wide range of serviceable color-
ings and designs. Size 60 xB4 inches. *5l/
PRICE Zl/-
“The Hood” Pure Wool Rug, of medium
in beautiful designs and colors. Size
60 x 72 inches.
PRICE
weight;
25/-
‘‘The Bowral” Rug, of pure wool, winter
Attractive patterns and colorings. A Rug
in finish. Size 60 x 80 inches.
PRICE
weight.
excellent
30/-
“The Kingston” Rug, heavy weight and extra large in
size, which makes this particular Rug a great favorite
for homo use as well as travelling. Size tJ x JU
(double-bed size). 37/6
PRICE **
“The Brighton” Rug, heavy weight, good-quality wool,
plain color on one side and plaid pattern on the
other Dark, serviceable colors. Size 6- x
37/6
inches.
PRICE
“The Davidson,” medium weight, Pure Merino Wool
Rug, in good serviceable colors, mostly Fawns and
Browns. Size 60 xSO inches. A*},'
PRICE
“The Malwa” Pure Merino Wool Rug, beautiful soft
texture, excellent in weight and finish, reversible pat-
terns. Size 60 x 74 inches. 47/fi
PRICE "-tl U
(Travel Requisites—Ground Floor.)
Reliable Radio Equipment
Visit this popular department while in Sydney for
the Show. The display will win your approval, but
when you reflect that it is merely representative of
a vast and wonderful assortment offered at very low
prices, you will realise that it is also valuable as
pointing the way to economy.
Four-Valve Receiving Set, as illustrated, in Self-
contained cabinet, of our own design, and has
been thoroughly tested by us, giving loud-
speaker results, with clarity and good volume
up to 500 miles from Sydney Broadcasting
Stations. PRICE, complete with vaflves, bat-
ter-ies and pair head 'phones,
but without loud speaker. ...
£52 10-
The Best Loud Speakers for use with vafve set:
Western Electric (Baby) .. . .1. Price 59/6
Pathe Price £6
Magnovox Typo Ml Price £lO/10/-
The “Hordernia” Crystal Set is made expressly
to onv order for use with head-’phones. The
Double Slide Controls give a broader tuning
and make the receiver more selective. The
Tuning Coil is wound with two gauges of wire,
thus assuring a finer adjustment for lower
wave lengths. It will pick up any Broadcast
Concert within a radius of 20 miles.
Price (without ’Phones)
12/6
Superior Head-’Phones, for use with Crystal
Set: —
Genuine English ME Ij Head-’Phones, 4000
ohm. Price . 19/6 set
Western Electric. Price 37 / 6 set
Trimm’s Professional. Price.... 45/- set
Trimm's Dependable. Price 32/6 set
(Radiio Department—Second Floor.)
Incomparable Value in
Men’s Sporting Wear
Tennis Shirts.
With collar and pocket attached. In
White Mercerised Twill.
Prices. . 5/6, 6/6, 8/6 each
In White Matt-
Prices . . 6/6, 8/-, 8/6 each
In Cream Twill Flannel—
Prices . . 17/6, 18/6, 25/-
In White Mercerised, finished with
deep roll sports collar—
Price 7/6
in Cream Fuji Silk, best quality—
Price 21/-
Cream All-Wool
Sweaters
Men’s Sports Sweaters, in Cream,
with club sports colors, in open V-
neck. Sizes, 34 to 40 chest.
Prices .... 16/6, 18/6 each
Cream All-Wool Sweaters, in Sum-
mer weight. In Cashmere, with
Diamond Front, with roll collar.
Sizes, chest. . 34 36 40
Prices . . . 21/6 22/- 24/-
Men’s Cream Pesco Sweaters, fancy
open knit.
Sizes, chest.. 34 36 40
Prices . . . 23/6 24/6 27/6
With Polo collars—
Sizes, chest 34 36 40
Prices ... 25/6 26/6 29/6
Cream Half-Hose.
In Plain Cashmere. All Wool.
Prices 3/6, 3/9 pair
In Ribbed Cashmere. All Wool.
Price 4/3 pair
(Mercery—Ground Floor.)
Men’s Sporting
Trousers
M e n’s Cricket or Sporting
Trousers, in White Drill.
Prices .... 12/6, 13/6 pair
In Cream Gabardine.
Prices .... 17/6, 39/6 pair
In Cream Serge.
Prices .... 27/6, 35/- pair
Youth s’ Cricket or Tennis
Trousers, in Cream Gabardine.
Prices: 15/6, 16/6, 33/6 pr.
Tennis Blazers.
Men’s Tennis and Cricket Coats,
patch pockets, cord edge. In Navy
Flannel.
Prices . . 27/6, 29/6, 32/6
Boys’ or Youths’ Tennis or Cricket
Coats.
Prices: 15/-, 16/-, 19/6, 27/6
(Clothing—Ground Floor.)
Sporting Footwear.
Men’s White Canvas Cricket Boots,
stout sewn soles. Ol /
PRICE, pair Al '“
Men’s Best-quality White Canvas
Cricket Boots, stout welted soles,
cap and strong leather OQ/C
lined. PRICE, pair
Men’s Fine-grade White Canvas
Tennis or Bowling Shoes, stout
Crepe Rubber Soles. 169
PRICE, pair
(Fo'otwear-
-Second Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


o=
V'
<T
rt,
a.
lA
M
e.
□
7
Oi.
It () ~ll—t~ ,s —Z I — / 1) ’—S tll6
breaking point of Stan-
dard Cord Tyre Materiel!
Goodyear “SUPERTWIST”
does that and more.
It protects Goodyear Balloon
Tyres against stone bruises and
ruptures.
It has great elasticity—a great and
paramount virtue.
It adds to the flexibility of the thin-
sidewall Balloon Tyre that stout
body endurance which every good
tyre must have.
Tests show that tyres made
with this elastic and enduring
“SUPERTWIST” Cord
material delivered much greater
service than tyres with an equal
number of plies of standard cords.
This new “SUPERTWIST”
material is used by no other tyre
manufacturer. It was developed
by Goodyear for us in Goodyear
Balloon Ty res of both types.
Goodyear offers you a complete
range of Balloon Tyres —made
from the wonderful “Supertwist.”
There are Goodyear Balloon
Ty res for the new small diameter
wheels.
And there are Goodyear Inter-
changeable Balloon Tyres, too,
to fit the majority of wheels and
rims now in use, if straight side or
30 x 31 beaded edge type.
See the Goodyear Dealer in your
town about Cioodyear Balloon
1 yres for your car.
To-day , as in the years
past, on Balloon Tyres
as on others the name
“Goodyear” stands for
supreme quality and
dependability.
BALLOON TYRES


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN’S SHOPS.
Keen
Values
in
Smart Apparel
for discriminating men
*
Smart attire of exceptional quality and
durability at most moderate prices is
now offered by David Jones’ for the
Autumn Season.
Men’s Navy Raincoats of best proofed
wool Gabardine with two-way collar,
all-round belt and vent at back.
Check-lined, this coat is smart and
durable and is an exceptional value
at ... .. £5/5/-
English Bowler Hats—just arrived,
and offered at remarkably keen prices
for Easter. A variety of the latest
styles is available in all sizes. Priced
at ... 30/-, 32/6, 39/6 and 45/-.
DAVID JONES’
OPP. G.P.O.— tor Service —SYDNEY
beautifying faith is the price he must pay
for his god-gift, his always beloved and wor-
shipped reason. Becoming wise m bitter
experience, he becomes a satirist, a cynical
humorist —such a man as Cervantes, the ex-
perience-disillusioned Don Quixote, must
have been.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Sard Harker
The publishers call Sard Harker, Mase-
field's latest book, a prose masterpiece.
Were its author unknown such praise would
be comprehensible: but to those who have
approved “Gallipoli” and “On the Spanish
Main,” it can scarcely fail to be disappoint-
ing. It is patchy, and even its good patches
are not Masefield's best.
Masefield has little of the art of plot-making.
In “Sard” he writes with a deux cx machina
at his elbow, and such plot as there is has
little continuity. Indeed, the best part of
the book is that in which the abduction of
Margarita Kingsborougli (whose rescue is
the pivotal theme) is almost forgotten, and
Sard is fighting a lone-lnind battle from the
interior to the coast. Further, though Mase-
field can handle a plain historical tale with
mastery, his narrative in a novel suggests
the child’s story—“and then...and then...
He does not know when to omit detail and
trust to a single vivid phrase. When Sir
Walter Scott’s Piper Steenie offends the
Laird of Redgauntlet, this is what happens.
“Down the stairs he ran (for the parlor
was nae place for him after such a word),
and he heard the laird swearing blood and
wounds behind him as fast as ever did Sir
Robert, and roaring for the bailie and the
baron-officer.” It was a matter of seconds,
and Scott wastes no time in the telling. In
“Sard” there is little of the story-teller’s
cunning variation of pace. Masses of detail
cumber the swiftness of the action.
These, after all, are minor and probably
controversial matters. Far move important
is the book’s lack of harmony. It begins
like an epic and ends like a serial film.
Further, the epic quality of the first part
is weakened by an excess of the unusual.
Thus Sard, in his great journey to the coast,
happens upon a centuries-deserted church,
a canyon carved with gigantic gods, a bri-
gand encampment and a forgotten temple
in the heights of the Sierras —all this in a
howling wilderness. It may be that such
objects of curiosity are as thick as goose-
berries in that part of the world, but to the
uninformed reader they seem too many. They
interfere with the heart-breaking, terribly
ordinary business of fighting hunger, thirst
and cold over miles of intractable forest and
pitiless snow. They break the bare, heroic
outline of the story.
The characters are made from the clothes
in, and not far in. A few, like Douglas the
rum-smuggler, are snap-shotted in an un-
forgettable pose that speaks the man. But
there is little real character-drawing. Cap-
tain Cary is the most vivid of the people.
Though we know little of him he speaks and
moves like life, and that is enough. But
of Sard himself we demand to know more.
The book is planned as something more than
a mere novel of action, and this pretension
is the main source of its failure. Sard has
his prophetic dreams, his curious love for a
girl whom he has met when he was a boy and
not seen since. This inner life is not only
unexplained, but utterly unconvincing. One
cannot feel it, far less analyse it. And Sard
himself is unreal, lie is a fine figure of a
man, but one knows nothing of what he feels
or thinks. This inability to present the
inner life is nowhere more apparent than in
the last scene. Sard and Margarita are in
the power of Sagrado B —a sort of Professor
X. Sagrado, physically vivid at his first
appearance, has degenerated into a charlatan
of deplorable morals and worse taste. “Do
you know what I am?” he asks. “I am the
priest of evil. The triangle in which you
stand is the temple of evil. The gallows
posts to which you stand are the altars of
evil. I am going to offer mass to evil, of
bread and ynne.” He talks a good deal of
this stuff to Sard, who replies with pungent
witticisms at the expense of Sagrado and his
female relations: —
“What is your name?”
“A better name than yours.”
“Your name is Harker. My name is the holy
one.”
“I thought you looked lousy enough for a saint.”
And again :
“I put on the garments of a king,” Sagrado said.
“It is the color of power. It was woven by a
woman who killed her son and lived, in infamy till
she was hanged.”
“Your sister, I presume,” Sard said.
The dialogue is ineffective and sometimes
absurd because there is nothing behind it.
Sagrado might as well be a phonograph. His
philosophy of evil introduces a psychological
element which requires explanation, or (more
accurately) which demands to be made real.
It is slurred over with verbiage. The vigor
of the language jarrs upon that hectic un-
reality.
Descriptive genius does not make a novel.
Masefield lacks the novelist’s economy and
power of selection. His dialogue is often
diffuse because it is unnecessarily faithful
to life, and small parts of the story have
a knack of expanding to ungainly propor-
tions. He can tell a plain tale in verse
or prose with splendid rapidity and power.
But he is lost in the detailed intimacy of a
novel. He lives in the externals of his story
(which he describes, individually, with
masterly skill), but he cannot weave inci-
dents and situations into a closely-knit whole.
Nor does his strength lie in sensational
philosophies of evil and supernatural visita-
tions. He is at home with the motley popu-
lation of Sailor Town; and as for the story,
his lovers ask no more than “a tall ship
and a star to steer her by.”
I. R. MAXWELL.
The Plague
It is difficult to disinfect, either morally
or physically, the hideous story of the Great
Plague of London, and Mr. Walter E. Bell
is a brave man to try; furthermore, the
Bodloy Head must have stout confidence in
the strength of the English stomach to pub-
lish his tragically, though morbidly, inter-
esting book. (The Great Plague of London,
1665, by Walter E. Bell: John Lane and
Angus and Robertson.) But surely Defoe
has written a frightful account of the same
thing, and what can be left for any lesser
writer? Mr. Bell fully realises this, but
holds that Defoe did not intend Ins sensa-
tional piece of scare-journalism to be taken
as" serious history. In 1665 Defoe was very
young, somewhere about five, so he could
only have had a very vague recollection ot
what happened ; but in 1722, when be pub-
lished the “Journal of the Plague Lear,
Marseilles was being ravaged by the plague
in its last attack upon Europe, and it is quite
possible that Defoe was really thinking or
Marseilles, and that he wrote his sensational
book because he saw that the people
were beginning to forget the horrors through
which London had passed in 1665. It may
be that he really intended his journal to be
looked upon as fiction —a sort of particu-
larly frightful “novel with a purpose.
Mr. Bell evidently thinks so, and is quite
determined that his book shall not be
looked upon as fiction ; lie lias crowded it with
references to authorities which only make
it even more terrible. Even to us, secure m the
medical materialism which makes it easy for
us to smile at the things that terrified our
ancestors, the mere horror of it as a tragedy
of errors makes it worth reading, both by
doctors and. if they have stomach enough,
by non-medical readers. Perhaps the best
thing is for us to glance at some of the
horrors caused by the mistakes of the terri-
fied authorities.
The first terrible blunder they com-
mitted was in underpaying the bearers of
the dead, with the result that only men ot
the very lowest character, of a brutality
almost majestic in its frightfulness, would
offer for this revolting and, as they thought,
dangerous employment. As the patients
houses were all locked up lest sick people
should escape and spread infection 1 , the
bearers used to break through the feeble
locks ami climb the tortuous stairs to the
death chamber, where the corpse lay with
its terrified wife and children. They fas-
tened hooks on to it, because they were
frightened to touch it, and if it were incon-
venient to drag it they would set it bump-
ing down the stairs, bumpity-bnmpity bump
to the bottom; and it was a matter of chance
which reached the bottom first, living or
dead. Then hey for the plague-pits and
away over the cobbles as fast as galloping
horses and frightened drivers could take
them! Chuck in the load alive or dead. It
didn’t matter. The only thing that
mattered was that the half-starving, because
underpaid, driver should get back to Ins din-
ner ; and many a living soul was probably
hurled to fester with the dead in the frantic
hurry.
The brutality and coarseness of these men
are almost inconceivable to • modern ideas,
and reached their climax in the conduct of
an unspeakable scoundrel named Bucking-
ham. He used to go the rounds with his
death-cart bawling “Fine faggots for sale,
five for sixpence,” these faggots being the
bodies of children. He used to pick out
the prettiest of the dead girls and hold an
exhibition of them to lecherous men. charg-
ing money for the show. Even death from
plague did not protect them w r hen a satyr like
Buckingham saw the way to increase his
pittance. It faintly reminds one of the pre-
cautions that the ancient Egyptians' used to
have to take to protect their girls from the
embalmers.
Another frightful superstition, probably
spread abroad by the prostitutes for the
good of trade, was that if you caught V.D.
you could not catch plague; so that London
became one vast brothel, wherein formerly
decent folk vied with each other in the wild
attempt to secure immunity from one grim
disease by catching another hardly less grim.
Traces of this superstition survive to this
day in the belief that if one has connection
with a virgin V.D. departs ; and often a
prostitute will be seen hanging half out ot
a window in the endeavor to catch the eye
of some little boy as he walks along the
streets —she hopes to cure herself of sus-
pected disease by giving it to the little inno-
cent, thus avoiding the compulsory retire-
ment from business that would be brought
about by a visit to the hospital. Those dear
old morning papers which deliberately shut
their eyes to the most terrible tacts ot
human nature never talk of such things, so
they are perhaps not generally known; but
many a mother has been horrified to find
that her tiny son has developed a sore
which her doctor assures her is syphilitic.
As soon as it became clear that the epi-
demic of 1665 was to be far worse than
the ordinary epidemics of Elizabeth and
Henry VIII., all the rich men, the Govern-
ment and the King fled in one scandalous
crowd, leaving the poor to fight the plague
by themselves; so that it was called “the
poore’s plague.” One Minister. George
Monck, Duke of Albemarle, stayed and
spent vast sums out of his own purse to
relieve the distress; but King Charles and
his jolly court ran away without a qualm.
It is sad to say that all the best of the
doctors followed their patients —even the
illustrious Svdenham ran. as Galen had run
before the plague of the Antonines. Thus
it is that even to-day it is difficult to say
how much of the plague of London was
bubonic, and how much its usual coad-
jutor in evil, typhus fever; but probably
it was mainly bubonic plague, with an un-
usually large proportion of septicanmc
plague, for many people fell dead in the
streets.
How many people died? Judging from the
experience of other cities in like case, that
the plague did not let go its grip until it
had taken at least one-fourth, one would
guess that, as the population of London in
1665 was about 400,000, not less than
100.000 lost their lives, a vast destruction
in those simple times.
It is all very ivell for us. looking back
from the mountain-tops scaled by Koch,
Pasteur and Kitasato, to say what these
frightened people should have done; but
would we have done better ourselves if we
had been taught from early infancy that
there was a terrible God w T ho insisted on
personal interference in purely human
affairs? The clergy told them that God was
punishing them for their sins, and w T ho were
they, confined to a miserable world of phe-
nomena. to tell these shouting bishops that
they did not believe them? It is only since
the medical profession has become so frankly
agnostic .and materialistic that man has felt
safe from the w'rath of the God that he has
made for himself.
C. McL.
The Psychology of Memory
“Desire and curiosity,” said Robert Louis
Stevenson, “are the two eyes through Avhich
man sees the world in the most enchanted
colors.” Thus the wise teacher Avhen he
seeks to fill the child mind with the assort-
ment of facts and figures we call education
realises that his job is largely one of arous-
ing curiosity and exciting attention.
In the old-time school pupils were taught
to memorise on a system that suggested the
indentation of marks upon a plastic neural
substance. The indentation was enforced
by a series of knocks or repetitions, till at
last it was hoped the impression made Avould
endure. A poem, for example, was memorised
verse by verse, the child’s vision, as it were,
being directed to detail upon detail without
any attempt being made to visualise the
Xvhole. The modern system is a complete
subversion of this. Passive repetition has
gone by the board. It is now recognised
that the first appeal must be to the intelli-
gence. And the first condition of successful
memorising, according to the psychologist
of to-day, is tha£ the subject take an intelli-
gent view of the whole. “The experimental
work on memorising which is best known,
and has been most often repeated with con-
sistent results,” writes Professor G. H.
Thomson in Instinct, Intelligence and
Character (Allen and Unwin), “is probably
that which contrasts the ‘whole’ method of
learning with the ‘part’ method.” Experi-
ment has almost invariably shown the former
method to be from 10 to 30 per cent, better
than the latter. Even were this not so one
would think that the “whole” method was
incomparably better than the system of old
days inasmuch as it would carry some intel-
lectual concept with it. It is based on the
difference between the parrot and the human.
The Professor candidly admits that the
“part” method has in it a quality of sustain-
ing the courage of the child student. He is
not apt to lose heart. He cannot but believe
that presently the whole poem will rise above
the threshold of his memory. But provided
confidence and a sense of progress can be
sustained, the attempt should be made to
present the whole and avoid snippets. The
material must, however, be a whole—that is,
a unit—and not a mere collection of separate
associations.
Again, we neglected in the past to bring
to the aid of memorising the several senses.
How often we do this instinctively! There
is momentary hesitation in the spelling of a
word and we write it down and look at it —
in other words, check the process of memory
by the sense of sight. We sometimes test
it also by the ear. “A little child, taught its
letters by the Montessori plan, where they
are formed of sandpaper and are traced over
by the finger, will sometimes be unable to
recognise a letter by sight alone, but will do
so if it is traced.” Thus even the sense of
touch comes into play.
But the moA'ing spirit at the back of all
successful memorising is “interest.” It may
be true that brain substance does differ as
between individuals, but too much sti'ess may
be laid upon the fact, and also undue import-
ance given to the inherited quality. It is a
common experience to meet men who have
a highly developed memory in one direction
which is of less than average quality in
another. The variance, very marked in some
instances, is due to interest and the lack of
it. “Powerful instincts of competition,
possession and pride in personal prowess
cause the interest.” The instincts of curi-
osity and wonder also play tlieir parts and
are often the stimuli at the root of success in
studies.
An interesting point to be noted is the
greater permanence of skill over knowledge.
Once a man has learned to swim, to skate
and so on, he possesses the art for life. Very
little practice brings a return of former skill.
This is probably due to the greater amount of
“over-learning,” a process of continuous
revival of the original impress. “A new part
of a skilled action usually demands for its
practice, or for its very existence, that
earlier and simpler movements be repeated
and thereby made more certain.” A recog-
nition of the truth of these theories is
apparent in many of the modern so-called
“systems” of mnemonics. The trick at the
back of the old-fashioned systems was that
of association, and freouently it made in its
application heavier demands on memory than
were counterbalanced by the aid it volun-
teered. Here and there it was useful, as
where a landsman remembered that the port
light is port-wine colored, and so on. It,
however, involved a heavy strain when, in
order to recall the address of “a party by the
name of Johnson,” one had to bind them by
a chain of complex association that usually
snapped at some vital link.
T. B. C.
A Satchel of Books
Spanish Sunlight, by A. R. Weekes (Constable).
The plot of this novel is cast in Majorca. The story
moves round the figure of Emilia Faneaux, a daughter
in an English family living there all the year round
and seeing little of the tourist migrants. The family’s
work and pleasure were on the island, and, haying a
trace of Spanish blood in their veins, they occasionally
felt merged into the race. This environment gives a
certain exotic flavor to the novel. The treatment
both of character and plot is skilful and the dramatic
interest well sustained.
A Fool i’ the Forest, by Richard Aldington (Allen
and Unwin). The author of “Images of War” and
“Images of Desire” issues his latest offspring as “a
phantasmagoria” and the description is apt. It has
intention but is void of form: satire rubs shoulders
with tragedy and it in turn with the figures of
farce. There are passages, too, of deeper meditation
and images that print themselves on the mind. For
instance, a meditation on London before the dawn —
“A city given up to sleep and criminals”:—
“Behind those dismal house-fronts
Lies a honeycomb of silent cells;
All is motionless, frozen to a seeming death,
Arranged for God to brood over.”
Island Films, by James Lyng (Cornstalk Publishing
Co., Sydney). Capt. Lyng accompanied the Expedi-
tionary Force to German New Guinea as interpreter,
and later became a District Officer. He states that
most Australians on the spot were opposed to ex-
propriating the German planters. Until “politicians
alien to the true highmindedness of the typical Aus-
tralian” intruded, the relations between victors and
vanquished were good ; the economic consequences of
the policy finally adopted will be felt for years. The
book is a gentle ramble through New Guinea. That Aus-
tralian women must help to bear the white man's
burden if life for the planter apd official is to be
made healthy and tolerable is the impression gained
from the pictures of bachelor infelicity that he paints.


i
trmls
I
>' ••
■
Comfort plus Safety
Seated at the wheel, intent on your job* of driving, you may be but half
conscious, at times perhaps wholly unconscious, of the jolts; but what of
the folk behind? Are they mostly on the seat or mostly off?
Do not imagine they do not feel the bumps as you speed along. If the
road be bad they probably feel nothing else, and you invited them for a
“spin,’ believing they’d enjoy it! Really, you know, one of the “pleasures
ot motoring” is not being shot into the air just to drop back as fast as you
went up. It may be exciting, but it’s not “motoring”—and it may be
disastrous!
No, you owe it to those on the back seat that the bumpr; and jolts be
eliminated as far as possible. You invited them out to give them pleasure.
See they get it!
Check the inevitable rebound of the car body when the wheels strike a rut
and the action creates an upward pressure. There’s only one way to do
this —by the use of good shock absorbers.
And then there’s the question of damage to the car. Broken springs are a
common occurrence —where shock absorbers are not used —and yet the
breaking of springs is but a minor misfortune. »
There are many things that can and do happen when a car is subjected to
the strain of negotiating bad roads, and not all of them happen in a hurry.
On the contrary, those likely to have the most disastrous results may occur
by degrees.
Jolting and bumping cause nuts to work loose, little by little, till eventually
off they fall, and out come the bolts! You know of it then, but the damage
has been done. Shock absorbers would probably have prevented it.
You may be a good driver who exercises care, but you’ll be a better driver
with fewer cares when your car is equipped with shock absorbers.
The Modern Shock Absorber
SET OF FOUR, £lO/10/-; PER PAIR, £5/5/-
PRODUCT OF STEWART-WARNER SPEEDOMETER CORPORATION.
Stewart Products are sold by all Accessories Dealers, including the undermentioned Stewart Service Stations:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Sydney; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Melbourne; MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD.,
Brisbane: CORNELL. LIMITED, Adelaide; ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Perth.


il§|f 1
Electrical development received its biggest impulse
when Westing house conceived the idea of harnessing
the tremendous reserves of power in Niagara Falls.
This was the starting point of modern electrical endeavor, and the
pynprience ea ined over fifty years of electrical achievement has been put
inToTe development of theVESTINGHOUSE FARM ELECTRIC PLANT.
George
Westinghouse,
Founder of the
industries made
possible by his
Discoveries.
tfiniMi mrrvr
nuillililHimT
EASY
TO
OWN
EASY
TO
OPERATE
house
FARM LIGHT AND POWER PLANT
There is a lot of satisfaction in knowing that your plant has been designed and built by men who know how.
And this ,s unquestionably true or the Westinghouse plant, tor the Westinghouse Company has gathered together engineers-aetua.ly hundreds
nf tiipm skilled in everv branch of electrical, mechanical and. industrial endeavor, . .
of them—skilled in every nranen oi ei , . , d test of other plants have resulted in the elimination from
This fact is responsible for many exclusive features, just as thorough stu y
Westinghouse plants of any features which might not prove entirely satis tactoiy.
When you purchase a Westinghouse Farm Electric'Plant you know
that the Makers of your plant have been in business since 188 6.
You know-that since has made your plant it HAS to
be good, for ELECTRICITY IS THEIR BUSINESS.
The Westinghouse Co.’s employees number more than 44,000, and
the floor area of the East Pittsburg’s Works alone covers more than
100 acres.
In your own interests you should investigate Westinghouse before
you purchase a Farm Electric Plant.
ifJL
en
SPECIAL SHOWTIME OFFER.
John Gilbert & Co., Ltd., 143 Castlereagh Street (Basement),
Sydney.
Gentlemen:
Without obligation, please tell me more about the Westinghouse
Farm Electric Plant, and the special inducement you are offering to
Purchasers during Show week.
Name
Address
AGENTS WANTED IN OTHER AUSTRALIAN STATES.


i ’•JX
dll iiiiim-
K
I
mm
1 'trtn
If
(i IIIIIUIIUIUUIII
Visitors from all over the
world marvel at the preci-
sion used in building Gen-
eral Motors cars. At the
right is shown one of the
modern machines by which
the finest rear axle gear can
be cut and finished in two
hours! Above is shown a
gauge which tests the ac-
curacy of piston dimen-
sions to the one one-thou-
sandth of an inch!
What makes motor car value?
3. Precision in manufacture
Both motor car makers and
buyers are realizing that hand man-
ufacture is not only too expensive
—it is too inexact.
The precision of machinery has
made possible the standardization
which enables you to procure ac-
curately fitting spare parts for Gen-
eral Motors cars thousands of miles
from the factory.
For example; In the manufac-
ture of just one of its cars, General
Motors employs more than 27,000
precision operations involving mea-
surements of less than one one-
thousandth of an inch! Certain
operations must be accurate to
three ten-thousandths of an
inch!
Such craftsmanship produces a
car which combines the strength of
a locomotive with the accuracy of
a watch —and this combination of
accuracy and strength is an ideal
which holds throughout the Gen-
eral Motors family.
Further information regarding General Motors may be had by writing to General Motors
Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers, 160 Castlereagh St., Sydney; or Gene al
Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Bourke Sf* Russell Sts., Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
BUICK
OAKLAND
CADILLAC
OLDSMOBILE
CHEVROLET
GMC TRUCKS


Cudcura Talcum Is
Refreshing To The Skin
Daily use of Cuticura Talcum
overcomes heavy perspiration and
soothes and refreshes the skin. It
imparts a delicate fragrance, leaving
the skin sweet and wholesome.
Soap It.. Talcum 1 5.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
•f- Try c»ir now Shaving Stick.
Mercolized
Wax
NEW SIZE - 2/6
m
Miss Gladys Moncrieff,
the Brilliant Williamson Star, who
is an advocate of Mercolized Wax
for the Complexion.
Announcement
We beg to announce that pure
mercolized wax for the complexion
may now be obtained in two sizes of
packages. Large size 5/6; small-
er size 2/6. Meioolized wax is
heartily recommended by stage and
societv folk all over the world.
Double Function
This unique product is highly
recommended, not only to clear
up Dull Complexions, but also to
Preserve and refine Good Com-
plexions. Tested over 14 years.
Obtainable at Chemists and depart-
ment stores eveiywhere.
Dearborn (Aus.) Ltd. Sydney
k MOIRALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY - BRISBANE
Overlooking River. Mrs b. KENNEDY,
Handy to Trams and proprietress
Trains phone cent. 5112
m
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p er m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied-
waterproof. All Chemists.
a
NWS
MEXICAN
EMANCIPATION!
Are you a slave to Rupture? Deliverance is at hand! Denyer’s
Elastic Truss gives absolute support and a degree of comfort that
will make you forget you’re wearing a truss at all. Embrace this
means of escape from your Rupture bondage at once.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage Extra.
SEND FOR FREE TRUSS PAMPHLET.
DENYER BROS.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
3^
m
A
Sterling Silver
Sweet Dishes,
4 in case,
UNUSUAL and PLEASING
WEDDING PRESENTS.
Fairfax & Roberts offer a splendid choice of worth-while gifts
that are out of the ordinary and at the same time most moderately
priced.
The sweet dishes illustrated are of sterling silver and would give
lifelong pleasure and satisfaction without fear of detenora ion or
damage.
The Optical Department is equipped to render the
most modern and complete service.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fajrfax&Roberts L to
Z5&25 Hunter Street Sydney
POLICE !!j/we’re after shillings
for the
, NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICE
ffOOPVPAL ART UNION
over £3200 inPrijes
TICKETS 1/-
Ist Prize VAUXHAEE MOTOR CAR
valued
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
7th
STUDEBAKER “Eight Six” Car .. .. „
Beale “MAESTRO” PLAYER PIANO .. „
Suite Furniture (Inlaid Sycamore) .. .. »»
“INDIAN CHIEF” Motor Cycle & Side Car „
Beale No. 8 Model Piano .. . • •*> «
Einen Chest full of Household Einen „
And 93 other Prizes, values ranging down to £5.
£1250
£525
£258
£2OO
£175
£l3O
£lOO
Drawn 29th April, 1925.
TICKETS may be purchased
at any Police Station or Hos-
pital in the State, or on
application to A. Lendrum,
Police Headquarters, Sydney.
TICKETS 1/- each, postage
on one ticket lid., postage on
five or more tickets free. To
secure result slip send ad-
dressed envelope.
Sec., rolice Headqna rters, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
V I.ENDRUM. Hon
SI
31
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG S AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Freedom.
Not with a brazen trumpet screaming fear,
Nor held by voices of the thronging day,
Nor hanging on the words that high men say
To leave a tingling in the public ear
Shall Freedom in the market place appear.
Her steps go lightly on the singing way,
Her voice upon the wind is young and gay
And flowery summer to her heart is dear.
She has no memory of the hot blood shed
Where madness armed has shrieked upon her
blade _ ..
And piled the naked stones with sacrifice
Of reeking death in worship of the dead....
True freedom is a bargain that is made
With life; and laughter is the merry price.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Norfolk Island Pine.
It lifts its tall and stately form
Arrayed in velvet green
Above the press of ridge and roof,
Seeming to meditate aloof,
And takes the whims of sun and storm
With dignity serene.
Its boughs re-echo with the calls
And cries of nesting birds;
The winds stream through it with the sound
Of surges on a sea profound;
And as the twilight silence falls
It murmurs gentle words.
Some many-lieaded Indian god
New-come to life it seems,
With gestures graceful, grave and slow
Saluting all the airs that blow,
Ere sinking back in sleep to nod
Its way through summer dreams
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
In Wind and Rain.
Here, where the ti-tree lifts its crest so high,
I met you once; it seems not long ago.
The rain is falling from a clouded sky.
Your footfall in the wind that rushes by,
Running, I hear, then growing still and
slow
Here where the ti-tree lifts its crest so high.
And in the scattering leaves I hear your sigh;
Where the split pennons of the palm-trees
blow
The rain is falling from a clouded sky.
In a far frozen grave you deeply lie
Beyond these mournful waves that ebb
and flow
Here where the ti-tree lifts its crest so high.
It is not hard, it is not hard to die!
But hard to live when life has lost its
glow—
The rain is falling from a clouded sky.
I live, and you are dead —oh, bitter “Why?”
How can I live when you are cold and low ?
Here where the ti-tree lifts its crest so high,
The rain is falling from a clouded sky !
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
Thunderstorm.
The sky is a yellow giant
With creeping sinews of cloud;
He stoops at his useless labor,
Straining, contorted, bowed.
He struggles to choke the planet
In a grey and breathless shroud;
He wrenches the knots still tighter,
Toils till he groans aloud.
But now he is hot from striving,
Tired to the point of pain;
He sinks o’er the burdened earth lands
And breaks in a sweat of rain.
Then as the rain, refreshing,
Washes him clean and sane,
Lust to destroy forgotten,
He smiles on his world again.
N.S.w.
SYDNEY GORDON.
Idyll.
A red rose over the lintel
And the white moon over the gate;
And the song of a bird in the woods
Singing late.
A chair on the 'yellowing porch,
Where the old, strained timbers creak ;
And my love’s voice and the children’s —
Softly they speak.
The scent of the garden flowers
And the lately-watered grass
And a horse’s hoofs on the road —
•‘Clip, clop” they pass.
The light has gone out within,
The children are all in bed ;
And my love has come out to me—-
“Beloved!” she said.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
One of Many.
I’m one of many who have loved
Your eyes and lips and hair;
It’s left for some one else to take
The treasure hidden there.
Your simple lips will say “I give”
And not from giving swerve;
But I shall hold no golden key
To ope their secret curve.
There is a hand betrays my hand
Pressed hard against your heart;
There is a drama in your eyes
In which I play no part.
My fingers wandering on your face
Stray in an alien land;
A dream’s between your lips and mine
I cannot understand. ,
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


tMe/low
TfrfuaAy'
aT'N
f.;J\
mm.
r a
i*
*\
iH
WM
•Jk2s^
■WHS m
n.
j>. 1
■
■
\ I
L
i -
jgppH
m
1h
■
ill
iga
181
es
iiasii
Ml
IB
PATROBAS.
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1915.
Owner - - Mrs. E. A. Widdis.
Trainer - - C. Wheeler.
Jockey - - R. Lewis.
Weight - - 7st. 61b.
Time - - - 3min. 28^sec.
Australasian Agents- BSEPPELT 6 SONS, \J-
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE £ BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2354.
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1925.
Price 6d.
DANIEL AT THE LIONS’ DEN.
“Mr. Wearne, N.S.W. Minister for Lands, announced that Cabinet had authorised him to make available an additional £250,000 for the relief of soldier settlers....The
general election will take place about the middle of the year.”
DANIEL GEO. FULLER: “Well, we’ve got to go in among ’em presently. Best thing we can do is to feed the brutes beforehand.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERUfS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly l
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; S months, 7a.
To anr address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, ISs. 6d. ; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved bp Ihe publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Corres-pondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps lor return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Tim Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, tvill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but _ unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn-—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St, C. Grondnna. Australia House. Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “Tile Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entranee
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British, Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.lj
F. Algar, 58 Gracecliurch Street, London, E.C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Bdkoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street. Vancouver. B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 3$ West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, Neiv York City: Ilotaling's
Neivs Agency, 20S West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California ;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn and Co.. The Colonial
Hook and News Stores. Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6H6 I‘edder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co.. 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Golch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus. E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Hostage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., 14d.; each
additional 40z.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4 0Z - or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1925.
THE ARMY OF THE FUTURE.
“Though the bills of Fate come slowly, yet they
come exceeding large;
Though It writes them out at leisure It’s a whale to
overcharge.”
Some day it will doubtless come to the know-
ledge of the Commonwealth that it is time to
give up playing at being a nation, and take
on the reality. The play consists in being
sufficient of a nation to demand a voice in
affairs, or at least in the numerous
aftairs in which the Dominions are concerned,
and. especially to demand that no League of
■Nations which includes India, China and
Abyssinia shall argue on our White Austra-
ia Policy. The reality consists in being
enough of a nation to prop up the position
at the shortest notice with some show of
force. If a White programme depends in
its entirety on a largely Black empire for
support, it is liable to get a minimum of
he article when a test case arises. The
position, as already mentioned, will come to
the knowledge of the Commonwealth, and the
question is whether the Commonwealth will
be insured before the fire breaks out. for
there is seldom much chance to insure after-
wards. A peace army of 30,000 men would
probably not be too much, and there should
be respectable reserves behind it, or it might
easuy prove not enough. The peace force
should be well organised and as efficient as
an army can be, and the reserves should
approach the same standard as nearly as it
is possible for reserves to do. The navy
need not be absurdly large, but it should be
the best thing possible of its size. There
were 25 vessels, or at least 25 names, on
the Australian naval list when that docu-
ment was compiled for publication in the
last “Official Year Book,” and it has been
stated, with an appearance of truth, that to
send the best of them out to meet a really
capable adversary of its own size would be
a polite form of suicide —more dignified than
voluntary suspension by the neck, but about
as certain. That is no pleasant prospect.
Australia needs a defence system bearing
some reference to its population, its size, the
extent of its coast-line, and the vulnerability
of a stupid community which has deposited
most, of its people and its treasures on the
exposed seashore. It can’t get that sort till
its taxpayers are much more plentiful, but
it can do something. On the population
basis alone a standing army of 30,000 men
would be below the European idea.
* » * *
No capable army can be improvised in
time to win a war unless the enemy is com-
pelled to improvise also, an eventuality
which can’t be relied on, or unless his regu-
lar force is of the semi-nude and spear-
throwing variety. And even that sort of
enemy has given unprepared civilisation a
rude shock before now. The vaunted and
much-propliesied spectacle of an untrained,
unorganised and unoliicered people “rushing
to arms” at the first note of battle, when it
had been no one’s business to provide the
arms, let alone the ammunition, commissariat,
hospital service, staff, intelligence depart-
ment or plan of campaign, is thin air. It
is also poisonous illusion and a fool’s para-
dise. A great deal has been made of the
fact that the Boers put up a magnificent de-
fensive fight, but every adult male Boer was,
in his own way, a trained soldier, and many
of them had seeu hard service. Also the little
State had no vulnerable coast-line. Cbom-
well’s Ironsides are a favorite example;
but when King and Parliament split, the
two parties, equally unready, had eight
months to spend in organising two mob
armies, which proceeded to mob each other
for two years without any result. Then
the best man created the best regular stand-
ing army and won. It was not the vast-
ness of the nominal theatre of war which
made the United States Civil shindy last
into its fifth year, for the decisive fighting
was almost wholly in one State, and the
last battlefield was nearly in sight of the
first. The tragedy was that the Govern-
ment was as badly off for a proper army as
the Secession, and it took the parties close
on half a year to arrive at their first battle.
Inside a year all the money which had been
saved by neglect of the army since Jack-
son’s time had gone up in smoke, and there
was nothing to show for the outlay but
shame and defeat. Half a century later
Fate sent in its leisurely bill again. A
mad Kaiser turned up like “a bolt from the
blue,” and declared a war of extermination
against U.S. shipping, merely because he
knew that this hundred-million giant hadn't
an available expeditionary force of even
250,000 well-trained men with which to re-
taliate. After many months, during which
time, by great luck, there were Allied ships
to help protect the U.S. coast, and Allied
officers to train the U.S. recruits, the giant
scrambled into the battle line. And by the
hour when the first shot was fired all the
money that had been saved since Lincoln’s
time by failure to maintain a thoroughly
capable peace army had gone to the dogs
of war —superfluous war in a sense, for lack
of preparation brought it about. Gari-
baldi was almost, if not quite, the most
marvellous leader and organiser of raw
troops in history, but he didn’t finish the
Neapolitan campaign, even against the un-
speakable Bomba 11., with his irregulars.
In fact, there were signs along the Volturno
that success had reached high-water mark
and that the ebb was beginning when a pro-
fessional soldiery tramped on the scene.
George Washington was something of a
genius, but he was materially helped by the
fact that three countries, possessed of regu-
lar forces, joined in, being moved thereto by
the insane carryings-on of George 111. and
his outfit. When a nation as unprepared as
Australia has got into war with a capable
enemy, and didn’t chance on allies, it has
usually had a rotten time.
* * * *
The idea of the largely-imported revo-
lutionary party which is permitted to agi-
tate this country without disgnisq is a
short-service voluntary army, to be “white-
anted” by Communists, to elect its own
officers, and to carry its weapons with it
when the soldier retires into private life.
It is not to pursue a defeated enemy beyond
the three-mile (or possibly 12-mile) limit,
or forestall his attack by going beyond that
margin. It is not to interfere in any in-
ternal disturbance, however gory, which is
dubbed “industrial.” In fact, the idea is to
create, at the general charge, an army of
insurrection, taking its instructions in the
final recourse from Moscow. The navy, in
the same picture, is to be built chiefly as
a means of supplying employment—-in short,
as a species of relief work. Its efficiency,
when it is built, is to be a matter of minor
importance, or no importance, and probably
there will be the same objection to its fight-
ing outside the 12-mile limit as in the case
of the army. The Commonwealth may yet
devise a Government which will have the
courage to make a wholesale deportation'
of non-Australian revolutionists, and a
wholesale disqualification, both as voters and
possible legislators, of all identifiable local
ones. Under this policy the revolutionist
would be told, in fact, that he can’t have
it both ways, and that as he is an avowed
spy and enemy in the legislative camp his
departure from it is desirable. Measures of
the sort are necessary, else Australia may
build up defences only to find them used
against itself by its enemies. But when
precaution has been taken against the revo-
lutionary menace, no time should be lost
in the creation of an army and navy good
enough to have a chance of holding the
front line while the rear ones are being
mobilised. A nation which dispenses with
an army and navy, and trusts to the good
faith of other peoples, should, in common
logic, dispense with a police force and trust
to the good faith of its own people. One
which, as a matter of economy, refuses to
pay a premium for the protection of its
country should, for the same reason, abandon
the costly farce of insuring its cities and
maintaining a standing army of fire-fighters.
Chance is as reliable a friend in a fire as in
a war. Pacifists have a habit of asking with
scorn for the name of the possible enemy.
Ilis name is always discovered when he turns
up. The visitation once came on astonished
Mexico from as far away as France. It
came on the United States from Germany.
It came on the Irish Free State from inside,
and by one of Fate’s casual overcharges
£50,0Q0,000 worth of damage was done in
about a year while an adequate force was
being compiled to suppress the ferocious
brigandage. A capable defence force in a
self-governing country is a good school of
instruction and patriotism. It furnishes
employment. It often pays a dividend in
the long run. which neither the baby bonus
nor the Commonwealth shipping line does.
And a nation which has at hazard not only
its self-governing rights but its status as
a white community is in more need of a
serviceable defence system than most others.
KEEPING FAITH.
When organised unionism first demanded
preference for its members it seemed a fair
thing in the interests of the community.
There was at last something recognised and
tangible with which the State could make a
bargain ; and had the bargainings been the
sincere things they at first appeared to be,
the position of the Australian worker might
.have been far more comfortable than it is.
The chief trouble was that the worker did
not fully grasp the situation. Instead of
approaching the buying public with some-
thing valuable to sell, for which he was
anxious to get the best price, he came partly
as a mendicant seeking alms and partly as
a political bullv declaring that by force of
a majority he would have his way. The
result was a confusion of thought in which
his bargain with the public seemed only a
bit of temporising or a trick in a game. So the
State lost the apparent advantage it had
gained, because of the uncertainty as to
whether bargains would be kept or not; and
the workers lost heavily in the general loss
of the State of which they formed so large
a part. The political action of Labor proved
in the main weak and ineffective. The bad
fault of borrowing to create fictitious pros-
perity, which had marked the rule of other
parties, became still more marked when
Labor was in power; certain portions of the
Labor platform, which might have repre-
sented real reform, were set aside or delayed
while the credit was being dissipated; and
it was made clear that no unity of goodwill
existed in the rank and file of the party
itself. Unionism in Ihe industrial field made
no attempt to back up Labor in the political
field beyond giving its vote at elections; and
bargains between a Labor-controlled State
and the unions were no more faithfully re-
garded than the bargains made with the
State when allegedly under anti-Labor con-
trol. So divided in action were the left
hand and the right hand of organised workers
that the thing the political leaders aimed
at was often undermined by actions of the
unions which proposed to give them their
support. Riding on the top of all this
were the prize-hunters who spoke a Labor
jargon, but were everywhere seeking for
opportunities to grasp at position and wealth
in any camp or under any service. To
such people politics and industrial strife were
both games to be played for personal advan-
tage ; and in the course of such play the
voice of the worker has become more and
more uncertain and the State has been more
and more the loser.
* * * *
The chief result of all this muddle of
intent and action has been that the workers
have never yet given an enthusiastic vote
for Labor. Had the full strength of the
unionists and those directly dependent on
them been polled on one side, that side must
have remained in power. The inference is
plain enough. A very large section of
workers does not trust political Labor nor
believe in its platform. The majority, no
doubt, does trust it; yet of this majority very
many must be opposed to the unionist mode
of warfare by interrupting industry. It is,
in fact, a contradiction in terms to believe
in constitutional reform and at the same
time be in sympathy with the war against
the public which takes the form of industrial
irregularity. Constitutional reform implies
a belief in continuance, a faith that the
country will go steadily on with its job until
the crooked things are made straight by
sober changes of the law. There are thus
clearly two bodies of opposing thought in
what is lumped together under the general
name of Labor. As catch-words are often
stronger than arguments, the two are joined
by some sort of sentiment which hopes
against the evidences that their aims are
one and the same; but when an attempt is
made to drive the engine full speed in both
directions, the progress made must be disap-
pointing. Labor, as a whole, is probably not in
as good a position now as it was 20 years
ago; certainly though higher wages are paid,
those wages are not nearly as high as they
might have been if the workers had made
the best of their opportunities. If Labor
represented a bond of mutual faith, so that
Labor in politics could guarantee the
stability of Labor in industry, the whole out-
look would be changed. But the plain fact
is that Labor in politics is likely to get a
worse deal from Labor in industry than its
political opponents.
* * * *
The movement reported of a section of the
maritime workers to guarantee a continuous
supply of labor without irritation strikes, if
the ships of the Commonwealth are main-
tained, comes late. Such a plan of
action all along the industrial line might
have led to great results if it had been under-
taken a dozen years ago; and even now. as
a general union policy, it would be bound to
result in enormous gains for the workers.
But the offer made in relation to one com-
paratively small section of a single industry
w'hen there is fear that a good thing is being
lost cannot be taken seriously. There is
no reasonable guarantee that such an agree-
ment would be kept: the breaches of faith
in vital matters have been too frequent to
lead the public to believe that this would be
a bright exception. Labor in industry has
indeed a long way to go to make up for the
ground it has lost. Its business is to prove
that it is sincere and honest in its desire for
the progress of the community; its past
actions have thrown a very grave doubt
tMit. When stability in the matter of
abiding by agreements has been proved over
a period of five or six years, the public will
see and believe that the intention is good.
Unfortunately, in addition to the cheap in-
smcerities of the type of Labor stalwart who
will use a faked ballot-box or a fraudulent
ballot-paper, there is the new Communist ele-
ment to deal with, which would repudiate
any idea of keeping faith with the com-
munity, on the ground that it would delay
revolution. It may be admitted that many
of the Communists are sincere enough—sin-
cere with the sincerity of the bull that gores
the laborer whq is cutting grass for him. As
a party they are not numerous, nor are their
arguments _ particularly attractive. The
trouble is simply that they create an atmo-
sphere of distrust in the whole mechanism of
modern life. As a rule their propaganda
passes by the worker as merely so much
doubtful noise; but when his inclinations in
a single matter run parallel to the violent
doctrines of Communism, the catch-words
are always there to inflame his feeling; and
there is a “comrade” near at hand to add
poison to his thought. Still there is a great
deal more sober sense left among the workers
who have been forced to take part in recent
upheavals than a superficial survey would
indicate. Among the workers who have
homes of their own to defend and who value
those homes more greatly than any political
catch-word, among the tens of thousands of
wage-earners who refuse to record a Labor
vote, and among those whose thinking out
of the whole problem leads them to believe
that honesty of individual action must be the
basis of true progress, there is probably a
majority which would be most willing to
reverse the recent order of things and make
a new start. In the prosperity which indus-
trial stability could immediately create there
would be room to look round and take stock
of all the gains and losses. Industry in
Australia can pay just as much in wages as
the workers will allow it to pay. Once that
thought is grasped there need be no looking
back.
THE DIVIDE.
Going west from Townsville over the divid-
ing range one reaches a point, about ten
hours from the coast, where the streams
diverge, running in different directions over
the continent. The most unimaginative man
could not help getting a thrill here. There
is nothing to see but steep ridges covered
with scrub and coarse grass, but to the
inner vision the spot is an eyrie from which
one can look out over thousands of miles,
watching the labors of men coming and
going over Australian earth. The whole
eastern half of the continent spreads itself
out miraculously. Everything that crowds
the foreground falls away, and the little
steamers slugging down the Murray are as
near as the cattle feeding down at the bottom
of the ridge.
Eastward a tiny stream goes down to feed
the Burdekin that finds the sea in a delta
near Ayr. The mind follows its passage into
sluggish, scrub-fringed creeks where sugar-
cane is growing in the bends, and gangs of
men have just ceased slashing it down with
heavy knives and piling it in the waiting
trucks. Sweating, sun-baked men from
Milan and Tuscany as well as from Balmain
and Ross Island! A’whiff of boiling sugar
floats across on the night, Down there, all
along the coast, the mills are working their
three shifts, sending out a glare that makes
the sleeping passengers in the Brisbane mail
rise a moment in their bunks and stare out
into the dark. Nothing to see! Merely
shapeless tin sheds where shadowy men are
bending over the whirring ’fugals or feeding
the megass into the furnaces. And at count-
less wharves the squat little sugar-boats are
waiting like water-beetles to bear the rich
stuff away.
Over the whole strip of moist, dark coun-
try broods a spirit of restlessness and activity
that will last till crushing is done. What
a change has come over this coast in a gen-
eration ! Thirty years ago every bend in
the creek had its patch of scrub —maple,
cedar, myrtle and palm—and except for the
little coastal towns it was wrapped in the
heavy sleep of the tropics. Now, for the
most part, the scrub has gone down and
cane is sprouting between the rotting stumps,
while everywhere there is the slight feverish-
ness that shows itself in places that depend
on one industry alone. This year we have
produced more sugar than we can consume.
What will happen after ten more years of
intensive development? Will the bottom fall
out of the artificial home market, and will
the scrub creep in again over the rich river-
bends? Or will some other industry take
the place of this pioneer and hold what has
been won?
South and west the streams run to join
the Diamantina and other so-called rivers
that either feed the Darling or spread out
ir. flood-time over the sandy belts of the in-
terior, making the herbage shoot amazingly
in country that rarely knows rain. Between
here and those distant stretches are broad
tablelands of Mitchell grass, where in the
dry season the motor-lorries carting wool
can run in all directions without roads. The
creek-beds are mere grooves in the rolling
downs that stretch westward to the Barkly
Tablelands, except where the Cloncurry
mineral belt cuts transversely across, a high
wedge of metallic country, 50 miles by a
couple of hundred, thrust up from the dark
earth. From our point, on the divide it is
possible to visualise all that country, with
its tiny, tin-roofed townships and its end-
less herds of sheep. White-painted home-
steads standing in treeless isolation with
lorries loading wool at the sheds—
the two-ton and 12-ton lorries that
have driven the horse-teams over the
skyline! The car is no luxury here. It
is a drab and dusty beast of burden, paying
back its purchase-money as it carts goods
from the railway or shearers from one shed
to another.
A flash of light cuts across the sky—the
new aerial mail running from Charleville to
Camooweal. flying over the western rail-
heads. over mobs of travelling sheep, over the
silver-lead field at Mt. Isa. where a couple
of hundred tents and hessian stores are
huddled together at the foot of the spinifex
hills, and the miners gather on Saturday
nights in a tin enclosure to watch pictures
of General Birdwood’s arrival in Sydney


or the march of the Fascisti into Ttome. lt
is an amazing thing, this steel-winged bird
that drones over the silent stretches, blot-
ting qut the sense of distance and making
the very stars seem nearer. “And to think
that heap of gibbers down there is Long-
reach !” said an old squatter, making the
trip for the first time. Forty years before
he had driven his four-in-hand buckboard
down to Melbourne for the Cup, starting off
from these downs alone and gathering friends
at other stations by the way, so that by
the time the Murray was reached there was
a little army on the road. An army of roy-
stering squatters, who spent money like
water, and painted the little townships red
as they passed through! Those were spacious
days, and the men who lived in them knew
this wide country well—its treeless downs,
its mulga ridges and its wide plains covered
with saltbush and cotton-bush.
Some of the rain that falls on this divide
in the wet season helps to carry the wool-
boats down the Darling, those lumbering
boats that plug along between the high, red
banks, keeping both eyes open for snags.
Only a few miles away it flows towards the
Gulf, running through lily-lagoons and belts
of cane-grass, and finally passing towns that
seem to be crumbling into dust now that
beef has gone down and mining ceased —•
Normanton, Croydon. Burketown. A vision
of unroofed houses, goats cropping at the
stumps of ruined fruit-trees, and a handful
of people gathering dejectedly to await the
fortnightly train in the curious silence that
hangs around such towns! A silence only
broken by the plaintive voice of a Croydon
councillor: “If you don’t do something for
us soon, we’ll all be down upon you with
what remains of our flocks and herds.”
The ebb and flow of this great wave of
energy that has populated the North ! Men
furiously drilling into the dark ridges at
Mt. Isa and clearing landing-places for the
aerial mail: others stealing away as silently
as thieves from the Gulf towns, after an
honorable residence of 30 years or so. Yet
the general impression is one of ceaseless
activity as one views it from the divide, call-
ing upon memories and pictures. Beyond
the horizon, or even the knowledge, of the
cities along the coast, a great, creative im-
pulse is at work—the only thing, after all,
that gives this continent meaning and a
guarantee of the future. Every Australian
ought to climb up here, once in a way. and
glimpse the various, manifold life of which
he is a part.
VANCE PALMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Neglect of a Great Market.
The sacking by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment of its Trade Commissioner at Singa-
pore has moved newspapers as far apart as
Shanghai and the Straits Settlements to
animadvert in melancholy fashion on the
subject of Australian trade with the Orient.
Appeals for succor have also reached this
office from places as remote as Bruas, in
the Golden Chersonese, and they come from
exiled Australians whose patriotic desire
it is to wear Australian woollens next their
skins and preserve their constitutions by
varying the monotony of the daily buffalo,
pumpkin and gula malacca with Australian
apples, cauliflowers and frozen lamb. The
dismissal of the more-or-less highly-paid
official who functioned so briefly at Singa-
pore followed on a report by him that
damned the bad Australian trader as the
real incubus on Australian trade, and the
dark suspicion arises that his removal was
not so much a measure of economy as an
expression of disfavor on the part of inter-
ested persons who had had their withers
wrung. Whether a trade commissioner is
or is not an indispensable adjunct to the
business of selling our meat and woollen
underwear to the Christian and pagan in-
habitants of Asia is perhaps debatable: a
fact that is not debatable at all is that
the possibilities of Australian trade with
“the East” have always been immense and
that the trade has never come up to expecta-
tions for reasons that are common property
along all the coasts of Asia. The dweller in
some lonely outpost who orders a case of
Australian apples and finds them all rotten
on arrival is not likely to repeat the experi-
ment. The Indian retailer whose consign-
ment. of Australian jams blow their lids off
with monotonous reiteration is likely to re-
turn to the more expensive and less wholesome
but better-packed commodity that comes from
England. The Chinese merchant who ven-
tures a shipment of Australian soap or
matches and gets them wrapped in the color
that in China signifies the demise of a
revered parent is liable to rend the remnants
of his pigtail and try a less offensive brand
in future. The purveyor of fresh meats
who gets a flock or herd of Australian jum-
bucks which prove to be as tough and fibrous
as the local Inland of goat will lose
his clients and cease to boost Australian
trade. The prime, cause of this unhappy con-
dition of affairs is that the Australian manu-
facturer and trader, looking at his home
trade and his business with John Bull, is
apt to despise the humbler figures of busi-
ness with “the East.” Moreover, he is dis-
posed to ask: Are these other consumers not
Asiatics, and will they therefore not put up
with anything, not really knowing the differ-
ence between good and bad? The result is
that he does this country a disservice by
sending his rubbish and his shoddy north.
But all the indications are that in the course
of time geographical reasons will make Britain
trade more and more with Canada and South
America, which are handy, and less and less
with her antipodes; and geography again
will make Asia look more and more towards
Australia and less towards Europe. Aus-
tralian trade at present is mainly with the
sparse white populations round the fringes
of the northern continent, but Europe has
for centuries been inculcating a desire for
Occidental “notions” in the thousand million
unsophisticated bosoms inland. The native
pedlar who pushes up into Tibet or Chinese
Turkestan carries, along with the joss-stick
of mellifluous camels’ dung, the products of
English looms and French spindles. His
pack is like a market-place in Rome in the
Imperial days—it contains the spoil of almost
a whole universe. An item that it never in-
cludes is something bearing an Australian
label. So conspicuous has this country’s failure
to take advantage of the market which is near
and ready to her hand been that Canada,
which is five times as far away, is. looking
thitherward; and California, which has
exalted right packing, right labelling. and
right standardisation into a State religion,
is already there. Britain has always had
the services, in every port and inland district,
of her Consuls, who make invaluable reports
on possibilities, pass scathing criticisms on
unscrupulous traders, and push their coun-
try’s interests on every feasible occasion.
Having got rid of her Commissioners at
Singapore and in China, Australia has no-
body to protect her interests, by cultivating
buyers and exposing dishonest sellers; and
as her distrust of political appointments is
both profound and well justified, she. is un-
likely to have anybody officially in the
futui’e. It would undoubtedly pay those
interested in the trade if they established
and maintained representatives of their own
with the same powers of impartial criticism
and advice as British Consuls everywhere
enjoy.
*
The Semi-Protective Tariff.
A dismal howl was raised in Westralia
when the Commonwealth Government re-
fused to waive duties amounting to £21,000
on locomotives unnecessarily imported by the
State Government. It was known that Pope,
the Commissioner of Railways, had asked for
additional engines years before, and that the
Mitchell Government had gone to sleep
until it was too late for Australian manu-
facturers to do a job which, owing to the
imminence of a big harvest, had become
urgent; nevertheless the lamentation was loud
and bitter, and Angwin, of the Labor Govern-
ment that succeeded Mitchell’s, became
Anguish personified. For once, however, the
Bbuce-Pages were adamant, and presently
there was a concentration of caterwauling on
another of Westralia’s wrongs. Then the
subjoined item crept into print:—
During the next two years the Railway Department
intends to construct ten new locomotives at the Mid-
land Junction workshops. Orders have already been
given for the extra plant, which will cost £21,000.
The cost of construction will be approximately
£IOO,OOO and the job will provide employment for
100 men continuously for two years. The engines
will be practically the same as those from England
for which the Federal Government claimed £21,000
duty.
Which shows that even the present tariff
can be beneficial in some cases when firmly
administered. Had it been firmly adminis-
tered always there would have been no occa-
sion for the pitiful wailing over the impost
on the imported locomotives; the first order
would have been placed in Australia, as the
second has been, and as all such contracts
should be. Unfortunately the Hughes Gov-
ernment set the fashion of removing the
duties on overseas goods bought by State
Governments (invariably with loan-money)
in cases where it was alleged that the articles
were needed to provide work for the unem-
ployed, or something of the sort, and that
the applicant couldn’t wait for local manu-
facture. Since these transactions becamo
known, every tinpot municipality with a
foreign-trade majority and a Commonwealth
Bank overdraft has sent abroad for
machinery, hoping to persuade the Minis-
ter to remit the duty. Of course, the Minis-
ter hasn’t always been so persuaded, but the
mere impression that he might be —that there
is a sporting chance of evading the tax fixed
by Parliament —has done a power of mischief
to Australian manufacturers and workmen.
When the tariff comes up for the revision
necessitated by the persistent increase in
imports, with its calamitous effects on a
multitude of industries which were promised
effective Protection, Parliament should place
it beyond the power of any Minister to ex-
tend'fiscal favors, at the expense of Austra-
lian industry, to unpatriotic or shiftless State
Governments and local bodies. It was the
avowed intention of the last Parliament,
which had a strong Protectionist majority,
that the Greene tariff, dealing as it did with
circumstances greatly changed by the w T ar,
should represent a substantial advance on
the duties embodied in the 1908-11 Tariff Aets.
That this intention has not been realised let
Wickens, the Commonwealth Statistician,
bear witness: —
The average ad valorem rate of duty over all mer-
chandise —both dutiable and free —has been raised
from 17.08 p.c. to 22.63 p.c. This comparatively
small increase is due to the effect of increased prices
for those goods which are subject to fixed-rate duties.
Notwithstanding that in numerous eases very sub-
stantial increases were made in these fixed-rate duties,
the increase in price is so much greater that their
ad valorem incidence is less, at the present time,
under the 1921 tariff, than it was when the tariff of
1908-11, was in operation.
Among the articles on which the equiva-
lent ad val. rates of duty have declined are
foodstuffs of animal origin, foodstuffs of
vegetable origin, beverages, paper, oils, fats
and waxes. On textiles there has been an
increase from 17.31 p.c. to 22.36 p.c.; on
paint and varnishes from 17 p.c. to 22.23
p.c.; on wood and wicker from 16.53 p.c. to
22.28 p.c.; on drugs, chemicals and fertilisers
from 23.92 to 24.37 p.c.; and on machines
and machinery from 20.04 p.c. to 27.34 p.c.
But the increases have been lamentably in-
sufficient, as the import figures show; in
the U.S.A., where a serious unemployed diffi-
culty has been removed by the raising of the
tariff, there would bo boisterous if
such duties were described as protective. The
competent and impartial testimony of the
Commonwealth Statistician cannot be ignored
in the coming session of Parliament if the
Government really stands for Australian
Nationalism, as its leader declares so often,
and not merely for Flinders-lane.
♦
The U.S.A. and Its Gold.
J. M. Keynes, who told the British Parlia-
mentary Commercial Committee that the
restoration of gold in 1925 would be rash,
is entitled to be listened to with respect.
In 1919, when flatulent politicians were in-
forming their constituents that Germany
would be made to pay the whole cost of the
war, he prophesied the net result of the Ver-
sailles Treaty would be that the Allies would
be “paying indemnities to one another in-
stead of receiving them from the enemy.”
This is almost exactly what has come to
pass. If Uncle Sam demands the full inter-
est on his loans from France, that country
will have to hand over almost pre«isely what
she gets from Germany under the Dawes
scheme —£60.000,000. Yet France expended
in men killed and -wounded in the Great
Disaster over two millions: Uncle Sam a
trifling 69,000. Much of the debt incurred
by France was for American shells fired from
French guns at the risk of French lives. If
America had been on the spot to fire the
shells herself she w r ould have incurred the
human risk and the financial liability as
well. Keynes recommends that the only
decent thing is for the peoples concerned to
rip up the whole complicated network of
inter-Allied indebtedness and devote what
little reparations are forthcoming to the
purpose for which they were intended. There
is one unfortunate circumstance, however,
which may prevent this reasonable arrange-
ment. That is the overwhelming Puritanism
of the Great American People. The feeling
of self-righteousness that assails the citizen
of the Republic when sin is mentioned is
obvious in all his newspapers and public
utterances. It makes him want to stop his
next-door neighbor from smoking cigarettes,
wearing evening dress, dancing in couples,
going to the theatre and drinking good beer
instead of hoosli. Applied to the outside
world it reveals itself in an aching desire to
stop Europe building warships, raising
armies, killing minorities and planning wars.
And the conviction has become fast fixed in
Uncle Sam’s mind that Europe’s debt to
America may be used as a means of making
Europe good. Even the fact that a further
influx ot the sin-stained gold will further
hamper the country’s trade fails to shake
this faith, and until it is dispelled no Ameri-
can Government will have the courage to pro-
pose that the European debt should be for-
given.
Taxation neform.
Encouraged by soinu vote-catching conces-
sions in the last Budget, and by the remark
of President Coolidge that “the collection of
taxes which are not absolutely required is
only a species of legalised larceny,” some
Sydney business men have launched a move-
ment for the abolition of the Commonwealth
income-tax. The agitation has been blessed
by a number of Foreign-trade journals, and
at least one Protectionist paper has incau-
tiously surrendered to it. Yet a five minutes'
reading of the Budget will show that the
Commonwealth, whose war interest, sinking
fund and pensions bill amounts to just on
£30,000,000 p.a., or nearly half the estimated
revenue for 1924-25 (and that revenue in-
cludes £10,000,000 from the Postmaster-
General's Department), is not in a position
to forego its income-tax. Certainly there
was an accumulated Federal surplus of
£5,100,000 on June 30, but that surplus (it
has been earmarked for naval construction
and other undertakings) was brought about
by inflated Customs receipts for which heavy
overseas borrowings and an ineffective
tariff were chiefly responsible. Once the
tariff is made effective —and that will have
to be done whatever Government is in office
—the Customs receipts . will shrink enor-
mously. That, of course, will be to the
advantage of Australian industry ; but if the
Commonwealth Government has abandoned
income-tax revenue amounting to 15 or 16
millions p.a. it will find itself then in a hole.
What the Sydney agitators ought to go for
is the abolition of the State income-taxes so
that Australia may have one such impost in-
stead of seven. That would be a real gain
to the whole community, certain tax-dodgers
perhaps excepted, especially if the income-
tax revenue were devoted to the requirements
of the national debt, as it should be. The
Commonwealth, for its part, might waive
the right to impose land and entertainment
taxes and death duties, in which fields double
taxation is at present levied, and supplement
the 255.-per-head for a term of years. There-
by the taxation muddle would assuredly be
straightened out, whereas the suggestion of
the Sydney business men would only make
confusion worse confounded.
♦
The Fury of the Prohibitionist.
Victorian Prohibitionists are attacking the
State Licenses Reduction Board because that
body included some references to the Dry
experiments in Canada and the U.S.A. in
its latest report, the first since August, 1922.
The matter objected to is the outcome of the
chairman’s visit to North America, and
comprises facts ascertained at first hand, some
mild comments thereon, and pertinent extracts
from American publications; but the Prohi-
bitionists protest that the introduction of
their pet subject was a piece of presumption.
In their view the Board had “no right” to
place it on record that Alberta, Manitoba,
Saskatchewan and British Columbia have
abandoned the system they themselves aim at
fastening on Victoria, or to quote statistics
showing that U.S.A. arrests for drunkenness
have largely increased since 1920, or to say
that the figures compare very badly with
British figures and would be regarded as very
depressing if they applied to Victoria, with
its 1950 hotels. It is an amazing example
of the intolerance which characterises the
Prohibitionist. And the bald history of the
Board’s own operations got an equally un-
gracious reception. “We do not recognise
this Board as an organisation for temper-
ance reform,” was the yelp of Greenwood,
M.L.A., president of the Anti-Liquor League,
and he had the face to assert that the Board
had shown itself “in entire sympathy with
the liquor trade.” Yet the report shows that
the body thus attacked has reduced the num-
ber of Victorian hotels from 3503 in 1907
to 1950 in 1924. Importations of liquor
declined from 1,695,301 gallons in 1913 to
605,534 gallons in 1923-24. There Averc
14,703 arrests for drunkenness in 1907,
when the population was 1,250.000, land
only 10.029 in 1923, when the population was
1,625,350. These are results immeasurably
better than Prohibition has yielded in North
America, and they would be better still had
Greenavood’s organisation Avorked in with
the Board instead of trying to force its
foreign nostrum on a public which is obvi-
ously not ready for it, and which may never
be ready. It used to be reckoned part of
the liquor reformer’s job to educate the young
in “temperance principles.” This educative
process has obviously been neglected, for
during the past year or so two very bad
habits have been imported from the Dry
Country by the young of the species—the
“spotting” habit among young females and
the hip-flask habit among youtig knuts. These
habits were unknown in the Commonwealth
till they were shown to exist among the
gilded youth of Yankeeland in the screen-
“art” of that remarkable Republic whose re-
strictive legislation Australia is urged to
copy. Of course, they are not practised on
this side of the Pacific to nearly the same
extent as on the other, but their existence is
a condemnation of Prohibition there and of
Prohibitionists here.
■ -- ♦
The Hungry Men of the Sunset.
It is doubtful if the Prime Minister did
much good for himself, or his reputation, or
for the Commonwealth by going on a rather
purposeless-looking tour of Westralia at the
present juncture; but he certainly put many
miles between himself and a difficult situa-
tion. The centre of the industrial storm
settled in the East, and Bruce had a call
to get out of the East. Around Sydney and
Melbourne the Commonwealth’s ships are
being held up promiscuously, for no visible
reason save that a fight is on to decide
whether the Bruce Government or the
Walsii-Joi-ianson-Garden junta runs Aus-
tralia. and the Bruce Government is making
a dreadfully poor show. If it hasn’t power
to enforce the law it might call Parliament
together and get more authority, but so
far it has hardly made the ghost of an
attempt to use what authority it has. The
situation is now nearly six months old, and
the Ministry becomes more ghostly day by
day. And out in the West, leaning comfort-
ably up against the sunset, the Prime Mini-
ster is putting up almost as poor a repu-
tation for perspicacity as he has done for
active hostility. For instance :
Referring to secession talk, Mr. Bruce said West-
ralia was never going to cease to be part of the
Commonwealth. “I am determined you shall never
get out,” he said, “because you are too valuable.”
Whereupon Westralian politicians of the
Mitchell variety said “Hooray!” and re-
marked that they always knew they were
valuable, as well as being ill-used and op-
pressed, and that the Commonwealth could
not get on without them, and that it was
their lavish contributions to the general
fund which made up for the deficiencies of
their shirking brethren. As a matter of
fact, Westralia is one of the lame ducks of
the partnership, and it has been a rather
arrogant duck at that. Its contribution in
1022-23 (latest figures) to the five direct
Federal taxes was £2 Os. Od. per inhabitant,
whereas the Australian average was £3 Os.
r>d. Therefore Westralia paid about £300,000
less than its share; in other words, its
neighbors paid that amount for it. They
paid the loss on its postal service out of
their own surpluses, and they contributed
towards the loss on its railway. Other
outstanding features of its case are that its
local taxation is always far below the Aus-
tralian average; that its Treasurers, for
many years past, have announced regularly
that they foresaw a big deficit and had
arranged for it and would do nothing to
nrevent it; and that it is the State of record
high wages in “secondary” industries and re-
cord small output. Its methods having natur-
ally produced certain conditions,its politicians
now threaten to leave the Commonwealth.
Alternatively they name their price for stay-
ing in and riving the rest of Australia the
pleasure of their society. It is a high price
—higher since Bruce’s foolish remark.
Mitchell, ex-Premier and prospective
Premier, and consequently a man who speaks
with authority, proposed that Westralia
should, for 25 years, make its own separate
tariff, collect the customs and excise revenue
itself, and keep the proceeds for its own
exclusive use. At the same time it would, of
course, through its Federal members, help
to mould the tariff of the other States in its
own interests. As a modification he sug-
gested that Westralia would be content with
a donation of £4 per inhabitant per annum
for 25 years. This would be about £1,450,000
per annum to begin with; but as the people
not only would pay no State taxes but would
receive a dividend of £2 per head over and
above, there would presumably be a rush to
the blessed land, and the bonus that the
other States would have to raise, for their
sumptuous neighbor might easily reach
£5.000.000 yearly. In its trials and tribula-
tions Westralia has the sympathy of the rest,
of the Commonwealth. But other parts of the
Commonwealth have their trials and tribula-
tions, too; and before these other parts will
agree to anything of the kind that Westralia
proposes, the lusty mendicant will have to
show what it has done to call for so much
gratitude.
The Murrumbidgee Irrigationists.
“Skeeter Pete” puts another view :—•
In its .article of March 5, The Bulletin writes of
tons of peaches and apricots being fed to pigs,
and the Commission doing nothing to help the soldier
settler sell his fruit. Now, the Commission con-
tracted with all who wished to do so six months ago
for peaches. We get paid at the weighbridge here,
and whether the fruit goes to the Lceton cannery
or Sydney makes no difference to us. The only
peaches the pigs get are some of the windfalls.
As for grapes rotting on the vines, that’s rubbish,
as they have not matured yet. Pexfold’s winery
has not started the 1925 vintage. Another wine
firm is taking all the soldiers’ grapes at Yenda and
llanwood that Penfold’s don’t want, at., I believe,
Pen fold's price. They are also buying any sultanas
that the growers cannot dry themselves.
Last year the Commission advanced £25 to any
soldier settler who needed it for building sultana-
drying racks, and we have a very much alive organi-
sation here (the Griffith Producers) to market our
dried fruit.
As for the exodus, that had to come. At the start
of the settlement all an intending settler needed
was to show that he was willing to try, and the
Commission found everything for him. Some are
doing well, others got tired and others broken-hearted
waiting five years for returns.
The writer of The Bulletin’s article in
reply:—
Notwithstanding “Skeeter Pete’s” remarks, it has
been the bitter experience of dozens of Yenda settlers
during the recent season to feed to pigs or destroy
tons of peaches and apricots. The canning factory
at Leeton was worked to capacity, and put such
restrictions on the class of fruit it would accept that
the producer 30 or 40 miles distant had little, if any,
chance. True, the Commission’s official at Yenda
accepted delivery, but he would take only the class
of fruit likely to carry to Leeton without injury.
One man at Yenda, disgusted with his futile efforts
to send a load of apricots to Leeton, dumped them
in the street. Owing to the glut of fruit Leeton
factory stopped accepting delivery for three days, and
a few of the settlers, in desperation, turned their
attention to Sydney jam factories. It is a blot on the


£
C
T^ustralia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
AUTUMN SUNSHINE.
Of every hundred days in Sydney eighty-five enjoy pleasant sunshine
—autumn included. And does it not further tempt you to remember that
in Sydney is to be found “The Australia,” replete with all those niceties
of accommodation and enjoyment that make for a perfect holiday?
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6. Luncheon or Dinner from 4/»; Light Luncheon
in the Whiter Garden from 2/6.
If you anticipate coming, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated 20-page booklet.
0-
administration of the area that a factory costing
hundreds of thousands of pounds could not anticipate
an increasing demand each year. The fact is the
Leeton factory cannot, and never will be able to,
meet the demand. Years ago the Commission went
to great expense in laying the foundations of another
factory in Griffith, but for some unexplained reason
work was stopped. It is currently reported that
the machinery, costing a very large sum, has been
lying in bond for years. If this work were gone on
with it would “buck up” an army of settlers who are
extremely pessimistic about disposing of next and
succeeding years’ crops.
The Commission did advance £25 for the erection
oi drying racks for sultanas, but it has not made
the slightest effort to find a. market, and that is of
more importance than anything else. Growers don’t
know what to do with sultanas, and, though they are
sending them to the Producers’ Co-op. to handle,
the best they can hope for is 3d. per lb!
It is a fact that, grapes dried on the vines at
Yenda. The winery proprietors notify growers when
they are prepared to take delivery, an I if the berries
mature before the notice arrives the producer suffers.
Anyway, after picking and carting exes, are met, the
average return to the producer works out at less
than fd. per lb., and his cheque does not make him
much of a capitalist.
About 40 abandoned farms in the Yenda area
alone are convincing proof that the soldier settlers,
after “slogging in” for five years, with no financial
returns except “sustenance” drawn through the Com-
mission, are not facing the fixture with much
confidence. One cause of discontent is the differential
rent and water rate. On one orchard block a
settler is charged ss. rate per acre foot, while his
neighbor pays 3 os., and the one’s ground rent is
a third more than the other’s. The reason advanced
is that the Cs. rate was gazetted prior to 1921.
If immediate steps are not taken to remedy genuine
grievances the exodus will continue. That calamity
can be averted by the Commission taking more active
interest in securing for the settler a market for his
produce. With canning, jam and bacon factories, cold
storage for citrus, butter and egg-s, and provision for
handlifig farm cereals, the area’s possibilities are
almost illimitable, but lacking more efficient control
its opportunities will vanish like the morning dew.
The Slump in Cockyism.
It was admitted at the stormy conference
of the Vic. Farmers’ Union (in future to be
known as the Country Party Association)
that there had been a mighty slump in the
membership since 1920. If the Vic. Cockies
are incapable of reaching higher standards
than were set during the confused proceed-
ings in Meibounie, it is to be hoped that
the slump will continue until the organisa-
tion fades to nothing as a political factor.
Out of the hurly-burly in the Temperance
Hall two factions emerged. One was for
extorting an excessive number of portfolios
as the price of an alliance with the National-
ists—in other words, for continuing the
existing arrangements in the Commonwealth
Parliament, where a party of 15 members
(out of 111) has five of the 10 Cabinet
posts, and in the State Pai’liament, where,
as Premier Allan complacently observed,
“we have much more than we are entitled
to in view of our numerical strength in the
House.” The other, while agreeing that the
party should strive to hold the balance of
power always, maintained that it would get
more by sitting in a corner and squeezing
concessions out of one minority Government
after another. When it came to the vote the
Portfolios prevailed, but their majoi'ity was
slight, and will probably disappear at the
next trial of strength. In any case, Power-
without-Responsibility succeeded in getting
the present treaties, or whatever they are, cir-
cumscribed by time limit, after which, failing
the return of one of the other parties with a
majority of its own, chaos will come again.
Both factions protested that their motives
were as pure as the snow on Kosciusko’s
summit, but each in reality championed a
form of political blackmail, and one form
is about as bad as the other.. The Cockies
began well by setting their faces against
the pre-selection swindle. Had they fol-
lowed that up by declaring for elective Min-
istries and striving to get all
decided by a majority of members of Parlia-
ment, voting according to their honest con-
victions, instead of by a cliuue in a caucus,
as is too often the case, thev might have
brought about useful reforms; cei-tainly they
would have justified their existence as a
third party. And the espousal of these
principles might even now arrest the decay
that has set in, and not in Victoria alone.
But if the Agrarians are going to make
government impossible except by weak Cabi-
nets in which they are gi’ossly over-repre-
sented, and whose tenure is dependent on the
caprice of an annual confei'ence, or by
puppet Ministi’ies set up on the understand-
ing that thei’e is to be a ceaseless distribu-
tion of favors to an organised minority and
pulled down whenever that minority is dis-
pleased. their party will pei’ish of its own
political putridity. The sooner the better.
The Newer Codes.
“Lomara” takes a gloomy view:—
Latest news from what may be termed the Pro-
bate, Divorce and Admiralty section of English
Society suggests that there is justification for the
cvnicism that the morality of to-day is the immorality
of yesterday. Revelations in the Dennistoun case
disclose a more disturbing state of things than those
of the Russell and “Mr A.” causes. The principal
actors in the Hari Singh scandal were plain adven-
turers, doing as was to be expected of the type,
and Mrs. Russell’s irregularities (if any) were those
of the war-period; but the Dennistoun circle is that
of the “nobility and gentry,” of army men of high
attainment and reputation, and the period lasts till
six years after the Peace. Most disturbing, how-
ever, to old conventions is a published note about
the marriage of John Drinkwater and Daisy Ken-
nedy. It was quite a social “function,” given a
touch of “heart interest” by the message of felicita-
tion from discarded Moiseiwitscii and his presenta-
tion of his and her children into Daisy’s care.
(She had previously “implored” him to let her
have them; but Benno had evidently withheld them
until they might be accompanied by an appropriate
gesture and a dash of publicity.)
Drinkwater and Mrs. Moiseiwitscii were both
somebodies in the world of Society and Arts, and
could not very well be ignored; but it is a sign of
the times that they were accepted so casually after
their lapse—for the affair was a lapse, not one of
the comfortably-arranged incidents so usual nowa-
days. The Dennistoun case accompaniments dis-
close as easy an attitude to fractures of what, were
cast-iron conventions a few years ago. The rela-
tion between Cowans and Mrs. Dennistoun was,
QUITE OUT OF DATE.
“Australian artists,” says London Standard, “are still wrestling with the fever from which English
art recovered before the present century.” Referring to Norman Lindsay’s work, it asks, “Can it be
that the Australian youth is only now encountering that pre-occupation with sin which marks the
Aubrey Beardsley period?”
LONDON "STANDARD": “Oh, you old-fashioned boy, Norman! We don't show that sort of
thing in the art galleries any longer. We exhibit them in the law-courts.”
reports suggest, known and accepted in the circle in
which they moved, and alleged intimacy between
the lady and her titled friend, and the confidences
which might reasonably be expected to go with the
friendship, did not deter the friend from linking her
life (and money) with that of the frail lady’s ex-
husband. Queen Victoria’s attitude to the divorcee
was often cruel and unreasonable; Society (or some
of it) seems now to have swung to the other ex-
treme. It will soon be a wise child that knows
which of its mother’s ex-husbands is its own father,
for all of them will be “received” with equal
approval.
Tolerant To-day may really be no worse than
intolerant Yesterday. Intolerance, however, had its
good points. For instance, it saw that much of
the tawdry and ugly in life was shut away from the
sight of malleable, impressionable youth. Youth to-
day knows as much as its elders —and more. It
plays with fires its parents would not dare to risk.
The limit, however, does seem to have been overtaken
when the jeune fille of accepted social standing is
helped home after the dance staggering from an
overload of cocktail or wine-cup, and without embar-
rassment lets be seen among the oddments in her
vanity-bag one of those inexpensive safeguards only
mentioned openly among flapper-operatives in rubber
factories. No generation is ever so bad as the one
immediately before it thinks it is, but the tendency
of the times rather makes an oldster blink, setting
him or her wondering what the code of, say, 1950
will be like.
4
A remarkable Englishman who combined
rare intellectual and administrative gifts
with even rarer thoroughness and industry
disappears witli Lord Curzon, who died last
week in his 67tli year. A product, in some
ways a rather characteristic product, of Eton
and Balliol —where, like Milner, he was one
of the illustrious Jowett’s “young men”—
he grew up in the Tory tradition; yet his
bitterest opponents could never question the
zeal and distinction with which he served
his country, and his sex-vices to science and
learning generally were no less marked. He
filled many offices —he was Vicei’oy of India
before he was 40, and his term was already
rich in achievement when he clashed with
Lord Kitchener, then Commander-in-Chief,
and resigned. In later years, including the war
period, he was always among the small knot
of men who counted most in Empire affairs.
Had lie not been in the House of Lords his
ability, his patriotism and his long record
of service might have seen him Prime Min-
ister when Bonar Law retired, though, per-
baps, it. was not so much his peerage that
ruled him out as a certain austerity and
aloofness—translated, rightly or wrongly,
into a conviction of superiority—that always
prevented him from becoming a popular
figure. Admiration and trust he won in
fullest measure, and deservedly; there was
something in Curzon’s make-up or his train-
ing that kept him from winning affection too.
4
When the U.S. heats up it does the thing
properly. At the trial of Loeb and Leo-
pold, the two millionaire young men who
murdered a schoolboy for the sake of a new
sensation, a plea of guilty was entered to
avoid a jury trial. So, according to Anglo-
Australian ideas, there was little for the
State Prosecutor to do. Yet that function-
ary performed for days, using up the dic-
tionary twice for terms of reprehension and
repercussion, and securing occasional
adjournments that he might be rubbed down
with alcohol and get into dry underclothing.
The defence carried on very similarly, and
steam rose from it at intervals, and then
the Judge uttered a page or two before sen-
tencing both criminals to life with 99 years’
gaol or thereabouts to follow. A febrile
row that has been in progress in the Senate
is another case of the bubbling passions of
a young country breaking loose. President
Calvin Coolidge, whose pose it is to be
Cold and Calm as well as Calvin, nomi-
nated an Attorney-General to whom the
Senate objected, so it exercised its power of
veto. The President not only re-submitted
his nominee’s name but threatened to
appoint him off his own cold, calm bat
when Congress is in recess. Some legis-
lative bodies would have said, like one of
Haggard’s heroes, that ‘'a row is good and
warms the cockles of the heart,” adding
that life had been a trifle flat of late. The
Conscript Fathers at Washington appear in-
stead to have gone off their conscript dot.
One is described as lashing himself into a
fury, possibly with a stockwhip for the sake
of effect. A clothes-prop would be an un-
handy weapon. Another went further, and
lashed the wdiole Senate, into a fury. Vari-
ous Senators, including Robinson, “quivered
with passion.” The Democratic section of
the House was noticed “flashing the spirit
of revenge.” “Pandemonium reigned”; but
luckily the throne isn’t hereditary, so
Tandy won’t found a dynasty. It will prob-
ably be ascertained, when full details are
available, that members ran about the floor
on all fours, and that the Senator from
Nevada climbed half-way up the wall like a
fly. till the impetus of his anger gave out,
and he fell off. And then the President
appointed somebody else, and the Great
Republic turned over and snored.
4
Dear Bulletin, —May I put the case for
Spain as against some of the statements
made in “Fascism and Australia” (B.
12/3/’25) ? The dictatorship was brought
about by a few men who, whatever faults
they possess, are true patriots. They saw
that the old system of government would
soon render the country bankrupt and reduce
it to the state of anarchy which actually
prevailed at Barcelona. The nation was
managed by unscrupulous and perverted
politicians and caciques (political bosses),
who made it their business to put all the
money they could wangle into their own
pockets, place all their favorites in the
administrative posts, manipulate the elec-
tions, and neglect entirely the welfare of
their country. The Directorate was inaugu-
rated for the express purpose of purging
the public life of Spain, which was admit-
tedly rotten to the core; they have stoppel
tho_ rot and have made a start with the
spring-cleaning, thus earning the hatred of
all the dismissed “limpets,” with some of
whom Blasco Ibanez is working. Of
course the Directorate’s greatest difficulty
will be to decide the right moment to resign
and to give way to real constitutional gov-
ernment. As to the war in Morocco, the
Spaniards have been waging it for over 20
years. They are a senistive people, and their
pride would be sorely hurt if complete
evacuation took place at once; yet a start
has already been made by withdrawing
troops from a considerable area. It must
be remembered that if the Spaniards withdrew
completely international complications would
crop up; it would prejudice French security
in Morocco and increase Mohammedan pres-
tige in the British Empire. Incidentally,
I should like to say a few words about the
Spaniards being “a nation of bullfighters.”
It is true that bullfighting is still extensive,
but it has greatly decreased in recent years.
Football is now more popular, and thq
Spaniards have proved themselves the equals
of every Continental nation in this sport—
I remember two years ago a bullfight had to
be postponed in Seville, the birthplace of
the bullfight, as a football match took place
the same day.—Yours, etc., Carthusian.
4
More representation in the Federal Lower
House for the three States of small popula-
tion, S. Australia, Tasmania and Westralia,
was one of the demands ex-Premier Jimmy
Mitchell put before the Commission which
is investigating Westralia’s “grievances.” On
the other hand, the Labor party proposes to
give them no more representation in the
Lower House, and none at all in the Senate,
which it aims to wipe out. The position is
that 1,107.675 people return half the Senate,
and a trifle over 4,720,000 return the other
half. The Bulletin doesn’t object. If, by
the establishment of new States with small
present population but large prospects, the
Senate grows bigger and the representation
even more unevenly distributed, The Bul-
letin won’t object either. In the
United States somewhere about 23 million
inhabitants return half the Senate, which is
a much more powerful institution than ours,
and 82 millions elect the other half. In Swit-
zerland the discrepancies are also remark-
able. Casual differences of representation
don’t matter much so long as they are not
based on rank, wealth or religion, and are
rather extra representation for poverty, and
it is a dunderheaded and pernickety pedan-
try which worries over such trifles when there
is so much real work to be done.


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
and the ivisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effect ing a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
' covering all Accidents and Sicknesses.
The A.P.A. Standard Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Australasia.
Premium from £1 per annum upwards. Apply, for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
or any of it's Branches:—
VICTORIA:
06 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers. Macquarie Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers, King William Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Within the last week or two the usual
number of influential platitudinarians have
stood up, mostly in front of a table with
food and wine on it, and stated that Aus-
tralia is in need of population, and that we
can’t expect to retain this great continent
with six million people. For their monoto-
nous evasion of the point at issue these ora-
tors ought to be deregistered. Last year
Australia gained about 80,000 citizens by
excess of births over deaths. It gained over
45,000 by excess of arrivals over departures.
In addition to this respectable increase of
125,000, Australia might have acquired an-
other 50,000 folk of British origin if it had
had jobs to offer them, or places (besides
Woolloomooloo) to put them. Six million
people won’t suffice to hold Australia —that
is certain. Nor will 20 millions when we
get them, nor 56 millions, if they continue
to be penned into the same old corner. Pro-
bably 260 million people would be an insuffi-
cient garrison for Europe if they were prac-
tically all in France and Spain, and a cor :
poral’s guard of men held the rest of the
continent.
Having been pushed into a legislative re-
duction of the working week from 48 hours
to 44, the same to take effect on July 1, the
Queensland Labor Government is moodily
speculating on what the fruits will be.
McCormack, the Minister of Lands, told the
executive of the railwaymen’s union that the
police would have to be paid overtime on
Saturday afternoons and double time on
Sundays. A like position would obtain in
the Government hospitals, asylums and other
institutions, for the alternative of increasing
staffs would mean increased accommodation,
and for that no loan money was available.
(No one thought to drag in the brilliant
argument invariably hurled at tin; nefarious
capitalist in these cases, that men will do
as much work in 44 hours as in 48.) As to
the effect in the railway service McCormack
was diplomatically silent, but since soft-
jobbers are to be obliged, as well as engine-
drivers, firemen and shunters, there will be
a massive distribution of overtime pay
among ticket-sellers and -punchers, lavatory-
attendants, carriage-cleaners and men em-
ployed at stations where one train a day is
an event and two trains a miracle. And this
in a Government department whose expendi-
ture has exceeded its revenue by 11 millions
in nine years. Evidently 1925-26 is going
to be the most delirious of all Queensland’s
financial years.
The other day an Australian found a skull
in Rhodesia about 100,000 years old. Another
Australian has just discovered the tomb of
King Snefru, 3000 or so b.c. One of these
days a third Australian will disinter the
corpse of his country’s democracy, recently
buried, without ceremony, by Tom Walsh
and co.
From the Gallery :
There really ought to he a general election in
N. S. Wales this month —the last one took place on
March 21, 1922 —but Parliament has been con-
vened for another saddening discussion on the
Marriage Amendment (Ne Temere) Bill rejected last,
session. The idea of the people who have been
egging the Government on is that the Noes will
again predominate in the Leg. Council, in which
case the Government will have an election issue
that will unite the Protestants against the R.C.’s.
It is an absurd calculation, as Anglican opposition
to the bill—five bishops have signed a protest—
attests. The average Australian is not a sectarian
being. There were isolated manifestations of sec-
tarianism in 1922, but. what really caused the Labor
defeat then was a feeling that the party was being
guided into ways alien to the traditions and sym-
pathies in which the great majority of the people
have been cradled. That feeling still exists. But
at bottom it is not a sectarian feeling. The public
has, indeed, so little use for sectarian issues in
politics that any party exploiting one at a general
election stands a first-class chance of getting it in
the neck.
The Elective Ministry is coming in Tas-
mania. The oldi parties are crumbling—or
one of them is. anyway. Among the former
Nationalists who are expected to face the
electors in May as Independents are Speaker
Evans, Peter Murdoch, MePheo, Grant,
and Marshall. As this bunch, or most of
them, voted to keep the Lyons party in office
for a year or more, and thus offended their
old Nationalist comrades, they may consider
it risky to formally apply for endorsement at
the hands of the executive of the anti-Labor
organisation, now called the Town and Coun-
try Federation. Their might
meet with a refusal —which is not the sort
of testimonial any candidate desires on the
eve of an appeal to the electors. The Federa-
tion really helped them: it formulated a sort
of ironclad oath of allegiance to the party
leader and the members above referred to
promptly seized upon the “extreme severity” of
the new pledge as a good reason for refusing to
THE LAND SLIDE.
“Though the Country party in Victoria affects to disregard the anti-Pact schism in its ranks, the
Nationalists are wondering if it is worth while working with a party under such conditions.”
THE NATIONALIST PARTY BEAU: "Dear me! How did you yet like that? In a hit of a
mess, aren't you?”
THE COUNTRY PARTY VAMP: “Not at alt. dearie; I intend to ignore it. Help me out
and well kid ourselves nothing has happened.”
apply for endorsement. The anti-Labor
executive tried a modification, but the Inde-
pendents would have none of it. This
probably means that the candidates concerned
will ask the electors to endorse their “non-
party” attitude.
Westralia is to have a Prohibition poll
next week. The result can be easily fore-
told, for the Drys have to get three-
fifths of the effective votes polled, and the
three-fifths must be cast by at least 30 per-
cent. of the Assembly electors. Their chance
of realising either aspiration may be judged
from the fact that at the last Local Option
referendum only 85,143 out of 169,516
Assembly electors took out ballot-papers, and
7026 invalidated them—-the voting was
37,710 for continuance, 2165 for increase,
31,303 for no-license and 6940 for reduction.
In a bill introduced last year the simple
majority was substituted for the three-fifths
proviso, but, to the heartfelt joy of the
authors of the measure, the Leg. Council
pitched it out.
The stoppage of the S.A. Labor Govern-
ment’s thousand-homes scheme continues to
be the centre of mystery and gloom in Adel-
aide. The Government declines to say any-
thing definite until it has fully “considered
its legal position,” but press and public
make up for this by saying a lot. Obviously,
the work has to be completed somehow.
Previous costly experience of Government
jobs done by day labor inclines most people
to favor farming out contracts among small
builders, but there is no optimist so reckless
as to fancy that the job can be finished for
the original contract price of £636 15s. per
dwelling. Meanwhile there is much talk
flying about of Supreme Court writs for
large sums, and the Opposition is making
the most of the fact that the scheme was
launched without reference to Parliament.
President Coolidge lost his fight with the
U.S. Senate over the nomination of Warren
as Attorney-General; the bone of contention
withdrew. Yet Coolidge showed up a
sturdy nominator, quite unlike N.S.W.’s
Puller, who is still hovering about in the
guise of an undecided shadow, not venturing
to fill the seven vacancies in the Upper House
lest his action should be misunderstood or
misrepresented. Probably Labor will come
back to pow r er while he is still on the hover,
and swamp the unreformed Upper House
with a crowd which will vote its abolition.
Then the Profiteering Bill, which the Leg.
Council modified out of all knowiedge once
before, may be bludgeoned through the
Assembly in its entirety as it was before,
and if it gets into full operation the name
of Fuller, the pottering opportunity-loser,
will be well and truly cursed.
The Victorian Railway Department re-
cently got a brain-wave about the advis-
ability of buying some “sample” trucks of
the 40-ton variety from the United States,
a truck being too intricate a thing to be
composed at its own well-equipped work-
shops or built from prints. To make sure
it bought 18 trucks—a whole train. It
didn’t import a sample railway with tunnels
complete, or a few of the suffocating Pull-
man sleepers for which the republic is famous,
but that oversight may be repaired. The
importing sickness is a dread disease.
“J.E.”: The Westralian Ministry has
ordered that the Great Disturbance shall
not be mentioned in its schools when Anzac
Day comes round, lest the young might
learn to admire “prowess." As a logical
extension of the idea, the Westralian Minis-
try should shut out boxing news from the
papers, for except as a glorification of
“prowess” I can’t see where such news comes
in. Boxing hasn’t even the merit of
providing food or removing wild dags
as marksmanship does. I would, more-
over, absolutely prohibit the training of
any more boxers, amateur or otherwise, and
if we can’t get rid of the existing crop of
pugilists, I would make them settle their
differences by arbitration instead of bashing
each other like furies in the presence of an
audience of mostly Labor followers.
Despite sneers as to “whitewashing,” Vic.
Ministry means business in appointing a
Board to inquire into charges preferred
against four detectives. It is alleged that
they demanded £6500 from Terence Cal-
laghan, a Collingwood publican, to keep mum
about two cases of tea, two cases of gin and
two coats asserted to have come into Cal-
laghan’s possession. Cohen, P.M., Dickson,
ex-Under Sec. and ex-P.M., and Police
Superintendent Warren constitute the
Board, which will have counsel to help it.
A year or two ago the Police Department
rushed things by charging a ’tec. with tak-
ing a tip. The sleuth won easily, as the
evidence was flimsy in the extreme. Because
of that fiasco a different procedure was
decided upon in the present case.
The Queensland sugar position is compli-
cated. Increase of production following on
the fixation of a high price for sugar has
raised the question of how to avoid having
a surplus for export, for the surplus has to
be sold below cost of production. In this
crisis the Cane Prices Board decided to limit
the industry by issuing no more permits to
plant new sugar land. Anybody may grow
cane without a permit; but as the mills won’t
take it, anybody won’t. Therefore land
which was bought r.t sugar prices with a
view to planting fresh cane, and didn’t get
a permit, has slumped dismally. It is the
difference between the pub with a license
and the would-be pub next door without one.
If the Commonwealth can only get a fair
start at making 70,000,000 gallons of motor
spirit annually (for its own use. and dash
the export business) the situation should
clean itself up. Otherwise it looks as if the
sugar industry will have to cut its coat out
of much less cloth in future.
In the matter of seat-recasting, the most
that is expected from the Allan-Peaeock
team when the Vic. Assembly meets in July
is provision for a scheme to be drawn
up, on lines to be laid down in the
bill, by a Board of three. The plan will
be submitted to the House for acceptance,
rejection or further reference to the Board
with suggestions, as is done in the Common-
wealth Parliament. It is expected that the
bill will fix a maximum and minimum quota
for city, provincial-town and rural elec-
torates, and that 60 will be fixed as the low-
est and 68 as the highest number of consti-
tuencies. At present there are 65, of which
21 are metropolitan and 44 country, although
nearly 54 p.c. of the electors are in Greater
Melbourne.
A few people at Geelong (Vic.) got a
shock when Peacock, Minister for Educa-
tion, announced that in consideration of the
town getting the Government textile school
it must provide the site. The Common-
wealth Government would put up the build-
ing, the State Government would maintain
it, and the manufacturers would equip it,
he said, so it was up to the town to weigh
in with the land. Then the vision of a fancy
price for a profit-making landholder and
a fat fee for a com. agent faded. What’s
the good of having a Minister in the Cabinet,
as Geelong has, if things can’t be managed
better than that?
Finding alternatives and then turning
them over laboriously in its mind constitutes
one of this nation’s standard industries. The
turning leads nowhere in particular, but it
indicates mental breadth and postpones the
time of action. Just now plans for doing
something with the neglected North are in
the air—something or anything except build-
ing the North-South railway. One sugges-
tion concerns the construction at the Federal
charge of another East-West railway from an
empty part of W T estralia, across the N. Ter-
ritory, into Northern Queensland. One ter-
minus is to be Derby, W.A. (population
about 200). and the other Townsville (Q.).
This would leave Central Australia and the
Commonwealth’s estate about as short of
development as they are, but it would offer
a sphere of activity for the bustling Theo-
dore. In the matter of acquiring a
little bob-tailed mercantile fleet which
is capable of losing £400,000 a year without
an effort, this country may show signs of
promptness. In really big concerns it has
a tendency to straggle this way and that.
and wobble among six opinions which lead
nowhere.
Chang Foo arrived in Maoriland the other
day suffering from venereal disease. After
spending six weeks in Wellington Hospital,
he ran away and was recaptured. The
Court, having decided that he was innocent
of being anything but a horrible public
danger, signed a deportation order instruct-
ing that he be placed on the first vessel leav-
ing for —London ! A pleasant Valentine for
Father Bull.
ANZAC! DAY IN W.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The W.A. Labor Government has prohibited the
customary addresses to State school-children on Anzae
Pay. The reason given is that such speec hes are
calculated to inspire the growing generation with
militaristic ideals and to prevent war from being
viewed with the loathing that is desirable. ’’
This is their day—one day in all the year.
But hush ! you must not tell of what they did —
Not where their daughters or their sons might hear.
It is forbid.
No meat for babes —what bloody feats were wrought
Those beaches bare and barren. scarps beside.
No tale for little ones, where heroes fought
And how they died.
God! it might turn the mind of infancy.
Set pliant boyhood’s thoughts to wondering
If falling for one’s country might not be
A glorious thing.
Resolve might show in scores of quivering eyes
That what the Anzae s gave these, too, would give
If e’er again the call rang out: Who dies
That England live?
Giirs'd be the jingo hand from out its sheath
The sword would pluck! Let martial memories
cease
Now that the world is folded safe beneath
The wings of Peace.
These boys, from out the paths who must be kept,
Flame-lit, shell-torn, the brute world walked of
yore,
’Twere shame to teach them there is aught except
To loathe in War!
Their day—the day in letters red we keep
n hen on grey crags, beside an alien sea,
Was graven in Australian annals deep
Gallipoli!
Yet now that War into the past recedes.
Now that of hellishness the world is rid,
How perilous to glorify the deeds
The Anzacs did !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THEY WOULDN’T SEE THE JOKE.
“A firm of British shipowners has placed an order in Hamburg (Germany) for five motor-ships of 10,000 tons, at a cost of between £70.000 and £100,000 less than the lowest British tender.”
BRITISH FREETRADER: “Hooray! Hooray! Our country is going to save half a million on one single job by sending the work to Germany... .Here, why aren’t you people cheering?”


>
\/>
Sm
St#E@PlssS
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist .
f‘
or
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Solentes” : The other Saturday afternoon,
while Minister Bruntnell was opening the
new wing of a Sydney suburban school with
the usual pomp and ceremony, I made otic
of a dozen or so grimy bushwhackers who
cleared a site for a small school amongst the
timber, bracken, mosquitoes, bull-ants, etc.,
on the shores of Port Stephens. This was
our way of assisting the Government and
making it unnecessary for 20 or 30 young-
sters to do a four-mile trip across the water
every morning and night. Incidentally,
HER NEMESIS.
“There she goes again! She's been humming the Bambalina all day—says it haunts her.”
“Well, can you wonder, considering the way she murdered it?”
Bushwhacker and Co. supply the land and
hardwood building piers, and do the neces-
sary excavation work—all free of cost to
the Department. One of us—the boss cocky
of these parts—arrived on the scene with a
forest devil or crungenblunder grubber (as
the kids called it), fastened a wire hawser
round the bole of a big blackbutt on the
rise, and hooked Old Baldy on to the wire
lead at the other end of the contraption. He
wasted no time in eloquence: his only obser-
vation was “Gerrup.” As Baldy leaned on
his collar and walked away, the tree toppled
over, literally torn up by the roots. While
the men were busy crosscutting, the kids
lopped and piled the branches for burning,
what time the women made a fire and boiled
a “karraseen” tin of water for tea. As I
walked along, in the dusk, behind the dray in
which the smaller kids were taxied home by
Old Baldy, I felt every bit as satisfied with
our day’s work as Bruntnell can have done
with his.
* * * *
“Flicker” : The eternal triangle—also bad
language and a broken window—brought this
case into the Port Adelaide police-court the
other., morning. Mrs. A.’s story began thus :
"I was sittin’ on me doorsten. y v\ orship,
just after tea. an’ Mr. B. come along the
road and sat down alongside me. neighborly
like —which known me ’e ‘as since I was that
’igh.” Presently, it appeared, Mrs. B. broke
in upon the tete-a-tete, and after thrilling
everyone within distance with a masterly
summary of Mrs. A.’s private life and morals,
“heaved a brick clean through th’ front win-
dow.” Counsel for Mrs. A. asked for dam-
ages and a substantial fine. Mrs. 8., who
conducted her own case, put it to. Mrs. A. s
counsel. “ ’Ow would you like it if your
wife was carryin’ on with someone else !”
Counsel retorted with some asperity that
this was not the point; and, anyhow, he wasn’t
married. The Bench decided that it could
take no account of the “human element”
which had doubtless entered into the trouble ;
Mrs. B. must pay for the damage. “Orriglit,’
said that lady, “you’ll ’ave to get it out of
me old man, an’ serve ’itrt right. He’ll be
around there again to-night. Tell y’ what,
y’ Worship. Put the two of us —’er and me
—out in th’ yard at the back of th’ court
an’ let us fight it out —it’s tli’ best way to
settle it.” But a shocked and unsportsman-
like Bench declined to accede to the hand-
some proposal.
* * # *
“Yarraville”: Correlation of subjects can
be overdone, even with the small fry. Dur-
ing the week the kiddies at a Vic. school had
had the violet as a nature-study, a story,
a song and the theme of a poem. Then the
inspector arrived, and inquired of the class
if any little boy or girl could tell him about
the flower. All were dumb. “Come, come,”
said the inspector, “surely somebody can tell
me?” Still no answer. Then, one particular
kiddie was singled out, and appealed to with
“Come, my little man, you tell me.” The
little man slumped still lower into his seat
and muttered to himself. “What did you
say?” pursued the inspector encouragingly.
But it was the wee girl alongside the irre-
sponsive one who broke the silence. “Please,
sir,” she stage-whispered, “he said, ‘Damn
the vi’let!’ ”
* * * *
“A.J.M.”: Dodkins. with a foot on the
rail and an eye on his beer (Dodkins usu-
ally kept an eye on his beer), had been talk-
ing convincingly about fate, alias destiny,
alias kismet and many other things. “Yes,”
said he, “I’m a fatalist all right. If it’s
written that to-day’s the day, it’s written,
that’s all about it. There might be a tram,
on the way in from St. Kilda now. that’s
going to knock me down as soon as I get
outside. Or, perhaps, somebody’s just cough-
ing up a microbe that’s labelled with my
address. There might even be too much
arsenic in this beer. Whatever your name’s
on will get you all right. Wliat’s the use of
trying to dodge it? That’s why I say I
wouldn’t hesitate a second about risking my
life” He paused to move his beer away
from a too-near elbow and I couldn’t resist
asking: “But, I say, Dodkins, why shift your
beer? If it’s fated to be knocked over, it
will be. Isn’t that your idea? Why not
risk it?” “That,” said Dodkins thoughtfully,
“is different.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A woman with no belief iu
God, but with an almost pathetic trust in
Governors, cropped up in a Melbourne sub-
urban court the other day. She was a Cock-
ney Jewess, and had been engaged as maid
in a Semitic household, where in course of
time her loud proclamation of atheism led to
a row. She was put out of the establish-
ment, and promptly proceeded to Govern-
ment House to show the bruises on her arm.
A police-man on guard duty soothed the irate
female by assuring her that he was the
accredited representative of his Ex. during
the latter's absence, and tactfully steered her
off to the nearest police-station. But for
these stolid buffers of the law the represen-
tative of his Majesty might often have a
more troublesome job than opening “func-
tions.” One day lately a heated lady arrived
to lay before his Excellency the villainy of
SO LIKE A MAN.
“He was the most perfect lover I ever knew”
“Yes, dearie, men are like that.—the best are always the worst.”
her husband, and, although she spent her
verbiage on the usual offsider, she must have
taken a highly-colored story home, for the
next day a distraught-looking man appeared
to explain to the Governor that he wasn't
the brute and scoundrel liis wife had painted
him.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Sydney City Council ought to
pay me for this idea. The Horsham (Vic.)
Council recently called for tenders for altera-
tions to the Town Hall, and duly considered
them after the closing date. A few days
later another tender was discovered under
the doormat, where it had apparently been
pushed by the postman and overlooked when
the other tenders were collected, and as it
happened to be the lowest it was accepted.
The Master Builders’ Association rose then
in its wrath, and said darkly that “the whole
matter appeared most extraordinary and
peculiar.” The Council hotly said it never
did, and the Master Builders ought to be
ashamed of themselves for suggesting such
a thing. The builders’ rejoinder is eagerly
awaited by a populace whose only other
excitement is i>rovided by the annual pig
and poultry show.
* * * *
“Mako”: Some men are born to long
purses, others take them, others again
have the handy things thrust upon
them. A Melbourne citizen sustained
some damage in a motor accident the other
night, and, with a bandage round his head
and flapping over one eye, had set out to
find a suburban doctor, when he saw a
woman walking along the deserted street.
He went slowly towards her. but before he
could inquire the way to the nearest red
lamp, the lady hurled a loud shriek and her
bag at him. and fled incontinently into the
darkness. The disgusted suspect picked up
the bag, which clinked opulently, and handed
it in at the local police-station, just
a few minutes after the lady had
been escorted thence by relatives, and when
the police were about to scour the district for
a man of villainous aspect of whom they
had just received a vivid description.
# * * *
“T.P.”: “Eljay’s” story of the out-back
woman who amputated a snake-bitten finger
with a tomahawk reminds me of a Wimmera
happening of many years ago. In this case
the woman was riding on a load of hay, when
a snake fastened on to her first finger. She
dashed the reptile to the road, climbed down,
followed and killed it. After this the top
of the wheel and a small axe were sufficient
surgical apparatus for the severing of the
finger. A Mallee correspondent sent the
snake, preserved in spirits, to the agricul-
tural editor of the Melbourne Leader, with
a sympathetic description of the intrepid
action, and the villain published the screed
with a footnote: “Snake submitted to Pro-
fessor McCoy. It was non-venomous.”
“Hamer”: Nearly every Saturday night,
as 1 homed from the theatre, lie fell
on the dummy of the cable tram and beguiled
the tedium of the journey with song and
anecdote; and invariably lie carried a stout
parcel with an ancient smell. Last Satur-
day, with his parcel
more perceptibly
fishy than ever, he
dropped into the
seat beside me. He
apologised for the
parcel by explain-
ing that he had >o
take the fish home
to assure his wife
that he had been
fishing. I remarked
that lie seemed to
have caught a good
few. “Never caught
a dashed fis’ in
m’life!” he gurgled.
“But, y’ slice, th’
wife’sh a sliport,
and doeslm’t mind
me being a bit
shozzled if she
shinks I been out
in tli’ open air. So
I joined the An-
glersli Club” —and
he gurgled delight-
edly at the success
of his little decep-
tion. Last Satur-
day he, dreadfully
sober, coincided
with me in a mid-
day journey home.
He looked gloomy,
and when I said
“Going fishing to-
day?” he glared a
moment and then
explained. “I made
a damned fool of
myself last Satur-
day,” he said. “Had
a good time at
cards at the club;
and when the wife
asked me what 1
had caught I was
right off my guard,
and told her ‘four
aces.’ ” He left the tram with the air of a
man who knows many better ways of filling
in the Saturday afternoon than mowing the
lawn.
* # * *
“Bouragi”: Like Sydney and Melbourne,
Papua has recently been invaded by a con-
tingent of American sightseers. It is said
to have been a source of great interest to
the natives, who thought they had at last
found out what the white man does with all
the tortoiseshell he buys from them. Yankee
efforts at pidgin have also created wonder
and amazement, and at last advices argu-
ment was hot as to whether the visitors were
real whites or Germans. The Daniels-
Seligmann ethnological expedition of 20
years ago roused the same wild surmise
whenever it talked through its nose, or, in
old Dr. Seligmann’s case, through its tonsils.
A Northern Division R.M. was in Samarai
on a visit while the expedition was there,
and had a couple of Binandele police with
him. Like most of their sort, these men had
no great love for the swaggering and vocifer-
“THE BETTER ’OLE."
WIFIE : “Before we Were married you told
me my face was never out of your
mind.”
HUBBY : “Quite true —and now your hand is
never out of my pocket.”
ous western members of the Force, whom
they' dubbed collectively Kiwais. After
listening to half an hour of American con-
versation, one of the policemen approached
his boss. “Taubada,” he said, “this one he
countryman belonga you?” The reply was
in the negative; they came from another
country far away and from a different people.
“Ah,” quoth the sooty John Hop, as he spat
a mouthful of betel juice on Samarai’s sacred,
white-coral street in disgust—“Ah ! All same
Kiwai.”
(Continued on page 16.)
VENGEANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He bade me share his limousine.
I stept within, and through the night
We scorched by many a wonder-scene
Of city light.
And by my side he lolled and laught,
Boasting about his overdraft.
Swerving along past cart and cai
We left the town and scorching went
Where eucalyptine odors are
And orange scent.
But still with words of graft and craft
He told about his overdraft.
And homeward round the harbor road,
Scorching along through glare and shade,
Where waters gleamed and ferries glowed
And bright lights played,
He still reclined there, money-daft,
Mumbling about his overdraft....
In some tophetic by-and-bye
I’ll find for him a sizzling seat,
Where windy gusts go roaring high
To fan the heat....
And while he scorches fore and aft
I’ll boast about the over-draught.
N.B.W.
BARTADAMSON.


An Australian Achievement.
The barriers of prejudice against Australian Wines are definitely broken down —justly so!
The success of Orlando Wines is decisive proof that the products of our vineyards hold their
own with the World’s Best.
ORLANDO WINES (S.A.)
Hock, Port, Claret, Frontignac,
carried off the special gold medal at the recent Wembley Brewers’ Exhibition*
Agents: GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Topo”; The Family Bible doesn’t always
tell the truth (B. 12/3/’25). An old chap
questioned my school-roll age of 13 years 6
months for liis Nathaniel. “Carn’t read-
nurrite,” he said, “but the missus marks ’em
down every time. This one’s 14, an’ can
leave.” The Bible said so, too; so Director
Tate considerately appealed to the Registrar,
who reported: “Age, 12£ years; name,
Ezekiel.” Mother chuckled comfortably:
“Lor’, now, I muster mixed ’im up Avith
Blocker, who ain’t down. I mind I changed
his name w’en he Avas crawlin’.” For his
part Dad apologetically added : “Yer’ll excuse
Mawther; if you’d ’ad as many’s her you’d
mix ’em a bit yerself. For the love o’ Mike,
though, don’t call ’im Zeekyul; stick to Nat.”
I left him at Nat, and he turned up to
school for another 18 months. Five years
later he left to fight the Hun, and went west
trying to drag his wounded officer in from
No Man’s Land.
* * * *
‘"Bonus Optimus” : Once upon a time the
Unspeakable Turk” was the bogey of the
nursery. It was enough for Mum or Mary
to say, “If you don’t be good the Turks wiil
get you.” Now in the whirligig of time
Johnny Turk is the children’s friend. He
wants children and more children. Mothers
are therefore to be stimulated to their utmost
effort. The Commonwealth baby bonus never
had the proper stimulus behind it. It never
worked to scale. Mother might give the
Commonwealth half a dozen curly-headed
brats, and the last counted for only as much
as the first. The Turkish proposal, before
its Assembly at the present time, works on a
sounder principle. Also a stimulus is given
“SAFETY FIRST.”
“I don’t believe you trust me, George. You
always type your letters to me.”
“That’s so you can’t have my handwriting
examined by one of those fellows who
read character from writing.”
to father. If he produces to the authorities
six good and sound young Turks, he will be
exempted from military service. Mother also
will then have her reAvard, for she will re-
ceive an illuminated address from the Assem-
bly ; and, if she covers a couple more laps
and reaches eight children, she will have a
pension—equivalent to about one-third of our
old-age dole, and paid strictly in Turkish
paper. But it is the “illuminated address”
that fascinates one. There are such poten-
tialities in the idea. What mother is there
who, with a couple of sets of twins and an
odd babe, would not seek to achieve number
six with the prize before her of an illum-
inated address from the House of Reps, to
hang beside her “enlargement” on the parlor
Avail? Number seven might bring an address
from the Senate, eight one from the Gov-
ernor-General; and when the good round
count of 10 was reached the Archbishop
might by a vote of both Houses be prayed to
commend her to the grace of Heaven.
“Lomara” on a Family Bible: —
It belongs to a family of pioneers. Great Grand-
ma started the entries on the title-pages in early-
Victorian days, and Great Grandma is now a fetich
to her descendants ; woe betide the member of the
family who falls short of Great Grandma’s early-
AND SHE GOT FULL MARKS.
MISS BACK : “The silly old Prof, asked me to give an example of a commercial
appliance used in ancient times.”
HER FRIENDS (in chorus): “And what did you say?”
MISS BACK : “The loose-leaf system in the Garden of Eden, of course .”
Victorian standards. Already one weaker vessel has
been solemnly scored from the Bible-record for a sin
—an affair with a station handmaiden. The two
married before an heir arrived, and now are held
in high esteem throughout a province, but the black
mark remains in Great Grandma’s Bible. The
others felt it due to Great Grandma. Recently at
family headquarters I was commissioned by far-away
relatives to verify some fifth-generation particulars
in Great Grandma’s book. My investigation gave me
a new angle on Great Grandma: from a rather fear-
ful personage (she had died at 39) the Great Matron
of the Line became human and likeable. It was her
first entries that won me. In her spiky handwriting
was the record of her marriage with Great Grandpa
—he 21, she 18. That was in February. Next
came, in the young mother’s handwriting, the entry
of the arrival of stern, righteous Grandpa— in July
of the same year! Great Grandma had done the
very thing for which the family, two generations
later, had solemnly banned with bell, book and
candle Great Grandma’s grandson. An outsider, I
have not dared to broach the matter ; but I am still
wondering whether the family has never noticed that
first illuminating pair of entries, or whether it is
determined neither to see nor to believe the evidence
of Great Grandma’s pen.
* * • *
“Hasen”: Little Miss Malaprop had just
started on her first-year lectures. She had
a mind above shingles and her conversation
was apt to be learned in matter and impres-
sive in form. At least, she tried to make it
that way. At times she succeeded ; at times
she didn’t. One of the less successful
moments was when she joined a little group
that was discussing the demerits of a certain
lecturer. The meeting found many faults,
but the greatest of these, it was resolved, was
the timorous, straw-splitting character of
the man. Little Miss Malaprop thoroughly
agreed with this finding and, after casting
about in her mind for the right word, added
her approval. “Yes,” said she impressively,
“he is painfully pediculous at times.” And
she looked quite startled by the joyous whoop
of a Digger friend who recalled having been
just that way himself on occasions in France.
“M.H.H.”: “C.M.’s” par. (B. 12/3/’2o)
re the loav cost of dying at Norfolk Island
reminds me that the cost of living is strictly
reasonable, too. House rents average 6s.
per week, and food is proportionately cheap,
meat of all kinds selling at 3d. per lb. The
road-making system is also extremely econo-
mical and quite effective, and has the advan-
tage of eliminating rates. Every able-bodied
man on the island, including the Bishop, takes
off his coat, rolls up his sleeves, and is a
road-mender for half a dozen days every
year. If he doesn’t feel inclined for hard
work, he may pay another man 4s. per diem
to do it for him. There is no newspaper,
but the cable news is pasted up on the trunk
of a tree in the Avenue of Pines, and that
comes pretty cheap toe.
* * * #
“Steth” : It is not often that the harassed
student can turn on his tormentors and con-
fidently demand a new examination ; but such
was the case in the recent final honor (LaAv)
examinations at Melbourne Uni. In the
paper on “The Law of Contract” the embryo
brief-liunters found that nearly half the
questions had been set on unprescribed mat-
ter, while the bulk of the prescribed Avork
had been omitted. Indignation ran fairly
high, since the valuable Supreme Court Ex-
hibition (£180) is awarded on the results of
the exam. A protest was made to the authori-
ties and the examiner consulted. An error
in the syllabus was discovered ; the original
paper Avas cancelled and a fresh one set,
to the satisfaction of all except the few tired
mortals who objected to the ordeal being pro-
longed.
# * * *
“Henry Pannikin”: Pars, about the dis-
torting of messages passed along a line of
men remind me of a Gallipoli incident. Two
brothers named Hackett were in the one
batt., and both Avere scouts. The O.C. up
in the front line wanted both these men who
Avere in the same trench some 300 yards
further down. The word was passed by
mouth from man to man. “Send up the two
Ilacketts.” A quarter of an hour later tAvo
axes reached the front line, with a message
from the Q.M.: “We have no hatchets, sc
are sending axes.”
* * * *
“H.1.M.”: It is disappointing that the
woman lawyer (B. 12/3/’25) didn’t discuss
one legal difficulty which the unmarried mother
is likely to meet. David
Hume in his essay “On
Moral Prejudices” quotes a
letter from a friend in Paris
dated Aug. 2, 1737. “A
young lady of birth and for-
tune” actually put Rita
Coghlan’s precepts into
practice, carefully selecting
her mate, “a young man of a
most engaging countenance
antj modest deportment.”
After a probationary period,
“our philosophical heroine”
judged that he Avas well fitted
to be the father of her child.
Becoming the mother of a
boy, she wrote to the father,
enclosing an annuity for a
thousand crowns and desir-
ing him never to see her
more. He, being madly in
love with the lady, did his
best to make her relent. This
failing, he “resolved at last
to attack her by her foible,”
and commenced a lawsuit (in
Paris), claiming his son. She
pleaded in defence an express
agreement of renunciation,
on his part, to any claim on
the offspring. Unfortunately
Hume does not give any clue
as to the outcome of this
cause eelebre.
“Herodot” : “F.N.W.’s” definite assurance
that master mariners are not empoAvered by
law to celebrate marriages while at sea (B.
19/3/’25) opens up the possibility of com-
plications for some people. I know a couple
who first met each other while passengers
on a steamer from London to Sydney. After
a brief engagement they were married, the
captain tying the knot, recording the event
in the vessel’s log and presenting the newly-
wed with a signed certificate of their con-
dition. When they reached Australia no
notification of the marriage was made by
them to the civil authorities, it being pre-
sumed that the skipper would do that, but the
Sydney papers contained several references
to the ceremony, and no legal authority arose
to say that it was invalid. That was over
12 years ago, and since then they have
become the parents of several children who,
if “F.N.W.” is right, are illegitimate. There
must be dozens of people in Australia who
arc in the same case; in the days of the
windjammer marriages celebrated by ship
captains during the long voyage were fre-
quent.
* * • *
“Morris”: “Mako” (B. 5/3/’25) reminds
me. When the Ascanius, with the Tenth on
board, lay alongside a Fremantle wharf in
October, ’l4, waiting to embark the Eleventh
(Westralian) Battalion, clothes loaned by
members of the crew helped many a Digger
to pass the wharf guard; but another quick
change was necessary if the beer of gener-
ous patriots was to be quaffed and the pic-
quets at the same time eluded. That was
before the coming of the color patch ; bronze
numerals were then worn on the shoulder-
strap, e.g., “10 Inf.,” “11 Inf.,” etc. The 1
was taken from the spare tunic and inserted
in place of the 0 and the Easterners ( mostly
Croweaters) became members of the Eleventh
on embarkation leave, and were shouted for
accordingly. Authority, however, soon grew
wise to the trick, and the Ascanius was
ordered to Gage Hoads until the Westralians
were ready to come aboard.
* * • *
“8.V.E.”: How’s this for the biggest
crowd of Diggers who ever took French
leave? It was in January, 1915, when the
troopship Berrima reached Colombo. Some
of our A.I.F. predecessors had been hitting
things up a bit at the port, and the first thing
we heard was “absolutely no shore leave.”
The boys waited till dark and then went over
the sides into waiting boats like rats. The
guards were outwitted very simply. Two
Diggers would start a box-on. No guard
could resist having a look at a scrap; and
whilst he was so engaged, scores more would
disappear. At roll-c»ll 300 wore missing, and
it took three hours to round them up next
morning. TAventy n.c.o’s. lost their stripes,
and 280 Diggers three days’ pay over the
business. Not one made an excuse other
than “Wanted to see Colombo.”
* * * #
“The Kumpus”: There is another reason
besides fear of being assaulted that restrains
some drivers of vehicles from offering pedes-
trians a friendly lift. I got my knowledge
of it when a man overtook me on a hot, red-
dust road in the nor’-west of Groperland.
Naturally I put the hard Avord on him for a
seat in his hooded trap. “Ma fren’,” he said,
HIGH FINANCE.
“Mummy, dear, why can’t we have a new baby ?”
“Because I can’t afford to buy one.”
“But, mummy, you can borrow the money and pay it
bade when you get the bonus.”
“dinna ye know the laws of yure awn coon-
tree?" Not comprehending, I told him the
unspoken nor’-western law was to help each
other. “Commeendable, ma frien’,” he said,
“but vera unreasonable. Should ye be kilt
while riding in ma boogy, yeer clan could
come on me for damages. Ah’m na taking
ony rusk. Gee oop, Lassie.” And I’m in-
clined to believe the Scotchman was per-
fectly right in his view of the law.
MUNICIPAL PHILIPPICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Across the table at Heidelberg council meeting
last night:
“ ‘You are like a barber’s cat.’
“ ‘You are like nothing I have seen before.’ ”
—Melbourne Sun.
Let dull souls rant about the minds of yore,
The past exalt and still the day deplore,
For ever in a fever to extol
“The feast of reason and the flow of soul”
Of some dead yesterday. The living now
Has, too, its feast and flow of wit, I trow.
(Says Councillor Smut to Councillor Mullacrake:
“You are a silly cow ; you take the cake.”
And like a lightning-thrust, as quick as quick,
With “You’re another” Mullac takes the trick.)
List where the Fathers in their sounding halls
Have come to solemn conclave; even walls
Of lifeless brick must quiver to the throb
Of eloquence impassioned that might rob
A Cicero or a Demosthenes
Of laurels, clinging through the centuries.
(To Councillor Slats says Councillor Slaughterhouse:
“You’ve got the brains and morals of a louse.”
Oh, flashing wit! Oh, satire sAvift and keen!
“You haven’t,” counters Slats, the evergreen.)
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


S\bNE££
C/%-
0
a
TRADE MARK
PIONEER LEATHER BELTINC.
The Standard of Leather Belting in
Australia.
Pioneer Leather Belting has been standard-
ised in every process, from raw-hide to
finished belt," and for every power trans-
mission purpose during our sixty-seven years
of belting experience. The average life of a
Pioneer Leather Belt is longer than that of
any other belting obtainable in Australia.
It pays manufacturers to standardise on
Pioneer Leather Belting in their own plants.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Fioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. & K. E. Madder Pty.,
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QCEKSSLAXD: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mcliell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production oi
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart, Parker, Ltd. ''Melbourne) :
, Dividends. •, To Re- Re-
Profits. C p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7 p.c.= 35,000 25,634 78,989
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. 30,000 10 „ ~ 50,000 60,645 176,774
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 ~ „ 55,000135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 204,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30.000 15 ~ „ 76,000 100,243 800.73 n
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,/3tJ
1923. .159.479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 124,, „ 93,750 18,565 608,779
The shrinkage in profits was not serious and
was probably due to the overtime strike of
the wharf-laborers in November _ last. The
directors simply record the fact in passing;
there was none of the anguish of more profit-
able years. Despite the decrease, the div.
rate was lifted half a point, which provokes
a suspicion that things may have been more
comfortable than the accounts disclosed.
There are so many holds into which shipping
cos. can stow a few thousands that by the
time net earnings are written into P. and L.
they well may be a shadow of their real
selves. Reserves of the introductory table
consist of: —
Reserve fund .. . • .. £320,000
Insurance fund . . .. .. 259,489
Undistributed balance .. .. 29,290
But there is also a reserve for “contingencies,
taxation, repairs and maintenance, boilers
and renewals, superannuation fund, etc.,”
and this contains some real profits almost
for certain. What their proportions are it
is impossible to say owing to the skilful
manner in which various items are mixed.
Steamships, tugs, lighters, plant, furniture,
freeholds and leaseholds, and shares in other
cos. are taken in “at valuation,” which indi-
cates that depreciation is allowed for,
although again it is impossible to trace any
allowance. Here is how the reserve for
“contingencies, etc.,” has moved since 1914:
1914 .. .. £36,185 Increase £5,678
1915 .. .. 63,812 „ 27,627
1916 .. .. 123,117 „ 59,305
1917 .. .. 131,239 „ 8,122
1918 .. .. 262,089 „ 130,850
1919 .. .. 292,494 „ 30,405
1920 .. .. 330,385 „ 37,891
1921 .. .. 324,474 Decrease 5,911
1922 .. .. 358,518 Increase 34,044
1923 .. .. 347,178 Decrease 11,340
1924 .. .. 354,502 Increase 7,324
That amount represents 33.6 p.c. of the figure
at which fixed assets appear in the books;
and the latter item includes shares in other
cos. The insurance reserve grew by £8330
during the year, and that amount represents
the difference between the profit claimed by
the accounts and the figure in the introduc-
tory table.
The balance-sheet is secretive, but here is
a comparison of as much as the document
shows:—
1914. 1923. 1924.
Ships, etc £857,376 £964,921 £1,055,442
Cash .. .. 46,875 51,939 35,127
Book debts .. 69,306 223,053 159,817
Investments .. 191,598 1,294,430 1,283,256
Stores .. .. 34,926 47,570 54,441
Total assets . . £1,200,081 £2,581,913 £2,588,083
Less liabilities.. 97,177 327,021 311,052
Net assets .. £1,102,904 £2,254,892 £2,277,031
Fixed assets, with which are lumped shares
in other cos., increased £90,521 during the
year. The big new cargo carrier should figure
in that item, as all but the final payment
must have been made before the close of
the accounts. Delivery is to be made this
month. The interest in other companies is
large and accounts for a big slice of the
profit. Three years after the present co.
was formed (the enterprise had “reached
dimensions too large for it to be continued
as a proprietary”) it floated Hebburn Coal.
In 1920 it bought the control of the Metro-
politan colliery, and in 1921 a half interest
was acquired in Tasmanian Steamers, Ltd.,
which runs the Loongana, Nairana and
Oonah. It is also interested in Abermain-
Seaham collieries. Its Melbourne “Bay”
steamers and retail coal business are part
of the co.’s own activities. The most notable
change is in the public securities and invest-
ments item, which shows the remarkable
increase of almost £1.100,000 since 1914.
Some of this harvest came from profits made
from the sale of old tubs during the war
years, when the demand for tonnage was at
its keenest. The co. successfully held off
purchasing while prices of new tonnage were
at their top, and thus saved the profit won.
To-day it is in a position to add to its fleet
if and when necessary at reasonable prices.
The p.c. div. now calls for £31,250
more than it used to owing to the 50 p.c.
gift issue of 1922. But its payment seems
a simple enough matter, particularly since
the co. has a half-million of cheap capital
in its 6 p.c. prefs., and a million more “in-
vestments” working for it than it had 10
years ago. Like most shipping cos. its. posi-
tion is very strong. Over and above liabili-
ties at December 31 were £1,221,590 of
liquids and semi-liquids, equal to almost the
whole of paid capital. And in addition were
the steamers, freeholds, collieries, etc., in the
books at £1,055,441, equal to almost another
17s. for each £1 of capital. The market is
looking ahead; but, although the. co. has
piled up assets in a dazzling way (its visible
profits in excess of divs. have been £779,790
in the past nine years), it is just as well to
observe that in the last couple of years the
surplus has averaged only £28,000 p.a. It
is still, of course, doing exceedingly well:
but any further distribution would be on
the strength of what it did a few years ago
rather than on what it is doing to-day.
* * • *
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.: —
, Dividends.
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 532.824 89.084 12p.c.= 438,61 S 5122 24,498
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 „ „ 443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 „ „ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 539,543 89,084 12 „ „ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 „ „ 451,762 1105 33,168
1920.. 544.773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 „ „ 491,987 1908 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 89,084 12p.c.= 661.067 1222 37,400
1923.. 773.202 89,084 12 „ „ 682,400 1718 39,118
1924.. 776,535 89,084* 12 „ „ 685,844 1607 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ ~ 689,034 1334 42,059
“The directors beg to submit their report....
Business continues to make satisfactory pro-
gress.... Profits do not include the co.’s in-
terest in the undivided profits of the subsi-
diaries.” That is the essence of the direc-
tors’ report of this uncommunicative holding
co. for 1924 as for preceding years. But
the pref. div. and the 12 p.c. p.a. on ordi-
naries came along each quarter as usual, and
a few hundred pounds was sent to reserves,
so there is no noticeable unrest among share-
holders. The amalgamation was finalised in
1903, the concerns being the British Aus-
tralian (which combined the Cameron and
part of the Dixson business), the States (the
rest of the Dixson business, Jacobs. Hart
and Co. and Sutton and Co.), W. D. and
11. O. Wills and the Dominion of Maoriland.
For more than 10 years outside investors
were not allowed in. Even though they now
are interested, they get no information. But
that does not discourage investors. In fact,
the ’Change quotation shows that the scrip
is higher in the estimation of the market
than recent Commonwealth issues. Plainly
another gift distribution is expected; but
only those who see the accounts of the cos.
which make the combine know how near or
how far off that happy event is. It is over
four years since the last bonus issue, a
special div. from the subsidiaries on that
occasion being distributed in the proportion
of one in eight. The financial condition of
the subsidiaries may permit of another sub-
stantial extra div. to the parent co.—
or it may not. Trade conditions certainly
have been improving steadily since 1921. and,
although tobacco is a necessary commodity,
it also is, in profitable patches, a luxury, and
the average Australian, as is his wont, has
been indulging in free spending, and some
of it undoubtedly will go up in smoke. On
all these matters, however, the Board pre-
serves a sphinx-like silence.
The familiar appropriation, “Amount paid
to trustees of Employees’ Trust,” was absent
on this occasion. The whole of the autho-
rised capital having been issued, sharehold-
ers have passed a resolution increasing it
to £7,350.000 by the creation of an addi-
tional 100,000 ordinaries. This will permit
of further issues to the Employees’ Fund
trustees. The co. was early in the field of
profit-sharing, and the result has more than
justified the experiment. In addition to dis-
couraging Labor talk of socialisation —em-
ployees are interested to the extent of well
over a quarter-million—the generous treat-
ment has resulted in making the employees
contented and interested in their work.
• •••••
The market price of scrip may be governed
by inside information, but that is much to
be doubted, since quotations were on about
the same mark 12 months ago. Certainly it
is not based on anything visible in the
accounts. There is no indication of the sub-
sidiary cos.’ profits, nor of their reserves, nor
of the amount of goodwill in the sharehold-
ings item in the balance-sheet. But, what-
ever may be the goodwill, the market to-day
adds 61 millions by valuing the one and a
half million £1 prefs. at 20s. 9d. and the
5$ millions of £1 ords. at 425. 9d. In addi-
tion to shares in subsidiary cos., in the books
at £5.398.061. book debts, etc., amount to
£1 938,970 with £10,711 in cash. The only
liability item is “creditors and credit
balances, £72,455.” But what is represented
in the debit and credit balances is purely a
matter of guesswork to those outside. In
fact, it is nearly all guesswork, including
the market’s opinion. What is real is the
regular quarterly div. payments, and, apart
from any expectations, they will keep the
scrip at a high figure.
* * * *
The Western Australian Insurance
Co., Ltd.: —
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 5 p.c. =£soo £733 £473
1914.. 215 Nil . 215 688
1915.. 20,512 6p.c. = 3,600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6 „ „ 3,600 23,363 40,963
1917. .183,332 7 „„ 4,200 179.132 220,095
1918. .377,787 10 „ ~10,000 367,787 587,882
1919. .142,781 15 „ ~15.000 127,781 715,663
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000 695,663
1920.. 56.101 10p.c. =lO,OOO 46,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58,406 Nil 639.721
Taxation, £143,894 .. .. 495,827
Written off, £11,559 .. .. 484,268
1922.. . 111,930 Nil 372.338
Written off, £33,341 .. .. 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543 .. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21.164 Nil 1 073 942
Transferred to Accident Fund, £1297 f
Written off, £11,421 .. 262,521
•Apart from Life Department.
This punter in the marine insurance world
has had curiously mixed luck. Starting in
1!)13, the co. paid a 5 p.c. div. in its first
year. Then the war brought a bouquet of
opportunities and hawked them round the
big insurance offices in London almost un-
availinglv. But S. W. Copley gambled on
the British Navy being what it proved to be,
and sailed ahead. Then, with business grow-
ing like a snowball, the co. established
branches or agencies in almost every part
of the globe. In 1917, £727.000 of pre-
miums were received —four times more than
in 1916 and 14 times more than in 1915.
The apparent surplus was £183,332. In
1918 that amazing increase was eclipsed by
over 100 p.c., the apparent surplus being
£877,787. Then the ball started to thaw,
and the past four years have seen a succes-
sion of losses. In five years reserves have
fallen by almost a half-million, which is
almost as remarkable as the rise to the
£741,764 in the five years preceding 1920.
But it wasn’t all due to new losses. Last
year, for instance (accounts are to June 30,
1924, but it takes eight leisurely months for
the co. to issue its sheets). £52.218 of the
marine losses and exes, belonged to other
years, and that amount had to be written
off out of accumulated funds. Counting
everything in, the position is disclosed in this
calculation, which shows how the loss in the
introductory table was arrived at: —
Ex- Excess
Income. Claims, penses. Outgoings.
Fire .. £49.104 £37.779 £23,934 £12,609
Accident . 45.809 22,741 21.387 1,681*
Marine .. 79,574 75,964 19,451 15,841
Net Excess.. .. .• •• £26,769
Sundry Income .. .. • • 5,605
Loss as per table .. .. .. £21,164
*Surplus income.
The amount standing to the marine fund on
June 30 was £144,428, or equal to 252 p.c.
of the year’s net premium income from that
branch. Other department reserves were:
Fire, £28.687; accident, £17,722—61 p.c. of
the premium income for the year in one ease
and 40 p.c. in the other. The directors said
they prefer to carry those balances forward
until marine conditions take a change for
the better. The ultimate result of the gamble
will probably be a healthy surplus.
The next table shows the rapid growth
of business to 1918 and the steady decline
since:— „ _
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913 . £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1915.. 52.061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727.868 522,217 27,095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
1918 . 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1919 . 629,044 445,011 68,689 70.7 „ 10.9 „
1920 . 568.347 438.830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 ~
1921.. 480,434 451.634 116,972 94.0 „ 24.4 „
1922 229.537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1993 212.701 181.079 84.065 85.1 „ 39.5 „
1924. . 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
And here is a more detailed view: —
Fire. Marine. Accident.
1920 . £156,657 £381,448 £30,241
1921 . 149,654 292,834 37,945
1922 .. 61,928 134,434 33,175
1993 96.439 79.404 36,858
1924 .. 46,718 71,554 44,305
In the Fire department costs are still far
too high. Accident business was just profit-
able Current marine business looks better
than would be judged by the statement of
total receipts and losses given above.
*
In the 1923 accounts there was a debit
of £35,912 at Profit and Loss. Last year
that had been transformed into a credit of
£2i 780- —a net movement of £57,692. But
this was not achieved from current profits—
£s7 430 over-provision for taxation was
written back into P. and L. The directors
fared better in the matter of taxation than
they thought, and they don’t expect that
all the £BO,OOO still put by will be called
for. Other movements included the writing
off of £11,421 net from investments. Funds
are disposed in this way:—
1914. 1920. 1922. 1924.
Public securities Nil £144,211 £202,899 £156,938
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. £38,255 350,600 368,299 238,684
Properties .. 65,145
Book debts, etc. 1,014 230,564 200,814 50,933
Cash, etc. .. 1,172 295,808 20,821 64,047
Odds and ends 204 5,753 6,267 6,270
Total assets.. £40,645 £1,026,936 £799,100 £582,017
Liabilities* .. 199 141,715 277,110 186,288
£40,446 £885,221 £521,990 £395,729
including provision for taxation (1922, £135,118 ;
1923, £136,098; 1924, £80,000).
“Mortgages, debentures, etc.,” include
£133,149 of “shares in other cos.” It is an
unsatisfactory balance-sheet entry, and ought
to be itemised.
The co. showed more activity in the Life
department, but the result was not profitable.
New premiums for the year were £5764 as
compared with £564 for 1923. but expenses
climbed from £1461 to £10,340, while losses
moved from £B3l to £ll9O. The Board
stated that all expenses incurred in building
up the new organisation had been included.
The Life fund now amounts to £33,112,
£20.000 of it being a transfer from other
funds in 1920. The whole future is vague.
Apparently, when all liquidations of the
feverish period are completed, the co. will
still have handsome reserves and a consider-
able business connection; whether it will
be a profitable one depends upon the man-
agement’s capacity to reduce costs. There
are one or two men on the Board in whose
fitness for this job the Wild Cat has a good
deal of confidence.
* * * *
The Wellington Trust, Loan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington, M.L.) :
To lie- Re-
Dpc , Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914 .. £13,632 9 p.c. =£11,259 £2382 £68,953
1915 .. 12.020 9 „ „ 11,250 770 69,723
1916 .. 12.413 9 „ „ 11,250 1163 70,886
1917 .. 9,375 7J „ „ 9,376 70,886
1918 .. 9,434 7i„ „ 9,375 59 70,945
1919 .. 10,382 74 „ „ 9,375 1007 71,962
1920 .. 11,360 71 „ „ 9,375 1985 73,937
1921 .. 8,071 6* „ „ 8,125 73,883
loop .. 8.031 64 „ „ 8,125 73,789
1923 . • 11,027 64 „ ~ 8 125 j 734 74 533
Written off property, £2168 j
1924 .. 11,402 74p.c.= 9,375 2027 <6,500
The post-war moratorium in Maoriland ex-
pires on March 31. But any mortgagoi had
the right to lodge an application on or be-
fore January 31 last for consideration, and
the Government has the power to grant an
extension for two years. Those who failed
to apply have to meet their obligations or
accept the normal consequences. Ihougli
the call for a moratorium was doubtful, it
has at least allowed Wellington Trust and
others ample time to consider their position
and provide against any disturbance of con-
ditions. When the co. balanced on December
31 it found the borrowing-to-lend business a
shade more profitable than it had been for some
time —since 1916, in fact, when it last paid
a 9 p.c. div. With a few more pounds in
the tiil it promptly raised the div. 1 p.c.,
regardless of the fact that there had been
a slight contraction in deposits, which was
reflected in the mortgages. Here is a com-
parison extending back to 1904: —
1904. 1914. 1923. 1924.
°Reserves £136,791 £199,578 £203,898 £201,550
liabilities .. 287,885 359,788 338,289 326,579
Mortgages etc. 409,335 524,621 483,849 471,609
Freeholds' 3,500 12,923 12,460 12,360
Interest owing 5’,479 7,337 7,378 6,500
Liquid assets. . 6,360 14,483* 41,567 . 47,367
The liquid position has improved, but is still
nothing to sing hosannas over: the co. holds
£47,367 liquid, or just about 14 p.c. ot de-
posits. Practically all the rest is in mort-
gages £471,659. Balance-sheet movements
generally have been in the right direction
lately, ‘if the assets, other than mortgages,
could be realised promptly at their book
value, then, after sundry creditors had been
disposed of, £260,352 of deposits, etc., would
be represented by £471,659 of mortgages.
And that means that if the mortgages real-
ised £211,307 less than the values at which
they stand in the books, creditors could be
satisfied with a full 20s. in the pound. But
although this means that £lBl of security
need realise only £lOO, it isn’t an absurdly
large provision, for land is likely to do some
very deep diving if things start crashing in
Maoriland. .....
A decrease in taxation was a help last
year; but other movements were the other
way:—
1918. 1918. 1923. 1924.
Income .. .. £28,602 £33,702 £32,481 £32,632
Interest on deposits,
etc 13,494 16,333 15,943 16,423
Management, etc... 2,086 2,159 2,268 2,364
Taxes .. . . 849 5,616 3,142 2,343
Prospects for much better profits are not
bright. In fact, there is little to support
the idea that even the 71 p.c. has come to
stay. Yet, as shareholders have left £76,550
in the business, their div. last year repre-
sented a return of less than 4£ p.c.
(Continued on page 19.)


A PET WITH A PURPOSE.
“Alarmed at the disruptive tactics of the Communist party within the Labor leagues and unions, a secret meeting of Trades Hall officials will be held in Melbourne this week to combat the attack.”
THE UNION SECRETARY: “Our little —er — pet seems to be growing out of hand!”
THE UNION BOSS: “Yes, comrade, if we don’t hurry up and do for him he’ll be doing for us.”


Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd.
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO-ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London :
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Bbanch;
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/C per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.— Advt.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, m
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Hoofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Success in service is the most convincing testimony
of the innate economy of Pioneer Wood Pipe. The
Trust Secretary of the Trentham Waterworks writes
concerning it: “The pipes you supplied to the above
Trust about 10 years ago have given every satis-
faction. There has been practically no bill for
repairs, and the Trust has directed me to say that il
they require any more pipes in the future they will
not have the slightest hesitation in giving you the
order.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codi.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.- — Advt.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. — Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reouirements. — Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
he equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered bv Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
“CURVILINEAR”
Ore Concentrators
STILL GOING STRONG.
Another good order from Transvaal just received.
NIGERIA is now installing Curvilinears.
Patentees and Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
Camperdown, Sydney.
Mick Williams, formerly manager of the
Edna May, has returned to Borneo to make
preparations for working the concessions
held bv a Perth syndicate, pay the vendors a
further £2OOO on account, and secure, it
possible, 12 months’ extension of the option
which expires about a year hence. >.ome
Melbourne financiers want to come in, anu
chairman Crawcour and another director are
to discuss terms with them next month.
# * * *
A cable from A. P. Penman to the Board
of Eastern Gold, Malaya, created consterna-
tion among the holders of 700 shares called
up to £lO. His conclusions are ‘ definitely
unsatisfactory.”
* * * *
South Mighty Atom lias abandoned its
option on Burbank’s Oversight (M .A.) as
a result of expert Bestwick's inspection. Ihe
history of the Oversight Co. which formerly
worked the show is this. Boosting reports
sent the market up, but subsequent battery
results tumbled it down. Concurrently with
the issue of another batch of glowing reports
an unsuccessful attempt was made to raise
fresh capital in Adelaide. Then the South
Mighty Atom took a hand without success.
* * * *
“Most unsatisfactory” is how Inspector of
Mines Gourley describes the work done by
the Golden Butterfly on the Hazelmere South
lease, Waverley (W.A.). The co. migrated
from north of Ivalgoorlie to this centre, and,
after sinking several shallow shafts and driv-
ing between them, it flitted. This method
of mining. Gourley declares, is not good.
He might have added that it is a plan, some-
times followed by market riggers in cases
where the shoot carries some, gold in soft,
shallow ground, but is unlikely to live in
the hard country beneath.
* * * *
“Nemesis”: Last year Rand mine-owners
paid nearly ten millions sterling in dividends
from (Udwt. ore. Westralian cos., through
their mouthpiece, the Chamber of. Mines,
have just been whining about the high cost
of production and the millions of tons of
low-grade ore now unpayable which could
be turned to profitable account if a gold
bonus was given. Nothing was said about
the substantial reduction that could be
effected in working costs if mining and treat-
ment methods were modernised, holdings
amalgamated and operations consolidated.
The basic trouble in W.A. is inefficiency.
* * * *
Paringa Co., which has resumed opera-
tions on its old show at Ivalgoorlie after tri-
buters had won a lot of gold, issued a report
in London the other day. The co. intends
“to ascertain whether any shoots have been
missed in the past,” and to allow tribute
parties to continue to work on other parts
of the property. The co. recently tried and
found wanting a show at Waverley on the
Broad Arrow field.
* * * *
To the list of alleged oil-areas damned
by Westralian Government experts another
in the Porongorup district, near Albany, has
been added. “Seepage samples with an odor
of oil” from this locality were tested and
found to be absolutely free of mineral oil,
and the official report to the Minister states
that the place where the samples were
obtained “is a practically impossible one for
the occurrence of petroleum in industrial
quantities.” The prospector is dissatisfied,
and expresses his willingness, to submit the
samples to independent analysis or debate
the matter with the experts on any public
platform.
* * * *
S.A. Oil Wells Co. has decided to increase
its nominal capital to £200.000 by trans-
forming the 200,000 10s. shares into £1
shares. The old shares, which were fully
paid to 10s.. now therefore become contribs.
An early call is‘forecasted.
* # * *
Tarcoola Blocks, testing the Springvale
lead mine at Ajana (W.A.). looks for better
luck than it ever got in S. Aus. Ajana
started on narrow lodes, but at the Spring-
vale the shoots have widened from a foot
to over 4ft. and that in 30ft. of sinking.
This is a promising development with lead
at £36 a ton to help funds. The mine assay
says the ore is 20 p.c. lead. With shallow
working and no refractory stuff, costs should
be low\ But a lot of development has to be
done to prove that there is much profit there.
* * * *
John Ditchburn, after philandering with
carbide and zinc, is back gold mining. He
stays near home, having joined the Golden
Stair show at Greensborough. 16 miles from
Melbourne. Near by is Diamond Creek
and Anderson’s Creek, the spot at which gold
first was found in Victoria. Two years’ slow
prospecting 2000 ft. along an outcrop atj
Greenborough ended in a tunnel being run
into a hill 150 ft. for 30ft. of backs. Ditch-
burn now is 150 ft. south of where the reef
w r as cut in the tunnel and has sunk a shaft
100 ft. The, reef lives dowm and carries fine
gold equal to lloz. values. A north drive
for 150 ft.. besides proving that length of ore.
enabled the winze from the original tunnel
to be risen into, nice stone showung all the
way. Good air being assured, the lode can
be followed further north and south with
comfort. Ditchburn will not spend cash on
a battery until he gets the lode at 200 ft.,
so that all calls are going in genuine develop-
ment. That is exceptional in Victorian min-
ing, as the average crowd gets the machinery
man on the job before real opening up work
is done. The reef runs only about 2ft., but
the shoot of gold isn’t as short as the usual
Warrandyte formations. The last boom out
that way was when Dickenson’s Caledonia
flashed brightly for a few short moons.
* * * *
Before the Vic. Public Accounts Commit-
tee, W. Baragwanath, director of Geological
Survey, gave some hard knocks to oil-
prospecting cos. in the State. No reported
oil seepage there had stood investigation, he
declared; and the only shred of hope he left
to the oil-men was the chance of discovery in
the tertiary strata. These, he said, are not
unpromising, as they contain extensive beds
of lignite, limestone and porous sands.
* * * *
Speck Geologist Mclntosh Reid, giving evi-
dence before the Federal Accounts Com-
mittee at Latrobe the other day, said he esti-
mates that something like 52 000,000 tons of
shale could be mined in Tasmania, mostly
in the Latrobe district, and the oil contents
would probably average over 40 gallons to
the ton. The stuff was easily mined. There
was no “slack” as in coal. The cost of dig-
ging would not exceed 10s. a ton. It sounds
all right. But the cost of extracting and re-
fining the juice will not be known accurately
until the projected £40,000 Bronder retort is
at work.
* * * • *
There are probabilities of an export market
being found for zinc and other ores from the
Zeehan district (Tas.). The Government
Chemist and Assayer (W. I). Reid) recently
visited the area to ascertain what zinc ores
were suitable for export, the inquiry coming
from a Belgian firm. At a round-up the fol-
lowing motion was adopted :
That this meeting of mine-owners and tributors of
the Zeehan district considers that, in order to facili-
tate the marketing of zinc and other ores not accept-
able to local buyers, a pool should be formed' for the
purpose of having all individual lots of ore submitted
for inclusion in a pool, to be sampled, weighed, and
assayed under the supervision of the Government
mining engineer.
According to Reid, the Belgian firm would
pay £6 10s. per ton for ore c.i.f. Antwerp,
and the suggestion was that it should advance
75 p.c. of the value of the ore to be exported
on the certificate of the Government mining
engineer.
* * * *
B. H. Block 10 finishes with a final div.
of a ha’penny. It would not have been got
if Alec Campbell had weakened in his re-
solve to close up the show without making
calls to wipe out loans. The old mine re-
turns to the Prop., which is re-opening it
to win any ore left behind when lead was
nearer £l5 a ton than £35. What memories
cluster round Block 10! Of the wonderful
silver contents of the kaolin, of the big divs.,
of hard-swearing, honest Cap’n John Warren,
of Duncan Mcßryde’s pride in the co. he
controlled for so long! Then the tragedy
of its later years. The creep in the Central,
the pinching out of the ore at depth, the
sale of the old tailings dump for a song.
Then the recovery amid a war-booming
market and the ’ subsequent sinking of cash
reserves in the fatal Misima gold specula-
tion in Pauua. Last of all came the crash
of the metal market after the mine was
re-opened on borrowed funds. Now exit
with a ha’penny liquidation div. It is tragic,
for, just as Block 10 helped many a man
to a fortune in the palmy days, the lure
of its name in the end led peonle to stick to
its scrip till sale was impossible.
* * * *
The Crosby’s Hill development in New
White Crystal, Ardletlian (N.S.W.), seems
like a flash in the pan. In a fortnight 307
tons from there yielded 1 ton IScwt. concen-
trates, and the co. has 6 tons 6cwt. of con-
centrates on hand. New find is 6ft. 3in. long
by 3ft. wide, and assays 4.7 p.c.; and a small
patch of chlorite showing in the n.-w. side
“looks promising.” Still 150.000 shares take
a lot of feeding, even at £165 for concen-
trates.
* * * *
“Plat”: Re Fifield platinum miners and
their improved position (B. 12/3/’25), it
was W. F. Dunn who. when N.S.W. Minister
for Agriculture, took up their case and
secured them the market price for their pro-
duct. At a time when they were being
offered £2 an ounce, Dunn arranged for a
departmental advance of £lO an ounce, and
marketed the metal in the U.S. It realised
£l9 an ounce, and the balance was paid to
the producers. The salutary lesson duly
brought local dealers to a better understand-
ing of the rule of three.
* * * *
Flagstone Tin, working on a steen hill-
side, 22 miles north of Emmaville (N.S.W.),
is showing 15 p.c. tin in the shaft-bottom
at 20ft. The acting-manager, however, says
that “a granite intrusion has made its
appearance, cutting off the lode; but there
is a fair body of ore showing in the shaft.
This will average 74 p.c: on the south side
and 5 p.c. on the north.” He adds that
the lode appears to be dipping over the
granite into the cliff on the western side,
and expects the intrusion to cut out as the
lode goes into the mountain. But it is a
country of patches.
Geologist E. C. Andrews, of the N.S.W.
Mines Department, has issued a report on
South Lucknow and Pups’ chances: —
The whole history of mining at Lucknow indicates
that the expectation of winning rich bonanzas under
the basalt at South Lucknow was too speculative to
justify the expenditure of great sums such as have
been spent by the companies under consideration.
By the expenditure of this amount, after the manner
of “trial and error,” the “contact” appears to have
been located both in the South Lucknow and the
Lucknow Pups, and the work may now be said to
have entered the scientific prospecting stage. The
indications are more hopeful at present than they
have been at the time of any previous visit by Depart-
mental officials.
Andrews considers that South Lucknow has
been discovering “boulders” larger than
those encountered in old Lucknow, and
working them under the delusion that they
are regular ore-bodies. “On the other hand,”
he continues, “the gold which made the old
Lucknow field famous occurred in the form
of bonanzas. These were contained in spurs
or droppers which occurred within the foot-
wall, or grey ground, and ended against the
zone of crush or black ground.” On the
question of the “contact,” he states: —
The “contact” appears to have been located both
within the South Lucknow and the Lucknow Pups.
Several “droppers” also have been found in the
“grey” country in both areas. No bonanza has been
found as yet in the Pups. The two properties may
be described as in the prospecting stage, and the
work which is now being carried out may be con-
sidered as legitimate prospecting.
* * * *
Carpathia (N.S.W.) steadily improved
during the half-year to the end of January,
1208 tons giving 74.5 tons concentrates of
62.79 p.c. metal. From tin sold the revenue
was £11,279, showing net profit of £5082.
For the previous half the figure was £361.1,
while a loss of £135 was the result a year
ago. After paying the October cliv. of 6d.
and making provision for the current one,
£5OO remained over for taxation reserve and
£7OO to carry forward. At the end of the
half-year the co. had £5576 at fixed deposit
and £2892 in cash, while creditors claimed
£ll3l and there was an overdraft of £lOOO.
Prospecting has not revealed further reserves,
but the working faces maintain their grade
of about 4.06 p.c.
* * * *
Reports from Crown, Mudgee (N.S.W.),
are nowadays more in line with battery ver-
dicts. “On the south hanging wall level
there is a large reef in the face, but it is
low grade.” Also, “a small level is being
driven north on hanging wall, 2ft. of reef
giving fair dish prospects, say about 7dwt.”
A 40-ton crushing is spoken of as the objec-
tive, and this “should yield enough to pay
a fortnight’s wages and general expenses.”
Meantime, shareholders are offering scrip
paid to 7s. 9d. for twopence.
* * * #
The Digger Prince GoV. and Diamond
Mines has not lived up to its title. A parcel
of 1600 forfeited shares offered at auction
in the vestibule in Sydney were passed in
at Is. Oid.
*****
New Guinea Copper smelted 3081 tons ore
for 464 tons matte, estimated to contain
122 tons copper and 2060 z. gold, for the
first four weeks of the year. The retreat-
ment of low-grade matte to converting grade
was proceeding simultaneously with the fur-
nacing of ore. In the last report the short-
age of skilled white labor was again men-
tioned. At the Laloki mine work was still
stopped through the surface movement, but
sluicing was assisting the activity in the
open cut. At the Dubuna, from December 7
to January 15, 1494 tons of 6.2 p.c. ore was
raised.
# # * *
Mandated Development’s No. 1 bore at
Matapau, over a test period of seven days,
made seven and a half gallons of oil per
day, according to advice from the field man-
ager. The bore was then capped and the
plant moved to another site. No. 2 bore was
down 40ft. at latest and was “in touch with
grey shale.”
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor, Siam, has moved its No.
6 dredge to the new area at Chelong Bay,
which lies around the first headland from
the harbor. Intensive boring pronounces
the area “satisfactory”; but it is admitted
that large barren intrusions had to be in-
cluded. The other area at Bidot contains
440 acres of “good working value.” Nos.
2 and 3 dredges will be placed here when
reconstructed to carry more washing laun-
ders. Production from the old areas has
almost come to an end.
* * * *
“L’Asino”:—
A. E. BrouC’s note (B. 19/3/’25) is interesting
because of his statement “I have refrained from
entering into any controversy concerning oil.” On
February 9, 1924, in the Argus, Mr. Broue created
a controversy on the subject whether oil does or
does not exist in Australia by signing a letter along
with Dr. Clapp in which they proclaimed that, “after
a careful examinaticn of the geological evidence
placed before us concerning the possibilities of oil
occurrence in the State of Victoria, we concur gener-
ally with the State Geological Survey, that the areas
deserving of detailed examination are unfortunately
very limited, indeed.” And yet, so far as I have
gathered, neither attempted to see any part of
Victoria outside Melbourne. That letter hurt, be-
cause Dr. Clapp had been boomed as an eminent
American petroleum expert, and the controversy then
started is raging still. On page 45 of the Austualian
Magazine for April, 1923, Mr. BrouC* wrote that
“there is every reason to believe that ultimate
success should come to those controlling operations
in the Kimberleys (W.A.), but lie would be an
optimist indeed who could say the same of the
boring proceeding in the lower division of South
Australia”—the plate where the South Australian
Oil Well Co. has recently located petroleum!
* * * *
There still is talk of a revival at Joadja
(N.S.W.). A new syndicate has taken over
the old Joadja and Reedy Creek venture and
a representative is proceeding to London to
procure a modern retort. It is hoped to start
work in six months. Whether progress will
get past the “hope” stage this time remains
to be seen. The history of the business does
not provoke optimism.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers aii classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
iswfnnIhl 1 hl NeW . Zeala ? d Grants of Admin-
sS r P at k?L t 0 / X T nt ? rs m \ <l administrators out-
wnri- K 6 u c i? d ’ * aud undertakes agency
administrators SUCh executors and
experts quaHfiedTo b deSl
loeJ poitions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, tNew Zealand.
Fjp'' * f '‘’*%! /,
Z rj- ' :
111
p
■ ■ c
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Batlis-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, . Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
BENJAMIN FULLER , knight, and entre-
preneur, enjoying a Sydney Stadium fight
—he seldom misses one.
lamest OI errall (“Kotluk” of The
Bulletin and for some years past of
kMim s) died at Pennant Hills, Sydney
on Sunday night, after an illness that
stretched out beyond a year. The Bulletin
found Kodak” clerking for the International
Harvester Co. in Melbourne—or “Kodak”
found The Bulletin— over 20 years ago;
and lie wrote for it many quaintly humorous
little stories and sketches. But. likeable
as his writing was, it was never so likeable
as he was himself; the Australian Inky Way
never knew a gentler, sunnier pilgrim. Pneu-
monia caught him a little over a year ago,
and, though he put up a brave fight, the
odds were all against him, and the end came
'Y.f? K ' was only 43. A widow and two
children will have the sympathy of a great
army of his admirers.
Week /}'<> g c Armstrong had no less
nt sF-nr ,ns sentences altered bv the
V;. - Court, on the application of the
Attorney-General; and the Court's remarks
in making the variations were so unflattering
hat his Honor will probably conclude that
he wasn t cut out for a Judge. Less than
three years on the Bench, he is the man The
Bulletin talked of lately as having already
become the despair of the police.” Yet his
unfitness for the bench makes him more like-
able as a citizen. He simply can’t help
being unconventional wherever he is If
he has made a slip which, if attention hadn’t
been called to it, might have prejudiced the
prisoner, he turns to the dock with “Sorry,
old man—my mistake!” During the war he
took another job—that of N.S.W. State Cen-
sor tor which he was similarly too human
to be fitted. As part of the military machine
he wasn t supposed ever to be wrona: and
when he thought he was he owned up cheer-
fully. Once The Bulletin had something
censored which it didn’t believe should have
been censored, and it started to kick. One
or two letters passed; then, in answer to
The Bulletin’s last, came simply this:
"The Editor. Dear Sir. Your game and
set.
An arrival by the Oronsay was Sir Hugh
Bell, who at 81 has come to see the founda-
tion stone of the Sydney Harbor bridge put in
place. He is vice-chairman of Dorman,
Long’s, builders of the bridge, and is a direc-
tor of the North-Eastern Railway Co.,
Brunner Monds and other large concerns.
One of his nephews, Sir Arthur Stanley, was
formerly Governor of Victoria. Another
nephew, Gerald Lightfoot, is in the Com-
monwealth Institute of Science and Industry.
Robert Sands, who died last week, at 74,
was a Sydney native, son of that John Sands
who, in the late 'thirties, commenced busi-
ness as a bookseller and stationer in a three-
storey house opposite Lassetters’, in George-
street. Later he moved to premises south
of the then G.P.O. In the roaring ’fifties he
entered into partnership with Mr. Kenny,
whose headquarters were in Melbourne. The
firm Sands and Kenny flourished in both
cities; the only things remembered now about
Kenny are that he was a City Councillor and
great snuff-taker. In or about 1854 a Scotch
family named McDougall, with four boys,
arrived in Melbourne. In time two of the
boys got employment with Sands and Kenny,
and on Mr. Kenny’s death were taken into
partnership by John Sands. The two firms
are now distinct. The Sands account is one
of the oldest in the ledgers of the Bank of
N. S. Wales.
Most people thought that ex-Attorney-
General Slater, M.L.A., the rising hope of
vie. Labor, would be A.N.A.’s president for
the coming year, but at Ballarat last week
he let Patterson, of Mildura. have a walk-
over, because the man from the Murray had
a year’s seniority on the Board. But a good
deal of work will fall on him as senior
vice-president. Green, the junior vice-presi-
dent (lie’s a policeman), and ex-M.11.R.
Ilume Cook, the treasurer, will also have
to do their share of branch visiting.
J. W. McGregor, who died in hospital
while on a visit to Melbourne, was a Scotch-
man born in 1861, who had been in S.A
s , inc S, :lBB6 - He starte d there as manager of
the Tweed factory at Lobethal, bat presently
had his own mills at Thebarton, and so be-
came a woolbuyer on a large scale,
eventually owning station properties. His
expert knowledge was largely used by
the authorities during the war. He was
president of the Chamber of Manufacturers
for several years, and Chief of the Caledo-
nian Society at the time of his death; also
a stalwart Presbyterian educationist and an
authority on Scottish poetry.
The passing out, at 79, of Leonard Makin-
son, a Nepean district (N.S.W.) native,
recalls the controversy begun by the publica-
tion of Birt’s “Benedictine Pioneers in Aus-
tralia,” which asserted that Leonard’s father,
Thomas Cooper Makinson, was the author
of the brilliant pastoral letters that allegedly
emanated from Archbishop Polding. An
Anglican parson with High Church tenden-
cies and a B.A. of Cambridge, Makinson
arrived in Sydney in 1837 and promptly
verted to Rome. In 1855 Polding made him
his private secretary, and thus the claim
tirose. Considering that Polding was a Pro-
fessor of classics in his twenties and wrote
brilliantly before arriving in Australia, the
claim made by Makinson’s admirers is a frail
one. However, no matter who wrote Fold-
ing’s pastorals, there will be never any con-
troversy as to who writes the pastorals of
that master of the split infinitive, Archbishop
Kelly.
W. G. Ashford, Holman’s last Minister
for Lands, and, one would have judged, the
best life in the team, died very suddenly on
Monday evening. Ashford, a. Liverpool
Plains farmer, got into politics as a Laborite,
but went out on the Conscription issue. De-
feated three years ago, he went back to his
farm, only retaining the home in Sydney
(where lie died) in order to educate his
young family.
“Slam’: Died in Cairns (Q.) hospital,
Mrs. Lchane, a good Australian. When her
husband was killed 14 years ago she con-
tinued his work. She lived by herself in
the bush, felled trees, cut and stacked fire-
wood, and paid for the convent education
of her girl. Dressed in male attire, she
managed to dispose of a load of firewood
a day, and did a fair trade in skins, ferns
and other bush products as a side-line.
Eighteen months ago she was pinned under
a limb and had an ankle badly smashed. She
managed to ride bareback into Cairns; but
the break never properly mended.
Died the other day at Auckland, Mrs.
Amelia Jane Haszard. a survivor of the
Tarawera eruption. She was the wife of
the native schoolmaster at Wairoa, near
Rotorua, and during the awful hours of the
morning of June 10, 1886, saw her home
buried in mud and stones and her husband
and three of her children killed. With
two daughters she escaped the holocaust, and
lived to be 82. She was herself dug out of
the ruins of her home and carried live miles
through the devastated area to safety; the
children were found clustered round her
knees, smothered in mud and debris.
R. B. S. Hammond, who is abandoning
church work to devote his 'whole time to the
Demon Der-rink, was in his younger
days a very broadminded as well as a
likeable parson. Out of his own small
ALDERMAN F. J. VALENTINE,
Hobart’s new Mayor.
means he opened in the worst part
of Surry Hills (Sydney) an all-night
refuge where deadbeats could go for shelter
and a crust; and his activities amongst the
kiddies of the slums helped to make him one
of the most popular men in Surry Hills. But
his concentration upon the anti-liquor fight
has narrowed him, and he is a difficult man
to work with nowadays. His retirement
from church work looks like a gesture of
disgust over the church’s refusal to go whole
hog over the question he regards as of the
greatest importance.
J. G. Hislop, medical sup. of the Children’s
Hospital in Perth,* has declined the offer of
a similar post in the Adelaide General Hos-
pital, and J. G. Sleeman, of Vic., takes it
instead. Sleeman is a Melbourne University
product, who took his medical degrees in
1915, and did war work in Salonika and
Prance. After that he was at Bendigo, but
for the last four years has been practising
in Victoria’s Western District.
O. B. Lower, just dead in Adelaide, was a
chemist, had a notable baritone voice, all
sorts of degrees as a Freemason and one of
the finest collection of stamps in Australia.
But he wins his place here by his assortment
of Australian moths and butterflies, which
was very widely known, and he wrote mauy
papers on the subject.
Unless something goes wrong, Major di
Pinedo, of the Italian Air Staff, will next
month fly from Rome to Australia and back
—about 34,000 miles altogether. The pro-
posed route will take in Fremantle, Adel-
aide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cooktown and Port
Kennedy. His machine will be a Savoia
5.61 flying boat, fitted with a 400-li.p. An-
saldo engine. The British Imperial Co. is
already laying down supplies of Shell spirit
for the little adventure.
Admiral John Moresby, who explored New
Guinea in the ’seventies, did not forget Aus-
tralia when, he died in 1922. The Common-
wealth Naval Depot at Flinders (Vic.) is
custodian of several mementoes he be-
queathed the Prime Minister, including
paintings of Port Moresby and of the flag-
hoisting on the S.-E. Archipelago. It is pro-
posed to re-name a survey vessel, recently
acquired by the 11.A.N., 11.M.A.5. Moresby,
in fulfilment of a promise W. M. Hughes
made to the Admiral, and when she arrives
the relics will be transferred to her.
Billy Angwin, W.A.’s aeting-Premier while
Collier takes the trip to England that very
few heads of Groper Governments have ever
steeled themselves to forego, arrived in his
adopted State from St. Just, Cornwall, some
time in the roaring 'nineties. But he wasn’t
among the gold-hunters; by trade William
is a wu re-mattress maker, and he plied that
craft stolidly till trades unionism lifted him
into Parliament. For over 20 years he has
held a safe Labor seat, N.-E. Fremantle, and
has been a member of every Labor Cabinet
that has materialised in that period, though
he began in the Daglish Ministry with onlv
honorary rank. Angwin and Johnny Drew’,
M.L.C., are the two survivors among pi \sent-
da_y Ministers of the State’s first and rather
brief experiment in Labor Governments
(1904-05). But Drew was not a pledged
Laborite in those days ; also lie has been out
of Parliament for six of the intervening
years, so that Angwin ranks in a sense as
the oldest inhabitant among the present bunch
of rulers. There are more unlikely things
ahead than that he will be W.A.’s next
Agent-General, a job which no Laborite has
yet filled.
For two reasons delegates to Vic. A.N.A.
conference at Ballarat last week listened with
respect to T. J. Carmody, of Malvern branch,
when he advanced strong arguments in favor
ot aircraft for Australian defence. In the
first place, Carmody was an A.I.F. flier in
France, and took a hand in repelling Fritz
when he attacked London from aloft.
Secondly, it was recalled that Carmody’s
dad was one of the foremost in rescue work
at the Australasian mine, Creswick, in the
late ’eighties, when the big disaster occurred.
Carmody gripped the conference, and forced
the Board to modify a clause in its report
giving undue prominence to naval defence.
Masonry in Melbourne had a shivoo last
week when the Vic. Naval and Military
Lodge, No. 49, celebrated its 00th birthday.
Formed in the days of the Maori wars, the
lodge included many soldiers of distinction.
Major Eddy, who fell in the Boer War, was
one; among others were Major John W.
Hamilton and Lieut. J. A. K. Johnston, who
made the great sacrifice at Gallipoli. To-day
Generals Elliott and T. H. Dodds, a V.C.
(W. Dunstan) and several D.S.O.’s are on
the roll. All the original members have long
become casualties. The oldest member,
Dudley It. Best, dates from November, 187(5;
the second survivor, W. B. Edwards, came in
three years later.
The Australian Natives’ Association has
renewed the idea of retrieving the body of
Captain Cook from Hawaii and bringing it
to Australia for interment. Only part of
Cook was recovered, and when a monument
was put up in the locality 95 years later
there was some uncertainty about the proper
spot. The whole of Dumpier could probably
be obtained as a relic, for that earliest-known
British visitor to these shores was buried
in one authentic piece in London. But
though he was 81 years before Cook, and
though he did a great deal of hard explora-
tion around these shores on various visits,
the godless old buccaneer never caught on as
an Australian patron saint. Dumpier wasn’t
a Bible-reading man. As for Cook, it is
generally ignored that he spent much more
of his life about Canada than about Aus-
tralia. that it was on a return voyage from
Canada that he died, and that lie met his
end about IiOOO miles nearer to Canada than
to this country. He didn’t even die in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Port Melbourne lost its best-liked police
sergeant when big Paddy McGh.de died ut
5(5. The 18-stone Irish-Australian, with a
heart as big as his body, sprang into the
limelight during the police strike. A large
crowd of Port Melbourne’s toughest citizens
assembled in broad daylight in the principal
street, and engaged in ’eading ’em. The ser-
geant bore down on them single-handed, and
in his irresistible brogue persuaded them to
leave off such flag-
rant contimpt of
the law, and dis-
perse. 11 us s e 11-
street, hearing of
it, shooed seven
carloads of specials
down to the Port
that night; where-
upon McGlade rang
u p headquarters
and requested their
immediate with-
drawal before they
"created a riot of
resentment in a
peaceful suburb.”
W. J. HILL, of
Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce, who
has been presiding
over the Federal
conference of
Chambers of
Commerce held in
Melbourne.
lan C. : Having seen Peacock, the State
treasurer, running the show in his native
Oreswick last week, when he took the A.N.A.
conference to inspect the State nursery and
plantations, I ceased to wonder that he gets
re-elected to Parliament time after time. He
i.s <_ reswick. . Every building and every tree-
screams of his works. Take away the things
he has secured and there would 'he no Cres-
wick. He lives in the town, and nothing
is too small for him to handle. The Yankee
loan-hawker whose advances he parried in
his well-appointed office at the Treasury re-
cently would have hardly recognised the man
in an old grey suit squatting with a pipe on
an ancient ballot-box on the platform of the
Creswick town hall, while Owen Jones, cliair-
man of the Forestry Commission, talked tim-
ber to the A.N.A. conference delegates.
CALLING HIS BLUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To save the tomb of Snefru from robbers, duinmv
pyramids were erected for the monarch at Medum and
Dahshur, and the, actual burial-place was screened
by 90 feet of concrete.”
Five thousand years ago they bore him down
The dark and stony way;
The centuries forgot his old renown—
One of the countless horde that wore a crown—
And none knew where he lay.
As age by age the baffled spoilers went
To seek a mouldering prey,
He lingered under concrete, well content
To wait for Judgment Day.
While Ethiopian and Persian ruled
And Macedonian spears
The laggard children of an Old World schooled ;
Ere Rome in proud vexation rose and pulled
Their house about their ears ;
While Arabs of the desert broke their bound—
Through days of blood and tears
The old king’s slumbers still were deep and sound.
Unbroken through the years.
The Saracen, Crusader, Turk and Frank
In turn had passed that way ;
The armies of the world went rank by rank
Along the mighty river’s desert bank
With eager zeal to slay.
But Snefru’s corpse was not among the loot
That any bore aw'ay;
In fact, he simply stayed where he was put
Awaiting yesterday.
Five thousand years perhaps is rest enough
For the most tired bones ;
The mummy wrappings may be stout and tough,
But science stoops to call the old king’s bluff
Through Egypt’s driest stones.
In newer pomp, adorning some museum,
Kings set oti steadier thrones
Of knowledge will draw near his mausoleum
With homage in their tones.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


J
*<*,*-<•
n
nz
&
%
\e
*n
i%ai
f
f
/I
Vi
w>>w/)
\>
i
sr
SR
X
V.
h\hk
“When Granny
was a girl’’ there
was no parallel
to BOND’S
LADY BETTY
HOSE
with its lovely
All - Sylk - Arto
Thread texture,
its lisle reinforc-
ed tops,and won-
drous range of
shades
at . .
8/11 P „.
m
& vs
\
vrrf
•R' U
<
Tjhe timid miss
of the Eighties
had no need of a
Silk Stocking
such as
BOND’S
TRIPLEWEAR
whichis especial-
ly designed to
meet the require-
ments of the
modern out-door
girl, uniting
great tensile
strength with su-
perbly beautiful
finish. In black,
white &
colors .
7/6,.
<? o
HI
©
nftie Name
( j&cmcls
on an article is a proof of
quality, a guarantee of satis-
faction. You’re sure of get-
ting the best value at the
price if you make “Bond’s”
label your guide.
" anyway, I couldn't afford to wear Expensive
Silk Stockings when I was a Girl.’
"But, Grandma, my Stockings are not Expensive
They're Bond’s 'Sylk-Arto’”
Tkere Was No
in Granny s Day
NOWADAYS the luxury of Silk Hose for daily wear
is every privilege, hut this privilege dates baciv
only to the introduction of Bond’s "Sijlk~Arto. Previously, no Stock-
ing had been offered to Australian women which united the age-old
charm of Pure Silk texture with the all-important advantage of
moderate price.
With its rich lustrous sheen, flawless knit*
ting and sheer fit, “Sylk-Arto" is certainly
expensive looking, but its capacity for ser-
vice is such that it is an extremely in-
expensive stocking to wear. In fact, even
at a much higher price than 6/11 it would
still be a most economical purchase.
“Sy Ik-Arid' Hose is exclusively a Bond’s
creation. For your own protection always
see that the stocking offered you as “Sylk-
Arid' carries the circular "Sylk-Arto
price-label at the top. If it lacks this
label, it is not “Sylk-Ario,” and if it isn’t
“Sylk-Ario” it is not as good.
YOUR DRAPER STOCKS "SYLK-ARTO" HOSE
With seam at back, tops and feet in Mercerised
Lisle, in a complete range of fashionable shades
6/11
Pair
pond’s
SYLKoARTO
(Jdji Improvement- on
HOSE
TKade in Australia by GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD.
Manufacturers of Bond’s Hosiery, Bond’s Half-Hose for Men, Bond’s “Tru-Sije” Under-
wear, Bond’s Towels, Bond’s Calico. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.


ZH
Equitable
m
Cife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., 3lelb.
Fredk. Levy, Managing Director.
Macnaughts
For the Kiddies 7 Shoes
&r
WE illustrate our specially selected
Box Calf 1-Bar Shoe, for Children
and Maids.
Guaranteed all solid leather throughout,
with stout sewn soles.
SPECIAL PRICES:
7’stolO’s. ll’stol’s. 2’s to s’s.
7/6 8/9 10/6
We also stock the Derby Lace Shoe, same
quality, and same price.
POSTAGE PAID IN N.S.W.
Macnaught Shoe Stores, Ltd.,
189 Pitt Street, and 135 King Street, Sydney.
Do You Know
the joy of a
comfortable
Saddle?
The Genuine
WIENEKE
' is the Rolls-Royce of
Saddles.
Write to-day for free copy
of my new illustrated book
post free anywhere.
John J. Wieneke
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
And at
434 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
371 George St.
SYDNEY.
ABORICINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“Buttenderry”: On Wellshot station (Cen-
tral Queensland) I was once galloping- in
front of a mob of young horses trying to
steady the lead, when my mount propped.
I kept going, and landed in a nest of
emu eggs just as the mother bird vacated
it. On this occasion she didn’t show
fight, but made off at a terrific pace, and
I didn’t blame her—the stench from some
of those broken eggs was appalling. Major
Claude Smith used to keep a pair of
emus on his station at Molong (N.S.W.)
which would attack anything, at any
time, their favorite pastime being to run
up alongside a vehicle and peck savagely
at the occupants or the horses. They
were the cause of a number of bolting
episodes, and of a minor smash or two.
* * *
“Gecko”: “Nitric” (B. 5/3/’25) must
have overhauled a species of platypus new to science.
Female platypus of my acquaintance do not sport an
apron pocket (pouch), nor are they equipped with
nipples. A dimpled abdomen overlapped by a curv-
ing tail, and supported at either side by slightly
inturned hind legs, acts the part of temporary
pouch or its necessary equivalent. The white milk
oozes out through a nippleless perforated zone in
close proximity to the centre of an internal udder.
As to “Nitric’s” find of a brace of monotremes’
eggs in the true pouch of an echidna, I should be
pleased to know if the twin eggs were attached
to one another or otherwise.
* * * *
“Tessa”: Touching “Gecko's” par. (B.
5/3/’25), I have founu ’roos carrying two healthy,
well-developed young. A pet ’roo which I had for
years had at least half a dozen sets of twins, and
managed to rear them all.
“J.D.C.” : Have scientists any explanation
of the fact that the reproductive organs of the goanna
are in duplicate? And does the peculiarity occur
in any other species? The crocodile is similar in a
general way, but never having been able to make
an examination I would be glad to learn if they
inherit the same duplication.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: I’m not going to commit
myself to plain grass, but on lucerne I have known
sheep at Cooma (N.S.W.) to live for seven months
without a drink. Moreover, I’m willing to bet that
a jumbuck could exist for years—till it died from
natural causes, indeed—in a lucerne paddock with-
out water. In a good season in Western N. S. Wales,
when the crowfoot and trefoil are plentiful, sheep
are regularly turned out for the winter into paddocks
where there isn’t a quartpot of water, and they
fatten on it.
“Booth B.”: I am an old diver, and had
my first dip just off those baths at the foot of Fore
Hill, in Port Darwin, that “Troophorse” (B. 19/2/’25)
mentions. There are very few swimmers who can
work in more than seven fathoms of water; and
anything over 20 fathoms is deep water for a man
in a dress. When working in that depth or over,
we were always timed by our tender from the
moment we reached the bottom, and at the end of
10 minutes we were given a warning pull to come
up. It is piffle to speak of a swimmer working in
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES.
POMPOSITY, M.P.: "Now, boys, tell me — why docs that glorious flay hang there?
JACK JONES: “Please, sir, to hide the dirty place where the rain come in!”
deep water. The pressure below water is 151 b.
to the square inch for each 51 fathoms, so that
at 25 fathoms there is a pressure of about 751 b.
to the square inch. Taking the area of a man’s
body as 2500 square inches, it follows that at 25
fatjhoms he is subjected to a squeeze of more than
83 tons, sufficient to flatten any swimmer. The diver
is protected by the cushion of air in the dress over
his stomach and chest.
* * * ■*
“E.S.S.”: “Mujcmg” (B. 26/2/’25) asks
me to say how I knew the eye-color of the birds
I saw working on live sheep. The raven’s white
eyes can be seen at a considerable distance. Any-
how, I have watched the birds from the edge of a
scrub, not 10yds. away, and have come upon them
suddenly over low sandhills. As to crows’ hazel eyes
changing, how does “Mujong” know that? Hundreds
of these birds are kept as pets. I have not heard
of one of them changing with age, and I have met
some pretty old ones. The two birds are also quite
different in disposition. Further, the hazel-eyed
crow has white down, whilst the raven is black to
his skin. There is also a difference in the primaries
and secondaries, an important matter in the classifi-
cation of birds.
* * * *
“C. Coral"’: I was admiring a new pig
in the family sty on one of the islands and inquired
as to its antecedents. “Oh, that one he come from
Bot Lo” (Port Lihou, Prince of Wales Island), the
owner informed me. “We go round that way pearl-
fishing; we see flenty wild fig [pig]
come down along sandbeach and
Tong reef; he look for small fish
and crab; he like to kaikai that
one too much. We come close to,
then we run him; old one he get
away, that young one he stow-
away long grass. We find him
and make him fast. He proper
wild first time, but we soon make
him quiet. This one 1 take him
and swim him in salt water, then
I take coconuts leaf and make
Henty smoke, put him along nose
belong this fig ; three times I do
that so his head come good and
he forget that place belong him.
Then I take coconuts oil, rub it
along his forehead, pat that head
little bit along my hand ; now he
no more run about, only when he
come outside this fence he look
along me. Fashion belong these
island for making fig proper quiet.”
It was a new one to me. Is it practised in the
South Seas?
* * * »
“Saaedi”: “Sey Le” notwithstanding (B.
12/2/’25), the fox is not a craven. He will fight
fiercely enough excepting when the odds against him
are overwhelming, in which case he submits with
stoic calm to the inevitable. The fact that he will
frequently lie still when captured indicates cunning
rather than cowardice. Evidently he realises that
resistance will only make matters worse for him,
and that his only chance of ultimate escape lies in
apparent submission. There are few animals so
intelligent as the fox, but with him, as often happens
with humans, foresight is frequently mistaken for
timidity.
"Gouger”: Those who lament (B.
12/2/'25) that tlie wild aboriginal has passed away
and with the passing the chances of studying him, are
distressing themselves unnecessarily. There are at least
30,000 wild blacks and possibly more in Northern
Australia alone. On the west coast of Cape York
Peninsula are many tribes, some of them more like
shaggy animals than human beings, who have never
seen a white man. Along the Gulf Coast and the
Territory coast and the nor’-west of W.A., not to
mention Centralia, there must be plenty of aborigines
in exactly the same state as their ancestors when
Cap’n Cook landed. They are waiting to be studied
by the scientist, if he is game to study them, which
he isn’t. Or perhaps it might be fairer to say that
he lacks financial backing for the job. All my time
on the Peninsula I knew only one scientist to study
,tlie blacks—Dr. Roth. As for the niggers’ sign
language, smoke signalling, message sticks and tree
tapping don’t amount to much when sifted out.
Black Brother employs the most rudimentary signals
that any species evolving from animals would practise
for long-distance communication. There are beasts
and birds that do much the same. Binghi’s vocabu-
lary is everywhere very limited. In some tribes there
are merely a few recognised words, different inflec-
tions giving them a different meaning. No civilisa-
tion could have learnt anything of value from Binghi,
unless it was boomerang-throwing, and it is probable
knowledge of that came to him from elsewhere.
He never builds or produces. His beliefs are a
maze of absurdities. His most prized legends are
so babyish that they would be rejected in a white
infant’s picture book. He lacks the slightest idea
of his own history. He cannot explain the origin
of his most sacred ceremonies. His only learning is
the bushcraft without which no bush animal can
live, and his one clevei’ness so far as I have seen in
my experience of years is in getting rid of
poisons in his foods. But he does not understand
the why of it. Which has often made me think that
some forgotten people first taught Binghi the very
little he does know.
“HEY! HOLD HIM, MISTER!”
From Ida Dawson in Patagonia:—
I once found a groundlark’s nest in an empty
jamtin in our paddock. And driving from Dele-
gate to Bombala (N.S.W.) I found a magpie’s nest
on top of a heap of blue metal by the roadside,
in spite of there being big gum-trees only a few
•hundred yards away. The nest contained two eggs,
and Mrs. Magpie flapped round very crossly when I
investigated. In Santa Fe (Argentina) I saw an
oven-bird’s nest on the tail of a windmill, and it
sailed round with every wind that blew. These birds
usually make their large and solid mud houses
against the trunk or in the forked branches of a
tree.
(Continued on page 2^.)
THE GOLDEN SHORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They built her on the Clarence in eighteen-sixty-four,
And trustfully they named her, their ship, the Golden
Shore.
The Ogilvies and Bawdens, the Sees and Tyndalls
then
Along the Northern Rivers were good and proper men.
Aye, fine colonial fathers, all living honest lives,
Who trooped to church on Sundays with families
and wives;
Who mostly toiled and tfaded from dawn on Monday
till
The week-end sun was shining aslaut on Wilson’s
Hill.
With good and honest neighbors, they slaved through
summers warm
To turn a tropic jungle to garden, field and farm.
I know their human story; the most of them are
dead,
But to these old colonials 1 humbly bare my head.
Hats off, Australian army, and let your bugles blow
The Last Post proudly over the old folks lying low!
Ye are the sons and grandsons who answered to the
test;
They were the sires and grandsires who bred ye North
and West.
Your comrades fell in glory, and glory is your meed.
They passed in humble quiet, and left the Anzac
breed !
So soft and sad, but thankful, in echoing refrain,
The Last Post for our Fathers—the Fathers of the
Slain !
They built her on the Clarence, the schooner of their
pride.
A great day was her launching along the riverside;
Smart buggies from Ulmarra with girls in gingham
drove;
Came horsemen from Orara to talk of crops or love.
A POT-SHOT.
“What did the teacher keep you in this
afternoon for?”
“She asked me to name the four seasons.”
“And what did you say?”
“Salt, mustard, pepper ad vinegar.”
Came riders out of Lawrence, a boatload from
Maclean;
Came chiels in Scottish tartan, came chaps with
neckties green ;
And all was gay and friendly along the river brink
With bulging picnic baskets and billy-tea to drink.
The company that owned her was tem’prance to the
core;
They broke no bottle on her bow, their sacred Golden
Shore ;
No tribute to the sea gods in pagan custom they
Would tolerate or sanction on that auspicious day.
The Golden Shore slid smoothly adown the greasy
slips,
Took up her seaward burdens with other coastal
ships;
She freighted maize from Grafton and sugar from
the mill
Whose old brick walls are standing, I think, by
Southgate still.
She carried pit-sawn cedar from jungles of Glcnreagh,
And silky oaks from Harwood and hides from Chats-
worth way,
And bacon from the South-Arm and butter from the
cream
The dairy folk were churning along the dark Cold-
stream.
The produce of the Rivers to Sydney, trip by trip,
She bore in pleasant profit, this old unchristened ship.
But this they said the cause was of unexpected
doom:
Upon a homeward voyage, with lots of stowage room,
She carried to the Clarence, despite her owners’
views—
Alas the tents of Rechab! —“a freight of filthy
booze” :
Beer and rum and whisky, the cursed brews of Hell,
Consigned by city merchants to store and bush hotel!
A fair South wind it met her just north of Broken
Bay,
And with her, like a blessing, kept sweetly all the
way.
The morning tide was friendly, despite her freight
of sin ;
She crossed the bar at Yamba and, like a bird, came
in.
She anchored by Iluka some cases to get out,
And then to take the channel they put the ship about.
She grounded on a sandbank ; the skipper in his ire
Called down the curse of Heaven—and found his
ship afire 1
None knew, and none will ever know, what caused
that tragedy:
It might have been, perhaps it was, the man’s impiety.
Down to the water’s edge she burned, and, hard to
be endured,
The half her building costs unpaid and only half
insured!
These old Colonial owners, though grief was on them
then
Along the Northern Rivers, were strong and pious
men.
They met their loss and faced it, with neither curse
nor frown—
They left a good tradition, their stock will hand
it down.
But 1 an interloper, a scoffer and a Celt,
Who often heard the story, have always slyly felt
That if our dear relations had broken o’er her bow
A little pagan bottle she would be running now 1
But hats off, ’Stralian soldiers, and let your bugles
blow
The Last Post friendly over the old folks lying low!
They laughed the world’s kind laughter, they wept
the world’s sad tears,
They had their joys and sorrows, these sturdy pioneers.
As 1 went by Iluka, the adage came to rne
That plans of mice and men, sirs, they often gang
agley;
That Life is just a venture, its loss must be en-
dured,
With half our work unfinished and nothing much
insured.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


1
*■
m
■
„ m:
>■
m m
, ■
y
iss?
* • i.
'
US
"'• . '
mm
*V:
i
.1!
'
■ .
m
fi
>1
PI
m
r | '’HE Eartli s fruitfulness, anciently ascriked
to tke koar-frost and dew falling from
tlie glistening manes ol tlie Wlnte Steeds
of tlie v alkyries, is to-day concentrated in
White Horse Whisky
PURE B urn W ater from Crystal Springs,
finest grown Barley and tke lnstoric pot-
stills of Islay and Glenlivet, liave produced
tke krand famed every wkere under tke la Lei
of tke W r kite H orse.
The White Horse Cellar
J
ES-tZvb. 1742
“IN A CLASS BY ITSELF FOR AGE AND QUALITY”
1
I
1
1.1 HP ■»
1
PP
XU
1
i . a* m-
I 1
litf i i i p«h i#‘\j
%***%% \ w 1 fc*2t Ink I
W ' c
scotch ti
i M I®# * I
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD,, GLASGOW & LONDON


TT7T
i
Acknowledged to be
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
RABBIT DESTRUCTION CERTAIN
with
CALCIUM CYANIDE.
FUMO
BRAND
No rabbit can escape its deadly .fumes, which are given off
for at least twenty-four hours inside the warren. This is the
secret of its success over other fumigants, for no fume
generated outside and blown in lasts, it is very soon absorbed
by the soil.
CALCIUM CYANIDE is blown into the warren like dust, and
every opening is made visible. Its fumes
penetrate even the deepest dead-ends.
The Fumo Dust Blower has been speci-
ally designed for its application, as the
result of 12 months’ experience. It is
strong, simple and convenient. The
supply of dust is under direct control and
can be completely shut off if desired.
State Distributors:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor JLeggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Btd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarf e & Sand overs, Ltd., Perth.
“Jesmond”: A long argument among
troops in hospital resulted in an experiment. Two
pegs were put in the ground, 200 yards apart, in
an almost level grass paddock, and 12 men with
leg injuries—so that equal steps were impossible —
and three with arm injuries volunteered to do their
bit. Each man was blindfolded, after making sure
of the direction he had to take, and sent over the
course. The result put us no further forward;
among the “leg” men three were stopped only to
save them tripping over the peg, five deviated up
to nine yards on the side of their sound limbs
and the rest went up to 12yds. on the side of
their injured legs. One of the arm men went within
a foot of the peg on the left side ; the other two
within 3yds. on the right. It seems, therefore, that
unequal pace-length as an explanation of the “cir-
cling” of men lost in the bush will have to be dis-
carded. Further, it appeared to me that the degree
of concentration which the men brought to the
test had little or no effect on the result, for those
who were really intent on the job finished up no
better than those who went over the course not
caring a cuss —actually the latter were, if any-
thing, better than the former.
“J.C.”: The fatal circling of lost men can, I
think, be explained by the fact that the average
white man, when walking, does not plant his feet
in exactly the same line. If to this fact we add
the assumption that a man’s right and left strides
differ in length, the circling is easily understood.
This difference need only be very small. If a man
places his feet 6in. apart in walking, has 30in.
strides, and travels in a circle of 5 miles radius,
the one stride need only differ from the other by
one four-thousandth part of an inch. This, I
suppose explains why an abo. rarely gets lost, for
he plants his feet in the same line, so that the
effect due to the inequality of steps vanishes.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: I agree with “Tarwoona”
(8.12/2/’25) that mateship in the Bush is far
from dead. But you get some poisonous examples of
how it has been corrupted. Two men who had
spent the best part of a lifetime together in the
back country were lately parted through one becom-
ing seriously ill and having to go to hospital. The
other visited the patient as often as hospital rules
would allow, was present at the death-scene, and
attended the funeral in a hired turnout. A few
days later he visited the Public Trustee’s agent in
the township about the estate. Having arranged
to have the same administered, he mournfully handed
in a bill for time lost while visiting the deceased
and attending the funeral, and for the hire of the
sulky and horse. It w’as all done for his mate’s
benefit, he explained, and he didn’t see why the
estate shouldn’t pay.
* * • *
“Bouragi”: As “Skyrider” says (B.
19/2/’25), there is plenty of evidence that the gum-
tree discourages mosquitoes—those of other lands.
As far as our own pests are concerned, I have been
eaten alive too often in gum-tree country —and blue-
INTELLIGENT ANTICIPATION.
MRS. MURPHY: “No, yer Reverence, Pat can’t go on that
scrub-uttin’ job to-day — he’s in bed wid snake-
bite.”
FATHER O'GRADY: “Save his soul! An’ so he’s been
bit, eh?"
MRS. MURPHY: “Not yet, Father; but he has drank a
bottle of brandy ’n case he might be!”
gum at that—to put much faith in the protection
of the eucalypts at home. The idea was tried in the
Roman Campagna, and success was claimed. Many
folk, however, assert that the trees were beneficial,
not from any disinfective value, but because they
dried up a. lot of water and reduced the mosquitoes’
breeding grounds. As to the Natal anopheles men-
tioned by “Skyrider,” he still flourishes, and there
is plenty of malaria in the coastal belt still, especi-
ally on Zululand border.
* * * *
“Wolista”: This was as awkward a run
of accidents as ever happened to a man in my bush
experience. Up in
Central Australia,
where hospitals are few
and wine shanties are
popular, an old bush-
man rode up to a
store, situated on the
main route to the
Northern Territory. His
purchases included a
tweed overcoat, which
he donned, and then
proceeded on hia way.
Shortly afterwards he
put his pipe away in
the pocket, and soon
discovered that the
coat was burning vigor-
ously. At the same
moment his horse be-
came aware of the
danger, and bolted, it
ran into a wire-fence
-—one of the rarest of
things in Central Aus-
tralia —an 1 the rider
was thrown and ren-
d e r e d unconscious.
Hours later he revived,
to find himself pos-
sessed of no clothing
except the remains of
a leather belt and the
soles of his boots.
Though badly burned
he set out to walk back
to the store, and,
luckily meeting a
nigger, sent him on with
the news that a “white
phella close up finish
along road.” With the
aid of the storekeeper
he got back to the
store, and remain'd
there until a missionary
collected a team of
donkeys and conveyed
him in a tilted van to
the Inland Mission Hos-
tel at Oodnadatta, a
distance of 120 miles,
over rough roads. In
that institution he lay
for 13 weeks, and emerged to once more journey
to the out-back country.
* * * *
“S.C.”: Although some of the early bush
writers put it down as the “most venomous snake
in Australia,” I think the common black snake
(Porphriaeus pseudechis ) must yield the palm to
both the brown and the tiger. In
cases of bite from the black devil
which have come under my notice
the victims have recovered after treat-
ment ; but where a tiger-snake was
the aggressor there was an apparent
recovery followed by sudden collapse
and death. He usually hangs on to
his victim, and so gets a chance to
inject more venom, whereas the gentle-
manly black bites and passes on. In
an experiment with tiger, brown and
black snakes on rabbits, the reptiles
killed their bunnies most quickly (by
bite) in the order named, the tiger-
snake administering the unhappy de-
spatch in a much shorter time than
the others. Strange how few eases
are recorded of bites from non-venom-
ous snakes, all (except the brown tree-
snake) solid-toothed! I have seen
a green tree-snake (harmless) add it-
self suddenly to a party bathing in a
river, but although the reptile passed
close to bare flesh it made no attempt
to bite.
* * *
“G. 5.8.”: Peter had been
thrice widowed and his piccaninnies
had scattered. Very bent, very dirty
and conscious of approaching dissolu-
tion, he asked for nothing but the
solitude of his hut. But Mary, not
quite so old, believed that life might
find her one more matrimonial adven-
ture, and every day she found an
opportunity of asking Peter “Why
you no marry um?” She never re-
sented the torrid abuse with which she
was hunted away. In desperation
Billy came to town and asked the
local constable for protection. “Well,
why don’t you marry her?” said the
officer. “She good gin, look after
you.” Peter’s indignant answer
showed how carefully he had absorbed
the teachings of the bush missionary.
“I tellum magistrate on you!” he re-
plied. “You tellum me breakum law!
1 no marry wife’s ’ceased sister!”
* * * *
“Tarago” : The only true brand of social-
ism I know is practised by our native birds. The
hunger cries of almost any young bird cm e it has
left the nest will bring it a foster-parent, and often
one of a different species. I once saw a magpie
feeding a pair of young Derwents, or butcher-birds,
as well as its own offspring. Watching a blue-
bonnet wren giving a young goldfinch a meal I got
the idea of playing a prank on our spinster canary.
She was in the habit of laying eggs and going
through the duties of a proper matron, always with
saddening results, until I placed three young fledg-
LUBRICATION WANTED.
BRIDE'S FATHER (to ’groom, who is finding the ring a hit tight) :
“Suck ’er finger, boay!”
lir.g goldfinches in her nest. It took five minutes
for her to get over the astonishment of the dis-
covery, then she set to work and attended to them
until they were able to look after themselves. By
the way, the kookaburra is regarded as an outcast
by the other birds. One never sees Jack join in
their social gatherings, or take part in a combined
attack on a common enemy; he is generally attacked
himself. This is due to his reputation for being
a cannibal. I’ll say this for him, that he never
goes out of his way to rob a nest or kill a young
bird, but if an orphan or a stray happens ajong
Jack will feed off it, instead of feeding it as
others do.
* • • #
“Goolara”: Add magpies to the list of
bird prophets given by “Nitric” (B. 29/l/’25). Be-
fore rain, maggies keep to the ground a good deal,
trailing their wings and warbling; this is always
an indication of an approaching change. Again,
when wild ducks build in trees instead of among
the reeds, you may be sure rain is coming.
• •••••
“Tessa”; I flatly deny the statement (B. 5/3/’25)
that when swifts circle high up in a desultory
fashion the clouds are about to “shout” for the
thirsty earth. I remember watching a multitude
of these birds in the Walcha (N.S.W.) district, and
being warned by the usual ass to expect rain. The
rain came, I’ll admit, but not until after one of
the longest and severest droughts the country had
known.
“Pick”; The frog is as good a weather-prophet
as there is. One sends out his forecast from a
letter-box at Enfield (N.S.W.). Usually at evening
what sounds like him may be heard joyously serenad-
ing from under an adjacent culvert, but now and
then he climbs into the box. Then he brek-kek-e-keks
in a tone of voice unheard from him at other times,
and the rain splashes along inside of 12 hours.
At Mount Cooper woolshed, Monaro (N.S.W.), a
frog gives his warning notes of a coming change
from the overflow pipe of the shearers’ hut tank.
So confident in his predictions did the rouseabouts
become, that wjhenever he was heard in the pipe
at shearing-time the sheep were put under cover.
* * * *
“Wink”: As a trap for blowflies there is
nothing can beat an oleander. These trees are
very floriferous, yet in every bloom of a dutiful tree
will be found a defunct or nearly defunct blowy.
The ghastly insects go head first into the flower,
poke their long tongues into a narrow opening to
reach the concealed honey, and never change posi-
tion in this world. They die with their tongues out.
W T ho can tell me why?
* # # *
“Bad Australian”: “Wingella” (B.
19/2/’25) is right in maintaining that roast bandi-
coot is white, tender and succulent. I have found
it very grateful and comforting fixed up like this.
After dressing, wash the cadaver in a fairly strong
solution of salt and water. Fill up with sage and
onion stuffing; place in-camp oven with about 41b.
of lard, butter or dripping; throw in half a dozen
peeled potatoes; add 4 pint of water and cover.
Put plenty of hot ashes around and on top of oven,
and in about an hour you will have a dish to make
a sybarite howl for a second helping.
“Nitric”: The reason why the bandicoot is not
relished by bushmen is that it is generally covered
with lice. I know this to be true of the bandicoot
( Perameles ) of the sugar cane, and I believe the
scrub and forest ’coots are just as lousy. Strangely
enough, the paddymelon and kangaroo-rat are not
similarly affected, though the latter emulate wal-
labies in collecting scrub ticks.
* * * *
“Belmont” : Two black boys who bad been
working on different stations met in the C.Q. town
which to them was the hub of the universe. On
repairing to the pub they discovered that their re-
spective cheques were colored, one pink, the other
blue. An argument arose as to which was the better
color, and presently they swapped. The blue cheque
was worth £l, the pink one £5; but a little thing
(ike that didn't matter.
* * * #
“Cockle Bay” : It can hardly be said that
the spears of the Tasmanian abos. had neither point
nor cutting edge (11. 2G/2/’25). True, the Tas-
manians never used stone spearheads, nor did they
point them with bone, but they sharpened the
wood as best they could and hardened it in the fire.
Tuere is at least one case on record in which one
of these spears went through the leather of a heavy
boot. When Baldwin Spencer was in the Northern
Territory he made an interesting trial of the range
of the spears favored by the Melville Island natives,
who, like the Tasmanians, do not use a spearthrower.
The best effort was 143 ft, 6in.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: My collie-kelpie cross has a
weakness in the hindquarters, which only manifests
itself when he starts to run or gets a fright. Once
he is in action he is all right, but for the first few
yards he is stiff and drags his hind legs. When he
gets a fright he goes stiff all over and usually falls.
In both cases the weakness is momentary. I
have tried Easton’s Syrup, but it seemed to make
him dopey; and liniments would be difficult to
apply, owing to his thick, long coat. As the dog
is very intelligent, a great worker and a good pal,
I would like to know if any expert can advise. P.S.;
The three dogs in the litter suffer in the same way.
* * * *
“F.P.J.” : The tallest gin I have ever seen
is on Brunette Downs, a Northern Territory cattle
station. She is 6ft. 2in. and, in spite of her 70-odd
years, is as straight and active as some of her
numerous progeny, 30 and 40 years her junior.
Recently she was taken to Camooweal, 210 miles
from Brunette, by car, and a day later started the
return journey on horseback. Riding at night some
of the time, she reached the homestead in two days
and a half.
» * * *
“Wai-hoi”: Aged cock emu (B. 5/2/’25)
isn’t too bad when you’re hungry. Between Napier,
Broome Bay, and Admiralty Gulf, at the top end
of W.A., we struck a thin time, and ’roo meat
running out, we made shift with roast leg of emu.
We dug a» fair-sized hole in clayey soil for an
oven and kept a good cabbage-gum fire blazing for
an hour ; then we put the two big legs in on a bark
dish and covered the show up for about three hours.
The result was good, and would have been better if
fihe ill-fated bird hadn’t tried so much sight-seeing
and got rid of all his fat.
A ’ORRIBLE OUBT.
FRED: “Wops up, ’Arry? Met a ghost?”
HARRY: “ Nah! I rushed outer the pub to
see a dorg-fight, an’ now I’m blowed if
I can remember whether I drunk me
beer or not.”
“The Deacon” : Another entry for the Queer
Accident Stakes. Fourteen-years-old Ronald Mont-
gomery was swimming with a strong current in the
Richmond River at Casino (N.S.AV.) when his foot
became jambed between two rocks and wedged in
so tightly that he found himself caught as if in a
vyce. A man who came to the rescue could do
nothing but keep the boy’s head above water until
further help arrived. It took the united efforts o!
six men and a crowbar to widen the aperture and
release the kid.


ESSEX-rfJZr
Built by Hudson Under Hudson Patents
Essex
Touring
r
r
o
&
u©
Genuine balloon Tires
Give Greater Riding Ease, Braking Efficiency, Shock Protection
With all the old-time Essex qualities of performance
and reliability, you now get: Full size, genuine
balloon tires —Added beauty and distinction
—Easier riding—Easier steering—Almost
double braking efficiency .
Naturally when balloon tires had established their
superiority Essex would adopt them. They are now
standard equipment. They add an even greater
measure of riding ease, steadiness and good looks to
the notable values of the Coach. With the advanced
system of spring suspension and low center of gravity,
safe, comfortable travel is assured on all roads and at
all speeds.
The Essex Six is built by Hudson under Hudson
patents. Thus it is the product of the famous
6-cylinder experience of the sixth largest builder of
motor cars in the world. It alone shares the advan-
tages of design and construction for which the Hud-
son Super-Six is celebrated.
Its economy in fuel and oil is one of the notable
achievements of motor engineering—combining ex-
cellent performance capacity with exceptional gasoline
mileage. Easy accessibility and low prices on all
replacement parts make the Essex Six remarkably
economical in maintenance. Either the open touring
model or the closed car comforts of the Coach give
value, we believe, not approached in this field.
The COACH
Closed Car Comforts
at little more
than Open Car Cost
The Coach is a Hudson-Essex invention.
No other type and no other car gives
“Closed Car Comforts at Open Car Cost”.
Everyone knows it represents the highest
closed car value. That is why it is the
largest selling 6-cylinder closed car in the
world.
miiiiniii
ESSEX Australian Body Phaeton
ESSEX Coach -
£375
435
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A,
DAL.GETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEAP'S OTORS PTY., LTD.,
140 Exhibition Street
Melbourne. Vie-
MOTORS, LIMITED
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A
MOTORCARS. LTD.
Desmond Chambers,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Q.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
63-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street,
Perth, W.A.


Kill
A. Saunders’ Lady’s double-cut Diamond-set All-
Platinum Lever Watch, silk wristlet, £30.
* Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£25.
assi
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, real Platinum
set, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£20.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18et.. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£15.
Illlllllllll]
13
A.SAUMOCRV \\
05-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond-set All-Platinum
bevor Watch, silk wristlet, guaranteed, £4o.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
Nccklet, 15ct.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring:, all Platinum
set, £95.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£20, £15,
£12/10/-, £10.
A.
let
Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Lever Watch, silk wrist
, £2/15/-, £3/10/-, £4/10/, £5/10/-
£0/10/-, £7/10/-, £8/10/-, £10,
£12/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
DIAMOND SPECIALIST
: ••
cs\\ ta /^>
. V .
? g, &
011
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond-set All-Platinum
Lever Watch, silk wristlet, guaranteed, £75.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
loot. Gold, £10.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch.
1 act. Gold. £5/10/-
O)
G^>
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Ciold Lever W atch, silk wristlet, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Lever Watch, silk wristlet, £B/10/-.
I Act. Gold, £lO.
All Orders sent per Registered Post free.
Send for Catalogue.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER - - - JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway
Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s double-cut Diamond-set Platinum
Lever Watch, 18et. Gold, silk wristlet, guaranteed,
£20,
KagSRB&P'
A. Saunders’ Lady’s double-cut Diamond-set All-
Platimim, Lever Watch, silk wristlet, guaranteed,
£32/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18et. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£20.
Smaller Diamonds,
£15, £12/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£30, £25.
£20, £15.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
Platinum set,
£5O.
.'Mini Kiel's'
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
a: 20.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Kina', Ifict. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£15.
Larger Diamonds,
£20.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£20, £15, £10.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Fancy-shape Lever Watch, silk wristlet,
£B/10/-, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
i'v
Si
tl
A Delightful Restorative
The refreshing fragrance of “471 l”
following an afternoon’s shopping ban-
ishes that feeling of fatigue and lassitude.
Obtainable at all Chemists,
and Leading Departmental Stores.
Head Office fcr Australia: 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
nm.
aude
ologne
J
(0
0.
o.
0
Spring Street, MELBOURNE.
The bright and homely atmosphere produced by the perfect
appointments, the quick, courteous service, and the pleasant
central situation, amid old-world parks and gardens, of the
Hotel Windsor, make the
stay of every visitor a long-
remembered pleasure.
The cuisine is of the same
high standard of excellence
that characterises every other
detail.
Hot and cold water
and telephones in all
bedrooms are special
features.
Minimum Tariff:
Prom 20/-
(inclusive).
Room & Breakfasl:
From 13/6.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams & Cables:
“Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Manager: B. C. JONES.
■
'
1
a
* :~L>
VI
1
Mm*tm i
u mm


WHEN A MAN
PACKS-
THE FIRST THING
HE MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS-
vs
Sf'
n
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Everybody Appreciates **
PLUM PUDDINGS
% Obtainable
fe.. All Grocers
VI
aw
I
si
UK.
• «
B @
«I *
me
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne.
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK & DOVLE
Phones Central 1532, 1533.
The Melbourne Repertory Co. opened its
winter campaign for the encouragement of
better plays on Saturday night with Shaw s
"Saving of Blanco Posnet,” followed by
three long-winded acts of “The New Mor-
ality” by Chapin. The dingy interior of
the Playhouse was well filled, but the people
who came along prepared to blush at the
Shavian naughtiness that had been censored
for 10 years by the English Chamberlain,
sniffed on finding it less wickedly suggestive
than most movie thrillers. Dulcie Bland,
as the worst woman in Blanco’s “rotten
little burg,” had frocked herself in short-
skirted green satin, with a lace drape
across the front; Mrs. Apperly brightened
the bedroom scene of “The New Morality”
in a nightie of a passionate cyclamen pink,
and Elizabeth Woodyatt administered con-
solation in a white frock and a little red
hat. The shower of floral tributes was a
heavy one, but no one was stirred to call
insistently for the usual speech. The vice-
regal Forsters decorated the front balcony
row.
After 14 years across seas, singer Elsa
Stralia hopped off Friday’s Adelaide express
into a vortex of welcomes. They started on
the Ballarat platform with a group of local
serenaders, who tempted the returned star
to add her voice to theirs. After receiving
the civic blessing in Melbourne from the
Mayoral Bruntons, Elsa ran the gauntlet of
a second gang of troubadours, the Orpheus
Choristers, in ambush on the marble stair-
way. At the Varsity Con., where she got her
first training with the late Madame Weider-
maim, her Uncle Sobell, the Con.’s musical
director, stood waiting, one vast _ expan-
sive smile, with Professor Laver behind him
ready with a speech, and the Con.’s star
pupils drawn up in ranks to show the re-
turned singer that Australia is not going to
let the world go short of prirna donnas. The
Con. then sang its welcome. Eileen McCor-
mack and the 18-year-old Myrtle Wise aired
coloratura sopranos of remarkable weight
and flexibility; Dorothy Reseigh, Lilian
George and Carrie Cairduff ran a good
second, and Victor Baxter’s tenor rang out
with all its old flutiness.
The Louis Nelkin pair beckoned their
intimates into their new South Yarra home
on Sunday afternoon for a wangi with
Guy Bates Post and a farewell to his wife,
who is going back to America on April 1.
The star actor and his wife being a friendly
pair, and the Nelkins admirable hosts, the
brook of small talk flowed with freedom.
Mrs. Louis greeted the incoming stream in
the hall chiffoned in a one-piece of black
crepe and an epaulette of mauve blossoms. Mrs.
Guy’s sand-colored frock, cobwebbed over
with gold, was warmed by a frilly cloak,
collared expensively at the neck with fur.
It was noted that the dressy little matron
carried an unsliingled head, and a skirt
hem just topping the ankles. A stringed
orchestra accompanied Walter Kirby’s silvery
tenor and Mrs. Post’s well-poised soprano;
later the two warbled a duet. With the pair
was Cecil Haynes, the clever Sydney girl
who has come to play the slavey in “The
Masquerader” : as a child she did the little girl
in the original Aussie production. In the throng
were sighted Mrs. Byron Moore, the Albert
Miller widow, Mrs. Bowes Kelly, daughter
Edna, Tom Cochran, Mrs. James Alston, Dr.
Nyulasy and sister Laura.
Toorak St. John’s overflowed with the
best-known for the wedding of squatter
Philip Bussell, of Carngliam, Western District,
and Dr. Herman Lawrence’s elder daughter.
Bride Beryl’s gold-and-wliite brocaded silhou-
ette was etched under a misty veil, the gift
of the Abbotsford nuns, and two white-and-
gold tots, Jack Blackwell and Audrey
Stokes, guarded it with their lives. Sisters
Jean Lawrence and Anne Russell ’maided in
gold lace, inlaid at the hip with gold and
pearls, and Gordon Landale. revisiting his
native gum-trees, best-manned with the help
of Walter Cain. A golden horde had been
asked in to the tamasha at Toorak’s big
flat-house, The Towers, where Mrs. Law-
rence hostessed in black silk and leopards’
skins. The ’groom’s mother, Mrs. James Rus-
sell, lightened black satin with a string-
colored pinny of gieorgette. Dalgety’s
manager, George Aitken, as chief spokes-
man, reminded the gathering that the Rus-
sell family helped to blaze the Western Dis-
trict’s woolly trail in the early ’forties, when
the head of the clan pegged out a claim and
called it Carngliam.
Cluimber of Commerce delegates and their
womenfolk had a gay time between confer-
ences. One evening the Bob Knox pair—
she was late baronet William Clai'ke’s young-
est daughter—called them into their Toorak
home for bridge, talk or music as they felt
disposed. The hostess stood in a wash of
gold tissue, loosely coated with glittering
lace. Cousins Zeeruste and Ronda Clarke
helped her to keep things moving. Mrs. W.
L. Raws, wife of the Melbourne Chamber’s
president, was encased in black and bound
with gold; and the parlors bloomed with
costly vegetation. Another day the petti-
coated section motored up Mount Macedon to
eat their middav meal with Mrs. George
Russell at Greystanes. And on Thursday
the Melbourne Chamber motored the dele-
gates and their feminine belongings to the
Frankston Golf Clubs. Some of the cars
called a brief halt at Ormond to let the visi-
tors gaze on the wonders of the plant farm.
After lunch the company trotted off to the
lawns or links, leaving a few of the elders
to the cardroom. A putting contest for prizes
given by Mrs. George Russell provided the
biggest thrill. Dr. Lemmon and his dad tied
in the male singles. Mary Raws won the
women’s potion, and R. Lemmon and Mrs.
Victor Leggo took the mixed doubles trophy.
The Arts and Crafts Society has been
spreading itself upon a show of the work
of Eileen Lawton, a homing student of the
Central School in London. Miss Lawton
puts a very excellent taste in color and de-
sign into all manner of forms —turns from
line embroidery to leather work, and from
that to pottery or illuminating. The lot
makes an extensive and attractive display.
There is method in the enthusiasm of the
Arts and Craft Society over the work, too;
Miss Lawton has been rushed into a position
on the Council of the society, and it looks to
her to help the society’s prestige.
The Exhibition Building is the only edi-
fice in Melbourne that could have held the
crowd which installed State Governor Strad-
broke for his fourth term as Grand Master
of the Masons in Victoria. The aprons rail
to a total of 6000, including representatives
of the Grand Lodges of other States, and
Melbourne’s Archgaiters, who is also on the
square. Victoria’s habit of Governor-Grand
Masters dates back to the time of Lord
Brassey. Lord Stradbroke made some re-
marks about the growth of Masonry in Vic-
toria, which showed that 6000 new Masons
had taken the necessary oaths and bought
the haberdashery to dress the part during the
last year.
Sam Warnock parted with his younger
daughter, Leila, to her English fiance, Roy
Bellgrove, on Thursday night, the exchange
being made at Toorak St. John’s. Leila glit-
tered like a newly-minted sovereign, in gold
sheathings under a frothing veil of tulle,
while Edna Tatchell, her sole attendant, flut-
tered cyclamen-colored georgette. Eddie Crcs-
well took charge of the ’groom, and the
bride’s uncle, C. E. Ventry-Gayer, helped the
vicar to tie the knot. Sam Warnock had
his widowed daughter, Mrs. Jack Wharton,
in to help him with the shivoo.
The open countenance pictured here by
Lafayette belongs to Mrs. Elizabeth Apperly,
producer for
the Melbourne
Repertory
Theatre, who
lately landed
back from a
visit to her
old home in
Ireland. I n
England she
talked to Ber-
nard Shaw,
who promised
her the rights
of “St. Joan,”
his new play,
in which Sybil
Thorn dyke
starred so bril-
liantly. The
Melbourne
company i s
now produc-
i n g Shaw’s
“Blanco Pos-
net” at the Playhouse. This “sermon in
crude melodrama,” as its audacious author
called it, was banned for 10 years in Eng-
land, but the censorship did not extend to
Ireland, where it was performed by the
Abbey Players, of whom Mrs. Apperly was
one. The lady has been thirsting to
see how Australian audiences would take
it, and she is glad we have no Chamberlain
here to say “Nay, nay” to some of the out-
spoken passages. She has brought back
with her many schemes with which to enter-
tain Melbourne play-lovers.
Another splash in the matrimonial stream
was made the same night by Ray Pender,
second son of the S. Australian Basil Pen-
ders, of Struan Park, and Madge Tivey,
daughter of the William Tiveys of Perth, and
niece of our major-general. They, too, chose
St. John’s. The bridal brocade was back-
curtained with velvet, and the bridal tulle
showered from a mooring of orange-blossoms.
Elizabeth and Annette Thonipson had come
from Sydney to carry Auntie Madge’s train,
while sister Moira, cousin Violet Tivey and
Marjorie Gibson ’maided in a dazzle of gold
tissue and lace. Norman Stevens saw the
’groom through the trying moments, and
the bride’s parents spread the hospitality at
No. 9 Darling-street.
The Austral Salon has seethed since the
new rooms were opened. Members fed the
Guy Bates Post pair on tea, talk and song
one day, and Thursday sa\v the annual
meeting. Dame Madden being unable to
occupy the chair, Mrs. John Iliffe filled it
for her. Business was cheered with music.
Natalie Dawson was on the piano stool, and
amongst those who listened were the Jimmy
Dyers, the Louis Nelkins, Eileen Castles and
Walter Kirby.
This is Victorian artist R. Greville
McCann, who has just unpacked a show of
his overseas
paintings in the
Atliena; u m
Hall. Local art
experts will
look with in-
terest at the
Royal Acad-
emy landscape
which French
and English
critics likened
to Corot. Writ-
ing in the
Revue Mop-
erne, Clement
M o r r o, a
French critic
of note, pre-
dicted great
things for the
young man,
who has been
working hard
at the Brit-
ish Academy in Rome and the Aca-
demic de la Chaumiere in Paris, and run-
ning around the great art collections in
between. Besides the R.A. success, his work
wms exhibited at the Walker Gallery (Liver-
pool), the Oldham Gallery and the Exhibi-
tion of Australian Artists Abroad.
Professor Peter MacCallum,' who stepped
off the Oronsay into the Chair of Pathology
vacated by Harry Allen, brings with him a
charming highbrow wife. She holds the only
D.Sc. ever issued in her native Maoriland to a
woman. Her first husband, Lance Jennings,
a M.L. chemist who threatened to write his
name large in the story of scientific research,
was killed in France. The lady was assistant-
lecturer of Botany at the Edinbro’ Varsity,
when she took a second matrimonial chance
with her old friend Professor MacCallum.
Her Doctor of Science degree is reinforced
by Fellowships of the Linnean and British
Mycology societies, but she has let her learn-
ing lie fallow of late years to devote her
attention to her husband and babes.
The “Mrs. Higgins, of the Aventine Hill,
Rome,” who entertained the Y.A.L. boys the
other day was Mrs. George Higgins, of Mel-
bourne. In giving the young people a treat
the tall, dark, vivacious lady was indulging
an old passion. Whatever form the tea on
the Aventine took—queer how they still
speak as if those seven knolls of Rome were
grassy and visible —it would be a success.
Mrs. George Higgins was a Miss Shuter, one
of a family well scattered across the world
in medical and naval positions. Her hus-
band is a consulting engineer. There is an
elder son who has been making roads and
bridges in Borneo, and a younger son is
with her in Rome studying architecture.
Little Captain Lawrence, who gent-helps
on the G.-G.’s staff, has plenty of grey
matter under his blonde -thatch. One of his
hobbies is sketching. During a recent visit
to tropical Java he wielded his pencil freely,
and now it is rumored Melbourne will be
allowed to judge his artistic performance at
an exhibition. The young man is a brother
of Margery Lawrence, authoress of “Miss
Brandt. Adventuress,” which wms almost a
best-seller.
Architect Sid. Rodway, younger brother
of artist Florence, whose dad is Leonard
Rodway. the Speck’s chief botanist, sailed
by the Runic from Hobart. Sid. who saw
war service, goes to Blighty on this occasion
to see if there is anything in the rumor
that the Australian bungalow and similar
styles of architecture are coming rapidly
into favor in British housing schemes. If
there is anything doing he will stay a while
in the Cold Land.
Before returning to his musical billet in
England W. N. McKie dropped a bright
feather for the choir of Melbourne’s Angli-
can Cathedral to put in its collective cap.
McKie’s business has been amongst English
cathedrals; and he says that he has heard
“few choirs as good and none better” than
that of St. Paul’s. This, with some added
remarks about “musical intelligence” and
“vigor rare in Cathedral choirs,” carried an
undertone of reproach to those who are care-
less of the artistic work in their midst but
will travel thousands of miles to burn in-
cense at foreign shrines.
Governor Stradbroke disposes of the rumor
that he intends to follow his family back to
England. His term of office does not expire
until February, 1926; and though be may
follow hoary custom and take the few
months’ leave to which he will be entitled, it
is his intention to serve out his sentence.
Mrs. Kerr Cameron, Governor O’Grady’s
married daughter, is farewelling Hobart to
help her husband tear a crust out of the
Queensland soil. The pair are devoted to
each other, and not even vice-regal splendor
could separate them for lone.
Another prop the O’Grady has lost is
private-secretary Wright, who has taken up
a commercial job in Sydney. The young man
is a relative of the brainy A’Beckett clan.
Captain Stopp, it is hinted, is to step into
Captain Wright’s vacant shoes.
One of the smartest weddings Perth has
seen was that of Mavis Hocking, daughter of
mining and racing magnate E. W. Hocking, to
“Brum” White, son of Di\ and Mrs. White of
Fremantle. The knot was tied at St. Pat-
rick’s, West Perth, by Father Lynch. The
svelte and beautiful Mavis, who recently re-
turned from London, wore her “presenta-
tion” gown of silver tissue and satin, and
sister Nova ’maided. St. George’s Hall,
wonderfully decorated, saw the jollo. The
gorgeous trousseau goes to enliven a wheat-
sheep farm near Katanning.
“Cross-word evenings” have invaded Mel-
bourne. Copies of a cross-word puzzle are
distributed and applause and prizes awarded
to those who finish first. “A make of motor-
car,” needing five letters, was presented to
a recent gathering and the solution “Ford”
was offered. “But that has only four
letters!” came tlie protest. “That’s all
right,” retorted the confident one; “quite a
number of people who own one try to spell
it with a “Pli.”
Weenie Naptliine, one of the best-liked
damsels in Geelong’s first social swim, and
Robert Trevor Vincent, of Weeny a, Gular-
gambonc (N.S.W.), are fielding the usual
congratulations. The newly-engaged young
lady is the daughter of the late Dr. Naptliine
and Mrs. A. G. Dickson.
The exodus to Canberra will soon shake
this city. Robert Garran sounded the first
note of the official retreat the other day by
selling his Toorak home. Numerous brass-
caps will folloAv suit, and even Mr. Bruce’s
spats will eventually be snatched from us.
An Englishwoman, writing to a Victorian
friend, asks anxiously if the Melbourne Cup
is to be moved too.
Miss Adelaide’s additions :
There are signs that it is time to begin furnishing
our wardrobes for winter frivols. The Palais has
re-opehed—not the floating one, but its unaquatic
elder sister on North-terrace—and we’re having our
first exhibition of pictures and have had our first
garden party. The garden party was in the E. AV.
Holdens’ flower-massed garden under the shadow of
the hills, the hostess slim and smart in black and
henna color, topppd by a heron-plumed hat. Cumbrae
Stewart has hung her fruits, with an etching or two
from Hylda Atkins, at the Society of Arts rooms,
and attracted a satisfactory sprinkling of red seals.
Elsa Stralia put in a busy week in her native
village—a tea party with the mayoral Glovers as
hosts, an imposing list of local musicians as guests,
and a word or two from the Mayor and Dr. Harold
Davies; serenades by the Bach and the Orpheus
societies; a party at the Elder Conservatorium, with
Dr. Davies to do honors; lunch with the Bonythons
at their Mount Lofty home; motor-drives through
hills that are showing the first hints of their autumn
beauty; and a dance at the Robert Homburgs at
Medindie, whereat the singer was regal in vivid
pink with embroideries of silver and crystal.
Methodist strictures on dancing have fallen on
deaf ears, and the week-end saw Prince Alfred Old
Collegians and their feminine belongings jazzing
gaily in the new memorial hall at an old scholars’
frivol. The Headmaster and Mrs. Bayley, she in
black georgette and velvet, did the honors, with
Miss Dryer, in jade green crepe de Chine, to help.
Mrs. Abraham Shannon, who will be remembered
by many a Digger for the good work she did during
the war, died last week. The crash found her in
England, where she began with railway canteen work
till the Anzac Buffet was started, when she became
one of its permanent helpers. Her London home
was always open to lone South Aussies and her
address was one of the best known to the A.I.F.
The Children’s Hospital has got its much-needed
nurses’ wing—a roomy, three-storeyed building with
verandahs and balconies about it, a flat roof with
a perfect view, a bedroom for each nurse,
lounges and writing-rooms. It is all the outcome of
the £20,000 appeal launched by the Moulden dame
about four years ago, and one of the last things
she did before sailing in the Maloja was to turn
the key in the door and give the place her blessing.
On Saturday the Governor went racing to Cheltenham
—a perfect day that took a big sprinkling of
feminine racegoers down to the Port Adelaide course.
Liberal women forgot politics and committees to
say good-bye to Miss Gertrude Jude. The Federation’s
woman president, Mrs. Mayfield, made an attempt to
catalogue the good work their guest had done, but
gave it up, and handed the traveller a home-made
rug from her fellow committee-women. Meanwhile
the other sex was farewelling Gilligan and his
merry men, and taking no small comfort from the
Englishman’s forecast that another two years will
see the Sheffield back in this State’s keeping. AVe’ve
almost forgotten what it’s like.


The Hall-marlc
TON
of Quality.
If You Are Going to Really Enjoy Your Easter Holidays
YOU MUST HAVE A CAMERA.
The Folding Ensign
No. 2£B
If®
m
-
is a Reliable British-made Low-
priced Camera for Daylight Loading
Roll Films. Simple to use, yet
capable of producing really good
work. Compact and slips into the
pocket easily.
The pictures are the popular x
2 4 size. lakes the No. 120 Spool.
With Achromatic Lens ......
With Rapid Rectilinear L ens . .
POSTAGE ly-
. . £2/5/
.. £2/15/
e have the largest and most complete range of
CAMERAS
to be seen in any Photographic Warehouse in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BOX FORM MODELS.
11/3 to 27/-
VEST POCKET.
35/- to £l2/2/6.
FOLDING.
45/- to £22/5/-
REFLEX.
42/- to £4O/15/-
Our New Radio Receiving Sets Catalogue is Now Ready
Free on request.
lIP
The House for
Good Cameras,
PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RADIO WAREHOUSE.
SVDXEY: 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE: 366 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10
M ELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street,
KATOOM HA
BRISBANE:
Bundle Street.
Katoomba Street.
!*8 (Jneen Street.
AUCKLAND. X.Z.: ItO Queen Street.
HAfLDY BF.OS LTD.
JEWELLER.S
RUSTLESS TABLE CUTLERY
is
I!
// Mm
*St .■»/,>S
*//* ml
m
/Stf
/ . AV'?«■-»;
/
PRICE LIST:
With Xylonite Handles, as illustrated—
Table Knives .. 32/6 per half-dozen.
Cheese Knives ~ 26/- per half-dozen.
With Square-end Handles —
Table Knives .. 31 f 6 per half-dozen.
Cheese Knives . . 23/- per half dozen.
ARDY BROS.’ Rust-
less Table Cutlery
* A is of unsurpassed
quality and value. Speci-
ally manufactured by
Joseph Rodgers &
Sons, Ltd., of Shef-
field, these knives are
unique in their hand-
some appearance and
their ability to maintain a
keen cutting edge.
Rustless Cutlery is cer-
tainly the most remarkable
household labor-saving in-
troduction of recent years.
Entirely unaffected by all
ordinary acids, vinegar,
lemon or fruit stains, this
steel has quite replaced
the ordinary shear steel
for table purposes.
The Company’s Rustless
Cutlery forms an ideal
wedding gift; it will last a
lifetime and is fully
guaranteed.
Samples of Cutlery are forwarded on
approval anywhere in Australia.
Five per cent. Viscount allowed on
Cash Purchases.
HARDY BROS LTD.
House of Exclusive Jewellery”
13 Hunter Street. 2.98300 Collins Street, 116-118 Queen Street,
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE.
LON DON.
BR.ISBANE
NOCK & KIRBY’S
Sydney’s Specialty Hardware Store
Three chief factors make shopping specially
attractive to economical people at Nock &
Kirby’s. These are better quality goods and
strictly moderate prices always —a result of
keen buying on our part. Service comes next.
You will find our assistants courteous and
anxious to please you in the slightest detail.
Our Delivery and Mail Order Services are
prompt and never failing—ensuring a satisfac-
tory filling of your order and a quick despatch.
MM*f
i «
Strong Fibre
Cases for
6/11
general use,
Use this SUIT CASE for school or shopping. It is strongly
made of fibre, fitted with one lock, 2 strong clasps, 8 capped
corners, has steel frame, wood frame in lid
20in - 22in - 24in. 26in. 28in.
PRICES 6/11 7/6 8/3 8/11 9/6
A Chip Bath Heater gives you
hot water at no cost.
THIS CHIP BATH HEATER is highly popular now, and we
sell them in thousands each year. Made of the best galvanised-
iron. works with simplicity. Easy to instal and economical to
handle, for it burns chips or discarded papers at no cost, prac-
tically no cleaning either, fills and empties from the top. Each
Heater is supplied with a piece of lieavy-gauge
taper flue about 20 inches long.
PRICE
326
The “N. & K.” HEATER is soundly made of galvanised-iron,
with heavy water-jacket, extending up all round the flue. The
“N. & Iv.” Heater is beautifully painted in wliite enamel, has
outlet pipe on either the right or left of door, to suit the con-
venience of your bathroom. State right or left when
ordering.
PRICE
55/-
SYDNEY’S SPECIALTY HARDWARE STORE,
186-194 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
For the Home Barber—“ Gem” Clippers, 15/-
You cannot help making a good job of Hair-
cutting if you use the “GEM” HAIR CLIP-
PERS, fully plated, with cutters of best-
quality steel, fitted with patent spring
washer and adjusting scrub. In two different
cuts. Medium size “0”
ordinary size “1.”
PRICE'
and
15/-
Country Visitors!
Pap a visit of inspection to our
Store—
when in Sydney for the Show. We
have just completed Special Window
and Interior Displays that are of par-
ticular interest to you.
A walk through the many comprehen-
sive sections will show you what a huge
assortment of dependable low-priced
Hardware we sell— guaranteed Hard-
ware for the Home, Garage, Workshop
or Garden.
Why not come in, see us and the
Special Displays? You will? That’s
fine! We will be glad to make your
acquaintance.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
auras .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
OiariesHeidstefc
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ass
c w
' H <3 nSPjP
Lfe-*
SOAP has
stood for the highest achievement
in soapmaking for more than a century.
Try this delightful Soap and know the
charm of its actual use in your daily life
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd.
P-92
The Coolest Spot in Sydney.
m
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 12.
Why pav 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 21/-
Suppers. from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 2a/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons. 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and o/-
Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-, with
the privilege of two hours delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Resei'ves, ’Phone M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Pauline Frederick, of the profile that
has launched a hundred films, had an almost
vice-regal entry into Sydney on Tuesday.
Snatched tip as soon as the Ventura was
grappled to the wharf, she was whirled in a
dower-smothered car to the Town Hall,
where the Mayor handed her civic words
of welcome, and broached a keg of home-
brew in her honor. Pauline is a slim but
not a fashionably attenuated figure. She
has a vivid face of small dimensions —wore
it under an outsize black hat, cut away at
the back, but droopy as to iving. Also
served with her quiet frocking was a for-
tune in furs and a lai given to her by the
Ilawaiians. June Elvidge, who accompanied
her, is an upstanding lass with bright cheeks
and black tailorings. But a great deal of
the interest centred in just-returned Snowy
Baker, very slim about the solar plexus
and very blue in the eyes. With him was
Mrs. Snowy, also sought by surging masses ;
and quietly drinking a cup of tea as the
world went by sat E. J. Carroll, the man
who had brought the party into this har-
bor.
For weeks the Feminists have been scour-
ing and staining floors and consulting with
plumbers and paper-hangers and such poten-
tates at their new Club rooms in King-street.
Last week, having given the new brown-and-
gold _ curtains a final twirl and the new
cushions a final pat, they flung the doors
wide and beckoned in their friends and
admirers. The rooms, which are the just-
vacated habitat of the Women’s Club, have
considerably altered, the knocking down of
partitions making for open spaces rather
than for privacy. Upstairs the assembly-
room now covers the whole floor, and there’s
no escape from the speeches unless you pre-
tend to faint and get taken down in the lift.
And, of course, speeches will be served regu-
larly, frr that’s one of the seven reasons
for the club’s existence. (The other six are
the same.) The opening brought out femin-
ists even as the sun brings forth butterflies,
and there was a soothing accompaniment of
approval to the speeches made bv president
Preston Stanley and Ruby Rich. Dr. Purdy,
the State’s germ detector-in-chief, was among
those enthroned on the platform, and helped
by kind words to chivvy on the cause of
V\ oman. Ruby Rich made her bow in an
ethereal frock of just the right length and a
speech at least five minutes more than that,
served with a red and white bowpot and a
toque of cunning design. Miss Preston
Stanley was downright in brown ; and Mrs.
Osbourne England, who gathered the strays
under a protecting wing, wore one of the
afternoon g distinguished black frocks. The
club has been fortunate in securing Mrs.
Lewis as its secretary. The clever small
lady stores a big brain under a snug shingle,
a ?4.i ls the author of many a rattling yarn
ot the tropics. Besides which she is, as all
. e -North knows, one of the most understand-
ing of hospital matrons.
The Heavens smiled upon the Sixteen
Suburbs Fair for the Royal North Shore
Hospital on Saturday. The “pitch” was
Killaras beautiful golf links, and, all in
all, it was as alluring as a circus, and as
dazzling From Milson’s Point to Hornsby the
Aorth-side villages have worked overtime in
the cause of the hospital of which they are
proud and wish to be prouder. So mightily
have the 16 pulled together that at
? o clock on Saturday the £5OOO aimed at
had been garnered, and a conservative esti-
sees a glittering total of £lO,OOO when
the final shekel is dropped into the adding
machine. Of course Saturday was a gor-
geous day—blue sky, brilliant sun and a
caressing breeze, just right for a fair. Every
girl helper was a beauty in her own right,
and some in ducky Chinese costumes. Color
ran riot in the decoration of the stalls, and
an ingenuity excelling even that of Eve in
Ihe evolution of the fig-leaf was displayed in
the decorations thereof. ’Ampstead, with its
shies and costers and cocoanuts, was there;
and fortune-tellers and flower-girls despoiled
you in the most genteel way of your utter-
most farthing. To soothe the nerves and
rest the eye after their disturbing beauty,
you turned to the divers’ tank and grew en-
thusiastic over the troupe contorting in a
limited area of fluid. William Morris
Hughes opened the Fair, but even among its
storing prizes found nothing up to the
£25,000 standard.
One of the biggest parties of the week
rallied to say farewell to Sydney writer Eva
Clarke. What started out to be a modest
tea-drinking in the Winter Garden swelled
and swelled like the prideful frog till it
burst its boundaries and had to be housed
in the ballroom of the Australia. Two hun-
dred women, in cool raiment, some of them
managing to let St. Patrick know they re-
membered it was the 17th of Ireland, shook
the departing one’s hand. Here and there a
male bird perspired in tweed plumage and
sipped Pekoe as though his reflections were
of the Ming dynasty, though probably they
were only of gin and bitters. The guest
herself emerged refreshingly from black geor-
gette, and smiled shakily from the shadow
of a flyaway bow perched on a black satin
hat. A small garden plot of purple pansies
that had been handed up by small Marjorie
Compton reposed on the table before her,
alongside a Macedon of parting gifts. (It
will take a dressing-table of giantess dimen-
sions to display the crystals and the prisms
thrust upon her.) The big present was a
musquash coat. There were speeches made
by Mrs. John Barlow. Mrs. F. W. Langton
and Kathleen Finn landing Eva’s amiable
qualities. Previous to the Australia cheerio
the newspaper women of Sydney had gath-
ered at the Wentworth to combine the mid-
day meal and the handing over through Mrs.
Fotheringhame of a rug to the southward-
bound. With the rug went so many good
wishes that belated presswomen caused an
alarming rise in the temperature of sub-
editors all over the city. Mrs. Maclurcan,
the Wentworth’s chatelaine, though ill in
hospital with a damaged foot, sent along a
floral horseshoe with a family of black
cats sporting thereon.
The work of that splendid body of Angli-
can priests known as the Bush Brotherhood,
who minister in the Outback of N. S. Wales,
is well known; but how many know of the
work of the Bush Sisterhood —the “Ser-
vants of the Holy Cross”? The Sisterhood
sprang into being in a weatherbeaten three-
roomed cottage at Nyngan, and consisted of
two women. In a few months’ time there
were given into their charge four little
homeless children, and soon after another
sister joined their ranks. At the end of
the first year Bishop Long placed them on
a definite footing and empowered them to
work among the women and children of the
Bush. A rule of life was drawn up for them,
and since then the Sisters have had two
active years. They deserted the little cot-
tage for a bigger place, which had to be en-
larged later on to accommodate the increasing
number of children that came under their
care. Their house has become a haven which
all ages and classes of women visit, sure of
a welcome and a genuine interest in their .
doings, and of advice and practical sym-
pathy. One of the Sisters follows the example
of the sun-tanned members of the Bush
Brotherhood, and travels into the oddest cor-
nel’s, where she gives instruction and holds
services for women and children, visits their
homes, and becomes a real friend and adviser.
They encounter many difficulties, but the
lonely, big-hearted men and women of the
West take them at their true worth and are
ever anxious to show their appreciation of
all the Sisterhood is trying to do.
Mrs. Linda Prince, a true animal-lover,
greets you from this picture. For nine of
her years she has been a councillor of the
R.S.P.C.A., and for all of them she has been
a friend to
the dumb waif
and stray.
Mrs. Prince is
one of the bril-
1 i a n t Fitz-
Stubbs sisters,
and has com-
posed many
marches and
waltzes; one
of them had
the distinction
of being play-
ed two years
in succession
at Henley re-
gatta. Mrs.
Prince takes a
n umber of
other composi-
tions to Lon-
don in a few
weeks’ time,
along with si
sum of money to help poor kiddies in London
pay the dog-tax that frequently divides the
child of the East End from his best-loved
chum. Leila, her only daughter, died during
the ’flu epidemic, having contracted the dis-
ease while working as a V.A. in Surry Hills.
Lady Bell, just arrived with her bridge-
building husband for the christening of the
Harbor’s new thoroughfare, is an authoress
of some note. She wrote “The Story of
Ursula” and other novels, and one of her
plays, “Time Is Money,” was produced in
London by Charles Hawtrey. Her eldest
daughter, Gertrude Bell. C.B.E., talks Arabic
like a sufi. She was assistant-political officer
at Bagdad during the war. and is now
Oriental Secretary to the High Commissioner
of the Iraq.
The North Shore Bridge Dormans have
settled in the land, and are dug in at the
Astor, where rumor says that, what with one
thing and another, five flats are necessary to
enfold them. The Ennis couple already have
a home in the Macquarie-street pile, so the
knight and the engineer can have bridge par-
ties whenever they feel inclined. Mrs.
Ennis is a good looker, has a gem of a smile
and the all-conquering charm of simple kind-
liness. The Dormans have brought with
them •' daughter. Mrs. Trevor Cook, and a
grand-daughter, Elizabeth Cook.
The little man in the picture is Gerald
Marr Thompson, and he knows a thousand
and one good 'stories of the artist in his
unguarded moments. But that is the
Mar r Thomp-
son who is the
i n t e r esting
after - dinner
raconteur , not
t h e M a r r
Thompson who
thunders his
criticisms i n
the S. M.
Herald, a n d
whose word
has been waited
for, shiver-
ingly, by ama-
teurs, for more
than a quarter
of a century.
All'. Thompson
sails next week
to renew ae-
<[ u nin tance
with a Europe
lie has not seen
since boyhood.
If while in London he could make arrange-
ments to have a book of his memoirs pub-
lished, Australian book-shelves would be
greatly enriched.
Sydney’s new French vice-consul, Marcel
Etienne Auguste Bourguin, is a battle-scarred
hero. He served in the trenches from the
war’s start to its finish, except when in hos-
pital for wounds, first in the arm and then
in the head. Besides his scars he has the
Croix de Guerre with palms. But his adven-
tures did not end with the war. He was ap-
pointed to Smyrna, where the Turks were
very troublesome; on one occasion they fired
the Consulate, and young Bourguin lost
everything that he wasn’t wearing. He has
also been in Cairo. The young Frenchman
is dark and athletic, and hopes to get plenty
of horse-riding and sailing here, as he cannot
indulge in his other favorite sport—ice-
skating—to any extent. He is a bachelor.
So was Rene Tanquerey, whose place he is
taking, when he arrived in Sydney; but that
likeable young man takes away an Austra-
lian wife by the Cephee.
The Dangar clan has been stirred by the
announcement of the good-looking Clive
Dangar widow that she is about to marry
the Rev. Mr. Gordon, of Glen Innes, for-
merly of Goulburn. Mrs. Clive drops a
substantial bit of her fortune by remarriage,
but as she was a Dangar herself (her first
husband was a cousin), she is not exactly
beggared, but will be able to starve her
famous dimples on a thousand or two a
year of her own, plus her vicar’s stipend.
Mrs. Clive has always been given to good
works, and has a pi’ivate chapel in her own
home at Gostwyck.
St. Canice’s, the little church round the
corner from Bayswater-road, opened its doors
to a picturesque wedding last week.
Veronica Burke, of Eumundi (Q.), was the
bride, and Noel Macken, of Hampton Court,
Darlinghurst, the ’groom. Dark-haired Vera’s
wedding garment mingled ivory satin and
old lace, and in its rear drew the gift of
the bridegroom’s mother, a foam of Limerick
lace, by way of train. The ’groom’s cousin,
Maxine Foy, gave effective support to the
bride in raiment of old-rose velvet and sil-
ver lace. His mother, Mrs. E. G. Ward,
hostessed a large gathering, after the cere-
mony, in her flat; and in the evening the
guests made merry over again at a dinner-
dance at the Ambassadors.
Pretty Dorothy Hammet, of Petersham,
linked up with Len Calver, of Dalgety’s staff,
last week at All Saints’, in the suburb where
both have spent their lifetime. It took
Petersham Town Hall to house the wedding-
party, but Bowral was large enough for the
honeymoon.
This Letter sat in the banquet-room of the
Australia the other night and viewed the first
Sydney screening of “Notre Dame.” It held
its watchers tight, and will probably bring
Victor Hugo from many a forgotten corner
of the library shelf. The vice-regals put a
glitter over the function by being front-
seaters; and for their benefit was screened a
diary of their doings since they set foot on
Farm Cove. It must have been rather a
queer sensation to have that pictured self
stepping or driving out over the stage to
greet one. With Sir Dudley and his lady
sat. Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Doyle—he’s one
of the managing directors of the Union
Theatres. The Commander Grant couple
were others to the fore; also Henry Brad-
don’s lady, very vivacious in company with
a pink ostrich feather fan and a weather-
tanned husband.
Last week the Vagabonds walked the boards
again for three nights in the interests of vari-
ous charities, the first of them the Bush Book
Club. The play chosen was Iladdon Cham-
bers’s “Saving Grace,” and in the capable
cast were Mrs. Vincent and her son. daughter
and grandson of that Rev. George Walters
who wrote “Joseph of Canaan.” The heavy
acting fell to G. dago as the whimsical
“fighting Blinn"; the young man was
adequate to the size of his part, and Ruby
Coxhead, as his sentimental wife, showed ii
subtle sense of fun and some graceful frocks.
The incidental music was drowned utterly
on the night of the Book Club performance
by a clatter of high-pitched voices against
which the violin and piano strove vainly for
a hearing. The ungraciousness of it was
the greater because both pianist and violinist
were giving their services to the cause.
Little Phyllis \V alls, who goes to London
to complete her musical studies, will make
her farewell appearance in the Conservator-
ium next Monday. The programme includes
the fascinating Kate Rooney, who, by the
way, is at the moment shooting whatever
breakers have not already been shot at
Manly.
Rose Hall put out its gayest twig and
tlower one afternoon last week to greet the
return of its old friend Mrs. Macarthur
Onslow. There was a great muster of Red
Cross “heads” in the pleasant rooms, and
of these Judge Rolin, Gladys Owen and Mrs.
Mackinnou were the important people. Eliza-
beth Macarthur Onslow, who came to hold
mother’s hand, provided some glad-moment
froeldng: and Joan Raynor’s pupils demon-
strated what a pretty thing the greenleaf
drama may be.
Sargent’s in Market-street will put up a
great smoke barrage on April 14, when the
12th Light Horse lights up for its annual
smoko. The guest of the evening will be
Colonel J. F. White, who commands
the corresponding C.M.F. unit; and the star
event of the evening will be the handing over
by Colonel Don Cameron, D. 5.0., of a hand-
some memorial shield subscribed for by ex-
members of the 12th Light Horse for pre-
sentation to the C.M.F. unit that bears its
name.
The Playbox, too, takes the lid off for
1925, and produces Anatole France’s “Push-
cart Vendor,” at 11 Rowe-street, on April 22.
A note or two from Brisbane:—
Sir Matthew was at the Town Hall for the welcome
to Stuart Knox and his spouse, who are here in
the interests of the Missions to Seamen. Alderman
Crampton acted for, the Mayor. Mrs. Crampton wore
floral georgette ; and Mrs. Knox was in grey. Arch-
gaiters Sharp was present, and Bishop and Mrs.
Lefanu, Captain Curtis, and the captain of the
Wangaratta.
Sir Matthew lent the light of his countenance to
the annual meeting of the District Nurses’ Association.
In a year this band of practical angels has paid
its way, repaid its debts and put £4O in its wallet.
It had tapped at 10,000 doors, and many of those
attended had been unable to pay even the smallest
fee. Mrs. Exley, who retires from the position of
hon. sec. after 15 years, has worked as hard as any
for the fine results.
The first meeting of the Greater Brisbane Council
went off with a satisfactory bang, despite the damping
weather. There was a big roll-up and the hall
at the Central Tech, was elegantly hung. Mayor
Jolly took the chair, amid applause. In October,
1859, the first Brisbane City Council was held.
The Mayor had a word to say about those intrepid
pioneers.
The Hibernians celebrated their patron saint’s
day in their new rooms in Elizabeth-street, with
president McGroarty in the chair. The going was good.
He mentioned that Sir Matthew had held a high
position in the Green Isle, and all Irishmen in Queens-
land would regret his Ex.’s departure in October.
Sir Matthew mixed the names of P. J. McDermott,
Edmund Burke, Oliver Goldsmith, Tom Moore and the
author of “Round the Boree Log” in his discourse.
H. D. Macrossan arose to glorify St. Patrick, Mick
Kirwan toasted “The Land We Live In.” Otherwise
St. Patrick’s Day provided nothing but water and
the usual procession.
St. Stephen’s was done up in pink and white for
the joining of Hilda Walsh and Dr. John Power,
of Gympie. Archbishop Duhig did the job, with
Fathers Stapleton and Moloney to help. The bride
was in ivory crepe romaine. Cecily Walsh, Claire
Tilbury, Joyce Power and Nell Kerwin ’maided in
pink; and Paul Power best-manned. Killara saw
the feasting, and the ’moon is rising over Sydney
and the Apple Isle.
The first wet St. Patrick’s Day for 50 years
pushed the usual race meeting to the 19th. Then
the events were run between showers, and most women
were disguised in macintosh and umbrella.
The Savage Club beckoned Muriel Starr and her eo.
into a cannibal repast of jazz and music. The rooms
were charmingly decorated, and amongst the barbarians
were Mrs. Malcolm Cameron, Mrs. Greenfield, Jessie
Page, Barbara Sisley, Jo Richards, M. Forrest,
Erich Johns, F. Homer, “Wireless” Patterson, and
Dr. Thompson (Sydney).
Windsor Bowling Club had a party in the School
of Arts, amid palms and gerberas, to farewell James
Jolmston, president of the Queensland bowlers, and
Alex. Campbell, who are off to U.S.A. and the Cold
Country.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BtJEtNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
fHORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St.,Sytin3y, N S W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
7
*4
• i
xVil
SS2
1
HORLICK’S
malted milkg.
510 UGH. BUCKS
INfi,
©
zT^u~mSSS^
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service fl la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
Tarifl —Write for descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caf6 and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Conceding 81b., Jackstaff got his head in
front of Valwyne in the last few strides of the
V.A.T.C. St. Kilda Cup race, and there were those
who said he would never have done it if Spearage
hadn’t had the mare so hemmed in that Cooper was
unable to use his whip. These observers were vin-
dicated at Moonee Valley on Saturday when the
small Valais —Beanbri mare, receiving another 31b.,
turned the tables in the Moonee Ponds Handicap,
12 furlongs. Valwyne was backed from s’s to 2’s,
Drongo receding from 7 to 4 to 5 to 2 and Jackstaff
front 6’s to B’s. She was in front at the turn, with
Jackstaff just behind her, and, coming right away,
she won as she liked, with -Jackstaff four lengths
behind her, Drongo—flying at the finish, as usual,
after being knocked back to the rear—third and
the unbacked Brown Rajah fourth. Valwyne has
7st. 41b. in the Sydney Cup—Blb. less than on
Saturday. Brown Rajah’s weight is 7st. 111 b.
“Tuart” : There will be as much Westralian money
for Brown Rajah as for Lilypond in the Sydney
Cup. Though the imported son of Brown Prince—
Radegonde has never raced in the West, he is owned
by a taciturn Jarrahlander named A. E. Cockram,
who made a pile in the proprietary-racing business
in Perth, and who is as capable a judge of a horse
as there is in the business. It is Cockram’s custom
to go to England every year or so and buy any
likely-looking animal he can pick up cheap.
Quinologist, winner of the 1916 Metrop., was one
of his investments; and another was Rebus, who won
the Sydney Cup in 1918 with 7st. 121 b. up, the
Epsom a few months later with 9st., and the Metro-
politan in 1919 with 9st. 101 b. Hitherto Cockram
has made a practice of reselling his English pur-
chases whenever he was offered a worth-while profit,
but Brown Rajah he has hung on to, in spite of
numerous disappointments, and those who know the
man infer that the horse is pretty good. At Rrtnd-
wick in October Brown Rajah won at 14 furlongs,
and, going to Melbourne, he was close to the place-
getters in the Melbourne Cup and a fast-finishing third
in the Williamstown Cup. He is built on such
solid lines that 7st. 111 b. will not trouble him at all,
but he requires a horseman of the Orrell type—one
who can ride him hard all the way.
* * * *
The most interesting performance at Clar-
endon on Saturday, when the Hawkesbury R. C.
held its annual, was given by.Cliffdale in the Autumn
Handicap. Co-favorite with Mount Erin at 5 to 2,
the lathy Shepherd King gelding crossed his legs
when the barrier rose, and fell. Rising immediately
he gazed for a moment at his prostrate rider and
then went in pursuit of the field, which he caught
in a couple of furlongs. At the six-furlong post
the riderless steed was in front, and there he stayed
until the finish, unwinding a fine sprint over the
last hundred yards. The intelligent beast well
deserved the cheers he didn’t get. Bob Bailie col-
lected first prize per medium of his useful Dialogue,
who was followed home by Lord Satin and Mount
Erin. Pteropod was another favorite whose chance
was wrecked at the barrier—in the Flying Handicap
this time—but it was in no wise the horse’s fault.
Absurdum (6’s), who had done little' work but
apparently doesn’t require mu< h—lie ran wretchedly
at Randwick a couple of months ago when looking
trained to the minute —got the best of a brutal
start and came home on his own.
* * * *
The racing at Rosehill next Saturday
should throw some light on the rich A.J.C. events at
Warwick Farm on April 4 and at Randwick on
the 11th, 13th and following days. Beauford, who
has been doing good work at Newcastle, has been
nominated for the w.f.a. Rawson Stakes, together
with The Hawk, Heroic, Whittier, Lilypond, Valiard,
Windbag, Mountain Song and other classy ones. It
will be a decidedly interesting race whether the old
champion takes part (he has been entered for the
Railway Handicap, in which he has lOst. 51b., also)
or not, and this page wouldn’t be surprised if
Wallace Mortlake gave the cracks some troiule. He
receives a 211 b. allowance. Bardoleur (7st. 101 b.)
and Confusion (7st. 31b.) are worth considering for
the Railway Handicap, which will be run in two
divisions, and Royal Roue (6st. 121 b.) may be
dangerous if started in the Club Handicap. This
sturdy-looking son of Gadabout-Vira, who is gener-
ally running on at the end of his races, has been
backed for the Sydney Cup.
* * * *
The A..T.C. lias made a very fine course of
Warwick Farm, which will be re-opened for racing
on Saturday week after having been out of action
for nearly two years. The new grandstands arc
splendid structures of reinforced concrete, painted
a creamy-white—the official stand will hold 2500
people, the public stand 2800 and the Leger stand
6500 —and the interior decorations are equally im-
pressive in their way. There is a noble spread of
couch grass in all the punter’s walks, the trees
at the back of the course have been spared, and
the tracks have been greatly improved, although
the straight will be much shorter than those at
Randwick and Rosehill. This page would have liked
to see at least one s.o. totalisator building in
addition to the edifices for the 1 —2—3 machines,
but perhaps that will come. In any case the new
Warwick Farm is a credit to everyone who had
a hand in remodelling it, and it will be a living
argument for the abolition of the seedy proprietary
courses with which Sydney is infested and their
conversion into playgrounds for the people.
“X.N.0.”: I have been hesitating for a
long time as to whether or not I should tell The
Bulletin that there is a betting system that pays.
As The Bulletin knows my name and address, I
fully expect a visit from some renowned alienist,
and possibly incarceration in the Darlinghurst Recep-
tion House or Callan Park. However, I’ll risk it.
Some time ago (B. 25/9/’24) a par. of mine appeared
in which I said that an old astrologer had told me
my racing luck was in and that a betting system
told me to back Julia Grey, on which I subsequently
collected at 15 to 1. I’m still following the system,
and subjoined are the results of a 10s. investment
on each race at every Saturday horse meeting round
Sydney this year: Jan. 3, won £4 35.; Jan. 10,
won £3 55.; Jan. 17, lost £2 Is.; Jan. 24, won.
£2 55.; Jan. 31, won £1 Bs. Bd. ; Feb. 7, won
4s. ; Feb. 14, won £2 10s. ; Feb. 21, won £l2 3s. ;
Feb. 28, lost £1 1.55. ; March 7. won £ll 17s. ;
a net gain of £3,5 19s. Bd. The third race on
Jan. 3 put me on the right side, and I’ve stayed
there. I don’t go near the course and so don’t
always get the full published odds. The figures are
not worked out afterwards; they are the actual
amounts I have received and paid. The question
is whether 10 consecutive meetings are sufficient to
prove the value of Ihe system, but in any ease, at
10s. per race, it will take me a long time to lose
£33 19s. Bd.
* * • *
“Humor": The Hawk and other birds of
prey from Maoriland
have snatched some
juicy morsels in recent,
Melbourne racing. The
Hawk (three wins),
P oetaster (two),
Father’s Voice, Los
Gatos, Estuary and
Acamar (one each)
accounted for nine
races out of 36 at
Caulfield and Flem’ng-
ton; with minor plac-
ings, the flock collared
£12,354 in prize
money. Horses bred by
W. G. Stead (five wins,
a second and a third)
got £8495. Consider-
ing how consistently
the nags were backed,
a regular mint of
money must have gone
into M.L. pockets.
S. J. PULLMAN.
Sec. of the Port
Adelaide and Onka-
paringa Racing
Clubs.
Jamito, the Filipino, who contrived to live
for upwards of three years in a country alleged to
be reserved for the white race, has been allowed to
return and earn more money for himself, his manager
and the syndicate in which the great Wren is inter-
ested. But with increasing years and weight he has
slowed up, though he has lost nothing in the way of
combativeness and pluck. He was not nearly fast
enough for Tommy Fairhall at the Sydney Stadium,
and was a well and truly whipped Maniiaman at the
e. . of 20 rounds. Still, it is no disgrace to be
beaten by Fairhall ; there are few bruisers this
side of the Line who could take that improving light-
weight’s measure.
The betting was 3 to 1 on Walter Miller
(list. 101 b.- when Walter got into holts with
Karasick (12st.) at the Melbourne Stadium, but it
came down to evens in the fourth spasm. Then
Karasick secured his punishing head-hold four times,
and the Yank, after alternating the endurance of
torture with some clever evasions which drew loud
cheers from a surprisingly large “house,” staggered
to his corner. He came back fresh and alert, and in the
sixth round nianceuvred a toehold which repaid some
of the punishment he had had to bear. Miller’s
points victory—there were no falls —was the only
possible verdict.
* * * *
Major Goodsell, who is not an A.I.F.
major as is popularly supposed—he was only a
lad when the cease-fire sounded in 1918 —is the
latest addition to the list of world’s ehampkn scullers.
Matched against McDevitt, to whom Paddon aban-
HOW HE SAVES HIS GOOD NAME.
“Hoes a golfer ever tell the iruik?”
“Oh, certainly—he sometimes calls another
golfer a liar.”
doned the title, on the Clarence River (N.S.W.), he
led all the way and had 14 lengths to spare at the
finish, the time being 22min. 20sec. He is 12 years
younger than McDevitt, and scaled list. 81b. against
12st. 6lb. Goodsell has collected numerous cash
prizes since he dropped the N.S.W. amateur title;
but, like Alf Felton, he is probably better at a
mile than at three miles. He will presently meet
Paddy Hannan, of M.L., who has deposited £lOO
to bind a match.
* * * #
The Maoriland oarsmen rounded off their
first visit to Australia by winning both the events
for which they had nominated at the St. Ignatius
regatta on the Lane Cove River. The entries for the
challenge eights, one mile, were M.L., Mosman, Drum-
rnoyne and North Shore, but, as in the case of the
State champion eights the previous week, only the
Maorilanders and Mosman had a look-in at the finish.
Mosman, making a much improved showing, tried to
win all the way, relying on their undoubted pace.
Nearing home, the All Blacks closed up, and, in spite
of Mosman’s game spurt, came away in the last
100 yards to win a fine race by three-quarters of a
length. The inter-Dominion fours saw M.L. boat two
crews. After a strenuous finish, No. 1 crew, with
F. H. Brown as stroke, won by half a length from
No. 2 (C. A. Healey, stroke) : Mosman’s four was well
behind when a broken stretcher settled any chance it
may have had.'The handicap sculls went to A. Gould-
ing, of Sydney (20sec.), with A. Begelhole (18see.)
and C. Lorimer (2sec.) in the minor places. St. Clair,
the Maorilander, was beaten by more than the 2sec.
he was handicapped to concede Lorimer, who put
in a plucky finish.
“Slide”: Q. A. Healey, who stroked the M.L.
eight, comes from Wanganui. His record is long and
honorable; it includes firsts in inter-Dominion eights
at Putney And Reading (Eng.) in 1918; first in the
inter-Allied eights at Paris; third to Cambridge at
the Pershing Games ; and many fine performances in
pairs and fours in his own islands. The Maorilanders
are all tall men, St. Clair being 6ft. 2Jin., Brown
6ft. 1 Jin., Bayley and Sergison each 6ft. lin., and
Healey, Pinkham, Hegglum and Sandos each sft.
llin. ; and there is not a middleweight among them.
After their second victory over the crack N. S. Wales
boat (Mosman is to represent the Ma State in the
inter-State event) shrewd old oarsmen insisted that
they would beat any crew in the Commonwealth.
The Australian rowing authorities should certainly
invite M.L. to send an eight over for next year’s boat-
race.
* * * *
Queensland's annual intei ’'strict eight-
oar race —the winning crew will represent Gilliesland
in the champion eights in Melbourne on May 2
was full of thrills. Brisbane, Bundaberg and Rock-
hampton were the competitors, and Brisbane and
Bundaberg fouled after the first mile had been covered.
Bundaberg stopped rowing while the other two went
on, Brisbane winning. The race was rowed again.
Rockhampton standing down, and Brisbane won
from Bundaberg by half a length, after a magnificent
race from start to finish. The time for the three
miles was 18min. 27 2-ssec. —pretty good for the
second row over the course that afternoon, and for
effete products of the tropics, at that.
* * * #
“Hamer”; J. Soutar, of Werribee (Vic.),
who divided first prize in the Frank Stuart matches
at the V.R.A. competition with A. H. Fitterer (both
men plugged their ten shots into the bull’s-eye at
300 yards, and added another five bulls before each
dropped an inner), has only one eye. However, the
clear sight of that optic has won him many prizes.
He has been his club’s crack marksman year after
year, and in 1920 won a 600-yards V.R.A. match
with a “possible.” The joke is that, with nothing
else against him, he was turned down for defective
eyesight* when he tried to enlist in the A.I.F.
“S.T.S.”: There is no need to take quite
literally Gilligan’s forecast that in two years South
Australia will be the strongest side in Australia; this
is the kind of thing that a genial guest may say to
the host after lunch without being blamed for it.
But one can see, now, that any derision S.A. earned
by not winning a single Sheilield Shield match in
six years was an exaggeration, too, only in the
other direction. Its opponents have been just Vic.
and N.S.W.—at an abnormally powerful period ; for
each of these has been equal to England, or there-
abouts. Each of them has, single-handed, beaten
England otice during the period, and how much
stronger than England a. combination has been is
matter of history—l 2 won, 2 drawn, 1 lost. To lose
to such, sides, or to England, is no proof of real
weakness. And meanwhile S.A. has dealt very sum-
marily with anything else that came along—Mac-
laren’s team beaten by 5 wickets, Queensland by
10, a weakened N.S.W. side comfortably, and now
England—without Hobbs and Sutcliffe—by 10. It
is no bad record for the output of one small city.
By the way, this season’s batting averages for ali
first-class matches in Australia show three Adelaide
men in the leading five. But figures don’t go for
much. Of the first 11 batsmen on the list, only
Kippax and Andrews got into the Tests; and of the
best (on figures) bowling four who took a dozen
wickets or more, Grimmett, the llth-hour after-
thought, was the only one picked.
* * * «
“Adelaide”: Never was a bit of good bowl-
ing more appropriate and timely than that of Grim-
mett against the Englishmen in Adelaide (B.
19/3/’25). Because of his sensational first appear-
ance in the fifth Test at Sydney, a “testimonial” had
been arranged, and cheques and gifts to the value
of £2OO were waiting to be formally presented to
him at the tea interval on the third day. And here
was Grimmett in the field with apparently a
complete loss of the skill that had made him suddenly
famous. His share of the English downfall for 179
had been only 1 for 40 ; an 1 in the second innings,
now 7 going on, England had 166 up for no wickets.
Clearly it was time to get busy, or the oratory at
the presentation would sound like sarcasm. At
3 o’clock Grimmett bow'led Sandham, and when they
adjourned for the speeches there were 7 wickets down,
of w'hich he had taken 6 within the hour. He got
another on resuming (Gilligan, iirst ball), and his
final bag was changed from 0 for 47 to 7 for 85.
“Freshford”: Despite all the growls at
slow cricket and stonewalling, you can’t convince
me that any present-day exponent of the latter art
is in the same class with his predecessors of 40 years
ago. These barrackers who become irritated at a
Kelleway and propel their shafts of scorn at a Hearne
or a Sandham—l wonder what transports of emotion
and sabre-cuts of expression they would have been
moved to by men like Barlow (Lancashire), Louis
Hall (Yorks) and Scotton (Notts), whom their fathers
watched with a restraint approaching the batsmen’s
own. And the old-time stonewaller wasn’t always
an English pro., either. The late Alick Bannerman,
when at his best (or worst), could be as stubborn as
any of them. I remember seeing him pla,ying against
Gloucestershire in the ’eighties when the other side had
been reduced to such a pitch of impotence by his
imperturbable blocking that E. M. Grace, as a last
desperate resort, would steal in from point every now
and again and crouch within a yard or two of the
bat while W.G. threw up full tosses and other
temptations. It wasn’t silly point, it was insane
point, and yet the fieldsman was really safe enough,
for nothing was further from Bannerman’s ideas than
to use his bat to hit the ball. Crowds, however,
were less impatient in those days, and didn’t demand
so much thrill for their money.
* * * *
“Winkle”: Coppock, of Collingwood, is
one of those odd cricketers who, after years of mere
usefulness, suddenly develop first-class form. In
six .consecutive hands this season he has made 66,
107, 15. 60, 90 and 116, the last taking 97 minutes
and including two sixers and 11 fourers. Like many
old-timers. Cop. stands firm-footed and hits like
blazes. His record of 495 runs, average 55, is a
clinker for a curtailed season, yet it will not carry
him to the head of the Magpie list, for the King of
Collingwood, Jack Ryder, in his six hands has
knocked up 537, averaging 134.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The Vic. Cricket Association,
now in its new building in Flinders-street, banked
£13,314 as its share of the dividends from the
matches with the Englishmen in Melbourne —the
Marylebone C.C.’s cut was over £14,000. But the
inter-State games were financial failures, and the
expenses of the M.L. tour and Country Week (about
£1600) have to be met. Gloomily the committee
contemplates the possibility of having to draw on
the profits of the English matches to the extent
of perhaps £2OOO until the next English team arrives
in five years’ time. The gloom seems as uncalled
for as tears over a glass of whisky.
* •* * »
East Torrens, winners cf Adelaide cricket
premiership for years, are not in the first four this
season ; Sturt and Glenelg tied on points, but Sturt
led on averages. Both were beaten in the finals by
Kensington and University; but Sturt has the right
to a challenge match.
“Wink”: The latest Melbourne footballer
to decide that he has had enough of city life is
Alec Eason, the best rover Victoria has seen 'since
the war. He made his name with Geelong, but a
couple of years ago was lured to Footscray, where he
did .more than his share in the winning of two
Association premierships. Now ’Scray has moved
up to the League Alec is prevented from following
it because he absent-mindedly left Geelong without
the necessary permit. As soon as it became known
that he would listen to reason, bush clubs rushed him
with cheques, and after some spirited bidding Murtoa
secured him for £l2 a week and trimmings. This
is two quid more than the proposition Stawell sub-
mitted to Shorten last year, but Essendon’s wonder-
ful midget would have received, in addition, a suit
able job. first-class board and lodging for himself
and family, with a motor-car thrown in. The only
other legitimate oflier rivalling these is the one that
came from the Speck to Dick Lee of Collingwood:
£l2 a week and keep, with a benefit at the end
of the season. And Richard refused it.
THE MODERN GLADIATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Baldwin Spencer, president of the Vic. Football
League, said he saw no harm in footballers receiving
payment for their services as long as such payment
was open and above-board. Whatever might be
said to the contrary, there was just as much pro-
fessionalism in cricket as in football.”
He does his work, like you and me. Why shouldn’t
he be paid
Who boots the leather fast and free where Melbourne
League is played?
He and his mates they draw the gates and bring
their clubs the biz.,
And if he isn’t worth his wage, well, who the devil
is?
He takes his hacks and jabs and cracks with stoicism
grim,
I’ll tell the world, whenever hurled to earth he
risks a limb.
He draws his screw, like me and you, an open wage
and sure,
Nor maketh he pretence to be a blooming amaehoor.
Meanwhile the cricketer who keeps his country on
the map
His quid pro quo as certain reaps—but underneath
the lap.
Aye, aye! The way he draws his pay a trifle more
complex is,
The fiction needs must be maintained he plays for
love —and exes.
Once when across the seas they’d steam to trundle
and to strike
They’d whack the profits up, the team ; ’twas share
and share alike.
Then interfering Boards arose financial reins to seize;
But still, though sort of ’neath the rose, the players
draw their fees.
’Twould never do to call it screw for those high-
flying birds,
Bonus and honorarium are deemed more; fitting words.
And English gents, there are became proficient long
ago
At drawing wages from the game without being
labelled “pro.”
Spurn not the League professional, the hefty, strenu-
ous soul
W 7 ho streaks at risk of smashing fall towards the
foemen’s goal.
The glad, enthusiastic roar a thousand throats that
leaves
Were scarce sufficient guerdon for the feats that
he achieves.
The hero worship that he wins profuse may be and
loud,
At grievous peril to his shins, from many a cheering
crowd.
Paeans galore attest his vim, and wildly waving lids;
But will they pay the rent for him or keep his wife
and kids?
Then why should there discredit be because the nerve
he’s got
To draw his earnings openly—while other sports
have not?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


0 00000000000000000000000o 0
—■ r-K
o
o
o
nuph
t
i-J — and SlU[ &Jlorn£
WORLD- WANDERERS say that they return to the Oriental with a
sense of coming home. So perfect is the service of the well-trained
staff, so restful the whole atmosphere of this great hotel, that as
soon as one enters its portals one feels that one has entered a haven.
Yet the bustling heart of the city is only two blocks away —theatre-
land but one block. Seldom do you find a hotel so aloof from and yet
so convenient to the shopping and business centres.
Comfort, good food and efficient service are the Oriental’s pride. Whether
on holiday or business, the guest finds in this modernly-appointed home
his ideal of a good hotel.
TARIFF:
From 26/- per day inclusive.
From 17/- Bed and Breakfast.
Director: JOHN W. PERRIN.
Chef: SALVATORE de CESARE.
Suites De Luxe, Banqueting
Halls. Wedding Breakfasts and
Supper.
°Q
°G
J
Q
rJ
iL
u
o
o
o
O
o
cfp
u
V
FOR
EASTER.
,
m ■
m
iMS
MURDOCH’S
HAT
The Finest Guinea Value in Australia.
NOTABLE Australian product—both materials and workman-
ship. Murdoch’s supreme achievement in Hat Value, —Superb
quality at low cost!
Blocked in the “Prince,” “Lounge” and attractive “Nail Curl”
stylfi (as illustrated), which features perfectly flat brim, with
neat, sharp curl at extreme edge. Silk-bound
edges. Light, Mid and Dark Grey shades, also
new Myrtle Green, with Self bands, and Fawn
with Brown bands. All regular sizes.
Direct from “Mill to Wearer.”
21/-
EVERY HAT GUARANTEED.
Absolute satisfaction or Purchase Money refunded in full.
When ordering kindly state size and color required.
Postage paid
to your door.
Address your
letter to
DESK R.
Murdoch’s
Winter Cata-
logue free for
the asking.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.'
Commonwealth 6 per cent.
Loan for States
£5,400,000
Interest 6 per cent. Price of Issue £99
Term: 5 or 10 Years (at the option of subscriber).
Interest amounts to £6/4/9 per cent, for the 5-year period,
and £6/2/9 for the 1 O-year period, and commences from the date
of lodging Cash Application, when the amount is pfaid in full before
Ist April, 1925.
CONVERSIONS.
Persons holding securities of the States of Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, or Tasmania, maturing on or before
30th June, 1925, may surrender their holdings, and in exchange
will receive bonds or stock of the Commonwealth Loan. The
interest at 6 per cent, will run from the date of maturity of the
State Securities, and, in addition, persons who so convert will
receive a Cash Bonus of £1 per cent, on 15 th May, 1925.
Lodge your application at any Bank, State Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office, or with a member of any recognised
Stock Exchange.
State Income Tax cannot be levied on the interest.
Closing Date: Ist April, 1925.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Melbourne.
S. M. BRUCE,
Acting Treasurer.


Pure 0 '
SHELL
I%r sS*
S4I
Quick Starting
No “Knocking”
Extra Mileage
Because of its high “aromatic”
content Shell is unique in its
combination of these qualities.
Buy SHELL from the Kerbside Pump
and so save the cost of tins and cases. Be sure, however,
that the Guaranteed Pure Shell Motor Spirit
sign is on the pump or garage wall —otherwise, ask for
Shell in tins.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Limited. All States and New Zealand.
m
II
F
3
Am
ill
fef
lll
It
~ II-
Z4 1
Hh -
;P
Death to germ-laden kitchen pests!
It is in the kitchen where the flies, cockroaches, mosquitoes,
etc. do a great deal of their deadly work. Contaminating food
and bringing disease germs just where they should not be.
Fly-Tox brings a new and perfedt means of ridding your
house of these pests. Close your doors and windows and, keeping
away from open flames, spray a like cloud of Fly-Tox high
into the room—that ends it! In a few minutes there isn’t a living
insedt left. They die as if by magic! Fly-Tox does it almodt indtantly.
Fly-Tox is the result of long research and experiment by the
Rex Fellowship at the Mellon Institute, Pittsburg, U.S.A. It is
a clear, clean amber liquid, and positively will not stain any
fabrics. It has a pleasant refreshing odor. Harmless to humans
and animals, but fatal to every kind of household insect.
Your Chemist or Grocer sells Fly-Tox in three sizes. The
Hospital size is specially recommended for Hotels, Restaurants,
Warehouses, Schools and Public buildings.
The specially constructed Fly-Tox Hand Sprayer is recoin*
mended. It sprays a fine mist cloud in any position.-
Australian Agents
FRAZER & BEST LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Manufacturers ■ THE REX SPRAY COMPANIES U.S.A. & CANADA.
/
A Free Trial
Sprayer
(patent applied r or)
with each
bottle
There is only one FLY-TOX /
Y-TG
THS
OES
IE AS
*OTS
SH
“Mag"’: Wireless is extending its sway
to west of beyond. A ’roo-shooter and his
mate on the Paroo River (S.-W. Q.) have
an up-to-date plant installed at their camp,
and after the day’s fitful fever are lulled
to rest by the latest jazz tunes and cricket
bulletins from Sydney and Melbourne.
Besides having lived nearly 70 unbroken
years in the New England district of N. S.
Wales, Mrs. Ursula Sanders could claim that
she was on speaking terms with Australia’s
distinguished bushranger, Thunderbolt. It
was a favorite tale with the old lady—she
had passed the SOtli milestone —that she had
often boiled her billy at the outlaw’s fire.
Francis Benedict Kenny, who, at 72, went
to plead at a higher Bar the other day, was
one of the oldest solicitors in the Ma State.
For 45 years he had practised, mostly in
Bathurst, and along with a profound know-
ledge of law had much eloquence. He was
the son of the late John Kenny, of Kenny’s
Point, Lake George (N.S.W.), and what he
didn’t know about the history of the lake
wasn’t of any consequence.
An Australian’s letter from New York: —
The Bulletin is right about a duty on American
movies. I’m surprised, though, that an ad val. duty
on imported films, the value being ascertained at
the theatre box-office, has not been advocated. The
trivial collection at the Customs on the “declared ’
value will never protect or develop an Australian
film industry; and properly handled and protected
an Australian film industry would be a big money-
maker for our country.
Andrew M. Wooldridge, an old-time pas-
toralist, now residing at Goodwood Park,
near Adelaide, celebrated his 84th birthday
on Marcli 3. Some 40 years ago he took up
on behalf of the Barrow Creek Pastoral Co.
20.000 square miles of country in Central
Australia, and stocked it witli 11,000 head
of cattle. Two of Wooldridge’s brotliers-in-
law—the late J. F. Ilayward and John Hirst
—were early S. Aus. squatters, and two of
his daughters are married to pastoralists
owning stations on the Darling.
Mrs. Henry Doudy, S.A.’s new historical
novelist, has been considering the question
whether Sturt and Eyre ever explored to-
gether, and now thinks she was wrong in
saying they did. However, Eyre wrote after
Sturt’s death: “It was through intercourse
with him that my love for adventure and
exploration was stimulated, and that I
learned how to take scientific observations.”
Also, when Sturt made an overland journey
from N. S. Wales to Adelaide in 1838, Eyre
was one of the relief party who rode out to
meet him. Sturt’s daughter was given the
name of Eyre.
“X2X”: The Anti-Narcotic Conference
which met recently at Geneva adopted a reso-
lution against the manufacture of heroin.
Hence it is quite likely that soon the prepara-
tion of this drug for medical purposes will
cease. Heroin (diacetylmorphine hydro-
chloride) has little therapeutic value, but
produces a sense of physical and mental
stimulation, destroying all moral inhibitions.
In England and the United States it is com-
puted that there are three times as many
heroin-addicts as there are habitual users of
other drugs. Happily the habit is not wide-
spread in this country, but it is growing.
From a neuropath:—
Dr. Maclaurin’s pathological tests for statesmen
might be usefully applied to Lord Curzon, who
recently collapsed at Oxford through hemorrhage.
This irascible peer has most of his life been a martyr
to insomnia, and whereas the ordinary man can
only take it out of the wife or the baby, he has
had, as pro-consul in Egypt and India, the oppor-
tunity of varying the destinies of millions. Coue
is alleged to have cured him by auto-suggestion a
few years ago, so that unobtrusive magician can
claim to have been the arbiter of England’s late
foreign policy just as much as Napoleon’s valet, who
let his master catch a cold, can be blamed for the
loss of the battle of Borodino. Curzon as Foreign
Secretary was less arbitrary than Curzon as a viceroy,
possibly because he slept better.
George Ward Cole, a forgotten Vic. M.L.C.,
in the early ’sixties bought a block of land
in then unpeopled Northcote, but after
awhile came to the conclusion that it was
worthless, and forgot all about it. A few
years back the Northcote City Council seized
the land and sold it. After the rates (which
totalled a large sum) and other expenses had
been paid, there was a surplus of about
£2OO, and this was paid into a trust account
at the bank. The other day Weigall, J., was
asked to make an order that the money be
withdrawn from the bank and paid to the
trustees of the estate; and as Cole died m
1879, there will be an unexpected windfall
for somebody.
“Boronia” : It is questionable whether the
sleeper-cutters will be suffered to operate
much longer in the jarrah forests of W.A.
Granted that hewn sleepers and beams pos-
sess distinct advantages over the sawn pro-
duct, the cutter is a costly luxury when
forests have been depleted like these. It is
doubtful if the average axe-wielder utilises
more than 30 p.c. of the timber he brings
to the ground; even experienced men with
a spark or two of forest conscience don’t
claim that they obtain more than 40 p.c. On
the other hand an efficiently-managed mill
operating in the same class of bush will get
as high as 70 p.c. of the timber in the logs
hauled to the landing. Of course, this per-
centage is considerably reduced when the
timber is of poor or indifferent quality; but
here again the mill scores, for the reason
that it can be made to pay in bush which
the sleeper-cutter regards with contempt.
“T.” : Stand alongside any big Australian
sawmill and you will notice hillocks of saw-
dust beyond the elevators slowly burning,
because nobody wants the stuff and it must
be shifted somehow. And not only sawdust;
heaps of refuse in dockings, ’edgings, waney
and gummy pieces. For years this destruc-
tion has gone on, evidence of the prejudice
against minor blemishes in wood even
although it is destined to be hidden behind
carpets and linoleums or garish paint and
glitter. Think of the wealth wasted because
cranky architects object to a streak of gum
in something that is plastered over for ever!
Heaps of good, serviceable wood could be
rescued from the flames, but the real problem
lies in that moonlike waste of sawdust with
which the fire is always busy. America is
finding a use for sawdust ; in one lumber
city the stuff is to be utilised in future in
paper-making and all manner of by-products.
p long will it be before Australia follows
suit?


(Bct/Mno
/I
C
/
v r )
V
\
¥
&*£*t* >
1
'SemiSop
Collars
HAVE YOU tried them? They combine
all the ne&li&ee comfort of the Soft
collars with the smart dressy appearance of
the starched.
Being made of a specially manufactured
Webbing material, they are easy to do up, and
will not crack nor blister in the Laundry.
Made in Australia <T?elaoo are better ana
sell for less than foreign-made collars.
c PRICE 1/6 EACH
II
if
r
m
m
0 LT^
fa
w
o
o
z
llili
ALL BRITISH
GENUINE BALATA
This illustration depicts a "Lincona
1 6in. x 8-ply, which has been in use
on the main drive at the Engineering
Works of Chas. Ruwolt Pty., Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria,
for the past eight years, and is still
giving excellent service.
In these works “Lincona” has been used exten-
sively, and it has been found the most economical
belt, owing to the long and satisfactory service
it has rendered over a period of years.
A Full Range of Stocks is carried throughout Australia by the following Sole Agents:
S. Aus.: A Noble & Son, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
Vic.: Charles Ruwolt Pty., Ltd., Victoria Street, Richmond.
Tas.: Chas. Davis, Ltd., 60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.S.W.: James Munday & Co., 230 la ]’ e, l ce . St^ C Yfiariotte & Edward Streets,
Q’land: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., Ci. cnarioiie
Brisbane.
West Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Murray Street, Perth,


V'
Qj2&?gr
SKqc
ifmsh—
lk-
IWrS
—~ \m^
V**
££
r
in « II
's»
arc
V*
- 7
3
'■u
v£ f^smM*
■/ 7 *
rfFA
-=a
??
i ;
0
;.?v
\\
/
J
K
A
=e-;
' 1/5 7—»\
■~_*r&+
N
&
v\
1%
W
%
X
\N
fil
s
i 5
-:x
li II n
c<
\ I I
?SsC-
!j -<
I’ W, .I 1
x
I md\
&
l/l
Mf/r; |
4 % -Y\
XP f A\
■■ xCrVr
NfrW 1 '
ri^rrr
£
i,
€1
km
im
mr\
/6|
m
V
m.
i i
«DE
:v
11 !•:;*
:'1
$
—T /
ft
f 03s
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
D/'
f BOTTLED BY THE MAKERS :
EhOMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED
2. n Mnt MELBOURNE & U
5
__, *|Dt MtutsuuHNt & SYr>»,» 2
AD SOUTH AUSTRALIAN W,n£ NEV <
§g
met 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS.
m
n?
**HW
t=
\ ~S
V 9
(»V'«>rCjuV K -
f-=
ST* 1 ?’
J A,
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The
reputation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence, which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy s Gold Label wines you
can feel that the recorded technical study of
70 years has enabled the present day organisa-
tion of Hardy’s to reap the fullest advantage
of the gifts of bounteous Nature and supply
the very finest wines at prices within the reach
of all.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


i M
EM «
<'Vg
ai&.
-i
Ajxpid’
%.
'/■
»o
ago
u
cm
GREYS
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
20 for 1/6 Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN 8 c CO. LTD., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Wildflower”
Criterion “His House in Order”
Royal “Tile Outsider”
Palace lvaai’s Hawaiian Troubadours
Grand Opera House “Tangerine”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Filler’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving l’ietures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MKI.ItnUIfNK SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Royal “So This Is London”
His Majesty’s “Hetty”
King’s “The Green Goddess”
Palace Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Productions
Atiien/Euji “Cappy Ricks”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Mo' iug Picture*
Playhouse Repertory Theatre Plays
♦
A. A. Milne brought forth a promising in-
fant in “The Truth About Blayds,” now
showing at Sydney Criterion, and at the
first interval this Page would have been
prepared to enter the exhibit for the Empire
Baby Competition without misgivings. By
the middle of the second act, however, alarm-
ing signs of malnutrition had begun to
manifest themselves, and there was nothing
left to be done in the third but argue over
the attenuated remains. No blame for the
tragedy attaches to Irene Vanbrugh and
Dion Boucicault’s corps of skilled obstet-
ricians, who did tlicir noble best. It was
plainly a case of bad heredity.
* * * *
Oliver Blayds is a nonagenarian poet
whose past work is passionately admired,
even by the younger generation of writers.
Some of his family sacrifice themselves on
the altar of his fame, and some use it as a
convenient pedestal: a domestic circle con-
sisting of his son-in-law, his two daughters
and a grandson and grand-daughter revolve
around the picturesque old fellow, who sits
in his invalid’s chair as if it were a throne.
The impressive house of cards comes tum-
bling down when the pertinacious fraud dis-
closes on his death-bed that the poems on
which his reputation was erected were stolen
from a friend who died in early manhood.
After this the action takes to crutches, and
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Tom Clare, who purveys songs from
the piano.
the play to mere loquacity which, although
occasionally brilliant, lias the dramatic inter-
est of a penitent drunk’s self-revelation at a
►Salvation Army meeting down a windy alley
on a winter’s night.
* * * *
C. M. Hallard excellently plays the salted
poet, horrified at the thought of carrying
into the next world the guilty secret he has
harbored for 60 years in this, and Mrs.
Brough provides a perfect little gem of
comedy as his eldest daughter, unable to
believe that the man who wrote such lovely
poetry could possibly have stolen it. Irene
Vanbrugh, as the younger daughter who has
devoted her life to the venerable rogue, and
lan Mac Lean, as her elderly lover, have a
heavy pack of sentiment to bear between
them ; but Roland Ward and .Tanet Eccles,
as the grandchildren, are lightsomely rebel-
lious from the start. Dion Boucicault,
whose life’s career has been to foster the
Blayds tradition, is a fantastic egotist, who
loses and finally recovers the note of comedy.
The unexplained and hidden music that .is
allowed occasionally to interrupt the dia-
logue for purposes of pathos . struck this
Sundry Showman as a pantomime device.
** * *
Grogan McMahon steered an Australian-
built craft on its maiden voyage at the Con-
servatorium on Saturday night, when Syd-
ney girl Helen Simpson’s “A Man of His
Time” was produced by the Repertory. The
play proved at once alluring and disappoint-
ing. It deals with the rivalry between
Benvenuto Cellini and the Duke of Castro for
the affections of the frail Angelica. Ben-
venuto is, of course, the “Man of His Time,”
and the play is steeped in the atmosphere, of
the days when the roystering, swashbuckling
goldsmith-artist lived and flourished. The
dialogue is dignified, forceful and colloquial
as the occasion calls for, there are one or
two bits of careful characterisation and an
impressive prologue. But it is not drama.
It abounds with incidents rather than
action, many of its people are types rather
than human beings, and its construction is
not convincing. It is a play that reads
better than it acts; it is rich with material
that appeals to the literary rather than the
emotional side. Andrew Beresford, as Cel-
lini, was somewhat halting in his perform-
ance the first night, but improved during
the week. Theresc Desmond as the sought
Angelica was the hit of the piece. She inci-
dentally was discovered last year by the
little I’laybox Society. Albert Collins and
Gerald Carr were others who did good work,
and Mrs. Lance Thompson was as hateful as
she was intended to be as Angelica’s money-
grubbing mother.
** * *
“Mr. Battling Butler” vacates Sydney
Opera House to-morrow night, leaving the
decks to be cleared for “Tangerine” and the
palpitant life of a South Pacific island.
H: & *
At Sydney Royal, Maurice Moscovitch
continues to demonstrate in “The Outsider”
that the right sort of man can effect marvel-
lous cures without either the professional
training of a Bob Sawyer or the supernatural
co-operation of a Hickson. The play is in
its closing week.
$ 'Y-
At Sydney Majesty’s “Wildflower” is
still blooming as radiantly as anything in
the Botanic Gardens.
* *
Wirths’ Circus loosed its usual generous
assortment of thrills at Sydney Hippodrome
on Saturday night, the performers including
jugglers, elephants, acrobats, Arab steeds,
trapezists, lions, loop-loopers, wire-walkers,
springboard-fliers, trained seals, equestrians
(canine and simian, as well as human),
comic bullfighters, trick ponies, clowns and
water pantomimists. The brute creation,
like the bipeds, put up some amazingly good
turns, and quite the most alluring item on
the programme was that provided by Eileen
May with the two baby elephants, Peggy
and Jumbo. For making a shapely girl
look the absolute limit in shapeliness, a
background of baby elephant beats every-
thing this paper ever remembers to have
seen.
* H= H: H«
At Sydney Ti’oli two pairs are treating
patrons to exhibitions of the new and old
in stage dancing. Billie and Beattie Bir-
chell, exponents of the modern manner,
which is a mixture of step , dancing and
acrobatics, are clever enough in their way,
but they take second place to Errol Addison
and Gertrude Mitrenga, whose graceful
twirlings are the best in classical dancing
seen here for ages. Kay, Hamlin and Kay
continue their reckless trapeze work, and their
“Loop of Death” attracts a greater crowd
than even a City Council employee digging
a hole in the footpath.
jjc ij:
“The Man Who Came Back” has dropped
into Sydney Lyceum, in the shape of George
O’Brien, a good-looking, athletic young man,
but a poor actor. The censor’s hand is evi-
dent throughout the film. “Curly-top,”, tho
Empress’s trump card, features the Chinese
quarter of East End, London, with Shirley
Mason playing the chaste heroine in an
environment of depravity. Apart from the
fact that she is as irreproachable as a ver-
ger’s wife, Shirley is as uninteresting as the
tedious criminals that surround her. “For-
bidden Paradise,” at Hoyt’s, is the story of
a Queen’s plebeian taste in the matter of her
love affairs. Pola Negri is a bewitching vamp.
“Dangerous Money,” at the Strand, is a well-
made, interesting film even if the pushing of
the villain out of a skyscraper window is a
melodramatic ending. “A Thief in Para-
dise,” at the Piccadilly, is marked by the
beauty of its photographic scenes; the view
of waves rolling shorewards in the light of
the moon is a sheer delight. “The Ten Com-
mandments” are still profitable at the Prince
Edward.
*
There is the air of a refrigerating
chamber about Fuller’s, in Sydney, where
George Wallace and his merry band of
clowns are Alpine climbing and giving forth
humor about things that lurk below freezing
point. A few new boarders have been taken
in on the vaudeville side, and have levered
the standard up considerably. Among them
is Monte Wolfe, who made a hit in The
Rise of Rosie O’Reilly,” and has trans-
ported his smiling face and pleasantries to
rejoice the diaphanous-frocked maids as they
scoff their Eskimo pies.
** * ❖
A Sydney artist goes head-hunting:—
Sculptress Theo Cowan took the tools of her
craft to the Solomon Islands, but tropical heat and
too insistent color made her push the reluctant
clay aside and pick up her brushes. The results of
her attempt to work out on water-color paper the
cross-word puzzle of those flamboyant landscapes are
now on show at Swain’s, in Sydney. That puzzle has
baffled many, including Gauguin, who gave up
Wilfred Neill, vice-
president of Adelaide
Repertory Theatre,
and one of S.A.’s
most prominent
amateur actors.
looking at the living
picture to operate on
corpses, which is easier.
Miss Cowan’s heads,
however, are very much
alive, although she has
failed in some to con-
voy the plastic quality
to the flat surface of
the paper. Two laugh-
ing faces, in particular,
with frizzed hair stud-
ded with hibiscus
flowers, are cleverly
done. Grey, feathery
palms, jade water,
flaming skies, x flaunting
blossoms and shifting
form are the true in-
gredients of the island
scene, and these the
artist has combined in
several slight but in-
teresting impressions.
The sea-floor seen
through the transparent
water is a study made
from an unusual view-
point, and “The Cocoa-
nut Pile,’’ a vista of
palms with light filter-
ing between the trunks,
has atmosphere and
feeling.
Thoughts at an auction sale: —
The art dealer is a necessary institution dating
back to remote antiquity. The first one to operate
in Australasia was Joe Roe, who was also the
first white man to enter the Wanganui River, in
Maoriland. He set up his shop on the neighboring
island of Kapiti, and his stock-in-trade was the
tattooed heads of the Maori nobility, which were'
muc.i prized by European museums. When the supply
provided by the local graveyards gave out, the
chiefs went to war to obtain the living canvases
of the neighboring aristocracy. Also they had
slaves carefully tattooed with the sacred pattern
and then decapitated. Business eventually became
so brisk that men were afraid to lie down at night
for fear their spouses would separate them from
their masterpieces in their sleep. Joe Roe got
together a very representative series, but his Nemesis
came when he was proudly showing off a new
addition to some Maori visitors, who recognised a
relative. The next time the collector set his foot on
the mainland he was seized, tattooed and beheaded.
Doubtless his elegant skull now’ grins down on
visitors from the shelves of some European insti-
tution.
While not wishing all art dealers the fate of
Joe Roe, one could not but feel sad at a recent
sale of Gayfield Shaw’s fine collection of Australian
art in a Sydney auction-room, which was mainly
attended* by dealers. One dropped a surreptitious
tear at seeing some wistful little thing that Hans
Heysen did 20 years ago with a song in his heart
knocked down for a song of another sort; or an
exciting adventure Van Raalte had with a gum-tree
on the upper reaches of the Swan being turned in
because nobody was quite sure of its present market
value. Many of these exquisite bits, being so cal-
lously handled, represented much spiritual anguish,
just as the elegant moko of the Maori represents
physical pain.
sjs * * #
Allan Wilkie’s Shakspearean enthusiasm
was put to the test in staging “Two Gentle-
men of ’Verona,” that being a play in which
the star suffers an eclipse through the
absence of any stellar part—a very sufficient
reason for the infrequency with which a
comedy with a neat plot and any number of
poetic passages is staged. Wilkie had to
content himself with the part of Launce,
which is one of ample broad comedy as writ-
ten by William, but suffers from the way the
meat has to be cut away before the bone
is presented to a modern audience. Wilkie
had the assistance of an entertaining mon-
grel wdiich suffered no stage-fright, and cocked
his ears appreciatively when the audience
applauded. The performance was an even
one, Augustus Neville making a dignified
Duke of Milan, Ellis E. Irving a likeable
Valentine, and Claude Saunders a believ-
able false-hearted Proteus, who deserves to
suffer a matrimonial aftermath for his
treachery, but without that prospect did not
deserve the too-gentle and forgiving Julia —
a part in which Miss Hunter-Watts was more
than usually pleasing. Her success hints that
she is better suited in such lighter roles
than in some of the heavy ones which cir-
cumstances thrust upon her. Hamilton Henry
was good as the foppish and uncourageous
Tliurio, Plumpton Wilson added to the com-
edy as Speed, and Jean Athol’s Silvia was
attractive. The company has been living
its usual strenuous life, with nightly changes,
and its exploits will continue for another
week. A queer feature about the season is
the way the public attendances back the
time-honored Sliakspearean hacks; the “new”
plays, in which, very frequently, the company
makes its best showing, are comparatively
neglected. Yet on a previous view this Show-
man can recommend particularly “The Win-
ter’s Tale,” which makes its re-appearance
next Wednesday (April 1). Incidentally,
there has been some misunderstanding about
Wilkie’s intentions. It was said lie had
“Lady Windermere’s Fan” in prospect. But
“the presentation of modern plays is totally
opposed to my taste, inclination and policy,”
he declares.
Starting last Saturday for a full week’s
run, the Melbourne Repertory Players put on
Harold Chapin’s “The New Morality” to
give the public a chance, with “The Showing-
up of Blanco Posnet” to give its members
another. Bernard Pshaw’s one-act derision of
America’s Wild West cult offers opportunity
to a big cast of players, and the way their
scattered remarks dovetailed was a tribute
to the stage-direction of Elizabeth Apperly,
who has returned to share direction with
Helton Daniels. Maisie Bennett ns Babsy.
the woman of the painted cheeks, who, with
the hatred of a female scorned, vindictively
seeks the undoing of Blanco Posnet (played
with virile ease by Leo Burke), was in-
clined to exaggerate in places and in others
did not let her passion off the bridle suffici-
ently. The Elder Daniels of Frank Keon
was a capital sketch, and H. N. Gregory did
well as Sheriff Kemp; amongst the rest the
excellent make-up of Ray Whiting as Nestor,
an old juryman, deserves commendation.
In “The New Morality,” an indignant
wife, Betty Jones (Elizabeth Apperly), pre-
fers to make a scandal by having a row
with the chatelaine of a neighboring house-
boat than endure the scandal of this lady
making a fool of her husband —a commission
to him to buy her hairpins is the breaking
point. The bright, lively dialogue of three
acts concerns attempts to induce Betty to
apologise, and her obduracy, and develops
the viewpoint of a woman who would rather
her husband had an honest intrigue than be
made the fetch-and-carry poodle of a woman
who likes to play the game of love without
any intention of paying penalties. The phi-
landering Mrs. Wister makes no appearance ;
but Norman Simpson as E. Wallace Wister
capitally portrays the unhappy, embarrassed
husband who, sent to extract an apology
and failing, rows up and down the river
(which evidently holds some pubs) rather
than return unsuccessful to his annoyed wife.
The society has got beyond the time when
excuses are needed for its work; the
people who appear in this cast have had
much experience in previous performances.
That, however, may be a weakness in a
society in which the opportunities should be
passed round in as wide a circle as possible.
“THE TRUTH ABOUT BLAYDS,”
AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Irene Vanbrugh and Janet Eccles return
from burying a poet.
“Betty” leaves hci’ job at Melbourne
Majesty’s in two weeks’ time, after which
“Primrose” will bloom in that house of enter-
tainment.
** * *
The usual complaint of the churches has
no point in regard to the attendances of
worshippers at the shrine of “The Green
Goddess” at Melbourne King’s; and _ the
thrills are to continue until further notice.
v
The discovery of England by a family of
American adventurers in search of a boot
factory runs to its happy conclusion nightly
at Melbourne Royal.
(Continued on page 37.)


I I liU
I i, i '
It' l- •' i
■i'i l • i ; >'■('
m
■i-s.
\x
r \ , '"^>.,4
Of
a
%>
/UajruSu.
PLENTY of Safe Light is a nightly need in and around the house. In C.O.R. Kerosene
you II hnd the clear, penetrating illuminant you’ve wished for—and it is SAFE.
Your Government is interested in its quality—for the Commonwealth is a half-owner
° j« e * enJ - el 'f t^ lse which produces C.O.R. Kerosene. Refined in Australia to suit Australian
conditions and needs, C.O.R. has nothing to fear from competitive foreign Kerosenes.
Try C.O.R. with an open mind. When you’ve proved its excellence—realise that you are
a partner in its production and continue to order it!
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES. LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil
Company Ltd.).
Victoria: Poolman St., Port Melbourne.
N.S.W.: Cathcart House, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Agents for Queensland, S. Australia
and N.S.W. country districts:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
ICE IUXTEN E
4155
PATON
COLD AS CHARITY!
EVEN IN THE HOTTEST CLIMATE
That’s ISKO Automatic
Electric Freezing Machine
FACTS WORTH STUDYING!
ISKO can be attached to your own refrigerator or
ice box.
ISKO is absolutely foolproof.
ISKO does not require expensive engines, as it is
simply connected with the house current.
ISKO entirely eliminates the buying of expensive,
melting ice, at the same time making 50 cubes
of ice each day.
ISKO will give you the greatest service at a very
low cost.
ISKO is absolutely automatic, switching itself on and
off as required.
Your Money runs down the drain when you buy ice!
By installing ISKO you convert this liability into an asset.
ISKO HAS MANY SATISFIED USERS
Including—
City Tatter sail’s Club, Sydney.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney.
Hotel Toronto, Toronto.
State Parliament House.
Hotel Metropole, Sydney.
Barley Mow Hotel, Sydney.
SPGE
Vj
111
/
/
\3f
IS I '44
3 •■
a a
mm
V, hen in Town, Call and See it Working, or Write for Literature to
IsKo Distributing Depot
412 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2355.
We are also Manufacturers of Refrigerator Cabinets.


Sporting Guns
J. V. NEEDHAM,
BIRMINGHAM
(W. W. GREENER, Ltd., Proprietors.)
Ask your Dealer for particulars of the
NEW Challenger No. 2 Model
Hammerless Gun.
Price £l7.
WHOLESALE ONLY—
W. P. THOMPSON * CO. PTY, LTD.
G.P.O. Box 192, MELBOURNE.
Malt is a Wonderful
Nourishes
That is^
Why I
I
I
Is such a
Beneficial Beverage
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Corn*
pensation, etc., etc.
The dollars about which “Cappy Ricks”
talks airily on the stage of the Melbourne
Athenseum continue to drop into the man-
agement’s coffers, and although Ward Lyons
is buying an extra collar for his trip to
England, there is no announcement of any
change in the programme yet awhile.
v v •!*
Henry de Bray, assisted by Doris Hare,
in sketches not always as bright as they
were meant to be, are the only noteworthy
additions to Melbourne Tivoli programme;
Long Tack Sam still occupies the house-front
electrics. But the Celestial’s play at diffi-
culty in speaking English becomes dull with
repetition; a regard for the good opinions of
patrons should whisper that a little new
patter is advisable.
s): * *
Enter the Easter Art shows: —
Margaret McLean has got in early; the collection
she has made in her Collins-street studio is fairly
representative of about a dozen local artists, and
mixed with them are some etchings from across the
seas —those of the girl Eileen Soper being partieu-
lany vivid and attractive. Louis McCubbin and
Harold Herbert supply the best of the local work,
Herbert’s “Branch of the Goulburn” showing an
attractive breadth. Leslie Wilkie is guilty of some
weak drawing in “Moonrise,” but. has created a good
sense of atmosphere, and Jas. Jackson shows no great
inspiration in two small oils. Amongst the others
a small “Evening Clouds,” by John Rowell, pleases
most.
** * *
Stiff,y and Mo have got themselves into
the banking business. As far as this Show-
man can recollect, their bank was first opened
when Potash and Perlmutter came here,
long before the time pubs commenced to
shut down at six, and when beer was only
threepence for a mug. However, that bright
idea about “pood in or dake oudt” survives
with a remarkable freshness. Wee Willie
Lancet has a new boy act which is better
than the last.
** * *
“The Fast Worker” is at Hoyt’s de Luxe,
but it conveys no moral to the Australian
bricklayer. “Happiness” prevails in the sup-
porting film. “The Marriage Market” has
been opened at the Majestic; and “Where
Am I?” is a sort of natural sequel. “The
Ten Commandments” having been finally
shattered, the Capitol enters on a system of
weekly changes with “Wanderers of the
Wasteland.”
** * *
A second look at “Kid Boots,” at Adel-
aide Royal, confirms the first impressions.
Lavishness of mounting, dancing, music, a
straightforward story, humor, voices—such
are its attractions, and in that order. The
dresses are sumptuous, amounting almost to a
fashion parade at times. In fact, one has
a suspicion that the feminine vote is aimed
at throughout; for where She goes He-who-
pays-for-the-tickets must go also. J osie
Melville is the favorite with her own sex;
and when George Gee has his limbs to all
appearance dislocated by a woman doctor,
or is cruelly sizzled by her in an electric
chair, the tempest of mirth that surely fol-
lows has a light-soprano sound. Manager
Myers has set the clock for a run which is
to eclipse Adelaide’s previous records.
❖ $ ❖
In other Adelaide shows, West’s (with
Sabatini’s pirate romance of “Captain
Blood”), Wondergraph and Pav. all seem to
calculate on a feminine desire to see herself
as a heroine to whom lovers are fierce, not
to say brutal; but at the York the charming
Colleen Moore is a very American flirt who
prefers, for the time, at any rate, to lead by
the nose. Cross gives a fine performance at
the Prince of Wales’s as the very human par-
son in the old “Dean Maitland” story. Phil
Smith, well supported, is still going strong
at the Majestic; and at Austral Gardens
Billy Maloney, having now a monopoly of
open-air shows, is breaking all local records
for that kind of entertainment.
# jfc Sfc
From an Adelaide critic; —
The Cumbrae Stewart pastel show, now at the
Society of Arts Gallery, brings the lady of the bare-
backed models once again before the notice of
Adelaide. A lot of her work now is either startlingly
careless or mistaken in method; she has developed
a scaly texture of skin which in one or two cases
looks really like disease. Elsewhere she is at her
smoothest and most attractive, and the Art Gallery
of Adelaide, which already has several of her semi-
nudes, has bought from this show a clever Lady
in Black. There are also some sketches of scenes in
England and France; pleasant enough, but with
little distinction.
“Peter Pan” : The art of Frederick Lons-
dale is coming to us in diversified spasms.
First, the rather ordinary “book” for “High
Jinks”; then the “Maid of the Mountains”
libretto, which was better; next “Aren’t We
All?” which was better still ; and then a
declension to the painfully dull “Betty.” Pre-
sently we are to have a Lonsdale melodrama,
“The Fake,” in which there is an unusual
hero who commits murder in an atmosphere
of drugs and decadents.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“F.T.K.”: When the Gonsalez Opera Co.
happens along next year there will be no
row over an imported chorus. Rudolpho
Gonsalez, who was recently in Sydney arrang-
ing for theatres and dates, tells me that,
apart from necessary principals, conductors,
and two or three chorus leaders, the co. will
be recruited in Australia. “And" why not? ’
he asked. “You have the material here.”
Gonsalez aspires to make Australia a per-
manent home for an opera co. “If Allan
Wilkie can keep going all the year round
with Shakspeare,” he says, “why shouldn’t
we with grand opera?”
“Hamfat” : Early in his present Melbourne
season Allan Wilkie celebrated his 1200th
consecutive Shakspearean performance, and
he will add a few to his tally before he
breaks the sequence by staging “The School
for Scandal” and “She Stoops to Conquer.”
With the production of “The Two Gentle-
men of Verona” he has staged 21 of the
plays; he aims at presenting two more per
year, until the 37 have been done. “Measure
for Measure” and “Coriolanus” are now on
the stocks. It is surprising that “Corio-
lanus,” which is full of dramatic intensity,
and has a fine star part, has not been used
more often ; but dangerous ground is being
touched in putting “The Two Gentlemen” and
“Measure for Measure” on the modern stage.
The latter, despite its beautiful blank verse,
TEE NEW ART.
“But, dammitall, it looks ridiculous to me! What’s so wonderful about it?”
“Why, the artist that did it was stone blind.”
will have to be “cut” out of all recognition
—it will be necessary to make Lucio quite
a reformed character.
“T. 0.1.”: I saw the first performance of
“Two Gentlemen of Verona” at Melbourne
Theatre Royal, June 6, 1859 (B. 19/3/’25).
G. V. Brooke had dissolved partnership with
George Coppin, Brooke taking the Royal and
Coppin the Olympic, in Lonsdale-street; and
G.V. engaged a new company, with Robert
Heir as manager. “Time Tries All” was his
first venture; then came “The Two Gentle-
men,” with Brooke as Valentine, Heir as
Proteus and Lambert as Speed. G. R.
Ireland made his first professional appear-
ance as Eglamour.
“Goldilocks”: John Cosgrove, who has
been for several weeks in a Melbourne hos-
pital, is getting out a book of stage stories
and general reminiscences. The literary side
of Cosgrove is very little known; but when
the picture-production business was lively
over a dozen years ago, John sold a number
of scenarios to Spencer’s and others. And
Australia has had few better actors of the
“generally useful” order.
“Hamfat” : The Lynch Family Bellringers,
with the 7S-year-old juvenile Harry Lynch
at their head, got on the roads again on
March 18. Their opening show was given
at Junee, and they are now entertaining
the South Coast of N. S. Wales. Harry’s
brother William (himself a showman for
5S years) and a younger William represent
the, inexhaustible Lynch clan, but there are
several other people in the co.
“Lud”: The burning of Madame Tussaud’s
will be a sad blow to sight-seeing Cockneys
and excursionists from the country, for the
pop-eyed provincial tripper always made a
point of including a pilgrimage to the wax-
works in his itinerary of the “metrollups.”
The Tussaud family started business in a
stuffy building in Baker-street, the middle-
class thoroughfare selected by Conan Doyle
as the address of Sherlock Holmes. Anon a
palatial caravanserai was built by the firm
in the adjacent Marylebone-road, and thence
w r as removed the valuable and unique collec-
tion (it included some priceless Napoleonic
relics) that has gone up in smoke. John
Tussaud, a grandson of the original proprie-
tress, was very thorough in his methods, go-
ing to no end of pains to get his figures
correctly modelled and apparelled. And in
many cases the celebrities were as popular in
w r ax as they were in the flesh. Sometimes
more so.
More of “Charlik’s” recollections: —
“Morocco Bound” (B. 19/3/’25) was produced at
the London Shaftesbury with Charles Danby and
Letty Lind in the principal parts. Dick Kenna, elder
brother of Pat Bathurst, long with the Royal Comics,
bought the Australian rights and produced it suc-
cessfully here. Some years afterwards Danby came
to Australia (his second visit) with his beautiful
Californian wife, Alexia Bassian, who had been en-
gaged by J.C.W. to play soprano lead in Gilbert
and Sullivan. Danby was not in the contract, but
Williamson allowed him to appear as the Sergeant of
Police in the “Pirates” a few times. The per-
formance was funny in a way, but 1 doubt if Gilbert
would have recognised his lines or Sullivan his
music. Poor Charlie did not last long. Then
Williamson entrusted this singing part to Hugh
Ward. Singing was not Ward’s strong point, but he
could not do anything really badly, and his per-
formance was by no means inartistic. He certainly
spoke all that was set down for him, and nothing-
more, which could not be said of the next experiment,
the late Harry Shine, who gave an excruciatingly
funny rendering of a pantomime dame in a police-
man’s uniform. I used to wonder in those days what
the gifted authors would have said had they seen any
of these performances. The Danbys returned to Cali-
fornia at the conclusion of their engagement, and I
have lost track of them, although Alexia promised to
write. She, like all Danby’s wives, was a very charm-
ing woman.
“Pan’s Pipe”: The cinema has now been
so long with us that comparatively few can
recall its predecessor of the ’sixties to
’eighties. “Batchelder’s Panorama of the
American Civil War” was a great financial
success; a quite wonderful show in its day,
too. The “pan” was a long unbroken stretch
of painted canvas placed on rollers and un-
folded from one to the other. It passed
behind a proscenium, with strong foot and
top lights, and was exceedingly brilliant
in color. By ingenious devices some of the
scenes depicted the battlefields at sunset or
by moonlight. On a windy night and in
a country hall, this moon often staggered up
after a very beery fashion. Then there was
the first gun fired in the war at Fort Sum-
ter. This was a very impressive scene. A
puff of smoke would come out of a hole in
the canvas where a cannon’s mouth was sup-
posed to be and the big drum would go
“boom!” In tense silence the lecturer then
announced “First shot fired in the war!”
To lighten the effect of this momentous
statement we could hear the far-off sound of
the inspiriting “Yankee Doodle,” and as
the panorama, sometimes getting hitched
up on the way, moved across the stage, _ it
disclosed a street perspective of marching
troops, with bayoneted rifles reaching back
to vanishing point. The fifes and side-drums
would then break into a crescendo of ear-
splitting sound. “Off to the war.” Ah, but
there was enthusiasm! After the close of
the Franco-Prussian war a panorama de-
picting its principal incidents went round
the colonies, as they then were; but neither
it nor any other of them came up to, nor
made the same money as, old Batchelder’s.
I wonder what became of it —perhaps some
old humpy ’way back has its walls lined with
scraps of Fort Sumter and the battle of
Bull Run. % ,
“Centurion”: One of the Leamar sisters
mentioned by “Tivolian” (B. 12/3/’25)
blossomed into a serio who almost justified
the existence of the species. The Gaiety co.
which visited Australia in 1893 took Alice
Leamar off the halls and included her in
the show to impart a tang of something
different to the rather cloying delights of
the old Gaiety burlesque. One remembers
the shocked feeling among Gaiety patrons,
and even the regulars of the company, at the
idea of including a serio among the priest-
esses of the famous Catherine-street temple.
The Australians took Alice to their hearts,
however, and later she signed up with
Rickards and was a big hit on the Tivoli
circuit.
“Minim”: The legitimate successor to
Arthur Sullivan was the composer who as a
fact did follow him at the Savoy—Edward
German. When Sullivan was seized with
his fatal illness he was engaged on the score
of “The Emerald Isle.” German completed
the job and was responsible for the
two following Savoy operas. “Merrie
England” and “The Princess of Kensington,”
excellent pieces of their kind. Basil Hood
was the librettist in each case, and his
“books,” though good, would have been better
had he not attempted to be Gilbertian. _ But
the management probably influenced him in
that particular. German’s music is always
a pleasure to listen to. His name isn’t
really German, by the way ; in the days
when he was a Shropshire lad they called
him Jones.
“N.”; Place for the Australian Films Pro-
duction Co., Ltd., which has the honorable
ambition of making dinkum Aussie photo-
plays ! Backed by leading Queensland
graziers and business men, and with C. E.
Chauvel for managing director, it is getting
to work on an adaptation of Mrs. Forrest’s
novel, “The Wild Moth.” The company is
Australian, the book is Australian and the
picture is to be Australian. Certainly Chaii-
vel put in 18 months at Hollywood, but it is
urged in extenuation that he was learning
the technical side of the business, and that
he has nothing-to unlearn as* regards Holly-
wood conceptions of art.
“Sow’s Ear” : Reported in a London paper
that Seymour Hicks was asked by an Eng-
lish friend, “What is Australia like?” To
which Hicks is said to have replied, “Wigan,
with scenery by Harker!” Deuced smart,
what? But hardly complimentary to nis
hosts of yesterday. Wigan is an unsightly
and uncouth Lancashire mining town. Harker
is the English scenic artist who painted the
Eastern scenes of Oscar Asche’s “Cairo”
and “Chu Chin Chow.”
“F'.S.”: The Navy has its own fashions in
song. Some of .the ditties have a kick in
them, too. I remember one very popular on
the China Squadron a few years ago:—
There’ll be no wa-war!
Not in the reign of Good King Edward;
There’ll be no wa-war,
For he ’ates that sort of thing. Wow!
Mothers, don’t worry,
Not with a king like good King Edward;
Peace with honor is ’is motter —
Gawd save the King!
“S.T.S.”: On the much discussed question
of the actor mingling soul and real under-
standing in his work, John Drinkwater
tells a story which W. B. Yeats confided to
him. There was a player at the Abbey
Theatre in Dublin who gave off with tremend-
ous effect a speech celebrating the heroes of
Irish legend. “He did it so movingly.” says
Yeats, “that I asked him whether he had
any peculiar tenderness in his mind for
these men. He informed me that he had sup-
posed the names to be those of mountains.


Amusements.
gVDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: WILDFLOWER.
CRITERION :
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
ROYAL: THE OUTSIDER.
GRAND OJPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh .1. Ward Theatres Ptr.. Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, 2.15 and' 8.
TANGERINE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
DICKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
pU EE E It’S TIIEA T R E, SVI>N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S REST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
D A I, A C E T II E A T It IS. S Y l> N K V
* Lessees: J. &N. Tait. Direction E. J. Carroll.
KAAI’S HAWAIIAN TROUBADOURS
in
A NIGHT/IN HONOLULU.
Plans at Nicholson’s, Popular Prices: Upper Gallery
Seats at The White Rose, opp. Theatre.
\Af I R T H S’ Cl R C U S.
** Wirths’ Hippodrome, Haymarket.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinees Wednesday, Saturday and Holidays, 2.30.
Children half-price to all parts at Matinees.
THIS YEAR SOMETHING SPECIAL.
NEW ARTISTS, NEW THRILLS, NEW ACTS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S:
BETTY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SO THIS IS LONDON.
I NO’S THE AT RE, M E L I! O U It N E.
GUY BATES POST in
THE GREEN GODDESS.
AT HEN AS U M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING at 8.
E. J. CARROLL presents, by arrangement with
Phillip Lytton, Ltd.,
The Uproariously Funny Three-Act (Jomedy
GAPPY RICKS.
The stage version of Peter B. Kyne’s famous Novel.
A Specially Selecteci Cast.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
p L A Y H 6 U S K .
The Melbourne Repertory Theatre.
THE NEW MORALITY,
preceded by
THE SHOWING UP OF BLANCO
POSNET.
ALL THIS WEEK.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
HOYT’S TIIE A T RES.. MELBOURN K
Alsio SYDNEY.
REGINALD DENNY in
THE FAST WORKER.
LAURETTE TAYLOR in
HAPPINESS.
Prices as usual.
IVI THEATRE, MELBOURNE
MAT MOORE in
THE NARROW STREET.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matin6es daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO, IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan. Cen. 3251.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAKEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Legal Notices.
MARY ANN BARCLAY, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 29th July
1924 and made in an Action in the Matter of the
Estate of Mary Ann Barclay' deceased (late of West
Hartlepool in the County of York who died on the
23rd September 1901) Hornshaw v. Potts 1924 B.
3236 whereby the following inquiry was directed
namely:—-
An inquiry' w'hether James W illiam Robinscn
(alleged to be' a nephew of the Testatrix) is living or
dead and if dead when he died and whether lie left
any and what Will and whether he was ever married
and if so when and to whom and whether there
were any children of the said marriage and who are
his legal personal representatives if any.
NOTICE is hereby given that James William
Robinson and all other persons if any claiming to
be entitled under the said inquiry are on or before
the 9th June 1925 to send by post prepaid to Cecil
Archdale Knight a Member of the firm of Torr and
Co. of 38 Bedford Row London W.C.I their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descriptions
and full particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said Order unless the Court or Judge on application
otherwise orders. Claimants are to attend personally
or by Solicitors before Master Chitty' at the Chambers
of the Judge Room No. 168 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England on Tuesday the 16th June
1925 at 12 o’clock noon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales must
send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the Claimant can be sent.
DATED 4th February 1925.
J. H. P. CHITTY,
Master of the Supreme Court.
TORR & CO. 38 Bedford Row London W.C.I
Agents for Bromet & Sons Tadeaster Solicitors for
the Plaintiff Henry Hedley' Hornshaw.
James William Robinson was born in the year
1858 the son of Benjamin and Isabella Robinson of
Wetherby in the County of York and was last heard
of in Dubbo New South Wales in the year 1885.
MATILDA AMELIA WIGLEY, Deceased.
PURSUANT to orders of the Supreme Court of
South Australia made in the matter of Matilda
1 Amelia Wigley deceased No. 749 of 1922 NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that persons claiming to be next
of kin to Matilda Amelia Wigley late of Verdun
formerly Grunthal in the State of South Australia
Spinster deceased who died on the 14th day of
December 1918 and who was the daughter of Ann
Rounsevell formerly Wigley nee Quinn are on or
before the 30th day of June 1925 to send by post
prepaid to The Deputy Master Supreme Court Adelaide
South Australia their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims and in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
orders. Claimants are to attend personally or by
their Solicitors before the Deputy Master at his
office Supreme Court Adelaide South Australia on
Wednesday the 29th day' of July 1925 at 10.30 o’clock
i in the forenoon being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating on the claims.
DATED the 12th day of March 1925.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
BRIGHT & BRIGHT, Solicitors, Unity Chambers,
Currie Street, Adelaide.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If rou ato troubled with the complaint, write at and
w# will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rapture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price it within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
| 104 Queen Street, Melbourne
u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
fT
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
THE MARK OF ,
A GOOD RAZOR
A_*k any man vou know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, “Why, rather!”
Y'
THE >
PLUM 1
SUPPLIED SE7 READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12
6 Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
J^ett^uplicaXQX
| ‘P&ifect Copies urith f&ifcd eass
Postage 21-
Other
States 3/2.
REPRODUCES NOTICES,
MUSIC, DRAWINGS, ETC.
Write for particulars.
H. DI3BS & CO. (Dept. B),
Station House, Sydney-
Missing Friends.
IF MR. C. D. HUGHES, late second officer
of the “Northumberland" will communi-
cate with MESSRS. BIRT & COMPANY.
LIMITED, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, it will
be to his advantage.
[F MR. J. HUMPHREYS, late second
refrigerating engineer of the “Northum-
) berland,” will communicate with MESSRS,
j BIRT & COMPANY. LIMITED. 4 Bridge
| Street, Sydney, it will be to his advantage.
The “Aberdeen” Auto Tent.
•, ' *
View of Single Tent with Cor Garaged for 'Night.
This Tent is made from Japara Sail Cloth, Dark Green Top, Waterproof.
Tents art* complete ready for erection, with Valise for carrying Tent ou
Running Board.
Price, £l4/10/-; White Duck Top, Price, £9.
Write for Price List, to Sole Makers,
SMITH, COPELAND & CO., LTD.,
33 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
“BhAfcKßlßtf
Self - filler
The strongest and
most reliable self-
filling pen offered
at a low price • • .
The new “ Blackbird ” Self-
filler has a chased vulcanite
holder, a safety screw-cap, and
is fitted with a 14-ct. gold nib,
tipped with iridium ; supplied
in any style of point to suit
your individual requirements.
Self. Filling
“Blackbird *
9/6 (postage extra)
Non-self-filling 7/6
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS
AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue Post Free
Mabie.Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House, 133 & 135,
Oxford St., London, W.l. and at Manchester:
Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Johannesburg, Barcelona,
Sydney, Wellington. Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative
J. A. Burke, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George
Street, Sydney,
A(?c
• Oo
A guide for tooi-steei users
®<-€ OH
WRITE to the nearest address below for a
free copy of the book, Hints to
Practical Users of Tool Steel. In it
are explained modern methods of heat treatment.
The most economical steel for various tools is
described also. Every user of tool steel will find
that the information offered in this book is
authentic and valuable.
“Ultra-Capital” High-Speed Steel and “An Eagle
on a Globe” Brand Carbon Steel are used the
world over. Specify these brands for every tool
or tool-holder.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Spee>d Steel,
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 342-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE .. Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., ’,BB-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street


Your BisselPs
daily dozen
A dozen times a day, there’s work for
the Bissell. Litter, crumbs, dust—the
Bissell whisks them up in no time and
keeps your carpets clean, bright, lint-
less.
Then, when necessary, just a pressure
of the thumb and the dirt is emptied.
A Bissell is easy to use—easier to
empty.
Its simplicity and handiness make a
Bissell Carpet Sweeper ideally conve-
nient for the everyday sweeping, and
its frequent use prevents most of the
dust accumulation that would require
other means of removal.
With a brush of pure bristles, “Cyco’ v Ball
Bearings and many other exclusive mechani-
cal features, a Bissell is more than just a carpet
sweeper. And its 10 or 15 years of work-saving
service makes it cheapest in the long run.
Toy Sweepers for the children, too. _ Sold
by leading merchants everywhere—write for
booklet.
Bissell
CARPET SWEEPER CO.. GRAND RAPIDS. MICH., U.S.A.
Carpet Sweepers
Empties
with a
»
V
Thumb
Pressure
628-D
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tut
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Maomillan's
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
hoolcs are. published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must he fired by the importing
bookseller.
KING
EDWARD VII
A Biography.
By Sir Sidney Lee. Vol. I. From
Birth to Accession. With Six
Portraits, 2 Facsimile Letters and
Three Maps; 844 pp. 31/6 net.
[lmmediately
[/Second Edition .]
THE ECONOMICS OF WELFARE.
By A. C. ITGOU, M.A., Professor of
Political Economy in the University
of Cambridge. Second Edition,
thoroughly revised. 30s. net.
The Manchester Guardian Commercial : “It
has not taken long for the ‘Economics of Wel-
fare’ to secure for itself a place amongst the
classics.” • __
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW VOLS.
THE OLD LADIES. By HUGH
WALPOLE.
IN THE LAND OF YOUTH. Bv
JAMES STEPHENS, author of “The
Crock of Gold," “Deirdre,” etc.
BLIND MAN’S BUFF. By LOUIS
HEMON, author of "Maria Chapde-
laine. . ,
The Gentlewoman : “Remarkably powerful
story... .Strangely interesting.”
THE LONELY LAKE. By MAR-
GARET ASHMEN.
“A contribution from America that may be
unreservedly welcomed. . . .To read ‘The Lonely
Lake’ after much other modern fiction is like
stepping out of a hot and murky room into
fresh air.” — .John o’ London’s Weekly.
AUSTRALASIA AND NEW ZEA-
LAND. By P». C. WALLIS, B.Sc.
With numerous Illustrations and
Maps. 6s.
[Practical Modern Geographies.
Education: “It is a mine of information and
in extraordinarily well-written and valuable
ext-book. It is most copiously illustrated and
ill its facts and figures are quite up to date and
reliable. We commend it with all our heart.
from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sever*
ce Medals.
Works i rMrrwingham, England!
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
I They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead penciL
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Poii.
Consumptives”
ART UNION
{By permission of The Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
“BIGGEST
and BEST”
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan . • ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car » £625
4th Prize, Durant Car ~ £4OO
sth Prize, Player Piano >i £250
6th Prize, 3 Rooms of Furniture ~ £2OO
200
PRIZES
IN ALL
Tickets 1/-
By post 1/I}, 3 or
more, post free.
Five tickets ... 5/-
Every ticket drawn
replaced in barrel.
Each ticket has 200
chances of winning
prizes.
Sale of tickets closes 20th May,
1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney,
3rd June, 1925.
Results published all Sydney
Dailies, sth June, 1925.
Tickets obtainable from all newsagents and tobacconists, and from the
Secretary, GEO. H. WHEELER, 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TAUIFF from 18/G per day, or apart-
ments may be secuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
fyou have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bri<f&e Street. Sydney.
\ LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and Nev. 7 Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, Loudon, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
U
Mini
mm
-'Vr
|l iiilii
I
! !:
Si
cm
e®
K
N:
f+ o
HI)
*
li.
r
Who Makes the
Electric Lamps You Use?
THE experience of many years and much experimen-
tation is woven into the making- of an Electric Lamp.
It does make a difference who is the maker. The effect
of electric current on a given element is best analyzed by
the creator of other great electrical apparatus.
In the manufacture of Westinghouse Electric Lamps,
will be found incorporated all of the years of experience
in che studying and analyzing of the effects of electricity.
Westinghouse lamps last longer.
zo»
aM
SC
11-n—
w
M
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Westingliouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company, Ltd.,
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
And Yorkshire House,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne,
estwghouseN
ELECTRIC 1
C


For Guns
and Sporting
Rifles, try
Mick Simmons’
o*
No. 22.—Biverside Arms Co.
D.8.8.1i. Gun, top lever, case-
hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued steel
barrels, right modified, left full choke,
matted rib, rebounding locks, low ham-
mers, pistol grip, vulcanite butt-plate,
snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders,
weight of 32 gauge, 7ilb. to 81b.;
16 gauge, 7£lb. to 7flb.: 12 or 16
gauge, with 30in. CC /C /
barrels XO / 0/■
Carriage paid.
No. 1. — The “Maine” Rifle, 22-cal.,
fitted with plain V back sight, de-
signed for 22 short, long or long rifle
cartridges, rim fire. It can be taken
apart easily and quickly by simply un-
screwing the thumbscrew located
underneath the forearm. The action
used is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is
round, 18in. long, bored and rifled with
the same care as the military weapon,
and guaranteed accurate; weight about
31b.
Price
21/-
Postage:
N.S.W., 1/6; Other States, 2/8.
No; 20. — Winchester Automatic Re-
peating Rifle, 1903 Model, special
22 calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel; detachable stock, will
shoot 10 cartridges in 3 seconds;
sighted point blank to 100 yards; will
kill at 500 ; weight, A/l A/
about silb XIU/IU/-
Oarriage paid.
No. 23. — Remington Rifle, No. 6
Model, 22 calibre, rim fire, 20in. round
blued steel barrels; weight, oo /f*
3Mb 04/0
Postage, 1/6; Other States, 2 /8.
No. 29. —Savage Single-shot Rifle,
1904 Model, 22 calibre; 18in. round
steel barrel; bolt action, handles short,
long or long rifle cartridges : bead front
and adjustable rear sight; o*7 /g\
weight, 31b O/ / D
Postage, 1/6; Other States, 2 /8.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Also at Brisbane and Newcastle.
Skin and Wool Dealers and Collectors.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT. LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
Vt^i
ft
7^
se
I ft's
BEAUTY IS ONLY SKIN DEEP,
BUT RIPOLIN ALSO ‘ HAS THU GRIP."
It is Quality and Permanency that Count.
RIPOLIN ENAMEL PAINT
REQUIRES NO VARNISH.
For Motor-cars, Boats, and all Interior and Exterior
Painting on Wood, Cement, Metal or Stone.
Send for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep).,
4 Underwood Street, Sydney,
S. J. Squires & Co., Ltd., 171 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane.
Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd., 379 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
Clarkson, Ltd., 133 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
For Sale.
FOR CASH SALE.
CJ OLID DRAPERY BUSINESS in heart
r' of SHALE AND CEMENT BOOM, LATROBE,
TASMANIA.
PRICE £3750.
The Stock is clean and up to date. A lifetime’s
opportunity for a live man. The business is taking-
all discounts. Reason for selling, illness.
READY & KELSALL, Latrobe, Tasmania.
Missing: Friends.
*TNO ARTHUR SKIPTON MIERS formerly of 280
George Street Sydney in the State of New South
Wales but now of parts unknown Take Notice that
your wife CATHERINE MURRAY MIERS has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of wilful desertion for three years and up-
wards. Unless you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the Twenty-fourth day of April
1925 the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs.
SEOOMB & WOODFULL 446 Little Collins Street
Melbourne Solicitors for the Petitioner.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
I
M
y>
(A
/ *k\
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
6th to 15th April, 1925.
£12,000 - - PRIZES - - £12,000
NINE DAYS, FIVE NIGHTS.
Greatest Show of Live Stock in the Commonwealth.
Finest Displays of Agricultural and Primary Products in the World.
Attractive Ring Events.
THE GREAT WHITE SHOW
Night Turned Into Day
Grounds and Buildings Brilliantly Illuminated by
Electricity for Five Nights.
Well Lighted Pavilions and Parade Ring.
Spacious Halls of 108,400 Square Feet Floor Space for the
Display of Manufactures and Motor-cars.
Magnificent Grandstands.
Comfort, Convenience and Accommodation Unsurpassed Anywhere
in the World.
Ringside Accommodation for 60,000 Spectators.
LECTURES ON SUBJECTS OF INTEREST TO ALL CLASSES.
DAY AND NIGHT IN THE LECTURE PAVILIONS.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME
DAY AND NIGHT.
ADMISSION: Outer Gates, DAY—Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
NIGHTS—Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped .
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is . undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Narson: Yes, but his name wasn’t Clancy.
. ...F.L.D.; It sprawls all over the paper. Can’t
you straighten it up a bit? H.C.C.: “Summer
Sun” came very near ; but “born” won’t rhyme with
lawn” in the autumn... .W.M.B.L.: The construc-
tion is poor... .I.M.T.: Not convincingly written....
J.B.B.: Poorly done. .. . F.F.: Sick verse that
stumbles along to say nothing Gus E.: Hardly
enough in it.... James B.: Misses the ’bus....
F.L.V.: It wobbles along without exactly falling
down, but never gets to the pub Jocelle: It is
not verse.... D.G.K.: The verse is bad and the prose
gets to nothing. .. .S.J..J.: Says very lamely things
that have been many times said in better lines
Wawh : Don’t like “Policeman Death” much better....
Frank R.: Very weak, without point or purpose....
Geo. H.: One bright facet that recalls happy dusty
days:—
Sing not to he of Tennessee or Thames’ big foggy
town
Nor hectic Monte Carlo where sharps instruct the
clown ;
Sing him a reward goldfield, coy nuggets there to
speck,
Like a bee to work with glee at no one’s call or
beck.
Australia’s clime does him sublime her outdoor poten-
tates,
Ain’t harried by a fussy crew who raise and waste
the rates ;
Far from the claw of statute law those rough and
ready fish
Dispensed distilled equity by roll-call on the dish.
. ...J.S.L.; The terrible picture needs more skilled,
handling. .. .C.O’N.: Not up... .Iv.M.J.: Too much
upholstery... .Contango: As a matter of fact, the
imports of gold into the U.S.A. were greater after
than during the war. Quite true that in 1919
they fell to 76 million dollars; but by 1921 they
were up to 691 millions, which was more than in
any war year. And, in spite of talk of large
exports from the U.S.A., net imports last year were
340 million dollars... .J.M. (Malvern): The jig-jog
verse can’t carry it....One of Them: Ragged and
weak....I.M. (Rose Bay): The point is not well
made and the verse is poor... .L.L.D.: The yarn is
threadbare and the comment mostly inane.. ..
D.A.A.: It splutters like an angry frog in a fearful
attempt to say something... .Jimmy P.: The mere
sing-song isn’t justification for twisting words into
those clumsy shapes.... Theo G.: Your verse is a
poor tribute to your sunset.... Mary E.: Too weak.
... . J.M.S.D.; Doesn’t greatly move us A.H.: Has
some quality, but falls to pieces too often....
Gordon T.: One has a sporting chance.... Eden D.:
The “angel’s tears” fall all in vain... .A.R.P.: It
sings like an elephant squelshing through mud....
John N.: Doesn’t get near... .F.F.M.: Falls badly
over its own bluchers.... La Mothe: Certainly; let
“The Athiest” athe in all his delicate simplicity:—
We are but baser cells evolved
To grand supremacy o’er things innate;
Peerless our command to baser brutes; solved
Our utmost trials at our Desire’s gate.
Laissez-faire our doctrine, we may tread
The path a sybarite, where lusts dictate;
We contemplate and choose the easier way, lead
On, and try our lusts to satiate.
And when deep in despondency of qualms
Raise high the cup and drown in sorrow’s womb
The embryo aspirations to a calm
Where bogus gods rule conscience with a tomb.
.... Elsie J.: Says the old things in the old way....
J.S.R.: Doesn’t make us want to print it....I.D.:
“Lost Souls” are cut out from a very old pattern....
A.H.D.; “Vegetable Garden” wants more cultivation.
.... T.A.W.: The gardening part of the yarn on
which the rest hangs is handled without enough
knowledge... .M.E.L.: Too slight... .M.H.H.: The
usual unreal author in the usual heartbroken throes
of quite unusual success... .J.E.O.: Not up by some
distance... .J.R.L.: The snaky verse bumps where it
should only wriggle... .J.W.S.: Only extravagant
prose masquerading as verse... .S.G.C.: The yarn
doesn’t touch reality... .W.J.T.: Don’t like it....
Alice J.: Not sufficient interest... .M.H. (Roseville):
“Romance” is the poorest. A couple are acceptable.
. .. .W.M.M.: “The Prayer” doesn’t rise high enough.
. ...H.J.W.: Not much interest except as a text
to hang a sermon on... .Wanchai: You’re a week
late.... Rando: An l it wouldn’t matter if you were
a year late... .Bo Aim: May we take just a slice?—
There are pleasures in the pathless woods,
There are raptures on the lonely shore;
But what are nature’s joys compared
To a cable tram’s jolting crawl?
The lumbering, swaying dummy,
Jumping up the street,
To the music of its clanging bell's
Noisy, tireless beat.
Sydney has her harbor,
For her parks will Adelaide spar ;
But Melbourne’s pride is centred
In her comely cable car.
To sit on the front of the dummy,
With the north wind’s dust on cheek,
Is a pleasure, that many
Will travel far to seek.
. .. .W.F.: Sorry, but, though good in patches, “Fire”
doesn’t read true... .Tralee: Frankly, we’re not much
interested in that Irish quarrel... .S.B.H.: Unless
Mary Washington can light the copper fire with it
it has no value J.I1.L.: You go a long way
round to deliver a very small parcel... .B.C.F.: Not
worth while... .Granadilla : Rubbish. The objection
to Brennan isn’t at all that he is a Laborite. It is,
plainly, that he isn’t fitted by either temperament
or training for a seat on such a bench. .. .John D.:
Tn small a potato... .Manty: Not quite. .. .Nelle T.:
Hardly well enough dene to make us believe it’s
true. . . .E.T.: Can’t believe your characters would
talk like that... .Mary North: You’ve left it too late.
. ...M.P.L.: There is quite as much music in it
as there is in a pumpkin. .. .Gerald D.: Too much
trimmings and not enough meat in “Tramp.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.L.L.: You haven’t arrived yet. It is doubt-
ful whether you have started.... O.L.: “If it will
suit I will send one every week.” Sorry, but we 11
just have to struggle along without them D.A.S.:
Open out your lines and use less of them.... R.S.:
The drawings miss, but not by much; the gags are
miles wide G.D.: “In Darlinghurst” is one of
those rough gems that require the services of a
lapidary J.R.U.: Scratchy, but vaguely promising.
“Verri”: The directors of the exhibition
shortly to he held in Dunedin (M.L.) have
turned down applications for space for the
display of German goods. “Popular senti-
ment in the Dominion” was the reason given,
and the decision bars all ex-enemy interests
from participating.


Tear this
Coupon
out
and
POST
TO-NIGHT
Please forward me your list of fully-mapped-out tours of South Island, New Zealand, via White Star
Motor Serv ces (and also further details as specified in enclosed letter).
NAME
ADDRESS...
A Holiday of Holidays!
A Wonderful Motor Tour through the Paradise of the
South Seas.
Tlie South Island of New Zealand is the scenic
rainbow of the world, reflecting something of every
country's peculiar beauty. Every haunting spot in
this wonderful island is reached by a network of
luxurious motor services, picturesquely named the
White Star Tourist Services, Ltd. Sympathetic
experts in tourist comfort have chosen every car
used by this great organisation, so that a uniform
standard of smooth, dependable motoring is main-
tained throughout. Moreover, on whatever route
you choose lie hotels specially recommended for
their warm hospitality, excellent cuisine and com-
plete comfort.
From the day you set foot in New Zealand men
of the White Star will make you a friend among
friends. You will go from host to host a perfectly-
cared-for guest. You will penetrate the mysteries
of the Southern Alps, tall ghosts with a tenderness
for mists. In the heart of this fascinating region
is the famous Mdunt Cook Hermitage, an all-the*
year-round centre of happiness and frolic and
mountain adventure. You will go to the shores of
lakes and fiords more beautiful even than those of
Europe, where launch trips are run under the
shadows of craggy steeps, and there is fishing, end-
less sunshine and beauty. You can go deer-hunting
among luxuriously-clad mountain ranges. You
can visit marble mountains and skirt the bush-clad
shores of the blue Pacific.
Yes, come! Here is romance and happiness and
nature more beautiful and magnificent than you
have pictured her.
You will tear yourself away bubbling over with
renewed health and spirits and with a store of
unforgettable memories.
Yet the moderate east of this holiday of holidays is
one of its hiyyest surprises.
Send the above coupon for fullest details and free
booklet to the Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or
Brisbane branch of the N.Z. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
Union Steamship Co., Ltd., New Zealand, or White
Star Tourist Services, Ltd., Box 305, Christchurch.
WHITE. STAR
TOURIST SERVICES LTD.
NEW ZEALAND.
*
:
, <?' 9iv,K
y
i: j ■
3’
The Peerless Combination
Galli-Curci and “His Master’s Voice”
The wonderful singer and the wonderful instrument.
When Galli-Curci has been and gone how splendid it will be to hear her
again and again—in all her perfect artistry—on “His Master’s Voice.”
Hers is a voice which keeps the listener spellbound—it is limpidly clear,
birdlike in its indescribable brilliancy, and on her records it reproduces in
a way that is almost startling in its realism.
Add some of these numbers to your collection. They are records that will
become more and more treasured and valuable as the years go by.
Double-sided Red Label, D.A. 10-inch, 7/6; D.B. 12-inch, 10/6.
(Sung in Italian unless noted.)
DB 261—Barbiere —Una voce poco fa Rossini
DA 217 —Capinera La (The Wren). (Flute obbligato) Benedict
DA 217 —Caro mio ben (Canst thou believe?) Giordani
DA 219 —Chanson Indoue (A Song of India). French Rimsky-Korsakov
DA 215 —Clavelitos (Carnations). In Spanish Quinito Valverde
DA 219 —Coq d’Or —-Hynine au Soleil. In French Rimsky-Korsakov
DB 260—Dinorah —Ombra leggiera. (Flute obb.) Meyerbeer
DA 611—Don Cesar de Bazan —Sevillana Massenet
DB 259 —Don Pasquale—Cavatina (Quel Guar do) Donizetti
DB 258 —Echo Song (Flute obb.). In English Bishop
DB 602 —Home, Sweet Home. In English Payne-Bishop
DB 263 —Lakme —Dov’e L’lndiana bruna (Bell Song) . . Leo Delibes
DB 602 —Last Rose of Summer. In English Moore
DA 215—Laughing Song from Manon Lescaut. In French . . Auber
DB 597 —Linda di Chamounix —Cavatina Donizetti
DA 218 —Little Birdies. In English Tennyson-Buzzi-Peccia
DB 258—L0, Here the Gentle Lark (Flute obb.). In English. .Bishop
DB 260—Lucia —Mad Scene—Part 1 Donizetti
DA 214—Lucia —Mad Scene —Part 2 Donizetti
DB 261—Madame Butterfly—Un bel di vedremo Puccini
DA 214 —Marriage of Figaro—Non so piu cosa son Mozart
DB 264—Mignon—Polonaise (Lo son Titania) Thomas
DA 328 —01’ Car’lina James Francis Cooke
DA 216—Traviata —-Sempre libera
DA 212—Twilight (Crepuscule). In French
DB 262 —Variations on a Mozart Air—“Ah vous dirai-je maman?”
obb.) In French
DB 262 —Villanelle. In French (Flute obb.)
DA 218 —When Chloris Sleeps. In English
Verdi
* Massenet
(Flute
Adam
. . . Dell’ Acqua
Pierson-Samuels
Instruments in many models at many prices.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists
and name of nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice’ 1
liegd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
hiegd. Trade-mark.
DA 328
DB 265
DB 255
DB 255
DB 265
DB 641-
DB 259
DB 257-
DA 381
DB 264
DB 263
DB 256
DB 597
DB 257-
DA 216-
DB 174
DB 174-
Bizet
. . David
H. Proch
-Old Folks at Home Stephen C. Foster
-Partida, La—Cancion Espanola. In Spanish .. . Alvarez
-Pearl Fishers —Comme autrefois. In French
-Pearl of Brazil —Charmant oiseau. In French
-Proch’s Air and Variations. (Flute obb.) . .
-Puritani —Polonaise Bellini
-Puritani —Qui la voce Bellini
-Rigoletto—Caro Nome Verdi
-Rigoletto—Piangi fanciulla (with De Luca) Verdi
-Romeo et Juliette —Valse. In French Gounod
-Solvejg’s Song (from “Peer Gynt’’). In French .. Grieg
-Sonnambula —Ah! non credea mirarti Bellini
-Star of the North —Prayer and Barcarolle
(Flute obb.). In French Meyerbeer
-Traviata —Ah. fors’ e lui Verdi
-Traviata —Addio del passato ... .. . Verdi
-Traviata —Dite alia giovine (with De Luca) Verdi
-Traviata —Imponete (with de Luca) Verdi
-9
A
The Symbol of Supremacy.


Artistic Walls
and Ceilings
Many a delightful room owes its
charm to the artistic panel effects of
its walls and ceilings, lined with
“FIBROliITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets.
Art, hygiene, fire safety and sound economy
are all secured by lining with “FI 15 RO-'
LITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets. The
big sturdy panels are easily handled, cut,
nailed and erected, and, being obtainable
in over 30 sizes, waste is eliminated.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE&COY.,LTD.,
Cor. York and Wynyard Sts., Sydney.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Jjittle Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
"k : S;
<y &
The Name Attracts.
That is not surprising. The firm’s good work in
selling FOX, RABBIT and all other skins at top
values is a consistent inducement for owners to
forward consignments to market.
Send Your Skins to
WINCKCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
Shave in Comfort.
£
/
If you could shave
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred—you
can’t hurt your razor, for "the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE. and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
they last longer
For bells, buzzers and radio, use
Columbia No. 6. For gas engine
ignition, use Columbia “Hot Shot.”
Obtainable everywhere at little
cost; more energy; more prolonged
service.
Always insist upon
COLUMBIA
JSNTTO®
mss-eu*
ron
'WIITION AN#
ttI <ER»LPURf® S£S
m
E 3
V *gUU.CO*Of ( I s?^
BSS&
27
National Carbon Co., Ine.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N.Y.
U. S. A.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
iVlotherhood
While Students of
Medicine* and Science ate
spending years in study*
Mothers are learning their
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
After all, experience is the
best teacher, and that’s why
thousands of Mothers who
ha\>e reared large families so
strongly recommend
V
KRUSES .
OThis faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal both for Nursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in Severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
Kruse'S Fluid Magnesia is particul arh? valuable
during the trying period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
Don’t try to do tfitkout KRUSE’S during tKe kot Summer moniks, but get
Ike genuine, ’(Jiik our name, Felton, Grimwade & Co. PjJ. Ltd. on Ike label.
BOTTLED IN THREE SIZES.
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALIi SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WARES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“H.H.”: Inside a few weeks Broken
Hill will be within nine hours of Mel-
bourne. Airships starting at 8 a.m. are to
drop on the way at Echuca, Deniliquin and
Hay, and complete the journey by 5 p.m.
The section to Hay is to be opened in
April.
* * * *
“FY7”: Some one recently (B. 5/2/’23)
sang the praises of a lady-sheep that had
done some consistent wool-producing. Here
is the record of a Mudgee River six-year-old
wether: First year, cut 161 b.; second year,
241 b. ; third, 3011 b.; fourth, 241 b.; fifth,
241 b.; sixth, 271 b.; total, 14511 b. of wool.
* * * *
“Mag” : A while back in the Talgai dis-
trict, Darling Downs (Q.), 2100 bags of
wheat were taken off 300 acres. This was
claimed as the record yield from any holding
in the district; but it has since been beaten
by the tally from Smith’s farm at Allora,
3330 bags from 381 acres, or nearly nine bags
to the acre. How does this compare with
southern figures?
* * * -it
, “lveranavura” : Vanikoro, one of the Santa
Cruz group, has long been known as the
mystery island of the South Seas, and is
now in a fair way to be advertised industri-
ally. A M.L. syndicate is exploiting the
kauri timber on the island, which is said to
be equal to anything in the Dominion ; the
first shipment of close on 50 splendid logs
arrived in Sydney a few days ago. It should
prove ideal for boatbuilding, as well as high-
class cabinet work.
* * ■* #
“Adelaide”: Gutteridge, the sanitary ex-
pert lent to South Aus. by the Common-
wealth, has sent in a comprehensive report
on the deep drainage of Adelaide and its
plain. The problem was tackled early and
thoroughly, and the present difficulty comes
from the natural spreading of the suburbs in
the last 40 years. Gutteridge says that for
final disuosal he regards the deep water at
Brighton rocks “ideal,” but realises that the
prevailing currents would ruin the Glenelg
beaches. He recommends (1) making a
sewage farm pf an area near the prison at
Dry Creek, and (2) making more use of
the north arm of the Port River. Estimated
cost of the reorganisation, £230,000.
* * * *
“Herodot” : Fagin is .still the worst thief.
A few weeks ago stolen jewellery worth £6OO
was' sold to a “fence” in Sydney for £75;
and plunder from a silk shop, valued at
£lOOO and insured for nearly as much, was
disposed of through underworld channels for
a trifle over a tenth.of that sum- Because
of the care with which the police watch the
pawnshops, thieves are forced to fall back
on the receiver, and the latter will give
no more for jewellery than the gold or silver
is worth. Thus a sixty-guinea gold watch
may bring the pickpocket only four or five
pounds; the works are torn out and dropped
down the nearest drain-pipe, while the case
goes hurriedly into the melting-pot. This
explains why tire leading crooks generally
avoid goods and go only for safes containing
money or diamonds.
* * » #
“Caractacus”: Prices in most retail shops
“slide” according to the reliability and other
qualities of the customer. A Melbourne
suburban grocer had one avlio, though sound
as the bank itself, always owed £lOO or so.
Wliiteapron accepted the position cheerily—
Mrs. Gotrox was simply put upon the list
for heaviest surcharging. One day White-
apron’s manager rang head office in great
agitation. “Mrs. Gotrox has paid,” he
twittered, distraught—“paid right up!”
"That a dam’ good job,” retorted the
accountant. “Oh, is it!” sobbed the
harassed manager; “but what am Ito charge
her notv? If I put her ‘on the ‘no-balance’
rate she’s sure to notice the difference, and
then where are we?” Wliiteapron, to whom
the problem was referred, was equal to the
emergency. A church elder, he was used
to handling men and situations. Mrs. Gotrox
was kept upon the old surcharge register.
* * * •
“Ninenfor” (Java) tells the tale of a rug:
In 1892, a newcomer to Australia, I dropped into
a Brisbane store and asked for a serviceable rug,
From the selection offered I chose a plaid-like
article which I was assured was of Australian manu-
facture. In those days it didn’t strike me as much
oi a recommendation-, but I kept my thoughts to my-
self and bought it—on its appearance. Since then
that rug has been with me to the South Sea Islands
many times, four times to Japan, nine to China, to
Europe twice, and South Africa and over most of it,
to East Africa, Mombasa, Uganda and the Belgian
Congo, to German E. Africa and Tanga, also
through Malaya, British North Borneo, Sumatra, Java,
the Celebes, Ambon, Ceram and Dutch New Guinea.
On steamers, on shore, dry weather and wet, in a
house or in a tent (sometimes neither), big game
shooting and gold hunting, that rug has accompanied
me for 33 years, and with the exception of a moth
hole about the size of a pea, a torn corner and the
loss of its trade-mark label (which was a bunch of
thistles with a name like “Vicars” across it), it is
about as good as new. Whoever made it knew his
business and used good material. I’m looking for-
ward to getting another 33 years’ use out of it.
* * » *
“C. Coral”: Last year there were few
casualties amongst the Japanese divers in
the Straits. An old Jap of my acquaintance
attributes this to the regulation which has
limited the number of Japs employed on a
boat to four, the other members of the com-
pany being islanders, Malays, Papuans or
mainland natives. According to him, in the
old’days a diver possessing a nice little bag
of pearls was likely to become envied by the
other members of the Jap crew, who, after
consultation, would sometimes haul him up
too rapidly. Paralysis and death were likely
to follow. Also, some of the divers who rent
the luggers were apt to overlook such minor
matters as the payment of wages to their
crew of compatriots (including Koreans),
and as a gentle reminder the creditors were
quite likely to stage a few “accidents” to
emphasise the importance .of the paybooks
being made up promptly. But now that
there are fewer Japs ofT the luggers and a
greater proportion of outside boys who may
carry tales, these methods have had to be
discarded as dangerous,


In N.S.W.:
“For over 70 years Ave have been serving in some way
the man on the land. For 30 years and more our
energies have been chiefly directed towards equipping him
with machinery. None can know better than we do the
cumulative value of handling only reliable lines and of
keeping them in active service as long as possible by the
supply of duplicate parts and expert assistance whenever
required. Although the ‘Lister’ makes a minimum
demand in these directions, the service indicated is always
available in its fullest meaning.”
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street - - - Sydney.
In Victoria:
‘ xn an experience of 35 years we have never known
anything that needs so little attention as ‘Lister’ Engines.
Full power at any and every moment is pre-eminently
the experience of ‘Lister’ users. They find it a depend-
able power unit, ready when they are, needing practically
no repairs, and when these do occur, a trifle like a piston
ring puts them right again for years.
“With our ripe experience we are here to serve all
‘Lister’ users promptly and cheerfully in every way and
every day.”
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray.
In S.A.:
“The firm of Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., was established
in 1842. During the whole of the period since their energies
have been directed almost exclusively towards supplying
machinery for the use of the primary producer. During
that time various engines have been handled, but in no
instance has an engine been offered with such satisfactory
and pleasant results to both buyer and seller alike as
with the ‘Lister.’ Although we take care of possible
accidents by carrying for instant despatch a full range of
spare parts for every engine stocked, these are very
seldom called for in the case of the ‘Lister.’ ”
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Mile End.
335 years’
SERVICE IN
AUSTRALIA
behind the
jsfen
ENGINE
guarantees you
lasting satisfaction
In Queensland:
“Machinery is one branch of our Queensland business.
We are, in addition. Wool Brokers and Pastoralists
Agents. Those activities demand the special confidence
of sheepmen. In accepting the agency for 'Lister
Engines due consideration was given to their association
with our wool and other departments. Our expectations
have been fulfilled to the utmost. Nothing but praise
is heard for the ‘Lister’ Engine. We carry stocks of
'Lister’ duplicates, and our workshops are thoroughly
equipped to effect repairs. The soundness of the ‘Lister’
Engine, however, is clearly indicated by the limited call
experienced for spare parts and for repair work.”
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
In W.A.:
“For nearly 20 years our policy lias been to bring
the old methods of farming abreast with the times, by
supplying farmers and pastoralists with the best labor-
saving machinery the world can produce. The result is
that to-day we are one of the largest suppliers of power
farming equipment in Western Australia, our reputation
being built up on handling such lines as the ‘Lister’
Engines, and providing good field service to our cus-
tomers.”
Malloch Brothers,
William Street, Perth.
In Tasmania:
“Ninety-four years ago the founder of this business
established himself in Hobart as a wool factor. To-day
we handle practically one-third of the total Tasmanian
woolclip, a result attained by our interpretation of the
term ‘service’ to woolgrowers. Simultaneously with
this growth we have kept abreast of modern developments
by introducing up-to-date agricultural and pastoral
machinery. Here again success has followed us as a
result of carrying out our original policy of service. In
this connection, spare parts and expert mechanics for
‘Lister’ Engines, though rarely called on, are always
available.”
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
LOCOMOTIVES
ajBML
S.V
-*■ IB
v: ■
i 5
m
w.
Vv’
4-6-0 D.D. TYPE, MANUFACTURED FOR VICTORIAN RAILWAYS.
LOCOMOTIVES OF ALL TYPES DESIGNED AND MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
RAILWAY MATERIALS.
POINTS AND CROSSINGS, WHEEL CENTRES, TYRES, AXLES, ETC.
THOMPSON $ CO. (CASTLEMAINE) PTY. LTD., Engineers
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren, Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.


Vim, Vigor and
Vitality result
from the use of
Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They
cleanse and stim-
ulate stomach,
liver and bowels,
helping produce
perfect health.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
.
H '
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pirsn: RUBBER
Ms!
MAN NEWS
The “BARB”
RIDING TROUSERS
Just hard long - Wearing Riding
Trousers for men str-ngly built.
Won’t show dirt or perspiration—
Cross pocxets, loops. There’s no
better value,
and Grey
Fawn
15/- pair
Mail to Desk “5.8.”
Stating Size
Pike Brothers
LIMITED
In Queen St., hnsbane
J
4
0
“NEVER
NEGLECT
A
RUPTURE.’’
If you need a Truss or RUPTURE Appliance
write at once for our Illustrated List No. 26. Many
years’ practical experience, and intelligent service,
enable us to efficiently supply you with the most
suitable support for your own individual requirements.
We jnake Spring and Elastic Trusses of every
description for Men, Women and Children. Agents for
Brooks Appliance Co., Ltd.
GUY ATT & CO., est. isss.
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S.Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne. Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. IIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, aha
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
aiL&
a ¥ood
Jdlompl
•*
Smoke
They 3 have
that cool
“mellowness”
sought by 3
those who
discriminate^c)
Spinet
P THE SUPER.
CIGARETTE'
TINE OLD VIRCIN IA'CORK TIPPED -OVALS.
20 for 2 A
m
5
PATON
24-94-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. L. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
ap
9
t £° r
YoU«^v\ds-
- t
Only the Power
DELIVERED
to Machinery
Counts.
Your engine, motor or boiler
MAY generate sufficient
power, but is that power
actually delivered to your
machines?
BALL-BEARING HANGERS 8 PULLEYS
for the line shaft eliminate waste of power, because they
eliminate friction.
Add to this big economy the saving of 80 per cent, on
maintenance and lubricants and the reason is clear why
SKF Ball Bearings are being adopted the world over.
Write Us, Arranging for Demonstration and Estimate of
Savings You Can Effect.
OUR ENGINEERS WILL GLADLY CO-OPERATE WITH YOU.
Gardner Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: 143 Scott Street.
BRISBANE: 426 Ann Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd.. 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd., 377-391 Murray Street.
T.E.—l/2
Died in his boots, at 73, Ben Smith, old-
time carrier, and one of Queensland’s best-
known racing men. Owner of several good
Western performers, Ben revelled in the vic-
tories of his beloved racers, chief of whom
was Whitewood, winner of many important
events.
“H.J.G.”: A Hobart bass quartette
entry for the long-service medal. J. Payne
and T. Duncan, both with 38 years of in-
strumental work to their credit; G. Bennett,
34 years, and F. Stanley, 29 years—an aggre-
gate of 139 years—still play together in the
same band. None of them looks like quali-
fying for a golden harp yet awhile.
Sergt. G. Stott is a good advt. for the
Northern Territory. lie journeyed north
from Adelaide as a constable, at 25,
and now, after 41 years, returns full of
vim, and anxious to get back again. He is
protector of aborigines, returning-officer and
other things over a district which touches
the borders of three States. The sergeant
has four sons and two daughters, whose
physique suggests that the North is a good
place to be born in.
Retiring this month, at 65, police-magis-
trate Meeson, of Dubbo, who, even though
lie has reached the age-limit in the N.S.W.
public service, might win first prize in a
sporting tournament confined to members of
the N.S.W. higher and lower Benches. A
fine two-handed boxing amateur, he can still
also pull stroke-oar in an eight and manipu-
late a wager boat. But his long suit is
pigeon slaughter: at a recent Dubbo shoot
he made some of the cracks look foolish as
the birds dropped to his first barrel.
“Shed Hand” : It is a Westralian railway
regulation that no wine, spirits or tobacco
may be loaded into a truck which cannot be
sealed for despatch. Recently a gang in
Perth was loading an open truck, and in the
consignment was a case of tobacco. There
was nothing on the outside to denote its
contents, but the loading-checker told the
men to set it aside. Later the head porter
queried the package and asked a barrowman
how the checker arrived at his decision.
“Smelt it,” came the answer. “That man
could smell a raisin in a haystack.”
The death of George Adam Kay in Mel-
bourne recently wakened echoes of the bank
crashes of the ’nineties. Kay was the official
liquidator of the Federal Bank of Australia,
the City of Melbourne Bank, the Mercantile
Bank of Australia and the English and Aus-
tralian Mortgage Bank, and also was en-
trusted with the financial last rites of some
businesses that were qrushed under the dgbris
of the larger crash. There are still hopeful
creditors with enough interest in salvage to
nominate a new liquidator and approach the
Practice Court for his appointment. Peter
Francis Keane got the job.
“Borom”: One Chinaman, or Jap, may
look very like another to the average white
man, but probably no more than white men
look to the Asiatic. A Chinese merchant
told me that when he first arrived in the
country he wa.s totally unable to distinguish
one European from another, and was forced
to fall back on a system of classifying them
mentally by means of various personal char-
acteristics. Several Asiatics who were fellow
undergraduates of mine at a University
assured me that a body of European students
clad in academical costume each looked as
much like one another as peas in a pod.
Jos. Francis, M.H.R. for Moreton (Q.),
might be said to have inherited his seat —-his
grandfather represented the best part of his
constituency long ago in the Bananaland
Parliament; but Francis’s 7000 majority at
the 1922 election was twice any previously
secured thereabouts. His A.I.F. popu-
larity had a lot to do with it: he was a co.
commander in the 15th Battalion —a mainly
Queensland battalion —for four years. After
the war he resigned the prospects that 14
years in the Queensland Department of Jus-
tice had given him, but his law training has
been useful on various Commissions and else-
where.
J. M. Balfour, the new chairman of Vic.
State Dried Fruits Board, who began his
career in the Vic. Postal Department before
Federation, was a handy man who could do
anything from running a country post office
to Morsing a 4000-word press message. Slow-
ness of promotion caused him to resign, but
a bad spin outside forced him back. Again
kicking the departmental dust off his feet he
landed the secretaryship of the Wool Com-
mittee during the war period. John Higgins
took a fancy to him, and he has been associ-
ated with the silent knight since. Balfour
was the go-between when the late Labor
Government and the Metro. Gas Co. were
negotiating. The parties were got within
measurable distance of a deal when Prender-
gast was cast out and the unofficial bargain-
ing ended.
One Scots meenister puffed a pipe and
anither a cigarette while they aided and
abetted a deputation at the State public
offices in Melbourne last week in an effort
to have a school and .nmior tech, classes
established at the Kilmany Park Boys’ Home
(Gippsland). There was a third and staider
pulpiteer who refrained, but it seems he didna
have “the makin’s” with him. The sinner who
tempted the guid men to light up was Alec
Peacock, a mere political Meenister, who
runs the Education Department, and knows
no better. The arguments —and the smoke —
convinced him, and he undertook not only
to fix up a school but to search for a special
sort of teacher—presumably one who owns
a pipe and won’t sentence to solitary confine-
ment a laddie found trying a fag at the back
of the gymnasium.
“The Magpie”: In talking of the sturdy
progeny of nonagenarian Mrs. Henry Jones
(B. 12/2/’25), please don’t leave Mrs. Kate
Cumming, of W.A., out of the picture. She
has been prominent in this State for many
years. She was once in charge of the Perth
Telephone Exchange, and some of us wish
she was still. When war broke out she and
her sons were on a farm at Doodlakine. Now
(me major son lies in F'rance; another son,
Captain Redmond Cumming, after, magnifi-
cent work on the Peninsula and imprison-
ment in*Germany, came home to die in his
car a few miles out of Bruce Rock; another
son, Caton. served in the Navy. A widowed
daughter, Mrs. Bates, is the secretary of the
WA. Kindergarten Union. Another daugh-
ter Laura, helped to provide thousands of
pounds for Avar funds. Mrs. Cumming her-
self Avas recruiting for a time in Queensland
—she is a fine platform speaker.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•ORAMA 20.500
•ORONSAY .. 20.500
•OTRANTO .. 20,500
•ORMONDE .. 14,853
•ORCADES ...
Tons.
ORMUZ 14.588
ORVIETO ... 12.133
OSTERDEY . . 12.12!)
ORSOVA 12.030
. . 10.000 tons.
‘First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third. Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981
(3 lines). 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR A HA-—Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class .£3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail —£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents; Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised _ Capital .. .. .. £2.000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. .£ 1,619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,495L435
iii rectors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chainhau;
}■ iuxk N. Yauwood, F.0.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .: George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
l.ieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: O. M. C. Shannon.
duel Inspector jor N.S.W.: \V. G. Hull.
lll'.AD 01'I'ICE, SYDNh.V (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 160 places in
Kew South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Cine} Inspector jor Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairratrn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARR
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1, 50CR000
Ordinary Shares 3,000,’()00
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES deposits
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking: busii
ness.
Hotel Kosciusko,
Mount Kosciusko.
GOLF SEASON,
Splendid Nine-hole Links,
Elevation 5000 ft.
TROUT SEASON,
100 Miles of Stocked
Snow-fed Streams.
SUMMER TRIPS.
Daily by Motor—73os feet.
Magnificent Modem Hotel,
Garages, Petrol, Post and Telegraph
Office, Billiards, Dancing, Library.
WINTER PLAN NOW OPEN.
Apply to Manager, or
Write for Tariff Booklet.
N.S.W.
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI . .
NIAGARA
MAKURA.
AORANGI
13,000 tons disp. MAR. 20 for San Francisco.
18,000 „ „ APRIL 9 „ Vancouver.
13,500 „ „ APRIL 23 „ San Francisco.
23,000 „ „ MAY 7 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
■. . . .
Tli e Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB KETUBN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
/William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO.. Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
IU K NS. rill 111* & CO., LTD.,
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
~-4
IS»I
M
ft
1
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA. CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, .
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London am 1
Liverpool via Sou’i Africa.
KEUUJ.AU SAILINGS OF THE FUSE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
ItC NIC 12,500 tons
SL'EYIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PEItSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The AbarJeen Line.
Ilegular Service lietween Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
* SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*Vevv Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Kates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500
ULYSSES .. 14,500
/ENEAS .. 10,000
Tons.
ANCIIISES .. 10,000
ASCANIUS .. 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. &O. via THE GAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOKDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. BQ7OI-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability
at
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR ITNTS
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street EC 2
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. Panua and Tnn'd/L'
ts and Corresnondents throughout the world. ’ v nU wmaon *
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT,
negotiated and collected. Betters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.’
Foreign Bills
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
•(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth and North-West
Ports).
Steamer.
I Leaves I Leaves
I Sydney. Melbourne
Sydney Agents.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
’Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLjM l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilacklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messagcries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Established
1849.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
The Largest anti Most Successful
Mutual Life Oifice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies vi over .. .. • • £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7.865,00§
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H- W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. Genera] Manager.
“ BETTER THAN TATFS”
£4ooofori I-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published “Daily Telegraph. June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925,. or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/1). Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets lor 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prize*
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Proud*
Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’* Chamber*. Katoomba, N.S.W.


The Original and Only Genuine
Made exclusively at the world-famous works of
ROBERT BOSCH, A.G., Stuttgart, Germany.
BOSCH MAGNETOS. For over thirty years the
recognised leader and standard of Efficiency.
BOSCH SPARK PLUGS. Millions have been sold
and proved under every exacting condition.
9
BOSCH STARTING AND LIGHTING SETS.
Standard equipment on the majority of high-class
Continental Cars.
BOSCH 2-NOTE ELECTRIC HORN. “To hear it
is to want it." An efficient deep-tone Warning Signal.
BOSCH Platinum Points and Spare Parts.
Melbourne...... Robert Boseh Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
256-258 Latrobe Street.
5ydney......... Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., I.td.,
19!) Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 101 Pirie Street.
Brisbane.., Elphinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand...• Jas. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Pay Close - Attention
ROBERT BOSCH
to the Name of
and this Trade-mark
The Clean, Safe and Economical
Way to Handle Oils
Expensive machinery is often
ruined by impure lubricating
oils. Wayne Model 65, consist-
ing of a battery of four storage
and dispensing units, shown be-
low, not only keeps oil free from
dust and dirt, but also assures
complete drainage of oil barrels
or steel containers, and supplies
fire-proof storage.
Tanks in any quantity, and
ranging in capacity from 118 to
1000 gallons or more, may be
installed in a row to handle
various kinds of oil. Tanks are
made of 14-gauge, open hearth,
soft tank steel, heavily galvan-
ized, spot welded and flushed
with solder.
Drip gates are locked
to the tank —thief-proof.
Filling and inspection through a
15-inch manhole. Pumps are of
all metal construction—dis-
charge quarts, pints, or half
pints per stroke, at the option
of the operator. An automatic
registering meter is provided,
if desired. One gallon pumps,
also optional.
Thousands of these Wayne
units are being used with great
success in railway shops, facto-
ries and other industrial plants.
For complete details, address:
Robert F. Lee, Res. Representative
100 Castlerengli Street, Sydney.
Shipman, King- & Co.,
490 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Mechanical Supplies, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Hawkins Equipment Company, Ltd.,
300 Castlereugli Street, Sydney.
Watson’s Buildings, Wickham Street,
Brisbane.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP CO.
Fort Wayne Ind., U. S. A.
Ingersoll House, No. 9 Kingsway,
London, W. C. 2, England
'O
Established 1891
aunmi /a\ HHM " 3 1 “ 1 1 3 “ 3 J
wwmsmm
■a
OIL STORAGE SYSTEMS
Time for
?
pair
m
yi
•&v
m
&
p£R»s
GA RTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD., Manufacturers,
50 York Street, Sydney, 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Perry House, Brisbane.


Needed
Every
. Home^
/
Vor >
Cuts.
&
Sores
Bruisesi
Sometimes when you are at your wits’ end and feel that your efforts are a
failure, a friend can make the right suggestion and pull you through. Obsti-
nate sores of long standing reduce some unfortunate sufferers to despair.
Remedy after remedy fails, and it seems nothing will help, but you cannot
liave tried Rexona, for Rexona does not fail. All sores should be cleansed
once or twice a day with warm water and Rexona Soap. Rexona Medicated
goan destroys germs and encourages the skin to healthy action. Then apply
a dressing; of Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Inflammation will quickly subside,
healthy new skin will form, and the body begin to build up new flesh again.
You have not given yourself a fair chance until you have tried Rexona Soap
and Rexona Ointment.
REXONA
The Rapid
Healer
ft i.irifies S Absolutely*
*2 Heals* Reliable
r A Reliable healer for all Erupfions
and Irritations of Hie skm. liczemaSores.Culs.
Bums Bruises,Sores.Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Insectt
and all kinds of Inflammation
%L
njf
M
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing
51b. Box,
Hillier’s
Chocolates
AHE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4j- per 11b. box
lib. Red Metal Box 4/-
21b. „ „ „ 8/-
31b. „ „ „ 12/-
41b. „ „ „ 16/-
51b. „ „ 20/-
N.S.W.
Postage, extra 9d.
17-
Other States.
1/2
1/8
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used,-“Jf J
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to p
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
&neStMtf£a\
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNKY.
Lucia and Augustinian.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wine died out of Lucia’s veins
I And left her fierce and cold;
Between the sough of autumn rains
There shone a moon of gold
That through the casement made great stains
Along the curtain's fold.
The holy ring upon liis hand
Had prest her yielding wrist;
A breath forespent in prayer had fanned
Her mouth before he kist —
Oh, prayer and wine and faith of sand
And the great amethyst!
The moon blew down before a gust
Of sudden pattering rain,
As, moaning in his sleep, he thrust
Across the counterpane
llis round white arm that seemed to lust
To take her flesh again.
Cold as a serpent, from his side
She trembled and withdrew.
Black scorning round her broken pride
Like a chill cloak she threw;
And vengeance for a thing that died
Pained in her throat and grew.
A sudden flashing of the moon
Made all the casement bland.
The great clouds, parting, seemed to swoon
Across the moaning land;
Perchance the brightness touched too soon
That cold thing in her hand.
His great white fingers gripped her wrist,
His breath was on her face;
She saw the holy amethyst
Mixed with her bosom’s lace —
While fear drew round her as a mist —
Make lightnings in that place.
The great Lord Legate moved in prayer
His lips of sacred fear;
He made a sign across the air
Lest evil things come near;
And, in the clouding of her hair,
He murmured at her ear.
The dagger from her weakened grasp
Went whispering in its fall;
So small a thing, it seemed to gasp
And die beside the wall.
And that hot hand’s unyielding clasp
Could hold her soul and all.
Oh. fill the chalice red with blood!
Drink Christ!—I know not how.
The moon, a yellow rose in bud.
Mocks all the casement new;
And life and madness are in flood
To drown the holy vow.
The fire died out of Lucia's veins
And left her fierce and cold.
Between the fall of autumn rains
What faith is left to hold?
Only a wind of dawn complains
And the red skies are bold!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
“Mum.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MRS. SKINNER bent over the wash-
tub, wearing her habitual expres-
sion of vague dejection—a veteran
of life, scarred and warped by a battle she
had never understood. Balanced precari-
ously on the lid of a garbage-tin, her neigh-
bor, Mrs. Rafferty, made speech across the
intervening fence.
“As I said before, we women knows ’ow
it is,” she remarked, apropos of nothing in
particular, and with the look of one approach-
ing martyrdom. “’Ow’s ’Arry?”
At mention of her son’s name, a magic
change swept over Mrs. Skinner’s face,
instantly transforming her from a leaden-
eyed sybil into a radiant mother.
“Fine an’ ’andsome!” she answered
proudly. “ ’E'll get ahead, ’Arry will. ’E
'opes to ’ave ’is own taxi soon. Hambitious,
that’s wot ’e is, Mrs. Rafferty, even if it’s
me wot says it. Clever, too. Always was
ever since ’e was only fifteen month old.”
As she paused to cut a fresh piece of soap,
a look of patient agony spread over her
neighbor's face. But Mrs. Skinner, once
started on her favorite topic, could be de-
pended upon to do the subject full justice.
During the process of pegging out the clothes,
she continued:
“Only fifteen month ’e was, an ’jest
learnin’ ter walk, when ’e trots inter Skin-
ner’s bedroom one Sunday mornin’ while
Skinner ’imself was still snorin’. In a minnit
’e ’ad his father’s pants down on ther floor,
an’ in them pants was a knife, an’ a watch,
an’ other sicli things as a baby mustn’t ’ave.
What does ’Arry take, do yer think? Now,
I arsk yer, Mrs. Rafferty, what does ’e take?
Why, ’e leaves all them other things, an’ nips
out a five-pound note —’is father’s wages, no
less! An’ 7 e ’owled for days when I took
it orf ’im.”
“Awful bright,” conceded the audience,
preparing to make her escape.
But Mrs. Skinner had not finished; and
for the next half hour she dwelt with frank
pride upon the intellectual and physical
accomplishments of her brilliant son. Eventu-
ally, the raptdly lengthening shadows recalled
her to the present.
“My, ’ow time flies!” she said, rinsing her
hands and wiping them on the end of her
apron. “ ’ETII be ’ome in a minnit, an’ ’e
don’t like ’awin’ ter wait fer ’is tea. Good-
bye, Mrs. Rafferty.”
“Pity ’e ain’t made ter wait ’ere an’ there.
Others ’as to, so why not ’im?” commented
her neighbor., cynically. “Yer spoilin’ ’im,
Mrs. Skinneir, an’ yer been doin’ it ever
since ’e was ?jorn.”
But Mrs. JSkinner did hot hear this sacri-
legious outburst. She had disappeared into
the house, ajnd now, with the stiff gait of
rheumatic agie, was stumbling down the dark
passage towards the front door. Presently
she found herself in the street with the
butcher, the baker and the grocer still to be
visited; and. later still, on returning home
panting under her parcels, and with arms
and legs shrieking for rest, a glance at the
battered clock told her she must hasten.
Suppressing a sigh, she busied herself around
the smoking stove. The evening meal was
fully prepared when, fifteen minutes later,
the front door banged, and a flat and queru-
lous voice was heard demanding:
“Ain’t tea ready yet?”
“Yes, ’Arry, yer can come whenever yer
like,” she answered, leaving the steak in the
frying-pan to warm while she set the table.
Presently he appeared—a young man or
medium build, dull-eyed and loose-mouthed,
but handsome enough in a cheap way. Only
one place was set at the kitchen table, for
his mother stood and served, as she had
waited upon hiS( father before him. Slump-
ing into liis chair, he bent narrow shoulders
over his plate and ate noisily. Meanwhile Ins
mother hovered tactfully near at hand, quick
to cut another slice of bread, eager to antici-
pate his slightest need. Only once did he
address her, sideways out of a full mouth :
“Cawfee!”
At length he leaned back, replete, and
lighted a cigarette. Mrs. Skinner cleared a
place before him, set out a cracked saucer
for an ash-tray, and spread her own repast—•
the tag of the steak, what remained of the
potatoes, and the cold silt from the coffee-
“ ’Ow was ter-day?” she inquired presently.
“Rotten!” He pushed back his chair, and
slouched from the room without further
speech. ... , .
Finishing her meagre supper in silent dejec-
tion, she heard the grating of drawers in his
room, distinguished the sibilance of a boot-
brush being industriously applied, and
visualised his every movement from its accom-
panying sound. It was quite an ordinary
evening, fully representative of everything
that Mrs. Skinner’s life consisted of. bhe
realised that her son had no use for her.
But what did that matter as long as she had
every use for him? The baby feet she had
kissed in those bygone days were set upon
their own paths now, and she must not fol-
low. Mother' and son had nothing in common,
not even the food on the table, nothing except
an ancient and bitter quarrel to wrangle over
every pay-day.
Mrs. Skinner heard the bedroom door open
softly. She sprang up, white-faced and
trembling of lip, to intercept her son before
lie reached the street.
“ ’Arry, yer goin’ out?”
“Yes.”
“I wanted ter arsk yer” „
“I ain’t got no cash ter spare now, he
interrupted. , , .
Merely as a matter of habit, and quite well
aware that it never counted in those weekly
arguments, she tried the plea of necessity:
“But it’s fer the ’ouse, an’ I must ’ave it.
“Same ole tale!” He eyed her with cold
contempt. “Always cadgin’, always lyin ,
ain’t yer?” , , ..
“No, ’Arry,” she pleaded. ardly
enough ter iive on even now, an ther s
never nothing left ter save.” . ,
“Bunkum!” he scoffed. “Icouve kep me
poor long enough. Now dig up that sock,
wherever you’ve got it ’id.”
Tears of impotent age flooded her eyes as
she sobbed: “Yes —yer ain’t got no ’eart fer
yer mother. Someday you’ll be sorry
when” , . ,
“ ’Old yer tongue!” he snapped savagely.
“Reckon you’ll live ter keep me ‘broke fer
years yet. I got nothing fer you, d’ye ear r
So the ignoble game was played, as devoid
of human dignity as the spectacle of two
beggars scrambling for a coin in the gutter.
Then Mrs. Skinner played her trump card:
“ ’Ow long does yer think Mrs. Brogan would
stand yer goin’ with ’er Fanny if I was ter
tell ’er wot a mean boy yer was with yer
mother ?’ .
Defeated, he asked sullenly: “Will a ‘quid’
do yer till nex’ week?”
“Course it won’t! The rent am t paid, an
the gasman ’ll be’ere ter-morrer. I must ave
me regular share.” ~ . , „
“Well, ’ere y’are, take it. I m sick ot yer.
An’ now let me git out o’ ’ere.'’
Taking the money, she stood aside as he
went. Then locking the door and plodding
painfully into the kitchen again, she washed
the dishes and made preliminary prepara-
tions for his breakfast the following morn-
ing Finished, she wound the clock, took it
with her into the threadbare bedroom, and
was soon asleep, dreaming of a cradle she
had rocked twenty-five years before, of a
chubby little face that wrinkled into smiles
for her alone, and of a cooing voice that
bubbled into laughter when she spoke in that
strange, mysterious language that every
mother knows and babies alone can under-
stand.
Obedient to the insistent nagging of the
alarm-clock, she rose at six o’clock next
morning, and, dressing herself hastily, put
the porridge on to boil. Then she shuffled
in to call her son, and, after the usual
struggle, succeeded in getting him started
for the bathroom. Ten minutes.later, washed
and shaven after a fashion, he made his
appearance in the kitchen, more sullen and
morose than usual. W ith her customary in-
tuitive tact, Mrs. Skinner served breakfast
in silence. After a single mouthful of the
porridge, her son pushed his plate away
testily and drained his cup of coffee.
“Ain’t yer food nice?” she inquired, sur-
prised into speech. .
“Rotten!” lie growled. Besides, lam t
in ther mood fer eatin’. I want ter tell yer
somethin’.”
His mother received this momentous an-
nouncement in silence. Out on the stove the
bacon sizzled odorously. and in that momen-
tary hush the harsh ticking of the alarm-
clock became maddening.
Mrs. Skinner’s son squirmed uncomfort-
ably in his chair, licking his lips. Then “I’m
gettin’ married.” he announced.
“I s’pose it’s —it’s that there Fanny
Brogan?”
“Yes. It’s like this,” he went on trucu-
lently. “I’m goin’ ter git an ’ome of me own.
I’m sick of ther way me an’ you ’as been
gettin’ along ’ere. I’m sick of you, see? I’m
gettin’ out.”
Turning as he spoke, his sullen eyes met
the watery and blinking ones of his mother.
There were wrinkles of perplexity on her
sallow forehead, but her lips were steady.
“Yer leavin’ me, then?” Her tone was
lifeless, feeble.
(Continued on next page.)


. A
S M M
/ i
L
£
rCh
</
V
DOES your skin get rough and irri-
table this time of the year? Are
you distressed by outbreaks of pimples,
irritating rashes and blotches? Have
you patches of eczema or any old-
standing ulcer that has defied ordinary
treatment? A daily dressing with
Zam-Buk will soon put you right.
This famous herbal balm quickly
invigorates the tissues and cleanses them
of all impurities. When the skin is “on
fire” with eczema, or is being eaten away
by ulcers, Zam-Buk is the one external
medicine powerful enough to dispel
these troubles and grow new, healthy
skin.
Zam-Buk owes its unique curative
power to certain pure herbal extracts,
and its freedom from rancid animal fats
and coarse mineral drugs. Its swift
effectiveness and perfect safety make
Zam-Buk indispensable wherever there
is skin trouble of any sort.
IRRITATING ECZEMA ENDED.
“Pimples began to appear all over my legs,” says
Mrs. T. Kelso, of Welsby Street, New Farm, Brisbane.
“These spread and merged into one huge mass. My
legs burned and itched terribly. Day and night the
torment was almost unbearable. On a friend’s advice
I started using Zam-Buk, and then only did I obtain
my first respite from the awful fiery irritation. Zam-Buk
appeared to simply charm away. pain and inflamma-
tion, and I readily persevered until the balm had
completely purified the affected parts. After that the
cure was thoroughly completed with a new growth of
clear, healthy skin.”
1/6 and 3/6 a box of all Chemists and Stores.
am
Buk
SOON PUTS YOUR SKIN RIGHT!
FREE SAMPLES OF ZAM-BUK. To obtain a free
sample of Zam-Buk, send your request to C. E. Fulford
(Aus.), Ltd., Sydney. Mention “The Bulletin” of
26/3/’25. Please write your name and address clearly.
“Yes; you’ll ’ave ter git a room some-
where.”
“But ’ow am I goin’ ter five?”
“Live?” He laughed shortly. “There’s
still some of the old man’s insurance money
left, ain’t there? Besides, you can git some-
thin’ light ter do, like sewin’ or cookin',
can’t yer? Yer don’t ’ave ter worry "about
livin’ while yer can work.”
“There ain’t no money lef, ’Arry,” she
told him then. “Couldn’t yer ’elp me a little
now an’ then? I ain’t afraid ter work, but
1 ain' fit ter do much now. I’m gettin’ on,
’Arry; I ain’t as strong as I useter be.”
lie faced her belligerently, his underlip
thrust out and his pasty face white with
anger.
“I ain’t keepin’ you any longer. When
you’ve spent ther cash you’ve been squeezin’
out of me, you needn’t come cadgin’ fer more.
I’ve ’ad enough of you to last me fer ther
rest of me life, an’ now I’m done with yer
fer good.”
Mrs. Skinner regarded her son stupidly
for the space of a dozen heart-beats. Some-
how she suddenly looked very old and worn
under the bright rays of the early morning
sun.
“All right, ’Arry, I s’pose yer knows best.
I’ll git out of ’ere when yer wants the
’ouse.”
Drawing a long, satisfied breath, he turned
to say something more, but the tragic dig-
nity in his mother’s face strangled the words
in his throat. He got up, put on his hat.
and a moment later the slamming of the
front door echoed in the old woman’s tired
♦ brain like the knell of blasted hopes.
With her dream-castles tumbling in ruins
about her. Mrs. Skinner sank into the vacant
chair beside the untouched food, and brooded
while the minute hand of the clock circled
the dial once. Then by an effort of will she
roused herself and began the mechanical
round of housework, with long-neglected
tears streaming down her coarse and faded
cheeks. It seemed as though her son, that
lovable little baby whose voice and lips had
been hers in those happy dream hours of
the last twenty years had suddenly died.
At ten o’clock that evening Mrs. Skinner
laid aside the soiled Bible she had picked up
for consolation but forgotten to read.
Habitually she raised her eyes to tin l crayon
enlargement that hung on the wall above
the mantelpiece. It had been reproduced,
she recollected, from a snapshot taken when
her son was eighteen months old. She re-
remembered, too. that he had been acclaimed
the finest baby in the neighborhood. She
decided that she would take Harry’s picture
with her when she left. It would help to
keep her tottering feet on the stony paths
that lay ahead. Mrs. Skinner knew that
those paths carried the swirling flotsam of
life's under-dogs, and that their dreary
milestones were slippery with scrubbing
water and salty with tears. She knew, too,
that they led to no certain haven of refuge,
unless tin' charity hostels and paupers’ homes
could be regarded :js havens. No woman
had ever reached the port of happiness with
only a broom, a pail and a scrubbing-brush
as sails. Overwhelmed by a sudden great
loneliness she knelt before the frayed sofa,
covered her face with rough and gnarled
hands, and enjoyed the first luxury of her
barren years—the emotional intoxication of
venting her long-disciplined grief in unre-
strained sobbing.
A muffled clanging pierced the veil of
sorrow that had temporarily shut out the
world. Again the door-bell rang, authori-
tatively. Hastily dabbing her eyes on tin
end of her skirt, she went to the door, opened
it cautiously, and admitted a bulky, uni-
formed figure that stood there, puffing, red-
faced and solemn. What was he saying?
“Your name’s Skinner, ma’am, I believe?”
Incapable of speech, she nodded absently.
“You’ve got a boy—grown-up son, I mean
—who drives a taxi? Name’s Harry, isn’t
that right?”
Again she nodded; and then suddenly
found herself clinging to the policeman’s
arm, frantically demanding the truth.
“No, ma’am, lie’s not dead. Just an acci-
dent, that’s all. Better put on your hat
and slip down to the hospital with me. The
doctor can tell you more about it than I
can.”
Five minutes later, progressing citywards
in the tram, Sergeant Mulligan gave her
the details.
“It happened this way,” he related, search-
ing his mind for suitable words. “Soon
after eight o’clock the traffic constable down
town saw a taxi pull up outside the Tro-
cadero in George-street. A man and a girl
got out, and the driver—your son, ma’am—•
seemed to start an argument about the fare
or something. All of a sudden the other man
struck him on the face, and your boy
reached under the seat, pulled out a tyre-
lever, and made a swing at him. Quick as
you like the other fellow stepped back, and
without saying a word shot your lad through
the knee. It seems that his leg is smashed
pretty badly.”
Mrs. Skinner kept her attitude of listen-
ing long after he had ceased to speak. She
was trying to understand; but her head
whirled so. it was impossible. The Sergeant
was speaking again :
“The stranger got away—we don’t know
him—but we are holding the girl, who won’t
give his name. Quite a kid, she is. Maybe
you know her. Says she comes from down
your way. Says her name is Fanny Brogan.”
. A sudden, blinding thought took posses-
sion of Mrs. Skinner’s brain, and with
startling clarity she visualised the whole
scene. Fanny in Harry’s car, just like an
ordinary passenger, but with a strange man.
\\ by, it seemed ridiculous; but there it
was! If the quarrel had been over Fanny
and, after all. it must have been—then
when he got better he mightn’t marry the
girl, after all!
Arriving at the hospital, she was piloted
down spotless corridors to a small room
littered with enamelware and illuminated
with great harsh lights. A bearded man,
strangely garbed in white, spoke to her un-
intelligibly, but she paid no attention. Where
was Harry? Why, of course, behind that
big screen over there. Without permission
she shuffled across and found him there, pale,
sickly, but whole. She wondered how he
could sleep so soundly beneath those blind-
ing lights. She must ask someone to turn
them out before he woke. Then the doctor
was beside her, patiently explaining again.
Could she remain? Well, in a minor opera-
tion like this, a few minutes, perhaps. The
patient was just coming oitt of the chloro-
form, and it might do lum good to*see some-
body he knew near by.
Scarcely knowing how she got there, Mrs.
Skinner found herself sitting by the bed,
holding her son’s flaccid hand and listening
to each recurrently deeper breath. Pre-
sently his eyes opened, and the expression
there was that of a brute in pain. He
writhed and babbled incoherently, and Mrs.
Skinner bent over him dispassionately. Her
feelings just then defied analysis. Aware
that she should have been touched to her
very heart-strings, she was somehow aloof,
almost disinterested. The recollection of
tiiat morning’s heartless selfishness was still
fresh in her mind, and formed an impene-
trable barrier against any marked display
of sentiment. Again the sick man mumbled
and mouthed strange words.
“ ’Arry,” she asked, presently, ’‘don’t yer
know me?”
Those stricken eyes widened in sudden
recognition.
“Mum,’.’ he gasped, feebly. “Don’t let
’em ’urt me leg agin. You’ll look after me,
won’t yer, Mum? Yer must ’elp me, Mum—
I want yer to.”
At that she kissed him, sobbing out words
of love and forgiveness—words that tumbled
over one another in a confusion of haste.
A step sounded near by, and a hand touched
her shoulder.
“They don’t know what they are saying
at first,” said the surgeon.
If she heard the words she did not believe
them. Hadn’t her boy spoken to her and
sought her protection ? Of course he knew
what he was saying!
“ ’Ow soon will ’e be right again, doctor?”
she asked, choking back the last of her sobs.
“I’m afraid he’ll always need a crutch.
We’ve done our best, but even at that he’ll
never be fit for anything except light work.
You’ll have to look after him for some
months at least when he leaves here; he’ll
be helpless until he finds himself again.”
Mrs. Skinner permitted herself to be led
from the room. Watching her unobtrusively,
tin' doctor thought that wrinkled face had
changed in some intangible way during her
brief visit. Somehow it dawned upon him
that she looked just like a happy grand-
mother leaving the maternity ward. Out-
side. in the gleaming hallway, an empty seat
claimed her and he left her there alone.
Resting herself for a few moments Mrs.
Skinner wondered why she felt so happy, so
utterly satisfied with everything. In the
depths of her mind she was strangely content.
Once more she would be 1 the giver of life,
the miniate ring angel to every need, the
source of all joy and comfort. Twenty-five
years were suddenly stricken from the roll of
time, and a thousand selfish sins from the
indictments recorded in her heart. She
smiled as they led her to the door, and
pointed out the way to , her tram. She
smiled frequently throughout the cold journey
home. And just before getting into bed she
unwrapped a faded crayon portrait, and
hung it once more in its accustomed place
on the wall. Tears were falling fa-t now,
but they were tears of joy. not sorrow.
Mrs. Skinner's blackguard son was dead;
her baby boy was born again.
W. D. FLANNERY.
The Coastal Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH. never moon showered silver,
And never noontide glowed
On miles more fair to travel,
Long miles of grass and gravel,
Than those that make the going good
Along the Coastal Road.
Up-hill they go a-winding,
And down-liill winding go,
And you that love green places,
Dark groves and sunlit spaces,
I bid you up and follow them
If joy of life you’d know.
Though none walk by your elbow
You shall not lonesome be.
For honey-birds shall meet you,
And singing thrushes greet you—
And who upon this earth could wish
For blither company?
And should ypu grow a-tliirsty,
As rovers grow at whiles,
Cool water, clear, inviting,
Hot mouth and throat delighting.
You’ll find in leaf-screened creek and
pool
Beside those coastal miles.
Thereof, oh fellow rover,
You’ll drink and drink again,
At rest in grove or cavern;
For never yet did tavern
Beneath wide-arching oak-trees set
Yield draught, so cool to men.
And as you drink, down-stooping,
From creek or pool, alone,
You'll see a face up-staring.
So bronzed with open-faring,
So lined with health and strength that
scarce
You’ll know it for your own.
New-born, new youth within you,
New life in thew and vein,
Heart lightsome as a feather,
You’ll laugh at wind and weather.
Take that as best which Nature sends,
Gold noon or drenching rain.
At night with stars, west marching—
Great friendly fellows all —
You’ll see the dewdrops glisten,
On frond and'leaf, and listen
To far-off seas that surge and break
And near-by birds that call.
Oh there, with peace your portion
And care no more a load,
While drowsy trees bend o’er you,
You’ll bless the miles before you,
The miles behind, the winding miles
That make the Coastal Road.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


■
n
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
WESTINGHQUSE brake
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
fe"'' Agents—.]
Viet' 'J3-107 F,
unt Ce q.J 1n :” -OLMES & CHUItCH, lirisbant
fc *® t °rian om n l B ] n ,rea * ,lerstoll Street, Wellington.
e 88 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The New •
Onoto Lever Filler
holds most ink
n the past the lever-filled system
a always suffered one big handi-
a P : It held very little ink—and
ee ded filling too often.
A
invention has been patented,
h ma^es a l ev er fountain pen
0 d more ink than ever before.
fedwMe
H Opacity
&> o o£L h '*o'y
*n t'"
tube >
*»* i£ t , vnth
It is found only in the
new Onoto Lever.
The diagram shows
how much it has im-
proved the ink
capacity c the Lever
type of pen.
Lever pens work with
a rubber sac in the
barrel. The lever
out. SeS u P on sac and forces
p re SOrne of the air. When the
SUre is lifted, ink is sucked in.
ef e’» the
feason-
H
baj ® Onoto Lever, however, the compressor
Sac ' presses on the whole length of the
Out e * n g curved to fit the barrel, it forces
gr eat ever y bubble of air, and sucks in the
est possible volume of ink.
itoLn* 1 ® Onoto Lever at your stationer's or
£>*«:e r
i na .■ r s —see for yourself this splendid com-
Osm; 00 Onoto fine workmanship, Onoto
Onoto ridium - li PP ed
fill rv, atent Compressor — a fnll capacity lever-
** n f or the first tit
lonOTI
0
Ortoto
Lever
Model
From
15/-
ynoto
v er Filler
V °* ill type* to meet everyone'*
M>*, D F '°" W- “ £ ‘° '* ‘
Un hi|| E Jr A Rue & Co.. Ltd.,
Ko *. London. E.C.I.
ONOTO tjie Ink for
all pens.
Blue Black 1/*.
Other Colours 1/3.
%
*ti v
Norman Baker & LONCHURSt Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, & Wellington (N.Z.)
The
Boon of Every Woman
Worth
a
Guinea
a
Box
is good health and there must
naturally dwell a wish to feel, and
to be, as well as to look her best.
Beecham’s Pills have proved they
are the best help any woman can
obtain. This matchless and thor-
oughly tried remedy will tone
your stomach, stimulate your
kidneys and liver, regulate your
bowels and remove the impurities
which cause headache, backache,
lassitude or irritability.
Try a few doses and see how
Beecham’s Pills will help you to
escape unnatural suffering and
how, with purer, richer blood,
will come brighter spirits, better
health, a skin free from blemishes
or sallowness.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
P)
KTCCf
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
(Ve have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full Btocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
P. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
emi
Repeating Rifle
Modei 12
.22 Cal.
CHAMBERED for three
distinct cartridges
.22 Short, good for 75
yards; .22 Long, 125 yards;
.22 Long Rifle, 200 yards.
Excellent for small game with
hollow point cartridges. Maxi-
mum range and accuracy with
Remington UMC .22 Long Rifle
PALMA.
Magazine holds 15 Short, 11
Long or 10 Long Rifle Cartridges.
Ask Your Dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
O. P. O. Bo* 686, Melbourne, Victoria


DEWAR’S
Whisky
The Spirit of Sincerity
Sincerity is the cement with which true
Frendship is built. It means loyalty in
failure or success; the ever-readiness to
comfort or congratulate; in short, a
dependability which is absolute. Because
these qualities are truly its own.
DEWAR’S
■
cements friendships too!
