

s
m
'
m
■
SSS
I
k
'> \v
i
•Strifc
*ss>
Wj§i&-
sr.
'M
m
■ v-
«><■
fe
.S’'#;:
*¥
m
Q
\
/iK
88
If you relish hot, golden-brown toast ready instantly, prepare the Toastover Toaster way.
Have you ever experienced the pleasure of preparing crisp, golden-brown toast electrically ?
If you have, did you use the Toastover Toaster, which turns your bread mechanically— no burnt
fingers ?
The Turnover Toaster does away with the old way of handling the bread. Just turn the handle,
one side opens and turns the bread in one action. And it will provide crisp, appetising toast—a slice a minute.
ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET AH1.23 MAILED FREE.
Australian General Fledric 0 ltd.
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Branch Offices: Newcastle. Brisbane and Adelaide.
Engineering- Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Edward and Charlotte Streets* Brisbane.
Chas. Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth
Oliver & Oliver Fty., Ltd., Hobart and '
The Bulletin
Voi. 46.—N0. 2372,
Thursday, July 30, 1925.
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
m
H
mi a
SSS!)
mmmm
GREATER ULTIMATE ECONOMY
in both power and maintenance costs, invariably results when
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is on the pulleys. Manufactured to give service under the
.most severe running conditions, it proves its efficiency by
consistently delivering a higher percentage of power to the
machines.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., I.td.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane. •
NEW ZEA.LAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
VICTORIA; W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
TASMANIA ; W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Seven
Prt*e Medals.
d
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil
Works s Oirmingham, Englandi
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ďf
m
SUK.MS
of Australasia Limited.
Capital Paid up£4,000.000
dfdd
[£Ll^,G!l,BoG
1925
ďf
All classes of banking business conducted at
299 branches and 170 agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Tiavellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTING
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
here's nothing like “JASON
d
It is always a pleasure to see, through the wardrobe
glass, the graceful correctness of the “JASON” Fit.
Not a crease, not a crinkle. The suppleness of the “JASON”
weave cannot be surpassed. It ensures your comfort while
conveying a pleasing sense of being smartly apparelled all
through. The smooth, silky “JASON” Finish soothes and
vitalises sensitive skins, and never roughens with time and
wear—and “JASON ” NEVER SHRINKS.
Tour store has "Jason"
Underwear in all
sizes, and Winter and
Summer weights, for
Men, Women and
Children.
“Olympic” Brand is a
lower priced underwear
with the same guarantees
of value and satisfaction
as “Jason.”
u
AU-WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
Sole Manufacturers: JASON TTNDEEWEAK CO.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND
<f>C
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
nVi
m
wm.
I
What the Medical World says: —The Lancet:
“Proved tQ be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers ; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/0 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
Revising the Canon
Prescription rules in literature too. What
has been held always, everywhere, and by all,
that is (at least we think so) ohr stand-
ard. Respect and timidity both, a proper
consideration for the opinion of our fellows
and a natural hesitation at going out into
a moral desert, combine to induce our acqui-
escence in the general verdict. Seldom does
it occur to us to put a query to any of the
three terms semper, unique, ab omnibus. The
“all”—does that mean the-democratic
body” or an oligarchy of the best; and how
are we to know those best? “Everywhere”
—let us go abroad and we shall come back
amazed at the. enormous vogue of Byron and
Oscar AYilde, perhaps to revise our own exag-
gerated estimate of Heine and Anatole
France. “Always”-—Dr. Johnson knew
Ariosto but not Dante. And that same
Dante, who is now on our canon, what did
lie know of the Hornet whom he hailed as
“sovran poet”? Homer, Dante, Sliakspeare
•—names in the mouths of men: the two
latter food for the specialist, the circle, the
society.; the first a prey to the higher critic.
Now, precarious and all as the reasons for
our canon may be, one is, after all, just
another member of the herd, and as such
should not presume lightly to question the
results of accumulated experience. Yet one
may bring one’s own small acquisition of ex-
perience and by it test the, validity of the
world’s judgment and suggest the need for
revision.
Intrinsic poetic power is, of course, the
first and essential reason for the elevation
of the Three beyond all the rest. And
secondly, no doubt, for the first two, their
originative genius. Dante makes a quite new
thing in poetry and at the same time creates
a literature; Homer likewise. Yes, but docs
he? And who is he? On our answer to
these questions depends our further judgment
as to that intrinsic poetic power which was
his primary claim to first place in the canon.
Scholarship has its rights and its duties. If
it distinguishes between Homer and the
creator of the great epic, it must proceed to
criticism and correct and explain the tradi-
tional opinion. Who is now that “sovran
poet”? Is he a whole school of poets, mak-
ing epic poetry on a small scale, or that one
among them —perhaps the greatest —who
sang the Wrath of Achilles, or is he that
late-comer who, with deficient power of
poetic expression, but with magnificent archi-
tectonic sense, shaped the Iliad o‘ut of their
work? When we say “Homer,” are we not
propounding “Greek epic poetry” by way of
answer to the question as to the sovran poet,
just as if in the list of the world’s greatest
architects we were- to set the name of
Rheimjs Cathedral? It is not a new
thing i (however audacious it may seem)
that is here attempted. It is a good 40
years ago that a brilliant Dublin scholar, the
late J| P. Mahaffy, said quite plainly that
if Homer —the traditional Homer —were dis-
integrated into a mass of individuals, then
the greatest Greek poet would be iEschylus.
And if the greatest Greek, then necessarily
one of ( the worm si greatest. The creator of
tragedy is at the'same time the perfecter of
Greek-poetry.
It was n quaint, as far-as we can tell, a
crude, (thing Out of which the high and ela-
borate *art of tragedy was evolved. A dance
of men disguised as satyrs, “goats” they were
called for short, and then the song sung by
these goats—that was its origin, tliouce its
name. Some time in the seventh century
Arion from Lesbos produced such a show
at Corinth; wo have Solon’s testimony that
this was the first “action of the goat-singers,”
and its' oldest name was the word which we
have turned into “melody.” It was just
song of a narrative character, on any sub-
ject from the great • storehouse of Greek
myth or legend. And at this stage it re-
mained after importation, to Athens.
That Thespis whose name is justly cele-
brated as the creator of drama (but not tra-
gedy) was probably not conscious that he
was creating anything of the kind. The
goat-song or dithyramb had allowed lyric
dialogue between one singer and the rest
of the choir. What Thespis did was to give
the soloist a speaking part. That is to say
—for we must carefully remember all the
time that this is a development within Greek
poetry—lie combined with the choral lyric
brought from the Peloponnesc the iambic
recitative imported from Asia Minor. There
was no drama in our sense of the term, and
indeed in Greek tragedy always the dramatic
element is an accessory; the action or Story
w-as presented in double poetic reflex, narra-
tive and a lyric comment.
During the Thespian period and right into
the fifth century tragedy remained at. the
stage of the goat-song - ; it lacked massiveness
and dignity: its themes were trivial and its
style ludicrous. The vast amount of ink that
lias been spilt, since Browning, over the
Alkestis of Euripides and its drunken Her-
akles, would have been saved if critics had
properly pondered the fact that, like so
many of Sliakspeare’s plays, this is a re-
handling of the work of an older poet, Pliry-
nichus, in whose day there was no distinction
between tragedy and the satyric drama.
Quite late, then, in the vicissitudes of its
long evolution, tragedy attained to its own
nature. It was one of those miracles which
do happen. Everything would seem to have
been ready, and yet everything was lacking.
It required a man of genius, and even he did
not all at once and in a lightning flash dis-
cover all his powers. fEscliylus tried him-
self for years before tragedy came right. It
was, let us remind ourselves, at once a new
thing-—the drama, for the introduction of the
second actor meant that —and the perfection
of Greek poetry. The epic, which had run
its course, was here transmuted; the lofty
epic theme and the high seriousness of its
treatment are the very essence of the new
art. All our witnesses insist on that; solem-
nity. gravity and dignity are the special
JEsehylean contribution. And the fwo com-
bined kinds of poetic utterance, the iambic
dialogue and narrative, and the choral lyric,
are raised to their highest power.
Consider now that the man who created
this new form had to be a master in both the
kinds ; that he has an unparalleled power in
wielding masses, a gigantic ease of move-
ment, and that his successors had to re-
nounce all idea of matching his feat of setting
forth an action in three continuous dramas
—if Homer goes has not this a right to his
seatr? Or what if Homer need not go?
Why, then, is this not beside him? Why
are they only three and not four? Is it be-
cause we have only a comparative fragment
o! his work? That is hardly a sufficient
reason.
CHRIS. BRENNAN.
Fad-Latin v. Dog-Latin
Now That a new generation of lawyers is
rising, the courts are being periodically
rattled by some bright young sprig who
quotes ancient authorities in a strange new
tongue. Learned judges, recovering from
their astonishment, chew off the “contempt”
reprimand at tip of tongue, do* a rapid
mental translation of the disturbing _ phrase
into the good canine Latin of their own
student days, say “Mmmmm, yes, of course,
Mr. Wigg; go on,” and resume their pose
of owlish omniscience. In suburban homes
public-school trained dad, limpingly helping
son Jim with his Caesar or other hateful
“construes,” frankly asks what the devil
the boy is talking about with his “oorns,”
his “oossos” and his “oes” and “a’s.” In each
case the new Latin is getting in its deadly
work.
For unremembered years the English have
pronounced their Latin as it is spelt. Know-
ing the language was dead, together with
everybody who had ever used it as a living
tongue, they thought phonetic pronunciation
as good as any other —and a lot easier to
pick up than French or German, with their
quirks of spoken difference, worse even than
the native mixture. No immortal Ctesar
dead and turned to clay was likely to relin-
quish his Useful job of stopping a hole in
order to come over and argue the point. So
we learned and spake our execrable homo-
Latin and everybody understood —right down
to the gentle proletarian who knew the
“meanin’ of bonyfied, all right: it meant 10
miles from a pub.” Then arose, however,
some village Wackford in search of immor-
tality. He reasoned that, as Latin was
originally the tongue of Italy, and as Italians
sound their vowels differently from the Eng-;
lisli, therefore the original speakers of Latin
would speak it with an Italian, not an Eng-
lish, inflexion. That in the years between
the “uses” and “axes” o'f Latin had given
place to the inevitable vowel endings of
Italian did not deter the immortality-hunger-
ers. . Schools wedded to nicety of style
adopted the Italian pronunciation of Latin.
Their first-fruits now puzzle the land. Good
old friend Caesar, bent on his epic mission to
halve all Gaul into three quarters, ceased
forthwith to “Veni, vidi, vici” ; instead,. helped
by the new Latiners, he “Wanee, weedee,
weekee.” Old friend dominus disguised him-
self as “doeminoosssss,” and homesick
boarders no longer sobbed for “dulce domain,”
but for “doolltee domoom.” So now we have,
entangling one another, . legal schools talk-
ing of “videlicet” and “weedeeleechet”; re-
ligious factions singing the “Yenite” and the
“Weeneetay,” and common folk and poli-
ticians eyeing one another suspiciously over
the use of “ultra vires” and “ooltrail wirr-
rays!” The other day I heard a stylist dic-
tate to his typist: “Ray your letter of the
umpteenth inst.,” preening- himself that lit
was the very devil of a learned fellow.
There is no nonsense of consistency about
the new-Latiners. None has the hardihood
to attribute either the play or the Commen-
taries to “Yoolyoossss Kysar”; plain Julius
Csesar remains. Nor does the. clever school-
boy who now terms an ancient Roman leader
a “dooks” give the head of his school any
other title but dux. Perhaps he fears the
prefect’s caiie fo.r “cheek.” “Latin roots” is
a popular mental excursion even in those
schools which contemn the useless classic and
exalt the sensible commercial side, but the
same teacher who stresses the need to pro-
nounce the Latin “verbis” “werbcece,” does
not bother to explain why the English deriva-
tive has become “verb” and “verbal” instead
of “werb” and “werbal.” So the roots of
“vicinity” and “acerbity” are painfully made
“weekoos” and “aker”; of judiciary “yoodee-
chee” and juvenile “yoowaynis.” “Kee-
weeee” as the origin of “civilisation” is not
Stressed, for fear, perhaps, that its emphasis
would give too great (and unremunerated)
a boost to a celebrated military boot-polish;
and no ope suggests the Papuan (and new-
Latin) pronunciation “Wikkitoria” should
be adopted in future when referring to the
Great White Queen.
Perhaps, however, the idea behind is that
of making" education more complicated in
order further to give the business colleges
their chance in doing Hie real work of, equip-
ping the young, for the battle qftlife.
ORFUSCUS.
C. K. Munro
Of the younger dramatists in Britain no
one lias achieved such a solid success as
C. K. Munro. Though he has - written but
a few plays, and so far has made only the
slightest impression on the public, he has
been hailed by competent critics as the most
important dramatist of the younger genera-
tion. With generous extravagance Bernard
Shaw said that he was 50 years ahead of
himself. Other critics were equally enthusi-
astic ; but being an original writer it was not
easy to give him a suitable label, and critics
whose business it is to assign labels were not
quite sure what to make of him.
After the performance by the London Stage
Society of his first play, “At Mrs. Beam’s,”
St. John Ervine endeavored to prove that
Munro was the first true English disciple of
Tchekhov. This boarding-house comedy, with
its strange assortment of characters, was
supposed to be written in the Russian
manner, and Ervine went into an elaborate
argument to demonstrate that, however ad-
mirable a dramatist the author of “Uncle
Vanya” and “The Cherry Orchard” might be,
it was doubtful whether his technical
method was suited to the treatment of Eng-
{Continued on page 3.)


Jk.
vae
Qw
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
The Third Week of Money-Saving Opportunities.
( Fashion Salon
-Third Floor.)
Bargains in Frocks.
I)7ol.—Twill Serge Frocks (ns
illustrated) featuring small bolie
buttons to tone as a trimming:
varying tones embroider the smart
imitation pocket, narrow belt en-
circles the waist. In drey. Fawn,
Nigger Navy and Black. Sizes:
S.W., ' W., O.S. Usual AC/
Price, 49/G. Reduced to '*
1)702. —Inexpensive All-Wool
Coating Serge Frocks, in beltless
style, showing buttons and braid
from neck to hem; slightly gath-
ered on hips and finished with but-
tons ; the long sleeves and flat
collar are braided. In Grey, Nig-
srer, Navy and Black. Sizes: S.\v.,
W., O.S. Usual Price, AC/
49/11. Reduced to ... “d -
I)l3l3.— This Useful Coat and
Skirt is in fine All-W 00l Serge;
plaited braid gives a smart touch
to the cuffs and also to the imita-
tion pocket effect on the coat,; lined
throughout; smart plain skirt. In
Navy. Nigger and Black. Sizes:
S.W.. W.. O.S. Usual flO
Price, G7/G. Reduced to. . "
Footwear Opportunities.
Women’s New Color Blonde Tan Calf One-
strap Shoes, to buckle at side; welted soles'
and smart bespoke last; sports lieels. Of)/.
Usual Price, 35/- pair. Reduced to. .
Women’s Nigger Calf One-strap Shoes,
with welted soles and sports heels. OQ/
Usual Price, 32/6 pair. Reduced to
Women’s English-made Felt Slippers,
leather soles and heels. All colors.
Usual Price, 4/11 pair. Reduced to.
with
4/3
New Model Nigger Brown Patent One-
strap Shoes, welted soles and sports heels. All
sizes. Usual Price, 30/- pair. 97/.,
Reduced to " *
Women’s Soft Black Glace Kid One-strap
Shoes, pump soles, leather Cuban heels: smart
extended' last. Usual Price, 28/6 pair, oe C
Reduced to v
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Umbrella Sacrifices.
Practical Black
covers, 23iu. frames
“Militaire” handles.
18/9. Reduced to
Umbrellas, silk mixture
with tips. “Chubby” and
Usual Price, 16/11
“Chubby” Umbrellas, taffeta covers, selvedge
edge, 20 x 12 inch frames with tips, exclusive
range of handles. Usual Price, 19/6. 1n /n
Reduced to ± t ' Vf
Charming “Chubby” Umbrellas, 20 x 12 inch
frames with tips, selvedge edge, choice range
of handles. Usual Price, 22/6. 01/
Reduced to '
“Chubby” Umbrellas, silk mixture covers, sel-
vedge edge, 20 x 12 inch frames with tips, ex-
quisite handles. Usual Price, 25/- 97/$?
Reduced to u
Black Umbrellas, silk mixture covers, 20 x 12
inch frames with tips, “Chubby” ofi/
handles. Usual Price, 27/6. Reduced to “
(Umbrellas —Third Floor.)
The ruthlessness of
price reductions
make clearance cer-
tain. Every day
brings forward its
sensational Bargains,
and every day sees
some phenomenal
opportunity occur. In
the interests of
economy, see thab
none of them pass
you by that later you
will regret missing.
Save on a Raincoat.
1X444C. —English Gabardine Raincoats,
cut, with belt and patch pockets. Colors
Mole. Fawn, Black. Usual Price, 57/6.
Reduced to
Raglan
N avy,
52 6
1X4613. — Good Quality English Gabardine Rain-
coats, in practical double-breasted style; inset sleeves
and belt at waist. Colors: Mole, Fawn. Navy. /?Q/C
Usual Price, 75/-. Reduced to o*7/ sj
1X4615. — Fine Woollen Gabardine Raincoats, well
proofed English make, with convertible collar, wide
inset sleeves, and belt at waist with bone buckle
fastenings. In shades of Fawn. Beaver, Mole, eO /
Usual Price, 69/6. Reduced to -
1X123. — Practical Gabardine Raincoats, smartly
tailored, with belt at waist and convertible collar:
lined throughout shot union. Colors: Mole, Grey,
Fawn, Beaver. Usual Price, 75/- C7/fi
Reduced to • ” • 7
IX46l9.— lmported Gabardine Raincoats, half
lined shot silk union; wide inset sleeves, with cufls;
tailored rovers, and belt at waist. Colors: Mole,
Navy, Fawn. Usual Price, 95/- SCI/
Reduced to o*7
(Raincoats —Third Floor.)
Scarves, Veils, Flouncings.
Marocain Shawls, in newest Oriental designs,
42in. square. Oriental fringe Tin. long all
round. Usual Price, 32/-. Reduced to « O
Hand-embroided Silk and Batik Shawls, of
exquisite design and colorings.
Usually 8 10 12 16 18 20 gns.
Reduced to.. 7 9 10 14 16 18 gns.
Silk Net Scarf Veils, If yards long, in Grey
or Mole, with Braid, Silk and Tinsel Em-
broided ends. Usual Price, 2/11.
Reduced to
1/11
Bridal Veils, oval shape, in Tambour Lace, and
Honiton Braided Net. Usual Price,
32/6. Reduced to
25/6
Radium Lace Flouncings, 36in. wide. Colors :
Pink, Sky, Lemon, Grey, Mauve, Citron, Mole,
Jade, Jazz, Nigger, Navy or Black. n
Usual Price, 2/11 yard. Reduced to O
(Neckwear —First Floor.)
Bargains for Maids.
FX7OO. — Girls’ Heavyweight Navy Flannel
Blazers, tailor-made, edged Red, Gold, Glue or
White cords. Busts 24 to '2B inches. -I O/C
Usual Price, 14/11. Reduced to ... 10/0
FXGOO. — Girls’ All-Wool Fine Navy Serge
Box-pleated Skirt, with detachable
bodice of White Mervene. Fstia 1 29/6
Price, 32/6. Reduced to
FX9ol— Maids’ All-Wool Fine Navy Serge
Coat and Skirt, made on plain tailored lines.
Two-piece Skirt, eased into narrow Petersham.
Busts: 32 to 36 in. Skirts: 32 to 36 m. CO/
Usual Price, 84/-. Reduced to
Remarkable Value in Girls’ Ripple Cloth
Dressing Gowns. Cloths include Red, \ ieux
Rose, Light Saxe, and the lengths, 30 to 4.*
inches. As the quantity is limited you cannot
afford to hesitate. Usual Prices, 9/11, 7/11
11/6. Reduced to ■ x x
(Maids’ Wear —Third Floor.)
Hosiery Sacrificed.
Plain Black Cashmere Hose, All Wool, full
fashioned, British make, wide trunk tops, high
spliced heels, double soles, Small Women’s only,
fitting 3 and 4 shoes. Usual Price, 0/11
4/11 pair. Reduced to U' 1 1
Plain Pure Silk Hose, seam at back, mock
fashioned, double lisle suspender tops and soles.
Colors*: Suede, Grey. Neutral, Nigger Brown,
Gun Metal, Piping Rock, Mole. Grey, Havana,
Brown, Black or White. Usual Price, r/1 1
7/6 pair. Reduced to d/ 11
Plain Wool and Art. Silk Hose, full
fashioned, slightly flecked in appearance, double
heels, toes and soles, showing a smart lace rib.
stocked in Navy and Grey, Nigger and Straw,
Oyster and Straw. Usual Trice, 9/11 C/1 1
pair. Reduced to U/ J. 1
(Hosiery —First Floor.)
Such sweeping reduc-
tions must prove in-
deed welcome to every
1 I woman.
Women’s Ribbed Cot-
ton and Wool Vests,
round neck, with or with-
out sleeves (as illus-
trated). Women’s size.
Usual Price, 2/9. o if*
Reduced to ...
I
Women’s Silk Milan-
ese Vests, opera top or
tailored neck? Size 40..
Usual Price,
is/11. 14/11
Reduced to 1 I
Cream Wool Spencers, EV50
“Golden Fleece” brand, with
short sleeves. CXS. Usual
Price, 10/11. n/1 1
Reduced to O/ 1 1
E.O.S. Usually 11/9.
Reduced to 7/9.
Cream Wool Spencers,
en Fleece” bi’aaid.
colors, short sleeves.
Usual Price, 11/8.
Reduced to .........
, “Gold-
Natural
X.O.S.
7/3
Big Savings on Undervests
wsmM
■i: a
11
ill.'*
I* •’
:.'in
(Undervests —
Third Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.
G.P.O. Box 2712.


The Long Haul
THE first Republic truck ever built still
does active daily duty. But it is only
one of the first hundred, the first
thousand, the first ten thousand Republic
trucks, most of which are still rolling up earn-
ings long after being completely charged off.
They are the pioneers of modern haulage.
They total with the volume of Republic sales
to-day to give Republic more trucks in use
than any other exclusive truck maker.
These untiring old Republic trucks early
established the economy and endurance
records which made “road freight” practi-
cal. Beating even traditional Republic
economy is the highest attainment of the
latest Republic models.
To do it takes the finest engines that ever
powered Republics; the most efficient type
45s ,m **
,V *
• >v
MW
H 9
n
rH
■.
.?
'*s■§£»%
mm '
of axle ever used; brakes such as no truck
ever had; and a host of refinements in oil-
ing, cooling, frame, controls and bodies.
The Improved
Republic improves
the position o f
every Republic
dealer. The truck
and the organisa-
tion are fit for the
long haul. The
complete line of
Improved Republic
models and the
broad Republic
franchise meet
every need.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Republic Motor Truck Sales,
212-216 Pirie Street (East),
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
REPUBLIC
Factory Distributors: W. A, CROWLE, LTD., Crowie House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


A Sac Suit to Measure jor £7/10/-
A Tailored Dinner Suit jor Tio/f-
These Prices are less the Cash Discount.
AT DAVID JONES'
SALE
THE SAC SUIT
“Orient” tailored to measure Sac Suit in
fancy all-wool Worsteds in mid grey, brown
and navy are obtainable in herringbone
designs. Also in wool Navy Serge of fine
Botany twill. Guaranteed Indigo dye.
Usually, £B/15/-. Sale Price ... £7/10/-
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash.
THE DINNER SUIT
“Orient” tailored to measure Dinner Suit
ot fine quality all-wool black pinhead Coat-
ing with Barathea Silk facing. Usual, £lO/10.
Sale Price ... ... ... ... £lO
Less 2j- in the £ for Cash.
DAVID JONES’
for Service —SYDNEY
lish themes. But, really, “At Mrs. Beam’s”
in no way suggests the influence of Tchekhov.
It is a brilliant comedy, with no under-
current of tragedy; a play of boarding-house
characters presented amusingly without ex-
travagance or caricature. It is the simplest of
the author’s plays, and with any adequate
representation it could not fail to make an
effective appeal on the stage. There are some
splendidly-drawn characters : the landlady ;
Miss Chezzle, a deaf old lady; an
unsuccessful middle-aged man; young
James, with his gramophone; and, above
all, Miss Shoe, the gullible but well-
meaning spinster who was very pretty 25
years ago. The conversation is easy and
natural, and the only weak point is the rather
unconvincing story of Mr. Dermott and
Laura, temporary boarders at Mrs. Beam’s,
who are mistaken for a French murderer and
one of his victims, but turn out to be a thief
and his accomplice who get away with every-
thing they can lay their hands on.
“The Rumor” and “Progress” are drawn
on the grand scale, dealing with war, poli-
tics and finance. Both have been published
in book form, and “The Rumor” was re-
cently produced in London. They are intel-
lectual plays conceived in a sixirit of aloof
satire. Ashley Dukes considers that “The
Rumor” is the only play of recent years that
links the stage of England with the stage of
Continental Europe.
In a preface to “The Rumor” Munro says
that drama deals with the essentials of
human action as a painter deals with the
essential patterns of form and color, and
that therefore it is no more relevant to point
out that in superficial respects a play differs
from the corresponding reality than it would
be to point out that the number of leaves a
painter has put on a tree are not the same
as the number on the original tree: —
The stage is a platform upon which action takes
place for the benefit —be it amusement, edification,
interest or what not —of the spectators ; and the fact
that benefit is gained is the necessary and sufficient
justification for the performance. Moreover, roughly
speaking, the human bfeings who form the audience
are interested in human action and reaction more
than in any other general thing ; hence the majority
of the spectacles, whether they present human action
directly or not, are intended to be immediately inter-
pretable and to have significance in terms of human
action. In such cases, then, the reasonable tests to
apply are: (1) Is the action presented recognisable
in terms of human action? (2) If recognisable, is
it natural —does it ring true when so translated ?
(3) If so, is the whole action significant— does it
produce one definite and complete impression?
“Progress” employs as large a canvas as
one of Shakspeare’s romantic plays. It is
divided into two parts, with a prologue and
epilogue. It contains 20 scenes and covers a
period of about 15 years. Between the scenes
are intervals varying from one hour to five
years. Among the characters besides natives,
officials, Cabinet Ministers, deputations and
members of the public, we find a coffee-stall
keeper, Lord Boom, a Prime Minister, Presi-
dent of the French Republic, German Chan-
cellor, and other types that are seldom seen
on the stage. This complex and elaborate
play could not possibly be produced in the
ordinary way: but the author states that it
is intended to be staged simply and with sug-
gestive rather than realistic scenery. Cer-
tain of the scenes are intended to be played
before a drop curtain, the next scenes mean-
while set behind. In the same way as “The
Rumor,” the immense drama deals with such
swelling themes as big business and politics,
international complications, the develop-
mental work of the Boom company in Koko-
land, war and peace and progress. Politicians
and business men make long speeches full of
noble sentiments. But the actions taken
make a very different story. Munro depicts
post-war psychology with grave humor and
subdued irony. He exposes the bankruptcy
of sham Idealism. A scene of a coffee-stall
played before a drop curtain is frequently
introduced. Behind the suggested railings of
a park the voice of an agitator can be heard,
though no words are audible, mingled with
the strains of a barrel-organ playing a
familiar tune. The Count, the coffee-stall
keeper, has his own philosophy. “The good
times follows the bad, and the bad follows
the good. That’s always been the way I
reckon, and always will.” Yet he finally
admits there is progress in some things. In
the old days he had a number of breakages,
especially cups. But there’s no more .of
that. He takes a cup from the shelf and gives
it three hard knocks on the counter. “There!”
he exclaims, “That’s made o’ this ’ere Ger-
man mineral, that is. Unbreakable that
stuff is. We don’t ’ave no more breakages
now. Ay, there’s progress in some things.”
This difficult author has been described in
various ways: by St. John Ervine as a dis-
ciple of Tchekhov; by Asliley Dukes as a
Realist, but a detached and impersonal Real-
ist ; by still others as a Futurist and Ex-
pressionist. But none of these definitions has
much meaning. He is not an Expression-
ist in the German sense—in the way, for
example, that Kaiser can be called an Ex-
pressionist. And if he is a Realist, he is a
realist of a different ox-der from Tchekhov,
Hauptmann or Eugene O’Neill. But it is a
matter of less importance to decide what
particular school he belongs to than to real-
ise that Munro is a great dramatist of some
kind or other, and a sincere and original
writer.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Poet of the Rain
Autumn mists driving down the mountain
valleys; the winter storm with its “shouting
wind and brave sting of rain”; Spring’s
“unmoored cloud-galleons” and her rainbows ;
summer showers, drunk in by the thirsting
earth and leaving all green things freshly
green. This is the pageantry of rain that
must strike all eyes lifted from the mire and
bring joy to the poets. Lafcadio Hearn has
said : “It is regret and desire and the Spirit
of Unrest that provoke poetry and
romance. It is the North, with its mists and
fogs and its gloomy sky haunted by a fantas-
tic and ever-changing panorama of clouds,
which is the land of imagination and poetry.”
Poets are, as a rule, unsatisfied creatures
always hankering for the things which are
riot, and it is logical that Englishmen should
sing of the sunshine. The storm fasci-
nates them, but it brings to mind un-
pleasant things, like “man’s ingratitude.”
Few have come through civilisation’s sieve
and retained enough of the old barbaric in-
stinct to shout defiance to the waters and
the winds. Yet such an one was Charles
Hamilton Sorley, a splendidly
figure, “quenched in the cold gloom ot the
Great War. „
It is ten years since Sorley, then a captain
in the Suffolk regiment, was killed in the
attack on Hullach. With Julian Grenfell
and Ralph Hodgson he sings “the song ot
courage, heart and will, and _ gladness in a
fight,” and he deserves to be in the. class of
the poet who, although not a soldier from
inclination, yet “given a decent cause goes
into battle eagerly, Berserker-like, for the
sheer joy of it.” Sorley’s ebullient youth
(he was only 20 when he was killed) seems
to have given him the courage of a pagan,
who, feeling that Death is the End, goes un-
waveringly to oblivion :—■
On, marching men ! On
To the gates of death with song!
There is a Barbury Hill not far from
Marlborough, and an outline of circular for-
tifications. Here in A.n. 550 the Briton
made a desperate stand against the Saxon
invasion and was overwhelmed This fight
gave Sorley, who was a Marlborough col-
legian, one of his first inspirations, and in
1913 he wrote “Barbury Camp.” In it he
revels in the impression of strong men, naked
and struggling, whipped by the rain and
winds of Heaven:—
And here we held communion with the rain
That lashed us into manhood with its thong,
Cleansing through pain.
And the wind visited us and made us strong.
Up from around us, numbers without name,
Strong men and naked, vast, on either hand
Pressing us in, they came. And the wind came
And bitter rain, turning grey all the land.
That was our game,
To fight with men and storms, and it was grand.
Swinburne could have caught in rhyme
that lulling drone of rain on roofs of iron
which begets thrills of ecstasy and the “safe
and sheltered” feeling; Stevenson tried to.
Both, one thinks, would have been content
to enjoy the sensations before the warmth of
an open hearth. But rain brought upper-
most in Sorley the spirit of unrest; he must
be out and striving with the elements. Rain
he loved not as a spectacle but as a living
tiling. When he was at Marlborough (this
is recorded by an old master) he would pull
on football togs and run alone over the
Wiltshire Downs in a rainstorm. Not many
years later it must have been the memory
of those times that impelled him to write
in France “The Song of the Ungirt Run-
ners” :
We swing ungirded hips,
And lightened are our eyes,
The rain is on our lips,
We do not run for prize.
We know not whom wc trust
Nor whitherward we fare,
But we run because we must
Through the great wide air.
His poignant love for the rain and a different
mood are held in “German Rain,” the cry
of a wanderer in Germany for England.
All these pieces have been noticeably lack-
ing in music; but a few months before his
death Sorley sent home one of the finest
lyrics of the war years. This is “All the
Hills and Yales Along,” which holds the lilt
of singing soldiers. It is totally without the
slight complacency of Rupert Brooke’s “The
Soldier”: —
O sing, marching men,
Till the valleys ring again!
Give your gladness to earth’s keeping,
So be glad when you are sleeping.
The significance of “Expectans Expectavi”
I prefer to pass over. To me Sorley will
always be shrined as “the poet of the rain,”
the splendid boy who, in the mud of French
trenches, with death near and menacir
could write: —
Earth that never doubts nor fears,
Earth that knows of death, not tears,
Earth that bore with joyful ease
Hemlock for Socrates,
Earth that blossomed and was glad
’Neath the cross that Christ had,
Shall rejoice and blossom too
When the bullet reaches you.
Wherefore, men marching
On the road to death, sing!'
Pour your gladness on earth’s head,
So be merry, so be dead.
I. D. COSTER.
Reserved Seats
The London practice of booking your
theatre seats through an agency seems to
have definitely established itself in Australia.
It means that the extra charge which a few
people are at the beginning prepared to pay
rather than expend the time and trouble in-
volved in personal booking will become, as
in England, a general exaction.
That this and other extras in connection
with the theatrical business are introduced
without any public protest shows how
changed is the attitude of the Australian
public. A previous generation exhibited a
very quick resentment against what were
regarded as unfair charges. The McMahons,
who ran melodrama at the Lyceum, Sydney,
introduced the slogan “Popular Prices: 35..
2s. and Is.”; and in those days ss. for a
reserved seat at the Williamson theatres was
regarded by some as excessive. It was a
slack time theatrically—so slack that, even
when the Lyceum closed, the Criterion was
regarded as one showhouse too many in
Sydney—and theatrical managements had to
bow to some extent to the popular idea about
prices. But, as matters improved, in one
theatre the idea of making a charge for
programmes was tried. It caused a public
demonstration of disapproval, the audience
almost unanimously declining to pay the
threepence demanded: and the performance
was punctuated with loud exchanges between
members of the audience such as: “Who is
he?” “I don’t know. I haven’t got a pro-
gramme.” But in these days there are all
sorts of extras, including the amusement tax;
and now a fresh one is on its way. Prob-
ably war-time experiences of increased costs
have given the public a new outlook.
Reserved seats, as we are acquainted with
them, were unknown prior to 1829. Before
that it was the custom for the wealthy to
send servants to occupy their seats,
these “placemen” becoming a recognised in-
stitution in the theatre. The system led on
to the appearance of professional placemen
• —hangers on, who, for a consideration, were
prepared to act as seat-warmers for people
who had no servants to send. Pepys, being
a saving soul, used to cheapen the cost by
sending any ragged street-urchin who was
glad to earn a farthing; and the nobility
and gentry who arrived early thought nothing,
apparently, of sitting cheek-by-jowl with
footmen and the unwashed. The Weekly*
Register in its issue of March 25. 1732,
made the following indignant comment: —
The theatre should be esteemed the centre of polite-
ness and good manners, yet numbers of footmen
every evening 101 l over the boxes, while they keep
places for their masters, with their hats on, play
over their airs, take snuff, laugh aloud, adjust
their coxcombs, or hold dialogues with their
brethren from one side of the house to the other.
Probably the earliest reference to this
method of retaining seats was one by Dryden
in his prologue to Cartell’s “Arvirages” in
which he appeals:—
And, therefore, messieurs, if you’ll do us grace
Send lacqueys early to preserve your place.
Fielding, also, refers to the practice, in one
of his farces. When the country-bred lady
inquires of Mrs. Tawdrcy about the manners
of the fine London ladies at the playhouse,
lie replies: “Why, if they can, they take a
stage-box, where they let the footman sit
for the first two acts, to show his livery.”
When Garrick took his benefit at Drury-
lane, in 1744, in “Hamlet,” the performance
beginning at six, ladies were requested “to
send their servants by 3 o’clock.”
When Covent Garden opened in 1732 the
bill announced that “all persons who want
places are desired to send to the stage-door”
—the passage from Bow-street leading to it
—“where attendance will be given, and places
kept, for the following nights as usual.”
This was a measure of improvement: seats
could be taken beforehand, but they had to
be occupied before the commencement of the
play. Naturally this did not please the
elite at a time when it was fashionable to
come late and make a noisy entrance. It
v/as regarded as a distinct breach of fashion’s
rules to arrive before, at least, the completion
of the first act. After that the seats could
not be held by the “seat-warmers” if their
employers did not put in an appearance.
Angelo, in his “Reminiscences,” tells how the
Duke of Norfolk and a certain editor, having
taken seats in the front row, and lacking
“the exterior garb of people of condition,”
were warned at the. commencement of the
second act by a gentleman in the second row
who wanted their seats that it was time
they went and made room for their betters.
Fights not infrequently occurred over dis-
puted seats. Even the impeccable Chester-
field, having gained the seat of someone eise
by a subterfuge practised upon his servant,
regarded it as no breach of manners to
arrogantly outbluff the rightful owner upon
his appearance to claim the seats.
The reservation of seats in the manner
known to us was introduced in 1829. It
was quickly recognised as a vast improve-
ment, and rapidly became general.
HAROLD MERCER.
A Satchel of Books
The Pedlar, by M. Marshall (.Allen and Unwin).
An ingenious and exciting if not very convincing
story.
In the Hills, by Theodore Marburg (Putnam).
A collection of poems with illustrations by J. Le
Blant. There are verses about the American Civil
War as well as the more recent Armageddon.
Venice, Past and Present (The Studio, Ltd.). A
record of the Bride of the Adriatic, set down by
the brushes of generations of adoring artists. Got
up in the usual elegant style of this famous London
publishing house.
The Religion of the People of Israel, by Rudolf
Kittel (Allen and Unwin). The author, a professor
at the University of Leipzig, is an admitted authority
on Old Testament history. His book, the outcome
of a series of lectures, has been translated by Caryl
Micklem; it is of interest to all who *are con-
cerned in research into the origin of religious
concepts.
The Professor Among the Ladies, by Elmer Davis
(Methuen). Dr. Alexander Deupree, a Columbia
University professor, has none of the recluse or
bookworm about him; instead, he is a young man
with strong social affinities, an eye to the dollar and
another eye for a neatly turned ankle. His amorous
entanglement with two charming heiresses provides
some good fun.
The Tyranny of Virtue, by Noel Despard (N. F.
Willis). The author mentions in a forenote that
his work is “intended to show that, despite the
scars of life, spiritual beauty can triumph; that it
is never too late to repent; never too late to forgive ;
never too late to forget.” To illustrate his theme, the
two fi'ail ladies of the plot win through to crowns
of virtue.
My Pilgrimage to Ajanta and Hugh, by Sir Mukui
Chandra l)ey (Thornton Lutterworth, London). The
story of the famous Buddhist rock temples of India,
set down lovingly by a cultured Bengalee who made
copies of the wall paintings -with which they are
covered, and only just in time. The copies are ex-
quisitely done, and reveal the Greek inspiration ol
the ancient artists. Incidentally, some of the
author’s word-pictures of contemporary Indian life,
replicas of the pictured records of the temple, are
unforgettable.
Architecture (Art in Australia). The present
number contains an illustrated article on the new
crematorium at Rookwood by Frank I. A. Bloomfield,
its designer and architect. The sketches show the
portion now erected and the building as it will
appear when complete. As designed, the chimney
from the furnace is incorporated in a campanile
which forms part of the main building, and the
whole is treated in Northern Italian style. The
chapel, when built, promises to be a handsome and
imposing structure.
The Story of the Twelfth, by L. M. Newton (Walcli
and Sons). This record of the 12th Battalion A.1.1f.
during the Great War is designed to help Tasmanians
“to live over again the long years spent in the
Valley of the Shadow, or, at best, only a short march
away.” The 12th saw service at Gallipoli, in France
and in Belgium; in esprit and dash it was second
to none. The story is told in a pleasant, easy
style; it is a record of humorous incidents as well
as stirring deeds.
Year-hook of the Universities (Bell and Sons). A use-
ful publication covering the universities of the Empire,
a digest, in effect, of university calendars in so far
as their contents may be likely to prove of interest
to members of other universities and the public
generally. Of our own seats of learning, it is
noted as an outstanding feature that the
State, as a large contributor to University funds,
insists on a big say in appointing members of their
governing bodies. The constitution of Sydney is
the simplest. Reference is made to the failure ol
Australian uniyersities to arrive at a scheme for
common matriculation.
Early Explorers in Australia, by Ida Lee
(Methuen). The author is perhaps better known
as Mrs. Charles Bruce Marriott; her painstaking
research lias borne fruit in previous volumes. She
has collected the material for the present work from
logbooks and journals, including the diary of Allan
Cunningham (iSI7-18). The book makes no pretension
to being a complete history of Australian dis-
covery ; rather its special value lies in what is told
of many important voyages and surveys little noticed
in more comprehensive works. The author traces
the first arrival of English ships on the west coast,
the trend of maritime exploration on the north
and north-west coasts, the surveys of Cook on the
east coast, the re-discovery of Moreton Bay, the
finding of Port Phillip and the circumnavigation and
settlement of Tasmania. She also deals with cer -
tain of the inland explorations. It is one of those
careful and intelligent compilations that do the
spade-work for future historians, and the illustra-
tions are good.


i
jk
ď
TOP.—Showing the Brick Pan Drives.
Note the crossed belts operating be-
tween forks.
LEFT.—General view of the works of
The Western Suburbs Brick Company,
Ltd., at Enfield, Sydney.
EIGHT.—The Main Drive. The big pulley
is running so fast that the spokes
have disappeared in our photo.
I
V
i i
They said that Goodyear Belts running
crossed between forks would not give
satisfactory service—but these Goodyears
are still running after four years
When the plant of the Western Suburbs Brick
Company, of Enfield, Sydney, was being completed
four years ago, with strictly up-to-date equipment,
the Managing Director, Mr. J. F. Walker, insisted
that he must have belting that would give the
maximum efficiency, economy and service.
He wanted belting on which he could standardise,
and thus enjoy all the production advantages of
eventual lower belt cost. His problem was to find
the right belt for every job.
Although some of his associates told Mr. Walker
that he was doing the wrong thing, he early
recognised the merits of Goodyear Belting and its
suitability for his class of work, so he installed 1 1
Goodyear Belts in the plant at Enfield.
Mr. Walker’s associates, in particular, said that
Goodyear Belts would not prove a success as crossed
belts operating between forks.
This statement has been completely refuted. The
two brick pans in the plant have been driven by
two 8-inch x 6-ply Goodyear Belts, which are
running crossed between forks, since the inception
of the plant—and they still look good for consider-
able more service.
These two drives have 14 feet centres; the driving
pulleys are 4 feet in diameter, and the driven 3 feet
6 inches; the h.p. developed is 35; and the two
pans are 10 feet in diameter.
The record of these two belts also applies to all the
other Goodyear Belts in the plant. The whole of
N.S.W.—The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.,
490-492 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland—Hoey Fry, Limited, Pioneer House,
168-170 Edward Street, Melbourne.
Victoria—Hardware Co. of Australia Pty., Ltd.,
71 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
the Goodyear Belts installed at the start, four years
ago, are still running.
The belt operating on the main drive is a 12-inch x
6-ply, and is 77 feet long, the diameter of the
driven pulley being 126 inches and that of the
driving 22 inches. The h.p. of the motor is 100,
and the r.p.m. 750. The ratio of the driven pulley
to the driving pulley is 5.7 to 1, and the belt speed
4320 f.p.m.
Mr. Walker writes:—
*The eleven Goodyear Belts in our Brick Plant
have been operating since we commenced opera-
tions, and all show very little signs of wear after
four years’ running. i
. “As you know, the operating conditions in our
business are very hard—and* we think that this
record is a remarkable testimony to the sturdiness
of your product.
“Wishing Goodyear every success,
“Yours very truly,
“Western Suburbs Brick Company, Ltd.,
“(Sgd.) J. F. Walker,
“Managing Director.”
Goodyear Belts will render equally as good service
in your plant. There is a Goodyear Belt for every
drive.
A telephone call or letter to any of the following
Distributors will bring a representative to you
without delay:—
South Australia—Mechanical Supplies, Ltd..
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
West Australia—Frank R. Perrot, 883 Hay Street,
Perth.
Tasmania—Chas. Davis, Ltd., 60, 62, 64 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
BELTING— HOSE
PACKING


Big Price
Reduction
WE have pleasure in announcing a substantial reduction in the price of all
Packard models. Figure what you must pay for so-called"cheap”cars and
then see what Packard offers you for just a little bit more. You will agree with
us that these new prices represent the very finest value that has ever been offer-
ed in Australia.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration, Write or call for catalogue.
IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Foy’s).
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
5. A Motors ,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd ,
Hobart, Tasmania.


fd
Remember
Large scale production, result-
ing from world-wide demand,
enables Studebaker to use the
finest materials and workman-
ship in the New Studebaker
cars, and yet keep the cost per
car relatively low.
That is why Studebaker prices
are so moderate in comparison
with the values given.
If the demand were less, the
new Studebaker cars would
cost considerably more.
Builders of Quality
Vehicles for 73 Years
The New Studebaker Big Six
7-Seater Duplex-Phaeton
£705
with folding hood £685; other New
Studebaker models from £420 to £960
Studebaker has taken high quality cars
out of the luxury class and placed them
within the reach of practically every
motor car buyer.
Only cars higher in price can compare
with the New Studebaker models in
appearance, performance and quality of
construction. And no cars, regardless of
price, provide such advanced design or
so many new features.
See them at any Studebaker showroom.
STUDEBAKER South Bend, Ind., U. S. A.
Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
STANDARD SIX.
113-in. W.B. 50 H.P.
SPECIAL SIX.
120-in. W.B. 65 H.P.
BIG SIX.
127-in. W.B. 75 lI.P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton, £490
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster, 4(io
5-Pass. Coach ... 540
3-Pass. Country Club
Coupe 570
5-Pass. Brougham .... 575
5-Pass. Coupe 590
5-Pass. Sedan 625
5-Pass. Berline 650
5-Pass Phaeton, Aus. Body 430
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body 420
b-wlieel brakes, If disc wheels,
£l5 extra.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton, £595
3- Duplex-Roadster, 545
4- Sport-Roadster.. 575
4- Victoria 735
5- Brougham 685
5-Pass. Sedan 765
5-Pass. Berline ... 785
o-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body 535
7-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body 550
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body 515
If-wheel brakes, 5 disc wheels,
£2O extra.
7-Pass. Phaeton, Im-
ported Body, Fold-
ing Hood £685
7-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton, 705
5-Pass. Coupe 895
7-Pass. Sedan
7-Pass. Berline 960
Studebaker open models can
also be furnished with folding
tops in place of the Duplex
body and top.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.. 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
ISLAND MOTORS PTY., LT D., Arcadia Garage, Hobart.
Brisbane.
ft
\
UJ
JB-634


3
a
c>- N
Wi
'liildren Quickly Learn
To Rely On Cuticura
To soothe and heal the rashes
and skin irritations of childhood.
Daily use of Cuticura Soap, assist-
ed by Cuticura Ointment, will keep
the skin and scalp clean and healthy
and prevent simple irritations from
becoming 3erious.
Soap la.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W. 1
UBS?" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Maintaining
Complexions
ďf
Photo Howard-Harris
The Popular theatrical Beauty
M iss Burke thoroughly believes in the
use of pure mercolized wax lor tne com-
plexion. Unlike face creams, this harm-
less wax performs a double action. It
both peels and preserves the skin. It
gently peels off only the worn-out waste
matter and then it perpetually protects
and preserves the fresh complexion thus
No wonder women are aban-
doning face creams in favour of such a
truly wonderful preparation. Ask any
chemist for a package of Dearborn’s
genuine mercolized wax (Try the new
2/6 jar).
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
d
ď
Benger’s Food
when overworked.
The modern round of life
makes overstrain difficult
to avoid. Overstrain comes
to men via business worries,
overwork, hurried meals,
etc.; to women through
domestic worry, excitement,
late hours, etc.
The effects of overstrain are
first apparent in exhausted nerves
and impaired digestion. Benger’s
is the one Food which rests the
digestive system and fully nourishes
tlie body.
f
Food
“Wherever there is a case of
impaired digestion, there is a case
for Benger’s Food.”
Dainty Recipes for light dishea in
Benger’s Food Booklet. Post free from
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England
Healthy Stock
Means Healthy Profit!
V'i 0
fjl
Be your own “vet.” and keep your stock in tip-top
condition with the aid of Denyer Bros.’ Veterinary Instru-
ments and supplies. These, you may be sure, are
supremely reliable and scientifically efficient. Ask for
our Free Catalogue.
For prompt reply, address letters to Dept. 1.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Supplies,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
behind time!
WHEN YOU’VE
'fon&x’ ,
WP/ST C POCKET 1
WATCHES
'TorMen or tVomen
'from Up-to-date Jewellers
?!
%
Q
euKReil
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
iO Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free, (
*
II
Si
H
I
>1
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
=3
fi
Diamond Rings
with the charm of
ORIGINALITY, REFINEMENT
and
AUTHENTIC VALUE
Other foibles have their day, but the glittering beauty of diamonds
never fails in its attraction.
Fairfax and Roberts have been buying diamonds direct from the best
cutters, on favorable cash terms, for over eighty years and designing
artistic settings themselves.
Specially assayed gold and pure platinum are used for all the mountings.
Choice Diamonds, set
in Platinum, ISct.
Gold Bing, £3O.
Choice Diamond in
hexagonal setting with
smaller Diamonds at
sides, £2O.
Very fine Diamond set
in Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring, £4O.
Choice Emerald and
Diamond Cluster Ring,
£2O.
Diamond Cluster set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3O.
<as *®m s= *
Selected Diamonds in
attractive Cluster,
£lO/10/-
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
Fairfax&Roberts L™ |
ZbbZb Hunter Street Sydney
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Comrade Leader.
All this great mass of mountain, rock on
rock,
Heaves mightily to reach the changing sky.
In sheltered glens the blue kingfishers fly
To dip their gleaming plumes, the parrots
flock.
The hidden lyre-birds all the long day mock
All makers of all sound, the trees climb high
Above the broken crags, with necks awry,
Arching their backs against the tempest's
shock.
The green hands all arc lengthened as in
prayer,
The sighing waters love the lowest deeps,
The birds go always on an easy wing
Through high,, through low in wealth of pre-
cious air.
A man's thought with the crying water
weeps.
Dreams with the trees and soars o’er all to
sing.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Poplars at Sunrise.
Now red lias flooded all the cast,
And gainst the sky with slender grace
The poplars stand, black-stemmed and dim,
Spun, so it seems, from filmy lace
That some sweet Spanish dame has worn,
To hide her lovely, laughing face!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Possessions.
Who shall tell of the things I own?
Smother of flower and feathered fern,
Hose of dawn on an opal throne,
Fires aglow in a sunset’s urn.
Who shall tell of the things I own?
Yellow of moon and sun-filled day,
Stars undimmed in their light alone;
Tripping spring with her children gay.
Who shall tell of the things I own?
Golden snows when the leaves low lie
And in russet and homely gown
Modestly autumn passes by.
Who shall tell of the things I own’
Lamps that hang from the wattle down,
Troops of gums in their red files shown,
Boronia bells in their gold and brown.
Who shall tell of the things I own ?
On the tender film of a memory,
Kiss of a child, a blossom blown,
Flower of love and hope may be.
Itipple of laughter, tangle of hair.
Hurry of words like humming bees,
Hoses fresh in a dimple there—
Time the challenger left me these.
Outward shows of the earth and sky,
Greening grove and a star above,
Pale in light of a childish eye,
Joy of Life and the smile of Love!
W.A.
MAY KIDSON.
In Her Garden.
Seated alone in the afternoon,
Cosied, soft in your cushioned chair,
Just like a rose in its leaves aswoon.
Oh, but the good God made you fair!
Shadow and shine about you flit,
Gleam and gloom on lawn and tree;
Knitting and knitting there you sit,
Minding me much of Destiny!
Kitten-paws with your ball of wool,
Velvet-soft in the sunshine play;
What is the name of the latest fool,
Tossed for your moment’s pastime, say?
Click the needles and wind the skein,
Sitting there in your cushioned chair —
Oh, but the Devil made you vain,
Just as the good God made you fair!
One with love in his soul for you,
Love as eager as it is great;
Love as tender as it is true,
Wanders the world in a wildered state.
Just as your kitten with velvet paws,
So you played with that heart of his,
Smooth hands taking the place of claws —
Smiles at time, and at times a kiss.
Skin of satin and silken hair!
Eyes where the luring wonders lurk!
Oli, but the good God made you fair!
Oh, but the Devil spoiled His work!
You who played with his heart awhile,
Made all eyes but your own eyes dim;
You with the Mona Lisa smile.
What do you mean to do with him?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Praise.
’NVlicii first I read that, page, I read it slow.
I saw the woman fretting to and fro,
And then the calm one sitting at His
feet—
Why did He stop the drudge and chide
her so?
I was so young that hour, so hot, and kind.
It seemed to me that Christ was blind, was
blind.
’Twas well for that one sitting on the
floor
The other had His comfort in her mind.
Why did He choose the idle one to bless?
Why should He hold a frowning toiler less
Than bird unbarned or haughty little
flower,
Setting a holy sign on uselessness?
But if He came to-night in by my door,
I would, like Mary, listen on the floor,
For, oh! Jier heart was toiling at His
praise.
And it was I was blind, was blind, before.
MAORILAND.
EILEEN DUGGAN.


f
t M>Mw
1 .£>
i A
fig
■ ' 1
m
Hi
H
®i
■
mm <**
W J
A
mm
U
I
mm
A
v.%
V
■£
m
>
% *m e *
*».
Australasian Agents- BSEPPELT6SONS,L t -^
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE*FREMANTLE £ BROKEN HILL
POSEIDON,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1906,
Owner - - - - U. Robertson.
Trainer- - - - I. Earnshaw.
Jockey - - - - T. Clayton.
Weight- - - - 7st. 61b.
Time - - - - 3min. 31 4 sec.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2872.
THURSDAY, JULY 30, 1925.
Price 6d.
SO VERY APPROPRIATE.
"While the Americans were arriving it fairly rained loans. Five millions in London, 15 millions in New York, and 64 millions for conversion purposes.”
STANLEY MELBOURNE: “How delightful that your visit should coincide with and—er —contribute to one of those beautiful showers of paper which are among
the—er—great national resources of this country.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
'‘Australia for the Whit* Man.”
■ hinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., I.td., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svdnov. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO STJJtSCRIHERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly '.
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by he publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Corres-iiondcrice” co.umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOhO words, are specially acceptable) . Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal. applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible, for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s" representative in liondon is
1,. St. C. Grondona, Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “Tlie Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Daivson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, Ifi Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, 1 V.C.1;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.B.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
'l'oivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevardc; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 25th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l t 2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01; Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China .
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Pori Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotcli, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.li.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Hostage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lsd.; each
additional hoz.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, JULY 30, 1925.
AMONG MISS JONES’S PICTURES.
Few people are calculated to make more
people feel more tired with people in general
than ex-Prime Minister Hughes, though the
unaccountableness of the peevish little man
invests him with a sort of charm. Some have
called him a monster of ingratitude, and
others a monument of selfishness ; but he isn’t
big enough to be a monster, and he isn’t suffi-
ciently reposeful to be a proper monument.
His most recent outbreak (unless he has an-
other while this is in the press) occurred in
Sydney, while opening an exhibition of por-
traits by Miss Jones, an Australian artist
who has been in the Cold Country and re-
turned. Whether the ex-P.M. was excited by
the spectacle of Miss Jones’s works, or
whether he simply fell due, like a birthday
or a promissory note, and had to explode, he
possibly didn’t know himself, but he exploded
in real earnest by the newspaper report:—
Australia is a young country, and has done won-
derful things, yet we seem to put in most of our
time decrying it. We hail with hosannas anyone
who finds some new unpleasant thing to say about
tlie country, though such figures are becoming rarer
and rarer nowadays, because most of the possibilities
have become exhausted. No country yet achieved
greatness whose people did not believe in it. Thus
far not a single Australian painter, singer, inventor
or politician has been acclaimed first by his own
compatriots. Only after he has received the
imprimatur of London and Paris is he recognised at
his true worth. It is so with Miss Jones.
There is a note of mirth, reminiscent of the
noises which pervaded the haunted castle in
"The Beils on Normandy,” in the idea of
Australian-born public men, including
Deaicin, Kingston, Forrest, Dibbs, Turner,
Bruce, Theodore and a crowd besides, big
and small and in-between, having to make
their names first in Europe before their own
people recognised their existence. This coun-
try has not only hailed its own politicians,
but it has supplied careers to many imported
politicians of whom their own countries had
shown not the slightest appreciation (in fact,
the native land had sometimes been so cold
that it might have wanted to get rid of them),
the list including Gillies, Parkes and
Mollwraitii, who seemed grateful, and W.
M. Hughes, who assuredly doesn’t. Some-
times, as in the cases of Lowe, Herbert and
George Reid, it returned the imported
article, after training, for political service in
England. If the angry Welshman can point
to the case of any Australian who obtained
his first political opportunity in the J. Bull
country, and then returned to the land which
had previously scorned him to find the fatted
public calf in evidence, he should furnish
more details. And it requires a wild and
possibly Welsh frame of mind to sketch Ada
Crossley or Nellie Stewart having to go
to Europe in search of the first sign of popu-
lar appreciation, or Henry Lawson taking
bis bush songs to Paris after the land of his
birth had given his muse the cold shoulder
and the glassy stare.
* » • •
Defamation has fallen at times on Aus-
tralia, as it has on other places, one of the
worst cases being that of the vile crowd
which says that our whole civilisation wants
to be taken down and rebuilt according to
the instructions of the badly-washed savages
at Moscow. An instance which some would
consider as bad that of the imported W. M.
Hughes, whom Australia has covered with
honors, salaries and portfolios, standing up
in the midst of Miss Jones’s portrait dis-
play and depicting this land as a den of snobs,
which scorns its own talented sons and
daughters unless they go away and get a
foreign price-ticket pinned on them. Such a
happening is almost calculated to make some
regret the famous but mysterious £25,000
testimonial, to say nothing of the long holi-
days the then Prime Minister enjoyed in
Britain on full salary, when he advertised
the country’s noise more than its sagacity.
(Some mistook him for an Australian native
then.) The gi’eat mass of Australians are
far removed from the habit of defaming Aus-
tralia itself, though it is impossible to wholly
suppress the fact that more rain, rivers and
mountains would bo an advantage. As for
raising hosannas to “anyone who finds
some new unpleasant thing to say” about
our continent, the great obstacle that the
would-be reformer finds in his way is that
the hosannas are so much for Things As They
Are. It is difficult to get anything put right
without first mentioning that it is wrong,
and then the trouble begins. The proposal
that an. honest effort should be made to find
population for the North, where there is
practically none save along the Queensland
railway, is met with a yell of indignation
at the slander. Advocacy of a cross-Aus-
tralia railway has been countered more than
once by assurances that the Territory is a
peculiar place, which, under the present •ex-
cellent management, is really better with
motor-drays, and that it is wrong to say
otherwise. Quite a marvellous number of
people are prepared to attest that the Aus-
tralian is the most intelligent and best-
educated white man on earth, that the local
navy has nothing to learn, even from that
of Britain, aud that military preparation is
superfluous, because any scratch force of
Australians would prove equal to any invader.
In fact, the critic has a rather poor reception
except when he puts on the whole garment
of Bolshevism, and denounces everything ex-
cept the revolution and Karl Marx, and
then he seems to get a fair audience.
* * * *
There may be climatological pessimists
who harp too much on our desert, though it
is hard to say why Australia shouldn’t be
proud of its desert. Many crowded races
wish they had room for one. But the real
criticism is directed, not at Australia, but
at what people like Hughes (imp.) have
done to it, and still more at what they have
left undone. When that subject crops up,
which it is impossible to prevent, the North-
ern Territory is naturally called in evidence.
It is the one supreme opportunity that the
Commonwealth has had to prove its capacity
for pioneering. The place was acquired
upon fixed terms which ought to have pro-
vided it with a straight and definite policy.
It has been ruled for 14J years by the Fed-
eral authority direct, with a minimum of
interference by inexperienced politicians of
the come-and-go variety, and during that
14| years the Federal authority was a great
deal more Hughes than anybody else. In
the bright lexicon of that irritable gentle-
man, it is “decrying” Australia to say that
pretty nearly everything concerning the great
Possession has gone from bad to worse; but
it is really and almost entirely a matter of
decrying Hughes and the crowd he gathered
round him. In like manner English politi-
cians about 1642-48 didn’t decry England,
which was, and is, a very desirable country,
but they certainly decried Charles 1., and
it is on record that they did so pretty hard.
The ex-Prime Minister’s anger is fierce, un-
reasonable. and, as exhibited in the pres-
ence of Miss Jones’s pictures, somewhat in-
coherent. Some of the true slanders which
the community has to know about its 523.000
square miles of property, if there is to be
any improvement, are that white population
has diminished till there, is little left; that
much, of the remnant lives on alms; that
shipping has vanished so completely that
the few men who still linger about Darwin
wharves average 36 hours’ work per month;
and that other industry has so dried up
that at late advices there were only 72 union-
ists left—about 5 per cent, of the number
recorded a few years previously. Reasons
assigned include the carefully-fostered domi-
nation of union-leaders of the Communist
tvpe which grows in North Queensland ; the
Navigation Act, which has done wonders in
driving away ships; the blank refusal to sell
land to settlers; and. above all. the lack
of railway connection with the South.
This isn’t a matter of finding “some new
unpleasant thing to say about the country,”
as W. M. Hughes put it while shouting
amid the treasures of Miss Jones’s art, for
the miserable mismanagement and the decay
became visible years ago. And, sad to say,
the bitterest comment hasn’t yet raised
enough hosanna to start the South-to-North
railway one yard beyond the old dead-end
at Oodnadatta. The Territory will be a
world-jest and a world-disgrace—when the
world really hears of it.
THE OATH.
When, in the war against the Samnites, a
great Roman army of four legions, led by
the two consuls for the year, surrendered in
the defiles of Caudium the oath taken by the
vanquished bit hard into the Roman mind;
yet that oath was so sacred that it must
not be broken. Postumius, one of the con-
suls who had suffered disgrace, got over the
difficulty the next year by renouncing his
Roman citizenship, striking the Roman
herald in view of both Romans and Sam-
nites, and so giving cause for war in spite
of the oath of peace and submission he had
sworn. It was an extreme measure to take,
and it shows the tremendous binding force
of an oath in the Italy of the fourth century
b.c. The story of Harold Godwin and his
oath to William of Normandy over the
hidden bones of the saints may be merely a
fiction, but the fact that it could be told
gives the full measure and meaning of an
oath in the earlier Middle Ages. Harold
broke the oath with every desire of his own
and every wish for the good of England in
the scale against it, with the full knowledge
also that the oath had been obtained by the
meanest sort of trickery; yet the English,
whom he sought to serve, looked askance at the
oath-breaker, and all who knew the tale foretold
his doom. The very meaning of the Latin word
religio was related to binding as with cords,
making it quite clear that the binding obliga-
tion of oaths was its first business. Justice
as well as despotism demanded such oaths;
and all the nations of antiquity were too
well provided with religions of fear and
threatening doom to take such oaths lightly.
When the gods decayed and the pagan sys-
tems began to fall into contempt there must
have been an awkward period of lightly-
spoken perjury; and it is just possible that
one of the things which most strongly
weighed with Constantine in adopting
Christianity was a desire to re-establish the
force and binding power of the oath.
* tt * *
With the growth of modem judicial sys-
tems the oath remained the pivot round
which all the rest revolved. Juries were
sworn, witnesses were sworn; and though
some falsehood and perjury might remain,
the oath was a powerful factor in getting
to the bottom of any matter. The theory
was that, however great and picturesque a
liar a man might be at ordinary times, once
he was under oath he would tell more than
50 per cent, of the truth. An average of
anything above 50 per cent, of the truth all
round should enable justice to he done.
Exactly what the oath-breaker thought would
happen to him is not clear. Religion would,
of course, assign him to a Hell of endless
torment for the offence; but then it assigned
him to that for so many other sins that he
was pretty sure to go there anyhow. A
few offences more or less could hardly extend
eternity. It was probably a useful legacy
from older paganism that did the real bind-
ing; for the idea that the violation of an
oath involved punishment of a less remote
kind still lingers in the formula: “God strike
me dead if I’m not telling the truth.” That
gentle garnishing of a tale is to be heard in
any back lane, of twentieth-century Aus-
tralia ; and it is reasonably to be inferred
that the kissing of a book in the courts is
thought to vaguely hide some such menace.
Whatever varying fears and superstitions
may have been connected with oath-taking,
the fact is clear enough that a judicial sys-
tem hinged upon it worked effectively up to
the latter part of last century, and that
the force of an oath is not yet entirely lost.
What is of most importance, however, is not
whether an oath creates a little fear, but
whether it is still capable of securing the
necessary more than 50 per cent, of truth
without which justice is likely to miscarry.
* * * *
In this our twentieth century what value
does the oath possess, and what value is it
likely to have when the present public atti-
tude becomes more pronounced V Justice very
seldom goes seriously astray; but that is be-
cause most people, at least in serious matters,
have formed the habit of telling the truth.
In a Court of Justice there are several fac-
tors which help out the legal method. In the
first place there is the truth-telling habit;
in the second there is the severely-formal
nature of the court itself with the sense
of power vested in the Judge, before whom
even lawyers and policemen become small
and humble; and in-addition to these there
is the crude fear of being found out and
punished if any trickery is attempted. The
kissing of an unclean book, however sacred
the words of that book may be in the eyes
of some part of the community, can count for
very little. Long ago the Quakers secured
the right to have their simple affirmation
accepted in place of the formal oath; and
there would seem to be no very good reason
why the same privilege should not be ex-
tended to the rest of the generally truthful
community. If it cannot be shown that the
oath increases the general average of truth-
telling there is no good reason why it should
remain. But there are some good reasons
why it should go. The moment an ancient
practice becomes subject for jest it is not
merely useless but dangerous. No average
citizen hearing a policeman or other official
administering an oath fails to find something
a little ridiculous in the proceeding. The
dirty book touched by so many not-too-clean
lips, the gabbled and garbled words spoken
without any inflection to suggest that they
have meaning, and the whole atmosphere
surrounding the formal act create a feeling
of .contempt. From that feeling of contempt
for the formality to a feeling of contempt for
the court itself is but a step. A great deal
that is ridiculous has been carried over from
past ages into our modern court procedure;
and though these very things may have their
influence on the cruder and less intelligent
witnesses, it is hardly right that our whole
method of securing justice should be in a
setting designed to impress those who are far
below the ordinary citizen average. If the
courts are for the people they should at least
give the impression that those responsible for
their form and appearance are not inferior
to the people in ordinary intelligence. The
danger of the formal oath is that it has now
become so absurd that perjury may be re-
garded as a joke; and it is plain enough that
if even 30 per cent, of the community re-
garded perjury as a joke the reign of anarchy
would have begun.
NEW WINE OF THE SPIRIT.
We tied up in the evening to a stone wharf
outside a small village overhung by blue
hills. A Buddhist priest came down and
talked to us. The village was his parish.
He was fat, mild-mannered and intelligent-
looking, and lazily interested in a book I
had with me on Chinese Buddhism. It
amused him to learn there were Australian
students of his cult. He went through the
book backwards in the Chinese order, scan-
ning the reproductions of Buddhist pictures
and prayer-charts, and asking me to trans-
late the English interpretations of Buddhist
doctrine. I could not do that, but managed
to convey to him an idea of the sympathetic
attitude of the writer, a British civil ser-
vant, towards his faith; whereat he was
pleased, for the essence of Buddhism is toler-
ance, and he had toleration even for the
morals of the monks and nuns of the neigh-
boring important monastery of T’icn Tung,
of which he was a member, and which hap-
pened to be our objective. We started out
for it together at 4.30 the next morning,
taking chairs over a steep pass guarded by
a ruined pagoda into a lovely valley teem-
ing with industry. The path was paved with
large stone flags and overhung with trees,
with here and there a shrine to T’U TI at
tlieir foot. Leaving the valley after some
miles, the path passed through the grounds
of the monastic estate, which was of vast
extent and led between a magnificent avenue
of pines. Worshippers of all countries have
believed that the higher they climbed the
nearer they would be to God ; hence the
remoteness of most monasteries in China,
which are usually folded away in some
charming corner of the hills, perched above
mountain torrents or clinging in an almost
magical way to precipices, where they attract
pilgrims from all parts of Buddhadom as
much for the beauty of their situation as
for their pious reputation.
The 200 monks and nuns of T’ien Tung
were in the midst of the morning service
when we arrived. Even if their morals were
no better than they ought to be, their de-
voutness left nothing to be desired. The
furnaces of religious industry were at full
blast. Priests were tossing bits of bamboo
on to the temple floors, while anxious-eyed
women watched to see the way the mystic
emblems fell. They laughed gleefully if the
omens indicated offspring, and all boys,
and paid their fee and went sadly away if
they indicated childlessness. More women
were buying spirit-money and burning it at
great incinerators to relieve the financial neces
sities in the next world of relatives who had
passed away. The deep booming of the
wooden fish-head mingled with the thin tinkle
of bells and the mellow note of drums. The
monks knelt in long rows in the great main
temple below the golden image of Amitabtta,
the saviour of Buddhist belief, who has volun-
tarily renounced the bliss of Nirvana until
every stock and stone, every bird and beast,
every man and woman, living and yet un
born, shall have entered into Buddhahood.
They chanted in a monotone the praises of
the Deity, the repetition of whose name will
save from Hell the intoner or the person
who pays for the intoning. To rouse the
interest of pilgrims to the necessity for their
own salvation a series of frescoes in a cor-
ridor showed damned souls being sawn in
two, flung into a sea of knives, or fed to
dogs by conscientious demons.
The clouds of incense curling before the
shrines, the dim light shot through with
gleams from the splendid ornaments, and the
drowsy harmony rising from bells, drums
and human voices made an atmosphere that
lulled the mind and spoke to the senses with
an irresistible appeal. Our monkish guid°
took us to the hall of the Ancestral Tablets,
where were stretched the spirit tablets of
dead monks in longer rows than those of
their living successors in the temple below.
In popular belief one of the three souls a
man possesses hovers over thle 'ancestral
tablet. Therefore this hall was full of tlm
viewless fluttering of spirits, its air instinct
with ghostly presences. Here and there
little tables were placed, each with its tiny
fish-head gong, its incense-burner and its
prayer-bell. In a casual manner, as if he
were answering a telephone-call, a priest
would sit down at one of these miniature
shrines and softly tap the bell to attract the
attention of the wandering soul. Then would
follow a gentle monologue, while his rosary
slipped through the operator’s fingers. _ A
young acolyte changed the tasty-looking
courses that stood in little bowls in front
of each tablet.
It would take a volume to describe sepa-
rately all the buildings, refectories, lesser
temples and apartments for monks and nuns
in the huge rambling place set on the side
of a hill. It was a charmed seclusion, full
of quietly moving and resting figures, bovine
faces, incurious, contented eyes, and the
sounds and odors of perpetual worship. On
our way back to our house-boat we saw
coolies carrying tiles for the roofing of n
fine new temple which was being erected in
the monastery grounds. Pilgrims, well-
dressed women, fat merchants with horn-
rimmed spectacles and immense folds of
flesh pepbered with black hairs hanging over
their silk collars, were being carried in
chairs to the shrine of Amitabha, saviour of
the world.
There were evidences here, as elsewhere
in China, of a Buddhist renaissance. In a
beautiful monastery outside Hangchow,
where Friar Odoric saw the snirits of the
dead in the shane of monkeys being fed by
priests in the fourteenth century, _ we saw
Oregon pillars from California being used
for the building of a new temple. Great poli-
tical movements are usually associated with
religion: and Asia, assaulted from a dozen
directions by the Western spirit, is search-
ing for a faith to hold her millions to her.
Tn the cities returned students are trying
to concoct an amalgam of Eastern philoso-


phies and Western creeds with curious re-
sults; Confueianists are popularising their
Master’s teaching in cheap editions in the
vulgar tongue; Japanese missionaries are
passing to and fro between India and China
with a message which is a mixture of ortho-
dox Buddhism and the belief that the sacred
emperor is destined to he the father of all
Asia; Chinese Mohammedans, of whom
there are ten millions, are joining hands
with Young Turks. Russian and Persian
Moslems; Hindus arc trying to reconcile
American theosophy with the
of Kata-ma, to whom perhaps 80,000,000
people bow in terror; and Chinese pilgrims
are, after an interval of 12 centuries, once
more visiting (and piously photographing)
the famous Buddhist shrines of India.
One of the laboratories of synthetic reli-
gion where the process of fusion could ho
inspected used to be the International Insti-
tute in Shanghai, torpedoed by the war.
There, on the same Sabbath afternoon, the
Taoist pope, the Chinese Mohammedan
mullah, a living Buddha from Mongolia,
an Indian poet and a Japanese professor
could be heard in their own tongues, chant-
ing their faiths; which an American mission-
ary, the well-intentioned Dr. Gilbert Rum,
would translate into a short statement to
the effect that all men were seekers after
God, and that, when found, lie invariably
turned out to be the same God. Then the
Mohammedan mullah would depart to his
distant province which has again and again
heard the holy war preached ; the pope would
go back to iiis mountain and his incanta-
tions ; the Japanese professor would return
to his emperor worship, and the Indian poet
would resume the composition of poetry and
bombs to throw at the British.
Out of all this ferment some new wine of
the spirit is certain to emerge. Asia has
seen such movements before, and _ doubtless
will see them again. Buddhism is not an
aggressive faith, yet it served the imperial-
ist Asoka to consolidate his gains, and
helped the Hindus to form an empire in Java.
Assuredly there will be elements of Chris-
tianity in the new religion ; but those who
flatter themselves that the partial Christian-
ising of the East is going to make Asia the
docile servant of European capitalism would
do well to ponder a recent utterance of the
famous Chinese Christian general, Feng Yy-
Hsiang, until a few weeks ago the darling
of American bishops and English mission-
aries, and to-day the militant spokesman for
his country against the West. Said he: —
Since we have to die, whether we fight or not,
what shall deter us from fighting? What should
we fear? In death there shall be glory for us.
God had a special mission for us when He ordained
that we live at this time instead of 50 years ago
or 50 years later.
The mixing of Western energy and Asiatic
fatalism in the same mighty test-tube seems
to have brewed a sturdy brand of fanaticism.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Petty Tyrants with Foreign Names.
Having ho serious fear of tlie polite Prime
Minister’s deportation law (even though he
be lord of 25 vessels of war, including the
turret ship Platypus II.), the mostly im-
ported marine strike-leaders keep going, and
make this continent look more foolish day by
day. A really picturesque event befell at
Melbourne on the morning Admiral Coontz
arrived, when the Federal Government in-
vited 1700 guests to a marine excursion,
but had to send them ashore because four
firemen and two greasers, led by a grimy
individual with the foreign-sounding name ot
Bottsman, called the event off except on
impossible conditions. The principal demand
was that the Australian Prime Minister
should apologise humbly in writing tor
‘‘malicious and blasphemous” words alleged
to have been used by him about the Seamen s
Union, the term “blasphemous” clearly hint-
ing that the foreign-sounding person had got
to the point of mistaking himself for the
Almighty. An additional demand was for £ 100
in cash, which looked very like an attempt
at illegal extortion. There being absolutely
no force at hand to deal with such an emer-
gency, and no one knowing what to do m
the circumstances, the hosts and guests could
only go home and look ridiculous. The ever-
spreading strike has really no visible object
save to gratify the Australian seaman’s
humble desire to be ordered about by parties
of foreign origin. It matters little or no-
thing whether these folk bid him abjure a
particular brand of beer as “black,” or back
up a sudden demand for £lOO, or insist that
the place for the engagement of seamen shall
be the meeting hall of a foreign organisation
which his own political leaders fiercely re-
pudiate—by word of mouth at any rate. The
tendency is to obey blindly in the nanie of
Liberty. A great measure of responsibility
rests with the shepherds who are paid to pro-
tect the national flock—those cold-feet shep-
herds who are so swift in the tree-climbing
act when a minor wolf appears on the hori-
zon. Probably they over-rate the danger of
action and the advantages of submission. A
while ago the trouble concerned two emis-
saries who sought for funds that they might
paint Ireland red with the blood of insur-
rection. The bird of freedom got on its hind
legs and performed at a great rate, and it
was freely announced that if the pair were
sent away events would happen which would
make history. The pair went, and were for-
gotten, and there was no making of history.
More recently a very wild Australian revo-
lutionist was ordered to leave Maoriland,
whereupon he proudly defied the law, and
ordered his shroud of martyrdom. After serv-
ing a few days of the nine months with
which he was presented a very tame revo-
lutionist consented to go on board ship,
though he wasn’t in the least tame when he
landed here and found himself again in a
congenial atmosphere. The great revolution-
ist himself had a previous incarnation in
Melbourne, and revolushed with a high hand.
A sentence of three months brought that
particular episode to a sudden end. Pas-
sionate assurances have been given that if
any batch of non-Australian conspirators is
shipped home under the new law the first
Labor Government will recall them, and re-
instate them, and compensate them, and so
on. If the deportation episode is a year or
so old (or perhaps a few months old) before
that Labor Government transpires the
chances are that it will do nothing of any
importance. The places of the old roaring
boys will have been filled by. milder-mannered
men, aud nobody will feel inclined to sacri-
fice anything, least of all the chance of a
Parliamentary nomination, in order to. make
room for the old brigade. The proportion of
exiled kings who are recalled isn’t large,
and many of those who do return make a
short stay.
♦
The Heart of Australia.
It is a carefully-nursed idea in certain
quarters that there is no resource or prospect
or gleam of hope in Middle Australia, from
Spencer’s Gulf in the south to Darwin and
Arnheim Land in the north. The map may
show mountains and a patch of real rainfall
in the heart of Australia, and some rivers
which aren’t always dry, and it, may show
tlie genuine desert in quite a different quar-
ter, but for objectionable purposes the centre
remains unredeemed calamity just the same.
It; is the only part of Australia which Aus-
tralians of a sort consider they have an in-
terest in maligning to the limit, and they
pursue the subject with an energy which is
interesting to contemplate. The object is to
stop the completion of the South-to-North
railway through the Northern Territory, for
which the Commonwealth is responsible by
signed agreement, and to secure the money
and the business for State interests in West-
ern Queensland. Wherefore. W estern Queens-
land is depicted as a paradise, and. the coun-
try a little further west as an ashbin haunted
by devils. Still, some little business is doing.
The line which extends northward from
Spencer’s Gulf towards the heart of Aus-
tralia hasn’t much of a chance because if
left off years ago at Qodnadatta, not because
that was any desirable place, to stop at, but
because the money of the little State Gov-
ernment gave out. It leaves off there yet
because the Federal Government hasn t
moved. Yet this dead-end concern does some-
thing in the only way of trade in which much
is possible, and it compares thus with the
Federal line to Westralia, which is a finished
concern and so has chances: —
Revenue from Goods Traffic, Two Federal
Railways.
East-to-West South-to-Nortli
Line (Finished) Line (Unfinished)
1051 Miles. 478 Miles.
1915-16 .. £249,129 £48,482
1919-20 . . 82,490
1923-24 . . 34,486 84,278
There is no through traffic on the unfinished
line because it doesn’t go through as yet. it
doesn’t make a big revenue by carrying globe-
trotters, commercial travellers and mails,
bound to and from Africa, Asia and Lurope,
but it will be capable of doing so when it is
completed, with Darwin as its port at the
other end. Its traffic is mostly of the one-
way variety, starting from a little depot in
the wilderness, where freight is assembled
per primitive conveyance. Still, it is evi-
dent. that the steel road towards the heart
of Australia serves a purpose, and could
serve a much larger one if it went ngnt
across. The Panama Canal was a worse
failure when the original constructors went
broke and left it less than half-made, and
there are plenty of other instances. Rut lor
the fact that the interest charged on cost ot
construction in the case of the line to W est-
ralia in the last available accounts was under
] ?, per cent., while in the case of the incom-
plete South-to-North concern it was nearly
31 per cent., comparisons might be even more
striking. The' heart of Australia isn’t, ’the
land by horror haunted” which some inter-
ested politicians allege when they get on the
railway-stealing question.
* —-
The Martians.
M. G. Skipper recalls a nightmare:—-
The American battleships that entered Sydney
Heads the other day, for me at any rate, did not,
fulfil any of the expectations that had been raised
by the despatches of the press correspondents. They
did not suggest majesty and might arid military
glory. They revived, instead, a nightmare of my
childhood, a bad dream that remained with me for
many years after I had inadvertently come on some
chapters in an English magazine of Wells’s story,
“The War of the Worlds.” In that realistic yarn,
as far as I remember, the imperialists of Mars,
having presumably achieved universal peace on their
own planet without laying the spirit of aggression
in the Martian breast, set out to conquer this terres-
trial paradise as well. They lobbed somewhere m
the English Channel and presented themselves to the
terrified inhabitants of Britain as glorified gas-
ometers on legs.
The might of Uncle Sam*s naval power came
wading out of the Pacific through the Heads in much
the same way as the Martians waded ashore in Bri-
tain. Coming up the harbor they resembled, rather
than fighting machines, the industrial section of
Pittsburg or Chicago on the march. Abreast they
resembled a block of flats that had got adrft from
Darlinghurst, and from astern they looked like the
civic gasworks of half the States of U.S.A. come to
pay a friendly call. Scarcely a ripple ran along the
monsters’ sides, but in. the wake of each spread a
yellow stain, as if their enormous feet were paddling
the harbor slime. Each had a strangely painted
bird perched pertly upon its finger, like a hawk on
the wrist of a sporting baron, but that was the only
human aspect about it. As one of the Titans passed
our shrieking ferry, it flipped its bird into the air.
The seaplane, meeting the strong westerly, mounted
up and up until it must have had a bird’s-eye view
of hundreds of square miles of Sydney and its
environs. In touch by wireless with the complex
thing beneath it, it was as if the ship itself had
reared its head into the sky to look around it.
A dozen Australian army ’planes were in the air,
and De Pinedo, the Italian flier, in his scorpion-iike
machine, had joined them. The seaplanes of the
approaching fleet advanced in a fan-like formation.
There were press correspondents flying around taking
pictures of the scene below, and a wallowing steam-
boat housed Farmer’s broadcasting station. The
cheering of the crowd, the hooting of the ferries and
the thunder of the visiting flagship’s salute were
being picked up, transmitted to the central studio
in Sydney, and from there broadcast to thousands of
suburban and country homes for the edification of
those who could not see the spectacle or hear the
tumult. There was even a small private launch
equipped with a receiving set and a loud speaker, so
that the occupants could not only hear the original
uproar but listen to its broadcast reproduction.
For those of the pre-war generation, the generation
of dreams, guesses and timid imaginings, it was a
morning of strange marvels; but for the small boy
at my side, inured to the realisation of this age of
steel and electricity, it was as commonplace as the
operation of a telephone. It was, however, the simile
of the invading Martians that most oppressed my
possibly senile fancy.
Down the clear lane between the whistling ferry-
boats and the cheering headlands, the warships
waddled, waving over their heads complicated en-
gines of death and destruction. Their gieat guns,
capable of reaching out and dealing infernal hammer-
blows over 17 miles of ocean, gazed innocently up to
Heaven or stared pensively at their feet. The ships
swung slowly into their berths, and, as they did so,
gigantic anchors budded by some unseen agency at
their bows and plunged into the water. It was haid
to believe that human hands and fingers directed the
ponderous organisms. The Martians, in M ells s
story, were hardly what we would eall human. They
were directing brains, whose limbs had atrophied
away, but which before they had altogether lost the
power of movement had fashioned tools that were
almost mechanical intelligences. AVith these they
had made huge effigies of steel that were capable of
action, and in which the Martians sat, but apart
from which they had no more mobility than jellyfish.
Looking at Uncle Sam’S electrically-directed enormi-
ties one felt posterity had almost carried out the
novelist’s horrible conception, and when I stood
later in the crowd and watched the 2000 fresh-faced
youngsters who performed the route march through
Sydney, I found it hard to believe they were any-
thing but children kidnapped by a race of ogres.
Doubtless there are super-intelligences, housed in
meagre bodies and living in laboratories and garrets,
which made these uncanny engines possible, and pos-
sibly civilisation some day will be able to dispose of
the labor of human hands altogether - . I do not
know, and I do not want to know- —the prospect is
far from pleasant.
Going home that evening, I listened in the train
to a pale-faced prohibitionist, the light of the fanatic
in his hollow eye, declaiming against the selling of
beer to the American sailors. Poor devils, he wouldn’t
even grant them that avenue of escape from the
frightfulness of their destiny!
♦
Decentralised Cremation.
Dear Bulletin, —Tlie N. S. Wales Crema-
tion Society lately held out its hand for a
little State subsidy with which to propagate
the gospel of cremation, and there are many
worse ways of spending money. Cremation
is clean and destroys germs, while burial is
dirty and drains microbes into the water
supply, and thence into the child’s milk, and
saves up infection, as a miser does specie,
for use in the next epidemic. No one
can say for certain how long a time must
elapse before it is safe to stir up a place
where cholera or plague was laid in holy
ground to await the resurrection, lest the
dreadful thing should resurrect. The inter-
ment system is a waste of money, ground
space, tombstones, inscriptions (mostly of
very little originality) and sentiment, for
there are people who not only come to
“God’s acre’’ to brood over their own dead,
but who are so morbid as to brood over
compiete strangers. Burial is commonly
associated with an element of reverence, but
people for whom nobody has the least rever-
ence are put underground like the rest, and
as for the others the sentiment wears out.
The boneyard grows full. Then it is closed
and becomes obsolete. Next it is forgotten.
Often it becomes a receptacle for bottles and
old newspapers, and disused hats* and cats
and rats. In the end the deceased are dug
up to make room for a new railway station
or something, and the bones are mixed, and
possibly bagged, and finally dropped some-
where —in fact, they are chucked. When
the Early Christians substituted burial
for burning it is possible that they acted
under a misapprehension, and that, if they
could have begun afresh, they would have
done differently. There is a statement made
in Matthew, Mark and Luke which, after
describing with eloquence and detail the
Second Coming, and the end of the world and
of the sun, moon and stars, concludes by
saying, “This generation shall not pass till
all these things be done.” Whatever this
imagery might mean, the event showed that
it wasn’t to he taken literally, but Young
Christianity seems to have been quite literal,
and to have deposited its cherished dead with
a conviction that their bodies would be
wanted before there was time for decay, let
alone for dispersal. Anyhow, it is late in the
day to lodge a protest, even in Australia.
The legalisation of clean disposal of the dead
began 48 years ago with an Act passed in
the Parliament at Rome, handy to the cata-
combs where the Early Christians are still
waiting, sometimes seven cellars deep. Since,
then the reform has been spreading in all
countries which hope and endeavor to be up
to date. In England crematoria are built
out of municipal taxation. Every Govern-
ment which calls itself civilised and progres-
sive should have an ambition to place crema-
tion and a college education within reach of
all its subjects, and the reach should be
measured, not only by money, but (what is
often more important) by miles. In other
words, both these blessings ought to he de-
centralised. This stagnated land won’t re-
sume the path of progress till it gets rid of
its One Big City superstition.—-Yours, etc.,
J. E.
*
The Italian in Queensland.
From the man who started it: —
It is disappointing that S. Della Vecchia (B.
16/7/’25) was not a little more precise. I said that
the Italian Club at Mourilyan was a Fascist organi-
sation, because Italians have somewhat bitterly con-
veyed that impression to me. He says it is a
real club and not a political organisation, which
reads very like evasive hair-splitting. As to the
“big and secret meeting,” I was merely quoting
evidence given' by the A.W.U. representative of the
Mourilyan millworkers before the Royal Commissioner.
If guns were not bought by Italians, then the town
of Innisfail was the victim of a very ominous rumor.
When a community of people can be so fooled (if
it was fooled) it is a sign that the racial question
has become very difficult; in fact, dangerous. Nor
is auy good purpose served by the mock-heroics and
empty bombast of this secretary. When he says
Innisfail might still be muddy and feverish were
it not for the Italians, he is being excessively objec-
tionable and thoroughly false. Objectionable because
lie insolently claims superiority for his handful of
mostly illiterate fellow-countrymen over the truly
pioneering Australian; false because Innisfail is now
muddier than ever and just as feverish. The mud is
being combated, not by Italians, but by an
English engineer employed by a council composed
of Australians of British descent; and the Italians
have proved themselves far more susceptible to fever
than the Australians, as any of the doctors there
will testify. S. Della Vecchia’s claim that the
Italians have helped to clear the soil of its tropical
jungle is also false. Mourilyan was fully farmed
and fully developed years before the Italians com-
menced coming in large numbers; the hard pioneer-
ing work was done almost entirely by Britishers.
And that still holds. At Banyan, the only new
country now being opened for sugar, a very small
proportion of the pioneering work can be credited to
Italians. The returned soldiers at El Arish are
genuine pioneers. The Italians at Mourilyan have
merely taken over fully-developed farms, and then-
success hast been made possible only by the tariff
assistance given them by the Federal Government
and the resultant high price they received for their
crops. But Mr. Della Vbcchia is not content to
make false claims for his race; he must cast un-
savory insinuations' upon the Australian workers by
implying that they “loaf about the streets, living
on Government rations.” He thereby demonstrates
the spirit of arrogance that is causing much of the
ill-feeling up that way. The racial question was not
first raised by the Australians; it was raised by
Italian employers through their complete exclusion
of Australians, and by their increasingly overt con-
tempt for Australians and Australian standards.
They are “thrifty, industrious, law-abiding and
honest,” but they are also an alien race that is
consistently refusing to become Asustralianised el-
even to respect the things Australia stands for.
4
Uplift.
A body known as the Workers’ Educational
Association held conference in the Public
Instruction Office, Sydney, the other day,
and added its mite to the literature of human
uplift. The three principal speakers lent
variety to the scene: —
P. Bo Aim, a former Director of Education, con-
centrated on the idea that the period of compul-
sory schooling- should be extended to 10. “A boy
who leaves school at 14,” he said, “has scarcely
commenced his education,” and goes out into the
world “with very little to guide him or to help
him to become a good citizen.” Wherefore he sometimes
tends to become a boy burglar, with no trade, a
dreadful vocabulary and a record in the Children’s
Court. P. Board was distinctly for more education.
D. Stewart rather tended to the reduction of
education. He regarded the University as “an insti-
tution financed and controlled by the capitalistic
classes.” Apparently he had no scheme for demo-
cratic universities, if the present ones are not the
right thing, but he objected.
A. Rae read a paper, and “stated that the aim, of
such educational bodies as the Workers’ Educational
Association should be, not so much to educate the
people up to standards of culture and refinement, as
to educate them towards the means of obtaining the
leisure to enjoy culture.” How they are to enjoy
it if they haven’t got it, and haven’t learned what
it is like, doesn’t appear. Anyhow, the Rae idea
seems to be that the Association should be a non-
eapitalistic college for the teaching of less work
and more loafing time.
Sydney University is really a democratic
institution which does much of its work in
the evenings, for the convenience of wage-
earning students who can’t attend by day.
They save the time for study by less attend-
ance at boxing-saloons and picture-shows
and less brawling at union meetings. They
save the money (the amount required isn’t
much) off various things, including the
ponies. The University should be better known
and better patronised, and it should be more
numerous. (There are little American States,
with less population than N. S. Wales and
not near its area, which maintain half a
dozen universities without difficulty.) Then
the humble average of Cornstalk education
would be uplifted, and the Labor-Commu-
nist party would practically vanish,- and the
Stewarts and Raes would be short of an
audience. The attitude of some of them
rather recalls the story of a Red Guard
in the first rosy days of Bolshevism who
waylaid and shot students as they took their
unsuspecting way home, remarking each time
he bagged Ms student: “You’d be better
educated than the rest of us, would you, you
swine?”
•
The Loan Dredge at Work.
“Bit,dad” on financial chances: —
Loans are now a great industry in these States.
Thus in 1921-22 and 1923-24, borrowing yielded
more than dairying, poultry and bee-farming com-
bined, more than mines and forests and fisheries put
together, and much more than wheat. The British
part of the business is now about half, and repre-
sents real money which is good everywhere, the
Australian part being paper, which is good nowhere
except here. Since the business became large and
chronic one British financial machine has found the
real money, and one big firm has owned the machine.
If the apparatus died, or if it failed through over-
work, and if the U.S. substitute proved spasmodic
and unreliable, the course of events might change
wonderfully.
In old days a State, even a big one, would an-
nounce its intention to raise a million or two in a
cautious and respectful tone, specifying what the
money was wanted for, and mentioning a. minimum,
with the hope of getting more. A big bank in
London managed the transaction, and tenders were
called for, returnable on a certain day. On the
day there was a. meeting in the bank parlor. The
Agent-General was present, pale but firm. The
bank manager and some officials were present. The
Premier wasn’t, for Premiers didn’t live in London
to the extent they do now. As the tenders were
opened, the apartment became a scene of conflicting
emotions. The operation was generally a fair suc-
cess ; still there were partial failures, and one or
two complete ones. It became a sort of habit, in
time, for the State’s principal bank to tender at
a low price for enough to make complete breakdown
impossible. With tile modest loans of the period
this could be done.
The almighty cadge outgrew these homely methods.
Three firms, or groups, arose, one for self-governing
Dominion loans, one for Crown colony loans, and
another for foreign loans. Our own particular firm
automatically tackles every hit of Dominion finance
which comes its way, unless (1) it has to state that the
demand is so large as to be preposterous, and insist
on a reduction, or (2) it feels bound to ask a Theo-
dore to explain the breakage of pastoral leases in
which British tenants were interested, or to inform
a Storey that there are impossibilities in his Trea-
surer’s bill authorising the seizure of big estates
generally, at the Government’s own price, payable
in paper at the Government’s own time. All being
well, the One Big Firm takes the loan in a lump,
charging its little commish, and undertakes that the
money will arrive to time. It sublets the contract
to a mass of firms, mostly in the sharebroking line,
each of which is hound, for a little commish, to
take its percentage of the responsibility (larger or
smaller, according to the size of the firm) and
ask no questions. The sub-tenants proceed to sell
to their clients. If the sale is slow each agent
is expected to find a way for paying up the


THE TURKISH BATHS.
LADIES’ DAYS-MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS
Bath and Luncheon Parties are becoming a pleasant
social feature on these two days; this widening
c.ientfde indicates that here is a delightful facility
tlmt Sydney has long wanted. The hours on these
two days are from 10 a.m. to G p.m.
Open for Gentlemen on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday,
hf!<urday, 7 a.m, to 10 p.m. ; Sunday 7 a.m. to 1 p.m.
" l*oor only is employed—-skilled masseurs
dim masseuses.
T 1 "/Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
HinyU Umax, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon
or Dinner from J/f-; Light Luncheon in the Winter
Garden from 2/C.
GBS3OOEM
MO£II3^OI^I(IO[DOQ(2^(3(MOiaQQO£D®I«
Q
Q
0
Q
m
□
K I N
M!
“KING GEORGE IV’WHISKY
Acknowledged to be
fc
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
JT
df
liability on his unsold bit of loan, and carrying it
till selling is possible.
A\ ith all these suckers exploring every inch of
the floor of the British financial sea, a loan, once
accepted, can’t fail unless the floor of the financial
sea is explored so much that the supply of financial
fish gives out. With so many dredges going
(Dominion, Crown colony, foreign, and the Cold
Country’s own apparatus which seeks material for
the promotion of new undertakings) the fish supply
is giving out, or running low. Wherefore Australia
had either to do with fewer loans, and work harder
and be more self-dependent, or transfer some of its
endeavors to the alternative fishing-ground in the
United States. If the new ground yields with the
same regularity as the old one all will be well for
a time. After that all may be bad, or possibly
worse.
♦
N. S. Wales Floods.
Frank Chisholm demurs:—
The article headed “Waterspouts and Other Por-
tents’’ and the cartoon “The Message of the Floods”
(B. 2/7/’25) seem to be meant to convey that the
man on the land contributes to floods or
droughts by removing vegetation. This is treading on
very uncertain ground, for all the evidence in Aus-
tralia goes to show that our periods of floods and
droughts come and go, either spasmodically or in
cycles, owing to causes not yet fathomed. Certainly
if “Cocky* l ’ had left a few trees handy there would
be more roosts for the kookaburra as well as havens
of refuge in flood time ; but if we are going to have
more men on the land we must encourage them to
clear their country to grow crops. Admittedly, a
proportion of the timber should be preserved, but a
lot of it will have to go, anyway. Meanwhile 1
dispute the contention that if the man on the land
had left more timber he would not have been so
likely to be flooded out. The accepted idea
among farmers is that when the ground is cleared
and ploughed it will absorb and conserve more water
than when it was virgin bush. There is no evidence
whatever that clearing country accentuates floods.
Recently figures were published giving flood records
on the Murrunjfoidgee as far back as 1858. On the
Upper Wollondilly in N.B.W. the 1870 flood remains
the worst on record. The 1900 flood ranks next, and
this last flood (June 21) rose to much the same
mark. Yet nobody will suggest that much clearing
had been done on the upper reaches of the Murrum-
bidgee over half a century ago. We have kept the
rainfall records here on the Upper Wollondilly for 39
years, and May of this year has been the only month
in that period in which the rainfall has reached 10
inches. As for droughts, the most protracted on
record seems to have occurred between the years
1835 and 1840 ; by the official records in Sydney no
rain fell between August of one year and July of the
next. It may be suggested that too much reliance
cannot be placed on the figures of this remote period,
but old hands who were alive at that time told me
long ago that the Wollondilly did not run for three
leais, and that Lake George was dry for seven yeai's.
Aet practically no clearing had been done in N.S.W.
at that time. I maintain that our floods and
droughts are governed by factors over which we have
little, if any, control. Certainly erosion of land sur-
faces could be largely prevented if settlers would
leave, say, half a chain of timber along all water-
courses where the ground is liable to scour out and
toim creeks if the root systems of the surrounding
trees are destroyed, but this has nothing to do with
the rainfall. We hear more about floods and other
climatic visitations nowadays because there are
settlers everywhere and unlimited publicity for such
happenings.
Rambling statistics covering 50 years or so
are always liable to be upset by an extra-
heavy downpour, and the Murrumbidgee may
be the one grand exception to the general
principles, but the matter is extremely doubt-
ful. The general principles now fully recog-
nised by forestry experts are that masses
ot woodland increase the rainfall; that the
foliage, branches and trunks of the trees in-
tercept 30 to -10 per cent, of the moisture:
lliat the fluid which does find its way into
the soil is much better conserved in well-
wooded country, and is given up more slowly;
that in time of heavy rains the maximum
outflow in a well-clad valley is from 30
per cent, to 50 per cent, less than from one
whose arboreal vestments are scanty, and
that streams through forest lands tend to
behave in a sober and steady fashion,
whereas streams that run through treeless
landscapes are prone to displays of inebria-
tion like city gutters. These principles are
acted on nowadays by enlightened Govern-
ments ; where they have been ignored, as in
ancient Assyria and Persia, the Government
ended in having no population to govern. The
Forestry Departments in the various Aus-
tralian States are a recognition that the
principles exist, but their authority is
limited. Some of them have power to exempt
from devastation land within If chain of
any navigable river, lake or watercourse, and
compel the person who takes up Crown land
under conditional purchase to retain five to
ten trees to every acre; but over freehold
property they have no jurisdiction. During
the N. S. Wales floods the good land of one
hard-working cocky was lifted by the waters
on to the poor land of a neighbor. The pre-
servation of trees in moderate quantities
would have saved the loser from his involun-
tary philanthropy.
•Some of the evidence given at the inquiry
into the Gympie (Q.) railway disaster isn't
pleasant reading. It tends generally to the
belief that a fair number of persons knew
the patch of line where the disaster happened
to be in low condition, in which respect it
might be a rare specimen or a very common
specimen. The legal representative of the
A.R.U., passing the responsibility on to the
construction branch, alleged that "the curve
was irregular, that it was wavy, that it
showed such variations from the true form
as to make it unsafe to run over... .briefly,
that it was not laid properly.” In other
words, it had been a source of danger at least
ever since the last relaying, whenever that
may have been. Then it seems, that decay
was added to the original trouble, for as far
back as June 8 three maintenance men con-
sulted over a hole in a joiiut on. the curve,
ami the decision was to '‘leave it there
till some other time.” I.t was added that
"soon after they ceased work,” so evidently
it was near knock-off time, and knock-off
is more important tiusm human life. One
way to brace up this slipshod system would
lie to discharge the bhirkers and the incom-
petent. but that would probably rank as
victimisation! and make no end of trouble
with the unflou authorities. A better way
would be. to give extra pay for good service,
but that would make worse trouble. It is
the union doctrine that industry, loafing,
capacity, in,competence, loyalty, enthusiasm,
chronic insurrection, patriotism and foreign
Bolshevism must all be paid alike, lest there
should be introduced the fatal element of
THE APE’S OPINION.
“The anti-evolution trial in U.S.A. has ended in the defeat of the evolutionists, J. T. Scopes Daving
been fined 100 dollars for teaching the doctrine in one of the Tennessee schools.”
“And they have the impertinence, my dear, to claim us us their first parents. ”
‘speeding up,” which means that the fast
horse wins the race instead of them all rank-
ing and all the prizes being divided.
So it is unlikely that much will be done.
• ♦
A few words by way of correction:—-
The cable service which supplies news from Europe
has spells of humor or madness which are hard to
explain. A few months ago it was a bogus famine
in Ireland, “as bad as that of 1547,” and arising
from the same cause—failure of the potato crop.
Ireland does only a little in the way of potatoes
now, and in the alleged famine year it made 411
millions by the export of surplus food, drink and
tobacco, yet the famine passed muster so well that
a collection was started in Sydney. Last week the
cabler struck a different line of romance. Gretta
Eop ex. a Mexican girl, doubtless beautiful and prob-
ably descended from an old bull-lighting family, had
gone to Europe at her own cost'to offer her blood for
transfusion into the veins of the Mexican ex-Empress
Caulotta, now aged 85 (if alive), and very mad
for close on 60 years. Transfusion was calcu-
lated to prolong the old lady’s life, and Gretta
felt that duty called her, because her heartless
grandfather was the general who made Carlotta
look on when her dethroned husband was shot at
Queretero. But before the downfall arrived, Car-
lotta had gone to Europe, in search of some exceed-
ingly fool-Government which would do battle with
the United States and the Mexican nation, combined,
to keep her and her Austrian husband on their
usurped throne. She went crazed in the search,
Rome being generally mentioned as the place where
any mind she had quitted her, and there are doubts
whether she ever knew that her husband was dead.
The gently absorbent manner in which the Australian
press accepts fiction of the sort is a matter of interest,
but no great harm is done provided nobody starts
a subscription for the alleged Mexican colleen.
The German may be square-headed and prac-
tical, but he didn’t act up to the character
when lie appointed a committee of experts to
find out how the military collapse of 11)18
came about. There is seldom much profit in
going through the schedule of a bankrupt
war. or of any other bankrupt either. The
ideal schedule of the commonplace trader
reads something like this :
< 'auses of insolvency: Lack of money, impecuui-
osity, inability of income to meet outgoings, failure
to borrow more money, hostility of persons who had
been borrowed from already, pressure of creditors,
insufficiency of internal expansive force to counteract
pressure, absence of trade, absence of anything to
trade with, and financial debility.
In like manner the main causes of a bank-
rupt: war are that the other fellow’s army
lasted longer, and put up a better fight at the
finish, which is the time that counts, be-
cause it was the better army, or had better
leadership, or both. The axiom of Father
Antoaio Estevan, that
The way to recover a thing, ’tis plain,
Is to g'o where you lost it back again,
doesn't apply to lost campaigns, and the Hun
ought to realise that. One finding, it is re-
ported, is that Ludendorff “misled” the Ger-
man people, who therefore lost “faith and
confidence and fighting power.” The only
visible way in which he could mislead them
was by telling them there was still hope when
there wasn’t; but after all it is the business
of a general to win a war after all hope is
gone, and more than one really great general
has done it. The only brighter thing that a
commander can achieve is to win the war
after he is dead himself, and it can be argued
that that has been done also. Anyhow, it isn’t
likely that Luuexuorff, at his worst, deceived
the Huns near so badly as Foch deceived
him. Foch was a man on whom no enemy
could depend.
There is one city whose salubriousness, as
far as the white population is concerned, is
superior to Sydney's, and that is Bandoeng,
in Java. Bandoeng is the big new military
capital the Dutch have built in the middle
of the humid island, and last year its white
death rate was 6.6 per thousand, against
Sydney’s 9.28. This is another testimonial
to the suitableness of the tropics for white
habitation. Bandoeng's average for the whole
population, however, was 17.2 per thousand,
owing to the fact that the insanitary Chinese
died at the rate of 19.5 per thousand, and
the lethargic Javanese at the rate of 18.6.
This is a testimonial to the unsuitability of
the trollies for settlement by colored people.
—♦
’’Bit,dad” : The Queensland railways did a
trifle in the way of financial recovery during
1922- but slipped backward somewhat in
1923- Whether the extensive introduc-
tion of the 44-hour week, which is in pro-
cess of happening, will aggravate the back-
slide between now and June, 1926. will be
known later—a good while later. In 1915.
the last year of the old regime. Queensland's
was the besi money-maker among State rail-
way systems. In 1924. the latest year of
casualness and job-control, it was the worst
money-loser, the change being after this
fashion :
Queensland. Other Ejve States.
1914-15 .. C l 18,128 Profit £ 1,080,059 Loss
1923-24 . . J,412,900 Loss 209,590 Profit
The Theodore State became £1.531.028 per
annum worse, while its five neighbors im-
proved by £1,290,249 per annum. As Shaks-
peare said, “There is a ’bus in the affairs
of man,” and the way some people miss it
beats creation. The rank and file of the
staff don’t seem to have gained much by the
upheaval, save a certain right to be slip-
shod, slow and, like the Minister himself,
distinctly brusque. If a Basin'-bazouk is
necessarily happier than a tidy soldier, then
there has been a gain. I once took a lan-
guid interest in a comedy at a coastal city.
The passenger train with sleeping accommo-
dation left for the boundless West once a
week, but there were goods trains with a
little passenger accommodation in between.
A small, plump lady was the sole occupant
of the first-class, till it suddenly filled to
the limit with railwaymen on leave, with
free passes. They were obviously surprised
and none too pleased to find female society
aboard. However, they proceeded to make
their arrangements for the night journey,
taking off their coats and collars, and in
some cases their boots. Every man seemed
to have a quart bottle of liquid sunshine, and
there was a good supply of cards. The small,
plump lady vacated, being possibly discon-
certed at the prospect of sitting up all night
with so much society, all male. I had to
leave about business- of my own, so I don't
know what happened: hut I left her talking
to the stationmaster as if she was trying to
negotiate about something. The ambition
of Bolshy politicians in other States is to
make the local railway systems like that of
Queensland, and possibly some of them may
succeed.
4
“Caractacus” : The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment might well give some attention to
the use of Australia’s name in connection
with glorified Cook’s tours. The last travel-
ling party of the Young Australia League,
home from having a very good time largely
at other people’s expense, is broadcasting a
growl about cavalier treatment of the boys
by the French. Apparently the French
thought the Young Australians had a right
to pay their way like Lourdes pilgrims, pro-
fessional athletes, theatrical troupes and
plain globetrotters—not an unreasonable
thought. Education of youths by means of
travel is good in its way, but it will hardly
teach boys self-reliance and a proper pride
in independence if part of the education is
begged from generous hosts encountered by
Hie way. There was nothing official about the
Y.A.L. tourists, despite their band, their uni-
forms and their very excellent publicity. Evi-
dently, however, many towns and some
nations thought them Australian politicians
or something, and buttered them accordingly.
Instead of being thankful for having been
treated so well in the main, the party cries
peevishly because there was in some places
less butter than in others. The peevishness
will inevitably he debited to Australia.
Reading between the lines, it would appear
that the Leaguers rather got upon the nerves
of the French, whose gratitude for the saving
of Amiens wilted a little under demands
which appeared very like a claim to own
I ranee. If the party was in France, even
only as partial guests of the country, com-
mon manners demand that a host be not
criticised upon his hospitality; if, on tin-
other hand, the party was merely tripping
it should not expect recognition from official-
dom at all. The Commonwealth now insists
that butter and other commodities going out
under its brand shall be of highest quality.
It should insist upon a similar correctness in
nationals who go forth with the map of
Australia ou their caps.


*BL ISHEO
PIONEER LEATHER RELTINC.
The Standard of Leather Belting in
Australia.
Pioneer Leather Belting has been standard-
ised in every process, from raw-hide to
finished belt,' and for every power trans-
mission purpose during our sixty-seven years
of belting experience. The average life of a
pioneer Leather Belt is longer than that of
any other belting obtainable in Australia.
It pays manufacturers to standardise on
Pioneer Leather Belting in their own plants.
Manufactured only by
J.
c.
LUDOWICI SON L4MITILD,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 18ob.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. & K. E. Madder Pty.,
Ltd-, 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide
west AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards A
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
The “Curvilinear” Ore Concentrator.
MORE IN FAVOR THAN EVER.
itH
sss
U-. -L.,,:Jgg
July Orders include—
-10 TABLES FOR JOHANNESBURG.
2 TABLES FOR COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT.
Patentees aiul Manufacturers —
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Any attempt to arrest and deport Walsh
alid .Toilanson will immediately be followed
by the tying up of every ship in Australian
waters,” shouted one of the less-Labor crowd
in the Federal Parliament when the Depor-
tation Bill was going through. But as the
tying up of every possible ship is going on
with all possible speed in any case, what is
gained by not deporting the two unlovely
bullies ? Apparently nothing but their society.
Pressure is being brought to bear on Bruce-
Page to try for an amendment of the
supremely foolish clause 124 of the Federal
Constitution- —one of the belated patches put
mi the original work at the instance os.
George Reid. It provides that no State,
however unwieldy, may be subdivided save
by the consent of the Legislature at the local
capital, and that isn’t the way secessions are
brought about. It isn’t probable that a refer-
endum will lead to anything, the supposed
interests of the bloated capitals being with
the present system, but it will at least show
how public feeling lies, and where it lies.
In other words, it will be a guide to any
leader who thinks of doing the Jeroboam act.
Fhe Westralian A.L.P. has decided to
make its officers and delegates declare that
they don’t belong to the Communist party
outside that body. But as all the Commu-
nists. except a few incurable seekers after
limelight, are now inside the A.L.P. and
white-anting for everything they are worth,
and hunting with some success for Labor
nominations, this decision is less important
than might appear. If all hands and the
cook were called upon to forswear the Red
Objective it might possibly mean something.
Rumor went abroad that as many as 20
stalwart Laborites may be appointed to
X.S.W. Upper House which George Fuller
was going to reform but didn’t, and though
there is ostensibly nothing in it but a very
modest “honor,” a free railway pass and
enough work to interfere with any man’s
pursuit of a livelihood, applications began
to pour in early. About 100 are said to
have been in the first rush, and it is esti-
mated that a billion are in the post. Stamps
are running short.
Never was there less warrant for an all-
night sitting than for the one Labor forced
on Vic. Government over the passing ot the
Supplementary Estimates. The money was
for the most part spent—it had been taken
out of the Treasurer's advance. Labor knew
that, of course, but it was bent on making
a pyrotechnic display. It “deprecated the
spending of money on entertainments for the
American Fleet “while the families ot the
unemployed are in want,” but by adopting its
fool-tactics it cost the country about £<y
for supper and taxis. In pre-Federation days
if there was a late sitting 4 ic. members
engaged cabs at their own expense or walked
home. They have been known to buy sav-
eloys and hot potatoes on the way. (David
Gaunson led one such group of patrons at
2.30 a.m.) Now a hot midnight meal and
a limousine are demanded, especially by pro-
fessional uplifters of the toiling masses.
Mount Morgan, by recent returns, stood
for about 00 per cent, of Queensland s gold
output, and 87:} per cent, of its copper, yet
in that slow-going land it had to be helped
out with a Government subsidy. Even then
it has been losing money, and the share-
holders have forgotten what a dividend looks
like. When the Government’s policy
arranged for a general reduction ot working
hours to 44 per week it. was informed that
the Golden Mount would have to close. T<
might have to do so in any cast 1 , but to knock
one-twelfth off the output would make the
matter certain. The Minister said in aston-
ishment that he thought the great mine was
on a 44-hour basis already, so little did he
know of his country and his job. The matter
has been patched for the time by increasing
the subsidy to partly balance the reduced
hours, but probably the end is approaching.
Even a subsidy isn't much good in Queens-
land unless it is subsidised itself.
THE DISCORDANT NOTE.
“Following a demand for a written apology from the Prime Minister for alleged attacks on sea-
men or a £l00 guarantee that he was not on board, firemen on the Wecroona struck at the last minute,
and prevented the Federal Government party of 1000 sailing to view the American. Flcet's arrival at
Melbourne.”
Tlie S. Aus. Gunn Government has com-
missioned S. .1. Mitchell, S.M., to inquire
into and report on the Government housing
scheme, and the general handling of the
Thousand Homes contract given to Joseph
Timms and carried on by the Government
since Joseph fell down on the .job. It 1 ■
Gordon, M.L.C., was known to be about to
move for a select committee for the same
purpose, but the one-man commission got
in first. Labor Attorney-General Denny, in
announcing it, remarked that it would give,
both Gordon and Opposition-leader Harwell
“an opportunity to prove or disprove their
reckless statements.” Rather is it for
Denny’s crowd to prove the reckless state-
ment that it could provide a six-roomed brick
house with “bath, gas, electric light, sewer-
age and water service, and an additional 44)0-
gallon tank,” for £636 155., payable in 42
years.
Growing wiser in his old age, Prendergast,
Vic. Opposition-leader, took only three-
quarters of an hour for his speech on the
address-in-reply in the Assembly, whereas
he used to reckon three hours a modest allow-
ance. And he so disciplined his 27 followers
that the debate collapsed when he had fin-
ished, and the unusual spectacle was wit-
nessed of the House getting to business on
its second day of sitting after the opening
ceremony. Labor sat two hours to decide
whether it would mould, stuff, and burl a
bomb, but the wiser heads counselled wait-
ing and watching. Besides, there was trouble
enough outside, thanks to Walsh and his
followers.
Written by a man from Shanghai: —
The notion that the British authorities, supported
by sailors from the Australian cruiser Brisbane, are
engaged in outraging China’s sovereignty still per-
sists, the latest diffuser of misinformation being the
S. M. Herald, which talks of bloodthirsty mobs
attacking the legations in Hong Kong. Britain hasn t
found any reason for setting up a legation in Hong
Kong any more than Australia has of setting up
one in Canberra, the rocky island being as much
British property as Whitechapel; nor arc there any
legations in Shanghai, which is an international
concession. As these concessions are scatteied con-
veniently all along the coast and up the rivers, and
can be resorted to by most foreigners in time of
trouble, there will be no need to dread the Brisbane’s
mallows being dragged into a European invasion of
China proper unless the mob storms Ihe legations
in the capital itself, as happened in the Boxer
trouble.
Finding it impossible to make a success
of tlie business under Walsh and Johansen
conditions the Commonwealth sold four
cargo vessels in England, and I.»S seamen
came back as passengers per private ship.
They made bitter complaint about the food
and conditions, which, it seems, were not up
to what they had enjoyed as seamen on the
Federal Government’s socialistic ships. Out-
standing reasons why these ships proved a
hopeless loss were that they supplied food
and accommodation above the average, and
gave the best pay for (as the size of the
crews they carried gave proof) the least
work. But. a curious streak of passive
obedience or servility seems to run through
the waterside men's character—not obedi-
ence to their own law, but obedience to any
truculent imported boss who bids them break
the law and threatens to call out “scab ’ if
they don’t. So persecution of the socialistic
line which gave the best conditions was made
a fine art. and it would probably be so again
if the chance was repeated.
A grandiose proposition is to build, some-
where in Sydney, a whole alp of architec-
ture, large enough to hold all the Govern-
ment offices. The idea is to save rent, for
some of the scattered sub-departments are
mere tenants; also time and shoe-leather in
running to and fro, and to make supervision
easier and loafing more difficult. The last
Labor Government thought of the same
thing, and was still thinking when it quitted.
But unless N.S.W. is subdivided the service
will grow. If the great work is made big
enough to meet the probable needs of ten
years hence there will be trouble about
waste space and waste of money, and if it is
built for present needs with any substance
save india-rubber it will need rebuilding
ten years lienee. An idea which would lead
to fame, or an early grave, or something,
would be to shift the State capital to a coun-
try town after the United States fashion, to
build the administrative block on cheap land,
and to reserve the adjacent cow-paddocks
for extension purposes; Then the sale ot
superfluous city oflices should provide n lot
of money, and some commission, and some
scandal.
Replying to a protest against his work-
reducing policy, N.S.W. Labor Premier Lang
asserted, among other things, that “in IJIA-
-22, when the 44-hour week was the rule, 1000
new factories were opened up in N. S. Wales
and the number of persons employed in-
creased from 144,454 (in 1920) to 148,870;
there was also an Enormous Increase m the
value of the output.” The Commonwealth
Statistician, who knows a great deal more
about these matters than the Auburn house-
agent. states that N.S.W. had 5837 factories
in 1920-21 and 0350 in 1921-22, the increase
being 519 ; and that the' average number or
persons employed in Vic. factories, working
48 hours per week, rose from 136,522 m
1919-20 to 144,876 in 1921-22—an addition
of 8354 compared with tlm 4422 proudly
quoted by the less-Labor Premier. As for
the Enormous Increase, the Commonwealth
mau reports that the output of N.S.W. fac-
lories was valued at £137,841,386 in 19_0-
21 and £132,820,065—£5,021,321 less—in
1921. Lang’s trouble these days is swelled
head, and it seems to have affected his sight.
The restraint which Prendergast put on
himself in Vic. Assembly when he was Pre-
mier is in danger of being thrown off now
that he is again Opposition-leader. A re-
ference to his pet aversion, “the rapacious
landlord,” caused him to break loose the
other night in the House. He told the
Speaker that he’d “see the landlord in Hell
before he would pay that oppressor extra
rent. Peacock suggested that Prendy should
think again, as it would be necessary for
him also to be in Nick’s domain to watch
the landlord frizzling; but Prendy explained
that he had been contemplating a Hante-
like peep. Naturally the ex-head of the
Labor Government has no regard for land-
lords. His forebears probably cursed them
in the Green Isle. .But he shouldn t steal the
thunder of his amiable colleague, J. L-
Murphy, who lias his little annual I air Rents
Bill on the notice-paper.
Two Oriental spokesmen passed round the
hat for sympathy the other day. One was
a Chinaman talking to a conference m
Honolulu ; the other was a Japanese lectur-
ing at an American university. The burden
of their chant was the same; their countries
were overcrowded, and other countries were
under-crowded, and if some of their crowd
were allowed to move over and overcrowd
the others, all would be well. Authorities
figure China’s annual surplus of births over
deaths as 4,000,000, and Japan’s as 600 000
The entire tonnage of the world would not
suffice to shift 4,600,000 Asiatics and then-
portable property in one year. As the birth-
rates in both countries, although high, are
capable of almost indefinite expansion, the
removal of a large chunk of the annual in-
crease would not provide more than a mere
momentary relief, either-
Sydney Trades and Labor Council, alter
debating whether its members should accept
invitations to Fleet functions for the pur-
pose of singing the Red IHag and otlierwise
making oafs of themselves, finally decided
on a policy of isolation. Other repre-
sentatives of organised Labor, howcvei,
joined in the official feeding, some appa-
rently with the object of airing their Jack
of logic on the. subject ot international
affairs. The American visitors must have
listened with mingled feelings to speeches
dripping with platitudes about the horrible
menace of armaments and the uselessness of
warships, coming from memoers of a party
that is supposed to stand for a White Aus-
tralia and an exalted standard for its work-
ers. The first item is a militant challenge
to 900 million Asiatics, and the second is a
defiance to the rest of the world, excepting
U.S.A. . i( . ...
“Ces” ■ The speech of Vic. Brenner Allan
in opposition to Webber’s motion for the
abolition of State Governors was a gem.
John argued that Victoria “as a Crown
colony” could not be. without a Governor.
Assured that Victoria was not a Crown
colony, he expressed the opinion that it.
was almost as good as a Grown colony,
and that as the Empire was built up on
sentiment we must have Governors. ‘Other-
wise,” he added, “where would the British
Navy be?” Asked if he thought Britain
won id withdraw naval protection if Victoria
decided not to have any more imported Gov-
ernors, lie said 44 it would make a big diner-
ence.” Allan’s oration was almost as good
as one he made when he first entered Parlia-
ment. Then he maintained that there should
be Frectrade within the Empire. “Surely
you don’t think goods from India and South
Africa should come in free of duty to com
pete with Australian white labor?” protested
a man on the other side. “I am talking
about the British Empire,” retorted John,
indignantly, “not foreign countries.”
THE WAY TO PUT IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Labor party had a stiletto concealed in its
cloak.” —Senator Lunch.
l' nl weary oi the hectic slang’ that angry statesmen
use,
The maledictions blunt o£ Lang, the crude abuse of
Hughes;
(live me the chap who clutches in a controversial
clinch
Expressions metaphorical,
Allusions allegorical
To hit the Opposition up. The language of a Lynch
Is daintily satirical
And definitely lyrical;
Where club-like words those others wield, as
“treacherous scum” or worse,
How pleasantly his “cloak-concealed stiletto” fits a
verse t
The “blithering blazes” sort of blare is sadly over-
weight
For that thin ice on which our wary politicians
skate.
Come, listen-in to Paddy Lynch and hear his views
broadcast
In circles Senatorial
(He’s sane, although censorial) ;
His wave-length lifting not an inch, lie gets his
message past
Without a rumble statical
To drown his words dramatical;
No shouts of “Order!” and “Withdraw!” his utter-
ances choke;
It’s not a vulgar phrase or raw—“stiletto in the
cloak.”
A lesson for you, members all, in this you’ll surely
find,
How ill becomes the blatant bawl that speaks the
cruder mind;
A “He” is an improper word, you ought to be
aware.
It raises protests strenuous;
But “figment disingenuous”
Or “glaring inexactitude” will not disturb the
( hair.
They're both in the inventory
Of phrases Parliamentary.
,N(j loose your verbal arrows still —no call to cringe
or fawn —-
But ornamented with such skill they needn’t be
“ withdrawn ! ”
VIGTOttli;
HASEN.


Dear Uncle,—We arrived in Melbourne a poifectly good lid navy
Foist of all, they was good, enough to show us the weather.
And the swell dames fixed up some American eats for us.
Then some of us went tb school at a place called Two-up.
But after enjoying the soif-bathing
11l tell the woild well go away not so good, but more happy. Atta-baby! Your respectful nephew, Hiram P. Cobb.
DISCOVERING MELBOURNE.


đ
Ues! its a 333 -there isno
throat-harm in a million
SEP(XPRfSS
MADE IN LONDON BY
AKDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Hasen”: It was long enough since I had
visited the district, but I found it much as
I had left it. The genial MacMurtrie still
ran the Grand Hotel, and Joe, the “char-
acter” of a yardman, still chased his broom
around it. And, as I was talking to Joe, an
impressive figure that I seemed to remember
walked past. To my surprise it glared sav-
agely at MacMurtrie in the doorway. “Why,
Joe,” I said, “isn’t that Bodkin, the Mayor?
I thought he was a great friend of Mac’s.”
“Yair,” said Joe, “that’s Bodkin. ’E was
only actin’-Mayor, though. And ’e’s’ no
friend of Mr. MacMurtrie’s now. It all
’appened at the meetin’ about the lib’ary.
They was makin’ a lot o’ fuss about that
lib’ary, and everybody was there except
some o’ the leadin’ men they’d expected. The
actin’-Mayor was sick, but ’is wife came.
01’ Doc. Sweet was away, and Grummett,
the postmaster, and the Town Clerk was
on ’olidays. Mr. MacMurtrie was chairman
of the meetin’, and ’e apologised for those
who weren’t there. ‘But we’ve got their
depooties,’ says ’e. ‘We ’ave with us the
actin’-’ealth-officer, Doctor Smart; the actin’-
postmaster, Mr. Gridell; the actin’-Town
Clerk; and the actin’-wife of the Mayor.’
Gor, they did laugh!” said Joe. So did
I. “But, still,” I pointed out, “they
A COUNTER ATTACK.
The winter sales are on.
shouldn’t have fallen out over. that. Any-
body could see it was only a slip.” “Well,”
said Joe judicially, “it wouldn’t’ve mattered
so much, only she was. Yair! Was only
actin’, I mean.”
* # * *
“Henry Pannikin”: We were billeted near*
Bailleul in T 7 in a spacious farmhouse with
a large kitchen garden. This last was
promptly placed out of bounds, and Diggers
caught amongst the pommes de terre were
fixed up with red marks in their paybooks.
But the predatory spirit refused to be
quenched, and presently an exasperated
farmer was threatening to shoot on sight
the next man he caught pulling the lettuce
or digging up the parsnips. One night our
cook hopped across the palings with a water-
proof cape to carry the spoil and
blundered right into the arms of Jaques,
armed with a rifle. But the babbler was
resourceful; he merely twisted the cape
around his shoulders and pointed up aloft
where an aeroplane was soaring almost out
of sight. “Bus bon,” he said, “bcaucoup
drop.” He was off and away before Jacques
could make up his mind whether the in-
truder had really fallen out of the aeroplane.
* * * *
“.T.H.M.A.” from another angle:—
Up betimes, as Pepys would put it, and
voyaged outside the Heads in the good ship
Hunter. What looked like several million
spectators had assembled on South Head, N< rth
Head, Middle Head, George’s Head, Bradley’s
Head and parts adjacent to see the battleships be-
longing to Uncle Sam. And a very brave and
goodly show they made. With the exception of
H.iu.S. Hood, no ships more powerful and dangerous
than the California, Maryland, West Virginia and
the others have ever passed up the Western Channel
of Port Jackson.
Out at sea there was a bit of a swell which
lifted the huge craft a little as they swung round
towards Obelisk Bay and turned in “line ahead”
past the great ramparts of Hawkesbury sandstone
that give Port Jackson’s entrance its most dis-
tinctive characteristic. The sunlight sparkled and
flashed from the tampions of the great guns ; it turned
the heaving sea into a glittering carpet of welcome
laid down at our doorway for the stately vessels
that were enter,..g the house of Old Australia. Many
things were to be thought, but the most insistent
was that the British and the Americans might
together keep the peace of the world.
But strange it was to note one or two differences
between the U.S.N. and the R.N. and R. A. N. The
Tennessee was the last of the big ships to turn in
past South Reef; she was followed by the hospital
ship Relief and an oiltanker. The Hunter drifted
fairly close to hex - —somewhere about 50 yards away
and the crew veiy cheerily shouted greetings to the
passengers, who were also howling compliments and
welcomes across the waters. Nothing could have
been pleasanter, or more in accordance with the
spirit of goodfellowship. But—if the Tennessee had
been a British man-o’-war, there would have been
grave trouble for th t cheery crew. A little thing,
but noticeable.
* * * *
“Bill o’ Costs”: The riparian trial of some
Westralian drunks (B. 16/7/’25) recalls
a “court” that for years was a standing
joke among old settlers in the n.-e. of South
Aus. Fifty years or more ago ago the local
J.P. was one S (call him Simmons),
a physically huge squatter-farmer, progeni-
tor of a widespread Growland rural clan. He
was busy reaping one hot morning when
the trooper arrived to requisition his
services in the township for the trial
of a petty offender. The old man resolutely
refused to leave his machine. “But the case
must be heard to-day,” insisted the trooper,
“or I’ll have to let him go again.” “Then
bring the man out here if you want him
tried,” and Simmons started the team again.
Seeing nothing else for it, the trooper left
and nresentlv returned with his catch in tow.
The beak pulled up his team and addressed
the accused from the seat of the stripper,
“Riotous behavior, eh! How do you plead?”
“Guilty, Mr. Simmons.” “Eight hours’ hard
i a bor Here' Turn that winnower.” And
to the accompaniment of rattling grain and
flying chaff, the convicted man ground out
hie sentence on the spot.
STRATEGY.
SMALL BROTHER: “Peggy’s expecting you to-night, Mr. Maddley .”
ENAMORED ONE: “Really, old chap? Here 's a shilling, How did you know?”
SMALL BROTHER (breating a retreat) : “Sh's gone out.”
“Harold Hardupp”: Maffra (Vic.) is look-
ing apprehensively at a piece of thoroughfare
near the post office. First a racing pony up-
ended itself, bucked, dashed to the post-office
steps as if expecting a mail, and then set off
down the street, pausing now and then to
kick the atmosphere behind it. A livery
horse bolted on coming to the same spot, a
led horse fell and rolled over, and finally the
staid municipal drauglitdiorse remembered a
racer somewhere back in its ancestry and,
taking the council’s dray with it, fled into the
open spaces. Then Maffra decided that some-
thing must be wrong with that spot, and
avoided bringing horses near it. An electric
power sub-station is just across the way from
the P. 0., and the most probable explanation
is that a leakage of electricity into damp
ground has caused the trouble; but, curiously,
no effects have been felt by any biped.
* * * *
“Bummers’ Creek’’: Whenever I see a
brave and variegated stock of bunting, such
as fluttered Sydney’s greeting to Uncle Sam's
nautical nephews, I can’t help wondering what
nation has the best claim toi some of the less
familiar color schemes. In some inland towns
it is customary to hang up anything that re-
sembles a flag when, say, a Governor comes
along. I remember a fierce argument being
waged in the main street of Liars’ Gully
(W.A.) over a somewhat garish-looking
pennant that the local storekeeper had added
to his usual assortment of streamers —-“flags
of all nations” he termed them hopefully—on
one of the numerous occasions when the
Gully was en fete. Interest, or as much of
it as could be spared from drinks, was imme-
diately concentrated on the new exhibit.
Sailor Tom, who was generally accepted as
an authority, was appealed to and pro-
nounced it the national emblem of Uruguay.
But Cockney Briggs, who had also ploughed
the rolling waves in his day—if the expres-
sion can be applied to a man who has been
cook on a windjammer—-differed stubbornly
for once from Tom and insisted it was the
flag of Morocco. Each of the shellbacks had
his partisans, and the wrangle was becoming
loud when it occured to somebody to ask
the storekeeper himself what was the latest
addition to his show of bunting. The darned
thing proved to be a butcher’s apron!
•* * * *
“Karma”: A large photo of the late
Madame Blavatsky in the window of the
King’s Hall, Sydney, sent my memory back
to the occasion when I encountered Madame
in her temple of Isis at Lansdowne-road,
Notting-hill Gate, within the roar of London,
It was in the ’eighties, and she was engaged
in bringing to the British Philistine the now
cult of theosophy. A ponderous ‘oracle run-
ning into much adipose tissue, and also a
chain-smoker of cigarettes, her face had no
trace of feminine beauty. It was rugged and
lined, with heavy eyebrows and large slum-
berous eyes. In broken English and with a
somewhat guttural accent she piunged into
rambling talk punctuated by cigarette smoke.
An Indian law student endeavored.to. explain
in baboo English the seven principles of
Karma, and then delivered a philippic against
the middle-class Englishman. Madame broke
m with the remaik that his vices were du
to Ins beof-oattng ancostots. “You have, she
said, “the game of onc-break-tlie-nose-of an-
other. I know not wliat you call it, eh?
Someone suggested “prize fight.” Madame
blew a long stream of smoke and nodded. “Ah .
Yes! So! It is all of the beef-eating.” At
the close of the meeting the prophetess had
to be helped up from her chair. During the
evening Mrs. Anne Besant dropped in and
also delivered an address. She was then a
new convert. A friend accompanying
me remarked, “That woman is yearning for a
religion of some sort. There are two things
without which no woman’s life is complete, a
baby and a religion.” She found the latter
in Lansdown e-road.
* * * -x-
-“F.N.W.”: The Cutty Sark was certainly
to be seen in Cape Town during the war,
but the eyesight that detected her “making
profits for Portuguese owners” (B. 9/7/’25)
needs re-testing. The ancient craft was
there for about IS months as a nautical
cripple only, after having been dismasted
while trying to trundle a cargo of coal
around the coast. The lengthy lay-up was
attributed locally to the owner being com-
pelled to rush round Portugal endeavoring
to pawn the family mangle to pay the bill
for repairs.
* * * *
“Verri”: Apropos reluctant brides, a
retired registrar of marriages relates that
the worst case he ever encountered was a
little Jewess who was brought in by a young
corporal just about to embark for France.
The official had just provided the necessary
witnesses and begun the brief ceremony when
the bride burst into tears. It took some
time to pacify , her, and the couple retired
to the street to let her recover. In an
hour they were back again, but the ceremony
this time had not begun when the girl fell
once more to weeping. They made a third
attempt after luncheon with no more suc-
cess, and then, after a brief homily from
the harassed registrar, they faded outside
and we no seen no more. The registrar adds
that he met the lady three years later as the
wife of another man, a prosperous city
broker of her own faith.
(Continued on page 16.)
THE PHILOSOPHY OF STOUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He looked back, and received a hit on the lips.
He did not know who hit him, but he struck back.’’
—Slab of evidence in assault case.
I ’it ’im back. Of course I didn’t know
If it was ’im wot whacked me on the nose;
But I believe in givin’ blow for blow,
An’ if I plunked a chap not in the go
Well, it don’t matter much, I don’t suppose.
It’s just the way of life. When coves gets ’urt
It need not be they’ve given any ground.
Bert lays some other beggar in the dirt
Because another bloke ’as woodened Bert,
An’ that bloke looks for someone ’e can pound.
Life is just that —a sorter mill of mills
Where everyone is in to get ’is bit
Of what is given, back; and, blime, Bill’s
An ’appy bird when someone’s gore ’e spills
Because ’e’s stopped another fellow’s ’it.
VICTORIA.
THE BURGLAR’S LABORER.
THE MAIN QUALIFICATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Widow, refined, 39, wishes to meet genuine
Gent., 40 to 45, means, or own home, no triflors.’’
—Age advertisement.
I seek not a face or a form to admire,
For the finest of men may be plain;
Some means, it is true, in a mate I require,
But manners I call as the main.
The man who with “Beg- yours” or “Granted” is
quick
Can pull off the happy event;
But take it from me that with no one I’ll “click”
Who isn’t a genuine gent.
VICTORIA.
SARAGAMP.


3S
m
G s
°O,
47;
«58
Pure as the Mountain Dew
—an appropriate name for this fine old Scotch—Mountain Dew!
Try it —enjoy the refreshing flavor and purity, then you will under-
stand why no other name could be so suggestive of the actual spirit.
Young’s MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Caractacus” : Conservative Melbourne has
for once shaken off the dead hand of tradi-
tion and precedent. When Butterfield, de-
signer of St. Paul’s Cathedral, made plans
for the building in the ’seventies, his imagi-
nation faltered by the time be reached the
south end, and he capped his twin towers
with stumpy little gable-ends like ill-
thatched haystacks. These in conjunction
with a 300 ft. spire over the chancel lifted
the proposed fane into an order of archi-
tecture like nothing else on earth. When
last year a proposal to complete the tower-
less cathedral was mooted there was the
usual outcry that no sacrilegious hand must
be laid on Butterfield’s penthouses, but more
modern notions prevailed. A competition in
design was held, and, thanks to Barr’s Syd-
ney inspiration, the appeal for funds has
been launched with three spires as its object.
The completed cathedral will at least now
match the gas offices next door—Gothic and
spired.
* * * -*
“X.N.0.”: Unlike “F.N.W.” (B.
23/7/’25), I have met the mariner who
objected to shipping with a corpse, even when
the deceased had been a man of note. About
1906, when Admiral Chichester died while
he was Admiral-Superintendent at Gibral-
tar (Chichester it was who anchored his
ship at Manila between the Germans and
REACHED THE LIMIT.
GEO. I. WASHINGTON : “Say, you’re the
cutest bit of henna that ever leaned
against a lipstick. Will you marry
me, kid?”
MISS SYDNEY: “No. Mum says I’m not to
make too many engagements while the
Fleet’s here, and I’m engaged to four of
you hoys already.”
Americans and thereby probably averted a
Yankee-German war), his relatives desired
that his body should be brought to Plymouth
for burial, and a battleship, then on her way
home, was detailed for the job. A man we
knew as “Si” was in command, and he objected
strongly, but to no purpose. The coffin was
duly stowed in the port, and a sentry posted
thereout presumably in case “Si’s” super-
stitions were shared by anyone else. Just
after leaving Gibraltar, and while the strains
of the Dead March and the Last Postwere still
echoing in our ears, “Si” visited the tempo-
rary morgue and vented his spleen by re-
marking to the sentry and myself that he
would throw the coffin overboard if its occu-
pant annoyed his olfactory sense. Perhaps
it is this possibility that originally caused the
superstition.
“Alwyn”: One of the earliest references to
the presence of American craft in Australian
waters is contained in a despatch to Lord
Hobart, over the signature of Governor King,
dated August 14, 1804. It was the reverse
of friendly. King
said that w- or d
had reached him
from Derwent that
the master of an
American ship was
building a vessel in
Kent’s Bay, o n
Furneaux Island
at the east en-
trance o f Ba s s
►Straits, and that
this was the third
American vessel
within 12 months
reported in the
Straits and among
the island procur-
ing sealskins and
oil for the Chinese
market. He asked
to be informed
“how far the Gov-
ernor of this terri-
tory w-ould be jus-
tified in preventing
this intrusion and
intercourse with
the Americans,
which is not only
pernicious to the
public interests, but
highly disadvanta-
geous to the adven-
turing colonists.”
The ship in ques-
tion was the Union
(Captain Pendle-
ton ), which left
New York the pre-
ceding year, and
which put in at
Kangaroo Island
during the winter
of 1804. Subsequ-
ently the Governor
informed the Im-
perial authorities
that the Union had
shipped a consignment of spirits at Sydney
against his wishes, the grog having subse-
quently been landed and sold at Norfolk
Island. The master of the Union, by the
way, met with a violent death on the island
of Toongataboo, one of the Friendly Islands,
being speared to death there by the natives
later in the same year.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Buried 100 ft. deep in rock, the
skeleton of a very tall man has been found
at Arapuni, in the N.I. of Maoriland. Con-
jecture assigns him to a period prior to
Henare’s advent, for
Maoris do not dig 100 ft.
into rock to bury a departed
brother, be he never so ex-
alted in rank. The find
was made by men excavat-
ing high up on a cliff face.
The popular belief that the
Shaky Isles are a compara-
tively recent lieave-up, not
quite cooled from their
inner fires, is. according to
all geological deductions,
quite erroneous. Professor
Marshall, F.R.G.S., pro-
nounced a couple of years
ago that M.L.’s structures
represented nearly all the
recognised geological ages.
“It is possible to discover
a fairly continuous record
of life forms running back
for probably eighty or a
hundred million years,” he
said.
“R.N.W.”: The story of Father Woods
uniting a couple in marriage across flooded
Mosquito Creek isn’t apocryphal, as “Lex”
(B. 2/7/’25) suggests; there are old settlers
who can substantiate it. “Lex’s” wording of
the S.A. marriage law is misleading. The law-
only stipulates (vide a communication w-hich
I enclose from the S.A.Registrar-General) that
the marriage ceremony shall take place in
“the building, office or private house specified
on the license authorising the marriage.” It
doesn’t say “ ‘a’ building, etc.” A wilder flight
of fancy than mine is “Lex’s” idea of a Murray
River steamer tying up in order to comply
with the marriage law (while, no doubt the
swamp bittern boomed the Wedding March).
It would have taken at least three days to
obtain the alleged sanction from the Regis-
trar-General, from the nearest spot on the
Murray to Adelaide. Murray steamer*
travelled eight to ten knots in my time on the
river, some 40 years ago, and I’d like to
have seen the skipper wlio’d have waited.
* * * *
“Cicero”: Oratory in the police court
seems to be a lost art, possibly because busy
magistrates have no time to listen to per-
fervid appeals. It wasn’t so in the old days
w r hen things moved more leisurely. A few
years ago there passed into the Court of
Silence a solicitor w-ho was almost the
last of the old-time type. He was a tall,
black-haired Irishman with all his country-
men's love of burning words. I still have
a pencilled uote of one of his haran-
gues delivered in defence of a milk-
RIVAL SCENERY.
YANK: “I guess there's nothing on earth to equal what we can
show on our Murrikan oh serration railway-ears.”
AUSSIE: “Oh , well, what we can sec on our Sydney observation-
trams is good enough for me.”
man facing the usual charge in a country
town. “What!” he put it to the Bench,
“is it because my client pursues his calling
in a humble sphere of life that his reputa-
tion should be less dear to him than that of
the magnate whose sheep are pasturing upon
a hundred hills? Is the purity of his record
of a less account to him than that of the
unsullied product which he distributes
abroad? Let me recall the words of the
immortal Shakspeare and adapt them to
the circumstances of this humble but honor-
able man—‘Who steals my purse steals trash,
but he who robs me of my good name as a
milkman takes that which—er, urn—does
him no good and leaves me poor indeed.’ ” I
forget whether the milkman was fined, but
I remember having a friendly drink with his
advocate the same evening, and compliment-
ing him on his eloquence. As he raised his
glass and threw out his chest he winked
at me with: “Faith, they like it a bit strong.”
“Ex-Dig.” : The humiliating
treatment that was sometimes
meted out during the war to
Australians or Maorilanders
with German or German-
sounding names reminds me of
Eital’s case. Eital was the son
of a South Aus. Lutheran par-
son and German in ancestry,
but a good Australian by birth
and upbringing. He was
amongst the earliest enlist-
ments, and his knowledge of
German caused him to be
appointed interpreter to the
Expeditionary Force which
went to Rabaul, where he was
one of the three men sent to
demand the surrender of the
wireless station. At a later
period Eital was a trusted and
efficient sergeant in the A.1.F.,
when the outcry against people
of enemy origin started. He
was discharged, but some
months later a man with a
purely English name was dis-
covered in another battalion
and identified as Eital. He had
re-enlisted and risen to non-
commissioned rank almost im-
mediately. A court-martial
gave him three months. As I
have not heard of him since, I
have a shrewd suspicion that
he re-enlisted yet again, and
quite possibly went west under
any name but his own. If he
is still alive he is one of those
to whom the people who didn’t
go to the war, but were very hysterical about
it, owe an out-sized amende.
* * * *
“(t. Emcey”: Among corrupted place-
names (B. 9/7/’25), McDesme, near Ayr
(N.Q.), seems to be worth inclusion. Allegedly
named after a Scottish hamlet, it is pro-
nounced McDime, but whether the spelling
or the pronunciation has been mutilated is
hard to say. Degilbo, a town in S.Q., lias
a more grotesque origin. The yarn goes that
the pioneering squatter of that district was
writing to ask a friend to suggest a suit-
able name for his newly-acquired station,
and had got as far as “I shall be obliged"
when he was interrupted. He placed the
blotter over his unfinished communication.
When he returned the last word (inverted)
on the blotting-paper caught his eye and
struck him as something pleasantly distinc-
tive with a fine, full aboriginal flavor. So
Degilbo the station became, and when the
township w T as built some years later no one
saw any reason for changing the name.
“Harold Hardupp”: An advertisement 1
have .just encountered in the Melbourne Atm
reminded me of a very similar one in the
S. M. Herald of a few years ago. It runs:
Young Man, 20, handsome, champion athlete,
musical, fend dancing, desires meet good-looking
young lady, view above. Sprjht, care of Age office.
Some weeks after the Herald announcement
had appeared I met the advertiser, whom I
knew, and asked how he had got on. lie con-
fided to me that his experiences had been
bitterly discouraging. There were about a
score of answers; the candidates for his hand
ranged from a woman who stated that she
had reached the age of 35, but had never
married because she had never had the op-
portunity of meeting an athlete —an inter-
view convinced him she was more like 50—
to a female acrobat who wanted a partner
for a vaudeville act. He candidly admitted
that his intention was to set his qualities
against the money of the aspiring brides;
but none of the latter could produce evidence
of any. There was one pretty girl, however,
whose lack of worldly goods he was inclined
to overlook until, after their third meeting,
she induced him to thrash a former lover
who, she declared, had insulted her. The
athlete had no difficulty in polishing off tin
other fellow, who proved to be a rather
anaemic clerk, and he paid the subsequent
fine like the gallant knight he aimed to show
himself. But when he learned a day or two
afterwards that the girl for whom he had
fought and the injured young man had made
up their quarrel and were to be married, he
abandoned all further attempts to convert
his prowess into a life of ease over the
matrimonial counter.
* * * n
“M.H.”: There was a comedy of errors
that might have ended in tragedy in a Syd-
ney suburban home the other morning. Mrs.
Biliks, after lighting the oven of the gas-
stove, had been called away; when she
returned the gas had gone out and come on
again. Her nose, with its utility badly im-
paired by an attack of ’flu, failed to detect
the smell of escaping gas; she lit a jet on
top of the stove and then opened the oven-door.
There was a small explosion, and a tongue
of flame leaped up at her; with both hands
to her face she started back and began run-
ning frantically round the room, screaming
hysterically. Her husband was shaving in
the bathroom; at the sound of her cries he
rushed out without stopping to put down his
razor. Mrs. Bink’s sister, dressing in an-
other room, came to her door just in time
IN THE WRONG PLACE.
“Look, Mummy, that man's wearing his feeder at the
hack!"
to see her brother-in-law chasing his wife
with an open razor in his hand. Convinced
that he was demented, and that a hideous
tragedy was threatening, she ran from the
house for assistance and brought back some
startled neighbors just as Binks had caught
his wife. A constable arrived in time to
render a whole lot of first aid.
THE CURSE OF MOTORIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cars are parked alone: the street:
The people all need smaller feet
To give the traffic space.
The honking horn with loud appeals
Asks for another inch for wheels
In every narrow place.
\nd still with slithering glide and hum
And shining front the new cars come
Along the old worn track,
While one discordant horse goes by
Too closely pent with wheels to shy,
Or having lost the knack.
Oars and more cars! I watch and pray
To see the happy, crowning day
Of universal janm,
When, wheel to wheel in every street,
The traffic, perfect and complete,
Stops with a final damn;
When every horn shall honk in vain
Or bleat and bellow as in pain
And not one wheel can creep.
And then perhaps some law may pass
To send the idle things to grass
Unless they earn their keep.
K.S.W.
MARY McC.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies A't 1916)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
TIIOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins street, Melbourne. A. AUBREY, General Manager.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland, Wellington and
Capetown.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Napier, Durban, Johannesburg and Bloemfontein.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AustraIia) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia: —
f— ——Dividends. \
Pref. Written
June, Profits. (4 p.c.) Ordinaries. Oil. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1915.. 109.394 84,694 Nil 25,000 9,576
1916.. 129.526 84,694 Nil 45,000 9,408
1917.. 693 84,694 Nil 50,000 9,407
National Bank o£ Tasmania purchased.
1918.. 145.773 84,694 Nil 60,000 10,486
1919.. 268 84,694 Nil 80,000 13,060
1920.. 197,892 84,694 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659.. i. -10390
1921.. 772 84,694 15 p.c.=£11,014 251,659 1 ’
Premiums on new shares, £134,275.. ( . 2 209
1922.. 080 84,694 15 p.c.= 37,773 211,001 i
Premiums on new shares, £14,934. • 1 -144 70(5
1923.. 234.418 84,694 15 p.c.= 52,081 10.000 1 ’
Premiums on new shares, £158,051.. ...
1924.. 264.542 84,694 15 p.c.= 57,732 10,000 J
Premiums on new shares, £233,876. . 1 7fi7
1925.. 300.536 84,694 15 p.c.= 87,102 10,000 j
The past lias been lived down. More than
that, the bank is moving forward so strongly
that its further expansion is certain. The
C.B.A.’s present position is a development
that contrasts sharply with its early history.
It made the biggest splash in the boom of
the ’eighties; it made the biggest crash in
the burst of the ’nineties. It was the first
bank to reconstruct after the dust and debris
had settled; it was the last to clear the dead
horse from the premises. But once the
books were cleared of rubbish the bank pro-
gressed rapidly. General-manager Heron
did what W. V. Ralston did in the case of
the Queensland National Bank: built up in-
ternal reserves, so that when a clean re-
start was made it was backed by more than
the visible strength. For a long time capi-
tal stood unaltered at £2,213,009 ; £2,117,350
of the amount was in £lO prefs., paying 4
p.c. p.a. maximum, the balance in £95,659 of
10s. ordinaries. But in 1920, when the end of
the old troubles was in sight, the management
issued new ords. at 100 p.c. premium, cleaned
up the balance of deficit which was showing
and paid a div. The first div. —15 p.c.—was
made in 1921, and the rate has remained un-
altered since; unless unforeseen catastrophes
come there is every likelihood of the 15
p.c. continuing. The return —71 p.c.—is
little enough to old holders, who were with-
out divs. for 29 years, in the case of ords.
while prefs. had during all the years of dear
money to be content with 4 p.c.; 3 p.c.
in the earlier time. It was chiefly because
the prefs. participated in new issues that
they made the liberal concession which the
1920 arrangement undoubtedly was. Last
year capital was increased by £233,876, but
the year’s profit, after payment of the pref.
div 7. and the usual £lO,OOO reduction in pre-
mises. was equal to 35 p.c. on ordinaries;
£118,740 was added to reserves, which, at
a mean of well over a half-million, for _ the
period, gave fair support to capital.
In all share premiums have amounted
to £647,795, the first parcels, with sur-
plus profits, being used to liquidate the
old troubles. Here the progress is shown
and the relation of exes, to gross profits:—
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1915 .. £293,972 £133,310 £51,268
1918 .. 352,477 154,399 52,304
1919 .. 405,071 170,558 64,245
1920 .. 481,757 202,479 76,387
1921 .. 607,261 278.831 90,658
1922 .. 648.062 317,581 102,400
1923 .. 676,210 336,076 105.715
1924 .. 762,325 368,157 129,626
1925 . . 854,836 405,044 149,266
* Letts taxes and provision for contingencies.
Provision for taxation and contingencies is
made before the gross profit is written into
P. and Jj. Great as is the improvement
since 1915. it must be even greater than
disclosed, for the Taxation Departments
now bite out more than they did a decade
ago. It is almost certain, too, that the
Board is safeguarding its securities apart
from the discernible protection.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
goes back to the year before the first new
share issue:—
Liabilities.
1919. 1924, 1925.
Notes .. .. £71.517 £98,371 £96,920
Bills, etc... .. 377,909 1,089,361 1,190,527
Free deposits .. 6,669.835 9,206,247 9,674,032
Fixed deposits .. 5,385,396 8,252,807 9,992,766
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,997,750 7,280,614 9,786,659
Advances . . . . 9,733,568 13,915.878 14,273,166
Premises . . .. 499,095 565,890 612,300
The gain in the past six years is clearly
disclosed in the increase of £7,611,567 in
rleposits; the growth since 1914 amounts
to £12.498,010. On the year under
notice the change was of the best descrip-
tion: not only was there a gain of £2,207,744,
but almost 80 p.c. of it was in fixed deposits.
The liquid position improved, and tnat was
necessary, because at June 30, 19-4, it was
a point under the recognised level. At the
close of last accounts 46.7 p.c. of total out-
side liabilities was held liquid, so. there
was room for a little more expansion iu
advances. To secure the liabilities not cot -
ered by liquid assets (£11,167,586) there were
advances protected by reserves for contin-
gencies (the amount is lumped in the balance'
sheet with bills payable and other liabilities)
of £14.273,166 and premises written down
to £012,300, so over 25 p.c. of their value
could be lost before a penny of the publics
money would be jeopardised. The propor-
tion of liabilities to outside funds on June
30 was £5 15s. 6d. That is more satisfac-
tory, and should be a shade stronger w hen
ail calls and premiums have been received.
* * * *
Washington 11. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) : To Up _ Ue .
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Feb., 1915 ..£16,068 15 p.c. =£13.500 £2568£16,713
An o, 1915 . 15,443 15 „ „ 13,500 1943 13.661
Feb” 1916 15,828 15 18,600 2328 20,989
Aug.', 1916 : . 18,462 15 ” ” 13,500 4962 25,951
Feb., 1917 .. 17,680 15 „ „ 13,500 4180 30.131
Au»- 1917 . 17,581 15 „ „ 13,500 4081 34.212
Feb” 1918 .: 17,901 15 ” „ 18.600 4401 38,613
Reserves capitalised, £36,000 .. 2.613
Aug. 1918.. 18,573 12* p.c.= 13,500 5073 7,686
Feb. 1919 .. 18,899 12* ~ „ 13,500 5399 13,03 j
Aug., 1919 .. 21,101 12* ~ „ 13,500 7601 20,686
Reserves disclosed. £15,314 .. 36,000
Reserves capitalised, £36,000 ..
Feb., 1920.. 26,223 12* p.c.= 15,750 } 6973 6 973
Staff fund, £3500 .. •• )
Aug., 1920.. 25,124 12* p.c.= 15.750 I 7g74 u g 47
Staff fund, £l5OO .. .. )
PeP 1921 .. 22,736 12* p.c.= 15,750 6986 21,833
Aug.' 1921 .. 21,498 12* ~ „ 15,750 5748 27,581
Feb.' 1922 .. 21,718 12* ~ ~ 15,750 5968 33,549
Aug.’ 1922 .. 21,298 12* ~ ~ 15,750 6548 39,097
Feb” 1923 .. 21,643 12* ~ „ 15,750 5893 44,990
Aug” 1923 .. 22,398 12* „ „ 15,750 6648 51.638
Feb 1924 . . 22.619 12* ~ ~ 15,750 6869 58,507
Aug” 1924 .. 22’694 12* ~ ~ 15,750 6944 65,451
Feb.', 1925.. 23'207 12* „ „ 15,750 7457 72.908
Chemists' shops used not to be short cuts to
affluence competition was keen, and, though
an enormous number of lines has to be
stocked, the small turnover was limited to
relatively few. In America the problem has
been in part solved by the drug store acting
as trader in all manner of things, from slnrt
studs to wallpaper, as well as being the soft-
drink store —and, incidentally, nowadays the
hard-drink store too. Some of the Australian
retailers, drifting in the same direction,
peddle soft drinks and are developing the
fancy-goods business. Soul-Pattinson set oft
with a bouquet of adyantages in the trade.
Primarily it had a chain of shops, since mul-
tiplied; it started with only a semblance of
goodwill, and that chiefly for patents and
formula!; it picked up its big freehold at
£35,000. a price to make any real-property
man of these days green with envy. Also it
manufactured much of its own requirements
and caught profit that end. With those ad-
vantages it only needed intelligent manage-
ment to extract fat profits. Getting that sort
of management the profits came along from
the start (the amalgamation of the Washing-
ton H. Soul and Pattinson businesses took
place in 1902), and soon the div. rate was
15 p.c., touching 25 p.c. in 1912. In 1913
came the first gift issue (£30,000) ; whereat
the div. fell from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c., at which
it stood until 1918, when £30,000 was capi-
talised and the rate dropped to 12h p.c., the
amount distributed remaining the same. A
further issue of £36,000 bonus scrip in 1920,
however, was accompanied by no diminution
in the rate. Old holders have had a royal
time.
It is more than five years since the last
gift issue and the market’s confidence is ex-
pressed in a demand for the shares at 475.
That a move of some sort cannot much
longer be delayed is a not altogether rash
conclusion. Besides the visible. reserves,
inner resources must be substantial. Non-
taxable income from Government loans brings
in a nice return, and in the past five years
£10,566 from this source has been whisked
out of sight. This piling up of inner reserves
cannot go on indefinitely. Freeholds, lease-
holds, stocks and plant are now in the
books at practically the same figure as eight
years ago; and that implies a writing down
of properties, in view of the many new
branches opened and the greater stocks
carried. A very good indication is the in-
creasing sum in gilt-edged securities. Four
years ago these amounted to £14.709. On
Feb. 28 they accounted for £97,832 of the
total assets of £388.276: —
Feb., Feb., Aug., Feb.,
1921. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities.. . . £34,684 £32,535 £41,349 £33,556
Premises, stocks,
plant etc. . . 282,819 255,813 273,872 257.841
Book debts .. 10,445 12,561 24,822 27,528
Government securities 14,709 72,522 77,722 97,832
Cash, etc 17,986 10,786 4,222 1,422
Shares in other cos. 9.308 4,593 3,653 3,653
The directors are silent as to their inten-
tions. Capitalisation of reserves won’t, of
course, consume the cash resources. But
there is still room for extension of branches;
and although most of the co. s many fiee
holds, including Denison House, near tne
G.P.0., are not likely to be touched, the
structure on the big Pitt-street block hardly
fits the site. It is a pleasant predicament to
be in, anyhow.
* * * *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
1915.. £6,081 7 p.c.= £1750 £3498 £5OO £5,603
1916.. 9.479 7 ~ ~ 1750 5295 1000 7.03 i
1917.. 9,081 7 „ „ 1750 4826 1000 8,542
1918.. 8,626 7 „ „ 1750 5383 500 9,53»
1919.. 9,067 7 „ ~ 1750 5208- 500 11,144
1920.. 15,186 8 „ ~ 2000 8092 1000 15,238
1921 2 373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
1922!! 4,237 10 p.e. = 2600 4307 500 14,541
1923.. 10,872 10 „ ~ 2500 6880 16,033
1924.. 12’171 10 „ „ 3750 7434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO 31,762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c.= 3750 6972 32,023
The directors are very confident: “the time
is now opportune for expansion,” they say,
and recommend that the subscribed capital
be increased to £200,000. The dominant idea
is to get more shareholders and, with them,
more business, for the concern is . semi-
co-operative. But the capital itself is not
despised; hence whereas the maximum hold-
ing hitherto has been 200 shares, it Ims now
been increased to 1000. On March 31 paid
capital was £38,682—100,000 £1 shares paid
to 7s. 6d., with some calls put up in advance.
Since the close of the accounts a 2s. Od.
levy has brought the shares to 10s. Ihc
new shares are to be called only to os., the
Board being given discretion as to the second
ss. During the term 06 000 fewer sheep
were sold and only 29.150 bales of wool,
10,637 bales being carried forward. As the
handling charges for the carry-over were
included in last year’s expenses, profits for
the current term will benefit, given reason-
able selling conditions. The total number
of sheep received at Homebush for the 12
months was 613,597 less than in the preced-
ing term, so the experience of the L.l -8.
was not uncommon. But while aggregate
cattle offerings also were less, the co.’s hand-
lings were greater. Here are the figures for
the three big lines: —
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19.212
1916 .. 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1921 .. 25,697 238,420 15,507 35,003
1922 .. 34.009 220.509 17.168 43 850
1923 .. 35,161 289,368 18,061 55,477
1924 .. 34,154 184,653 19,692 53,903
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
High prices saved the situation, although
reduced expenditure gave valuable help. Till
lately the co. used three or four stores. The
concentration under the one roof in a Pyrmont
wool-palace has carved down exes., and still
further substantial saving is anticipated. The
10 p.c. div. was paid and the usual refund
of commissions made to consignors—3o p.c.
on wool, 15 p.c. each produce and stock.
Reserves benefited by £14,742 as a result of
the sale of the co.’s old property and the
taking in of the depreciation reserve. The
co. will be in the position when the new
capital is in to handle increased business,
although the Board has no intention of in-
vading the field of the pastoral finance cos.
so far as advances against property are con-
cerned, contenting itself with handling wool
and stock and confining its advances against
those two commodities. The new store bears
a mortgage of £61,423. Sundry creditors
(including reserve for taxation and other
things) totalled £58,847. Against this lia-
bility were book debts and Commonwealth
stock amounting to £91,284. After provid-
ing for the div. and taxation (£1200) there
were net tangibles equal to £1 16s. 6d. for
every £ of capital. The co. is going along
steadily, and the management apparently is
not sacrificing caution to progress.
* * * *
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., plantation-
owners and merchants, of Fiji:—
r Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 79.177 7,015 10 p.c. =; 48,542 23,620 155,928
Loss.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Loss on realisation of asset, £32,400 21,223
Profit.
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14.625 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
The recovery from the severe slump of 1922
is a slow process, but the co. is proceeding
steadily and solidly. There has been no
undue haste in lifting the div. rate, and care
apparently is being taken to make things
shipshape before divs. will be permitted to
absorb a greater proportion of the profits.
Last year, for instance, £5984 of bad debts
was written off, and £15.000 reserved, for
the same purpose, while £33,683 was written
off for depreciation. The provision in 1924
was £ll,OOO bad debts and £.11,800 deprecia-
tion. Also the liquidation of the co. s
liabilities was continued during the year;
they have been reduced from £269 513 to
£363,021 since March, 1922. The directors
record their intention to continue the reduc-
tion, and favorable prospects and steadiness
in the price of island produce will help.
The improvement since the slump is shown
in these figures :
1922. 1924. 1925.
Overdrafts .. .. £145,763 £85.373 £97,056
Mortgages .. .. 21,675 20,600 13,144
Deposits •• «• 35,985 24,000 21,411
Other liabilities .. 66,088 54,188 31,410
Plantations .. .. 73,269 78,629 <8,^90
Land, buildings, plant,
etc .. .. 233,823 242.968 236,345
Stocks, etc. .. 225,397 246,175 255,352
Investments and cash 248,212 185,686 190,386
Capital value of
branches, etc. .. 212,461 148,444 144,9a.>
Book debts, etc, .. 144,518 93,702 95,550
Shareholders are informed that the eo. “has
emerged successfully from the period of com-
mercial depression,” and that presages some-
thing better next balance. The island s
sugar-crop is heavier than for some time,
and copra-production is expected to be equal
to that of 1924. These are the chief indus-
tries, but progress is being made with dairy-
ing and cotton- and pineapple-growing, which
ventures, if successful, will mean a lot to
the island and to Morris, Ilcdstrom, Ltd.
* * * *
The It. law aura and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Mar. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915 .. £5,975 7$ p.c. = £5,437 £538 e7OB
1916 .. 6,342 74 „ „ 5,624 718 1,426
1917 .. 6,611 81 „ „ 6,187 424 1,850
1918 .. 8,882 10 „ „ 7,500 1382 3,232
1919 .. 8,039 10 ~ „ 7,600 539 3,771
1920 .. 7,843 10 „ „ 7,500 343 4,114
Special div. (5 p.c.,) from inner
reserves, £3750
Reserves taken in, £17,350 .. .. 21,464
do. reconstructed ; £25,000 of re-
serves capitalised.
1921 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1387 1,387
1922 . . 10,500 10 „ „ 10,000 500 1.887
1923 .. 10,045 10 „ „ 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 „ „ 10,000 47 1,979
1925 .. 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
l)ivs. are eating up most of disclosed profits.
With visible reserves, specific and otherwise,
amounting to only a few thousand, the
handful of change added during the past three
years seems absurdly inadequate. But
things are not always what they seem with
this co. In eight of the 14 half-years from
March, 1908, to September, 1914, reserves were
drawn upon to pay the divs., the lay-by de-
creasing over that period from £9389 to
£l7O. Throughout, only 7 p.c. was paid, with
a 1 p.c. bonus one half. It was not until
191 S that shareholders received 10 p.c.
Then came a bonus issue of £25,000 in
1920, suggesting that the position had been
better than disclosed. As against that, the
capitalisation was made when values were
at their top; and last year's shrinkage to 9
p.c. might suggest that the 10 p.c. has been
doubtful, of late especially, although the
stated cause of the reduction was a dry
spell over the South Coast areas in the
earlier part of the year. The sus-
picion that the co. is whipping away
profits may be well enough grounded; but
the quantity is certainly not very great.
During the year the eo. purchased a new
steel twin-screw cargo steamer, the Bergalia.
She takes the place of the Benandra, which
was wrecked on the Moruya bar in the previ-
ous year. The purchase affected balance-
sheet figures:—
1914. 1920. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. £7,098 £11,505 £7,706 £10,86i
Ship property .. 75,044 49,500 58,685 7i,300
Other property .. 1,231 1,717 3,268 ?
Plant, stores, etc. 1,777 3,362 3,732 4.1 <S
Rook debts .. 6,158 14,078 24,180 13 798
War Loan, cash, etc. 6.958 43,062 30,170 22,813
The financial position is comfortable: Com-
monwealth stock and cash were greater than
liabilities by £9423, while net tangible assets
with a book value of £102.020 were visible to
represent £lOO,OOO of capital.
# * * *
Life Savers (Australasia), Ltd., is
being formed to take over as a going concern
the Life Saver Sweets Co.. Ltd., including all
agreements, formula', patents, trade-marks
and exclusive manufacturing rights in Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and Asia, and to acquire
Sweet Sales, Ltd., which is the selling orga-
nisation in the territories. Capital is
£150,000 in 25,000 10 p.c. prefs. and 125,000
ords. The prefs. and 50,000 ordinaries are
offered to the public, payable 2s. 6d. each
application and allotment, with calls of a like
amount; 71,000 ords. arc to be issued to the
vendors and 4000 are to be held in reserve.
In addition to the 71,000 fully-paids, vendors
are to take the £75,000 cash which is sought
from the public. Details of the vendors’ con-
sideration are as follows: £75.000 in cash
and £29,060 in ords. to Life Saver Sweets
Co Ltd. • £32 007 in ords. to Sweets Sales.
Ltd., and £9933 in ords. to James Henderson
for his rights under an option to purchase
the former co. (James Henderson is in the
list of provisional directors of the new co.).
Life Saver Sweets Co., Ltd., was formed m
Australia by the parent concern of America,
which is under agreement to furnish all
future additional sales, advertising and
machinery improvements and manufacturing
plans. Assets taken over from the vendor
co. as from Feb. 28 total £108,528 less liabili-
(Continued on page 19.)


PURELY VOLUNTARY.
“Stevens, N.S.W. Director of Finance, who quitted the service to avoid being sacked in accordance with the spoils-to-the-victors poliey. is described by Premier Laug as having
‘voluntarily resigned.’ It is expected that Agent-General Cocks will ‘voluntarily resign’ also”
THE CAPTAIN: “I should like you to understand, sir, that you needn’t walk the plank if you’d rather not. It’s quite a voluntary proceeding on your part.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/(5 per annum,
nost free.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscope, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane.—Advt.
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against beat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.—Advt. [2
* * * *
The general all-round utility and economy of
Pioneer Wood Pipes are again demonstrated in this
report from an owner at Burekup, S.W.R., which
says: “I have used the wood pipes for about ten
years for. an irrigation scheme, and they are giving
every satisfaction; we have never spent a penny on
them since they were put down. Two men and
myself put in 20 chains 18 inches in the ground in
one day.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Australia
for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. They produce
a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-power for
less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp. Very
convenient cooking-stoves and gas-rings are available
as part of the plant. Prices, which are extremely
moderate, range from .two-light plants to any size
required, and are inclusive of installation. There
is practically no additional cost, the only extras
being the freight on the goods from Sydney, and the
mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest railway
station—positively no wages or train fares. Wizard
Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
We are buyers of Bismuth Ore, Carbonates
Preferred. Address, Williamson, Box 494 G.P.0.,
Sydney.—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. C'olmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robev” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Aimiun Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * *
Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reuuiremenis.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
Eole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.- —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Safeguard Your Estate!
In your own interests and in the interests of those you wish to benefit,
safeguard your estate by appointing a dependable trustee.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
is an institution with 37 years’ experience in the control of all classes of
estate. Its directors are practical business men, and its officers are always
available for information on trust matters.
All the disadvantages of the individual trustee are eliminated —the Company
cannot travel, disappear or die, it cannot speculate—its operations are
strictly defined by its Special Act of Parliament.
ESTATES UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £9,000,000.
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager. J. W. BAP.NES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd.
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO-ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch-.
Catlvcart House,
lie Castlereagh Street.
ties of £4468, of which goodwill items and
profit from March 1 of Life Saver Sweets
account for £47,674. Rights and interest in
sales contract and profits from March 1 of
Sweet Sales are valued at £32,007. Profits,
after making certain adjustments of the
audited balance-sheets and before providing
for income-tax are set out thus: —
Five months ended June 30, 1922.. £6,171
Twelve months ended June 30, 1923.. 26,774
Twelve months ended June 30, 1924.. 33,690
Kiglit months ended February 28, 1925.. 12,208
The prospectus averages the figures and esti-
mates a profit of £25,571 p.a., sufficient to
provide for taxation and give 10 p.c. on prefs.
and 15 p.c. on ords. Estimates of sales, and
profits figure that while £BOOO in advertising
sells 40,000 cartons with a resultant profit of
£24,500. £22,500 of advertising is necessary
to sell 60,000 cartons for £38,000 of profit.
The vendors’ consideration seems out of
proportion. Tangible assets amount to
approximately £63,000 (the amount of pro-
fits included in goodwill has to be estimated),
and the £75,000 in cash and £71,000 in shares
is asked for. It would appear from the
prospectus that the total sum spent in adver-
tising and establishment since the inception
of the co. amounts to £33,970. The whole
of the capital sought from the public is to
go to the old co., leaving the new concern
to work on the profits from March 1.. These
are said to be sufficient. The big fall in pro-
fits for the eight months to Feb. 28 is attri-
buted to heavy expenditure in organising
the M.L. market and to the period covering
the slack selling months. Some comparative
figures should have been published to support
the statement. The prefs. seem well enough
secured so far as divs. are concerned —they
would call for only £2500 p.a.—and capital
security is fair—-something near £2 10s. per
share. The article manufactured is a luxury,
and a new sweet is always likely to be dis-
placed by the next new sweet.
* * * #
I-lome Provident Association, Ltd., has
a nominal capital of £300,000 in £1 shares.
Of the number, 10,000 have been applied
for and allotted (it is not stated whether
an allotment to the promoter, G. A. Parrett,
is included) ; 25,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
25,000 ordinaries are offered to the public— l
in each case 2s. 6d. on application and allot-
ment, 2s. 6d. in monthly calls to 10s. and
the balance in monthly calls, if required;
242,000 shares are held in reserve. (That
makes 302,000, but the prospectus adds it up
to 300,000.) The idea is to advance money
on mortgage of house and land property on
20 years’ terms, repayable at the rate of
ss. per week per £lOO borrowed. The re-
payment includes principal, interest and life
insurance for the unpaid principal. The
55., it is stated, does all that is asked of
it, interest being at the rate of 10.45 p.c.
p.a. on the outstanding balance. Under effi-
cient management, with most careful scru-
tiny of all properties, and by a rigorous in-
sistence on economical working, the proposi-
tion should be sound and profitable. But
very little is said as to costs and manage-
ment and prospects of business, and possible
investors will doubtless desire much more
information than is contained in the pros-
pectus.
* ■ * * *
The final report of Gold Producers’ Asso-
ciation, Ltd., states that no exports of gold
were made during the half-year to June 30,
but of the unsold balance of 207,6440 z. car-
ried over at December 31. 1924, ll,lBBoz.
was sold locally prior to the restoration of
the Australian currency to parity with gold
and the removal of the embargo on gold ex-
ports on April 29. Gross premium earned
on those sales was £1376, equal to _2s. 5.53 d.
per oz. standard. With the addition of in-
terest derived from funds temporarily in-
vested and surpluses on adjustments of the
amounts retained for contingencies, the
Board defrayed expenses for the half-year,
and added slightly to the amount distributed
on July 18, bringing it to £16,816. In noti-
fying the calling of the formal meetings for
the voluntary winding up of the association,
chairman E. C- Dyason stated that
£3.882,862 was distributed during the co.’s
short liistorv. representing a net premium of
approximately 20 p.c. on the total amount
of gold sold.
* * * #
Zinc Corp.’s net profit for the year
ended Dec. 31 was £375,295, plus £45,485
brought into the accounts, being the un-
expended portion of the £70,000 appropriated
for development and new plant in the previ-
ous year. Divs. of ss. per share on the
ords. and 9s. per share on the prefs. absorbed
£273,846. £lOO,OOO was appropriated for
mine development and new plant, £5016
struck as the directors’ percentage of profit,
£20,000 added to reserve (making it £60,000)
and £13,168 carried forward as compared
with £19,756 brought into the accounts. The
good price of the • metals handled was the
chief factor contributing to the fine result.
The average price of lead for 1924, for in-
stance. was £33 13s. lid. compared with
£26 16s. 4d. for 1923, and 198.050 tons of
ore were treated as against 171,696 in 1923-
Production of zinc concentrates only com-
menced in June. A total tonnage of 15,258
was obtained. Higher yields from invest-
ments assisted profits, being £50,574
£18,632 more than in the preceding year.
During the year, settlement was effected
for part of the zinc concentrates stacked
at Broken Hill to the order of the Zinc
Producers’ Association, but final adjustment
has yet to be made on a considerable tonnage.
Chief development during the year was the
discovery on No. 9 level when the west
crosscut at 575 ft. north revealed a total
width of ore at this point of 120£f(:. averag-
ing 14.5 p.c. lead, S.loz. silver and 19.8 p.c.
zinc. All liabilities on Dec. 31 totalled
£423,264. Assets ivere: cash balances,
£116,720; at. short call. £40,000; book debts,
etc., £95,009; stocks and stores, £188,161;
mine property, plant and investments,
£863,628. The investments,, including inte-
rests in subsidiaries, as itemised in the
schedule in the balance-sheet, have a face
value in excess of £900,000.
* * * *
Adelong Crock Dredging (N.S.W.), after
five years of hard going, shows a profit of
£3192. During its last campaign 209,590
cub. yds. went down the sluice boxes for
a weekly average of 970 z. 18dwt. In cash
the drift went 10.89 d. a cub. yd. and ex-
penses 6.22 d., so that a working profit of
£4074 was scored. Old debts are pretty well
wiped out, the kindly banker now being
owed only £1075, and other creditors £1550.
The big item of costs with deep ground ahead
is to stiffen the bucket-bands and brace up
the big pontoon. That is being done. When
finished the plant will, buck into the block
of shilling ground awaiting the dredge.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of shareholders in
the Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co., held at
Rockhampton last week, the chairman made
a few indefinite remarks as to the future of
the co. He mentioned that Ilorsburgh (the
co.’s assistant g.-m.), who was sent to
America to investigate the latest methods of
handling and treating copper-bearing ores,
had presented an exhaustive report. This
lias been referred to g.-m. Boyd and the
technical staff for comment. After these
have been received the Board will deal with
the matter, and it may then be necessary to
call shareholders together to consider the
Board’s recommendation regarding future
operations at the mine. The chair-
man re-stated some of the obvious facts.
Costs since resumption in 1922 have gone
higher, and the price of copper keeps down
while the gold premium has disappeared.
Supplies of copper for Australia’s needs are
practically limited to the output from the
Mount Morgan and Mount Lyell mines. The
following table was quoted to show how re-
serves have been encroached upon during
the past four years in order to carry on
operations at the mine:—
Product from mine realised .. £2,187,135
Add amount drawn from reserve
and profit from investments .. 357,284
Total £2,544,419
This has been expended as follows: —
Wages to miners, contractors and
other enfployees .. ..£1,676,421
Paid to Government and local
authorities . . • ■ . . 126,123
Paid for stores, machinery, etc. 513,310
Other expenditure, including
royalties and depreciation .. 228,565
Total £2,544,419
If Morgan is closed Australia would be
partly dependent upon overseas sources for
one of the most importantl commodities.
Meantime the 44-liour week has been granted
with the same rates of wages as for 48 hours
a week, and the Queensland Government has
increased its subsidy. These developments and
Ilorsburgh’s report will be considered to-
gether.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford writes:—
Writer of par. re Isa (B. 16/7/’25) has now dis-
covered that the reason why Isa Prop, scrip is
buoyant is that its “chief seat is the same Black
Star lode of which the Isa holds a largely prepon-
derant area.” This is not true, so far. The only
knowledge we have of the lode which is Black Star
to the Isa Mines Ltd. and Ibus to the Isa Prop.
Co. is provided by the outcrop. That is continuous
throughout the Ibus, and continuous for most of the
Black Star length, diving before it reaches the
southern boundary. Visibly the “preponderant”
tonnage (not area) is in the Ibus. Saint Smith's
early belief that the underlay steepened going north
is provided by Ibus workings and bores. The Ibus
is so pegged that the footwall is a little east
of the lease’s eastern boundary, and on the steepening
—up to 85 degrees—the lode will not be out of the
Ibus under 1500 ft. On the widths at surface and
200 ft. and as disclosed by bore holes, there should
be over 10,000,000 tons won from the Ibus before
tne lode leaves the lease. This talk of “preponderant
area” is apparently the last of the argument for
amalgamation on an acreage basis. The only possible
basis for comparison of values is the average ot
ore to be inferred by exploration. The proper
development from the beginning of these immense
ore bodies was by drilling, and so far the Proprietary
is the only co. operating that had the energy and
courage to dive and find the contents of the cellar.
* * * •#
Ives Reward (W.A.) made a profit of £l6O
as a result of June operations; just about
sufficient to pay interest on cash advanced
by the Government and the debenture holders
—providing Adelaide office does not draw too
heavily on the amount for its quota of ex-
penses. The show is being efficiently run, and
the best is being made of the grade of ore
available.
* * * *
McCahon’s Gold Mines, N.L., has taken
an option over portion of the Edna May and
Edna May Deeps leases at Westonia, and in-
tends giving that deluged camp another trial.
In this matter, McCahon’s cannot be accused
of lack of enterprise, as below the 75ft. level
there is a water inflow of two million gallons
per day. Certainly there is a block of ore
on the joint boundary, Edna May and Deeps,
at the 500 ft. level estimated to contain
£lOO,OOO worth of bullion. Probably an
effort will be made to rescue this from the
flood.
* * * *
Jock Thomson, ex-M.L.A. and mining man
of world-wide experience, has induced some
Sydney speculators to take an interest in
Wodgina tinfield, near Port Hedland
(W.A.). T. Horton is coming from the
Malay States to inspect, and provided his
report is favorable Thomson reckons that
he will have no difficulty in raising all the
capital needed to conduct operations on a big
scale. Tin was first found at Wodgina in
the early ’nineties, and to the end of 1918
production, which mostly came from one
mine, Mount Cassiterito, was valued at
£40,000. Since then the field has been prac-
tically idle.
* * * *
Six years ago Boulder Perseverance was
supposed to contain only sdwt. ore, so the
co. decided to wind up. Believing that where
there’s life there’s hope the liquidator handed
over the “worked out” mine to tributors, who
dug out about 200,000 tons of ore and won
nearly £750,000 of gold. From royalties the
liquidator paid divs. totalling 2s. 3d. per
share and announced that the mine was
“looking as well as ever.” Then on the advice
of a visiting expert the co. decided to recon-
struct and work the property partly on its
own account. In London the other day the
liquidator presided at a final meeting of the
old co., and gave an account of how the
winding up had been conducted and the
assets disposed of.
* * * »
The recently floated Mt. Spencer Silver
Lead Co. (Q.) raised more than enough to cover
the vendors’ cash consideration and leave a
little bit over for working capital. So far no
actual operations are in progress on the
mines, but Mackay is looking forward to
their inception. Many residents believe that
the mineral lodes of their hinterland have
never been fairly tested. They look to this
effort to vindicate their belief.
# * * *
The old Vulcan tin-mine on the Irvinebank
field (N.Q.) has still a good, kick left. For
months past it has been one of the biggest
producers in the Hcrberton tin district,
although the grade of ore has been rather
low. Tributors have recently unearthed, a
new pipe of rich ore on No. 2 level which
has opened out to a width of 6ft. and a
length of 10ft. Kecent crushings have aver-
aged only 4 or 5 p.c. for concentrates, but
the full face in the pipe samples 15 p.c.
Present prospects look good. The last crush-
ing from the other workings gave ?>\ tons of
concentrates from 60 tons of ore, value £390.
# * * *
Several rich samples of gold ore from the
Marquis mine, Normanby (N.Q.), have
assayed up to 360 z. of gold. It is to be
hoped the shoot will last, but few retain
their faith in the Normanby gold reefs after
the disappointing results in the Billy Hughes
and a dozen others.
* * * *
New White Crystal, Ardlethan (N.S.W.),
directorate commissioned manager Atkinson,
of Vegetable Creek, to report on their show,
which has been floundering for a long time.
He found that the machinery generally is
not up to the mark, the mill being poorly
conditioned, and possible recoveries limited
to 1 p.c. metallic —leaving no margin even
if the mill ran to its capacity of 1200 tons
a month. Atkinson indicated as a possible
solution, an amalgamation of interests with
the other. Crystal, the Staekpool, whose
headquarters are in Melbourne. The share-
holders’ meeting, however, decided to con-
centrate on the ore being mined from Crosby’s
Hill; and a 3d. call was struck to emphasise
the point. This will carry the paid capital
on 150,000 10s. shares to ss. lid. The big
holders will pay up, but the smaller fry will
probably shy at a 3d. call on a market where
shares offered at a penny meet a frigid silence
as far as buyers are concerned.
# * # *
The boomlct in Mandated Oil shares sub-
sided last week when a radio message from
Matap’au announced a little salt water at
458 ft., instead of oil at 450 ft. The bore had
been cased to 451 ft. owing to a dilatory
radiogram from Sydney, intended to stop
that procedure until the oil sands touched
higher up had had a chance to declare
themselves definitely.
* * * *
Last vear’s production of Canadian Keeley
silver-mines, in which the two Golden Mile
Associated cos. are interested, was worth
nearly 1| million dollars. Profits aggregated
835,306 dollars against 609,490 dollars for the
previous 12 months, whert production was
valued at about 1,100,000 dollars. Ore re-
serves are estimated to contain 2.336.8000 z.
of silver and 196,4001 b. of cobalt.
* * * *
Nabo Oil Development, N.L., in 500 £lO
shares, is one of the many cos. oil-seeking on
1000-square-mile licenses in New Guinea. A
boring expedition headed by O. D. Brown,
the manager, and J. N. Hunter, 8.E., left in
May, and first reports of the drilling are now
due. _ The co.’s license is in the Lakekamu
district, contiguous to the areas of the Papuan
Oil Exploration, New Guinea Oil and the
Commonwealth Government and the Anglo-
Persian.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS. NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Lnxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’3
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Alan aging Director.
Smart Shoes
for Men.
SHOES of superior
quality that keep
their smart appear-
ance always. Well-
fitting, long-lasting shoes
that you will be proud to
wear. Shoes such as these
give both service and
appearance—value and low
price. Send for yours to-
day. We pay postage.
'e&m
e%:.
-Vy
Black or Tan Calf, full
Golosh Oxford, Neat Per-
foration on Cap and Golosh.
C.l). and E. fittings.
Popular Square Toe last.
Price
Send us
your repairs.
276
Macnaught Shoe Stores, Ltd.
189 Pitt St., 22 Strand, 135 King St., Sydney; Burrowa St., Young.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt Sc Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some August birthdays:—
Medico Knight Joseph Verco (Adel.), 74, on Ist;
Edward Miller (Melb.), 77, and Canon Charlton
(Syd.), 65, on 3rd; botanist J. F. Bailey (Adel.
Botanic Gardens), 59, on sth; Justice Isaacs (High
Court of Australia), VO, and E. A. Southee (Principal
of Hawkesbury College), 35, on 6th; poet E. J.
Brady, 66, on 7th; ex-Federal Minister Alec Poynton,
72, on Bth; ex-Gov.-Gen. Tennyson, 73, on lltli;
ex-Australian Governor Chelmsford, 57, and S. Aus.
ex-Gov. Earl of Kintore, 73, on 12th; Dr. E. Morris
Miller (Speck), 44, on 14th; Australian scientist
Grafton Elliot Smith, 54, on 15tli; Prof. E. 11.
(tennie, D.Sc. (Adel.), 73, on 19th; ex-Federal
Minister R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 69, on 20tli; D.
J. O’Keefe, M.11.R., 61, and poet Will Ogilvie, 56,
on 21st; Judge Curlewis (Syd.), 56, on 22nd; Dr.
J. A. Cockburn (S. Aus. ex-Agent-General), 75, on
23rd; Major-Gen. Talbot Hobbs, K.C.8.. 61, on 24t1);
ex-Federal Minister “Paddy” Glynn, lv.C., 70, on
25th; ex-Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S. (Melb.), 65, and
Methodist parson Dr. Goo. E. Rowe . (Brisbane), 67,
on 26th; Prof. Angus (Syd. Uni.), 44, on 27th;
ex-High Commissioner “Andy” Fisher, 63, and Brig.-
Gen. J. H. Caiman, C. 8., 43, on 29th; Principal
Ronald Macintyre, D.D., 62, on 30th ; Vic. educa-
tionist Chas. R. Long, M.A., 65, on 31st.
When seven TJ.S. admirals and their aides
called on Vic. Premier Allan he asked them
to have a drink. Most of the 14
reached out for whisky or ale; the others
had soda. How Allan’s two right-hand offi-
cers (Vickers, official sec., and Jungwirth,
private sec.), who are water-waggon ers,
viewed this entertainment of the men from
the Land of the Dry nobody knows; they
were diplomatic enough to keep their own
counsel. When Allan returned the call ou
the flagship Seattle, he couldn’t very well be
asked to have anything with a kick in it
because a U.S. warship, even in an Austra-
lian port, is still part of the prohibition area.
Ponsonby Carew Smyth, art-inspector of
Vic. Education Department, who has just
celebrated his 65th birthday, has a good
chance of being appointed principal' of the
art school of the Workingmen’s College
(Melbourne Tech. School). There is so
J. A. HUNTER.
M.H.R. for
Muranoa (Q.).
much work in Pou-
sonby Carew Smyth
yet that it would
lie a pity to scrap
him, as is the offi-
cial custom with
men of his years,
whether they are
entitled to a pen-
sion (lie isn’t) or
not. Without Pon-
sonby Carew Smyth
official life would
be duller for Direc-
tor Tate.
Senator Guthrie, who flew so dramatically
to the rescue of the Bruce-Pagc. Government,
lias, when in a hurry, made numerous air-
trips : in fact, he engages an aeroplane as
others call for a taxi. The pilotwlio guides him
in his skyey wanderings is generally one of
the Pratt brothers, M.L. members of the Air
Force in Egypt during the war, who were
among the first to enter into aeronautics
as a civilian craft. Guthrie has risen from
office-boy to branch-manager of Dalgety’s
despite a life-long handicap—one leg was
removed so close to the hip that he must
ever use crutches. Having a keen appre-
ciation, of the value of publicity, he employs
a special secretary who broadcasts letters,
statements, interviews, opinions and general
information to the newspapers with as little
provocation as James Barrett requires.
The prophet Ratana has become a globe-
trotting addict, and intends to leave
M.L. shortly for another tour. With his pri-
vate secretary and a party of 20 the Maori
healer will set out for America in August,
returning by way of the Pacific Isles. Fol
lowing the commotion he created in kainga
and pa by reviving George Grey’s old theory
that the Maori and Jap are one, Ratana
has now stirred the churches to protest with
a new baptismal ceremony he has instituted.
A person of action and originality is the
Maori healer. He has taken no fees from
the unfortunates who petition him in thou-
sands for his assistance in their infirmities.
The Speck has lost a whimsical character
in Lou Foley, sometime Launceston cricketer
and footballer, and good Digger. Though
turned 40, Lou enlisted in the 23rd Baft.,
and was returned with a bullet-wound in
the shoulder. Long before he was well he
was pestering the M.Q. to declare him fit for
service again, saying “I think I know the
bloke who shot me, and I want to get even
with him.” He went back to France with
12th Battalion reinforcements, and became
a battery-runner. Once, having arrived at
the battery at night, after wading through
mud, slush and snow, he was asked by the
sentry whether he wanted the O.C. “No,”
said Lou; “put me on to the harbormaster.”
lie was again badly wounded and sent home
with the M.M. He was 55 when the bugle
sounded.
Ninety-year-old Captain David Thomson
got out his Civil War medals and polished
them for the arrival of Coontz’s squadron. A
native of Scotland.
Cap’n Thomson
joined the Ameri-
can Navy just be-
fore Jeff Davis’s
rebellion, and
served for the dura-
tion. He came to
Australia in the
Loch Ness, and
after adventures in
the China and Aus-
tralasia seas set-
tled in Melbourne.
The adventures in-
cluded the loss of
the Corypheus,
which he com-
manded, on a coral
reef, followed by a
5000-mile journey
in open boats, the
wanderers being
picked up on the
47th day.
A dmiral COONTZ.
Just as one of the pillars of the British
Rationalist Society dropped dead after deli-
vering an attack on Christianity, so William
Jennings Bryan went out suddenly after-
conducting the prosecution of a Tennessee
schoolmaster for breaking a State law pro-
hibiting the teaching of evolution. Bryan
was an obscure Nebraska lawyer until the
Democratic Convention of 1896, when his
speech on the free coinage of silver stirred
America to its emotional depths. “You shall
not press down upon the brow of Labor this
crown of thorns.” he said: “you shall not
crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.” His
s]ieech secured him a Presidential nomination
that year, and he tried again in 1900 and_l9oS.
lie was Secretary of State in 1913-15. but
eloquent speakers are generally poor admin-
istrators, and Bryan wasn't the rare excep-
tion.
James Jordan, a North Coast (N.S.W.)
publican who has served his last pint, was
an unusual member of his class. “Limit
Jim” he was called on account of his rigid
rule that not more than two drinks might
be served to the same man ; thus a cheque-
bursting spender was often saved in spite
of himself. A cattleman for many years,
“Limit Jim” managed stations for the father
of General Harry Chauvel till he succeeded
to the ancestral pub at Tabulam (N.S.W.).
Queensland’s bachelor Governor Matthew
Nathan is going to have a final run round
the northern coastal districts before lie leaves
late in October for ’Ome. It will take
nearly two months, and the itinerary will
include any number of places between Too-
woomba and Thursday Island, where his Ex.
says his last good-bye. Sir Matthew has
seen more of the State than any of his pre-
decessors, and he wasn’t afraid to leave the
railway either. A Rockhampton motor-car
proprietor found in him an excellent cus-
tomer for long drives into the interior.
As the family of the late Alec Taylor, ex-
chief president of Vic. A.N.A. and sec. of
the Railway Union, was left penniless,
friends are rallying to raise a fund. Branches
of the A.N.A. have been appealed to and
railwaymen asked to lend a hand. For the
greater part of his working life Taylor’s pay
did not exceed £4 10s. a week, but he did
more work for the district in which he lived
than many a man with 10 or 20 times his
income. The A.N.A., which got a heap of
honorary work out of him, is expected to do
the decent thing.
A somewhat tardy movement in Adelaide
plans a memorial to R. R. Torrens, the
quiet Government servant who over 60 years
ago devised and carried through, against the
keen opposition of the lawyers, the simple
new plan for making land as easily dealt
with as the ships he knew more about. His
method has been closely copied in every
Australian State and in various other parts
of the world. South Australia, however,
does not even name him in connection with
his own work; it speaks of a Real Pro-
perty Act title where others would call it
a Torrens title. The river running through
Adelaide is the only thing to carry the name
on for posterity, and this was not called
after the R.P.A. man at all:
“0.W.D.”: “Pedro’s” par. (B. 16/7/’25)
anent old-time Laborites credits D. C. ,T.
Donnelly to that party, lie is in error.
Donnelly—he represented Oarcoar-Cowra
(N.S.W.) for some years—was elected on
the Protectionist ticket, and sat behind W. J.
Lyne and his Ministry. I was present when,
a short time after Donnelly’s death, Lyne
delivered an eloquent panegyric on his ser-
vices. Mrs. Timothy Coghlan, wife of the
man for whom Cocks is said to be keeping
the London Agency warm, is a daughter.
,T. W. Billson. Deputy-leader of Vic. Par-
liamentary Labor party, who died seven
months ago. left real and personal estate
valued at £5740. He was 24 years in the
Assembly, and for more than half the time
was on the Railway Committee. He must
have lived frugally or invested carefully to
save so much. Until four years ago £3OO a
year was the salary paid to Vic. Assembly
members; now it is £5OO.
“Boronia”: J. S. Langley, the apostle of
evolution (B. 9/7/’25), is by no means a
gloomy individual. Away from his job he is
a most congenial companion, the possessor of
a fund of boyish spirits. For several years
Langley was a school-teacher in Westralin.
Before he left for the effete East he was in
charge of a small school about 16 miles from
Perth; and two or three times a week he
used to pad the hoof into the city in order to
take part in lectures and debates. Presum-
ably the white heat of his missionary zeal
minimised the physical strain.
“Bill Bowyang” : Bill Williamson, veteran,
prospector of Cape York Peninsula (Q.)
he has fossicked over most mineral country
between the P'almer and the Batavia- —was
a despatch-rider as a boy in the TJ.K. Civil
War. He has still a fund of reminiscences
about Generals Grant and Sherman.
It will take Vic. people a long time to for-
give the petty tyranny of the handful of
firemen who, pursuing job-control tactics,
held up the Bay steamer Weeroona as it
was about to start with 1100 guests of the
Federal Government to meet the section of
the TJ.S. Fleet coming to Hobson’s Bay.
One daily was cruel enough to publish a
list of the principal guests. Tt didn’t contain
the name of Priminister Bruce, the man
against whom the reprisal was directed, but a
dozen Labor politicians were among the disap-
pointed band. There were rumors the night
before of what was likely to happen, and if
Tom Watson or Magnificent McCall, former
Clerks of Vic. Leg. Council, had been run-
ning the show the guests might have been
warned in time. Tom and the magnificent
one took nothing for granted when they
were above the sod.
The Mt. Morgan (Q.) Co. has lost one
of its veteran officials in .Tames Wilson.
Wilson used to sign the co.’s cheques for
working expenses, and before he was retired
on pension his signature had been honored
to the extent of just on £2.000.000.
“Seebee”: There may have been a streak
of brightness in the gloom of prison life for
certain ex-detectives when the news pene-
trated into Pentridge that the Licenses Re-
duction Board had decided to wipe out Terry
Callaghan’s pub, the Londonderry, Colling-
wood, from the end of this year. Callaghan
instituted a civil action for the recovery of
the £lOOO which he asserted three ’tecs
had levered out of him. and a jury, answer-
ing questions put to them by Irvine. C..L.
said that the amount was paid because of
ihroats of criminal proceedings against
Terry or his daughter if the coin was not
planked down. Irvine reserved judgment on
the. point as to whether Callaghan was en-
titled to recover.
“Bill Bow-yang” : In the Mandated Terri-
tory lies Dick Thorpe, who passed out on
the upper reaches of the Sepik River, after
suffering from the after-effects of a spear-
wound in the chest. Thorpe had been pros-
pecting in Dutch New Guinea since he re-
turned from the war in 1918, and was on
payable gold when head-hunters sneaked on
him and hurled the death-dealing weapon.
Not long since Bill Penrose, prospector and
one-time plume-hunter, was killed by savages
300 miles up the Merauke River. Ten arrows
were sticking in his body when it was found.
These arrow's are made of bamboo tipped
with barbed bone, but they are not poisonous.
That is why Harry Dawson, Davie Mooney
and other one-time orchid- and plume-
hunters who penetrated far into the little-
known and mysterious interior of Dutch
New Guinea arc still alive after having been
punctured with darts in encounters with the
natives.
[?] MACDOUGALL, director of the
Sydney Playlw.c Theatre.
If Dr. Gilbert White were a bit younger
(he was 66 the other day) he would have
unanswerable claims to one of the commis-
sionerships which the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment is bent on creating in, North Australia.
What he doesn’t know of the North isn’t
worth knowing. A great-grand-nephew of
the Gilbert White who wrote “The
Natural History of Selborne,” he was born
in Cape Colony, was educated in Edinburgh,
and, after his ordination, came to Australia
in 1885 to buck up a delicate constitution
and to feed more or less wayward flocks
in Queensland. In 1900 he became Bishop
of Carpentaria with headquarters at Thurs-
day Island, his diocese comprising practi-
cally all Northern Australia, with a few
islands thrown in. One of his first acts as
a bishop was to traverse the continent from
Darwin to Adelaide along the route of the
overland telegraph: he was the first clergy-
man to perform the journey. In 1915 he
was appointed Bishop of Willoclira (S.A.),
a post from which he recently retired.
A distinguished Maorilander will revisit
his homeland, after 30 years’ absence, when
William Pember Reeves returns this year.
Reeves, a native of Canterbury, qualified as
a barrister, but turned to journalism and
polities. His “The Long White Cloud” is
one of the most readable descriptions of the
Shaky Islands. He was the Dominion’s first
Minister for Labor, and went to London as
Agent-General. He resigned his active con-
nection with M.L. politics many years ago.
and returns as chairman of the National
Bank of N.Z. His clever wife w T as known
in England as a splendid platform-speaker,
and of tw r o daughters the elder, Amber
Reeves (now Mrs. Blanco White), has
sundry modern publications to her name.
Francis Redwood, R.C. Archbishop of Wel-
lington (M.L.), was born in England and
ordained at Maynooth. At 35 he became the
world's voungest bishop ; now, at 86, he is
reckoned the oldest, lie has seen out six
Popes and the 1300 bishops living when he
was consecrated. Through it all he has kept
his nerves in order tuning up his precious
Strad.
When the big Wellington (M.L.) brewer.
T. G. McCarthy, slipped into Eternity a
dozen years ago, he left a nice little slice
of property, the income from the greater
portion of which he willed to charities. This
income has expanded, and there is a yearly
scramble for divvies by a multitude of homes,
societies and charitable bodies. Some of
these annual beneficiaries are strongly pro-
hibitionist, and the shade of old T.-G. must
chuckle as the fruits of his harvest of hops
are scattered far and wide.
BALLADE OF THE CROSSWAYS COP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis fine to be a king, you bet,
And give the right divine a whirl,
To make one pal a baronet
And dub another belted earl;
Your gifts this way or that to hurl
And sit a gorgeous throne atop.
Yet —-e’en a Czar may come a purl.
I’d sooner be a traffic cop.
Unscept’red power others get,
With never orb or crown to twirl
Dominion Avon by gab or sweat
Is open to tf|e veriest churl.
See Mussolini’s flag - unfurl!
Hear Walsh’s ultimata pop!
Though pipes of fame around them skirl,
I’d liefer be a traffic cop.
Before his frown, his voiceless threat,
The boldest chauffeurs twist and curl;
The costliest car halts rigid-set
Amid the torrent’s surge and swirl.
His lifted hand pulls up the burl-
iest, makes the maddest Jehu stop ;
The proudest man, the queenliest girl
Must needs obey the traffic cop.
Envoy.
Jove’s nod was law he didn’t lot
Be broke in his Olympian shop.
'Tis full as binding, don’t forget,
The gesture of the traffic cop.
V.S.W.
T. THE R.


r
*r-
*r.
J-ii}
%
'S
r'
- 7.
c
Cs
<n
%
7'/
s?
2L
V
'Sr
yy-
*S
<s>7
5^
-
+T-S
6
f
c*y
f^7
tA
// ,i ri Y
'9&<^
e
€
%
&
y
•♦'2s*'
/'////>✓<
Tr' • W'
/■Jyyjze.
{
/
-
f
r
r
w
*p
t
2~
r*J
y
(Vw U
( Touchstone)
DEWAR’S
THE TOUCHSTONE OF QUALITY
Good whisky, like fine wit, pleases subtly. There is pleasure in its charm, never hurting
and never ungenerous. Appreciation of humour is a great asset to happiness and so is
appreciation of the very Touchstone of Quality in whisky .. •
DEWAR’S


DEAF?
Socially and commercially, Deafness is a
handicap.
You can hear, and we are ready to prove it,
entirely at our expense, by sending- you an
ACOUSTICON
ON TEN DAYS’ TRIAL.
We do not ask you to part with one penny
until we have PROVED to you that you can
hear.
Worn by the ex-Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
and selected for the use of the Deaf at the
Wembley Exhibition.
Call or write for full particulars.
Store 102 Daldng House,
LamSOn Service. LO -» Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street, Melbourne,
N.Z. —John Proctor, 200 High Street, Christ-
church.
W.A.—H. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Don’t Waste Time on
exterminate
the Rabbits!
THEM !
FUMO
BRAND
Why waste time, money and effort on what is at the best
only a partial release from the rabbit scourge ?
MAKE CERTAIN OF THOROUGH
EXTERMINATION—USE
CALCIUM CYANIDE
You blow it into the warren like dust.
Arrived there, it generates deadly fumes
for twenty-four hours, penetrates even the
deepest dead-ends, and indicates every
opening by a smoke cloud. No rabbit can
escape.
It is economical, simple and safe when
applied with the Fumo Dust Blower.
Write now for full particulars.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Utd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Ueggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, L,td., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane
West Austratia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Utd., Perth.
fd
The BEST SADDLE
«o>w
•-.C
in the world
is the
'Genuine
Wieneke.
It is the strongest and
the most comfortable
for both rider and
horse.
Write now for my new book.
John J. Wieneke,
C/o JOHN BRUSH
WHY WASTE MONEY
ON AN INFERIOR
SADDLE ?
371 George St.,
SYDNEY.
And 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“FY7”: “Buuya” (B. 18/6/’25) asks
what fish beside trout have been introduced into
Australia. First and foremost, the accursed carp,
useless for eating and an inveterate destroyer of
small fry and the spawn of his Australian betters.
In many N.S.W. waters the carp is wiping out in-
digeneous fishes. In Victoria, the European perch,
another useless table fish, has taken command of in-
land waters, and is blamed for the giadual dis-
appearance of the Victorian blackfish in waters where
the latter once flourished. The only other imported
fish writer can think of is the gourami, a
pond or still-water fish, introduced into Queensland
by the late D. O’Connor. Dan, who was mentioned
i*n a 1 ecent Bulletin as having taken live specimens
of the Ccratod'KAi to London, brought the gourami
from Batavia, where they rank highly as a table fish.
Some were turned into the ponds at the Brisbane
Botanical Cardens, and others were planted in various
localities by their sponsor. Barring those in the
Gardens, 1 fancy nothing more was heard of them.
* * * *
“Piggsrfoo”: Will those who do know tell
those who don’t the best way to poison dingoes?
The blighters have got me groggy.
* * * *
"P, tiny a : Re crocodiles and alligators of
tlie North Queensland river mouths, Seldom is any
distinction made between tlie deadly man-eating
salt-water saurian and the smaller Johnson’s crocodile,
which is harmless and eats fish only. This croc,
never exceeds about seven feet in length, and is
a fresh-water variety. Northern settlers who know it
swim safely in the same pools and waterlioies as
the croc., and even bait it in sport.
“Wessol 7 : A recent writer has described
as the world's longest sword a. two-handed medixval
German weapon & feet. 10 inches in length. This is
a mere dagger compared with the tremendous
wooden swords used on certain occasions by the
natives of the Sepik River (New Guinea), of whic h
some good specimens are preserved in the Rabaul
.Museum. These run up to lift, and even 12ft. It
ought be supposed that they were merely ceremonial
weapons and not intended for actual use, but though
not employed in ordinary warfare they certainly
were used in duels. Two men, each armed with one
ol these huge swords, would fight till one or the
olner was killed.
“Nakli”: An announcement in a Sydney
paper that a migration of eels would take place
between 10 and 11 o’clock that morning from the
Prospect reservoir read like an interference by some
Water Hoard official witli the laws of Nature. Hut
tin' announcement was all in order. It is the
custom of the eels, it appears, to make their usual
removal to the sea when the reservoir overflows;
and as that occurrence was likely to take place,
judging by the rising level of the water, at the
time stated, an army of learned pedants was to go
to the spot -and watch proceedings. importance
was given to the matter because the habits of the
eel are still largely a mystery. Our charlady says
that in tlie Dungog district (N.S.W.) the eels
are born by spontaneous generation from tlie long
reeds by the river’s edge; in the absence of reeds
or rivers they find no inconvenience in coming into
being in the middle of a 20-acre paddock if there
is any thin damp grass growing in it. The fact
that sea eels were found far inland puzzled the
Romans, too, and they considered the creatures
bad their origin in horse-liair, maydew, rocks,
mud, the carcases of animals and Jove himself.
A race of eel-like men was known to the ancients,
inhabited the Andaman Islands, and was said to
lie oviparous. I met an Andaman Islander once, but
never dared to ask him it Iris mother laid eggs.
1 told the old lady from Dungog what the scientists
say about the origin of eels; that they breed, like
other fish, in the deep places of the sea, and after
two years of growth the offspring journey land-
ward, mounting the rivers and creeping over the
damp grass of the fields, and taking advantage
of every bit of moisture until they find quiet
pools of seclusion, even beyond the Dividing Range ;
but after listening gently she went on scrubbing
and made no further comment. That is her usual
answer when I quote opinions from printed books.
She is a repository of the lore of countless ages.
Only by using the left hand, says Pliny,, can one
pull snakes from their holes; a fact, our charlady
states, which is well known at Dungog. She
laughs quietly when she sees me trying to grow
things under gum-trees. Everybody knows, she
says, that at night-time the gum-tree exhales a
poison that is death to other plants, and my
experience with a whole succession of expensive
seedlings has only served to confirm her empirical
opinion. » "
* * ¥r *■
“The Rumpus”; Remarkable is the
memory of some horses. A Bananaland cocky was in
the habit of ill-treating a neddy of his because it
v ould not make itself amenable to his ways. After
years of struggling, he sold out and ‘ went to
Australia. Fifteen sumniers • later, on paying a
ff' ing visit to the northern State, he looked up the
selection he had pioneered. Things were on the
droughty side at the time, and the stock was being
fed, among it being the horse that had tasted so
much of the lash in former years. It was con-
tentedly feeding out of a box when its former
owner arrived, and though it had not sighted him
began to sniff suspiciously. As soon as it was posi-
tive the torturer was present, it refused to take
another bite until he had' departed.
“A.F.”: A question often asked is “Where
does the black cockatoo build its nest?” I’ve spent
most of my life in the hunting line, and not until
last month did I come across a black cockatoo’s
home, and then I found seven—four one day and
thiee the next. I looked in three of the nests and
m each, was one egg with a white shell. The nests
were exactly like those of the white cockatoos, being
built in a hollow tree and on dirt. My find was
made on the Wool gar River (Q.), and seems to
settle the suggestion that these birds build on
high and isolated mountains.
“Cully”: “W.J.C.” (B. 16/4/25) *asserts
that banana pollen is abortive, and that the fruit
bears no seeds. Here, at_ the back of Cairns (Q.),
wild bananas grow abundantly in the scrubs; the
stools, especially in the gullies, make a magnificent
show. The bunches of fruit —often three feet in
length—are to all outward appearance the same as
the southern variety, but the fruit is very bitter to
the taste and is packed with seeds black in color
and about the same size as cabbage seeds. Can
anyone tell me if the wild northern plant is the
ancestor of the seedless, succulent fruit of the south?
A NOTHER CONVERT.
“I only wish Tom Walsh’d Tic up this one:”
“X2X”: There is nothing very remarkable
about “Gelto’s” remedy for healing cuts, practised
by the New Guinea native (13. 2/7/’26). Burning
.grass around the wound simply makes the latter
sterile by killing the organisms in its neighborhood,
although there is a possibility of the wound becoming
reinfected shortly afterwards. The method is one
that was extensively used in civilised surgery up
to the time of Louis Pasteur and Lord Lister, it
being the practice for surgeons to sear new wounds
with an iron that was often heated red hot. An alterna-
tive method, frequently employed in Asia at the present
day, is to pour hot oil into a cut or wound. In
either case the remedy is more or less useless- unless
the injury is covered over to prevent the re-
introduction of organisms likely to produce toxaemia
or septicaemia.
“Caesar”: A young farmer at Linvilte
(Q.) woke up at night with a violent pain in the
head. He sought the cause and found the crushed
body of a red-baclced spider on his pillow; it had
apparently dropped from the ceiling on to his face
and bitten him. Next morning be grew weak in
the arms and legs. Ilis mate hailed me across the
flooded Brisbane River and asked me to tell the
young man’s father, which I did. The old man,
David .1. Carseldine, one of the pioneers of the
Upper Brisbane River and over 60 years of age,
requisitioned a bottle of brandy and rode down to the
river, which was then running like a millpond.
His horse had never crossed water before, and David
had done no swimming for 30 years. Rider and
steed soon parted company in the river, but old
Dave stuck to the bottle and kept going. Though
nearly exhausted when he reached the opposite shore,
lie arrived at the house in good time and fixed his
son up by rubbing the spider bite with brandy. Then
he went round the house and flattened out all the
red-backed spiders to be seen.
* * * #
“H.J.J.”: A Richmond (N.S.W.) farmer
who lost heavily in the recent floods included the
children's pet pony in the toll of the waters until
they receded and gave him a chance to look round.
In a loft above the stables he discovered tile pony,
and, incidentally, a fair-sized hole in a stack of
unshelled corn. The wise little horse had clambered
up the steep stairway leading from the stable to
the loft, which at the height of the flood still re-
mained a foot above water. It took ropes, tackle
and a good deal of persuasion combined with
the efforts of three men to bring the pony back to
earth.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Recently I tested the theory
that lost people travel in a circle, and conclude
that the direction depends on the physical character-
istics of the man who gets lost. During a wheel-
barrow race at our Darwin (N.T.) sports I found
that every right-handed man diverged to the left
when blindfolded, and that the left-handed men
(there were three) swerved to the right. I whispered
a hint to one left-handed fellow, to bear to the
left all the time. He did so, and travelled direct to
the goal. He informed me afterwards that he felt
absolutely sure he was going away from and not
to the goal. The variation among the other men
ranged from inches to yards, the widest divergence
being made by one right-handed young fellow, the
accuracy of whose unblinded eyes is the envy ot
his work mates. He went nearly at right angle-
to the goal. I also consider that the direction
depends, to some extent, on the spread of a
man’s stride. A man walking with feet widelv
turned out will have probably an error greater
than that of a man who walks with feet normally set.
X * *
8.8. : 1 lip idea that aborigines carried
torches at night to
scare away spirits is
only true in part. It
must be remembered
that in the days when
matches were not pro-
curable the making of
fire was difficult, en-
tailing arduous rub-
bing together of cer-
tain wood, and tribes
therefore always car
ried burning sticks
along with them when
they removed to better
hunting- or fishing-
grou n d s. It conse-
quently became a cus-
tom for even a. hunt-
ing-party to travel
with torches if it were
likely to sleep away
from the camping-
ground. Aborigines on
trek saw spirits in all
things, arid were not:
as scared of them as
people suppose. They
had more fear of their
totems than of unseen
tilings. For instance,
if your totem was the
little brown lizard, and
you found him crawl-
ing on your arm, you
kn e w you were a
“goner” before many
days. I remember a
little aborigine waking
his father to tell him
that a spirit was mov-
ing beside him. “Go
to sleep, .Tacky,” said
his father. “The spirit
will not harm you. It
likes to be near you. It
is of one who loved you.”
* . * * *
“Up Top”: “Nomad’s” (B. IS/G/’25) ball
of dazzling light which entered a Victorian school-
room during a thunderstorm was almost certainly
the curious electric display known to sailormen as
St. Elmo’s light. These uncanny fireballs play on
the mast-tips and run along the yardarms during a
storm when the air is charged with electricity. The
cause is not yet thoroughly understood by science.
In appearance they usually take the form of a
moving ball of greenish-blue light. Cases have been
recorded in Australia where the balls have run along
the roofs of houses and the branches of dead trees
during a bad storm. I saw only one display per-
sonally, and that was during a sudden tropical storm
on the N.Q. coast. My mate and 1 were sheltering
under an overhanging granite boulder jutting from
the mountain crest. Close by were some very wide
ironstone reefs, but whether they were in any way
responsible for the display we saw I don’t know.
In the height of the storm three vigorous fireballs
came bouncing along the. crest. Backwards, for-
wards and across they moved in a sort of hopping
roll. Never stationary, they distinctly hissed at
times, and repeatedly shot out brilliant tongues of
white-and-blue light. My mate and I weren’t at
all sorry when they disappeared as suddenly as they
had come.
A CROWDED HOUSE
SUSPECTED LODCER (to landlady) : “Madam.
do I LOOK as if I would take anyone in?”
LANDLADY : “No —you couldn’t. You’re far
too full of yourself.”
“Shellback”: We have, in Bananaland, a
prolific secondary scrub growth of the hibiscus family
which reaches to over 20ft. in height, quite quickly.
The bark strips off for the whole length, and when
shredded and twisted to the thickness of fencing
wire defies anyone to break it with a legitimate
pull. It will tie or knot without cracking, and
as far as I can discern is longer in staple, finer
in texture and stronger than sisal hemp; also it is
just as white when bleached.
TO THE ROVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You may follow suns of summer days and stars of
old desire
<*n ranges crossed by many winds and scarred by
flood and fire;
You may swing along the lonely ways where gaunt
grey bushes stand,
To seek the god Contentment in the Never Never
land ;
But no matter how far out you swing, how swift the
rivers flow,
on can’t elude the restless heart that bids you
further go.
It leads you to the further back, where all the
plains are bare
And Summer goes by laughing, dead blossoms in her
ha i r !
It lures you to the Further Out—blue seas and
laughing sky—
And the foam a-swirl where the long trails cross
and the ships of the world go by.
To the birthest East, to the furthest West, wherever
the lands are wide,
Von roam the world on your endless quest, with
your heart unsatisfied.
You may laugh aloud when the breakers dash
where the rooky headlands rise,
You may thrill when the vivid lightnings flash in
the depths of the murky skies;
And a song may rise to your careless lips, when the
sun is on the bay
And your feet are set on the trackless lands and
the strange untrodden way.
But there is no peace in all the world for roving
heart and mind—.
There’s a calling voice on all the roads, a song
in every wind ;
And all the tracks are new and strange, where strange
hearts meet and cross,
And neither knows, and neither counts, the other’s
gain or loss.
For as long as the ways are wide enough, and as
long as the breakers roll,
SLANGUAGE.
“It’s just lovely the way you boys calls one
another BO-peep, but I can’t understand
you eating grape-shot for breakfast.”
The rover will go on his lonely way and pass the
kindred soul.
To the furthest South, to the furthest North, to the
• lands where the desert night,
Like a beautiful pagan god, conies forth to brood
on the cloudless height,
You turn and turn, and your steps lead far—for the
desolate lands are wide—
You follow the sun and the moon and the star with
the curse of the rest-denied.
For the tracks are long and the ways are new,
and there's ever the calling ships,
With the wanderlust in the heart of you, and a song
on your careless lips.
S. A.
D. M. GILMORE.


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also lib. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
1
SOAP has
QSS
Ifi?.
k T’ransP
•tN.iK
stood for the highest achievement
in soapmaking for more than a century.
Try this delightful Soap and know the
charm of its actual use in your daily life
A. &c F. PEARS, Ltd.
P-92
“Azac” : At least 18 places in N. S. Wales
have experienced over 15 inches of dampness in one
day of 24 hours. Prominent among them are Cordeaux
River, 22.58 in. (1898), Morpeth, 21.52 in. (1893) and
South Head, Sydney, 20.12 in. (1841), and 20.41 in
(1844). But Queensland boasts 130 localities which
have had more than 15in. in a day. Orohamhurst
(Blackall Range), on Feb. 2, 1899, registered 29
points short of one yard’s rain—35.71 in., and on
an extra-damp day in 1911 Harvey Creek recorded
2ft. 3.75 in. ; Cairns 2ft. 4.80 in. ; and Port Douglas
2ft. 7.53 in. Westraiia’s best is Whim Creek (1898),
29.41 in., although Fortescue (1890) with 23.36 in.
and Thangoc (1898) with 24.18 in. are passable. The
Speck, with 14ft. at Lottah in 1911, is a long way
in the rear, and no part of Vic. or South Aus. has
exceeded 15in. in 24 hours since weather-gauges
were set up.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: Cakes of dried fish are a
staple food on the New Guinea coasts and in
neighboring islands. They are made chiefly of white-
bait, though a fish resembling the sardine is some-
times used. The tiny fish swarm at the river and
(reek mouths about October in each year and are
captured in fine hand nets. They are then wrapped
in banana leaves and baked over a slow fire; when
well dried-out the leaves are removed and the
cooking is completed in the smoke. The result is
a cake about 15in. x lOin. and about one inch
thick. These cakes are stored or bartered with
natives of places where fish is not obtained. In a
few places, notably the Sepic and Ramu deltas, elvers
are captured at the river and lagoon mouths as they
are passing in from the sea to the fresh water. These
are treated in the same way. In the districts
mentioned, certain customs are rigidly observed
during the fishing, and also for a week before the
time the elvers are expected to make their appear-
ance, which is, almost to a day, the same time
each year. The women sleep apart from the menfolk
during this period, and no intercourse whatever takes
place between them. Breach of this rule is believed
to result in a poor catch, and woe betide the guilty
pair or any couple on whom suspicion rests.
BORN TO BLUSH UNSEEN.
“Coolabah”: An interesting little creature
whose cheerful chirping is often heard after rain is
the mole cricket. As with the cicada, it is the
male that pipes, the song being addressed to the
absent lady. Young crickets, creamy white in
color and bearing the noticeable tails (or cerci) but
not the antennae of the adult, frequently leave the
parental nest under a log or stone, and find their
way to the old pot’s underground home. Here they
soon mature, growing two pairs of wings witn
hard edges which, when rubbed together, produce
a chirping sound much intensified by the enclosed
excavation. The mole cricket wears its ears on
its front legs.
* * * *
“Sylvester”: Can any bushman tell me
how it is that white
ants never touch grow-
ing i»ine, though they
are so fond of it when
dry? Almost all hard-
woods of over sft. girth
in S.-E, Bananaland
have, when cut. white
ants in their hearts. 1
have seen a few hol-
low-butted pines but
never one containing
white ants ; and timber-
getters tell me that the
ants are never found
in the growing wood.
X believe cypress pine
almost wholly resists
their inroads, even
when dry, but bunya
pine, kauri pine and
hoop pine seem to be
the termites’ favorite
food, with a preference
for the last, which hap-
pens to be our most
plentiful softwood.
During 20 years at the
building trade I have
repaired a considerable
number of buildings
damaged by white ants,
and have never found
any other timber seri-
ously affected in build-
ings that also contained
either bunya, kauri or
hoop pine. Is it some
poison in the sap that
keeps the termite out
of g'reen pine, and is
it a sense of smell that
directs them between
the walls to attack
pine used only in the
roof ?
* *
“W ingcll a”:
There are two types
of bandicoot, one a
small burrower, dig-
ging tunnels and living
in small communities
like rabbits, and the
other a larger animal that forms a grass-nest simi-
lar to that of a kangaroo-rat but is often known
to take shelter in hollow logs. These grass-bandi-
coots are delicious eating, the flesh being white and
very tender. 1 have known a dog swallow a young
one whole, but the ground-burrowing bandicoot is
not, as a rule, eaten, even by the blacks. Like the
kangaroo-rat, both burrowing- and grass-bandicoots
arc clothed with hair.
* * * *
“Slam”: The abos. liad some gruesome
death ceremonies. The Encounter Bay blacks (S.A.)
used to place the body of the departed one in a
sitting position over a slow lire of embers and tied
to a raised wooden frame in a life-like position.
The tribe then sat around chanting while the drip
of melting fat fed the flames. The Mullas used to
Kill all male prisoners of war, smoke the bodies dry,
and bind them to trees surrounding the. tribal camp*
as warning or insult to their enemies. The Ivurnai
tribe did not bury its dead, but the corpse was
rolled in a ’possum-skin rug enclosed in bark and
tightly bound up with cords. This package was
unrolled some days later, and the hair of the corpse
removed and given to the relatives. When quite
corrupt, the fat was taken to anoint the surviving
warriors of the tribe, and the body was then bound
up again and often carried with the tribe from
camp to camp.
* * * *
“Guinea” : The mounds “Goolara” saw in
the belah forest near Gulargambone (B. 2/7/’2o) were
built by brush-turkeys ( Talegallus lathami ), not
by maJlee-hens. The mallee-fowl (Lipoa ocellata)
is a different genus, and is found only in southern
and western Australia. A remarkable thing about the
mallee-hen is the methodical manner in which she
sets about her job. Before laying an egg she scrapes
a hole in the nesting mound. After laying, she places
the egg upright in the hole, the smaller end down,
with one foot; with the other foot she scrapes sanl
round till it can stand alone; then she covers it
over completely. Her eggs are disposed regularly
round the mound before a second tier is started, and
the avian methodist then places her eggs opposite
the spaces between those of the first. The lady s
methodical habits could not be improved on.
“Riwaka”: “F.A.'s” par. (B. 21/5/'25)
concerning a wallaby hopping up during a fox-hunt
near Tring, in Hertfordshire, prompts me to say that
several other Austi'alians are to be found at Tring. Most
of them are specimens in the museum which was
maintained for many years by Walter Rothschild. In
the neighboring park I have seen emus that were
more beautifully feathered than any seen by me in
captivity in Australia. I cnee counted seven emus in
a group feeding in this spot, two being full-grown
birds and two about half-grown. The remaining
three were much younger. Rothschild also tried to
breed wallaby, but the experiment was not a success.
When I was last in the neighborhood, some five
years ago, none were left. Tring is on the border
of Buckingham and Hertfordshire, and probably
wallaby could not live in freedom through a winter
there. In that season, and in early spring, the
beechwoods of the hills are bare, cold and wet.
* * * *
“H.L.N.”: Can anyone explain why black
swans assemble in force at Deewhy Lagoon to the
exclusion of all other lagoons along the N.S.M.
FLEETITS.
WAYFARER: “You know where (hie) Joe Winer lie’sh?"
FRIEND: “Hang it, man, you're Joe Winer!"
WAYFARER: “Yesh, that's orlri'sh; hut where th' hellsh he (hie)
lire?"
coast, from Terrigal to Stanwell Park? At Terri-
gal, Avoca, Mona Vale, Narrabeen, Curl Curl, Manly
and Wattamolla there are many of these lagoons,
yet the swans foregather in numbers at Deewhy
only, although the place is becoming suburban, and
the peace of the lagoon is shattered by the clanking
of passing - trams and the honk and splatter of
motors. There must be some strong spell to bind
the wanderers to this back-yard environment in
preference to the comparative seclusion of, for in-
stance, the upper reaches of Narrabeen Lake. I
favor the theory that the lagoon at Deewhy is well
supplied with some food particularly fancied by the
swan species. Perhaps it is as well that the birds
stick to this spot, as its publicity has at least the
advantage of deterring the gun- and rifle-hogs, who
would most likely work havoc amongst them if they
could be come upon in a quiet spot.
* * * *
“T.G.8.”: “Munjoiig” (B. 18/0/’25) says
it was proved that the goats on Guadeloupe Island
regularly drank seawater; and suggests that the
Walpole Island goats do likewise. Emphatically no!
The island rises sheer out of the sea 800 ft., there
being only one track leading to the top, and that
comes out near the company’s phosphate works, of
which the goats would not be within coo-ee. AT
stores were hauled to the top on a flying-fox by
a steam-winch, a section of old Melbourne tramway .
cable supplying the aerial wire. There is no doubt -
the only moisture the goats got was contained in
the herbage they ate. There is another point
about this island worth mentioning: though 300 ft.
high, it is practically all coral formation. On the
best authority it has been proved that coral insects
do not work deeper than 100 ft., yet here we have
300 ft. of coral above sea level. Geologists think the
coral was originally built up to the surface from
100 ft. below, and then subsiding 100 ft. was re-built
to the surface. Again subsiding 100 ft. it was once
more built to the surface, and subsequently the whole
was hoisted up 300 ft. by an eruption. What helps
this theory is that at the 100 ft. and 200 ft. levels
are two distinct lines of demarkation or joins, run-
ning right round the island.
“Nikko”: “Grigatre” (B. 11/6/’25) is
right—the rainbow is a tripstone for the unwary.
A common error is to describe the reflection of the
bow in the sky as a “second rainbow’,” whereas a
careful scrutiny will reveal that in the fainter bow’
the colors are reversed. Even Millais, keen nature
student though he was, made this mistake, and in
his “Blind Beggar” painted a double rainbow’. When
a friendly critic pointed out the error, Millais was
astounded, but a careful examination of the next
double rainbow’ lie saw convinced him that he would
have to change the order of the colors in the second
bow.
“Maccabee”: While catfish are under dis-
cussion, can any member of the Council inform me
what a male catfish looks like? I have caught thou-
sands of “eel-tails,” and opened many hundreds in
the spawning season, yet I never came across a single
individual with a male roe. Admitting the female ot
the species to be the more voracious, the entire
absence of male captives from my collection must be
due to some natural phenomenon, and not to meie
chance.
* * * *
“Warialda”: Those who think that the
frogs and other living creatures alleged to fall from
time to time in showers of rain come from beyond
the confines of our earth (B. 18/6/’ 25) might
some confirmation of their views in the curious
“thumb-marks” not uncommon on meteorites. These
are noticeable on many of the N. S. Wales meteorites
in ttie Sydney Mining Museum. They look exactly
.me the marks made by pressing the thumb into
uot_.li. ISo generally accepted explanation of their
origin has yet been given.
x- * * *
“Yarrum” : They reckon there is a black
sheep in everv flock; but I once saw a flock of tlnee
or four hundred, and not a white among them. The
jumbucks belonged to Hunter White, of llavilah.
They were a distinct breed, and he had them on trial,
but I believe has since passed them out, as they
were difficult to shear on account of the black, skin ;
also, the wool didn’t bring as much as that of the
other brand of fleece-bearers.
* -X- * *
“C.Il.”: At Karridale (W.A.) in 181)0 the
foreman of the M. C. Davies co.’s timber mill gave
me some interesting items from his notebook. One
tree to the first branch measured 123 ft., and cut
into four lengths, 15ft., 20ft., 30ft. and 58ft. The
58ft. length had an average girth of 13ft. lOin. Its
cubic measurement was 887 ft., and it yielded 1/
loads of sawn timber. The weight of this log was 33
tons; it was carried by a two-wheeled whim, drawn
by bullocks. Another tree felled was 200 ft. long,
and 160 ft. to the first branch, its circumference at
the first branch being 16ft. I was shown the great
tree locally known as “King Karri.” Its circum-
ference at the base was 34ft., and it measured 150 ft.
to the first branch, where the trunk was 15ft. in
girth. The length of the whole tree was a little
over 200 ft., and it was expected to yield 117 loads
of timber (this was a few days before it was cut
down), or about 300 tons of wood. I was also
informed that there were then karri-trees near
ttie Blackwood River 400 ft. in height.
* * * *
“Maccabee” : “X.N.0.” (B. 25/6/’25) sue-
eeeds in compressing* some glaring misstatements ot
fact into the compass of one small par. Tropical condi-
tions do not extend “much further south of the
equator than they do north.” The reverse is the
case. For example, most of Morocco and Tripoli
and the whole of Algeria, Tunis and Mesopotamia
occupy latitudes corresponding with those of N.S.Vv.
and part of Victoria. Fez and Bagdad are on
about the same parallel as Sydney, while Cairo and
Basra (one of the hottest spots on earth) are the
northern counterparts of Brisbane. As far as tropica. 1 ,
and sub-tropical regions are concerned, astronomical
factors regulating summer temperatures in any pai
titular spot are subordinate to topographical factors,
such as elevation above sea-level, proximity to the
sea, and ocean currents. Hence the presence of ice
and snow on the equatorial ’plateaux of Central Africa,
and the so-called “tropical” heat recently experienced
in such high latitudes as London. Seasonal varia-
tions of temperature have nothing whatever to do
with the distance of the earth from the sun; they
are due to the changes in the angle at which the
sun’s rays meet the earth’s surface at a given
latitude, consequent on the obliquity of the planet >
avis to the plane of its orbit round the luminary.
As a matter of fact, on Dec. 21, the southern
A SKINFLINT.
“Is Cohen very mean?”
“He's so darned mean that he even hates
you to have a laugh at his expense!”
hemisphere’s longest day, the earth is three million
miles or thereabouts further from the sun than on
September 23, the spring equinox; while on the
first day of summer in the northern hemisphere, this
globe of ours is also at its maximum distance from
the centre of the system. Increased thickness of
the atmospheric layer has but an infinitesimal retard-
ing influence on the ' heating effect of the sun’s
rays, otherwise it would tend to be hotter cn the
high tablelands than on the plains.
SPATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Men in Australia should lose no time in adopting
;pats and gloves as part of their attire.”- —Remarks
if lady returning from, visit to Europe.
If a highly polished gentleman you’d be,
Quite up-to-date, immaculate and neat,
You must follow Fashion’s rigorous decree,
And wear grey spats upon your “plates of meat.’
Not that alone will bring you into grace
With her who from Old England’s shore arrives;
One other innovation you must face—
Wear lemon kids upon your “bunch of fives.”
We’ve had a proper lead from Stanley Bruce
And G.-G. Forster, who have shown the way
To dress, if we’d be debonair and spruce,
And live beneath fair Fashion’s fickle sway.
So, when you’re driving round the rabbit cart.
And yelling “Wi’, wi’ rabbee” till you’re blue,
Gird up your feet with spats before You start,
And don your chamois gloves of lemon hue.
Lounge lizards will be grateful for the tip,
And, in these marks of polish all arrayed,
Imbibing their Martinis sip by sip,
Will seem as if from Bond-street they have strayed.
And when you hump Matilda down the track,
With corks on strings a-dangling from your lid,
You’re simply not de rigger if you lack
Your knutty spats and gloves of lemon kid.
N.S.W.
SNOWY SCOTT.


Il
§i fi
o or*
n
X
C/3
¥
\Wfv
fl'.W. Bi -bL'“
<
r>
F*
m
CD
6S
to
\v
OD
pS
\SSS
5«0.
1 .Wfe'> s
I
f=\\ \ %/\X
'/!,). hi, It
V!
m
VM
-V\>.\ \
m
i
/i.
w/
si
<aiS
wmm
m
w;>
n
m
A' \ -- M
i
I
«0y//<5
/////
i m«n
%
\,» f»^,. N r i>
1 - § i hlii!v‘
V/
wmm
v,
i
m
w
«W un
. S / *h\ <»'»
wm/L
Ok
m
nn 1 m
MS
tat
n. ii/iiliiiv
f §
I
/ M
am:
ji
w
HA \
m * sv
V/
lilv'\
\W
Ns
Mrs
<iI' M
VJL \
hm
A
= MW *
E
¥ v sl W
wiMr*
\N
Ill/lliU'
\
Hl l W
w\
\V\\
VV
w
g mu tim 1
\ \ W
mm
i \\'
i ■ *\.,- i
V \ • «*
////
w
-w
Vs=i \ am
-f
J A
¥.
li .
WMfMu
w
\J
\w
m
te »\«
i
\
gniiiit -
E»t!
oiiilin
f
Tfl
///l/W
ffV
Great Oaks from i
I Holdens Grow
From 12 fflodf esjjjt>!ss> T O|ol
Besides Motor-car Bodies,
Holden’s also manufacture Railway
Carriage and Tram-car Bodies, all of
undoubtedly high quality and at
lowest cost, because they are pro-
duced by most efficient methods,
from best Australian materials, by
skilled Australian workmen.
ai&r
9
t
MANUFACTURER
Head Office and Main Tfi
Branches:— Jfooc/vi/le,
&al£3»
%
m
iun
1°


tfeJtcorms Cw
O
fsrsr //•/r/'/’/vr^y'^
NIK
e
mu
v^XssSSg
WV
m
yrr.
V I.'MO
/o>rTfc
R e
j—2.y'i EE-,- 1 ' E l
»,7 n.. w4M
tsSS
j —?. ~ „ r * •■■- [ ■■•- i* **|| *r
lln.llilm
JTit:
II •
p\ln'll!i/li
tJiS'-UVHlrilllnllP 11
ski-Hr'
Mtvx
T^E-1
l3.44^^!Mlnii!ljUlL«rrtii!i
*= -
/ijr
-Cs f[li
3? "
,„.«“.* <: <"' . 5?
ST ~,ll' !^»r t
/*!!!
‘>* *."• ,o» '
If" C* * ,»<'"’ ~rf** Sn‘ ’ -yi
3g
*<* 21 •'
rHfw
■?’ f
IP
■ trims -sjtmt
gross of Motor PodyMdiiig
mJtmmlia
How the Nation Benefits.
The benefits of Holden’s to Australia are beyond
computation. This huge organisation—the largest
of its kind in the British Empire outside of Canada
—-provides employment for thousands of skilled
Australians and home comforts for their families.
Its ramifications practically control every source of
supply, resulting in erreater value to every purchaser
of a car with a “Holden’* body.
Australians
Benefit in Employment
Production.
1917. 1918.
Capital (1919) £25,000. ...
Floor space . . . . . . 11,872 sq. ft.
Total number of employees . . 19
Value of annual wages paid . . £3,706 —*
Bodies produced . . . . 617
Value of output . . . . £9,617
Estimated number of employees in outside organisations
producing material for Holden's . .
and
1924-’25.
£492,500
40 acres
2,600
£491,000
35,000
£2,000,000
5,000
Every “Holden” Body used, increasing the volume
of production, makes possible still better and
cheaper “Holden” Bodies for Australian motorists.
rBodyBuilders
tITED
STANDARDIZED MOTOR BODIES
*sKin</ William SiA<Jclaide t SoulhAustralia.
4. Melbourne. Sydney and Brisbane.
1
0


n
\
WAX Your Floors
and they'll be beautiful
easy to take care of
will not heel print
Won't be .slippery
UUITH waxed floors expensive refinishing is
’ ' never necessary, for walked-on places can
be easily and quickly rewaxed as worn spots
appear without going over the entire floor
JOHNSON’S
Pasfe ~Liouid - Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
Johnson’s Polishing Wax imparts a hard, dry, velvety
finish which is impervious to water, dust, scratches,
heel-marks, finger prints, etc. It cleans, polishes, pre-
serves and protects —all in one operation.
JOHNSON’S LIQUID WAX is the ideal furniture polish.
It imparts a hard, dry, glass-like lustre which will not
gather dust and lint, or show finger prints* Johnson’s
Liquid Wax takes all the drudgery from dusting. It
adds years to the life and beauty of varnish.
YOUR LINOLEUM will last longer—look better and clean easier
if polished occasionally with Johnson’s Paste or Liquid Wax.
JOHNSON'S
PREPARED WAX
: JSgssssJ&£F ,Km^^
I I- LOOKS LINOLEUM CJOHNSON&SOM
WOODWORK
(furniture
- SHOES
liAUTQMQBIL ES *
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia—
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
from your local dealer—write us, mentioning his name
and we will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by AS
S. C JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.
A. SAUNDERS’
Reliable Lever Watches
/
%
'
Wi,'.
■ - ■
m
REDUCED PRICES
(Jent.’s Nickel Open-face f-plate
Lever, 20/-
Nickrl Open-face f-plate Jewelled Lever,
25/-
Nickel Open-face f-plate Non-magnetic
Time Spring, 30/-
Nickel Open-face f-plate, Compensa-
tion Balance, Non-magnetic Lever, 1-2.
Nickel Open-face f-plate, Extra Jew-
elled Compensation Balance, Non-
magnetic Lever, £2/10/-
Nickel Open-face f-plate, Extra Jew-
elled, Non-magnetic Lever, £3.
Gent.’s Hunting
Keyless Lever.
Solid Silver English Hall-marked
Case, f-plate, Non-magnetic, Imperial
Movement, £2/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £3, £4, £5 , £7/10/-
10-year Guarantee Gold-filled Case,
£2/10/-
20-year Case, £5.
25-year Case, £6/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Solid Gold Case. High-grade Lever Movement, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O,
£3O, £4O, £45, £5O. ALL GUARANTEED.
WATCH BOOK SENT FREE. WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS
MUSIC LOVERS are hereby requested to obtain the following OPERATIC
and GILBERT & SULLIVAN MASTERTOUCH WORD ROLL'
SELECTIONS:—
Ballads.
D.l 095 Sympathy.
D. 1116 Hats Off to the Stoker.
D.l 124 In the Garden of To-
morrow.
I). 1125 Queen of the Earth.
I).1126 Lead, Kindly Light.
H. 1128 Danny Boy.
D. 1129 Down Here.
D.l 130 The Little Irish Girl.
D. 1131 Little Mother of Mine.
D.l 133 Two Little Irish Songs.
D.l 134 Funiculi Funicula.
D.l 136 Heart’s Desire.
Operatic Numbers.
D. 1096 Favorite Strains from
“La Tosca.”
D. 1097 Cavalleria Rusticana.
D. 1120 The Merry Widow.
Waltzes.
D. 1099 I’m Drifting Back to
Dreamland.
D.l 111 Haunting Melody.
D. 1122 The Midnight Waltz.
Fox Trots and One Steps,
D. 1103 Where the Lazy Daisies
Grow.
D. 1104 Home in Pasadena.
D. 1105 Oh, Katharina.
D. 1106 Oh, Tokio.
D.llOB Titina.
D. 1109 From One Till Two.
D.lllO I’ll See Yon in My
Dreams.
D. 1112 Will You Remember
Me?
D. 1113 No Wonder (That I
Love You).
D. 1114 Catalina Island and
You.
D. 1117 Paddy Maloney.
D.lllB My Best Girl.
D. 1119 Somebody Stole My
Gal.
D. 1123 Zillali.
D. 1127 Sob Sister Sadie.
D. 1132 MyMurrumbidgee Rose.
D. 1135 Follow Yvette.
Marches.
D. 1098 Hearts and Heroes.
D. 1107 Vanguard March.
D. 1115 American Fleet March.
D. 1121 Australian March Med-
ley.
All of these selections are beautifully played aud should appeal to the most
discriminating musician.
Obtainable from all MASTERXOUCH MUSIC ROLL Dealers.
MASTERTOUCH
rtand Ptaxed
-.y v \ usic Rolls
are the
LATEST aisid BEST
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
v Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.


kin
Mil
£P»f
till
l! lifiii
iliiiit
list u
n i
Sjw
/
L
If You Intend Visiting Melbourne
Stay at the
SPRING STREET, MELBOURNE.
Every possible feature that means REAL service to
guests has been both thought of and put into effect.
Spacious and magnificent Lounges, Smoking and
Writing Rooms, Banquet and Reception Rooms are
here, and every Bedroom has its own Telephone and
Hot and Cold Water service.
Adding to the pleasure that comes of these complete
appointments and the high standard of comfort and
service, is the restful and convenient location of the
“Windsor,” amid stately buildings and picturesque
gardens, yet but a short distance from the principal
stores and theatres.
Minimum Tariff from 20/-
(inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 13/6.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
’Phone Cent. 9260. Manager: B. C. Jones.
ď
SwAuow ( Arkus
Plum Puddings
7907
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
A
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
This Chatterer always was a Jonah. Slio
arrived bright and early, along with many
others, extra woollies on and furred to the
eyebrows*, to await the departure of the
Weeroona to see the incoming of the Flout.
Digging themselves into sheltered possies,
the early comers rolled up in rugs to await
the hum of the engines. l)own in the bowels
of the ship, however, the four firemen were
concocting a special brand of joke to en-
liven the proceedings, and immediately after
the Hygeia, the State Government’s steamer,
had moved off with its expectant freight,
they walked ashore, declaring they were
smarting so intolerably under the indignities
heaped upon Thomas Walsh by the Prime
Minister that they couldn’t stoke the fur-
nace. The captain’s sworn declaration that
the offending Bruce was not on board fell
on deaf ears. They required a guarantee
of £lOO that this was so; and also an
apology. The alleged cause of their distress
was in his office, miles away, and as neither
apology nor cash materialised, 096 would-
be celebrants remained tied up at a dingy
frier at Port Melbourne, with nought but
the seagulls’ cry and the hum of aeroplanes
to cheer them.
Presently, however, the marooned got a
glimpse of cruisers and a line of submarines
emerging from a storm-tossed sea. There
was no “Star-spangled Banner,” for the
hand had disappeared, but tea helped to
smooth out ruffled feathers. The friendli-
ness of the welcome was tempered by an
Arctic wind and the parsimoniousness of
those responsible for the decorations. Wee
pennons hung across the trail traversed
during the visitors’ march on Friday;
the outside thoroughfares wore their usual
everyday decorum. Thousands of spectators,
however, adorned the foreshores, festooned
the buildings and made up for the lack of
festive bunting in the streets. Within a
couple of hours after the Seattle’s anchoring
the city was dotted with the culinary-look-
ing caps of the Yankee sailors, and in cold
drizzling rain they wandered around making
new friends and finding liquid refreshment.
Enterprising small boys rushed them to buy
souvenirs, and “Welcome to Australia” but-
tons were rather quaintly pressed upon them
as things they couldn’t do without.
An accident which might have been a ter-
rible tragedy stepped on to the stage made
gay for the Fleet festivities just as the 2000
sailors of the American Fleet were passing
through the streets: under the weight of
the people standing upon it, the cantilever
verandah in front of Hoyt’s and some busi-
ness premises in Bourke-street crashed
down upon the crowd below. Only that
the heavy structure disengaged itself from
its supports slowly numbers of people must
have been killed ; as it is, although at the
time of writing there have been no deaths,
over 100 people were injured, some very
seriously, and shock has affected more still.
Through the dust of the smash a regula-
tion prohibiting people from standing upon
these street verandahs grinned grimly at the
police who had failed to enforce it.
The American visitors turned to and
helped in the rescue work while the proces-
sion marked time and the plumes and epau-
lets stood waiting at the saluting-base.
For three-quarters of an hour the G.-G.,
Lord Stradbroke and seven admirals
waited the men’s coming on the footpath of
Federal Government House, and the largest
crowd Melbourne has yet turned out stood
while the chill of wet stone penetrated their
soles, watching the ambulances doing a thriv-
ing business in faints and the police picking
up fair swooners. The arrival of limousines
with navy and military ’eads in the grandeur
of full-dress uniform relieved the tedium of
waiting. Great settling of millinery went
on as the cars delivered their manly freight,
for plumed and cockaded head-dresses date
from the days when Henry Ford was not.
Poor dear Captain Mulholland, of the G.-G.’s
staff, had a trying time with his headpiece,
and he and Captain Keppell Palmer in their
war-paint were a joy to the multitude. The
thrill was the guard-of-honor, all six-footers
and all Anzacs of the Royal Australian
Artillery. As these khaki-clad soldiers
swung along with bayonets upraised, every
Aussie’s chest swelled with pride. The visi-
tors, headed by seven of our mounted police
on white horses, got a good reception, though
young Australia didn’t forget to pull up the
out-of-step, or to greet a horn-rimmed spec-
taclecl officer with “Hello, Harold!’’ The
12000 well-earned the substantial meal served
them after their strenuous morning.
Columbia’s coat-of-arms, picked out in
colored lights, and her golden eagle hovered
above the proscenium of 11 is Majesty’s stage
on Saturday night, when there was a gala
performance of “Kid Boots’’ freshly shined,
with some tine tableaux depicting four
outstanding epochs in ’Murca’s history and
a brilliant pageant of Australia greeting
the Navy thereof. Real gobs took part in
the final splurge, and one of their own ship’s
bands played their own “Star-spangled.” The
eagle looked down on a house crammed with
distinction, culture, and naval, military and
political pom]), and on a theatre which was
a bower of Aussie’s wild flowers and foliage.
The map of the New World ceilinged the
dome, circled with lanterns starred and
striped, and huge Aussie flags and Oild
dory draped each side of the proscenium.
Chin-deep in the splendor were Admiral
Coontz, his wife, their daughter and niece ;
Prime Minister and Mrs. Bruce, the Gaud
Mayoralties, Harry Chauvel and his lady,
John Monash, Miss Bentwich, the Littleton
Groom pair, droves of Consuls and their help-
mates, and a color scheme of naval and mili-
tary uniforms such as was never seen out
of ‘a futurist painting. America's sea-lions
expressed their opinion by rising and giving
three cheers and a tiger after the special
items, and carried off balloons, streamers and
a beautiful souvenir booklet; to show folks
back home what .a gala theatrical night
means in the newest world.
The love of horse seems not the strong
suit of the U.S. Navy, for though there was
glorious shine on Saturday' afternoon the
sons of the sea did not patronise the Moonee
Valley races in large numbers. A record
crowd of local sports, much smart dressing
and a course as pretty as a picture —green
grass, gum-trees and wattle a-blooming—made
a festival of the fixture. The events all bore
names associated with the belligerent craft
now occupying our bay, piers and docks;
was it prophecy then that Some War should
win the Seattle Handicap? Moonee Valley
Racing Club committee, which claims Alister
I. Clark as chairman, lunched the visiting
admirals, some officers and their womenfolk,
Priminister Bruce and his good-looking wife,
local luminaries and consular people. It was
a day of trim coat-’n’-skirt and furs, with
bright millinery. Mrs. Coontz was hatted in
black and wrapped in grey; Mrs. Norman
Anderson cheered a neat black frock and
millinery with touches of Oriental trimming,
topped by a pony fur coat; a musquash coat
and black velvet toque were worn by Mrs.
Alister Clark; navy frocking with wedgwood
blue ether waves, upon dark-blue headpiece
were Mrs. Walter Clark’s choice; and secre-
tary A. V’. Hiskens’s wife, who can say “this
is mine” of the M.V. racecourse, wore en-
semble suit of navy, much buttoned, and black
velvet toque. Madge and Eileen Taylor, from
Overnewton; Eiula Morton, wearing the
smartest of natural kasha coats and fawn
hat; Gertrude Dix, tailored in mole tones;
Nell Benjamin, one of this week’s debs.; and
Audrey Dickinson, who added grey gaiters
to navy frocking, were of the many charmers
of the younger set.
Mrs. .1. T. Tweddle, fixed here by Pegg
Clarke’s camera, is one of the artists repre-
sented in the exhibition of Australian pic-
tures at the
National Art
Gallery. A s
Isobel Hunter
she was a
National Gal-
lery student
under Bernard
Hall and
McGovern, and
she belongs to
the select little
body known as
“The Twenty
Painters,” who
hold annual
exhibit ions.
The Tweddle
II o m e of
Mothercraft at
Footscray,
which is run
on the lines of
the Plunkett
system, owes
its existence to the practical interest of
the talented colorist’s husband.
Muriel Starr and her much-increased com-
pany released “The Pelican” on Saturday
night before a good house, which gave the
rare bird a friendly welcome and Mrs.
Brough, Emma Temple, C. M. Hallard,
Arthur Styan and other old favorites an
extra clap. The tearful play, said to be
founded upon a sensational English divorce
case of a few years ago, allows of up-to-date
frocking. Muriel Starr as the injured wife
wears a smart navy coat with cherry-red
millinery; a fawn ensemble suit with knife-
pleated skirt set feminine hearts longing. An
enamel-green gown worn in the third act airs
sleeves that rival the Oxford bags for width.
Mrs. Brough’s black satin gown is relieved
with figured georgette and fringed; apricot
georgette adorned with gold lace is Eily
Malyon’s pretty covering.
The Palais de Danse at St. Kilda Beach
wore the glory of £l5OO worth of entirely
new interior decoration for the English-
speaking Union Ball on Monday night, and
the floor held up 2000 jazzers amid a palm
grove representing the Ambassadors’ Hotel,
Los Angeles. A bit of natural history was
supplied in model monkeys scaling trees for
cocoanuts. A special brand of artificial sun-
light shone upon the naval and civilian glit-
ter. America was in the van, headed by
Admiral Coontz and his lady. Mrs. Coontz
aired cosmos-pink gowning, bead-embroid-
ered, and a stole of ermine. Wearers of
these regal wraps were many, and much
white rabbit also appeared. Mrs. Bruce
looked charming in mauve draperies, Mrs.
Donald Mackinnon cheered black with gold,
the State Premier’s wife had crystal em-
broidery upon black satin, and some
sable bordering was Mrs. Gilbert Lodge’s
apparel. Mrs. Robert Knox glittered in gold
tissue and lace, and niece Miss Lindsay had
beaded finery; Mrs. Otway Falkiner was a
distinguished object in draped gown of gold
tissue; Miss Daintr.ee Fell, of Sydney, wore
Oriental beading upon saxe blue; and Margot
Judge, of Adelaide, had silver embroidery
upon pink. The Fraser lady, Mrs. MacMil-
lan, Mrs. VV. M. Robins, the Creswell dame
and Mrs. Tom Gray were a few of the Eng-
lish speakers glimpsed. There was only one
Ijlot on the otherwise wonderful hop. Some-
body had tried to spread the supper on a
postage-stamp or something, and lots of
hungry people never even viewed the feast
or got near enough to pick up the crumbs
that fell from the official table.
Here is Lafayette’s version of Mrs. Muriel
Perry Frame, Bendigo’s own poetess-
laureate ; she
has now won
the first prize
for an origi-
nal poem sub-
mitted to the
Bendigo com-
petitions for
the third year
in succession.
She was a
M e 1 b o urne
musician be-
fore she de-
cided to give
her school-
master hus-
band a hand
with his
classes at
Eastville. A
book of Aus-
tralian child-
ren's poems
wi t h Mr s.
Frame’s name on the cover is shortly to
see the light.
Kreisler stepped off the Adelaide-Sydney
train to play the “Kreutzer Sonata” as swan
song to an audience that hid all the seats
at the Auditorium on Thursday afternoon.
As usual there was rapt attention, and the
violinist departed amid much genuine regret.
Rev. Dr. Sugden, Mr. Russell Clarke, Mrs.
R. S. Whiting, Mrs. MacDevitt and Mrs.
Langlands Thomson were of the final fare-
wellers.
The dining-room of Cliveden Mansions
staged a reception given by Uncle Sam’s
acting Consul-General, Norman Anderson,
and his good-looking wife. Palms and small
orange-trees, fruit-laden, made attractive
background for the gold braid and handsome
gowning. The hostess was a slim poem in
black satin. Admiral Coontz with his good
lady, wearing floral georgette with squirrel
fur attachments and black lace-trimmed hat,
extended friendly hands also to all guests.
Champagne was a very acceptable change
from bohea, and the most delectable of
eatables were partaken of to jazz accompani-
ments. A bevy of admirals, including our
own distinguished Hall Thompson; the
Prime Minister, accompanied by Mrs. Bruce,
whose black gown had touches of white key-
patterned in gold; Mrs. Coates, whose
husband is Maoriland’s Prime Minister; and
a strong peppering of ’Murcans, including
tenor Paul Althouse and Trade Commissioner
Pauly and Mrs. Pauly, helped to bulge the
building.
Charming matrons and pretty flappers
flocked to the residence of Mr. and Mrs. A.
Boyes, of Tennyson-road, St. Kilda, on Fri-
day night to dance with the 35 officers of
the U.S.A. Fleet who were the star guests.
Mrs. Russell Jackson, in petunia pink, and
her sister Mrs. Ed. Dyson, wearing glistening
black with gold flowers, did the honors.
Eileen Castles, in a mermaidy frock of green,
Dorothy Murdoch, Miss Rochfort, and tenor
Walter Kirby convinced the navalists of the
falseness of the proverb that Australian birds
have no song. Many of the jazzers saw in
the dawn or near it at the Bachelors’ ball at
St. Kilda Town Hall.
Mrs. Harold Clapp, whom Bananalanders
remember as Yivie Noel, a daughter of Judge
Noel, was one of the hostesses of Fleet par-
ties during the week, giving a dish of sou-
chong to some of the U.S. officers on Friday
afternoon at her Toorak home. Husband
Harold took a few hours off from slogan-
making to assist. The hostess showed off
black velvet with black millinery top-dressed
with roses. Miss Gladys Noel added a hat
of petunia hue to a brown velvet frock, and
Noel Clapp wore golden brown with soften-
ing of lace.
Bad luck has dogged that popular enter-
tainer Charlotte Hemming, who has spent
months in Mt. St. Evin’s hospital as a result
of a fall which broke a hip-bone. She is now
on the road to recovery, but it will be some
moons before she can resume her work. The
elocutionist has lent many a charity a help-
ing hand —she it was who voted the proceeds
of a benefit recital to the Japanese earth-
quake sufferers. A committee is endeavor-
ing to mend the rent in Miss Hemming’s
bank account, inevitable result of the acci-
dent. Mr. G. Newton, of the Melbourne
Shakspeare Society, is lion. sec. of the
fund, and Mr. James Martin, of Allan’s, is
treasurer. A couple of entertainments afe
to help.
Paul Althouse and Arthur Middleton were
fed on tea, buns and adulation by the Austral
Salon the other afternoon. Madame Var-
vara Kassovskaia raised cultured mezzo
soprano notes in Russian and Gaelic folk
songs, dressing the part in a black militai’y
coat with yellow cape, royal blue satin
pants, long white boots and smart hat.
Jessie Shrnith and Mr. T. Downie were
other warblers; Harold Rogers played some
pieces for the piano by moderns, and Leslie
R. Barklam threw in some flute selections.
The English-speaking Union passed round
farewell teacups at Scott’s Hotel for Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, pronounced “a dear” by
her large circle of acquaintances. The oppor-
tunity was grasped to annex the ’Murcan
Admiral’s wife, Mrs. Coontz, her daughter
and niece to share the tea and cake. Donald
Mackinnon welcomed the visitors and sped
the parting guest. Mrs. Allen, a study in
mole from frock to feather-trimmed hat, and
Mrs. Donald Mackinnon, in suit and millinery
of navy touched with red, were two of the
hostesses. Madame Heseleva, navy-coated,
raised pleasant notes in operatic excerpts
between the rattle and the speeches.
Of last week’s private functions for the
Fleet Mr. and Mrs. Simon Staugliton’s hop,
at No. 0 Darling-street, was of the nicest.
The hostess, who is a daughter of Professor
Jones, of Halifax University, was but a
bride when she arrived from Canada a few
months ago. Quite lately, an interesting
technicality of his father’s will having been
settled, her husband came in for much
largesse. Sheathing of pale-pink georgette,
opal-beaded, was Mrs. Staugliton’s frocking;
and Mrs. Tom Skene, her in-law, glistened in
black, moonlight beaded. Guests of honor
included Rear-Admiral T. P. Magruder, of
the U.S.S. Richmond.
From Adelaide which has no Fleet: —
The National Council of Women, the Women’s
Non-party Association, and the League of Nations
Union took care of Mrs. Mackinnon for the few
hours- she was in S.A., and Miss Gertrude Jude, just
back from the feminine conference at Washington,
met her at the Outer Harbor. She picked a non-
controversial chicken-bone with the League of
Nations, where Mrs. Darnley Naylor, one of its
vice-presidents, said words of welcome, and went
from there to the Non-party Association’s rooms
where members of all three associations met her.
A one-act play and excellent music arranged by
Mrs. Quesnel were the menu at the Alliance Fran-
gaise’s night-out at the Liberal Hall. Of the first
Major Hughes was stage-manager and Mrs. Ernest
Puddy, Miss Vera Hansen, J. J. Chamberlain and R.
Hansen the cast —all of them good, and the best of
them J. J. Chamberlain, whose acting is as sound
as his French.
In spite of the first Kreisler concert there was a
full house to see the Repertory Theatre’s rendering
of “You Never Can Tell.” With Ray Walsh as pro-
ducer, and Beryl Kook, Ethelwyn Robin, Thelma
Baulderstone and Charles Langely as some of the
players, the show ranked as one of the Rep.’s best.
In the Mayoress’s rooms at the Town Hall the
other afternoon was loosed a scheme for providing
substitutes for Mary Anne. The idea is to establish,
modestly at first, domestic emergency helpers on lines
that are sworn to have succeeded in ’Murca; edu-
cated women as the “aids,” pay by the hour, etc. A
provisional committee is to give the experiment a
start, and includes Mrs. Glover, Mrs. A. K. Goode and
Miss Austin, who is one of the notion’s keenest
sponsors. Something of the same kind was tried by
the Y.W.C.A. three or four years ago, but lapsed;
the trouble then was to find “educated” femininity
who would direct the same friendly eye to saucepans
as to typewriters
The N.T. Railway League has put V. M. Newland
into his father’s place as president. He has put in a
good many years exploring and big-game hunting in
Africa. For the last year or so he has been
settled in S.A. with his wife and family.
The one-time pupils of Prince Alfred College
brought their Old Boys’ week to a cheerful con-
clusion with a dance at the Palais, disdaining fem-
inine nelp in the preliminary arrangements. Patti
Connolly, all green and flame color, and Nancy
Atkins were the solo dancers of the evening, and
turned younger femininity green with envy by show-
ing it what might be done. Both of them would
out-dance some professionals.


f
£2/2/6
Let this Camera remember your good times
for you.
It’s a
Folding Ensign
2|B.
A STURDY British-made Camera for Day-
light-loading Roll Films. Simplicity is
the keynote of its construction, and yet
it is capable of really good work.
The pictures are the popular 3 j x 2| size,
using the No. 120 Spool.
Fitted with an Achromatic Lens, F. 11, the
price is £2 2 6
Fitted with a Rectimat Symmetrical Lens,
F.B - - - £2/12/6
d
IT?
The House for
Good Cameras,
SYI»KV: 3XO (ic»rse Street. KKI.sIS.VVE: 03 Queen Street.
MKMtOLKMi: 2015 Collins Street. ADELAIDE: 10 K untile Street.
K VTO.OMISA : Kutoomba Street.
IVEIjTjINCTOX, N.Z.: 12 Willis Street. AVCKT.VM), X.Z.: MO Queen Street.
11 F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
To express
oneself in
Music is
Instinctive!
Few attain the musical skill
required to give that instinct—
It’s Free Expression ! !
S’/?*?
Registering Piano
opens to all the vast storehouse of inspira-
tion and joy which lies in good music.
With this instrument you are able to
live with the artist in all his moods —
you live in an atmosphere of musical
perfection hitherto undreamed of.
317, 319 and 321 FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE AGENCY: 10 HUNTER STREET.
'Telephones: City 10751 and 10752.
H ALDY B Rib S LTD.
J HWELLER.S
Motor Luncheon Cane, suit-
case style: covered with
brown leather, lined with
washable leather cloth ; fin-
ished, with nickel-plated cor-
ners. Contains: Knives, Fortes,
Spoons, While Enamel Cups
and Plates, two quart-sine
Thermos Flasks anil two
Sick el-Plated Food Containers.
For four persons. £9/15/-
For six persons, £ 12/12f-
Running-board style, for six
persons, £l6/10/-
ď
, Motor Luncheon Cases
Of all the conveniences designed to add to the pleasure of
motoring none have been so favorably received as the
Motor Luncheon Case. Smart in appearance and strongly
made for hard service, these cases are a necessary part
of the equipment of every car. Every article needed for
carrying and serving dainty luncheons is included and
easily accessible when needed. Hardy Brothers feature
two compact styles in Motor Luncheon Cases: The Suit-
case style, as illustrated, fitted for four or six persons,
and the Running-board style, fitted for six persons.
Fire per cent, discount allowed on Cash Purchases.
An attractive Catalogue will he sent to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
( 3lve c Hbxi&c of* Reclusive UewelLenj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
ďf
WARNING
Genuine BOSCH goods are not made in America,
but exclusively at the world-famous works of
ROBERT BOSCH, A.G., S&ittgart, Germany.
This Trade-mark, together with the name of
Robert Bosch, is for your protection. It is stamped
on All Genuine BOSCH goods exclusively.
BOSCH MAGNETOS.
BOSCH SPARKING PLUGS.
BOSCH STARTING AND LIGHTING SETS.
BOSCH 2-NOTE ELECTRIC HORN.
BOSCH PLATINUM POINTS & SPARE PARTS.
Melbourne Hubert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., T,td.,
256-258 Gat robe Street.
Sydney Hubert Boscli Supply & Service Co. Pty., l.td.,
199 Castlercagh Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Elpliinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, I.td., Murray Street.
llobart 1) J. Nettlefold & Co., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand.... Jas. J. Niven & Co., Etd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Not genuine without the name of ROBERT BOSCH
and this TRADE-MARK.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fd
ď
f
To H.M.
Kin&
George^/
Vintage 3 914.
CHAM PAGN E
CharlesHeidsicck
mmwMB *
Australasian Agents —
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'■iarie.s I lei dsie<>
REIMS
I **
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OIL'D.
Australasian? AprertB—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Where yon and I meet”
And where the
FLEET FESTIVITIES
begin and end in a round of delightful gaiety.
SYDNEY’S ONLY BALLROOM FOR
DINNER DANCES EACH EVENING,
TEA DANCES EACH AFTERNOON,
with the charm of a cabaret of rare talent in attendance.
Management: Mrs. Macluecan. ’Phone: BWIC6I.
REVISION OF PRICES AND
NOTEWORTHY INNOVATIONS.
fti
ran
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Popular Nights.
DINING
from 7.30.
106
DANCING
till 12.
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 .... 5/0
THURSDAY AND SATURDAY
(late nights) :
Continental Dinner, 7.30 21/-
Saturday, Reduced, from 25/-
After-Theatre Suppers, 10.30 .... 10/0
Noteworthy Innovations.
Spectacular Dancing, Song and Music.
Two Bands. Continuous Enjoyment.
AFTERNOON TEAS, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Book early. Order Wines before 6.
Ring M 3666, M 3020.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
A breeze straight off the ice blown through
golden sunshine, blue sky and blue waters
were the make-up Sydney assumed to greet
the American Fleet. At a quarter to ten
the flagship made her slow and dignified
entrance between the Heads, her grey flanks
flashing silver in the sun. And on the first
glimpse of her the waiting people, like
forests of stunted trees spread over every
headland and point along the harbor way,
sped a great shout of welcome that rose and
eddied and spun through the terraces of blue
air as dizzyingly as did the sweeping sea-
planes. These, with an almost blinding flash
of the propeller, literally leaped into the
embrace of the morning from the decks of the
ships. The Italian flier De Pinedo lifted
his wing in Rushcutter’s Bay, and his grace-
ful amphibian went on a regular orgy of
sea and land. In massed formation, and
with a roar as of a tornado, ’planes that are
not amphibious exulted in their own rhythm
of motion and helped swell the paean of wel-
come that greeted the approach of the visit-
ing eight ships of the line. California, West
Virginia, Tennessee, Mississippi, on they
came with a motion so slow 7 it might be de-
scribed as careful. Perhaps the big ships
were being careful not to stamp upon the
tiny craft under their feet, for as usual the
Sydneysider was doing liis sight-seeing from
his front doorstep, and every dinghy and
launch and ferry the city possesses was
brisking about the waterways. To the rever-
berating boom of the Sydney’s guns the flag-
ship picked up her moorings off Kirribilli.
meanwhile returning the complimentary can-
nonade. The other grey warships came into
line off Garden Island and off Shark Island,
while the snowy whiteness of the hospital
ship Relief, like Hope on a monument, dropped
her anchor off Bradley’s Head.
Suggesting a marching snowfield, the
white-capped hordes of America’s sailormen
circled the city last Thursday afternoon.
Starting at Woollomooloo, where the deco-
ration committee had erected an arch bid-
ding welcome, the men behind the guns swung
briskly along, their bayonets gleaming in the
early afternoon sunshine. Some of our own
inimitable mounted police led the way, and
behind them stepped Captain-Commander
Hepburn and his staff in the magnificence of
their blue and gold. A band with an almost
human saxophone helped the men to take a
cheerful view of even the dejected decora-
tions along the route. These consist largely
of bunting that has seen better days and gilt-
topped white staves that are criss-crossed in
some sort of freemasonry high up on public
buildings. Perhaps they read “Not licensed!”
It was the dense avenues of interested
humans through which he stepped . that
brought an extra sparkle to the sailor’s eye
and added to his chest measurement. Maybe
he didn’t see the decorations at all because
of the pretty gilds who smiled across, the
barriers. The bells of St. Mary’s chimed
and clashed as the men from overseas passed
its ever open doors, and to this welcome the
sailors finally swung into Macquari e-street,
where on a dais next to the Mitchell Library
the State Governor stood to take the salute.
Beside him the alert, humorous Admiral
Robison turned an almost paternal eye on
Ills forces ; and round about were men of our
own Army and Navy, such as Commodore
Wardle and General Brand.
Uncle Sam’s subjects in Australia greeted
the Fleet’s arrival with a party as large in
goodwill and hospitality as their own coun-
try. The welcome was staged at the Went-
worth, and it took every nook and cranny
of the big ballroom and the palm court to
provide foothold for the ensigns and admirals
and the gold-braided ranks that grow be-
tween. The Stars and Stripes and the Five-
Starred Flag were everywhere. They blos-
somed unexpectedly around the roots of
palms; they hung aloft and they draped the
balcony; while at intervals round the room
were the names of the visiting warboats.
As though you could forget them when
glowing-eyed young ensigns and lieutenants,
many of them with the softness of the South
in their tones, breathed the name of their
particular ship of the line with a pride that
was as a clarion call. Lady de Chair and
daughter Elaine, the Consular Lawtons and
Mayoress Cecilia Walsh were there, and
A. C. Berk skippered the function. The
frocking was 90 per cent, gorgeous and the
other 10 per cent, diamond of the first
water. On the crowded floor beaded and
batiked and hand-painted chiffons and suave
velvets purred and tinkled and scintillated.
Possibly it is owing to usage in turning
Dreadnoughts that sailormen can perform the
maximum of revolutions in the minimum of
space. Anyway there was a miraculous
absence of collisions, after the Sydney girl's
brain had rung the signal to her feet that
smaller steps were the vogue. Mrs. Berk
wore the magnificence of peacock velvets,
and daughter Mrs. Audette’s frock suggested
the golden glow of daffodils. Admiral Robi-
son’s lady and Mrs. Maclean, wife of the
commander of the Colorado, wrapped them-
selves in black of dignified richness; while
Australian Commander Robins’s lady was en-
swatlied in a mixture of georgettes and beads
as grey as any cruiser in the harbor. Com-
modore Wardle’s Jean emerged slim and fair
from sombre draperies, and the same adjec-
tives apply to Mary Maclean, whose frock
was the softest shade of wistaria. Frank
and Mrs. Coffee squired a family party in
which were the surgeon Dan Kellys. Edna
Thomas was among the hundreds, and one of
the best-lookers was Mrs. Mortimer Richards.
The U.S.A. Consul-General Lawtons chose
the surroundings of the Rose Bay Golf Club
for their big reception to Admiral Robison
and the officers of the Fleet. Sydney was
wearing one of her bluest days, and the view
from the verandahs was one to stir even a
permanent dweller in the city beautiful. The
Consul and Mrs. Lawton presented their
guests to Mrs. Robison, the Admiral's lady,
and Rear-Admiral Maedougall, and with that
exception the gathering had all the charm
of an intimate party. Everybody danced and
slim young officers, their waistline sharply
defined in their long coats, made not only
good but pictorial partners. The hostess,
whose frocking suggested mignonette, topped
it by millinery of the same softness, and
Mrs. Robison ran to ermine wraps and sable
georgettes. Mrs. McLean brought her Mary,
and our own Navy was represented by Mrs.
Robins, who came with her captain.
Commodore Wardle had with him daughter
Jean, who emphasised her clear coloring by
black frocking; and among the guests, Mrs.
Tliornett and Mrs. Williams were two of
the eye-arresters.
The English-speaking Union’s party failed
to add to the gaiety of nations. Even
Admiral Robison’s funny stories over the
sandwich-and-coffee supper came too late to
thaw the atmosphere, which was cruelly sug-
gestive of a Sunday-school treat. In the big
dining-hall segments of humanity glued
to the tables where they first took their
seats, and young ensigns who had come with
the idea that a dance was in the wind
smiled with grim politeness while they were
sung at for the duration of the festivity.
Surely has the example of Casabianca bitten
deep into the sailor’s consciousness. Admiral
Robison, who tells stories uncommonly
well (though not quite so well as the gentle-
man from the South, Admiral Rodman),
illustrated the difference between Yankee and
English pronunciation by citing a Canadian
lecturer who mentioned the words “bath”
(rhyming with “hath”) and “bahth.” “Wassa
difference?” the Canadian asked, _ And a
voice from the back shouted: “ ‘Bath’ is what
we take every day, and ‘bahtli’ is what they
take once a week!”
Brilliant was the party given by the sur-
geon Dan Kellys, of Kirribilli. They staged it
on the night of the illuminations, and looking
down over Neutral Bay and Cremorne from
the balconies of “Warranilla” one had the
fantastic notion that the radiant California
was riding out of the night to anchor at the
foot of the garden, But the fireworks out of
. doors were as nothing to the nautical fire-
works within. The reception rooms were a
blaze of gold braid and decorations. There
were nearly 100 officers (three of them
admirals) demonstrating that the legs of
nations could jazz along very comfortably
together. The billiard-room, with its mellow
panelling of Australian wood and its domed
ceiling, provided just the right setting for
the butterfly hues of the frocking, though
having once impressed themselves on the con-
sciousness, as it were, the girls seemed more
than willing to float out under correct escort
to the awninged verandahs. The hostess’s
pearl-embroidered georgettes gained the
necessary Diana flying effect from a shoulder
scarf of georgette. Sister Dorothy’s sleek
black head and bright cheeks emerged from
pomegranate pink georgettes, and Mrs. Gur-
nett and Mrs. Woolf, of Melbourne, were
two of the evening’s distinctive dressers.
Pretty girls were there by the dozen, and the
last sparkle was put into the night by the
arrival of Guy Bates Post.
The Sydney Town Hall has never looked
more radiant than in its dressing for the
Mayoral Ball to the visiting Fleet. The
effect was that of sunlight streaming through
the misty mauve of wistaria. Yellow roses
glowed into life, and between the dome
and the galleries swayed and gleamed whole
flights of faery fireflies. Against the wall
hung yellow draperies so closely twined with
foliage that they looked magnificently bro-
caded in green leaves. Yellow roses and
masses of wistaria again on the stage, which
had been turned into a green pleasaunce to
cover the nakedness of the organ pipes. But,
oil, the crush ! Over 4000 sought foothold
within the civic fastness, and many couldn't
walk about let alone dance. The galleries be-
came so crowded that one expected any
moment to see the front-seaters swing out in
a trapeze act across the trails of smilax. The
dais, where came the vice-regals and no
fewer than five admirals, including the boss
of the California, became as congested .as
any other part of the hall, and hostess Cecilia
Walsh wore a troubled look most of the night,
in conjunction with a frock of smoky grey
richness. Hers not to reason why; but by
the time she got through the handshake with
those on the Persian-blue carpet she must
have had a fair imitation of writer’s cramp.
Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair brought
Elaine: Mrs. Robison accompanied her sea-
lord : and the attractive-looking Mrs. Wil-
liams supported her captain. Chief Justices,
generals, commodores and Parliamentary
personages like George Cann and George
Fuller were a few who found chairs upon
the dais; others sat on the sides of it, and
some of the proletariat even sought sanctu-
ary thereon. Hundreds left as early as 10
o’clock.
The two Fleet dances at Government
House were held in camera.
The canteen at the Quay, for which Mrs.
Aronson and Mrs. Wilkinson have been
largely responsible, has been frankly the
surprise-packet of the reception arrange-
ments. Everybody expected that it would be
as thickly populated as Goldsmith’s Deserted
Village or an area in North Sydney about
to be demolished. But Buddie/ took to it
from the first day, and turns in the open
door literally in hundreds for his nightcap
and early-morning coffee. The canteen runs
the length of the Orient wharf, and from end
to end within it is hung with canvases like
stage backcloths misrepresenting various
beauty-spots in the State. But even these
have failed to put the visitors off seeking
the tourist bureau next door. Like the Man
from Missouri they want to see for them-
selves. There’s a piano on a stage where
higli-class music is made for the sailor. He
would probably prefer to see some knock-
about or sleight-of-hand, but he is very polite
and realises that the performers mean well.
A. reception at Parliament House and the
dances given by the Walker twins, George
and Monte, were other events m an over-
crowded week.
The Ambassadors housed a party for the
babies of St. Margaret’s the other afternoon,
Mrs. Stewart Dawson being president. The
affair was called a Winter Cabaret, which
name no doubt referred to the Amundsen
clothing worn by the cabaret performers,
who sported ankle-high socks and bare skin
to above the knee. A cosy length or two of
chiffon acted as a bulwark against the
weather, though for necessary cooltli a waist
length V opening was let into the back. The
affair was a great success, the Ambassadors
being crowded out by St. Margaret’s
admirers, among whom was that consistent
worker in the cause, Mrs. W. D. Langton.
Dot Brunton, who brought her Jessie James
smile, and Gladys Moncrieff, who brought
her husband, Tom Moore, were the magnets
of the afternoon.
Herewith a portrait of Lilia Gormhuille
McKay, poetess from Maoriland, a lot of
whose work
lias appeared
in The Bul-
letin. Lilia
wrote the
words of
“Narrabeen,” a
song that has
just been put
on the Aus-
tralian mar-
ket ; and had
the pleasure
of first win-
ning a healthy
prize for the
poem itself.
“N a r rabeen”
is full of the
sympathy with
nature that
c h a racterises
all the clever
girl’s work.
The photo is by May Moore.
Heaven pity those who have to go dancing
on bitter nights, such as turned its icy blast
on the Dudley Cup ball. Within the Palais
a piercing wind caught the unwary shoulder-
blade and dug a tooth that was sharper
than a serpent’s into the unguarded calf.
Strong men blenched, and even the diehards
among the bare sex sought sanctuary in
Chinchilla or ermine or just plain bunny.
As the night wore on, some of the dancers
even stuck to their wraps and fur coats
when in action. Even the golden glow that
came from the wattle-massed supper-tables
proved a delusion; and beribboiied staves,
gay with the colors of the heroes of Cooma.
Burrowa, Scone and Harden, who had
wrestled in the tourney, drew no man or
woman who had dug into a corner warmed
by the radiators. Crossed polo sticks,
trimmed up with caricature dolls of the
players in their brilliant jackets, were a
feature of the landscape. Beads clanked and
colors clashed as frock met frock, for dazzling
embroideries and gleaming beads combined to
make the dancing space as colorful as a
Persian bazaar. Mrs. Tony Hordern, presi-
dent of the ball committee, mingled black
brocade and lace and pearls in a manner
despised by no woman. Treasurer Mrs. Colin
Stephen and secretaries Mrs. Din Garvan
and Mrs. Frank King (she’s the wife of that
good loser and jolly winner from Oooma)
did the honors on the arrival of the State
vice-reine. Lady do Chair was a shimmer of
bluey greens meshed in a tunic of crystal
beads. Mrs. George Vivers, who was in
the Government House party, wore the soft-
ness of black chiffons. Elaine de Chair, an
early arrival, turned on her favorite mix-
ture of blue and silver. One of the best-
dressed heads of the night was worn by
Timothy Coghlan's lady, who was further
enwrapped by rich brocades. Mrs. Ken
Austin’s black lace wore a cunningly placed
ruby-red bow: Susan Spencer, Betty Wilson
and Donnee Waldron were among the sweet
young things; and, as though the night
weren’t cold enough, Pauline Frederick put
on the last layer of icing by bringing the
Snowy Bakers.
This blue-eyed lady is Dr. Jean White-
Haney, who was educated at the Yarraside
P.L.C. and the Melbourne Uni. She is one
of five Australian D.Sc.'s of the feminine
gender, and her learned discourse on Enzymes
was published in the proceedings of the
London Pergal
Society the
first time a
student work-
ing in Aus-
tralia lias had
this honor. She
has been lec-
turer on
botany at the
MelbourneUni.
and director of
the priekly-
pear experi-
mental station
at Dulacca
(Q.). Her lab.
work is notable.
Not only is
she chockful of
scientific know-
ledge, but has
so many ideas
that when she
is out after
one discovery she frequently drops upon an-
other. Dr. Haney has interested herself
much in Brisbane’s Lyceum Club and the
campaign for the Women’s College. In 1915
she made V. W. Haney happy. One of the
most feminine of dons, she does not disdain
pretty frocking, and the blue that matches
her eyes is her favorite wear.
Sister Brisbane’s sheaf: —
Alastair Macgregor, of Tully, .North Q., married
Dora Mactaggart, of Hamilton, in St. Andrew’s,
Lutwych, Norman Millar tying the knot. Mrs.
Phil Allom lent the Honiton-lace veil, worn with a
wedding frock of ivory charmante. Marjorie Mac-
taggart, in coral georgette, ’maided and Cedric
Cleghorn best-manned. Jean Mactaggart sang during
the writing of names.
Brig.-General Wilson is taking over the job of
■president to the New Farm bowlers. The club-
house received him in a frocking of balloons, flags
and orange blossoms. B. G. Burt arranged the
music, and Ruth Portraite, Miss Malouf and Mrs.
Horwitz added some melody.
Allan Wilkie has closed his season and taken his
properties to the smaller towns, beginning with
Ipswich. Wilkie put on some 55 plays during the
eight weeks and to full houses, despite the compe-
tition of G. B. Post at His Majesty’s. Miss Hunter-
Watts scooped the lion’s share of the bouquets and
vegetable offerings. Lauder is now making another of
his last appearances at His Majesty’s. His brither
Scot, William Heughan, had Sir Matthew and Mrs.
Leonard Turner, Grace Deshon and H. M. Sanders
to hear him sing at the Elite. A newcomer with
this concert party is the lassie wi’ the lint-white
locks, Sadie Granger-Broad.
All the available balloons were bought up for the
cinema ball at the Trocadero. B. Kirwan fixed up
the special lighting, in which 18 demons, led by
Old Nick himself, appeared from the specially
arranged ante-room. Under their disguises they were
the Munroes, Commander Platt, Dr. Grey and his
lady, Friedlander, Heal.v and other quite amiable
people. Colin Crane, Nell Fleming and others sang
(luring the affray. The two Governors were at the
Coolangatta ball that night. White wistaria and
climbing roses and birds, so real that they would
almost have deceived A. H. Chisholm, were in full
flight through the decoration scheme. The Coolangatta
Hotel saw the feasting.
To aw revow son George, who is off to Charleville,
the J. Shaws had a dance in the Wattle Cafe, which
was bright with the Iceland poppy which looks so
much warmer than its name. A musical programme
gave breathing space after the lively jazz, Fred
Homer, Ivy Plane and Anderson, jun., being amongst
the singers. Of the God-speeders were the Binstead
and M. Forrest dames, Miss Massey and Cecile
Pritchard.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Oeraldton.
Harvey’s Special”whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“T he
Pleasure is
all Yours.”
fd
ď
J. KITCHEN & SONS Pty. Ltd.
f
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
d
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The equine heroes of the A.J.C. hleet
meeting at Randwick were those fine young horses
Boaster and Windbag. Bred by Percy Miller at
Scone (N.S.W.), and owned by Robert Miller, Percy’s
brother, Boaster is a black gelding by Magpie—Galtee
Princess and Windbag a bay colt by Magpie—
Charleville; and Jimmy Munro rode them both.
The gelding is now favorite for the Epsom Handicap,
and the colt leads the quotations for the Melbourne
Cup. Boaster’s gallop in the Maryland Handicap, seven
furlongs, was brilliant. Though lie had a bad position
at the barrier and was carrying top weight—l2lb.
more than his Epsom burden, Bst. lib. —he was just
behind the leaders at the home turn and came on
to win comfortably by a neck from the seasoned
Rahiri, with Duke Isinglass and Irish Prince next,
in lmin. 24isec\ —equal to the course record for the
distance. A solid commission for Irish Prince en-
abled backers of the favorite to get 7 to 4 for
their money. Windbag was at 3’s for the New Mexico
Stakes, six furlongs, Red Gauntlet, Boaster’s stable-
companion (they are trained by the elder Kelso,
whereas Windbag is prepared by Price), being made
equal-favorite—he was reckoned more forward than
the crack. W ith Windbag out of it, Kelso would have
landed the double; as it was, the St. Leger winner
romped home from Red Gauntlet and the outsider
Kalloni, a youngster by Polycrates —Margola; and
the official timepiece made it lmin. 12sec. “Ran
every furlong in 12 an’ won with ’ees mouth open,”
as an old hand said. Highlander, favorite for the
California Handicap, 11 furlongs, shaped as if he
needed a few more gallops, and took no m
the finish. That was confined to Chancellor (10’s),
a Newcastle gelding by Lilyveil—Dulacca, Confusion
and Mirthmaker, Chancellor passing the unlucky
Confusion in the last few strides. It was fitting that
a three-year-old should take the last race of a
season memorable for the victories of horses of his
age. The race was the Tennessee Handicap, eight
furlongs, and the prad Resource (15’s), who de-
lighted McShortodds by putting in a conquering run
just when it looked as if Gaelic Maid (7 to 2) or
Tong Bong (9 to 2) would do it. Resource is a
brown gelding by Bowman —-Boambee, and Dan Lewis
trains him for 'J. J. Leahy, owner of the defunct
Speciality.
* * *
Three Kings (Comedy King— Kuningada),
who had been unlucky' in his two previous races,
was produced again in the Pennsylvania Handicap,
12 furlongs, at Moonee Valley on Saturday. Billy
Duncan was aboard on this occasion, and the very
successful William saw that no mistake was made.
Valbee (6’s) and Irish Rhythm (12’s) were behind
Three Kings, about whom numerous wagers were
written at 3’s, 9 to 4 and 5 to 2. When Parupa
(B’s) led into the straight after traversing 14 of
the 15 furlongs of the Nevada Jumpers’ Flat, he
was hailed a certainty ; hut Argosy Boy (6’s) finished
strongly and was a length in front when interest
oozed out of the proceedings. Still, Parupa did
well enough to indicate that lie will be exceedingly
hard to beat in the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield;
indeed, this Page cannot pick his superior at the
weights. Berrinbo (fourth) and Roisel (fifth) ran
decently, as also did Marnoo (third), who has pace
and is a sound jumper. Eric the Red disgraced
himself in the U.S.A. Hurdle, for which he was a
3 to 1 favorite. Fortesque (7’s) led for the last
half-mile, and was going' comfortably two lengths
ahead of Bindweed and Buzz at the end. Buzz is
the only one of the trio in the rich Caulfield race.
Converting disappointing hurdlers into ’chasers seems
a profitable just now. Jupiter is a ease in
point. Though Mot bred like a ’chaser —lie is by
Murillo, sire of sprinters, out of Amherst Queen —-
he jumped the stiff Moonee Valley fences more
cleverly than the others engaged in the Coontz
Steeplechase and finally ran away from Repatriation
and Master Fife. Baker rode Jupiter, whose closing
price was 7 to 2.
“Hasen” : He was evidently of the tribe that takes
"the office” from coincident events. “Son of Sea
Prince, isn’t lie?” T heard him say before the
Hurdle at Moonee Valley. “And I saw in one of the
papers where a cove called Eric the Red discovered
America before Columbus.” He looked crestfallen
enough when that race was run ; but I saw him again
after the next and he was joyfully thumping his
companion’s back. “What’d I tell you?” he roared.
“If you asked one of these sailors what he thought
of the last big scrap, what’d he say? Why, ‘Some
War!’ of course.” But I was surprised to find him
so exultant after the Steeple. “’Course, I had a
good win,” he cried. “Jupiter! God of water,
wasn’t he?” This was the last straw to his un-
luekier companion. “Ah, rats!” he snarled. “That
was Neptune, you dam’ fool!” “No, but Jupiter,
too,” said the excited reader of omens. “Jupiter
Pluvius, you know.... Rain!.... Water.... Don’t
you see?” I didn’t meet him again but, of course,
poker came from America and Three Kings won the
Handicap ; and after the miracle he’d worked with
such unpromising material as Jupiter, I trembled for
the books when the next race was won by Argosy
Boy.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The natal history of West
Wimmera, who beat the Sydneysider, Clan Robert,
in the Godfrey Watson Steeple at Caulfield (B.
28/7/’25), was a youthful equine romance. Two
two-year-olds, colt and filly, were running in neigh-
boring paddocks in the Horsham (Vic.) district,
and when they were found one day in the same
paddock their friendship was regarded as a mere
boy-and-girl affair. But a foal resulted, the con-
sequence of the manoeuvre being named West Wim-
mera. He started his winning at four years in his
first race. After a chequered career on the flat he
was first home in his first hurdle race; then he
was successful a.t his first attempt on a metropolitan
course; now he has been victorious in his first,
steeple. A racehorse boasting two-year-old parents
must be unique in Australian turf history.
“FY7”: The dreadful seriousness with
which racing tipsters regard their parasitic “pro-
fession” may be part of the bluff which they put
up bn the credulous public which supports them.
In any case, it is instructive to note the scorn with
which one of the fraternity will turn on a rival
who has stolen some of his thunder or encroached
on his self-endued prerogative. A swarm of pestifer-
ous tipping pamphlets is being hawked about Sydney
streets just now:, and the executive of each regards
that of the others with apprehensive malignity.
This often overflows in public advertisement. Readers
of the dailies are frequently confronted with sinister
warnings that Earbiter was never the genius con-
tributing to the success, of the Dunghill, as he
has had the temerity to state in liis own advertise-
ment of the Toadstool. It seems a pity they should
fall out. With a goat bom every tick of the clock,
as the old adage has it, every jackal should be
provided for.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The big jumping events in
Melbourne invariably awaken memories of Adam
Lindsay Gordon, who rode the winner of the Grand
National Steeplechase in 1868 —as a matter of fact,
on October 10 of that year he won the whole three
steeplechases held on the day, on Babbler, Viking
and his own, horse Cadger. When this feat was
mentioned the other day, a listener interposed with
the scornful remark that he had seen Adam Lindsay
Gordon ridin’, and “he looked pretty damn wobhley.”
The critic was prepared to swear that Gordon couldn’t
ride at all. It turned out he had seen the film
founded on Gordon’s life. In that, the long-dead
poet was impersonated by a. living one, Hugh McCrae,
' who had practically every qualification but the
ability to ride. At that delightful exercise he
looked about as elegant as a .sack of potatoes plumped
on to a saddle.
“SNOWY” LATTA, captain of the N.S.W.
Rugby League team and the State's
best forward.
From the start of the Dudley Cup polo
tournament it was evident that the Harden club
would renew its old acquaintance with the trophy.
In the final Harden overwhelmed Cooma by 10
goals to 1. The mountaineers offered little resist-
ance, and the winners were content to make the
most of their faster and handier ponies; they threw
away combined work in favor of dash and hard hit-
ting. The three Ross brothers and A. McLaurin,
who make up the Harden four, have had a great
season in country games, and their understanding
was evident enough on occasion. Cooma’s stick
work was very bad for a game of this calibre, though
Litchfield, at back, was a notable exception. The
beaten teams’ competition went to Scone, which
downed Burrowa, 7 goals to 5.
“Simon”: The other Sunday at Canter-
bury (N.S.W.) i saw the most brutal exhibition
I have yet witnessed under the guise of “sport.”
It was a cock-fight. Two birds of the game species
faced each other with head and neck plucked bare
of feathers. Natural spurs were fitted with steel
dagger-pointed eases or outer spurs. The fight
had lasted about 15 minutes when the smaller bird
gradually sank. Nothing could surpass the game-
ness of that creature; until lie rolled over dead
lie held up his head and picked back at his slayer.
“Why not fight, them without steel?” I asked.
“Because that couldn’t be done in 24 bom's with-
out steel,” said one of the “sports,” indicating
a wound which had severed the jugular vein.
“An’ roosters don’t keep no towels io throw in!”
J. I. REILLY , sec. of the Epsom
(Vic.) T.C.
‘Centurion’: Tilden’s air of regarding the
rest of his fellow-creatures as an inferior brand
of black beetles seems to be getting on America’s
nerves, though Uncle Sam’s country stands a lot
from a champion. Some time ago the U.S. lawn
tennis authorities tried to prevent him writing
tennis copy for pay, but when he threatened to
shake the dust of the courts off his shot's for ever
they begged forgiveness and let him draw up the
rules himself. Now the feud is raging again.
Tilden, it is declared by the Yankee press, is
“subject to temperamental outbursts,” and for this
reason Californian players refuse to speak to him
when they meet him at tournaments' now. There
is something about tennis that makes for “tempera-
mental outbursts,” nor is the condition confined to
Tilden or peculiar to America. But swelled head
is the terser term.
* * * #
Golf history was made last week on the
Australian G. O.’s links at Kensington (N.S.W.).
The open championship of Australia went to Fred
Popplewell, (the club’s professional, whose card
showed 299 for the four rounds. Fred led off with
a faultless 73, and did a stroke better on the
second morning, the two afternoon rounds taking
75 and 79 respectively. His iron play was the
feature of his game, though he got plenty of lengths
with the wooden clubs, while lie was by no means
lucky with his putting. Tommy Howard, the Bonnie
Doon professional, was runner up, and on the closing
day stuck to his job so well that he considerably
reduced the gap between the pair, finishing up with
301, or two down on the four rounds. Alec Russell,
the Victorian amateur and last year’s open cham-
pion, tied with H. R. Sinclair, the Australian
amateur champion, and would have bettered the tie
at 304 but for shaky putting. This is Popple-
well’s first open championship in 20 years of
trying; he lost by a stroke to Carnegie Clark in
1911, and has been placed more than once. His
biggest previous win was the State professional
championship in 1923. The inter-State tourney
was won by N.S.W. from Victoria by one match, Tas-
mania and Queensland following in that order. The
foursomes were easy for H. R. Sinclair and A. W.
Jackson, whose tally of 145 for the two rounds
(72 and 73) is an Australian record for the event.
There were many empty chairs at Syd-
ney Stadium when dual-champion Billy Grime boxed
Tenario Pelkey, from the Philippines, but it was
a very interesting fight. Grime (9st. 111 b.), who
conceded 741 b. and 2in. in height to the bronze
image from Manila Bay, boxed with rare skill. He
evaded or blocked many terrific wallops, got out of
tight places with the slipperiness of a greased ee!,
and betweenwhiles made a punching-bag of the
tough brown body and bony jaws. Several times,
notably in the 10th and 17th rounds, Billy liad
Tenario on the verge of collapse; and in the last
round Pelkey was so severely punished that it looked
as though he might be stopped before the final bell.
At the close, Joe Wallis, who grievously lacks dra-
matic instinct, just touched Grime’s hair in walking
between them. So slight was the gesture that most
people missed the crowning ceremony, and had to
ask others “Oodey givittoo?” Truly Grime is a
scientist. He is so clever that the blood-and-hair
specialists fail to appreciate him.
Ike Robin, as a lay preacher, may have
conscientious objections to betting, but that did not
prevent his less godly supporters from announcing in
large figures their opinion of his chances against
Walter Miller. That pocket Hercules has friends
who bet briskly, so there was tall wagering at the
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. The task
of putting down the mountain of flesh was too
much for the clever American, who scaled list. Lilt,
against the Maori’s list. The giant has a lot to
Jearn about wrestling, but his strength is prodigious
and he is fairly fast. Occasionally Miller looked
like a baby being fondled when he' got into grips
with the big fellow. They started in a lively fashion
but after the first round Robin elected to keep off
the mat. Like a game bullant, Miller tackled the
problem of getting the big man down, an 1 one
attempt to lift Robin bodily in the air brought an
outburst of laughter and cheers. Half-way through
Robin secured an undoubted fall, but the wrestlers’
heads were through the ropes, and, disallowing the
advantage, Bridges ordered them back to the centre
Ihe contest had grown wearisome by the time Bridges
gave the verdict to Robin on points.
* * *
'I ho fifth Soccer Test match at Melbourne
drew a crowd of 5000. The score was only 2—o
111 Englishmen’s favor, but the visitors rested
some of their first selections, Davison replacing llardv
in goal, and the amateur, Oiesar, playing his first
lest game on the half-back line. The Australian
>ule was widely different from the earlier ones and
better entitled to the name than some of its
predecessors, since four States were represented. Rob-
Ison, the Victorian goal-keeper who played so well
against the visitors earlier in the season, again made
a. good showing, as did Mitchell, a South Alls,
back, and Eeeles, a Victorian forward, in the Test
series, the Englishmen have scored 22 goals to a
i heir biggest tally being 8, at Maitland. ’They will
play a. final match at Perth, and can hardly lose their
unbeaten record. To Australian Soccer players they
have, given a revealing glimpse of the game's possi-
bilities, and their visit is sure to raise the standard
of our Soccer as well as increase the popularity of
the code.
The Maoriland ltugby Leaguers won two
of their three matches against N. S. Wales; with a
bit cleaner handling they would have won all three.
In the second match, at Sydney Cricket Ground, they
scored 21 to 13, thanks mainly to Dufty’s six
goals; and at Newcastle the Blacks were 17 to 10
when the full-time whistle went, after having been
5 to 10 at half-time. In each case their pack was
superior, and Wilson-Hall, who took Webb’s place at
half-back after the first game, made many excellent
openings for the backs. He was much better than
either Robinson or Lane, of N.S.W., and it should be
a tussle of brains when he meets Duncan Thompson
in the Queensland matches.
* * * *
South Sydney made sure of the N.S.W.
Rugby League premiership by downing Glebe, 12 to 2.
It was rather dull football, but the other games
were lively, enough. St. George and University pro-
vided a clinking tussle, St. George getting 20 to 18.
E. Saunders, the Illawarra. wing threequarter, was
responsible for four goals and a try—ll of the
20 points. Eastern Suburbs shaded North Sydney—
-11 to 10; and Newtown surprised Balmain, who
sorely missed Latta, 7 to nil. It was Newtown’s
second success.
* * * *
The Westralians have a great football
reputation, and 35,300 persons, including Gov. Strad-
broke and Admiral Coontz, visited Melbourne C. G.
on Saturday (they disgorged £1895) to see a Jarrah-
land XVIII play the elect of Victoria. But the
Gropers are not used to playing in mud, and they
got a horrible doing. At quarter-time Vic. owned
47 points and W.A. none. At half-time the tale was
Vic., 84; IV.A., 9. When the last bell rang the
Dark Blues had scored 22 goals 11 behinds; the
Gropers 8 goals 10 behinds. Among the Westralians
O. Bahen, in the centre, outshone everyone; H.
Campbell is a clever forward and a sure kick;
L. Duffy, Sparrow and' Western were good in spots.
But the others played very indifferent football. The
Victorians, on the other hand, showed their best
form, Cliff Rankin in particular. The Geelong
Digger booted 10 goals.
“Wink”: There are more free kicks than football
in Melbourne matches nowadays. The Australian
game, once so simple, lias become so complicated
in the State where it originated that the umpire's
whistle is heard with maddening frequency. When
a back man gets the ball against odds, with no
friend in view, his plight is desperate. He will be
“free-kicked” if he is but touched when he has the
leather; there is no room to kick; to throw it from
him would incur a penalty; and to punch it away
would present his opponents with it. A “Hacken-
schmidt” Clark or a Paddy O’Brien would knock it
far ahead and win to it again by a wonderful
combination of force and speed; lesser men try to
reach a position where a pass to a cobber is
possible. Generally some opponent lays a hand on
the guernsey before the harried back and the ball
part company; for this the opponent gets a free-
kick, perhaps a goal. In South Oss the same rules
obtain, but interpretations are more sensible; not
in that State are men penalised when they are doing
their best. Consequently S. Aus. football is more
spectacular, and is played with less anger and
brutality.
“Spenner”; As Vosti, the Essendon forward, dashed
for goal, leaving a couple of opponents standing,
a barracker voiced liis appreciation. “Look at him,”
he roared. “Just look at him 1 Tell the band to
strike up ‘Vosti’s Good-bye.’ ”
* * * *
“Hamer”: The Hearne family has a name
in English cricket like that of the Gregorys in
Australia. When this writer, as a small boy, spent
a few years in England somewhere about 1890 it
was the performances of two lleames in the West
Kent Wanderers, whose home ground was on Black-
heath, which gave that team its great reputation;
and another Hearne was cricket coach at the school
I attended at Margate. Walter Hearne it was who
remarked to an Australian, anent cricket matches in
Australia, “By gum, it must be exciting when the
blacks attack with their gunyahs while a match
is being played!” The information that lie had
been chatting to Arthur Coningham—the joker from
Queensland who once built a fire of chilis and paper
in the out-field to warm his hands on a cold day —
supplied the origin of his delusions.
THE WRONG HORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Post Office clock boomed three; the pieman
shut up liis oven ; a policeman yawned in a doorway ;
and the sailors found, with the nightingale of
Keats, ‘the world is left to darkness and to me.’ ”
—Sydney Sun in a Fleet frenzy.
1 dreamed I sat above the roaring rings
Where Iky Mo his wordy challenge slings.
The Poet’s Plate it was, and all the steeds
Bore on the card the names of winged things.
A hundred hoofs the straight came thund’ring down.
‘Twas o’er. My neighbor gave the board a frown,
Then at his programme glanced, “Why', that,” he
said,
“Is Johnny Keats’s ‘Nightingale,’ the brown.
“A fair boil-over, spare me blighted days!
The blinking judge must be among the jays.
Where was he looking that he couldn’t see
The winning prad was one of Tommy Gray’s?”
And from the crowd below uprose a growl,
Something between a whistle and a. howl,
The angry cries of those who’d done their brass
On “Droning Beetle” or on “Moping Owl.”
Some counted it a ramp, exceeding strong,
And (save, perhaps, the bookies) all the throng
Agreed the topmost number on the board
Was patently and obviously wrong.
Then some authoritative person spoke:
“Correct the slip! It wasn’t Keats’s moke
But Gray’s. The judge has got the numbers
boxed.”
And, ’mid a noise of cheering. 1 awoke.
x.s.w.
MIDFORD.


Cyuccrccn feed
SHIRTS
ALWAYS Genuine Always
reliable!
You know instinctively wken you
see a Pelaco Shirt that it’s something
dbove the ordinary; its beautiful
material, exquisite workmanship and
general appearance all tell you so!
And when you buy it you are
not disappointed.
The makers guarantee every thread
and every stitch; and furthermore they
guarantee you complete satisfaction or
your money back!
n.
&
o
\
m
y/
yrtri’
WAKEFIELD
ď
Further Recent Triumphs
TOURIST TROPHY RACES
(Isle of Man).
Senior T.T. Junior T.T.
Side Car. Light Weight.
Ultra Light-weight.
Every place in Every Event was won on “CASTROL,” repeating the
record of last year.
KING’S AIR CUP—CIRCUIT OF BRITAIN.
1000 MILES IN BAD WEATHER.
Ist, Captain Barnard (Siskin 5) ; 2nd, Captain Jones (Siskin 4) ; and
Major Hemming (D.H. 37). All on “CASTROL.” Last year the Cup was
won by Alan Cobham (Siddeley-Puma) ; on that occasion, too, all finishers
used the famous British-owned lubricant.
EUROPEAN GRAND PRIX.
Won by an Alfa-Romeo. First and Second Places were gained by the
only cars to complete the course—“CASTROL”-lubricated.
BELGIAN GRAND PRIX.
Every winner in every class. Six in all on “CASTROL.”
CROSSLEY RUN—ADELAIDE TO DARWIN AND BACK.
Driven by George Hearn—ssoo miles by first British Car to complete
the trip (gross weight 2 tons lOcwt.) —achieved on “CASTROL,” the
lubricant which is specified by 180 manufacturers of British Motor-car and
Motor-cycle Manufacturers.
WHEN THE JEWETT CLIMBED KURRAJONG HILL
“ON TOP.”
it did it on “CASTROL” Motor Oil and “C.0.R.” Motor Spirit.
REGULAR GRADES OF “CASTROL” WERE USED.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO. Ltd.
THE ALL-BRITISH FIRM,
All States and New Zealand.
Head Office for Australasia:-
Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney. Tel.: 87465-6.
fd
Motorists Prefer to
Patronize Wayne Pumps
Because
(1) They supply quick service. Petrol -is
transferred from the bowl to the automobile
tank in just a few moments. (2) Because
of the visible bowl, which assures the buyer
of full measure of petrol for his money.
Service stations everywhere
have found that Wayne
pumps stimulate a lively,
profitable business. Model
4.92 (illustrated) combines
attractive design, with speed,
ease of operation, positive ac-
curacy and dependability. It
is operated by means of double
cylinder hand pump, housed
within the column.
Model 491 is of Jsimilar de-
sign, but operated by means
of air pressure derived from
your air compressor with
no interruption to tire inflation
service.
Models 491 and 492 are sup-
plied with glass bowls of either 5
or 10 gallons measure. They de-
liver one to the maximum num-
ber of gallons at the will of the
erator —10 gallons in 30 secondsi
Automatic recording meter, op-
tional.
An automatic interlocking valve
system is an exclusive Waynd
feature, which makes it impossi-
ble to drain back into the storage
and automobile tank at the same
time. All electric wires are en-
closed in heavy conduits. The
system has the approval of the
U. S. Board of Fire Underwriter o
If desired we will supply the 492 pedestal and visible
container, (without concealed pump),' fitted for connection,
with your present pumps. For complete details of these
models (or other equipment for the storing, measuring and
pumping of oil and petrol) address:
ROBERT F. LEE, Res. Representative,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Hawkins Equipment Company, Etd.,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Mechanical Supplies, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaiue.
King & Hazell,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Shipman, King & Co.,
4f>o Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Arthur H. Christian,
805 Hay Street, Perth. W.A.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY, Fort TVajtoa, V. S. A.
Ingersoll House No. 9 Kingsway, London, W. C 2, England
Betabllihed lilt
m
C 2
HONEST MEASURE PUMPS


r>,
mcT.
100 Copies in 10 Mins.
WORKS LIKE A £lO MACHINE.
REX —The Duplicator
Write for lE/ Postage 2/-
Particulars. ” Not N.S.W. 3/2
TUBBS & CO.,
STATION' HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Read the Novels of the Well-
known Australian Novelist,
HARRY TIGHE.
“LIFE’S AN T AGON ISMS, ”
“WOMEN OF THE HILLS,”
“THE SHEEP PATH,” etc.
HARRY TIGHE’S NEW NOVEL,
“WITH THE TIDE,”
will be published in London by Heath
Cranton in the early Autumn.
Thf. Bookman says: “His work has what
reviewers please to call psychology, and what
to me is peculiar and beavitirul intimacy
with the shades of human temperament.”
I,
'Ditching-
Terracing
Made Easy—Bigger _
crops, betterfarms with
Farm Ditcher
( r«n»r & Road Grader
Outs a mile of ditch 3 to 4 feet deep in ;i
day. Cleans out weed-grown ditches.
Moves dirt.
SAVES WORK OF 100 MEN.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.,
Ohallls House.
SYDNEY.
TUB
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAT) OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
fire Insurances ou «? 11 , cla « ,;s of
—■ Buildings, stocks, B urm-
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Wool,
— Hulls or Vessels. Breights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
he “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH. General Mun»*er.
70 be healthy-
drink
ď
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4' sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
Double
** •*
fd
Jts Strong
and it Stings! bui
it Cunes Chilblains!
Small Size 9° Large Size I^3
RUPTURE.
A FREB TRIAL.
II you aro troubled with the complaint, write at and
we will .end you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance doei away with all cumbetiome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rapture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO VOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
jf it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, rind the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
184 Queen Street. Melbourne
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Skin and Wool Merchants.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
*
BOSTOCKS
LiQuia suede dressings
SLACK SUEDE
nu ESsiNC
BOSTOCK'S Black Liquid Suede Dress-
ing gives a Jet Black tone and preserves
the original density of colour in the Suede
leather; also made in Brown, Nigger
Brown, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Obtainable
Everywhere
@315 ,
Less re-
sharpening,
longer wear
and less
expense
mmki m.
«vj*
Ms.
IS>
ss. #
..if**
- m
“an EAGLE ON A GLOBE” Brand Chaffcutter
f~\ Knives are made of special Sheffield Steel-
selected because of its hard-wearing qualities,
which ensure the preservation of a keen cutting edge.
These knives, users find, require resharpening less
frequently than usual. Therefore they serve longer
and at least expense. They make for quicker,
easier work.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Chaffcutter Knives
are available for all MODERN types of Chaffcutters.
Use the form below to order what knives you need.
These will be forwarded immediately. If in doubt
about the size, send a paper pattern of an old knife.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO., LTD.,
Associated. Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE ••• 342-3-18 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART K. L. Milligan, 64 Collins Street
Tear out and post to nearest address,
Kindly supply ..
. . . ehaffevttcr knives as described brloic.
Make of Chaffeutter
Size of Knife
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 30.7.25.
THE INKY WAY.
“Phil McCarity”: During the war I heard a deri-
vation of the slang phrase “Dinki-di” which haa
nothing to do with Shoreditch (B. 4/6/’25). The
2nd Australian Division earned a wide reputation
as a fine fighting unit. Their divisional colors were
diamond-shaped, and eventually the wearers came
to be referred to as the “Diukum Diamonds.’’ Prom
that to “Dinki Di,” and its present meaning is but
a step.
“The Deacon’ - : A scholar and book-lover passed out
with the 70-year-old James Collier. A graduate
of St. Andrew’s in classics and philosophy, he cut
his Inky teeth in Edinboro’, but London called, and
he presently became assistant secretary to Herbert
Spencer. A breakdown in health drove him later to
Maoriland, where for some years he was Parliamentary
Librarian. Thence to Sydney to complete a book on
Herbert Spencer, destined never to be finished.
“Nux Vomica”: A correspondent recently included the
word “clink” among comparatively modern military
slang-terms; actually, it is centuries old. -In the
“History of the House of Fortescue,” by Thomas Lord
Clermont (published 1869), is the following: “Sir
Edmond Fortescue died before his father, who had
been in trouble for the same [Royalist] cause and
was imprisoned for some time in the ‘Clinke’ or
Winchester House in London.” And Sir Edmond
died in 1647.
“F.T.K.”; That par. (B. 2/7/’2o) about the lion
interfering with the delivery of T.ue Bulletin to
a Central African subscriber reminds, me that a
friend in the Egyptian Secret Service receives his
Dully by every mail from a pal in London; and
when he has finished with it he passes it on to
another Australian in Abyssinia. The copy I once
ran across in the library of the Coptic Pope was
one of a number that went from Alexandria at irreg-
ular intervals to a party of surveyors working for
the British Government in the Sinai Peninsula.
Doubtless it was read under the shadow of the
mountain which Moses descended with the first edition
of the Decalogue under his arm.
“Gan”: I can supplement “Hamer’s” interesting
article on free-lance journalism with some bitter
experiences of my own. For a story of 3000 words
I received from a journal of old standing a cheque
for 30s. This occurred only last year; the rate
works out at 10s. a thousand words. Another
journal, that belongs to one of the richest pro-
prietaries in Australia* paid me two guineas apiece
for stories of about 2500 words. At such rates the
rawest junior reporter gets much more highly paid
than a short-story writer. Not only are the rates
incredibly low, but payment is often long deferred.
“Canar” (B. 9/7/’25) says that he has been kept
waiting for as long as three months. In the
second case I have mentioned my dainty little two-
guinea cheques arrived more than six months after
the stories had been accepted.
“L. 8.”: Little Peter Symmons, not long before his
death related to me how he gave the world
the story of the disappearance of the mace from the
Vic. Assembly (B. 9/7/’25). Receiving the news
after midnight from the friendly detective, he rushed
round to the Argus office and started to write his
article. He put in all he knew about maces, and
was up to about Charles I. when his copy was
demanded. The occasion was so important that he
asked for more time, and the machines were held
up for him. Exhausted after his effort, he wandered
into the street, and then the horrid fear seized him
that perhaps he had made an error. He called up
some official in Parliament House, and to his horror
and dismay learned that the dignitary at the other
end of the wire knew nothing about the bauble
being lost. Little Peter shivered as he hung up the
receiver. If the story was a hoax, he would lose his
job and be the laughing-stock of the town. All
night he wandered from coffee-stall to coffee-stall
waiting for the morning papers. Then he read his
thrilling story of the lost mace featured in the
Argus, but there was no mention of the matter in
the Age. Had his leg been pulled ? He didn’t dare
present himself at the office, but continued to
wander aimlessly about till the first edition of the
Evening Herald should tell him the worst. With
trembling fingers he opened the sheet, and dejection
turned to triumph. His story was confirmed. The
tnace really was lost. It was a tired and dishevelled
but a proud Peter who marched into the Argus
office, like a conquering hero, knowing he had pulled
off a sensational scoop. The proprietors of the august
journal were not ungrateful; his achievement brought
Symmons a cheque for £5O.
THE MISSING RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him on the office stair,
“Buck up,” I said, “my lad!”
His patently distracted air
Bore witness to a load of care,
His eyes were very sad.
He said ’twas desperately hard—
A thing I couldn’t dispute—
’Twas clear, however, something jarred,
And so I bade my friend the Bard
In Yankee diction “Shoot!”
He’d ’most composed, he said, an ode,
A dream of rhythmic beats;
A patriot strain throughout there flowed,
The fire of Shelley in it glowed,
The melody of Keats.
It mixed with “Curse o’ Moses’ ” swing
The wistful note of Quinn ;
In short he had been reckoning
’Twas just the sort of lyric thing
To suit Tim Bulletin.
“The theme?” impatiently I said.
He gave me answer clear:
“A welcome to the Gob Brigade
That comes to mash the Austral maid
And drink the Sydney beer.”
I smote the Bard a cheering smack.
“A noble theme, indeed.
Go, give the whip a final crack
On jibbing Pegasus’s back
An I make the brute proceed.”
He groaned aloud. His brow he knit.
The tear was in his eye.
“Upon a name my lyre has split,
I cannot find a rhyme to it
However hard 1 try.
“Ooontz! Oh, by what malign decree
Sue h words must poets meet!
Here is a lock that has no key,
It mignt have baffled Ingoldsby
And had Bob Browning beat.”
“Heart up,” I cried, “my singing bird,
Break through convention’s trammels 1
Are memories of Kipling blurr’d?
What price the Anglo-Indian word,
The Tommy slang for camels?”
His hat he flung into the air,
He beamed witli hope renewed.
His eyes re-lit with frenzy rare,
He wrung my hand upon the stair
In heartfelt gratitude.
His glad “Eureka” rang around.
Already 1 descry
A brow with Phoebus’ laurels crowned....
Kathlcss it wasn’t he who found
The saving rhyme—’twas I.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


See the NEW
Willard CRR Battery
Cf
i v
x,
ft
\ *
This is a Willard Threaded
Rubber Battery, so you can lay
odds that it will not need reinsula-
tion. Shipped Charged Bone-Dry.
which insures against deteriora-
tion. This battery is brand new
when you purchase it. Moreover,
it is an All-Rubber Case Battery at
the price of the ones with wooden
cases. See the CRR at any Wil-
lard Service Station.
These passenger cars and trucks are equipped by their makers
with genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Chiysler
Cole
Cunningham
Daniels
Davis
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Export)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Franklin
Delling
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
McFarlan
Oakland
Ogren
Oldsmobile
Packard (Export)
Peerless
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Steams
Studebaker
Stutz
Westcott
Wills St. Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All-American
American-
La France
Atterbury
Bridgeport
Case
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dodge
Dorris
Fifth Ave. Coach
Fremont
F. W. D.
Fulton
Garford
Giant
G. M. C.
Graham Bros.
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Independent
Indiana
Kankakee
Kissel
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Meteor
Miller
Nelson 8b Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Riddle
Ruggles
Sandow
Sayers 8b Scovill
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Velie
Vim
Ward-La France
White
Wilson
&
ft* I
,i,iiilill I I I I m i s i i *
inwttiffiff
STORAGE
BATTERIES
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A.


r
v:- ?
• Mi
[ V
if«i
mm
mm
i
. ° J-'** *»
u
' ;
‘ - f
m
M ■
■
■ > •..;
‘w>V
m m
.-■ - -V
; X \ ..
:
.
mm
HUK::
BlWii
||M|
Jjllpgg
; Wm
m
I ■
■ Hi
ran
-:
1 m
■ ■
Models. Prices.
501 Tourer £450
505 Tourer £675
510 Tourer £Bl5
519 Tourer £1350
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD Melbourne, Vic.
GARRATTS, LTD Sydney, N.S.W.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD Adelaide, S.A.
PERSONALITY AND PROGRESS.
ARTHUR ANDERSON, LTD Perth, W.A.
FIAT SALES AGENCY, LTD Brisbane, Q’land
ROBERT NETTLEFOLD PTY,, LTD., Hobart, Tas.


V
aft
IV
C>7
m
ore
31 2 3 wOQtIG
GREYS
Silk Cut Virginia
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN 6c CO. LTD., LONDON
Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Street Singer”
Criterion “Spring Cleaning”
Royal “The Masquerader”
Grand Opera House “Little Jessie James”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers' Theatre- Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Kid Boots”
Royal “Wildflower”
King’s “The Pelican”
Princess “No, No, Nanette”
Athen.eum “Let’s Go”
Palace “Snap”
Auditorium Altliouse-Middleton Concerts
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou ; Vaudeville
.Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
•
One of the interesting features of “The
Masquerader,” Guy Bates Post’s offering at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, was the reac-
tion of the audience to the central theme.
The notion that a party hack, the incom-
petent son of a successful shipwright, having
found his tongue in Parliament and picked
up a few rumors about munitions shortage at
duchesses’ garden parties, should be indis-
pensable to his country’s welfare in time of
war, invites nothing but snickers from a
house full of Australians who have lost their
faith in politicians. The second hinge the
play swings on is the descent of the poli-
tician into the hell of the drug addict. The
descent is rapid, but not rapid enough for
the spectator's comfort. The monosyllabic
Post portrayed all the outward horror of
the fantod-ridden morphia sot without re-
vealing any of his delightful dreams. Hence
his realistic collapse and death in an apart-
ment house, tended by the faithful Robbins,
remains a misery and vexation in the mem-
ory, while De Quincey’s account of the same
phenomenon in his “Opium-eater” remains
great literature. The third hinge is the
timely arrival of John Loder, a Canadian,
who owns the same grandmother as the poli-
tician and is his speaking double. By im-
personating the M.P., and with the assist-
ance of an intriguing newspaper editor, John
Loder exposes the munitions scandal and
“THE MASQUERADER ,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Guy Bates Post as Guy Bates Post.
saves the country. Incidentally, he falls
in love with the morphia-soak’s wife, and,
the husband being out of the way, there is
nothing to prevent him marrying the lady
and continuing the imposture for the rest
of his life. A mixture of “The Bat,” “The
Cat and the Canary” and some highly in-
genious Maskelyne and Dev ant devices en-
ables Guy Bates Post to keep the audience
guessing as to whether the person with his
face turned to the wall is John Chilcote,
M.P., John Coder or the dummy; the answer
in each case is that it is Guy Bates Post.
* * * *
The American actor discharged the strenu-
ous duties of the dual role with distinction.
As a drug fiend he behaved as drug fiends
are expected to behave, and as the visitor
from Canada he played very effectively his
trump card of extreme self-restraint. Cecil
Haines, as the servant-girl who sticks to her
protegg through all his bewildering transfor-
mations, infected the air with genuine pathos,
but the pathos of Winnington Barnes, who
held up the difficult part of Brock, the far-
sighted serving-man, was occasionally over-
done. Ailsa Grahame has gained, histrioni-
cally speaking, in breadth, depth and height
since her last appearance here. As the wife
of the doped saviour of the nation, and the
lover of his counterfeit, she rose excellently
to her various occasions.
In “The Second Round,’’ by Halcott
Glover, presented by the Sydney Repertory
Society, Paul llatteras (played by George
Bryant) appears as an ascetic sailor. Paul
strikes one as an unpleasant as well as
an unusual character. His first wife having
died in childbirth, he finds more charm in
strong waters than in his second helpmate,
whom, it transpires, he has married to prove
that he could do a little in preventing the
littering up of the earth with babies. Annie
Hughes, as Kate, the wife denied conjugal
rights, develops a preference for an honest
toiler, Sam Livingstone. Paul, however, gets the
heaviest knock-out blow from the daughter
whose birth has caused his warped attitude
towards life. Barbara llatteras was in the
hands of Evelyn Marsh ; there was an ama-
teurish flavor in her handling of the part,
nor was there anything very impres-
sive about Vincent Doyle, the marine
surveyor who was lured to the pub
by her gloomy beauty, and who offered
to marry her when the expected baby, pater-
nity unknown, became' a toddler. When
llatteras discovers that Barbara has not
even asked for a wedding-ring, lie proceeds
to drink himself to death, to the immense
relief of the audience. “The Second Round,”
with its inversion of the usual role of the
two sexes, may have been written with a
purpose, but. it simply suggests a well-mean-
ing housewife taking a bucket, pail and
scrubbing-brush and setting out to clean up
the Town Hall after an Artists’ Ball.
There is no hint of the studio about the
oils and water-colors of Fred Burmeister,
of Adelaide, now showing at Swain’s, Syd-
ney. Nature is an untidy lady, and lie is
too ingenuous an artist not to paint her
as he sees her. Consequently his pictures
of the scenery of South Australia’s hinter-
land, with which he has had some GO yearn’
acquaintance, often offend against pictorial
laws but lack little on the side of realism.
His big-boled red-gums are always sincerely
painted, and his drovers, mules and cattle
are aptly introduced. A camel-team haul-
ing wool across Lake Windabout is vigor-
ously drawn, and few have painted a more
satisfactory savage than the hairy Binghi
who sat for No. 46. The satin polish of
the gums and the wai’m light of morning in
No. 53 are perhaps the best bits of paint-
ing. Those who like a simple and unaffected
statement of affairs out back will find much
to interest them in this show.
** * *
Kreisler again played to a packed and
wildly-enthusiastic audience in Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday evening. For the first
night of his final season he chose Beethoven’s
great concerto, in which he was supported
by the Ma State Orchestra. Arundel Orchard
led his forces to comparative victory, and
the violinist declared himself more than
gratified with the local effort. All the beauty,
tenderness and gaiety of Beethoven’s music
flowed from the celebrated bow in an inspired
stream. In the second part of the programme
Kreisler gave a miscellaneous selection of
old and new works, and finally enraptured
the suburbs with some of his own rather
lightweight compositions. Other concerts
were given on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Whence go ye, jolly tars with stars bedight?
What entertainment lures this Friday night?
At Sydney Opera House Dot Brunton claims
Glad eyes and hands in “Little Jessie
James.”
“The Street Singer,” at Sydney Majesty’s,
continues to exhibit Gladys Moncrieff, Claude
Flemming and the rest to romantic and har-
monious advantage. The Last Fleet, or as
much of it as can be accommodated, will run
a nautical eye over the glittering show on
Tuesday night.
•-!: *
There’s thrill and “dare” in plenty at the
Cri.,
With Pauline Frederick no longer screen-
ing
On films, but in persona propria —
As chaps who deal in Latin tags would say—
“ Spring Cleaning.”
** * *
Possibly as a delicate compliment to
our trans-Pacific visitors the majority
of the stars at the Sydney Tivoli are
singing or speaking with a slightly nasal
accent this week. Milton Hayes meanders
along as pleasantly as ever and dissects
the advertising columns of the daily press
in whimsical fashion. Neil McKay mixes
a brogue suggestive of oatmeal and haggis
with nautical turns. Reg Wykeham and
partners Pirie Bush and Pressy Preston
give demonstrations in the gentle art of court-
ing favor with the boss, and the presence on
the stage of “Traps,” the six-year old drum-
mer, doubtless enables his family at home to
snatch a little sleep. Niblo and Doris aud
the Royal Squadron Syncopators are earn-
ing their hire.
The two Aussie films released in Sydney
this week suggest that Australian movie pro-
ducers still have a lot to learn. In “The Bush-
whackers,” a Raymond Longford production
at the Lyceum, the photographer has done
justice to the excellence of Australian
scenery for film purposes, but in other re-
spects the picture is only saved from com-
plete failure by the comedy touches. The
story, a modem version of Tennyson’s
“Enoch Arden,” wallows along under a large
top-hamper of irrelevances. There is a host
“THE CHERRY TREE,” AT MEL-
BOURNE TIVOLI.
Harry Green as George Washington Cohen,
who cannot tell a lie; Walter Allen and
Marie Hurst as the warring husband
and wife.
of uninteresting characters to confuse the
audience; and mawkish sub-titles crop up
every few feet, with a wordy explanation of
almost every movement. On the whole “The
Bushwhacker” is amateurish and disappoint-
ing. The other, “The Terrible Twins,” at
the Haymarket, sticks closely to Yankee tra-
ditions and alternates pie-slinging and the
like with maudlin melodrama. The pro-
ducer, F. E. Ward, ignores the oppor-
tunity offered by our wealth of land- and
sea-scape and seldom ventures outside grimy
back alleys.
At Sydney Fullers’ the opening attraction
is a film of Uncle Sam’s Fleet coming
through Sydney Heads. Linn Smith ansi
his jazz bandsmen arc still making a
vast tumult, and the plump Violet Elliott
is distributing breezy songs with appropriate
facial accompaniments. The pet weaknesses of
pawnbrokers and bookies are again heart-
lessly exposed by Estelle Rose, and this I’age
awaits with impatience the good-looking
lady’s opinion on the Back-to-Palestine move-
ment.
Muriel Starr returned to tearful emotion-
alism at Melbourne King’s, last Saturday, in
“The Pelican,” a title evidently suggested by
the female bird’s traditional readiness to
sacrifice herself for her young. , The first act
is a trifle obstetric, the Heriot family being
found discussing the reasons for the divorce
of Marcus, the son and heir, from Wanda, his
wife, whose child has taken a long time to
materialise after Marcus’s return to the
fighting-line; the family’s suspicions are fur-
ther fanned by the lady’s conduct in leaving
the house of her parents-in-law and saying
nothing about the impending new arrival
until it arrives. Resentful of such slurs
Wanda helps her husband to get his divorce
by a damaging admission; but staggers the
Heriot family by suddenly re-appearing and
assuring Marcus that the admission was
merely made to punish him for his lack of
loyalty: the child is his. His repudiation,
however, enables her to regard the child as
all hers; and having secured a job with a
Continental financier she rears her offspring
in Paris. Of course, her employer, Paul
Lauzan, falls in love with her, and she with
him ; but the complications necessary to the
continuance of the play are provided by the
son developing into an unmistakable chip of
the Heriot block, military traditions and all.
Charles Cheriton, who was the Heriot lawyer
in the divorce action, happening to meet
mother and son. becomes so convinced that
the divorce was obtained on false grounds
that he undertakes to try and get the boy
into Sandhurst, and, with this in view, brings
him to his father, who has meanwhile be-
come Adjutant-General of the British Army.
Convinced that the youngster is an all-wool
Heriot, Marcus journeys to Paris to sug-
gest re-marriage to Wanda, as an atonement
for the wrong he has done her. The memory
of years of unjust suffering makes Wanda
unresponsive at first, and the boy champions
his mother in her attitude: but in the end
she relents, for the boy’s sake, and in a
passion of tears makes up her mind to let her
own happiness and the man she loves go by
the board, and re-marry Marcus.
* * * *
The defects of an overstrained plot are ob-
scured by some good acting, Arthur Styan,
as General Sir John Heriot, presented a pom-
pous old military egotist subsequently declin-
ing into a mind-obscured paralytic, but always
clinging to his belief in the family great-
ness ; he and the arrogant Lady Heriot of
Mrs. Brough supply overwhelming ground
for Wanda’s refusal to stay at the home
of her husband’s parents. Muriel Starr
was, of course, Wanda, and Frank Harvey
played with restraint the rather cold Marcus
Heriot. Harvey Adams was the sympathetic
legal light, Charles Cheriton ; and C. M l . Hal-
lard gives a capital study of Paul Lauzan,
the French-Jewish financier with a romantic
strain. Ronald Ward is a boyish if some-
what overgrown 17-year-old Robin, Emma
Temple is Anna (Wanda’s servant), and
Eily Malyon lias a “straight” role as Her-
miono Blundell.
There were changes in the cast of “So
This Is London,”' as revived at Melbourne
Royal for the last five nights of Thurston
Hall's season. The change that mattered
most was the substitution of Henry Latimer
as Sir Percy Beauchamp for Reginald Car-
rington, who was inclined to make the real-
life boot-manufacturer too much like the
caricature of Hiram Draper’s vision. Madge
North was the Lady Amy Duckworth of the
revival, and, in place of Mary Macgregor,
llclenor Bevan played Elinor. The play is
one of slight plot but substantial laughter,
and Melbourne will have its last opportu-
nity of seeing it to-night (Thursday).
Altliouse and Middleton, in spite of step-
ping in right upon the heels of Kreisler, have
been drawing great audiences to the Audi-
torium. At last Thursday’s concert Paul
Altliouse was in fine voice in a Handel
aria and Verdi’s “Celeste Aida.” “Moon
Marketing” showed the tenor’s versatility:
for an encore he gave a nonsense song with
a humor of which tenors are seldom capable.
Arthur Middleton was dramatic in “Danny
Deever” (Damrosch), but he scored best in
his encores: “The Song of the Volga Boat-
men” and “The Song of the Flea.” The
Saturday-night concert included a bracket of
Masefield’s “Saltwater Ballads.” There will
be a further concert to-night (Thursday) ;
and Saturday is mentioned as the last occa-
sion upon which the tuneful pair will be
heard in Melbourne.
* * * =:=
At his sixth concert at the Assembly Hall,
Edward Goll scored a marked success with
the melodic “Country Tune” of Arnold Bax,
showing that composer in his lighter vein.
In a varied programme, mostly modern,
Joseph Marx’s “Humoresque” stood out, the
pianist exhibiting genuine quality.
*i- * *
The Wagner concert at the Auditorium
was even more successful than a previous
one, the Orchestral League of Victoria con-
trolling the offensive, with Alberto Zelrnan
“SPRING CLEANING,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
June Elridge as Mona, a lady of the streets,
and Pauline Frederick as Margaret, the
lady of the house.
as conductor. The orchestra had been aug-
mented to 80 performers, and its better
training was apparent in the vastly im-
proved rendering o£ “The Flying Dutchman”
overture. An outstanding item was Dr. X
F. Rudall’s masterly use of the English horn
in the “Prelude to Act III” of “Tristan
and Isolde.”
(Continued on page 37.)


111 jl . '.,' . I : : “
. ? •%’«>/ *' ,
. •h./a:': - • •, •
IIIIW
' ■ :
■HH
r-
mmmm
3K
Wm
<.* «
s
/
*
Often wonder t#ia. itt c
Vmfevs buj9 , ■
One half so prcc iou $
as iHe Goods
I
w
<v
A
m *
»
I
Dinar Via)} torri
r> :, ; :
4 -..A
%
A
mA
a
*
A
■
:
*vi : V
■ ->. ■ ■
WMmm
m
IH
■
- |
m
i
•V...
M
I
|lggip|ll
y*'
WA
■
s» <P*
•o'
*
1 »
I
<
m
M
m
a
SIMM
i -
" : V-.
'
A
"1 1
.'V.
©I
■ ■
I
•••■■
m
m
u
TS
■ J
< £
mmmm


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
IS
ms**.
m
W. W. GREINiiP 11
GUMMAKERS BIRMINGHAI
r
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
Fore!
ABBOTS
LAGERJ
Is Always To The fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
&
NATIONAL HOTEL
Strictly
First
Class.
\\\
//'
’» V »>
“Rowe’s ” .Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Brisbane,
Miss Jessica Slimith revealed a rich, if
not absolutely pure, contralto at her
Assembly Hall concert, and her programme
was well selected. “The Blackbird I Cyril
Scott) was her best number. Her main
assistance came from a tenor, Mr. Tom
Downie (he has a tendency to slur his
vowels, hut a Schumann song was meri-
torious), and a young violinist, Cecil Parkcs.
who showed verve with some crudities ot
style. But for these at least one or two
of his numbers would have been far above
the average.
:!= £
Recently returned from studying abroad,
pianist Gladys Cunlitfe gathered her friends
mi Tuesday of last week to show the effect
of a few layers of polish. Site was well re-
ceived. but there is a feeling that Miss Cun-
lifit'e, whose playing is technically correct and
full of clarity, has roped herself very tightly
to convention. Her recital gave an oppor-
tunity for the presentment of some local
compositions, Fritz Hart's "Strawberry
Fair” and Dudley Glass’s "Nocturne.
* * *
The, "House Full" signs are not allowed to
gather any dust at the New Princess, Mel-
bourne. where “No, No. Nanette.' maintains
its hold on public approval.
* * *
No indication is given that Lee While
sees occasion to change the "I.el s Go Gill
at the Athenaeum.
* ;!:
“Ivid Boots” still patter brightly at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s. The show was first
in with a Fleet Night, last Saturday ; George
(lee will still be skipping slickly through the
name-part for weeks to come, according to
present indications.
* *
"Snap." that cocktail of levity and humor,
pursues its uneven course, at the Melbourne
New Palace. Some specialties for Fleet
Week have been introduced to spice the
draught for our visitors' consumption.
* # * *
"Wildflower” will bloom at, Melbourne
Royal on Saturday, with Marie. Burke as
its chief petal.
* *
The bland and childish Long Tack Sam
lias come back to the Melbourne Tivoli. His
assumed ignorance of the English language
is unbelievable foolishness; hut he manages
to be mildly entertaining. Harry Green is
definitely in the last week of “Tlie Cherry
Tree”; good as tlie act is. lie might profit-
ably change his material more often. Lilian
and Tsobel, who style their turn “Music de
Luxe,” hardly fill the gap left by the depart-
ure of Tris and Phyllis.
*
George Wallace has revived "Off Hono-
lulu” for the special benefit of tlie American
sailors, who are given an opportunity
to see the comedian fall on liis ear in his
own inimitable fashion. Harry Taft is a
likeable comedian who whispers entertaining
secrets about his private life, and Murfayne,
“the xylophonist.” with the hard pedal on
the definite article, cuts a fair hunk of ice.
The Rev. Frank Gorman presents a sketch
moderately amusing, with a quite superfluous
preliminary reminder of his former sacred
calling.
:!: * *
A National Gallery juggle:—
John Longstaff's portrait of David Watterson having
been passed over to that gentleman at a meeting
of Melbourne Yorick Club, at which meeting as
many nice things were said about the painter as
about the sitter, the Longstaff portrait of the Rev.
I’. J. Murdock has been hung in its place. The
artist has succeeded in using the plain clergyman’s
garb to emphasise the painting of the face, the
fine features of which are excellently developed.
Though not quite as good as the work it has sup-
planted, the painting' is a capital specimen of Long-
staff’s craftsmanship.
*
At Melbourne Majestic Theatre, Johnny
Hines makes an entertaining moral lesson
of “The Early Bird.” “A Fool and His
Money” are parted in the supporting picture.
Rin-Tin-Tin is a feature in “My Dad” at the
Hoyt’s De Luxe, his thoroughness being an
example to all film stars. Mary Philbin
walks “The Fools’ Highway” to help out the
programme.
“R.K.D.N.”: llow the American loves to
jeer at the Dry laws of bis country! His
pitchers have long shown us all classes of
the community revelling in sly-grog and boot-
legging activities, and now we are getting
the stupendous joke incorporated in spoken
plays. When Thurston Hall, as the rich
manufacturer in “So This Is London!” pro-
duces a bottle of whisky from his hip-pocket
in his West End hotel, his wife remarks in
half-hearted surprise, “You’re going to
drink?” The reply is a sure laugh-getter.
"Well, what do you think I came all this
way for?” And the Australian audience
says to itself with a snigger, “So this is
Prohibition !”
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBDORNE
“Fore" : If the term "theatrical perform-
ance” includes that most lugubrious of all
forms of alleged entertainment, the ship’s
company’s concert, “X.N.O.’s” furthest-north
claim (B. 23/7/’25) dees not stand. In
1024, as a snotty in a cruiser visiting Bergen
(Norway); three or four degrees north of
Scapa Flow, I scored my one and only sue-
OPPORTUNITY.
STACE-STRUCK WIFE: "I wish I could get
a chance to sing in public.”
BORED HUSBAND : "Then why not join the
Salvation Aring?”
cess in such a show with "Guuga Din.
The audience, composed chiefly of Nor-
wegians, who didn’t understand a word of
English, fairly rocked with laughter, and
1 had great difficulty in avoiding an encore.
There was one Grand Fleet show called "Too
Weak,” by "Ellova Grin.” It was produced
by 11.M.5. Emperor of India, and was not-
able for the chorus of midshipmen, attired in
imitation tiger-skins, who pranced • about
the stage waving bowls of burning incense.
I always considered it to be as good as any-
thing Cochran or de Courville ever did.
“Hamfat”: The name of Hoyt’s first
entered into the show business in Mel-
bourne after the burning of the old Theatre
Royal in 1872. when Henry Hoyt, seeing
a gap, filled it by building the Prince ot
Wales’s just opposite. The P.O.W. was
opened with “London Assurance” (Mrs.
(Jladestone ran the show), on August 24,
1572, and had the re-built Royal as a com-
petitor four months later. Harry Rickards
got control of it years afterwards, and built
the Tivoli in its stead. There is no living
Hoyt associated with Hoyt’s pictures; appa-
rently the cinema co. that runs the enter-
prises, just borrowed the name, as an attrac-
tive title, from old show tradition.
“Coot": The visit of the American fleet
reawakens interest in the Yankee s national
songs. Strange to say, not one of the airs is
American. The tune of “Hail Colum-
bia” is Herman; it was composed' in
1789 as a inarch by a Teuton named
Pyles. Nine years later Joseph llop-
kinson wrote “Hail Columbia,” and the
words were adapted to the
tune. “Yankee Doodle” has
a Dutch air which was sung
in Holland as a harvest-song.
The music of “The Star-
spangled Banner” was com-
posed by an Englishman, and
that of “America” was taken
from the English “God Save
the King.” And that, the
Germans claim, was bor-
rowed from one of their hymns.
“Necbsah”: Santley’s fee of £BO si
show (B. 1.6/7/‘25) was a good one for the
’seventies. To star a baritone in opera was
a bold undertaking, for few baritone roles
have drawing force. In later years, when
Santley was in Australia, Mangrove com-
missioned me to offer him £5O for one per-
formance of Valentine in “Faust” at the Prim
cess’s, Melbourne, the cast to be approved
by him. “My dear fellow,” he said in reply,
"if you offered me Patti and Faure, I’d
never enter the theatre again.”
“E.T.” : A yarn told by an English friend
of the late Alfred Lester is good enough to
repeat. “Peter Doody” and his pal. holiday-
ing at Monte Carlo, were one brilliant day
sitting on the terrace enjoying the sunshine
and lazily watching the busy flocks of sea-
birds. Drinking in the beauty of the scene,
the comedian’s companion was amazed to
hear Lester remark, in the lugubrious tones
lie used with such effect on the stage, “Why
do the gulls go messing around Blackfriars
Bridge, T wonder?”
“C.K.”: Billy Beattie, mentioned as
Dorothy llelmricli’s teacher (B. 23/7/’2ol,
once helped ,T. C. Williamson out of an awk-
ward situation. During a short revival of
Planquette’s “Old Guard,” the late Wallace
Brown low, who was playing Marcel, pro-
posed to cut the big song in the first act, as
he was not feeling up to the mark. Lie
said he would be all right in the interpolated
number in the second act —it happened to
be the song I had composed for him. to his
own words, for “The Belle of New York.” <hi
.1. C. Williamson objecting, Brownlow took
the stand that if he could not do as lie liked
he Avould not play at all. None of ns know
anything at that time about Beattie, but
J.C.W. did. Sent for, and rehearsed in the
part, Billy played it successfully for a week.
Brownlow. in addition to losing his salary,
was not allowed to return until he had pub-
licly apologised. Beattie afterwards became
a very useful member of the co.
“Hamer” : “The Pal That I Love" got into
the Melbourne police records almost coinci-
dently rvith the appearance of my par. (B.
16/7/’25). The patrons of a by-alley pub,
among whom were some Maltese, were listen-
ing to a party of musicians when an Aus-
tralian expressed an overwhelming desire to
hear the old street dirge again. The musi-
cians looked blankly at him. and a Maltese
chipped in with “Leave-a da mooseecians to
make-a dare own mooseek: dey know-a
vot-a dey play.” In the fight that resulted
the interrupter was stabbed. I am sorry
for him as a man and a brother, but, con •
sidered in the cold white light of Art. a per-
son. who, having heard “The Pal That I
Love,” wants it repeated deserves all he gets.
“Forebridge”: “The Sea-Hawk" (B.
23/7/’25) is a pretty good film as American
films go, but in the scene in which the two
galleys fight it is obvious that they are
using blank ammunition. There is a furious
cannonade, with plenty of smoke and slaugh-
ter, but the sea remains unruffled. All the
shots must have hit the target—or missed by
a few miles—for they never pitched any-
where near the combatants. Also. Milton
Sills would not have suited me as a skipper.
He had a suicidal habit of anchoring his
ship at night about 50 yards from a dead
lee shore. In another film. “As Man De-
sires,” .Sills, in the part of a hardcase South
Sea Island trader, is shown conning liis
schooner into port. Then are flashed on
the screen the words “Prepare to turn about.
Hard-a-starboard." Perhaps there are skip-
pers of island schooners who do transpose
"Ready about” into such landlubberly lan-
guage.’ but I can’t believe that there are any
who would view with tranquillity the helms-
man who, when ordered to starboard his
helm, jams it hard-a-port.
“Dud” : The Franz Lehar operette, “Fras-
quita,” in which the J. C. Williamson direc-
torate is interested, and which was staged
at London Prince of Wales’s, did not turn
out to be another “Merry Widow.” Although
Jose Collins was the principal and the play
was lavishly produced, the public did not
take to it, and after six weeks “Frasquitn”
bade the Cockneys farewell. The Firm had
better luck with “Liglitnin’.” which put in
nearly five months at the Shaftesbury.
“Yarra Ben”: Critics have often joked
about the absence of plot and story in musi-
cal comedies, but when the "book” of a song-
and-dance piece is derived from an already-
acted play its success is in no way prejudiced.
Quite the other way. So a little stagecraft,
and coherency may count, after all. The
latest example is “No, No, Nanette,” which
is likely to last Hugh Ward for a year or
two. A “straight” piece which recently had
! a little Hotter on Melbourne boards, and
HIS REST WORK.
EDITOR: "What did you do with that last
poem you showed met"
POET (dramatically) : “Destroyed it.”
EDITOR: "Destroyed it — ah. that was the
best thing you ever did.!”
which should do bettor if supplied with a
musical score, is “The Broken Wing.” Its
comic-opera setting and story cry aloud for
adaptation to musical-comedy requirements.
Introduce a lively chorus and alter the title
to “The Greaser” or “The Spooler” and the
thing is done.
"F.N.W.”: A weird addition to London
places of “amusement” has opened its doors
in the Charing Cross-road. The crudely
decorated building consists of a long room
in which three platforms are backed against
the wall. These platforms (called “stages”)
are protected by a rail which prevents the
audience from pushing the performer off
the enclosed square, or ramming him into the
piano—each platform has an instrument and
half a dozen lights. No seats are furnished,
and the three platforms are used alternately.
Directly a performer has finished perspiring
oil one “stage” the audience has to make a
violent sprint to another in order to view
the next hero do his bit. Unless a, spectator
is adept at Rugby the possibility of seeing
anything but the head of a vaudevillian pro-
jecting out of the scrum is remote. After
hearing a couple of “turns” the visitor who
is not in training slips out into the street
again. Admission is a shilling, and the place
is labelled the Alcazar Public Audition
Centre (Continuous Performance). The
management thoughtfully provides plenty of
exits.
“Neebsah”: Young Australian choristers
and small-part opera people are, in my
opinion, of a higher grade than those of
other countries. The ambitious should
always be ready for the opportunities that
sometimes occur in the profession, owing to
illness or some other cause, by studying parts
most likely to suit them. I’ve known sur-
prising rises, notably that of charming little
Violet Varley. She was heard singing a
small part in Adelaide by one who spoke
to Musgrove about her. "Tell her to under-
study Miss Stewart,” said G.M. Violet
pouted at the word “understudy,” but got
ready all the same. Her chance came, and
she made an immediate hit. A striking case
happened in England, when we were touring
the provinces with “Pinafore” and “Pirates.”
One night, just at starting-time, the s.-m.
asked excitedly: “Does anyone know Dick
Deadeye?” A tall, well set-up young fellow
at the back said very modestly: “Yes, I do."
“Well, hurry and make up—Manning’s ill.’
replied the s.-m. The new Dick did so well
that he was called up to headquarters (the
Savoy) to play the Sentry in “lolanthe.” He
was Charles Manners, later of the Moody-
Manners opera co. The Manning named
came out to Australia with Brough, and was
subsequently secretary of the Melbourne C.C.
A NEW SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Two sisters conversed by wireless telephone for
eight minutes on ships 150 miles apart.” ( ul/lc.
They talked for just eight minutes on the 'phone,
On the marvellous affair that goes alone, .
Over ether, over air,
Over water wet and bare
They could hear the words that fluttered and the nine.
Speaking gently, heart to heart,
Though their ships were far apart
They only talked eight minutes on the 'phone!
The world is gaining knowledge all the while,
And the wireless ways are full of subtle guile ;
And no more in dribs and drabs,
But in large amazing slabs
The inventions hit us all in splendid sty le.
But we wonder at the news
That those sisters shared their views;
For eight minutes seems a deuced little while!
When we all take up this disconnected 'phone
And the thing to all our sisters well is known,
Then perhaps we may observe
That eight minutes will not sene
For the gentle conversations outward thrown.
Vos, the fitful, fiery spark
That must bear each swift remark'
W ill he working overtime behind the 'phone.
When Lucinda gets to real grips with Kate
Other matters of necessity must wait;
And through voices shrill and clear
All the working atmosphere
Will be in a hignly agitated state.
The electric currents then
May in sympathy with men
Swear a cosmic swear or two at Lop and Kate.
But I question if that loose and magic 'phone
Will ever come completely to its own.
Is there really enough
Of the true electric stuff
To carry every gentle female tone ?
Will the ether billows balk
At tlie mighty flood of talk
And unite to, form one .long and dismal groan ?
s.s.w.
MARY M c C


Amusements. t __
gTDNEY’S CtH lEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER, MAJESTY’S:
THE STREET SINGER.
CRITERION: SPRING CLEANING.
ROYAL: THE MASQUERADER,
Git AND OPliitA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J.l Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
Nightly at 8. Mfitinfies Wednesday and Saturday.
LITTLE. JESSIE JAMES.
Philip at Nicholson’s.
I»ICK ARD S ’/ TIV O El THEAT R E S.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDE VILLE.
The /World's Best.
rt 7 EEE R S’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVIijRY d)AY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’te BEST VAUDEVILLE.
' Plans at Theatre.
MOSMAN! MU SICAE SOCIETY.
VERONIOUE.
MOSMIVN TOWN HALL.
AUGUST A 10, 11, 12, 13, 15.
booking Open Paling ’s, Sydney; Manning’s, Mosman.
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KID BOOTS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WILDFLOWEK.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR and PRANK HARVEY in
THE PELICAN.
AT H E NA3UM THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. and Sats. at 2.30.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
LEE WHITE,
The Personality Artist, in
LET’S GO.
Her Latest, Brightest and Funniest Musical Revue.
Box Plans at Allan’s.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HOWETT WORSTER Presents
the sparkling Revue,
SNAP.
Music by Kenneth Duffield: Book and Lyrics by
Dion Titheradge and Ronald Jeans. All Star Cast
includes KITTY REIDY and HOWETT WORSTER.
Box Plans at Glen’s.
Commonwealth 51 per cent.
War Conversion Loan.
Amount of Maturing Loan to be Covered,
£67,000,000.
Interest: 5| per cent. Price of Issue: Par.
Loan to be repaid in 1931, 1936 or 1941, at the
option of the subscriber, to be exercised when
making application.
Holders of Commonwealth 4| per cent. Inscribed Stock and
Treasury Bonds maturing on 15th December, 1925, are invited to
convert their holdings or any part thereof into an equal amount
of 5 \ per cent. Stock or Bonds of this new Loan.
Persons who so convert will receive from the Commonwealth
on the 1 sth December, 1925, the usual half-yearly interest payment,
amounting to £2 ss. on each £lOO, which is due on that date.
Such persons will also receive from the Commonwealth on 15th
December, 1925, a cash bonus calculated at the rate of 1 per cent,
per annum from the date of lodgment of the conversion application
to the 15th December, 1925.
All persons, whether they have holdings in the maturing
Loan or not, may make cash subscriptions to the new Loan.
1. The amount subscribed may be paid in one amount in full
when the application is lodged.
2. A deposit of 10 per cent, of the amount subscribed may be
lodged with the application, and the balance of the amount
subscribed may be paid in one amount at any time up to Monday,
14th December, 1925.
3. The amount subscribed may be paid by instalments as
under:—
10 per cent, deposit to be lodged with application.
10 per cent, on Wednesday, 2nd September, 1925.
20 per cent, on Friday, 2nd October, 1925.
30 per cent on Monday, 2nd' November, 1925.
30 per cent, on Monday, 14th December, 1925,
On all moneys paid into the Loan, interest at the rate of 5|
per cent, per annum, calculated in each case from the date of
lodgment of the money to the 15th December, 1925, will be paid
by the Commonwealth as soon as possible after the 1 sth December,
1925.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth
Taxation, but will be free of State Income Tax.
The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Act of
the several States, and Trustees may invest therein, notwithstand-
ing that the price may at the time of investment be above or below
the redemption value of par.
The Stock and Bonds of this issue will be accepted at par,
with due allowance for interest accrued since the last interest
payment, in satisfaction of amounts due to the Commonwealth for
Probate and Succession Duty.
The Treasurer reserves the right at any time to close this
Loan and refuse subscriptions tendered.
Commonwealth Treasury,
22nd July, 1925.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Amusements.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NO, NO, NANETTE.
HUGH J. WARD’S WONDER MUSICAL COMEDY.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THE ATR E.
MELBOURNE.
RIN-TIN-TIN in
MY DAD.
MARY PHILBIN in
FOOL’S HIGHWAY.
Prices as usual.
|y| V,JiJSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CALL OF THE WILD.
From the story by Jack London.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
g\|EW JSI.JOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
1 Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVir.LE DE LUXE.
GEORGE WALLACE IX REVUE,
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
AH D I T O R I U M. aTeI.ROCBNE
Direction J. and N. Tait.
TO-NIGHT AND SATURDAY NEXT.
PAUL ALTHOUSE (Tenor), and
ARTHUR MIDDLETON (Bass-Baritouel.
HE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA IiSPEA ItEIX
PRODUCTIONS.
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
Mackay, August 1 to 5 : Townsville, August 7 toll;
Charters Towers, August 15 to 19.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydnev.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Missing Friends.
TJILLARD—WILLIAM (or children), formerly at
■ L ' L Narrabeen; and son of JOHN HILLARD. h
farmer in West of England, should communicate with
A. G. SMITH & SON, Solicitors, Melksham, Wilts,
England.
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
fcPOST FREE J
1C H
By Appointment to
H.R.H The Prince of Wales
fflake
The habit of
cleansing the teeth
can be a good or
a bad one. It depends
entirely upon the
dentifrice used.
It is a bad habit to
use gritty pastes or
powders, which whiten
the teeth but wear
away the enamel and
make way for decay.
The twice -a - day
Kolynos habit—recom-
mended by Doctors and
Dentists—preserves the
delicate enamel whilst
cleansing the teeth in
the most effective and
economical way.
Start the Kolynos habit
to-day, It is the surest
and safest method of
keeping your teeth
sound and healthy, for
THERE S NO GRIT
OF ANY KIND IN
&
5 j '^N.ssS-
DENTAL CREAM
§ •••:>


The Bank of Victoria, Limited.
FIFTY-NINTH REPORT,
To SOth June, 1925.
To he submitted to the Shareholders at the General Meeting to be held
at noon on TUESDAY, 4th AUGUST, 1925.
The Board of Directors submit their Fifty-ninth Report to the Shareholders of
the Bank, together with the Balance-sheet for the year ending 30th June, 1925, duly
certified by the Auditors, showing:—
Balance brought forward from 30tli June, 1924 .. .. £35,157 5 2
.Net Profits for the past year . . . . .. .. .. 189,797 4 7
£224,954 9 9
Interim Dividend at 9 per cent, for half-year July to December, 1924 —
Preference Shares .. .. .. £18,754 4 0
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 47,75(5 5 0
£66,510 9 0
To Officers' Provident Fund .. 3,000 0 0
09.510 9 0
Balance .. .. £155,444 0 9
The Directors recommend that the remaining Profits for the year be
apportioned as follows :
To Dividend on Preference Shares, at 9 per cent, per
annum, for half-year ending 30th June, 1925 .. £18,754 4 0
To Dividend on Ordinary Shares, at 9 per cent, per
annum, for half-year ending 30th June, 1925 .. 47,756 5 0
£66,510 9 0
To Reserve Fund (making it £800,000) .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
To Balance to be carried forward .. .. .. .. 38,933 11 9
£155,444 0 9
The retiring Directors are Mr. H. E. Rowe and Mr. L. F. Miller, who are eligible
for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly.
To elect Two Auditors and fix remuneration for ensuing twelve months. Messrs. T.
Brentnall, F.C.P.A., and P. .1. W. Dauby, F.C.P.A., the retiring Auditors, have given
the necessary notice, and offer themselves for re-election.
A branch of the Bank has been opened at Oakleigh, with an agency at Spring \ ale,
and the Piangil agency converted into a branch.
The Dividend will be payable in Melbourne on and after the sth August, and at
the branches and in London on receipt of advices.
The transfer-books of the Company will be closed from 22nd July to 4th August,
both days inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
PHILIP CH. de CRESPIGNY, General Manager.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited,
Melbourne, 15th July, 1925.
Balance Sheet of The Bank of Victoria, Limited,
at 30th June, 1925
(Including London Branch at 25th May, 1925).
DR.
CAPITAL AMD LIABILITIES.
To Capital Paid Up, viz.:—
41,(576 Preference Shares of £lO each, fully paid up in Cash.,
•212,250 Ordinary Shares of £lO each, paid up to £5 ..
„ Reserve Fund
„ Profit and Loss..
. Motes in circulation ..
~ Bills in circulation
„ Government Deposits—•
Not bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
„ Other Deposits and Interest Accrued-
(lncluding rebate on Bills discounted) not bearing Interest
(Including Officers’ Guarantee and J
, Balances Due to other Banks
„ Contingent Liabilities as per Contra
£416.760 .0 0
1.001,250 0 0
CR.
ASSETS.
Rv Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes, and Cash at Bankers’ .. ..£2,445,981 7 6
~ Money at short call and Treasury Bills in Lcndon .. . . •• 1,072.368 1 2
„ Commonwealth of Australia War Loan Stock and Debentures, Victoria
Government Stock and Debentures, and Municipal Debentures .. 1.070.617 13 I
„ Bills and Remittances in transitu and Bills Receivable in London.
„ Notes and Bills of other Banks
„ Balances due from other Banks ..
„ Stamps .. .. .. .. .. •. • • • •
£ 5,46 1.753 1
~ Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises .. .. •• •• •• •• •• 437 l
„ Other Real Estate .. .. .. .. . • • • • • • • • • • • J 13
„ Bills Discounted and other Advances, exclusive of provision for bad and doubtful debts 8. <90,691 6
„ Liabilities of Customers and others in respect of Contingent Liabilities, as per contra 661,093 13
1,070.617 13
610,772 19
196,793 14
58,773 17
0,445 8
£15,351,786 2 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Current Expenses-
,, Balance
DR.
-Head Office and 105 Branches and 16 Sub-Branches..
CR.
..£221.083 18 11
.. 155,444 0 9
£376,527 19 8
By Balance brought forward from 30t,h June, 1924 .. .. •• .. -• .. £101,667 14 2
Gross Profit for the year ending 30th June, 1925, after deducting all Interest paid
” or due to Customers, and rebating Bills Current, and providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts and Taxes • • • • 110,881 3 6
£562,548 17 8
Less Dividend paid for half-year ending 30th June, 1924..
Less Interim Dividend for half-year July to December, 1924
Less Amount transferred to Officers’. Provident Fund
Less Amount transferred to Reserve Fund .. • • • •
..£66,510 9 0
.. 66,510 9 0
3,000 0 0
.. 50,000 0 0
£186,020 18 0
£376,527 13 8
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance carried forward
DR.
OR.
By Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1924 ..
Transferred from Profit and Loss .. .. •
..£750.000 0 0
£750,000 0 0
..£700,000 0 0
.. 50,000 0 0
£750,000 0 0
The Customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and General
Manager to comply with the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report.
KIS
•1
H n
'
78
■
ii
if V 5 H
g| ',, *4 '. gjjgg
',//(& "'' , M A
"Westclox
For Quality
You can trust a Westclox
WHEN you wind the keys and shove over
the switch, there is a lot of satisfaction in
knowing that you will be called on time
in the morning.
To call you on time your Westclox runs on time
and has an alarm mechanism that performs at the
set time.
Starting the day’s work in time brings one happi-
ness and oftimes great success. A Westclox
guarantees you the right start —And the right start
is half the race.
Westclox Big Ben, 21/-; Baby Ben, 21/-; Sleep-Meter, 12/6; America, 9/6;
Blue Bird, 10.6; Pocket Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 18.-;
Big Ben Luminous, 27i6, Baby Ben Luminous, 27,6; Clo-Ben, 12/6;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
51 10
Oin. 3-stage Turbine riuiip,
gallons per minute. 500 ft. head.
THOMPSON
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Single or Multi-stage Types arranged
for Horizontal or Vertical Shaft Drive.
SOUND DESIGN
HIGH EFFICIENCY
RELIABILITY
LOW MAINTENANCE
SUBMIT YOUR PUMPING PROBLEM TO
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
ENGINEERS,
CASTLEMAINE,
VICTORIA.
MELBOUUNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
IJHIS BANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY s
L. HinUs & Co Etd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
LON DON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m .*,■
t '
RITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitsh: rubber
TWENTY POUNDS IN PRIZES.
Children’s Portrait Competition-
er OUR PRIZES of Five Pounds each:
(a) For Best Baby Girl 8 years last birthday and
under; (b) For Best Baby Boy 3 years last birthdav
and under; (e) For Best Girl between 3 and 15;
apd (d) For Best Boy between 3 and 15. Ten shil-
lings for each additional photo, used.
For United Commercial Travellers’ Association’s
National Annual, Australia To-Day (fifteenth
competition). Photos (babyhood up to 15 years last
birthday) must have been taken during last 12
months. BACK OF PHOTO, must show NAME AND
ADDRESS and AGE last birthday of CHILD with
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SENDER. Judgment of
Management to be final. Unused photos will be re-
turned, post paid. Photos, must reach Editor,
Australia To-Day, Box 49GH, G.P.0., Melbourne
by AUGUST 31, 1925.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed' — .think of
ď
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer •' 44 Bridge Street, Sydney,
50 SIMPLE
CARD
TRICKS
0
ANDRADE
SO SIMPLE CARD
TRICKS, 1/6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/6.
Ijevinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
Easy Conjuring
Tricks, 2/6.
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
FREE CATALOGS—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 301 Eourke Street,
SYDNEY, and MELBOURNE.
[4
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ADDRESS wanted of EDWARD HAL-
LETT LITTLE, formerly of South
Australia, and Western Australia. Recently
employed by an insurance company in New
South' Wales.* Apply EXECUTOR, TRUS-
TEE AND AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD.,
22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
o O V
'
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL
THAT BEST
KNOWN OF ALL PAINTS.
THiat are the attributes wherein lie RIPOLIV-
World-wide Reputation ?
TTS ABSOLUTE •RXCEI/LENCK.
Nothing succeeds like success, and Ripoliu
is always succeeding in its results.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney. Telephone 13 328-1.
S. J. Squires & Co., Utd., 171 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
The Standard Agencies Pty., Utd., 379 Flinders Street.
Melbourne.
Clarkson, Utd., 122 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
TOBYS
LE
TS
CL / FFO rut)
-4 plates for^y
M aiAufactured by
LOVE & CO. LTD, SYDNEY.
c
CT
s Siliiantoi
,3 PUREIIi^MIW
li!
sXjt an&fliinfSi'u
I
V
At least five years
old. Guaranteed by
the Law and
the Label.
oc
n
ii i
Ms
<roS
£3.0
si
nr\
f
d
ď
THE SOCIETY OF MOTOR
MANUFACTURERS & TRADERS, LTD.
announce the organisation of
THE INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR
EXHIBITION
For Private Motor Cars, Carriage
Work, Components, Accessories,
Tyres and Equipment.
OCTOBER 9th- 17tb, 1925.
THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL
Motor Transport
EXHIBITION
For Petrol, Steam and Electric
Vehicles, for goods and passenger
transport and general utility pur-
poses, Bodywork, Components,
Accessories, Tyres and Equipment.
OCT. 29th-Nov. 7th, 1925,
rN
tICISTKftI*
fn*©i m«ii
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVER3HEEN POLISH
baa a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable Never reanires cleaning.
C#J»)S T
182®?S3b?'&
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Raker & Lon&tiuTSt
50 York Street. Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insulhcientljj stumped.
Marne and address must appear on the MSS. Mo
liability is undertaken re coni rihiit ions rolnn-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless slumps accompany.
‘‘Quill”: Not at all bad, but not in our
line... .H.S.; Don t care for : It isn’t
what we want... .Click B.: No g00d... .F.A.S.:
Not for this paper. .. .A.J.Z. (or some other disguised
intials) : The dog that was the “pride of the
township” is smothered in useless words.... lan K.:
Not enough there to make a yarn.... A.M.8.8.:
Poorly done and a trifle nasty... .C.W.S.: Wooden
verse... .T.W.W.: Could be a shade worse A.T.A.:
Some distance 0ff.... Black Heath: Weak stringing
together of some of the things most frequently
repeated by people who only repeat things....
G.IT.G.: Falls down before it gets to anything....
W. Terrific verses D.T.H.: You have no
feeling for verse... .T.J.L.: Dreary and impossible.
....David W.: Too much talk for the little
there is to say... .G.M.T.: You have a story
but it needs telling better... .D.P.M.: They are
still a bit weak and extravagant for their slight
themes Niable: Not worth while G.L.T.:
“Bill” is ratner thin Hoyle: Not very thrilling.
. ...S.P. (Gordon): Must go back.... J.R.H.: Both
miss... .F.P. (Westport): The yarn doesn’t carry
itself K.C.H.: Nothing there to make a story.
....Gordon T.: Not our sort.... Alone: The idea is
all right, but the verse needed better handing....
....Amecus: Melodrama of a well-known type....
Yang: The effort after mirth allowed the animal to
escape with a good margin... .J.V.K.: The verse is
not well made, but all strained and contorted....
X. : Y r es, the night and day take turns about,
but it scarcely can claim to be an original observa-
tion. .. .H.J.G.; Poorly written yarn.... Jim M.:
The verse staggers and the fact that the Prince of
Wales didn’t catch a kangaroo is hardly staggering.
... .F.E.R.; Too thin and flimsy... .Reflex : Common-
places in bad verse.... Hymen: Bumps all over the
place... .G.F.E.: The nice girl without a soul is a
very hard-working female... .T.V.T.: Not much use
just putting a decent prose paragraph into bad verse.
.... G.T.: (Elsternwick) : Feeble little flutters....
Residue; Not enough merit for a shocking example.
. ...M.G. (Bendigo): What the average bore tries
to preach put into lame • verse... .E.D. (Perth):
The purpose of a sonnet is not to take a thought
that could be brightly handled and present it in the
most uninteresting way possible... .M.J.N.: That
theme has been handled better very many times....
J.A.K.: No use... .W.D.T.: Both fail.... E.i.W.: You
have very little notion of verse-making.... Frank
B. : Doesn’t move us deeply... .J. 8.8.: No use
sending us a string of commonplaces in prose cut
up into lines to look like verse... .Mark: The
matter is very poor and the verse weak and sloppy.
....Freda W.: The sprite is too slim to dance here.
.... Akranj Dreary screed... .L.H.R.: The same old
dull sermon in worse verse.... Syd S.: “Maggie”
may og ctnvineing, but the man in the tale is an
unusual kind of rotter... .J.D. (Dubbo) : Says very
much what the same sort of verses always says and
makes no point worth speaking 0f.... J.M. (Oak-
leigh) : It dribbles thinly and wearily along. ...
S.A.K.; Both miss. .. .M.R.W.: Makes a very tedious
yarn.,. .W.W.F.; There is no mirth in all that
clumsy horseplay... .R.V.D.: The workmanship falls
far short. ... Yarvoc: The verse misses by some
distance. .. .Scilati: The lines are very rugged and
there is no hint of merriment there. ... J.R. (Manly):
The “Haunted Woodlands” haven’t enough interest
All they say has been said so often before....
Outback; If in decent shape and properly rhymed
it would have been far too weak; as it is it is
lamentable... .G.A.M.C.: The verse won’t work....
J.H.McD.; Too bad even for a shocking example.
. ...G.T.D.; The sonnet misses.... .C.R.MtW.: The
fact that lucky men may nit be so lucky as they
seem has been noted on one or two previous occa-
sions. Still, some of us would chance the mis-
fortunes they bear for a slice of the luck....
Edwin J.: Aspirations after “endless joys” in seme
remote place always seem to express themselves in poor
imitative verse.... Sylvester: It doesn’t move that
“silent pensive” person.... Cappy R.: Heavy stuff
that makes a frantic effort to achieve humor....
Q. : Not up by some distance... .M.H.M.: An
old idea badly handled in lame verse... .F.Q. (Quean-
bgyan) ; Feeble twittering lines... .M.G.S.: No earthly
g00d.... John M.; Not up... .F.E.A.: The subject is
not for general consumption, end the verse hops
and limps as if going barefoot over broken beer-
bottles... .Neebsah: Doesn’t strike u 5.... G.A.C.:
Misses, but not by miles... .All;.n R.: Too loose
and sloppy... .8.J.G.: Australia gets a lot of
rhyming bricks thrown at her, but yours is harmlessly
feeble... .L.E.A.; Badly, constructed and not worth
telling, but fairly well written... .Donald A.: Weak,
improbable yarn of a well recognise 1 pattern....
W.D.T.: The verse is terrifying... .H.E.C.: Don’t
know whether they are intended for vers libre, but
the onion stanza or slab would probably be hailed
as a high note of genius n Chicago... .1.D.C.:
Pretty, but does not qu’f.e grip.... Alice: You have
no idea of making verse, so why try to catalogue
the events of a most uninteresting trip in that
irritating way ?... .Russ: Leaves us unmoved....
R. (South Yarrow): The yarn fades away into
nothing... .K.L. (Willoughby): Not for u 5....
W.S.F.; It was your wife’s birthday; you took
shelter from a storm; a large man spoke to you.
The facts hardly seem to warrant all those words. ...
C. (Wayville) : The verse is very p00r... .Fidus
Achates: Verse couldn’t be made much worse th n
that even by a specialist.... J.W.W.: Well intentioned,
but only says old things in a weak and clumsy
way....C.C. (Lionsville): Before you go on with
that book you should learn to spell at least one
word in every fifty... .Moose Jaw: Has little interest
and less quality... .Cobber o’ Mine: “Sunk to the
inky debts of black despair” is a notable line....
Zeala S.; The verse, like its author, needs to grow
up M.P.F.; The verses are not up. The other
Verses referred to were dealt with some time ago
and fell far short... .F.A.F.: Not enough interest....
H.T.8.: Heavy verse that creaks at the joints and
with nothing fresh about it... .W.E.8.: The point in
“His Word” is too 5ma11.... D.K. (N. Fitzroy) : They
don’t catch the real emotion.... Crowbar: Says the
old things in an old way... .Norman D.: They don't
strike us... .J.R.H.: They don’t attract us; and we
greatly prefer the use of the English language....
F.L.S.: The verse fails... .C.C.J.: Rather hysterical
and says very little... .Frederic F.: The verse is of
the poorest sort; the yarn won't work.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.: It has movement about it, but it’s not
quite well enough done... .C.E.P.: Perspective fair,
anatomy horrible... .H.R.M.: Joke obscure and art
indifferent... .0.M.G.: No use for children’s dress
patterns... .D.R.: Very ordinary drawing of two
very ordinary people exchanging remarks that are
by no means extraordinary... .W.M.: Cartorn too
wordy and your ship deserved its fate for being
so badly built... . H.C.: They seem to move with tjae
first faint stirrings of an original talent.


■in will
Install
X
erjitz)
BRITISH BUILT
5-B.H.P. Lister Petrol Engine, direct
coupled to dynamo.
And if everyone living in the Country could see the effect of
Lister-Lite Plant, Electric Lighting would be almost universal.
Convenience, cleanliness, safety and comfort is assured.
“Lister Lite” is an Electric-
light Plant that has been triei,
tested and used with satisfac-
tion now for a number of years
both in England and Australia
and all over the world.
The Lister-Lite is a real
plant: each unit—the Engine,
Dynamo, Battery, Switch-
board—-of the best, therefore
the whole combination is un-
beatable for reliability.
The Lister Engine (which is
the main factor of the plant)
gives that steady, reliable flow
of Power necessary for a good
Lighting and Power service.
The “Lister-Lite” is ‘ Lister
Quality.”
3%-B.P.H. Lister Junior Petrol Engine,
direct-coupled Plant.
Ask for Leaflet “B”
from the Agents:
Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Ltd.,
Young Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A. P. Sutherland,
2 Maffra St. (Queen's
Bridge), S. Melb., Vic.
1
m
"
Ask for Leaflet “B”
from the Agents:
Horwood, Bagshaw,
Ltd,,
Bank Street,
Adelaide, S. Aus.*
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
Perth, W. Aus.
A. G. Webster and
Sons, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tas.
Levin & Co., Ltd.
Wellington, N.Z.
f
A Complete Belt-driven “Lister-Bite” Plant.
Manufac lured by
R. A. LISTER <& CO., LTD
DURSLEY, ENGLAND.
M


Build Better
Walls and
Ceilings!
Save money ami ltuild real charm
and beauty into your new home
by using: “EIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets for lining: all its walla
and eeilings.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than lining-
boards and is Fire Retardant, White-ant
Proof, Hygienic, and Improves with Age.
The big sturdy sheets are easily and
quickly fixed without waste.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY, LTD,
SA DNEY: Cr. York and Wynyard Sts.
BRISBANE: A MP. B’l’d’gs, Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE: 30 Currie Street.
HOBART: 103 Collins Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
Wellington.
THE
SEASON’S
MESSAGE
SEND YOUR
M
SKINS
WINCHGOMBE
CARSON 4
LTD. J
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all
other skins—for top values consign to
WINCHCONIBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
d
H you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
ot this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & C(X; Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rC
A Sandy Coloured
Twill Quality) Work
Shirt. Two Breast
Pockets, with Flaps.
Washes and wears well.
‘Santwill’
Work
Shirt
7/9
Three for
2216
POST FREE
eMail t} Desk "S/Ji.” stating Size j
ď
PIKE
BROTHERS - LIMITED
In Queen Street
BRISBANE (Q’ld.)
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be seeuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The: Manager.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
fhe Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Buy your LINEN direct from
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
LINEN SHEET-
ING. By the yard
LINEN DAMASK
By the yard
PILLOW_CASING
LINEN
TOWELLING
3
<r
tr
IRISH LINEN
»obwcso«a cixave*
BELFAST
OUR Catalogue No. 534 is full of beauti-
ful Irish Linen illustrations. You can
order with perfect confidence from this
old established firm, knowing that your wishes
will be interpreted correctly. We are contin-
ually receiving letters of appreciation from all
parts of the world.
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by the yard. Excep-
tional quality for good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
9° .. .. .. ~ 13/9
Bleached pure Irish linen double damask by the yard.
Any length cut. A very fine heavy make which will give
good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/11
54 „ „ „ 8/6
72 „ „ ~ „ 11/3
Bleached linen pillow casing. Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
Extra heavy bleached linen huck towelling. By the
yard. A quality you will be delighted with.
26 inches wide per yard 2/6.
Extra heavy unbleached all linen huck towelling. By the
yard. 17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 .. 1/8
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE
WITH SAMPLES, POST FREE
Delivery of goods guaranteed
ROBINSON &
CLEAVER Ltd
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND.
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hamer”: The Aberdeen White Star line,
to which the famous Thermopylae belonged—
it held the record of 60 days for the trip to
Melbourne, which was not beaten even by
the Cutty Sark —celebrates its centenary this
year. The big enterprise was started with
a 116-ton brig, the Childe Harold. Innu-
merable are the Australian pioneers who
came to this country in the White Star
vessels; in addition every State is salted
with veterans who made the decision that
Australia was the best place for a home
when they were seafaring on the company’s
ships.
* * » *
“Ivriz” : Judging by the price of shell just
now at Broome (W.A.), the pearlers are in
for a rough spin, that which costs £165 to
produce being quoted at £l5O per ton. Few
j are selling, but it takes capital to hang on,
| and it’s simply a matter of time before the
need of hard cash to pay crews their wages
will force the smaller man to accept. The
take of shell for the half-year has been much
: below the average, and with reports from
outside of dirty water at the deeper grounds
there is not much chance for the boats to
make up. In the shallow waters, however
clear, divers find shell hard to get. There is
| also a scarcity of good divers, but the Pearl-
ers’ Association is looking ahead and train-
ing specially imported young Chinese. The
take of pearls for the year is so poor that
only three foreign pearl-buyers are operating,
w-hereas last year there were eight.
* * * *
Rubber restriction in British Mayala still
continues on its troubled way and smuggling
the contraband stuff across the narrow
Strait of Malacca to Sumatra, which doesn’t
restrict, is a flourishing industry. The ex-
pensive preventive service is circumvented
by the practice of the native rubber row
of setting out in large fleets from rendezvous
along the flat, indented coast. For a couple
of prahus captured, a dozen slip through.
Four Chinese and 16 Malays recently in-
curred flues totalling 66,000 dollars, but
fines are seldom paid, imprisonment being
no particular hardship to a native. The
Straits authorities, in their anxiety to block
the rest of the world from having more of
the commodity than they think is good for
it, are worrying how to tighten the blockade,
and amongst the methods suggested is the
application of the lash. No measures they
can take, however, can affect the non-restric-
tion areas where Dutch and native planters
are eagerly enlarging tlicir plantations as the
price of rubber rises.
* * * *
“C. Coral ’: The glasses used by the Torres
Strait boys in “skin diving”—their sole
equipment except a loincloth —are said
to have been introduced by a white trader-
pearler in the islands a good many years
ago, and not by the Japs. Prior to that the
boys had their own method of “clearing” the
water so as to get a better view of what
lay beneath. One. plan was to chew cocoanut
and spurt the oily fluid on to the water’s
surface; another was to use the water in
which b§che-de-mer had been boiled for the
same purpose. When down below, to make
quite sure that it was a pearl-shell and not
a piece of rock that he was making a grab
for in the 10 or 12 fathoms he was in, the
boy tapped the object with his finger; if it
gave out a hollow ring, it went to the top.
But not all the dull-sounders were duds. A
native prospecting on the bottom near
Mabuiag some 20-odd years back came across
three separate piles of copper ingots, evi-
dently slung over by some ship in distress.
A big anchor and an old cannon were found
later in the vicinity, but so far no trace of
any wreck has been discovered just there.
* * * *
“Flicker”: They had a sharp and summary
way of dealing with people who sold impure
foods in mediaeval England fmy authority is
“Chronicles of Newgate”). Two bakers,
Alan Lyndeseye and Thomas Patemere, were
brought before the Bench at Guildhall, “and
with them bread that they had made of false,
putrid and rotten materials. It stank, and
would have deceived and killed people who
ate of it.” The dough-punchers were drawn
on a_ hurdle through the streets of London,
put in the pillory, “where they were much
pelted by the people,” and condemned to for-
swear the trade of baking for ever. A
butcher who sold bad meat was punished
similarly, with the added infliction that the
meat was “burnt in a great fire beneath him
so that he was well-nigh stifled.” One Pen-
rose, an innkeeper, whose liquor was evi-
dently not up to standard, was condemned
to “drink much of the wine” and have the
rest “poured on his head as he sat in the
stocks,” a proceeding that may have been more
effective than the modern fine. Finally, one
James Odacrc. who sold a quantity of rotten
fish, was condemned “to stand for six hours
each day for ten days in the pillory, having
hung around his neck a quantity of the said
fish.”
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Mention of briquette-
making in Victoria reminds me of a
shipload of the patent fuel I helped carry
from Cardiff, Wales, to Iquique, Chile.
The briquettes weighed, I think, about
101 b. each; scoop-elevators conveyed them
from the lighters to the side ports and the
deck, whence chutes slid them into the holds
for stowing. In a terrific winter gale off
Cape Horn, the full-rigger in the hair-
raising leeward rolls dipped the main-hatch
coaming under, and the carefully-stowed
cargo shifted sufficiently to impart a heavv
list to starboard, on which side the bulwarks
amidships were smashed out. In the inces-
sant grinding caused by the ship’s motions
in heavy seas considerable dust was powdered
off the briquettes. At Iquique the crew un-
loaded the cargo by passing the blocks of fuel
from man to man up stages, until they were
slid through chutes into the lighters. In the
process the dust settled on the men’s faces,
and the ingredients used to bind the coal
into briouettes burned the skin raw. After an
agonising week or more the result was a
scabby mask which eventually peeled off
without leaving any disfiguring scar. This
completed the “seasoning” of the briquette-
handler.


o
9
am
9
JF
V
X
V
A SAMPLE BOX FREE AND POST-PAID
Make a free test of Zam-Buk before buying.
Simply send your request to C. E. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Sydney, and a trial sample will be sent you
by return mail free and post paid if you mention
THE BULLETIN of 30/7/’25.
IF your skin hurts you, if you have to deal with a sudden
cut, bruise, burn or scald, use the first-aid known to be
soothing and reliable. Heal it with Zam-Buk !
If you have any unpleasant and annoying skin trouble
that defies ordinary treatment, put your trust in the famous
herbal curative balm. Heal it with Zam-Buk /
If you have any bad place that has resisted ordinary
ointments and threatens to become chronip, try this proved
conqueror of obstinate skin ailments. Heal it With Zam-Buk!
Skin health and Zam-Buk go together. Whenever and
however your skin worries you, you have in Zam-Buk a
kindly, soothing friend. Zam-Buk is always dependable, and
its wide range of usefulness makes it an absolute necessity in
every home. Never be without Zam-Buk!
1/6 a box , and 3/6 family size , of all Chemists and Stores.
A SURGER Y IN A TWO-INCH BOX ”
r
Here is the wonderful addition to the His Master s
Voice” Catalogue—
An Instrument without Sound Box,
Tone-arm or Horn.
It is fitted with a Pleated Diaphragm, an invention of
the eminent French scientist, M. LouisLumiere, Membre
de l’lnstitut, Commandeur de la Legion d’Honneur.
This diaphragm reproduces every characteristic quality
of the artist’s performance with remarkable volume
and richness of tone.
3
m
wmm
••
m
'&«Ssu3SKKSXsSwi :;
\ \ '
No. 460.
Raster’s u
*
“His Master’s Voice”
with the Pleated Diaphragm
This stupendous innovation may now be seen and heard
at all accredited “His Master’s Voice” dealers.
NEW REDUCED PRICES:
Table Grand No. 460 . . . Oak, £2B; Mahogany, £32
Cabinet Grand, No. 510. . Oak, £65; Mahogany, £73
Illustrated Catalogues of Instruments and Records and name of
nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s Voice
Eegd. Trade-marie.
"Gramophone”
Eegd. Trade-marls.
-vAastej-
U
*
&


M
" COUGH u
REMEDY
cougii lm
CROI
11 ®
REMEDY
forCouffhi, Col.r.
INFLUE
'NO OTHIR ArfECIIC
THROAT and
J j| p
SS::! 1
MADE in AUS
Chamber la
Sydney n
<&• SMALL
CHAMBEfIIMS UMIfEO.
This medicine robs ’Fin
of its after effects.
Never neglect ’Flu. Go to
bed at the first symptoms.
Take Chamberlain’s freely
till the fever subsides and
all the pain disappears.
An attack of ’Flu treat-
ed with Chamberlain’s
never leaves any bad
after effects behind it.
Chamberlain;
u COUGH REMEDY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD —
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Features
m
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel W~hTel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t delay. Get yours
JWWL State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’LL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
Q.N.
BANK
RwmfiMNfr
Cpi’oafs
Best for Mothers, Young Children,&lnvalids
Obtainable from nil Chemists dr Grocers
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love. Esq. • W. H. Hart. Esq •
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. 4-1
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE f BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all gen
banking business.
genera!
f
IlddS*
Be a proud
possessor
of a
LOEWE
Look for tke LGfcWE
Mark
7O years Loewe pipes
have remained London’s best
briars. There is no secret about
the reputation they have won in
the Mother Country of being
“ the best pipe of all.” This
reputation has been built of
honest endeavour to maintain
the Loewe achievement of
pipe perfection. Smoke a
Loewe Briar and you will
immediately appreciate what
this means.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect.
Solid Silver mounted
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen.
d
„ 'The
Simplex
Medium *
ONE OF THE MANX
LOEWE SHAPES
( All LOEWE
sA apes
2 r-
SI LVER
MOUNTED
K@ll
ď
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, BOX 555 G. P, O SYDNEY, N.S.W,
0
i
0
£
£
£
it
z
Power Saved means Lower Production Costs
You—every works manager floes—aim at lower production costs, but are
you taking the first step towards doing so by making the power you pay
for more fully productive?
To avoid a great deal of this power waste—thus cutting down “overhead”
and making better use of the power for which you pay, equip your plant
with—
SKF
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
With SKF Ball-Bearing Hangers and Plummer Blocks, shafting rides almost friction-
lessly, not only when well aligned, but when misaligned. The inner race tilts with the
shaft like a ball and socket joint, and the bearing cannot bind, heat, stick or run hot.
In industries of every kind SKF Transmission Equipment has consistently proved that
it cuts the power loss approximately 80 per cent., thereby releasing 15 to 35 per cent,
more of the generated power for productive work.
The SKF Ball Bearing Co. Ltd.
595 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
157 Wa.vmouth Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.),
Ltd., 377-391 Murray Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis., Ltd.
T.E.—4/25.
The place of W. H. Denyer, the retiring
head of the office staff at Adelaide Local
Court, is to be filled by W. H. Howell, who
has himself had 35 years of issuing sum-
monses there. He is a son of the old-timer
who was head of Adelaide Gaol so long
that those who patronised it most regularly
called it Howell’s Hotel.
“Papuas”: “Bouragi” (B. 21/5/’25) is
out when he refers to Archie Macalpine as
once A.R.M. at Samarai. The Macal-
pine who was A.R.M. at Samarai at that
time was his brother Alex., now acting R.M.
at Cape Nelson. Archie was only one of the
harassed planters in Governor Murray's
Dominion.
The introducer of the cigarette into Eng-
land is still alive, although, according to
the verdict of a million societies for the sup-
pression of other people’s habits, he should
have been dead and damned long since. lie
is Nicholas John Coundouris, and is now
88 years old. A merchant with large in-
terests in the Turkish weed, Coundouris made
Britain acquainted with fags in 1858, and
subsequently extended the enterprise to the
U.S.A., of which country he became a citi-
zen.
Joel Blashki writes:—
Some recent paragraphs about the infrequency of
the Jew at sea give me the opportunity of mention-
ing that I was a sailor for some years. I think 1
may also claim to be one of the first Australian
natives to serve in the U.S. Navy. I served as
seaman on the U.S.S. corvette Hartford from 1872
to 1875; I was paid off and discharged in
the Brooklyn Navy Yards 50 years ago next October.
I still have my discharge and several letters from
high naval officers. I may add that my experiences
in the U.S. Navy afford me my most pleasant
memories.
“Niable”: South Australians will be de-
lighted to learn that the North-South rail-
way lias been completed at last. The glad
news appears in an English business encyclo-
pedia, published in fortnightly parts. Re-
ferring to Adelaide, the interesting publica-
tion states-: “Railways radiate from it in all
directions, and run s.-e. to Melbourne and
Sydney; n-e. up the Murray Valley and to
Broken Hill; and north to Port Darwin ”
Presumably we have to thank the great Gunn
Government, of the Thousand Homes, for
settling matters in such a quiet and expedi-
tious way.
The first medical man to enter
into private practice in Australia was Dr.
Martin Mason, who came out by H.M. trans-
port Britannia in July, 1798. He lived in
Sydney for some years, but when the official
staff .of surgeons was complete he migrated
to Windsor (then known as Green Hills) and
started private practice. That was in 1804.
A strong adherent of Bligh he suffered dur-
ance vile for his opinions. Afterwards, how-
ever, he followed his persecutors to England,
his expenses being defrayed by public sub-
scription, and gave strong evidence at John-
ston’s trial. Returning to the colony he was
rewarded with the usual grant, and went on
the land.
“Borom” :. The cabled item that a method
for the utilisation of sewage gas for power
and lighting had been perfected by an Eng-
lish chemist recalls that an Australian engi-
neer devised such a process more than 10
years ago. The gas was collected in a storage
tank as soon as it was formed, and when a
sufficient pressure had been obtained it was
used to drive a specially-designed engine,
which worked on the internal-combustion
principle. The inventor set up a plant at
Parramatta (N.S.W.), where he satisfac-
torily performed a number of exhaustive
tests. He reckoned that sufficient power could
be obtained to light the streets of Parra-
matta, and to do a number of odd jobs. Inter-
est had just been awakened in the invention
when the war broke out, and I uever heard
anything of the invention since. .
“Adelaide”: The lately-arriving southern
Europeans are not popular in South Aus,
There are not over-many of them, but the
Maltese have found themselves strong enough
to establish a social club in Hindley-street.
And now 38 neighboring ratepayers have
petitioned the Mayor to have the place regu-
lated “in a manner proper in a law-abiding
British community.” The particular com-
plaint is that “it is now almost impossible for
women and girls to pass along the street in
the vicinity at any time without having in-
sulting remarks directed to them.” It is
bad luck for Hindley-street, if true. This
was the main business street and high road
to the Port in the earliest days. Then busi-
ness moved east, and liomes moved to the
suburbs, and the once fashionable old bouses
at the west end passed to the Asiatic and
the kind of white who consorts with him.
The last 10 years have seen a complete re-
versal of this. The street is well on the
up-grade; hence the dismay of shopkeepers
and householders at any likelihood of relapse.
“Tabac” is reminded:—
The death of ex-Judge Rogers (N.S.W.) recalls a
memorable case of 23 years ago. One Grand and
another were charged with the murder of a .police
constable who had interfered with their burglarious
operations at Auburn; a third person turned King's
evidence. Perhaps never before or since has there been
such a demonstration of the hidden power of the under-
world as was exposed when the case came before
Judge Rogers. Whatever methods had been employed
with the “approver” it was obvious that he had been
reduced to a nervous wreck. Although his evidence
had been clear and damning in the lower court,
to every question put by the prosecuting Solicitor-
General he had but one answer, “I don’t remember.”
Asked to take the exceptional course of discharging
the jury on the ground that the Grown witness was
not in a fit state to give evidence, his Honor con-
sented. Between then and the second trial the in-
former was placed under the care of the police at
Windsor, but he declared later that even there he had
been intimidated into writing a statement to the
effect that the police were trying to force him to
testify falsely against the prisoners. At the second
trial the galleries were crowded by friends of the
prisoners; Grand often turned round and smiled or
gestured to his sympathisers when a point was
scored, and received appreciative smiles and ges-
tures in return. However, x this time the informer,
after asking for and receiving an assurance of official
protection, repeated his evidence given in the lower
court, and the jury brought in a verdict of guilty
with a recommendation to mercy. Then followed a
scene in which Grand levelled the grossest insults at
the Judge. Both prisoners were executed, the recom-
mendation to mercy—seemingly the compromise of
a timid jury—finding no support in their previous
records.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
ORAMA 20,000
ORONSAY 20,000
OTRANTO ... 20,000
ORMONDE ... 14,853
ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12,133
OSTERLKY .. 12,129
ORSOVA 12,041
REOULAR S All.l \GS.
First. Saloon and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
Oceanic Steamship Company,
81 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.in.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR-—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail—£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £1,6X9,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,49'J,\t:i5
U tree tors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Euan it N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson;
H ; U. Lysaght, O.B.K. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut. Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector jor N.S.W.: \V. G. Hull.
HEAD Oh 1' ICE, S\ D NEV (Corner George and Kill 0 '
Streets).
Branches and Receiving- Offices at 150 places in
-New South Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector jor Queensland: L. AveYARD.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodos Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARR
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Jenolan Caves
in Winter.
Three Days:
£4/7/-
Extra Days
at Jenolan
Caves House
i*/-
Invigorating Air,
Glorious Scenery,
Wonderful
Cavern®,
Dancing Every
Evening,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge,
Cosy Firesides.
TOUR PROGRAMME & ROOKING
at
NEW SOUTH WALES
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, fte.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
MAUNGANUI .. 11,340 tons disp. AUGUST 13 for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 23,000 „ „ AUGUST 27 „ Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 ~ „ SEPT. 10 „ San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ ~ SEPT. 24 ~ Vancouver.
Screw Motor Liner.)
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using’
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
U nriva He d
Cuisine,
fd
ď
f
ď
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,*
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE IOR RETURN
lII' OTHER EINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
Tmim: cm., ™ f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., { william slreet , Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
f
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
, m
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you tlie choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA. CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHIIP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
BUEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
.. 14,500
.. 14,500
.. 10,000
NESTOR
ULYSSES
■iENEAS
Tons.
10,000
10,000
ANCHISES ..
ASCANIUS ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
P.&O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817,
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
rmc
azfsrj
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Birtnie, Esq,
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.3.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. >eign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Shipping.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS TO It
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co . Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
ISlacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
The fit of your
collar —and of
your cycle —■
You take particular care
when buying new collars
to see that the size is
correct —Why ?
# #
On the fit of your collar
depends your easy feeling.
Just so ought you to
choose your saddle the
correct pattern for
your style of riding.
BR.GDKS
SADDLES
—/or wheeling
with that easy feeling.
Ask your dealers about the model
to suit you.
Scott & Holladay, Ltd.,
Eagley Building,
143-45 York St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents for J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Birmingham, England.
4LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Eui’oye and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, rneet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Tbe Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Auditions to
Policies of o vac .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Puntta .. .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


V
r.l
a
m
PSjt —j»
■r^miiuss?
if ■
From a photograph of a Buick chassis assembled from spare parts,
accessories and equipment taken from one distributor’s stock,
thousands of miles from the factory. The inset shows the mechan-
ics who accomplished the assembling in 5 hours and 45 minutes.
By standardizing parts, General Motors has made parts service
readily available to owners of its motor vehicles, wherever they
may be.
What makes motor car value?
7* Parts service
A.NY motor vehicle will from time to
time require the replacement of some
part. The car owner’s satisfaction de-
pends upon obtaining a spare part that
is both accurately fitting and readily
available.
General Motprs and its distributors
agree that the owners of General
Motors cars and trucks are entitled to
these two features of parts service.
So owners of General Motors vehicles,
living thousands of miles from the fac-
tory, may obtain necessary spare parts,
which are genuine, as readily as those
who live nearby—a fact which adds to the
resale value of General Motors products.
TO DEALERS: For particulars regarding the advantages of a connection with General
Motors and the possibilities of representation in your territory, address General
Motors Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers, 160 Castlereagh St., Sydnev;
or General Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Bourke & Russell Sts., Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
BUICK CADILLAC CHEVROLET
OAKLAND OLDSMOBILE GMC TRUCKS


d
mim
m
I
<0
> ... r~ ■. r:
• ■
eac
K.iliJ
.■/*s
A riijj
fOl
x?£*£?v*i
H
■
1\
Chilblains Hurt! Rexona Heals!
All those who have suffered from Chilblains know what pain and suffering
they cause. Chilblains make thousands of us fellow sufferers. Ask your
neighbors, and you will find many for whom Chilblains have lost their terror—
they have used Rexona. One application, and soon the hot, throbbing pain
begins to die away. Rexona’s healing work has begun. It will not be long
before the inflammation subsides, and you will learn what a really rapid healer
Rexona is.
For many years Rexona has been relieving and healing more burns, scalds,
cuts, bruises, chilblains, sunburn, chaf-
fing and skin irritation than any other
healer known to science. Rexona de-
pends upon the recommendation of its
friends and users, and it is this recom-
mendation that' has made its use so
universal throughout Australasia. Keep
a dainty pot of Rexona handy on the
shelf, and have its cool, green Oint-
ment ready to relieve and heal.
Rexona —
The Rapid Healer.
A Medicine Chest in Itself
1 fp
j/o
W fl
g Cooling
<g Soothing
V — Healing '
Antiseptic Oinlment
/
n U rifi“ -? Absolutely
* x Heals Reliable
M
r A ReHable Healer for all LrppUons n
and Irritations of fhe skin. tczem\a.Sores. Cuts.
Burns. Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C 9 I'PSVDNtr
.V
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing.
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolate
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4/- per lib. box
lib. Red Metal 80x....
31b. „
N.S.W. Other States.
Postage, extra 9d. 1/2
„ „ 1/- 1/8
1/3 2/2
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only tne
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
OvfviSt
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Thief.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, g HE fear will come again though I
r I make fast
My door with chains until the night
be past
. m wn’s threshold —I who have no gem to
! * give, „ .
, 0 W ealth to hoard from thieves who, fugi-
tive,
,I'ould plunder my small house demanding all
vs though therein wealth had been prodigal.
\VUat matter though my pine floor is un-
spread,
Hy cupboard holding but a little bread,
V wine-jar holding but the wine that fills
r i ie fittle stream from rain on distant hills,
The fear will come again, again, to me,
‘ d stalk me through the night nor let me be.
, rs hand will knock upon my bolted door,
f,s feet will creep upon the creaking floor,
ire; breath will pant upon my heart’s wild
blood
surge my brain in a demented flood.
I H'lphss, I shall not move lest I should go
Warer unto this thief I would not know;
itiit, lying, I shall see him where he stands
\Vith sinister and shadowy groping hands
< > v itstretched to take some ghostly unknown
thing
Horn of itself in my imagining.
I shall go mad some night. My soul will cry
\ud scream upon God’s name unto the sky,
\nd He, perhaps, will stoop out of the night
\nd slay the fear within a blinding light,
While, in a fleeting second set apart,
I shall see clearly into my own heart,
\nd I shall say with an unsteady breath,
• It * s thy turn to fear me now, O Death.”
N.s.w.
LOLA GORNALL.
New Aspects.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fy OUG-SHA Houc-sha! Souc-sha, souc -
X sha! Thus sounded the feet of the
five great horses as, smoking and
sweating despite the bitter air, they
uiidefied their way through the bottomless
n-ey mud while creaking and groaning, axle-
oep, the big coach lumbered behind, the
iglit from the three great lamps hardly dis-
pelling the gloom past the leaders’ heads,
t was out on the Hay to Booligal mail-
■oute in the mid-July of a cold, wet winter.
To Fred Powers, seated upon the box-seat,
he trials of the journey were nothing new,
»ut he was too wise to under-rate the rigors
>f the situation. Still, it was bearable,
ie reflected, and he wished the chap along-
ide him did not make such a fuss or shiver
ind bleat so. He had tried to make clieer-
ul conversation, but the pinched responses
lisgusted him into silence. A man ought to
how more hardihood than to groan and
hrivel up with a touch of cold —he ought
iot to let himself get all tucked up. That
nly made matters worse. Still, everyone
• as not used to kicking around like himself,
le had been a wanderer from boyhood; it
ras in his blood. Too much so, in fact. He
| ad lost his wife through it, as he well
emembered.
It was one of the devilish circumstances
f' life that such a man as this should have
ver married. He had always been, as he
°w reflected, a wanderer; the hearth and
he home attracted him not at all. It was
elfishness on his part, for he should have
"own that the home or the woman was
••ver made that could hold him. As for her,
he should have known better, too, unless
f ‘ r love, or her vanity, blinded her. But
here you are! It was done, and the folly
it was soon proved. Fie had tried his best
* make a success of things, and so had she
-no woman ever tried harder. Powers had
'ken to wool-classing as an occupation
hich seemed to offer a compromise between
f >nning and wandering. It worked fairly
''ll for a time, but by degrees, and hardly
“I’ceptihly to himself even, he began to seek
•e work of those stations that took him
West and longest. Queensland, West
, u Hing, Maoriland saw him much, but
' f jhey, where his home was, saw him but
Ule. Flis home-comings became fewer and
is goings sooner. What wonder that his
i !a te at home became restive, and little blame
r la t on one of his scarce home-comings he
”md the cuckoo in the nest.
Fred Powers had not blamed his wife. He
a selfish, callous brute, but he could
“ himself and things as others did. There-
' 0 he did not chide her. Neither did ho
regret for her nor resentment for his
•‘Planter—only contempt for him and pity
f i her. So he let them be, and they mar-
■j" after a quiet divorce had taken place.
'pre was no fuss or theatricals about any
r ', u ,: ,°f the affair, no meetings tense with
( /*tion, and no appearance in court of any
, Tr party than the petitioner. And
werg went his way without encumbrance
, e that a tiny voice sometimes questioned
‘ quality of the pity he felt for his wife.
i,.} 1 ' did not resume his old habits with the
i p that he had anticipated, though he did
;,p iee in his freedom. But a wayfarer he
P remain who took great pleasure in hafldi-
fijci for h e was one of those creatures of
a pt° whom the vigorous existence and the
against odds is the breath of life. The
of his companion this night irri-
r.j.J? hyn. Try as he could, he could not
1 ] the groanings and the winnings that
I, the inside room of the coach was taken
times all hands had been called
rtf, 1 ' 10 coach with shovels, crowbars and
r.jA 8 to help the toiling horses drag the
i hPi' y ehicle out of a bog. Only the shriv-
-1 r,>. cre ature on the box had refused duty.
‘- Ap a t length lost patience.
Of, P.V, don’t you come down and give a
-‘V ■ he called up hastily.
“c ca " e " ean ’t m-m-move.”
't*fh an * move be damned ! Movement is
*• r > 7°, u ‘want to get your blood going.”
■ "top, 1 ?-can’t.”
hatl’psaid a burly drover from an in-
ti • There ain’t another cove sittin’
, Lnere while we’re workin’!”
‘<Y\ there is.”
hqPJ'r *2®. bandy! I never seen him in
Hi, you there! Get down and do
a bit. It’s all hands and the cook these
times. Down you git!” There was menace
in the tone.
Painfully he crawled down over the wheel.
A gust blew his overcoat over his head; he
lost his balance and fell into the mud. The
drover lifted him to his feet.
“Now, buck in and give a hand. It will
warm you up.”
A dozen miles further on the performance
had to be repeated. Powers was down in a
second, and the drover was soon out in the
night also.
“Now, then, you up there, no polin’ on yer
mates! Oh, yer gittin’ down, are yer?
That’s better!”
And so another struggle in the mud, with
success as a reward for still wetter and still
grimier clothes.
Up in his seat again Powers’ companion
turned to him.
“One’s a bit of a fool to leave his home
for this.”
“That depends on who the one is. Don’t
you feel warmer now?”
“Yes, a bit. But my feet are like ice.”
“Dig ’em into the bag of chaff under your
feet. There’s nothing better.”
In silence they drove up to the One Tree
Hotel. The place looked very desolate, but
presently a door opened revealing a cheering
glimpse of fireglow. The frozen passenger
nearly pushed Powers over in his haste to
get down. He made straight for the door
that had been temporarily ajar, and, finding
it, thrust in and crouched before the fire.
It took him a minute to realise that he had
not been followed, and then he wondered
why—of course, such as he would not real-
ise that the driver might want a hand with
the horses.
Presently he heard steps in an adjoining-
room, and then his old friend the drover put
his head through a communicating door.
•‘Ain’t yer goin’ to have a taste?”
“Oh—er !” he gasped.
“Come on. A drop er snakejuice won’t
’urt yer.”
"I don’t take spirits, as a rule.”
“Buie be damned! If yer was on thcr
road with a mob er starvin’ wethers yer'd
soon fergit about yer rules.”
So he suspended his rules, and under the
influence of the stimulant and some sort of
a meal lie thawed and became himself again
• —a sleek, smooth, subtle creature of rope-
like convolution. In his satisfaction at the
new aspect of affairs lie did not notice that
bis companion of the box-seat peered into
his face in the dim lamplight or that the
look was followed by a hardening of the
features.
The interval of rest was short, for the
coach was already hours late. The driver
disappeared to yoke up, and was followed by
most of the others. Only Fred Powers re-
mained behind, and he walked over to his
fellow-passenger.
“How is Mrs. Croncy?” he asked.
The other started.
“How did you know I was married?”
“You are the man who married the woman
I divorced on your own account. If you
hadn’t married her you wouldn’t be alive to
tell the tale.”
Croney stepped back, panic-stricken.
“I—l didn’t remember you.”
“No, you wouldn’t. You always waited
till I was well out of the way, so you didn’t
see much of me to remember.”
Croney spluttered in his search for words
or action.
“I have been punished,” he stuttered.
“Punished! How punished?”
“I never realised.” He paused.
With the potency of the unaccustomed
whisky, the comforting influence of the warm
room and the relief at finding himself not
immediately trodden underfoot, the poor fool
began to expand.
“Never realised wlnat?”
“That you must hatve had good reasons for
being away from home so much!”
“I didn’t have any’ reason that you could
understand.”
Powers drew a long breath. He must let
the miserable little worn untwist a bit more.
His tone as he replied was not so forbidding
as his mind.
“I didn’t find it so. That’s a new aspect
of the case.”
“Why, surely you found what a nagging,
fault-finding woman, she was!”
“You don’t say so,” almost sympatheti-
cally.
“Nearly drives me mad with her com-
plaints. In fact* that’s why I’m up here
now. I got a j,6b as a book-keeper on a
station to get aw{ay from her.”
“Isn’t she coming up?”
“No.”
“Does she kno«w where you’ve gone?”
“No ; I told her I was going to Queens-
land.”
“You mean ytm’re deserting her and your
kids?”
“Well, no—dot that exactly. Of course
I'll send them down money for their keep.”
Powers looked at him. “You’re a miser-
able little rat,” he said. “Eva had her faults
like the rest of? us. She was a bit vain and
fussy, but she was a good woman —ten times
the woman tbsat you are a man. For the
way she treajted me I only blame myself.
That’s a new? aspect of things to you, isn’t
it? But you,, you worm, you couldn’t under-
stand.”
The coacl>driver opened the door. A cold,
raw drangb/fc blew in.
“All abo/ai’d, please!”
“All right, Ned,” called Powers. “You’ve
saved me < that spare inside seat, haven’t
you ?”
“Yes, Mu. Powers.”
Croney jjumprd up hopefully.
“What! Is there a spare inside seat?”
“Yes. tlue drover got out here. If you
hadn’t been in ituch a hurry to get into the
fire you’d have (seen it. You let me get in
ahead of yam.”
“Can’t I, have fit? I’m not used to travel-
ling.
Powers? laughed. “You want to take my
comfortahfle seat like you took my comfort-
able home:! In jrou get. anyway.”
“Do you mean it? Oh, thank you.”
He ga i/e no time for change of mind.
“Why, there’s plenty of room. You could
get in, too.”
This 'wps true, as Powers knew. All the
others Tiara found their journey’s end at this
dismal spot.
{Continued on next page.)


Spend your Holidays
touring with a
B.S.A.
WHETHER you are journey-
ing to the coast or out to the
hills you are assured of
comtortable and inexpensive travel
if you tour with a B.S.A.
There is no better method of
spending a holiday than in the full
freedom of the open road, making
your own speed, resting when and
where you please, unhampered by
the inconveniences attendant on
other methods of travel.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are
economical and thoroughly reli-
able, and when fitted with speci-
ally designed B.S.A. Sidecars they
make the ideal touring combina-
tion.
Your nearest agent will supply
full particulars—write him to-day.
J/Tufl
r
Fth'-l
K 3
d
Look for the “Three Piled
Rifles’’ trade-mark on every
product of the Birmingham
Small Arms Co., Ltd. It is the
sign of high-grade production.
Motor Bicycles
Ideal for Touring.
Illustrated Catalogue obtainable from B.S.A. Representative.
D. Y. RENNIE, A.P.A. BUILDINGS,
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or from B.S.A. Agents throughout Australia.
N.S.W.
X BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(*’ OEKNSLATsD \
VICTORIA—FINLAY BROS. MOTOR CYCLES PTY., LTD., 322 Elizabeth Strert. Memo-
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD., 121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA —MORTLOCK BROS., Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —SIM KING, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Do you use a B„S*A. Gun?
“No, thank you,” he replied. “It would
be no comfort to me to be within kicking
distance of you without kicking.”
Climbing up over the wheel to his box-
seat, he forgot Croney in his first poignant
feelings of regret at the course of his life,
and he found himself suffering a mighty
longing for the woman he had lost.
A few- miles out of Booligal the coach sank
down through a rain-soaked culvert with
a heavy jolt. Powers and the driver were
jerked off their seats.
They didn’t notice Croney till they failed
to get a response to a demand to help get
the coach out. They found him sitting in
his seat with his neck broken. A heavy
piece of luggage that he had put on the rack
to keep it out of the wet had fallen on him.
It was the gramophone that Powers remem-
bered having given his wife to help pass the
evenings while he was away.
“He must have been asleep with his bend
on his chest,” commented Powers. “A merci-
ful death, but very thorough!”
And when he reached the town he sat
down and wrote a full account of it all to
the widow. At the end of the note he added
a little on his own account.
“T have tamed down a good deal myself,
Eva, and now that this poor little rat is
out of the way I am coming down to Sydney
to see if you can forgive me enough to marry
me again. If he did nothing else in this
world worth while, he made me see how much
you meant to me.”
There was that in the reply which, per-
haps, did not become a supposedly grief-
stricken widow. Said she among other
things:
“I am glad to hear that you have ‘tamed
down,’ as you call it, but I hope you have
not gone too far. I have had enough of one
tame creature about the house—too tame
to go out and work.”
And that was still another aspect of the
matter.
GORDON TROLLOPE.
“Cast Thy Bread.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOUIS GOLDBERG, the money-lender,
had a spot in his armor, an affection
for another mortal, strong enough to
over-ride the ordinary rules of “business.”
On his books was an account with one ..cus-
tomer from whom there was not, and from
whom there never had been, the faintest
hope of recovering the debit • balance. He
was known as Fritz Harden, a cosmopoli-
tan stray who had drifted into Portland-lane
from nowhere, doing odd clerking jobs, writ-
ing for newspapers, acting as bailiff on
seizures of furniture and teaching French,
German, shorthand and book-keeping to
a few impecunious people who could not
afford business-college fees. He had ,an
office in the same building as Louis Gold-
berg’s Atlas Company, a tiny, ill-lighted room
furnished with a table, chairs and a tattered
old couch. He also rented a room in one of
the lanes of Surry Hills, in which was
stored all his other worldly possessions. Fritz
was the antipodes of .Louis —they lived on
exactly opposite sides of the world. To
Fritz money was collected only for the imme-
diate spending; to Louis only that it might
be hoarded. To Louis the world was full
of gloomy scoundrels bent on robbing him of
his hard-won wealth; to Fritz it was full
of cheerful reprobates like himself who
accepted with a smile the gifts or the rebuffs
of whatever gods there be. To Louis life
was a hard, serious struggle with multipli-
cation-tables;-, to Fritz it was something to
grin at with a shilling in your pocket, to
probe viciouisly if the shilling was absent.
Louis’s one humorous narrative related to
this eccentric client. “He came to me for
a hundred-pound loan on his furniture; told
me it was voirth £2OO. I spend sixpence on
a tramfare to inspect, and it vas a single
bed, a va.shstnnd and a few books. I vant
him to pay back that sixpence, and he argue
with me. ‘That, bed,’ he say, ‘in a hundred
years vill be worth hundreds. Beople vill
come from all parts of the vorld to see vhat
upon the great poet and philosopher Fritz
Harden did sHeep. . . . the basin in which his
face he, vash.’ And then he talk to me in
Yiddish, pure and clear, and in German, and
I laugh and lend him £lO. But I take a bill-
of-sale. I got it now.”
From the 'day of that loan there was some
bond of sympathy between the two of them.
Drunk or .sober, Fritz would drop in. and
either abuse or flatter his creditor in Yiddish.
On two occasions Louis was known to have
had a drink with him. once even to have paid
for it. I remember hearing one conversation
in English between them.
“What about a further advance, Rabbi?”
“Nod a fardin’.”
“I’ll transfer you the rights of a play I’ve
written.”
“Nod a fardin’.”
“Give you a bill-of-sale over my soul, pay-
able on demand.”
“Go avay! You agount is £23, and not
one payment made.”
“A shilling for stamps then, you old
pirate.”
“No, you vould drink those stamps.”
Then Fritz said something in Yiddish, and
a little smile crept into the corners of Louis’s
drooping mouth. A few moments later Fritz,
serene and happy, entered a near-by hotel with
a pound in his pocket. But withal he was
careful not to overdo it. He kept Louis as
the last calling-place, a refuge only to be
used when the pit yawned at his feet. If
the “advance” was more than sixpence Louis
always had it endorsed on the bill-of-sale
and entered in the ledger. I saw that account
later on. It stood at £43 on the debit side,
made up after the last £lO of a long proces-
sion of shillings and half-crowns, with an
occasional pound, every entry initialled by
the borrower. But there were no credits.
On one occasion Louis wanted Fritz badly
to do a little bailiffing, a quiet job in which
it was only necessary to keep a man in pos-
session for a few days pending the disposal
of a rival claimant for the goods. But Fritz
had not been in the Lane for a few days, so
Louis journeyed to Surry Hills and found
him in bed.
“Vy you miss good jobs?" said Louis. "I
vant you three times lately.”
Fritz was surrounded with loose sheets
of paper and waved his visitor away.
“You go back to' your cave,” he said;
‘‘back to the other vultures.”
“What writing is all this?” demanded
Louis.
“It’s something yon know nothing about,
you money-paunched son of Belial. It’s a
play. I’ll sell it for ten thousand and then
buy out the Atlas Company and burn all
its bills-of-sale. Cet out!”
“You don’t want my little jobs no more,
eh? Then I take possession under my bill-
of-sale.”
Fritz laughed uproariously and broke into
Yiddish. Finally he owned up to a new
“system.” He found that by staying in bed,
keeping quite still, he could subsist com-
fortably on one meal a day. He was tired
of battling for the three which were neces-
sary when he came to the office. He got a
voluntary further advance of a pound that
day, and did “the quiet bailiffing.” And
he wrote the play. No manager would ever
read it. But who knows? It; might have
been something big—for Fritz was a man
of many parts.
Nevertheless such a life as Fritz led could
not continue into the sere and yellow leaf.
One day news came that the outlaw of Port-
land-lane had passed to Elysian fields to
see what he could borrow there. His land-
lady found him dead, after a prolonged spree,
with a half-empty bottle of laudanum, Mil-
ton’s “Paradise Lost” and an empty bottle
of brandy at his bedside.
Louis saved his friend from the disgrace
of a pauper’s funeral. He canvassed a score
of undertakers for the lowest-priced burial,
and finally found one prepared to do the job
for £9. Next day Fritz went back to earth,
with only one mourner at the graveside, and
later on Louis returned to his office and
entered up the £9 as a further advance.
Next day the effects of the deceased were
seized under the, bill-of-sale and realised £2
ss. About a dozen old, unsaleable books
were brought back to the office and used to
fill up the vacant space on a shelf, until then
solely occupied by directories, interest tables
and Acts of Parliament relating to bills-of-
sale and promissory notes.
On an eventful day about twelve months
later Luke Harnstein, a keen dealer in curios
and antiques, happened to be in the office
of the Atlas Company discussing the pros-
pective sale of some old furniture which had
just been seized. He pulled down one of
the books and casually asked when Louis
had taken to book reading. But Louis
noticed he did not return it to its place
without closely examining the imprint. Then
Luke inspected the others, and finally picked
out four, and throwing a pound on the table
said:
“I’ll buy these four.”
Louis was at once on the alert. One of
his fixed maxims was that old things were
always worth more than an offered price.
“I aind’t selling,” he replied.
“They’re not worth a shilling.”
“Then why for do you pay a pound?”
“I want them to complete a set of mine.”
“And I vant them for myself.”
“What good .are they to you?”
“They vas belong to an old vriendt, and
I keep them.”
“I’ll make it four quid.”
Louis was really startled.
“Four pounds for that rubbish?”,
“Look here, Goldy,” said Luke, “to me
they’re worth something; to you not a farth-
ing. I’ll spring a tenner.”
Louis seized the books, and piling them
into his safe locked the door.
“A tenner! They vas worth a tenner!
My Gott! And I leave them about> like old
newspapers!”
“All right, old man,” said Luke as he left.
“If you like to throw away good money that’s
your affair.”
As soon as he was alone again Louis re-
opened the safe, closely examined the books
and pondered heavily on Luke’s eagerness
to buy. They were very ancient —printed on
paper different from any he had ever seen,
and bore the imprint “Anno Domini
MDCLXXXIV.” He knew enough to see
that these letters indicated publication in
the year 1084, and determined to make his
own inquiries. But next day Luke was on
the step when Louis arrived at the office,
and lost no time in offering fifty pounds.
With bulging eyes Louis faced him in the
inner office.
“You t’ief!” he said. “You only offer me
ten yesterday, and I nearly say yes!”
“I found out last night,” replied Luke,
“that they may be worth a lot of money.”
“How much?”
“Can’t say yet. Perhaps £7O. That’s
why I’ll go to fifty.”
Now Louis knew that Luke never turned
anything over at less than 100 p.c. profit,
and trembling with excitement, replied:
“Pud all your cards down, Harnstein!
Geep your bluff for people you sell things to.”
“I ain’t bluffing. I tell you I take a big
risk for fifty. They may not be genuine.”
“I know the risks you take. Talk square
or I go to Angus and Robertson to-day.”
“Don’t do that,” said Luke.
He knew that he was up against it. and
he also knew something of psychology. There
was only one way to deal with a man like
Louis—dazzle him and get away with the
goods before his vision was properly re-
stored.
Leaning across the table, and producing
a wad of notes, he said slowly: “/ will give
you five hundred pounds for those four bools
■ — now. If you say no I’ll never make no
more dealings with you.”
The sight of the notes and the sudden
jump from fifty to five hundred was suffi-
ciently dazzling. Louis opened the safe and
said: “They’re yours.”
Later on he learned that the volumes had
been sold at Christie’s in London, but could
never find out for what sum.
After Luke had gone Louis opened the
ledger and gazed for a. long time at Fritz
Harding’s account with its debit of £5l ss.
To credit the account with £5OO would
leave him a heavy debtor to his old friend,
and the one sentimental page of that book
of harsh facts would be defaced. So be
turned to another account headed “Miscel-
laneous profits,” and there entered the £5OO.
GRO. S. BEERY.


I '£
: %■ •* •4'aß
®,> 1 . 1
'*% JSy ■■=; si r
l‘J§f .'o J#fch|X.
S --'
WESTI N Q HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear •
Maximum like and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., .
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & * Ul . *^l?*,',
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 JTeathereton Street.llell
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, 1T „ * co tT i),
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH* •, *
, Adelaide, S.A
CONCORD WEST, N.
'\
Si!)
fv?
m-
$
3
<te
U
R
fc\v%«
e=
• ft
ror.
“ The
Something
Different
Dozens of brands are being sold in this country. In. blend
they differ slightly.
In CAVANDER’S “ARMY CLUB” CIGARETTES smokers
have something different, something better, something for
which they have unconsciously waited.
CAVANDER’S “ARMY CLUB” are made from the best
Virginia crops blended in the best possible way. Their
size is sufficient to allow of a full and long appreciation
of the delightful tobacco.
Wrapped in pure ribbed rice paper, the name water marked
in the paper.
. SMOKE CAYANDER’S
jtlrmyGlub
CIGARETTES
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
“Pure Ribbed Rice Paper”
Cavanders Limited, Estd. 1775, London, England
R. TOWNS & CO., Reiby Place, Sydney,
Agents.
Goldberg 2.
New Sizes and Prices
26
In future Beecham’s Pills will be sold in two
sizes only, at the above prices which Will be
maintained by all retailers.
Beecham’s Pills, known all the world
over as the safe, dependable and handy
home medicine, afford immediate relief .
in cases of sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion and constipation. If your
stomach, liver or bowels are out of order
Beecham’s Pills will put them right,
if they are in order Beecham’s Pills will
keep them right.
The universal appreciation of Beecham s
Pills has been excellently expressed in
the well known phrase—
r-y
4f«
fctcgc
mo 1 #"
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chan
120 Johnston
Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
RO
A-6
ost
s
a
roo
o
“Besides Sauces I have Malt Vine-
gar from Old England, Olives from
Spain, French Olive Oil, Lime J uice
from the West Indies and Flavour-
ing Essences in endless variety/ 1
Two sturdy blades,
keen-edged and cor-
rectly designed for
the needs of the
hunter and trapper.
Stag handle, length
closed, 414 inches..
Ask your dealer for other
Remington styles —there is
a knife for every
purpose.
=Rem in gtcni=^
The Sportsman’s Favourite
for Sticking and Skinning
HUNTING
KNIFE
v-'ffl.
t#'
d
‘•■f.
0
in
rt.
iff
R 43
No*
R 4353
E-29
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686
Melbourne


o
Born 18£0.
•Still going
strong.
iWi
ill
BS
/
ttvLtf:.-;;-.'
:-v
Wm
i
did your worrying
for you years ago
Ask for “a Scotch” and
you’ll get a whisky—of some
sort. Ask for a ‘‘JOHNNIE
WALKER”—and you’ll get
the right sort. Its quality
and age are guaranteed the
world over.
Don’t worry
about the age
of your Whisky
The distillers of
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
Wh
c
Vs
Q
/
Bom 1820.
Still going
strong.
