

THE
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LTD.
Mine Owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
28 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE:
28 Franklin Street.
LONDON:
3 Gt. Winchester St.
<£
£
-<i
$
a
o
ft
Q
CF
3
$
C>
WORKS:
Iron & Steel Works:
Newcastle, N.S.W.
Ironstone Quarries:
Iron Knob, S.A.
Silver-Lead Mine:
Broken Hill, N.S.W,
-o
y
a
m
CP
\V
W
o
tu
MANUFACTURERS O
ITE E RAILS-I6lb. to lOQtb.CW.rh Fishplates) 1
LS
Bfr
RA!
<5
M
H
N GOT S
CHANNELS
P
WIRE RODS
ANGLES
P
R
ROAD TAR
TEES
SOLVENT
NAPHTHA
ROUNDS
BENZOL
SQUARES
SULPHATE
OF
Am ON IA
FLATS
V
iQM
Ed
X.
£ o
Ps
P
G
RON
r o,\ l Fo undr
aed
HEAD
OFFICES
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS: “HEMATITE,” MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2360.
Thursday, May 7,1925 c
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


The new library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
m
GUARANTEED WORKMANSHIP
long experience and specially selected raw materials assure
the success ot every Mangrovite product.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is made for every class of drive. Let our engineers advise
you. They can solve any betting problem.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. P. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA : W. & G. Genders Ptv.. Ltd.. Launceston A' llohart.
icmJ w Imei
By Appointment to
H.R.H. The Prince oj IVales
JCe4 PockA. +&efd-ist
■&e tfpuA oxLuizots
53
not men to visit as
a last resource, not
men to associate with
painful operations and
unpleasant curative
treatment
Above all let them
advise you regarding
your teeth. They will
tell you that gritty
pastes and powders are
a delusion and a danger,
whitening by scouring
away the precious
enamel which guards
against decay. More-
over, they will strongly
recommend the twice-
a-day use of the most
economical and efficient
dentifrice—
&
V
r?? i >***S£^
■NTAL CREAM
M
i'Ul*
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
POWiftnn
•auticTuc«
ON
5«
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
terieidally as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
The Tragi-Comedy of Shylock
Every age is moved to interpret a work
of art in its own individual way, in close
accord with its spirit and outlook upon life.
It is in this constant re-interpretation and
sympathetic re-adjustment that criticism per-
forms its positive function. Joan of Arc,
for instance, is not the same figure to us
as she was to her contemporaries, to the
English of Shakspeare's time or to the
French of yesterday.
One of the most vital personae in dramatic
art is Shylock, the Jew usurer. What kind
of man was this Hebrew of the Elizabethan
theatre—comic, tragic, or tragi-comic? Did
he, with his long Semitic nose, call forth
ribald laughter or draw tears of sympathy
from the audience for his ill-treatment and
sufferings? It would be very interesting
to know. We may be quite sure that Shaks-
peare’s audiences did ,not see a Shylock as
we see him on our modern stage, in the
person of the star actor showing off his
histrionic paces to an audience whose critical
faculty has been carefully deadened by
newspaper “publicity.” We see the star
surrounded by a crowd of inferior mummers
whose fumbling and mumbling efforts to render
intelligible the Shakspearcan blank verse, and
to put a little life into the subordinate char-
acters, only act as a foil to the powers
of the leading man. It would help us if
we knew the identity of the first stage Shy-
lock. Was it Richard Burbage or Will
Kemp? There is no evidence to tell us.
One suspects that it was a part written
for Burbage. There are good reasons for
thinking that Shylock was originally in-
tended for a cruel monster whose work upon
the boards was to turn cold with horror the
blood of the spectators, and to call forth
from them jeers of hatred and derision. The
Elizabethans liked their horrors hot, strong
and melodramatic, mingled with low comedy
and buffoonery. The real Jew was practi-
cally unknown in the England of the Virgin
Queen. Popular belief and tradition made
of him an inhuman and avaricious money-
lender and a bloodthirsty monster, violently
and subtly anti-Christian and anti-social, a
kind of mad dog of Western civilisation. The
Jews had been expelled from England in
1358. They were formally re-admitted, for
trade and financial reasons, in 1656. Between
these dates the current notion of the Jew
Ivas contained in story, ballad and drama.
He was the natural villain of the stage, a
bogey for frightening naughty children and
the simple vulgar, and a peg upon which
to hang moral lessons against usury and
greed. Like the devil of the mediaeval
morality play, he passed easily from the
terrible and tragic into the comic and the
farcical. His nose and his speech heloed in
this transition. On the stage both the
Devil and the Jew could be made the sub-
ject of clowning and buffoonery.
Modern anti-Semitism is but a survival
of a still more violent mediaeval hatred and
fear of the Hebrew. This is very evident
in such literature as “The Ballad of Ger-
nutus, the Jew of Venice,” to which.it has
been alleged that the Shakspearcan comedy
is indebted for the incident of “the pound-
of-flesh bond.”
The bloudie Jew now ready is
With whetted blade in hand,
To spoyle the bloud of innocent,
By forfeit of his bond.
The same blind prejudice against tlie Jew
runs through mediaeval Spanish and Italian
stories, and we get the Shylock plot in
“The Adventures of Giannetto,” written by
Giovanni Fiorentino in 1378, undoubtedly
the source of the main plot of “The Merchant
of Venice.” Barabas, the central figure of
Marlowe’s play “The Jew of Malta,” is
a stage monster of greed and cruelty of the
melodramatic type, who meets a horrible
death which he has devised for others. He
expires with curses upon his lips. This
play was registered at Stationers’ Hall on
May 17, 1594; as “The F'amous Tragedie
of the Riche Jewe of Malta.” Shakspeare
can scarcely have been uninfluenced by it,
and there is the indubitable parallelism of
father and daughter in each drama. Bara-
bas is a cruel-hearted, Christian-hating,
money-hoarding Jew who has a daughter,
Abigail, in love with a Christian, a fact
which leads to the estrangement of father
and daughter; and she, like Jessica, robs her
father and becomes a Christian.
Here, then, is ground for saying that the
primary conception of Shylock in the mind
of his creator did not go much further than
the picture of the traditional Jew stage
monster, an object for the hatred and
laughter of the Nazarenes.
It has. sometimes been contended that
Shylock is not the main figure of the comedy,
but that Antonio the Merchant is. It is
an idle contention, since no actor within the
memory of mafi and the stage tradition,
at any rate since Macklin, has been
able to convince an audience that the Mer-
chant himself is the star part and the central
figure. It lias also been stated that the
central incident of the comedy is the casket
scene, and that to make the bond story and
the trial scene the main theme is to be
guilty of a false emphasis. Bassanio’s
successful choice may be a scene of great
poetic beauty, but it lacks the fine dramatic
intensity of the trial scene. Moreover,
Antonio is an entirely static character;!
the moving, dynamic souls for love and hatred
are those of Shylock and Portia. There is
some evidence that even in Shakspeare’s day
Shylock was naturally regarded as the main
figure, alongside Portia, and in contrast to
her. Look at the title page of the First
Quarto edition. “The Excellent Historie
of the. Merchant of Venice, with the Extreme
Cruelty of Shylock the Jew Towards the
saide Merchant in Cutting a Just Pound of
His Flesh, and the Obtaining of Portia by
the Choyse of Three Caskets. Written by
W. Shakspeare. Printed by J. Roberts,
1600.” This title-page shows exactly what
constituted the draw in the comedy—it was
the pound of flesh incident, sensational
enough even for the American gutter press.
It has also been alleged that the Shylock
of the “Merchant,” instead of being of the
stature of the tragic hero, who has wandered
by chance,-into a comedy, is more related to
the semi-comic villain of melodrama. It
really does seem that Shakspeare started
out to draw a Jew like, all preceding stage
Jews, a cruel, crafty, subtle, villainous
Hebrew, such as would appeal to the Eliza-
bethan groundlings. He started (to give
them what they wanted and were accustomed
to see and could readily understand, a stage
type and not an individual; but the character
ran away with him. Ilis owu sub-conscious,
catholic sympathy with humanity got to
work, and gave us Shylock as we know him.
capable of human interpretation, and attract-
ing to himself the sympathy of the generous
hearted and philosophic. But, for all that,
Shylock has been over-philosophised and
sentimentalised on the stage as a type of
national sufferings, national sympathies and
national antipathies. His mind was warped
and twisted by prejudices land passions,
lie had the cpnning and the cruelty of an-
oppressed and ill-used race whose spiritual
and mental activities had been forced into
a narrow channel. There is no evidence in
the play that lie was a decrepit old man—
rather is he full of demoniac and venomous
energy, until he reaches that terrible and
pathetic final exit:
I pray you give me leave to go from hence, I
am not well.
The role has been interpreted by many gene-
rations of Gentile actors. In its fulness
it can only receive sympathetic interpreta-
tion by a Jew of the aftistocracy of Jewry,
endowed with intellect and dignity, who has
suffered as Shylock suffered.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
Galliosophy—by George!
When Gallio, the deputy of Acliaia,
would not convict Paul of Tarsus at the
behest of the riotous Jews, but instead
“drave them from the judgment seat,” lie
made his name a synonym. Unlucky deputy,
he paid dearly in the-end ! Though brother of
Seneca and uncle of Lucan, he had to
suicide compulsorily to assuage Nero. And
if he lias drearily waited until a.d 1924 for
W. L. George to “take him up,” his triumph
is none the nicer for that. George is no
mean novelist and has played a big' part in
emancipating modernity from the thraldoms
of its grandparents. When George Tallis is
horrified by the nakednesses of sex-neuras-
thenia in plays overseas, and, if he can be
Canute, will save Australia from their con-
tamination, lie is paying tribute to the in-
fluence of George as much as anybody’s.
The Triumph of Gallio (Chapman and
Hall) is W. L. George ascendant or descend-
ant, as you will. The book is the natural
successor of “A Bed of Roses,” “The Con-
fession of Ursula Trent” and “Caliban.”
It concentrates the stark lewdness and ter-
rific indictment of previous experiments. It
combines the candor of uncleanliness with
the puissance of impeachment. When it is
through with men, women and society, none
has clothes left upon shivering bones. While
George has some slight flair for psycho-
analytic sexology, he is here not in the
same street with D. H. Lawrence. Both
writers fling women into shameless grovel-
lings; but, while Lawrence almost wins one
to liis side in women-liating, George loses in
the latest effort because of arousing greater
contempt for men. Another difference be-
tween the two is that while Lawrence makes
an assignation a passionate fascination,
George makes an assignation a passional
beastliness. Where George does indeed
tower is in savagery of satire of human
weaknesses. In “Israel Kalisch,” that re-
markable interpretation of what is nowa-
days termed “Left Wingism,” his rebel-por-
traiture is phenomenal. In “Caliban” he
almost conquered with his title by its con-
notive association of newspaper magnate
with Sliakspeare’s monster. In “Gallio” his
accentuation of the synonym gives us per-
haps the terriblest wreckage of what are
termed “eternal verities” that latter-day
novelising has uglily done.
Significantly enough, in “The Triumph of
Gallio” W. L. George introduces us to still
another osophy. “Galliosophy is sweet, for
while it does not deny pain, it ignores the
lusts, annuls regret.... It reminds me that
what I desire will do me no actual good,
since I have so easily survived desire denied;
that loss and loneliness will do me no harm,
since both I have survived.” The discovery
that “the Antipodeans do not fall off.” a
theme worked to death, leads Holyoake Tar-
rant. the villainous hero of the novel, to
found Galliosophy, after he has trafficked in
seductions and adulteries, tasted poverty and
riches, and attained freedom, “heeding no
props such as love, faith or ambition.” In
Galliosophy we have a symbolism comple-
mentary to that of White Monkeydom, and
in the fusion know the worst.
George’s novel is dreadful in its reek.
There is not the slightest relief from its
sombre stench. It is a disgusting debauch
of cold-blooded inhumanity: it would be
painting the lily to call it mere cynicism.
Its teaching in part is that man is unfit to
bear life and so has to muffle it. The hero
is only “unchained” after callously casting
aside a woman whose wonder-love for him
is all worship. Nothimr is surer than that
in real life, being but 40, he’d live to regret
it. “The Triumph” begins when radicalism
and reform are supplanted by acquisitiveness
and ambition. Nothing could excel the slash-
ing sarcasm spent upon the discovery of
municipal rottenness when the reformers,
accepted as incorruptible, succumb to bribery.
It throws Tarrant into bitter and unyield-
ing cynicism—from idealism he falls with
cyclonic swiftness into a selfishness that
seems diabolical.
H. G. Wells was an influence of Tarrant’s
youth. Wells is described as “a noble
imagination soaring from nothing into no-
where... .he believes in the Eternal Cause,
of which, in his simple arrogance, he is
the eternal effect.” One imagines Wells
squirming under being presented as kneeling
before a card-index, for in similar fashion
he once whipped the Webbs. George gives
you abundance of smartness. “Hell is a
grill-room where steak lasts for ever.” The
(Continued on page 3.)


Incomparable Value in Billiard Tables at
a i
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
i
Anthony Horderns’ Billiard Tables
have reached the highest state of
perfection, for skilled craftsmen
and modern methods have made
possible the creation of these
splendid Tables at prices impres-
sively low. They are made at our
Red fern Cabinet Works, and can
be obtained in the most desirable
sizes.
COTTAGE BILLIARD TABLES
CAN BE SUPPLIED IN MAPLE OR MISSION.
The Beds are of Slate, covered with Genuine Billiard Cloth.
Fitted with fast, low built-up Cushions and brass-mounted Pockets, three Balls,
two Cues and Rest, Marking Board and Chalk. Rules, etc., are supplied with
each table.
Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in.
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin.
. £2B 10-
. £34/15/-
Size over all—
-Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with
four 6in. legs. . .... £43/12/6
9ft. sin. x sft., with six
6in. legs £56/ 10/ -
Special. Eft. s?n. x sft. Table, with deep panels, nickel pockets, and
Patent Built-up Cushions
£72
FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLES.
Handsome Maple Frame of Superior Quality
and Finish, on eight massive tapered 7x7
inch legs, full hand polished, best Portu-
guese Slates, bolted and dowelled, heavy
Maple Cushion Rails, fitted with Mosely s
Best Black Rubber Built-up Fast Low
Cushions, Patent Ring Pockets and Brasses,
Superfine Heavy Billiard Cloth, etc.
The Complete Table, including the following fittings: Ten Butted Cues, One
Half Butt, One Long Butt, One long Rest, One Short Rest, Brush, Iron, Wall Cue
Rack, Spider, Roller Sco'ring Board, Bonzoline Balls and Rules. « Qft
PRICE XIOU
Miniature Billiard Table Tops
On six adjusting legs, to stand on an ordinary Dining I’able.
These Billiard Table Tops have Slate Bed, covered with genuine
Billiard Cloth, fast Rubber Cushions, brass-mounted Pockets,
and are complete with three Balls, two Cues, Marking Board,
Chalk, Rules, etc.
Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in PRICE £23/17/6
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin PRICE £29/10/-
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in PRICE £3512/6
Bft. sin. x sft PRICE £43
Combination Billiard and Dining Tables
A covered Dining Table convertible in a few moments to a
Billiard Table, on which Pyramids, Pool, Snooker and other
games can also be played. Fitted with Semi-Auto. Lift and
Adjusters and QUEENSLAND MAPLE Leaves. Complete with
three Balls, two Cues, Rest and Scoring Board.
Size over all—
price £35/12 6
PRICE £43
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in.
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in.
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 6in., with four 6in. legs-
price £53/12/6
9ft. sin. x sft., with four 6in. legs. PRICE £65 13 *
“TRIUMPH” BILLIARD AND SNOOKER BALLS.
HIGHEST GRADE. TESTED AND GUARANTEED ACCURATE. COLORED RIGHT THROUGH.
Snooker Balls, sets of 22 • • •>
Billiard Balls, sets of 3 . . .
Benzoline Balls, sets of 3
Write for Illustrated Price List of Billiard Tables, Billiard Accessories and Sports Requisites. A copy will be posted free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


Graham Brothers trucks
Graham Brothers Trucks have proved
themselves to be admirably suited to
difficult haulage problems.
Their sturdy construction, their dependable
Dodge Brothers Engine —and the fact
that they are serviced everywhere by
Dodge Brothers Dealers —give them a
definite and unmistakable advantage in
any work that demands exceptional
stamina and regularity of performance.
GRAHAM BROTHERS
Detroit, U . S . A •
A Division or Domes Broth e-rs
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbotton Motor Co., Ltd.,
896-98 Hay Street,
Perth.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS
EVERYWHERE


Distinctive Styles!
Fur Felt Hats
specially priced.
David Jones’ have secured large stocks of
remarkably high grade hats made from best
English iur, and now offer them at prices
which render them exceptionally good value.
These have the newest curled brims and just
the little differences of shape and finish that
make for distinction.
Men’s English Fur Felt Hats with black
bands, self bindings and grease proof leathers
Nail or curl brim. Colors—light grey, steel
and slate. Sizes 654 to 7/4. 25/-and 30/'
DAVID JONES’
Opp. G. P. O —for Service— SYDNEY
P^.fcet V no 'Sc TffierencfbSecn
problem of keeping <xLi\ c ; ~ „ n h bad
pity- . Y ° U 'Th<it/s \vhat°yo?' re for° underdogs, to, be
under, ° B I wonder if you understand, what 1 mean‘J
“Could you spare us a match? said tne 1
“My bloody pipe’s gone out.’
Holyoake’s name gives the due t° Ins
father’s radicalism. His mothei g .
his education in defiance of tins by sa;yu
several hundred times that Holly
vnnne men go to the University. no •*
from social-reform organiser turnc' 1 .
becomes second-hand dealer and no x >»h l
owner. “It’s queer being rich when one las
Ten poor,” lie says. Rich or Poor, he has
affairs with women. He gives + " ’ ' ifh
pictures of most of them, all in tune with
his fixed gospel thus expressed: It is
stran»e how vain women are. Uoncernin»
Meg, "the mill girl, he describes minutely Ins
desperate desire for the ™knowm He
wanted to but daren’t, and baffled Meg, on
making for home hisses Come on, you
dummy!” He was wiser with Gleddys, a
voluminous person who scrubbed steps. 1
her he found romance— romance m dogs,
whv Paula he seems to love, Dut
basely turns her down for rich Millicent, in
order to buy the schooner Muriel Jones
When it’s the ship or the sweetheart it s the
latter that goes to the bottom. Married to
Millicent, he lectures her on Galliosophy but
connives at her adultery. The taie is over-
ripe in its detail of private domestic
squabbles on trifles and terrors. Paula, full
of regret for earlier chastity, offers herself
at the last to him, but he spurns her with
“You might have blinded my eyes with illu-
sions” By this time he had partaken to
repletion at the banquets of voluptuousness.
With moral standards, laws, obligations,
duties, beliefs, sentiment and sentimentality
gone, the modern Gallio marches, let us hope,
to suicide. , • tt^o-
“The Triumph of Gallio has had in Un B-
land in many weeks as many reprintings, m
a note the author explains that Ins own li n
in no wise corresponds with that of Ins chief
character, nor are any opinions necessari .
his own. Has novel-writing come to this !
R. S. Ross.
Side-lights on Napoleon
•‘I have always seen them, those three
greenish exercise-hooks, the color of theJ™*'
form of the Chasseurs of the Guard. \\ lien
I was a child my father showed them to me
„nd when a big lad I was given them to
read.” Thus Maurice Barrels, the h rencli
novelist, introduces the il femoirs of a
Maiioleonic Officer- (Allen and Unwin), a
diary kept by his grandfather on service in
the Grand Army. Jean-Baptiste Barres was
one of the many youths uproot.*! by the
Revolution from their native soil Ins family
had lived for 500 years in the little village
of Blesle. In the pages of Ins diary he con-
denses the daily life of a soldier of I ranee
in the years of Napoleonic victories and
defeat, noting all the petty details which
as in the pages of Pepys or Boswell, give
a human interest to the document. Gut ot
this mass of entertaining inconsequences flash
odd glimpses of the central figure of that
blood-stained time. We see Napoleon as the
soldier saw him, sometimes taking heroic
proportions, at other times coming to the
level of the men he commanded —Emperor
and comrade both. . ~
Jean-Baptiste enrolled in the army on the
day Napoleon, then First Consul, was pro-
claimed and saluted as Emperor of the
French. The pay of tli e soldier in those
times was the equivalent of an English sb>
ling per diem. But from this sum was de-
ducted sd. for mess charges and 2d. to cover
the cost of boots and underclothing, leaving
5d.; and this, the diarist said, was enough
to provide all absolute necessaries.
The young conscript was present at the
coronation procession of the newly-declared
Emperor. He and his companions lined the
roadwmy of the Rue Notre-Dame. They
stood on the frozen ground in bitter cold
under a cloudy sky.
But when the rich carriage of the Tope arrived
drawn by eight magnificent horses, preceded by his
chaplain, mounted on a mule; when the Pans statl,
with Prince Murat at its head, preceded and followed
by an immense column of cavalry of all arms, ap-
peared ; when finally the magnificent imperial pro-
cession revealed itself in all its splendor, we foigoc.
the cold and fatigue in our admiration of this re-
splendent pomp.
Soon afterwards the young soldier’s eyes
dw T elt on very different scenes. He received
his baptism of blood and fire. On the night
before Austerlitz, by the light of the bivouac
fires, a proclamation by the Emperor was
read announcing a great battle for the fol-
lowing day.
Shortly afterwards the Emperor came to our
bivouac to have a look at, us, or to read a _etter
which had just been brought to him. A Chasseur
took a handful of straw and lit it so that he might
refid it more readily. From this bivouac the Em-
peror went on to another. Men followed him with
burning torches to light his path. As his inspection
W'as prolonged and extended, the number of torches
increased; soldiers followed him shouting, Vive l
Empereur!” These cries of love and enthusiasm
spread in all directions, like an electric fire. It was
a general conflagration, a movement of enthusiasm,
so sudden that the Emperor must have been dazzled
by it. It w T as magnificent, prodigious!
Then came Austerlitz. Of the battle asi a
whole the soldier-diarist knew nothing. _ He
saw but his little bit, and one graphic inci-
dent outstands in that: —
Coming to the slope that overlooks the lakes, I fell
out of the ranks for a moment, and was thus able
to observe in the plain the terrible struggle engaged
between the 4th Corps and the portion of the Hus-
sion Army facing it, having the lakes at its rear.
We arrived in time to give it the cowp.de grace, and
finally hurled it into the lakes. This last deadly
movement was terrible. Imagine 12,000 to 15,000
men fleeing at the top of tlieir speed over the thin
ice and suddenly falling in, almost to a man
And here is a thumb-nail sketch of the
victor after Jena: —
The Emperor halted us on a bare, very hig
plateau. As he was right in our midst we
to watch him rejoicing in his tremendous tuumph
distributing praises and receiving with pride the
numerous trophies that were brought to 1 • y “
on a great open map spread out on the ground, o
walking to and fro with Ins hands behind his back,
rolling a Prussian drum along the ground, he hstene
attentively to all that was said to him, and ordeied
a number of different movements.
The advance through Poland on Russia
that followed told severely on the troops
who suffered bitterly from the cold, know
beset their way, and icy winds swept through
their ranks. The Emperor and many of h s
generals had bonnets of fur to protect the
heads. “They were able to bear the seven
ties of winter, but for us poor devils, with
our old greatcoats, it was a very different
matter. But, after all. we were young, we
were marching all day long, and we weie
used to it.” At Eylau the losses were enor-
mous to French and Russian alike. Ao
matter where one looked one saw nothing
but corpses, heard nothing but heartrending
cries.” Yet in the midst of it all the little
Corporal.” putting aside his high estate as
Emperor, went in and out amongst Ins men,
never relaxing the duty of supervision. One
day he inspected Jean -Baptiste s camp :
I was in one of the kitchens that day. He in-
spected mine with the rest, and asked me a number
or questions as to our food, and, above all as to oui
munition bread. 1 told him very plainly that it was
not good, especially for putting in the soup. H
took off his glove, broke a piece with Ins fingeis, and
having tasted it, gave it back to me saying Of
course this bread is not good enough for these gentle-
men.” This reply crushed me. However, next day
we had white bread to put in our soup. The word
“gentlemen” had not been uttered in derision ot m>
audacious demand.
After taking part in the Peninsular cam-
paign Barrfes returned to France, and there-
after was engaged in the military events
leading up to "the decisive defeat at Leipzic:
We lost in this disastrous day, the bloodiest that
had been hitherto, the majority of the officers and
more than half our men. More than two-thirds of
the g( nerals had been killed or wounded. Altei the
miseries of Leipzic no serious measures were or could
be taken to rally the men and restore order and dis-
cipline in the army. We marched at will confused
driven on, pitilessly crushed, abandoned without
succor.
It was then he saw the Emperor for the last
time:
Emerging from a narrow road, we found the Em-
peror on the plain, on horseback, bidding the officers
who passed near him “Rally your men.
After that came Elba and finally Waterloo.
But the good Jean-Baptiste lived to wear
the white cockade; for, loud as had been
his admiration of the great Emperor, he yet
had in him some touch of the Vicar of Bray.
When St. Helena claimed the old master, lie
went over complacently to the new, married,
had children, and died peacefully in Ins bed.
T.B.C.
Australia’s Undeveloped Art
Tlie deputation of printers and publishers
to Minister Pratten, appealing for further
protection for their trade —taking a line from
U.S.A. experience—may have national conse-
quences far more important than the em-
ployment of a few additional compositors and
machinists. Though not represented at the
meeting, for it is nearly extinct, Australian
fiction as a profession was in question; and
in particular the possible dramatic quality
only developed by past-masters of the fiction
craft. .
Before its special tariff —imposed to pro-
tect the printers —the U.S.A. was in our
present parasite position. Writers had pro-
tested in vain, for their votes hardly counted ;
a genius like Edgar Allan Poe earned five
dollars for a short story, and, writing a book,
his only promising market was London, as
with present-day Australians. The pre-
Protection writers Longfellow, Whittier and
Hawthorne were in all essentials Britishers,
in expression and thought dominated by the
English literary standard; for a successful
merchant of goods, literary or any other
kind, must meet liis market’s demand. I ro-
tected from the deluge of oversea fiction, the
USA. learned to express itself. But that
pen does not interpret Australia, nor can
the British quill. Further, protection to
U S A. publishers fostered the fiction writer;
from whom developed the far more import-
ant —from the social standpoint —scenario
writer. . ,
The film business is so new that tew
realise its vast educational importance now
and in the future. Already it has arrested,
where it has not destroyed, so-called “legiti-
mate” theatrical development; for, shown
everywhere, the “pictures” are appreciated by
vast hosts who never read books, give little
time to thought, and so accept automatically
the conventions impressed on them. At
present the cult of the dollar hustle, self-
advertisement and graft—is not notable in
Australia outside a few big cities; but aided
by Yankee films and literature we are hurry-
ing at increasing speed to the morals of
Hollywood and the society which produced
Fatty Arbuckle.
Let us suffer for our own sms; they
are quite enough without importing.
The protected local publisher will of neces-
sity foster the writer; and only then will
fiction become a profession locally worth
while. It is little known that, having a
good Australian novel, play or scenario to
dispose of, there is next to no local market
for it. Nor can publishers, editors, theatri-
cal or film producers be blamed, as under
present conditions they have little induce-
ment to experiment. Since the war and
the enormously increased cost of production
of all kinds, the backing of local creative
talent has still greater risks; and our pos-
sible authors of genius, seeing no prospect,
merge into journalists, and the possible
special interpreters of Australian feeling and
sentiment are lost. In result we not only
take our fashions in clothes from oversea, we
increasingly take our fashions in ideas, our
moral standards and our ideals.
H. F.
With Conrad the Sailor
Joseph Conrad is often spoken of as a
tramp-steamer seaman. As a matter of fact,
he was a sailor of sailing-ships—the tall
clippers; and no one ever saw more clearly
their beauty, or felt more deeply their mys-
tery and the magic of the sea. It was an
education in poetry and romance to have
been for one long voyage in his constant
company.
He was not always an easy man to work
with. I remember at the end of the voyage,
when the tug had hold of us in the English
Channel and all sails were being sent down
to be stowed in the sail-locker, Conrad, who
was the mate, had lingered a while over his
dinner talking to a lady passenger. (lie
was a very gallant gentleman.) It was a
lovely summer night, and everything seemed
to be going on all right on deck with the
work. , .
Suddenly into the saloon bounced the cap-
tain, a pompous old chap who did not like
Conrad. lie was in a snorting passion. ‘ Mr.
CV.nr-r-rad,” says he, “it might inter-r-rest
ye to know that while you’re neglecting your
duty yar-r-rning with passengers you ve lost
my fore-upper-tops’l overboard.”
Conrad jumped up as if he had been shot,
and ran out on deck to find that, though the
sail had been bungled with, it had been
rescued and was aboard all right. Turning
on his heel he strode back into the saloon.
The Old Man had gone to his room, and
Conrad hammered on the door till he opened
11 “Captain,” he said in his harsh voice—
every word could be heard on dock it may
interest you to know that your fore-upper-
tops’l is not lost overboard, and you are a
liar, sir.” , , .
“Mr. Conrad,” answered the skipper, you
will never sail with me again.”
“I had long ago made up my mind about
that,” said the mate, and left him.
Once avc had a close call together. When
avc AA'ere away doAvn in the forties, and the
ship was rushing along through a dark night,
Avlth a fair wind, in the darkest hours before
daAvn I was on the poop with Conrad, it.
was nearly time to change the watch- about
five minutes to four. Suddenly a big, flat-
footed Dutchman called August, who was
on lookout, came galloping aft tongue-tied
with terror. “Wessel right ahead. he
gasped.
Conrad gave an order to the man at the
wheel, and as the ship kept away we both
leaned far out over the weather-rail peering
into the darkness. It was as black as your
liat- Ave could see nothing. And then some-
one’on the other ship lit a flare, and we saAv
Iter every spar and rope clear and distinct
and very near. Her stern must have been
under our jibboom when Ave kept away. Not
a light showed on her, and she looked like
a ghost ship in that weird blue incandescence.
She was under short canvas, and even in
a moderate sea Avas making heavy weather
of it. Conrad hailed her, but got no answer;
and as we were sailing two feet to her one
she soon dropped astern. So still and quiet
she seemed that she might have been deserted
onlv for the flare. Conrad saw and I saw
a face, blue and ghastly looking m that
light, staring in horror at us. In a teAV
seconds the flare • died, and she vanished
sudden as she had appeared.
Conrad must have loved ships to have
stuck to them as he did, for he suffered ter-
ribly with asthma. I have seen him so dis-
tressed with it that it was only with great
difficulty he could blow his whistle.
May he enjoy “a quiet sleep and a sweet
dream now the long trick’s over”!
J.M.
A Satchel of Books
round a woman of beauty, charm and g
long crescendo ending with a shneK.
The Butterfly of Paris, by L. H.
sell). The butterfly tilts from the tge J 1 j
primrose by the river’s brim grttmg her v,
dusted with dubious pollen, J; u t in ; The nove l
settles serenely on the domestic ngtree.
moves rapidlyf but doesn’t fulfil its promise.
The Last of the Biffins, Harry Graham
f Afpthnpii'j There has grown up a custom ot auuio
works with a e^la>mn g
, lo „ vv( f rp written Mr. Graham takes tins coul T:
a humorously apologetic fashion. The apology if
not the humor, is needed. The book is abulesque
biography with a burlesque Index of contc .
most amusing feature. _
Anna’s, by C. Nina Boyle ( A ] le " o"
“Out of the Frying-pan” and What JJecame ui
Mr Desmond” Miss Boyle showed she possessed the
art of spinning the web of mystery and eeping
readers in suspense. Her present book, thougn cievei
in characterisation, depends largeiy on the con -
nieYities of family relationship, and the reaaei
is not unlikely to lose interest in the narrative when
entangled in a maze ot marriages and illegitimate
unions.
Why the Sphinx Smiles, by Ethel Knight Kelly
(John Lane). A wealthy American long resent
in England, married at 65 a girl of 20, the da g
of a. aristocratic house. The American is a type
evolved bv the lady-writer. The marriage ru
less so he suggests to the yearning wife that slit
should o engage U l a love affair and he would regard
he S fid fils bargain
What would our Victorian grandmothers have said
to such a plot?
The Cottage on the Fells, by H. de Vere Stacpoole
iWerner Laurie). Richard llellier had been called
to the Bar 18 months, and his only client (cmivmted)
ufs afiasas
sb ar&w
and^hou^^Tlm 6 ™ are not
killed, she declares that until the paternal i ame
cleared she will not marry. Hellier, unaismayea
bv the conviction of the dog-thief, pledges himself
to y bring C the V 1 t C ru 0 e culprit to justice Then the reader
wakes up to the interest of the chase. It is quite
an exciting round-up. M M
The Story of the. Jewish People, by J. M. - _
CKeean Paul) The present is the third volume of a
sS by J M. Myers, of Sydney. The history does
not claim to be an exhaustive record, but aims at
giving Jewish youth a wider knowledge of the fact
and spirit of the race movements in the past, ine
"earlier part of the volume deals with the mystic
elements of .Judaism grouped under the Kabbalah,
and the latter portion details the persecution to
which Jews were subjected in the early part of t
Isth century in Spain, during the reign of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella, and under the pressure of Toi-
quemada The subsequent expulsion when evcry
way from Spain was thronged with exiled Jewish
families is graphically described.
Cuhwood. by W. R. Sunderland Lewis (John
T.ane'l It is difficult to classify this book, ioi u
is" at "once novel, autobiography and psychological
document Walter de la Mare tries to describe t
in an introductory note: “It is unusual, not J
because it is a long story about mtjetw lp^.
«tno-p told with a small boy (in retrospect; ui
mouthpiece and through his consciousness; bu„ also
because Tt is clearly not a book intended for smal
I vs even though they may delight in reading it
Mr. Lewis himself says: “This tale, so ar from being
saw sfcfa -S/,
wart.-*
rmt of the nursery, but not yet m ms »
gg^sss*****
it the interest is sustained.


: : ■
rr*T3 t
I
TWO
KINDS
of MEN
can afford to buy the Packard Six
the man who is buying a half-price, half quality,
half-life car every year or two, and
the man who is buying a heavy, bulky, compli-
cated car less often. r
The depreciation cost per year of the long-life
Packard Six will be no more.
The operating and maitenance costs will be less.
And
the Packard Six will give the added advantages
of Packard beauty, distinction and comfort.
cpictured above is the “Packard Single-Six Seven-passenger Sedan. The present price reduction
of i 3 °° enables us to offer you these lumnous cars at a price almost equivalent to that of the
open models. The quality ana workmanship of these enclosed cars bear the unmistakable ball,
mark of Packard s acknowledged superlative standard.
NEW PRICES
Single-Six Touring Car
5-Passenger . £950
7-Passenger . £1025
Single-Six Sedan
5-Passenger £1075
7-Passenger £ll5O
Straight-EightTouring Car
5-Passenger . £1325
7-Passenger . £l4OO
& A. G BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261, 263,265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rmg M3548f0r demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, ’Tasmania.
PACKARD
ASK THE
MAN WHO OWNS
ONE


msssk
&
"'////,
W,
m
m
vm
i
I
■
«
BRITISH
and
BEST
STERN FACTS.
Non-Carbonising,
Easy Starting.
STERN FACTS.
High Flash Point.
Low Cold Test.
“MARES ENGINES PURR!”
STERNOL MOTOR OILS
AND AMBROLEUM (for Gears)
(PRODUCTS OF STERN’S, LTD., LONDON).
ENGLAND'S BEST-KNOWN MOTOR LUBRICANTS
ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN AUSTRALIA.
STERNS have just recently secured from the British Government the LARGEST
CONTRACT since the War.
STERNS had Sole Selling Rights at British Empire Exhibition—approved by all
British Car Makers.
ASK YOUR GARAGE OR SERVICE-STATION FOR IT,
OR OBTAIN FROM
Sole Distributors —
WILLIAM ADAMS & COMPANY, Limited
175 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Waymouth Street,
ADELAIDE.
Edward and Mary Streets,
BRISBANE.


fj
1
HU
mmn
3S
£
1
Va
iiii mm
J
litiMltt
i
1
M
ffl
M
/
aim
FASCINATES
THE
FEMININE
FANCY
Models. Prices.
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. Standard Touring Car . . £450
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. De Luxe Touring Car. . . . £495
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. Italian De Luxe Touring Car £560
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. Italian Sports De Luxe
Touring Car £550
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. Coupe £595
10/15-h.p. 4-cyl. Saloon £635
15/20-h.p. 4-cyl. De Luxe Touring Car . . . £675
15/20-h.p. 4-cyl. 7-seater Italian De Luxe
Touring Car £675
20/30-h.p. 6-cyl. 7-seater De Luxe Touring
Car £Bl5
20/30-h.p. 6-cyl. 7-seater Italian De Luxe
Touring Car
£Bl5
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd. ... Melbourne, Vic.
Garratts, Ltd. Sydney, N.S.W.
Adelaide Motors, Ltd Adelaide, S.A.
Arthur Anderson, Ltd. . .
FIAT Sales Agency, Ltd.
Robert Nettlefold, Ltd.
Perth, W.A.
Brisbane, Q’land
- Sub-Agents, Hobart, Tas.


'S'
m
7)
r~7
CUTICURA
SOOTHES ITCHING RASHES
Bathe gently but freely with Cuti-
cura Soap to cleanse and purify.
Dry lightly and apply Cuticura
Ointment to soothe and heal. Do
not fail to include the exquisitely
scented Cuticura Talcum in your
toilet preparations.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S. W.”
IPaßF*' Try our new Shaving Stick.
Ah andonmg
Face Creams
Photo Howard-Harris.
tiffin (¥ J /ty,MtA Q)ic Sfla.W'if
to he Popular Premier Dancer
Miss Du Barry strongly advocates mer-*
colized wax for the complexion. Hun-
dreds of thousands of stage and society
women all over the world have aban-
doned face creams in favour of this in-
nocent but effective wax. The reason is
simply that mercolized wax performs a
two-fold function. First, it quickly clears
dullness and blemish from the skin and
thus reveals a brand new healthy com-
plexion. Second, it then acts as a perpetual
preserver and protector of this newly
revealed beauty. No paint or powder is
needed to enhance the perfection of such
a skin. Ask any chemist for a package
6f Dearborn’s genuine mercolized wax.
(Try the new 2/6 jar).
No more blunt
razors
£
6S
With the aid of a Per-
forated Hone you can
put a keen edge on the
dullest razor in a few
minutes.
A few strokes every
week or so, and the
razor is kept in per-
fect cutting condition.
No barber’s skill or experience
is necessary. “It’s all in toe
holes”—they absolutely dispose
of wire-edge.
THE PERFORATED HONE
lasts a lifetime. All Hardware
Merchants, 5/-, or Post Free
from us for 5/6.
If it doesn’t make your razor shave
to vour satisfaction return it to us
within 30 days and get your money
back.
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
41 ■
jafjfjiiis
n
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p er m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing (irey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied-
waterproof. All Chemists
MEXICAN |
IWAINUT STAINS
Ruptured?
su
DENVER BROS.
To many Rupture means continual
worry, constant discomfort and nerve-
strain. But for thousands of others it
has lost all its terrors. Secure a “Denyer
Elastic Truss and join the number who
no longer fear Rupture. This Truss
gives superb safety and comfort.
Single, 27/6. Double, 37/6.
Postage extra.
For privacy and prompt reply, address
to Dept. 1.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts
and Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 281 George Street, Sydney.
OUTSTANDING VALUE.
mm
m
*
w
&
§
&
“The Super
Fx & R”
WATCH
In open-face oxi-
dised steel case lfV[V|
In sterling-silver £4|4|-
For vear-in-year-out accuracy and reliability men will find these
splendid watches unsurpassed. We have been importing and selling
them for many years now as the best watch value of our long
experience, and as being particularly suitable for rough-ridingand
hard-wearing Australian conditions generally, -they are 4-plate
lever watches, fully jewelled, with ‘brequet hairspring, compen-
sated and adjusted balance, and incorporate every modern horologi-
cal improvement.
A man’s most satisfactory personal possession is an absolutely
dependable watch.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFAX&EDBERTS L™
25&2S Hunter Street Sydney
Groats
Best for MothersYounq Children;Olnvalids
Obtainable from oil Chemists & Grocers
1
i
1
*
I
m m
m
m
w
M
m
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS
CLUB REIL CIGAR
FOR
FACTORY
VARIOVS VERSE
Promise.
To-day is surely over. There's a sky
Enraptured in the last kiss of the sun.
Over the hill the late birds slowly fly,
A cold breeze murmurs and the eve is done.
The last long crimson flag is slowly furled,
The quiet earth is washed in waves ot light,
The sun burns on the altar of the world
With one lone purple cloud for acolyte.
Now God walks in the dusk and all your
sorrow
Melts in the flaming promise of to-morrow.
MAOBILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
The Twain.
My mother taught me laughter
. When I sat on her arm —
The glorious games that could be made,
The pranks just waiting to be played,
The flower that twinkles gay behind
The darkest leaves that we can find,
A flower of smiling charm:
And so before my feet could run
She set the fairy shield of fun —
The shield her mother gave to her
To turn on Life the Challenger—
To catch the shafts of harm.
My mother taught me pity
Ere yet I plainly spoke—
For scattered blossoms dead and gone
And for the stones I stumbled on,
The driven cloud, the drowning star,
The tear that trembles never far
From every dancing joke.
Through morning joys I dimly guessed
That always gentleness was best
Because of grief and sympathy
That linked the living world with me—
A world of fellow folk!
So from a dawn of rose-leaves
To the grey thick of things
Trips laughter on her pink toe-tips,
Speaks pity with an angel’s lips.
One scatters shadows in a whirl,
One has a tear, a magic pearl,
For human happenings.
And still they love each other so
That intertwined they come and go;
And once again and once again
Beyond the clutch of fear and pain
Sweet pity and sweet laughter
Have lifted me like wings.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Lane Cove River.
Moonlight on the reaches gleams,
Making rock and ripple bright;
Wondrous white and beautiful
Is the river in the night;
Now and then a mullet leaps,
Showing silver tail and fin,
While across the water sighs—
Sighs and sobs —a violin.
Far and wide the witching moon
Magic, sweet and eerie, weaves,
Garden trees and bushland trees
Seem to sleep with drooping leaves;
Over dewy glade and lawn
Wander zephyrs, soft and pure.
Here enchantment surely dwells;
Fairydom must here endure.
Maybe by the violin
From its leafy slumber stirred,.
In a shining laurel tree
Sings a single shepherd-bird;
Shepherd-bird and violin
Mingle music thrillingly,
All the river muted seems
List’ning to their melody.
With such silver heights around
And such lustrous skies above.
Surely was this setting meant —
Made and meant—for laughing Love:
Lo. and proving it is so,
Yonder drifts a little boat,
Drifts and dances leisuredly,
Lovers on the tide afloat.
Never, never anywhere,
Since Eve laughed and wept, I ween,
Was there fairer wooing-place
Than this beauty-haunted scene;
Little care yon lovers have,
Little thought of aught beside
Present joy and loveliness,
Drifting, dreaming on the tide.
All around are shining shores,
Shining lawn and shining leaf;
Like a night in Eden ’tis
Ere Love wept bowed down by grief;
Rippling, gleaming ’neath the moon
O’er the flats the tide comes in;
Sings the happy shepherd-bird,
Sighs the plaintive violin.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.
Fear of Love.
Oh. hold me in your arms! lam afraid
Of this strange thing called love, lest it
slioul 1 steal
That joyous part of me that has been made
Green Nature’s own and patterned with
her seal!
No more may I contented stay alone
Singing the songs that I have always
heard:
But anguished, in some place till now un-
known,
Shall beat against the light—a prisoned
bird.
Shall I. being less than I, no longer see
The beauty of the grass-spires as of old?
Less in the cobalt sky and trembling tree?
Less in the water-lily’s cradled gold?
I dare not lose one whit of this wild bliss
Dear God, to have the pain that all love is.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


jKeUow
■
m ’
iiiini (i up
1 ll|l ililSlipil
. i*
■
1
; ' -V. :
PRINCE FOOTE,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1909.
Owner - - - - J. Baron.
Trainer - - - - F. McGrath.
Jockey - - - - W. McLachlan.
Weight - - - - 7st. 81b.
Time ----3 min. 27^sec.
Australasian Agents- BSEPPELTeSONS.L T - D
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADE LA IDE-FREMANTLE £ BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1925.
Pbice 6d.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2360.
WAKING THE GOD OF WAR.
“The election of Field-Marshal von Hindenburg as President of Germany has caused great uneasiness in France and in pacifist circles throughout Europe.”
THE VOICE FROM THE CLOUDS: "And I thought I tied him down so tight!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Jilacleod, ot
-Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, lor The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydnei. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
27'7/M/S TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 6s. ; 6 months, 13s. Gd. : S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper ere copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved bp the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form ot
Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches i those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOGO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or 'Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specifed and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ot MS.
To Amateurs in liiaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.o., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London Is
L. St. C. Gromiona, Australia House, Strand,
WALiL__Coi>les of “The Bulletin” can be ol>-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London.
E. I;: E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street. London, E.C. ; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
Town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.- G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/l/l Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27 th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Rotating’ 8
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01, Market Street, San Francisco.
Wallace: The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Per era and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.—4. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva,
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.Ip
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: ! t oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional !,oz.. Id.: All Sea Route: 160 z., 1 id.
British Possessions and. U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1925.
THE BRITISH BUDGET
AND AUSTRALIA.
J. Bull’s latest Budget is on the heroic
scale. With £7,640,000,000 owing to the
national creditor, $166,000,000 due this year
on account of the debt to the U.S.A., which
will be an annual charge for 62 years,
£67,000,000 payable in war pensions,
£27,000,000 in old-age pensions, and 1,250,000
persons on the dole, the. Old Man has re-
turned to the gold standard, and has been
committed by Churchill, his Chancellor of
the Exchequer, to a vast extension of the
present contributory scheme of health
and unemployment insurance. This exten-
sion, will in the beginning, add six millions to
the nine million workers now insured against
unemployment, and provide for allowances
to widows and orphans, as well as for pen-
sions to insured persons at 65 years. In
addition, uninsured people who apply for
the present old-age pension of 10s. per week
at 70 years are to be relieved of all restric-
tions as to means. Under the 1919 Act
these restrictions were so drastic that the
pension was refused to a claimant whose
yearly income exceeded £49 175., and was
reduced in cases where the income exceeded
£26 55.; but they were considerably relaxed
last year. The Churchill scheme, which
is dashing, like its author, should simplify
the labors of the Australian Royal Commis-
sion which has been collecting information
on the subject in a desultory fashion for
the last couple of years, and has produced
a not very convincing progress report.
Another Budget feature which interests this
country, and that immediately, is the revival
of the Dominion preferences negotiated at
the Economic Conference of 1923. These
preferences were promised by the first Bald-
win Government; but, that Government fall-
ing before it had an opportunity of bringing
them in, they were referred to the House of
Commons by the unsympathetic Ramsay
Macdonald Ministry, and defeated by narrow
majorities which would probably have been
reversed had the Australian Labor party
used its influence with British Labor politi-
cians on behalf of struggling Australian in-
dustries, instead of sulking in its tent because
Bruce had been concerned in the nego-
tiations. As tabulated by Lloyd-Graeme,
President of the Board of Trade in 1923, the
preferences consisted of 2s. per cwt. on cur-
rants, 10s. 6d. per cwt. on other dried fruits,
ss. per cwt. on canned fruits and fresh
apples, 4s. per gallon on heavy wines, 6s. 3d.
per gallon on sparkling wines, 10s. per cwt.
on honey, 2s. Old. per lb. on tobacco-leaf,
(id. per gallon on lime- and lemon-juices and
£4 ss. Ogd. per ton on refined sugar. There
may have to be modifications in some in-
stances, since Baldwin undertook at the
late election not to increase the existing food
duties, on which tin' Rammac Cabinet laid
its Foreign-trade hand ; but, even so, the fruit
preferences should be of substantial benefit
to thousands of growers in Victoria,
N. _ S. Wales, South Australia, West-
ralia and the Speck, more especially
to the Diggers of the Murray and Murrum-
bidgee irrigation-settlements, who are having
a gruelling time. And the sugar concession,
which is to be stabilised for 10 years if the
Labor Freetraders can be kept out of office,
will probably be worth millions during that
period to the Queensland sugar industry,
which has been gloomily wondering whether
it could stand the dual burden of heavy losses
on exports, necessitated by the Australian
market being over-supplied, and the State
Labor party’s 44-hour week. Moreover, the
tobiicco preference, though it cannot be
availed of right away, is a useful reminder
that there is an export trade waiting, as well
as a magnificent home market, should Aus-
tralia go in seriously for the production of
tobacco leaf, for it has all the natural
advantages, instead of buying £2,000,000
worth p.a. from its bad customer, the U.S.A.,
and smaller quantities from S’Africa, Syria,
Turkey, Brazil, the West Indies, Borneo,
Java, the Philippines, China, Japan and
Korea —for even Korea sends a bit.
From April 6, 1918, to April 5, 1922, the
British income-tax was 6s. in the £, and in-
comes exceeding £2OOO p.a. were super-taxed
another Is. 6d. to 6s. in the £. Churciiiix
has brought the standard rate down to 4s. in
the £ (it was 4s. 6d. last year), and so multi-
plied the concessions to small taxpayers that
the reduction will be equivalent to Is. in the
£ in many cases. He has also lowered the
super-tax; and although the new rates have
not been cabled, it is stated that the loss of
revenue from this source is expected to be
£10,000,000 in a full year. Apparently the
result will be that many small incomes and
some large ones will be taxed less than in
two if not three Australian States, but all
others will fare worse. Last year a British
couple without children would have paid
nothing on £250 of earned income, £1 os. 3d.
on £260 and £5 Is. 3d. on £300; while on
income from propqrty they would have paid
nothing on l6s. 3d. on £250 and
£l4ll 11s. 3d. on £5OOO. And they will be
much better off this year. In Westralia a
childless couple pays £2 13s. lid. on an
earned income of £275 and in South Aus-
tralia £3 12s. lid.; while of £5OOO derived
from property £1863 os. 3d. would be de-
manded in Westralia (£Bl2 19s. sd.
by the State and £lO5O os. lOd. by
the Commonwealth, which reduced its
rates last session) and £l7OO os. lOd.
in Queensland. Simultaneously with the
reduction of the income-tax Churchill has
raised the death duties. They were already
much stiffen than the corresponding Austra-
lian imposts-—last year the British scale
was 5 p.c. on £15,000, 10 p.c. on £50,000,
25 p.c. on £500,000. 30 p.c. on £1,250,000 and
40 p.c. on £2,000,000 and over —but the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer believes that the dead
can stand it. Perhaps if he or some other
representative British financier had the job
of guiding Australia through its taxation
maze he would in like manner try to get a
little more from dead men’s property and to
do. with a lot less from the incomes of the
living. But it is impossible to imagine a
Churchill or a McKenna yielding to the
stupid cry that the Commonwealth income-tax
should be abolished. What he would strive
for would undoubtedly be thg Federalisation
of the income-taxes, with a substantial re-
duction of rates, and the transfer to the
States of the. taxes on land, entertainments
and deceased estates, now duplicated in a
ridiculous fashion. It would be against all
the sound traditions of British finance for
the Government of the nation to sacrifice its
special war and defence impost to provincial
authorities which are exempt from the war
obligations and have nothing to do with
defence. To a successor of the second Pitt
it would seem like abandoning the British
income-tax to the County Councils.
THE WELL-MEANT ENDEAVOR OF
GEORGE FULLER.
The programme of the Fueler Government
of N. S. Wales, as prepared for the election,
is that of a mild and honest Premier who
isn’t too sure of either his majority
or himself. It is an eminently respect-
able plan of campaign, with no crazy
purple patches like McTierNan’s Profiteer-
ing Bill in its original form ; nor is there in
it anything like Lougiilin’s Land Confisca-
tion Bill, by which every big estate could be
marked down for resumption, at the Minis-
ter's time and pretty much at the Minister’s
price, to be paid for in the Minister’s long-
distance paper—unless, of course, the victim
got at the Minister’s ear and secured special
consideration.’' Its chief defect is that the
list of pious aspirations contains too few
details about too many matters. Thus the
Government pledges itself to "the enlarge-
ment of the field of local government, to
hasten development and to check centralisa-
tion.” But no one has yet propounded a
scheme of local government, bar the creation
of new States, which will provide for the
two things that count —the building of rail-
ways to connect the hinterland with the
nearest good port and the making of
that port available. A downright sort
of Government would put in its policy
a Referendum Bill to provide for a popular
vote on this and other matters. It needn’t
say that it approved of New States, only that
it approved of the referendum principle.
The programme also includes a scheme to
hasten the proceedings of Parliament, and
to obviate “the present waste of time in
obstructive discussion.” But it doesn’t put
this item first, as it should do, so that the
saving of time might begin right off, and give
the rest of the business a chance. Among
other well-meant items is one dealing with
“adequate contributions from general re-
venue.... for losses on non-paying lines,”
and, further, the creation of “a Board of
financial experts to establish closer financial
relations between the Government and the
Railway Commissioners.” But it doesn’t say
what is to be attained by faking or cooking
accounts and disguising losses. If there is
a desire to supply cheaper services, it would
be easy to do it, and show the annual loss,
and let it come out of “general revenue” auto-
matically. It always does. To have
a costly Board to tell the Government what
the Commissioners say, and to tell the Com-
missioners how wild the Government was
when it heard what they said, seems mere
multiplication of middlemen.
* * * *
A familiar clause deals with the further
reduction of railway freights and fares “as
the finances improve.” To put this along-
side a plan for improving the railway finances
by a subsidy or semi-falsification process
which will disguise losses to the unthinking
mass, contains a streak of the grotesque.
Nothing is said about the reduction of rail-
way distances, as in that case where the
rail distance to the nearest port is 670 miles
while it ought to be about 150. There is
another nice, vague gem about the “develop-
ment and co-ordination of the State’s power
resources.” But there is no footnote, as
there might be, to the effect that the State’s
water-power resources are not really large,
that .they are much scattered, that when the
harnessing of power involves the building and
maintenance of an immense dam instead of
being a mere hitching of the wheels to a
ready-made cataract or torrent, the busi-
ness may pay very poorly, and that there
isn’t much in making little industrial towns
by means of local power, only to ruin them
by denying access to a handy sea-outlet.
Even the local windmill has been known to
leave off under existing conditions; and wind
is cheap and abundant, even if it isn’t “co-
ordinated.”
The list of reforms takes in the Upper
House, as a matter of course. The new in-
stitution is to have a fixed number of mem-
bers appointed for a fixed number of years,
instead of an indefinite number put in for life,
and it is not to be abolished until the electors
have been consulted by means of a referen-
dum —the blessed thing that isn’t allowed
on the New State question on any account.
But if Fuller’s improved institution is to
be unpaid it will be practically “pure Syd-
ney,” like the unimproved one, for remote
men won’t leave their businesses to spend
weeks and months in the metropolis at then-
own cost. In other words, it will be the
same prejudiced old nark, which puts its
hoof on every plan for making some rival
port available and useful. Yet to have a
sufficiently-paid Upper House of nominees
would mean a new mass of patronage, and
would end in vile jobbery, the sale of seats,
and almost as much corruption as Lougiilin’s
infamous Band Bill would have made pos-
sible. Wherefore G. Fuller had better try
to think out some kind of elective Chamber
to meet the case.
* * # *
And there are, helping to fill the Fuller
bill-of-fare, 13 more or less distinct proposi-
tions concerning land-settlement, more settle-
ment, closer settlement, soldier settlement,
resumption of estates for settlement and
settlement generally. But no allusion is made to
the problem that grain, hay, straw and chaff
are carried by rail at less than half the
cost of carriage, and that they are carried
at half the one-time rate to make up for
the fact that, by reason of the one-port sys-
tem and the spread of agriculture, they are
carried, on the average, more than twice
the old distance. Last N. S. Wales annual
railway/-eport shows that in a bygone year
wheatywas hauled, on an average, 118 miles
for Bs. 3d. per ton per 100 miles, but this
gradually changed till the haul was 238
miles, and the charge a hopelessly unpayable
ss. 4d. In like manner, hay, straw and chaff
used to be dragged an average 77 miles
for 10s. 9d. per ton per 100 miles, but lately,
rather than give some port besides Sydney
a chance, the Department has beep fetching
them 315 miles at a rate of ss. 6d. When,
through more land-settlement and no more
ports, these goods are carried 600 miles for
half a crown, the finances will receive a
dizzy shock, and land-settlement cranks
should look ahead and be prepared. The
Government’s amphibious or land-and-water
projects will naturally culminate in a
gigantic writing-off of lost money as at
Yanco, and its resumption-for-settlement pro-
jects are expected to do the same—all from
the usual causes, which are mainly isolation.
On top of this it is proposed to lay out
“additional millions” for an enlarged hous-
ing scheme, the advances going as high as f 000
on a £lOOO house. At the same time, a cessa-
tion of big borrowing is foreshadowed, which
is a good thing if it will fit in with the other
projects. Some really good foresliadowings
are better milk, more care for the national
health, cheaper law, more employment fif it
can be found), fewer wild-cattisli life-assur-
ance offices (this should be Prime Minister
Bruce’s business, but Bruce is suspected of
being dead), and the registration of land and
estate agents, though their execution would
often be more to the point.
* * * *
Taken with all faults the Fuller pro-
gramme looks the best the Ma State is likely
tf 1 *? nutumn; and though most of it
will probably go overboard, that has been the
common lot of men and things since the day
of Jonah, the soaked son of Amittai. It
is certainly far and away better than any-
thing the Opposition will offer. Decent
people are weary of that Opposition, which
invented the Profiteering Bill and the Land
Confiscation Bill, subsidised the Broken Hill
strike, suspended the operation of the Vener-
eal Diseases law, kept Parliament closed for
about 11 months in the year lest it should
lose its billet, and invented everything that
the State possesses in the shape of fraudu-
lent ballot-boxes and forged ballots; also
nearly everything it possesses in the way of
politico-financial scandals and new forms of
language,” mostly employed by one Laborite
to explain that Hell yawns for the other.
It is a pity that Fuller hasn’t more of the
light of battle in his eye, but perhaps he is
past the age for lighting up. Early closing
has come upon him.
THE NOISY NAVY.
Silence is a tradition of the sea, and the
reason is not far to seek. Shipbuilding and
seafaring had their real genesis in a circle
whose centre was approximately in the “Long
Forties” of the North Sea, and whose radius
extended to Trondjhem and Stavangar on
the north, the Dutch and North French
coasts on the south, Denmark on the east
and England on the west. This area is pre-
eminently the home of “fog, mist and blind-
ing rain,” always the mariner's worst
enemies. Till recently sound and sound
alone enabled a navigator in emergency to
learn of impending danger when fog obscured
his vision. And to ensure the earliest pos-
sible detection of the bleat of another ship’s
foghorn, the distant clang of a bell or the
break of waves on a shore thought to be
miles distant, dead silence had to be kepi:
in the small fog-bound craft in wilich our
fathers braved the ocean. Fog magnifies
sounds close at hand by reason of the bad
sound conductivity of a damp-laden atmo-
sphere which causes echoes and reverbera-
tions ; and the self-same factor prevents dis-
tant sounds from penetrating easily to 'the
listener’s ear. *
Because silence is essential in a fog—the
time of a ship’s greatest danger—not only
the British but every other navy and the
merchant services of the world from time im-
memorial have sternly regulated the occa-
sions on which more than a normal volume
of noise is permissible. In the B.N. different
commanders-in-chief interpret the rule, tra-
dition, custom —call it Avhat you will —in
differing degrees of strictness. I have been
present at the Mediterranean Fleet’s annual
regatta in Terranova Bay, Sardinia, when
the order of the day permitted hand-clapping
only, and I have seen my own ship admon-
ished by the admiral with the flag signal
which the whole fleet could read: “You are
making too much noise.” The cause of the
signal was the fact that in an important
event then in progress our boat was
coming in a fine winner, and a small group
of human beings so far forgot themselves as
to break into a lusty British cheer!
And I witnessed in August. 1014, a curi-
ous example of obedience to the silence rule.
We were a destroyer in the Suez Canal
bound for the Red Sea, and overtook the
Soudan, outward bound with British officers
recalled to their regiments in India. It was
about 9 o’clock at night when the Soudan
had to “gare up” to allow us to pass “on
our lawful occasion,” and some 1500 army
officers wildly cheered us when they saw who
we were. But not one sound did we make
in reply; never was the name “silent navy”
better deserved.
Charlte Beresford carried the tradition
still further and undoubtedly contributed to
efficiency and good discipline as a resiilt. He
forbade the giving of any verbal orders in a
ship’s boat, so that, instead of a shouted
“Give way together!” “Oars!” “Way
enough!” and so forth, the actions were per-
formed as a result of an appropriate motion
of the hand by the midshipman or petty-
officer in charge of the boat. Midshipmen
and men took hardly to the regulation at
first, but after getting used to it there could
be no more attractive sight than 14 power-
ful able seamen at the oars of a 34-foot
cutter, controlled in perfect unison by little
more than a motion of the finger of a 16-
yeffr-old “snotty.” Only the silence tradition
could produce such a result.
So, from a utilitarian beginning in the
northern mists some centuries ago, this sea-
habit has spread—perhaps more in the R.N.
than in the merchant services or in foreign
navies—till it has become a commonplace:
“Naval men never talk.” Nor do they gen-
erally till they leave the sea and have time
to look back on what they have seen and
done, instead of always looking forward to
what is coming next. So it comes as some-
what of a shock to read the cables from
America, in which senior naval officers give
accounts of “the greatest mimic battle ever
staged at sea.” and other like self-glorifving
phrases, coupled with announcements to the
press that “Washington” has ordered the
results be sent there for perusal. And
this is only the beginning of the flood of
press propaganda which will be let loose
when the manoeuvres that have now been
talked of for months really do take place.
The most vivid impression of the Ameri-
can Navy that this student has gained re-
cently is that it takes about six months to
get a fleet of its ships ready for a cruise.
What impression, on the other hand, have
we got of the Japanese Navy, of which we
hear absolutely nothing? Hearing nothing,
we know nothing, and when we know no-
thing we dare assume only efficiency. Hear-
ing a lot of talk on boastful lines, we are apt
to suspect that there are defects which it
is hoped publicity may conceal. We have
only to cast our minds back a year or so
to get a good idea as to whether our assump-
tion is correct or not. About that time
the U.S.S. Mississippi had a bad gun-ex-
plosion and killed about 40 men, not because
a raw recruit made a mistake, but because
someone in authority in the gun-house ordered
the breech to be opened after a misfire.
The resulting admission of air turned a hang-
fire into a holocaust. Not long before that
an American destroyer flotilla was so far
out of its reckoning about three hours after
leaving harbor that it was wrecked on a


spot that was calculated to be 20 or moie
miles away. . , .
Before the war the Germans tried by
press propaganda to impress the world wit 1
the efficiency of the Kaisers navy. Par-
ticularly did they concentrate on publishing
records achieved during coaling operations.
Some stupendous figures were published
which, taking coaling results as an index ot
efficiency —a not unjust basis—were cer-
tainly calculated to make other navies sit
ui) and take notice. The bubble burst, how-
ever, when the Admiralty—ours circulated
a memorandum stating that the results were
achieved by coaling from colliers carrying
coal, not in bulk, but in already-filled bags.
At about the same time H.M.S. Triumph
filled up with coal at an average rate of
030 tons per hour, which was, and probably
still is, a world’s record for a man-of-war.
But we kept the performance to ourselves.
On one occasion the British Admiralty tried
lifting the veil behind which the R.N. oper-
ated in peace-time, and some half-dozen lead-
ing English papers were invited to send cor-
respondents to sea during annual manoeuvres.
The experiment was never repeated.
As the man who perpetually trumpets his
honesty is more likely than not to.be a crook,
so is the Navy which flouts tradition by talk-
ing about itself and its achievements more
than likely to achieve little w r orth talking
about. “We shall do this” and “we shall
do that” are phrases which the older sea
services—naval and mercantile —never
adopted in face of the perpetual uncertainty
of life at sea. Search the R.N. signal-books
and you will find nothing more definite than
“expect to arrive” —not “will arrive.” No
master mariner out of sight of land will
make a pencil-mark on a chart and say “We
are there” : he may make the mark all right,
but he will say, “We are somewhere there-
abouts.”
If the American Navy wishes to be a real
factor in international affairs it will close
down on the “publicity stuff” and leave the
world in that state of ignorance about its
affairs that will drive it to assume efficiency
arid act accordingly.
X. N. O.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Possible Communist Cabinet of
Next Month.
This is the question of the immediate future
in N. S. Wales: Shall its next Government
be assuredly not of the Communist and 801,
, shevik type, or shall it be a risky gamble,
which may be either rank Communist or just
that anomaly which calls itself “Labor” and
finds its leaders among “bourgeois” lawyers,
chemists and estate agents V The idea of
suggesting that Lang, McTiernan and co.
may rush into the Lenin-Tbotsky business so
far as their opportunities go is always greeted
by them and their heelers with a shriek of
derision. The shriek is insufficient evi-
dence, or none at all. It is simply inevitable.
The position is that the Lang party says it
isn’t Communist; and if it was Communist
it would say precisely the same thing under
instructions from Moscow, the place that all
bad Communists get their instructions from.
The methods which the Bolshevik mis-
sioner is directed to follow are very little
disguised, though the missioner is disguised
well enough. He is to get into trades unions,
societies, factories, Labor conferences,
caucuses and the like, and be a decent,
moderate sort of fellow, and form “cells” —
cancer cells. He probably, in most cases,
doesn’t explain, or at least doesn’t explain
till the time seems fitting, that it is Com-
munism he is teaching. He just teaches.
Being in the white-ant business he works
silently inside, and doesn’t shout outside.
Therefore it would be quite reasonable if
90 per cent, of Communists were invisible
workers, the other 10 per cent, being left
out to pose as the whole body, and demon-
strate its complete unimportance. There
is nothing in the protestations of lofty indig-
nation and injured innocence of the Langs
and their kind which wouldn’t fit the case
if their pockets were filled with instruc-
tions from Moscow. Further, their actions
are unfortunate. For half a year certain
notorious Communists and revolutionaries
have been at work for the destruction of
Australian industry, and sedulously culti-
vating the discontent which leads to gory
upheaval and the destruction of the social
order. If Labor leaders of the N. S. Wales
and Westralian type used one .scrap of their
influence to put ■an end to this state of
things, the action has been lost sight of. If
they said one word of exhortation to union-
ists not to be sheep-like followers of Com-
munistic leaders, the word has blown away.
If they missed one opportunity to make light
of the wretched business as being of no
importance, the miss wasn’t entered on the
record. It was even lightly said by the
man who is supposed to speak for N. S.
Wales Labor, or the press laid it to his
charge, that in a time of industrial trouble
politicians should stand aside, and leave
the matter to be settled between the parties
concerned. In other words, the conjmunity
which endures the misery and loss and pays
the ultimate bill, as well as paying the poli-
ticians’ salaries, ought to be content to be
ground between two millstones. That is
taken to signify that, if Labor is returned
to power, the 13 highly-paid politicians in
the Ministry will stand aside and leave the
Walshes and Johansons to rule the State,
barring any trifle of interference which the
Federal authority may create. For these
and other reasons a great many people who
think for themselves have arrived at a firm
conviction that the men who-expect to form
N. S. Wales’s next Labor Cabinet are Com-
munists, revolutionary nuisances and anti-
Australians of a particularly noxious type,
either because they want to be, or because
they are afraid not to be, lest the desertion
of their criminal friends may deprive them
of their hoped-for majority. Those who
hold this view would be glad to be con-
vinced to the contrary, for the idea of the
Beast of Terrorism being around has no
charms. A trenchant statement by all lead-
ing Laborites of the measures with which
Labor-in-office promises to clear the Walsh-
Johanson curse out of State unionism, and,
if possible, out of the State itself, would go
a long way. But milk-and-water disclaimers
of the kind that the Langs deal in, uttered
with what appears to be a pious fear of
giving offence, carry no more weight than a
pint of hydrogen. A Parliamentary crowd
with such a shady record requires to be very
explicit indeed.
4
Wool-selling Centres.
Some of the New Staters in Northern N. S.
Wales have a new idea —quite a logical one
too, but unfortunately conceived in an illogi-
cal spirit. Being late shearers, the wool-
growers of those districts are this year meet-
ing the later and lower wool market, since
wool is catalogued, under an inflexible rule,
in order of arrival into wool-brokers’ stores.
Quite oblivious of the fact that they had
the best end of the selling season for the two
previous years, some of them are disposed to
squeal and are demanding a new wool-selling
centre wherein they may offer their wool as
soon as it is shorn. In doing so they would
almost assuredly queer their own pitch, since
such action would be flying in the face of the
applied and economically sound principle of
regulating supplies, as adopted by the Federal
bodies whose business it has lately been to
watch over the destinies of the wool-trade.
Flooding the market could be practised in
the already established centres, but the result
on prices would almost certainly be unfor-
tunate. In fact, this aspect of the matter is
so narrow as to be only mentionable for the
sake of a quick dismissal. Should, however,
the claim be based on the principle that the
closest natural port is the proper market for
a country’s produce, it will have to be
admitted as in accordance with economic
laws. And if the campaign be pursued with
sufficient vigor, the artificial barriers raised
by politicians and vested interests must in-
evitably crumble away. Thousands of tons
of avool are yearly carried past ports to which
Executives steadily refuse to give railway
communication Avith their own hinterland,
and the natural ports for the disposal and
shipment of tin; wool of the north and north-
west of N. S. Wales hardly know the shape
of a bale. For this there is no excuse or
parallel elsewhere even in Australia. There
are three main geographical systems in the
disposal of Australasian avool, one set of buyers
acting for each. There are the Northern
markets, embracing Sydney and Brisbane;
the Southern markets, embracing Melbourne,
Geelong, Ballarat, Albury, Hobart, Launces-
ton, Adelaide and Perth; and the Maoriland
markets, embracing Auckland, Blenheim,
Ghristchurch, Dunedin, Gisborne, Invercar-
gill, Napier, Nelson, Timaru, Wanganui and
Wellington. Their respective selliug opera-
tions are shown in the following table com-
piled from last year’s . figures :
Average
Value
Average per
Bales Centre
Value in per in Mil-
Bales. Millions. Centre, lions.
Australasia
(21 centres).. 2,202,037 64.93 104,858 3.09
Commonwealth
(10 centres).. 1,695,141 53.30 169,814 6.33
Maoriland
(11 centres). . 503,896 11.62 45,809 1.50
Southern Market-
(B centres) .. 725,561 21.90 90,700 2.75
Northern Market
(2 centres) .. 972,581 31.40 486,290 15.70
Sydney
(1 centre) .. 695,575 21.71 695,575 21.71
Southern Market & Maoriland
(19 centres).. 1,229,457 33.52 58,545 1.56
The outstanding feature of these figures is
that the Northern market, with the largest
quantity of wool and a still bigger prepon-
derance in value, distributes its disposals
through the fewest centres, and this in slpite
of the fact that, generally speaking, the land
haulages are the longest. Thte Southern mar-
ket, with a quarter of a million less bales
and shorter haulages, distributes its disposals
among four times as many centres, thus tend-
ing to eliminate unnecessary expenditure;
while Maoriland, with still another quarter
of a million bales less, and easily the short-
est haulages, multiplies its distributing
centres so that they are five and a half times
those of the Northern (Australian) market.
When it is considered that the overseas
freight is practically the same from any part
of Australasia, the reason for this inverse
ratio of wool markets to wool quantities is
hard to understand. Despite heroic depart-
mental efforts, the N. S. Wales railways are
generally compelled, in the height of the
season, to hang up thousands of bales of
avool on the trucks in the marshalling yards
at Clyde and Enfield because the distributing
terminus cannot handle them, and Sydney
avool warehouses become full to bursting
point. Yet if the figures in the last column arc
compared it will be seen that the Northern
centres persist in a congestion that is nearly
It times as great as that of Maoriland. And
if we take that of Sydney alone the conges-
tion is eight times as grefft as that of the
average Southern centre and 17 times that of
Maoriland. It is colossally stupid. Or look
at it this way. The Northern market sells
almost as much avool as the Southern market
and Maoriland together; .yet the latter liaA-e
nearly 10 times the number of centres and 19
times as many as there are in N. S. Wales,
whose one centre in Sydney negotiates more
than half the volume and two-thirds the
value of the combination. It is egregious
absurdity and enough to make a sound econo-
mist shudder. Nor can a good and sufficient
reason be adduced for this hopeless conges-
tion, not even the important one of tradiag
conveniences. If one set of buyers can
operate in eight centres (as they do in the
Southern market) for 22 million pounds’
Avorth of wool, or in 11 centres (as in Maori-
land) for 111 million pounds’ Avorth, surely
another set can work more than two centres
for 3li million pounds’ worth. In fact, no
matter" what reasons may be urged by con-
gestionists, they can be countered by the
lessons of what is successfully done else-
where. There is no intention to abuse the
Sydney market. Sydney is the third largest
raw-wool centre of the world, giving pride of
place only to London and Boston, and it is
acknowledged by Afisiting buyers to be the
cleanest of conduct. But it can maintain
its pride of place even with the supplies from
the north of the State sent elsewhere. A
railway from the most suitable port on the
North Coast to the Northern Tablelands and
thence to the North-West would probably
carry to that port 150,000 bales of wool,
and if sold there that quantity would consti-
tute it the fifth-largest wool centre in Aus-
tralasia. Is there any danger that buyers
or ships would not visit such a port?
The Boom that Spells Disaster.
One night last week the subjoined telegrams
arrived at the Sydney MJorning Herald
office, and in an unguarded moment the old
Foreign-trade journal published them one on
top of the other: —
The Commonwealth Treasurer is already giving
consideration to Budget proposals for the new finan-
cial year. Owing to the fact that the receipts from
Customs and Excise already imjicate that his esti-
mate was greatly under the mark}, there is a distinct
prospect of another very large "surplus, which may
reach between ii 4,500,000 and £5,000,000.
Owing to heavy losses sustained during the past
two years, the well-known Hdbart woollen manu-
facturers, James Aiken and Scps Pty., Ltd., have
decided temporarily to suspend working operations.
The local director stated that the mills had been
working at a loss for the last two years, but were
kept in operation in the hope that additional tariff
protection would be afforded the industry. About
80 employees, half of whorn w r ere women, would be
affected, and the mill would close immediately
material now in process of, manufacture was finished
off. The amount of wages distributed is £BOOO per
annum. The only mills now operating in Australia,
the local director states, are those owned by mer-
chants, and the cause of the closing of the others
was the want of sufficient protection.
The first item accounts for the second. For
three successive years the Commonwealth
Treasurer’s estimates have been “greatly
under the mark.” In the two years 1922-
24, the Customs and Excise revenue exceeded
his expectations by nearly 114 millions. Last
year’s receipts amounted to £35,750,000, or
£6,100,000 more than he reckoned on get-
ting. For the present twelvemonth he pre-
dicted a drop of £1,750,000 —“I do not think
we can expect to receive more than
£34,000,000,” lie said in lids Budget speech—
whereas the returns for nine months show
an increase of nearly th(ree millions on his
estimate for that period and of £1,222,000
on the returns for the corresponding nine
months of 1923-24. The boom which, has
made Dr. Paragraph’s prophecies ridiculous
has been practically all in the Customs branch
of his department, for the Excise revenue
has moved little sin£o 1921. It is attribut-
able partly to wild Government borrowing
overseas, but chiefly to persistent high prices
having given a revenue incidence to a tariff
that was meant to be protective. Dealing
with the effect of these high prices on goods
subject to fixed-rate duties, the Common-
wealth Statistician reports that, “notwith-
standing the very substantial increases made
in these fixed-rate duties in numerous cases,
the increase in price was so much greater
that their ad valorem incidence is less at
the present time under the 1921 tariff than
when the tariff of 1908-11 was in opera-
tion.” The position is that the Government
is collecting an abnormal revenue on things
like textiles, apjparel, leather, machines and
machinery, iron »and steel goods, and matches,
and that Australian factories which could
produce all these articles are working half-
time or closing- down. While the Customs
receipts mount, Australian industries decay.
Yet these industries were promised adequate
Protection at the Customs through which
this booming revenue—a mockery and
derision of the. so-called Protective tariff —
flows. There 7s only one remedy for the
existing situation—though individual prefer-
ence to Australian-made goods can help—
and that is k substantial increase of the im-
port duties on Jill goods competing advantage-
ously with Australian articles. The presence
or absence of tariff revision in the Govern-
ment’s programme for the session will show
whether the oft-proclaimed Protectionism of
Bruce. Page and Pratten is real or only
:• heartless fraud.
*
Jirvenile Delinquents.
The N. S. Wales Child Welfare (Amending)
Act of 1923 may for practical purposes be
taken to have come into operation on Janu-
ary 1, 1924. It extended the jurisdiction of
children’s courts by two years, thus making
subject to their operation all youthful offend-
ers under the age of 18. The experiment
has now been sufficiently long uuder obser-
vation for some conclusions not altogether
tentative to be drawn. At the outset it is
to be noted that when tlx word “court” is
used with regard to the tribunals for youth,
its connotation must be extended beyond
the meaning usually attached to the word.
In N. S. Wales, at least, these courts are
not merely places for trial to be followed by
punishment, but may be more truly described
as places to which juvenile offenders are
brought for treatment. Possibly such treat-
ment may involve punishment, but the Court
takes cognisance of the sociological and
psychological factors in every case, and exer-
cises a practically unlimited discretion. Its
business is to do the best for the child, for
in the salvation of the child is bound up
the safety of society. Administration is in
the hands of officers judicially trained and
selected from the ranks of the stipendiary
and police magistracy—a wise principle
which has saved these N. S. Wales courts
from weaknesses exposed in the Victorian
system. N. S. Wales has been fortunate,
moreover, in securing for this purpose magis-
trates who have brought a broad sympathy
to their duties, and, in the case at least of
the present head of the metropolitan Child-
ren’s Court, who keep well abreast of modern
thought. The Court for the metropolitan
area has attached to it medical and psycho-
logical experts who furnish a report in all
except minor cases. The attitude of sym-
pathy and reformative help adopted by the
Court has also had a marked influence on the
police in their dealings with this class of
delinquency. During last year 3453 young
people under the age of 18 came before the
Sydney Court. Of these 1001 were 16 or 17
years ' of age, the balance of 2452 being
under the former age. They were charged
with offences-ranging from pitch-and-toss to
serious crime, but no less than 63 per cent,
consisted of comparatively trivial short-
comings. Even in the 37 per cent, of more
distinctively anti-social offences the range of
their magnitude was very great. As 1924 was
the first year in which offenders up to 18 years
came before the Court, comparison of results
with those in previous years is limited to
children under 16 years, and the figures
(2452) came below the quinquennial average
of 2476 and the septennial average of 2533.
\ gratifying feature of the year’s work was
the comparatively small number of “repeat-
ing” or recurring cases. The close of the
first quarter of the present year affords an
opportunity of comparing results with those
of last year. In the first quarter of 1924,
736 boys and 88 girls of all ages under 18
were brought before the Court, and by an
odd coincidence exactly the same number,
though with a slight difference in distribu-
tion, came before it during the first quarter
of the present year. There were 734 boys
and 90 girls. Within the jurisdiction of
the Sydney Court there are not less than
200,000 boys and girls under 18. The pro-
portion of delinquents brought before the
Court, taking it on a liberal estimate _of
3500 p.a., would thus be less than 1 in 50,
while the proportion brought before it for
acts of a definitely anti-social character
would be less than 7 in 1000. These figures'
do not support the idea that juvenile delin-
quency is largely on the increase. Cer-
tainly the figures do not cover the whole
ground, relating as they do to detected and
prosecuted offences only. Outside the walls
of Justice are doubtless scores of offenders
who have avoided the clutches of the law;
but, assuming a continuous vigilance on the
part of the police, it is plain that juvenile
delinquency is not on the increase. The
figures have indeed more than a face value,
for they are taken over a period of pro-
gressive population. The record is not one
calculated to.make us look with misgiving
at the future of Young Australia, notwith-
standing that the elders of to-day are some-
times disposed to grieve over the “desperate
wickedness” of the youth of the world.
■ ♦
Land Settlement in Queensland.
Several cogs in the big scheme of land
settlement in Queensland have slipped, if a
whole wheel or two have not dropped out.
Three years ago Theodore and Gillies, the
latter now described as “the first farmer-
Premier of Queensland.” got down to land
settlement in earnest. They selected the North
Burnett area, which requires a not-yet-
specified number of millions to cause it to
bear the usual crop of deficits, and also in-
cludes the electorates of several good anti-
Labor members, it having been found that a
few astutely placed construction camps have
a stimulating effect upon the Labor vote. By
a miracle of luck, cotton, an untapped mine,
was dumped upon the doorstep of the pair,
and by bungling they promptly booted it off
again. Land statistics from the annual re-
port of the Lands Department tell some of
the subsequent drab tale: but because selec-
tions are shown as standing good until the
rent is a year in arrears, the awfulness of
the tale will not be revealed for a year or
so yet. On December 31, the Lands
Department had on its books 33,215 selec-
tions of all kinds excepting pastoral leases
and occupation licenses, the aggregate area
being 91,375,099 acres. Three years later these
had decreased by 353 selections aggregating
565,532 acres. It seems hardly possible that
the position could be worse in view of the
entirely new incentive to land settlement;
but it was, since the foregoing does not make
allowances for the area selected during the
period. This amounted to 4465 selections,
having an area of 12,064,490 acres; and,
allowing for 1099 selections of 256,339
acres that were made freehold, this
means that 3719 selections having an
area of 12,373,683 acres went to the
pack. The rush into cotton had appa-
rently developed into a stampede out of it,
and the figures for the last year available
(1922-23) don’t suggest that things had im-
proved by then :
No. Acres.
On books 31/12/’22 .. .. 32,280 90,050,965
Selected during 1923 .. .. 1,093 5,137,144
Sum of above . . . . . . 33,382 95,188,109
On books 31/12/’23 .. . . 31,538 90,359,061
Difference . • • * . . 1,844 4,829,048
Made freehold during 1923 • • 313 79,095
Abandoned or surrendered dur-
ing 1923 . . . . . . 1,531 4,749,953
On these figures there were 14 selections
thrown down for every 10 taken up. It is
a shocking record, and ought to make even
Labor members seriously consider whether
their general policy in Queensland is giving
the wished-for results.
«
Eve in Politics.
The reflections of “Sandys” on remarks by
D. O. Cottrell (B. 23/4/’25) :
Woman is a useful animal. When all else fails,
Man writes about her, and, merely by the simple
art of slinging mud, raises Cain.
D. O. Cottrell’s words are, of course, an insult to
weman, which she, in the largeness of her heart
for all those who need pity, will ignore. I am not
so large.
It might be convenient if the sexes were so
different that dividing lines could be drawn, as Mr.
Cottrell so casually rules them. Truly then would
life be simple—know one man, or one woman, and
know the lot. Mr. Cottrell probably has the entile
creation tabulated something like this:—
Man Woman
Albatross Sparrow-
Cuckoo Swallow-
Eagle Magpie
and so on. But it cannot be done. There are
woman gypsies no less than men. There are men
home-builders, too. And most men love their tucker
and fireside too much to be bothering about dreaming
under the stars. They prefer to leave that to the
very young —of both sexes.
Man may be the explorer, dreamer, fighter, lover,
but all for the one ei.d —Woman. She has been his
inspiration; she has always governed, through him,
When she herself mounts the platform, instead of
using her; tool, Man, she is throwing away her
greatest power. The hammer alone is useless; put
the right hand behind it, and there is no limit to
the work it can do. Man is Woman’s hammer.
If she is skilled, she can use him to drive with.
to build up; or—alas! —to destroy.
“J.E.”: A recent lecture on the hazardous
and precarious character of the politician s
life, delivered by a man who ought to know,
makes it desirable that some one should
suggest how the political lot may be allevi-
ated. I rush into the gap. The precise evils
which I see are these: —
A would-be politician may spend much money and
time, and spoil many good business prospects, and
not get in.
He may get in and hardly stay long enough to
work off the dead horse of election expenses. At
the best his engagement is for only three years.
He may get in, and have a fairly long run, and
yet go out dog poor, partly through recurrent election
expenses, partly (if he is a generous sort) through
being a mark for .every impecunious constituent with
the cadging instinct, and partly through other causes.


Greater Pleasure and
Comfort
Your visit to Melbourne will have enhanced
pleasure and comfort if you reserve your
accommodation at t’m
Jfotefhmdoot
Spring Street, Melbourne .
The “Windsor” is ideally and centrally
situated at the city's highest elevation—-in
iHU
i
.uiiimi'.ll
surroundings of quietness and great beauty—yet
is within easy walking distance of the theatres
and shopping centre.
Artistic, comfortable, and complete furnishings
throughout, together with every inodern conveni-
ence. including hot and cold water, and telephones
in all rooms, and, above all, perfect service, com-
bine to make your stay a long-remembered
pleasure.
Minimum Tariff from 20/- (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast, from 13/6.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
’Phone Cent. 9260. Manager: B. C. Jones.
G 3
m
m
B
B
o
m
m
; ®»QCIi3®Qi3B3I!i^Oa!IW3Q»QaQaQC!
HHT
44
KING GEORGE IV’’WHISKY
Acknowledged to be
mi
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
w hen he goes out he does so at the shortest
notice. The political profession he has learned then
becomes next to valueless. And the longer he has
been at it the less tit he is to start life afresh.
Wherefore the only man who can afford to be an
honest and independent politician (though some are
honest and fairly independent when they can’t afford
it) is the one with a private income, or with some
money-making occupation which he can keep going,
or preserve from complete extinction, during his
political career. It being easier for a city man than
a remote country person to run and also keep his eye
on a private business, country constituencies get
into a regrettable habit of electing city lawyers and
such.
It has been proposed to lengthen the term
of membership. (The terms of salaried mem-
bers arc of all sorts, a U.S. Congressman
having a run of two years, while an Irish
I rec State Senator has 12.) But the chance
of dissolutions would remain. Then there
is a demand in some quarters (though not to
any great extent among members) for the
“recall,” so that members may be thrown out,
not only at elections but between elections.
Anyhow, the idea of a lengthened term for
some members I know is too dreadful. More
salary is also proposed. This would increase
the competition, and add to the cadging ways
of constituents, and a large salary is almost
as easily lost on a horse as a small one. My
proposition is that one-third of every mem-
ber’s salary should be deferred pay, accu-
mulating at interest, wholly protected against
his creditors, payable to his widow or other
beneficiary if he dies in harness and to him-
self when he loses his seat or retires from
the game. Then elections would have to be
run more cheaply, and constituents would
have to cadge less. There might be less
demand for seats, though about this I have
no definite opinion. But even a very short-
time legislator would leave with the price
of a week’s board, and the long-time one
would feel his independence increasing as his
nest-egg grew. The absolutely decrepit legis-
lator would probably get a sudden inspira-
tion to retire in order to get his superannua-
tion money before he died. I would apply
this principle to Ministerial salaries also.
If, in addition, we had smaller States and
smaller distances, there would be more chance
for a member to run some business or pro
tession as a side-line, and then he need not
look so much like a habitual loafer in his
long holidays.
«
The Unmarried Father.
Another woman social-worker takes a
different view:—
One of the most striking instances of Woman’s
inhumanity to Woman is shown in the proposed
legislation-—discussed and approved by many of the
women's associations—to provide that the child born
out of marriage shall take its father’s name, be
supported by him on the same scale as, and inherit
on the same terms with, the children of his marriage.
The proposal, as indicated by Mrs. Goode (B.
23/4/’2o), ostensibly aims at protecting the child of
the unmarried mother, and in a less degree the
mother herself. But how far can it really benefit
either? If the proposal becomes law, a child living
with its mother under another name will merely
draw attention to the fact that it is illegitimate;
it will remain under a social ban all its life. The
same circumstance will stamp its mother as a
woman who has “gone wrong,” and make her the
inevitable prey of the type of male to whom all
such women are fair game. It will be a disadvantage
to her in seeking employment; an “immoral” woman
for morality’s sake must be made to expiate her
offence, and if employed at all is seldom paid at the
same rate as her virtuous sister.
Then consider the position of the man’s wife if
he has one, or acquires one later, and of the
children of his marriage. It is unlikely, in the first
place, that a man will be able to acquire a wife if
the fact that he already has an illegitimate child
be advertised, so the provision really will be a nail
in the coffin of marriage; he will feel that he may as
well hang for a sheep as a lamb ! And if the lapse
oicurs after marriage, is it likely that his children
born in wedlock will respect their father or honor
their mother on whom the father has put such a
slight ? How many happy homes will *of a cer-
tainty be broken up by such means? Surely it will
not mend matters to add more wrongs to that
already committed.
It is asserted in support of the proposed legislation
that, if a man knows he will have to pay this
penalty himself and inflict such suffering on his wife
and children, he will be “more careful.” But if a
man stops to consider his duty to his wife and
famili, it is unlikely that he will be unfaithful.
And ,f he stops to consider the consequences to
himself, he will have sufficient prevision to avoid
the possibility of blackmail. In truth, the man
in such cases usually does not consider the future
at all. The lapse from fidelity frequently is the
reaction to a passionate impulse, and very often the
woman concerned is equally passionate and equally
regardless of the future.
It is quite plain that the real intention behind
the proposal is far less to protect the baby and its
mother than to pay out the man. And in this
regard, as in the opposition to prophylactic measures to
pieient lenereal disease, these amiable ladies are
probably quite sincere in their belief that it is better
for ninety and nine innocent persons to suffer than for
one sinner to escape retribution. In proof thereof is
the fact that no effort is made to protect the
unmarried mother by receiving her and her child
in their own homes as equals in respectability;
their children are not allowed to play with “a child
like that”; their skirts are drawn aside from con-
tact with such a “person”—even while they are pro-
fessing to protect her. The man should be paid
out if possible, but the woman certainly must be
made to realise the criminality of her motherhood,
even though she be a far better mother than those
who condemn her.
The most logical way to protect the unmarried
mother and her child is to realise—personally and
socially that no healthy child whose mother loves
it is illegitimate, irrespective of the circumstances
of its birth. The truly illegitimate are the unwished-
for child, born in or out of wedlock, and the child
of bad heredity, also born in or out of wedlock.
The birth of these does truly break the Great Laws
—of Life and Love. Women, as a class, will not
admit this, because the Married Women’s Trade
Union regards the Other Woman as a blackleg who
should be penalised. Men, as a class, will not
admit it because of vested interests ; for one thing,
they believe it would undermine marriage, and,
despite a very general belief to the contrary, men
are even less willing than women to allow that to
occur, because it would imply that women should
enjoy an equal measure of freedom, should be
equally paid, and be the legal owners of their
children. (Discipline must be maintained 1)
But because women are fundamentally the guardians
of the race —who bear, nurture and train the young
—and because the future belongs to the young and
their heirs forever, the women’s clubs, associations,
leagues, etc., should unite in a great effort toward
race regeneration. This implies a recognition that
a knowledge of birth-control should be possessed by
WHO’S THE DRIVER?
LANG: “Jump up. You'll find this ’bus comfortable.”
N. S. WALES: “Yes, the ’bus may be all right; but who is that holding the reins?”
every woman; the woman who has a child because
she wants one is far more likely i;o be a good
mother to it than the woman who has babies as a
duty, or because- she can’t avoid it; and every
child has the right to be well-born, to be wanted
and to have a good mother. The contention that
birth-control is wrong because it enables an immoral
woman to avoid having children is ludicrous. Surely
it is far better for the race that immoral women
should not have children ! Those who fear that the
race will die out if birth-control knowledge becomes
general have not reckoned with the maternal instinct.
0-\E had thought that the Bradford pro-
posal for an all-wool woolpack for the Aus-
tralian clip had died a natural death; but
judging by a cable message it hasn’t. York-
shire wool-men seem to be so much in earnest
over the matter thajt they are offering an
allowance of id. per lb. for all wool paeked
in these new containers. What does the
Yorkshire man do this for? In any case, he
offers it only for himself, and, though he
took one-third of the last elip. there was
still two-thirds that went elsewhere. Now,
the foreigner has never raised the same
objection to the use of the jute-pack that
the Yorlishireman has, and it is doubtful
if he would fall into line. And unfortunately
one can’t tell in advance what wool will go
to Yorkshire and what will go elsewhere.
In any case, the halfpenny allowance would
not cover the extra cost of the packs, the
scrapping of existing machinery and plant
and the necessary outlay for fresh provision,
I'.or would it solve the difficulty of handling
the cumbersome package that would come
into vogue with the new-style pack. Last
and perhaps most important it would not
solve the difficulty of displaying for sale
and sampling by buyers’ representatives in
the selling markets.
4
“Ancient Mariner” : Greatly daring
“Nantex” (B. 23/4/’25) pronounces my
“supposition” as to the greater part of Cook’s
bones having been buried at sea to be incor-
rect. Now, I don’t “suppose” anything: I
rest my case on the sober facts, recorded by
King, Ulerke and other unimaginative
sailormen who were on the spot at the time
the tragedy occurred. Captain Clerke, who
became Commodore of the expedition after
Cook’s murder, says in reference to the bones
the islanders had given up :
Upon examining the remains of my late honored and
much respected friend, I found all the bones, except
those of the back, the jaw and the feet—the two
latter articles Sarpo [a native] brought in the
morning; the former [the backbone] he declared had
been reduced to ashes with the trunk of the bodv.
As Iverriakur [another native] had told us, the flesh
was taken from all the bones, except those of the
hands, the skin of which they had cut through in
many places and salted, with the intention, no doubt
of preserving them.
King’s testimony is similar, and as both
officers explicitly state that the bones thus
recovered were duly committed to the deep,
1 harbor no childish delusions as to the
Hawaiians cherishing as sacred relics the
bones of the man they had murdered, until
they came to be reverentially deposited, a
hundred years later, beneath the monument
raised to Cook’s memory. In short, I
affirm that any Court would find that
the whole of Cook’s bones (except
the backbone, alleged to have been burnt to
ashes) received an ocean funeral; whereas
“Nantex” prefers to pin his faith upon a
mere hearsay story, beginning with the words
“It is said,” as furnished to a Honolulu
paper by one Howard Case in 1923 —a cen-
tury and a half after the event.
♦
The progress of the late Queensland Chief
Justice McCawley was so sensationally
rr.pid that it was only during the last two
or three years that lie had much of a salary;
and, as his domestic expenses were heavy,
when lie died suddenly, at an early 44, he left
his widow, five small children and mother
inadequately provided for. All classes in
Queensland, recognising his very great talents
and _ that he used them gluttonously in the
service of the State, are joining in a move-
ment to establish such a fund as will both
mark the State’s appreciation and enable the
late. Chief Justice’s children to be brought
up in at least reasonable comfort. A com-
mittee has been appointed in Brisbane to
collect funds: it includes the new Chief
Justice, the Premier of Queensland, the
Anglican and R.C. Archbishops of Brisbane,
the Mayor of Greater Brisbane, the Presi-
dents of the Chambers of Commerce and
Manufactures and representatives of every
other important organisation in the State.
Ihe treasurer is J. J. Knight, managing
director of the Brisbane Courier, to whom
contributions may be sent. As a sort of
guarantee of The Bulletin’s feelings in the
matter it has forwarded its cheque for £OO
to the fund.
• *
Some explanation seems necessary in connec-
tion with the official estimate of Australia’s
requirement of narcotic drugs for medicinal
and scientific purposes lately supplied to the
Beague of Nations—by whom is not clear.
I Ins estimate, alleged to be based upon a
survey of the quantities of opium imported
legitimately into the Commonwealth during
a lecent period of years, puts the require-
ments at 12 grains per capita, an extraordi-
nai-y figure in view of the fact that the esti-
mates. for Canada, the United States and
ill 1 tain are only 8 grains, and for Germany
4 grains. The Federal Government has a
rationing system by which retail pharma-
cists are allowed each year only as much
opium as is reckoned sufficient for their dis-
pensing needs. and the per capita amount
under this system equals only about 11
giains. As in practice this official estimate
is generally considered to err on tin* generous
side, it seems that whoever supplied the
League of Nations with the 12 grains esti-
mate could not have known much about the
matter; The danger is that, if the Common -
wealth s importations, are to be set down at
a figure nearly ten times in excess of what
they really are, and three times more than
Germany requires, and half as much again
as is needed by England, TT.S.A. and Canada,
a large part of the surplus may be diverted
into illegitimate channeds. And the narcotic
tiaffic in this country is already serious
enough without that.
♦
Ihe Listening-Insect”: Up to date Aus-
tralia has not been very successful in chat-
ting U.S.A. per medium of the ether, and
the same experience has come the way of
Un&lish enthusiasts. Until the telephonic
method is considerably improved Morse tele-
graphy remains the most stable means. A
Spanish-American student in an English uni-
versity stated recently that he reports nightly
to the old man in Buenos Ayres by Morse.
Polonius will have to learn the dot-and-
dash alphabet and the manipulation of a
telegraph key—requiring some months’ prac-
tice for even moderate articulation—before
lie can keep in touch with Laertes abroad
—at any rate, for the present. And if Aus-
tralia hopes to mobilise her enormous band
of amateur enthusiasts for purposes of de-
fence, she will have to consider the question
of training some of them in the highly exact-
ing art of Morse sending and receiving by
sound.
♦
“X2X”: Vigorous objection to the national
insurance proposals may be expected from
the retail pharmacists. Unlike the doctors,
the chemists have been on good terms, as a
rule, with the friendly societies, and in most-
districts in which the latter have not a dis-
pensary of their own, the dispensing is done
by pharmacists on a contract basis, cal-
culated at the rate of so much a year for
each lodge member. The lump sum received
in payment is too valuable an adjunct to
business to be parted with lightly and with-
out. a loud roar of protest, more especially
since the Federal proposals contain nothing
which suggests a substitute. One of the
obstacles, in the path of any Government
scheme is going to be the frequent lodge
member’s, thirst for as much medicine as
possible in return for his dues. In the
friendly societies it is possible to put some
sort of a limit to this, the interests of the
organisation demanding it. But with a
State scheme there will be no limit, and
oceans of un-needed physic wall be handed
out to members whose only object will be
to get as much as they can for their money.
«
Havelock Wilson, who runs the British
Sailors and Firemen’s Union and the Mer-
chant Seamen’s League, is a man of some
size, apart from the fact that he has been
in the House of Commons for 16 years. He
manages the affairs of 250.000 seamen,
against Tom Walsh’s handful, and as they
carry for all nations they have to compete
against, the seamen of all nations, whereas
V alsh’s flock has its little coastal monopoly
and does only a trifle beyond. Australia’s
little imported destructionist has a habit of
girding at the bigger man, and Wilson
recently replied in the Seaman. His prin-
cipal remarks were that “every scab from
Great Britain finds asylum now in the Aus-
tralian Seamen’s Union,” and that if Walsh
was up against the big problems that are to be
met with in Europe he “would be as helpless
as a baby.” Certainly Thomas has no repu-
tation as a v.riter, an orator, a statesman,
or a constructor of any sort; it requires no
deep knowledge or research to be a strike
maniac, and go round declaring things
“black,” especially if yon don’t even have to
explain why they are “black.”'


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers aii classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Copy of letter from otir Transvaal Agents,
Langler (EL Co., Ltd.
“Some time ago we sold one of your Curvilinear Tables co
the Iron Crown Mines, Haenertsburg, Transvaal. As the mine is
being closed for the present, we were asked if we could sell the
Table.
“The Table was sold to the Mines for £l 20. They wanted £BO.
Being asked if they would accept less, the reply was—
just handed me your wire, for which we
thank you. No, £BO is not too much for a good thing.
Damn good little Table. I have worked with a good
many, but this is “it.”
“Yours faithfully, P. B. BYASS. ’
Patentees and Manufacturers:—
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Camperdown.
& VELVET
SHAVING STICK
'ory/LPM m
¥
U
/ 4/
862.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Britain and the Dominions have chanced
it, and gold may now be as freely exported
as imported. It is not going to make as
much difference as some people seem to
expect, but it will do two good things: it
will make conditions a bit better for the
Australian primary producer, and it will
give the Australian manufacturer a little
help against the importer. The Australian
grower has lately had to pay about 3 per
cent, to get his wool and wheat money from
London, and he will save most of that; and
Smith, the importer, who collected money in
Australia, has been getting about 3 per
cent, for paying Brown’s creditors in Aus-
tralia while Brown paid Smith’s creditors
in London. That 3 per cent, enabled .many
an importing Smith to reduce the price of
his foreign goods just enough to knock out
an Australian manufacturer; and he won’t
get that assistance any longer.
Cheaper railway and tramway fares, re-
duced goods rates, unemployed insurance,
increased workers’ compensation, the 44-hour
week, pensions for widows and. a Govern-
ment farm for every “qualified” man who
wants oue are among the scores of blessings
promised by Lang, the N. S. Wales Labor
leader, in his “policy” speech. Also, “ad-
equate relief” is to be given to the thou-
sands of “qualified” men who have already
got Government farms and have drifted into
“difficulties,” and the money for multiplying
their numbers is to be borrowed, if necessary,
in America, “Mr. Theodore having shown
us a field which may be explored for the
purpose.” The 44-hour week, it is suggested,
will be a boon to wage-payers: when
in operation before it was “distinctly bene-
ficial to industry.” On the day this was
said the House of Commons rejected a pro-
posal to legalise the 48-hour week in Britain,
except in shipping and agriculture, chiefly
because British industries are faring badly
in the fight against Continental industries
in which working hours are much longer
(60 per week in some cases) ; and N.S.W.
manufacturers have to compete against both
British and Continental industries. It is
expected that Lang’s industrial schemes will
be financed by a tax on white rabbits.
The process of turning unionists into
a privileged class of prayer-wheel spinners
supported by the rest of the community
moves on apace. Sydney Town Hall, which
spends the ratepayers’ money in the interests
mainly of a Labor clique, has confessed that
the recent introduction of the 44-liour week
has increased the wages bill of various
departments from 25 per cent, upwards.
Despite this, or perhaps because of it, Labor-
leader Lang announced in his policy speech
that his party, if returned to power, would
extend the 44-hour week principle to all
industries. Factory-workers who are just
holding their own against foreign competi-
tion may work out for themselves how much
of their job will be left under the new condi-
tions.
A curious situation will arise if, as a
result of Hindenburg’s election, the Prussian
monarchy is restored. Wilhelm is still
“wanted” by the Allies under the Versailles
Treaty. Part VII states that “the Allied
and Associated Powers publicly arraign
William 11. of Holienzollern, formerly Ger-
man Emperor, for a supreme oltence against
international morality and the sanctity of
treaties. The Allied and Associated Powers
will address a request to the Government of
the Netherlands for the surrender to them ot
the ex-Emperor in order that he may be put
on trial.” The request, to the relief of the
askers, was refused; but if the unextradited
offender mounts the German throne again,
his accusers will be in the position of treat-
ing with an international outlaw.
One statement, at least, in the N.S.W.
Premier’s policy speech was worth listening
to —“This thing must stop.” He meant the
insolent domination of Australian industry
by imported Communists. He added: —
And if the law at present will not provide the
way of stopping it, it must be tightened up, so as to
protect the vast majority of the people of the State
from the wicked machinations of a dangerous
minority.
The misfortune is that the speaker is a mere
State Premier, who can only do a partial
cleaning-up of one-tenth of the Common-
wealth, and he is on the eve of an election
which may leave him no power to clean
up anything. But there is a man in a very
different situation —Bruce. He can make
“this thing stop” over the whole Common-
wealth. It was his ships which were held
up, and it was he who was specially insulted
and set at naught. But a half-year of con-
tumely has apparently not made a ripple on
the surface of his calm.
THE IMPERTURBABLES.
“Although the Bruce-Pages affect to be perfectly satisfied with the state of the Pact, Mr. Bruce
admitted last week that government was becoming [?]ncreasingly difficult."
THE NAVIGATOR: “That's the spirit, dearie —iynore everything, and make ’em think
we’re still enjoying ourselves.”
Though Bailey, M.L.A. for Goulburn, did
not nominate again for that constituency,
which he has represented in two Propor-
tional Representation Parliaments, he lias
by no means abandoned politics. Deprived
of the Labor selection and membership of
the A.L.P., the A.W.U. boss has settled
down to his task of wrecking the Willis fac-
tion, now in the ascendant. Even if it
takes him 10 years, he says, he will not
rest until the job is complete. A good hater
is Bailey, and in a “movement” over run with
mere mouth-fighters there is always a chance
for a man who doesn’t believe in burying the
hatchet unless he can do it in the enemy’s
skull.
South Australians have an uneasy feeling
that the Bruce-Gunn agreement for the con-
struction of some sort of line to Alice
Springs—a 3ft. 6in. affair starting from
Kingoonya. on the Western Transcontinental,
is suggested—will be so manipulated as to
rob the State of the direct North-South
railway, for which consideration it parted
with the Northern Territory. Doubts ex-
pressed by Foster, M.P. for Wakefield, were
clumsily replied to by Senator Wilson; and
then ex-Senator Symon emerged from his
retirement to give Wilson as pretty a dress-
ing-down as ever an old public man admin-
istered to a young one. The Migration
Minister had asserted that “the original
agreement did not specifically set out the
route, nor did it fix the time by which the
railway should be built.” To which the fine
old warhorse, now in his 71)tli year:—
Senator Wilson is in error. The agreement defines
the route with abundant precision. It does say
that the line to join up on the northern boundary
of South Australia proper with the line from Pine
Creek southwards shall be at a point on the Port
Augusta to Oodnadatta line, and certainly not at
or from Kingoonya or any other point on the East-
West line. And it does fix a time. Like every
other similar contract, it means within a reasonable
time. It is not necessary to say so in words; the
law says it. The bargain is definite. It is a
plain sale and purchase. He that runs may read.
The old K.C. advises South Aus. electors to
“refuse to vote for any candidate, whether for
the State or Federal Parliament, unless lie
pledges himself to go for the agreement of
1910 —the whole agreement, and nothing but
the agreement.” Sounder advice they could
not get.
It has come as a shock to most of the
retiring members of Vic.’s Dreary House to
find that they have actually to fight for
their seats. Apparently there will be con-
tests in 14 of the 17 constituencies in which
walkovers used to be the rule, and at least
five changes in the personnel are looked for,
including two due to the voluntary retire-
ment of Robinson and Austin. Election ex-
penses are limited to £4OO, equal to two
years’ salary. There were times when as
much as £7OOO was spent in one hand:
Thomas Comrie shelled out to that extent
in 1897.
True to its instinct for obliging big, influ-
ential States and towns with Federal money
for local purposes, while its own estate
goes to the dogs and its own work is un-
done, the Bruce-Page mixture offers to give
Newcastle a floating dock. It is to accom-
modate vessels up to 15,000 tons, and these
can be accommodated already in docks which
have plenty of time for more work than they
do. The Ma State lias unused harbors of
better quality which can’t get even a dim
prospect of railway communication. But
there is a solid block of votes at the coal
town, and if the State Premier can announce
that he has bitten the ear of his Federal col-
league for some of the other States’ money it
may help him. Still there is nothing to be
said against the proposal, assuming that it
is the Commonwealth’s business to be pro-
vider for big, rich States with many votes,
while being hardly civil to smaller ones with
better claims but less shouting power.
A general railway strike is mooted in
Britain. The companies say that, if they
granted the basic wage demanded, they would
h.ve to pay dividends out of reserves while
they lasted and then leave off. To which the
reply was, in a general way, that it was
better to spend money on improved wasjes
than give it to people who didn’t work tor
it. Australia can hardly talk to its railway
shareholders like that. This country owes
the whole capital of its railways, mostly to
people in Britain, and the capitalists call
for their dividend every half-year whether it
is earned or not; and if employees talk to
them about wages they only laugh. In the
Cold Country the Government doesn’t pro-
fess to own the lines, but it has been known
to make £10,000,000 out of them in a year
in rates and taxes, which would be about
ss. 6d. per week per employee if divided. In
Australia the Government thinks it owns
the lines, but it doesn’t collect taxes from
them, and on the average of the last three
recorded years it subsidised them out of taxes
at the average rate of about £2,720,000 per
year, or, say, 10s. per week per employee.
The lesson seems to be that the State which
owns railways doesn’t, and the State that
doesn’t own them does —for revenue pur-
poses, anyhow.
There are good pickings in liquor referen-
dums for politicians and others with the gift
of the gab. A former Labor legislator is re-
ported to have got £lOOO for wagging his jaw
in Pintpot’s interest during the recent West-
ralian “struggle,” and he was only one of a
bunch. Another infliction is almost due in
Queensland, and there are doubts whether
the Government railways are capable of
shifting the number of yappers willing to
go north and join in the Fight for Freedom,
or against it, whichever side pays best.
The situation as regards the very dubious
trade treaty with Canada appears to be that
the Australian Parliament passed it a long
time ago, while the Canadian Parliament
hasn’t passed it, and is haggling for more
concessions, while offering none. All the
manufacturers whose goods are not included
among those which are to come here on
easy terms in return for concessions on
beeswax and raisins want to have their wares
admitted here, and meanwhile “Californian
fruit interests” have got busy and are pro-
testing against Australian raisins. Canada,
in fact, thinks a good settlement would be
free admission here of Canuck products in
general, in return for free admission of Aus-
tralian beeswax —but not too much beeswax
—into Canuck territory. It might not be
a bad idea to cancel the whole thing and
begin afresh.
After all, our troubles are small compared
with S’Africa’s. Matters there are compli-
cated by the presence of two ruling races
which are one in name only. They lately
got so bad that, with the black menace ever
threatening, a Commission was instituted to
report on the defence force. The report
shows that the division between the two races
is even sharper in the defence service than
elsewhere. Since the advent of the Dutch-
Nationalist-Labor Government, the Dutcli
element has had a disproportionate share of
promotion and other benefits, and its open
participation in political propaganda seems
to have staggered the Commission. Personal
favoritism is always present in military life,
but in S’Africa it has racial preference for
a mate.
From what he saw in Europe and
America, Calder, Chairman of Vic. Country
Roads Board, is not very keen on concrete
highways. They cost f'.VCG or £9500 a
mile to construct, he says, £lOO a mile to
maintain, and are hard on horses, though
suitable for motor traffic. For
Calder recommends a tax on “fuel.” He
also suggests that Victoria should spend
£1,000,000 a year (from loans, of course) on
road construction, and insists that there
must be effective maintenance under a patrol
system; otherwise, he declares, all the
original toil of making would be lost. In
other words, he has no confidence in the
sliire-council stroke.
The comedy of Justice, Injustice and
Justice of the Peace was played again the
other day in Melbourne. Roberts, charged
with burgling, naturally felt he could do with
bail. A person, who may be called Smithson
for short, introduced Petrie to O’Halloran,
J.P. and Boilermakers’ secretary. O’Hallo-
ran, J.P., knew so little of Smithson as to be
unaware that he was out on bail on an
assault and robbery charge himself, and all
he knew of Petrie was through Smithson.
The bail-bond was fixed, Petrie gave an
address and Roberts gave another —c/o a
suburban female, presumed to be a boarding-
house-keeper. Then all disappeared—except
O’Halloran, J.P. And now he ought to dis-
appear from the J.P. list, for the judicial
instinct is not in him.
Officially Victoria believes in vaccination ;
actually the law providing for the vaccina-
tion of all babies within a given time is a
dead letter. The “conscientious objection
clause supplies a way out. The official vac-
cinator of one Melbourne district frankly
expressed his surprise when lately a baby
was brought to him ; he declared that it was
the first of the 118 children born in his dis-
trict this year to come his way. The parents
of all the others had signed the form as objec-
tors ; it is easier to sign a document than
to take an infant to a doctor.
GET ON THE ROLL!
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“Get on the roll, lose not a day!”
Shouts Mister Fatman, M.L.A.
“Get on the roll and vote for me,
And so ensure prosperity.”
“Beware the Fats,” says Mister Lab.
“They’ll give you naught but lots of gab.”
“Keep out the Labs.,” says Mister Fat ;
“They’d run you like a scalded cat.”
“Oh, damn them both!” says Mister Prog.,
“Give me a chance to be top dog.
Both Labs, and Nats, think they should win,
And snarl at me for butting in.
“Like dogs that have a meaty bone,
They want it for themselves alone.
But I’m a generous sort of tyke
Who thinks we all should share alike.”
“Me, too,” the Socialists , explain
“And when we’re broke you share again.
So, comrades all, get on the roll
And put Jock Garden up the poll.
“He’ll make the Fat men quite annoyed
With four quid for the unemployed.”
But old Dad Wayback shakes his head,
And “wishes all the cows were dead.”
N.S.W.
TWO SEAS.


FINESSE AT THE WAXWORKS.
“The Vic. State Government’s programme for the next session is to bo outlined this month by the Minister of Works, Mr. Goudle. The announcement Inevitably prompts the inquiry —Why Mr. Goudie?” -Press item,
PEACOCK: “What’s the big idea, putting him on to tittivate them up?”
ALLAN: “Oh, with a new painter the people may think they’re a new lot of figures,”


/
y
n \ **o^
V'
>
„
333
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist .
20
for
V 6
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCITY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS "
“H.K.” : Mention of John Yerran’s public
exhibition of apple-munching at Wallaroo
(B. 23 /4/’25) recalls a far-back incident
associated with W. M. Hughes. During the
big maritime strike of the ’nineties he was
sent to the country to address a meeting,
being given by the strike committee a return
train ticket only. Landing at his destina-
tion just before the meeting, ravenously
hungry and with only sixpence worth of
stamps in his pocket, he rushed to the local
post-office. There he essayed to convert the
stamps into cash. The official point blank
declined to deal; but ultimately Billy
SENSIBLE TO THE LAST.
“I say, would you be mad if I wanted to marry your?"
“Oh, not in the least. But I would be if I let !"
swapped them with a fruiterer for half a
dozen apples. He then hurried to the meet-
ing hoping that he would have time to eat
a few while the Chairman was introducing
him. But that worthy merely said: Mr.
Hughes will now tell us all about it. Billy
got up and spoke for over an hour. On re-
suming his seat he reached for his apples.
The chairman had wolfed them!
“Timon Tvde”: It seemed hard luck
when a young fellow named Blanche, hurry-
ing to finish a job at Temple-court, Mel-
bourne, was hit on the head with a spanner,
and had to go to hospital; but it was
that bit of luck which kept him out
of the Tobacco Co.’s new building when
its upper walls crashed. Anxious rela-
tives, wondering what had become ot
him in that smash, rang up the Mel-
bourne Hospital, and for the first time
heard about the earlier mishap. I ate was
less merciful to the contractor, Marshall,
who wouldn’t have been there if he hadn t
got through the paying of the men on various
other jobs with greater speed than usual.
But the worlft is full of people who have
had queer escapes, and the graveyards are
full of others who haven’t. Percy Coleman,
M.H.R., is on the former list. In liis youth,
when he had shipped on a sailer, an acci-
dental wetting sent him to hospital in a
feverish condition. His ship sailed without
him, and went missing with, all hands.
* * * *
“Egmont”: Relative to marriages at sea,
here is a true story told by the late skipper
of a Shire liner at one time trading between
Britain and Maoriland. The passengers in-
cluded a number of assisted immigrants, two
of whom became badly smitten and wanted
to get married when the vessel reached the
Cape. The jovial skipper, ever on the alert
for some incident to break the monotony ot
the voyage, persuaded the lovelorn pair to
have the ceremony on the high seas. The
passengers entered into the affair with en-
thusiasm, contributing quite a decent trous-
seau and appurtenances for the bride, even
to a veil, orange-blossoms and a ring. The
knot was tied by a parson among the pas-
sengers, and the Voice breathed o’er Eden
per gramophone. The breakfast, accom-
panied by cake and speeches in the saloon,
was a triumph, and the skipper received
hearty congratulations on stage-managing so
interesting an occasion. To complete the
happiness of the pair, they were provided, for
the remainder of the voyage, with a state-
room, which happened to be available. In
this world, however, nothing is perfect,
and their bliss was alloyed, upon arri-
val at Wellington, by the appearance
on the wharf of a determined lady
who advanced a prior claim to the
bridegroom. The latter disappointed his
admirers by throwing in the towel and meekly
following the claimant up the wharf with liis
luggage, which included some of the wedding
presents.
* * * *
“Sixenate” : Judges are inclined to be un-
civil when there has been long delay in bring-
ing an action for divorce; but a case lately
heard in Melbourne
supports my ex-
perience that often
there is a very
gfiod reason, if not
for the delay, at
least for the final
rush to take action.
The petitioner told
a long story of at-
tempts in her early
married life to in-
duce the waster she
had married to sup-
port her and his
children, and of
final abandonment
in despair when
she found that,
even when he did
make any money,
he immediately
gambled it away.
As for a score of
years she had made
a living as the
keener of a board-
inghouse, and had
grown worn and
old in that distress-
ing business, his
Honor was curious
about her quest for
a divorce in the
evening of their
lives. The lady
gave a sigh as she
stated that it was
because her brother-
in-law was selling
up his home. Now.
this sounded
absurd ; yet patient
inquiry produced
the fact that the
husband had been
a barnacle on his
brother’s home for
years, and now the
brother was break-
injr up his establishment, apparently as the
only way of getting rid of the incubus. Fear
that when he was deprived of one home he
would come to her in search of another in-
spired the feverish rush to the Divorce
Judge, who in the circumstances cut the knot
as requested. #
“II.R.W.”: Unexpected reunions? This
one occurred in a country town in N. S.
Wales. Neither had seen the other for 16
years, the husband having managed to keep
imt of the way of his wife, who thought
CURE ANYTHING.
SLENDER: “Say, old man, how would you stop a beastly chimney from smoking?”
BILK : “I’d give it one of your cigars.”
him dead. Then he secured a job, to which
he was sent by a city registry office, and
arriving at night was told to go round
to the kitchen and get some tea. He did
so, to discover that the wife whom he had
f %]iidod for so long was the cook. The proper
ending, no doubt, would be a joyful reunion,
both living happy ever after. Actually, a
couple of days later a petition was served
upon the husband, and shortly afterwards
the Court severed him from his wife for
good.
* * * *
“Verri”: I enter a queer family meeting
that occurred in Auckland. Years ago in
England a family difference caused three elder
children to be taken by their father, while
the two younger lived with the mother. The
father died and the mother married again,
both the younger children taking the step-
father’s name, and knowing nothing of the
rest of the family. The youngest girl mar-
ried, went to Auckland, and lived for nine
years next to agreeable neighbors, with whom
she was very friendly. One day the talk
turned on old miniatures, and the neighbor’s
wife ran home to get one she possessed. In
it the other recognised her mother. The next-
door man was her eldest brother, and the
crowd of children who had played together
for years were first cousins.
* * * *
Short skirts, of course, were bound to win ;
And from the present tendency
We see that they are even in
A still more marked ascendancy.
N.s.w. BART.
“Centurion”: Kicking the heels of a_ Bul-
letin controversy on the practicability of
shooting down an aeroplane with rifle-fire
comes the news that the thing has happened.
The lucky marksmen were the Tezedis, a
Kurdo-Persian people of Iraq, and the ’plane
they bagged was on a punitive expedition
against one of their chiefs. It may literally be
said that the feat was due to the Devil's own
luck, for the Tezedis are professed worship-
pers of the Prince of Darkness, whom they
politely style the Peacock Angel. Little
copper images of a peacock are his physical
manifestations on earth. These images,
limited in number, are moved from one quar-
ter to another in profoundest secrecy, and
the individual to whose care one is confided
is saint and high priest as long as lie can
keep it. The Tezedi theory is that the
Creator got so fed up with the earth and
its inhabitants that he handed the whole
show over in disgust to the Peacock Angel.
The Kurds, being descended from the demons,
became his chosen people, and when a section
broke away ,to Mohammedanism the faithful
section became known as the Tezedis. The
Peacock Angel is no black-faced clown with
a pitchfork, but a spiritual ruler with the
attributes of the Old Testament Jehovah.
When he is good, he is werry, werry good;
but when he is bad he is ’orrid.
* * * *
“Quack”: “Gigadib’s” story (B. 16/4/’25)
reminds me of my most persistent suicide.
Nobody ever knew why he had become so tired
of life, but he made his first appearance in
the institution late one night when the ambu-
lance brought him in suffering from a wound
in the throat. After a week in the ward he
was discharged, the police having decided not
to bring him before the Court. Exactly a
week later he was back, this time suffering
from the effects of some disinfectant which he
had swallowed. Prompt treatment saved his
life, and he entered the wards again for a
fortnight’s spell. It had been intended by
the police to charge him, but by an oversight
he was allowed to leave a day too soon, and
when the constable arrived to take him to
the station he had gone. He was not heard
of again for a month; then he was brought
in with part of his right ear missing, the
hair burned off one side of his head arid a
large hole where he had shot himself with a
revolver. Ilis stay on that occasion was one
THE LAST WAS FATAL.
“How many voyages did Captain Cook
make ?”
“Three, sir.”
“On which one was he killedt”
of months, and when he had recovered suf-
ficiently he was brought before the police
court. A promise to abstain from further
efforts secured his release, and he confided
to me that some of the savor had returned
to life, and he was glad he had _ not suc-
ceeded in killing himself. A fortnight later
lie fell overboard from a vessel at Port Mel-
bourne on which he was working, and, being
unable to swim, was drowned.
(Continued on page 16.)
THE TIRED WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Heaven Town she was so glad—
She who in Life so little had—
Who fell asleep in death as fall
Softly to earth the petals all
Of a drooped rose, ere her soul trod
A great way to the gates of God.
Within was silence. The fair place
Dreamed in the hush ; and a long space
The tired soul of her stood tranced
In loveliness. A blue lake glanced,
Misted with lilies lovelier far
Than the gold lilies of Earth are.
She saw no lordly angel flame
Prom sudden silence; no saint came
Crowned in strange glory. The fair town
Lay in a light that raining down
Glamored tall towers; beneath them she
Still half afraid went wonderingly.
Lo, the way blossomed and grew sweet!
She saw within a sunset street —
For the light waned there, yet was clear—.
A low-roofed cottage, small and dear.
There her one babe, that long before
Had died, played softly at the door.
FIJI.
A. SMITH.


'T/S,
°O,
m
Wr
fa
£
With pride the host displays his old possessions—antique furniture, ancient
weapons, old pictures, relics of no intrinsic value but bearing the stamp of
honored time. He offers his guests
YOUNG’S
MOUNTAIN DEW WHISKY
because of his pride in old hospitality. He appreciates its mature age, and
the purity, quality and superior flavour of this celebrated Scotch.
Agents: GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Harold Hardupp”: East Melbourne,
which is a mass of “flats” that in former
days were plain “furnished apartments,” is
perturbed at threats about the enforcement
of the law regulating boarding-houses enacted
nearly a year ago, but allowed to remain
in abeyance hitherto. Very frequently a
“furn. flat, sep. kitch.,” is merely a room with
some cooking apparatus in a cupboard; and
amongst the regulations until now unen-
forced is one that there must be an adequate
flue for the escape of gases over every gas-
cooker. East Melbourne is most concerned,
but boardinghouse- and lodging-keepers
everywhere, harassed by the exactions of
landlords, are in a state of consternation.
A Geelong incident shows that the over-
crowding is not confined to the big city.
There, in a recent report upon a four-
roomed cottage “converted into flats,” it was
stated that one of the tenants occupied a
dilapidated shed, and another slept in what
was intended for a fowlhouse. The ingenious
owner was apparently prepared to let the
occupant of the fowlhouse go—perhaps he
THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
MOTHER : “When I was a young girl I used to say good-night
to my gentlemen friends on the front porch.”
SIS : “Of course, mother. There was no electric light on the
porch in those days.”
did not pay his rent —but she put in a strong
plea to retain the denizen of the wash-house,
who was represented as simply doting on a
wasli-liouse for a sleeping-chamber.
* * * *
“Bilbav”: Apropos battalions taking
French leave. When the old Field Marshal
b'ft Sydney in ’lB she was loaded down to
the Plimsoll with Diggers, and the over-
crowding even for a transport was horrible.
The tucker was far from good, and a week’s
frisking around in the Bight with that far
from tranquil waterway up to its best form
didn’t improve the situation. Nor did the
18-hour stop at Albany, when the ship was
coaled and no shore leave was given. On
the run across to Durban the mob reckoned
something would have to be done to enlarge
the troopdeck space or some of the men
taken off. They were promised that every-
thing would be lake at Durban. After
several days’ stav in that port the ship began
to leave the wharf with everything “as you
were,” when the mob poured over the side
and refused to embark again. There was
the Devil’s own barney with the Durban mili-
tary “heads,” but the mob refused to even
HAD KEPT HIS WORD.
ANGRY DAD: “Look at my girl—you’ve been married to her two years, and she’s never
had a new dress!”
HARRY : “Well, didn’t you want me to keep her in the style she’d been used to?”
consider going back till they got a definite
promise that the troopdecks would be im-
proved at Capetown, and better and more
plentiful tucker issued. The horror of the
crowd of Tommy officers who rushed to the
wharf on the first rumor of mutiny was pain-
ful to watch, but they had to “come across,”
all the same. Things were improved at
Capetown, but the jacks and base-wallahs
who were on the wharf when the old Field
Marshal berthed there would have filled miles
of trenches.
* * * *
“X2X”: “Ex-Dig.” is talking through his
hat when lie says there is “as much alcohol
in a chemist’s shop as in a brewery” (B.
10/4/’25). Practically the only alcoholic
preparations to be
found in a dispensary
are the tinctures,
about 75 in number,
less than half of them
in common use, and
various other spirits,
essences, extracts and
so on. These contain
from about 10 to 90
per cent, of alcohol,
but the other ingre-
dients in most of them
preclude their use as
beverages. There are
only two things in a
chemist’s shop upon
which a thirsty indi-
vidual could slake the
fires that rage within
him. One consists of
the proprietary medi-
cinal wines and the
other is ordinary recti-
fied spirits, 90 per
cent, grain alcohol. A
tremendous Sunday-
morning trade used to
be done in tonic wines,
some suburban chem-
ists selling more in a
few hours than in all
the week days, until
the authorities issued
an order that medici-
nal wines were to con-
tain enough quinine to
make them impossible
as mere tipples; and
rectified spirits cannot be sold over the
counter in the ordinary way without risk of a
fine. It was different in the old days, I’ll
admit, when one could buy “tonics” and
patent medicines containing all the alcohol,
or even, narcotics, such as morphine and
opium, that one wanted; but that era has
passed.
“Cuthbert Counterlunch”: What is the
most novel hiding-place for money on one’s
person? I enter the one chosen by a digger
who walked into a Coolgardie bootery years
ago, and, being flush, ordered the “best pair
of blanky boots in the shop.” He was
sold a pair for £2, proffered a £5-note in pay-
ment, and then was puzzled to think of a
place to hide the money prior to resuming
his burst. Finally, he got a brain-wave. Un-
doing his shirt-sleeve, he placed the three
notes on it near the wrist, and rolled it up
nearly to his shoulder, with the cash inside.
Followed a wild time, and a few days later
he found himself back at his claim with an
outsize in thirsts, and, as far as he knew,
no money. Cursing fervently, he prepared
to start work, and unrolled his shirt-sleeve.
Out fell three £1 notes; and a few moments
later his dry tongue was parched no longer.
“Sturt”: Bordertown (S.A.) has had a
strange domestic tragedy. The husband had
been a steady drinker and had for years ill-
treated his wife and their young family, and
threatened them with death. At last she
turned—apparently on less provocation than
usual. She got the boys to load a gun, and
shot him ; then went back for a reload, and
finished the job; then rang up the police. On
the trial she pleaded that she had feared for
the safety of her children. Ex-Premier Bar-
well made one of his rare Criminal Court
appearances to defend. The jury seemed to
think she had done the right thing, even if
she did it at the wrong moment, and the
“Not Guilty”' verdict was received by the
local public with actual applause.
* * * #
_ “Seventy-five”: One of the fragrant memo-
ries of a handful of retired railway officers
is a famous duel that was fought in the
goods-shed at Spencer-street (Melb.) more
than half a century ago between two officials,
one of whom was afterwards Clerk of the
Vic. Parliaments. The cause of the quarrel
was a damsel, a member of a visiting theatri-
cal co. The friends of each conspired and
egged them on to “settle it with pistols, like
gentlemen.” Seconds were appointed, and
the goods-shed on a Sunday morning was
fixed as the place and time. Discarding coats
and vests the duellists stood back to back and
then, walking a few paces, turned, faced
each other and fired. The aim of one—call
him Simpkins—was poor, but his opponent’s
was good. When Simpkins saw that the front
of his starched white shirt was splashed with
what appeared to be blood, he turned pale
and fell - back into the arms of his second.
Then there was a giggle, followed by raucous
laughter. The bullets had grown on a rasp-
berry-bush and had been treated to fit in a
pistol. On one occasion years afterwards,
when a literary M.P. quoted from Byron
“When Little’s leadless pistol met his eye,”
the Clerk of Parliaments looked very uncom-
fortable.
* * * *
“Schnorrer” : The cable has communicated
some information about the London “Liberal
Jewish Synagogue.” which has decided that
moneylenders, although they may worship,
will not be allowed to be members, nor will
their money be accepted for the funds. This
is really a rigid enforcement of Jewish law
against usury. Ordinarily, the congregation
gets over that hedge by ignoring the business
affairs of some affluent members, often pil-
lars of the tabernacle, or by assuming that
the business is done purely with non-Jews.
A number of Hebrew moneylenders decline
absolutely to lend money at interest to mem-
bers of their own race; and, as a sort of
atonement for the other part of their busi-
ness. they are subscribers to the Jewish aid
societies, which exist to supply loans to
impecunious children of Israel without in-
terest. Actually, however. Talmudical autho-
rity is against any word-splitting: the Jew
is commanded to deal as fairly with the
Gentile as with his fellow-Jew. The London
“Liberal” synagogue is, nevertheless, the first
to put up the bar against the usurer. But,
then, its conditions are exceptional. The
two great factions in Jewry to-day are the
Orthodox and the Reform—the latter a
movement grown very strong in America and
boasting two synagogues in Europe, one in
Berlin and the other in Paris, which observes
the Sabbath on Sunday. The London
“Liberal” Jews do not go the whole way
to “Reform”; but the synagogue is the
fashionable place of worship of those who
are proud to be “British Jews,” and are
mainly wealthy, cultured and recognised
members of modern “society.” That is no
doubt the reason for the taboq on the money-
lender.
* * -it »
“Herodot”: There is a Sydney man who
is beginning to believe the stories told of
some gems having the power to bring bad
luck to all who have anything to do with
them. In his case the hoodoo is a diamond
ring, containing a large and flawless stone
which was formerly owned by his cousin,
who bought it out of a pawnshop window.
A month after the cousin had acquired it and
everything possible in the way of ill-fortune
had happened to him, he was killed in a
motor smash on the N.S.W. South Coast:
and the ring passed to the father of the
present owner. He wore it for some months
and then died suddenly from the first illness
he had ever had in his life. After that the
ring became the property of the man who
is now the owner of it, and although he
has managed to survive 12 months, misfor-
tune after misfortune has descended upon
him, the last stroke being a trouble which
threatens to leave him blind. It was only
recently that somebody jokingly suggested
that the ring might be to blame. Now the
suggestion has taken root and the owner is
trying to trace the man who pawned the
jewel.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The body of a Greek mur-
dered the other day in South Aus. was found
to have been cut open and the heart removed.
One wonders if the slayer entertained the
Papuan superstition which endued the de-
vourer of an enemy’s heart with all the dead
warrior’s virtues. The removal of the heart
for magical purposes is still practised in
Eastern Europe. In parts of Turkey and
Iraq the eating of a piece of a young boy's
heart is esteemed a certain cure for V.D.
The organ has to be cut out, though, by a
Seyyid, one of the numerous descendants of
the Prophet, who are distinguished in every
Mohammedan community by their green tur-
bans. Some of these gentry make almost a
trade of the gruesome superstition, though
fees are naturally very high.
* * * *
“G.G.”: A tin-miner named E. Rowlands,
of Watsonville (N.Q.), should certainly have
a shot at the Golden Casket. With a mate
he was opening up the old Rose of England
claim, and had driven a tunnel into the
stopes. Poking round the old workings, he
brought about 100 tons of mullock around
him. As it started to run, he jumped for
the tunnel-mouth, but was caught and sub-
merged by about 50 tons. Ilis mate soon
collected assistance, and 20 hands pulled
Rowlands out four hours later without a
scratch. He owed his preservation to a
record jump, and the fact that the mullock
which caught and overwhelmed him was
fairly coarse, and the interstices admitted
sufficient air to prevent him smothering. The
case calls to mind the more tragic fate of
THE FORECAST.
“1 told Jack that Daphne would play the
deuce if he married her.”
“ What’s happened now?”
“Twins.”
Lees, who was imprisoned in the Lady Jane
at Mungana some years ago. When the big
fall came that started the tire in the mine,
Lees was the only man who failed to connect
with the surface. The fire prevented rescue
■work, and the mine was bricked up to ex-
tinguish the fire. It was re-opened three
years ago, but no trace has ever been found
of the lost miner.
A PHILOSOPHY OF DEPARTING WHEELS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The train went on. I saw it go.
Its groans were loud, its movements slow;
And yet its footboards worn and grey
Were really forty miles away.
It snorted, hissed and seemed to wait
Beside the level-crossing gate ;
And yet its wheels crept on like snails,
inch by slow inch, along the rails.
But fifty yards, or even less,
Divided it from my distress;
Yet luck that frowns and fate that smiles
Turned fifty yards to forty miles.
Till noon had spread its golden sail
No other train would wag its tail
Through that black hole in those brown rocks,
VY hose face at lost endeavor mocks.
There would be forty miles ’twixt me
And where 1 wanted then to be
Before another engine’s hiss
Sneered “Here’s a second train to miss.”
There is a parable round here
For those who have a willing ear:
The watch that is a minute slow
May lose us Heaven, howe’er we’d go.
But one great comfort always lies
In that large thought that thrills the wise:
Though time may keep its market price,
You cannot miss the same train twice.
N.S.W
P.O.M.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies , 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne. A. AUBREY, General Manager.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland, Wellington and
Capetown. ......
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Napier, Durban, Johannesburg and Bloemfontein.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFiELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production o
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd.:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1900.. £145,531 £41,252 £17,891 £86,388
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,5.2 136, doJ.
1910.. 941,005 481,526 84,252 2,524 3.3,300
1914. . 1,162,249 604,258 102,274 1,541 454,1.6
1915. . 1,174,0.89 666,113 98,695 6,980 402,240
1916. . 1,191,225 676,011 82,324 6,837 426,053
1917. . 1,219,490 770,218 88,888 16,673 33.,i1l
1918. . 1,273,685 805,623 95,304 147 372,611
1919. . 1,316,118 911,069 105,065
1920. . 1,383,575 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,318
1921. 863,018 142,092 43d,407
1922. 903,710 135,915 *24.843
1923. . 1,537,907 962,022 136,227 646 439,012
1924. 987,867 137,112 488,396
The claims include the sums distributed to
shareholders. The original co. was the
Citizens’ Life. In 1907, when it had reache 1
21 years of age and experience, it absorber
the purely mutual M.L.A. and took on its
present name. A few years later the purely
mutual Australian Widows’ Fund came in.
The interests of policy-holders of both are
guarded by trustees. The co.’s own actuary,
R. D. Miller, calculating on a 3 p.c. basis,
estimated that £11,491,445 of the total funds
of £11,989,507 would be necessary to cover
liabilities under policies, and he recom-
mended that the surplus be divided. M.L.A.
policy-holders are receiving more than the
amount paid in. The M.L.C.’s own policy-
holders are not being neglected, their rever-
sionary bonuses being £3 4s. on 10-year
policies and up to £4 4s. on the oldest. And
as for the Widows’ Fund section the trustees
express themselves in these terms:
The cash surplus allotted to A.W.F. policy-holders
is equal to £9B t6s. of each £lOO of premiums
received and provides a compound reversionary bonus
of £3 p.c.—a rate probably never equalled by any
office in the world.
Those figures and that enthusiasm express
the quality of M.L.C. management.
Every life office works to tables of premium
rates. Every average person has a certain
expectation of life. For whatever amount
he insures, the office aims to collect premiums
which, invested as they are received at a set
interest rate, will produce the sum at the
end of the term plus sufficient to pay admin-
istration expenses meanwhile. The tables
generally err on the right side. Surplus earn-
ings which will permit of bonuses are won-
(a) By the careful selection of lives; which
means that the office receives premiums (and inter-
est) for a longer period than calculated;
(b) By interest earnings in excess of the esti-
By the cutting of expenses below the amount
estimated.
At the end of each year the amount in excess
of the liability under the policies is available
for distribution as bonuses in the case of
the purely mutual office, and as bonuses and
profit in the case of the co-operative cos., ot
which this is the most conspicuous Austra-
lian example. The excess interest earnings
(6) play a big part in the production of
bonuses in Australia and in this generation.
By arbitrarily calculating that the. money
in the co.’s hands will earn a low or high rate
of interest, bonuses may be made large or
small. A high rate means high bonuses
now, with the possibility of low bonuses later
on. A low rate results in an accumulation
beyond the necessities of liabilities under
policies, which means financial strength and
the possibility of large future bonuses. This
year all Ordinary branch contracts are
valued on the assumption that earnings will
be 3 p.c.
• • • • •
The efficiency of the organisation is
blazoned in an expense rate of 8 p.c. of total
income and 33.1 p.c. of premiums received.
That compares with 8.4 p.c. of total income
in 1923, 8.9 p.c. in 1920. 7.5 p.c. in 3919 and
8 8 p.c. in 1914. The competition of
younger cos. which, literally fighting for their
very existence, are out to write business at
almost any price, has pushed up expenses.
But the M.L.C. has not felt this, either on
the administrative side or in field costs.
Other of the established cos. have not been
so fortunate. The number of policies writ-
ten decreased, but the size of the policies
increased: —
No. of New Average Amount
Policies. Assuring. Assured.
1914 . 10.619 £2,003.040 £lB9
1915.. 7*219 1,307,236 181
1920.. 12,-476 3,023,848 242
1921.. 11,105 3,025,926 272
1922.. 11,927 3,280,607 279
1923.. 11,430 3,265,637 286
1924.. 10,041 3,051,425 304
On the calculation that new business costs
10 times as much as old, last year s new
business was won for 72 p.c. of first year s
premiums. Or, using the other method of
assuming the cost of renewals at 7 p.c. ot
premiums and charging the balance ot exes,
to new business, one arrives at a new busi-
ness rate of 75 p.c. There can be no quarrel
with that. Incidentally, most of the new
floats quote the M.L.C.’s profits, but care-
fully rfifrain from mentioning the low ex-
pense rate which alone makes them possible.
• ••••*
The Industrial branch climbed a little
higher:—
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1900. . £176,406 £49,398 £98,681 £228 £28,099
1906.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,710
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1916 . 354.568 68,702 153,102 802 131,962
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128.931
1918.. 409.949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
1919.. 430,803 183,019 195,605 1470 50,709
1920.. 446.911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1921.. 488,369 150.210 213,639 2576 121,944
1922.. 528,760 168,502 216,804 3566 139,888
1923.. 571,676 177,315 255,621 2222 136,518
1924.. 606,121 199,899 248,667 3010 154,545
As the actuarial liability was estimated at
£2,229,078 and assurance funds were
£2,302,323, a surplus of £73,245 was avail-
able. It is from this department that share-
holders obtain most of their profits. The
M.L.C. industrial policy is a definite con-
tract : it guarantees to pay the amount
assured, but no more than that. It gives
no bonuses on industrial policies. But it
handles the business economically. Last
year's expense rate xvas 28 p.c. of total in-
come and 34.9 p.c. of premiums. That com-
pared with 30.3 p.c. and 37.7 p.c. for 1923.
The rate of interest assumed here was 31
p.c. for policies 14 years (or less) in force
and 4 p.c. on older policies. The amount
actually earned by funds was a shade over
5 p.c.' Thus the proprietors cannot be
charged with squeezing the last penny out
of this department to swell their share.
The M.L.C.’s securities are:—
1914. p.c. 1924. p.c.
Public securities. £3,996,386 42.6 £15,585,316 88.0
Mortgages .. 4,165,349 44.4 597,359 3.3
Loans on policies 751,366 8.0 1,085,753 6.1
Cash, book debts, etc. 372,598 4.0 187,440 1.1
Property.. .. 47,988 .5 86,142 .5
Other assets .. 42,683 .5 173,806 1.0
£9,376,370 £17,715,816
Liabilities .. 105,952 3,084,622
Net assets . . £9,270,418 £13,631,194
To purchase the Commonwealth stock —
most of it during the war —an agreement was
made with the Commonwealth Bank to
finance the co., the bank agreeing to accept
in repayment the co.’s net collections in
Australia. As the directors put it: —
We gave our all to the Government but could
not bind ourselves to any specific date for repay-
ment. We took the course of lending all our money
to the Government at lower rates than were being
offered for mortgages, feeling that such was not
only in the interests of the country, but of the
co. also. I
Out of that far-sighted arrangement comes
a very nice profit to the M.L.C. It explains
the seeming heaviness of the liabilities item.
Increasing prosperity made £160,000 avail-
able for distribution to shareholders —£25,000
better than a year ago, and £55,000 better
than four years ago. As capital is £200,000
last year's return is equal to 80 p.c.; a sub-
stantial portion of the total is, however, de-
rived from accident as distinguished from
life business. In order to make £1 for
itself out of the Ordinary department the
management has to make at least £4 for
the policy-holder. In practice, however, the
policy-holder does better than that. Last
year'he got £6 9s. for every £1 that went to
shareholders out of the profits made in this
department.
* * * *
Commonwealth Life Assurance Society,
Ltd. (Sydney), which began with £5OOO of
its capital represented by goodwill: —
Excess Out-
Dec.. Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
£5,000
1921.. £4,255 Nil £18,475 £14,220 19,220
1922.. 22,004 £l6l 50,789 28,946 48,166
Premiums on shares, £6329 . . 41,837
Share selling costs, £845 . . 42,682
1923.. 38,826 1958 58,066 21,198 63,880
Premiums on shares, £3634 . . 60,246
Amounts received on forfeited
shares, £2565 .. .. 57,681
Share selling costs, £1614 .. 59,295
1924.. 55,477 2824 65,311 12,658 71,953
The brake was put on, though not hard enough
to stop the outfit running into an expenditure
£12,658 in excess of revenue; but the posi-
tion was made a trifle less gloomy—on paper,
anyway—by £3634 being derived from share
premiums, while £2565 of share capital was
forfeited. As another £1614 was spent
in share brokerage and commission, the
net addition to deficit was £8073. The
accounts are frankly presented and the direc-
tors’ report is an unvarnished statement of
the co.’s position. Yet the presentation does
not permit of an analysis of Industrial and
Ordinary business, as premium income is
stated in one entry. Industrial business
amounts to approximately one-third, and as
it is expensive to write, particularly for
young cos., things might actually look a bit
better —for the Ordinary branch, at any rate
—if the proportions were stated. Latest
accounts cover the fourth year of policy-
writing (this was one of the 1920 floats),
and what improvement has taken place is
chiefly in a lessening of expenses. Business
written has been :
Policies. Assuring Premium.
1921 .. 3,142 £199,070 £7,470
1922 . 10,854 1,000,671 31,556
1923 .. 13,125 1,225,305 42,478
1924 . . 12,120 1,151,039 52,028
Though down to the end of 1923 policies in-
volving annual premium payments of £81,504
had been issued, and though during 1924
policies were issued involving further annual
payments of £52,028, the total premium
income in the latter year was only £52,749
And as the total claims paid have amounted
to but £4943, you get some inkling of the
shocking waste in lapses. Most of these
lapses appear to be within the second year;
so the co. makes a dead loss, seeing that, as
will be observed presently, the cost of win-
ning the first year’s premium is greatly in
excess of the total amount of it.
The expense rate for Ordinary cannot he
ascertained, but the business as a
whole last year cost 118 p.c. compared
with 150 p.c. for 1923. All outgoings
are charged against revenue, and the excess
of expenditure has consumed £71,953 of the
£120,090 of paid capital. The balance of
capital was represented by the following
assets: —
Investments .. .. .. £26,12.)
Cash 11,484
Agents’ balances .. .. 3,115
Outstanding premiums .. 1,548
Lien revivals . . .. .. 834
Prepayments .. .. .. 195
Book debts . . . . . • 289
Furniture and motor cars .. 6,432
Stationery .. .. . . 1,648
That list totals £51,170. The co. has held
on to more of its capital than many of the
younger cos.; but stationery and office furni-
ture and motor-cars (£8000) are very. poor
assets. However, there is no doubt sufficient
of shareholders’ capital to carry the liabili-
ties under policies. Further, uncalled capi-
tal amounts to £71,065; but the fact that
already there have been share forfeitures
suggests that there might be a deal of diffi-
culty in getting some of it in.
Actually, notwithstanding that the co. has
available assets for no more than about one-
third of its capital, and notwithstanding that,
out of that one-third, provision has to be made
for all the liabilities under policies, so that
probably not one-fiftli of the capital is now
intact, shares were sold at a premium dur-
ing the past year. Is it possible that the
people to whom these shares were sold
realised the position of the co. ? The Wild
Cat does not say that the co. cannot pull
through. It may. It has a better chance
than some. But is it possible that there
are people who, after a fair presentation
and with a full knowledge of the facts, will
pay a premium for shares in a co. which can
call only about one-fiftli of its capital its
own, and which, so far from having a payable
business, is still showing a heavy loss?
* * * *
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, produce merchants, etc., of Mel-
bourne and elsewhere: —
To
j an Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
-10-15 £5 510 7 p.c. = £3500 £2OlO £21,354
me :: 3,804 7 „ „ 3500 304 21,658
1917 .. 3,022 51,, „ 2750 272 21,930
1918 .. 5,614 7 „ „ 3500 2114 £4,044
1919 .. 10,973 10 „ ~ 5000 5973 30,01<
Assets written up . . 7003 37,020
1920 .. 12,261 10 p.c. = 5000 7261 44 >£81
Set aside for taxation, £2500 41,(81
19 9 1 .. 14,549 121 p.c. = 7500 7049 48,830
1922 . . 6,850 8’ „ „ 6000 850 49,680
1923 .’. 10,354 10 „ „ 7500 2854 52,534
1924 17 586 121 ~ ~ 9375 8211 60,/45
Set aside for taxation, £2750 57,995
Premiums on shares, £6250
1925 .. 18,811 121p.c.= 9375 9436 £3,681
Set aside for taxation, £2840 70,841
Lately the similar business of Broadbent.
Bros, and Co. in Western Vic. and the
Mallee country was purchased; it was taken
over as from Feb. 1. To finance this deal
the unissued capital—2s,ooo shares of 2os.
paid to £l—were offered to shareholders at
a premium of ss. Capital stands at £lOO 000.
the ss. remaining uncalled on all shares.
Last year’s profits made a record: almost
as much was left over as was distributed m
the 121 p.c. div. No doubt the high prices
for rural products meant big commission
earnings and easy money generally. Here
are some comparisons :
Gross Exes, (not inc. Exes. p.c. of
Profits. Depreciation). Gross Profits.
1919. . £73,857 £60,637 82.1
1920.. 85,363 69.805 81.8
1921.. 91,253 75,558 82.8
1922.. 73,287 65.029 88.7
1923.. 78,281 66,176 84.5
19<>4 94,205 73,968 <8.5
1925.. 98,664 79,700 80.8
After a long run of prosperous years (and
the prosperity has been almost as much a
matter of reorganisation and increased
energy as of improved conditions among the
wheat cockies), the finances are in first-class
shape:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. 30,781 47,218 79,212 66,242 63,415
Property,
plant, etc... 38,870 49,791 47,193 48,783 56,5 a
Book debts. . 34,990 43,903 90,583 105.025 119,109
Merchandise 10,537 24,331 32,883 36,917 44,244
Cash, etc. . . 3,044 2,546 5,834 7,396 22,797
The figures tell their own tale of expansion;
and, though book debts have nearly trebled
in 10 years, there is nothing to worry about
there—the wheat cocky isn’t always a quick
pay, but he is a sure pay. Included in
“Property, plant, etc.,” is an £lB,OOO in-
terest in Murray Shipping, Ltd.; this is
kept at face value: the other things are
written down hard. Profits are governed by
the seasons and the markets to a great
extent; but the co. has worked itself into
a very cosy position, and there is good reason
to believe that the substantial reserves are
at least all they claim to be.
Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.) :
t— —Dividends N Written
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. Reserves.
1914. .£30,171 5 p.c. 10 p.c.£27,072 £45,606 £70,184
1915. . 28.328 5 „ 10 „ 25,698 72,814
1916.. 28,847 5 „ 10 „ 27,301 74,360
1917.. 23,039 5,, 5,, 16,517 3,000 78,882
1918.. 38,404 5,, 5 „ 15,517 8,000 93,769
1919.. 43 766 5 „ 6 „ 15,747 5,500 116,288
1920.. 34 354 5 „ 8 „ 23,090 4.500 123,052
1921!! 42,438 5 „ 8 „ 23,090 16,284 126,116
Reserves written off, .£54,863 . . 71,253
1922. . 38,445 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 25,026 14,961 69,711
1923.. 58,514 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 16,330 85,362
1924!! 72,674 5,, 8,, 26,533 55,105 76,398
Notwithstanding a reduction of 3d. per
thousand early in the year the co.’s revenue
was just on £5OOO better than in the previous
12 months, while manufacturing and distri-
buting costs were £6304 less and there was
a further gain of £3496 in management, in-
cluding taxes. All that sounds good and
explains the big spring in the year’s earn-
ings. In this co.’s history, however, earn
ings have been subject to very heavy calls
against depreciation; and because the cads
have been uneven the table wears a ragged
appearance. Twelve years ago a remodelling
of plant was found essential, and as deprecia-
tion and obsolescence had not been suffici-
ently provided for £56,106 had to be written
off in two years. The accounts would have
looked very moth-eaten in 1914 had it not
been that'the book value of land was in-
creased by £34,000, bringing it to the level
of the Government valuation. But the direc-
tors did better than that: Avith one eye on
the future and the other on the hilarious
past the div. rate was cut in halves. In
1920 increased demand made further expan-
sion necessary. The Board tackled the pro-
blem and estimated that a quarter million
would have to be spent to make the co. safe.
A new vertical retort plant was put in
operation in 1922, and in the last report it is
stated that a further unit is to be installed
soon. Meantime the heavy writing on: 01
plant is visible in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1921. 1923. 1924.
Debentures .. £185,365 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities !! .. 38)294 10,396 8,222
Property, plant, etc. 466,663 523,997 481,232
Stocks •• 58,635 14,312 18,182
Book debts .. 77 779 46,602 32,120
investments .. .. 20.000 34,080 31,580
Cash, etc. . . .. 60,150 55,185 98,031
During the past year holdings of Govern-
ment securities rose from £44,381 to £79,-,-0.
which helps to make the liquid position
strong. The outlook is also clearer. Obso-
lete plant has been replaced; the books
appear to have been cleared of rubbish,
manufacturing and management costs have
been coming down, though it is u weak point
that the co. is dependent upon N.b.VV. coal
and therefore subject to the caprices of New-
castle miners and Walsh’s shipping sub-
jects ; and taxes are lighter. The Board has
enough confidence in the future to announce
another reduction in price for April, lhe
co. has a good record in this matter: since
1922 it has made four reductions amounting
in all to Is. Id. per 1000 c. ft.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) : —•
Dividends and Writ-
Veb., Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. Reserves.
1915.. £23.967 124 p.c. = £17,495 £137,002
£133,333 transferred to capital .. 3,bOJ
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 £6539 5.069
1917.. 22.630 6 „ „ 16,797 5833 5,669
1918.. 25,118 7 „ „ 19,599 4519 6,669
1919.. 25,006 7 „ „ 19,599 446/ i. 069
1920.. 26,235 7$ „ „ 19 > 698 „ 5037 8,669
Internal reserves disclosed, £80,220.. 88,889
Reserves capitalised, £88,889 ••
1921.. 26,941 71 p.c. = 24,138 2803
1922. . 23,054 6 „ „ 22,666 388
Reserves disclosed, £29,289 • • “ 9 A 89
1923.. 24,675 64 p.c. = 24,555 29,409
1924.. 28,353 7 „ „ 26,444 31,318
1925.. 30,427 8 „ „ 30,221 31,524
The profits disclosed were as shown in the
last line. But it is possible that the Board
dropped a wad here and there first. Only
a vear ago the directors stated that there
was “a surplus of over £lOO,OOO in free-
hold properties, machinery and plant,
etc.’ ”; but they did not say how much
was due to appreciation of values and how
much to over-provision for depreciation, lhe
(Continued on page 19.)


THE LANDING OP CAPTAIN COOK.
(From an Old Print in the Muggleton-on-Ouse Town Hall.)


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, .Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/ti per anmin:,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat, or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd. —Apvt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.—Advt.
* t- * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamnx Asphaltum Booling. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt.
Pioneer Wood Pipe continues to win recognition
among progressive engineers as an efficient and re-
liable conduit. A report from Bathurst says: “1 used
about a mile of your 3in. wood pipe and found it
thoroughly satisfactory. The cost of laying these
is one quarter that of connecting iron piping, and
can be done by unskilled labor.” Write for our free
book of full information. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. They
produce a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp.
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part of the plant. The price of a two-
light plant, complete and installed, is only £2O.
There is practically no additional cost, the only
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station —positively no wages or train fares.
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * »
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
"Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-malting Mach-
inery. Represented by Airmen Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reouirements. —Advt.
**» ' *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grim wade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole ’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * •
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
panv, Ltd. (incorporated b.v Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS.
Capital Subscribed: £1,000,000. Paid Up: £llO,OOO.
Uncalled: £890,000.
Estates under control exceed £9,000,000.
The Company is a permanent institution, and offers
u service which eliminates all the disadvantages ot the
individual Trustee —it cannot travel, disappear or die.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman).
ALFRED G. MILSON.
O. E. FRIEND.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
* J. W. BARKES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO-ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong
Whitworth & Co.. Ltd.
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch:
Cathcart House,
lie Castlereagh Street.
small divs. of the past 10 years certainly
don’t suggest that the directors have had
ip ore revenue than they have known what
to do with. Still, you cant draw ordinary
conclusions in this case. The trouble is'that
the Cold-tea Brigade desires to make Quccns-
i. n d the Dry North, and the Trade finds
itself in a state of almost continuous con-
flict. Under the circumstances large-sound-
ing divs. are unwise and internal strength
very necessary. The Trade is even now light-
ing a local-option poll m parts ot the . tat.,
and Perkins is, of course, bearing its sliate
of the expense; and less than two years ago
there was a State-wide fight, in which con-
tinuance won by a big majority. 1 he tiling
is a habit in the northern State, with the
Liquor Interests footing most of the bill.
But the co. doesn’t despair, by any means. It
is still stretching out. During the year the
old Globe Hotel was purchased and ns being
re-modelled and modernised.
The modest div. is equal to more than 20
n.c. to those who got in after the post-boom
writing-down. The collapse of the inflated
property values hit Perkins very hard in
the ’nineties, for the co. had borrowed largely
to do its financing. Queensland property
values are again high ; but the events of the
’nineties won’t be duplicated, because con-
ditions are not the same. Ihc Globe pur-
chase affected the liquid position:—
1914. 1922. 1924. 1925.
Stocks .. £59,432 £94,048 £80,923 £88,002
LO debts. b ot°c o . k 99,000 137,309 213.052 219,510
Cash, etc. .. 9,800 22,825 10,413 2,18 j
£lOB 832 £254,242 £310,388 £310.363
Liabilities . . ‘ 66,473 78,950 204,507 251,320
Liquid surplus £102,359 £175,292 £105,881 £59,043
Practically all the liabilities are bundled in
the one item, “Trade and other erect 1 tors,
etc.,” so the proportion of fixed debt cannot
he seen. However, despite the recent biggish
drain on the liquid surplus there is nothing
wrong with the position : £4.:>,.).>- of liquids
are clear after payment of tin 1 final <)*'•
The Dry forces do not appear to he making
any headway in Queensland, but whether
profits will permit of 8 p.c. divs. is not
clear. For the past five years almost all
the disclosed profit has been distributed, Ihe
problem to solve is: How much wasn't dis-
closed? And not even the directors can tell
that, because they don’t know’ what the Dry
campaign will cost them one way and an-
other.
The difference between a prepared and an
unprepared mine was illustrated at Broken
Hill the other day when there was a violent
outbreak of fire at the South. Within a few
minutes of the discovery men were tackling
it with the special (“Pronto ) fire-fighting
appliance, which enables them to defy the
deadly pyroligneous gas for a while, and
the enemy was beaten. Alongside, m the
Central, the fire, for which, unfortunately,
that co. wasn’t prepared, is still smoulder-
ing, after costing certainly much oyer a quar-
ter of a million —perhaps, all things con-
sidered. over half a million. Meantime, no-
thing has been heard about a permanent
Broken Hill organisation with authority to
require a co. to carry out fire-defence
measures.
There should be industrial peace on the
Barrier for some time: a three years agree-
ment on the bonus system wms last week
signed by the representatives of the Engme-
drivers and Firemen, Carpenters, Masons,
Bricklayers and Miners (W.1.U.A.). An
agreement with the Iron Trades had previ-
ously been signed. The Broken Hill press
was largely responsible for this settlement.
Throughout it has handled the situation
admirably.
* * * *
The Marshall Bros, are the leading spirits
in another attempt to warm up the cuny
at Lucknow. This is the third year since
they contracted to take over the assets ot
the co. known as Lucknow Mines Ihe pro-
cess involved registration in Melbourne or
a concern known as Lucknow Amalgamated
in 400,000 2s. shares; and thereafter there
was a dribble of literature containing highly-
colored reports of new discoveries. Over a
year ago one of the brothers wrote about
itis “new lode.” on which “a. couple of weeks
work will wake up gold-mining in this State,
and cause a stir....l have already seen
gold which compares very favorably with
the gold of the old lode, and so far my pick
is the only tap done on it.” Apparently
many months were spent in brooding over
the yellow glitter, because the next visible
effort was a circular issued in January of
this year, setting out that, a further co..
called" Lucknow Extension, is being formed,
with the same Collins-street address, but
with another legal manager. The Exten-
sion float provides for plenty of scrip, as
450 000 2s. shares are mentioned, of which
200.000 fully-paids arc to go to Amalgamated
holders. 100,000 paids to “owners of addi-
tional leases” and 150.000 contribs at bd.
down are to carry the baby. This co.,
according to its sponsors, will have “a length
•tlon°' the newly-discovered line of lode about
equal to the length along the old Lucknow
lode from which an approximate estimate of
seven millions’ worth of gold has een \\on.
If Melbourne creates some kind of a loaika
in these shows, there should be no dearth of
scrip for dealing purposes.
New White Crystal, Ardlethan fa-S-W )
has decided to change its Boai d. X\ litt
this will increase tin values above the un-
payable 1 p.c. remains to be seen.
C. It. Mackenzie is so elated with tunnel
developments at the Flagstone, 22 miles
north of Emmaville (N.S.W.), that lie has
recorded his opinion that “if they continue
the property will be “the biggest tin-mine
opened in Australia.” In this he is sup-
ported by 1,. M. Collins, ot l ent .l 1 ' 11 -
whose recommendation the ( lark-(. ainl siabie
annexed the show. The tunnel is now •>. tt.
in, the lode continuing the width ot the ott.
drive, and carrying an estimated 5 p.c. At
.“2ft. a sample across the face was assayed
in Sydney for 3.15 p.c. pietallic tin. On
the western side, opposite the tunnel, and
about 350 ft. away, a cut has exposed a JOtt.
lode averaging 5 p.c., exclusive oi a rich
."in. vein.
* * * *
At Peak Mines, Cobar (N.S.W.), silver
values show further improvement in the new
winze 37ft. north from the main west crosscut
off 220 ft. level. At lift, deep the eastern
half of the lode being sunk on assays • >sooz.
silver and 12dwt. gold across 24in. the
western half continues poor, Boz. silver and
2dwt. gold being the average over 2ft.
The shutters have gone up at the Crown,
Mudgee, and Vimy Ridge. Rega. two N.S.W.
gold bantlings from whieh better things were
expected by the experts. The final kick at
Vimy came last week when four of the direc-
tors‘put in £l7 each to raise and finance a
crushing of 30 tons that was said to go
30dwt per ton. All the battery recovered
was 70z., or £2B worth, to balance the £6B
expended. At the • Crown the demise was
due to funds having given out and gold being
as elusive as ever.
Subsequent developmental work in Boulder
Perseverance has not confirmed reports of
9oz. values disclosed by the diamond drill
reports which had the effect of lifting shares
in a few days from Is. to 3s. Barring a
select Kalgoorlie band, the public didn’t
benefit. Notwithstanding good monthly
yields, the mine workings are badly gutted
by tributors, and nothing worth while has
been located to replace the high-grade ore
extracted by them.
Members of the mining staffs on the Golden
Mile have been uneasy in mind recently.
It is considered as fairly certain that
Thomas, Royal Commissioner on Mining,
will recommend for the Golden Belt one
treatment plant operated by a big central
electric-power generating station. And that
will mean staff reductions.
The Brilliant Co. (W.A.) has succeeded
in deepening the main shaft through a deluge
a distance of 80ft., and there is only 30ft,.
to go to reach the bottom of the sump.
Eighty feet of crosscutting from the shaft,
should expose the reef; and the crosscut will
bo comparatively easy going. Thus far share-
holders have spent £BOOO on the moss, and
calls are not pouring in as regularly as the
water. Still the back of a big job is broken,
and it will pay shareholders to see it
through : for, when the reef is accessible at
the 380 ft. level, all that has been expended
and a bit over may be expected from tlio
slopes.
The Vic. Mines Dept, analysis of a piece
of the mass of bitumen reported to have been
found in the Glenelg River, on the Vic.-S.A.
border, gives the percentage of crude oil
as 60, equivalent to 134 gallons to the ton
of sample. Treated by fractional distillation
the oil yielded light oil (petrol) 7 n.c., kero-
sene 22, fuel oil 31, lubricating oil 36. and loss
and coke 4 per cent. The material was
classed as - a mixed-base petroleum bitumen
and not a coal-tar or artificial pitch. S.A.
Oil Wells is making the best: of the find.
* * * *
Mersey Valley Oil Co., of which ex-Prime
Minister W. M. Hughes is a director, and
Captain de Hautpick was the consulting geo-
logist, is asking each shareholder to take up
50 10s. shares on easy terms. The induce-
ment is a six months’ option over the same
number of shares at par. The present nomi-
nal capital is £250.000 in 500,000 shares of
10s. Money is wanted to drill for oil at
Dartmoor, near the Glenelg River (Vic.),
in the district where the S.A. Oil Wells Co.
is drilling two wells for oil to test the oil-
bearing sands cut, at 887 ft. and 1226 ft.
Mclntosh Reid, Government Geologist of
Tasmania, says that the conditions are more
favorable than at any other place known to
him in Australia —which, by the way, is
really a very big country. The largest per-
cussion drill made in Australia is to be used
to punch its way to 6000 ft. in a 12in. hole.
The chief need of the Mersey Valley Co.
seems to be the services of an expert oilman
to watch the drilling, and so avoid the mis-
takes made during the boring campaign the
company prosecuted in the Mersey Valley
( r fas. ).
John Godkin, well known in Cloncurry,
where he has unearthed several prospects
of copper and cobalt, has ventured into new
fields and discovered a silver-lead lode near
Proserpine, on the north coast of Queens-
land. Until a little more development has
been carried out it will be impossible to say
if the lode is of any great promise.
* * * *
Still another oil flurry from Beaudesert
(Q.). Crude oil was reported in Lipke’s
well, 10 miles from the town, and the first
press report from the spot saddled Oil Geolo-
gist Ball with the statement that it was
undoubtedly crude oil in small quantities,
and that tin. 1 evidence was so encouraging
that lie had decided to stay and see the bore
continued. His official telegram to the
Mines Department was that he had found a
coal-black sludge with traces only of ircc
oil. As Beaudesert is well supplied with
gassy coal beds at shallow depth there is no
need to look further for the source of the
oil and gas, for most coals and shales give a
trace of free oil with the solvents used for
testing oil-sands.
* * * *
The subsidy of £l2OO towards the erection
of a battery on the Stanhills tin field, near
Croydon (N.Q.), by Mines Minister Jones
is a move towards opening up a promising
field. That there has been scarcely any
production the past couple of years has been
due to lack of local crushing facilities. The
credit of re-opening the field is due to the
bulldog grit of Frank McClelland and his
sons, who have been battling away there for
the past four years. The Mauretania is the
best lode they have opened up. but the coun-
try around it is full of promising prospects.
None of the mines are deeper than 100 ft.,
and as several of them have widths of Bft. in
places there is plenty of unworked ground.
The ore so far in the Mauretania averages
about 10 p.c. for concentrates. When the
miner can get his tin ore crushed on the
spot there will be a big inducement to open
up the numerous prospects lying handy.
The field is difficult of access, being 30 miles
south-east of Croydon ; but Queensland tin-
miners out of luck could do worse than give
the field a trial, especially as there seems
now a certainty of getting their ore crushed
locally in the near future. The tin is high
grade and can be dressed to over 70 p.c.—a
high figure for lode tin.
* * * *
With four shifts working on its Black
Star No. 10 shaft. Mt. Isa will reach its
objective—about 350 ft. —in the next week
or so. W. 11. Corbould will be there to see
the shaft bottom. He is keen on crosscutting
the lode from near the bottom of this shaft.
If they get anything like a width of 100 ft.
of such sulphide ore as they have in the
shaft—there was 100 ft. of carbonate ore at
85ft. considered payable—there will be
jubilation amongst shareholders. The new
issue of shares has steadied the market for
scrip, just as the bulls were stirring conse-
quent on good advices from No. 10. The
latest move of the co. is to get ready for
boring the lode below the 350 ft. level. Chief
geologist Dunstan, who was on the field
recently on behalf of the Queensland Public
Works Commission, has not yet appeared
to give evidence, but may be expected to do
so any day now, and he will have the chance
of substantiating or amending Ernest Bails’s
latest ore estimates. Unofficial estimates
from the field place the probable value of
payable ore on tin* field to a depth of 200 ft.
as about £14.000.000. If official verification
is forthcoming this is an astounding per-
formance in development for 15 months’
work.
* * * *
Consolidated Coal’s vertical shaft struck
a 17?,ft. seam of good quality at Bowen
(Q.) "at 357 ft. Coal counts for little, though,
without the markets.
Walter Colley has been appointed g.m. of
A. H. Clarke’s N.T. Mining. N.L., and is to
proceed to the Territory to get busy on
Marranboy Tin and Eureka Gold —the co.’s
two shows.
* * * *
Advice from the Taranaki Co., New Ply-
mouth (M.L.). is that at Motorun bore
there was a good show of oil at 030 ft. It
was intended to cement the casing and test
the sand for oil.
J. Malcolm Newman and William Tarleton
have been appointed directors of Stlayang
Tin Dredging, Ltd., a recent London float.
Birch, chairman of Malaya Tin, and Phillips,
chairman of Kamunting, are on the Board.
Selayang is eight miles from Kuala Lumpur.
F.M.S. A bucket-dredge with a capacity of
150,000yds. per month is being erected.
Taiping Tin and North Taiping Tin cos.,
Straits Settlements, made more than ordi-
nary profits during the twelve months end-
ing'December, 1024. Taiping paid 221 p.c.
and North Taiping 171 p.c. for the year.
Taiping’s No. 1 dredge recovered 263 tons
of ore (average, 10.340 z. per c. yard), while
No. 2 dredge won 320 tons from stuff yielding
12.260 Z. At Taiping production and general
exes, were only 4.2 d. No wonder that the
year was described as the most successful
the co. had completed. Total revenue from
all sources was £01,873, and expenditure, in-
cluding writing off, was £48,654, leaving
£43,210 to cut up. On December 31 cash
in bank was £12,001. North Taiping won
257 tons from stuff worth 10.68 d. per cubic
yard, and made £20.464 net for the year.
The amount to divide was £21.004, and the
balance carried forward was £6660, so the
dividend paid was 174 p.c. and the rest of
the profit was 74 p.c—say, 25 p.c. profit
on the operations for the year.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
LEGGINGS
of the Right Sort
at Macnaught’s.
THE right leathers, the right makes, the right styles and the
right prices. Straps or Spring Fronts in Black or Tan, picked
leathers. Perfect fitting. Prices :
Straps with two Buckles, in Tan only.
Women’s
16;6,m„. 17/6
Men’s Spring Front, in Black or Tan . . 18/6
We Pay Postage. Send us your repairs.
Macaaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
SYDNEY
189 Pitt Street 135 King Street 22 Strand Arcade-
Burrowa Street, Young.
Legal Notices.
TO JAMES WILLIAM KILPATRICK.
formerly of Stratford, in New Zealand,
and later of Queensland, son of AGNES
KILPATRICK, sister of JOSEPH
MULREE, who died at Stratford, in New
Zealand, on lltli September, 1922, and to
all other children, if any, of the said Agnes
Kilpatrick, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
6th day of April, 1925, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you arc
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of September.
1925, your claims to the estate of the said
Joseph Mulree, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of
April, 1925.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Ollice,
Wellington, New Zealand.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Knight Francis Dutton, who is globe-
trotting in the interests of the Royal
Colonial Institute, is an old Soustralian.
who since the age of 10 has lived in the Cold
Country. His father, the late F. K. Dut-
ton, was twice Premier of the Central State,
and on one occasion established almost a
world’s record for a short-lived Ministry. It
lasted 11 days. “Sudden” Solomon, how-
ever, beat him in the same State a few years
later with his seven-day Ministry.
Richard Butler, who died of pneumonia
in London shortly after arriving there on
a visit, had been one of the leading politicians
of Soustralia for many years. He got into
the Assembly in 1890, defeating P. McM.
Glynn for Yatala, and in 1898 went into the
Kingston Ministry when Cockburn left for
London as Agent-General. A little later, on
Holder moving up into the Federal Parlia-
ment, Butler became Treasurer under Jen-
kins. He had to look after the State finances
during a run of bad harvests, and acquired
the name of “Dismal Dick” from the gloomy
estimates it was his duty to make. In 1919
he had a heavy blow, when Minister control-
ling the Wheat Scheme. A Parliamentary
commission made an adverse report on its
management, and Peake required him to
leave office. Public sympathy was largely
with him, and he was a popular Speaker of
the Assembly from 1921 to 1924, when lie
lost his seat after holding it for 34 years and
Ministerial office for 13. One son is in S.A.
Parliament. Another is Colonel Charlie
Butler, who earned a D.S.O. in the war.
Alec Peacock, Vic. Minister for Educa-
tion, has more silver trowels and gold keys
probably than any other man living. He re-
ceived his latest bit of jewelmongery the
other day when opening the Aspendale
school, and has been collecting similar em-
blems ever since he bacame political head of
the Education Department in 1892. He
has held the same job under Turner (twice),
Watt (twice). Lawson (three times), him-
self (third Peacock Ministry), and Allan.
Sad to say, there are no young Peacocks to
whom to leave the trophies.
Sydney Uni. lost o”c of its best-known
figures last week when H. E. Barff, who had
been Registrar for a generation and finally
Warden as well, died after a long illness.
Born in Fiji, the son of a missionary, Mr.
Barff completed his education at the univer-
sity he afterwards served so long and so
faithfully. He was in some matters Puri-
tanic ; but he had a large sympathy with
youth in difficulties, and had been a sort of
father confessor to multitudes.
William Stephens, who was an M.L.C.
until Queensland’s House of Ancients was
abolished, died suddenly a few days back.
Born in South Brisbane 67 years ago, he
was the first mayor of his native town. In
the Assembly he sat for Woolloongabba, was
at various times Minister for Education and
Agriculture, was an active apostle of co-
operation (the Kingston butter factory he
nursed to prosperity), and when there was
a judge in the horse section wanted at a
Queensland show, Willie Stephens was usu-
ally the first suggestion.
Judge Burnside, who recently retired from
the W.A. Arbitration Court, has seen many
changes amongst his colleagues. Taking his
seat first in 1893, he has been president ever
since, except for one period of three years.
Out of court he is an enthusiastic yachts-
man, his Genesta being one of the best
equipped on the Swan.
Most cf Australia knew at some time or
other W. H. James, just dead in Adelaide.
He was of a Cornish family that came to
Australia about ISGO, settling first at Burra
copper-mine (S.A.). Later he lived at Moonta,
and then managed the Blinman mine for the
old Eng. and Aus. Copper and Smelting Co.
After 1888 he was a consulting engineer,
with occasional spells of mine-managing.
Zeehan, Coolgardie and Chillagoe all knew
him well.
The retirement of E. L. Armstrong from
the overlordship of Melbourne Public Library
"'ill hardly create an immediate revolution
there, however it may be needed. Presum-
ably the elderly It. D. Boyes will step up
into the old chief’s job. Youth or youthful
ideas have never received much encourage-
ment thereabouts. No fewer than three of
the younger men who have been cold-
shouldered out of the. service during the past
decade or so have since achieved the right
to prefix “doctor” to their names, J. S.
Battye, C. W. Atkinson and Morris Miller
being all Litt.D.’s. The last named, by the
way, has just been made Professor of Psy-
chology at Tas. University.
S.A. Supreme Court has found itself in a
queer tangle over an appeal in an otherwise
unimportant case in which “the Crown”
happened to be concerned. Chief Justice
Murray is away in Europe. Acting-chief
Poole is also Administrator of the State—
Governor Bridges being away too—and
thought he was technically a party to the
case, and so ought not to sit. Judge Par-
sons, whose ruling was being appealed against,
was away on circuit. Acting-Judge Richards
felt disqualified as having been a counsel in
the case when it was heard before. And
Judge Napier protested against having to sit
alone to pronounce on “brother” Parsons’s
judgment.
Downward, Vic. Minister for Lands, re-
cently passed the 77th milepost. The oldest
inhabitant of Government departments in
Melbourne cannot recall any previous politi-
cal head of the Lands Office so venerable.
E. H. Cameron was about half-way through
the seventies when he relinquished the Public
Works in October, 1908. But Downward
is more active than many a politician at 57.
Wallace Bruce steps up into the president-
ship of the S.A. Chamber of Commerce in
succession to W. J. Hill. Bruce is a busy
man, next in line or thereabouts for the
mayoralty of Adelaide, a member of the
Municipal Tramways Trust and chairman of
the. Taxpayers’ Association. Also he is a
genial sportsman who takes a prominent part
in running S.A. Cricket Association and the
Adelaide Oval.
The right man has been appointed chair-
man of the committee of experts to report on
the problem of connecting South and East
Brisbane with the remainder of the metro-
polis. thus relieving the traffic strain on
Victoria Bridge, the only one in the city.
E B. HARKNESS, who, as chief electoral
officer, has charge of all arrangements
for the N.S.W. general election.
Professor Hawken, the right man aforesaid,
has been the Prof, of Engineering at the Uni.
of Queensland since 1919. He is a Sydney
native, son of Nicholas Hawken, M.L.C.,
and was educated at Newington and Sydney
Uni. For two years he was in the Public
Works Department of N. S. Wales, his im-
mediate superior being J. C. Bradfield, and
he also worked for four years in the Malay
States. He was President of the Institu-
tion of Engineers (Australia) in 1923.
Superintendent Lionel Potter, in charge
of the Vic. C. 1.8. and a certainty for the
job of Police Commissioner when Nicholson
retires in another year, is a close approach
to the scientific detective of fiction. An
Anglo-Indian by birth, he learnt the ways of
Asiatic criminals before lie came to Aus-
tralia. Shortly after arrival he joined the
Vic. Detective Force, and was one of those
responsible for the introduction of the finger-
print and Bertillon method of identifying
and classifying the crook. For years he
was in charge of the identification branch at
Russell-street headquarters, and in that
period got to know almost every professional
lawbreaker in the Commonwealth. And
many from abroad got the shock of their
lives on landing here in what they thought
were virgin fields to find themselves recog-
nised and picked up by Potter a few days
later.
Dr. Argyle, Vic. Chief Sec. and Health
Minister, who has in view a health-reform
scheme involving an outlay of £250,000 and
the erection of a new lunatic asylum to cost
half a million or more, is endeavoring to con-
vert his Cabinet colleagues. With a ’cuteness
worthier of an older political hand he lured
Premier Allan out to several institutions, in-
cluding Austin Hospital, the proposed tuber-
culosis retreat for women at Janefield, Mont
Park Asylum and the site of a sanatorium
for men consumptives. Then he showed him
the out-of-date Kew Asylum. When Farmer
John returned to town he was a disciple of
Argyle. So Peacock, the guardian of the
Treasury, will now have a powerful com-
bination to fight.
Westralia lost one of its good all-round
men when Basil Murray passed out in Mel-
bourne. Originally an insurance man, he
journeyed west in 1904 to open a branch
for the Victoria Insurance Co. A farm of
his own gave him
an interest in the
cockies’ troubles,
an (1 his zealous
work on their be-
half led to his ap-
pointment, in 1917,
as the managing-
director of their
big co-operative co.,
Westralian Farm-
ers. Ltd. From his
boyhood at Mel-
bourne Grammar
lie was a noted
sportsman ; and, a
lover of music,
it was mainly
dll e to liis
efforts that
W.A got its
own broadcast-
ing station.
H.W.HARRISON,
the man behind
the [?]heel at the
big motor show
at Melbourne.
The Earl of Ducie, who is homing on the
Grama, is still childless. As Berkley Capel
Moreton, clerk, of Maryborough (Q.), he
many years ago married a local girl, but
there is every possibility of the Tortworth
Castle estates in England passing to his
brother’s children. Algernon, the expectant
brother-heir, has quite the makings of a
cricket XI in his little lot.
Windsor (N.S.W.) felt no younger the
other day when it said good-bye to Thomas
Cambridge, who has been its postman for
40 years. But that isn’t all —“Tom’s” father
was the village postman in his day, as Tom’s
father’s father was in his day. It is safe
to say there is no like case in all Austral-
asia.
Adelaide has lost yet another of its oldest
lawyers, Gustav Degenhardt. An old St.
Peter’s boy, he began his training in the far-
off days of Belt, Cullen and Wigley. lie
lived mostly in the country, and (lid good
municipal as well as legal work during long
spells at Orroroo and Peterborough. He
was 74 when the end came.
Andrew Augustus Lysaglit, one of Labor’s
three for the Wollondilly electorate (N.S.W.),
will be one of the rich men of the House if
he gets there. He is a local lawyer, born
in Wollongong, the town where he mostly
practises, and he and other members of the
family own much property there.
A knighthood for John Bowser, Speaker of
Vic. Assembly, is in sight, but it may not
arrive till next New Year’s Day: it can be
taken for granted that Premier Allan, his
friend and Country Party colleague, will
press his claims while in office. Modest John
has been in Parliament continuously for just
on 31 years, has been Premier and a mem-
ber of two other Cabinets. In his spare time
he edits and runs the Wangaratta Chronicle
and does a little farming.
Alec Peacock, Vic. Treasurer, went to
Kyabram the other day, not to do penance
as the Emperor Henry IV. did when he
went to Canossa, but to receive a vote of
thanks from the repentant district which
manufactured the bombs that hurled him
from office in 1902. lie didn’t let the com-
pliment paid him pass without a smile. lie
recalled the stirring days of 1901-02, when
his critics had only one plank in their politi-
cal platform—“ R-
etrench” —and Pea-
cock (then Pre-
mier and Trea-
surer) was pic-
tured as the high
priest of extrava-
g a n c e. “Y o u
p In c k e d every
feather from me.
but they have
grown again.” said
the gay old bird,
“and now I am
welcomed in Ivya-
bram as Finance
Minister in the
Cabinet led by a
Kyabramite
(Allan).” Pea-
eock’s tone was
bantering, a n d
there was not a
trace of bitterness
in his words; but,
all the same, it was
a day of triumph
for him.
H. M. STEVENS.
I ictoria’s newly-
appointed Secre-
tary for Labor.
.Toe Harris, ex-member for South Yarra
and former agricultural editor of the Aus-
tralasian, who passed out recently, left
nearly £32,000. His daughter was principal
beneficiary. He made his little pile before
entering the Assembly in 1880, and managed
to hold on to it.
Maoriland’s reputed oldest white inhabi-
tant, Mrs. Sarah Johnston, a Belfast woman,
lately closed her long account at Greymouth.
where she had lived for 50 years. Five years
back it was claimed that she had reached the
century goal. What is more certain is that
she is survived by 30 grandchildren, 38
great-grands and two great-great-grands.
“Arilcurra”: Is this a record test for
nerve and presence of mind '! The late Joe
Broaden was doing a trip with Oarr-Boyd
from Oodnadatta to the W.A. goldfields, look-
ing for a route to take'fat cattle over. One
Sunday the party was spelling, and Breaden
was lying on the ground inside his tent and
getting drowsy. Feeling a movement of
something on his stomach, lie opened his eyes
and saw a death-adder crawling towards his
face. Fearing the consequence of a hasty
move he lay perfectly still with eyes closed
and awaited events. The loathsome beast
slowly crawled on to his face, turned and
slid off, and as if not satisfied with the men-
tal torture it had inflicted, turned again and
climbed back over Breaden’s face and then
went off under the tent.
Mrs. William Hogg, just dead at Euroa
(Vic.), aged 84, was one of Victoria’s oldest
natives, born on Captain Brown’s station,
now the populous suburb of Preston, in 1840.
When a few days old she was stolen by a
tribe of blacks. They cared for her for
some weeks until she was rescued and re-
stored to her mother.
“R.0.H.” : The remarks of “Silky Oak"
(B. 23/4/’25) that, because funds were
raised for presentation to two union
reps., it pays to be an extremist of
the industrial wing of Queensland Labor,
are hardly fair when applied to Pierce
Carney. Carney is permanently incapaci-
tated through serious illness, and the
subscribing of the amount referred to is a
generous tribute by those who knew he never
spared himself in the cause. The amount
will just suffice to keep him from actual
want.
George Gibbs’s early training on the Inky
Way in Bendigo has been of great sendee
to him as sec. of Metropolitan Board of
Works (Melb.). It was, however, as a rail-
way officer that he gained his administrative
experience. In the days when Alison Smith
was head of the loco branch Gibbs was chief
clerk. He relinquished that job to becom.-
Fitzgibbon’s offsider when the Board of
Works was formed nearly 34 years ago. Fitz
swore by him. and Carre Riddell, who suc-
ceeded the White Knight, treasures him.
Riddell and Gibbs will have more to do when
the Board takes over bridge-building and
-maintenance for the city.
HE KNOCKS A BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He knocks a bit, old Jimmy, just a bit;
A little cog' that slips inside his brain.
Perhaps it’s war, the strain of being hit;
Perhaps a woman dropped him ; or, again,
It may be booze—he puts a bit away—
Has soaked his thinking gear a shade astray.
He knocks a bit. He’ll start to tell you how
He spent the morning down Cronulla way.
And then his brain-box jerks. .. .He’s droving now
Over the twilight plains of Yesterday.
And then, perhaps, it kicks a little more
And leaves him marching grimly through a war.
And yet, with all the knocking, all the booze,
Or war or what it is that clogs his brain,
If Life should offer men and let me choose
I’d take Jim for my cobber once again.
I’d take him just because in days gone by
We went together, he and Death and I.
We went together there ; and, though he feared,
He hid his fear behind a careless grin,
And, where the jagged smoke-lines swayed and veered.
He shut his fists and cursed and staggered ini
Nothing but that —a scared man conquering,
Telling his weak soul grandly, “I am King!” ;
And now he knocks a bit; just slight enough
To keep him out of hospital and gaol-
Out in the world that doesn’t know the stuff
That spurred him once along the gerater trail;
Out in the world where only this is writ:
“Poor Jimmy, poor old cow. . . .he knocks a bit!”
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


BLACK
WHITE
i.
x.m: v
e;
,
sm
•v
i.
j
..
M*
\ k
f||f /If
-
■
•s*’
>
■ >
■ * ' .
gigk- 3 '
SCOTCH WHISKY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, are in the
predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards of 29,000,000 GALLONS or
Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks of this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky.


Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W A. —H. Little &-Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
RABBIT DESTRUCTION
WITH
CALCIUM CYANIDE
FUMO
BRAND
P £5) (\j)
Practical experience all over Australia has proved CALCIUM
CYANIDE to be the most efficient means yet devised of
exterminating the rabbit pest.
It is blown into the warren like dust, so that its fumes are
not dissipated before they reach the desired spot, as they are
not generated outside but inside the warren.
A smoke cloud arises from all openings. There is no danger
to the operator and no chance of escape for the rabbits.
The fumes from the dust continue to be
generated for at least twenty-four hours.
It is both economical and effective; is
non-inflammable and non-explosive.
For its application, the Fumo Dust Blower
has been devised after twelve months’ ex-
perience. You can obtain full particulars
from any of the
State Distributors: '
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor I*e ggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Utd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Jack Wieneke
is now
making a
Champion
Poley Saddle
as well as this big
break—
You can find out more
about it by writing for
my new book —free.
John J. Wieneke
SADDLEMAKER FOR 40 YEARS.
C/o JOHN BRUSH
434 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
371 George St.,
SYDNEY.
ABORIGINAURIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Gilbert”: The drover had just taken de
livery of a mob of sheep. I asked him if he'd
like a nip of whisky before he took the road. “No.
thanks, boss,” said lie. “I’m a tee-totler.” lie
fingered his whiskers thirstily for a moment, then
added huskily: “You ain’t got any rum, ’ave you?’’
“Askeaton”: “J.D.C.” (B. 16/4/’25) need
not think that all the weight lifting is done by the
busn worker. He will have to toss an additional
SOO sheep over the fence in a day before
he looks round for championship honors for
weightlifting. He can see your humble servant in
Sydney any Monday while butter production is in
full swing lift 4000 boxes, and sometimes more,
from a table on to a set of rollers about 2ft. high.
As each box contains 561 b. of cow fat, and the box
itself weighs about fdb., I lift about 108 tons in
the day. My wages work out at twopence per ton.
Who says machinery is cheaper than labor?
“Wink": Those pretty little spiral snails
(B. 2./4/’25) whose first appearance in Wesfralia
coincided with the rinderpest outbreak, have reached
Victoria. The shells are about a quarter of an inch long
by a sixteenth in diameter at the widest end. They
are identical in shape with the shiny shells once
worn as necklaces by every' Collingwood or Pvrrnont
beauty, and vary in hue from pinky-brown to dark-
brown. The snails -themselves appear in a locality
with startling suddenness—none to-day, thousand
to-morrow. They sense the presence of lime and
tobacco-dust, and lie dormant until the active pro-
perties of these destroyers are gone. They feed on
the flowers of such low growers as pansies, cinerarias,
anemones, violets and violas, and soon take the
edge off the beauty of a garden. Egypt may be
their home, as “Billy See” suggests, but they are
not the obnoxious breed of snail which is the first
host of the parasite which causes bilharziosis in man.
That shellback is squat and white, and, instead of
browsing on garden plants, prefers the water weeds
of the banks of the Nile and the canals that flow
from it.
“Up North”: The turtle clings to life like
a money-lender to a security. I’ve known a big
sea-turtle live for three days with its head cut off.
And there’s a black
boy on Flinders Island
who eould say quite
a lot about the vitality
of a turtle captured
there. The niggers
had cut the big shell-
fish up, taking all the
meat out of the cara-
pace at sunrise, but
leaving the head still
attached to the shell.
No one at sundown
dreamed that turtle
still alive, leastways
not until the boy re-
ferred to put his fin-
ger in the beast's open
mouth. The hard,
bony jaws instantly
closed, taking the fin-
ger oft' as if by a
knife. It’s a common
saying that the turtle,
like the snake, cannot
die until the sun goes
clown. This is all bosh.
Hit a snake on the
right place and he
dies instantly. But
I don’t think there’s
any “right place” so
far as a turtle is con-
cerned.
“Gouger” : Most
home-makers put the
furniture in last. I
know one old chap
who went the other
way about. lie se-
lected a piece of
ground heavily orna-
mented with the
gnarled stumps of gum-
trees. The tallest
stump was hollow;
this he turned into a
chimney by lining the
funnel with clay. The
base of the stump
formed the fireplace,
and judicious trim-
ming with the adze
made an excellent hob
and a billycan stand. A central stump like
an overgrown butcher’s block was adzed to
form the table. A short knobby stump with a
soft-wood centre soon took the form of a chair. A
tall broad “shell” was chipped of its charcoal,
shelves nailed within and there was the safe. The
bunk, manufactured of saplings, was the only thing
that came from outside.
“Cartot’’: For heat records (B. 2/4/’25)
I'll nominate the Imperial Valley in Southern Cali-
fornia. just above the Mexican border-line. During
IT'S AN ILL WIND, ETC.
WIFE : "There's McKee's mad coo broken into the yaird again.”
MACPHERSON : “ Wed. dinna statin' there doin' naething — milk her
and put her oof.”
the hottest months shade-readings of 137 degrees
have been registered, and there is.a legend of 140
degrees. In the upper portion of the Valley there
is no animal or insect life, even mosquitoes being
absent, and the terrific heat rising in waves from
the borax and alkali makes it uninhabitable for even
birds. Tiie excessive heat is largely due to the
fact that the Valley is some hundreds of feet below
sea-level, making it impossible for white men to stay
in some parts for more than a few hours at a time.
Indian coolies are employed to pick the cantaloupes
which grow in the southern end. Two other ex-
tremely torrid spots are the Mojave Desert, not far
from Imperial Valley, and the wilderness to the
southward known as Baja, in Lower California. 1
have had personal experience of these three places,
and can vouch that shade-readings of between 125
and 130 are fairly frequent.
“T.A.C.”: Records show that 137 degrees was
registered under proper conditions in the Sahara *
and this is held to be the worst shade performance
known. Bourke (N.S.W.) can boast of 127 degrees,
registered some 10 or 12 years ago. This is the
record for Australia. Three consecutive days in that
terrible time shewed 127, 126 and 122 degrees. And
the nights were nearly as bad,
“Hayband” : At Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) the
other day a committee of four greyhound owners
discussed “Jake’s” par. (B. 9/4/’25) as to why his
sheep-slut eats her babies. One suggested that it
indicated a lack of natural food (i.e., raw meat)
prior to and after whelping. But the general opinion
was that the proceeding was wholly without rule or
reason, and certainly incurable. One man had had
£3O worth of pups scoffed up by a bitch which had
previously reared three or four litters in good style.
If “Jake” wants the puppies, he’d better remove
the next edition immediately it’s available.
* * * *
“Wingella”: A recent Bulletin writer
remarked that half- and quarter-castes, etc., usually
grow very dark when they get to the age of about
23. I liave noticed that, as a rule, they darken
much sooner, and the beautiful flaxen-haired, white-
skinned baby of two, with the wonderful melting
brown eyes, is at 12 years old muddy-skinned, black-
haired and dull of eyes. Quite frequently quarter-
castes are in the habv stage much fairer than white
children, and I have known intelligent people flatly
refuse to believe that the little morsels could possibly
have colored blood in them. By the way, can anyone
explain why a half-caste woman grows darker the
more children she hears? As a rule they breed
freely, and hv the time the fourth or fifth child by
a black father is born the mother is almost as dark
as the pure*hred male parent. The same phenomenon
is not so often noticed among the male half-castes.
They seldom grow quite so dark as the females do.
Is it an effect of child-hearing?
“FY7” : The sheep-dog which lias developed
the habit of devouring her litter (B. 9/4/’25) is
following the ancient custom of her kind when
worried or nervous
about the safety of the
offspring. Wolves, dogs
and cats in captivity
are peculiarly prone to
develop the habit,
which is induced by
too much publicity.
Once started it is hard
to cure; the best plan
is to put the expectant
mother where she will
have absolute privacy
- in darkness for pre-
ference—and not go
near her and the pups
in any circumstances
(ill the latter are well
advanced in growth.
If that fails, a foster-
mother or the bottle is
the only alternative.
“Qnero”: Consi-
dering the number of
net opuses about Syd-
ney beaches, it’s rather
surprising that bathers
don’t have an argu-
ment with the larger
ones occasionally. Not
long ago in M.L. a
gill who left a picnic-
party to puddle near
by was heard to
scream, and the others
found her in the grip
of an octopus. Knives
loosened the hold. A
Maori girl, gathering
shellfish, was suddenly
gripped from a rock,
and the rescuing
friends could only hold
on to her until some
weapon had been se-
cured to cut the ten-
tacles. I know a man
whose boat was seized
from below, and only
the smart use of the
bait chopper on the
vulnerable part of the
devil-fish, the beak,
saved him from
being carried down.
This octopus, a creature
of great weight, made
determined efforts to clamber aboard the boat. In
a contest with even a fair-sized octopus a child
would not have much chance.
* * * *
“Lobjc” : I’ve missed some of the
discussion, but “Centre” (B. 9/4/’25) is wrong
as regards adobe houses. About 20 years ago some
enthusiastic gentleman started to build a mud pub
at Daysdale (N.S.W.). He just about got the
walls nicely finished when it was discovered that a
license could not be obtained, and the project was
abandoned. Those walls, roofless and unprotected,
NOTHING TO BE PLEASED ABOUT.
FATHER O’GRADY : “ Don't fret, Mrs. Flana-
gan, don't fret; your husband will be
with you in a month."
MRS. FLANAGAN: “Shure, that’s just the
trouble, your Riv’rinee! Faith, ’twos
meself thought he’d get six.”
are still there, and show but little signs of wear.
Malcolm !\ fa si in built his fine new homestead of
the same stuff, and so did Jack Sanger, both in the
district. The average rainfall is 17 inches, so it’s
a fair test.
(Continued on page 2%.)
THE THREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As 1 went up the mountain road,
Heart light and striding fiee,
With not a care in life to fret,
Three way-worn travellers 1 met,
And each of them as he went by
I greeted cheerily.
Now laugh who will or gibe who will,
Yet truth it. is indeed,
Though ragged folk they were and old.
Their day nigh done, their laic nigh told,
To me it. seemed that somehow each
Had earned a brave “Godspeed.”
The first I met an old man was.
With brow and hands sun-browned :
Him stopped I. as 1 blithely strode
Upon that sunlit mountain road,
And straightway asked him whence he fared,
And whither was he bound.
He looked me level in the eyes,
And answered sturdily:
“From work 1 come, to work I go;
No other lot. in life I know.
None other crave ’twas always thus,
And always'thus shall be.”
As he went flown the mountain road,
I swear it ia no lie,
Though weather-worn he was and brown
A halo seemed his head to crown,
A halo like a saint’s, whereat
“Good man,” I said, “good-bye.”
Through walls of green—soft, swaying walls.
Trees gracious, grave and grand.
Where parrots flashed with plumage bright—
I watched him pass away from sight.
And knew him strong to meet what fate
Might send or life demand.
The next I met a. sheep-dog was,
Gaunt, grey and, truth to tell,
A SAFE DESCENT.
“How was old Codlin when you saw him ?”
“Down and out, and glad of it.”
“Go on! How's that?”
“He'd just been up in an aeroplane.”
A sight to shudder at and scorn,
With lifeless eyes and feet wayworn;
Workworn and lame, he’d done his share
Of work, and done it well.
The third I met a stock-horse was,
With coat of rusty black—
A lame old fellow, nothing worth,
Who'd played, played well his part on earth,
Who’d followed stock from youth to age,
On road and route and track.
Thereafter, though upon that road,
Till slanting shades began
To fall from wayside gum and oak,
Good folk 1 • met, 1 met no folk
Like that heroic three—
The dog, the horse, the man.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


HUDSON SUPER-
For 9 Years Leader of Fine Car Sales
The 7-Passenger
Phaeton
Irig
u
C
m
Genuine Balloon Tires
Now Enhance World’s Greatest Value
For more than nine years the Hudson Super-
Six has led all fine car sales. Nothing but
consistent leadership of real car value could
win and hold such owner confidence.
Today, with greater beauty of line, lower
gravity center and smoother operation, the
Hudson Super-Six also brings the luxurious
riding ease and almost doubled braking effi-
ciency of genuine balloon tires. They are
standard equipment on all models. Do not
confuse with “semi-balloon” types. Hud-
son’s are full size and genuine. Important
also, Hudson has not merely “added balloon
tires.” Both running and steering gear have
been specially designed for the radical differ-
ence balloon tires bring. The result is the
easiest steering and riding Hudson ever built.
And with these added refinements, Hudson’s
price advantage over comparable cars is
more marked than ever.
Hudson’s chief appeal has always been in
performance. By every way open to proof it
has established its supremacy. Its records
are famous. In speed, acceleration, hill-
climbing and endurance it holds marks that
are celebrated among stock cars.
The Super-Six of today, retaining all these
noted qualities, adds a greater economy of
fuel, oil and maintenance, and a service policy
of minimum cost, including astonishingly
low parts price.
The COACH
Closed Car Comforts
at Open Car Cost
The Coach is a Hudson*
Essex invention. No
other type and no other
car gives “Closed Car
Comforts at Open Car
Cost.” Everyone knows
it represents the highest
closed car value. That
is why it is the largest
selling 6-cylinder closed
car in the world.
HUDSON, 7-pass. Phaeton
HUDSON, Coach . .
HUDSON, 5-Passenger Sedan
HUDSON, 7-Passenger Sedan
..£585
.. 595
.. 725
.. 750
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTOACAKS. LTD.,
Desmond Chambers.
Adelaide Street.
Brisbani , Q
H. C. HEATIIORN & CO., LTD.,
63-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart. Tas.
WEST KALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
il-45 Pier Street,
Perth, \V A
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, Vic
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders* Street.
Adelaide, S A


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
thmeiCL
SHAVING CREAM
HYGEIA isn’t just the name
on the carton; it is the be-
ginning and end of every
little bubble of lather. That’s
why you can be certain it is
the best.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
I%^
hy-39
“Dry”: Tell “Jimmy Possum” (B.
9/4/’25) that I have found sheep-dip poured down
the nests effective in shifting ants; and cayenne
pepper sprinkled lightly around where they stieky-
beak will cure them of that habit. No alleged
exterminator I’ve ever met will kill them right out.
If “Jimmy” wants to do that, the best thing he can
do is to catch them one by one and wring their
blasted necks.
* * * *
“W.P.8.P.”: Remarks on the mosquito by
“Slam” (B. 16/4/’25) remind me of a farm-laborer
who migrated from Scotland at the tender age of
63, and made his home with us in N.Q. When told
by the lady of the house to protect her prize young
chickens with mosquito-netting at night-time, he
remarked: “But the beasties canna get through the
wire-netting!” “But,” says the lady, “you don’t
Understand; mosquitoes are little insects that come
into your room at night and bite you.” “Och, aye,”
says McTavish. “In Scotland we call ’em boogs.”
“Lilli Pilli”: In the big limestone quarry
at Portland (N.S.W.), after blasting operations,
lethargic brown frogs are sometimes seen making
their way to the sump-hole. The quarrymen say
that the amphibians come from circular cavities in
the solid rock, and show the cavities as
proof of their statement. An old Turon digger once
showed me a similar cavity in a water-worn boulder
from which he said he had released a live frog when
he broke the boulder to build it into the chimney
of his hut. But I am still sceptical. Plausible
theories are easily formed as to how they exist in
limestone, but the old digger’s boulder was of vol-
canic origin; so how the beast got inside is a
problem beside which the presence of the apple in
the dumpling is a mere circumstance.
* * * *
“Toonooba”: Recently an anthropometric
investigation of individuals of the Kamilaroi tribe
(north-west N.S.W.) was carried out. The old stock
is being rapidly diluted with white blood; within
a generation or two no full bloods will remain.
Based on the recorded measurements, frequency
graphs were plotted for full bloods and the various
CIVILISATION COMES TO TINCAN FLAT.
“Haircut or shave, sir?”
“Neither, young feller; but could yer give me missus a shingle?”
castes encountered, to study whether progressive
changes occurred as the proportion of white blood
increased. The curves showed no increase in stature,
a slight but not marked improvement in cephalic
index (ratio of head breadth to length), an increase
in the ratio of face breadth to height, no change in
the aural index, a pronounced progressive change
in the nasal index (ratio of nose breadth to height),
from the broad form of the full-blood to the
narrower form of the quarter-caste. So regular
was this last variation that one may say the pro-
portion of white blood in any abo.-white caste may
be accurately told, given the width and breadth of
the nose. Regarding intelligence, much depends on
ancestry. The older half-castes begot by sturdy
white pioneers are fine types. The modern offspring
of degenerate hang-about whites are not worth a
cuss.
“Emu Crest”: At Maadi
one dull day a berseem camel-
driver promised us a tale for a
half-piastre. A very rich old
sheik, he said, wished to die
and be gathered to the Prophet.
Despite all his yearnings he
continued above ground, unable
to appreciate the joys of life and
love. The tribe decided that he
must have offended a camel, for
it is well known that within ani-
mals reside the souls of djinns ; so
the chief camel was requisitioned
to put the sheik’s worry before
the herd, and see if there wasn't
any way out of it. The boss camel
came back from the meeting and
said: “Sheik, you may now ascend
to rest —we have forgiven you.
But before you seek the Prophet,
learn why you have so deeply
offended us. We suffered the
drivers’ whips and heavy loads, for
such things are the gifts of Allah.
But you played a dirty trick on us
when, after having strung us out
for the caravan trip, you placed
a miserable ass at the head to
lead us.” We gave Ayoub a whole
piastre.
“Tarcutta” : The strength
of a large alligator is astounding.
A Fitzroy (N.T.) cattle-run pur-
chased a number of stud short-
horn heifers which, on arrival,
were placed in a small paddock
at the homestead. Next morning
one was missing, and tracks
showed unmistakably that she had
been killed by an alligator and
dragged 200 yards to the adjoin-
ing billabong. The paddock was
separated from the water by a
six-wire netted fence, and the
heifer would have dressed in the
vicinity of scwt.
“Bouragi”: Not all bees hate sweat, as
“Top Rail” tells (B. 9/4/’25). The little black
stingless bee of the Papuan jungle desires it before
all else, as many a blasphemous wayfarer in that
land of infernal insects will be prepared to testify
The salt in the sweat is. said to be the attraction;
and when a bee finds a semi-naked and sweat-bathed
European stumbling along a jungle footpad, he
wirelesses all the hives for miles round. The bees,
when they arrive, crawl all over the victim, and
as they absorb the perspiration exude their honey till
the sufferer is stickier than can easily be imagined.
If, maddened by their crawling, he tries to brush
the pests away, they burst at the slightest touch,
and matters are worse than ever. If there are flies
about they go for the honey till, in the end, a
dive into a river or a bottle of whisky relieves the
agony.
* * * *
“D. 8.”; A few weeks ago Les Roffe, of
Tara (N.S.W.), was walking through a stubble pad-
dock, when he nearly stepped on a tiny hare. He
picked the fluffy little animal up to examine it, and
it set up a pitiful,
wailing noise. Hear-
ing the dry stubble
breaking behind him,
Roffe looked round
and there was the
mother hare charging
straight for him. She
came within five yards
or so, and kept circling
until he liberated the
noisy youngster, where-
upon mother and off-
spring lost no time in
quitting the danger
zone.
“Slam”: Can any-
one explain the cur-
lew’s power of chang-
ing the color of its
eggs according to sur-
roundings ? I have
found these eggs invari-
ab 1 y matching the
ground on which they
rested, sometimes sev-
eral clutches of dif-
ferent tints within a
few hundred yards. In
ironstone country they
are reddish-brown; in
sandy parts a tawny grey; in grass, greenish. Most
ground-nesting birds produce eggs which are marvel-
lously camouflaged, such as those of the dottrel and
the plover, but is there any other bird whose eggs
habitually change in hue to match the patch of
ground upon which they nest?
* * * *
“Duck-shot”: “Yarrum’s” 17 black ducks
with two barrels are a long way short of a record.
At the head of Sportsman’s Creek, a tributary of
the Clarence River (N.S.W.), are a number of small
lakes. One of these is still known as Slaughter-
house Lake on account of a record of 44 ducks from
two barrels. I have seen several of 10 to 15 ; in fact, I
once secured 13, using one barrel when the birds
were sitting, and the other when they were on
the rise.
THE BLACKFELLOWS' RACE.
BUSHMAN: “Who won last race, Jacky?”
JACKY: “Old Combo him bin first, Boori bin secon’!”
BUSHMAN: “Who third?”
JACKY: “Look ’ere, boss, baal mine got it three plurry
eye!”
“Rita C.”: For the origin of the epithet
“scab,” so frequently applied to the non-unionist,
look up Shakspeare’s “Troilus and Cressida.” Therein
Thersites threatens to convert Ajax into “the loath-
somest scab in Greece.”
* * * *
“8.T.P.”: In reply to an inquiry as to
whether the bite of the so-called tarantula is poison-
ous, the National Museum (Vic.) says it has no
evidence that such is the case. These spiders, of
which there are several species, usually disclosed
under the bark of trees, and commonly found in
dwellings, especially in country districts, are known
to have been frequently handled without making
any attempt to bite, though, as in the case of
several of the smaller kinds, they may do so if
roughly used.
“Cocky”: Sydney’s Royal Show dog-cata-
logue convinces me that our sheep and cattle men
are not only unpatriotic but also foolish. Kelpies
and cattle-dogs are essential in the successful work-
ing of our wool and beef industries, which mean
millions per annum to Australia. Many special
prizes are donated for useless ornamental imported
breeds, yet there’s only one “special” (donated by
a Sydney doctor) for the handsome, intelligent
working dogs that are distinctly Australian. Well-
bred dogs should be encouraged, for no mongrel, how-
ever good a worker, ever produces its kind. More-
over, the good - dog is ah economic asset by virtue
of his speedy and non-mutilating handling of the
stock in his charge. Can’t The Bulletin persuade
some of the wealthy stockowners to cease encourag-
ing the breeding of four-furlong “racing” ponies,
anu help on the breeding of Australia’s own dogs ?
# * * *
“Borom” : Amongst devastating drinks one
of the most dynamic is the fermented cocoanut toddy
of the Pacific Islands. Usually this will ferment
without anything to start it, owing to the presence
of a natural alcohol-producing agent. The fer-
mentation process is vigorous and short, the resultant
liquor being anything but attractive in taste and
smell, the latter resembling the odor of the spent
mash in a distillery. But it contains an extra-
ordinarily high proportion of alcohol, as well as
other chemical bodies which add to its powers of
intoxication. Very little is required to produe< (
a sense of physical exhilaration, followed by a pro-
found stupor which may last for hours and from which
it is usually impossible to arouse a person by ordi-
nary means. The after-effects are worse than those
of any other alcoholic drink I know of, including
“pinky,” but for some Europeans it seems to possess
a strange attraction, resembling that of the deadly
cana or “white rum” of South America. The lure
has been responsible for the degradation of many a
white man in the Islands.
* * * *
“Centre”: “Dingo’s” explanation re the
oleander (B. 16/4/’25) doesn’t fit in with my experi-
ence of the vegetable. I’ve a hedge of the stuff
growing 12 feet high along some half furlong of mv
garden, and, liking the scent of the flowers, generally
have a bowl or two of them in the house while the
thing’s in bloom. So far none of the family has
seemed any the worse for it. If the plant is half as
poisonous as “Dingo” reports it to be, I ought to
have turned up my toes long ago, for I’ve often
picked a blossom and stuck it in my mouth as I
1 °t home and passed through the gate in the hedge
on my way to work in the morning. The flowers
are red, pale pink and pure white, and bloom in great
quantities, scenting the air for a considerable distance
round. My hedge has had close on 20 years in
which to poison something, but, as far as I know,
hasn’t been guilty of killing even one of “Wink’s”
blowflies.
* * * *
“Coolabah”: It is the male cicada that
makes all the noise. When the beat become intense
lie commences to skirl, thus disclosing his position
to his enemies. But there is a certain amount of
ventriloquism about his noisiness, and this protects
him against some of his foes. The boring-beetle is
similarly protected. A large black moth which is
fond of coming inside and hanging to the wall or
ceiling gives out a hissing sound, but you are lucky
if you locate the insect by the sound alone. Perhaps
the furniture aids the ventriloquism in this case.
“Jacky Roo”: “Buttenderry”(B.l6/4/’25)
takes my remarks anent sheep and water too literally.
1 agree that sheep do require water in ordinary cir-
cumstances ; but I reiterate that they can live and
fatten in a waterless paddock of good green lucerne
or green herbage. “Buttenderry’s” yarn about the 274
jummies that crowded into a corner and perished
in a few days is, unfortunately, not uncommon;
but such tragedies are usually the punishment of a
careless owner for neglecting to ride his paddocks
often enough. In my experience of sheep, they will
live without feed or water for about five days—in
any climate. Moreover, I suspect “Buttenderry’s’'
“fairly good season” is Narrabri optimism ; and T say
again that had there been abundance of green
herbage in the fatal corner the jummies would have
lived.
» * * *
“Adamascus”: I can add a few more to
the fantastic forms that alluvial gold-nuggets have
taken (B. 9/4/’25). My father kept the store at
the Dee River (C.Q.) in the early days of the rush,
and queer nuggets used to be brought to him. The
strangest was the exact shape of a lemonade-bottle
of the kind used in those days, i.e., pointed at the
bottom. It weighed about 30oz. One day a beautiful
nugget of pure gold was brought to be weighed, and
if. just tipped the scale at 121 b. While the nugget
was swinging on the scale a three-weelcs-old baby
was also brought in to be weighed, and it exactly
balanced the nugget of gold. A 1350 z. nugget found
on the Dee River was the shape of a pancake, a
gentle, symmetrical curve on the top and absolutely
flat beneath.
* * * *
“Lobje”: Why is it that mountain
men are so clannish? In our country (I name no
names, but it’s where one young man got peeved the
other day and shot up a whole picnic party) there
are a dozen families at daggers drawn. It’s the
same down in the Kelly country and up in the
Liverpool ranges. Perhaps there’s something in
the air. With sweat and blood and blasphemy, a
cocky near us had erected a fence on a little-visited
corner of his property. He reckoned he had to tie
his crowbar and shovel with bits of rope to keep them
from sliding half a mile every time he put them
down; and how he got the wire up there I don’t
know. But he said it would be worth it, as the
people next door wouldn’t be able to pinch all
his stock now. Some time later he invited me to
come and inspect, and after a two hours’ climb
we found a line of empty postholes. “Gawdstruth! ”
he said, “they’ve pinched me bianky fence!”
* * * *
“Snowy”: A N.S.W. North Coast resident
has, during the last two fuit seasons, been testing a
remedy for fruit-fly. Whilst the crops of neighbors
only a couple of hundred yards away were ruined,
he was gratified to find that on each occasion his
fruit remained untouched. This was the start of it.
An old German, when going to bed on his verandah
bunk, used to smear his face and hands with citro-
nella against mosquitoes. Almost invariably when
ANOTHER ELECTION MANIFESTO.
“Wot’s yours is mine — see? An’ wot’s mine
is yours. An’ wot’s everybody else’s
ain’t nobody’s but ours!”
he awoke he was troubled not by skeeters but by
tiny flies. He drew the attention of a visiting friend
to the insects, and was told that they were the
orchard pest. After filling ordinary liquid-holding
fly-traps with water, plus a few drops of strong citro-
nella, he placed them near the butts of his fruit-
trees, and found that the flies were attracted in
great numbers, and then drowned, the fruit remain-
ing perfectly healthy.
SALT SCORPIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Skipper he was a wowser sour
As he sailed the big, wet sea ;
But his First Mate kept down one per hour
From a bottle of rum, O.P.
So once when the Captain \vrote his log,
He finished up, sad to say,
With the bald remark (the dirty dog!):
“And the Mate was drunk all day.”
When the Mate saw this he went blue-pink,
And the words of his wrath were grand.
But the Cap was curt: “I’ll erase ifb ink.
It’s the truth —it’ll have to stand.”
Eftsoons the noscent Captain fell
Abunk with a grievous ill;
And promptly the Mate put the plug in well —
He’d the Old Man’s job to fill.
And he wrote up the log with little guile
Except for the sting that lay
In the tail, agog with venomed bile:
“And the Captain was sober all day!”
u.s.w.
KRYHE KWITZE.


Meggitt’s Talk on the
Fodder Problem.
Owing to the dry conditions existing in the North-Western,
Central-Western and Southern districts of New South Wales and
in several other parts of Australia, pastures are lacking in
succulence and feeding value.
Malnutrition and digestive troubles among sheep will be the
consequence.
This will be reflected in tender wool, lighter fleeces, impaired
milk secretion among ewes and lower lamb-marking percentages,
all of which mean great financial loss to the grazier and to the
Commonwealth.
The hand-feeding of either maize, oats or hay
does not supply the correct food element to combat
these losses.
%
&
m
s
/
A food rich in the essentials for wool-growth, for milk secretion in ewes, for body
maintenance, and one which supplies the lacking succulence, is necessary,
SUCH A FOOD IS
Meggitt Ltd.’s Pure Linseed
Sheep Nuts.
In addition to the high content of protein and mineral salts, which supplies the animal
needs for body maintenance, wool-growth and milk secretion, the nine per cent, of Linseed
oil contained in the Sheep Nuts acts as a laxative and regulator of the system and prevents
the digestive troubles so common among sheep on dried-up pastures.
The cost of such feeding is less than sixpence per sheep, per month!
This figure is based on truck quantities and includes railway charges to
the furthest points from Capital Cities.
In face of these facts why tolerate reduced wool clips, impaired wool
quality and loss of lambs?
WRITE US FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND MEGGITT S
SHEEP BOOK, 2nd EDITION.
llNSttooilffm
Ml
r\ EUUTT c
PARRAMAm
( )/Ae boy on the bog
guarantees quality
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Messrs. Corser & Co., Maryborough.
Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville
and Cairns.
TASMANIA:
Messrs, F. W. Heritage & Co. ?ty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
GGJ
UNimciiiM[«
W
‘y/ie boy on the bay
guarantees quality


TON
The Hall-mark
of Quality.
Quality —V alue—Distinction
are embodied in the
Flush back Popular Ensign
This is a new and distinctive type
of Pocket Camera to use daylight-
loading Roll Films.
It is British-made, compact and
exceedingly strongly made. The
covering and bellows are of real
leather.
The Flush Back Popular Ensign
may be had in 2 sizes—
No. . . for pictures 3| x 2}
No. 2| . . for pictures 4} x2l
A choice of leiises is available,
Single Achromatic; Plutar Rapid
Aplanat; Aldis Plano Anastigmat
and Cooke-Luxor Anastigmat.
Considering the sterling quality the price is remarkably low.
£3/7/6
No. 2-|-
£4/2/6
to
£7/16/-
The House for
Good Cameras,
SYDNEY: 386 Georgre Street.
MELBOURNE: 366 Collins Street.
KATOOMBA:
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Streei
Katoomba Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 43 Willis Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
What Your Former
Opinions of Player
Pianos Were ! !
Hear and Play
the
GULBRANSEN
Zuc%%oncer£c
Registering Piano,
and understand what it means to Register Your
Personal Touch.
Though this instrument is played by Music Rolls
and Pedals, it is not e. Player Piano in the
ordinary sense. With the Duo Concerto every
note is separately controlled by you—your own
individuality cannot be suppressed.
Cash or Terms.
Open Friday Evenings.
0
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE AGENCY: 10 HUNTER STREET.
Telephones: City 10751 and 10752.
HAFCDY BFLOS LTD.
J EWELLER.S
3911
HO
no
SAPPHIRE and DIAMOND RINGS
of Unsurpassed Quality and Value
TP HESE Sapphire and Diamond Rings are typical
examples of Hardy Brothers policy of pro-
ducing high-class Jewellery of modern design and
exquisite workmanship at prices which represent
values unobtainable elsewhere in Australia. The
Company s name is synonymous with finest quality
and strict integrity— a reputation of over seventy
years’ standing.
Five per cent. Discount allowed, on Cash Purchases. An attractive
Catalogue forwarded anywhere on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
£//te c J~fozis-£ oP Exclusive VewclLeru
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
m
iptp
fl| ■-:j ■ :U.’v"
mgmm
hen ordering, kindly state
size round Chest (over Vest),
also height and weight. For
Boys’ Coats, siniplv state size.
This Splendid
Stormcoat —
55/-
A striking tribute to Murdoch’s “Mill to
Wearer” methods, which save you all
Middlemen’s Profits.
These Overcoats for Men are made
from genuine All-Wool English Blanket
Tweeds of superb quality and robust
make. Smart tailored lines. “Rag-
lan” style, with or with-
out full belt (as illus-
tration). Grey or Brown
shades
Others in a variety of fabrics and makes at
63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/--and 105/-
Boys’ Overcoats.
Made “just like Dad’s” —Boys’ Rag-
lan Overcoats in good-wearing
Woollen Tweeds. Belt
all round, unlined, Grey
or Brown shades. Sixes 0
to 2, fit boys 2 to 4 years.
Other Sizes:
3 to 5, fit 5 to 7 years. . 30/-
6to 8, fit boys Bto 10 years.. 32/6
Other qualities and makes at prices ranging
from 30/- to 80/-
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
55 1-
27|6
Send for this New Murdoch
Illustrated Catalogue—s2
Pages crowded with “Mill
to Wearer” values in Men's
and Boys’ Wear. W rite
ta Desk R.
ft
| v 4
M
r; id
w
- SS W
jSSSS
XXVWvN^
>XvX«oox
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest *
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ ftoin*
pensation, etc., etc.
n
m
ss^
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
* i *
me
Melbourne
Chatter
The Playhouse on May Day evening re-
sembled a gala night at the opera when the
first of the six lectures on French music,
arranged by the president ol the Alliance
Frangaise, Mrs. James Dyer, was unleashed.
These dissertations were written for tin 1 enter-
prising lady by a front-rank French critic,
Mons. Calvocoressi. Blue and red lights
twinkled and irises in lieu of fleur-de-lis
bloomed amid the foliage and green and gold
draperies on the balcony balustrade; flowers
and grapes framed the boxes, where reposed
posies tied with national colors for the other
halves of the various Consuls present.
Patrons were frocked and furred to corres-
pond. The night was a triumph for Mrs.
Dyer, who added antique gold ear-rings to
black raiment; and, incidentally, she footed
the bill. Not until the final curtain went
down, and the French Consul returned the
Alliances’s thanks, was the vulgar English
language spoken. Even the programme was
in the foreign tongue. The lecture was but
a peg whereon were hung charming songs,
pianoforte pieces and ballets of many periods.
Performers in fascinating apparel of the eras
stepped from out a gold frame during breath-
ers in the lecture. Clive Carey’s singing
was a great help; and other burden-bearers
were Victoria Anderson, Viola Morris, Roy
Warren, Arthur Kempton and Mrs. Zelman.
Six small girls tripped a minuet, and more
mature damsels floated in Grecian robes
through a ballet of the Muses. Pianist Doris
Haddon played pieces of the older French
school charmingly, and. Harold Elvins showed
his disapproval of the mere moderns by mak-
ing the same drastically uninteresting.
Poulenc, a composer who changes gears con-
trary to all rules of the musical road, was
presented in a sonata duet by these two
artists. Albert Zelman guided the orchestra.
Melbourne Uni. completed its week of Com-
mencement celebrations on Saturday with an
irregular fancy-dress perambulation of grads,
and undergrads, around the Block in the
moaning, conferring of degrees in the after-
noon, and a medley at the Uni. at night.
Both the ordinary citizen and the traffic cop
good-humoredly helped the morning’s esca-
pades—by the time the amateur “point’
policemen had muddled the job, the genuine
article was incapable of restoring order.
Local happenings were duly caricatured,
from cross-word puzzles to the doings of C.
J. de Vanish. An amateur fire brigade com-
menced operations in Bourkc-street, sheiks,
brigands and prehistoric persons wandered
into the shops selling buttons for the night s
gala, and no harm was done.
The afternoon found the fine Wilson Hall
crowded for the seventieth conferring of
degrees. Attaches, with Vice-Chancellor
John Monash last, proceshed imposingly
through the building to the dais, to the
accompaniment of an atrociously-played
march —a gorgeous array of gowns and caps.
A new degree appeared in Bachelor of Metal-
lurgical Engineering. Professor Frank Long-
staff Apperly, nephew of John Longstaff,
drew a D.Sc. There were rounds of ap-
plause for the popular rector of Newman
College, Father J. M. Murphy, M.A. (Royal
University of Ireland), and Professor Scutt,
M.A. (Cam.), who were by “special grace’
furnished each with an M.A. (Melb.). The
girls pretty well balanced the sterner sex in
graduations, and more hospitals will need to
be erected to accommodate the doctors.
Edward Stevens’s presentation clock,
adorning the tower of the new Arts build-
ing, was started by Mrs. Stevens. Its first
job was to strike the hour of adjournment
for afternoon tea, which was served in the
club-house.
St. Kilda Town Hall, in crimson and gold,
housed the Uni. Commencement Ball on Friday
night. Official guests included Dr. James
Barrett and his wife, the lady in sili*er
brocaded tissue. Warden of the Senate
W. M. Phillips brought his other half, ap-
parelled in black velvet embossed georgette.
An array of Professors rolled up to the jazz,
and lions of the moment were Oxford de-
baters Ramsay Macdonald and W. E. Hollis.
Girl grads, proved that the higher education
lias not robbed them of the dress-sense, and
all went merrily.
On Thursday night 300 invited guests
had a step or two with a spot and some
bird at the Brenan girls’ new Embassy.
Jennie was wound in shaded crystal-to-green
fringe from chest-line to skirt-hem, hung
upon peacock green georgette glimmering
over silver tissue and lace—-like a stage-sea
under the spotlight. Brilliants upon velvet
coroneted her coiffure. Sister Eileen was
sheathed in flesh-pink georgette all crystal-
lised. Black chiffon velvet clothed their
proud mamma. Raiment worn at this rally
indicated that beads must be paying divi-
dends; and flowers bloomed on almost every
shoulder. Legs are again legs; there was
much shapely display. The Groom lady was
in black; U.S.A. Trade Commissioner Pauley
brought his wife arrayed in almond-green;
Mrs. Tom Grantham was silver-tissued and
black-laced. Gold tracery was upon Madame
Turek’s orange gown; Miss Baillieu was
draped in Turner sunset hues of satin ; Mar-
garet Winter-Irving, tall and slender, was
an iris in mauve charmante; Mrs. Billy
Fanning sported the Galli-Curci coiffure
above a flame-hued gown ; Mrs. K. Baillieu
(Grade Lavers who was) aired black lace
flounces upon black; Norman Brookes s part-
ner was attractive in cherry _ and silver.
Desmond McMinn, London’s third-best exhi-
bition dancer, is an importation of the
Brenaus. Rather largely built and tall, with
a well licked fair shingle, the fairy-footed
youth is already the flappers' idol. He sails
the ballroom like a seaplane, with nether gar-
ments flapping; for trousers are worn as
expansive as those of the man before the
mast. lie demonstrated with Jennie and
Vivienne Knox Knight.
Pauline Frederick was persuaded into
“saying grace” over Dora Wilson’s show of
pastels and paintings at the New Gallery.
The actress, with a vest of ecru lace cheer-
ing an all-black suit, her shingle hidden
under much drooping sable millinery, and
hugging a garden of blue delphiniums, made
a nice study for a lady in black. Stating
that her only coherent talk was about gee-
gees, and admitting to panic when desired
to speak an naturel, Pauline lihnded the busi-
ness over to Frank Russell, the author of
“The Ashes of Achievement.” A close-up of
the flicker star drew a record first-day attend-
ance, and Dora’s delightful studies, particu-
larly of children, kept the other visitors long
after Pauline had departed. Among the
portraits hung were those of Suzanne, daugh-
ter of Mrs. Simon Frazer, and Gertrude Dix.
Zoe Wenke gets the plums of the
“Skittles” wardrobe at the Athenaeum —a
cinnamon-brown gown flounced in russet-
hued georgette, and a suit of the hue of the
apple leaves of oarlv Spring, fashioned with
a long coat bordered with grey fur that will
set youth wishing. Yet another pang will be
caused by an iris-blue of many pleats, with
attachments and hat of beige shade. Maggie
Jarvis, too, has a dainty little bit of cover-
ing in white crepe marocain, with embroidery
in autumn coloring.
These bright eyes pictured by Ruskin be-
long to Jennie Brenan, who has been for several
years the power that has made the feet of the
ballet twinkle in pantomime and musical
comedy for the
J.C.W. an d
other theatri-
cal firms. Just
back from her
annual trip
a b r o a d to
gather f res h
ideas, she is
hard at it
getting her new
dancing ren-
dezvous ready
for to-morrow
night’s open-
ing. There is
a time, she
says, when
one makes a
plunge to sink
or swim, and
she took it
w hen she
bought prem-
ises in Alfred-
place, off Collins-street, for up-to-date teach-
ing rooms and ballroom. The first floor is
devoted to the training of the ballet by sister
Eileen and herself. A rose-carpeted stair-
case leads to the ballroom, a thing of beauty
of white walls, rose lace curtains and bro-
caded settees. A tiny balcony will house
Tom Swift’s jazz band. The culinary depart-
ment is upstairs. Dancing on three after-
noons a week and every evening is the pro-
gramme.
Melbourne is over-run with gaiters and
dog-collars just now. Archbishops, bishops
and clerics of lesser tonnage have assembled
for the big Anglican Church Congress which
opened on the third. In its honor the Cath-
ecfral bellringers are to attempt to ring a
peal of grandsire triplos, which contain 5040
changes, and will involve four hours’ per-
spiration. An art exhibition in St. Peter’s
Hall, Eastern Hill, will be open every after-
noon to show what can be done in Australia
in the line of church decorations. Local
manufactured articles hold their own in it.
Chatter, tea, music, raffles and sales of
flowers and sweets at the Francatelli pro-
vided a cheque that will lessen the debt on
the Collingwood Crfeche. En route to the
Sydney express Lady Forster looked in for
an hour, and had a few words to say on the
work, president Mrs. W. J. Earle handing
over a posy of crimson roses, which cheered
nicely her Ex.’s sapphire-blue apparel.
Walter Kirby was responsible for the gather-
ing of some 28 performers, who sang, talked
or played “as the spirit moved them,” to
quote the programme. The spirit didn't
materialise, but they all did remarkably well
upon tea. The Francatelli footed the bill
for the refreshment, and secretaries Nan
Robinson and Margot Best smiled happily
upon their gleanings.
La Fayette has captured the attractive
looks of Mrs. W, M. Robins, the organiser of so
many of Mel-
bourne’s cliari-
table appeals.
She is the
popular wife
of the Vic-
torian Super-
intendent of
the Mint. Dur-
ing the
of the Great
Travail the
lady came in-
to the front-
line trenches
of war work,
and has never
retired from
the ranks. She
and her co-
enthusiast. the
Tallis dame,
have many in-
terests, but
their pet hobby
is the Queen' Victoria Hospital, for which
they have raked in hundreds of thousands
of the Jimmy Q’Goblins which it is her
husband's business to produce.
Friends rolled up well at the Assembly
Hall for the two-piano recital of Katie
Fiddle and Rene Morrissy. Healthy tone and
sparkling technique gained applause and
boxes and posies for the duo. A seasonable
gift w r as a sheaf of holly, red-berried and red-
ribboned. In frocking Katie favored powder-
blue raiment, waisted with flowers, and Ren-
nie's shingle rose above pink brocaded crepe
de Chine. An interesting programme had
among its notable performances Brahms’s
“Variations on a Theme Haydn,” the bril-
liant “Feu Roulant” (Duvernoy), and “Moy
Mell” (Arnold Bax). Joseph Foster’s good
baritone was heard in modern British songs
and Schubert’s “Erl King.”
Our rate of progression from the horse-
drawn-cab to the up-to-the-minute-and-beyond
motor-vehicle is being demonstrated at the
motor-show opened at the Exhibition by the
G.-G. The latest limousine shares interest
with a Cobb and Co. coach of 186r>. a totter-
ing relic now laurel-wreathed. The evolu-
tion of the Ford, from the 1004 model of
the high two-seater variety, shows that some
brains, at any rate, have grown no moss
in 20 years. The gorgeous drawing-room
on wheels bound in vellum or morocco and
equipped with foot-warmers seems too ex-
quisite for use. The next thing necessary
is the evolution of our roads into modern
thoroughfares.
Melbourne’s art world, patrons and mere
performers, crowded into the Victorian
Artists’ rather dull headquarters to hear
Speaker Watt praise and open the Artists’
annual show. Miss Butler-George’s bas-
reliefs for the Mont St. Quentin Memorial
find hosts of admirers, in spite of the doubt
whether it was fashionable for the Artillery
to go shirtless and in shorts in France. Of
the profession present was Paul Montford,
who looks the sculptor; with him was his
other half, in black lace millinery above
grey gowning: she is a miniature painter of
some renown. Mrs. Phillips Fox. cream
coated and black hatted; the Allen and
Barrett ladies; Dr. Apperly and his wife;
and Mrs. K. E. McClelland, Mrs. T. F.
Laver and Mrs. B. Stewart—-she charming
in black and white, with fitch furs and a tall
silk hat—helped to obscure each other's
view.
Just when Theodore Fink of the Herald
had added the morning Sun to his company’s
wordly possessions, the Benjamin of his
household, son Thorold, announced to him a
prospective daughter-in-law—pretty Jean Gil-
christ, only daughter of the D. J. Gilchrists
of Toorak.
'The Quamby Club housed a farewell bone-
picking last week to Mrs. Alan Newton,
another traveller to the Great Smoke. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, all in black, presided.
The clan of Grimwade gathered last week
at the Toorak cot of Russell of the ilk, to
drink a farewell bumper to the latter’s
nephew, Thornton, who is sailing towards
the Great Smoke.
Adna, daughter of architect Walter But-
ler, whose aesthetic efforts in gables and
flats strew Toorak, wears a new engage-
ment ring. The young man is still in
London —he’s a relative named Jack Butler
—but he is packing up to claim his lass.
Some rare acts of unselfishness occurred
when the evening Sun set on Anzac Day.
Folk who found they were among the saved
asked that their jobs might be hauded to
those who needed them more. The generosity
was not shown solely by the sterner sex;
there were girls also who voluntarily said
good-bye to a comfortable salary because
there wei'e households depending upon some
other lasses’ weekly screws.
The usual conversazione of the Vic. Artists’
Society brought together on Saturday night
many fellow-wielders of the brush. President
Longstaff, whose portrait of Mrs. Fred
Fairbairn in her gladdest rags and best
jewellery is the pride of the exhibition,
informally beamed upon all. Fritz Hart
brought a quartette of hopes of the Albert-
street Con. to intrude melody between chat,
criticism and coffee. The laisses were
pianist Eleanor Glapham, fiddler Margot
Macgibbon, and songsters Winnie Fix and
Lola Edwards. Among the fraternisers
were the Montford pair, the Tom Carters,
Esther Paterson, Ena Smith, Percy Mel-
drum, Bernard Hall, the Marks pair and
Charles Wheeler. Dr. Gwyneth Wisewold,
Mrs. Penleigh Boyd and Mrs. Bellew were
interested. A pencil drawing by C. Nuttall,
and “A Corner of Mentone Beach,” in oils,
by W. D. Knox, are the slender purchases
of the National Gallery.
Instead of standing for the Fawkner
seat in the House of Reps., Mrs.
John Jones, president of the Melbourne
Women Citizens’ Movement, has gone for a
trip to England. You’ll remember that her
husband’s parishioners at St. lvilda objected
to her candidature, and that, after getting
floods of limelight, she withdrew. So sitting-
member Maxwell will have one rival the less
when polling-day arrives.
Mrs. A. T. Craig and daughter Bessie
were farewelled with music and tea at Men-
zies’ on their jaunting homewards by the
Euripides. The party was hostessed by Mrs.
W. E. J. Craig, whose attractive wrapping
was beige kasha touched up with cerise and
aluminium embroidery.
Doris Armytage, daughter of the George
Armytages of Yaralla, Toorak, who has
done her bit towards many charitable func-
tions, left by the Ormuz with her brother for
a year in Europe. Farewell gatherings in-
cluded a mustering of friends at Aunt Ada
Armytage’s Holme Park.
A. C. C. Holtz, the business head of the
Argus, will occupy the presidential chair of
the Rotary Club for the coming year. Just
now it is bent on raising £lO,OOO for Boy
Scout Week, which will be in full swing
when May looks in. The idea is to endow
the headquarters of the Association.
Miss Adelaide’s observations—
The Mayoral Glovers and Dr. Harold Davies were
among those who showered flowers and approval
upon Hilda Beimann at her Town Hall Conceit.
Just back from four years in Europe as an Elder
scholar, she has learnt to do most things with her
violin except fry eggs, and took the platform triumph-
antly for most of the evening.
After due deliberation, the Kirk has decided against
feminine elders. The sex had champions in Dr.
Seymour and Kev. K. Campbell, but the majority
were against them on grounds that varied from a
fear that women elders might lead to women pastors
to an objection that the innovation would be un-
scriptural.
Silver, flushed with pink and with a veil of cloudy
tulle, was the wedding frock of Jean Nieholls,
married in the St. Peter’s College Chapel to Eloyd,
second of the Albion Tolley sons. There were pink
roses about the chancel steps and more on the
tables at the South Australian, where the toast-
drinking was staged, and where Mrs. Nieholls,
in georgette with touches of delicate pinks, mauves
and blues, extended the hand of welcome.
The Alliance Frangaise has opened its 1925 season
with a session at which a description of Lourdes by
Mdlle. de Maistre was the star item. The bulk of
last year’s balance —a comfy one —will help to
fill the society’s bookshelves.
From England comes news of the sudden death
of Miss Mary Stirling. The fourth daughter of the
late Edward Stirling, she did notable work in
the war, at canteens in France and with the Scottish
Women’s Hospital in Servia and afterwards at St.
Dunstan’s.
The public has been slow to wake up to the
merits of the Stralia Co., and the Town Hall isn’t
filled as it should be. Yet even the empty chairs
cai-’t restrain their enthusiasm, and Madame beams
her thanks from some wonderful gowns. Bessie Griffiths
has smiled her way into all hearts, and when
Arthur Jordan gets on to the platform his chief
business is to induce the public to let him off again.
Local singers, or those who took their voices for
competition to the Exhibition, have had a snub
from adjudicator Lindo. He said that none of the
mezzos were w'orth a first, prize, and didn’t award
one, and he sat on the baritones, rubbing in his
criticism by pointing to the basses as an example
of what could and should be done.
The Edmund and Keith Bowman dames were
hostesses in the pink-decked Palais at the first big
hop of the season, which promises to be a giddy
one. We are still too small a community to man
successfully two smart dances on the same night, and
because of the fetich that all such frivols must be
on Friday the booking of dates is becoming as com-
plicated as a cross-word puzzle. Committee dances
with anything from three hostesses to twenty are loom-
ing large on the horizon, and of the subscription ones
two of the first will be the University's and St.
Mark’s College’s.


A. SAUNDERS’ Exclusive Jewellery
SPECIALLY SELECTED
1
u und
übjp.
’ Sil k h’ lr,lf »M
’ **7o
o. Jl^j t ,
’>!ltu
N»‘\\ ••'
amci 2 J'W'&xw
ui
G>
i>-.> «*»:&
S!?,
*<** )f>- o^-w
atl ‘
i,] unj
am
\» w
5 4,
e,-s ’ ,)
„/ 1( >
lfcSfAfe-,
®4*
,J «4
H
" n <lei- s >
°<6n Jgsf
'
'*"* &?-«
£Sq Pj;>t iri
Util
SENT POST FREE.
A. Saunders'-'double-
cut Diamond Clus-
ter Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ double
cut Diamond Ring
18ct. Gold, real Plati
num set, £35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £2O. £l5,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £2O.
DIAMONDS
PLATINUM SETTINGS
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond All-
Platinum Ring,
£95.
, 1 - ,■
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond All-
Platinum Ring,
£9O.
HP
lfe>
Site:
VSi
A. Saunders’ Emer-
ald and double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Cross-
over Ring, IBct.
Gold, Platinum set,
A. Saunders' double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Cold, Plati-
num set, £35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Platinum
set, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £2O, £lO.
ffM
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Clus-
ter Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set,
£l2/10/-
m
a
S &. »*■
co*. *s&&
K- ',, ft'
at c^
CV* B ®’
«»* JU.
latCft
V«e
SW) .< 3* f*&*'
h- '. ftltei c \ a sP’
ijj a.tcfc>
• v>-tt v ' A^ c GoV^
GoVi
re
QoV^
GoV*
k &.* 0 -
VJat CO-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
-ar
ffi
n
Some very smart and serviceable
Overcoats at Peapes’
Styles being now completely formulated and stocks complete for
Winter, 1925, Peapes present a most exclusive range of the season’s
smartest and most exclusive fashions.
While materials, shape and finish adhere in every instance to that
standard of perfect quality so rigidly demanded by Peapes, prices show
a marked decrease on those of previous years.
Ready-to-wear
Overcoats.
CEl—Light Grey Donegal Tweed
Raglan 75/-
CE 2—Light Brown or Light Green
Effects in Scotch Tweed Rag-
lans so/-, 95/-
CE 3 —Reseda or Smart Blue-Brown
Fleecy Tweed Raglan, with
belt 105/-
CE 4—Medium Grey Harris Tweed,
with faint red over-squares,
loose-fitting Raglan 105/-
CE s—-Fawn Covert Coating Raglan,
with belt 105/-
CE 6—Dark Grey Pure Wool Single-
breasted Chesterfield .... 105/-
CE 7 —Dark Olive Herringbone West
of England Tweed, unlined, set-
in sleeves £6/15/-
CE B—Reseda8 —Reseda Frieze Raglan, with
faint large over-squares.. 135/-
Ready-to-wear
Raincoats.
(Raglan Style).
CE 18—Olive Wool Gabardine, check
lined 75/-
CE 20—Dark Fawn AVool Gabardine,
“Two-way” collar, with belt. 85/-
CE 21—Shale Grey AA T ool Garbi-Twill.
with belt 105/-
CE 22—Stone Fawn Gabardine, check
lining, without belt 105/-
CE 23—Navy Blue Fast Dye AVool
Gabardine, with belt 110/-
CE 24—Grey or Fawn AA'ool Gabardines
and Garbicords, lined through-
out proofed check linings. With
belts 115/-, 126/-
CE 25—Double-breasted Navy Blue
Gabardine, with belt 126/-
CE 26—Dark Grey Garbi-Twill, check
lined, without belt 126/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest and waist measurement.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
George Street (ppp. Hunter Street)
SYDNEY.
Write for a copy of Peapes' Winter Catalogue.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Tom
GeorgeV
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE (
iidsi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACNC
QjaricsHeidsic^
REIMS
m#* 9 *
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney
&
O
T |e /4ustralia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
SHEEP SALES and
POLO CARNIVAL
June-July in Sydney.
The interest of the one and the spell of the other will
draw many thousands of visitors to Sydney. But to
only a small percentage —those wh* reserve accommo-
dation now —can "The Australia" offer all those
niceties of accommodation and enjoyment which
its name has has come to signify.
Telegraphic-Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Sinele Room, with Breakfast, from 13'6; Luncheon or Dinner
from 4/6; Light Luncheon in the Winter Qaiden from 2/6.
The Coolest Spot in Sydney,
rtf
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 12.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches. this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 217-
Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons, 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and 57-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-, with
the privilege of two hours’ delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodics of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone M 3666.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kaysey
CLOVES
Pre-eminently Boat Race Day is sister s
day out, and she bit into it on Satur-
day to the core. She pushed and scrambled
and roared with a power that put grown men
behind metal megaphones to the blush. She
was shrined defiantly with knees crossed on
the bows of every kind of boat. When she
got her best shoes and stockings _ soaked by
the wash she simply waved a flippant leg.
One poor lass after continuous screeching
met her Waterloo. Opening her mouth for a
prodigious yell she got as far as “Gram” —but,
here her voice-box struck. With a look of tragic
dismay she closed her useless jaws, and when
Sydney High shot to victory and Head of
the River in the Eights, with Grammar lag-
ging a poor third, the girl looked volumes.
She seemed to accuse the Fates dumbly.
“Had you left me the voice of exhortation
this could not have happened!” _ In the
evening the grey skies turned to rain, and it
was a cooling but not subdued fleet of on-
lookers that made for the Quay. Were they
down-heartedV No! Across the dusky
waters a triumphant “Grammar!” would
bring a challenging “Shore!” or “Joey’s!”
The argument was terse but appeared con-
clusive.
Hundreds of old boys too far away to get
to the river to view the contest had every
inch of the race described to them by wire-
less. Even as the oars dipped and rose, and
the muscles of the rowers tensed or relaxed,
the man before the magic microphone broad-
casted the scene to all Australia. And when
the struggle was over Australia caught the
shrieks and the cheers almost as deafeningly
as if a continent had been crowded on to the
little- old wharf at Chiswick.
On the first trip of the crowded Aorangi
to Vancouver the jazzers on board had a
queerer experience than that—-one dance was
to the music of the ship’s band and the next
to that of a hotel orchestra in San Fran-
cisco: the ship’s wireless picked it up and
turned it on through the loud speaker. But
even that didn’t quite make up for the other
word that the wireless brought: that, in con-
sequence of a small-pox scare in Vancouver,
the U.S. Government wouldn’t allow into
the Republic any recently-unvaccinated per-
son who had passed through the Canadian
port.
Quite a furrow was cut in the harbor from
Man-o’-War steps to the landing-stage at
Admiralty House by ferries and launches
laden with human freight for the G.-G.’s
garden-party last Thursday. To GOO stately
homes (flat-building as well as the one-roof-
one-family variety) the vice-regal chamber
lain had posted cards for the al fresco flutter,
and to these! there were GOO replies in
person. The day was warm and blue and
still beneath the touch of autumn ; and above
the emerald of the grassy terraces the house
that can never be anybody’s home brooded
greyly. Down below the sloping gardens
breasting the limpid depths of Port Jack-
son, Fort Denison, hard bitten and debonair,
seemed to be a stone craft sailing out to sea
on Heaven knows what adventure; and the
26 officers of the H.M.S. Concord, just
in port that dawning, looked, with all braid
spread, the land-leave equivalent of Fort
Denison.
The G.-G. and his lady had cast a wide
net for what was said to be their last big
Sydney entertainment before they leave Aus-
tralia. Law, medicine, commerce and good
works trod amiably upon one another at
the buffet. Federal Chief Justice Knox and
State Chief Justice Street came to the party;
Papal-Delegate Cattaneo, his cloak the
fashionable hue of the moment, wore his
green-corded shovel hat above a benign smile,
and posed alternately with Commander
Wood, of the Concord, for the busy press
photographers. Later in the afternoon Lady
de Chair, accompanied by Elaine, came on
from a Y.W.C.A. party, and brought lustrous
brown marocains superimposed with velvet
of golden sheen to put a further glow into
the afternoon. Premier George Fuller’s lady
and daughter Gwen were among the trippers
on the green, Gwen sporting a lush crop of
furs above smart navy. The Hon. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers shadowed by two small sons and Mrs.
Tony Hordern sheathed her good looks in
a magenta tube surmounted by a stone
marten choker and black millinery. Dame
Waley was an attraction in brown tailorings
served with amber ear-rings and two popular
daughters. Mrs. Sep Levy, who came with
Mr. Sep and her two daugliters-in-law, wore
an outfit that would send a Maori pah mad
with envy. It suggested a lightweight travel-
ling rug striped in black, grey and red, and
it flew the new oblong cape. One of the
belles of the afternoon wore her cape cut in
this fashion—she was Commander Leo
Quick’s wife, and she and V iolet Robins, the
new naval commandant’s daughter, kept each
other company.
Surgeon Maitland’s widow hurried away
from the vice-regal garden-party to see that
elephantine Princess Alice was quite ready
for her appearance at the Hippodrome in the
evening. Princess Alice was the Queen of
the May as far as the benefit performance of
Wirths’ Circus for the T.B. fund was con-
cerned. The focus of thousands of eyes that
were weighing her —complexion cream and
the small beauty-spot on the left hind hoof
included —H.R.H. comported herself with
dignity, but did look a bit coy when a young
man from Pyrmont passed down word from
the circle that she would turn the scale at
three and a half tons. His was the nearest
guess and to him goes the wristlet watch, but
Alice gave him one look of reproach as much
as to say: “My old friend Chesterfield would
never have mentioned the extra half-ton.”
The State Vice-Regals—Sir Dudley, his lady
and daughter Elaine—were boxed above the
performing four-footers, and the Premier’s
lady made a half-time speech for the Cause
from another enclosure.
On Friday Sydney had a May Day, with
a Queen and a maypole and bands and every-
thing. This ploy acted on the Hospital
Friday collection even as an iron tonic on
the anaemic, and the hospitals will benefit
by over £BOOO from the May Queen compe-
tition alone. For weeks past the barometer
in Martin-place has been eagerly read every
day by the partisans of the various Queens
whose names were enrolled thereon. To-
wards the last it looked as though two
crowns and two sceptres might be called into
use, for Margaret Clarkson and Miss
Heaney’s forces were about evenly matched ;
but at the last moment an extra £lOO was
slipped to the credit of Margaret, and so she
was proclaimed Sydney’s Queen of the May
—probably the first the city has known.
Miss Clarkson is a pretty, dark girl with a
neat shingle, the nominee of the State Public
Service-*-she works in the Government
Tourist Bureau.
This is a Monte Luke picture of Sir
Dudley de Chair’s only daughter, Elaine,
who is just
leaving school-
days behind
her. With her
mother she is
■low constantly
to be seen at
welfare meet-
ings, and in
charities that
have a youn-
ger-set auxil-
iary she is tak-
ing an active
part. The
daughter of a
sailor, it is
not strange
that her favo-
rite recrea-
tions are sail-
ing and swim-
ming. After
them comes
tennis. Sculp-
tore is her favorite art. and she herself has
a graceful gift for modelling.
Kreisler and his wife are in an eyrie on
the seventh floor of the Australia, with an
expanse of sky sparkling through their
sitting-room windows. On the day of the vio-
linist’s arrival it was a blue sky with a few
feathery fronds of cloud to decorate it. This
enraptured Mrs. Kreisler and kept diverting
her attention from the button she was sewing
on her husband’s waistcoat. He, poor man,
sitting patiently opposite her with his coat
fastened up to hide the void where his favor-
ite waistcoat should have been, sought to
expedite the task in hand by assuring her
that she needn’t mind missing a few minutes
of blue sky—“in Australia such weather is
prevalent.” And then, perhaps some sub-
conscious vibration responding to even this
temporary absence of a vest, Kreisler spoke
wistfully of times when sunny days had not
been prevalent, and more even than a waist-
coat had been lacking. He spoke of the
years when he and John McCormack toured
in company, and were delighted one night
when there was £24 in the house —18 had
been the high-water mark previously. He
told of lunches at Pagani’s, when Caruso and
John, Scotti, Sarasate, Ysaye and himself had
sat at the same table, and of them all the
only one recognised was Ysaye. They mostly
lunched on spaghetti and dreams, to an
accompaniment of sketches and caricatures
on the tabletop or on the backs of menus
drawn by Caruso. “Every spring there is
born in me a Somebody that is the youth I
was then,” smiled Kreisler. “But perhaps
if I lived in this country, where even the
winter is green and gold, the spring would
not bring such a welling up of the heart.
But in Europe the winter is long, the trees
are skeletons against a sunless sky, and the
earth as well as the streams are frozen. Then
one day is a faint stir, the veins or the earth
feel the sap within them, the trees show buds
instead of frost, every little stream surges
on its delayed way to the sea. It is again
the time for dreams!” Mrs. Kreisler sighed
and patted the sewing; but it’s worth a
P.S. that the button was not really level
with the buttonhole.
When Greek joined Greek at the Went-
worth the other night the Children’s Hospi-
tal benefited mightily. The outstanding
features of the ball were good profiles and
two marvellous Greeks (they might have
been taking a night off from Hellas) in
uniform as handsome as themselves —the
duds worn by the guards of the Greek
Palace. These two pictorial individuals
escorted the State Excellencies and Lord
Dunwich to their table; ajid for once Cap-
tain Coote was quite eclipsed. He didn’t
really get back to form the whole evening.
Lady de Chair was bravely clad for the occa-
sion in cloth of silver misted with silver
lace, and made colorful with a cascade of
turquoise ostrich fronds down its right side.
A diamond coronet, diamond ear-rings and
the lasso of pearls were lustrous accom-
paniments.
Sydney Society crowded to the charity
matinee at the Royal one afternoon last
week to see what a Governor-General’s
daughter would be like in the part of a
parlor-maid taking the air in a London park.
Two very good reasons were given for the
matinee: one the new Women’s Hospital
at Surry Hills, the other the Havilah
Homes. After Mrs. Pitt Rivers and
Dion Boucicault's “A Scat in the Park”
came Barrie’s “Rosalind,” with Irene Van-
brugh as lead; this was followed by “In-
credible Happenings,” with unreal things
like a quick telephone service and a call-boy
reprimanding Irene Vanbrugh with a stern
“You’re late!” as she arrives at rehearsal.
As Irene took her last curtain a shower of
small girls fluttered in from the wings spill-
ing petals about her feet. Then two of the
dancing sprites uncurled a golden ribbon
that stretched from side to side of the stage,
and across its vividness the star and her
company smiled their last. Among the
masses of blossoms thrust on her the Van-
brugh found a great basket of scarlet carna-
tions from Nellie Stewart. As interchange
of courtesies Irene purchased at auction for
five guineas a large kewpie doll which she
forwarded to Nellie with her love.
The two social functions of a wet Monday
were the civic reception in the morning to
Kreisleiv and the Musical Association’s party
to the violinist and his lady at Farmer’s in
the evening. To this last came, surely, every
musician in the city, and every ear listened
with awe to the great man on “Ideal in
Art.” The words were snatched out of his
mouth, so to speak, by that hawk of the air,
the wireless, and sent on their rather gut-
tural way to thousands of rainproof homes.
The E. .T. Carrolls, who shepherded their
artists, were modestly self-effacing; but you
couldn’t hide the ermine that wrapped Mrs.
E. from waist to chin.
While Kreisler was being feted riotously
on coffee and sandwiches at Farmer’s, Bert
Bailey was holding a birthday-party at the
Palace. It was the 13th celebration of the
evergreen “On Our Selection.” And the
struggles of the Rudds were just as human
and laughter-making after 13 years of wear
as on the first appearance of the play.
The announcement of Justice Langer
Owen’s engagement to Hilda Chapman (she’s
the blondest of Judge Chapman’s daughters)
hasn’t taken Sydney by surprise. Legal
men were tipping it weeks ago; but the
time was not then ripe for an announcement.
The Chapman family is one of the best-
known law-sellers in the Quakey Isles.
Hilda’s father was in Dunedin for years as
one of the firm of Smith, Chapman and
Sinclair. As recently as 1923 he plucked a
knighthood.
Albury saw a linking up of two old clans
the other day when Camille Tietyens became
Mrs. Harold Bowler. Camille’s mother was
one of the Coxes of Mangoplah, and the
bridegroom’s mother was a Fallon, of the
wines.
Early last week Margaret Raine, of
Double Bay (she’s the fourth daughter of
the T. R. Raines), made her vows to George
Fane de Salis, of Miclielago, at Darling
Point’s old marriage rendezvous, St. Mark’s.
The bride was served with ivory brocades,
billows of tulle veiling and a cluster of
orchids; the two ’maids were frocked in
amber georgette and hatted in blue tulle.
Kenneth Scott best-manned, and Tom Raine
was groomsman. Congratulations and cake
at the Queen’s Club.
Another engagement that is fluttering Lis-
more is that of Lorna Best, only daughter
of the P. G. Bests. Her young man is Dr.
F. Westwood Niesche. of Manly, only son
of the late Dr. F. W. Niesche, of Adelaide.
In the matter of the T.B. Open-air Vil-
lage appeal it’s literally a case of “your
money or your life.” A round £50,000
is needed to build the settlement of
chalets; and each chalet represents health
to you by removing possible causes of infec-
tion. It will be the first village of its kind
south of the Equator, and the extent of its
work in the arrest and cure of the disease
cannot be visualised. You can help by
buying a ticket in the Art Union or by send-
ing direct donations to No. 4 Bridge-street.
This clever head tops a determined back-
bone, and both belong to Arthur James
March, the latest winner of the Society of
Artists’ travelling scholarship. The young
man—lie is in
the early
twenty's—was
apprenticed at
15 to the engi-
neering trade;
and though
sticking dog-
dcdly to his
rivets in the
daytime, he
spent his
nights in the
pursuit of Art.
He studied the
lady under the
direction of
the Royal Art
Society for
some.time, and
latterly has
been a pupil
of Rayner
Hoff. When
he decided to
enter for the scholarship, he had to give up
his job to do his work in daylight; and, hav-
ing no money to pay models, he posed for
himself in a studio of galvanised-iron that
he had put up with his own hands. The draw-
ings and paintings he submitted are regarded
by the judges as displaying positive genius,
and so delighted is the youth at gaining the
prize that lie faces his journey with shining
eyes, even though the first £250 will be well
broken into for the passage-money. Hall
and Co. made this picture of the determined
young man.
Brisbane’s chorus hymeneal:—
The wedding of the week made Margaret Hazel
Ross-Munro the bride of the late George Reid’s
son, Olive. The Rev. James Walker put the questions
in St. Paul’s Kirk, which was filled with flowers
and guests ; pink and white chrysanthemums on silver
staves decked the pews. The bride was sheathed
in ivory satin with a wide pearl hem and a Lim-
erick lace veil loaned by her sister, Mrs. Jack
Chandler. Mrs. Chandler was matron of honor in
pink georgette, beaded in rose design, with a silver
tissue turban. Ronald Ross-Munro best-manned.
Ross-Roy, lit with pink lights, saw the jollo, and toasts
were honored in a marquee draped in pink and
pillared in palms. The bride’s mother was in mauve
georgette and gold lace. Amongst those bidden were
Dame Melba and Sir Matthew, both too far away
to be present, but there was a crowd besides, and
some beautiful frockers amongst them.
On the same evening at St. Thomas’s, Toowong,
Morris Briggs tobk Cecily Moxon into his keeping.
The bride wore white embossed mariette, with an
old-lace train over pink. May Moxon and Evelyn
Briggs ’maided in pink mariette. Phil Moxon was
best man, and T. Briggs, in cream satin, went
before the bride with a prayer-book on a satin
cushion. The after-compliments were paid in the
National Hotel roof-garden.
St. Paul’s C. of E. at Roma blossomed for-
Laura Conroy and Keven Curran. Laura, who is
the daughter of C. W. Conroy, M.L.A., wore a'
French model of georgette banded in gold and silver.
Sister Alice, in lemon georgette with touches of
Oriental color, ’maided. Betty Harvey, in lemon and
silver, held up the train; and little Jack Crawford
paged in lemon satin. The Conroys spread the
feast at Yornoc. Sydney and the Apple Isle stage
the honeymoon.
It is dangerous to be a curio-collector in Brisbane.
A respectable citizen was making his way along
George-street, with his joyously purchased find, a
long-sought china teapot. “Come along with me,”
said the guardian of the law. Explanations were in
vain. He spent the night in a cell. In the
morning a second-hand dealer corroborated the col-
lector’s story, and the kind magistrate told him
he could now depart “without a stain upon his
character.” He had paid over a pound for the
teapot, but he is wondering whether the china was
worth it. But such things are liable to happen in
Brisbane. Some time ago a visitor from Sydney was
arrested for wife-desertion here. As he did not
happen to have a wife, he felt hurt in more ways
than one.
St. Margaret’s Old Girls arranged a naval ball
at the Trocadero. Officers and cadets of the Concord,
Woodarra and Devon came to jazz. Mrs. Eric
Anning, president of the committee, gave the glad
hand to the guests, amongst whom were the William
Lennons and the Premier’s lady. Palms, greenery
ai.d pink blossomry decked the large hall, and
gerberas were on the supper tables. Jean Crowther,
a deb., wore white marocain; and Leila Barker,
another bud, was in white taffetas.
Two hundred invitations were sent forth by the
captain and officers of the Concord for an at-liome.
Jazzing, bridge and mah jongg followed the hand-
shake with Captain Wood. The Lieut.-Governor and
Mrs. Lennon were amongst the throng.
Gwendolyn Grant has been exhibiting in John
Hicks’s buildings. Some charming oils and water-
colors of Cleveland and other bits of Bananaland
scenery are amongst the offerings.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
1 I
o
s*
v^a*v*.<£
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only- •
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney. N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
POLDI STEEL
FOR HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
Including—
High Speed, Special Alloyed Tool
Steels for Hot Dies.
Pneumatic Tools, Ball & Thrust
Races, Jewellers’ Rolls, etc.
Also
Motor-Car Steels, including Air, Oil
and Case Hardening Chrome
Nickel and Nickel Steels, “Im-
proved” Nickel Chrome Axle
and Crank-Axle Steels, Valve
and Spring Steels.
POLDI STEEL COMPANY
(Aust.), Ltd.,
Sydney, 343 Sussex Street.
Melbourne Branch, 278 Queen St.
SPORTINO
NOTIONS
It blew a hurricane in Randwick on Friday
night, and an inch of rain fell in two or three hours
on Saturday morning, but by midday the weather
was quite of the Indian-summer variety ; and City
Tattersall’s Club had a very profitable meeting.
So did the bookmakers; but that is the rule at
headquarters. Beauford cut up badly in the Denman
Stakes, six furlongs, for which he was substantially
backed at 10’s, and no punter will kick if the
owner superannuates the old horse, as he says he
intends doing. A furlong from home it looked as
if the rank outsider Ararat might win, but Coleus
(B’s) came on the scene a little later and was
going away from Ararat and the fleet pony Foxy
at the finish. Coleus, an aged gelding by Bernard—
Sang Sang, is owned and prepared by Price, the
trainer of Windbag, who has had an uncommonly
good season. Price saddled up another winner in
the first division of the Youthful Stakes in Altergo
(7 to 2), who was backed for pounds, shillings
and pence by his owner, Darcy Eccles. Altergo was
rather fortunate to win, inasmuch as Algerian Prince
made his run just too late, after striking trouble on
the journey; but no one begrudged Eccles a turn
of the wheel —he had cruel luck with The Cypher
and Quintus. Stony (s’s) made a gallant attempt
to land the treble for Price in the £lOOO City
Tattersall’s Cup, but was not quite good enough
for the Maoriland horse Te Kara, who was also at
s’s. Cistercian, who stayed better than many people
anticipated, fought out a great finish with the
topweight and Stony, there being only heads between;
and after a gap came Bernesk and the badly-ridden
Lady Valais, with Royal Dighton, who has been
stupidly “placed” this autumn, in the rear. Vala-
mita (S’s) beat 17 others handsomely in the Club
Welter, after the 33 to 1 chance Mountbatten had
looked like stealing the race. Ridden well back for
once, the fine-looking son of Valais —Tressamita made
hacks of his field over the last half-furlong, and he
promises to furnish into a good middle distance
horse.
There was only a Purse-Plate programme
at Asperidale Park (Vic.) on Saturday, and the
cattle were an indifferent lot, but (lie attendance
was nearly a record for a. suburban affair. The
explanation is that there hadn’t been a Saturday
meeting for a fortnight. More public money came
for Bombard (7 to 2) in the Aspeildale Park Handi
cap, one mile, than for the favorite, Wedding Glide
(2’s), and Duncan had an easy ride on Bombard,
who won by a street. He is a five-year-old' gelding
by Spearhead—Sabulite, and though his looks aren't
worth bellowing about, he will win more suburban
handicaps for T. M. Burke, in whose colors he races.
* * * *
“Cobber”: Eric Connolly lias bought a
couple of horses in England. One of his purchases
is Karagan, a three-year-old maiden that brought
4000 guineas at the yearling sales : Eric got him for
half that amount. Karagan raced many times last
season among all classes of juveniles and showed pace
but is reputed a squib. Still, Connolly has been
lucky with “squibs.” The other is a two-year-old—
the cables don’t give his name or breeding—and
Connolly got him for 600 guineas, which is cheap
as thoroughbreds go in England. At the last yearling
sales, 35 lots brought 3000 guineas or over. Fourteen
ranged from 5000 guineas to the 9700 that the Aga
Khan paid for Amilcar (Phalaris —Silver Wand).
Connolly is not after classic races in England ; he
sees better possibilities (for him) in Selling Plates.
Plungers of his calibre could afford to sacrifice a
horse that landed one or two of the coups he used
to bring off here. Still a selling-plate war wouldn’t
be altogether bloodless if he wanted to retain his
winner. Incidentally, Eric told me at the V.R.C.
Autumn Meeting that his eyesight wasn’t as good
as it used to be, and that he found this an in-
creasing handicap when trying to pick 'em “in
running.”
* * * *
Interest in the inter-State eight-oar race
had been stimulated by the sight of the six crews
training on the Yarra, and a great crowd saw the
Westralians repeat their 1921 success. Victoria
began with the lead, and held it for about a mile,
with Tasmania and Westralia handy, Queensland and
S.A. together, and N. S. Wales in the rear. With
half the journey (three miles) traversed, Tasmania
had displaced Victoria, but the Westralians suddenly
came into the picture. Putting plenty of weight
behind every stroke, they shot past the boat from
the Speck and were soon two lengths ahead, which
advantage they had increased by half a length
when they reached the finishing point. Tasmania,
struggling on gamely, gained second place by half
a length from the Ma Staters, who began slowly
and finished very fast ; and the Murray Bridgers,
Victoria and Queensland, the lightest of the lot,
finished at intervals of three parts of a length, half
a length and a third of a length respectively. The
time was I7min. 0 l-ssec.
The sculling championship was regarded as 1 a
certainty for A. A. Baynes, the Queenslander, and
a certainty he seemed at the mile, where he was
leading A. 11. Cambridge, the Bendigonian, by a
length and a half. But stomach cramp compelled
him to stop, and after that the race was a pro-
cession in which Cambridge finally beat off a
plucky challenge by A. Guthbertson (Tas.) by half
a length, the third man. H. Ricketts (8.A.), being
many lengths away. As a result of treating the
river as all his own, Cambridge travelled much
further than he need have done. However, his strong
sculling compensated for his erratic steering, and
the title is in worthy hands. His time for the 21
miles was 17min. 13 l-ssec.
“Hamer”: “This is my last race,” said Jim Child,
who stroked the boat from the Swan River. At 17
(he is 34 now) Jim was putting on fat so fast
that somebody suggested rowing as a remedy. Next
year he stroked his school eight, and the following
year was helped into No. 6 seat in the W.A. boat
for the inter-State race at Sydney. Since then he
has figured as a representative Jarrahland oarsman,
but he did not become stroke until George Rogers
retired at the end of last session. Most rowing
authorities now agree that (lie Westralians, using the
fast stroke that Rogers taught them, would have
been more at home on the Seine than the hard-
plugging Murray Bridgers proved. Still, it is no
use trying to re-write Olympic history.
WHEN THEY CUT THE RECORD.
DRIVER : “ This is a vice little township, wasn't it?”
Sydney High School had a fine victory in
the G.P.S. eights on the Parramatta River. It
had won its heat brilliantly three days before, and
though the lightest 'of the four crews in the final,
when the conditions were somewhat different —the
water was lumpier than on the Wednesday—it was
the favorite with most of the rowing men. From
a capital start Shore (C.E.G.S.) shot to the front,
but Sydney Grammar and Sydney High were soon
disputing the lead, and at Putney' (a quarter-
mile) High had a slight advantage, which
it gradually increased. Just off Oabarita,
Grammar spurted, but High went away again and
paddled home three lengths ahead of Shore, with
Grammar a close third and St. Joseph’s out of it.
A High School boat had another success in the
Second Fours, Grammar chasing it home; and
Newington led Shore past the judge in the First
Fours.
• • • • •
“Shrewsbury”: It was High’s first appearance
in the eiglit-oar event, which has grown to a
N.S.W. equivalent of the Oxford-Cambridge boa * -
race; and its success was a triumph of sound
methods. The coach, G. E. Hancock, had moulded
the crew to a correctness of form not often seen
in school rowing or in inter-State championships
either. The body swing, which is the basis of all
good rowing, was first-class, and a powerful leg-
drive and strong finish completed a fine showing.
Being a Government institution, the school was for
a long time refused admission within the pale of
flic G.P.S.A. on the ground that it was not a
public school as the term is interpreted by' the
Naicest people; and when admission was finally
accorded, its preliminary entry for the sacred Eights
was treated in the same spirit of lofty' condescension.
There will be no more of that in future. The
school is sadly' hampered in sport because it has
no convenient ground facilities at Ultimo, and
no boatshed of its own. The Glebe Rowing Club
came to the rescue in this last respect, and High
fittingly repaid Glebe’s hospitality'.
“11. Hardupp”: As we waited for the
Toorak tram (it always reminds me of the Relief
of Lucknow—“will the.v never come?”) Inglis, who
has the golf mania, showed me how it is done. Using
liis walking-stick, he illustrated all the strokes in
his repertory, and got down to details such as the
correct method of dragging over the foot after a
drive. He was still illustrating when we heard
the chink of a coin, and a two-shilling piece came
rolling towards the gutter. Quick as a flash, Inglis
let fly, and we saw the florin fall through the
grating of the drain at the corner. The next
minute Inglis’s delighted face was looking into
the angry countenance of a woman. "Of course,
Ma’am,” he said, when she let him, “I’ll pay you
back. Here’s the two shillings, and thank you.
It was a beautiful shot, Ma’am —holed in one!”
* * * *
The Melbourne Stadium management put
on another Thye-Ivarasick combat on Saturday, and
found it profitable. The advertisements hinted that
insults so bitter had passed between the wrestlers
that those desiring to witness a nice, juicy murder
might be gratified, so the Stadium was packed. There
was no murder, but Th.ve dragged the Russian through
the ropes when in difficulties and got in some brisk
elbow work on (lie jaw. Karasick endured this
treatment with wonderful fortitude. Only once was
he moved to tears and that was when the American
slithered out of a hold. Thye got a fall in the third
session by means of a wristloc k, and in the seventh he
baited a trap with a headlock which Karasick grabbed
eagerlv. The Yank slipped front the headlock, and,
applying a jackknife grip, put the Russian’s shoulders
down. Karasick won a fall in the fifth, but. per-
haps it was an accident. Th.ve was clearly the master.
He plainly intended to show his superiority and did
it definitely.
There was £l2OO-odd .i’it the Brisbane
Stadium whin Harry I'ollins, of Newcastle, outpointed
Barton, the Belgian welterweight, for the third time.
Barton had the surplus points in the first five
rounds, Collins beginning slowly as is his habit -
a habit he will find disastrous if he ever meets a
fighter of the McGoorty type—but after the tenth
round, it was always Henry’s scrap. In fart, Barton
was a sore and sorry Belgian long before the finish,
although he managed to see it out.
* * -X- *
“Centurion": In Melbourne, the ancient
and footling game of “House” has taken the popula-
tion by (he ears and is giving the wowsers internal
pains. The game is begun by buying for sixpence
or a shilling a card divided into 12 numbered
squares. Numbers are then drawn from a bag or
otherwise fixed on. and the first person whose card
fills with the correct numbers takes the pool or
prize. “House” was originally a game of the old
regular British Army, and in the long ago the cards
had pictures instead of numbers on the squares,
corresponding pictures being drawn from a bag. Its
comparative harmlessness led army officials to coun-
tenance it lest worst forms of gambling should
prevail. Australians first learned its mysteries in
South Africa and brought the rather despised gamble
back on the transports. A dozen years or so
later the thing was again found flourishing among
the English troops in France, where it appealed to
Diggers who objected to the red-hot odds of Crown
and Anchor and the ingenious manipulation of Banker.
-:-***
The opening day of the Melbourne football
season provided two good games. In one, Colling-
wood put up a stirring scrimmage with Essendon,
last season's premiers, on the Essendon ground, and
retired worsted by 98 points to 73; in the other,
Footscray, playing its first League match, battled
hard and gamely against Fitzroy, on the latter’s
dunghill. Fully 25,000 watched this outbreak and
went home satisfied that ’Seray has but to improve
its “marking” and get some system into its for-
wards and it will be hard to beat. ’Roy won by
63 points to 54. Incidentally, ’Seray has improved
since it last played on that ground, when ’Rov won
by 37 to 16—but that was 29 years ago. Similarly,
when North Melbourne last collided with Geelong,
there was no League, and most of the men now 1
playing weren’t born. North won that time by 28
to 19, and on Saturday it surprised the Hubmen by
proceeding to the Pivot and returning with glory and
a score of 67 points to Geelong's 59. Of the others,
Melbourne outed St. Kilda by 73 to 26; South
Melbourne downed Carlton with 68 points to 30,
and the Richmond Tigers clawed Hawthorn properly
—77 to 38. The three new T teams showed up well
and promise better ; also, the new out-of-bounds rule,
as interpreted by the Vic. League, is a boon, ft
does away with the old-time shoving and scuffling
in the ruck, and the ball is practically all the time
in play. The only man who doesn’t approve of
the innovation is the rover, who is pushed right out
of the limelight.
“Hamer”: A football retirement which
will weaken South Oss this year is that of Vic
Richardson, who, besides being an international
cricketer, captained Sturt football club last year
and led the S. Aus. team at the Hobart tourney.
South Australia wants to get “Snowy” Hamilton
back from Subiaco (W.A.) to take Vic’s, place as
centre for the State team, if not as captain. Hamil-
ton agreed to play for West Adelaide, but there
is trouble over the clearance, and he may have tc
stay in the West.
* * * *
Benny Wearing, with a neat try and four
fine goals, was the principal factor in South Svdnev’s
defeat of Balmain in the opening round of N.S W
Rugby League premiership. South won bv 16 points
to 10, and 16,000 barraekers voted it an exciting
game. Worth Sydney, thanks chiefly to their for
wards, beat .Newtown bv 16 to 5 ; Glebe downed St.
George by li to 8; and Western Suburbs surprised
University—22 to 15. There was no lack of willing-
ness about the football, but the scrummaging showed
little improvement, and one or two referees were not
nearly as strict as they were instructed to be.
“Past Grammar”; Because Queensland and M.L.
teams are to visit Sydney this winter, the League's,
club programme has had to be curtailed. A Board
of Control has been definitely instituted ; it will con
sist of three delegates each from Queensland and
V S. Wales, who will elect their own chairman.
Also, future representative teams will sport the green
and gold of the cricket elevens. The green jersey
will carry a gold bar and the Australian coat of arms,
though the adoption of this last is open to criticism.
Hitherto the League has used light blue, or the com-
bination, of light blue with the Queensland maroon
which the Rugby Union used for many years befon
the League’s inception. The Queenslanders will play
in Sydney on May SO and June 8, and at Newcastle
on June 6.
* * * *
“Nitric”: Toowoomba doesn’t intend break-
ing away from the Queensland League, as was sug-
gested by "Past Grammar’ (B. 28/4/’25). On tin
contrary, it sent a team to the capital last week and
beat the pick of (he village by 30 to 7. Though
the Brisbane A 111 contained Cecil Aynsley and
Border (who has been doing great work for Coorparoo
in the inter-club fixtures), il had no chance against
the great Toowoomba side, which included Duncan
Thompson, “Nigger” Brown, Tommy Gorman, Broad-
foot, Bennett and Armbruster, all internationals.
Can any club in the world field a better side? Too
woornba has great hopes of Colin Thompson, Duncan's
younger brother, who is showing splendid form. By
flic way, tlte rumor that Tommy Lawton, oi
Oxford, is to play with Past Grammars, is un-
founded. Lawton goes to Maoriland to do work for
a Bananaland agricultural co.
“Machete”: The M.T.. Rugby Union has
changed its mind regarding the personnel of the
team to be sent to N. S. Wales this season, and
members of the All Black side which recently toured
Britain and France will now be eligible. Followers
of Rugby will be glad of the chance to see members
of the record-breaking XV over here, and their mami
should pull a good gale from supporters of other
codes. A New South Wales team will go to Maori-
land in August and play 10 matches there. And
next year Australia and Maoriland will be visited by
a French team.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: That Cup-final defeat
by Sheffield (B. :!0/4/’25) must have been a bios
to Cardiff. Early in the century half a dozen crowded
towns in South Wales made their little principality
a power in Rugby Union : but of recent years the
Northern Union teams in Yorkshire have bought up
the Welsh miner amateurs individually, as they
became famous, and thus Welsh Rugby is not what
it was. Cardiff has made a bold attempt to build up
an unbeatable Soccer team instead. It bought men
right and left —bought more than it could use. At
Christmas it was boasting of being the only club
ever known that had internationals among its
reserves, competing hard against each other for a
place in its first XI. And it went gaily all
through the Cup draws to the final. And then it
flopped before Sheffield United, which at latest
advices (middle of March) was not anywhere near
the top of the League.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : Soccer players will find
interest in the announcement that a match against
an XI from the American Fleet has been arranged
for July 25. Soccer and the Yank are not usually
associated in the minds of Australian supporters of
the round-ball code, but the game has a really good
hold in many of the States. It seems to do partlcu
larly well in the Middle West. In such cities as
Milwaukee the press gives quite a lot of space to
reporting Soccer fixtures, and the game seems
thoroughly organised and established alongside the
murderous American code.
“O. McKay M.”: Melbourne Uni. Sports
Union is recommending that the distinction of All-
Australian blue, which was created only a year or
two back, should in future be open only to men
who participate in international contests. Awards
of these blues to ’Varsity students who have competed
in Combined Unis. v. State matches have tended
to bring the institution into disrepute, and Melbourne
wants to tighten things up. It is suggested that
authorised international matches are the proper fields
for an all-Australian Uni. award, and the A.U.S.A.
will probably concur in this view. Blues so far
have been given for athletics (against the South
Africans), cricket (McLaren’s XI), tennis (Stanford
Uni.) and hockey (M.L.), as well as for several
fixtures of the type which Melbourne Uni. says
should not be recognised.
* * - * *
Hockey, for men, is to be started again
in Adelaide, where it had lapsed since the war.
South Australia, having always been specially keen
on lacrosse, has tended to regard any hockey player
as a man lost to -the other- game, so hockey has
been left to the girls. Gilligan, himself a cornu'
player at home, took an interest while in Adelaide in
a proposed revival, and four clubs have promised to
join in, with the help of a number of recent
arrivals, English or Scotch, with experience in big
matches.
* * # *
“Centurion” ; The millennium can’t be
far off, because the cables state that something like
a. complete agreement on the amateur status in
sport is likely to be arrived at when the Inter-
national Olympic Congress meets at Prague next
month. As a preliminary, the British Olympic
committee circularised ail the leading sporting
organisations, including the U.S.A. The replies have
been practically unanimous in upholding the general
law on the amateur status as it stands at present.
Most important is the universal re-endorsement of
the old principle that a man cannot •be a pro-
fessional in one sport and an amateur in another.
Of late years, and especially in Australia, there ha-
been a strong tendency to side-step this rule on
one pretext or another, and to permit a man in-
dulging in a professional sport to pose as an
amateur in another. There has been some curious
overlapping as a result. A lot of sporting people
who consider themselves lilywhite are but piebak
at the best.
A MOMENTOUS ISSUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Victorian Crown Law authorities are moving
the Supreme Court for a definite decision on the
legality or otherwise of the game of “Housey Housey.’
Notables in wigs and ermine, here’s a problem to
determine
That will tax your keenest intellectual powers,
Set you hunting bookshelves dusty for decisions sound
and trusty,
Leave you poring over precedents for hours.
Here’s a knot to disentangle, while assertive counsel
wrangle
And bully, or seductively inveigle;
Here’s a question moot to settle that will put you
on your mettle—
Namely, whether “Housey Housey” is illegal.
Many knotty points and pressing keep us arguing
a’nd guessing
Till the Courts the pros and cons of them attack,
But l venture to remind you, with the Law’s prestige
behind you,
That this isn’t any common nut to crack.
Here’s a sovereign State on tenterhooks, from furthest
out to centre,
Till you penetrate, with vision like the eagle,
All the mists and doubts perplexing that surround
the problem vexing
And pronounce if “Housey Housey” is illegal.
Solemnly 1 see you sitting, your judicial brows a-
knitting,
In your most imposing panoply arrayed,
While glib barristers arise to put your various
Honors wise to
The alluring ways in which the game is played.
There’ll be rhetoric, a tornado —some resounding
gasconado,
Some just as soothing-syrupy as Seigel.
But, your job’s to weigh sedately, calmly and dis-
passionately
If the game of “Housey Housey” is illegal.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


I
■
■' V- ■ I
HD
m
i
■
:' M
l! I
Hill r
Is! 11«*
The Famous
Bosker'««u
The Rug of a Thousand Uses
Think of the number of uses you could find for
one of these splendid Rugs.
The man on the land, the country worker, the
traveller, the city dweller, each and all could find
thousands of ways in which it would add to their
comfort and well-being.
The “Bosker” Rug' is: -
All-Pure Australian Wool
Heavy-Weight —Extra Large
Big Enough to Comfortably Cover
a Double Bed
Extremely Serviceable —Lasts a
Lifetime
Attractively Patterned in
Pleasing Shades
Exceptionally Good Value.
We frequently hear from people who have had a
“Bosker” over twenty years that is still giving good
service. We say, without fear of contradiction, that
the “Bosker” is the best Rug Value offered anywhere.
Order yours to-day, you’ll find it a good friend during
the coming winter.
In broad plaid effects and quiet colorings, in light,
medium and dark shades. Size: Bft. 4in. x 6ft. Bin.
Obtainable only at Gowings’
Price 39/6
The “Bosker Junior” —similar
“Bosker,” but lighter and smaller.
Size 70 x 90 inches. All Australian
Wool
35/-
The “War at ah” —a lightweight service-
able rug of durable quality. In broad
check designs in quiet shades. All-
Wool. Size 60 x 72 inches
21/-
The “Kosciusko”— a heavyweight, pure
Wool Rug that will give exceptional
service. Reversible, with a different
pattern on either side
50/-
“Austral”
Pure Merino Rugs
Gowings’ have a particularly fine Range of Pure
Merino Wool Rugs in a great variety of weights
and designs. These make excellent presenta-
tion rugs.
The “Hawkesbury,” a Pure Merino Wool Rug
of exceptionally hard-wearing quality..
In Browns, Fawns and Slates. Size
60 x 72 inches. Good value
The “Marrickville,” a Pure Merino Wool,
Medium-weight Rug of high-grade finish and
excellent quality. Patterned one side, plain on
reverse. In rich warm colorings—Fawn, Slate
and Brown shades predominating. Size ,
60 x 84 inches ul}/"
Tb« “Lachlan,” a Pure Merino Wool, heavy-
weight Rug, of perfect finish and outstanding
quality. In a large range of excellent fir*/
designs. Size 60 x 84 inches /O/"
Mosgiel Pure Merino Rugs
77/6, 97/6
Write Section B, Go wing Bros., Ltd.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL GOODS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
GOWING BROS., LTD.
486 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.


r
MBENGERS
& FOOD
.""‘nts. Invafids. andU’"™,
Light diet when
“out of sorts ”
Benger’s Food is widely used for
infants and for illness, but mothers
should not think that it is only a
food for babies, nursing mothers
and invalids.
Benger's is really the finest general
light diet anybody can have when
feeling “out of sorts,” or suffering
from slight indisposition, absence of
appetite, over-tiredness, etc.
Benger’s Food is always dainty
and delicious and fully nourishing.
For a change it can be taken in
tea, or it may be flavoured with
chocolate or coffee.
Food
Dainty Recipes for light dishes in
Benger’s Food Booklet. Post free from
BENGER’i FOOD. Ltd., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
RENGER’S FOOD. Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
..253
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
_r\_ should read the British Australian
and Nev t Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS
MUSIC LOVERS are hereby requested to obtain the following OPERATIC
and GILBERT & SULLIVAN MASTERTOUCH WORD ROLL
SELECTIONS:—
D. 417 One Fine Day (“Madam Butterfly”).
D. 460 Favourite Strains from “La Boheme.”
D. 464 Favourite Strains from “Madam Butterfly.”
D. 465 Softly Awakes My Heart (“Samson & Delilah”).
D. 469 Barcarolle (“Tales of Hoffmann”).
D. 472 Favourite Strains from “Pagliacci.”
D. 482 Favourite Strains from “Rigoletto.”
D. 491 Favourite Strains from “Pirates of Penzance.”
D. 1004 Favourite Strains from “The Bohemian Girl.”
D. 1005 Favourite Strains from “II Trovatore.”
D.lOlO Favourite Strains from “Carmen.”
D.IOIG Favourite Strains from “lolantlie.”
D. 1021 Favourite Strains from “The Gondoliers.”
D. 1027 Selections from “The Belle of New York.”
D. 1029 “H.M.S. Pinafore” Selection.
D. 1036 “The Mikado” Selection.
D. 1044 Favourite Strains from “Faust.”
THE MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLLS contain the full score of the words
in English with every selection, opening up a new field in Music Rolls.
Never before have you been able to fully enjoy Operatic Music as the most
vital part of the Opera has been omitted. Remember‘the MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS are the only ones containing this feature.
All of these selections are beautifully played and should appeal to the most
discriminating musician.
Obtainable from all MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLL Dealers.
MASTERTOUCH
Mand Played ■■==■ .
■ r?Music Rolls
_r " are the
LATEST AMD BEST
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.
You Can Save a Great Part of the Loss
that occurs between the power unit and your machines
when you replace ordinary transmission appliances with
SKF
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
_■ —SKF BALL-BEARING PLUMMER BLOCKS AND HANGERS
Not alone does SK.F Transmission Equipment save power, but it also
saves greatly in lubrication costs, because friction —the invisible force
that eats up power and lubricant—is reduced to lowest possible limits.
WRITE, 'PHONE OR CALL<
and our representative will wait upon you with full details.
GARDNER WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
481 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street. ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co.,
NEWCASTLE: 143 Scott Street. Ltd., 157 Waymouth Street.
BRISBANE: 426 Ann Street. PERTH: Unbehaun * Johnstone
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd. (W.A.), Ltd., 377-391 Murray
T.E.— 3/25. Street.
m
THE INKY WAY.
An Auckland Herald journalist, Robert Riley
steps into the shoes of C. A. Marris, formerly
associate editor of Christchurch Sun. Marris has
gone to Wellington to edit the N.Z. Timer.
the Casterton (Vic.) News has just celebrated its
50th birthday, too. The present proprietor is E. D.
Gazzard, and the founder, Edward Francis Hughes,
le vn ' Milner Macmaster, author
staff Ul leasant \ ices,” was at one time on the
Alastor”; The first State-school magazine to see
the light in (Queensland comes from Newtown,
Toowoomba. It is well written and well printed, and
a fine retrospect of the work done by the school
since it was established. A feature that will appeal
to 18-carat Australians is an Australian short-story
competition in each issue for girls and boys—the
stones must be Australian both in type and setting.
Cartot” : A young Australian to whom a hint of
tame has come abroad is Maysie Grieg, once of
Sydney Sun’s literary staff, but now living in Boston
(u.S.A.) with an American husband. After tread-
ing a lap or two of the Inky Way in this country
she went to London, where her articles attracted
iittentu.n. Besides her short stories she has fiub-
lished a couple of novels, and a third is in prepara-
tion. l’he busy woman is not yet 23.
Hambone” : Gerald Marr Thompson, for 30 years
past (and still) art and dramatic critic of the ,S. M.
Herald, writes a shocking fist. Once he wrote a
entique of a portrait of the late James Fairfax, and
the Inky Way was much tickled by a statement in the
venerable sheet that the subject of the portrait was
seen sitting in his literary chair.” A comp, had
done his worst with Marr’s copy ; the writer had to
explain to an outraged boss that what he had really
written was “library chair.”
P. S. Crisp succeeds E. C. Huie in the high place
of the Christchurch (M.L.) Sun. Crisp was born
in Ashburton and prepared for the stage by study-
ing law. He forsook the footlights for the A.I.F.
when Big Row started, gravitating later into
the N.Z.E.F. and gaining a commission on the
field. He brought a ripe experience and a jocund
literary style to the Sun in 1919. Although Christ-
church hasn’t yet seen bits of Crisp overflowing a
taxi-cab in the manner of G. K. Chesterton, this
may come in time.
Edward Scorfleld, who lately came from the North
of England to The Bulletin to help it put a grin
on the face of Australia, and whose drawings have
appeared in a few recent numbers, Was on the Penin-
sula alongside the Australians. A naval architect
and draughtsman by early training, he joined the
Engineers as soon as the war started, was in the
disaster at Suvla Bay, and afterwards was sent to
help the Servians, with whom he remained until
malaria drove him home. Scorfleld is an old inter-
national Rugby player.
A newcomer in the Inky Way is Better Roads, a
magazine intended to carry a monthly shout from
the Vic. Branch of the National Roads Association.
One of its purposes is to collect and circulate in-
formation of what is being done all over the world
to rub the bumps off the path and take the travail
out of “traveller”; but an equal duty will be to
speak urgently about what isn’t being done here,
and ask why. As a thorn in the flesh of loafing
authority it should have a considerable usefulness
in a country where loafing is a popular sport.
“Freddy Freelance”: I’p in Brisbane Inky Way-
farers are mourning the passing of brilliant and
versatile Leo White, who has gone west while still
in his twenties. On leaving school he joined a
Toowoomba paper, and about three years back went
to Brisbane Daily Mail, later changing over to the
Courier. A splendid athlete, he won various Queens-
land championships, was hon. coach to St. Laurence’s
College and on the executive of the Swimming
Association. He had already got so far on the
Courier that one of his latest jobs was to accompany
Priminister Bruce on his tour of North Queensland.
“T. 0.1.”: On Saturday, April 18, the S. M. Herald
completed its 94th year. Its early motto was from
Pope:—
“In Moderation placing all my glory,
While Tories call me Whig and Whigs a Tory.”
The price per copy of the early issues was sevenpence.
At first it appeared weekly; then in *1836 twice
a week; in 1837 three times a week; and in 1841
daily. In 1842 it was enlarged and the name
changed from Sydney Herald to Sydney Moenino
Herald. The office was in Lower George-street
(Nock and Kirby, The Bulletin’s neighbors, are now
on the site) ; Stephens, Stokes and McGarvie were
the first proprietors.
“Woorook”; Meet the oldest newspaper man id
active practice, the oldest secretary of a Masonic
Lodge, the oldest coroner in Australia (but don’t,
of course, make a point of meeting hiip in his
official capacity), and probably the oldest active
J.P. He is John Gale, of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.),
where as a young man he started a newspaper and
a family, and has now a circulation of over 100 in
children and grandchildren. As he was for years
a Methodist lay preacher, and therefore assumablv
not addicted to rum or any other such aid to
longevity, his performance is very creditable. On
April 17 he reached his 95th milepost. He will
tell you that it has taken him no time to do it.
“Seebee”: History has repeated itself in respect
to evening journalism in Melbourne. Just as it did
with the Standard in October, 1894, the Herald has
absorbed the Sun. The Pictorial, the morning
journal published by the Sun crowd, is to be per-
mitted to live. At least, for a while—the Herald
is not unmindful of the possibility of the Argus
and Age running afternoon editions if it produces
a morning rival, even though that rival appeals as
much by pictures as by letterpress; so it is pro-
ceeding very cautiously. The tragic part of the
business is the number of people, in all departments,
that will be thrown on the labor market. Out of
70 on the literary side 40 are to be retained for
the present to bring out the Pictorial, but 10 will
be clipped off that number in a couple of months.
And it is possible that gradually the Herald will
find it can do with a few less men. Other States will
absorb some and others will try something else.
It is the old story; shareholders have no sentiment
when a new paper proposition isn't paying, and
directors cannot resist a tempting offer of at least
some of their own and their friends’ capital.
Frank Reid recalls his editorial days: Re
“Wink’s” complimentary remarks concerning my-
self (B. 2/4/’25), 1 would not go so far as to
say that the Diggers blamed Charlie Barrett for
the lack of tU? true barrack-room atmosphere in the
Kia-Ora Coo-ee, the A.I.F. official magazine in
Egypt and Palestine. The fault lay with the com-
mittee. With the exception of Col. Fulton, they
knew nothing about conducting a magazine, but
thought they did. Two of them had been Sunday-
school teachers, and another had been a Salv’army
drum-banger in pre-war days. The thought of an
ordinary trooper occupying the editorial chair was
distasteful to these good people, and they offered the
job to Major Oliver Hogue (“Trooper Bluegum”),
but he declined in my favor. Before I was a week
in the chair I saw that to hold my job 1 would have
to shower bouquets on the Heads. I struck trouble
in the first issue when I omitted some important inci-
dents in connection with the military career of Gen-
eral Charn el. In the second issue I published some
verses reflecting on the bravery of the Military Police,
and had to face a committee meeting which gently
reminded me that if I intended to turn the Coo-ee
into a miniature Bulletin there was a spare rifle
waiting for me cn the Palestine Front. Consider-
ing that the committee (except Col. Fulton) had
never seen a shot fired, while I had already served
three years at Gallipoli and Sinai, the threat car-
ried a certain amount of humor; certainly if I had
not been then racked with malarial shivers almost
daily I would have preferred the front line to the
cold-footed and snobbish atmosphere of A.I.F. bead-
cuarters in Cairo. My efforts which the committee
thought had too much of the barrack-room atmosphere
afterwards got into the Bulletin, so the Diggers read
them just the same.


STORACE
BATTE
RV
The Willard Distributor will tell you “This
Willard Threaded Rubber Battery that you
are considering will not require reinsulating.
If it should, we will do the work for you with-
out charge.”
Because it does not need reinsulation a Wil-
lard Threaded Rubber Battery lasts longer and
serves better.
And because it is a CHARGED Bone-Dry
Battery, and you see it put in service for the first
time, you know it is quite new when you get it
By all means be sure you get a genuine
Willard. You can always tell the genuine by
the Willard trade-mark which is stamped on
every Willard Threaded Rubber Battery.
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.


©
ummmmf
■
&
.
m>
H H
.
n
mm
m
I
mi
r
ii'
-
■
REX PURE FOODS
reign supreme among canned delicacies. They are recognised in every
household in Australia as the highest standard of quality. The sale is
enormous; the raw materials are superior to those used in any factory in
the world, whilst nothing is lacking in skill and experience in their prepara-
tion. Equal care and skill have been devoted to the containers; the tins and
jars are perfectly hygienic—no solder (lead) or soldering flux, yet hermeti-
cally sealed. We were the first in the world to use these cans successfully.
Rex Luncheon Cheese
in 40z., Boz. and 16oz. Tins, and
in handsome soz. opal porcelain
Jars with screw top.
lib. Tins.
Camp Pie (in jelly)
Pork Sausage
Beef Sausages
Fry and Bacon
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Lunch Ton cues (in jelly)
Pork and Beans
Baked Beans
Ox Tongue (in jelly)
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Red-y-mele (a ready meal)
Devilled Kidneys
K-be-B (kidney, beans and
bacon).
3|oz. Jars.
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste.
£lb. Tins.
Camp Pic (in jelly)
Devilled Kidneys
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans
Baked Beans
K-be-B (kidney, beans and
bacon)
Ox Tongvie (in jelly)
Lorraine Smoked Sausages.
3-2-oz. Tins.
Ham Pate
Veal and Tongue Pate
Devilled Ham.
l goz. Tins.
Veal and Bacon
Devilled Ham
Ham and Tongue
Veal and Tongue
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste.
THE “SQUATTER” CASE
of assorted REX Canned Delicacies is of special interest
to the Man on the Land. It is an excellent investment
for him, because of its convenience, its splendid variety
and the first-class quality of the goods; it is cheaper
than ordering the different lines separately.
Note the contents of the special “SQUATTER” case:—
6 Tins Rex Camp Pic
6 Tins Rex Pork Sausage
6 Tins Rex Lorraine Smoked
Sausage
4 Tins Rex Fry and Bacon
4 Tins Rex Pork Brawn
o Tins Rex Ox Tongue
<5 Tins Rex Pig Feet
6 Tins Rex Ham Pate, 3Aoz. Tins
6 Tins Rex- Luncheon Cheese, 4oz. Tins
6 340 z. Jars each of Rex Bloater and Rex
Anchovy Paste.
Order the SQUATTER CASE from your Store-
keeper or Station Supplies Agent.
Accept no imitation; look for REX, the crowned pig.
FOGGITT JONES LTD
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Hi
Si
or<? than
a Vogue
/yu^
7/u?
GREYS
Silk Cut Virginia
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2 1-
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN at CO. LTD.. LONDON
Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “Kid Roots”
Royal “The Lady of the Rose”
Criterion “The Merchant o£ Venice”
Grand Opera House “Tangerine”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
H o y T ' s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS Foil COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Primrose”
'Boyal "Spring Cleaning
K ino ' s “The Masquerader”
Athenaeum “Skittles”
Princess’s "Little Jessie James
Tivoli Vaudevie
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
Poets seldom write a valedictory sonnet
or authors a last novel because they never
know when the goddess Inspiration has paid
her last call; they are able to recognise the
lady coming, but are constitutionally incap-
able of recognising her shape as she retreats.
Politicians hardly ever make a farewell
speech either, because even the most aged
and worst national disaster never knows
when some shift in tjie party game may not
make him indispensable to his country’s
welfare. Irene Vanbrugh and Dion Bouci-
cault, however, are not waiting for Time’s
verdict. They sang their swan song last
week to Sydney audiences at the Criterion
with “Belinda,” a piece of bric-a-brac by
A. A. Milne; and, thankful for a season of
excellent entertainment, and judging by the
vivacity of their last performance, this Page
has no hesitation in affirming that their
departure is too precipitate. Milne’s offer-
ing is a fragile parlor ornament, requiring
careful handling, and few could have turned
it over and shown its charms so well as they
did; mummers of less skill and subtlety would
have crushed it in their clumsy fingers or
dropped it heavily in the opening scene.
As Belinda, a lively lady who is not
quite sure whether she has been a widow for
the past 19 years, Irene Vanbrugh is at
home to a variety of lovers in the usual
English country house. Of the whole cast
of six, all but the maid-servant are in love
with the principal, who sustains the assaults
of this spate or deluge of affection with her
customary aplomb. Dion Boucicault, strange
to say, was momentarily unrecognisable be-
hind the mask of Harold Baxter, 'an elderly
statistician who woos the lady in studied
periods and algebraic terms. Pirie Bush
pays his devoirs as a traditionally ridiculous
poet, but in the final act has to be re-born as
"SKITTLES." AT MELBOURNE
ATHENAEUM.
John D. O'Hara as William Wiggleshaw ,
the world's kindest pawnbroker; Emma
Temple as Lady Roftus.
a conventional hero in order to make a pro-
perly romantic mate for Janet Eccles. Janet
Eccles plays the adoring and flirtatious
daughter with liveliness and charm : in fact,
the lady grows on one, histrionically speak-
each fresh part she takes.
There are no signs of wear about “Kid
Boots,” which will see you through the wet-
test night at Sydney Majesty’s without
goloshes.
The seductions of iife on the tropical Eden
of “Tangerine” may be enjoyed at Sydney
Opera House for two and a half weeks more;
after which those who wish to avoid the
winter will be obliged to take the longei
and more expensive trip to Cairns or l onga-
tabu.
In time everyone in Sydney with a name
like McTavish will find himself conducting,
negotiations for a seat with the lady who has
charge of the Tivoli box-office. The magnet
is Will FyfL'e, and he is quite irresistible —
his characterisations of the near-centenarian
who married again to spite his sons, ana
of the Scotch workman delivering a politi-
cal address, are flawless. The Big h our
occupy a prominent place in the bill: their
conversion of a well-known comic song into
a mock-operatic number is a delightful piece
of burlesque,
“Money and Matrimony,” the potted revue
for which George Wallace and Co. are
responsible at Sydney Fullers’, is a farcical
affair with little pretence to unity; but it
offers an id at opening for George Wallaces
drollery. Thought-reader Helena Buckley
can tell how many kisses there are at the
bottom of the love-letter that a flapper in the
crowd may have in her bag; and there are
Parliamentary candidates who are wonder-
ing whether she can tip the number of their
first preferences.
“The Hunchback of Notre Dame,” now at
Sydney Crystal Palace, is a wonderful pic-
ture ; but lovers of Victor Hugo will not for-
give the distorting of the classic, which makes
the villain of the piece a saint, and the phi-
landering knight a model of constant love.
The music almost eclipses the picture: Syd-
ney movie "fans” have never enjoyed such
a choral treat as the Gloria from Mozart s
"Messe Solenelle.” with Will Caspers on the
grand organ. Stella Power, Esmeralda ot
the prologue, adds to the devotional atmo-
sphere with Gounod’s “Ave Maria. ’ One
Night in Rome,” at Hoyt’s, has been thrown
together with little care; and “Second
Fiddle,” at the same house, is the old story
of the worm that reversed its tactics.
Melbourne’s homage being unabated, it
was decided by the management to add an
extra extra-concert to the chain of Galli-
Curci events in Melbourne. The way the
lady has lasted through the ordeal —seven
concerts in which she was practically the
whole show in 18 days, immediately follow-
ing as strenuous a Sydney season —shows
that the singer’s vocal mechanism is made of
wonderful material. True, her audiences
have not been critical —they have been pre-
pared to shower their applause whether the
singer was at her superb best or
had fallen flat on her tones, as
she sometimes does. Whilst the men
have not been indifferent, the really
hectic enthusiasm comes from the women,
who have made Galli-Curci an object ,ot
idolatrv. No doubt the Horid quality ot
her voice, with its light emotional appeal,
has something to do with this; but one
suspects that the references to her love .of
home which are broadcasted in her "publi
city” have' something to do with it, too.
Naturally, there have been some repetitions.
"The Mocking Bird” and the Shadow Song
from “Dinorah" seem like family pets; but
the pleasure the latter gives justifies its
frequent appearance in the programmes. A
mid-week singing of the dainty English song,
“The Lass with the Delicate Air” (Arne),
inclined this Showman to withdraw a pre-
vious remark about the artist’s failure with
English songs, but did not quite persuade
him. Her treatment of Gilda’s “Caro Nome”
was an artistic triumph; the shadowing of
the second note in the two-note phrases was
wonderful.
John D. O'Hara still dodges bankruptcy
Avell enough to make "Skittles” an heiress
in the last act. Everybody who visits the
bright little show at. the Atheweum is
pleased with the night's entertainment; the
unreal romance, in which there are no bad
characters, is a refreshing change from the
analytical dramas which are the main relief
nowadays from the purely frivolous shows.
The mystifying changes of Guy Bates Post
in “The Masquerader” are attracting such
crowds to Melbourne King’s that the man-
agement gives no hint of a change.
The prophecy that the introduction of
“8 princ Cleaning” to Melbourne Royal
would change the recent luck of that show-
house has proved correct; when, on the
offest of off nights last week, this Showman
looked in to inspect developments, the place
was crowded even unto the last seats in the
d.c. An audience that is still largely composed
of picture “fans,” and therefore has been
fed on much less real stuff, fails to see the
play’s artificialities, and showers its applause,
as freely as it did on the first night.
“Primrose” still does so well at Melbourne
Majesty’s that there is no need for that house
to talk about any other blooming thing.
In “Little Jessie James” Dot Brunton
and her merry supporters go nightly on their
way at Melbourne New Princess.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” replaces
“The School for Scandal” at the New Palace
(Melb.) next Saturday; and it is understood
that it will only prevail for a fortnight be-
fore the incoming of the new on. headed by
Howett Worster and Kitty Reidy.
Last Saturday Stiffy and Mo invested the
fortune they had made as plumbers in a
restaurant and became waiters. Taking the
definition that a waiter is a man who keeps
others waiting, they \Vere quite as efficient
as most others who are eligible for member-
ship, and much more amusing. “Togo,” a
dexterous brown man, does some neat
juggling; and Pic and All’ provide a certain
amount of entertainment as a Black and
White Duo —all this at Fullers’ Melbourne
house.
"The Dark Swan,” Melbourne Majesties
main bill, is an ugly-duckling story with a
good combination in Marie Prevost, Helene
Chadwick and Monte Blue; and “The Bar-
barian.” a tale of the Outback —Canada’s Out-
back —provides thrills for the rest of the
,programme, which burgeons also in humor,
current history and hats. Hoyt’s do Luxe
allows “The Gaiety Girl” to have a fling;
but she has too much worry about other
people’s affairs to make the fling really worth
while. “Youthful Cheaters” is a jazz tale
about the new way youth has of taking its
indiscretions. On Sunday night there was
a view by invitation of a new Harold Lloyd
picture, “Girl Shy.” It is as amusing as
"Safety First” without putting the heroes
on edge quite so much.
Wee Georgic Wood, given a great recep-
tion on his return to Melbourne Tivoli last
Saturday, presented something new in “His
First Love.” The presentation of the humors
of the calf was easily and artistically done,
although there were allusions which might
well be cut. The engaging Two Rascals
leave for other regions at the end of this
week; and the departure of Addison and
Mittrenga, even if it may not be believed
"TANGERINE ." AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSEE.
Mark Daly as the ex-king of Tangerine with
his tame servant, and Ireland Cutter as
Lee Loving, the housekeeping husband.
that they arc “the greatest dancers on the
English stage,” will be regretted. The rest
of the programme is from average to poor.
Melbourne people who are curious about
Ibsen are going to be fed with a short season
at the Queen’s Hall on May 18 and later.
The head and front of the offending is J.
Beresford Fowler, who has been for 2 A years
with Allan Wilkie, before that was three
years with Bert Bailey's money-spinning “On
Our Selection,” and has had a show with
other productions.
But for the horns getting tangled in the
slow movement of Beethoven’s “Second Sym-
phony” and leading the strings towards dis-
aster, and a rather jerky rendering of Percy
Grainger’s orchestral arrangement of the
tune from County Derry, the last concert
of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra was
excellent. There was a vivid touch about
the Mendelssohn “Hebrides” overture, in
which the wood-winds were particularly effec-
tive. The collaboration of Miss Dorothea Vin-
cent, the visiting English pianist, helped a
good rendering of Grieg’s piano concerto in
A minor, the slow movement providing the
choicest titbit of the evening.
Deprived of its customary habitat by the
fire which made havoc of the Town Hall,
the Victorian Liedertafel, which is busy now
on a project of securing a hall of its very
own, wandered out to St. Ivilda Town Hall
and made a good fight against a dull piano.
The best of the choral work was the “Full
Fathoms Five” of Dunhill, of which the
“THE MASQUERADER” AT
MELBOU RNE KINGS
The dope-fiend, John Ghilcote, M.P. (Guy
Hairs Host), refusing to he taken hack
home by his faithful old butler (Win-
ington Hornes), finds a faithful ally in
Robbins, the housemaid (Cecil Haines).
well-attuned chorus gave a good, imaginative
rendering. In the "Bacchus” the basses were
weak, and “The Song of the Volga Boat-
men” was a rather distracted offering; bn 1
other work was good. Walter Kirby and
Eileen Castles helped to fill out the pro-
gramme.
The production of Shaw's "You Never Can
Tell,” by the Melbourne University Dramatic
Society, at the Playhouse, was spoilt by the
fact that some of the performers took them-
selves too seriously, while others did not take
themselves seriously at all. The serious ones
were infinitely the more entertaining. The
show had been carefully rehearsed, however,
and, allowing for the amateurism which made
the iirst act drag drearily until the medicine
of use had cured the players of self-conscious-
ness, it was a smooth, enjoyable perform-
ance. Walter Armstrong stood out from the
others by not proclaiming his amateur status .
and Maedhail Harper and Noel Burbank
were quite good.
A New Gallery show: —
The nude isn’t at, all rude in Miss Dora Wilsons
pastel studies which, with a few oils, are on show
at the New Gallery in Melbourne. It is, on the
contrary, very charming—perhaps too charming here
and there. A very good understanding of tonal values
is shown in “Sans Souci” (No. 1), which lias more
vigor than some of the others, shows a delicate im-
pression of muscle movement, and is extremely well
composed. In “The Butterfly” a young lady is
handling a shawl in such a fashion that she repre-
sents the gaudy-winged creature of the title. Mrs.
Grundy might say she had a better use for it. “Joan.’
a spindly youngster in a very natural pose, and the
child portrait, “Mischief,” are very appealing.
** * *
lu “pictures” ut Adelaide it is women and
storm-waves at West’s, women and guns at
Wondergraph, and just women at the York.
The all-day Pav. is quite virile by compare
son, with tiie fortunes of tlie good horse Silver
King. The Frank Harvey season at tlic
Royal end id with “The Skin Game.” Harvey
quite sank his identity in the part created
by Edmund Gwenn in London, and once again
Muriel Starr was content with a small part.
Mildred Cottell and Mary Macdonald came
right to the front as the aristocrat mother
and daughter, played on unconventional lines :
in fact, the acting all round was tine. The
Prince of Wales’s has “Called Back,” begin-
ning to show its age somewhat in soliloquies
and “asides” ; Cross seems quite pleased to
leave off being the virtuous hero, and does
good work in Beerbohm Tree’s old part.
Macari. Elsa Stralia is uplifting her voice
at the Town Hall, and Adelaide, after its
manner, is getting more enthusiastic as her
season goes on.
From an Adelaide critic: —
The first show of the United Arts Club of Adelaide
—a breakaway from the Society of Arts -is dis-
appointing, being largely the old things done ovei
again. Nothing here of the emancipated daring,
the possibly heroic folly, of young rebels. Again,
the pruning-knife has been all too sparingly used,
which means that young people receive encourage-
ment of the wrong kind, through being allowed to
show work which should have been rejected. Two
etchings by Van Raalte and sundry offerings under
the familiar names of Goodchild and Gwen Barringer
pull up the average, and there is promise in the
work of Harold Harrison, Gilbert Roach and Doreen
Rowley.


tnmcjnc
m
I
HH m i
4-: .
m
m
m
m
/
WHAT’S the use of liv-
ing if a man mustn’t
smoke as often as he
feels like it—or take a drink
when he’s thirsty? You might
as well be a slave!
The right kind of drink never
hurt a man yet —nor the
right kind of smoking; and
the right kind of smoking
can be summed up in two
words, “Matured tobacco.”
When you mature tobacco
for at least 3 years in the
wood you take away from
it all impurities, all harsh-
ness and bitterness, and if
you want to preserve your
health take my advice and
smoke nothing but matured
tobacco.
TURF
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
“BIG” SIZE
20 for 2/-
3
0
K>
c
c
35^
*o
**
h
<CO^
*
$
3
t%£
o
,
ik.
THE NEW-SIZE “TURF”—
“JUBILEE.”
Look for the
BLUE BAND
20 for 1/6
10 for 9d
GUARANTEED MADE FROM TOBACCO AGED IN THE WOOD FOR AT LEAST 3 YEARS


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
EEENER
S
•MM
I
m
wmm
%
W. W,GREENER,
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHAM
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only) c
w. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
lySyffaJ
ABBOTS
LAGER
Is Alivaijs ToTFie Fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
7209
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service it la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
WONAC
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address. Manager,
“Rowes” Caf<s and Hotel Proprietors,
Rri&nare.
POVERTY
POINT
CARLYN'S
HOTEL
“Tide Waiter”: The farewelling of the
rotund Jack Kirby, now on his way to
London, was attended by such a distinctly
theatrical crowd that it attracted curiosity.
Who’s he?” asked a man on the wharf, and
was duly informed. He took a long look
at the young portly figure waving farewell.
"What’s he going to do in London?” he
asked—“understudy Oscar Asche?”
, “Hamfat ’: Ballarat has decided that it
nas reason to be proud of Ward Lyons, who
created the name-part in “Cappy Ricks” at
the Melbourne Athenaeum. Lyons is to go
to London to introduce Cappy to the City
of Fog—a unique distinction for an Aus-
tralian actor; and the desire to see the
scenes of his boyhood took him on a visit
to the old capital of the diggings directly
the Athenaeum season finished. The city
fathers considered that a civic reception was
called for; and some of Ward’s pals of the
Redan R.C. School joined in the festivities.
A municipal historian assures me that it
was the first time a native-born performer of
Lyons’s sex had been so honored since Mick
Dooley and Bill Doherty, the heavyweights,
were given the freedom of Ivanowna (W.A.)
by the chief magistrate of that roaring town-
ship, poor old Tom Doyle.
“F.T.K.”: This is the day of the youth-
ful comedian. Witness the prominence of
Dus Bluett, of “Wildflower,” and Clem
Dawe, of the Midnight Frolics, neither of
whom has voted at a general election,
although both have qualified now. Gus, an
Australian, has been in the game with his
dad almost since babyhood ; and Dawe, though
of English birth, has had most of his ex-
perience on the Australian stage. The only
fault one can find with the clever youngsters
is a tendency to overdo it. Intensity is a
fine quality, but there is a point beyond
which it is unsafe to go, as many a poten-
tial star has learned to his sorrow. Re-
straint is not only an artistic but a physical
necessity.
(( “Ex-Englishman” : An interesting taker of
silk" in England the other day was one
Weatherley, aged 76. It is a surprising age
at which to become a K.G.; nor does one
expect a sentimental versifier to reach that
eminence at the Bar. But it is the same
Weatherley who, from 30 to 40 years ago,
used to pour out the ballads which Molloy
or Stephen Adams set to music—“ Holy
City,” “Star of Bethlehem,” “The Boys of
the Old Brigade” and the once-hackneyed
“Nancy Lee” among them.
“The Trumpeter” : As a youth I performed
ni a busking band outside Bachelder’s
Panorama of the American Civil War (B.
- 0/3/’25), and well do I remember the
majestic way in which the lecturer an-
nounced the “firing of the first gun at the
Battle of Bull Run.” I was the gunner.
The band got 2s. 6d. a night each (there
were four of us) ; but did not share in the
prize-distribution unless it paid for a ticket.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The amiable blending of
the Two Rascals on the stage has no coun-
terpart off: outside their business Charlie
O’Donnell and Eddie Fields are not cobbers.
The quarrel is an old one which led to a
dissolution of the partnership, but the pair
found that even if they could not get on
very well together they could not get on so
well apart. Being sensible, businesslike fel-
lows, they made an agreement to play
together again for seven years, on the under-
standing that they should meet as little as
possible off stage.
“Kenjocatee”: John Ralston, the J.C.W.
baritone, is looking like a juvenile lead
again. Gone is that avoirdupois which came
in handy when John was the Grand Duke
Boris in “Katinka,” but cast rather too
much shadow in his Nanki Poo (“Mikado”)
and Luiz (“Gondoliers”) parts. Ralston, who
draws tidy rents from real-estate investments
Victoria, has two winsome daughters,
Edna and Mascotte, in the “Primrose”
chorus. Mascotte, who is only 17, took
Winnie Collins’s place at an hour’s notice
in “Betty,” and did uncommonly well.
“Cliarlik” : “E.T.’s” remarks (B. 30/4/’25)
concerning “Queen of My Heart” are quite
correct, but whether George Edwardes or
11. J. Leslie was responsible for its inter-
polation does not alter the fact that the
song and Arthur Williams’s freelancing
turned "Dorothy” from a failure into a suc-
cess. In a benefit performance of “Dorothy”
in ’97, when, with the exception of Ben
Davies, every member of the original cast
took part, I, playing Wilder, dressed with
Ilayden Coffin, and we naturally chatted
about it. Having very nearly a “profes-
sional” audience, I had the impertinence
to say to Sherwood in the second act: “I
will see if Lurcher has slept off the effects
of the parson’s brew, and that will give
you a chance to sing ‘Queen of My Heart’!”
The “pros.” at least appreciated the joke, for
if ever a song was dragged in by the hair
of its head “Queen of My Heart” was.
“R.K.D.N.”: Though John Galsworthy is
looked upon by most of the people whose
judgment matters as England’s foremost
dramatist, nobody seems very anxious to put
on his plays in Australia. Sydney is at long
last to see “The Skin Game,” which Will be
done by the Muriel Starr-Frank Harvey co. at
the Palace. It is a year since this 1 Gals-
worthy piece was in the bills in Melbourne,
with the inflammable Oscar Asclie giving liis
last, and probably best, characterisation on
Australian stages as Hornblower, and it is
five years since the play was done originally
in London. But better late than never. By
the way, the first Hornblower, Edmund
Gwenn, is now the broad low comedian of
the new Leliar opera, “Frasquita,” recently
produced at London Prince’s. Eardley
Turner, who followed Asclie in the role
here, seems to have retired from the boards.
Anyhow, his name hasn’t appeared on the
active list for some considerable time.
ADVERTISING RATES INCLUDED.
M AN OF LAW: “Yes, Madam, I can get you
a divorce for £50 without any publicity.”
ASPIRING ARTISTE: “Good lord, you’re hard!
The man next door says he can do it
for that, with publicity thrown in.”
“Chip C.” : Willard Mack’s “Kick In” (B.
16/4/’25) was played in Melbourne. That
fine scholar, J. B. O’Hara, was running
his South Melbourne College at the time
and the English class was granted a half-
holiday to attend a performance of “Henry
V.,” the.play set for that year’s exams. But
“Kick In” had a greater appeal, so a couple
of classmates and I sneaked into the Theatre
Royal and had a look at the awful thing.
The ghastly make-up used by the actor who
Played the part of a dope-fiend is my most
vivid recollection of it now, but I will always
remember what happened to us at the next
day’s English lesson.
“Marko”: “E.T.” (B. 23/4/’25) cannot
have Joe Coyne as an Australian. Joe’s
native land is the U.S.A., but years ago he
told me he had adopted England, and meant
to retain his headquarters in London. That
was in 1907, and Joe has kept his word.
“The Merry Widow” made him famous.
Half theatrical London implored him to play
Danilo again in the recent revival, but he
said he couldn’t now, unless he was really
drunk. And Joe’s limit is a glass of stout
just before going to bed. J. C. Williamson
offered him his own price to play Danilo
here, but lie said he was booked by the
Ormonde, and or. the Ormonde he would
sail. And lie did. When Joe makes up
his mind that is the end of the argument;
but he is as unaffected and likeable a man
as ever trod the boards.
“Lud”: “Make plays while the sun shines”
seems to be. the motto of Frederick Lons-
dale, author of “Aren’t We'All?” and “Spring
Cleaning.” The latter piece is to have a
sequel, “The Marriage of Ernest Steele”;
and another of Lonsdale’s saucy comedies
booked for simultaneous autumn productions
in New York and London is entitled “The
First Profiteer,” which, like all its author’s
titles, should look piquant on a poster. In
addition the industrious writer continues to
knock off - libretti for musical comedies, a
form of play-writing which first introduced
him to the public.
WILLING TO RESIGN.
MISS PALETTE : “I really don’t know that
we ought to he married. I don’t approve
of two artists in one family.”
MR. BRUSH: “We can soon fix that. Can
you earn enough to keep me?”
“Loud”: A quite new idea of Puck lias
been evolved for the Basil Dean revival at
Drury-lane of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” The usual lightweight girl has
been passed over for a solid adult male com-
edian, Hay Petrie, complete with little horns
and pointed ,beard. The critics don’t know
what to make of the innovation, though they
all praise the player.
“Centurion”: Connie Gilchrist (B.
30/4/’25) made nearly as big a hit on her
debut in the hunting field as she did at the
Gaiety, though possibly for a different
reason. It was with the Beaufort, then
ruled over by that autocratic old Turk, the
Duke of Beaufort before last. Plow the
little burlesque dancer got into that horribly
exclusive galley has never been explained, but
she did, and that in a sky-blue riding-habit,
with a velvet cap to match. This hideous
solecism rocked hunting England to the heels
of its boots, and all waited anxiously for the
Dook to blast the intruder with his wrath,
as he had many others of both sexes, or to
blow up with suppressed fury. The unheard-
of habit, however, matched Connie’s blue
eyes and fair hair so perfectly that the
noble descendant of Charles 11. took it all
like a lamb; and thereafter Connie was
given the right to wear the special Beaufort
Hunt uniform, dark blue, with a yellow col-
lar, and the Beaufort button. This privi-
lege she shared with the late Empress of
Austria and Margot Tennant-Asquitli, to
name no others.
“T.P.” : Who was the last of the old Eng-
lish school of tragedians stretching back in
never-ending line to Garrick? The question
was asked at our local Shakspeare Society,
and we oldsters all plumped for William
Cteswick, who, at 70 years of age, was here
in the early ’eighties, admirably supported
by G. R. Ireland. Creswiek was a University
mate of Bishop Moorliouse, who got him to
read the Bible to his parsons at Bishop’s
Court, much to the grief of the unco’ guid
of those days. But Allan Wilkie, to whom
the conundrum was put, courteously flattened
us out. “Osmond Tearle,” he wrote, “was the
last of the school. He died 20 years ago,
and was therefore later than Crestvick, who
was much before my time. Creswiek was in
his youth a contemporary of Macready,
whereas Osmond Tearle in his younger days
was a contemporary of Barry Sullivan.”
“Ilamfat”: People get into the theatrical
business in all sorts of queer ways. There
is my friend Porkins, who was a grocer in
a large N.S.W. country town. Porkins was
sozzled and sentimental when he promised
to finance a stranded co. and sit in the box-
office until he got his money back on a
50-50 basis; and he never quite sdbered up
during the tour. Still, he appeared to be
a mascot. In two towns enough came in
to pay him back his coin and expenses and
make the co. financial; and this success,
together with his agreeable habit of buying
drinks, earned him popularity, especially
with the leading lady. It was the lending
lady’s change of affections that offended the
business-manager, who sold out all rights
for £5O and left Porkins in charge. Porkins
appointed a manager for his shop, and con-
tinued with the company, his financial luck
still holding; and in two weeks he had mar-
ried the leading lady. It took him half that
time to realise that matrimony was a mis-
take. The rows between them were like
earthquakes, in one of which the theatrical
venture was engulfed ; and I don’t know what
would have happened if Porkins hadn’t dis-
covered that Mrs. P. had forgotten to get
a decree nisi made absolute. Porkins was
in Melbourne for the last Cup, and he told
me then that his touring experience had
given him a love for the business which had
prompted him to start a picture-show, out
of which he has made a pile.
“Goldilocks”: He is doing well in America
now, which may or may not mean that he
has really become an actor; but when he
first toured M.L. with a co. to which he had
paid a premium for the privilege of playing,
his crudeness was dreadful. Hart, the
Christchurch Press critic, who was proud of
the reputation of being one of the hardest in
Australasia, denounced him not only in his
notices, but personally. “What van you say
in the fellow’s favor?” lie asked. “lie’s the
worst Christchurch has seen—worse than a
stick, because you can make a stick do some
of the things you want of it. What can you
say in his favor?” The manager pondered
deeply, and a happy thought dawned. “Well,”
he said, “his father brews very good beer.”
“Flaming Youth”: One touring actor-
manager I know had the news of a calamity
broken to him in a unique fashion. Business
had been bad throughout, and the co.’s pros-
pects in the stagnant town it had struck that
morning were cheerless. Incidentally, the
train for Sydney nulled out at the very time
the show was to start. Playing to a small
and dispirited audience, the actor-manager, in
the character of a returned traveller, inquired
as to the whereabouts of the boys and girls
Of the village, and was informed that they
were partly deceased. “And how is that
little sister of yours?” the wanderer then
asked, the reply being the cue for the lead-
ing lady’s entrance. But instead of finishing
his speech with “And here she is!” the other
player sombrely said, “She’s dead, too!”
Staggered for a moment, but rising to the
occasion, Buskerville prompted, “Oh, but
she can’t be dead, surely!” “I had to kill
her.” the other whispered; “she caught the
Sydney train.”
“Hamfat”: Rock Phillips, Australia’s best-
known property-man, has had some stage
successes, top. He was Gravedigger to Rig-
nold’s Hamlet, and the saucy Soldier when
George was Henry V. But his great chance
came in 1897, when Rignold was doing a
season at the Dunedin Princess’s. Hand-
some George made a real confusion in “Con-
fusion” by falling off a bike and fracturing
his face to some extent. It became neces-
sary to find someone to “get down” the 70-
sides part of Mortimer before evening. The
situation was saved by Phillips mentioning
that’, having heard the thing often enough,
he knew it by heart almost; and the useful
props, went on at night and made a credit-
able fist of a difficult role.
“Bond”: A research scholarship to en-
courage inquiry into the History and Litera-
ture of the Drama has been founded at Cam-
bridge. The donor is Oswald Stoll, whose
money has been made in variety theatres
and latterly in films. The fund is £6OOO
of 2J per cent. Consols, to provide £l5O a
year. Stoll says his object is “to educate the
public to a better appreciation of the stage
on the artistic side, and educate the stage
to an appreciation of the demand of the
public for artistic excellence, coupled with
sound business methods on the financial side
.. . .discarding the happy-go-lucky finance to
which the artistic temperament is perhaps
naturally prone.. . .bringing the artistic tem-
perament within the ambit of the business
sense.” The mother in whose memory the
scholarship is founded was an early resident
of Melbourne, where Oswald was born in the
middle ’sixties. But he doesn’t remember
much about it: he came to England (Liver-
pool) for his schooling.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: All sorts of strange fish
are attracted by the glare of the footlights.
A touring manager’s advertisement in one
of the dailies produced over a hundred writ-
ten applications for “shops” in a company
he was forming; some headed by crests on
scented paper, and some pencilled on leaves
torn from greasy notebooks. A soulful lady
notified that she had a great desire to do
missionary work, and that a stage career,
she felt, would give her the best opportunity.
The manager let the chance pass.
DANCERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dark trees dancing
A stately saraband,
Their bending' branches meeting
Hand to hand ;
And the sky’s green curtain
Drooping,
Swooping
O’er the land 1
The white waves weaving
A giddy tarantelle,
Their restless arms a-tinkling
Stone and shell;
And their skirts, lace-patterned,
Twirling,
Whirling
With the swell 1
Gold butterflies wheeling
From out a purple haze,
Their painted eyes a-gleam with
Prismy rays ;
And their burnished ballets
Parting,
Darting
Fn a maze!
I, alone, dancing
Under a witch-white moon
To mystic incantations
Made in tune,
With a lcno wind-piper,
Thrumming,
Drumming
Rune on rune!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


Amusements.
§VD N E Y’S CHIEF THEAIItES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S—KID BOOTS.
CRITERION:
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
ROYAL: THE LADY OF THE ROSE.
G RAND OPERA HOUSE. SYDNEY.
... . Proprietor, George Marlow.
IMrection Hugh ,J. Ward Theatres Ptr., Ltd.
Nightly at 8. Mutinies Wed. and Sat. at 2 15.
TANGERINE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
RICKA K D S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pu RLE It’S THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
w
I R T II s ' C I It c u
Wirtlis’ Hippodrome, Haymarket.
S.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinfies Wednesday, Saturday and Holidays, 2.30.
Children half-price to all parts at Matinees.
THIS YEAR SOMETHING SPECIAL.
NEW ARTISTS, NEW THRILLS, NEW ACTS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SPRING CLEANING.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E.
GUY BATES POST in
THE MASQUERADER.
AT HENUUII THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
« Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. .). Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson presents, by arrangement with
E. J. Carroll,
JOHN D. O’HARA,
in the Three-act English Comedy,
SKITTLES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
D BINC ESS’S TIIHATKK, .'MELBOURNE
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
“The Little Giant of Musical Comedy.”
U OYT’S XHEAT R F, S MELIIOUKNK
1 B Aloo SYDNEY.
MARY PHILBIN in
THE GAIETY GIRL.
THE YOUTHFUL CHEATERS,
WITH AN ALL-STAR CAST.
Prices as usual.
|V| V -J I- STIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
IRENE RICH in
THIS WOMAN,
• A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
(VIEW BI.IOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
1 * Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO. IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Missing: Friends.
\\T ATSON.—WiII anyone who knows the present
vv whereabouts of THOMAS WATSON, grandson
ol \Y ILLIAM JONES, deceased, of i’aversham, Kent,
England, and his children, or who can give any
information concerning him or them, Communicate
with; MESSRS. BLAKE & RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120
W illiam Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
troubled with the complaint, write oi and
,en “ you OUI catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 hi. appliance doe. away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
brst day . use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint It will hold a rupture
hrmiy and comfortably under all condition*
To prove what we slate
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street. Melbourne
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
fZa
THER
m
POST
FREE
Your health’s best friend
-the daily ‘dash’ of ENO
Give Nature the gentle aid she sometimes needs
in resisting these little ills that make life a
burden —follow the time-proved practice of
drinking, first time every morning, a glass of
water sparkling with a ‘dash’ of ENOS
“ Fruit Salt.”
NOW SOLD IN TWO SIZES
Sales Agents:
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
The words "Fruit Salt"
and ENO, and the label
on the package are
registered trade marks.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
The GENUINE BOSCH
MAGNETOS
SPARKING PLUGS
LIGHTING AND STARTING SETS
HORNS (2 NOTE)
PLATINUM POINTS
AND SPARE PARTS
are absolutely dependable under the
severest conditions.
Imitated throughout the World, but,
as yet, UNEQUALLED.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Dtd.,
256-258 Tatrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 101 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Elphinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Hobart » J. Nettlefold & Co., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand Jas. J. Niven & Co., Dtd., Wakefield Street,
AVellington.
Not genuine without the name of ROBERT BOSCH
and this I.l,l—mtlli TRADE-MARK.
Keenness!
O PECIALLY selected Sheffield Steel is used for
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRAND
CHAFF CUTTER KNIVES-steel that for the
longest possible period preserves its keen cutting
edge.
An Eagle on a Globe Brand Knives, therefore,
require re-sharpening less frequently. They make
for quicker, easier work.
An Eagle on a Globe Brand Knives are avail'
able for all modern types of chaffcutters. When
ordering state size and make required. Send a
paper pattern of knife, if in doubt.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO., LTD.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
NEWCASTLE
BRISBANE .
ADELAIDE
HOBART
379-381 Kent Street
312-318 Swanston Street
Paul & Gray, Ltd.. Scott Street
John Reid & Nephews, 31-36 Charlotte Street
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.. 88-90 Currie Street
K- L. Milligan, 64 Collins Street


CITROEN
AGENTS
N.S.W.—Salmon’s Motors, 143 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
W.A.—Gilbert’s, Ltd., 896 Hay Street,
Perth.
Vic.—Preston Motors Pty., Gtd., 1 14-122
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
S.A.—Maughan, Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Q’land —Brisbane Lquipment Co., 43 3
Ann Street, Brisbane.
Tas.—Mohr, James & Robertson Pty.,
Ltd., 29 Cameron Street, Laun-
ceston, Tas.
N.Z.—James Tombs & Co., Ltd., Albert
Street, Auckland, N.Z.
b
W
9
co
S
I
A
m
£
V
I?
I 9 >
UNIVERSAL ACCEPTANCE
of
CITROEN
as
ft
99
The World’s Economy Car
has made possible the phenomenal growth of
Citroen production from:—
00 CARS PER DAY IN 1919
to 500 CARS PER DAY IN 1925
a growth unequalled by any other motor-car manufacturer.
Factory Distributors: —W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
rubber.
MOIRALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY - BRISBANE
Overlooking River. Mrs b. Kennedy,
Handy to Trams and Proprietress
Trains phone cent. 5112
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. . Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO.j Est 186 q
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LAST DAYS.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofori |-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission o( the Hon. the
Attorney-General ot N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p, Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published “Daily Telegraph." June 15th,
1925 ; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/1!. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets for 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizes
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Prouds
Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney!
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba. N.S v ji.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
tT will be to the advantage of HERMANN FELS,
last heard of at Loganholme, Queensland, or his
children (if any), to communicate with A. W. BALE,
Solicitor, Adelaide Street, Brisbane, before 31st May,
next. The Trustee is about to distribute his father’s
estate.
Skin and Wool Merchants
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling; Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
rtIAOC MAU
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
ij! ".‘i'p-it m ■
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ZANONI FRANCIS ALBERT CORRELL.
'J'HE above, who was last heard of as being em-
ployed at Roseneath Station, I’arkes, Mew South
Wales, in the year 1904, is requested to communicate
with the undersigned, when he will hear something to
his advantage; or anyone knowing his present where-
abouts or who can give any information is requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
J. ALLAN ANDERSON & CO.,
Solicitors, 97 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Victoria. J
Missing Friends.
NEXT OF KIN.
INFORMATION is required regarding the
whereabouts of FRANK PERRY, junior,
ormerly of Port Chalmers, New Zealand, and
ast heard of in Sydney. The said Frank
?erry is a beneficiary in the estate of the
ate Frank Perry, of Port Chalmers. Re-
dies, giving full particulars, should be ad-
Iressed to the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(
9
9
/
4 Plates
c jforZ^
< by°
CLIPFOR.O LOVE £> CO. LTD-
SVD M E V
&
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL
THAT BEST
KNOWN OF ALL PAINTS.
11 hat are the attributes wherein lie RIPOLIN’S
World-wide Reputation ?
ITS ABSOLUTE EXCELLENCE.
Nothing succeeds like success, and Ripolin
is always succeeding in its results.
L. A. COR MACK (Factory Rep.,)
4 Underwood Street, Sydney. Telephone B 3284.
S. J. Squires & Co., Xtd., 171 Elizabeth Street. Brisbane.
The Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd., 37!) Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Clarkson, Utd., 122 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
(By permission of (he Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
BIGGEST AND BEST!
‘The HELP for CONSUMPTIVES”
ART UNION
OBJECT. The establishment of a fresh air settlement for T.B. sufferers and
to alleviate distress amongst those suffering from T.B.
NEXT DRAWN.
PRIZES
VALUE
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine * . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan ... ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car ...... ~ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car ~ £4OO
200—Prizes in all—2oo
1/-
TICKETS ONLY
By post 1 /lVfed. 3 or more post free
with result slip.
Five tickets . . . . .5 /-
I/'
Biggest Art Union ever Conducted
BUY YOUR TICKETS NOW. FILLING RAPIDLY
Art Union Closes Positively not later than 20th May, 1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney, 3rd June, 1925.
Thoroughly efficient management and strictest supervision assures every ticket
holder of an equal chance in the drawing.
Tickets Obtainable Everywhere or from
GEO, H. WHEELER, SECRETARY, 4 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter ; Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Surgeon's Laborer: Afraid you didn't know
him quite as well as we did Harry J.: It’s a good
yarn. The only drawback to it is that the corpse
lias now been found in almost every crowded pub in
the Commonwealth. .. .Wawh: “Diet” has humor but
is a little too crude.... Cham: Straighten it out;
you lose your points by bad arrangement W.P.T.:
But they weren’t talking about sick birds C.A.L.:
No good; too indefinite... . Goodshot: better for-
warded .. . .Murk: You have made it all as clear as
pea-soup. ... H.0.P.: The cheapest thing this paper
knows is talk round about Anzac Day... .R.W.T.:
As an exercise in that verse form, it is well done ;
but the subject has so little interest.... Compo. :
The lowest point reached by the English paper pound
in dollars—was 3.19. The pound sterling is
worth 4.8665 dollars. The improvement was not
continuous. The exchange went as high as 4.72 in
February, 1923, and sagged to 4.21 in January, 1924.
. ...M.M.8.: Some distance to go yet. . . .M.B.
(Forbes): Gentleman burglars and lady pickpockets
who live in an atmosphere of sentimental hysteria arc
no use here... .Ka Be: The same cats have appeared
over and over again in various forms ; and 3 011 make
them tedious animals... .R.Ii.L.: Only write about
the little things you know W.H.R.: The baffled
one must go back W.W. (Auckland): Wants a
little, more of nearly everything V.M.L.: Sorry,
can t be done. It’s a struggle to spare it even an
occasional column.... France M.: “The Broken
Treasure” doesn’t stir a whisker.... Polly P.: Too
obvious an effort to put salt on the tail of mirth
J.A.K.; Not quite.... Quamby: You forgot to give
your name. Two have a chance D.S.M.: A bit
too stiff and heavy... .Maud W.: Not enough in
“Autumn” The Aec: Too rugged A.F.W.: All
tagged out with old commonplaces.... Butten D.:
Can’t accept your statement that the astute Malone
was so easily fooled Harry S.: Fails rather badly.
... .W.M.8.L.: We don’t care for it. .. .Nosmoht:
The verse is very uneven, and the theme has been
handled too often N.D.R.; The tooth yarn is
only rough horseplay W. J.C.: A poor tale in a
bad setting.... Ripponlea: It has grip and a fine
realism:—
The Surgery I enter
To keep my appointment.
Aware o’ the scent o’
Carbolic ointment.
The chair I recline in;
My jaws open jammed,
Preparing to suffer
The pains of the damned.
A sharp piercing spike
Is inserted soon,
And my gum swells like
A sausage balloon.
The dentist accepts
A strategic position
And forceps and biceps
Come into commission.
The tooth crumbles up
Like a pennorth o’ borax
And a groan rumbles up
From the: depths of mine thorax.
.. . .R.A.J.: Too loose and too long. ... J.F.F.: Doesn’t
get anywhere near the target. .. .Cecil R.: Even
among first attempts it stands pretty low. ...825:
It makes a poor sort of noise. .. .J.M.D.: Nothing
there worth immortalising. .. .A.A.G.: All those words
to get to that little point!.... George S.: Try some-
thing easier before you tackle a sonnet.... Cassar:
The revised ballad doesn’t stir u 5.... James D.: The
verse limps too often and says too little... .D.0.C.:
They are brave attempts, but the result is not good.
... . A.L.R.: Stumbles along very heavily... .D.M.
(Darlinghurst) : Doesn’t approach the mark... .L.R.:
hot enough meat in your pie....Capta: Doesn’t
strike us hal'd enough.... B.M. (Dundas) : The verse
is not nearly up. Two initials are not enough to
separate you from a host of others.... Bellerive:
It states the case with an accuracy rarely found
in poetry:—
Out to Flemington, Flemington racecourse,
Be the weather calm or rough,
Punters, sports and workers crowdeth,
To the famous Melbourne Cup.
Eager for to back their fancies,
Swells in motors speed along,
Families in carts and waggons
Mingled with the traffic throng.
Out to Flemington, Flemington racecourse,
Be the weather calm or rough,"
Men and women for a gamble
Travel to the Melbourne Cup.
The liquor-booth attract the thirsty
And here and there a fistic bout,
Young and old doth thickly gather
Where the bookies bawleth out.
Out to Flemington, Flemington racecourse,
Be the weather calm or rough,
Punters, sports and workers crowdeth
To the famous Melbourne Cup.
. ...H.P. (South Melb.) : It follows poor models and
the lines are eked out with old phrases... .R.G.
(Murray B.) : Too weak even to push its nose in....
James P.: The yarn gets to nothing. .. .W.A.W.: No
good F.S.C.: Nothing of value in them C.11.R.:
Wooden verse without feeling.... Gladys B.: The
yarn doesn’t move us Ida B. ; Horrible R.D.
(Dungog) : Not for us M.H.H.: The story of the
lady who wouldn’t marry the dreadful man because
he bought some whisky to cure her cold leaves us
sad.... Gnome: Thin and weak as the curate’s third
cup of tea. .. .Nemesis: Sorry, but it is not nearly
good enough. .. .8.M.N.0.: Too wild and improbable.
... .Z.V.W.: Not the fruit for this barrow... .L.Y.L.:
The idea is pretty good. Can you improve the
handling ?.... G.C.L.: Mostly melodrama.... Hec B.:
Pity to have wasted such good work on so artificial
a thing. .. .W.D.F.: Get more movement into it.
. ...A.X.: Can’t afford the space for such a detailed
review... .J.M.P.; Don’t agree with you; but it may
be worth discussion... .W.J.T.: “Moon” was on the
b r der-line... .Facts Verified: In the suggested new
form, the statement would certainly cost us a few
thousands more. On the other hand, if the identity
is so veiled that nobody knows to whom it refers,
what is the use of it ?... . Old C.: The B. made the
suggestion long ago. Afraid it’s too late n0w....
S.W.S.: But you don’t put the old things in any
new light... .J.A.K.: Too long for its value....
Martingale: Too vague. Where are these nomad
mebs, and wnat State’s impounding legislation are
you talking about?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
■ •
W.G. (Papua): There’s promise in them. Stick
to the local color and develop a livelier line....
M.T.; Drawing inspires homicidal feelings and gag
has venerable whiskers... .H.E.F.: Artificial little
thing... .S.McC.: Your Indian ink and Chinese white
conspiracy debarred under the Ajien Restrictions Act.
... .W.A.H.: Nothing in them.... E.M.: You’re no
caricaturist.... D.N.: Looks like a cross-word puzzle
come to life... .J.C.: It missed, but splashed the
target.... G.R.C.: The drunkest drunk and the most
crapulous joke we have had the honor to receive
for a long time...-R.G.: Has points of merit.


Os
IN
%
' Hflfi
m
/V.
M VvJ
/
&lr&r s
V/'- \
m
m
m'* ■'
to Australia I should like
appreciate and recommend
The Australia,
Sydney, 26th March, 1925.
Messrs. S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
Agents for
The Gramophone Company,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
On the occasion of this my first visit
lovers of good music to know how much I
“His Master’s Voice.”
No one. unless the possessor of one of these superb Gramophones,
can realise *the wonderful, lifelike reproduction obtained.
I am especially pleased with the records of my voice. The
superiority over all other methods of reproduction is so significant
in “His Master’s Voice” Records when played on “His Master’s Voice”
that I do not hesitate to make this statement.
Wishing your Company the great success so richly deserved,
believe me,
Most sincerely,
Vo
Master
His
ice
Galli-
Curci
and
“His
Master's
Voice”
The art of Galli-Curci and of "His Master’s Voice” are
indissolubly linked, since on these perfect instruments and
records the great diva can be heard as truly, as naturally
as though she were in the same room as the listener.
Galli-Curci, like all the great stars, records exclusively
for "His Master’s Voice,” because she recognises it as
the supreme medium of reproduction.
Write for the Special List of 54 Galli-Curci Records
and name of nearest dealer.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“His Master s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-marie.
Speed Indicator—
Mileage Recorder—
Lubrication Guide—
ALL IN ONE!
Speedometer
FOR THE FORD
Front view of the New
Stewart Oiling System
Speedometer, showing
Metal Instruction Tablet.
In addition to recording speed and mileage, this Stewart Patented Speedometer for Ford Cars indicates by means of colored figures
when different parts of the Car should be lubricated.
Each instrument has a neat metal tablet attached, to which the driver can refer for oiling instructions whenever a colored dial turr.3
up on the mileage register. A stiff-covered pocket-book containing illustrated lubrication chart, with ruled pages for recording
petrol and oil purchases, is furnished with each instrument.
Whenever a colored
dial appears, the
hinged chart should be
pulled down and the
needed lubrication
attended to.
This Patented Stewart Speedometer automatically informs the Ford Car driver whenever it is
necessary to oil or grease any part of his car. There is no guess-work—no uncertainty or worry—no
troublesome investigation of inaccessible parts.
The Stewart Oiling System Speedometer does
your remembering for you.
Price Complete, 80/-
Obtainable from Garages, Car Agents, Accessories Dealers, and Stewart Service Stations as under:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., SYDNEY; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., MELBOURNE;
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., BRISBANE; CORNELL, LIMITED, ADELAIDE;
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, PERTH.


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
FTEnFoiTTfe
- y ; »
rfi \ r
2
By building: your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with “FIBRO-
liITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining hoards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is Are re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write lor Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York 8c Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildingrs, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
\,l'l ■*
I**''
X
The Name Attracts.
That is not surprising. The firm’s good work in
selling FOX, RABBIT and all other skins at top
values is a consistent inducement for owners to
forward consignments to market.
Send Your Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
The
“WILD
WEST”
Big Leaf
HAT
30/-
sf/<
V-
A wide leaf Bush
Hat, built to stand
rough wear. Big
crown, leaf 3m. wide.
Steel Grey or Fawn
shades. Kindly state
size when ordering.
Mail to Desk “SB”
PIKE
BROTHERS LTD.
In Syeen St., Brisbane
Columbia
Dry Batteries
they last longer
The world’s most famous
batteries for bells, buzzers, radio,
gas engines.
fI NV NOLLIHoi
MOi
l®a
S.
Obtainable
everywhere
at little
cost.
More
power
Better
satisfaction
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
26
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
D
0
ld
REGISTERED -TRADE .MARK
may seem dearer in
anticipation,but they are
cheaper in retrospect.
Ask your dealer fo' advice on the all-important subject
of saddle comfort.
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, LTD.,
Eagley Building, 143-45 York St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents for J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD., Birmingham. England.
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/9. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Ivillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No, 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
•»
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“W.J.C.”: “X2X” (B. 9/4/’25) is wrong
when lie assumes that the pill-rollers have
filched the name of chemists and are not
entitled to it. Webster gives “chemist” as
“one versed in chemistry, formerly an
alchemist 'or an iatrocliemist; a druggist.”
And Webster is supported by Murray’s New
English Dictionary. Further, the law in
England and in most Australian States has
not only conceded our claim, but prescribed
penalties for the man other than a druggist
who hoists the chemist’s sign on his premises.
* * * *
“Peter”: “Simon” (B. 2/4/’25) has evi-
dently mixed his liquors. Arrak is a pro-
duct of the sugar-cane, and has a pronounced
rum flavor. It is distilled in Java and sent
in the crude state to Holland, where it is
prepared for the market; it is the ground-
work of Swedish and German punch. The
aniseed-flavored liquor “Simon” refers to as
imported by the Syrian community is either
ouzo or mastic, which latter is similar to
absinthe, and, as in the case of that liquor,
assumes an opalescent milkiness when water
is added. I can understand “Simon’s” lady
friends becoming enamored of ouzo or mastic,
but I doubt whether the flavor of arrak would
appeal to them.
* * * *
“James B.”: The newspapers tell us that
a Scandinavian ship has lately gone north
with £200,000 worth of whale-oil in her hold.
Later, 1 suppose, if Australia wants whale-
oil, some of_ this, after a journey round the
world for its health’s sake, will go into
consumption here. Is it not possible for
Australia to tap this mine of wealth that
lies almost at our door? There are idle
ships and seamen aplenty, and if Tom
Walsh would smile on the undertaking there
should be good money in it for some enter-
prising person.
* * * *
“Dry”: Rc “Boronia’s” par (B. 26/3/’25).
The sleeper-cutter in N.S.W. always gets
more than 30 per cent, out of a log, in many
cases as high as 100 per cent. It would be
difficult to say just what the average is, but
it should be well over 70 per cent. The
average of a mill five chains from where this
is written is 60 per cent. No mill could
work (and pay) in what is known as cut-
out country. Scores of forests testify to this
to-day. Yet sleeper-cutters can and do earn
a crust in such places.
* * * *
“Wanchai”: Forty-five years ago the
lately-buried Tom Coombe and his brother,
then Mayor of Port Pirie (S.A.), were part-
ners in a timber concern. They owned the
brig Prospero, which once made an officially-
recorded run from Pirie to Slobart in four
days. Has this ever been beaten by a wind-
jammer?
* * * *
“Bullwhanger”: Many a well-known
N.S.W. coaster is being sold into the blue-
water trade nowadays. The latest to go is
the Duranbah. She was built by Scott, of
Kinghorn, pame to this country early in the
century, and was put into the Tweed River
trade. Her last owners were the Patrick
Shipping Co.; they ran her in the Bight.
She has now been purchased by W. R. Car-
penter and Co., and after a long spell in
Rotten Row is being refitted with Diesel
engines for the Solomon Island trade. The
engine that is going into her has a history
too. It was in the auxiliary schooner Mascot,
owned by the same people. The Mascot came
to grief in the Santa Cruz group last year,
and only the engines were salvaged. The
Yugilbar (another North Coaster) is now
running to the New Hebrides under Burns-
Philp’s house flag and a new name-—Maka-
tea. The Poonbar is on her way to Rabaul
under charter to W. R. Carpenter, the St.
George has been in the Gilbert Islands for
some time, and the Noorebar in Fiji. These
last three were formerly well known on the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: “Sucre” must be very un-
sophisticated about the tricks that can be
played with pieces of paper (B. 9/4/’25)
if he was surprised to learn that tire cashing
of a post-dated cheque which was subsequently
dishonored placed the drawer under no crimi-
nal ban. Even a cheque which is not post-
dated may not give the man who exchanges
solid cash for it a grip on the drawer. The
point was tested in a case in which a man
had cashed a cheque on Monday, dated that
day, on the understanding that it was not
to be presented until Friday. The magis-
trate upheld the plea of the defendant that
he made no fraudulent pretence that he had
the money, and, as the casher was really
gambling on a contingency, it would have to
be. proved, in order to establish a criminal
case, that defendant had no prospect of
having the money in the bank on the day
arranged. Here is another point which few
even of the sophisticated seem to know. An
exasperated landlord, threatening distraint
unless long arrears of rent were paid, was
handed a cheque covering the rent to the
end of a period of notice of termination of
tenancy, and gave a receipt. Some costs
were added, to his annoyance, by the time
lie learned that, in spite of the cheque prov-
ing valueless, the receipt held good : he had
exchanged his rights of distraint as a land-
lord, or his right to sue for twice the value
of chattels removed to avoid distraint, for
a bit of paper which was only evidence of
an ordinary civil debt. Another cheque-
trick, often played on hotelkeepers, com-
mences with a request to Bung to take charge
of a cheque for some largish figure, which
a customer who has made himself familiar
as a free spender says he is afraid of losing.
Holding that cheque. Bung considers he is
on a safe wicket in lending £5 or £lO when
the request is made to him later in the even-
ing. Even if the cheque is valueless no
charge lies against the swindler.
“Pat Bushie”: He beat me by a neck to
the public ’phone, and I waited outside while
he fumbled about. Then out he came with
a bright smile on his face. Thinking they
must be rather attentive, I made to hurry
into the booth, but he stopped me. “Great
idea that,” he said, indicating the machine.
‘ T mst put a penny in and got fourpence
out.”


Sit
Here!
rmrn^
III!
\V
\
sW\\
vx:
and let Studebaker sell you a Studebaker!
The New
STUDEBAKER
Cars
Powerful, economical six-cylinder
engines of three sizes—Standard
Six, Special Six and Big Six. Force-
feed oiling system. Completely
machined crankshaft. Automatic
spark control. Waterproof igni-
tion system.
Duplex body an exclusive
Studebaker feature combining
open car freedom with closed car
comfort.
4-wheel hydraulic servo brakes,
optional. Full-size balloon
tyres, for which steering mechan-
ism, body lines and even the mud-
guards were especially designed.
Lights controlled from switch on
steering wheel. One piece wind-
screen. Glare-proof visor. Auto-
matic windscreen cleaner. Clock,
speedometer, oil pressure gauge,
petrol gauge and ammeter all in
single grouping on instrument
board. New type brake control on
dash. Nickel-plated radiator. Co-
mbination stop-and-tail light. Tyre
carrier, equipped with lock. And
many other refinements.
Fifteen minutes on the road will do
more toward convincing you of the
marvelous performance of the new
Studebaker cars than a thousand
words we might write in this message*
Before you buy, allow 15 minutes of
your time to any Studebaker dealer
for a demonstration* You owe it to
yourself to investigate before you invest!
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend , Ind.,U.S. A*
. Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
113 m. W.B. 50 H.P.
6-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood £430
6-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood 480
5-pass. Duplex-Phaeton, Imported
Body 490
3-pass. Roadster Australian Body,
Folding Hood 420
3-pass. Roadster imported Body,
Folding Hood 455
3-pass. Duplex-Roadster 465
3- Coupe-Roadster 570
5-pass. Coupe 590
5-pass. Sedan 625
5-pass. Berline 650
4- Hydraulic Brakes, 4 Disc Wheels,
£l5 extra.
SPECIAL SIX MODELS.
120 i«. W.B. 65 H.P.
5-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hoed £535
7-pass. Phaeton, Australian Body,
Folding Hood 550
5-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood 580
5-pass Duplex-Phaetc:''. Tmp. Body 595
3-pass. Roadster, Australian Body 515
3-pass Roadster, Imported Body 535
3- Duplex-Roadster, Imp. Body 545
4- Victoria 735
5- Sedan 765
5-pass. Berline 785
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
BIG SIX MODELS.
127 m. W.B. 75 H.P.
7-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood £685
7-pass. Duplex-Phaeton 705
5-pass. Coupe 895
7-pass.
7-pass.
Sedan 935
Berline 960
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
Studebaker open models can also be
furnished with folding tops in place of
the Duplex body and top.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, (Queensland) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
i
JB-616
STtJD E BAKER
—f°
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73
YEARS


a
COUGH
REMEDY
WHOOPING C
410ARSEN
BRO!
SOPE THI
influe:
aho OTHt» Arrtaic
THROAT and
MADE in AUS
CH AMBtRUi N j
COUGH
RJLM tnv
rsi
DttMUUIKS
Free from all narcotics
or injurious substances.
Avoid cough medicines
which contain narcotics.
They are extremely harm-
ful to children and may
retard their development.
Chamberlain’s can be
safely given to young and
even delicate children for it
contains nothing injurious.
Chamberlains
"Cough Remedy"
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Features
v9 2d
3v
o<-
■W
Protect®
Perfectly
S
///C
//
SRHBte
Writes
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t delay. Get yours
NOW. State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’UL be proud
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 10,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceam
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or _
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., I Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872. .
Directors— James Milne. Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, usq.,
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
Genf.rai, Manager—M. G. lIAfTMEN.
HEAD OFFICE •• ••• •• BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 80 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through, the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia ana
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
The Pen for all Climates
The Self-filling “ Swan ” has a safety screw cap
and a “ Ladder ” feed. When the cap is screwed
down, ink cannot evaporate and the Ladder feed
always ensures a sufficient supply for immediate use.
JYote the ducts
Which hold the
ink in readiness
for instant
Writing
Self-filling
“ Swans ”
From 17/6
OF STATIONERS. JEWELLERS
AND IMPORTERS.
SWAN
Self-
Filling
PEN
Catalogue post tree
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House. 133, & 135, Oxford St.. London, W.l. and
at Manchester; Paris. Brussels, Zurich, Johannesburg, Barcelona, Sydney,
Wellington. Cape Town, and Rotterdam
Resident Representative;
Phipson k (Jo., Ltd., Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
HEAD OFFICE—273 Collins
Authorised Capital . .
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . .
Street, Melbourne.
..£10,000,000
£4,000,000
2,207,380
1,500,000
Total £7,707,380
Total Assets, 31st March, 1924, £38,209,226.
Directors :
SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY.
F. M. STRACHAN.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept.: E. J. OSBORNE.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N. S. WALES —Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 29 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowlev, Ivt., Chairman • William Davies;
E. H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 48 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 37 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE —7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand.
Agents throughout the World.
Colonel Esson, secretary to tlie Treasury
in Maoriland, is retiring after 44 years’ ser-
vice. When tlie war-gong sounded lie dropped
liis quill and went off with the main body,
receiving a C.M.G. and a mention for his
services on Gallipoli. He will be succeeded
by R. E. Hayes, who has been assistant sec.
since 1022. Both are native-born.
The North Sydney Municipal Council held
its 1000th meeting a few days back. It was
incorporated 35 years ago to wipe out a
group of pocket-handkerchief municipalities,
but Mosman, which was included, has since
seceded. The first council consisted of the
aldermen of the smothered boroughs, num-
bering 33; and of the lot only one, E. M.
Clarke, ex-M.L.A., is now in the council.
An optimist among mountain-climbers is
S. J. Turner, who recently trudged to the
top of Mount Egmont (M.L.) for the 29th
time. When the next attempt to get to the
apex of Mount Everest starts, Turner hopes
to be in the party ; and he has enough en-
thusiasm to help him half-way on the
journey.
James Randal Gascoigne, who recently
died, aged 91, at Auckland, was the first
gold-miner to build a water-race on the
Otago fields. Gold-dust lured him over most
of the earth. At 14 he helped to carry
British military reinforcements to Calcutta
in the Collingwood. Then on the Agincourt
to Adelaide, whence the discovery of gold
hired him to the Eastern States. lie fos-
sicked in California and British Columbia
and when the Otago gold stampede set in
lie was soon in Maoriland.
James Watcrwortli, who before the N.S.W.
South Coast railway was built ran the four-
liorse coaches from Campbelltown to Wol-
-ongong, and carried thousands of globe-
trotters to see the Bulli Pass cn route, sticks
to his box-seat on earth, though he is credited
with having four score years and ten to
his count. The old man has seen steam and
petrol kill a once-flourishing business. He
still resides in Campbelltown.
James Joseph Massey, who died the other
day at 57, had been urging the youth of N.
S. Wales along the thorny path of knowledge
for over 40 years. One time an inspector on
the North Coast, he latterly was head of a
large suburban school. A big figure in R.C.
circles, he was one of the founders of the
Catholic Federation and a vice-president. For
these and other activities Archbishop Kelly
recommended him for the Cross of Leo in
1921.
Jane Windridge, who lias just laid down
life’s load at Kyneton (Vic.), was the young-
est daughter of Col. Windridge, who com-
manded the old Prince of Wales Light Horse
in that district half a century ago. Many
staid and matured men living in all parts of
Australia will recall the Windridge orchard
they used to rob on their way to or from
Attwood’s school. The Colonel and his family
used to wink the other eye unless the lads
made a welter of it. “Miss Jane’s” spinster-
hood stretched out to 72.
Although retired some years ago from the
N.S.W. public service because he had reached
the age-limit, 11. W. Potts, former principal
of Hawkesbury Agricultural College, is stiil
as active as many men of only half liis age.
Recently he severed his connection with a
private firm to which he had been adviser
in order that he might go to England under
engagement to the I fold Stud Company, of
Norfolk, famous for its successes in stock-
breeding. His job will be to work out a
plan by which boys are to be selected from
English public schools and sent to Australia
to go on the land.
Arthur C. Smale, who died at Waiau
(M.L.) the other day, was the eldest son
of the renowned Captain David Smale, from
whose sailing-ship Chelydra the salute was
fired to greet Hobson, the first Governor of
M.L. Arthur was a Christ’s College boy,
born at Auckland in 184 S, and one of the
finest all-round athletes in the swaddling
days of Shaky Land. Later, when he wasn’t
telling of the olden days, he was a noted
authority on the management of sheep.
While Stradbroke and the Countess were
on a visit to N, S. AVales, Lieut.-Governor
Irvine was his Ex.’s deputy, and had a
chance of taking stock of Allan as First
Minister at an Executive Council meeting.
There was much talk just then about trouble
on the railways, and perhaps it flashed across
Irvine’s mind that at this time 22 years ago
he himself was handling a railway strike.
Threats by enginemen failed, however, to
ruffle the placid Allan. He left things to
the Railway Commissioners, and they found
a way out.
“W.H.H.”: Partial demolition of an old
building in O’Connell-street, Sydney, until
recently used as the offices of a cable co.,
brought to light some interesting relics in
the shape of bricks made by convict labor,
every brick marked with a broad arrow, the
name of the maker and the date, which in
all cases was 1814. This suggests that every
man was forced to make a certain number
every day. They are very light, and so
brittle that a man can break them in two
with his hands.
“Chhota Peg”: “Clement R. D’Uppe’s”
par. (B. 16/4/’25) re the panel of matrons
recalls an old-time occupation which with
the passing of the death penalty for minor
offences has fallen into disuse. The fact that
a woman could not be executed if she were
encientg was taken advantage of by many of
them, and male hangers-on could make easy
money by assisting them to get into such a
condition. In Gay’s “Beggar’s Opera” one
such character boasts that “I have picked up
a little money by helping ladies to a preg-
nancy against their being called down to
sentence.”
Probably the most trying ordeal Alec
Peacock, Vic. Treasurer, ever had was when
lie was president of the A.N.A. for the
second time, in ’B6. There was a feast at
the old Vienna cafe arranged by the Mel-
bourne branch, and J. F. Levien, Minister
for Agriculture, persuaded Service and
Berry, joint heads of the Great Coalition, to
accept invitations. The stripling chief
president from Creswick felt shy in such
company, and after a brief effort got
gravelled and paused. Service, not detecting
that Peacock had missed a bridge and had
halted because he couldn’t cross the stream,
turned to Berry and said, “That young fel-
low knows when to stop.” Berry and Peacock
were afterwards in the same Cabinet to-
gether.


Skipping-
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
•ORAMA ..
•ORONSAY
•OTRANTO
•ORMONDE
FLEET.
Tons.
20,500
20,500
20,500
14,853
•ORMUZ ...
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEY
ORSOVA
•ORCADES 10.000 tons.
•First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Tons.
14.588
13,133
12.129
12,030
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA-
-10,000 Tous-
-SIERRA-
—I7 Knots-
-VENTURA.
—Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
(3 lines). 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Ihrough Tickets to Brisbane issued.
n —Every Saturday, 9 p.m.: reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
* s - s - WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesdav, 10 nm •
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m. ! ’
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail—£2/13/6.
MM NOBTO COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Tourist m i lO Bl '^Se.Street, Sydney, or Government
rouiist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking- Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Ranking, Public Companies, Stc.
Ihe Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. £9 of.n non
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1 619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14'499’435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman-
•hank N. Yauwoou F.0.P.A.; Duncan Carson i
}; r L !SAOHT. 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, Lk.D.;
Lieut.-Col. 1. J,. F. Rutledge, M La
general Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Inspector for AkS.II’.; \V. G Hum,
HEAD OFFICE, SVDNEV (Corner George and' Kin"
tj , . Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 160 places in
New South Wales.
ri ■ , . BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard
Manager: G. H. lluwiiu.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland,
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
R. T. MOODIE.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, EC 2)
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
J.ondon Director: A. Dodds FAiniuntN.
gents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
the Chief Cities of the World
i'.veiv description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WIN YARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares ..
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,500,000
3,000,000
2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Ke\v Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banki
»>er business.
Jenolan Caves
for an Ideal Holiday.
Three Days:
£4/7/-
Extra Days:
18/- per day
Six hours’ delight-
ful journey by train
and moto r-c a r
through gorgeous
mountain scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout a nd
accommodation at
Caves House—re-
plete with every
modern comfort.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping. Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 tons disp. MAY 7 for Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI, from Wellington, May 20, for Sail Francisco (connect
steamer ULIMAROA from Sydney, Ma y 22).
NIAGARA 18.000 tons disp. JUNE 4 for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,500 „ „ JUNE 18 „ San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
«»£ oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
m
/ 1
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE
BY OTHER BINES.
FOR RETURN
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247'George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Allording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUItXS. 1»HILI* & CO., I/I'I).,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
I m
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
m
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices,
ur 10UKIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
ot the following routes to England:
Via SUEZ CANAL.
» AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES)
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, bv the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthlv.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £9G, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
RUNIC 12.500 tons
SUE VIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia aud
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11.250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
*’ 14 ’ 500 I anchises
•• 14 - 500 ' ascanius
AENEAS .. 10,000 |
Pares, from £O2 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT’. SANDERSON,
'lei. 86/01-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Tons.
10,000
10,000
P. &0. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
„ -LUIJS.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOR DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa,
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Faid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
st * l ”' li ” Zealana - Pii1 ’ p w“ - tafe
■JsayAs •*■*■ ■*
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
ZEALANDIA.
(All Ports).
KANOWNA. .
(Melb. only)
KAROOLA. ..
(All Ports).
WYREEMA. .
(Melb. < nlv).
dimbooi/a. .
(All Ports).
levuka. ...
(Melb; only).
Leaves
Leaves
Sydney Agents.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,
■350 George St.,
Mellwruith,
McEacharn’s Line,
01 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
( 1 1 unshipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
tßrisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parker
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIiT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENT'S EOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
niacUheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, ’ Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
ellected on all classes of
- Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Y'essels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” in an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Ollice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of ove* £4,000,000
Accumulated Fund* .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
JU
-PLAZA
Shaving Cream


Show Your Folks
How teeth become whiter when you fight film
Ask for this test
Someone in each family should
make this delightful test. It has
shown millions the way to prettier
teeth —to cleaner, safer teeth. To
homes the world over it is bringing
a new dental era. Let ten days show
how much it means to you and yours.
That cloud is film
That viscous film you feel on teeth
is what mars their beauty. Under
old brushing methods, much of it
clings and stays. It becomes dis-
coloured and forms dingy coats, to hide
the lustre of the teeth.
Film also holds food substance
which ferments and forms acid. It
holds the acid in contact with the
teeth to cause decay. Germs breed
by millions in it. They, with tartar,
are the chief cause of pyorrhea.
That's why few escaped tooth
troubles, despite their daily care
Modern science has found ways to
fight film. One disintegrates the film,
one removes it without harmful scour-
ing.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a
film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
IJ
i\
"Sri QL
i 1
Clinical tests proved these methods
effective. A new-type tooth paste
has been created to apply them daily.
The name is Pepsodent.
Dentists the world over began to
advise it. Now careful people of
some fifty nations use this new-day
method.
Meets other needs
Pepsodent does other things which
research proved essential. It multi-
plies the tooth-prote :ting factors in
saliva.
Watch its effects. Send the form
for a io-Day Tube. Note how
clean the teeth feel after using. Mark
the absence of the viscous film. See
how teeth become whiter as the film-
coats disappear.
A few days will convince you of its
need. Cut out form now.
Made in Auilratia
mark *
PgTSS&dgIVL
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold in two sizes.
Prices : 2/- and 1/3
\B T 504
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 1 39 Clarence StSyd nev
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
The CONVENIENT, SAFE and
ECONOMICAL way to handle Petrol
Model 364
The most efficient, one
gallon, long distance
pump on the market.
Pumps one gallon at
each stroke of the pis -
ton, intermediate stops
for smaller quantities.
Meter optional
Wherever petrol is used in substantial
quantities, it should be stored safely
underground and dispensed as needed by
means of an accurate measuring pump,
with meter that records the exact amounts
used. Thus you can maintain a perfect
check on total consumption, as well as the
individual amount of petrol each tractor,
truck or other unit consumes.
The ideal equipment for this purpose is
Wayne Pump No. 364. It is compact
and accurate, simple to install and re-
markably easy to operate. While it is
inexpensive, it has been designed and
constructed with the same care that dis-
tinguishes. larger Wayne units, and may
be depended upon for long, faithful serv-
ice. Fire has never been known to orig-
inate in a Wayne pump!
For complete details of this model, (or
other Wayne equipment for the storing,
measuring and pumping of oil and petrol)
address:
ROi/nBT F. LEF, Res. Representative,
160 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
Shipman, King & Co.,
490 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
Mechanical Cupplles, Ltd..
79 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
Hawkins Equipment Company. Ltd.,
160 Castlereagli Street. Sydney;
Watson's Buildings. Wickbam Street,
Brisbane.
Arthur H. Christian,
805 Hay Street, Berth, W.A.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY?
Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S. A.
Established 1891
cs
HONEST MEASURE PUMPS
364
MaKe the most
of your leisure time!
HERE is no better way of spending your
leisure hours than to enjoy the full pleasures
of the open air by riding a B.S.A. Fittings
Bicycle. The gentle yet invigorating exercise
afforded by such cycling is a splendid tonic at the
end of the day.
Always ready for instant use, reliable, strong
and comfortable, the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle has
for many years proved itself to be the finest
machine for Australian Cyclists.
Specify that your next bicycle be built with
B.S.A. Fittings; thus will you ensure for yourself
years of thoroughly enjoyable and trouble-free
cycling.
THUOC KARKS
k
B.S.A.
i. ■—
Look jor tins
Trade-mark on
every genuine
B.S.A Cycle
Fitting.
n
aag
ms:
mm
■
FITTINGS
n
02
BICYCLES
Have your "bicycle fitted with the EADIE COASTER HUB.
Illustrated Boolclet obtainable from B.S.A. Representative —
D. Y. RENNIE. A.P.A. BUILDINGS,
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Do You Use a B.S.A. Gun?


Be a Rexona Girl!
c
aa
ct 1
0€
“Rexona Soap is absolutely wonderful
lor the skin and, hair.”
Miss ELLIE SHEEDY.
D
Pi
O
□
3
“Having tried all sorts of oil shampoos
tor the hair, I find Rexona Soap incom-
parable as a shampoo
Miss SYLVIA CLIFTON.
It Means
Beauty
Rexona Girls are world-famous for
their beautiful skin and hair. To be
a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona
Soap, and enjoy that natural beauty
of the skin and hair which cannot
be imitated, but can be obtained by
its regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them con-
tain free alkali, which tends to dry
the skin and destroy its delicate tex-
ture. Even the best of such soaps can
only cleanse; they cannot heal and
protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams
as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value
of w'hich in the treatment of skin
affections is known throughout the
world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice a day,
and see if it does not quickly soothe
and cleanse the pores, lessen the
tendency to pimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
Rexona
Soap
M
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing
51b. Box,
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4/- per lib. box
lib.
21b.
31b.
41b.
51b.
Red Metal Box
N.S.W. Other States.
4/- Postage, extra 9d. 1/2
SI- „ „ 1/- 1/8
12/- „ „ 1/3 2/2
16/ “ » » 1/6 2/8
20/- „ „ 1/9 3/2
No expense Is spared to make ERNEST I-lILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY..”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
&n£4t tklluA.
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
Dicky-di-do.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Dicky-di-do is a cock-eyed chap,
Wears a pea-jacket and a queer
frayed cap.
We’ll pump her dry and away we will go,
Sailin’ the seas with old Dicky-di-do.
Away and away and away liey-ho,
And well cross the Line with Dicky-di-do.
Old Dicky’s mother was a sour-faced shrew,
Old Dicky’s father was— nobody knew.
Let the bull chimes run and away we go,
And away a-ha and away a-ho !
And we’ll round the Horn in sleet and snow,
We will round Cape Horn with Dicky-di-do.
Now ye all knows why this chanty is sung,
Exceptin’ the bos’n, an’ he’ll be hung.
If we gets no grog and the wind don't blow
We can’t pump her dry, and the ship won’t
go.
Away and away and away liey-ho.
Sailin’ the seas with old Dicky-di-do.
Bound for America, bully-boys ail.
In a worn-out tub of the proud Blackball.
But we’ll pump her dry and nw>v we'll go
With a lop-eared mate who would haze us so
If lie warn’t too drunk and asleep below.
Let the bull chimes run and away wo go !
Tn with yer kitbag, Johnny once more ;
If it don’t plazc you you’d best stop ashore.
T (>nn as a ling-fish and hoarse as a crow,
You won’t get much grog from Dick-di-do.
Oh. away a-ha and away liey-ho !
Dry as a bone is old Dicky-di-do.
The biscuits is weevils; as for the meat,
T’ve heard the cook say it ain’t fit to eat.
Tt’s broken me teeth, and now, as I goes,
T lives on salt-water, drunk through me nose.
So away a-ha and away ho-lio
To Davy Jones with old Dicky-di-do !
Now ye all guess what my chanty’s about:
Tf we gets no grog we will go without;
We must pump her dry, and that’s all I
know;
We must cross the Line if it’s hot and slow,
With nothing cold from old Dicky-di-do;
We must round Cape Horn, if it’s frost and
snow,
With nothing hot from Dicky-di-do.
So away a-ha and away hey-ho!
Let the hull chimes run and away we go.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.
Joan of Jordan’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Being directed by sight of bills upon the
walls, 1 did go to Shoe-lane to see a cock-
fight at a new pit there, a sport I never
was at in my life. But, Lord, to see the
strange variety of people—from Parliament man....
to the poorest prentices, bakers, brewers, butchers,
draymen, and what not—and all these fellows one
with another in swearing, cursing and betting, and
yet I would not have but seen it once. 1 soon had
enough of it, it being strange to observe the nature
of these poor creatures ; how they will fight till they
drop down dead upon the table and strike after they
are ready to give up the ghost, not offering to run
when they are weary or wounded past doing further,
whereas when a dunghill brood comes, he will, after
a sharp stroke that pricks him, run off the stage,
and then they wring off his neck without more
ado One thing more, it is strange to see how
people of this poor rank, that look as if they had
not bread to put into their mouths, shall bet three or
four pounds at one bet and lose it, and yet bet as
much the next battle (so they call every match of
two cocks), so that one of them will lose £lO or
£2O at a meeting”....
was written by the late Mr.
Samuel Pepys, Secretary to the Navy
of his Majesty King Charles 11., on
the evening of December 21, 1663; but had
lie recorded it of events that took place
after dusk in Sydney on a midsummer’s day,
about a century and a half later, his obser-
vations might have required hardly any
alteration at all to make a good description
of them. The company at Mr. Daniel Jor-
dan’s cockpit, situated at the back of his
licensed premises at the south-western edge
of the town — i.e., between the Brickfields
and the head of Cockle Bay, now known as
Darling Harbor —was in every degree as
strangely diversified as the sort Mr. Pepys
found himself amongst that winter afternoon
hard by Fleet-street. It is true that there
was no “Parliament man” there, but every
other sort of citizen of Sydney was repre-
sented, even unto “bakers, brewers, butchers,
draymen, and what not,’’and they swore, cui'sed
and betted exactly in the fashion of old
Sam’s seventeenth-century “sports.” There
were magistrates of the territory, military,
naval and civil officers, merchants, seamen,
tradesmen and many of the queer medley of
the lower stratum of colonial society who
had not yet attained to the privileges of
Emancipation. And amongst the very
mixed mob which thronged Mr. Jordan’s
alleged barn were Ensign Calder, of H.M.
46th Regiment, Lieutenant Gregory Wicks,
of H.M.S. Emu, and Mr. Arthur Moorefield
Pilkington, of the Commissariat, Sydney’s
Beau Brummell of 1816 and the years there-
about.
The night was stiflingly hot, and the sweat-
ing, smoking crowd within the slab-sided
thatched building, dimly lit by guttering tal-
low candles stuck round hoops that depended
from the tie-beams, gave the dingy place
an atmosphere that did not altogether
appeal to the somewhat fastidious taste of
Mr. Pilkington. He wiped his perspiring
brow with a scented cambric handkerchief,
and murmured, a little cynically:
“Now bleth my thoul, my thweet Joan,
there can be no doubt that your eethellent
father’th clienth an’ cuthtomerth have an
air of their own —one that altogether dith-
tinguitheth them. Have they not, my love-
lietht of Currenthy Latheth?”
The girl to whom he spoke in his affectedly
tired drawl —she was the only person of her
sex amongst the crowd in the cockpit—on
looks, at any rate, well deserved the compli-
mentary epithets which Mr. Pilkington be-
stowed upon her. She was very lovely, with
the fine athletic loveliness of the Australian
girl, and there was a peculiar sweetness of
expression in her beautiful face, framed in
its tumbled mass of red-gold hair, that was
in startling contrast with her surroundings.
As they stood, side by side, near the closed
and guarded door-—Governor Macquarie did
not approve of cock-fighting—on the raised
staging of slabs that ran round the walls
of the building, the girl and the young civil
officer were unquestionably the finest-looking
people in the room. Her simple dress ol
pink gingham, high-waisted and loosely cling-
ing to her fine figure, became her better than
more splendid raiment might have done,
becadse of its simplicity and _ her fresh
beauty. Mr. Filldngton’s athletic figure set
off to perfection his fashionable raiment
only nine-tenths from Bond-street —without
giving the beholder the impression that his
garments were those of a dandy or a fop.
No one in the colony was ever arrayed with
the splendor of this young man, who was
the only really elegant male in Sydney in
those years, as the word was read in the
days of the Regency.
He owned fine clothes that would have orna-
mented Pall Mall or Piccadilly, knew how
to wear them, and had a valet who understood
the care that was their due; but no one
ever regarded Mr. Pilkington as a coxcomb
or a fool. For one thing, it would have
been unsafe to do so. No one in the cock-
pit. that evening—not even Dan Jordan him-
self, and he had some record in the English
prize-ring—was altogether competent to face
the pet pupil of the famous Isaac Simmons,
the Tilbury Trifle, with his fists. For an-
other thing, his radiant good-fellowship, by
this time well spoken of in Sydney, and liis
kindliness and generosity, made him and his
deportment a delight and a pride to the
strange society that moved between Gov-
ernment House, the officers’ mess at the
Barracks, and any disreputable boozing-ken
that was to be found on the Rocks. Sydney
was proud of its only example of haut ton,
and did not approve of casual strangers who
might jeer at him behind his back.
The pretty Miss Jordan, so unlike her
cauliflower-eared, broken-nosed progenitor,
looked up at him shyly.
“ ’Tis very warm, indeed, sir. Perhaps
’twould be better”- —-
Mr. Pilkington interrupted her with a
gesture that was eloquent of pained dis-
approval.
“Pway, dearetht Joan,” he protested,
“why the ‘thir’? To my fwiendth I am
known ath ‘Arthur.’ Are you not a fwiend
of mine, pway?”
She blushed prettily and patted his arm.
“Oh, no, Mr. Pilkington, I mustn’t. You
are quality—like the Gov’nor and his lady.
And I—well, I’m just Dan Jordan’s girl,
an’ me fevther was lagged. ’Twould not be
seemly. But if ’twill please ’ee —well, 111
not say ‘sir’ again. What I was agoin’ for
to say was”
What she intended to say, however, was
interrupted by the uprising of her father,
who suddenly commanded silence by blowing
upon a boatswain’s whistle, and bellowing a
request for it, which was immediately
accorded him, as one having authority.
It was strange to all who knew them to
think that this rugged ex-smuggler could be
the father of the girl who stood beside Mr.
Pilkington ; it was only to be accounted for
by supposing that the late Polly Jordan must
have been a very comely creature indeed,
and that she had passed her beauty on to
the daughter whose birth had cost her her
life. Beyond a certain rugged manliness,
and a pair of fine brown eyes, the features
of Mr. Daniel Jordan, licensee of the Bold
Colonial, possessed no comeliness whatever.
“Gemmen all,” he roared, “I begs y’r
werry close hattention w’ile I hinforms ye
o’ th’ conditions o’ th’ battle about to tike
place atween Hensign Calder’s bird Bloody
Bill an' Corp’ril Hardy’s Pride o’ th’ Bat-
try. These ’ere’s tli’ conditions for to be
hobsarved.”
He paused to wipe his mouth with the
hack of his hand, adjust a pair of horn-
rimmed spectacles with some difficulty to
his bridgeless nose, and consult a paper that
was gripped in his immense right fist. And
wdiile he pauses we may consider some re-
marks of a commentator upon that portion
of Mr. Pepys’s immortal “Diary” quoted
above, reflecting that they apply just as truly
to cock-fighting as practised in Sydney at
the beginning of the nineteenth century as
they ever did to contests carried out in
Britain.
“Mr. Pepys’s powers of observation,”
writes this gentleman, “were never better
displayed than in this account, which gives,
as the result of a first visit, all the essen-
tials of a public cock-match —essentials
which changed hardly at all until the
law stepped in and extinguished the whole
institution of cock-fighting in 1835. The
squalor of the company, the unyielding
bravery of the birds, the chance which might
give the victory to either side in a moment,
the fascination of the conditions. of the sport
for gamesters who wanted to risk and win
money, the intricacies of the rules for
‘pounding a bird,’ the general brutality and
love of blood which distinguished the votaries
of the sport—all these aspects of cock-
fighting, which appear with such astonish-
ing clearness in Mr. Pepys’s account of his
single visit to the cockpit—remained as
features of the diversion for the next cen-
tury and a half, and are corroborated by a
score of treatises and criticisms ranging over
the whole of that period.”
Daniel Jordan went on, standing at the
end of a square, matted enclosure fenced in
with boards some two feet high. On one
side of it sat Mr. Calder holding his bird.
On the other was Corporal Hardy with his.
All about the little arena, with no distinc-
tion of place for rank or social position,
pressed the eager spectators —gaol-birds rub-
bing elbow T s with officers of the garrison and
the Royal Navy, convict overseers cheek-by-
jowl with rich Emancipist merchants, men
who were as likely as not to die upon the
gallows within the month picking the
pockets of those who would exuberantly
come to see them suffer.
“I’ll not be troublin’ ye, gemmen all,” he
bellowed, “for to read to ye th’ whole o’
these here H articles of Agreement atwixt th’
Masters o’ th ’Match —Mr. Calder ’ere, an’
Corp’ril Hardy. I gives ye me word they’s
all in horder. Them as that ain’t good
enough for, if they says so, I’ll be pleased
for to thump their ’eads off arter-
wards. Mr. Calder’s bird, Bloody Bill, do
well an’ truly weigh 3 pounds 15 hounces,
an’ th’ Corp’ril’s Pride o’ th’ Batt’ry turns
the scale at 4 pounds. Weighed an hour
ago, they was. ’Tis agreed that th’ birds
do fight wi’ silver spurs an’ fair hackles,
accordin’ to all th’ us’l rules o’ th’ Cockpit
(Continued on next page.)


Don’t Trifle with
Simple
Injuries
Apply Zam-Buk
Promptly to a Cut,
Scratch or Burn anil
avoid further trouble.
YOUR injury may be just a simple
cut, scratch, bruise, burn or scald;
but it needs prompt treatment with
Zam-Buk. Neglect and delay leave
broken tissues open to dangerous germ
infection and ulceration, blood-poison or
even eczema.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy! This
powerful herbal antiseptic applied to
broken, burnt or lacerated skin is instantly
effective. It ends all smarting pain and
inflammation, makes tissues germ free and
germ proof, and ensures rapid, perfect
healing.
It is important to select Zam-Buk
because it means safety first. Unlike
ordinary ointments, Zam-Buk contains no
coarse mineral drug or rancid animal rat
to corrode the skin. Never be without
this “Safety First” healer; use it for
obstinate skin diseases like eczema, ulcers,
poisoned wounds, ringworm, etc., as well
as for superficial injuries.
Of Chemists and Stores everywhere
at 1/6 a box, or 3/6 (family size).
For Safety’s Sake— Use
'am-Buk
SEND FOR FREE TRIAL SAMPLE OF ZAM-BUK.
Try Zam-Buk at the Proprietors’ expense. Simply
send your request, with name and address clearly written,
to C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, mentioning The
Bulletin” of May 7.
Royal at Westminster. ’Tis a by-battle
for £lO haside, wi’ a prize o’ £5 donated be
meself to th’ liowner o’ th’ winnin’ bird.
Me friend Mr. Thomas Nutting, o’ tli’ Sheer
Hulk Tav’n, is Teller o’ th’ Law. Th’
Setters-to is Bill Kerrigan, coxs’n o' th'
Naval Hofficer’s boat, an’ Tommy Mottram,
hoverseer o’ th’ Lane Cove timber gang.
An’ now, gemmen all. ye may make y'r bets,
an’ I’ll call upon th’ Masters o’ th’ Match
to ’and over their birds to th’ Setters-to, an’
the battle’ll begin. All fair an' habove-
board, an’ th’ best bird wins. Gawd save
tli‘ King.”
Immediately pandemonium broke loose,
and bets were taken and exchanged, whilst
the Masters of the Match —-the birds’ respec-
tive owners —handed their champions over to
those highly-important officials the Setters-
to, who were alone allowed within the cock-
pit. It would presently be their duty to
set the birds beak to beak, preliminary to the
sparring for an opening on the part of each
contestant which preceded the real joining
of battle known as the “buckle-to.”
The villainous Tom Nutting, with his one
eye and cutlass-slashed jowl—the Teller of
the Law, or referee —had advanced to the
pitside, and the business of the evening was
about to begin in earnest, when Mr. Pilking-
ton felt a gentle pressure on his arm, and
looked down at his pretty companion. Her
eyes were wide with terror, and she gazed
at him appealingly.
“Oh, Mr. Pilkington,” she whispered,
“can ’ee take me out o’ this? I do feel main
bad. I be taken sick like. Will ’ee not
take me into tli’ open air—please. Oh,
Arthur!” she concluded pleadingly.
It is much to Mr. Pilkington’s credit that
he never hesitated for a moment. He was
intensely interested, financially and senti-
mentally, in the victory of his friend Calder’s
Bloody Bill. He had come into the midst
of the rabble that filled the cockpit with un-
mixed feelings of disgust for the company in
which he found himself, and had only con-
quered his distaste for it out of a sense of
loyalty to his friend. Being there, and hav-
ing overcome the worst of an unpleasant
ordeal, it was hard that he should be called
upon to forego the triumph which he felt
assured would be that of himself and Messrs.
Calder and Wicks, when the bird that had been
bred at Dawes’ Battery should lie a corpse
upon the matting of the arena. But with
a kindliness and generosity that was natural
to him, he immediately consented to forego
such triumph in the interests of the girl at
his side. That she was an exceedingly pretty
girl did not influence him greatly. He would
have done the same for the most battered
and derelict old female lag who might have
requested the sacrifice of him.
“Why, my thweet Joan,” lie replied in a
tone of concern, “why, tliertainly. Of
courthe. Let nth wequetht One-eyed Ned
to let nth get out —at onthe. Dear me.
I’m tho tliorry. Come, pway take my arm.”
Leering unpleasantly, with a suggestive-
ness that caused Mr. Pilkington to register
a vow that on One-eyed Ned’s next appear-
ance at the Stores he would deal with him
suitably, the door-keeper let them out —•
just as Mr. Jordan’s whistle again called
the sportsmen to order. He drew in a
breath of the sweet evening air, so welcome
after the stifling foulness of the cockpit,
and put his arm protectingly about the girl’s
shoulders, as they emerged into -the starlight
night.
“Now, my dear, pway let me get you tliome
cordial iwom the bar of the Bold Colonial,”
he counselled sympathetically. “ ’Tith the
heat and the clotheneth in there hath over-
come you. A little bwandy, pwapth? You’ll
tlioon be all right, my pwetty Joan. Pway
thit down—on thith log. I’ll not be a
moment. Bwandy, I think. Vewy utheful,
medithinally.”
She seized him by the sleeve, and sought
to drag him away from the neighborhood
of the tavern and the cockpit in its rear,
which masqueraded as a barn.
“No, no,” she cried. “For th’ love o’
Heaven, come wi’ me, sir—oh, 1 do baag y’r
honor’s pardon. Arthur!”
A little bewildered, Mr. Pilkington allowed
her to lead him hurriedly away into the low
scrub at the back of the Bold Colonial Inn—-
it stood upon the outskirts of the town,
somewhere westward of the present junction
of George and Liverpool streets —in a direc-
tion that led them towards the Market
Wharf. Not until they were a good hundred
and fifty yards from the cockpit would she
halt, or make any answer to his startled
protests.
“Oh, I thay—weally—what’th thith, my
dear Joan?” he kept repeating, in feeble
amazement at her proceedings. For a sick
girl she seemed to him to be uncommonly
strong and determined. The din from the
cockpit—yells, and cheers, and oaths —faded
gradually as they increased their distance
from it. At length she halted, and stood,
panting, close by him, in the attitude of one
who listened.
“Well, now, my dearetht and thweetetht
of girlth, pway what on earth ’th the mat-
ter?”
“A raid,” she said —“a raid by Mr. D’Arcy
Wentworth and his Charleys. And the Pro-
vost-Marshal and the red-coats. I heard ’em
whispering it to one another —that dirty
little gammy Bates and Middle Harbor Billy
—whiles fe.vther was a-talkin’. They’m in
if, th’ dirty dogs. Th’ d —d informin’
vagabones ! Did ever ye hear th’ like? Oh,
but I’m glad they won’t catch you. Oh, those
miserable devils !”
Instantly Mr. Pilkington was alert.
“But I thay, Joan, what about the otherth?
What about Pat Calder and Panthy Wickth
—and all th’ wetht of ’em? I thay, you
know, ’tith not playing th’ game for me to
leave them in the lurch like thith.”
To his infinite amazement the girl sprang
at him, and flung her arms about his neck,
pressing hot lips to his, and kissing him pas-
sionately, whilst she sobbed and panted.
“Oh —no, no, no, my dearest heart,” she
gasped. “Let be, let be! ’Tis no matter
about them. ’Tis you that matters. Besides,
’twill do no good for to go back now. Th’
Charleys an’ tli’ sojers they’m a’most there
by bow. Oh, stay with me,' darling man.
Stay with me, and —oh, I love you, Arthur!
I love you—l love you ! Oh, God knows how
I love you!”
Perhaps you and I. middle-aged and
decorous, might have resisted that splendid
creature, St. Anthonys as Ave are. (And
then again we mightn’t haA r e.) But, to his
own infinite astonishment, young, strong,
vigorous Mr. Pilkington did find himself re-
sisting. Gently he kissed her on the fore-
head, as he disengaged her arms from about
his neck and drew her down upon a fallen
tree-trunk. 11 is arm encircled her waist, and
he kept whispering to her gently:
“Dear little Joan, dear little Joan. Be
good now. little Joan. Thweet little Joan
■ —we unithl be good. ’Titli d—d hard upon
a man—but we mutht be!”
For a few minutes she lay in his arms
sobbing pitifully. Then, to the still deeper
bewilderment of the bewildered young hero,
she suddenly tore herself from him and fled
back towards the Bold Colonial.
He rose to his feet and stared after her.
There was no noise from the cockpit now.
He was dazed. He could not think clearly.
He took out his snuffbox and mechanically
sniffed a pinch. It made him sneeze—and
he was himself again. He swore aloud.
“Of all the d—d thwine, Arthur Pilking-
ton ! The poor little girl! What a blathted
cad I’ve been to her ! Oh, well!”
He swung round and walked towards the
town.
* * * *
It was about 4 o’clock on the following
afternoon when Mr. Pilkington left his office
in the now ancient building erected in
George-street by Governor Macquarie in
1812. It is that grey, massive block behind
the old Commissariat Stores, easily identifi-
able to Sydneysiders as having recently
housed a Taxation Commissioner and his
myrmidons. Mr. Pilkington turned his steps
in the direction of the cottage he rented on
the Rocks, scarcely more than a hundred
yards distant from where he stepped into
George-street.
He had seen nothing of his friends Calder
and Wicks since the previous harrowing
evening, but lie had heard of little else but
the raid on Jordan’s cockpit all day long.
How was it he had not also been there? A
score of times he had gently insinuated to
inquiring souls that the minding of one's
own business was amongst the most cardinal
of the virtues. Behind his mild tones there
was something that caused the boldest of
them to drop the subject. To his chief, con-
gratulating him upon his having not been
mixed up in the affair, he had replied with
quiet dignity:
“Well, you thee, thir, I never did like
cock-fightin’. A mere matter of tathte, I
thuppotlie. If it had been bear-baitin’ now
—or duck-huntin’. Well, perhapth"
He climbed the hillside, and outside his
garden-gate found his two companions await-
ing his arrival. Two sad and gloomy young
men they were—two somewhat indignant
young gentlemen.
“Well, my dear fellowth,” he greeted them,
“you have my thympathy. Pway. have you
theen hith Ecthellenthy? Tell me what hath
happened. I am all cuwiothity—impatienth
iththelf —to know what hath happened.
Pway, enlighten me. my fwiendth.”
Mr. Calder looked sulky, and made no
reply. To the naval officer Mr. Pilkington
made fresh appeal.
“Well. Panthy?”
The breezy Mr. Wicks grinned—a little
ruefully.
“Oh yes, Brummell, Ave’ve seen the old
devil. He gave us Hell —unmitigated Hell.
And, damme, he held you up to us as an
example. I’ll be d—d if he didn’t! Now.
where the devil did you get to? ’Twas as
clean a sweep of the whole gmg as wad ever
made. How did yon escape?”
“Well, you thee, ’twath thith way. I”
Mr. Calder interrupted in savage resent-
fulness and with disastrous result.
“Oh, d—n it all, Brummell, don’t stand
there a-looking at us as if butter wouldn’t
melt in your mouth. One-eyed Ned’s told
me all about it. God’s truth, I should have
thought you could have let Dan Jordan's
girl alone. Why, damme, even I”—-
Mr. Pilkington held up his hand.
“A lady, Patwick —pway do not bwing a
lady’th name into thith lamentable affair.
I beg it of you.”
“Lady be d—d ! You and her down in the
scrub. The little strumpet!”
Never before, or after, did the two friends
of his bosom ever see Mr. Arthur Moorefield
Pilkington behave as he then behaved. Drop-
ping his eyeglass, lie stepped forward sud-
denly—and deftly, cleanly, smote Mr. Calder
with his clenched left fist upon the point of
the jaw, so that that unfortunate young
gentleman collapsed beside the garden gate
and “took the count.” Mr. Pilkington
turned to Mr. Wicks and inouired mildly.
“Have you any wemarkth do make,
Panthy?”
• The astounded Mr. Wicks could only shake
his head. He was dumbfounded.
“Well, then, my dear fellow, help me
carry our good Patwick indoorth. He’ll
need a dwinli when he cometh to. The betht
of fellowth—but indithcweet. Oh yeth—a
little indithcweet.”
J. H.M. ABBOTT
Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here I stand amid the wheat
E’en as sad-eyed Ruth once stood.
Heavv heart and leaden feet —
What’s the use of being good?
But my arms I’m stretching out,
Offering, with palms upturned,
All the beauty round about,
All that I and Ruth have learned.
Rippling wheat and mountain breeze,
Sweet refreshing scent and sound,
Brilliant sunshine, flaunting trees.
Bluest sky spread all around!
Is it Ruth who’s beckoning,
Open fingers, palms upturned?
Yes, she’ll pay the reckoning;
That’s what Ruth and I have learned.
Give and give, then give once more—
Nature’s lesson, boldly taught.
Watch ! She scatters wide her store—
Plain content, joy, labor, thought—
Giving all with palms upturned.
Ruth is singing ’mid the wheat
All that she and I have learned —
Giving, giving, Life is sweet.
VICTORIA.
39.


mmm*
m/w- W*
V'MS
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414. '
WEstim GHOUS£ BRAKE CO.
OffiS? HOLMES. & CHURCH, Brisbane.
' lct oria n Ifea'therston Street, Wellington.
iHhce-—9O Queen Streets Melbourne.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SM|
67>
**■
‘
&
M
r"
>
The Major.
Course He’s Proud
So
g oo^ e Imagine the pride *of a Firm making only
cjj . Tobaccos for 150 years! A pride reflected in the careful
°f the matured Golden Leaf. “ARMY CLUB” are
Way 6 orn the best Virginia crops blended in the best possible
Their size is sufficient to allow of a full and long
Nation of the delightful tobacco.
“Ah YET
CLUB” Cigarettes have SOMETHING MORE. The
De^ 00 * s Wr apped in pure ribbed rice paper to enhance its
flavour and aroma, and to distinguish this Cigarette
°* all
n the
others the name “ARMY CLUB” is water marked
pa Per, obviating, the use of Printers’ Inks.
Smoke Cavander’s
v sirmyClub
CIGARETTES
PURE RIBBED RICE PAPER "
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6.
Limited, Estd. 1775, London, England.
TOWNS & CO., Reiby Place, Sydney,
Agents.
GoldbergJ
The .
Boon of Every Woman
Worth
a
Guinea
• ■ ' ■' ■/ - •
a
Box
is good health and there must
naturally dwell a wish to feel, and
to be, as well as to look her best.
Beecham’s Pills have proved they
are the best help any woman can
obtain. This matchless and thor-
oughly tried remedy will tone
your stomach, stimulate your
kidneys and liver, regulate your
bowels and remove the impurities
which cause headache, backache,
lassitude or irritability.
Try a few doses and see how
Beecham’s Pills will help you to
escape unnatural suffering and
how, with purer, richer blood,
will come brighter spirits, better
health, a skin free from blemishes
or sallowness.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
MTU
&CO
TW
& i
m
D. &. W. Chandler Lamited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Melbourne.
r,
Host Holbrook Sa
«
<s
“Besides Sauces I have Malt Vine-
gar from Old England, Olives from
Spain, FrenchOliveOil,Lime Juice
from the West Indies and Flavour-
ing Essences in endless variety."
A-6
Holbrooks
I
- —Remingtons
Pen and Pocket Knives
“They cut keenly^
IN choosing a penknife, the important
thing to know is how good it is,
not how little it costs.
Scientific heat treatment, hardening
and tempering produce the fine blades
in all Remington penknives.
To be certain it’s
a Remington, look
for the mark of
quality stamped on
every blade.
Stocked by first
class dealers.
No. Rl5
Ballet
Knife
&
w.
No. R 6713
Stag Handle
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative— G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne


Tjfce (psiiginuC
THE BEST
AND
HANDIEST
MATCH.
s
r~
m
ftl
m P.
IS
. -■■■.
m
m
ON
£
*4
&J
V,
*•£*
.ap
THE BEST
AND
neatest
BOX.
PLAID VESTAS
Hold their flame in
