

1
>*s-.
*
\
//✓
t
A.
til
•vs
?
i'j
)U
Q J»
l
»i
9NM!
M
w.'
1
//
COWARDLY dirt—that hides and flies
when you chase it. Obstinate dirt—
that lingers and lurks just out of reach
in cracks, crevices and creases, laughing at
duster, broom and dust-cloth. Dangerous
dirt—germ-laden, disease-bearing, doctor-
inviting—a perpetual menace to your home
happiness. All are quickly defeated by the
PREMIER ELECTRIC CLEANER, first among
cleaners in the hands of the prudent housewife.
Just a few minutes a day with the Premier
Cleaner keeps the indoor playgrounds spick
and span—free from all dangerous dust and
dirt—safer for kiddies—yes, and for grown-
ups, too.
THE PREMIER ELECTRIC CLEANER
absorbs the impure dirt in a dustproof bag. It
collects the sand, grit and sharp-edged particles
which are the chief elements of destruction.
Write for particulars of our easy monthly-
payment plan, and Premier Booklet “A. n
gDrgm jev*
CLvBANm
Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney. Box 351 G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. Box 487 H G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Box 8 G.P.0., Newcastle West, N.S.W T .
AGENTS: Engineering: Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd.. Edward Street, Brisbane. Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A), Ltd.,
894 Hay Street. Perth. Oliver & Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston. Tasmania.
The Bulletin
Vol. 46,—N0. 2358.
Thursday, April 23, 1925
Price
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent
post free, with full terms and particulars!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
MAffdAdinTE
endurance,
with the economy of less wear and tear, longer life and
absence of interruptions to production, recommends the
installation of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING.
The result of over 40 years’ experience in'manufacture, it will
give efficient power-saving service on ail drives
Let our engineers advise you. They are experts on all
belting matters.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director, ’
\f■® t r eet (vv > fn > rard Square), SYDNEY.
Co - « *>"«*
S(frTH E arSTßim'a 21 , 2 , Madras St., Christchurch
bOLiii ALSIRALJA. 1. Kean, Kalminu Chambers
Street, Adelaide.
™°aki A a : .w Jr^ V ’ S° L ‘* tle Collins Street, Melbourne
TASMANIA . W.H. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston A* I Inhart
die#
By Appointment to
HJt.H. The Prince of Walt*
Good AeaJWi!
OUND teeth
are vital to
good health.
There is no denti-
frice which is at
once so pleasing,
economical and
efficient as
KOLYNOS.
It contains no
particle of grit.
zA gritty dentifrice is a
delusion and a danger,
and slowly but surely
'will ruin your teeth
Ensure safety by
using
fifK
TAL CREAM
PELtaon
X /A/1
MlLinii(mii ttll - if . f J
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonons drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Lolds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
■gjZciSSfiijS
«ost Powtuna
M*«r»jfcuvi^—
hrokau ttunt'iws
Wl M»0 ASAKT MJWIODI
aro wmxmc. kmovih
*t%V
C.HUDSON*
BAjurmw*, / »//fl
“Pr&tted , Medical ' Vojld says:—The Lancet:
«il!r + „ to be as elective bactericidally as is
CTr uiiJ™ REPORT PROM THE 7 “LAN-
L v. B r°T?T^ T j? RY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
ANTISEPTIC 2 ° P EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as aa
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers. Storekeepers; or
I ost Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
Echoism in Modern Poetry
Pretty, tinkling rhyme, say the righteous
critics, is the mark of the poetaster, declar-
ing to the world “This man is incapable of
getting below the froth that overlies the tur-
bulent depths of life,” But the poetcule’s
verse represents a striving after music • a
striving that, developed into a splendid
eclioism, has become a bright facet in
modern poetry. Edward Thomas has de-
scribed the desire without altogether
achieving the goal:—
As the winds use
A crack in the wall
Or a drain, v
Their joy or their pain
To whistle through—
Choose me,
You English words.
Although eclioism lias attained its supreme
function when it catches and holds (far
more sweetly than any gramophone record)
the melody of voice and instrument, “the
fi ong of „ th . c blossoms and the old chant of
the sea, it may become, as onomatopoeia,
the discordant voice of Realism, b u-shly
araenmg one to the tumult and strife.
lliere are go many singing and chiming
English words, so many that drum and roll,
so many that boom and thunder, that the
most elementary ear must thrill at the son-
orous chords they strike. The versemaker’s
troubles begin when he essays to find, with-
out the poet’s inspiration, the age-old, ever-
now formula for the combination of those
chords. Comparatively crude and yet un-
deniably effective is Kipling’s song of the
route march on the Grand Trunk road:—
While the Big Drum says,
With ’is rowdy-dowdy-dow,
lviko kissywarsti don’t you hamsher argy jow ?
But that is only the beginning; drum and
life and bugle are put to much better use
by A. E. Ilousman in his “Shropshire Lad.”
Hear the muffled melody in
On the idle hill of summer,
Sleepy with the flow of stream's,
Far 1 hear the steady drummer
Drumming like a noise in dreams.
Bell and gong ((J nouns of resonancy !) are
right to the poet’s hands, but it is not
everyone who can mould them into a quat-
ram that rings from the printed page like
Masefield’s “St. Mary’s Bells”:
It’s pleasant in Holy Mary
To hear the beaten bells
Come booming into music,
Which throbs and clangs and swells.
And yet that is all too straightforward;
there is not enough subtle sweetness about
it. It lacks the indefinable charm besides
the mastery of workmanship that James
Llroy Flecker has given to a single couplet.
The pilgrims ride forth from the Gate of
Bagdad in the stillness of evening:
And softly through the silence beat the bells
Along the' Golden road to Samarkand.
Every word would be described by an Ameri-
can as “inevitable,”
Eclioism has a strong appeal to the war
poet trying to express the tumult of carnage
Tennyson pictured and set to music the
battle of the Knights, but the noble roll of
Morte* d Arthur” would not impress the
mind with the thundering enormity of the
War, and so came Frankau’s “The
an d an outcrop of onomatopoeic verse
Wdfred Owen’s .“Anthem for Doomed'
loutii, that brave and lovely threnody
weighs much more in the balance of poetry:
What passing bells for these that died as cattle?
Only the monstrous anger of the guns.
Only the stuttering rifle’s rapid rattle
Can patter out their hasty orisons.
All poetry of war pales, in point of pure
eclioism, before the purple and gold of Ches-
terton s splendid “Lepanto,” the crusade of
Hon John of Austria. With a pianissimo
beginning it grows to “dim drums throbbing
in the lulls half heard.” The crusade winds
down the road towards one with “strong
gongs groaning,” and it comes into full view
with a magnificent martial burst:—
& Sjoom black-purple, in the glint old-gold,
Torchlight crimson on the copper kettle druids,
then the tuckets, then the trumpets, then the cannon,
and he comes!
One cannot separate Chesterton and Belloc.
It comes to mind thht the Sussex man has
written Tarantella,” that piece of fascinat-
ing rhythmic madness, “Do you remember
an Inn, Miranda?”—
Snapping of the clapper to the spin,
. Out and in—
And the ting, tong, tang of the guitar.
It gains a deathly boom at the last and is
a triumph of technique. And, speaking of
neat craftsmanship, one cannot but include
Harold Munro’s “Railway Journey.” From
the time his train starts to “tittle tattle a
tame tattoon” to the tone picture of the en-
gine “yawning and dropping to a doze,” the
ballad is startling in its exactness and happv
phrasing. J
No essay on eclioism would be complete
without the “most musical of the moderns.”
u. B. Yeats, and one needs to quote onlv
the oft-quoted “Lake Isle of Innisfpee”— ‘
I hear lake water lapping in low sounds by the
shore—
and comment is robbed of the slight virtue
it possessed.
No one is more sensible to the music of
the sea than Masefield, but he cannot crystal-
'Se t*',. 111 •® ne metaphorical echoism as the
much-discussed James Joyce, author of
Ulysses, has done in “I Hear an Army
Charging upon the Land.” In his splendid
sonnet Andrew Lang gave us like as
any m modern poetry to attain immortality:
They hear like ocean on the western beach
The surge and thunder of the Odyssey.
Oscar Wilde has caught melody in one stanza
of Reading Gaol.” and C, H. Sorley sings
ln the lilting “All the Hills and Vales
Along. There are others, but none of them
can bring anything to compare with John
r reeman s “Music Comes.” Listen, while
melody softly breaks through the veils of
slumber:—
Sweetly from the trembling string
When wizard fingers sweep
Dreamily, half asleep;
When through remembering reeds
Ancient airs and ■ murmurs creep,
Oboe, oboe following, - !
Flute answering, clear high flute,
Voices, voices—falling mute,
And the jarring drums.
I. D. COSTER.
The Menace of Color
J* • Gregory, in his latest work,
ifte Menace of Color (Seeley, Service and
Go.), has atoned for the libel he placed upon
the core of this continent in titling a former
book “lhe Dead Heart of Australia.” “‘The
Menace of Color” is clear and temperate
examination of the whole racial position,
with a special reference to Australia.
Democratic countries cannot permanently
keep in subjection other races unless they
are on the lowest scale of civilisation. Every
imperialism is making concessions to its
colored subjects. U.S.A. has practically
abandoned the Philippines to its inhabitants
except in the matter of defence and foreign
policy. India has got a measure of home
rule. The Dutch Indies have their local
councils. The days of the dominant white
in Asia are plainly numbered. In Africa the
negro is rapidly increasing. The growth of
population there lias passed almost unnoticed,
but it is enormous. South Africa stands
now as a white oasis in a black desert. Its
case appears to be desperate, and nothing
but heroic measures—and democracies sel-
dom take heroic measures until it is too late
—can prevent either a frightful collision or
the voluntary abdication of the white. The
heroic measure would be the creation of
white reserves in which European standards
might be preserved by tariff walls and the
exclusion of the black. The rest of the
continent is doomed to revert to the negro,
who is learning under Mussulman imams his
strength. South America is a half-caste con-
tinent. Here and there are little islands of
pure-blooded Spaniards, and there are Eng-
lish and Germau colonies in the Argentine;
but nine-tenths of the rest of the population
is colored, the proportion is on the increase,
and there is a tendency to look towards China
and .Japan for immigration rather than to
Europe. Asia, South America and Africa
c.-ii therefore be ruled out as possible homes
tdt- a pure white race.
I > Iho case of North America is somewhat
similar. Its twelve million negroes are on the
increase. For many years the Southern
white men were able to maintain their racial
supremacy by force; but latterly a new and
curious development has taken place. The
scheme of transferring the entire negro
uation to Africa having proved impossible,
the Southern negro has taken liis salvation
into his own hands. He lias started a move-
ment north, where lie can obtain better
wages and a higher status. So rapid has
been this movement and so disastrous to the
South that many States have tried forcibly
to prevent it, and in the North race riots,
lynch mgs and Jim Crow legislation have met
the exodus, Nevertheless assimilation is the
only alternative to an upheaval which many
observers consider imminent; but in the
process North America will be turned, like
South America, into a half-caste continent,
with what effect nobody can foresee.
Europe remains the only country that
seems reasonably secure against the menace
ot color; but even there mongrelisation' has
gone far around the shores of the Mediter-
ranean, and France’s disposition to raise
black armies for service in Europe will help
the process. Europe in any case is full. Aus-
tralia is left as the only continent where the
white race can expand its holding in the
world: and it can only do so by mastering
the problem of the white man in the tropics.
It seems strange to us to-day that the
question of the Caucasian being able to live
m. Australia at all should ever have been
ifVnr ( i yet bodruff, in a book published in
JJUo, brought arguments to show that the
Australian population was dying out in con-
sequence of the overpowering sunlight. Even
the logic of actual facts supplied by a healthy
white population flourishing in Northern
Queensland has never properly routed the
delusion that the Australian could not colo-
nise his tropics. Yet science is steadily
moving towards the belief that the hot places
aie not only not fatal to white colonisation
but in some ways are more favorable to it
than the cold. New York has a higher wet-
bulb temperature than the Australian
tiopics; yet the population of that strenuous
city has acclimatised itself. The old argu-
ment that equable temperatures have a de-
pressmg effect is exploded by the disclosure
that Northern Australia, especially in its
highlands, lias a high range of variability
and on the lowlands changes from a season of
extreme humidity to one of drought. Dry
heat lias been found to be so severe on the
nervous system that American factories have
installed machines for artificially creating
the deadly climate of the tropics in order to
increase the output of their staff; and insur-
ance actuaries find no reason to treat cus-
tomers who live in Northern Queensland dif-
tcrcntly from those who live in other parts.
Die real factor that retards the develop-
ment of the Northern Territory is its isola-
tion, and the building of the North-South
railway would remove the obstacle that is
otherwise insuperable. Prof. Gregory points
out what Canada did in similar circum-
stances. The Canadian Government has
railways to the extent of
$1,542,369,018, and made them grants of
land amounting to 47 million acres. Although
the issues to Canada are nothing like as
vital as those that face this country, the
Canuck foots the bill, with the warm feeling
that his expenditure in railway development
will eventually be justified. The 12 million
pounds required to finish the North-South
railway seems trifling by comparison.
M. G. S.
The Promised Land
The children of Israel, foot-weary and
sustained on the manna from Heaven, took
40 years to travel from Egypt to Palestine,
i o-day were Moses living he could shake
out his dusty garments, secure a ticket at
the Cairo railway station, lay in a packet
of sandwiches and a thermos, and do the
journey from starting-point to Jerusalem in
less than a day.
Since the historic decision of the Peace
Conference at San Remo that the Jewish
(Continued on page 3.)


CatheMfiQtderas'fije
Your Search for Efficient Firearms will end
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
In considering the choice of a con-
sistent shopping place, you must
consider just what a store gives.
First of all, it must give absolute
value for your money —and then
it must give something more. The
House of Economy comes up to
this standard by giving, not only
absolutely reliable quality—at the
lowest possible prices—but by
offering universally wide assort-
ment and efficient service, also.
Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-Hammerless
Ejector Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel. Choke
Bored Top Lever Action, Nitro Proved, alnut
Stock, Half Pistol Grip, Splendidly Balanced,
English made throughout. Weight about (mi.
Price fcO/o/-
TT 101.
1. Hollis & Sons’ 12-G. Anson & Deeley Pattern
Hammerless D.B. Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt,
Steel Barrels (both choke), Automatic Safety
Bolt, proved for Nitro Powder, chambered for
2fin. Cartridges, high, flat, dead-level File-cut Rib,
Walnut Heart Stock.
Price £3 ‘
YT 100.
I. Hollis & Sons’ Anson & Deeley Pattern Ham-
merless D.B. Gun, Treble Bolted Action on the
Cross Bolt principle. Left Choke Bored. Auto-
matic Safety Bolt, Walnut Heart Stock, Halt-
Pistol Grip, Deeley-edge Fore-end Fastener.
12-G. 20-G.
Prices £lB/17/6 £25
YT 61.
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12-G. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun,
Treble Bolted Action on the. Cross Bolt principle,
Steel Barrels, Left Choke Bore, good Steel Re-
bounding Bar Locks, well-grown Walnut Heart
Stock, Half-Pistol Grip, Snap Fore-end Fastener,
Engine-turned Rib, proved for Nitro Powders.
Price £l3
YT 436.
Hunting Knives, made of finest Sheffield Steel.
Heavy Blade, adapted to sticking and skinning,
in leather sheath. .
Prices sin., 8/-; Gin., 8/0; nn., 9/-
GUN LICENSE ACT.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
To avoid delay when ordering Revolvers
and Pistols a Gun License must be sent
with order. This does not apply to Rifles,
Guns or Ammunition, which may now r be
purchased without license.
GUN REPAIRS
In the Repairing of Guns as much skill is
required as in their manufacture. We have
Expert Gunsmiths constantly employed on Re-
pairs, and every appliance most suitable for the
work.
Restocking, Re jointing and Rebolting
Gun. —This work miist not be confused with
the “tightening’’ usually applied to loose actions,
which is generally nothing more than a ruinous
hammering of the lump§ or body of the gun.
These so-called Repairs are a source of constant
danger to the man who shoots. Guns “tight-
ened” by the “Hammer Method” are generally
found, after firing a few hundred cartridges, to
be worse than before. By our method any loose
Gun can be made as sound and tight at the
Breech as when issued by the Maker. We use
Joint Pins and Bolts made only from the
Ilighest-grade Crucible Steel.
Stock Repairing is carried out without the
use of plates, or disfiguring the Stock in any
way. The Repair, in addition to its durability,
is usually quite invisible, even when the Stock
is completely broken in two places. Our method
leaves the Gun with precisely the same feel
and balance. This is readily recognised as a
most important matter to shooters who have
become accustomed to their Guns.
Stocks Bent or Straightened.—Special
and Difficult Spring Making, New Extrac-
tors, Hammers, Strikers, and Limbs of
Every Description, Removing Dents and
Bulges, Barrel Browning, Blueing and
Polishing, Correcting Mis-fires, and Making
Pins Strike Centrally.
All our Repairs are guaranteed, but in order
to get the benefit of our guarantee sufficient of
the Gun must be sent for us to test the work.
For instance, if new Strikers are required,
unless the whole Gun is sent we cannot guaran-
tee proper firing, although the Guarantee would
hold against the breakage of the Strikers.
Remember, it is nearly always necessary to send
more than the broken sample when wanting one
“to match,” for obviously the part would not
have broken had it been correct; and an
incorrect model is ljot a proper model for us to
work from. The Safest and Best Way is to
send the Whole Gun.
Guns for Repairs should be sent carefully
packed, by Parcel Post or Passenger Train,
freight paid, with a letter of advice stating how
the Gun has been forwarded, and what Repairs
are needed.
Write for the illustrated “Shooters’ Guide.’’
A eopy will be posted free.
YT 223.
H. & R. Premier Double-action Revolver,
.22 calibre, 7 shot, 3in. barrel. Weight
13oz. Blue or Nickel finish.
Price 50/-
YT 257.
H. & R. Self-loading (Automatic) Pistol,
.32 (7.65 m/m) calibre. Capacity of maga-
zine, 8 shots, 3Jin., barrel. Weight 220 z.
Price £5/10/-
YT 361.
Paper and Brass Shell Set, in partitioned box,
comprising Loader, Closer, Re-capper, Shell
Extractor, Powder and Shot Measure,
Cleaning Rod and Implements.
12-G., 16-G., 20-G. Price 10/-
,410-G. Price 12/b
YT 441.
The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Knife is a
real knife, built for real service—sturdy,
‘ efficient and rustless. The keen, hard-
tempered, substantial blade, measuring 4 fin.
in length, makes quick work of underbrush
or the toughest job of skinning. Is a pro-
duct of the great cutlery house of Wade and
Butcher, manufacturers of the finest cutlery
for 200 years. A veritable masterpiece of
the knife-maker’s art. Handle of variegated
segments of riclil.v-colored leather, brass
and bakelite. with a nickel-silver hilt and
polished aluminium head. A knife every
hunter and outdoor man may well be proud
to own.
Price .
10/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Umi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY . Telephone: City 9440.
G.P.O. Box 2712.


Graham Brothers
One Ton Truck
Impressive appearance, well built bodies,
quick acceleration, volumes of reserve
power, easy handling, comfortable
riding, extremely low upkeep cost—
and dependable service everywhere!
Everything that is desirable in a truck
is embodied in the One'Ton. To see it
is to realize that Graham Brothers have
solved an important problem in com'
mercial hauling.
graham brothers
Detroit, U.S.A.
A Division or Doose Brotms-rs
Standardized Motors, Ltd.,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbotton Motor Co., Ltd.,
896-98 Hay Street,
Perth.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE


n,
I v.
V*
s\
Showing Padding /
at inside oF . i||||||||f|uL
Shoulder 6- ElbojJ K
“MARKOPAD”
The New Jersey
Padded at shoulders and
elbows to prevent injury.
Exclusive to David Jones’
David Jones’ introduce the new “ Markopad ”
Football Jersey, made of strong cotton, and
padded at shoulder and elbow. Advocated
by an old international player these Jerseys
fill a long felt need, and greatly reduce the risk
of serious injury. Exclusive in Sydney to David
Jones’. Price ••• ••• ••• ••• I^/6
“Markopad” Jerseys will be worn this
season by the New South Wales repre-
sentatives against the All Blacks.
DAVID JONES’
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
peoples scattered over the face of the earth,
hut never in spirit and faith disunited,
should have a national home, the chosen
people have looked to the covenant: I will
bring them out from the peoples and gather
them from the countries, and will bring
them into their own land.” Slowly, stone upon
stone, Zion is being rebuilt. A strong .people,
with great artistic gifts and a genius for
finance and government, they also possess
qualities of endurance, of persistence and
penetration perhaps no other body the world
over can claim. Now they are tramping
h °Mr, Israel Cohen has written an interest-
ing and well-illustrated volume, The Jour-
nal of a Jewish Traveller (John Bane)
describing a pilgrimage made to the Jewish
communities of Australasia, India and the
Far East” with the objects of expounding
to the far-flung race the import of the Uni-
four Declaration and invoking material sup-
port for its realisation. This long journey
of some 30,000 miles enabled him to observe
and study the conditions of the various com-
munities in which he sojourned. He noted,
among other things, a phenomenon familiar
in the Western world “that, whilst the Jews
are inevitably influenced in many ways bv
their environment, they are nevertheless
strong and creative enough to impose upon
it an impress of their own.” Wherever lie
went in the British Dominions he found
numbers of his race in high official and Judi-
cial positions, filling them with ability and
holding the respect and confidence of their
Gentile fellow-citizens. “But,’ says the
writer, “devoted though they are to their
native or adopted land, they cherish, for the
most part, a deep and inextinguishable senti-
ment for the cradle of their nation.
The pilgrimage, appropriately, started at
Jerusalem; and we get a glimpse of what
the city was a few years ago, and may vision
what in the course of modern progress it is
likely to become in years hereafter: —
The ancient city, starting from the Jaffa Gate, is
bound to lure you, despite its smells and its slippeiy
cobble paths. But no matter how deeply steeped in
sacred memories, no matter how heavily charged
with pious aspirations, it cannot, as it exists to-dav,
form the home of a healthy generation that seeks to
produce still healthier generations in the days to
come.
The old home needed something more than
a spring-cleaning before the children could
come back. The bricklayer and the sanitary
engineer would have to take Zion in hand
before the new Jewry would be content to
settle down there. In a conflict between
sentiment and sanitation the latter must
of the Jews in Palestine live to-day
in Jerusalem; yet there is less of a Jewish
impress on its life and complexion than there
is in any Jewish colony. “True.’ Air. Cohen
says, “most of the shops in the principal
thoroughfares bear Hebrew names, and the
little red letter-boxes are painted with a
Hebrew as well as an English and Arabic
designation, and there are two Hebrew dailies
and still more weeklies and monthlies; and
thousands of Jews —many of them in Orien-
tal flowing robes —live in separate quarteis,
whilst most of them, especially the younger
generation, speak only Hebrew. But all the
big, dominating buildings belong to the Oen-
tiles.” In a reflective mood the pilgrim
adds: “Either we have been content too
long only to pray for Zion, imagining, pei-
chance, that some day a Alessianie wand
would conjure mansions and temples, parks
and palaces, out of the dust, or else we
lacked the political influences, the generous
State resources with which other nations
have firmly established themselves here.
Three years later, at the close of Ins pil-
grimage, the author revisited Jerusalem, and
strikes a more optimistic note. He finds
the labor of restoring the country being
pursued with an ever-increasing energy. in
the main the, progress has been due to the
influx of picked settlers and the reclaiming
of the land. Chosen by virtue of physical
fitness and technical ability, no less than tor
their zeal and devotion, from among the
hosts throughout the world who have eagerly
demanded admittance, some 10,000 workers
have entered the country each year and been
distributed to wheresoever their energies
most were needed.” Here we see the shrewd
commonsensc of the Jew as we know him
in exile. Zion is to be no mere asylum tor
the pauperdom of the race. When it is re-
newed and made beautiful, then provision
may be set up for the needy, the unskilful
and the decrepit, but in the building ot the
new Jerusalem only the pick of the race is
called for. It will take longer, perhaps, than
the building of Sydney’s North Shore Bridge,
but the new Zion is under way, and any enter-
prising member of the race at Tattersall s
will be prepared to back it as eventually a
•winner.
T. B. C.
Black Michael
Recently there came into my temporary
possession an ancient MS. volume which
was compiled in Hobart Town in 1818, evi-
dently with a view to a subsequent publica-
tion which it never got. In a beautiful
copper-plate hand —they could write in those
days—the title-page announces that it has to
do with '‘Michael Howe, the last and worst
of the Bushrangers of Van Diemen's Lana,
and that it is “A Narrative of the Chief
Atrocities committed by this Great Murderer
and ■ his associates during a period of six
years in Van Diemen's Land. From authen-
tic sources of information .” The author was
H E. Wells, Secretary to Colonel William
Sorell, Lieutenant-Governor of V.D.L. from
April, 1817, to May, 1824. His son, the
late Henry Edmund Wells, of Kadnook
station, near Mount Gambier, bequeathed it
to R. N. Wells, of the Research Branch
of the Victorian State Electricity Commis-
sion, who is an occasional Bulletin con-
tributor. In the century that has elapsed
since Private Pugh, of H.M. 48th Regiment,
and prisoner Worrall brought Black
Michael’s bleeding head into Hobart Town
and collected their blood-money, much has
been written about this remarkable ruffian,
but the old book contains the plainest, clear-
est and most convincing account of his atro-
cities that has come down to us. It is valu-
able for the reason, amongst others, that it
gives the official point of view with regard
to the bloody war that was waged for so
long between the forces of the Crown ln tli
early days of Tasmania and the desperate
bands of runaway convicts who maae
life a terror to settlers m th e island 100
years ago. And it shows that Michael s
death was reckoned a very considerable \
tory for the Crown— though he was by no
means the “last of the bushrangers as its
author optimistically alleges. The news o
his destruction gave great joy to Coverno
Macquarie, up in Sydney. “I most sincerely
congratulate you,” lie wrote to on
December 21, ISIS, “on the annihilation of
Michael Ilowe, the Chief ot the Banditti
of Bush Rangers in Van Diemen s Land, as,
I trust, his Death will completely prevent
any new Body of that description setting
up to molest the Peaceable Inhabitants. 1
must confess, however, I should have been
better pleased if this daring and atrocious
Villain and Outlaw had been taken alive, so
as to be made a Public example of on a
Gibbet.” However, the banditti kept on
bandittying spasmodically up to the time ot
that genial and gentlemanly freebooter, Mar-
tin Cash, in the early ’forties. Black
Michael’s neck was a long way from being
the last that had to be severed with a knite
or constricted by a rope during the next
quarter of a century. , „
“As a leader of a Band of Desperadoes,
writes Mr. Secretary Wells, ns lavish ot
his capitals as Macquarie himself, Howe
may not inaptly be compared to .1 hree-
fingered Jack, who was so long the terror
of the peaceable Settlers in the Plantations
of Jamaica; and who, notwithstanding eveiy
exertion to take him, long ranged the Woods
of that Island, committing the most cruel and
daring acts of murder and robbery; until
from the large rewards offered by Govern-
ment he was arrested by the hands ot Jus-
tice.” A single extract from his present
chronicler will indicate the character of
Hovfe’s contemporary reputation. He was
of athletic make,” Mr. Secretary Wells says.
“He wore at the time of his Death a dress
made of Kangaroo Skins, had an extraor-
dinary long Beard, and presented altogether
a terrific appearance. His face, perhaps m
some degree from associating with it the
recollection of his crimes, exhibited strong
marks of a Murderer. During bis long
career of guilt he was never known to per-
form one humane act. His Body was in-
terred on the spot where he fell; his Head
was brought to Hobart Town, and suffered
to be seen by the people, to whom the end
of this monster afforded an unconscionable
degree of satisfaction.”
A curious light is thrown upon the men-
tality of the hunted outlaw in the foLowing
passage, which refers to his narrow escape
from capture not long before Nemesis finally
overtook him :
One or two fruitless attempts were made to take
him by stratagem. In the month of September, how-
ever, McGill, who was the previous year emanci-
pated for services against the Bushrangers with the
46th Rest., and who at different periods continued
an assiduous pursuit after him, came so closely
upon him that in his hurry to escape Howe lelt
behind him his arms, ammunition, Dogs and Knap-
sack, which fell into the hands of McGill, and were
brought to Hobart Town. The loss of his pistols
and this outfit was a serious and irreparable one to
Ilo l'n C his Knapsack was found a sort of Journal of
Dreams, which shews strongly the distressed .state
of his mind, and some tincture of superstition.
From this little book of Kangaroo-skin, written in
Kangaroo-blood, it appears that he frequently dreamt
of being murdered by natives, of seeing his old
Companions Whitehead, Jones, Geary and Collier,
of being nearly taken by a soldier; and in one
instance humanity asserts itself even in the breast
of Michael Howe, we find him recording that he
dreamt of his Sister. It also appears from this
Memorandum book, that he had always an idea of
settling in the Woods; for it contains long lists of
such seeds as he wished to have, of vegetables, fruits
and even flowers!
The most treacherous and inhuman side
of his character is shown by the fashion m
which lie had treated the lubra who for
some time shared his outlawry:
In April 1817, Lt.-Governor Sorell arrived, and
assumed the government of the Settlements on Van
Diemen’s Land ; and about this period Howe and the
native Girl were pursued in the neighborhood of
Jericho bv a small party of the 46th Rcgt His
wantonly‘cruel disposition was strongly manifested
on this occasion, for being hard Pressed, in order
to facilitate his own escape he fired at this poor
female companion, who, from fatigue, was unable
to keep pace with him. She received, however little
injury 1 and together with his Blunderbuss, Knap-
sack and Dogs fell into the hands of the pursuers.
This native girl afterwards became particularlj
valuable as a guide to the Military parties, from
the quickness and sagacity, peculiar to the Black
Natives in tracing footsteps where Europeans would
not suspect them.
His biographer records that at one time
Howe bad a following of no less than 29
escaped convicts, who, however, from the
savagery and brutality with which he treated
them, were gradually driven to desert him,
until at last he became utterly isolated from
all companionship, the black girl whom lie
treated so badly being the last human being
who would associate with him.
4. pleasant type of Robin Hood, not a
little similar to the Riverina’s Daniel Mor-
gan of evil memory!
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Fresh Colors
The charm of history is its freshness oi
color. The (lust of the desert and the wrecks
of time have fallen upon the actors in the
long world-drama; but a phrase gives them
life again and they return, not as grey
shadows, but as living men and women.
Zenobia, with her women and courtiers, walks
down the long colonnade on that fateful morn-
ing of her challenge to Rome. She says a
word in Syriac to a waiting woman and then
speaks in Greek to Longinus. The boys
are a little apart from the group—quite
unimportant boys who somehow disappear
from the tale without attracting much notice.
Perhaps they came presently to Italy and
loafed about Rome until they were sick for
the desert; perhaps they slipped away to
the shining east and lived a squalid Arab
life of hunger and plunder. They are of
no importance, but that morning they were
the centre of the world. Longinus spoke and
laughed; Zenobia looked at the boys, drew
down her brows and then laughed also. She
spoke to the waiting woman again in Syriac
and beckoned the boys to her. They came a
little sulkily and then ran on before the
party to the liTgli portico of the palace. An
hour later the great gates were thrown open
and the multitude could enter at will.
Zenobia was enthroned in state and the boys
sat at her right hand clothed in the imperial
purple. Some old men drew in a hard breath
and some trembled. Then a young courtier
clapped his hands and the whole throng
broke into applause. Some knew what it
meant; some did not. Zenobia held her
head proudly, but afterwards went into a
secret chamber and told herself she was a
fool. She had challenged Rome to mortal
combat; and she threw her amethyst ear-
rings with a clatter on a stone table and
shook herself like a dog that comes from
the water. .
I know when I read a page of that stirring
tale of the woman who fought the world,
who gathered all the desert chivalry about
her and reviewed her mighty army riding on
a milk-white Arab horse, that she was beauti-
ful as well as daring. But when I turn
away from history the streets of Palmyra
grow very old, the ruins are harsh with sand
and the place is only the graveyard of a fool-
ish enterprise. In 1874 my father directed
the Arabs who dug up the head of the statue
of Zenobia from the foot of the column that
bore her name. Every column in the double
colonnades which supported the covering ot
the sidewalks in the straight main street of
Palmyra formerly bore a statue and the
names remain still on the slabs. The head
of Zenobia, in yellow time-worn stone,
showed a tine Greek face with broad fore-
head and elaborate dressing of the lmir.
There were round holes in the eyes from
which jewels had been removed. When the
head —an archaeological find of immense
interest and value —had been cleared of the
sand and admired, the Arab workmen brought
,to light another head. It was long of face,
■With high cheek bones and unpleasing fea-
tures and a little more worn than the first;
but: the hair was dressed with equal elabora-
tion and the eyes had holes for jewels. No
one could even guess which head had be-
longed to the statue of Zenobia. Was it the
charming little Greek woman whom Aurelmn
led in triumph through Rome or the long-
faced Oriental with the Arab features? The
archaeologist leaves the matter dusty and
cold. . .
But with some rudimentary imagination
playing round history, what room is left for
doubt that Zenobia was beautiful? She lost
the battle and endured the siege of her city;
she escaped on a white camel to seek aid
from the Persians; she was captured ami
brought to Rome. It was all very strenuous
and very wearing; but the last act of the
drama was not yet played. In Rome she
found a new husband and a villa home by
the banks of the Tiber. You can see her
there, if you will, the quiet matron of a well-
ordered house, with the glitter of the desert
faded out of her eyes, the big adventure be-
hind her and the loner, safe days still before.
In history she remains there —a woman as
young as the folly that could challenge an
empire. But Palmyra stands in stately ruin
far out in the middle desert. The water
supply has almost failed; and the camels go
by another track.
P. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
Valiant Dust, by Katherine Fullerton Gerould
CHarrap). A previous volume of short stories undei
the title of “Conquistador” gave Mrs. Gerould a
high place among writers of this form of fiction.
In this collection of nine stories she maintains it.
The outstanding feature of each is that it contains
a central thought round which the incidents are
woven. “The Honest Man,” for example, is quite
a masterly development of the logical consequences
which flow from given premises. They arc not only
well told, and at times intensely dramatic, but the
reader is invariably left with something to think
a. monthly journal published by
Art in Australia, Ltd., Sydney, is improving in
duality. The March issue shows some interesting
developments of architecture in Germany, where
business premises are apt to be designed with the
airy grace of Dyak head-houses while suburban bun-
galows are built on the lines of fortresses Norman
Carter’s mural decorations for the Philosophy lecture-
room of the Sydney University are reproduced. A
pen-drawing by Lloyd Rees seems to Lave the
texture of velvet; and there is a clever mezzotint by
Lionel Lindsay.
Historical Geography of Australasia, by J. D.
Rogers (Clarendon Press). This is a second edition,
revised and enlarged by R. N. Kershaw, Rhodes
scholar for N.S.W. in 1918. Mr. Kershaw has added
a chapter to the volume on “Australasia during and
after the war.” He sketches the stages leading up
to the recognition of Australian national status.
“Few things in the history of the British Empire,”
he says, “are more astonishing than the sudden-
ness with which the outward recognition of Dominion
nationhood has appeared.” Two outstanding pro-
blems affecting her future face Australia, he thinks,
--one the developing of markets for her produce, the
other the securing of an adequate population. But
are they two problems or one?
The Carillon of Scarpa, by Flora Klickmann (Put-
nam). As editor of a woman’s magazine in the
U.S.A., the writer of this entertaining novel re-
ceived, in that happy period known as “before the
war,” many letters from a European princess, one
of . the daughters in the reigning house of a small
kingdom among the mountains. The palace of
Scarpa and its semi-humorous, semi-pathetic in-
mates of royal title and pinched means are pictured
from the descriptions the little princess sent to her
journalistic friend. The author makes her situations
out of the juxtaposition of this tattered fragment of
kingly state with the new-rich family of the Potter-
bloggs (N.Y.). The latter, through an agent to
whom the depleted condition of the Scarpanian ex-
chequer has been disclosed, are received at the palace
as “paying guests,” and then the fun starts.
Peace Conferences at Home and Abroad, by Mrs.
Septimus Harwood, M.A. This is a pamphlet in-
tended, its author states, “to supply, in some degree,
What is badly needed in Sydney, namely, some
general information as to the origin and develop-
ment of the peace movement everywhere during the
last century, how it has progressed, and is still
progressing.” There has hitherto been little or
no demand for peace literature in N. S. Wales or
the other States, and comparatively little is known
by the public as to the extent and vigor of the
movement. The author has brought together a mass
of material on the subject from English and foreign
sources, and her informative little work shows the
marks not only of conscientious research, but of
enthusiastic propaganda. The Sydney Peace Society lias
never been very conspicuous ; nevertheless, it is live
enough to publish an annual report. Some five years
ago it had, besides, its own organ, Pax, and a library.
It was practically founded early in the century by
Miss Rose Scott, supported by some members of the
Society of Friends, and possibly the present publi-
cation from the pen of its assistant-president may
renew interest in the organisation at a time when
European conditions seem to indicate a drift to-
wards the possible contingency of further warfare.
At any rate, as the author states, we have now be-
fore us “an object-lesson in the utter failure of
the greatest of all wars to bring material or moral
welfare to either the victors or the vanquished.”
♦
“To-Po”: Formal grammar is coming back to its
own in Victoria, owing to the Council of Teachers’
Union vigorously drawing the attention of the De-
partment to the slipshod English both spoken and
written by newly-appointed junior teachers from
High Schools. Acting-Director Hansen recognised
the justice of the representation, and once more rules
of syntax will be . swallowed and (it is hoped)
digested by the State kiddies.


[i
i
J 1
MSSHN
ii.<
W*
1
*
Bad Roads and Good Riding
Bad roads we shall have with us always. True,
there are more good roads to-day than there
were ten years ago, and a decade hence there
will be more than there are to-day, but a score
of years hence motorists by the hundred will
still be voicing loud complaints of road surfaces
in general, and of certain roads in particular.
There will be more roads open for traffic in 194r>
than there are now —with the extension of settle-
ment and a steadily increasing population that
is a certainty—but will the proportion of good
roads to bad roads be greater than it is to-day?
Perhaps ! And then, again, perhaps not!
And then, as now, the places you most want to
visit, the beauty spots you desire to see, the
views you love to gaze upon, will be off the
main arteries of traffic, over the rough roads
and along winding tracks. Where the strange
road goes you will go, because that way lies
pleasure.
But bad roads need not mean for you bad rid-
ing. It rests largely with yourself whether,
when travelling over a “wash-board” or a “pot-
holed” road, you experience comparative com-
fort or the uttermost discomfort—and that
wholly irrespective of the degree of care you
exercise in driving. The snailiest of snails’
paces may lessen the severity of, but certainly
will not prevent, the jolts and bumps the car
body receives when the wheels encounter ruts
and holes.
Jolts and bumps can be made, however, to
give way to a gentle rolling motion of the car
body—the Stewart Shock Absorber was de-
signed to bring about this result from the
functioning of the car springs; and that this
new absorber does its job and does it well is
proved by the complimentary remarks one now
so frequently hears uttered by motorists who
have their cars equipped with it.
Shock Absorbers
For the Comfort of Man and the Well-being of the Car.
6
sa
i
m i
MODEL 210
(For Medium-weight Cars),
Per Set, £lO/10/-; Per Pair, £5/5/-
MODEL 218
(For Ford, Chevrolet, Overland,
Rugby and Gray),
Per Set, £6/10/-; Per Pair, £3/5/-
Mention Name of Car, also Model
and Year, when Ordering.
OBTAINABLE FROM GARAGES, CAR AGENTS,
ACCESSORIES’ DEALERS, AND STEWART
SERVICE STATIONS, as under:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., SYDNEY.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY.. LTD., MELBOURNE.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., BRISBANE.
CORNELL, LIMITED. ADELAIDE.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, PERTH.
%
*0
'P


Goodyear Means Good Wear.
o
o
\
dL
AT
&
/
*
5
twm
&
'•Virv • ’
GOODYEAR BALLOON TYRES
Give You Comfort Plus Mileage
HOW MANY
times have you
had this happen?
A tyre sizzles out and nothing
seems to be the matter with it.
Then you or the garage-man
find that a loose or defective
valve patch caused all the
trouble.
If you use Goodyear Red Tubes
all the time, you never have it
happen, for in these tubes the
valve patch is not stuck on, as
is the case with ordinary tubes,
but is vulcanised in—becoming
an integral, permanent, solid,
never-leaking part of the whole.
Goodyear Red Tubes are made
in the laminated way.
Built up layer upon layer of
pure gum rubber, these paper-
thin layers are then added one
on top of the other to the de-
sired thickness, and then
vulcanised into a perfect air-
resisting unit.
Due to this superior construc-
tion a porous or leaky Goodyear
Tube is an impossibility.
Goodyear Red Tubes are the
proper travelling companions
for Goodyear tyres. And you.
will find that this combination
will cut down your tyre costs
considerably.
NEXT TIME BUY
RED TUBES
Goodyear Balloon Tyres are of typical Goodyear quality—
for years they have been used on test cars under actual
service conditions.
Goodyear Balloon Tyres are of proved practical usefulness.
They improve your riding comfort, besides saving the car —
and you.
For nearly all cars Goodyear Interchangeable Balloons fit
present wheels and rims, if straight side or 30 x 3i beaded
edge type, with no change whatever.
Goodyear also makes the small diameter Balloon Tyres for
new cars with special size wheels.
And don’t forget that all Goodyear Balloon Tyres are made
of ‘‘SUPERTWIST’’—the new elastic, far-stretching cord
material which allows these tyres to flex without cracking or
breaking.
Only Goodyears are made from this sensational new, durable
material.
Ask your Goodyear Dealer about Goodyear Balloon 1 yres
for your car.
In Balloon Tyres as in others , Goodyear means Good Wear
BALLOON TYRES


a
m
mm
B
£2
m
From a photograph of a Cad-
illac with 23 years of continu-
ous service to its credit. The
first owner used it as a passen-
ger car for eight years; the
present owner has used it as a
truck for the past 13 years.
The factors which give the
modern Cadillac high resale
value contribute also to the
re-sale value of all other Gen-
eral Motors products.
What makes motor car value ♦
4* Re-sale value
OU expect a motor vehicle
to give you long and faithful
service; but some day you
may wish to sell it
Each General Motors car is
an established car; see the
well-known names below.
Each has behind it the
strength of the whole General
Motors family. Each is built
to give long and satisfactory
service.
And each has parts, acces-
sories and equipment made
largely by General Motors
and sold and serviced wher-
ever General Motors cars are
found.
There is a General Motors
car for every requirement.
m m c h tf by T' Uni t °G°™al Motor,
Motor, Elport Company ,
general motors
BUICK
OAKLAND
CADILLAC
OLDSMOBILE
CHEVROLET
GMC TRUCKS


&
%
Sli
Cuticura Shaving Stick
For Fastidious Men
The emollient medicinal proper-
ties of the new freely lathering
Cuticura Shaving Stick permit
shaving twice daily without irrita-
tion of the skin, leaving it softened
and refreshed, with a youthful glow.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S.W.
SWT** Try our new Shaving Stick.
Mercolized
Wax
New Size - 2/6
*
mm
• ■■ :
Miss Gladys Moncrieff,
the Brilliant Williamson Star, who
is an advocate of Mercolized Wax
for the Complexion.
Announcement
We beg to announce that pure
mercolized wax for the complexion
may now be obtained in two sizes of
packages. Large size 5/6; small-
er size 2/6. Metcolized wax is
heartily recommended by stage and
society folk all over the world.
Double Function
This unique product is highly
recommended, not only to clear
up Dull Complexions, but also to
Preserve and refine Good Com-
plexions. Tested over 14 years.
Obtainable at Chemists and depart-
ment stores everywhere.
Dearborn (Aus.) Ltd. Sydney
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
\nd New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
DR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless—•
Waterproof Permanent!
All Chemists.
Made for ONE Purpose
Denyer’s Elastic Truss is nothing more
than a device to secure to the ruptured per-
son a combination of perfect support, com-
plete security and a degree ot comfort
otherwise unattainable. But by the same
token it is nothing lexx than the most effi-
cient appliance obtainable for that purpose.
Single, 27/6. Double, 37/6.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Ask for Free Truss Pamphlet. For privacy
and prompt reply, address correspondence to
Dept. 1.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs.
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
DIAMOND RINGS
Fine Modem Examples
of the Jeweller’s Art.
Fairfax and Roberts’ have been fashioning artistic rings for over
80 years. While following the trend of the fashion of the moment,
each ring is invested with a distinction and charm that is ageless.
Pure Platinum and specially-assayed gold are always used for
the mountings, while the gems are obtainable from famous cutters.
Wide cash buying powers enable them to offer most unusual values.
Choice Diamond in
Hexagonal Setting,
with Small Dia-
monds on each side,
£2O.
Whole Circle of
Diamonds in all
Platinum Ring,
£35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25.
Choice Diamonds,
£lO/10/-
11 Choice Dia-
monds, £33.
Choice Emerald and
Fine Diamonds,
£2O.
7 Choice Diamonds,
£l5/15/-
THE
PLAIN FIGURES.
OLDEST JEWELLERY
CASH ONLY.
HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Falreax&Roberts L™ i
5 Hunter Street Sydney ''
—— . ' ==
vs,
Host Holbrook Saus~
“A good brew of Worcester-
shire Sauce improves with
age. I mature, my sauce in
huge vats before bottling.
Ah! It makes
world hungry.”
the whole
A-4
ROOKS
ISAUCE
J
it
PS
Sc
m
5 &
y
w
mm.
m
w-
m
m
m
m
I
ii
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25,
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9)
(posted 46/-).
12/- (posted
; 100, 45/-
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Captain.
My dreams are galleons, and, rich with
gold,
I ride them grandly on the high, green
seas.
My argosies are very rich and old,
Filled with the slaves in many markets sold.
I barter as I please.
My dreams are galleons with scarlet sails
And masts that bud beneath the rising
moon.
It shines on opal hills and deepening dales
And caverns where a lonely mermaid wails
“O lover, soon —come soon !”
My dreams are galleons; and fair and far
They carry me upon my Odyssey.
The light is in my eyes from one lone star :
I care not for the distant blaze of Avar
Nor love’s pale fantasy.
My dreams are galleons ; they hold my heart
As I hold plunder of all tongues that
speak.
The light is in my <-rs. O faint of heart,
The truth is this: I come, and I depart.
I know not what I seek.
maoriland. Bettie Riddele.
A Chance Meeting.
Upon a road, a winding road,
A road long used by country folk,
Once on a time I chanced to meet
A damsel in a scarlet cloak.
It was a pretty sight she made—
BroAvn eyes alight and hair AA'ind-bloAvn,
Bunched roses gloAving in her hands,
Her scarlet cloak around her thrown.
The leagues behind Avere long and rough,
The leagues in front went up and doAvn;
I stayed her on the road and asked
How many miles it was to town.
And then we fell a-talking there,
And then she said Avith cheeks aglow
As scarlet almost as her cloak —
That time pressed on and she must go.
Her parting gift it was a smile,
A smile that made me bright and brave;
Her parting gift it was a rose,
But only rose and smile she gave.
I watched her on that winding road.
That road long used by country folk;
And twice she turned and tivice she waved,
My damsel in the scarlet cloak.
N.S.AV.
RODERIC QUINN.
A City Window.
Spring is a budding bough athwart the pane
That summer darkens with a sAvirl of
dust;
And all through autumn solitary flies
Buzz drowsy stories of their youthful lust;
Till Avinter etches upon sombre skies
A gleaming roof ’mid slanting lines of rain.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Apocalypse.
The sun Avent out at noon. It flared to wide
Roarings of momentary flame and might—
Flared and collapsed, and instantaneous
night _ ~
Folded and crushed the world. On every side
Movement stood still, aghast and petrified.
Terror screamed out and madness shrieked
for light.
A whimpering coldness crept through caves
of fright ; ,
And I and all life else froze down and
died....
Through gliost-empeopled space a voice came
clear,
Chidingly soft, reverberantly low.
A voice that sighed: “Alas! my wilful dear!
See, you have done it; and I told you no.
The pretty toy is gone. My darling one
Has snuffed the lovely candle of the sun. ’
N.S.AV.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Elms.
So still it is, mysterious and dim,
Beneath the elms, hushed as the sanctuary
Of some cathedral, grey and old, where hymn
And solemn chant have sounded ceaselessly
From immemorial years. A holy place
Of beauty this. The ancients understood,
Discerned divinity in wind and space ;
And built their shrines and worshipped in
a wood.
No fabric of man’s fashioning is reared
Above me ; no pilastered Avails enclose
A sacred spot by memories endeared
Of those departed. Here the green elm
grows;
Its boughs entwine a leafy tracery
Against the silvered sapphire’s paler hue.
Clere-storey windows set ’twixt tree and tree
Look tranquilly upon the star-pricked blue.
Each lofty capital is foliage-crowned.
Not with acanthus carved or symbols old,
But tinted leaves the autumn sun has
browned,
\nd A'ivid leaves the sun has touched with
gold.
Through nave and transept, shadowy and
still, . .
And spacious aisles my questing spirit goes.
A radiance and lustre slowly fill
The gloom ; the soft effulgence gleams and
glows.
The east is luminous. A mystic veil
Of rosy gold, translucent, lovely, lies
On leaf 'and stem; in such pure light the
Grail
Might pulse and throb before my awe-
struck eyes.
A tender glory floods the hallowed ground
My feet this night in reverence have trod.
These moon-blessed, silent, stately trees
around
Have framed a temple of the living God.
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.


jHeUcw
Jlrfud/vy'
M
J
; '
hhi
x ' wiyM
***aSTi
I
Ml
.
:
POSINATUS,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1913.
Owner - - - - J. Chambers,
Trainer- - - - J. Chambers,
Jockey- - - - A. Shannan,
Weight - - - 7st. 101 b.
Time - - - - 3min. 31 sec.
Australasian Agents- B-SEPPEU6 SONS, L T °
SYDNEY ■ MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE E BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission b, Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40. —No. 2858.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1925.
I’mi'E Go.
FIXING THINGS UP.
“The Vic Labor Conference lias decided in favor of a Pan-Pacific Congress to discuss the situation in the countries bordering o n the Pacific, with a wiew to arriving at an
understanding between the workers of all nations concerned to prevent war. The secretary of the Trades Hall Council (Mr. E. J. Holloway) said that, though stringent measures
were adopted by the Japanese Government against menbers of the Japanese Labor movement, the Australian Labor movement had got ito communication with certain Jaanese.
and a conference was now possible.
THE MILITARIST: “And what is your honorable business, Australian gentleman?"
THE PACIFIST: “We want to fix up a Defence policy with our comrade over there."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SVRSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austkalasia, weekly;
lit months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7 s.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
75e Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able. acknowledge hi the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
Vn/n not ex ceeding two columns in length, or. say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
betters or Newspaper Clippings'. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
liie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
'he address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Tiie Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Illack and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humoroiis or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
1.. St. C. Grondona. Australia House, Strand*
W,0,2, Copies of “Tiie Riilletin” ran he
tnined from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. GnrAnh
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson
and Sonsi, Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London,
L.C.i; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The llritish Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
T. Aigar, 5S Gracechurch Sheet, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son ,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; lienoni News
Agency, lienoni; Handel House. Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street. Vancouver. II.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan lioulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 IVest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
)ork: firentano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
lark City; Schultz Neivs Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty Neivs Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01, Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co.. The Colonial
Rook and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Rrewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Rrewer and Co., SI Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. —lF. “G. P. Perera,. 16 Raillie Street,
Colombo: It. R. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Pf-ti.— -A. \Rarker. Suva: Harry Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotcli, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Cirrus. E.C.1,.
U.S.A. —J. Roland Kay Co., 16t East Erie Street ,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):- — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10nz., Id. United Kingdom: 1, to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
2%t£'fyxzHeiv7l.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1925.
THE SHEAF ON THE ALTAR.
The big bulls, the shining horses and the
wrinkled rams that go to the production of
so much of the wealth of Australia have paid
their annual visit to Sydney and taken their
honors back to quiet paddocks on distant
runs and farms. The man on the land has
made his display, and the wheels of the city
turn again into the old ruts. Every year
the exhibitions of stock and farm produce,
both in the cities and in the country towns!
show something in the way of progress. One
or two classes notably apart, there is an
approach to perfection in the animals judged
m tlm ring, in the butter and grain and wine
and honey, and in the machinery which aids
t.ic farmer in his work. And the spirit of
the whole lias changed. The land that was
once an end in itself becomes more and more
a means to an end—a part of a mechanical
system of trade rather than a part of the
rhythm of life. Men view themselves as cul-
tivating the soil, not because it is the natural
thing to do, but because it is one of many
occupations of which choice may be made, all
them having the common purpose
of making money as fast as possible. Side
by. side with such a change of view goes the
painful fact of the diminishing rural popu-
lation. The country is not producing less,
but it is producing what it does with fewer
hands at the plough and the harvester. Old-
time farmers lived on the soil and sold the
surplus of their production. Now the orchard-
ist sends his fruit to market, and buys his
jam from the city; the raiser of wheat buys
his bread from the baker and his flour from
the local store; the butcher often calls twice
a week where the small mixed farmer is
fattening his mob of wethers for a distant
saleyard. To find home stuff in use at home
is the exception rather than the rule. The
growing crops and the breeding stock are all
so much .merchandise, and the farmer is a
trader with the rest. The land itself, the
buildings and fences and trees are all in the
market if the price offered is large enough.
There is no fault to be found with all this
on economic grounds. A world mostly pent
up in towns and cities is demanding bread
and beef,. and the supply of these in whole-
sale lots is as legitimate as the supply of wire
nails, or kerosene.
* * * *
But there is something to be regretted in
the changed outlook of the man on the land,
even though the change is to some extent
associated with progress. The idea of home
centres in a farm more emphatically than
elsewhere, and the love of home is intimately
connected with the soil. The old walls, the
old fields, the old trees link with the old
memories' and the old graves not far away.
It is impossible to turn a farm into a
modern factory without losing something
whose roots go deeper than a mere senti-
mental regard. It is the permanence of the
tlnng that Counts most. On the farm men
plant for the generations to come, and build
for them, also in a way that in few cases
is possible in the. city; and in the associa-
tion of, a long line of honest men on an
honest soil there is a pride that could not
be purchased with the longest purse. That
old attachment of men to their paternal
acres had something of religious zeal about
it. It was once ■wholly religious; and the
gods of the harvest were no mean deities
while cultivation and growth remained great
mysteries. The genei-osity of the earth in
returning 60-fold the seed sown was a more
inspiring idea than the thought that scien-
tific treatment of the land miaht make the
yield even greater. Thanksgiving filled an
immense place in agriculture. That atti-
tude has often given place to one of com-
plaint which, if kept up long enough, results
in a lowered standard of life and conduct.
The tune of self-pity is a dirge, never an
inspiring marching song. It is impossible
to restore the wonder and mystery that sur-
rounded ancient agriculture, impossible to
re-create the thought of a magic-working
deity who returned agricultural favors for
piety, impossible to bring again the sense
of gratitude and thanksgiving to the soil. But
what may be called the religion of the land
need not be wanting. It may even be pos-
sible to restore something of the sense of
magic; for nothing is nearer to the occult
than some of the experiments in soil treat-
ment.
* * * *
But the main line of the new development
of land-cultivation must be the sense of
trust reposed in the farmer. With all the
world’s mouths to feed, and a general rise
in the standard of living in most lands, the
heedless methods of the immediate nast be-
come more and more a social crime. That
slack farming methods do not pay is gener-
ally accepted; but that slack farming
methods are a wpste of national assets and
an injury to the landless population must
be the creed of the future. Already there
are abundant signs that the farmer must
be a scientist highly educated in his busi-
ness and understanding to the last point
the natural forces which he calls into play.
As such he will take his nlace as a profes-
sional man—the most highly respected pro-
fessional man of all. As between Law and
a thorough knowledge of agriculture there
could be no question as to w T hich would call
for the higher gifts and demand the closer
study; nor could there be a shadow of doubt
as to which rendered the greater benefits to
mankind. With the rise of the agriculturist
in qualifications and public esteem there
must be a Corresponding rise in the esti-
mate of the medium through which he works
his scientific magic. The Soil Will then be
seen in its true relation to society and the
nation—a sacred trust handed over to the
care and keeping of the most highly-quali-
fied men. That view Constitutes a deeply-
laid foundation for national life. Since the
decline qf the farm-home as a national in-
stitution the thing we call patriotism has
been a sentiment floating rather vaguely
around names and older memories. A favo-
rite plea of the would-be Communist orator
against preparations for military defence is
that the people do not own the land they
are called to defend. Such an argument
would be' baseless when the expert l cultiva-
tion of the soil had come to be re-
cognised as the nation’s most serious
business. The agriculturist would be the
high-priest of the nation’s faith in its own
land, and exercise functions fully recognised
as representative of the nation’s wall. We
are still far from these things, but moving
towards them faster rhan most people real-
ise. The green woodland altars 'will never
rise again in their old form; but to-morrow
is a large day, and the world is at heart
sincere.
TONGS, HONGS AND HUEIS.
In addition to the usual eruption of Mum
and Dad, Easter Week this year was marked
hy the unostentatious arrival in Sydney of
numbers of well-dressed Chinese from vari-
ous parts of Australia. They were preceded
by others from different Pacific ports; and
the whole party, which represents the famous
Kuo Ming Tang, or Kingdom People’s party,
is sitting in conference in Ultimo-street.
The Kuo Ming Tang has had an interest-
ing history. It has at times been a revolu-
tionary club, and at others the constitutional
ruling power of China. Its members have
had high office, and been chased into holes
and corners with bombs. It has' used the
ballot-box of Pekin and the infernal machine
in Shanghai; hut at all times it has been
closely affiliated, like all political parties in
China, with an elder brother in the shape
of a secret society.
The tongs, hongs and hueis of China go
back in their origin to a hoary antiquity, and
are apparently indestructible. re-
cently tlie Hsun Tien Skill i'ao, a sect whose
members are able at will to separate spirit
from body by suspending various natural
functions, gave the authorities much trouble.
They had been stirred by the advent amongst
them of a baby who after 24 months’ gesta-
tion was born without ears or eyes, but who
immediately on his lirst appearance recited
7t» sentences from the Buddhist scriptures,
prophesied war for China and massacre for
all foreigners and then expired. It was
found that this society was an offshoot of
the Boxers, and through whose
attempt to exterminate the European popu-
lation of China 211 years ago was nearly suc-
cessful, is related to the Taipings, who set
out on an earlier occasion with the same
patriotic intention, but massacred about 12
million of their own countrymen instead.
Secret societies have always flourished in
China, but it was not until comparatively
modern times that they acquired any import-
ance for the outside world. Over-population
and the oppression of the Manchus drove
them abroad as soon as European settlement
arrived to provide them with convenient
havens. For many years the tongs and hueis
were the virtual rulers of British Singapore.
Establishing their headquarters in the dense
jungle that a hundred years ago eiotned most
of the island, they looted the native town
with impunity, and only respected white
property so long as the Government left
them alone, practically every Celestial citi-
zen of Singapore was also a member of one
or other of the six societies which divided
the island between them, and- their organisa-
tion was so ruthless and efficient that the
European power could discover nothing
about their movements or their constitution
until Abduli.au bin Abdul Kadir, that re-
markable Malay youth who was probably
the first “stunt journalist” on record, pene-
trated, disguised as a coolie, into their lair
and personally witnessed their bloody and
fantastic rites. As a result of his disclosures
the Government was moved to institute a
curfew cannon that: was fired at 5 in the
morning and Bat night; but the tongs stole
the cannon. Gradually the increase of the
European population restricted their opera-
tions, but less than 25 years ago they were
so sinister and active that a special drive
had to be made against them. Although
they were forced under hatches, they still
rush the decks whenever an opportunity pre-
sents itself.
Such an opportunity came in Hongkong
during the great shipping strike of 1922,
when the secret societies co-operated with
the seamen to hold the European community
up to ransom. Thfi ransom was a complete
acquiescence in the strikers’ demands; and,
after a ludicrous exhibition of impotence on
the part of the white population, it was duly
paid.
. In the corruption and lawlessness endemic
in the U.S.A., the tongs have found a con-
genial environment. The original Six Com-
panies established themselves with the first
Chinese immigrants, and they have never
since relaxed their grip. Of the solid blocks
of Celestial humanity in the big cities they
make a fortress impregnable to Europeans.
They laugh at Uncle. Sam’s alien restriction
laws, organise gambling and prostitution on
an impressive scale, use the long-distance
telephone to decree tong “executions,” and
employ motor-cars in the manmuvres 'of
their everlasting wars. Perhaps, luckily for
T ncle Saai, they have imported, along with
their clan loyalty, the political differences
that rend their own unhappy country. Re-
cently a 12-years’ truce between the On
Leongs and the Hip Sings broke down, and
the two ..biggest secret societies began shoot-
ing. War on a distinguished scale was
staged in Chinatown, and it is significant
of the grip the tongs have got even on the
machinery of law that a police commissioner
tyas compelled to call a conference of slant-
eyed Capulets and Montagues to achieve
peace.
The outstanding characteristic of the
Chinaman is his indigestibility. You may
masticate him for 300 years, as the Dutch
have done in Java, or swallow him whole, as
the. British did in Malaya, but you cannot
assimilate him. Whenever he became too
numerous in the Philippines the Spaniards
used to massacre him. but it was an untidy
and entirely unsuccessful method. When in
the ’eighties political privileges were first
given to Chinese residents in Australia, it
was noticed that they exercised the vote not
of their o,wn free will, but by direction of
some authority in their own ■ community.
Even, in those days the fear was expressed
that if they became too numerous they would
tend to establish institutions that would
over-ride, the popular legislature. The pro-
duction in a Sydney police court the other
oay of a proclamation in Chinese, offering a
reward of £lOO for the assassination of in-
formers, invoked little comment; but it was
one more indication that this country num-
bfcrs amongst its unbidden guests the tongs,
hongs and hueis of. China. Other signs of
their prosperous existence appear whenever
the police lift a stone in quest of opium-
smugglers and find a nest of schemers, or
a prohibited immigrant drops off a vessel at
an Australian port and vanishes into space
There are over 30 branches of the Kuo Min
Tang m Australasia, as well as representa-
tives of many others. One of the best evi-
deuces of the wisdom of the White Australia
policy ahd. its value in maintaining the demo-
cratic basis of our life is that they remain
comparatively innocuous.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Aids to Borrowing.
One of those big arrangements which warm
the sonls of Australian Governments has been
arrived at with the British authorities, sub-
ject to Parliamentary sanction, and when
there are large, cheap loans in view Parlia-
mentary sanction is taken for granted. The
outstanding feature is that this Land of
liomiso has negotiated a successful cadging
proposition with the harried and over-bur-
dened Old Man m London, and the first out-
standing Question is whether it may not be
madet by inferior management at this end,
a very unsuccessful business. The most con-
spicuous points are these :
Tlie British Government is to advance £20,000,000
to the States, or to the Commonwealth, which will
sub-lend to the States. This is to “be increased
to £34,000,000 if N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Westralia decide to merge their existing land-settle-
ment agreements in the new agreement.” The new
bargain is so much cheaper than the old one that
they are relied upon to merge all right.
The interest rate is to be 2 per cent, for five
rears, but the Prime Minister hopes to beg this
down to 1 per cent.; and 24 per cent, for another
five years. After 10 years Australia will presumably
pay market rate. It is wonderful how short 10
years are at times.
Australia is to “absorb” one British settler for
each £75 of loan, or, say, 266,667 settlers for
£20,000,000, and 453,333 for £34,000,000. They
arc not required to have any money. Presumably
this is to be additional to the normal influx; which
amounted to 34,448 British folk (surplus of arrivals
over departures, including Governors and aides-de-
camp) in 1923. Presumably, also, Australia doesn’t
surrender, for a mere loan of £75, its right to pick
the settler.
The money is apparently to go in its entirety to
the States, the Commonwealth’s own neglected
property of half a million square miles being
left out as usual.
Tlie new fund is not to be spent exclusively in
making bad bargains in land, and dumping wheat-
growers of all sorts thereon. It is to be available
lor anything under the sun, including “the construc-
tion of roads and bridges, hydro-electric and water-
conservation schemes, the construction and equip-
ment of developmental railways and 'tramways,
afforestation, the construction of sugar mills, butter
factories and similar enterprises, and in general any
schemes which would tend to increase Australia's
absorption power.” It is taken for granted that
ordinary borrowing will go on as usual, for even
£34,000,000 is a mere drop in the financial bucket
(the States lately added £49,000,000 to their lia-
bilities in one year), but the temporary low rate
of interest may make them even more casual than
usual as to the payable nature of the investments.
No supervision of the methods of expenditure is
mentioned or anticipated. The N. S. Wales Public
Works Committee has already taken Opportunity by
the forelock, and it made allusion to the temporarily
cheap money ahead as an excuse for recommending
the Grafton (N.S.W.) to Killarney (().) railway.
The most careful inquiry at the office of the Axe-
Grinders’ Union has failed to explain why the com-
mittee recommended this scandalous affair, or why
the State Government took it up so warmly. The
work is estimated to cost £3,529,190, and to incur
a loss of £213,000 per annum—that is, 5 per cent,
on the cost and £38,000 more. If it is built out
of the cheap British loan it will carry with it the
obligation to receive and provide for 47,055 British
“migrants” who may not possess any money, so it
and all similar schemes are loaded.
If Prime Minister Bruce lias no better idea
than to make the way easy for an extra-large
burst of loan-spending, without taking any
heed that the spendings may not become a
vast loss and a grievous burden, he is a very
poor friend to Australia.
+
Uniform Licensing Laws.
When the State Premiers meet again at
Melbourne Cup time or on some other con-
genial occasion, the question of making the
various licensing laws uniform might be
profitably discussed. Uniformity could be
brought about without much trouble, and it
would be an immense advantage in many
ways. Even an agreement that one particu-
lar form of liquor referendum should be held
at specified intervals on the same day would
be an improvement on present arrangements,
which admit of incessant political agitation
and ignominious concessions to one interested
faction or another. Victoria, which took a
local-option vote in 1920, is to have a State-
wide poll in 1930. N. S. Wales, which was
threatened with a State-wide poll in the 1919
Liquor Act, passed just before a general elec-
tion, is to be spared the infliction till 1928
if the Prohibitionists can be staved off.
Those people angrily declare that they were
“betrayed” by the Storey Government,' xvliich
refused to fix a date for a referendum,
although the Act provided for the fixing of a
date within 18 months; and by the Fuller
Government, “every member of which,” they
assert “was pledged to an immediate refer-
endum.” They are trying to make an im-
mediate referendum an issue at the impend-
ing election, and no doubt they will get
plenty of promises from the vote-hunting
gentry, though performance is another mat-
ter. Queensland had a prohibition poll in
October, 1920, another in October, 1923, and,
having reverted to local option, is to take
votes in 43 areas oji May 1(5. This process
has been reversed in Westralia, which suf-
fered a local-option poll in 1921 and
a State-wide affair the other day.
Local option obtains in South Aus. (though
there hasn’t been a poll since 1915) and in
Tasmania ; but in each State there is a Cold-
Tea organisation which periodically clamors
for triennial referenda, to be decided by a
bare majority, and is a nuisance at election-
time, like the noisy crowd in N. S. Wales.
The favors demanded by these bodies of
fanatics are very expensive, and the public,
directly and indirectly—for example, in the
shape of dearer liquor and hotel accommoda-
tion —foots the whole bill. They are also
utterly useless, as was shown at the Vic-
torian local-option poll in 1920, when 278.707
voted for continuance, 36,025 for reduction
and 212,254 for no-license; at the Westralian
referendum in 1921. when Kalgoorlie, the
most over-pubbed district in the Common-
wealth in proportion to population, de-
clared for continuance: at the recent affair
in the same country when 77,295 w’ere for
continuance and 41,113 for prohibition ; and
in Queensland 18 months ago, when the
Wets polled 232.191 and the Drys 143.312
The voting in Westralia indicates that Aus-
tralian opinion is hardening against the
gentry who imagine that prohibition can be
enforced in a continent with 12.210 miles
of coastline and no fleet to patrol it. and
which produces in abundance nearly every
plant from which alcoholic liquors are ex-
tracted. In any case, Australia cannot
afford to give them a costly and fruitless
plebiscite every year in one State or other,
and their political threats and manoeuvres
have become tiresome. Comirionsense sug-
gests that the other States should bring their
licensing legislation into line with that of
Victoria, with its capable Licenses Reduc
tion Board, its substantial trade compensa-


tion fund, its limiting
one every eight years, and its sUpulatton tna
the Dry vote must constitute a three ntuis
majority to be
A Tottering Tower in the North.
llow precarious is the hold of Labor oiigthe
reins of power in Queensland may .
mated from t],e figures ,Jf al of
Greater Brisbane election. Of a total oi
121,851 votes recorded, Keogh, tl ' e Lab
candidate for the mayoralty, scored 48,320
or about 40 p.c. of the whole, being rough y
20,000 below the total of JOtLY, who repi
sented the Anti-Labor party. Tins was! not
in anv sense a personal vote, toi the votes
recorded for the Labor candidates for coun-
cillors amounted to much the same hgure.
Now, Brisbane is the great industrial centre
of Queensland. Unionism is a great powe.
there, and has secured some notable
triumphs. Yet even in what should be th.
Labor stronghold the writing is; on thes waU
The fact is the staunch Laborite, when his
own interests are at stake and he has the
nous to perceive it, is just as prone to vote
“Tory” as to follow the party ticket. Ot
the 68,000 voters who made Jolly Mayoi, m
all probability two-thirds arc working men
and working women who own their own little
cottages and allotments, or have a deposit
in the savings bank, and have, therefore, little
or no sympathy with the ravings of the
Bolshie end of the Labor party. Besides, the
good Laborite who votes lory occasion
ally knows that his party is prone to be
extravagant, and that extravagance means
higher rates—a thing much to be dreaded by
Tom Toiler when Tom owns a cottage o.
his own. Hence, although Tom is a saf ■
party vote at the State election, where rates
and taxes don’t concern him, as he foolishly
imagines, as soon as the shoe commences to
pinch he is as likely to vote Liberal or lory
as the man who isn’t Labor Of cour, ,
the Labor press deplores the apathy of the
masses,” to which it attributes ri j ce iL
defeat. But the masses were not apathetic
at all. Quite the reverse! The day of elec-
tion was one of the most trying Brisbane
has experienced for 30 years Nevertheless
84.8 p.c. of the electors voted, and there is
not much “apathy” about that. Of the total
number on the roll (144,107) only 30 p.c.
could be induced to vote for the Labor can-
didates, although the vast majority of Bns-
baneites live within easy radius of a Polling-
booth. What is wrong ? The fact is the old
mana of the party has departed; it has come
to be looked upon as a coterie of job-hunters,
and the good unionist himself grins sarcas-
tically if you talk to him about the purity
and lofty motives of his' political represen-
tatives. ' The Opposition does not inspire
enthusiasm, but the working man of the
big centres is much inclined to give the
“Tories” a trial again. Slowly but surelj
the truth is permeating the industrial world
that heavy taxation is not only bad for the
capitalist but a rotten proposition for the
toiler, who pays for it in unemployment, m
high cost of living and in other ways. \\ ith
Queensland’s magnificent resources she should
be the most lightly taxed instead of the most
heavily burdened; but the policy of finding
jobs for true believers quite irrespective of
their qualifications is a pretty expensive one
in the long run. And even the horniest of
the horny-handed has got a kind of hazy
notion that somehow capital doesn't like
coming to Queensland, and that that, lsn ,
altogether a good thing for him ana his
A Sorry Tale of Cow-grease.
Butter has furnished another grievance to
Westralia, the big State where every politi-
cian seems to be a mendicant holding out the
hat to neighbor States, and a Gummidge
dwelling in a wale of tears. Ihe Commis-
sion which is sitting to hear about the special
wrongs of the Golden West through federa-
tion was thus informed by Johnston, deputy-
leader of the Country party, after he had
blamed Federation for the flow of population
to the city and most other things
The Westralian butter industry, now in its infancy,
was strangled by dumped butter from the Eastern
States Had Westralia not been federated a small
bonus on butter would have placed the industry on
a sound basis.
The Bulletin proceeds to quote the butter
output of Westralia for 1901. the year when
the blighting influence of Federation was
about to start and the Sun of Liberty was
just setting over Gummidge Land, and tor
casual subsequent years, when the alleged
"dumping” and “strangling” business was m
full operation:—
Westralian Butter Output.
1901 .. 336,4401 b. I 1921 .. 2,658,1021 b.
114 413 1 1922 .. 2,766,533,,
1916 1,080*466 I 1923 .. 3,005,491,,
1920 • • 2,212,311 „ !
The figures for 1923 are incomplete, and those
for 1924 haven’t begun yet, but so far as they
go the above are instructive. Westralia is
the one lucky State where the butter output
has increased every year since 1914. Appa-
rently it still doesn’t grow enough of this cow-
product for its own consumption; but, then,
there are so many things that the great slug-
•dsh State doesn’t grow in sufficient quantity
for its own consumption. They include
maize, onions, hops, tobacco, bananas, broom
millet, sugar and barley. On the surface of
things it might almost be supposed that it is
only through the blessing of Federation that
Westralia possesses any butter industry at
all; but if appearances are deceitful and a
bonus is needed to help the sunset cow .along,
it is plainly the State’s duty to pay the bonus
instead of weeping and begging. Under
Clause 91 of the Constitution any State may
grant a bounty on any kind of minerals, and
it can also grant a bonus on the production
or export of any durned thing, provided it
gets authority by a simple resolution of Par-
liament. And Parliament never looked as
if it would hove refused the plea of a State
to bonus itself to the limit.
4
The Pole of To-morrow.
James Edmond writes about explorers: —
I should imagine that the North Pole wears a
worried look this spring. It is to be attacked by
three expeditions, and it can only stand on the
defensive. Amundsen, the Norseman, who was the
first man through the North-West Passage and first
at the South Pole (1911), should have bagged the
North Pole last year but for the misfortune that
money gave out. This year his route is from Oslo,
by sea to Spitzbergen, whence he proposes to do 80
miles per hour by ’plane fitted with special land
E2flighting on L. He will to after »
breakfast and discover the Pole in time for •
Only birds and angels have tried this method of
approach before. .
A little-known Norse-Canadian rival, Algarsson,
setting out by sea from Falmouth, proposes to race
Amundsen over the ice stage of the trip in _
“Blimp,” the non-rigid type of balloon- plane which
did much service during the war. It has the advan-
tage over the ordinary aeroplane that it can stop
and take loafing exercise in the air and it ha
tricky devices for regulating its height. Haci g
reached the Pole at 50 miles per hour, after an
exciting race with Amundsen up the straight,
Algarsson intends to lower a rope ladder, descend
the same, and discover by boring or blasting whether
there is land or water beneath the Polar nightcap.
Whether he will bring his machine down it he
decides that it is worth while to make a long stay,
or whether he will leave it anchored in the air, are
details of which more will be heard. This will be
the first dropping down on the Pole from a ladder.
An expedition of two airships, commanded by
Donald B. MacMillan, who should be called
Donaldsson to fit in with the general plan of things
is to set out from the north coast of Alaska, and
struggle Poleward, taking a look round as it goes
for a possible continent —the last place left on
earth where an overlooked continent may be found.
All these expeditions are fitted with wireless and it
they arrive it will be the first chance the lonesome
Old Pole has had to ring up the outer world.
It is noteworthy that in all these comings and
o-oings very little account is taken, of the legend that
Peary did the North Pole in 1919, and none at all
of the legend that Frederick Cook dropped in on
the same natural phenomenon a few days before
Peaky. Both suffered from too little corroboration
but Cook was the less plausible and less corroborated
and less official of the two, so he was blown out,
and to this day he is held up to general execration
as the first man who forged a Pole and tried to cash
it at the Bank of Human Credulity.
One reason for aiming at the Pole is the honorable
and laudable ambition of man to be there,
and to remember on one’s deathbed or other
final surface that he has been there. It
is worth while going to the centre ot the
earth or the next planet for no better cause. T he
same noble curiosity makes the hayseed and his wife
n-o to see the Tower of London, though they know
perfectly well that they won’t be paid for going,
and that they won’t be permitted to take the lower
away with them. A matter of new mail routes also
comes into consideration, and it. is worth noting in
this connection that the shortest track for letters,
papers and parcels from Japan to Ireland lies
almost exactly across the North Pole. Above all,
the extreme North is a virgin field m which to
search for “great natural resources.” When the Pole
and its suburbs—the Greater Pole, to use municipal
language —becomes a daily and hourly resort, and
familiarity has bred contempt, and contempt has
developed into derision, it will be natural to clear
the ground a bit, and make the first tentative search
for resources. Man can freeze on a large scale, as
evidenced by the meat trade. Man can unfreeze on
a larger scale, and in fact he can thaw on an un-
limited scale—just as soon as he learns how. He
will learn how just as soon as he knows enough, and
knowledge isn’t an exhausted deposit. The primitive
efforts to wreck the ice deposit with high explosives
dropped from above, and to dissolve it by the use ot
stupendous burning-glasses, and to cover the warmer
seas with premature icebergs, may be minor successes
but greater things will follow. Especially they ought
to follow when the art of attacking the permanent
ice from below with gas is perfected, and the noise
of constant explosions is heard in the spring as tar
away as Scotland. , .
Meanwhile the neglect of the South Polar region,
which is really a suburb of Hobart, begins to be a
disgrace similar to the neglect of the Northern Tern-
tory. At the very least a preliminary expedition ot
prospectors and land agents should be sent there next
summer. The Antarctic continent is estimated to
cover a much larger area than Australia. If it is
a wild cat it is as much our. cat as the next man s.
And for speculative purposes it is an untrodden cat.
«
“Those About to Die.’’
A pathetic case lately came before the
Coroner at Parramatta (N.S.W.). _Y
aged 62 was in the last stage of Bright s
disease and suffering intense pain. Hes haa
been ailing for years, and during 12: months
had been confined to bed. Repeatedly he
asked for the means of terminating his life.
He appealed to the medical man attending
him “to give him something to make him
sleep, so that he would not wake up again.
The medical man said he could not this was
obvious, as the law stands. He appealed to
his wife: the unhappy woman could no more
meet his appeal than the medical man.
Finally he induced his son, a lad ol 15, to
buy a revolver, load it and hand it to bim.
So he put an end to his agony. The Gov-
ernment medical oflicer who held a post-
mortem found that the condition of the man s
heart and organs generally was such that
lie could not have lived much longer. Yet
the sou, as an accessory before the fact, was
committed to take his trial on a charge of
manslaughter. The law does not recognise
the right of the citizen to dispose of his life
by taking it out of existence. An attempt at
■ioin< r so is a crime, and any fellow-citizen
who aids him, under any circumstances what-
soever, in accomplishing the act, is also
"iiiltv of a crime. The present instance is
not an isolated one; husbands and wives,
sons and others have put into a sufferers
hand the means of ending life. ll.e ri o ht
of self-immolation was fully recognised m
the days of pagan philosophy. If an actor
on the stage of life felt that he was linger-
ing on its boards far beyond the limits of his
usefulness, and old age or disease tugged at
his robe, he quitted it. He returned to the
„ o ds the shell of a kernel that had been
extracted. The Christian outlook on life
has altered all that, and with it the civic
outlook also; but there does to the modern
mind, with its ever broadening contemplation
of human existence, appear to be something
not only incongruous to its coldly practical
view but repellent to its sentiment of human-
ity in the fact that a mortally wounded man,
the victim of disease or accident, should be com-
pelled to drink the cup of life to its last dreg
of agony. One feels impelled to the conclusion
that there is here the driving of principles
to an end that is bitterly logical and cal-
lous. It may be that there are those who
out of their religion extract reasons why
a citizen in mortal agony and under sentence
of death should prolong Ms life to the final
moment. With those the State will, of course,
not seek to interfere. But it does appear
that power might be given to three qualified
medical men, one of whom should be a Gov-
eminent official, to certify, on the applica-
tion of a dying man who has no suck
scruples, the inevitability of death, and
thereupon, at his request, to administer to him
some anodyne that would carry him pain-
lessly into the hereafter.
Religion and Politics.
“Feng-Shui” : The arrival in Sydney from
India of J. Krishnamurti, an Indian youth
who styles himself Head of the Order of
the Star in the East, would be of no public
consequence but for the mixing of extremely
controversial politics with religious dogmas In
that direction incalculable danger lies. Cmei
mystic Krishnamurtl is one of an influential
party which includes a titled English ladj,
and their avowed object is .propaganda in
favor of self-government for India. A strik-
ing instance of the risk of mixing the poli-
tics of a heterogeneous and uneducated ni.is.,
with a hysterical religion was provided by
China in 1023. A vociferous mem-
ber of the China Inland Mission announced
from his station in Kiukiang, on the xang-
tse, that from sundry signs discovered m the
Bible the end of the world was coming.
missionary’s forecast was given extraordinary
prominence. The prophet became more defi-
nite and finally announced the cataclysm for
September 25. The simple peasants ot
Kiukiang began to sell or give away then
possessions and flock into the towns, an
women formed suicide clubs. As the date
drew near the atmosphere became charged
with emotional electricity, and the mission-
ary prophet moved to Shanghai, possibly to
put his affairs in order in expectation of the
dav when bank accounts would no more be ot
use. Just then a rival prophet appeared.
His name was Lx Chan-tAo, and he dropped
from Heaven upon the town of Chuansba.
He announced that the great event would
take place about the 15th day of the Bth
moon, which was the same date as the other
man had selected. The Chinese prophet, in
fact had stolen the foreign prophets thun-
der and added some improvements of his
own. He required Ms disciples to hand over
their property to him for safe keeping. 1 hat
notwithstanding, the movement spread like
wildfire and became mixed up with a secret
society which has been subterraneously active
since 1915. and to which many high officials,
including the chief of the Peking police, be-
longed. The object of the plotters was the
destruction of the Republic and the setting
up of an Emperor. The fateful day came
and went in brilliant sunshine, and the mis-
sionaries went dumbly back to work; but
the secret society continues on its way, and
another element of mischief is added to the
chaos of Chinese society. One dare not
speculate on what a similar crisis of delusion
might lead to in India.
The Unmarried Father.
Agnes K. Goode claims something for him.
The unmarried mother and the child have so often
been pleaded for that there is hardly a new phase
to present on their behalf; it is quite time a case
was stated for the unmarried father. He is usually
represented as the villain of the piece, who, bv
reason of his freedom from all hut monetary obliga-
tions, is tempted to enter recklessly into a relation-
ship which ought to be the most serious in a man s
life—the procreation of a new being. In many cases
he plays the part, and legalised anonymity is largely
accountable for it. This not only may expose the
child to want, but the evil of the system is that the
child’s right to adequate maintenance from the father
is made dependent upon the caprice of the mother,
who is not compelled to divulge the name of the
other parent. The existing law discourages in every way
all interest by the putative father in his offspring :
he as well as the child is- denied the rights to all
that acknowledged fatherhood might mean. lew
men, comparatively, have the courage of Lord
Chesterfield in openly acknowledging their nameless
sons or daughters. .
The advantages of every child having a recognised
legal father are not abstract and sentimental only:
they are of direct practical importance. The father
at present has no authority whatever oyer the child,
and is refused the right even to see it. All he is
asked or permitted to do is to pay money, for the
spending of which no account is rendered to him.
His child may be neglected or ill-treated, but he
has no authority to interfere. It may be dying, and
he is denied any right to minister to it .or even to
see it. To the father whose natural instincts ot
parenthood are alive it is unjust and unnatural. It
is no answer to say he may come to an amicable
arrangement with the mother ; she may nurse a griev-
ance and refuse it. Toward the best of these fathers
the law is harsh; men have begged to see then
children, but as the child has no legal father there
is no power to make an order. Tli-c putative father
is merely a person who pays or does not pay, accord-
ing to circumstances. A
The fixing of the full share of responsibility on
the father would be a distinct advantage, not only
to the State, for which every birth, illegitimate ot
otherwise, is a social fact, but to the men themselves,
as all normal men are the better and happier ioi
shouldering the obligations and exercising the privi-
leges oi fatherhood.
Eve in Politics.
D. O- Cottbel£ sees hope for the world
In the disheartening jumble of modern politics
there is one radiant and 'constructive influence a
work—the colossal and undeviating selfishness ot
woman Not that she is selfish in the relations ot
the family (man has left her very little opportunity
for practising this art); but for the family—the
home—she is selfishness personified. She has been
from the dawn of time dependent upon the main-
tenance of the home and the welfare of her particular
man, not only for the pleasures of life, but for me
itself. All her energies have therefore been devote
to shaping an! stabilising the domestic order. Her
task has not been easy; her way has indeed been se
with thorns and brambles.”
Man was a wanderer, a dreamer. He was ever
athirst for the new, the unexplored, for the land
where the hills are blue. Woman has made him a
builder of homes, has slowly chained his wandering
fect to the prosaic warmth of his own fireside. He
wanted to rove and fight and love and dream beneath
the stars; woman has made of him a useful domestic
animal. He was by nature polygamous; woman has
slowly bound him (officially at least) in the respect-
able if slightly uninteresting shackles of marriage.
He longed to rove in the sunlight, to paint and
slay and boast; she has set him to toil patiently
year in year out, at work that he does not really
like, for*-a woman that he does not really love. All
this shows what she can do when she turns her
mind to it. .
Civilisation —such as it is—is of her building, tor
its foundation has ever been the home. Man was
the explorer, the dreamer, the fighter, the lover;
woman has been the steady builder of families, of
kingdoms and empires. Man falls awondering before
the altar of the stars; she ponders why the jelly
has not set. To any woman who did not live in
the incinerated area the burning of Rome would have
been unimportant when compared with a disaster
such as spilt fat on the kitchen floor.
Woman sees very slowly, for the cruel thraldom of
sex has left her little time for mental development,
but when she does see a principle which will bene-
ficially affect the conduct of the home she will cleave
to it with unshakable determination. Man will often
sacrifice the interests of his family on the altar of
supposed patriotism; to the average woman this is
unthinkable. A man may be won by high-sounding
names to this or that cause; woman (although prone
to superficial sentiment) would scorn the eloquence
of angels should their celestial doctrines oppose the
interests of the home. It is this trait which will
render her invaluable in the politico-economic sphere.
Since that which is best for the individual family-
provided that it involves no injustice to others —must
be best for the State, and the prosperity of a
nation is built of the well-being of its citizen- :
political economy is but sound domestic economy
nationally applied. Prosperity for the general mass
of families can only be attained by the administra-
tion of justice and the establishment of an intelli-
gent economic order. Woman (released at last
from the tyranny of “Babies, Unlimited”) is be-
ginning to realise this.
And she will make a more stable public influence
than man. lie is reverent before any long estab-
lished injustice, is easily swept off his intellectual
feet by party orators, the shibboleths of false patriot-
ism and unsound ideals, lie has been the lead.i
victim of charlatans and fanatics through unnumbered
years, has been murdered and martyred and robbed
j,v all the glib-tongued frauds of history in the name
of king, of country, or of God. It will in all proba-
bility be woman who will be the first to establish
justice in a suffering World.
And she will do it not through ideality, but be-
cause of her splendid selfishness for her home. She
will weigh all political measures by their effect upon
her little world, and ultimately—because she is
dealing with something definite which she under-
stands —she w ill weigh them wisely and impose good
government upon the world at large. Vague terms
mean nothing to her; her concern is with the price
of sugar, and the purchasing power of wages. She
sees slowly. but when she begins to see an injustice
it will take more than words to blindfold her.
When she wants a thing she generally gets it.
Her victories are written large across the past. She
is beginning to want good government. Let us wish
her luck !
*
Voters’ Qualifications.
The British franchise is a mixed affair. Both
men and women may begin voting for Local
Government elections at the age of ~L
in Parliamentary' elections the woman doesn t
start till she is 30. There are some small
property qualifications in addition. Recent y
the Ramsay Macdonai.d party demanded
that the differentiation should be abolished
and both sexes begin at 21, its spokesman
quoting Australia, Maoriland and the lr.is i
Free State- gs shining examples ot adul,.
franchise. ,A suggestion that a compromise
might be arrived at by making 24 or 2o the
age all round evoked a roar of rage. Vet the
“twenty-one” idea is surely liable to revision,
like other old thoughts. The Russian revolu-
tionists revised it by granting votes to both
sexes at 18—and, incidentally, wrecked the
adult suffrage precedent at the same time by
disfranchising all save manual toilers, sol-
diers and sailors. It was also the first to
assert that “territorial waters extend to
instead of 3, miles from the coast. The
United States followed, and if nine can be
added to that figure it or some other number
can be added to the voting-age figure, lhc
Irish Free State allows a vote for the Lower
House to every citizen over 21, but it began
by defining a citizen as one domiciled within
the area of the Free State on December 6
1922, who was born in Ireland, or eithei or
whose parents was born in Ireland or had
been ordinarily resident within the area of
the Free State for at least seven years. But
no one can vote for the Senate unless, he, or
she, is at least 30, and no one can sit in that
august body unless he is 35. Denmark gives
the suffrage (or did the other day) to citi-
zens and citizenesses of 25 and over who are
possessed of fixed abodes. In Nm;\vuy and
Sweden the age is 23. In I inland it
is 24. In fad- the self-governing world
is dotted over with mixed regulations about
the age of voters, the age for I pper House
voters (always higher when a difference
exists), the age of Lower House members
(25 is a common limit), and the age of
Upper Housers (generally 35 or 40) . edu-
cational tests are fairly common. In some
States the payment of taxes is necessary, am.
in most there is a fairly long list of offences
which mean disqualification. \\ hen all the
features of the case are considered Australia
seems to lead the civilised world in its will-
ingness to be ruled by the very young, the
uneducated, the stranger and the cranky re-
volutionist. Is a share in the government
of Australia such a poor privilege that it
can be given to almost anybody?
+
The Tadpole as Guide.
“Cabactacus” makes designs for a statue:
When the Australian publicist would range him-
self on the side of the angels, unless he be a
member of the Millions Club or of the Town-
planning Association he lifts voice in condemnation
of the country’s “tadpole urge”—the tendency to
pack three-fourths of a State’s population in the
State capital city. , , .
Is this, however, the mark of the tadpole, or of
the Martian evolving towards the state when man
shall be merely a brain assisted by mechanical
suner-contrivances ? ...
In one of H. G. Wells’s fantasies, the author con-
ceived a system in which the inhabitants of
i country ail lived under city conditions—in huge
towns equipped with all conveniences
modern ingenuity could devise to overcome the in-
conveniences of Nature. Those entrusted with the
job of Nature-coaxing winged or motoier ou
farm or garden-plot each morn, returning at ere
to share with the city-employed artisan or investor
tesMSasss®
Palaces ou undefended coasts where the fiist passin
palaces uu fi ian peashooter range
sr sr s? ■W-
«««* ***.


T^/lustralia
“ —after all, there's only ONE ‘Australia.’ ”
IF YOU INTEND Visiting SYDNEY
—then let us send you a copy of “The Book of The Australia ’“in
which are described and illustrated some features of the Hotel of the
Commonwealth—thus enabling you to anticipate something of the
luxurious comfort we offer.
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon or Dinner "from 4/ •
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6. 4/ *
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
THE AUSTRALIA,” The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
The country has to be. Wheat cannot yet be
grown tier over tier in skyscrapers, nor wool and
cotton raised in city “tubes”; but the country
conipaied with the town is wasteful, inefficient and
inconvenient. It demands long;, expensive miles of
railway to reach it, and longer, more expensive
roads to reach the railways. Its sanitation is for
the most part abseiit and its amusements are
primitive; its neighbors, if pleasant, live too far
away, and, if the reverse, too close and are in-
escapable ; and its daily papers are often a week
old on arrival. Except to a poet its scenery is too
unchanging, and its twittering birds and bleating
lambs are monotonous—and all the saner poets
take care to live in town. No man or woman can
be blamed for preferring a dinner of herbs and
content in a Mosman or South Yarra flat to a stalled
ox at Tallygaroopna or Coonabarabran.
Probably there will always have to be oxen and
wheatfields. Even when the super-Australian takes
to synthetic foods and injects his nourishment direct
into the bloodstream, the ox and the wheat grain
will be the foundation upon which the synthesis is
built; and broad acres will be required for their
pasturing and tillage. Growing the ox and the
wheat grain need not, however, be slavery; and
some of the side-lines of their cultivation should
be for ever abolished. Dairying, for instance. Under
best conditions dairying is a tiresome, slimy and
dung-surrounded vocation which permits its victim
to emerge no more unsullied of soul than of boots
and skirts. Any work in which beasts are associated
with men is malefic. Sometimes the exasperated
human loses his grip of himself, kills his antagonist
with a fence-rail and gets fined ss. for cruelty to
animals; at others the exasperating animal refuses
to run stiff when told, and gets his antagonist wiped
out for life by the A.J.O.—the war is unending.
The nation would be better without the cause of it.
The motor-tractor is rapidly doing away with
the horse. The invaluable little engine, not as big
as a pony, may now be seen in Melbourne and Sydney
yoked to a lorry or dray, doing all the work of
the inefficient four-legged. engine it is supplanting.
It does not shy at trams, it does not demand the
employment of block-boys, and when it is idle it
does not eat. Its disadvantage at present is that
it cannot be born into the inaccessible back-country
and in due time walk on its own legs to the
place where it is to be broken to usefulness. Un-
happily even Henry Ford, who has experimented
with a synthetic cow, has not yet devised a tractor
which will grow wool. The war must go on.
Most of the work of a farm lies in waiting on the
domesticated animals. They require almost as much
attention as children. Abolish these and the day
is appreciably nearer when it would not matter if
nobody lived in the country. Given a little atten-
tion at certain fixed periods of the year, wheat, wool,
beef, fruit and cotton will grow themselves; all
their owner need do is to fly or motor out occasion-
ally. Flight! That is the secret which will make
the apotheosis possible. The farmer, living in the
farm-surrounded city, will slip over each morning
by one-seater monoplane. When he has big work
on hand he will convey his hands there by aero-
char-a-banc ; he will market stock, grain or wool
via one of the regular services of freighter-blimps
which have superseded the railway train and the
motor-truck that requires a road surface. Even
at shearing-time, harvest, mustering and fruit-
picking it would pay better to board the hired
help at an efficient city eating-house, ’planing them
there each evening, than to carry on the remote
station the overhead expense of accommodation and
attendance. Can it be that in allowing our great
tadpole cities we have builded better than' wt
knew, and are really ahead of ourselves, waiting
for the panting Time Spirit to catch up?
We may yet erect monuments in city squares to
a national exemplar—the Tadpole!
O -
The Drug Traffic.
The Opium Conference at Geneva broke
down without having arrived at any definite
measure for the restriction of the traffic in
narcotics in the different countries repre-
sented. It was proposed that these countries
should subscribe to an agreement, which was
introduced and discussed. The document
was, however, so altered that, instead of re-
commending the extermination of narcotic
cultivation over and above the needs of the
world for medical and scientific purposes, it
affirmed that all such drugs should come
under a Government monopoly, as they
already do in many countries. There was
an article to the effect that the contracting
Powers would do their utmost to combat
the use of opium by means of educational
campaigns: this was amended by the addi-
tion of the words “unless in their opinion
such would be undesirable.” In short, the
agreement was so changed as to deprive it
of any value as an instrument for attacking
the drug traffic, and the U.S.A. and Chinese
delegates, each a vigorous campaigner against
drug-addiction, withdrew from the confer-
ence in despair. The truth is that none of
the other Governments concerned is in a
position to wipe out the trade in narcotics
vvithin its territories. Political considera-
tions interfere. The Indian Government re-
ceives a large revenue from its opium mon-
opoly, while its numerous body of drug-
takers might cause serious disturbances if
supplies were cut off. France is in a similar
position as regards her colonies in Asia.
Then the Netherlands East Indies draw much
of their revenue from the State monopoly
oi opium and the tax in Java on the manu-
facture of cocaine. To wipe out this traffic
at a single blow, as demanded by the Ameri-
can delegate, whose country’s narcotic pro-
blem, serious as it has become, is a purely
exotic and domestic one, is, therefore, not
immediately practicable. Meantime, the fact
has got to be faced that the deadly business
is on the increase in Australia. And since
the Geneva discussions have shown that
the Commonwealth can expect no outside
assistance in the way of cutting off supplies
at their sources, the time has arrived for it
to do something on its own account —
something more drastic than the present
1 utile laws, which provide penalties of a few
pounds for those who are caught making
thousands out of the ghastly traffic; and
the catching is very seldom.
♦-
1 ite Bulletin lost a valued contributor by
the sudden death of Dr. Charles
MacLauiun on Sunday night. Returning
from the war Dr. MacLaurin, who
had previously written only for the
technical press, began to contribute to
the Bed Page, and liked it so well that
he soon became a regular book-reviewer and
writer of special articles. He was deeply
interested in many social questions, anil
joined whole-heartedly in the effort to
I )ub,ic t° the appalling evils of
y.l). and the comparative ease with which
it might be eradicated. An article on this
subject, written only a day or two be-
fore his death, was his last literary work.
NO ACCOUNTING FOR TASTES.
“The Vic. State Conference of the Labor party has just been given an opportunity to reject the
principle of pre-sclcction in political elections. But it reaflirmed it, in deflance of it's own commottee's
recommendation to the contrary."
THE LABOR LADS : "We'd better stick to it. You really don't smell anything if you,
hold your nose tight enough!”
I"s style was exceptionally lucid; his
methods were purely scientific; he sought
truth and followed it no matter where the
quest might lead him. To his great profes-
sional learning he joined a profound know-
ledge of history, and the conjunction led
him on to write the captivating essays which
were subsequently published with the title
‘Post Mortem.” A further instalment of
these essays, for the most part an amplifica-
tion of Bulletin papers, is due for publi-
cation in London and New York—the proofs
were recently corrected. To liis eminence in
Ins profession and in literature were added
very fine human qualities ; and, though handi-
capped all his life by a defect of speech, he
performed a social service of which any
man might be proud.
♦
“Clerk”: The disgruntled Currumburra
cocky (B. 9/4/’25), who is bemoaning the
loss of his five-bob donation towards the re-
ception to the “Reso” train, got that vehicle
mixed up with the “Better Farming” cara-
van. The former is not a sort “of travelling
show stuffed with exhibits intended to dis-
play the resources of Victoria and in some
vague fashion teach the people who see it
how to become better farmers.” This slightly
unflattering description could perhaps be
applied to the “Better Farming” train,
although agricultural experts have said that
the exhibits in that train would really in-
terest and educate the cocky. The “Reso”
is a kind of holiday touring train. Tired
business men weigh out about 15 guineas to
make a comfortable voyage of the State, and
try to persuade themselves that they are
having an educative holiday by leaving how
the cocky lives, he presumably being some
rare kind of animal like a platypus. Of
course the tourists are just out for a holi-
day. which is why they pay such a stiff fare,
and Clapp runs the trains because they pay
him handsomely. Generally the people at
the stations where “Reso” stops stage a bun-
fight in order to impress the visitors, but
these entertainments are quite voluntary. As
for the “Better Farming” train, it must be
admitted that the idea of keeping the isolated
cocky abreast of the latest scientific advances
in agricultural methods is not a bail one in
theory, and there are not a few who consider
that the “Better Farming” train has at least
paid its expenses on the three trips it has
already made.
+
“Zeno” : The Greeks accused old Saturn of
devouring his offspring—and the Labor move-
ment: in Australia is endeavoring to emulate
his methods by massacring its children. The
Commonwealth Shipping Line was created
by a Labor Government with the object of
rescuing Australia from the Shipping Com-
bine, and the unionists stood by while
Walsh, Jotiannson and co. killed it. They
have now set out to smash the great canning
works established at Leeton with public
money to treat the fruit grown by the Mur-
rumbidgee settlers. A few weeks back th°
Labor Daily stated that the 500 girls em-
ployed at the works were earning "up to £l2
per week each, and the men in proportion.
A week later it boasted that through a strike
of the operatives, over 100 tons of the set-
tiers fruit had been lost. There was no
question of wages or conditions or even of
victimisation. The facts were simply that
a foreman sacked a casual hand for not
doing his work properly, whereupon the
operatives demanded his reinstatement and
the dismissal of the foreman. On the re-
fusal of this demand they threw the works
idle for two days, in the height of the season,
when the yards were choked full with the
settlers’ fruit-laden vehicles!
+ L_
According to the American Journal of
Medicine, in a recent issue of which Prohibi-
tion is discussed from the pathological side, a
large variety of diseases and complaints
directly due to the Volstead clause have
filled the hospital wards to overflowing
Poisoning by substances ranging from methyl
alcohol and denaturant benzine to organic
compounds used as flavoring and coloring
essences heads the list; but there is a long
variety ot other complaints, such as paralysis,
blindness and stomachic, dyspeptic and ner-
J° us disorders. One of the new diseases is
caused by copper poisoning, the copper com-
Y- 'Vn ° m t ‘, e c^ea P stills used for domestic
distilling; this was recently responsible for
no less than 72 patients being treated by a
Chicago hospital within four months. The
Journal affirms that there is not a big
general hospital in the United States which
is not now treating from four to five times
as many cases due to alcoholism in some form
as it treated prior to Prohibition. When
one takes this in conjunction with the fact
that the authorities are considering the estab-
lishment of a new Federal gaol in New
.! r ]S rather difficult to whoop for
I lolubition, which was to reduce the number
o hospitals and send most of the gaols out
of business for lack of customers.
♦—
Simon lIiGKEY, sometime Speaker of the
A. S. Wales Assembly, has an idea: —
i.Lf'r in ! aVOr of 11 law to compel proprietors of
Austialian stores to stock a definite percentage of
Australian -made goods. Many stores still have
then- mainsprings in Britain or elsewhere abroad,
and their object is to advance any country but Aus-
trana. Retailers who pretend to cater for the elite
are the worst offenders. Only those who have
died to sell a new line of Australian production
know .the cruel significance of the blank “stop
tiafhc hand of such people, who, for all the good
they are to Australia, might as well remove to the
countries from which they get their stocks. In
cases like these you will have to do more than alter
the tariff. Canada imposes- a sales tax which is
higher on imported than on Canadian goods; and
Canada is a Protectionist country. In the measure
1 propose there would, of course, be a saving clause
giving a list of sufficient defences, thief among
which would be “not yet made in the country”
Convicted firms might even be allowed six months
in which to reform. That would give them time
to reduce foreign stocks and make room for the
products of our own Commonwealth.
>-
The regulations governing the admission of
boys to the Royal Australian Naval College
i oquire the lads to outer when they are some-
where about 12. The rule is, of course, im-
pcited from Britain ; but in that country a
large proportion of the eadets come from
families which have followed the sea for
generations, and many of them might be said
to be destined for the Navy from birth. In
Australia, where there is as yet no naval
tradition of this sort, it frequently happens
that a lad does not develop any desire to
enter the Navy until he is past the baby
age for admission. Moreover, the regulation
not only restricts possible candidates to cx-
tremely narrow limits, excluding much other
suitable material, but it is responsible for
there being entered a number who have no
liking for the profession, being too young for
their natural tastes to be developed, and
who get out of it at the first suitable oppor-
tunity. after costing the country much money
for their training. The reason given by the
authorities is that it is necessary to take the
embryo officers at an early age in order to
tram them properly, but the answer to this
is that other countries do not start until
much later, the age for entry at Annapolis,
the American Naval Academy, for instance
being somewhere about 16. And 16 is not
a day too little.
♦
1 ROjr an officer of 30 years’ service:
Though peopie are quick to gay « Ah! „ when jt
■ bunted abroad that policemen are as human in
T-U! f-u as ° ther men > there fe compara-
tively little bribery of them attempted, and less of
it succeeds. Probably every policeman is at
some time wooed from his strict duty, but it is
done by working upon his sympathy, on old friend-
u h,S !° ftneBS of heart - That attempted
th the most austere and conscientious—and the
austerest prove as temptable as the youngest. There
are policemen “on the make”—they are the few to
whom cash offers are made—but they do not last
ong. The easy marks” become known—little can
,L keP °, n" a body 0f several thousand men
among whom talking ‘shop” is probably more preva-
lent than in any similar company—and the foolish
ones are either pulled up by their chiefs and restored
to wiser ways or kicked out of the force. To sug-
gest that police may be in the regular pav of
criminals or near-criminals—a situation beloved of
the sensational writer—is absurd. Even the sym-
pathy appeal is received cautiously and granted
sparingly. War between police and criminal is un-
ceasing, and the policeman is ever fearful that there
2mJZ 1 traP bel ! in<l the ; ‘PPeal, and that his
softhearted ness may be the means of breaking him
Ao member of the community has to walk a straighter
line: he is ringed with a convention of rectitude
b °J h . 1 h n t and outslde his voc ation. And it is safe to
say that the average policeman wants to walk a
straigh me. In his humble way he is unbribable
as a Judge—and .hat without comparing even sub-
consciously the respective rates paid by an easv-
going public for incorruptibility. Criminals escape
but th'Jf’ na S a ''V’ ot follo "' ed keenly at times!
but that is not because police are in league with
crime It is rather that they succumb to a tempi*
thTn ,° , ' SlaCk i nß is a s y ni Ptoni rather
than a delinquency. Even parsons, members of
Parliament and leader-writers do it at times.


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
. and the wisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effecting a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
covering all Accidents and Sicknesses. .
The A.P.A. Standard Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Australasia.
Premium from £l per annum upwards. Apply for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIA:
56 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
or any of its Branches: —
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street.
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers, King William Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is contemplated that the present Federal
Parliament shall hold a makeshift meeting
or two at Canberra, even though the place
isn’t fit for permanent habitation. The idea
is that members who lose the number of
their mess at next election will still be able
to tell their descendants that grandad sat in
the first Parliament which met in the new
metropolis—and thus prevent some equally
deserving later grandads making the same
boast. But the question is whether, having
once gone to Unreadyberra, the Legislature
won’t have to stay. The law seems clear.
It says: “The Parliament shall sit at Mel-
bourne until it meet at the Seat of Govern-
ment.” It is not stated that it “shall sit at
Melbourne after it meets at the Seat of Gov-
ernment,” so the removal to ’Berra seems
conclusive, like suicide. But perhaps our re-
presentative institutions might go back_ to
Melbourne provided they legislated standing.
It is anticipated that the Federal Oppo-
sition will roar with stage-managed rage in
the first days of the session concerning the
importation of two new cruisers. It would
really be better to tackle the whole import-
ing question, and have a general roar. For
instance, under the heading which includes
apparel and piece goods, Australia has been
known to pay away as much as 22 cruisers
in a single year. The amount of work lost
through the purchase abroad of woollen piece
goods alone is equal to two cruisers per year.
The making of our own clothes would be a
steady and growing job which could be pur-
sued in a hundred little towns, and though
it doesn’t lend itself to anything so spec-
tacular in the strike line as the spasmodic
big city undertaking of putting together an
ironclad, it isn't without its merits.
The persistent hold-up of the Marama at
Sydney by the followers of Tom Walsh
and Jake Johanson differed from other events
of the sort inasmuch as no reason was alleged
and no grievance assigned. It was just a
contemptuous exhibition of power, like the
ordinary push outrage. A frequent and bland
explanation offered is that the officials are
doing their best to shove toil along, but that
some of the unionists are out of hand. His
Honor never makes the obvious reply that
the union bosses have a very short way of
suspending or expelling men who won’t leave
off work when ordered, and that they had
better try the same devices with men who
won’t start work.
The House of Commons is discussing the
advisability of allowing the nation to be pre-
sent at its debates per medium of wireless,
but in N. S. Wales the experiment has been
made. The debates on Ne Temere were
broadcasted, and thousands of people who
had never troubled to find their way into the
gallery were privileged to hear legislators
invite each other to talk sense or shut up.
To those who had never listened to their
Parliament making the country’s laws, the
result must have been disillusionment: the
jumble of platitudinous rubbish, shot through
with feeble interjections and feebler retorts,
beggared description. For a body ot the
calibre of the present N.S.W. legislators to
retain the regard of their constituents through
a whole session if their debates were broad-
casted would be incredible. Perhaps radio
is going to be the agency for purifying public
life and improving the quality of law-givers.
Certainly the initiative, referendum and re-
call would become inevitable if listening-in
to debates became common.
A deputation which waited on N.S.W.
Premier Fuller about a job might have
chosen its words better. Dean Talbot, who
was present in some capacity and who is
supposed to Bolsli a little in a perfectly re-
spectable way. said that the Lambeth Church
Conference of ’2O had been solid on every
man’s right to work. Sundry deputationists
were equally solid on every man’s right to
work, and Fuller himself was a whale for
the principle. Yet in Fuller’s own city men
are ejected from unions and. deprived of their
livelihood for claiming the right to work, and
Fuller does no more to meet the case than
if he were a rag politician stuffed with
kapok. ....
British political Labor is a dispirited
organisation, and it will take it some time to
regain its punch. Dismal things are said
at Labor Congresses about the competition ot
THE OPEN DOOR.
“Mr Ramsay Macdonald says that the only hope for British labor which .is being hard hit by
German competition, is that German workmen may be taught to demand better hours and wages."
RAMSAY MAC : “Leave the door open, my friend. It'll he all right. What we’ve got to
do is to teach the Burglars’ Union not to break in and steal."
protected States, and Ramsay Macdonald
has propounded a scheme of brotherhood, to
persuade the alien worker not to slave for
the alien capitalist at the rate he does, and
to produce less goods for export. But it
would be easier for Britain to pass over the
alien worker, on whom it has no hold, and hit
his alien capitalist direct with the big stick
of a tariff. It can be dead-sure of success
that way.
This season it is expected there will be
about 210,000 tons of sugar for export, and
that the profit made on selling each three
expensive tons to our own people will be
badly bitten into by the loss made on the
sale of two very cheap tons to other people’s
people. It is evident that haste is required
in the booming of the motor-spirit in-
dustry. the celotex industry, the rum in-
dustry and any other promising side-line;
but unless someone makes a big hurry to
find the necessary haste, there may be awk-
ward happenings first. The 44-hour week
becomes law iu Queensland on July 1,
the new Premier (in the absence of the old
Premier, who is making a timely retreat into
Federal politics) is advising the workers to
hasten to the Arbitration Court for bigger
awards.
The latest A.L.P. wrangle:— /
The scalp-hunting propensities of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. have been strained to almost the limit in
the move to disqualify J. C. Eldridge as a Labor
candidate for the Senate. Eldridge’s scrutineer, W.
Muir, protested to the State executive (and the
Federal executive also) against the admission of the
votes from two unions, contending that there had
been “irregularities.” A committee of inquiry
admitted the “irregularities,” but reported that there
was nothing “crook” about them, so the votes were
counted. Muir and W. T. Padgen, the retuining-
officer, exchanged emphatic pleasantries, and a climax
was reached when Padgen recommended (1) that
Muir be expelled from “the movement,” and (2)
that Eldridge be not endorsed unless he publicly
repudiated Muir’s assertions. To which Eldridge
replied that 10,000 members of the party wanted
him as a Senate candidate, and that he would not
withdraw what someone else had said. Eldridge
is unpopular with the majority section of the execu-
tive. He is a McOirr-ite, an “industrialist” and a
friend of Jock Garden. He has even been seen with
Jack Bailey. In the background hovers the newly-
elected Senator, Billy uibbs. Gibbs was defeated in
the selection-ballot, but if he could be insinuated into
Eldridge’s place he would have a railway pass and
£B3 6s. Bd. a month for organising the very expen-
sive electorate.
Ignoring the A.W.N.L. nomination of
Frank Clarke for the Leg. Council province
of S. Melbourne, the Nat. Fed. branches in
the constituency have put forward Dr.
Fetherston, ex-M.L.A. for Prahran. As
Clarke is President of the Council, the fat
is now properly in the fire. There will, of
course, be a Labor candidate, and he will
head the poll on the first count. Then
Clarke and Fetherston will have to fight it
out. The A.W.N.L. show-ed what it could
do when it put up Argyle, now Chief Sec.,
in 1920 to keep James Barrett out of the
Assembly. Fetherston is, however, a dif-
ferent proposition. Pie is liked just as much
as Clarke, and his supporters think that the
latter should have stuck to his Northern
Province constituency.
That was a line gesture of morality which
led the new Australian Ford Co. to buy out
the pub near its works site at Geelong, and
to proclaim that a Ford area meant a dry
area. Actually there is another quite good
licensed house within two miles on the way
to Geelong, and another a few miles away
towards Melbourne. The hotel bought, old
and decaying, has not for years been much
of a pub—it was too near Geelong to be
more than a bar for stray passers-by, chiefly
rural. The police will be glad to see it go.
“Comrades” all:
Taking a line from the Progressives, the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. executive announced that every Labor
candidate for the State elections would be free to
ask for the No. 1 preference. It is a democratic de-
cision, but the party is so honeycombed with per-
gonal and factional jealousies that even when the
right thing is done wrong is apt to come of it. Sit-
ting members now complain that their tegm-mates
outside are arranging to swap second preferences.
The A.L.P. executive does not care whether
sitting members get back or not so long as the party
polls its maximum vote in every electorate, but
whether the latter result will be achieved by the
each-for-himself policy is doubted —there are shrewd
observers who predict that many voters will only cast
their first two preferences for Labor in three-member
constituencies, and their first three or four in five-
member electorates, and then switch off to National-
ists or Progs. In Cumberland the Labor candidates
agreed to allow the local Klectorate Council to allot
the order of preference, but when this was done only
the No. 1 person was agreeable to abide by the
decision. In Balmain the Labor five are anything
?>ut a happy family; in Goulburn, the expelled
Bailey’s constituency, one of the selected three has
withdrawn, announcing that he can do better work as
a Sunday-school teacher; in other divisions each Labor
candidate has his own committee, and is advertising
separate meetings. The man who invented proper -
tional representation has a lot to answer for.
No Freetrader lias yet used the bobbed
hair and shingle to point a moral, and it
is time someone did. If Australia made her
own hairpins the fashion would have hit
the manufacturers. By not having the manu-
facturers we avoid the depression in the in-
dustry. On the other hand, since importers
deal in hairpins as only one line out of a
number, it does not affect them much.
Which shows how much safer Freetrade is
than Protection. For much the same reason
it is far better to wear cork legs. You
thereby escape housemaid’s knee.
“S. Gumm” : Why should not Mullan, now
State Attorney-General, be the next Queens-
land Chief Justice? Mullan is a layman, but
his party selected him for the Attorney-
Generalship in preference to Brennan before
giving the latter a judicial appointment, and
may take the same view as regards the
Bench. Labor being supreme in the Leg.
Assembly (there is no second Chamber),
members of the A.L.P. could be made
gible for judgeships, instead of the field being
restricted to Supreme Court practitioners,
by a simple alteration of the law, _ and. it
the non-political Judges resigned their places
could be easily filled. Above all, there would
be another vacancy in the Ministry if Mullan
were translated.
After several failures the Japanese Gov-
ernment has at last put through its measure
for the suppression of “dangerous thoughts.
This entails a censorship more drastic than
that of wartime. An example of its opera-
tion occurred when a certain Mr. Bin, a
Korean, was assassinated at Tokio by a
fellow-countryman. Mention of Ins death
was forbidden, and when the body was con-
veyed to Korea for burial the newspapers
informed their readers that “Mr. Bin was
seen off at the Tokio station by many high
officials in a special coach which had been
reserved for his comfort.” An administra-
tion as sensitive as that may live to regret
its close association with Russia, despite
that Power’s promise, never kept to other
countries, that propaganda will be eschewed.
A recent happening in which a young man
is charged with being a party to the suicide
of his incurable father, and one or two other
events of a similar sort, may induce the law
to get into some sort of sensible and definite
attitude on the subject. In Denmark hope
less sufferers who desire to pass out may be
assisted to do so under certain regulations.
Most countries, however, struggle along with
a species of unwritten law, under which the
avowed accomplice is bound over to be of
good behavior for 12 months, or something
equally indefinite. The legal way is better
for many reasons, one being that it offers
some security against wealthy or burdensome
people being put out of their misery when
they don’t want to be. If there is the slight-
est suspicion that the bedridden patient is
dying under the pressure of affectionate rela-
tives, he should be removed to a special hos-
pital, and assured that if he has changed
his mind he will have protection for the rest
of his miserable days. But with due pre-
caution against a suspiciously large and
sudden mortality among aged encumbrances,
the Danish innovation looks commendable.
THE SSONG OF THE RAIL-SITTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had our chances in the hard, raw days
When desperate courage and unyielding will
Could hold a frontier through the troubled maze
Of fierce ambitions that would not be still.
Fearful of heart, though full of zeal to hill,
We yielded every conqueror his place;
Out now we rise to show our secret shill
Oy smiting greater peoples in the face.
If they are generous we must be mean ;
If they lay by their strength we seize our chance.
As long as words will serve, we shall be seen
Right in the forefront of the talh's advance.
Hate in our hearts and envy in our glance,
We shall make mischief for each burdened land
Who reeks of Britain and who cares for France
When neither has a weapon in her hand?
This League of Nations gives us all we seek —
An opportunity to pull the strings.
The fools grow wise when strength of choice is weak
And peace is full of irritants and stings.
We know a trick to singe their soaring wings;
And we can swagger well on such a stage.
While they protect us, each his poison flings
Into the seething hell-broth of the age.
Peace has its victories. The knots we tie
Will yet demand a sword to cut them clean.
On their great kindliness we still rely
To keep our homes secure, our pastures green.
Our hate on their protective peace we lean ;
And making our amends for chances missed,
Play the new jazz tune, sordid, dull and mean,
To suit the blood-dance of the Communist.
N.S.W.
P. O. M.


ANY EXCUSE IS BETTER THAN NONE!
"The secretary of tie Vic. brand, of the British Medical Association denounce, the proposed scheme of National Insurance, which aim, at putting various benefits on a self-snpporting basis.”
"Yes, nurse, a solendid medicine: but l doubt whether it is Take it away!"


AS'* M Htr-
.-7}
>
n
Sm
St#E@PRKS
and be save of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist*
m
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Molybdenite ’ : Absent-minded .
Yes, we were. While at Southall (hug.) J
narty of us were going for a run in a cai.
I was seated comfortably in the back, when
ABOUT A DEAD HEAT.
“I suppose dogs are your favorite animal-
pets?”
“Well, no— sometimes I think its men."
„ one-legged member of the party came up,
nd carefully placing his crutches on the
running board, attempted to step up with
Se leg that Wasn’t there, coming the pro-
verbial. I jumped up to assist him ai
hi! the floor hard, having forgotten for the
moment that both my legs had been dragging
i n France for over 12 months. 1 hat
was in ’lB, and, by the way, I still feel
cramps in my toes. # »
“X2X”: Doctors get queer jobs offered
n,em at times. A few days ago a Sydney
man received a visit from a young woman
who explained that during a passionate affair
with what she called a “sheik she had sue
cumbed to the extent of having his initials
tattooed just above her knee by another gir
wlio understood the art. Since then theie
bad been a change in her affections, which
she had transferred to another youth, an
as the presence of the first one s initials wa.
likely to prove embarrassing when she
surfing, she desired professional assistance
ta matter.
«
that her opinions regarding the value of the
profession had changed considerably.
“f} 10 C ” : The funniest thing I saw dur-
ing the war occurred in “re*
iqi« when we needed a little comic ic
lief A daring raid had been made on the
British observation balloons by a Germar
’nlane but our machines soon got to nn ,
X wifh his engine put out of act ion, h
UJ to come down within our lines, in ms
forced descent he struck a tiny cottage an*
wp reached the scene we found tin
German airman in full flight before a stout
and elderly but angry Frenchwoman. A h
German, an unheroic figure with hig
goggles, was being hoßy pursued by the en-
rtged peasant, who flourished a hube besom.
S ro'umlly abused him to 7= f»*
natois for the damage he had done to a
house. We roared with laughter; but when
the German sought safety, with us the o
lady transferred her hostility to us, an ' -
had to beat a hasty.retreat, too, followed by
•i string of invective directed at soldiers
without distinction as to nationality, and wai
in general. , . *
“A JM ” 1 Unlike “Swanston-street’s”
fishermart (B. 2/4/'2s>, Httle Bromky really
rlid fisli. Mrs. Bromley never doubted that,
hut she did doubt some of his quite truthful
B n roml 0 ey on chos?to n ?emafn one of the mpt-jnt
majority that classes fish and fauy tales
together, and thereby she more or less em-
bittered Bromley’s life. And then one day
he landed a monster trout.. I hesitate
give Bromley’s estimate of its weight. Me
guarded that fish like a sacred relic, and
hurried it safely home. His wife s humble
recanting was balm to his hurt soul, and
they boated over that trout for a longtime
before leaving it in a dish, of water for tin
pi "lit. A little later a shriek from his wife
brought Bromley rushing to the kitchen.
Their cat was bravely trying to drag the
fish across the back lawn. Quick, stop
himcried Mrs. Bromley. But Broml y
hesif H The old hurt still smarted a little.
-Whyf he asked bitterly. “If you take it
from him the other cats ’ll never believe he
it.” # , *
“Six*enate”: The co-re.’s counsel—it was
in Maoriland —was putting it that the co-re. s
presence partly undressed in the respondent s
bedroom was not necessarily due to gu y
intention—that, actually, bad he felt Z 1 g
he might have avoided discovery. Cou {“
not have slipped outside through the veran-
dah door?” counsel asked a witness. It de
pends perhaps on wliat . there was outsid
to slip on,” commented Ins Honor drily.
“Tabac”: An official Easter-week observ-
ance that has long since 11 ooq° Tn that
w „„ nosed bv a N.S.W. Act of 18d8. in tnat
yeJr the second of her youthful Majesty’s
reign legislation was passed appointing
police-magistrates to the to y™,S ar Jnn
mntta Windsor, Maitland and Bathurst. Ao
uphold the limits of the said towns it was
the duty of these officers to perambulate
with proper assistants the said limits on
some convenient day in Easter W eek in each
nr.d every year. Any person obstructing
tlv- PM in carrving out this solemn duty,
even though his Worship trespassed on pri-
vate property in making his rounds, was
liable to a fine of £5. The duty was
fer to the new land of a Englis i
custom of “marking the. bounds It Us said
to have been accompanied in olden days by
toe btochtas of youngsters to upon
their minds” the parish boundaries. In
these days of scientific land survey youth
sits at ease. # *
“Nnntex”: “Ancient Mariner” (B.
2/4/’25) not only makes a mistake of a
vear in the date of Captain Cook s killing
(writing 1778 instead of 1779), but trots
out the ancient mariner’s legend that the
Hawaiians were cannibals. His supposition
that the last of Cook’s bones (or even the
greater portion of them) were disposedofby
sea burial is wrong, and his assertion that
none of them remain under the monument at
Kealakckua Bay unite unproven. Howard
Case wrote in the Honolulu Star-Bulletin
(ofi/5/"23) : , . .
It is said that some of the bones were kept in
the temple of Lono [under which name Cook was
adored] and worshipped by the people until 1819,
when thev were removed and concealed in a seciet
place probablv a cave, in much the same manner, as
the bones of kings were secreted. Another version
is that some of the bones lie beneath the monument
that was erected at Kealakekua m memory of the
famous navigator.
As for the anthropophagi story. Lieut. King, m
“Cook’s Voyages,” relates how one of the
priests came to the ship at night, bringing
somfe of the flesh : . ,
This, he said, was all that remained of thebody,
that the rest was cut to pieces and burnt, but tint
the head rnd all the bones except what belonged
to the trunk were in the possession of .certain chief. ,
that what we saw had been allotted to tne coiei
of the priests to be made use of in some religions
reremonv and that he had sent it as a proof .°t his
innocence and attachment to us. This afforded, is
an opportunity of informing ourselves whethei they
and we did not neglect it. We tried
bv many indirect questions to each of them apait
to karf in what mlnner the rest of the bodies had
THE SILVER LINING.
MARJORIE : “An d to-morrow I must go home. We women ore only saves.
JANE : “Perhaps, dear; hut at least we can choose our masters."
been disposed of, and finding them very constant in
K^hn g burnt ha we a at I lai I t’ j.u? Ihf Wect que^Uon
d^S h BhS any
European would have done. .
“Percy Pawnticket”: The wedding bells
worked overtime in Melbourne d»rmg Eastei,
and some of the taxi-car companies had their
fleets fully engaged . rescuing newly-joined
counles from confetti-storms. One ot the
firmest supplied 60 wedding parties with loco-
motion on Easter Saturday alone, - n
nearly went awry, however. After
overnight, the bridegroom was put to bed ni
tinh where he was known, and he woke in
She morning with a bewildered sense of deeds
undone. At his urgent request Bung rang
up his home to ask for Ins tiunks s ™ ln ° v
nneked he knew he bad to go to syuney
that night. “Yes, that’s right, a severe
vxiice over the telephone replied; he s: got. to
o-n to Svdney to-niglit, but he s got to taki
a bride with him” The unhappy ’groom
bolted for home and the church, but the pool
chap will probably be reminded of ms lapse
from time to time in future.
*' * *
“Trevdee”: I know a more remarkable re-
union than the one Bathurst (N.S.W.)
lately reported. A man and Ins wife from
a far-away town in N. S. Wales called ■
the Victorian up-country home of anotne.
San and While they were swapping
yarns two women, newly arrived from the
Mallee, called and were followed by two
more who reside in Melbourne. The whole
ei"lit had been to school together 40 years
of the eight had M* more
than one other of the lot since that time
But the most remarkable part of all-is that
no previous arrangement had been made to
meet'there!
“R.L..T.”: “Macquarie’s” par telling of
the accidental meeting of two brothers after
many years (B. 8/4/M) reminds rte of a
case within my own knowledge. My dad.
driving along a road on the South Coast ot
N S.Wales, met a traveller on foot who
asked him the time of day., The two started
to have a pitch tn the bush fashion, men
something about the stranger s appearance
struck my dad as vaguely familiar and he
asked the swagmau his name. The answe
proved that this was his brother, whom he
had not seen for just on 30 years.
- *
* *
“Mudworm”: The retirement of the old
Rotomahana, put out of commission an,
sold, stirs a vivid memory. In the middle
of the Tasman Sea, one sunny Sunday morn
ing. I was sitting after breakfast on the
starboard rail of the poop smoking and yarn-
ing with two other passengers, when some
feat of over-balancing dropped me into the
ocean. More by luck than management. I
missed the propeller-though its thudding
roar was very menacing as it went by
and. coming up astern, swam to a hfebuoy
which one of my companions had promptly
heaved overboard. The water was not cold,
sharks did not occur to me, and it was ex-
tremely interesting to observe the process of
stopping the ship, the lowering of a boat
and my gallant rescue by the third mate.
Also, the view was a novel one. Having been
picked up, and received the mate s sympathy,
it was delightful to discover how gratified
the other passengers were— judging Ironi
their cheers as the boat approached the ship
—that such a valuable life had been pre-
served. The captain himself stood on deck
by the top of the rope ladder up which
hero of the morning ascended. "his also
was pleasing. And then, so to speak, the
hero was brought to earth. Yo 'J ’
the Old Man roared. Fancy falling o\ e
board on a day like this! Delaying the ship •
I wish to God the screw had got you,
you —— ass!” #
“Machete" : The cheerful British practice
of regarding Australia as a convenient spot
for dumping rubbish was m owdence
Brighton (Eng.) the other day. A youtn
named Williams faced the Beak on a charge
of driving a car 40 miles an hour on th
Esplanade. He was only 14, Ins counsel
said, but he was mad on motoring, and could
not resist the temptation to * let her out.
CouS added that little Willy was too
voting to hold a license m England, hut it
he was let off this time lie would guarantee
to go to Australia, where lie would have no
trouble in getting his ticket. After express-
;n cf svmnathy with the Australians, his
Washup 1 turned the youth loose threatjmuig
trouble for him if lie was found imßntam
a month thence. It almost iooks |s if M illy s
counsel had been reading some of the penal
ties (if any! imposed on Sydney motorist
for knocking down people and occasionally
killing them. In England they have for
ALMOST HOPELESS.
"Do you mean to tell me you are sick of me
coming to see you?"
“Oh, dear, no! Em only hoping you'll find
it out for yourself.”
general purposes abolished the speed-limit,
not because high speed is harmless but be-
cause the limit offered a s<^ r t of protection to
the speed-hog —he escaped if he a* as abl(
to show that he was going inside the mark.
Now a driver going two miles an hour is a.,
responsible, if he injures anyone, as if he
was going 50, and sentences of 12 months
hard without the option are coming into
favor.
(Continued on page 16.)
THISTLEDOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Autumn grasses,
You and I together,
Heedless how time passes.
Careless when or whether
We shall meet when this day goes,
Take love’s pleasure as it flows.
Dry and hot the air is ;
in the sun, half-sleeping,
All the earth so fair is
There’s no time for keeping
Any anxious cark or care
For the sund’rings time may bear.
Tying thus, and noting
Tittle but our loving,
Fairy things come floating
On the breeze scarce moving.
Thistledown is on the wing;
Love is just as light a thing.
For a moment steady
In one spot ’twill hover;
Then, caught by an eddy,
Like a wearied lover
On the passing breeze be flown,
Fickle, fleeting thistledown!
Kiss me, unregretful,
While our hour holds us;
Ere a night, forgetful
Of our love, enfolds us.
Thistledown is on the wing;
Love is just as light a thing!
VICTORIA.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


f/G
f,
*+'2.
t %
o Sr' \ A
°- .34
v\ c v
3aV
MOUNTAIN DEW! The suggestion of purity in the name—
the dew of heaven on the highland heather—the sparkle in the
morning sun and the freshness that makes us glad we are
alive. All these materialise in a glass of
YOUNG’S
MOUNTAIN DEW
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Agents: GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Nikko”: An almost dangerously con-
siderate young man turned up in M.L. the
other day as bridegroom at a country wed-
ding. The clergyman, seeing two men and
T HEIR DESTINATION.
LITTLE SISTER: “I know where you're going to-night .”
THE MAN : “Where?”
LITTLE SISTER: "To the point. I heard Ethel tell Daddy she was
sure she'd get you to it this time.”
a girl standing expectantly by, signalled them
to the altar-rails and began the ceremony.
He had proceeded some distance when a
member of the congregation suggested that
it would be polite to wait for the bride, and
the affair was suspended forthwith. When
the indignant parson inquired why lie had
not been stopped earlier the diffident ’groom
explain that lie didn’t like to interrupt ! A
husband like that ought to be a tremendous
boon to some chatty little wife.
* * * *
"XYZ : The great ovation which
General Erand got at the recent Diggers’
dinner in Sydney was as spontaneous as
the one his battered 4th Erigadc gave
him after the first attack on the Hindenburg
line at Bullecourt in early April eight years
ago. With incomparable courage and deter-
mination tho 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 45th
and 47th Battalions faced the superhuman
task of piercing that almost impregnable line
of defence, unaided by tanks, guns or air-
men. They succeeded, but to remain in
possession with Fritz on three sides was
mere folly, and the magnificent brigade came
out, a shadow of itself. An experiment by
Higher Command, this battle deserves first
Place amongst the glorious deeds of the
A.I.F. Lesser operations that succeeded are
given greater prominence in despatches and
by war historians; but because others failed
to make the first attack on Bullecourt a
success, little is heard of it outside the 4th
Division.
* * * •
“Kai-tangata : Maori funerals are cheer-
ful exercises of lungs and stomachs. But
Kopaki (North Island) witnessed tho other
day probably the swiftest interment even
Maoriland has seen, the native driver of a
motor-hearse trying to import an element:
of native gaiety into a pakelia funeral by
starting oft for tho To Kuiti cemetery at a
speed later estimated at 40 miles an hour.
I'he hearse ended its career in a swamp
from which the cortege, hastening after,
fished the coffin. It finished the journey in
a motor-lorry and the well-meaning Henare
stood his trial and was impaled on a three-
pronged fork—being drunk while in charge
ot a motor-car, reckless driving and break-
ing his prohibition order.
* * * 1 *
Tragedy lurks in the most un-
likely places. The other day a man went
into an outhouse on Coorparoo railway
station, near Brisbane, and rushed out a few
minutes later with one hand blown off and
the shattered stump spouting blood. He
was hurried to hospital, and his forearm
had to be amputated. Thereabouts the pan
system of sanitation still prevails, and it was
after plunging his hand into the accompany-
ing box of sawdust that the explosion which
caused the injury occurred. Evidently a
detonator had got into the sawdust—detona-
tors are packed with sawdust in small tin
boxes. But it would be mighty interesting
to trace the series of coincidences which
brought the thing to the fulfilment of its
destiny. Even a Robbery Park bookmaker
would hardly .think twice about laying 25
to 1 against such a happening.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Re Diggers taking French
leave in battalions. In 1917 the Marathon
looked in at Fre-
mantle on the way
to England. She
was berthed along-
side the wharf;
and directly it was
learnt that no
shore-leave would
be granted the rush
to get on to the
wharf began among
impulsive souls. A
deputation of the
more orderly
secured a promise
of a trip ashore;
but it was only a
route march, and
not a single break
was allowed. The
tun started towards
evening; an cl
shortly after dark-
ness had fallen the
boat appeared to
be deserted. Pro-
bably less than 200
men remained on
board out of 1400.
Those who didn’t
want a final drink
of Australian beer
wan t e d to see
friends, or, failing
these, . the town.
Hut only a couple
of men deserted.
A few more, who
were not back when
the Mara t h o n
pulled out into the
stream in the early
morning, reported
subsequently and
were brought
aboard by a launch.
“Nakhoda”: Some sardonic gambler has
boon laying bets on what the Sydney Harbor
l>iidge s holocaust will be. Brooklyn Bridge
(ISew York) caused the death of'sO of its
builders, and other spans have similar sin-
ister records. In ancient times this san-
guinary appetite was satisfied before the
building started. Living animals, even
human beings, were built into the founda-
tions of all edifices of importance, and
to-day in parts of Europe live cocks or live
bund dogs are bricked into new foundations.
Human skeletons are frequent tenants of the
\vnlls of old English churches, and in modern
' hinese cotton-mills the owners sometimes
provide against the machinery's habit of drag-
ging in work-women by burying a live virgin
under the bed-plates to start with. A milder
custom, which is doubtless a variant of a
more serious rite, is still in vogue in Roumania,
where the bricklayers endeavor to catch the
shadow of a passing stranger and wall it in.
In 1615 a prince of Oldenburg caught some
workmen in the act of burying an infant
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
“ Darling , I would die for you!”
“What would he the good of that unless you left me your life
insurance?”
under a dyke, and as late as 1843 the good
citizens of Halle, in Germany, informed the
architect of their bridge that its piers would
never be secure until he immured a living
child under them. There was a riot in Sin-
gapore because the Chinese believed t!he
British Government was going to consecrate
a new bridge with 900 human heads, and
a similar notion that agitated the native
population of Penang kept every rickshaw
off the streets at night for several weeks.
For myself, I could mention half a dozen
men whose deposition under the foundation-
stone of the Sydney bridge might have proved
a prophylactic against strikes, at any rate.
“Bill Bowyang” : The frights the average
Digger got during heavy fighting Avere soon
forgotten; it is the trivial incidents that
stick in the memory. I was one of those
selected to roll a ship’s tank down a gully
at Anzac at a time when a Turkish sniper
had the passage covei’ed, and as he was n
splendid marksman hardly a day passed with-
out his killing or wounding some of our men.
We had to roll that -tankhalf a mile, and nearly
all the time we were exposed to the sniper.
Weeks seemed to pass before we reached our
destination, and every second I expected a
bullet to tear through my back. Was the
sniper asleep? Not a bit of it! Just as we
lifted the tank on its sandbag stand he
put tAVO bullets into it. And I could have
sworn I heard him cackle.
* * -X- *
“Nitric”: Apropos a recent par (B.
19/3/'25) on various manifestations of the
church militant in the U.S.A., one or tAvo
poAverful signs were exhibited in Brisbane
during the Greater Brisbane election. First
appeared the headlines “Pray or Perish.”
This Avas followed by the caption: “No re-
duction in the wages of sin.” Finally, with
electioneering squares arranged against the
names, one was invited to put the “X”
against Christ, leaving the World, the Flesh
and the Devil (the other aspirants to office)
all down the poll.
* * * *
“Forebridge”: Not all the juvenile Avar-
riors wdio saAV service in the war finished
their days in a padded cell (B. 2/4/’25).
My opposite number, a snotty in command
of a picket-boat at the Landing, wore the
D.S.C. before he was 18, and Midshipman
Victor Malleson, R.N., earned the V.C. for
his gallant work in the River Clyde just
after his 18th birthday. Many of the mid-
shipmen at Gallipoli were not 17. and some
of those in 11.M.5. Albion had not even
reached their 16th birthday. Although these
youngsters saw some murderous scrapping, I
do not knoAV of one single case of neuras-
thenia. Looking back, my theory is—and
I was a 17-year-old myself—that the horror
and beastliness of the whole affair, so appa-
rent to the more mentally developed adult.
\yas overshadowed in our youthful minds by
the glamor and romance. Or, perhaps, live
.rears of rigid naval training had made us
men ; but I don't think so.
"Marko” : “Sixenate’s” story (I». 2/1/-5)
of the theft of a valuable document from a
solicitor's table and the subsequent lining of
the delinquent for
stealing 1 a “sheet of
paper valued at three-
pence” has a parallel
in my own experience.
A and B decided to
write a joint letter to
(' on a certain subject.
The letter was drafted
by B and agreed to
by A, who signed bis
name on a blank sheet
of B's letterheads,
leaving it to B to type
in the text above it
and add his own sig-
nature. I was on
good terms with A.
but B was a crook
and knew l was “lay-
ing” for him. Instead
of typing in the agreed
letter to the other
party B used his sheet
signed in blank by A
to write a scurrilous
letter to me. Pecu-
liarities of phraseology
and typing made the
deception transparent,
but a solicitor, two
detectives and the
Metropolitan Super,
of Police were unable
to find that any crime
or even misdemeanor
had been committed
by B. We could not
charge him with theft,
because the. letterhead
was his own; forgery
and fraud were out of
the question, because
there was no financial
gain; libel wouldn’t
do, because there was
no publication to a
third partv; and it is
no crime to convert another’s Signature to
one’s own use unless one profits financially.
* * * *
“Zanthus” with some nautical records: —
The first U.S.A. fleet to visit Australia consisted
of four exploring vessels under Wilkes, which put
into Sydney in 1840. A number of the American
seamen liked Australia so well that they deserted.
The U.S. Consul, Williams, asked Governor Gipps to
have them chased up and handed over, but Gipps
couldn’t see his way to accede to the request. Yankee
merchant vessels, whalers and sealers, had begun to
visit Australia nearly half a century earlier. The
first foreign vessel to enter Sydney Harbor was the
Dutch scow Waaksamheid, in 1791; the second was
the Hope of Rhode Island, U.S.A., which came on
a trading venture in 1792. Governor Macquarie left
a list of 41 American vessels which touched at
Sydney between 1792 and 1812, but it is very in-
complete. The number was at least 55, taking
no account of vessels that had touched at the
Derwent and of several which had been whaling or
sealing on the Australian coast but had kept well
away from Sydney. After the war of 1812 the
American vessels did not come back to any great
extent. About 1830. however, there appeared in
Australasian waters the first of that great fleet of
Yankee whalers which soon filled every corner of
AT THE BOHEMIAN BALL.
“Conor at illations, dearie! You've won the
prize for the best-dressed girl on the
floor."
“ Nonsense! Why, I haven’t even got my
clothes on yet.”
the South Pacific. Eyre states that in 1840-41
there were 300 French and American whalers working
off the south coast of Australia. Writing about the
same time Nathaniel Ogle says that for their know-
ledge of much of the coast of Westralia the
settlers, of whom he was one, were indebted to the
American whalers. Incidentally, South Australia’s
first shipbuilding was done by Americans; in 1803-
04 the crew of the Union of New York built at
American River, on Kangaroo Island, a 40-ton
schooner, the Independence.
THE WEAKLINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I was not armed, and, knowing Blank to be a
desperate criminal, 1 put out my hand to shake
Hands with him. He said, *1 know you are decent
enough, hut what would the mob say if they saw
me shaking hands with a copper?’ ” —Police evidence.
How strong the bonds that bind us all,
Smug customs cheeking good intentions!
What miseries those wights befall
Who lie delivered to Convention !
In vain we shun, with scornful heart,
Class-consciousness, and strive to flout it;
The quick thought pins us like a dart:
“What would our fellows say about it?"
To some of us has come the urge
To social uplift, and, exalted,
On Reformation’s giddy verge
In mild expectancy we’ve halted.
As fair and bright the future gleamed,
Some nark hopped quickly in to snout it,
And in our ear the warning screamed:
“Cripes ! Won’t th’ mob go crook about it 1”
Consider, too, how many men
At Bacchus’ shrine have merely gammoned
To worship him in body when
Their spirit was with Mr. Hammond I
These dare not spurn the proffered beer,
Or stubbornly refuse to shout it.
They shrink from the impelling fear
Of what “the boys” might say about it.
Alas, in every walk of life
We dance to Routine’s pipes and tabors!
Though some would like an extra wife,
And some would like their next-door neighbor’s.
None dare to head the rebel throng,
For, ready aye to meet and rout it,
Propriety lifts up her song:
“What will the curate say about it?”
And even when we freedom win
From Mrs. Grundy and her ladies,
And ready make to enter in
Our principality in Hades,
Above the roaring of the Flame
Will thrill a whisper, Devil doubt it:
“Now, isn’t that a burning shame!
What will their poor wives do about it ?”
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


BUSHED
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING.
The Standard of Leather Belting in
Australia.
Pioneer Leather Belting lias been standard-
ised in every process, from raw-lnde to
finished belt, and for every power trans-
mission purpose during our sixty-seven years
of belting experience. The average life of a
Pioneer Leather Belt is longer than that ot
anv other belting obtainable m Australia.
It pays manufacturers to standardise on
Pioneer Leather Belting in their own plants.
J.
Manufactured only by
r' r UDOWICI SON LIMITED,
‘ Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 18ob.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS.
VICTORIA: J. & It. E. Madder Ptj
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ettl.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Ptailp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mrlv.-H and
Sons. Timpson Street, Fort Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASQOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Empire.
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) limited
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel F““ ndl /
and Works in the Commonwealth for product,on
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended,
|,td. property subdivisiomsts and salesmen,
Sydney: — ~ ,
—Dividends \ _ _ _
Prefs To Re- Re-
Proflt. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. »ot '-es. serves.
1914.. 33,152 4,782 10 p.c.= 15.000 13,370 12^225
Haymarket Oo.!s assets overvalued £16,051 2.820
iw#., ..m Nil
SI!:: ,H 8 SS Sli 4*ss,
Accumulated pref. diva, funded £23,697 10,73,.
ioi« iv Do o jag (. p.c.= 7,500 441 iu,..in
19123’,040 10,’1G4 0 „ o.'>oo 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves, £19,944 •• “•2’*°“
io9o 43 467 12,281 7 A p.c.= 11,250 19,036 66,342
1021:: 39,073 14,682 8 „ „ 12,000 12,491 67,883
1922.. 34,264 14,781 8 ~ ~ 12,000 i ,483 ...,316
Subsidiary eo.’s assets written up „ - 44
and bonus shares issued .. 37,428 ii-,i
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 6-,<44
1923.. 38,849 1«S f p.c.= 12,000 7,680 70,424
1924.. 34,007 20,642 6 „ „ 12,090 1,275
This is a holding co. In the be-
ginning there was Arthur Rickard and
Co., Ltd. Then all but a handful of the
50,000 fJ shares in the Haymarket Land
Co. were purchased. Next came Centra
Railway Palace Buildings, Ltd., later re-
constructed and renamed Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
In this last concern the parent co. holds
70,504 of the 130,000 paid shares: at. Lee.
31 1923, it held 100,874. but sold 24,310
during the year. The report down t mention
what became of the money, but as the Aitln
Rickard subsidiary’s loan from this co. in-
creased during the year from £ILJ4I to
£55 221 you can guess, ine original KicKaru
co shares and the Haymarket lot were pur-
chased at par, but Extended gave two of
its own shares for each one ot the 21,44 1
Central Railway Buildings prefs.
The Arthur Rickard subsidiary, unlike
most land-selling cos., did better last year
than in 1923. the net profit being 121,030
compared with £15,259. But. despite the
improvement, the result is not one to pro-
voke enthusiasm considering the nature ot
the business and the funds employed. I refits
were equal to only 6| p.c. on its own total
funds, notwithstanding that R had £oo,--l
from the parent as well as £14.j,402 ot tin
public’s money at risk. Those things con-
sidered it would not require much of a slump
to make divs. look sick. Haymarket Land s
profits were more in line with general ex-
perience for the year—£62l7 compared with
£lO 72° won in 1923. The directors con-
sidered the result satisfactory when the
adverse conditions operating are taken into
account." But if phenomenal prices for a
very fine wool-clip, phenomenal prices tor
a phenomenal wheat harvest, and phenom-
enal prices for all metals except copper
constitute “adverse conditions,” Heaven save
us from ever having good ones. The truth
is we incline to get things right out ot
focus. Instead of being hard up, as we
are bound to he at some time or other, we
have been so well off that we have lost
our block” and bought motor-cars by the
ten thousand and made other commitments
often beyond our means; that and the
difficulty over exchange are about the extent
of our “adverse conditions.” And the ex-
change difficulty was in itself a result of
highly favorable conditions rather than ot
adverse ones.
Hotel Sydney showed a net profit of
£15,252 —relatively better than the 1920
figure, £1.6,450, which covered a period ot
14 months. Of the profit, £10,833 was dis-
tributed in 10 p.c. di’vs. covering 10 months,
the parent co. taking credit in its accounts
for £6938. The balance was appropriated
after the close of the accounts: £3250 balance
of divs., £2OOO to reserves and £.447 carry-
forward. The directors report that each
month the turnover climbs a bit above the
corresponding figures for 1923. The hotel is
easily the most profitable subsidiary. Its
beginning was gloomy, hut A. R. Extended
came in when the clouds showed their silver
lining, and it lias had a fine return on its
investment. But here, again, it has to be
remembered that during much of the past
year the country has been coming to town
with exceptional rolls of notes to spend, and
city hotels of this class have benefited accord-
ingly. ......
With the report and balance-sheet of the
parent co. shareholders receive those of the
three subsidiaries, and so may follow the
,-ivppvs of each. This is contrary to the
usual practice of holding cos and is .highly
creditable. It is thus made possible to
tabulate the liabilities and the assets and
ascertain approximately the position of the
co Here are the outside liabilities of the
parent and the three subsidiaries as at
Dec. 31: . Mort Deposits, Other
sages, etc. etc. Debts.
!! .62,197 2 .590
£222,194 £19,938 £25,337
Here are the assets:—
Hotel property .. • • t138,b 1
City premises—Rickard House £90,000
Huymarket Co. 40,6.6 -[og C7C
Unsold land and property .. •• J;*1.997
Purchasers’ balances and mortgages ..
Other book debts .. •• •• •• „n’soa
furniture, plant., etc. .. • • • •
Debentures of other cos. .. .» ••
Shares of otner cos. .. •• ••
Stocks .. •• •• •* •" rj’oni
War Loan and cash •• •• ••
£802,792
“Shares of other cos. and in joint enterprises,
195.178,” and “Debentures of other cos.,
£3B 885,” from the accounts of the Rickard
subsidiary, should excite the curiosity of the
investor (£1533 and £25,000 respectively
standing in the liaymarket Go. s accounts
make the totals in the table). Sonu '
those share interests are in a land-selling
concern, and some in “companies deriving
their profits from sources other than trading
in land.” This latter includes Melbourne
Hotels, which has now modernised the \\ inci-
sor and may reap the first fruit this current
year. A dissection of that item, it it. were
possible, would enable investors more closely
to calculate what value to place on those
particular assets. The position, from the
point of view of liquids, is weak. City pro-
perties figure, in the books at £-,<•>,.>()<. bu
the Hotel Sydney property was written up
by £65,000 the year before last, and there
presumably isn't much margin in that item,
although the hotel has a unique position and
should be a good profit-winner with euicient
management. The unsold land and pr<»-
perty is another hefty item. £9<.49< being
from the Rickard subsidiary. On this the
directors of the parent co. state : ' We have
had some very large and saleable estates m
course of preparation, the realisation ot
which will favorably affect future balance-
sheets.” And so it may—if values hold, and
Australian manufacturers are not over-
whelmed by an influx of cheap foreign goods.
The prefs. are backed by net assets with a
book value of just over £2 per share. Con-
tinued good returns from the Hotel Sydney
seem likely, and the Hotel Windsor (Mel-
bourne Hotels, Ltd.) gives fair promise.
And it needs to: by next balance there will
be four years’ divs. due on the prefs.
* ' * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) :~ Writ . A(Me d Norm-
ten to Re- nul Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1915.. 50,114 10 p.c.= 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916 3° IGI 10 ~ ~ 25.000 4,(50 -411 52,411
" 92 348 61 ,15,625 4,750 1973 64,884
918" 32 174 83 21,875 10.299 - 64,384
1919.. 32294 10 ~ ~ 25,000 7,294 54,384
1920. ’. 32,468 10 ~ „ 25.000 7,250 218 54.602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ „ 25,000 4 1 50 1/4 04,m0
1922.. 30,821 10 „ „ 25,000 5,821 .>4,7< G
- 1 ’ Reserves.
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 54,776
-iQ9 4 Qfi 847 10 ~ .. 25,000 8,000 584/ 00,62^
Reserves brought to light, £89,377 ..150,
Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8,000 2819 2,819
Some of the reserves that have been brought
to light can be traced. Contingency funds
existing as at Feb. 29. 1924. have been cut
into as follows: Freehold depreciation,
£lB 832: securities depreciation, £ooo9, sun-
dry’ debtors’ reserve, £12.887: advances re-
serve, £10,201: total, £46.979. Apparently
the balance of the £89,377 has been got y
writing up assets—which may, of course,
mean that hidden reserves have been shaken
out of various sleeves. The existence of a
few aces was admitted last year. On h eb.
29 £71,479 was in the care of trustees to be
applied to the redemption of 5 p.c. deben-
tures £150,000 of which were outstanding.
But ’though not half the full amount was
visible, the directors mentioned their conh-
dence of being able to pay the lot, owing to
a fund which they had “for some time past
created and invested.” . Balance-sheet com-
parisons hint at where it was: .
1 1924. 1920.
Capital •• •• £250,000 £400,000
Debentures . . . . 150,000
Sundry creditors, etc. 107,197 102,204
Property, plant, etc... 445.618
stocks .. •• 17,514 Zl,uii
Book debts .. .. 55.1.0 M.JSI
Advances .. •• 52,954 126,984
"T ::
The balance-sheet total had to be kept the
same, because, though £150,000 of cash was
paid out, £150.000 was added to the capital
without bringing any more cash m. How it
was done is not clear; but apparently the
“etc.” in “property, plant, etc.,” was a cow
that yielded buckets of cash. Then, to pre-
serve the equilibrium, the advances appear to
have been revalued and written up consider-
ably, as previously described.
Anyhow, this is clear: if the capitalisation
is justified you can’t take much notice of the
profit figures that have been published hither-
to because large amounts which are now
claimed as profits went up those capacious
sleeves. But for that one would say there
wasn’t much of a margin between the aver-
age pronts of the past few years and the
present 10 p.c. div. The disappearance of
the debentures certainly means a saving ot
£7500 a year: but, then, the money has
gone, and chairman S. .1. Jacobs certainly
didn’t have it buried in the back yard earn-
ing nothing. Probably it earned a good deal
more than £7500. , ,
The capitalisation was effected in this
way. First the liability of £1 on the
150 000 £2 shares called to £1 was extin-
guished. and the 50,000 fuHy-paids were
divided into 100,000 ot £l. The distribu-
tion of tlie 150,000 bonus scrip was then
made in the proportion of three to five. No
comfortable do the directors feel about it all
that the bonus shares received full dividend
for the latter half of the year For a
£4OO 000 co. to have reserves ot less tuan
£3OOO looks bad; but that is probably an-
other of the directors’ jokes. Knowledge,
or surmise as to what has been left under
cover, and knowledge or surmise as to what
the real profits have been in the last tew
years, will determine the value the market
'will place on the scrip. Cold Tea is, ot
course, a factor; but you are not going to
be very enthusiastic about that when your
State is already a big wine-grower and hopes
to be one of the biggest in the world.
■R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, eto. (Sydney)
Dividends.
p rt .{ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. G p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1914.. lfoo 10 p.c. = 7,998 14,271 00,718
Transferred to capital £40,000 • •
1915.. 20.368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,16 S 2/, 886
1910.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~ 12,000 7,194 3j,050
1917.. 30,400 1200 Hi „ ~13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 30,840
1918 . 30.180 1200 15 p.c. - 21,000 7.986 38,8-1
IAIA j 31,096 1200 15 ~,,21,000 8,896 47,727
1919.. | Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,i_i
| Internal reserves disclosed and other |
, AAA J additions to reserves, £32,721 l 5 014
1920.. I j{ ese vves capitalised, £36,000 I
[ 28,766 1200 12*p.c.=27.000 566 J
1921. . 40,612 1200 12* „„ 27,000 12,412 17,420
1922.. 41,338 1200 12* „„ 27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and Cj'PnaliveU-
-1923.. 46,600 1200 12*p.c.=31,642 13,(58 44,274
1924.. 49,404 1200 12* „„ 31,805 16,459 60,7^3
Profits keep climbing. Since 1915 the pro-
gress lias been consistent (the capitalisations
of 1920 obscured the real profits m that
period) and last year’s figure was more than
twice that of eight years ago. The profits
claimed by the accounts are less than those
in the introductory tabic, which include addi-
tions to reserves. Those additions have
been substantial: — TT , . a
Profit as per Unexplained
P. andi,. Additions to
j) ee _ Account. Reserves.
IQI4 . .. •• £15,141 £8,328
1915 .. 15-111 5,257
1916 ' .. .. 15,133 5.261
1917 " .. .. 15,895 14,570
1918 .. -- 22,644 7,542
1919 .. .. 26,132 6,964
1991 .. .. 29,682 11,430
-1999 •• 29,800 11,538
1923 !! .. •• 34,125 12.475
1924 . . . . . 36,669 12,(95
And there was probably more. For the
co.’s history shows that large sums have been
taken out of profits and put aside for later
attention. The co. was formed m 1907 and
the public became interested m 19U9 when
capital was £50.000. Three years later
£l2 393 was capitalised, and there have been
five’ issues of bonus scrip since. On two
occasions the Board has brought substantia
sums to light from hidden sources: £2O,OUU
or so in 1920 and £36,000 in 1922 And
there was something left 111 the bag after the
last distribution. Visible reserves are now
£60,733 —the highest point in the co. s his-
tory ; and. although capital has grown to
£275 005, the market is optimistic. Ur tn-.
capital only £90.000-odd has been put up in
cash by shareholders, so there is an ex-
cuse for rosy dreams.
Gordons was one of the first to put the
t.-p. business on a sound basis. Previously
the t.-p. trader was too often a shark in his
dealings with the poor and the improvident,
who are the chief support of this class of
business. Not that the co. has any claims
to benevolence. It gives 20 weeks’ .accom-
modation for amounts up to £5, collecting 1 .
in the £ for interest and commission. _ Lae
amount has to be repaid m 20 weekly instal-
ments, and, if payments are maintained, the
co. makes about 25 p.c. p.a. on its advances.
Other sources of profit are discounts from re-
tailers on whom the co.’s “cash-orders are
o-iven, profits from its own trade (mostly
t.-p.). and income from investments. Profits
benefit considerably from the return on in-
vestments, although the amount is not clis-
closed, being lumped in an untidy entry in
P and L. Balance-sheet comparisons show
the heavy gilt upon the gingerbread:—
1920. 1923. 1924.
Sundry creditors, etc... £39,915 £3 »,8/7 £40,815
Overdraft .. • • l*-,849 9,19 < 19,10 z
Property and plant . . 25,399 14,612 14,152
S *“e„tT' h,re T. 72,090 86,101 107,876
Book debt. :: .. 82,887 107.677 84,807
Shares and debentures 62,813 101, 02< t 23,046
. . • • 43,445 73,634 85,525
Government securities.. 19,895 19,152 19,744
Liabilities totalled £59,997, and there were
liquids which, if they could be realised
promptly at their book value, would provide
cover for that amount and £lB for each pret.
share. “Stock on hand and hire agree-
ments” expanded by £21,273, but book debts de-
creased by almost £23,000. A further £11.8.)
was on mortgage. The total on mortgage at
December 31, £85,525, is substantial, but, in
view of the co.’s agencies for dividing the
sheep from the goats, probably the risk m
the figures was very small. It. 11. Gordon
has been a wonderful money-maker, and ex-
pects still to be. Since the close ot the
accounts it has purchased the. lng Georgo-
street building' occupied by Ball and Welch
before that co. relinquished business in Syd-
ney, the sum involved bcin£ about £I(X),<KK>.
With this shop space the co. should be
able to handle much of the business which
in the past it has sent along to other nrms.
But it won’t make extra profits without
taking extra risks.
* * *
I> and W. Chandler, Ltd., hardware
merchants, of Fitzroy (Vic.), who do a big
mail-order business. The present jo. paid
£10,937 for goodwill, and spent £ll4O on
preliminaries:— _ .
Towards
Net r Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1090 £9 913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. £6,133 £3780 8,30.,
1924 14 734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 0,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 ~ 11,600 2149 3,020
Competition in hardware last year was keen
and Chandlers had to cut prices hard to hold
business. Despite this sufficient was earned
to pay 8 p.c. on prefs. and 10 p.c. on ordi-
naries and allow of some additions to re-
serves, though nothing very great has been
done in that way. Of the capital of £125,009,
£45,000 is in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
£BO,OOO in ordinaries ; of this lot tlie
public took £25.000 of prefs. and £lO.OOO
of ordinaries. The rest went to the old pro-
prietors, with £lO.OOO in cash. Goodwill
was valued at £10,937, reduced out of the
first year’s profits to £793 1, at which it at
present stands in the books. Thus far, assum-
ing the stocktaking to be right, the proposi-
tion looks sound and profitable, notwithstand-
ing that in Vic., as elsewhere, there has been
unloading of hardware stocks at forced
prices, and that values in the producing
centres have been tricky. The three terms
have produced these balance-sheet figures:
1923. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. .. £12,363 £15,741 £31,432
Freeholds .. •• 25,966 25,933 27,394
Plant etc . .. 12,616 13,313 16.531
Stocks •• 66,743 73,628 91,119
lioolc debt's I: .. 19,046 24.302 26,584
War Loan, cash, etc... 12,004 8,324 2,401
The increase in liabilities amounted to
£15,691, the bank rendering help to the ex-
tent of £4779. The expansion of stocks ot
£17,491 probably explains that, although
there were additions to freeholds and plant
during the year. The decrease m the cash
holding was also bound up m the increased
buying. More or less liquid assets were
£B2 072 in excess of liabilities, including th«.
final div., equal to 365. sd. for every 20s. of
pref. capital, with almost another 2l«. in
the fixed assets.
* * *
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane:
To
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1915. . £17,744 8 p.c.= £13,019 £4p-o £.>6,8.>„
0 069 8 „., 6,547 2,722 59.580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 •• 2j,2
1917.. 21,014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,330
Premiums on new shares.. 1,752 66, us/
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43.3|0
1919.. 29,833 8 „ „ 1f,977 11.856
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares.. 1,509
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,09< 50,0/..
1921.. 29,019 10 ~ ~ 26,562 2,457 07,5-9
Transferred to capital, £12,500 I 44,934
Tax thereon, £95.. •• 5
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
1923.. 22?302 7 ~ „ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1Q94 0 944 $4 9,660
1925. . 24*,948 8~ „ „ 22,080 2,868 26,974
More stable conditions in manufacturing
centres, high prices for most of the State s
staples, and less drought in the back conn
try were the chief factors in last years
recovery. Probably Queensland never had
so much money to spend before, and thi.
was reflected in the gross profits: —
1914. . £109.104 | 1922.. £141.388 I 1924. . £157,310
1918.. 134,312 | 1923. . 177,136 | 1925. . l"4,2ol
Capital, of course, has increased over that
period, and so, of course, have expenses
(Continued on page !•'■)


iLjirat Miss Muppet
ASat on a tufpet
EaTINCi CURDS WHEY.
1 JftEDE CAME A BIG SPIDER
• jI AnP SAT DOWN BESIDE HER
And frightened Miss Muffet axay


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coice breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd. —Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Coniffell-
street, Sydney, —Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wra. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [3
The freedom from corrosion of Pioneer Wood Pipe
adds years to its usefulness. A report from Mr.
Mackellar, of Casuarina, Rockhampton, is as fol-
lows: “1 placed one line—about a mile —-of Sin. piping
from a well to convey water to various paddocks
some seven years ago—the water was of the most
mineralised class, and 1 have had no (rouble whatever.
I have also removed various lines during continued
dry times to other sites, and have found the pipes
in perfect order and very convenient to disoonnecr
and reconnect.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc-. They
produce a brilliant, white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp.
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part, of the plant. The price of a two-
light plant, complete and installed, is only £19.
There is practically no additional cost, the only
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station —positively no wages or train fares.
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Basse!, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
• * • •
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam- Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W.. for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered bv Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty;, Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole" Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com
panv, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts ai d other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd.
pubLic works engineers
AND CONTRACTORS-
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO - ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London :
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch ;
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
Billett’s Patent Hot-Air Tuyere
Saves 25 0 in Wages and 30 ( in Coal.
This is not our statement, it is the statement of users.
m ) j;
mL. - t _j
No. 1 . . 30/-, for light work
No. 2 . . 35/-, „ med’m „
No. 3. . 40/-, „ heavy „
Ask your store for bulletin,
or write direct to the
Sole Manufacturers-
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
they crept forward still a little further last
'ear, but the movement appears to be now
well in hand. What the co.’s very .capable
management aims at is steady expansion, and
it is characteristic that balance-sheet com-
parisons play no circus tricks:
19X5 1021. 1924. 1925.
< 'apital ...Cl 55,293 £250,000 £275,993 £275,993
Liabilities .. 114,557 210,757 180,9t>S L ‘ ,624
Stocks. . .. 123,408 242,847 190,040 202,502
I'rnneitv 99,235 138,327 125,075 125,314
Plant * etc *' 27,877 23!571 27,458 28,408
Hook ’debts', etc. 08,870 111,418 130,283 133,920
Cash and invest- „„ ~
•incuts .. 1G.334 21,934 11,855 2,806
Liabilities include £39,000 of 5 )).c. inter-
minable stock, and the co. is fortunate in
having the nse of that cheap money, -fne
position is strong: stocks alone exceed a 1
liabilities: they have been marked strictly
in accordance with present-day costs. And
the bulk of tins freeholds stand in at figures
much below present values. Nevertheless,
and notwithstanding the nice pink glow in
the Queensland sky, the 8 p.c. div. doesn t
seem very securely anchored: last year was a
year of abundance in Brisbane, yet the mar-
gin here was very narrow. Reserves, having
been tapped thrice since 1916 and having
had to bear the incursion to make good the
loss of 1922, are by no means substantial
when related to capital. The market vs
therefore not impressed, and buyers recently
have refused to move beyond 17s. 6d.
* * * *
The English Electric Co. of Australia,
Ltd. —This co. is feeling the effect of low-
wage overseas competition, and Ihe directors
announce that accounts to March .!1 will not
be submitted in May as has been the cus-
tom. hut will be delayed until September.
They hope that it may be easier then to com-
pile a Profit and Loss account. At present,
fhey say, the absence of any indication. ot the
probable future of Australian engineering in-
dustry makes this difficult: —
For the past year completed business showed
average profit, due to contracts obtained when
prices were better. It has been the co.’s custom,
however, before talcing out the year’s profits, to
carry forward from £50,000 to £BO,OOO of
“charges.” on “overhead” on uninvoiced and incom-
plete work. At present the directors find it im-
possible to make an estimate until it finds out
i lie Federal Government’s intentions so far as the
engineering trade is concerned. Weymouth’s [the
Melbourne subsidiary] is almost at a standstill, and
has not earned a dividend for the year. Standard
Way good [the Sydney lift subsidiary] is do-
ing satisfactorily, although it could import the
finished article cheaper than it can be made locally.
But the manufacture of all its requirements helps
to keep tiie parent eo.’s Clyde workshops going.
Hitherto English Electric lias enjoyed a sympathetic
preference, but this month the Victorian Govern-
ment placed a big order for Swedish-made electric
transformers, at what is reported to be a saving of
40 per cent, on local tender prices. Four years ago
the eo. initiated the manufacture of transformers in
Australia, and put down special plants in Sydney
and Melbourne. Prices of transformers promptly
dropped 25 p.c., and kept on dropping, recent prices
being 66 p.c. under the old rates. Even at that
heavy cut the English Electric could do business.
But the latest price is the finish. The directors
state that they -have no desire to see the Austra-
lian standard of living reduced, but Government-
created Arbitration Courts order certain wages, and
vet the Governments refuse to buy Australian goods
because those wages make prices higher than those of
low-wage countries overseas.
Shareholders ai*c assured that the financial posi-
tion of the co. continues strong. The year
finished with cash in the bank and stocks smaller
than usual. The eo.’s claim against Sydney City
Council is unsettled; the amount involved represents
a 5 p.c. div.
The meeting will be held on May 1, when
the adjournment will be proposed.
* * * *
Commonwealth Traders Insurance
Co., Ltd., an amalgamation of the fire, acci-
dent and marine department of the Common-
wealth General Assurance Corporation, Ltd.,
and the Australian Traders Insurance Co..
Ltd., has issued its prospectus. Authorised
capital is £500,000 in £l. shares, ot which
approximately 25,000 will be issued to the
Commonwealth as part payment tor its
fire, accident and marine business, Io.OUU
in part payment for the shares ot
Australian Traders, and 10,000 to the
shareholders of the Traders for the sur-
plus assets. The Commonwealth has under-
written 15,000 shares, the Traders 10.000,
and the directors of the new co. 2d,OOO;
100,000 shares arc offered for subscription,
50 000 are reserved for subscription by the
shareholders of the two cos., and the other
quarter-million arc held in reserve. The co.
started operations as from April 1, and the
prospectus claims an annual income ot
£95,000. This Column reviewed the accounts
of both cos. recently. The new co. will have
a flying start; it should win more business
than the aggregate underwriting of both the
old cos.! and, providing expenses arc kept
down to bedrock, it stands a good chance ot
success, even though it will have to seek
business in the face of competition from some
of the best-managed offices iu the world.
* * * *
At the Mount Isa Mines meeting in Syd-
ney last week, W. Mcßae, who presided,
explained the terms of the half-million Lon-
cion deal. The debenture issued against the
loan would carry 7 p.c. Execution of the
agreement will follow the expenditure of
£lOO,OOO by the Mt. Isa Co. to prove that
plant and water storage are justified, the
money to be available when required. The
debenture debt would be reducible by an ? aal
instalments extending over 10 '
erection of the first unit of plant. As an
alternative an option had been granted foi
."000 shares, each of £lOO, to be exercised on
the erection of the first unit. He pointed
out that Isa was a field as distinct from a
mine, and a good deal of capital was ne.'de
to develop it. To date about £43,000 had
been spent by the co. To provide tuithei
funds it. was proposed to offer shareholders
2500 shares at par in proportion to then
holdings, with rights in a like issue within
12 months. Since the close ot the accounts
the purchase of the South Go. s leases| has
bocal completed. It was stated that £.10,000
of the issued capital is held in London.
There is an inducement to pay mining
calls in Australia providing the show is
worth consideration: full allowance for them
is made in calculating Federal income-tax.
The allowance in the case ot the new Mount
Isa shares will amount to £l9—-a nice sum.
There should not be many rights left over
for public consumption. #
The* value of 'gold production for March
from each of the big Golden Mile cos. just
about balanced expenditure (boulder lei
severance’s yield was 4000 tons worth
£12,000, but no working costs were shown).
Excluding Perseverance, tonnages ranged
from 5000 to 10,000, while gold output and
expenditure per ton averaged about 38s. 1 >e
proposed gold bonus would do shareholders
in'these companies some good in the way ot
dividends, but whether it would tend to re-
vive the mining industry or cause an addi-
tional ton of ore to be treated is doubtful.
Home day, when tributors get hold ot the
mines, a‘revival, perhaps on a small scale,
will occur and profits show up suddenly.
* * * *
A pertinacious Adelaide crowd has poured
calls and loan money into Ives Reward
(W.A.) over a long period of years, and it
is likely to stay there. After much official
optimism the best that could be shown tor
March was 994 tons milled for a yield ot
51s. lOd. per ton; gold content of residues,
6s. 10d. Naturally shareholders are asking
when that ore from which 50s. to 80s. assay
values were so often reported is to be tieated.
* * * *
Westralia has been wanting a new find
badlv. and possibly in Hollow and Heatons
discovery, 60 miles south of Southern Cross,
it has got what it wants. Six leases have
been pegged by various prospectors—not ot
the motor-car type, either —and already two
shafts have been sunk to a depth ot <0 teet.
Ore widths from four to eight feet have been
exposed and cold values range from lodwt.
to 40dwt. The find looks promising, and, as
it is in an out-of-the-way place, the pros-
pectors will deserve all the rich patches
that may come to them.
“Old* ’Un”: Mostly mixture shows in
Daylesford (Vic.) mines at the moment, so
that calls have become an item. Central
Ajax is still trying its luck, at about 4_.>tt.
Stone is in plenty, but gold is erratic.- 4lie
lode seems to have split, which hasn t improved
things. Next door the Ajax is hard at work
trying to get a new' flat make with which to
warm up the bears, but the runs of gold have
at last petered to very small shoots. Cornish
United at shallow' depths so far shows
onlv low'-grade quartz, and it takes the
skiil of Louis Hansen at the Ajax North to
keep the balance on the right side. His
prospecting at No. 9 level is the feature oi
the field, for there he is in the danger zone
which cuts up cash and gives little back.
* * * *
All the good patches are not gone even
yet. Radley, Plunkett and Stafford, who
are working a small show- at Arthur s Creek
(Vic.), crushed 5 tons for iOoz. at the
Mines Department’s portable battery at
Queenstown —a very useful “toy” it is
proving. '
North Blocks, Broken Hill, cheers Adel-
aide backers by providing a 12ft. lode . at
60ft. Metal contents of 22 p.c. lead, 10 p.c.
zinc and 21oz. silver are fair if there is
enough of the ore to make a mine. That can
be proved by sinking, and Adelaide is asked
to find cash to push on. To maintain shaft-
sinking new scrip is aA'ailable at a premium
of £4 a share, half of the option at that price
of four shares for each one now held to be
available on August 1 next, and the other
half on February 1, 1926. So far, after 30
years’ scratching, nothing worth twopence
has been got north of the North mine and
its Victoria Cross block. Scores of thou-
sands spent on Round Hill merely proved it
to be a dud, only the machinery man profit-
in". North Blocks people, being so close to
the’ Broken Hill lode, think they have a bet-
ter chance than the blocks across the valley
which separates the Broken Hill and Round
Hill ranges.
* * * *
Coal. Ltd., is still on the lookout for capi-
tal with which to finance its Appin (N.S.W.)
property. Chairman W. M. Fleming has
tried London, but J. Bull shies oft on account
of labor risks in Aussie. He may change
liis mind later, and so hands are kept open
in the big city to grab him whenever he nuiy
relent To get in some cash the surface
rights’ of three blocks at Appin have been
sold. A little item of £443 of sundry credi-
tors vanishes, and £370 is wiped oft the
mortgage of £3520. When putting the sur-
face sale through all coal rights were re-
tained, so should capital flow in mining
property won’t suffer. Freehold stands in
the books now at £7651.
* * * *
Glowing forecasts issued from Belimbla
Creek, Ncrrigundah (N.S.W.), in a circular
dated Nov. 1. 1024, are heavily discounted bj
last week’s mine report. In November Joseph
Campbell, tho co.’s consulting engineer, stated
that “the erection of the Great Battery is
now nearing completion, and crushing wu.
commence in January.’’ N] so > 1 ie .,
is in nearly 450 ft., and will strike the lode
when driven another 400 or 430 teet.
The sequel to all this, on paper, was thus set
out: “We are all proud of what we have
accomplished, and shall be prouder still when
the stamps begin to fall and the stream of
gold begins to run early in the New Year.
Nearly six months have passed by, amid an
ominous silence, and now we arc told that
crushing, long deferred, started on April 10,
that the tunnel is in 500 ft. and still has
300 ft to go, and that the ore being treated
is “bulk lode stuff of medium grade broken
from the surface to a depth of 50ft.” ; and
it is indicated that supplies of this will have
to be depended on until high-grade stuff is
cut in the tunnel. As, however, the tunnel
seems to have been advanced only 50ft. since
Nov. 1. and has 300 ft. to go. the “high-grade
stuff” is still a long way off.
The mill of the Vegetable Creek, Ard-
lethan (N.S.W.), has started again, and is
running two shifts. Underground there is
no improvement in the western pipe, but
Nos. 2 and 4 are reported to be "on good
ore.” An open-cut commenced at the mouth
of the old battery shaft revealed only "poor
ore.”
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W 7 .) has en-
tered lean ground again, and the plant has
not been behaving. After securing succes-
sive weekly returns of 155, 178. 107 and
1960 z., there was a slide to 107 and 46
in the last couple of weeks.
*• ' * * *
John Cock, who is managing two alluvial
prospecting shows at Gulgong (N.S.W.) , has
given his half-yearly account of stewardship.
On the Digger Prince the shaft has been
sunk 130 ft. and plat opened. Bedrock was
reached at 00ft. after 7ft. of running drift,
had been penetrated. Driving towards the
site of No. 3 bore, 160 ft. south of the shaft,
will be the immediate development work.
Cock is hopeful that the shallowness of the lead
and absence of heavy water will assist the
dividend cheques. Of the Gulgong Gold and
Diamond Mines he says that the Home Rule
lead has been located by boring and proved
to be over 300 ft. wide and 3ft. thick. "Ihe
gold brought up in each of the last four
bores was decidedly payable, particularly
when it is considered that it is impossible to
recover the gold lying on the bottom, where
the specific gravity would carry most of it,
owing to the action of the boring tools
onerating in 70ft. to 80ft. of water. A
shaft 220 ft. will be sunk on this property,
which the optimistic manager describes as
one “from which the usual mining elements
of speculation and risk are absent.’
* * * *
Large vein formations are being opened
up by Lucknow Pups (N.S.W.), but gold
values are ineffective for battery returns
without a rich patch to help out. The joint is
definite, several west-to-east contact veins
exist, but there is no bonanza yet. No. 4
vein is being followed to its hanging-wall
junction with the serpentine. A favorable
symptom is the increasing hardness of the
formation, latest vein breakings showing
much iron and some arsenical pyrites. No. •>
rein rise is following a shoot of pyrites.
**« * *
Stoping of ore at the 300 ft. level in South
Lucknow continues in preparation for crush-
ing. The ore is being mined for the full
width of lode, and will be “an average sample,
according to the last report.
* * * *
Riverina Collieries has succeeded in rais-
ing the £20,000 it sought to equip its
colliery at Coorabin (N.S.W.), so that the
main shaft may reach the coal body. Ihe
amount was subscribed chiefly by Riverina
graziers. The problem of adequate markets
may be less easily mastered.
* * * *
March yield of 25 tons from Tongkah Com-
pound ( F.M.S. ) included 16 tons 3cwt. from
the second fortnight, and enabled Melbourne
bull operators to push shares to 18s. 9d.
before Easter. Incautious bears have been
caught since the improved mining position
became known, and their scramble to cover
sent quotations higher. As the co. holds
40.000 shares in the No. 2, its quarterly
revenue is £2OOO from that source, and im-
pi’ovement on that is probable before the
end of the year.
* * * *
New Guinea Oil Co. is issuing another
11,000 shares with priority to holders of the
original 39.000, on which 5s. yet remains
uncalled. There will still be 100,000 reserve
shares, which will not be dealt with without
reference to present holders. All the plant
has been bought, paid for and transported
to the Yailala River; and a launch now in
commission in Papuan waters cost £3000 in
Sydney. The eo. expects to commence drill-
ing within three months.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington. New Zealand.
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
When Justice Jimmy Blair, who has been
sentencing evildoers in the Central Queens-
land district, left his old headquarters at
Rockhampton, on transfer to Brisbane, almost
his first job was to attend the funeral of his
cl “ ef - It was Blair who pulled McCawley
clerks stool in the Justice Department
and showed him the way to a seat on the
Bench. Blair was then Minister for Justice,
and the master and the servant changed
places in after years, Blair becoming a Cir-
Chief Justice Me' [?] the brilliant
Queenslander [?] very suddenly
last week.
cuit Judge am ...7 ley C.J. Mrs.
McCawley was Maggie O’Hagan, 14 years
ago a step-daughter of John Lyons, a school-
teacher.
Various papers announced that when the
late McCawley, of Queensland, became Chief
Justice at 41 he was “easily the youngest
holder of that office yet known in the world.”
But that famous beauty man Jeffreys was Chief
Justice of England at 35 and Lord Chan-
cellor at 37. Probably there have been many
more instances, for the wnrlrl is wirio nnh
people started young in the davs when the
average duration of life in England was sun-
posed to be 14 years.
Bishop Gilbert White, formerly of Car-
pentaria and now of Willochra (SA)
announces that he will cease to bish at the
end of this year, and will probably live in
Sydney. Meanwhile he has had the big com-
pliment of being nominated by the Anglicans.
Uesleyans, Presbyterians and Congregation-
alists oi Sou’sfralia, and bv X. s. Wales
also, as representative at a "Christian Con-
ference on Life and Work.” to be held in
Sweden m August.
n ? u< ? ge Poole of South Aus.. being acting-
Vr in ,' e absence on a European tour of
I'lurray. has now been sworn in as “State
Administrator,” on the departure on holiday
of Governor Bridges. The position had not
arisen before since 3891, when, in the inter-
val between Governors Robinson and Kin-
tore, Judge Boucaut stepped up during the
temporary absence of Way, C.J. The father
, . lo tJ V ew Administrator is the veteran
cicnc Slaney Poole, who is now writing his
reminiscences of a busy life.
L. A. Crouch, who has been elected vice-
president of the \ ic. Labor party, is one of
the few survivors of the first Federal Mouse
and one of the probabilities among the four
Labor candidates for the Senate in his State
After returning from the Big War he joined
the Labor party over the conscription issue
and last year represented it in London at
the International Labor Conference.
fhr i ß^ a^n' ' Bef ™°i h 0 oam< ‘ t 0 Australia
the Rev. George Walters (R. 9/4/'2;l) had
a charge of souls
in Aberdeen, where
I lived as a lad.
He published n
sermon, “Is there
a Devil?” which I
was reading when
an old Highland
aunt of mine
caught me. She
had no doubts
about the existence
°f a devil; nor had
I when she had
finished.
The greatly
respected L. A.
ADAMSON, head-
master of Wesley.
Melbourne.
Millions of tourists will revere, and thou-
sands of guides execrate, the memory of the
late Baedeker, of Berlin, who. after setting
up signposts over most of the world, from
Paris to Pekin, from Khartoum to Canada,
is now appraising the sunsets, monuments
and wayside inns of the next world for the
benefit of future travellers. The sober-
sided German published over 40 volumes that
were the bane of the parasites who live on
the innocents abroad. Tie exploded innumer-
able local myths, and dispelled with honest
criticism the atmosphere of awe that clusters
round a hundred worthless European
“masterpieces.” If he had reached Australia
it would have been interesting to see how he
would have dealt with such hardy legends
as the South Australian “Proclamation
Tree” and the romantic story still sometimes
propagated at La Perouse that the French
navigator and Captain Cook raced neck and
neck through Botany Heads for the owner-
ship of this continent.
Provided no objection is raised by the
authorities in England, it is likely that the
remains of the late Prof. J. I. Hunter will
be brought to Australia for interment within
the grounds of Sydney University, a sug-
gestion to that effect having met with the
approval of members of the Uni. committee
which was appointed to consider the erec-
tion of a memorial. So far the matter is
in a nebulous state, but something definite
will come of: it within the next week or two.
R. G. Beardsworth, the new president of
the l ie. Labor party, was never known to
call his parents “Da-da” and Mum-ma”; he
commenced by addressing them as “Fellow-
electors. In spite of being the youngest
president the V.L.P. has had, he has already
chased political honors three times, on each
occasion for Dandenong—and unsuccessfully.
Starting: union activity very young*, away
back in 191/, lie represented the Storemen
and Packers on the Confectioners’ Wages
Board. He is a town councillor of Carrum,
and sec. of the Chelsea Repatriation Com-
mittee ; and, naturally, amongst other things,
president of a football club, Kobody gets
any distance in Vic. politics without holding
office with a football club.
“W.J.D.”: A fine cricketer, a sound
teacher, a good baritone and a thorough
gentleman is James Barnett Telfer, the new
member of the N.S.W. Public Service Board.
That his elevation will help to promote har-
mony in the. service let the following inci-
dent bear witness. Twenty years ago the
writer, at an hour’s notice, was asked to
accompany a rehearsal of the old Metropoli-
tan Liedertafel. Being unacquainted with
Signor Hazon, lie was surprised at the.
Italian’s stormy commentary all through the
practice. The tenors, basses and everybody
else received a lurid Dago trouncing. Won-
dering whether he was the cause of the musi-
cal tornado, the pianist, somewhat dismayed,
tried to slip away unobserved. But he was
stopped by a first bass. “You did famously,”
he said. “Take no notice of old Roberto —
a great chap, only noisy. You'll soon get
used to him. Buck up and come again!”
The bucker-up and harmony-restorer was
J. B. Telfer.
Eighty on Anzac Day, William Copley, a
veteran S.A. farmer, who long ago was Min-
ister of Education and Lands and Chief
Secretary in State Ministries under I’lay-
ford and Downer.
Many corners of the Commonwealth could
produce people who received part of their
education under William Walker Fox, who
died recently at 87 in Launceston (Tas.).
At 25, with a B.A. certificate, he took charge
of Horton College, Ross, and remained head-
master for 26 years. He left a widow and a
daughter. The latter is Mary Fox, M.A..
principal of Launceston Ladies’ College, and
the coach and manager of several inter-State
hockey teams representing the Speck.
Big, hearty Jack Virgo is marking his
60th birthday by retiring from the Y.M.C.A.
work with which he lias been associated since
he was 20. Born at Glenelg (S.A.) he was
an athletic youngster who introduced broad-
mindedness to the Y.M.C.A. movement. In
14 years he added so much to the strength of
the association in S.A. that his appoint-
ment as national secretary and then general
secretary for Australasia followed naturally.
In 1911 he became general secretary at
London headquarters, and during the wiy
controlled the whole Y. Emma outfit. For
many vears past lie has worked without
salary: as lie could not serve as a soldier lie
refused to be paid for doing civilian war-
work. The job from which lie now retires is
lion, national sec. for the British Empire.
To Virgo practically the whole of the modern
organisation of the Y.M.C.A. is due; before
his virile principles were asserted it was
an organisation to which only James and
John who were never known as Jim or Jack
cared to belong.
Found in the river, at Adelaide, with
nothing to show that it was other than acci-
dent, Tom Porter, who had been missing from
his home for three days. Before his retire-
ment, several years back, he had been one of
the pillars of S.a. Land Office, and Deputy
Surveyor-General.
J. IV. Kitto, who is to return to Sydney
as Deputy-Postmaster-General vice Whysali.
retired, lias had three years in the same
position in South Aus.. where he succeeded
Bramble. J. E. Monfries, Chief Clerk in
Sydney, was also recently promoted from
Adelaide. Kitto learned his business in Vic-
toria. but from 1913 to 1922 was accountant
at Sydney G.P.O. His hobby is preaching
for the Methodists.
There is great sorrow among the friends
of Alan Field Payne, a Rhodes scholar of
some years ago and recently an engineer with
the Metropolitan (Melb.) Board of Works.
Payne, a keen young man of 29 years and
still studying hard as well as working, re-
cently suffered a nervous breakdown. Find-
ing life suddenly insufferable, lie abruptly
dashed away from some friends at Maffra,
and, wading out into the river, drowned him-
self before he could be reached.
Stanley Argyle has once more made it
clear that he won’t be a cypher anywhere.
Hr is president of the Vic. branch of the
British Medical Association, and when C. S.
Crouch, the sec. of that body, made com-
ments on the findings of rhe National Insur-
ance (Federal) Commission with which he
did not agree, he promptly issued a state-
ment that the observations did not represent
the views of the organisation, and that they
were, in fact, inexact. Argyle took excep-
tion particularly to Crouch’s remark that
90 p.c. of the meds. were opposed to any
form of national insurance.
Heaven is the name of a Baptist cleric,
stationed at Hopetoun (Vic.), who has just
been registered by the Government Statist
for the celebration of marriages. Surely
no divorces will follow his hitchings.
“Wealsman”: Of the 60 or 70 probable
starters for the 30 Tasmanian Assembly seats
on June 3 one of the youngest is Enid Lyons,
wife of Premier Joe: and Attorney-General
Ogilvie and Chief Sec. Guy are runners-up
in the juvenile class. Though Mrs. Lyons
is the devoted mother of seven engaging little
Lyons cubs, she is not much over 30. and,
though inclined to plumpness, is still as
pretty as a picture. The oldest of the can-
didates is William Ebenezer Shoobridge,
M.H.A. for Franklin, but this time running
for Wilmot. Though in his 80th year and
suffering from a lame hip, the result of a
fall on a frozen footpath in Quebec 10
years ago, he is as strong and sure on his
feet as many men half his age. On Good
Friday he climbed Mt. Wellington in this
writer’s company, and throughout the clam-
ber talked incessantly about water-power
and irrigation.
There is no doubt that in M.L.. whore
sentiment is still apt to play a large part in
politics, Massey’s illness will influence the
elections Even those who differ from him
politically he has no political enemies
would not grudge him the achievement of
his ambition to beat the Seddon record. To
all Maonland Massey stands for honesty and
stable government, and the personal respect
accorded lnm is enormous. Also, the Massey
tamilj has never obtruded itself unduly on
the public, and although the chief has a son-
“FARMER BILL” MASSEY, of Maoriland,
the only surviving war-time Premier in
the Empire, who in his 14th year of the
Priministership is having a stubborn
fight with sickness.
in-law. Cedric Salmon, high up in the Public
U orks Dept., he climbed there on his own
tecC He was a brilliant engineering student
m Canada, and a very youthful captain and
D.S.O. at Anzac long ere lie married the
I render's daughter. In any case, say the
Masseyitcs, if eclipse comes to the party it
will be only temporary, as in his two hench-
men, the capable and brainy Downie Stewart
and the energetic and popular ,T. G. Coates.
M.C. has two young politicians who must
come to the top.
"Poppet Legs": Concerning apple-eating
stunts (B. 9/4/’25). When John Ycrran
was Premier of South Aus., I remember him
opening an election campaign at Wallaroo.
After an impassioned address lasting nearly
two hours, lie finished abruptly and sat
down; and as the Mayor rose to respond
to a vote of thanks, John produced a huge
apple from Iris coat-pocket and gave a capi-
ta! demonstration of mastication as it should
be carried out.
Death, the beating of whose wings he so
often heard when he was in charge of Mel-
bourne Morgue for 15 years, swooped down
on W. R. Davidson, ex-Superintendent of
ic. Police, the other day. A tip-top police-
man, intent more on keeping the peace than
making arrests, he was a good friend and a
boon companion. He handled some of the
most notable cases for coronial inquiry in
Vic. history. The Big Disturbance robbed
him of his only son, who, before claiming a
grave in Belgium, earned a captaincy and
the M.C. Ilis widow, married daughter and
eight grandchildren will, with scores of
friends, keep his memory green. He was
only 65.
h>ilky Oak : Being an extremist of the
industrial wing of Queensland Labor should
become popular. One Talty, secretary of
the Ban an aj and Police Union, who gave the
opposition journals a lot of copy before Iris
union forced the Government to bow at John
Hop’s will, has been presented with £4SS “as
a tribute to the efficient performance of
his duties." But a worse case is that of the
testimonial fund to Pierce Carney, a North
Queensland union rep. The fund for the
gent, who raves against Billy Hughes and
Ids acceptance of £25.000 stands at £1334.
Bill Everard, Ind. Lib. member for
Evelyn (Vic.). who went “back to
Heatlicotc” with a crowd of 1000 last
week, is a son of John Everard. M.L.A.,
who was a member of the first,
second, third, sixth and eighth Parliaments
(ISSB-77). His constituency (Rodney)
took in Heatlicotc. When John Everard
told a meeting of electors in the ’sixties
that Australia, which then imported flour
in barrels and butter in kegs, would before
many years help to feed Britain with the
two commodities, he was laughed at —just
as Hughie McColl was when lie talked irri-
gation. John Everard’s predecessor for one
session in the first Parliament (’57-’5B) was
John Dunstan Baragwanath, the man
Speaker Francis Murphy rebuked for coming
to the House in a jumper.
VOICES,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Jones, of Mosman, managed to pick up
voices from Hertfordshire, England, and Ohio, U.S.A.,
on his wireless set.... The selections from Caruso on
the gramophone were intensely appreciated.”
Over the world at its widest cometh the call distinct,
Borne on the waves of ether, till uttermost lands
an; linked ;
Echoes of songs a-vibrant, platitude, greeting, jest,
Hung from the snows to the tropics, bandied from
East to West.
There are golden tones and silver that the world
with their sweetness thrilled;
Time was when the death-touch stilled them. Now
who can say they are stilled—
A oices that soared and rippled, music with memories
rife,
Rising from out the shadows, floating from death to
life?
Marvels of science—wireless, phonograph, gramo-
phone—
Do you bring them, I wonder, closer, these sounds
o’er the spaces thrown
From over the years that sever and the waves and
the winds that blow,
Than there come to me in the darkness the voices
of long ago?
Out of the stillness and in it, over the trackless
ways,
Rich and ringing as ever, the tones of the far-back
days,
Sorrowful oft and poignant, tolling a requiem,
And never need of a wireless set to recapture them!
There are some still throw m greeting the goodwill
hails they flung
In the days when the earth was greener, the days
when all life seemed young.
Living or dead they may be, but the words thev
spoke abide;
And some there arc still that praise me, but ah!
there are more that chide,
Voices out of the never, vivid and wistful and clear.
Words, unheeded, of warning, and words, aye treas-
ured, of cheer;
Words of reproof or comfort, ever in memory kept,
\\oids of a woman pleading— and the voice of a
woman who wept.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BLACK
WHITE
P«f
1 .
>Jr
' WWmllmfM
m
•A
■
P >'i "P***w
>.* j
:.n!
Ipl^SlSi
j
, tV |
1 wi ‘
} ■
i i y
1 .s
mmm
\ J
IssS
|g§
mzM
:l
m
rlfflP
(MMtMS
fee If
• rV;; v -;.'
;
SCOTCH WHISKY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, are in the
predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards of 29,000,000 GALLONS or
Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks of this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky.


CDc
Equitable
mM
Cifc
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Dd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., 3lelb.
Fredlc. Levy, Managing Director.
For Your Boy
MACNAUGHT’S
BOOTS
Tan Derby Cut Boot—-
7x9. 10 x 13. lx 5.
13/6 14/9 15/9
They carry that wearing quality which a
.Boys Boot requires: Hard Wear, Good
Looks, Comfort Giving.
6.
17/6
Black Derby Cut Boots, strong sewn soles— t
7x9. 10 x 13. Ixs. 6
12/6 13/6 14/6 16/6
Black Calf Balmoral, Leather Lined—
-7x9. 10 x 13. Ixs. 6
14/6 15/9 18/6
Tan Calf Balmoral—
-7x9. 10 x 13. lx 5. 8.
14/9 ,16/9 19/6
MACNAUGHT SHOE STORES, LIMITED,
189 Pitt Street, 135 King Street, 22 Strand, Sydney.
At the Sydney Show
‘ <!
The
Genuine
Wieneke
'was recognised to be
the Champion Saddle
of Australia.
Write for my new book.
V John J. Wieneke
SADDLE SPECIALIST,
And at
434 Queen St., 371 George St.,
BRISBANE. SYDNEY
ABORICINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
I lie Rumpus”: Give me the crystal-
dear depths with the white-sand bottoms ot North
Australian waters for sight-seeing. I was being
rowed, over about 20 to 30 feet of transparent water,
with the shadow of our skiff moving jerkily on the
sands below. Schools of parrot and harlequin fisli
shot about like painted javelins, and now and again
a line of steel-blue bream crossed our track. A
long, flat-tailed, yellow-and-black snake swam lazily
not 3ft. from our keel. Into the picture came two
playful 12ft. sharks. They inspired fear among
the swimming schools, and the small fry flashed out
of sight. The newcomers interviewed the moving
black blotch on the bottom, but, when they found
no substance, started shadow-sparring, rushing in
with tremedous speed, and stirring up the sand with
their swank. I was so interested that I did not
notice we were approaching our anchored lugger.
Its larger shadow loomed up suddenly, and the
sharks shot forward to investigate. At that moment
our Malay diver heaved a hundred-weight of bad shell
overboard, and when the water cleared again the
swashbucklers w T ere gone.
* * * *
“Em Quad”: “Nitric” is wrong in assum-
ing that lice-infestation of the bandicoot accounts for
bushmen’s prejudice against eating it. In our dis-
trict (South Coast, N.S.W.) the ’coot is a clean-
skin ; yet, though bushmen hereabouts don’t object
to ’roo, I do not know of any who will eat ’coot.
Uogs also refuse to eat ’coot (even camouflaged with
stuffing- and gravy it won’t deceive them), and cats
will nibble the hindquarters only. By the way, am
I alone in asserting that bandicoots'eat eggs?’ It
sounds ridiculous, but I know of one-only one—
really indisputable case.
* * * *
Pick”: This is whore luck and misfor-
tune combined. With two and six in his pocket
and a 10-bob thirst in his
neck. Finlay hurried his
team and eight-ton load
towards Grogan’s in the
distance. Careering back
from Baldy the leader to
whip-handle old Rattler in
the pole, he picked up,
a half-crown. He washed
it in tobacco-juice and
“spit” for more luck, and
then attended to Trojan,
the laziest in the team.
Then he went roaringly
back to bring Rattler up
to the yoke again—and
high and dry on the dust
he found another ' half-
crown ! Finlay distinctly
felt his thirst ripen, and
he almost prayed to the
bullocks to hurry. He
straightened up Baldy, ad-
ministered some correction
to Dozy and Broad, and
was on his hurried way
back again to Rattler
when yet , another half-
crown arrested his gaze.
The absence of chink, how-
ever, as he joyfully yarded
it, caused Finlay to in-
vestigate his pocket. Only
his original wealth was
there—and a hole through
which it kept slipping.
Then Finlay for a time
neglected Trojan and Rat-
tler. He gasped towards
the distant pub and the air went blue for miles.
* * *
“7 p .N.”: Micky was a rat-faced, red-
whiskered little Irishman whose gloomy outlook on
life impressed one as being his chief feature. We
understood he was married to some extent, though
we hadn’t connected his marital relations with the
fits of dejectedness from which he suffered. Old Sam,
who was cooking for our tank-sinking outfit, had
worked mates with Micky on the Towers years before,
and said he remembered Micky was courtin’ about
that time. One day Michael got a letter from home
and became more fear-haunted and despondent than
usual. Next mail brought us a N.Q. Register, which
may or may not have indicated the cause of Micky’s
extra depression. In the “Social Notes” Mrs. Michael
figured as having won the Ladies’ Woodchop Contest
at Balfe’s Creek. Off scratch, too.
"Bill R."’; Xot only can Murray cod be
kept alive for weeks when tethered, they can be
fattened. When Harry Kemp caught his 96-pounder
at Jugiong (N.S.W.) the fish was rather emaciated.
Harry tethered it to an oak growing by the river
and fed it daily by hauling it partly out of the
water and dropping small fish into the cavernous
throat. The cannibal put on flesh rapidly until, at
the end of a month, he suddenly lost it all at 6d.
per lb. in the Murrumburrah fish-market.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: I’m satisfied there is safety in
numbers when there is a shark around. About a
dozen of us were swim-
ming in the Clyde River,
four miles from Bateman’s
Bay (N.S.W.). A big
shark, showing a fin,
cruised up the river within
10 yards of us. We got;
out, and in again; and
again the tin showed not
far away. Only fear hin-
dered him from having one
of us. He must have
been hovering round for 10
minutes. We gave it best,
and got out. Then Casey,,
a sawmill hand, came-
along for a dip, and swam
out alone, although we
warned him. He was on
his back, going with the
tide, when we saw the fin
moving his way. “Shark 1”
we yelled. There was a
splash and a dash, and
Casey won to the bank by
a second. A man swim-
ming alone in a shark-
infested place is looking
for trouble, and the
trouble has arrived in at
least two cases on N. S.
Wales beaches this year.
“Fez”: Isn’t it time to
bury the old fallacy about
the shark having to come
to the top of the water
and turn on his back be-
fore he can bite f Many
surfers consider themselves
quite safe from sharks
when there is no sign of
the triangular fin. Any
fisherman, however, will
tell you that most sharks
prowl about well under
water; some of them come
into as little as 2ft. And
the fellow that takes your
bait or a fish from your
iine—you never see him on the surface', nor does he
have to turn on his back.
“Dry”: I suspect the crow of being a
humorist as well as a capable forager. My neighbor
has a pet crow which at mealtimes perches where it
has a good view of the table. Anyone not guarding
his plate is liable to lose part of the content's. Not
knowing the ways of the bird, I did not guard my
breakfast egg on one occasion. There' was a flutter-
ing of wings, which fanned my face, then a click
as the crow’s beak entered the eggshell, and the
egg was gone before I could say good-bye. The bird
flew to its perch and devoured the hen fruit, keeping
its eye on me and cawing continuously. I almost
persuaded myself that the downy old fowl was
swearing at me in its own language for being a fool.
* * * *
“Euto”: If “Wink” (B. 26/3/’25) would
look at the five stamens of an oleander blossom he
would note they are arranged so as to form small
openings through which an insect passes its proboscis
in order to get at the -honey. When the proboscis
is fleshy it is easy to insert it into the opening; to
withdraw it is another matter. The proboscis slips
up into the apex of the rigid orifice and becomes
securely wedged, and the harder it is tugged the
tighter it is held. This would not apply to any
insect that has a slender and hard tongue, such as
a moth or a bee, but one that has the proboscis
capable of being constricted, like a house- or blow-
fly, would not steal the honey a second time. The
trap is quite mechanical, and apparently accidental.
In Brisbane only a nitive species of Muscio fly gets
caught, never any blowflies ( Calliphorines ), so I
am wondering if “Wink” has not misidentified his
find.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: The bul-bul is a demon for
fruit, although it was warranted to eat insects only.
And the critter is so beastly quiet that it can’t be
shooed out of the trees. It is less afraid of a scare-
crow than a thirsty navvy of a pint of beer. If
one is killed a dozen will come to the wake, and
get sozzled on fruit and flowers—prize blooms pre-
ferred. I wish I could get hold of the cow who
imported the pest—l’d give him the 0.8. E.
* * * *
“C. Coral": Being in an expansive mood,
Jimmy Susui gave me some observations on animated
nature in Torres Strait. “This time Nor’-West,” he
said, “man he must look out good for centifede
when he walk about night-time, bast week I go
inside house, slew my harcane lamp all over floor;
he got nothing centifede. I go sit down now, one
big centifede he jump from on top my bokis and trv-
bite my foot; he more long than my hand. All same
when your walk along road; that centifede he
stop on top some grass or bush he jump for vou
and catch your leg. Big black one, that kind/ he
pioper sore. One thing I see, when eentifede bite
on night-time when you sleep, you wake up, that
eentifede dead alongside you; man's blood poison
him, 1 think. Some bad thing stop on shore, but
plenty bad thing stop along salt water. He got
two kind stingree, this place—one kind like dimond,
lie go for you proper, only you see his two eye and
small piece tail along underneath sand; when you
put you foot on top, he get you quick with nail
in his tail. That kind he proper cranky ; can no go
straight when he swim; ho go every way. You
think he going away from you, but lie slew round
quick. Another kind he not so bad, but them two
THE CLOSURE.
MAISTER CHAIRMAN (local praicher): “Look ’ee ’ere, if youm
doan't behave yourselves and (love the candidate a fair
’earin' Ell per noun cc the benediction.”
kind make you leg- very sore. When he bite you,
he sore two times; s’pose you come out pour water
and put medicine, he tome all right, only sore one
time; .s’pose you go along that salt water again
before that hob- come strong, he hurt you more
than first time. Very good kind medicine for ihat
tiling; you take salt water, put him along bucket,
take some ashes and some hot fire and put him
inside; mix him up now all same milk, put you
toot inside. I think he come all right in one hour,
might! When we go look round fish, we must take
spear and put him alongside our foot in sand, like
this, so we can find out if that stingree hi- stop
there. Stone fish all same—he got nail for put
bad poison in your foot, too. I see that poison fish
lie about one foot long, he got ears, and he can
jump from small lagoon over dry place when tide
going out; he little bit: white with black head and
tail. He no been bite me, but some other man tell
me look out good ’long that one, he got poison.
I dunno; s’pose land or sea. we got look out all
same for some kind thing going spoil us.” Which
may bo quite true, but what about Jimmy’s state-
ment that the black centipede dies after gorging on
human blood at night? Is the mixture"of native
perspiration and cocoanut-oil too much for it?
“Hiawatha”: Recently in the North Esk,
near Launceston (Tas.), a trout was caught that
turned the scale at 161 b. This monster was known
locally as the ironmonger, owing to his habit of get-
ting away with hooks and line. lie had been hooked
several times, but had always escaped. When he
was opened several pieces of tackle were found in
his dairy. The bait that captured him was a wattle
grub.
* * * *
‘Machete : For the depraved-animal
stakes I enter Drunken Dan, of Cronulla (N.S.W.).
Dan belonged to an esteemed local citizen; but
haring years ago been called upon to choose between
his boss and his beer, he plunged for the latter. It
is Dan’s dissolute custom to enter the local hotel
frequently and breast the bar, putting- his forefeet
on it. If the barman doesn’t attend to him, or if
no one offers to shout, Dan tells the neighborhood.
He is a fair-sized setter type and has a resonant
if now somewhat husky baritone voice. His pro-
tests are usually the signal for a gathering of visi-
tors who have heard of his prowess, and after that,
as a rule, one beer leads to another. The more he
gets the more he wants and the more row he kicks
up if there is any loitering between drinks. Local
residents regard Dan as a discreditable nuisance, but
strangers look on him with admiration as an accom-
plished tosspot. Throwing him out is useless, un-
less all doors are shut and locked ; the best way of
getting rid of him is to fill him to his capacity.
That done, Dan staggers off on four errant legs
and sleeps like a log.
THE HAWKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis many years since I began
To watch across the burning plain
The Indian hawker, Ali Khan,
Lome swinging in his caravan
With silver clank of tin and chain,
His great-girthed horses 'neath their load
Splashing the dust along the road.
He’d stop at all the little farms
That slept beside the pepper-trees,
the reins between his hunched-up knees.
As brown as bracken-stems his arms,
Snow-white his turban-cloth that bred
A childish wonder and a dread.
(’lose up would swing the caravan,
Hinting ..of secrets dark inside—
**li, look, here comes the old black man!
Oh, let us go—’tis Ali Khan!”
And we would run away and hide.
A sinister figure, he would seem
To step from out some haunting dream.
And still he comes, turbaned and brown,
Across the plains that swim in heat,
Past dried-up creek and smoky town,
Past school and haystack tumbling down
And rippling squares of ripened wheat,
N T o wizard now with potent spell,
But: merely one who lives to sell.
The sheep-dog barks when Ali comes;
The farm-wife at the doorway stares,
While underneath the honey-gums,
Where restive now the wild-bee hums,
He takes out all his homely' wares,
Bringing a touch, provoking, gay,
Of streets and cities far away.
What goods are there in Ali’s pack?
Folded and boxed, a thousand things:
Striped rainbow-zephyrs, aprons black,
The little socks the children lack,
Vermilion beads and tawdry rings,
And pots and pans, and rounds of rope,
And reels that smell of scented soap.
Oh, Ali Khan! Have you no more
Piled up in bales of mystery' ?
No treasures steeped in Eastern lore
Hidden among your dwindling store?
Embroidered silks and filigree,
Quaint sweets that one might, find afar
In blistered street and bright bazaar?
FAIL TO HIM.
HIS WORSHIP : "Tell the Court where the young lady got the
ring. Surely you don't expect us to believe she bought
it out of her wages!"
WITNESS : “We ain’t all got dirty minds, y’r Worship .”
Are there no age-old scents that cling
About your homely merchandise—
Warm breaths of roses from some spring
In pink Kabul, perfumes that bring
Paint memories of white-walled skies,
Thick incense, sandal-wood and musk
Choking some well-remembered dusk?
I watch and wait. Your dark hand spreads
Beyond the canvas-curtained gloom
Silks from Bokhara, poppy-heads,
Squat, pipe-bowls carved in rusty reds,
Sheer muslins from some ancient loom,
liar-rings of jade and turban-cloths,
And slippers frail as tiny moths!
All these you take away with you—
Silver and gold, fine ivory—
Clip-clopping far into the blue
Until the haze is broken through.
And there are only left for me
The smears upon the grass’s sheen
To show me where your wheels have been!
Hut you are seeing once again
The tawny stream, the Afghan hills,
Urey villages upon the plain,
Squat-roofed and bleared with slanting rain.
Or, where the rose of evening spills,
The shaggy dromedaries go,
lllack with their loads against the glow.
Or do you see the distant line
Of turret, tower and bell-shaped dome,
Lush emerald crops, thin-bladed, fine.
Pale roads that twist from shrine to shrine
Past little huts that cry of home,
Or hear behind some carven wall
The lazy bulbuls call and call?
Oh alien! Oh Ali Khan!
Rich are the flimsy dreams you bear
Within your toiling caravan!
I only hold them for a span
Before they melt, again in air;
And 1 am sitting shelling peas
Beneath the placid pepper-trees!
VItSTOKIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


in;
Hi
I
S&i-Mii
you aj>e in every bottle
V'tKat/elfjranve jtandajd of
excellence which, haf made
KING
GEORGE
IV
FAMOU/' THE WORLD O’Elt
and conceded byconnoijjeurj' to be
/cOTLANDjrJbUNDEfT/TIMULANT
CALCIUM CYANIDE
For CERTAIN Rabbit Destruction,
U
FUMO
BRAND
&
m
Unlike other fumigants, the fumes of CALCIUM CYANIDE
are not generated outside the warren and then blown in.
That wav the fumes would quickly be absorbed by the soil.
No CALCIUM CYANIDE is blown in in the form of dust
The fumes are then instantly generated and last lor at least
twentv-four hours. Every opening is indicated b> a dust-
ekmcL No rabbit can escape, however deep the dead-ends
The dust is heavy and goes to the bottom, the gas 1 0
and rises into dead-ends.
The Fumo Dust Blower has Been de-
signed for the application of CALCIUW
CYANIDE as the result of twelve months
eXDerience. It is strong, simple and
convenient. The supply of dust is under
direct control and can be completely shut
off if desired.
State Distributors:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., I>ertb __
I
“Up North”: In the tropics sheets of
paper-tree bark supply the nigger with house,
umbrella, blankets and cooking utensils. If caught
in pouring rain, he tears off a portion of the bark
and fashions an unbeatable gingham. A few sheets
thrown over a low hanging branch give shelter from
sun arid rain to a whole tribe. On wintry nights
Binghi lays bark on the cold ground and wraps
it around himself as we do a blanket; in the day-
time lie makes a sort of apron from the stuff, which
is warm and pliable, though tough. TO travel by
night hi l winds the bark into a torch, and it
flares as if saturated with tar. When twisted in
the shape of boats it makes the vessels for soaking
the poisons from berries and bulbs.
“Bouragi”: The Papuan magistrate who
took away the native skull from the village, as
related by a Yankee writer (B. 2/'4/’25), was act-
ing Under orders. The public display of skulls,
jawbones and other relics of eaten humanity was
long ago forbidden, and the ordinance is strictly
enforced in villages coming under Government in-
fluence. William Macgregor rightly held that the
custom was an incitement to the young men who had
been prevented by the Pax Britannica from indulging
in the once-popular sport of “headin’ ’em’—Papuan
version. Their removal also deprives the local
flappers of opportunities to sling off at youths so
. ireutnscribed, a bit of feminine perversity which
has landed many a lad in Port Moresby gaol.
“Veronal”: I have occasionally struck on
rushes and other plants growing about our coastal
rivers and swamps small greenish-black beetles
which on being touched hopped nimbly to the ground
and lay quite still, shamming dead. These acrobats
are known as “flea-beetles,” and are widely distri-
buted throughout the world. During wet seasons
they sometimes invade gardens and play havoc among
the strawberry beds, riddling the tenderest leaves.
Except when these fits seize them the flea-beetles are
innocuous enough. Another very tiny blue-black
HIS CIRCUS.
CHOOM : “Pretty slow round here —not much
fun, ch what?”
DAD: “Aw, there'll be sumpin doin' next
week."
CHOOM: “Really! A circus or somethin’?"
DAD: “Yairs; you gotter start ploughin’.”
beetle sometimes occurs in numbers under the wool
covering the carcases of dead sheep left lying in
the open. These scavengers also have a wide range.
For companions they have, as a rule, a few supremely
hideous “devil’s coach-horses” —livid green marked
with scarlet. These ill-favored insects cock up then-
tails scorpion wise when discovered, but are in reality
of the earwig breed and quite harmless. Their safety
from natural enemies (including man) lies in their
hideousness and ferocious aspect.
* * * *
“V.E.”: Bees may object to the smell of
kerosene, but. unlike mosquitoes, they certainly
don’t to’ that of citronella. When using this drug
in mosquito-infested scrub I have been quickly
surrounded by a horde of honey-makers, all anxious
to sample the new flower. Pennyroyal oil, however
while the powerful and nauseous smell lasts, will
keep bees (and also botflies) away from horses.
“Yarrum”: On a farm up Mudgee way
(NS W.) an old turkey-hen was sitting on a
clutch of eggs. After a week the old thing died
suddenly— snakebite, it was .thought—and fhe on y
broody bird available was a goose She brough
out the lot; and then trouble started. She used
to take the family to the river; but coax as she
might, she could never get them in. On<? day, after
exhausting all ber powers of persuasion, she swam
to the other side, walked off in plain disgust, and
that was the last the young turks ever saw of
mother. #
“Centre”: Grain-eating birds must have
either a marvellously developed
sense of taste or no taste at all.
It seems impossible that a bird
can detect any flavor in a grain
of wheat in the fraction of a
second it takes to pass from beak
to crop; yet you can’t fool a
rooster with anything that merely
looks like wheat. He’ll pick up
the good, and leave the other,
more quickly than you can follow
his movements. I tried a hen
there was nothing special about
her, just ordinary hen—with a
mush of boiled wheat husks in-
stead of bran. After her first
charge up to the dish she
stopped dead and looked at
it, and if ever a hen gave
a sniff of disgust she did,
as, throwing me the cold eye, she
strolled over to the fence to tell
the hen in the next pen what she
thought of me. That was sight,
but how did she know that she
wouldn’t like the flavor of it ?
I’ve noticed certain kinds of Cage-
birds eat only certain seeds; if
any other ?ort is introduced into
their feed-boxes it is never eaten,
the birds picking their usual seeds
Out and avoiding the foreign stuff.
Is that done through sight or taste ?
Waterfowl, including the domestic
duck, do seem to judge by taste,
and will often take food into their
bills only to shake it violently
out again if it is not to their
liking. Is that due to their sense
of taste, or do they judge by the
feel of the stuff in their mouths?
“Mimax”: “Booth B.” (B. 2G/3/’25) A 3
slightly out in his reason for a dressed diver standing
pressure. The cushion of aif around him has
nothing to do with it; the air pressure inside him
has everything to do with it. Actually he is sub-
jected to the same pressure in his suit that he would
get without it at the same depth; but his lungs and
body cavities are also full of air at the same pres-
sure, so he is compressed both inwards and outwards.
If a pipe were led to his mouth and the air pumped
correctly he would be better off without the dress ,
but a pump that will supply him with air when
he inhales and cease pumping when he exhales is
beyond human ingenuity ; so he must have the dress.
* * * *
“FY7”: The peculiarity of the goanna’s
reproductive organs, referred to by “J.D.C.” (B.
26/3/’25), may be seen in nearly all the lizards,
including the crocodiles and other branches of the
familv. The condition, which is most marked in
the male, is not really a duplication, but a division.
* * * *
“Bunya” : Now that the R.A.O.U. is con-
sidering a revision of native-bird names, what s
wrong with reviving some of the soft-sounding and
always appropriate labels put on the biids by
Binghi? The blacks usually named a bird from its
call, and good examples are curnlwong and boobo .v
(though the latter cry was “mopoke” to the white-
man). Lowan (lyre-bird), willaroo (curlew), jerryang
(green lorikeet), gang-gang (cockatoo), brolga, kooka-
burra, galah and jabiru (our one stork) are a few ot
the survivals. Instead of such simple names, the
. learned ornithologists have given us atrocities such
as the buff-rumped thornbill, the olivaceous thick-
head and the stink-bird—-all beautiful little birds
and excellent singers. The job of naming our native
birds should be left to the poets—or the children.
* * * *
“D.D.D.”: A kid competitor in the recent
Mick Simmons line-fishing competition on the Bris-
bane River got something startling in the way of a
bite, and refused all assistance. At last he suc-
ceeded in landing a fine dogfish of about 41b., which
proved the queerest catch ever. The fish was evi-
dently an old river stager, and had no less than
five rusty hooks of various sizes in its jaws. Strangest
of all it had been carrying about for an un-
known’ period about 10-in Ches of stout catgut with
a solid lead sinker attached.
* * * *
“Pick”: The snipe is the trickiest of all
game birds to shoot a-wing. When it rises it has
a zigzagging dart of extreme speed, and to pot it
the shooter has to anticipate the direction of the
swerve Often he pulls the wrong way and is
vards out when he lets go. In the late summer Mr.
Snipe arrives in clusters on the N.S.W. inland
swamps and lake shores. He is vary and shy, and
his “cheep cheep” puts to hurried flight every bird
in the region when a gunman looms oven the horizon.
There is a hunter’s device, though, to steady him.
A kite to represent a swamp-hawk, flown from
cover over the reeds, will keep every snipe aground
until flushed by the pointer. Then, while the
ammunition lasts, and the dog works, and the
luck holds, the shooter may—l said may—have the
time of his life.
“Hamer”: The homing instinct of a horse
lately brought a. suggestion of a tragedy to
a family in the Cann River district, near
Orbost (Vic.). Many Australian wanderers
are casual about maintaining communication
with home, and when a son of*the family, who left
in November, 1922, failed to write, the fact was
not regarded as having any significance. A year
later however, his horse, without saddle or bridle,
turned up at the farm ; and ever since then the family
has been haunted by a feeling that something has
gone wrong, although it was not until the other day
that it was moved to confide its fears to the police.
Yet there may be nothing sinister in the incident.
"OH GRACIOUS, I'VE FORGOTTEN TO WRITE
THAT FAREWELL LETTER!"
rhe horse of a Berry (N.S.W.) man who said good-
bye to his home in 1914 made its reappearance some
months later, and when its rider failed to turn up
also, or to write, he was put down as dead. In
1919 he reappeared, unheralded, as a returned soldier
carrying some war injuries; and one of the in-
teresting items of the story he had to tell was that
he had enlisted in Maryborough (Vic.), where he
had sold his steed before going into camp. How
the animal found its way over the long march home
remains a mystery.
* * * *
“Boronia”: Few orchardists appreciate
the value of bird life to their industry. 1 watched
the whiskers of a Westralian exhibit disturb the atmo-
sphere while he fulminated against the damage being
done to his stone fruits by small birds. He admitted
that they claimed only a small portion of a crop
which did not have much market, value; never-
theless he had poisoned the fruit on several
trees and had various members of his family after
them with artillery. Then he moaned about the
presence of woolly aphis on his apple-trees, and
expressed the opinion that it was getting a holt
on them. That same day I observed a number of
his feathered “enemies” scoop off the aphis in the
laterals with their beaks and swallow it with relish.
I tried to point out that it might pay to let the
birds have a bit of stone fruit on their .menu in order
to have the aphis reduced, but as his whiskers moved
menacingly again I did not press the matter.
* * * *
“Gambit”: Towser bad better look to bis
laurels. A dairyman of Port Melbourne has a horse
that challenges him. When Strawberry and her
sisters have been drained he beads them Out of
the milking yard towards their pastures green.
Should one of the ladies take the wrong turning,
Dobbin shoos her back to the straight path in
approved cattle-dog manner. He sees his charges
safe, then returns home and gives further proof of
intelligence by refusing to work between shafts.
* * * *
“Hecagus”: Recently I saw a flock of
peewits attacking one of their number up aloft.
Presently the hapless bird fell to earth, almost
pecked to bits. Was it a returning prodigal, a
soiled sister, or an incurable getting the happy de-
spatch? I wish some ornithologist would explain.
* * * *
“Gouger”: So long as tbe witch-doctor
leaves him alone, Binghi in his wild state is a hardy
customer. I got a shock one day when galloping
to scare an apparently hostile mob. One fellow,
although lighting out for the horizon with energy,
Was soon left behind by his cobbers. On getting
closer I saw he Had only one leg and a wooden stick
strapped to the thigh with vines. He dodged among
the stunted timber like a winded hare when the dogs
are right on it, and I couldn't bring him to a com-
plete halt. Afterwards I discovered that an alli-
gator had bitten his leg off.
*»* ; •
“G.H.”: In case any reader of “Golub’s”
par. (B. 26/2/’26) about acquired immunity from
snakebite by gradual dosing should go and do
likewise, let me put in a word of warning. Most
Indian snake-charmers protect themselves in the way
“Golub” mentions, but if you saw them you wouldn’t
envy them their immunity. The natural antidote
developed is nearly as bad for the system as the
poison itself. The snake-charmers I know in India
all have skins of the same unhealthy pale greenish-
yellow color. And their eyeballs have the same slug-
gish yellow tint. And they never ply their trade for
more than a few years.
* * * *
“Bioko”': I once saw a kangaroo, pursued
by two dogs, come to the edge of the Murray River.
It was a long way down to the water, and the roo
negotiated the incline by forming himself into a
ball and rolling. Is this a usual way of going
down a steep slope in a hurry, or was it an accident?
* * * *'
Jimmy Susu describes to “C. Coral how
the Criminal Investigation Department of the Torres
Strait works
When man he die, we take that body, put him
along inat outside house. AH them friend sit down
inside. Two man he lie down alongside that dead
body, gammon sleep, only he slew eye for look good.
By-and-bye ;markai [spirit] belong that dead man
he come outside that body, he go look one house
in village. He come back now, he got man [spirit
of living man] alongside, he show him that body.
Them two man lie lookout good. That mari he go
back along’ his house now, then them two man get
up, follow him, and find man inside that house.
They sing out, “Which way you been kill this man
• —-you been poison him? We see mari belong you.
They go now, tell all friends inside them houses,
they come and kill that man. That proper way for
find out what man make some kind purn-purri
against ’notlier man. Some time they find out that
same thing after that dead body buried. The man-
maidclag [sorcery maul lie go along that burial-
place, be stow himself way night-time, he keep look-
out. B.v-’n’-bye that mari must, come and look ttnr
place, and show which way that man been die, from
some kind poison or ’notlier kind tiling.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The dingo may be responsible
for worse crimes than killing sheep. Rightly 01
wrongly, lie is blamed for spreading hydatids, especi-
ally in those inland parts where men and animals
have to depend on dams and waterholes. One sick
dog would infest many sources of supply. The dingo
also harbors the tapeworm and a species of hook-
worm. Sheep drinking from an infected waterhole
carry these unpleasantnesses with them, and man
himself becomes a host.. He has too many non-
payin'l' boarders as it is. In rabbit country bunny
is often infected with the bladder worm, and this
also fastens on the dingo. Yes, Australia will have
to launch that nation-wide campaign against dingoes
and rabbits.
* * *
“Pick”: In following a trail by scent the
dog cannot give many points to a horse. At our
survey camp on the Monaro tableland (N.S.W.)
all our saddles and draughts had gone crazy over
the night-time arrival of a foal. Afraid that then
close attentions would damage the valued staggerer,
we shut them in the yard while we sent the mother
and foal to a distant paddock over wooded hills.
When we were clearing the line out there later in
the day, several of the draughts came sniffing along.
A swampy flat held them up for a time, but one
old fellow picked up the spoor again on the other
side, and at evening they were peering in line over
the fence at the worshipped newcomer. Hours after
it was laid they had followed the trail for upwards
of three miles.
* * * * ,
“Up North” : The niggers in the big scrubs
back of the Daintree (N.Q.) have a thrilling way
of killing snakes for the larder. A black will grip
a reptile behind the head and jamb the latter into
his mouth, upside-down. Then he will give the
body a sharp tug, which dislocates the vertebral
column. It doesn’t . Seem feasible, I suppose, but
I’ve seen it done many a time. Another playful
method, and one I’ve used myself, is to quickly
snitch the end of the wriggler’s rudder, drawing it
back instantly and swinging the animal around the
head exactly as you’d swing a whip. When you
“crack” sharply the head flies off. But you must
be very quick on the swing, as in quickness only
does safety lie.
CONGENIAL EMPLOYMENT.
LAWYER (to desperate criminal) : “It’s a
hundred to one I get you off. And,
what’s more —if it suits you-I'll fix
you up for a job at the abattoirs after-
wards!”
“Nugget”: Tell “Jesmond” (B. 2/4/’25)
there isn’t anything about native-bears to make
cows go mad. When bears were common in the
coastal districts of N.S.W., it was not unusual to
see them wandering in and about the dairy herds,
quite unmolested. “Jesmond’s” cows were merelj
expressing feminine curiosity. Some of ours be-
haved similarly when a stray emu appeared on the
place after a prolonged dry spell out west. The
same effects are produced on Strawberry by the
sight and smell of a newly-skinned beast.
THISTLEDOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sleepy, sultry day in March,
With mares’ tails streaking the sky s blue aieh.
Beneath, plains wide and brown,
And nothing between hut wind that blows,
And over the barren acres goes,
Bearing the thistledown.
Never a touch bestirs the dry
Tangle of stalks where the thistles lie
But loosens into the air.
In gauzy beauty, a careless flight
Of glimmering shapes—flotillas white
For the tide of the wind to bear.
To-morrow the bludgeons of the rain
May bruise and batter into the plain
These fairies of the drouth ;
To-day there’s never a breeze that lifts
But, light on its gentle motion, drifts
Thistledown sailing south.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


W ««M/|/||
>'V\
5*
«fe
>
a**
VKVWWx
S'Hil
r
m
itf™p
IS
==t
VVW
S^vX-^r ss^
gas
B§»
ivo._yjgss
#
'V~r
t
3f
§
Jvijgf**
0
Rl
w '" ■r. -
PJfciilfftji
ft
p
m
4
«
'»N
il
n
sSN V!
sS.
>A
'AHill'V
m
9Si
vs
tm
s\v \
M
i
v
Si
m
Vi
&
m
\
'fir
mi
i\\«
•*■ ,»
//////,;:
O‘KS
-'•v
S’Wt/,
"v v
s «a
A
#i W
m
u
~" Hrr ' *i
l&g
=?
K-
If
is:
1
fk
Pc-
I
D?
•»£
E
Igf?
if.
il
s*p> ir uir fk : *
“Ilf®
r W- M
9Cm rjaKJto ZiBSW//. P
ttiP
nil
Hi
7" t
sssssm
fggr^j;
i
! I
/a
&&/, H !
m
MELBOURNE BRANCH
SYDNEY BRANCH,]
MEAD OFFICE 6j|
ABE LAID
mu'ii'minr
,€BD
aßiliiiii
..mi
M
“'Hjiiill
AlUl'b
ipiiimn
1
II
dUIIILU
Value of the Industry
to Australia.
MATERIALS USED.
These Include:
Leather - - -
Timber - - - -
Hair
Felt
Wadding - - -
Strawboard -
Steel
Nails
Brass Castings
Malleable Iron
Steel Castings
Bolts & Nuts
Fastener
Parts - - - -
Rubber goods
to the value
of
1 j million ft.
7 million ft.
691,0001 b.
420,0001 b.
36,0001 b.
1 20 tons
130 tons
42 tons
110 tons
20 tons
26 tons
1 980 gross
1260 gross
£lO.OOO
The Harnessing of!
jL|AND in hand with every advancement of scie'»
advancement that could legitimately be pressed \
done. Items that are numbered by their millions, larfe
‘ ave a ll been subjected to the inexorable progress f
in two very important features—the reduction of coss
advantage of the possessor of a car with a Holden Bo.)
of seven years ago into an organisation of 2600 ski e
In the early days of its existence the organisation ce
fittings. Gradually, step by step, consolidating at
manufacture of innumerable subsidiary parts. To-d$
from logs of Australian blackwood, panels pressed frcr
of other incidentals from departments within the Hoi
every source of supply, thus ensuring prompt deliver)
purchaser of a car with a Holden body. Applied scienc
made Holden s Motor-body Builders in seven years u
outside of Canada.
f
SUPPORT TH/S WORTH)
HOLDEN’S MOTOR Bt
Manufacturers of &
Head Office and Main Works: Kir
Branches: Woodville, S.A.;
A §&S*
a*
1
¥>


N\ S '
// / / ,
'y*
a
m
w
M
t«
L
■MUM*
S^#i
Sflfiai -
®w
IBj
't.
V*
tJi
'sm*.
i*
&smm
%
SSSi
sss
m
m
%
1
o
/
1
i
Sfc=
K:t
M 2
»*s!
JyL/X
Sm j s/
s^/%/
<,
.-"W
#
ft
i-j
<#•/
»
r.
%
A/jCW/
WM97
w
%
-;i
Va
m//m
&
Min.
Ms
caeamfsesosaxM
m
■rss/s/s.
"i
TW
m
wMj’miwt,*...*
i<*
mmiiimmi
t;tt f * :
/Sf/fl
**
S*
«<•»
/'*
:■
a
w>-
i
«(!
rft
hy
Vi
HP
y/s
J|s in
3 }/■
i?V
v«
mrk
'7
w.
s
S
id
1=
is
•rr
%
u«
£<<
52%
i
II
fHrss
styVOODVILLE. S. A. BRANCH
Branch
ON WORKSHOPS'
mmi
9s
w
5
- v
i
*=
F
2
&
si
J 5
St-
ar
Gco-H
BROWN
Science to Industry.
has proceeded the motor-body industry. Every
‘ t‘o the service of the Holden” organisation has been
:r articles by their thousands —but no more important
scientific standardised production. This has resulted
. and the maximum of added refinements —to the
. Applied science has transformed the 1 2-man shop
d artisans.
pended on several factories for the supply of various
ry move, Holden’s have successfully undertaken the
the complete body is turned out, including hood bows
i steel, coil springs from selected wire and a multitude
en organisation. Its ramifications practically control
> utmost savings in costs and greater value to every
e and the organised control of subsidiary parts have
ie largest industry of its kind in the British Empire
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
)DY BUILDERS LTD.,
mdardised Bodies,
g William Street, Adelaide, S.A. ,
aoume, Sydney and Brisbane.
Value of the Industry
to Australia
in Wages, Employment
and Freight.
Total number
employed in
the Holden
organisation - - 2600
Annual wages
bill paid by
Holden’s,
approx. - - - - £500,000
Estimated number
employed out-
side the organi-
sation in produc-
ing material
used by Holden’s 4900
m
o
1
sap


A. Saunders’ Jewelled Lever Watch, 30/-
9et. Cold, £3/10/-, £4. £4/10/-, £5,
Guaranteed.
Silver, £2
, £7/10/1
<V. .Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bow and liar
Brooch, lijct. Gold, £7/10/-
Smaller Diamond, £5/10/-
A. blunders’
Oent.’s 9ct.
Gold Claw
Ring, set
Ruby or
Garnet, 35/ .
HI).
A. Saunders’
louble-cut Diamond
Ring, IBct. (iold,
IMatimim set,
£l5.
t.aiger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King-, 1 Set. (lold,
Platinum set,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l3/10/-,
■si
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 25/-
Heavier, 30/.
laCt. Gold, £2/10/- M
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 1 Set. (told,
Platinum set,
£25.
!l'«a Vjia^K
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Hi ns, 18ct.. (told,
Platinum set,
£JO.
Darker Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ Oct, Gold fancy shape Lever Watch
Wristlet, £B/10/-. loot. Gold, £lO
Complete with Gold Snap.
Silk
A. SAUNDERS’
Exclusive Jewellery.
SENT
POST
FREE.
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
'•\v\V
mi
WWW'
;1 iWi'/iil
vstlikijly
A. Saunders’ Gont.’s Gold-filled Hunting
Keyless Lever, £2/10/.
EXtra Jewelled, £;{,
Higher Grades, £B/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
Guaranteed.
% 31
AiSfIUNDERS
m
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s square cushion shape Lever
Watch, £2. Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-
• Silvery £3.
Higher Grades, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
9ct. Gold Case, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-, £lO,
IBct. Gold, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station),
A. Saunders’ f)ct. Gold Lever Watch, Silk Wristlet
Extra Jewelled, £O/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/- £lO
£l2/10/-. Guaranteed. ’ ’
A. ,_rs’
Gent's Set. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20/-
15et. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ Scroll Brooch, set Aqua-
marine, 9ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’
double-out Diamond
I!ins, 18<‘t. Gold,
Platinum set,
£3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King’, ]Bct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, IBct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold,-Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold octagon shape Lever Watch, Silk Wristlet
£B/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/.
Guaranteed.
SYDNEY.
000 000000000000000000000000 0
o°
Go
->o
0°
O
cP
o
o
D
o
o
ft
O
o
_c
°Q
°Q
and Still aJJom£ °o
VUPti
X.
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
c
o
o
o
o
o
o°
Sp
Q
Q
o
Q
C
o
o
o
Z
r*
WORLD- WANDERERS say that they return to the Oriental with a
sense of coming home. So perfect is the service of the well-trained
staff, so restful the whole atmosphere of this great hotel, that as
soon as one enters its portals one feels that one has entered a haven.
X et , t K 6 . ' 3Ustll "g f cit y is only two blocks away—theatre-
land but one block. Seldom do you find a hotel so aloof from and yet
so convenient to the shopping and business centres.
Comfort, good food and efficient service are the Oriental’s pride. Whether
his °a UGSt n<^s * n modernly-appointed home
TARIFF:
From 26/- per day inclusive.
From 1 7/- Bed and Breakfast.
Director: JOHN W. PERRIN.
Chef: SALVATORE de CESARE.
Suites De Luxe, Banqueting
Halls, Wedding Breakfasts and
Supper.


£
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“The
Pleasure is
all Yours.”
/y
/
J. KITCHEN &. SONS Pty. Ltd.
Swallow & Ari ell’s
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
s, SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
nns
m
e
u
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne.
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK & DOVLE
Phones Central 1532, 1533.
\cross a footpath crowded with the. inqm-
dtive Melbourne’s first-nighters fought then
wav into the Auditorium on Saturday for t o
first concert of the pochet-edrtion opem-atai
Rnlli-Curei When she came on the oarnw
n:f critics had advanced to within a few inches
t i lfl niano. where the lady s tall, nice iy
Sd a jT U Vicinity ofX C liat^a
fewsp*
her C ev7rv°inch° a‘'thoroughbred, straight mf
back, no superfluous flesh, fleet of toot, d
breath-control marvellous. C,ould ait:i.
higher praise than to be placed m the sam
category as Carbine, Prince Foote and Back-
"°The singer made her trial run in waves of
white tulle attached to a clinging tube of
beaten silver, dl.plaji»Ba fu r—■ »t
vriiVpn hose and the silveriest ot shoes.
Etceteras included, a huge ivory
of pearls, stray diamonds and heaps ot nng ,
one so large as to keep the digit at the nor
zontal when she once played her own
oaniment. The audience noisily shouted its
approval, endorsing its cheques with sheaves
and baskets of greenery and blossoms A
fair-haired girl who handed up a PW tied
with Italian colors provided an attractive
interlude. The crowd demanded more a, d
more, until the warbler said Enough . m
Cyril Scott’s "Lullaby, and the gathering
took the hint, and went. .
in the stalls and d.c shawls and hair
adornments made great showing. Airs. Ben
iamin Hoare’s tiara cast a glory as color
K Joseph's coot. A gold turban worn
by another patron required about thre
inches to make it millinery. Mis. Charles
Tait attended in magpie raiment. B° s ;
Selby, who departs for England to keep a
matrimonial date, was saying au revoir
friends, in a flame-colored coat Mrs. Albert
Aliller. who flits to the Great Smoke this
week for grand-daughter Joyce Russell s nup-
tials, also made a farewell appearance.
There’s rare gowning in "The Masque-
rader,” revived at the Kings on Saturday
night. Zillah Bateman, petite and slim,
sports a periwinkle blue georgette and ecru
lace confection with ostrich-feather attach-
ment in sweet-pea shades wandering around
the shoulders and halting at the skirt-liein,
the millinery is in tune. She garden-parties
in golden sequins with side connections ot
orange velvet; and her unshingled tair locks
support a scaffolding of feathers. Leading-
ladv Ailsa Grahame, not so willowy as or
vor'e and over-addicted to the abbreviated
skirt, brings out of the wardrobe a tabac-
brown suit; a charming cream-and-brown
<rown a peach-hued coat and. magenta velvet
evening attire, with glistening embroidery
and fringe down back and front of the tunic.
The dark-liaired lass, who manages a shingle
effect without barber’s shears, gathered num-
erous fancy hat-boxes of flowers ; and Cecil
Haines, who made a hit as Robins:, shared
in the harvest. At the curtains fall Guy
B. Post was moved to speech on the tac~
that it was seven years almost to a day
since Australia first saw “The Masquerader.
Very refreshing was Allan Wilkies re-
vival of “She Stoops to Conquer. The old-
fashioned gowns made a vivid and charming
contrast to the knee-length tube and sleeve-
less variety of to-day. Pink and blue taffeta,
full and long of skirt and pointed of bodice,
formed Miss Hunter-Watts’s early frockmg
as Kate Hardcastle; she changed this later toi
flower-scattered sateen panniered over blue,
with lace mob-cap on her golden head. Kellie
Alortvne (Airs. Hardcastle) adopted soldeu-
toned glace striped in varied hues. me
mere men were just as gay, but one doesn t
mention them: their costumes featured
nothing likely to he imitated by our sombrely-
clad male generation.
The Alongolia took away the mam body
of the first Australasian pilgrimage to
Lourdes and Rome for the Holy Year cere-
monies. Archbishop Alannix, the shepherd
of the flock, collected them and their friends
for an informal tea-drinking at Raheen.
Panal Delegate Cattaneo, who likes garden-
parties. and Dr. Sheehan, Coadjutor-Arch-
bisli. of Sydney, who would rather be fram-
in°- a thesis Gaelic, were there to bind their
host’s sandals on, and Bishop Coppo came
from Westralia. Among the Pjjsrims were
Bishop Dwyer (Wagga) an d the Bishop ot
Bnthurst. Father Moloney, M.b.F. or rne
Harbor City, who goes as chaplain, wandered
around with the latest product of his genius
a musical walking-stick, which by means of
wedges of hard rubber arranged fluteJike
down one side produces strange sounds. Ins
padre has quite a reputation as a reciter of
•‘John O’Brien’s” verses. It was left to
the hierarchy to give the dash ot color to
the gathering, for the women folk were
chiefly attired in travelling frocks of sombr
hue. From the Harbor City came Mrs. Free-
hill, in Egyptian-patterned marocam upon a
rose background. Her travelling eompani
is Miss Hennessy, of the clan whose name
is associated with the architecture of b .
Mary’s Cathedral. The Players Orchestra,
Felice Crosier. May Broderick, Edward Leahy
and Rita Miller, a songbird with fine notes,
who shortly goes Londonwards to try hei
luck, made attractive melody prior to tin.
tea-serving.
Melbourne’s Easter weather thawed the
blood even of Ihe oldest inhabitant. A large
segment of Melbourne Society that did not
go to Sydney journeyed to Geelong and
Barwon Heads, over 300 patrons jazzing at
the Golf House dance at the latter place
on Easter Eve. Miss Rene Austin, whose
shrimp-pink georgette frock had tracery in
silver beads, and Miss E. Hurst with bead
fringe upon a tube apparel of black, secre-
taried the frivol. A trio of debutantes threw
over the conventional white garb of the nrst
offender, and tripped the one-step in pink or
blue. Betty Hickey was in flesh-pink crepe
satin carrying flounces of tulle a-sparkle
with diamente; June Angwin budded m
blue charmante with silver lace, and her
sister was a shimmer of pink and silver lace.
Walter Kirby drew very payable houses at
his afternoon and evening Easter concerts.
The audience at night demanded so much
that it had a three-hour sitting. Kirbys
tenor was at its best, and Muriel Benton,
though protesting since her return from
Europe that she learned nothing abroad,
raised beautiful soprano notes that had been
exceedingly well cultivated somewhere. And
her frock of moonlight-blue' sequins through
which daisies sparkled caused pangs of envy.
At St. John’s, Toorak, amid palms and
Easter daisies, Muriel, second daughter ot
the George Kettlewells, whispered her sur-
render to Alan Grant of Rose Bay. Ihe
bride, slender and tall, in silver lame and
lace with train of white crepe and veil ot
tulle fixed to a forehead swathing of silver
tissue, was followed to the altar by Joan
Winter-Irving, Valerie Moule, Marion
Kettlewell and Alison Grant, all pale pink
satin and silver frocked, with turbaned head-
pieces of silver lame. The 'groom’s support
also formed fours, headed by John Warren,
who came from his station home in Banana-
land. Bride’s mother was a purple iris in a
beige hat. Corrabert, Toorak, saw the re-
joicings, and the ’moon has risen in Tassy.
The boy with the broom can’t stand it any
longer, so the order has been issued prohibit-
ing confetti-throwing on railway premises:—
The fun of weddings for the guest
Is practically now non est;
Rice, slippers, rose-leaves, and the rest
That once the reti-
Nue would heave at bride and groom
Are all taboo. Clapp sounds their doom,
And married life starts off in gloom
Minus confetti!
Consigned to the cobwebs is the pianoforte
duet, and in its place, is the much more
attractive music for two pianos. Recitals
of the latter nature are-yet a rarity, so the
enterprise of Katie Liddle and Rene Morrissy
in once more
presenting
them, after an
interval of two
years, should
have big sup-
port at the
Assembly Hall
on Monday, the
27th. Both
young artists
are pupils of
Ilita Hope
<Mr s. Percy
Shier), whose
knowledge of
her art was
gleaned under
Leschetizky.
The member of
the duo here
depicted is
Katie Liddle.
Her co-worker,
who was solo-
ist at violinist Isabel Langland’s recital
lately, helps her to tame the savagest critic.
The home-coming of Mrs. A. O. Sachse
was the excuse for many guests, much talk
and tea, with an interlude of songs by the
Hugh Paterson and Kenneth Newman
matrons, at Mrs. Charles Ogg’s home at
Brighton. The returnee, who cheered a
black gown with embroidery in lilac shades,
topped with pansy-decked millinery, was an
energetic worker of the A.W.N.L., and a cake
adorned with the league’s colors in blossoms
was a tribute to her services. The hostess
wore a black hat above a white gown with
filmy lace.
The Charity Week at Charnwood, the St.
Kilda home of the A. D. Harts, threatens
to develop into a three-week carnival.
When Eflie Ball was handed over the man-
sion with its fine lawns and grounds tor
a charitable function she suggested Let em
all come,” and they came with a rush, trom
hospital to Boy Scouts. The 1 allis lady,
Mrs. Robins and Etlie Ball take responsi-
bility of the carnival period. Saturday saw
the beginning of the revels, the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital taking the proceeds of that
dav and Monday. Pauline h redenck havin,
a matinee, the Hennessy dame, m fixings o
black eharmante and lace, did the sayings.
Methods of extracting coin were usual and
successful. Eileen Castles, a study in giey,
commandeered the drawing-room tor her con-
cert artists, and Kitty Reidy and Howett
Worster introduced juvenile talent with Cin-
derella in a marquee. An atter-the-theatre
supper-party and dance brought gooo
patronage. /
Here pictured by Lafayette is Dr. Edith
Barrett, hon. sec. of the Vic. National Council
of Women, who
fumbled her
garments into
a travelling
trunk the other
day, snatched
a crust at a
farewell meal
with the mem-
bers of the
executive and
rushed to
catch the
agara in the
Harbor City
to be present
at the quin-
ouennial con-
ference of the
N. C. W. a t
Washington
next month.
Hard work and
enthu sia s m
during the war
as home secretary of the Australian branch
of the Red Cross Society gained her a
A new English actress, Zillah Bateman,
popped into the lead for the last week ot
“The Green Goddess,” at the Kings, and
thence into the role of Lady Anstrupp m
“The Masquerader” on Saturday night, be-
fore the great upheaval the slim,. dainty
maiden was studying grand opera m Ger-
many. The change in the European map
caused the songbird to spread her wings on
the concert platform instead. She appeared
at the Halle concerts in Manchester, and
later passed into comic opera, playing lead
in “The Last Waltz” and “Polly. In
comedy she followed Phyllis Neilsen Terry
as “Trilby” with Charles Garry, and made a
hit in a recent tour of South Africa as
“Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife.” To come to these
parts she cut a three years’ contract ot musi-
cal comedy in the Great Smoke.
The halcyon days of the recess are fleet-
ing fast for State Ministers. The majority
are content to flit about within the 88,000 sq.
miles bordered by the Murray and the sea,
but Col. Bourcliier, Minister for Agriculture,
is taking his second trip beyond, hirst he
went to Sydney to study handling grain
in bulk, and now he is in Hobart helping
fellow-“cultural” Cabineteers from other
States to come to many conclusions regarding
earthy matters. By the way, the dropping
of a line lately conveyed the impression ot
rapid ageing in the Colonel s family. It
was not a son of his who married a daughter
of the late Speaker Madden. Ilie Colonel
is the husband.
Back from a jaunt through London and
Paris and a look at N’York is Dorothy Glad-
stone, dance expert. The bonnie lass, whose
studio is at the Railway Institute had les-
sons daily in the gyrations and slinky move-
ments at present called dancing, and nightly
she theatred. “Patricia” was the musical
comedy holding London’s biggest patronage,
and New Yorkers paid homage to what
Dorothy describes as “the nicest ever, Ihe
Love Song.” a comic opera written around
the life of Offenbach, whose final curtain falls
upon a rehearsal of Act II of ‘Tales of
Hoffmann.” The dancer brings the latest
anti-fat recipe from Paris. Simple but
astonishingly efficacious. Even the medical
profession marvel at it. One fast day per
week, with six cups of any sort of liquid to
wash it down, and the solidest flesh will
melt. It says so on the bottle.
.Airs Ivroef, frocked in lemon-hued geor-
>-ette asparkle with crystal beads, hostessed
a musical party and dance at her home at
East Malvern last week. Tenor Walter
Kirbv • Mrs. Dunstan, in a fussy frock ot
cherrV tulle and taffeta;' Mrs. Dyason, in
black velvet; Victor Baxter; and Mrs. Kroef
were among the evenings songbirds.
University Vice-Chancellor John Monash
had a busy hour when he handed oier the
necessarv Credentials to 18 new Bachelors of
Law and one solitary Bachelor of the more
lucrative but not so fashionable science of
Dentistry. Beatrice Waring McCay, (laugh-
ter of the General, was loudly cheered as
the first Portia to walk off with a Master
of Laws degree. Elias Godfrey Coppel
secured also the same honors; but. then, i
isn’t a Portia. Two of the law bachelors,
Olive Gladys Loats and Marjorie Jean fcei-
vice, were former shining mummers or tne
Uni. Dramatic Society.
Vera Carew, the well-known soprano,
gave her promise to tenor James Forum at St.
Pat’s the other day; and her white marocam
was topped by a white picture hat for the
event. Norali Barrett of the contralto
notes completed the vocal trio, bridesmaul-
ing in apricot-headed georgette and black
millinery. Wedding rejoicings were held
at the Rita Cafe, and were followed by a
theatre party.
Sister Mollie Parnell recently broke away
from the fascinating tropical setting of
Rabaul Hospital and came south to her home
town, Melbourne, for a rest. Her colleagues
in the home of the sick among the beautiful
hills of Rabaul gave her a handsome fare-
well. and she is now curing herself of the
tropic lure in the more festive environment
of Melbourne. Sister was in Mespot, Egypt
and India during the war, and her work on
hospital ships made her well, known tjo
Aussies.
Wearing navy blue crepe romaine with at-
tuning millinery, Mrs. Barry Thomson dis-
pensed tea and posies of mignonette to
many friends to say "Glad to see you back
to the Tallis dame, and “Pleasant voyage to
Vera Ramacotti, who left with her dad, the
General, by the Oronsay, and also to Mrs.
Cleve Kidd, who sailed by the Demosthenes.
Mrs. Harold Brown, Dorothy Sugdeu who
was, and her husband were among the out-
ward bound by the Oronsay. So were Geof-
frey Syme and his wife and their unmarried
girls, Joan and Felicity.
Collingwood Crfeche got a fine surprise gift
lately in the complete furnishing of a day
nursery with 25 cots. The generous donor
is Major Charles Campbell. He handed the
acceptable present over in the name of his
daughter Marguerite Helen, whose granny,
the late Mrs. Charles Campbell, was one of
the enthusiastic founders of the cr&che.
Rochester was sorry for itself the other
day when it let: a motor-car run over the
foot of Premier Jack Allan, its own member.
Lounging about like a shire councillor, Allan
got in the way of a backing car, and has had
a bandaged foot for a fortnight.
A cross-section of Adelaide: —
Masons gathered in force to watch Administrator
Poole lay the foundation-stone of this State’s new
Masonic Temple, and the C. R. J. Glovers used the
occasion as a pretext for a garden-party at their
home at North Adelaide, where the distant curve of
the hills is a blue background to a house which dates
from blissful days when neither builders’ bills nor
the elusiveness of Mary Anne conspired to reduce
dwellings to the dimensions of a bandbox. Mrs.
Glover, in ivory lace, with glimmers of gold, said
how-dy-do at the verandah-steps, anl thence guests
wandered through dahlia-decked rooms to the tea-
tables, or upstairs to break all laws against covetous-
ness in the library.
The Kindergarten Union, as a means to a much-
desired financial end, has unleashed a series of snow-
ball teas —guests limited to eight at a time, each
of the eight to bring a shilling and invite eight
more in their turn, and so on ad infinitum or till the
lists of invitations get back to where they began.
Tlie avalanche was started at the Kindergarten
Training College, with the two principals, Miss
Burgess and Miss King, as hostesses.
The James Marshall estate, sworn at £26,000,
goes mostly to the family, but there is £lOOO for
the Y. Emmas and £5OO each for the Children’s Hos-
pital and the Home for Incurables.,
The social round still swings to the tune of fare-
wells, among them official good-byes to our new
Agent-General, J. L. Price, who’ll fill his new office
with dignity and satisfaction —we know, because he
told us so himself. There have been farewells to
the M. A. Goodes, who are going to make their home
in W.A. ; and to Miss Winifred Scott, who is bound
for England. Her fellow presswomen were among
the last to shake her by the hand, with Mrs. McKain
(the Register’s “Lady Kitty”) as hostess. There
was a good-bye from the nursing sisters, too, under
the wing of Miss Uren, at Narma.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Association—3oo of them,
a j as |—i s making a bid for funds to put disabled men
into decent permanent jobs. This is the association s
first appeal, although it has never had the cash that
similar organisations in the other States command.
The indefatigable John Coekburn has found an-
other memento Of Queen Adelaide in London a por-
trait of the unfortunate lady presented by Queen
Mary and copied from one at Windsor. It goes to
the Town Hall.
Liberal women have heard an address on the work
of the School for Mothers from that useful institu-
tion’s secretary, Miss K. Moore. The appointment
of a woman sanitary inspector was proposed. Women,
it was claimed, have nimbler noses for the insani-
tary drain and the unhygienic dustbin.
Irene Kemp, back from London where she studied
under Moiseiwitsch, drew a good house to the Town
Hall, and showed the immense advance made in
four years of absence. Rubinstein in D Minor Con-
certo was the star item of the programme, with her
one-time teacher, William Silver, at the second piano.


Developing and Printing
TAKE NO CHANCES WITH
YOUR WEEK-END SNAPS!
%
If your dealer does not give you prints with this /a>N^\
dTrecf'to n tKe baCk ’ brinS ° r S6nd y ° Ur sna P shots ÜBY J
HARRINGTONS
FAMOUS SERVICE
T he ‘SJfp Amateur Photographers whose photos
bear OUR IMPRESS on the back have our assurance, backed
by Jb years experience, that the all-important matter ol
PERMANENCE
is taken care of in a manner that leaves nothing to chance.
We claim that there is NO ORGANISATION in
existence which can quite equal the
HARRINGTON OIIAI ITV
JTO
The House for
Good Cameras,
SYDNEY: 386
MELBOURNE:
WELLINGTON
George Street. KATnmmi
266 Collins Street. BRISBANE •
ADELAIDE: 10 Rundfe Street’.
: Katoomba Street.
93 Queen Street.
N.Z.: 42 Willis Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
HAFCDY B FLO S LTD.
J EWELLER.S
2J
STO!
*\
Gem-set Wrist Watches
pXCEPTIONAL quality and value characterise the
distinctive styles in Ladies’ Gem-set Wristlet Watches
displayed at Hardy Brothers’ Showrooms. The two
fashionable models in Diamonds and Onyx illustrated
above are typical of the Company’s fine selection. Watches
are forwarded on approval throughout the Commonwealth.
Five per cent. Discount allowed on Cash Purchases. An attractive
Catalogue, forwarded anywhere on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
op QxcLuswo iJcioclle/y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY* 7
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
MICAWBER SEES THE LIGHT
“Thinker with Wilkins Micawber, the genial spendthrift who is always “waiting for something to turn up.”
w , • v *°v*. a , S Setfced> 15 hiS usual remark when he has discharged a debt by giving a promissory note!
Simply because ,S neaHv K °“ of the m ° St P ° pular characters in fiction?
o ff ,y,oro^wX ly Ul^sla rsht.d’be%r^x n " in his weakness of putti -
his folly ald'made Wr^^ a rabie a prono^ n c!ment^ f reCldeSS fina ” Ce ’ h “ j “ Sl realisea
Annual Income, Twenty Pounds; Annual Expenditure
ineteen Pounds Nineteen and Sixpence. Result—Happiness!
Annual Income, Twenty Pounds, Annual Expenditure
Twenty Pounds and Sixpence. Result—Misery.
Everyone can point to many living examples of the truth of that famous dictum.
- —-
It will certainly y be e the S diffemnce r^between e SimMss'ancr I Failui^ Ween
had not been regularly set aside mo f U^~T lf some of the fruits of human labor
HAVE BEEN IMPOSSIBLE. H ° n of furth er weaIth—CIVILISATION WOULD
luck and something to twn u^ awber? Are y° u one of the many who trust to
But°if y*ou are ™ sSttd mea ” ing for you—until it is too late.
short, you intend to do what the pioneers *?“ R °f d to if, in
than your income. P oneers of civilisation have done—you must live on less
anout E,GHTEEN YEARS *• *-*>
OUt °in f r rut * 3OU derive the utmost advantage from your efforts to raise yourself
Consider its merits” '°” fiml aS g °° fl an mvest nient as the suburban land handled by our organisation?
2. A choice af/otment can lbe ° 9en * ra,,y doubles in value in less than five years,
lent to a few shillings 0” ° Sma,/ DG P° si * and payments equiva-
i 4. You m^thus r bu/ldina n J a/U ° y °" P ° V f ° r # * #n thiS easy way ‘
than when your f ° r ' Wi " ** W ° rth far more .
Shake°hands U a^^ S d°ne it. Can you see what it means to you?
HIS METHODS. & Wlth Mr * Micawber—AND BID GOOD-BYE TO HIM AND
T. M. BURKE PTY. LTD
ne— 34o C«li;« e * . * _ _ JL
Sydney— 19 Castlereagh Street.
Newcastle Hunter and Bolton Sheets. ChamberS '
Alul at 38 a,,araf ' Geelong, Bendigo and Auckland.
Kins
) o
p&'Ll
l
'fa*
r
Vf/ /A


Under
Royal
Warrant
ToH.NL
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1914. /
CHAMPAGNE (
Chariestleidsieck
anil
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'^arksHddaeo^
Reims
gg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney
&U€f£ia
SHAVING CREAM
A MAN’S appearance, reflects
his personality. To look
smart means more than personal
satisfaction—your prestige is at
stake! For want of a better
shave many a man has met with
disappointment in a business
and social way.
Shave yourself quickly and well
with Hygeia Shaving Cream and
look your best. It creates a free
abundant lather and will not
draw the skin.
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
Having
sHPiVms
9?£AM
&
HY-36
The Coolest Spot in Sydney,
m
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 12.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you” can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for w
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTH
CHAT
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 21/- , #
Suppers, from 0.30,
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers.- X»/6.
T.uncheons. 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5 '
the privilege of two
dancing to the enthralling:
The Ambassadors’ New
Reserves, ’Phone
ith
and
alo ft
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The new topcoat is rather like a Persian
prayer rug' in weave, is short and tight, and
wears fur on its boundaries. It occurred in
large numbers on all the stands at Ivandwick
on the last Wednesday of the meeting, the
matter of gradation between grandstand and
official stand being marked by the breed of
fur. Both sets of vice-regals again filled
the pens. Lady Forster cheered up black
raiment Avitli delf blue. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers was very smart in a black
ottoman coat-frock piped with silver,
warmed with a sleek silver-fox choker and
topped with a small hat. The State Viking s
lady turned a satisfying grey brocaded coat
to the wind, and daughter Elaine had dryad-
brown frocking and millinery. Surgeon Mac-
Cormick’s lady, brown-suited and befurred,
had Alison and Morna under her wing. Dr.
Dan Kelly’s slim wife suggested a terra-
cotta statuette of “The Mode”; Mrs. l orn
Bolin wore a pink gardenia and her two
married daughters with a proud air ; and
Mrs. Harold Vale radiated blonde charm
from dark furs. Mrs. Colin Stephen was
there with daughter Philippa; and near by
was Barbara Knox, very good-looking in a
Highland chieftain’s daughter sort of way.
David Jones’s Miss O’Keefe was one of the
day’s smart dressers. Otto Wunderlich’s
goiden-haifed wife wore slim chocolate-
colored tailorings. Mrs. Vivers was a flash
of leaf-green in a striped marocain of such
simple cut it looked deceitfully easy to wear.
Tall Irene Vanbrugh stuck to black and
white, with a result not so charming as some
of her stage effects.
A Saturday wrapped in a scarf of Indian
summer arrived for the last of the Autumn
meeting. Facile woman turned her back on
tailor-mades and furs, and clothed herself in
silk, leaving a heavy wrap in the cloak-room in
case of “weather.” Vice-regals, both General
and State, were again front-seaters, and
everyone who had been present during the
week turned up again. Of these Mrs. Dudley
Gibson Avas worthy an N.B. in mustard-
colored ottoman. Girl-Guide Marjorie Shanks
(isn’t it a perfect fit of a name for a captain
of these foot-trackers!) wore a black velvet
hat instead of her stand-to-attention uniform
lid; and Commodore Wardle’s daughter was
under the Aving of pretty Mrs. Floyd.
Ernest Watt’s cosy little dance served as
an appetiser for Bace Week’s frivolling.
Followed the glittering private flutter given
by the Colin Stephens. The dancing floor
was laid under a marquee on the lawn, and
all society, including vice-royalty, Avas pre-
sent in its best raiment. Lady de Chair
stepped off the dais, as it were, and en-
joyed the night, in sapphire blue frocking,
carrying a Japanese design in gold sequins;
and Elaine glowed rosily from a froth of
ivory softness. Mrs. Colin Stephen wore
golden brown splendor, and there Avas such
floral decorations, electrics and supper as to
turn even a consistent picker of also-rans
into an optimist.
The next big flutter was Surgeon MacCor-
mick’s ball at the family’s Point Piper home,
Kilmorey. This boasts a ballroom nearly as
big as the Town Hall, and in it the frocks,
most of them still rustling from tissue wrap-
pings, shone out distinctive and colorful.
The flowers, too, Averc magnificent—baskets
of blue lupins and pink rosebuds and banks
of yellow and red dahlias flashed their beauty
at every turn. The courtyard, on to which
the ball- and reception-rooms open, Avas
awninged-in for the sitter-out. The tall
hostess did the honors in her graceful Court-
presentation frock of pale mauve georgettes
and Brussels lace; and daughter Alison wore
gold brocade. Lady de Chair wore the rich
glow of autumn leaves, and daughter Elaine
sparkled in turquoise blue and silver frock-
jrig. The Sam Hordern lady Avas there, in
rich black, and Mrs. Tony in petunia mag-
nificence. Wilma Clarke, tall, slim and fair,
flashed in gold and ruby splendor; Morna
MacCormick, the just-emerging baby of the
house, was radiant in Avliite and silver;
Shirley Bavin made her boAv to the grown-
up world in Avliite chiffons quaintly beaded
in seed pearls. Edith Hill wore regal Paris-
stamped black and silver. Among the 200
or so guests Mrs. George Vivers, Mrs.
Steenie Osborne, Mrs. Wilsallen and Mrs.
Pitt Rivers were eye-arresters—Mrs. Vivers
in soft gold tissue opening over cornflower
blue; Mrs. Steenie’s blue eyes smiled over
blue raiment as ethereal as a summer sky.
The members of the Union Club rubbed
the moss out of their eyes and pranced into
the week's doings with a ball of full dimen-
sions at the Ambassadors on Friday night.
Flowering rose bushes —like a decoration to
a Morris poem—bloomed on the tables of the
mighty; red roses, crimson and velvety and
pouring out perfume, alternated with the
fragile restraint of pale-pink sisters. On the
vice-regal table in addition bloomed a Flora
like a Victorian belle, her hoops and bodice
fashioned of flowers. Then, of course, sup-
plying the light touch of comedy, were the
menu cards —they were in water-color, one
on each table, and each illustrating a club
joke. Not too new or subtle a joke of
course—that to the ingrained Unionists
might have smacked of Bolshevism! The
frocking lived up to the occasion. It
purred of riches. It was embossed and bro-
caded, fi’inged and beaded; and short, though
hesitatingly so.
Both the Federal and State Exes, were at
the ball. Black brocaded in gold roses and
a diamond coronet clothed Lady Forster,
while Eady de Chair shone in silver lame
with jade glimpses and side-train and tin;
rope of pearls. Mrs. Pitt Rivers graced
black velvet, and Elaine de Chair effulged in
sea blue. Dr. Bill Mackay was an early
arrival and one of the most striking pairs
delivering their names to the ushers were
Ernest Watt and daughter' Pamela, Pamela
golden and rose-leafed above green geor-
gettes. Another nice daughter, Pauline, was
among the festive. The willowy Mrs. Alec
Hay’s frocking suggested a Malmaison rose.
Mrs. George Vivers’s Florentine coloring
shone above white and gold brocade that
melted to marabout. A tall Lindeman girl
in some lengths of summer sky, the vivid
Morna Mac Cormack in red-currant georgettes,
and Wilma Clarke, from Melbourne, with
her pretty smooth fair head, were notable
lookers amongst the budding. The Chief
Justice and his lady made merry; so did
Macartliur Onslows and Knoxes in large
numbers. Premier George Fuller, brought
his lady and daughter Gwen- —she's to be
married almost immediately. Mrs. Tommy
Marks brought her smile and a pink frock
frosty with diamente; and one of the most
remarkable frocks was worn by Mrs. .Wh.it-
tingham from Queensland —it was built tier
above tier of jet and 'silver fringe.
The Town Hall netted its victims for the
Harvest Thanksgiving Ball on the same
night as the Union Club made merry. The
Harvest must have been a moderate one,
judging by the number of thanksgivers; but
there was a consequent freedom of action
among the dancers, so there was a Hallelu-
jah for that, at any rate. The decorations
were coming-through-the-rye-isli and a happy
wedding of wheat sheaves and crimson pop-
pies, with the fragrant and glossy gum for
best man. Dr. Cecil Purser’s lady was
president of the committee, and supported
her office in a shimmer of moonlight blue
sequins. Storkey V.C.’s wife and Miss
Elizabeth Plummer kept the treasury, while
the W. Arnott, E. Barden and Hector Wil-
shire matrons shared the duties of secre-
taries. Song-bird Elsa Stralia came to judge
the fancy sets, and put a dazzle into the
evening by her gold raiment blazing over the
side drape into a trail of crimson flowers.
The prize went to a set that ingeniously and
picturesquely represented “The Wealth of
Australia.” One of the prettiest effects in
the decorations was obtained from the. elec-
tric shades. These were of raffia fringed
with crimson poppies.
The ball at the Rose Bay Golf Club on
Saturday night finished off the eruptions for
all but the Chosen Few—they footed the
hours away on Monday at State Govern-
ment House; although this party was in
honor of Elaine’s birthday, the guest-list
included a few who were grown-up. There
were simply hordes of pretty girls at the
Golf Club, and every one represented real
money, from her shoes upwards. Wilma
Clarke was perhaps the most gorgeous of
the younger set; and Beau Burdekin s party,
which was a dance within a dance, was the
gayest in the room. Fifty-four the young
in an had hosted at dinner; and they had
their own buffet at the dance as well. Mrs.
Vivers kept an older-sister eye on Elaine de
Chair, who was one of the group.
Merriment equivalent to a substantial
cheque for the cause of the Girl Guide and Boy
Scout filled the Town Hall one day last week.
The rally was called the Easter Ball, and
has been" the one thought, waking and sleep-
ing, of the Kelso Kings for weeks past; for
the Girl Guide and the Boy Scout are the
apple of the Kelso King eye. Mrs. King
was the secretary, and Olive worked hard at
organising the fancy sets. Garlands of yel-
low posies and twining rosebuds rioted about
the electrics and the pillars, and a crop of
waving palms tenanted the open spaces. Two
sets of vice-regals were there, and the State
Governor’s daughter. Elaine, took her jazz-
flight into society. Very pretty and swans-
down soft she looked, too, in her white
crepcy frock with its flounces of ostrich.
She made her bow first to the G.-G. Forsters
and next to the Excellencies of her own
family ; then she took the floor with Captain
Coote. Lady Forster, incidentally, suggested
a portrait by Sargent in her sea-blue brocades
and silver lace; Lady de Chair brought terra-
cotta richness to the vice-regal dais, which
would have been condemned by Health-officer
Purdy as a congested area, so thick was it
with uplift workers, vice-regals, Justices,
the Navy and the Town Clerk. Thea Proc-
tor and Elsa Stralia passed judgment on the
competing sets, of which there were five. The
principal bauble fell to Olive Kelso King’s
mah-jong group of orange-clad coolies and
mandarins, the hats embossed with Chinese
characters.
The conference of the Country Women s
Association shook on the opening day when
acting-president Mrs. A. J. Studdy. hurled
a thunderbolt at Minister for Agriculture
Cliaffey. The cause of the trouble is an old
one, and concerns the Minister’s refusal to
see the grave necessity of importing a woman
from Canada to train Australian housewives
in laws of diet. ( Probably Mr. Chaffey re-
membered that America is the native heath
of the. dyspepsia cure, and thought it an
unfriendly act to deprive the nation of even
one specialist in interior decoration.) For-
tunately Lady de Chair, who presided at the
opening of the conference, had brought a
plentiful supply of oil, and smoothed out
the last frown with a smile like a benedic-
tion. Once into their stride, the C.W.A.
let loose a number of splendid and feasible
schemes for lightening out-back sister’s daily
round, and secretary Mrs. Irvine laid before
the meeting a glowing report of many things
attempted and some things done. The asso-
ciation’s best work, of course, is its help to
the about-to-be mother —that and its holiday-
home scheme. The conference, before it
finally yawned to silence, decided to appeal
to town and country for £25,000 for the
benefit of its seaside homes.
A pretty interlude in the proceedings was
the presentation to Mrs. Hugh Munro, the
association’s first president, of a miniature
of only daughter Nancy.
Romance and adventure were the twin
fairies ■who peeped round the cradle of little
Sybil Jenkins in the years when Nepean
Towers was one of the beautiful homesteads
of N. S. Wales. Built by Sir Thomas Mit-
cliell in the
earlier dawn
of settlement,
in the then
pastoral area
of Douglas
Park, it was
finished and
modernised by
the late Dr.
R. L. Jen-
kins, a noted
breeder of
shorthorn
cattle; and
little Sybil
was one of a
lively country
family which
has never
loved the city
pave ments.
Married to the
rising young
barrister
Hubert Murray, she has known the calm
of domestic life on the shores of the Parra-
matta River and the romance of trayel
through the hinterland of Papua as the wife
of its Lieut.-Governor. Taking her part in
war work with the Australian Red Cross
during an enforced stay in England, she saw
the first German air raid over London. “They
looked like a flight of black swans as I
looked up—a never-to-be-forgotten sight.
They were so low down—taking photographs
—that I counted 15. As a fact, there were
about 30 in all.” Witty and clever, an
artist with her little camera, and widely
travelled, she has two sons who also arc
distinguishing themselves —an only daughter
has chosen the path of happy matrimonial
life. Terence, the elder boy, is in the British
Army, and married Philippa Kitchener, the
favorite niece of K. of Iv. Pat, recently wed,
is doing research science work at Sydney
Uni. May Moore took this picture of their
mother.
On every hand at the Country Women's
garden-party at Government House were
Red Crosses, Bush Book Clubbers, Victoria
Leaguers, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides, St. John
Ambulance devotees and Elsa Stralia —the
party was as comprehensive as that. Lady
de Chair in ivory lace, the daughter of the
house in pink muslins and a white picture
hat and Captain' Coote in horizon-blue
helped the Governor build up a colorful
line of welcome to tin; guests. And after
that you went and looked at the goldfish or
you listened to Gertrude Concannon singing
“Lo, Here the Geutle Lark” —and yet they
call us a timorous sex.
The opening of the Water-colorists’ show
was soothing after the rush of Race Week.
The G.-G. and his lady came to do the honors,
and Farmer’s Exhibition Hall was comfort-
ably filled with art-lovers for the occasion.
President of the .Water-color Association
B. E. Minns was attractively nervous in
Ms speech, and attractively brief also. The
show is a great deal ahead of last year's.
At a more or less family dinner party just
before the Union Club Ball. Surgeon Mac-
Ccrmick's daughter Alison and .Tank Martin
announced their engagement. The young
man is a son of W. P. Martin, one of Syd-
ney’s former wool kings. .Jack mostly in-
habits the Union Club, but the family lives
its days in England.
Pretty Marion Dalton is another of the
newly engaged. She’s one of the Orange
Daltons, and her young man is Nevilb*
Macken, of Mani station, Baldry. His
mother is the popular Mrs. Ward, of Hamp-
ton Court. She is of the Mark Foy clan.
Tall, lean pianist Lindley Evans has en-
tered for the matrimonial stakes. The prize
is Marie Stewart, of Strathfield.
Alice Linard wore her dark eyes and a
white velvet gown to St. James’s in Easter
week, and rain was falling as Edward Sher-
ring, of Beecroft, helped her into the car that
was to whisk them up to Orwell House for
the wedding supper. Barton Lessey gave his
sister-in-law away, and Mrs. Lessey, in black
and silver, was the first to kiss the bride at
the reception. In rose pink, with a great
black velvet flower to match her raven hat.
Miss Martin, a Potts Point maiden, attended
the bride.
Clever little actress Mione Stewart —
she’s a daughter of Dick —is flashing some-
thing better than a London contract. It’s
a brand-new engagement-ring, and the man
who put it into position is James Denyer.
of Cremorne.
The fashionable knot-tying of the week
had a strong Queensland flavor, the oride-
groom being lan Fife MacPherson, an ex-
soldier with a fine war record, now of Egera.
in the Northern State, and the bride Milli-
cent Wharton, a daughter of the station-
owning Whartons, of North Queensland.
Millicent, who has but lately returned from
Europe, murmured her response at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, in the hearing of
nearly 200 guests, many of them ex-A.I.F.
pals of the male principal. Janet, sister of
the bridegroom, and her own niece Nell Cun-
ningham ’maided her, while Keith Flock-
hart and Ray Synott attended to lan. The
bride’s mother hostessed a reception and
dance at the Rose Bay Golf Club; and this
was the rival party of Thursday night to
the MacCormick function.
A P.S. from Brisbane: —
Ascot was smartly frocked on Easter Monday.
Mrs. Harry Mills was there in navy and black ; Mrs.
Gilbert Wilson in a figured frock of almond-green
and gold, with a Paisley scarf. Jean Grant wore
white, Mrs. Cecil Palmer navy, Mrs. E. H. Macart-
ney black georgette with ’broideries of gold and
steel. The chairman of the Q.T.C. fed the
coroneted Ducic pair, the Bryants and T. .T. Con-
nolly; and the Isaac Moore Dame boiled the billy
for Mrs. S. K. Howes, Joyce Power and others.
The widow of Henry Oxley passed over the other
day. She was a sister of the late Samuel Griffith.
Australia’s first C.J., and was brought from Somer-
set in ’5l, at three years old. She was president of
the committee of the Children’s Hospital, and was
an active worker for all charities. She leaves nine-
children and as many grandchildren. Two sons served
in the Big War.
The youngest of the late Chief Justice’s infants
is only a few months old. Mrs. McCawley was at
Southport when her husband died. A message was
sent to her that he %as very ill, and at Beenleigh
Mrs. Gillies, Mrs. Tom Ryan and Mrs. McCawley \s
brother met the train with the sorrowful story.
Before leaving for the Cold Country, the Donald
Fletchers—she in brocaded georgette under a black
hat—gave a party at the Club Hotel, Toowoomba.
Amid autumn-tinted dahlias and chrysanthemums
some 60 dallied over the cups.
Nearly everybody in Brisbane seemed to want to
know what the “Scandal” was at the Theatre Royal.
Chairs and forms had to be hurried in to seat the
crowd. At His Majesty’s Moscovitch is drawing
tears and laughter with “The Outsider.” Jean
Robertson, our own Australian girl, has won hearts
and tons of vegetable offerings for her fortitude in
putting up with a year’s leg-pulling on Ragatzy’s
rack. Brisbane nurses say a greater marvel than
the alleged cure is how she manages to escape bed-
sores.
Palms, white and pink (lowers, and guests from
all parts heard Beryl Archdall whisper her vows t.o
John Gibson —one of the Bingera sugar-growing
family—at the Anglican Cathedral. The bride, who
is the only daughter of Bananaland’s Chief Police
Magistrate, said it in cream, embroidered chiffon and
a Brussels lace veil lent by Mrs. Frank Boreham.
Olive and Lorna Gibson ’maided, and Canon De
Witt Batty tied the knot. R. C. Hamilton, of War-
wick, best-manned, Basil Archdall was groomsman,
and George Sampson played the organ. The bush
had been looted to deck the National Hotel, where
the bride’s mother shook hands in grey-beaded geor-
gette over satin, with touches of old rose.
The Diggers are off this week, going north, and
Colin Crane takes his baritone to Cremorne. Nell
Fleming is with his company.
Brisbane’s intermittent thirst for Repertory has
returned again. Prof. Michie, of the Uni., is push-
ing the idea. For a guinea you take your choice of
going on the boards or being merely a subscriber
with a ticket.
Harry Wright, of Stanthorpe, has just said “Bless
you, my children,” to daughter Edna and the
young man of her choice, Edmund Finlay, of the
Glen, Upper Pilton. He’s grandson of the well-
known Padre Court, one-time of Kangaroo Point.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
POLDI STEEL
FOR HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
Including—
High Speed, Special Alloyed Tool
Steels for Hot Dies.
Pneumatic Tools, Ball & Thrust
Races, Jewellers’ Rolls, etc.
Also
Motor-Car Steels, including Air, Oil
and Case Hardening Chrome
Nickel and Nickel Steels, “Im-
proved” Nickel Chrome Axle
and Crank-Axle Steels, Valve
and Spring Steels.
POLDI STEEL COMPANY
(Aust.), Ltd.,
Sydney, 343 Sussex Street.
Melbourne Branch, 278 Queen St.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
11
Tariff—Write for 'Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Patrons of Victorian stables have had an-
another good time at the Randwick Easter meet-
ings. A year ago they handled just on half the
stake-money; last week they received £31,134 out
of £53,729 distributed by the A.J.0., and £875
of that amount was set apart for breeders. Horses
from beyond the Murray were placed first in 14
of the 27 races, the Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Cup included, as in 1924 ; five won in succession on
the last day. The five were Jimmie B. (B’s) in
the first division of the Rous Handicap; Sailing
Home (10’s) in the second division; Valwyne
(14’s) in the Dangar Handicap ; Minterne (5 to 4)
in the (and his) Second Steeple; and Horoscope
(14’s) in the Second Nursery Handicap. Then
Windbag (10 to 9) came to the Ma State’s rescue
in the A.J.C. Plate, and Stony (10’s), -a Rand-
wick pet, gratified those who had stuck to him,
after_ several disappointments, by putting in a
dazzling finish in the Final Handicap, just in time
to deprive Greendaie of the race.
Windbag (three wins and a second) was the equine
hero of the round. His two defeats of Lilypond at
w.f.a. suggested that he was unlucky to lose the
Sydney Cup, in which, it transpires, he cannoned
against one of the six horses that fell, and nearly
came down himself. As a stayer he proved superior
to the overboomed Heroic, who, after dwelling at
the barrier in the All-Aged Stakes and chasing The
Hawk (a comfortable winner), • Whittier, The Night
Patrol and Beauford all the way, was saddled up
again for the Cumberland Stakes, If miles, only to
whip in the field again, though this time he got
away well. O. B. Kellow’s chance of getting back
the 16,000 guineas he gave for the bad-tempered
chestnut is poor. Whether Windbag is better than
Spcarfelt over a distance is, however, doubtful.
There was very little between them in the St. Leger,
in which Munro, on the Sydney colt, outrode Lewis,
on the Victorian; and they did not meet in the
Cumberland Stakes or the A.J.C. Plate, his Sydney
Cup tumble having placed Spearfelt on the injured
list, though it is expected that he will soon be all
right again. Windbag was bred at the Kia-Ora stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), by Percy Miller, a brother of the
owner, and thanks in a measure to his fine per-
formances there was a great demand for Kia-Ora
stock at the yearling sales. A brother to Windbag,
who is by Magpie—-Charleville, a Charlemagne 11.
mare, was knocked down to E. L. Baillieu, the Vic-
torian, for 1600 guineas, and a colt by Magpie—
Space brought 1100 guineas. And the Sarchcdons,
trom the same stud, fetched even better prices than
the Magpies. J. Montgomery, another Victorian,
went to 1800 guineas for a colt by Sarchedon-
Sweet Malt, and other sons and daughters of the
grey English stallion realised 1550, 1450, 1300, 1000,
850, 525 and 800 guineas. Sarchedon, a son of The
Tetrarch, showed Miller a wonderful trial when
newly imported about three years ago, but it was
decided not to race him.
It was David’s fifth Sydney Cup meeting, and
all lovers of a good horse who has been kept at the
game too long will hope that the turf lias seen the
last of him. Considering all the stake-money he has
won for the wealthy pastoralist who owns him he
might have been spared the 71 miles he was obliged
to gallop on the four days when palpably past his
prime. If the owner found anything interesting in
The spectacle of the poor old beggar—a stallion ris-
ing eight who has done more racing on the flat
than any two horses of his time —toiling painfully
in the rear of vigorous young horses like Windbag
and Lilypond, nobody else did. Other features
of the round which will linger unpleasantly in the
memory when more agreeable things have been
forgotten were the steeplechases, the second of
which would have sickened a scavenger, and the
Sydney Cup smash. The latter affair was preceded
and followed by an appalling amount of rough
riding, and instead of suspending experienced horse-
men like Lewis and Harrison, men who can ride, it
would be much more sensible to rule out schoolboys
who can’t. Too many apprentices get mounts, and
too few eight-stoners who have learned the busi-
ness thoroughly; hence, to a large extent, the inter-
ference that goes on in nearly every race, and the
much too frequent accident. Favorites won only
six of the 27 races, and in five of the six the fields
were so small and the prices so poor that many
punters left them alone. Randwick is the other
Eden and demi-Paradisc of MeCramp.
“Castle 11.” : Bobby Lewis’s loss of form
•it the age of 47 must be due to declining dash rather
than to any deterioration in the judgment which has
a 1 ways marked his horsemanship. He can still go
to scale lighter than former contemporaries in Frank
Bullock, Billy MoLaehlan, Brownie Carslake and
1.. 11. Hewitt, who are holding their own with front-
rank English horsemen in their own country. Mo-
Laehlan told me during his visit home last February
that conditions in England favor the experienced
horseman, which is not the case in Australia. Straight
courses and insistence on runners maintaining their
barrier positions throughout a race (except that a
leader at least two lengths clear may cross to the
rails) almost eliminate the scrimmages so common in
Australia, and so sinister a feature of the late Rand-
wick round.
Gay Serenader is evidently one of those
brutes that never run two races alike. On the score
of his easy success in the Williamstown Easter Cup
he was backed at 2’s and 7 to 4 for the Glen-
huntly Gup at Caulfield, being handicapped at
7st. 121 b., or 91b. more, only to run disgracefully.
Danton (10’s) was in front until they entered upon
the last of the 11 furlongs; then Batterymgn (14’s)
and Susie Pye (20’s) passed him, the filly prevailing
by a head. Susie Pye is a three-year-old by Wallace
Isinglass—Radesia, and E. Norton now owns her,
L. K. S. Mackinnon having discarded her as a jade.
Drongo (15’s) was third and Danton fourth. The
latter will do better when T. M. Burke, who bought
the small gelding for £l6OO from the shrewd Tas-
manian George Gann, abandons the notion that he
had got hold of a stayer. Danton failed dismally
in the 1924 Launceston Cup, and couldn’t win any
12-furlong handicap even in the Speck, but he was
a Tas. champion up to nine furlongs. And there
isn’t such a great deal of difference between present
Victorian and Tas. form at that distance. After
Ashtaroth’s highly impressive finish under 9st. lllb.
in the Katandra Two-year-old, her party must have
been sorry they didn’t take her to Randwick. The
resolute daughter of The Welkin—-Angelina went out
at 12's—she was the fourth long-priced winner to
gratify the ringmen during the day.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Oakbank (S.A.) affair
on Easter Monday
marked a full half-
century in the history
of the Onkaparihga
club, which races on
one day in the year —
a second has been
tried without much
success. It is still in
some respects a picnic
meeting. The motors
nearly all park on t a
hill in the middle of
the course; this year
there was the comedy
of a footbridge over a
creek breaking down,
and the tragedy of a
bank official being
killed while crossing
the ' track > during ; a
hurdle race. The
jumps in the big
Steeple have been
made easier of late
years. This was not
the reason for Vic-
torian owners staying
away, but the fact re-
mains that for once
there was no inter-
state competition for
the prize, which has
now been built up to
£2lOO. Doiran, four
times the winner, was
used by the clerk of
the course as his
mount, and received
great cheering when
recognised. Two other
veterans present were
Seth Ferry, formerly a
prominent owner of
jumpers, and Von
Doussa, who as secre-
tary for over 40 years
had a great share in
the club’s develop-
ment.
AT RAND WICK.
"Can’t ice find a scat, dear? My feet do ache so.”
“A seat to rest your feet? My oath! If the luck doesn’t change
we'll have to walk home.”
* Taid : Just as the numbers went up for
the third race a fellow-sport who had speeialled it
down to the course with me, and had kindly lent
me his card, came running up. Breathlessly he in-
formed me that he was broke, but that he had an
unbeatable certainty for “the next.’’ Could I lend
him a fiver? He would return it after the race with
half his winnings as a bonus. Couldn’t tell me the
name of the horse—he had promised the trainer not
to mention it—but the story was dinkum, and he
(“blime!”) was fair dinkum. Impressed, I lent him
the note. When the event was over, and an un-
fancicd nag named Posh had won, my friend re-
appeared all smiles. “What did I tell yuh?” he
said. “Was Posh the one?’’ I asked in surprise.
‘ You bet,” he chuckled. “I got tens. Here’s yours,”
he whispered, “a fiver and half the winnings—30
quid.” He handed me the amount. “And now let’s
go and have a spot.” Needless to say, I was de-
lighted, never hawing got hold of so much money
on a racecourse before. We adjourned and had not
one, but two or three spots. It was nearly starting-
time for the fourth item on the programme when
my friend said he must hurry away. He was going
to put the lot on whatever his trainer-friend advised.
1 took out the 30 pounds I had just received. “Dash
it, vvont you do the same for me?” I said, holding
out the notes. “Well,” he replied, after hesitating
a moment “you have been a decent bloke—l will.”
He took the money and disappeared. I haven’t seen
him from that day to this.
**' * *
Eitsingwold, who went wrong in Perth at
Christmas, returned to the game at the AV.A.T.C.
Easter meeting, and proved himself easily rhe best
horse now in Westralia by donkey-licking Eracre
and Huette at w.f.a. in the Osborne Stakes, leaving
U furlongs behind in 2min. 21 3-ssec. But in the
Metropolitan Handicap, two days later, he failed to
concede 451 b. to Borriskoane, though he defeated all
the others; the winner, a three-year-old colt by
Et. Alwyne—Pcnsee, ran the 12 furlongs in 2min.
32 4-ssec. The Easter Mile and the Avon Handicap
the same meeting were won by Ticli (Champagne
“• —Tycha Tycha), who won a race at Kandwick
in 1920, when the Prince of Wales was in Sydney.
I here is no question about Westralia being a good
country for the thoroughbred, and Eur.vtlnnic’s ex-
ploits as a sire over there will be watched with in-
terest, especially if owner Lee Steere imports a few
good stud matrons for his champion—-the State
is deficient in first-class brood mares.
* * * *
Tli ye and Miller, the American wrestlers,
had another of their pleasant encounters at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night, not for the
championship” this time, but for “a £lOOO purse.”
In the fourth session Thye stood Miller on the back
of the latter’s neck long enough to secure the only
fall. After that the heavier man kept on the defen-
sive, and whenever things got too uncomfortable con-
trived to shuffle out of bounds, thus giving the re-
feree no option but to separate the pair and order
them into the middle of the mat. If the gentlemen
in the press seats are provided with hatpins they
will guarantee to cure Thye of this habit.
* * * *
A dreary 2Q-rounder at Sydney Stadium
between Bill Grime, holder of the lightweight title,
and Nutty Fairhall was declared a draw. Fairhall had
about 71b. the better of the weights, but failed to
make good use of this advantage—“ Boil on me left
arm,” he explained. Grime’s excuse for At* in-
different showing was “Done me right, ’and in the
second.” Each drew about £135 for an hour’s spar-
ring, and everyone was glad when the infliction
was over.
* * * *
Sydney deranged the plans of N.S.W.
Cricket Assoc, by annexing the first-grade premier-
ship, thanks to five “outright” victories in eleven
matches, the last over Western Suburbs. The asso-
ciation had made up its mind to amalgamate Sydney
with Paddington in order to make room for another
club on the northern side of the Parramatta. The
club had a previous success in 1901-02. University
(29 points) finished one point behind Sydney; the
students had an unbeaten record, but their successes
were all on the first innings, and they played four
drawn games. Petersham were third, as well as
being first in the second grade and fourth in the
third grade. O. P. Asher, Sydney’s slow bowler,
took 7 for 28 against Western Suburbs, and bagged
61 at 14.24 during the season. Of recent years
there has been no more prolific wicket-getter in
grade cricket (63 at 11.15 was his achievement in
1919-20, and 75 at 14.98 in 1923-24), but except
for a brief trial in Sheffield Shield matches a couple
of years ago, the selectors have passed him bv.
Left-hander Liney Wall, his club-mate, with 52 at
12.5; and Otto Nothling (Uni.), 36 at 11, share
the season’s honors with Asher. Among the bats-
men, H. O. Rock, the ’Varsity hard-hitter, takes
the aggregate with 656 runs, averaging 54.66, and
Warren Bardsley’s seven innings averaged 67.16.
“Winkle”: The Melbourne premiership
pennant has again gone to St. Kilda. Last year the
Saints took it from Northeote by 175 runs; this
time, after a season without defeat, . they walked
home from Richmond by an innings and 153. Pons-
ford is the only locally-born lad in the team. Cohen,
the captain, originally played a plodding stick for
Carlton ; Lampard, who did so well with the A.I.P.
team, helped Richmond before the war and Prahran
after it; Love, the ’keep, migrated from Sydney;
and Fred Yeomans’s graceful bat was once the best
in Northcote’s strong eleven. As for the bowling
pair, the most destructive in Victoria, Blackie is a
product of Prahran, and Ironmonger hailed from
Queensland. Prahran did well to reach the final
four, seeing that Willis, Ellis and Wallace spent the
whole season with the Vic. XI in Noo South, South
Oss or Maoriland. They were greatly helped by
Stephens, one of the few who have made a century
for Victoria in each innings of an inter-State match.
Though now in the veteran stage, Stephens is a
daring field at silly point, and stocks a tricky ball
that is death to the impetuous.
The club premiership of Adelaide cricket,
long-drawn-out, showed that sound, all-round teams
may be better than those relying on one or two
stars. Hardly an}' of the S.A. XI figured in the
finals, but a lot did who have lately been dropped
from it. Two clubs stood out on tlie season, Sturt
(Townsend, Willsmore, Gould) and Glenelg (Rundell,
Pincombe, Whitty). Yet both were beaten in the
semi-finals by Kensington (Rymill, Stirling, Bowley)
and University; and the latter won the so-called
final by an innings, thanks to Ohlstrom’s bowling,
7 for 46 and 6 for 49. This meant a challenge from
Sturt, whom Vie. Richardson was now available to
assist. He made 38, but it, was only the fourth
best score on the side, the top one being ISO by
young Bartlett, a consistent scorer whom the inter-
state selectors overlook. The students (without
Gun) collapsed before the attack of Whiting (5 fot
47), and the season ended humorously with Towns-
end, as bowler, running out Ohlstrom, the “backing-
up” batsman at his end. It is Sturt’s first premier-
ship since 1006-07.
* * * *
Ou Saturday the Victorian Ladies’ Row-
ing Association held its first regatta, which included
an “inter-Statc championship fours.” The Ma State
girls were delayed by nose-powdering or some such
ceremony, and were 20 minutes late at the post.
By contrast, the Westralians, ignoring the rule that
woman is entitled to the privilege of unpunctu-
ality, even if she is a sport, were well ahead of
time at the starting-point, only to finish a hopeless
last in the race, which went to the South Austra-
lians, with Victoria second and the belated misses
from Sydney third. Nobody thought it worth while
to mention how long they had taken. The event is an
interesting example of the determination of the in-
trusive skirt to break into sports which were once
solely men’s sports, even if the skirt has to be left
behind. Or is it because the skirt has to be left
behind 7
* * # #
“O. McKay M.”: T. D. Mclunes, C. H.
Fitts, J. B. Turner, Paul Haege, H. A. Coldham and
.1. C. Reed easily defeated a ragged Sydney Uni.
team for the Niall Cup. D. S. Colvin did well to
beat Paul Haege 6 —2, 9 —7, and to take a set from
Mclrmes, the 1923 Davis Cup player, but the rest
failed. Adelaide, with Gar Hone in the team, put
up a better fight, but Melbourne ’Varsity won with
five rubbers to spare. With the exception of Mclnnes
and Fitts (both doing mod. finals) the Melbourne
representatives are very young, Turner, Haege and
Coldham being in their ’teens.
“Past Grammar”: The flight of N.S.W.
League footballers northward lias not been the least
of the League’s anxieties, for that body needs every
high-class player it can rake up. Queensland’s re-
vival in football prestige has set the game booming
throughout the State, where it finds opportunity to
flourish, not only in the metropolis, but in the big
coastal towns like Rockhampton, Townsville and
Cairns, which are practically subsidiary State capi-
tals. N.S.W. has lost so many cracks that she in-
tends to ask for an armistice. Some time ago, when
Queensland players were coming south, the League
agreed to put restrictions on their appearance for
•Sydney clubs, unless with the sanction of the Queens-
land body, while they were barred from playing
for N.S.W. till they had completed 12 months’
residence. Now that the Queensland League is up
in the saddle, N.S.W. wants it io reciprocate, and
means to get the matter satisfactorily fixed or perish
in the attempt.
“Shrewsbury”; The League is losing yet another
of its cracks in „T. Dawson, who is taking on a
coaching job at Temora. Dawson gained metropoli-
tan representation in the Rugby Union, and when
he appeared in the League game, two seasons ago,
lie leapt straight into the highest class. A very
sound, straight-running' centre, with great defensive
powers, he was last year the only cent re-threequarter
of class N.S.W. could boast.
“ Jacky Boo”: “Past Grammar” was wrong
when he said (B. 16/4/’2s') that Otto Nothling, the
N.S.W. full-back, is to play the League game in
Brisbane this season. According to the secretary of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union Association, Otto is remain-
ing at the Sydney Uni., and will play for his old
club again. In any case, he has a worthy emergency
in A. Ross, the old Sydney Grammar back. Ross
has a great defence and is a brilliant kick. He is
certain to take Nothling’s place when the latter
does return to Bananaland.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: According to Brisbane
reports, a split threatens in Queensland League foot-
ball, the Toowoomba delegates having withdrawn
from the Queensland League councils, as a protest
against the non-inclusion of a Toowoomba man as
a State selector. The interesting part of the tragedy
is tlie statement that a breakaway may occur, and
a Queensland “Amateur Rugby League” be formed.
Unfortunately, as long as the malcontents play
Northern Union (or League) rules, neither they nor
anyone else connected with this code can claim to be
amateurs in law, however much they 'may be that
in fact and in spirit.
* * * *
“Rod. Sine”: Sydney Uni. lost four stal-
warts in the sporting line when the final nied.
results were made known a few days ago. Alee
Mayes and George Halliday, who helped the Uni.
cricket XI to go through the season unbeaten and
also played for Combined ’Varsities v. the Stanford
Uni. tennis team; Keith Kirkland, who was a swim-
ming rep. at the Olympic Games in 1920, and Roy
Hoskins a football and rowing blue, who lias played
with the N.S.W. XV against M.L., are now entitled
to write M.B. after their names.
* # * *
“H. Hardupp” ; An old balance-sheet of
the Carlton (Melb.) club has been dug up to make
an interesting comparison with football finance of
to-day. Last season Carlton handled £5OOO, and
£2350 went in direct payments to players—there
were indirect payments, of course. In 1896 the club
had only £lBl to play with, and financial advantages
to players were severely absent, it is the item
“Proceeds from Matches” which shows most queerly,
however. In a match against North Melbourne, a
whole 3s. sd. was garnered by the gatekeepers; in
another, against Williamstown, the takings were
put down as nil. As the club had less than 300
members, the attendances can be imagined. The
total “gates” amounted to £6S 9s. 6d.; last season
the lowest takings on any Saturday— i.e., in a
game against; Geelong—were £6B Bs. 3d. Yet there
was a healthier spirit in tlie game in 1896 than
there is to-day.
THE RANDWICK STEEPLECHASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Only three of the eight starters in the three-mile
steeplechase at Randwick completed the course, and
one horse, Plain Alwyne, was killed. Much the
same thing happens at every Easter meeting.”
1 go out to Randwick races,
But there’s one I never see;
For 1 hate the steeplechases
And the cruel uphill places
Where they ride with spur and quirt—
No, the ’chase is not for me.
(Are there any horses hurtf)
So I go behind and listen,
Listen for the starting bell;
Just a flying flash and glisten,
Burnished flank and silken shirt.
Oh, the roar 1 know so well;
Was it Chrysostom that fell ?
(Are there any horses hurt?)
Round once more. I hear the thunder
As they pass the paddock gate;
Once again the roar—l wonder
Whether horse and human freight
Now with Death have kept a date,
Lying motionless, inert.
(Are there any horses hurt?)
It is over. Crowds are streaming:
’Twas an accident, that’s all;
And I run to see the steaming
’Chasers, and to watch the gleaming
Water wash off sweat and dirt.
Why is there an empty stall?
(Are there any horses hurt?)
x.s.w.
M. HUNTLEY.


ESSEX-tf-SZT
Built by Hudson Under Hudson Patents
Essex
Touring
f,
r,
\iy
o
a®
O
a
£
M-V
Genuine Balloon Tires
Standard Equipment
The addition of balloon tires gives a final note
of distinction and luxurious riding comfort to
the mechanical superiority and notable per-
formance of today’s Essex.
Its advantage of price and value is more marked
than ever.
The qualities of economy, inexpensive mainte-
nance and endurance which won such wide
preference for Essex in this territory as in other
parts of the world, are continued and improved
in the new Essex.
Economy and performance are better. More
accessible for replacements of repairs, which
means less maintenance expense.
It is important to know the real facts regarding
balloon tires. Essex tires are genuine, full-sized
balloons.
And with lower center of gravity and unique
spring arrangement they give greater safety
and comfort on all roads at all speeds.
To all you know of Essex reputation is added
the confidence that it is built by the Hudson
Motor Car Company, on the famous Hudson
patents. Thus in this moderate pnfced “Six’*
you get the very features for which the Hudson
Super-Six is noted—long life, reliability and
brilliant performance.
You are invited to see the new Essex and take
a ride. In either the Coach, with closed car
comforts, or the open touring model you will
agree that the Essex provides ideal transpor-
tation. The price takes it out of all competition
with cars of comparable quality
The COACH
ALL CLOSED CAR COMFORTS
AT OPEN CAR COST
The Coach is a Hudson-
Essex invention. No
other type and no other
car gives “Closed Car
Comforts at Open Car
Cost. ’ ’ Everyone knows
it represents the highest
closed car value. That
is why it is the largest
selling 6-cylinder closed
car in the world.
I
■
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
ESSEX Australian Body Phaeton
ESSEX Coach -
£375
435
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS. LTD.,
Desmond Chambers,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Q.
B. C. HEATHOKN & CO., LTB.,
63-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street,
Perth, AV.A.
DALGETT Sc CO ., LTD.,
Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, Vie.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at whir), t>> »
books arc published in London, Prices outside
the liritislt Isles tintst be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
KING
EDWARD VII.
A Biography by
SIR SIDNEY LEE.
°l. L—From Birth to Accession. With
6 Portraits. 2 Facsimile Letters, and
6 Maps. .844 pp. 31s. 6d. net.
Official History of the Great War.
Vol. II. — M ilit a r y Operations.
FRANCE and BELGIUM: Oct. and
Nov., 1014. Compiled by General
.T. E. EDMONDS. 12s.' fid. net.
Maps (in separate case). ss. 6d.
net.
(he Times : “General Edmonds has fully
maintained, and even surpassed, the very high
level of the first volume.”
A Golden Treasury of Irish Verse.
Edited by Lennox Robinson. Cloth,
7s. 6d. net. Leather, 10s. net.
THE
ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British CommoJtwealth.
Trice 5/- per copy or 20/- per annum.
■ Post Free.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR MARCH:
EUROPE: THE COVENANT AND THE
PROTOCOL.
THE GOLD STANDARD.
CHINA IN EVOLUTION.
VOLCANOES IN INDUSTRY.
THE PRESIDENT, THE SECRETARY OF
STATE, AND SENATOR BORAH.
IRELAND AS IT IS.
INDIA: THE POLITICAL CHAOS.
UNITED KINGDOM: CURRENT POLITICS.
Also Articles from “Australia“ New Zealand,”
“South Africa” and “Canada.”
To be Obtained from ait
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
The GENUINE BOSCH
MAGNETOS
SPARKING PLUGS
LIGHTING AND STARTING SETS
HORNS (2 NOTE)
PLATINUM POINTS
AND SPARE PARTS
are absolutely dependable under the
severest conditions.
Imitated throughout the World, but,
as yet, UNEQUALLED.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty.j Ltd.,
256-258 Latrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Boscli Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
190 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Elphinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Hobart D- <J. Nettlefold & Co., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand..., Jas. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Not genuine without the name of ROBERT BOSCH
and this . iHTWi— TRADE-MARK.
Pure
SHELL
S?'
*
S4I
r
Quick Starting
No “Knocking”
Extra Mileage
Because of its high “aromatic”
content Shell is unique in its
combination of these qualities.
Buy SHELL from the Kerbside Pump
and so save the cost of tins and cases. Be sure, however,
that the Guaranteed Pure Shell Motor Spirit
sign is on the pump or garage wall—otherwise, ask for
Shell in tins.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Limited. All States and New Zealand.
THE INKY WAY.
W. J. Martin, after spending 39 years as Stock
Kxihange representative and later financial editor of
Adelaide Register, goes back into the bull-and-bear
pit by joining the staff of J. B. Were and Son, Mel-
bourne sharebrokers.
“Fite”: Passed over the other day, H. J. Murray,
who had for years been a bright link in the Inky
Way on the N.S.W. North Coast. lie belonged to
the old school of newspaper men who could set an
ad., space a poster, write a par or pen a leader.
Tom ,1. Bourke, the Age’s Ballarat correspondent,
has died in harness at the age of 69, leaving a gap
not only cn his paper’s staff but in the life of the
old goldfields town. He had been in the Inky Wav
for 50 years, and for all but four of them had faith-
fully held the Age's end up at Ballarat.
"Fite Tites”: Will Lawson, who is often shouted
drinks by misguided persons who believe him to be a
brother of Henry, is back in Sydney. Since the
middle of last year he has been publicity officer for
the Union S. S. Co. and the South Pacific Railway;
for the last-named he travelled over 9000 miles,
mostly on the footplate. For a change he gave
Mexico a rapid once-over, soaking up inspiration for
a few more fathoms of swinging verse and a few
more acres of robust prose.
“Antoninus”: Melbourne ’Varsity broke out on April
3 with a weekly news-sheet, the Farrago. The first
issue of four pages is a bright little product of
undergraduate ingenuity, and promises well for the
success of the venture. The staff is enthusiastic
and industrious, and includes S. H. Heymanson,
8.A., as editor ; Joan Finlason, of Janet Clarke Hall
(editress) ; Lloyd Ross, B.A. (he is a son of R. S.
Ross, the Labor journalist) ; and B. C. Fitzpatrick,
of Trinity, who writes “O. McKay M.’s” pars, in
The Bulletin.
“S.T.S.”: Have any of our own poets used a
purely Australian simile for the moon? If so, when
did they begin? I find this in the poems of
Morgenstern, a German (1872-1914)): “A boomerang
flies through the evening clouds, a golden yellow
boomerang. And I think to myself: An Australian
blackfellow angel must have hurled that out of
the Happy Hunting Grounds, perhaps inadvertently,
ft may' be that a cherub is set to prevent his climbing
over the wall of Heaven to recover it. The poor
blackfellow !”
“D.D.D.”: Another Australian pressman to make
good in London is Keighley Goodchild, new chief
cf the Standard. He is the son of the Keighley
Goodchild who had a Victorian reputation for his
galloping Australian rhymes, a la Gordon, in the
’nineties. Keighley', senior, brought out a little
volume of poems entitled “Who Are You?” about
45 years ago, printing them at his own Advertiser
office at Echuea (Vic.). In that volume you will
find a ballad with the title “While the Billy' Boils.”
Henry Lawson used it later without ever having
heard of the other.
“Pomdig”; For sheer downrightness, how about
this?:—
“Rating more than he was able,
Willie died at breakfast table.
‘lf you please,’ said sister Meg,
‘May I have his other egg?’ ”
Or this tragic morsel?:—
Willie in the best of sashes
Fell in the fire, was burnt to ashes.
Bye and bye the room grew chilly,
But no one cared to stir up Willie.
“G.S.”; I have had occasion lately to write
several times to the editor of the Woman’s Mirror.
My informal soul rebelled at the formal “Dear
Madam,” so I wrote at last: “Have you a name,
and may I call you by it?” I had been picturing
the editor as one of those earnest, efficient women
that the modern age produces, with a sense of duty
in place of a sense of humor—l could see her quite
plainly, from the coiffure of the season-before-last
to the well-polished little “sensible” shoes. I am
still chuckling at the answer I received: “Call me
anything you like except Madam. I’m a little man
with a bald head and a daughter of 21.”
“Alistor”: The Western Star, of Roma (Q.), was
50 last month, which makes it one of the oldest
country newspapers in the State. Nursed by Francis
Ividner, it first raised its head on March 27. 1875.
A few years later it was purchased by three partners,
one of whom, Alfred Robinson, soon became its sole
owner. Robinson hailed from Manchester, where he
got his journalistic training on the Guardian, and
for over 40 years he was the Star. Under him
many' young men were trained who now bulk large
in the newspaper world of Brisbane and Sydney.
Two of his sons now manage the paper—incidentally,
both of them joined issue with Fritz in the late
war —and uphold the best traditions of the Austra-
lian press.
. “Slam”: Just celebrated her 74th birthday in
England, Mrs. Campbell Praed, one of the most
prolific of Australian novelists who listened to the
call of London. As Miss Prior, daughter of a
Postmaster-General of Queensland, she gave promise
of great things in literature in her native State
half a century ago; her first novel, “An Australian
Heroine,” appeared as far back as 1880. In the
following 30 years her output was 30 novels, and
then in 1910 she collaborated with Justin McCarthy
on “Our Book of Memories.” Like several others
of the native-born who have made good abroad, she
is not enough known in her own country. Her last
novel, “Lady Bridget in the Never Never Land,”
appeared 10 years ago, since when she has been
silent. She married Campbell Mackworth Praed in
1872, and has two sons and one daughter, none of
whom has adventured on the Inky Way.
“Blink Bonnie”: The little Suburban Times, of
Redfern, Sydney, one of the oldest suburban weeklies
m Australia, and probably the only one whose edi-
torial and business departments are run bv a woman
is celebrating its jubilee this year. The hard-worked
lady' is Mrs. Alice Gornall, mother of poetess Lola
The paper was founded by Rev. T. .T. Curtis i
Scots padre of Redfern, who called it the Redffrn
Times. It was later purchased and the name altered
by 1 eter Gornall, an Englishman who had lived for
many years in the Argentine and came to Australia
for health reasons. With Gornall holding the reins
the paper was marked by a high literary standard
and the editorial staff included at one time or an-
other the late Walter Jeffrey, of Sydney Evening
News; E. J. Dempsey, present leader-writer of tbc
same paper; and Phil Gullett. Peter Gornall died
"! ai } d } n f wife has since run the sheet
Though it circulates in a radical stronghold where
the local populace speaks very often in the crimson
vernacular about the correct method of kickin',
gentility 1 * maintains an ™pregnSble
PIPE DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
\\ ords will not flow to-night, I know not why;
-My pipe is drawing well, the lamp burns bright,
The household sleeps and all the night is still
.Save a faint scratching at my window-sill.
And yet 1 cannot write to-night.
1 let my mascot in ; she claims her seat
Upon my desk, and purrs with soft delight.
Her grave, green eye no inspiration brings;
And though my mind holds strange imaginings
My pen is still, I cannot write to-night.
Mow, through the open window, comes a sound
That ever puts the thoughts of age to flight
And opens wide a store of memories
Of youth’s adventures on far distant seas—
They crowd me so, I cannot write to-night.
A gale is rising, and the tall pines groan
As though they feared the wind’s eternal fight;
They set me thinking of a storm-swept bar,
A tall ship striking and a falling spar—
-0 mate o’ mine! I cannot write to-night.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


/s
y
1
y%
m
<C
/a
0 @1 6)
x>j
5)
O
5>
*9
t% N
O/i
r D
SFZ
>A i
z
z
z
z
*r
a
o)
«« Tell me what they Cost and 11l tell you how I like them.
“ Oh, then youll admit they re lovely. They were only 6/22 a pair”
To Purchase Bond 5 s 5 is to
Practise Economy
* /
C'
i
w
pi
/!/\
r*
r. P
G
/) «l!||
««
\V
FO£ OUTINGS
a specially suitable Silk
Stocking is
L OND’S
“ TRIPLE-WEAR"
It features a particularly
heavy thread and plated
construction which
makes the stocking proof
against the worst strain
to which it could be
submitted in wear.
Obtainable in Black,
White and Colors.'"? ,
Sells every where at i /v
HOSIERY economy involves no self-sacrifice for
the woman who is wise enough to wear
Bond’s "Sylh-Avto. ” With the important advantage
of moderate price, ' 'Sylk-Ario” unites the still more important
attribute of phenomenal wear-resistance, every pair being cap-
able of rendering months of flawless service.
Combining pure Silk texture with an inimitably lustrous finish, and giv-
ing that sheer fit at leg and ankle, necessary to a well-dressed appearance,
“ Sijlk-Arto” meets every requirement in the direction of style.
Obtainable with EXPANDING TOP, and in sizes up to 10J in. foot,
“Sif :k~ A vio” caters for the complete comfort of every wearer. Made
in 41 shades " Sijlk-A.vio” provides a perfect match for any conceivable
color scheme.
You will certainly find that Silk Hosiery satisfaction costs you a lot
less per year if you will make your choice Bond’s ”Sy k~A.rto.”
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE SELL BOND’S ", SYLK-ARTO *
Make certain that the Stockings you buy carry
the circular “ Sylk~Arto ” Label at the top and
the oval ' Sylk-Aito” Transfer at the foot.
6/11-
Jjkmd's
SmtfßTO
(_Wti Improvement- on
HOSE
Made in Australia by GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD., All States and N.Z.
Manufacturers of Bond’s Hosiery, Bond’s Half-Hose, Bond’s “Tru-Sije” Underwear,
Bond’s Towels and Sheeting. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.
BOND'S
*LADY BETTY'
HOSE
to distinguished by the
fact that it is made in
" Sytk-Ario ” thread
throughout, the tops
feeing re-inforced with
fine mercerised lisle.
Features a wonderfully
complete range of dainty
evening shades. Qii
Sells everywhere at O/ II
“LEST WE FORGET'
On April 25tk, the 10th Anniversary
of Anzac Day. theKS S.I.L.A. will
hold a Commemoration Service at 11
a.m. in the Sydney Town Hall. The
Anzac Concert will lake place in the
Town Hall at 8 p.m.


m
ap
:
The White Horse Cellar
1742
Estab
u And for the right , we come to fight
Before the ranks of Rome.”
Thus does Macaulay recall for us the
famous legend of Castor and Pollux with
their snow-white steeds.
Not on the battlefields of Roman legend,
but on the bottles of a famous Whisky do
we find the great White Horses of to-day.
For the White Horse has ever been the emblem of purity, strength
courage and all the enduring qualities appreciated through every age.
WffwmS!
SE
WHISKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD., GLASGOW AND LONDON,
AUSTRALASIAN AGENCIES:
SYDNEY!
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Qrorci, McVitty & Co. Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON:
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
CAIRNS, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Dalgety & Co.j Ltd.
PERTH:
Milne & Co., Ltd.
HOBART!
Burgess Bros. Pty., Ltd.
LAUNCESTON!
Irvine & McEachern
AUCKLAND,
GISBORNE, NAPIER, NEW PLY3IOUTHS
Burns, l’hilp & Co., Ltd.
WELLINGTON:
K. T. Taylo? & Co., Ltd.
WANGANUI, PALMERSTON NORTH:
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.
DUNEDIN, INVERCARGILL, TIMARUj
R. Wilson & Co., Ltd.
NELSON:
Barns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd.
CHRISTCHUKCH:
Srierson & Davis, Ltd


:£>
r\
■STi
GREYS
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/.
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured b\
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO LTD., LONDON
Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co Ltd
Aecand ixr / Hon&
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
toMuESTv.-.......... v • • V| ■ -SSLSS;
Sou 0p ““. “ oc ’. K . vS
Fdller’s Theatki: •• •:
Hippodrome \\ irths Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s
|. IIVAI -spring Cleaning
.”v--.:. Ma «as’
£™ 8 ' 8 ■. ?:!± : te »
fe ::::::::::::::::::: m^JpSSS
Majestic Moving Pictures
+.
The opening concert, ol the Galli-Curci sea-
son at the Melbourne Auditorium on Satur-
day presented a colorful programme which
avoided those trials of strength dear to the
heart of most vocal stars —a circumstance
that rather puzzled a section of the huge
audience. Gramophone records had built an
expectation of a voice larger in volume, the
result being that there was a sense of some-
thing missed amidst the intoxicating delight
the audience got from the coloratura work.
Galli-Curci stirred no deep feelings, but she
tingled the emotions with thrills; yet the
tumult that broke out at the completion of
her singing of Russell’s “Vale was probably
more a tribute to the thought than to the
quality of the artist’s work. Valverde s
“Cluvelitos,” an example of vocal gymnas-
tics full of verve, was more deservedly popu-
lar: and there was some wonderful tender-
ness in passages of the Slumber Song from
’‘Pinorah” (Meyerbeer). But it was the
“Mignon” Polonaise that gave the singer her
best opportunity: sounds that might be the
essence of beautiful dreams filtered through
it. In another success, the Shadow Song
from “Pinorah," there wore some notes
which did not reach truth; and in this num-
ber the work of flautist Manuel Berenguer,
which docs not hear favorable comparison wit h
that of performers Australia has known, was,
once at; least, almost an annoyance. The
singer being very obliging, the concert lasted
out to well over the time which Melbourne
SPRING CLEANING," AT MELBOURNE
TREATRE ROYAL.
The vibrant Pauline Frederick as Margaret
Rones, and Thelma Burness as Coleen
Fag. a particularly nasty type of flapper.
regards as good money's worth. Homer
Samuels was an accompanist in perfect sym-
pathv with the lady; only once was he an
absentee whilst Galli-Curci played her own
accompaniment to a light item provided
as an encore. The second concert was listed
for Tuesday: to-night sees the third, and
there will be others on Saturday and lues-
day next.
* :*,i #
The re-introduction of "The Masquerader’’
at Melbourne King’s last Saturday showed
Guy Bates Post at his best, and the support
rendered him was more than usually good.
John Cliilcott. who has accumulated politi-
cal honors rapidly, has become a Minister
of the Crown, but has also become a slave
to the drug habit, which not only over-
comes him at critical moments, but makes
him sometimes a disagreeable person to live
with. Utterly unable to meet an occasion
upon which he is due to make an important
war speech, he recalls the remarkable re-
semblance between himself and his cousin.
John Loder. and to save his own reputation
induces John to take his place. Loder,
though he has never before made a public
speech, uses up the matter of an article, he
lias written and makes a good impression.
Thereafter Loder takes his place so often
that it becomes a habit, Chilcott degenerat-
ing more and more as he feels he can shelve
his responsibility. He is often in retreat
doped in his cousin's chambers whilst Loder
represents him both in public affairs and at
home. A climax is reached when Loder,
developing a love for Mrs. Chilcott which
lie feels makes the position impossible, de-
clines to masquerade any more; but at this
moment Chilcott dies from an overdose of
morphia, and his faithful retainer, Brock,
who knows the circumstances, by giving the
dead man’s name as Loder, creates a new
problem which is really the solution of the
story. To satisfy conventional scruples
Loder and Mrs. Chilcott agree to marry
secretly, but the understanding is that the
former carries on as Chilcott, although a
reference to settling in Canada hints that:
the affairs of Britain don’t matter much
once the romance is satisfactorily adjusted.
•X- * * *
Guy Bates Post, convincing throughout,
was particularly so in the scene wherein
Chilcott gives up the ghost; and Ailsa Gra-
hame, in spite of a weakness in one strong
scene, made a satisfactory debut in a leading
role. Wilmington Barnes was excellent as the
faithful British retainer, Brock; Leslie
Victor made considerably more of a brief
part than would have been possible with a
less competent performer, and Ashton Jarry
as Mr. Lakely and Zillah Bateman as the
drug-distributing Lady Lilian Astrupp were
the most prominent of the other supporters.
* * * *
The Melbourne Royal seems to have struck
at last in “Spring Cleaning - ’ something cap-
aide of keeping its often-neglected seats occu-
pied. A second sight of Pauline Frederick
gives the impression of improvement, and
l ints that the tumultous welcome given to
the ex-film star on the first night overcame
her to an extent which prevented her from
doing her best work. She appears to
have got used to the nightly reception now.
“Spring Cleaning” is apparently what the
public wants; but the crude cleverness and
artificiality of it were more conspicuous in
the second dose than in the first.
* * *
A further inspection of “Little Jessie
James” confirms the first impression about
the young lady’s brightness; but in the
search for improvement, which should be the
desire of us all, Leslie Pearce might drop the
habit of smiling inanely at every speech.
He sings very nicely to two girls in succes-
sion, “First, Last and Always.” There are
a number of points in the show which de-
serve mention, one of them the way Roy
McLean is climbing new heights as a dancer.
He threatens to surpass brother Eddie. The
Radium ballet is also an item nightly pull-
ing its tribute of applause. Apparently the
New Princess has secured another long-
distance tenant.
*!* -!* *l* Jj*
“Primrose” remains in flower at Melbourne
Majesty’s, presenting petals which atone for
the thin stalk of the story and the failure
of Maud Fane to carry the conviction that
she is entirely happy. The lighting trick
whereby the aspect of the dancers’ clothes is
magically changed is one of the clever items
of the frivol.
** * *
“The School for Scandal” will get into
session at Melbourne New Palace on Satur-
day, so that those who have delayed have
only two more nights in which to see that
wholesome comedy, “She Stoops to Conquer.”
Allan Wilkie’s presentation thereof is well
worth seeing.
On Friday “Gappy Ricks” will be pushed
out of the office in which he has been losing
dollars by the thousand, and his meaty son-
in-law has been winning them. The bold
adventure of E. J. Carroll with a company
of Australian “bush actors” has been such
a success that it should prove a lasting benefit
to many Australian thespians who have had
to complain of much neglect in the past.
“Skittles” will appear on Saturday night
at the Athenaeum ; and it is a venue John
f>. O’Hara, who has been kept waiting on
the mat for two weeks, should find suitable.
Bert Ralton’s “Savoy Havana Band” has
struck a Melbourne Tivoli popularity which
vies with that of the “Two Rascals,” who
are still on the bill. Peggy Thyer adds a
pleasing though not distinguished voice to
the programme: but Duncan and Godfrey,
returned to these regions, resurrect memories
of their dreadful monotony. The return
of Wee Georgie Wood is announced for
May f>—Boatrace Night.
Stiffy and Mo, still pulling the ribald
crowd to Melbourne Bijou, have become
waterside workers; and the revue they pre-
sent has all the farce associated with the
Australian wharfside. without the elemeut
of annoyance attached to it in real life.
This week, if Melbourne was a bird and
could be in two places at once, it might
see an actress appearing in two dramatic
plays simultaneously. At Hoyt s D)e Luxe, next
door to the regular show house where Pauline
Frederick is starring in her own person in
“Spring Cleaning,” the lady’s photograph
chases some intriguing situations in ' Smoul-
dering Fires.” The rest of the programme is
mainly “Big Timber.” “The Fighting Sap
provides thrills at the Majestic, but a much-
as-usual society drama, “Forgive and lor-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
The mad-hatter of Moran and Wiser catch-
ing a hat thrown from the gallery; and
Jack Stork s. the woman hater, discuss-
ing his wife.
get,” is the star item —the well-worn talc of a.
wife’s awakening to the error of her ways,
and thrilling audiences with glimpses of the
lady’s close approaches to sin.
:[: * *
It is impossible to go anywhere in Mel-
bourne where music prevails without fall-
ing across some of the Bradley family; they
play all sorts of instruments, and on all
sorts of occasions. Five of them (one sus-
pects there are more) took a violin, a cello
and a voice to the Melba Hall one night
last week, and, finding a few pianos there,
proceeded to entertain as large a gathering
as the premises will hold. Some ti the offer-
ings approached distinction: a piano quin
tette, Schumann’s Op. 44, was a conspicu-
ously pleasing novelty. And Charles Brad-
ley sang attractively.
ijC V V
Another One-Melbourne-Man Show :
Victor Zelman’s work, shown at the Fine Art Gal-
lery, Exhibition-street, makes an exhibition which,
unless the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals lodges an objection, can pass as pleasant.
Gifted with an artistic insight which enables him
to show, -in an effortless manner, the particular
beauty he has seen in snatches of landscape, the
artist has spoilt one or two otherwise good pictures
by putting in animals crudely done. “Glen Waver-
ley” shows neat composition and attractive color,
and there are others to match; but, again, “Plough
irig, Dromana,” is spoilt by the horse in the fore-
ground.
As the riuging quality of Elsa Stralia's
voice never failed to act on her audiences
like an electric shock, the singer was com
manded by General Box-office to lengthen
her Sydney season by three concerts. Stralia
has the sort of voice that makes her lis-
teners shiver ecstatically into stillness at its
first clarion call, and they only revive at the
end of the final note to tumultuously ask tor
more. Able to sing for a month without
turning a hair, she has been extremely gener-
ous in the matter of encores, and has never
failed to deliver either the “Song of Thanks-
giving” or “Land of Hope and Glory.” That
the singer is capable of expressing both emo-
tional sensibility and dramatic force with
her big voice was displayed in the “Butter-
fly” music. In her singing of “One Fine
Day” there was a light and shade all the
more remarkable after hearing her delivering
the heavy vocal ammunition. Massenet’s
“II est Doux, il est Bon,” and Rachmani-
noff’s'“Spring Waters” were other notable
ear-catchers. Tenor Arthur Jordan continued
to sing both with and without the lady in
a manner artistic and a voice whose sweet-
ness is sometimes sacrificed to big tone. But
lie always does it with poetic feeling and
clear diction. Bessie Griffiths’s ’cello sang
melodiously throughout the season, and Verri
Barnett was always the complete accompa-
nist.
Love and golf get inextricably mixed
nightly at Her Majesty’s. Sydney, where
“Kid Boots” continues to display an un-
blemished pair of uppers.
❖ * s= *
A close season for Wildflowers was de-
clared at Sydney Royal on Wednesday to
enable “The Maid of the Mountains” to
emerge from her retreat on Saturday. Glad}«
Monerieff and Claude Flemming will re-
introduce this favorite specimen of Alpine
flora.
** * *
There are no signs that “Tangerine"
audiences at Sydney Opera House are getting-
tired of seeing Mark Daly in a tantrum or
May Beatty in a bath: nor does sudden
change from Ludlow-street, New York, to
an island in the tropics appear to have any
deleterious effect upon the cast.
* :!-■ * *
The bill at Sydney Tivoli starts off with
cartoon comedies of /E.so p's Fables and then
plunges into assorted turns —all lirst-class
or bordering upon first-class. Moran and
Wiser, the mad hatters, are on duty again;
and patrons wake up other members of the
family on their return home to tell them
about Tom Clare’s humor.
:J: #
At Sydney Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
continues to cater for young and old, twice
daily, excepting Sunday, when Bgochago and
Carmelia, the South American clowns, retire
behind closed doors to think out new gags,
and the horde of uniformed attendants
shingle the monkeys and take the nicest
elephants to church. Wirths’ have gone a
long way since they started their little circus
in Paddy’s Market 45 years ago, and they
are at peace with their conscience in the
knowledge that they have always given
patrons the full worth of their money.
** * «
Those hardened people who take cold
showers in any sort of weather and do the
health exercises broadcasted early in the
morning by the radio companies will appre-
ciate Sydney Fullers’ programme this week.
Even George Wallace's revue has a smack of
the gymnasium, physical culture being bur-
lesqued in a number of clever little acts.
The exceptions, Edwards and Hughes and
Huley and Bent, cut very little ice.
:l! :i: * »:
“Where is Mv Wandering Boy To-night?’’
is being plaintively asked by a grey-haireo
cld ladv at Sydney Lyceum; but as the
straying child is no other than squint-eyed
Ben' Turpin and there is a text on the wall
that rends "Never throw stones at your
mother!" there is not a tear to be wrung
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES,” AT
MELBOUERNE PRINCESS'S.
John Kirby as William J. Pierce, a depressed
debt-collector; Katie Towers as Mrs.
Jamieson, Jessie's mother.
from it. On the other hand. “What Shall I
Do?” at the same house is replete with
watery sentiment. “So Big,” at Hoyts, is
the tale of Selina Peake, a good-looking lass
who is married to a slow-witted Dutch
farmer with an enormous appetite and bad
table manners. It is a popular subject.
Sydney bursts out in a rash: —
This critic remembers once visiting the Royal
Academy and the exhibition of the new English Art
Club on the same Spring day. The transition from
the imperial yoshiwara of British art to the torture
chamber of the youthful yogis of the modern school
was extremely entertaining. Through the sample
rooms of the former show drifted a well-dressed
crowd murmuring such profound aphorisms as
“Awf’ly jolly thing of Tube’s, what?” and “Sweet
likeness of Lady S. by Sargent, isn’t it?” In the
other excited partisans ran up and down pointing
out beauties in a Dada masterpiece undiscovered
by anybody else, a plethoric colonel who had wan-
dered in in error hurled invective at a group of
dropsical figures by a well-known vorticist, old
ladies moved around with hesitating steps and
puzzled brows, and young ones argued furiously in
every corner.
Something of the languid atmosphere of the one
(Continued on Page ST.)


Come to
Think of
It
You ARE about two
Shirts short ! You’re
forever running short of
a shirt the day before
the laundry comes home.
Sometimes you have to
put on that one with
frayed cuffs, or a soiled
one.
Why not end your
Shirt troubles by &ettin&
a couple of Pelaco’s to-
day? Your Mercer has
them!
SSL NN'Ay’ll
<^
X
r
\
\ \
\
v
3
P
020$$^
iyuaranUed 1
SHIRoTS &i>
COLLAROiS
f They
A dust-proof farm engine
does it mean anything to you?
DID you ever notice how much dust you picked up during
chaffcutting, especially if you were perspiring? Did
you ever stop to think that the oily surfaces of the
piston, cylinder walls, connecting-rod and crankshaft of an
ordinary open crank-case engine were picking up just as much
dust, if not more? And all that grit is being ground between
the piston and cylinder and working into the various bearings!
Is it any wonder that such an engine has a short life and is
continually needing some adjustment?
With the “Lister” Engine you have no such worry. Every
working part of the “Lister”—including governor gear and cam-
shaft—is entirely enclosed. No dust or dirt can get in to work
havoc with the moving parts. And you will need less time to
clean the engine. Nothing is lost in convenience by the enclosed
crank-case, for a large inspection door allows free' access when
required.
Other “Lister” features are equally
valuable. Let us tell you about them
in detail.
eti
is
Engines are
Dust-proof and Fool-proof
For Petrol, Kerosene or Town Gas.
Hangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Windieombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Mitchell & Co. Pty v ht(l M TVest Footscray,
Horwood, Bagshaw, I,td., Adelaide.
Malloch Bros., Perth.


Sporting Guns
J. V. NEEDHAM,
BIRMINGHAM
(W. W. GREENER, Ltd., Proprietors.)
Ask your Dealer for particulars of the
NEW Challenger No. 2 Model
Hammerless Gun.
Price £l7.
WHOLESALE ONLY—
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY, LTD.
G.P.O. Box 192, MELBOURNE.
Malt is a Wonderful
Nourisher
I That is
|U7hu
Is such a
Beneficial Beverage
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com<
pensation, etc., etc.
and the air of fierce discussion of the other appertain
to two shows just opened in Sydney. Products of
the Indian summer of W. Lister Lister are to be
found at Horderns’ Galleries, George-street. The
artist has developed, but there is nothing revolution-
ary in his progress. None of his admirers will be
frightened away. lie has subdivided the vast acre-
ages 6f former days into handier sizes, but the
pink glow of his adolescence still dwells on the
photographic gums of his maturer drawing. Peche
melba seas roll decorously home on salmon-colored
beaches.
The collection of Roland Wakelin’s oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Bligh-street, is, on the other
hand, a noisy challenge which you cannot disregard,
even if you would like to. The catalogue requests
you to judge these works on their sesthetic rather
than their pictorial qualities, which sounds like in-
cluding amongst the blood stock a performing ele-
phant. Some of the representations in paint of
Roland Wakelin’s moods this critic enthusiastically
rejects. There is intellectual pleasure in dreaming
over the grained slabs of marble the Chinese hang
on their walls for pictures: the individual brings
his own interpretation to them. But some of the
tortured forms and distracting designs in this show
neither admit of interpretation nor create aesthetic
frenzy either; and the suggestion of normal appear-
ances in them is merely irritating. Nevertheless
the pictorial appeal in others is extremely high,
and pleasant aesthetic titillations follow it. The
jug and pitcher in No. 29 could both hold beer;
the road in No. 16 has been faithfully macadamised;
the variety of planes in No. 10 is splendidly main-
tained ; and the high-keyed hill in No. 38 invites
the wayfarer to lie full length and con the skilful
perspective of the distant scene. No. 39 evokes mem-
ories of green thoughts thought in sun-drenched gar-
dens. Altogether an interesting and provocative
display.
With the Harbor bridge beginning to plant its
feet destructively on both sides of the water, many
of the etchings and of Ellis St. John,
at Swain’s, .Sydney, have a historic interest. Several
of them depict soil and scenes that will soon have
vanished. Among others further afield, No. 5, “Head-
land, Newport,” is clean and effective. The studies
of the bricks and mortar of Old Sydney are capable,
but the water-colors are un'Ui-t’nguished.
*# # $
The Water-colorists have a show: —
Most of the topographical features of this great
continent have been faithfully, and in some cases
imaginatively, catalogued by the members of the
Australian W •..ten-color Institute in their second
annual show at Farmer’s, Sydney. A. H. Fullwood
has a varied valley scene in No. 19. Gladys Owen
has been looking at the Wheat Silo (No. 20) at
Balmain, but has omitted to sub-edit her impres-
sions. B. E. Minns has found a spacious and lovely
view near Eastwood (No. 3), has briskly noted down
some galloping horses in No. 10, and has reached
his best with the city environment of No. 12. His
atmosphere is always good, but his drawing occa-
sionally shows signs of indecision.
The influence of Hilder is a permanent sitting
ghost at all Australian exhibitions these days, but
K. R. MacOueen is one who refuses to be haunted.
He comes in with a report from the interior in No.
32, “The Cheese Factory,” broadly designed and
painted. J. R. Eldershaw portrays the recent boun-
teous harvest under a strong dramatic light in No.
35, and strays, sometimes with negligence, across many
thousands of square miles of captivating country in
other pictures. Gwen Barringer has seen perhaps
a shade too many things in Hobart (No. 59), but
has seen them very well. J. Connor harmonises
well in 64, “Bush Hut”; and in 63, “Docks,
Hobart,” has an adroit composition marred by the
commonplace painting of the boats.
J. W. Tristram has been putting more landscapes
under the tap, and, though he lays himself open to
the charge of exploiting a palpable device, there is no
denying the results are eminently delightful. Albert
Collins doesn’t see unity in Nature often and his
observation is sometimes faulty; but in No. 85 he
has looked at Sydney Harbor through an arch of
the gutted P.F.A. building and made an interesting
picture. H. R. Gallop had a gay moment in 98,
anu R. Fizelle, in No. 100, saw Maequarie-place,
Sydney, as a melody in green. In 55 Maude Sher-
wood has combined sunlight and melons in rather
an unappetising mixture, and Betty Solomons’ zinnias
in 29 were kept in the same water overlong. Into
“Sigurd” (75) and “Amazons” (71) M. Napier
Waller has put clever draughtsmanship, but not a
deal of fancy.
Harold B. Herbert and John D. Moore have been
smiled upon by the National Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Moore’s “Cronulla” is a feeling little study and
Herbert’s “From the Hills” has a slickly painted
foreground and delicate perspective. The latter’s
“Walhalla Hills ” (45) is a very lively picture in
which the eye takes a journey full of incident up a
village street and emerges cheerfully into the country
beyond.
“East of Suez” proved very solid fare for
the holiday at Adelaide Royal; race-going
crowds like to come back to something musi-
cal and frivolous. But the gloomy drama is
finely acted. Muriel Starr has seldom done
anything better, and Frank Harvey’s finely
restrained work stands out. So does that
of Jessie Page. Business is big. The P.
of Wales had a quick change from Aus-
tralian drama to the old “Story of the
Rosary,” and at the Majestic Phil Smith
competes for favor with Wee Willie Lancet
is a strong mixed bill.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Goldilocks : The appearance or Katie
Towers in the “Little Jessie James” show
revives some pleasant memories. Katie was
a sprightly soubrette in pantos, of the kind
which the elder generation regretfully re-
calls while it sits out modern “spectacles.
In one of them she had a song which was
whistled and hummed in the streets of Syd-
ney and Melbourne for weeks: “Barney,
Wid Yer Blarney, You Shtole My Heart
Away.” Somehow I am haunted by a sus-
picion that it was the same lady who as a
girl sang “Garn Away, D’Yer Take Me for
a Silly?” in a “Sinbad the Sailor” panto.
As Mrs. Jamieson, the mother of Dot she
cuts a comfortable figure in “Little Jessie
James,” and her lines are spoken with a
clarity by no means common. Katie was
the wife of that good old performer, George
Chalmers.
“Hamfat”: Madame Albani, who roused
the enthusiasm of Australian audiences on
her first visit, quarter of a century ago, has
fallen on lean times in her old age. Her
public career began 53 years ago in Messina,
but she was a Canadian by birth. The voice
had faded pathetically on her second visit
to the Commonwealth, not long before the
war, and the poor old girl has been strug-
gling for years to make her living as a
teacher. Now, at 72, she finds that her
classes have vanished. George V., remem-
bering that she was his grandmother’s favorite
singer, has lent his name to an appeal on
her behalf.
“Charlik” explains: —
People who heard Galli-Curci in Sydney expressed
surprise, and sometimes disappointment, at the dif-
ference between her singing in the Town Hall and
what they had been led to expect through listening
to gramophone records. The difference is quite easily
explained. In singing into a machine the voice is
concentrated —focussed. In a hall it is dispel sed.
A voice of light calibre has a better chance in a
machine than one more robust. A great voice like
Elsa Stralia’s need not be used to its full power
to achieve the best effect—a certain amount of re-
straint would be absolutely necessary, with the ex-
pression relative. Singers must learn by experience
and a knowledge of acoustics how-to “arrange their
voices in the various halls and theaties in which they
perform. There are no two exactly alike. In a
gramophone recording-room the conditions are always
the same, and if a record is unsatisfactory it can
be destroyed. But a vocalist may not say to an
audience “I’m sorry 1 sang that out of tune, oi
“My shake was not accurate that time —I’ll sing it
again and then it might be all right! Inci-
dentally, every performer of note who ever sang into
a machine has been disappointed when hearing the
reproduction. Their voices are never quite what
they thought they were. Not necessarily inferior,
but different. No singer knows how his voice sounds
until he has heard it on the gramophone. That is
every performer’s experience, including my own.
“C.R.P.” (U.S.A.) : Harry Mowbray, late
Sweeney, is referred to in a par. by “Caesar’s
Ghost” (B. 4/9/’24). I was walking along
Riverside Drive, N’York. last Sunday morn-
ing and there on a seat facing the Hudson
River sat Harry himself. He was adjusting
tho clothes in a baby carriage with a prac-
tised hand. “Haven’t I met you in Aus-
tralia?” I asked. “Why not?” was the reply;
“1 am an Australian.” Then I mentioned
a Melbourne liquor-house to which he used
to resort occasionally to sample sparkling
Burgundy—l pushed a pen in the office.
After that there was almost a riot. Harry
proudly presented his son and heir, John. I
inquired if he was going to make an actor
of the mite. “Good God, no!” he replied.
“A policeman, perhaps, but an actor—no.”
lie informed me that he had changed his
name because “Sweeney sounded so Ger-
man.”
“Lysander”: The Hozier Blue item in
“Primrose” at Melbourne Majesty’s recalls
H. G. Wells’s quasi-scientific tale of the In-
visible Man. That unfortunate secured in-
visibility by disturbing the laws of reflection
and refraction of light. Harry Burchcr
causes his Hozier dancers seemingly to
change their clothes by flashing upon them
different colored lights which, according as
they strike their complement or their anti-
thesis, bring out the colors required. Start-
ing with dead white—even to hands, arms
and faces —as a basis, the limelight turns
the company from a party of Quakerish
deacons and deaconesses, in sombre browns
and white bands, to a crowd of darkies doing
a plantation shuffle in nigger-minstrel suits
and frocks, and then to a group of beaus and
belles in the figured satins and flowered
waistcoats of Goldsmith’s day. If such
transformations as these may be made with
a flick of an electric bulb, discovery of the
coat of invisibility cannot be so far away.
“F.T.K.” : The Whites, now showing with
the Midnight Frolics in Sydney, afford as
remarkable an instance of family co-opera-
tion in the profession as I can recall. Four
brothers, a sister, a wife and a cousin are
with the Frolics, and Ma watches their work
SELF-SUPPORTING.
“Oh, Professor, what was that pretty little thing?”
“One of my own compositions, Madam.”
“How lovely to be able to make up your own tunes —it
must save you such a lot buying music.”
from behind. Ma is an old-time pro. and
exponent of the serpentine dance which faded
out with the nineteenth century. The family
is of Birmingham origin.
“E T.” • How’s this for Australia in Lon-
don (B. 2/4/’25) ? Three of our stage
favorites, Joseph Coyne, Irene Browne and
Vera Pearce, figure in the cast of “No, No,
Nanette,” just staged at the Palace, ( Shaftes-
bury-avenue. The show is produced by
William Mollison, who was Gertrude Elliott s
stage director and one of her leading actors
here, and is under the management of Her-
bert Clayton and Jack Waller. What a
swapping of Aussie reminiscences there will
be amongst that crowd!
“Lond.”: London’s latest picture house,
just opened in the Haymarket, is remarkable
for two things. It has no screen, a specially
prepared back wall serving the purpose.
And it makes a bold bid for the patronage
of the snobbish-minded majority. All male
ushers are guaranteed to be ex-army officers,
and all the females are of similar social
status. To mark the vast gulf between
such and the commoner sort, they will not be
called “ushers” at all, but “receptionists.”
“Tuart” : Oh these fillum perdoocers ! In
“Her Love Story,” now infesting the Sydney
subbubs, the captain who marries the Balkan
Princess, gipsy fashion, in the woods of
Margarina is grabbed by an infuriated father
and “deported to Tasmania,” which is a sort
of dependency of Margarina, as everyone
knows. His wanderings in the Speck are
left to the imagination, but presently he is
shown in the perdoocer’s idea of a Melbourne
bar removing a missive from a letter-rack.
The address on the envelope is "Captain
Lotzervisky [or some such name], Hotel de
l’Europe, Tasmania.” And in “Dorothy Ver-
non of Haddon Hall” the lout who imper-
sonates Leicester bends over the enthroned
Elizabeth (represented as a grinning idiot,
although Buckle records that “the great
Queen’s intellect was cultivated to the high-
est point by reflection and study”) and asks,
in vulgar Yankee slang, if the lady has
“heard this one.” When is Parliament go-
ing to help the Australian producer to de-
liver us from the Hollywood blight?
“Charlik”: When “Dorothy” was pro-
duced at the London Gaiety, it was a failure.
Harry Leslie bought the opera from George
Edwardes for £3OO, and transferred it to the
Prince of Wales’s; there it had a record
run. Leslie introduced “Queen of MV
Heart” for Hayden Coffin, and gave Arthur
Williams (B. 16/4/’25) a free hand with
Lurcher, which had been an unimportant
part in the initial production. Williams
expanded the role to his liking, and it is
this enlarged Lurcher we have seen in Aus-
tralia. Williams was a fine inventive com-
edian, but, like most comic stage-men who
have “arrived,” he was not a cheerful person
in private life. I suppose the strain of
being forcibly funny must tell on a man.
David James, the original Perkyn Middle-
wick in “Our Boys,” was another gloomy
individual; and Frank Thornton could
scarcely be called hilarious. Penley was so
morbid that we used to avoid him in the
Savage Club. The late George Lauri was
very quiet, and if he could be persuaded to
sing, it was always “Beware When Bright
Eyes Glance!” However, George had an
exceptionally fine voice. And Bill Denny
(Touchstone and Bottom in 1903) was a
soulful singer of passionate love songs.
“F.N.W.”: I sat next to a British sea-
faring man in the stalls at Sydney Tivoli
when Julius Knight was playing in a sketch
torn out of “The Sign of the Cross.” The
nautical gent, slept fitfully during the pro-
gramme, and happened to wake up just as
Knight made an impressive
entry as Marcus, attended by
two actors also arrayed
in flowing white robes.
As the trio posed in the
limelight whilst the pro-
cedure known as “reception
on entry” was registered,
with the elderly Julius strik-
ing an attitude slightly in
front of his two stage hench-
men, the stallite next to mb
sat upright. With a startled
gaze he took in the tableau
on the stage. “Gosh!” lie
ejaculated. “Joe Beckett
and his sparrin’ partners!”
“T.”: The flames at
Madame Tussaud’s must
have licked up a lot of
strange and wonderful relics
of the past. I’m wondering
what has happened to the
torture instruments from
Nuremburg of the Middle
Ages which Louis Tussaud
once dragged around Bri-
tain’s provinces. These in-
cluded the iron-spiked
“maiden,” a lovely bit of
work, with a suitable splash
of red paint here and there
for the yokel’s delight; the
wheel on which many a
valiant knight was broken;
the exquisite “cradle of
death,” with its _ frenzied
spikes; thumbscrews and branding-irons, and
a conglomerate host of horrible things, lhcy
were realistic, too ; but soon the rumor went
around that most of them had been made in
Whitechapel and had never gathered dust in
the dungeons of Nuremburg.
“Lond” : Chance Newton, dramatic author
and critic, is writing his reminiscence's of Beei -
bohm Tree, and includes a quaint story
(there is at least one other version) of Mrs.
Oscar Asche and the decidedly sketchy cos-
tv me she wore in the London production of
“Cairo.” Tree met the lady just as she left
the stage. “My dear Lily,” he said, “Chance
Newton says he considers your costume more
navel than millinery.” “Mr. Newton said
that, did he?” replied Lily. “Very rude of
him! When I meet him I shall give him
this” —and she smacked Tree’s face soundly.
“Hamfat”: A deadhead who was bowled
out in a Melbourne theatre recently was a
particularly hardy specimen. His face had
become so much a habit that nobody doubted
his right to come along now and then to
demand a seat; but at last somebody became
curious, and then the whole story was told.
Over a dozen years ago, when a lady who
was very fond of receiving flowers from the
audience was showing, he, a poor relation,
was passed in nightly to hand up a “floral
offering”—sometimes the same bouquet that
had gone up the previous night. When that
show moved on he cheekily went along to
the next, and, finding that the usher was pre-
pared to pass the recognised face, resolved
to carry on the bluff. And he had been doing
it ever since.
LAUDERESQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Will Fyfe, noted Scotch comedian, and one of
London’s best vaudeville artists, arrived on the
Orama. He is Scotch, but his act is not of the
Lauder type.”
Since Harry roamed the gloaming first,
And loved a Hieland lassie,
A tide of Scots have on us burst
To slake the universal thirst
For stuff that’s Lauder-classie.
The time is ripe now to applaud a
Scotch comic who is not like Lauder.
I’m sick tae death of items braw,
And ladies sweet as heather,
Especially when voices raw
As Hieland winter weather
Prevail; and, altogether,
Ah think a hefty boot or sword a
Real need to deal with folks like Lauder.
Let Lauder do the turns he made—
To Hell with imitations!
The mimic’s is a nauseous trade
Unless he keeps his station.
Deserving dark damnation
Is he who's good—or on the border—-
As (so the ad. says) Harry Lauder.
Let Scots wha hae on Lauder fed
Depart; we now applaud a
Comedian of whom ’tis said
His act is not like Lauder.
VICTORIA.
HAMER.


Amusements.
§YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S—KID BOOTS.
ROYAL:
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
(3 r AND OPERA HOUSE, SIDNEY
. Proprietor, George Marlow.
I)ireet ,on Hugh J. Ward Theatres Ptv., Ltd.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. and Sat. at 2.15.
TANGERINE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
RICKARDS’ TI V O 1,1 THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
|?U LEE R’S TIIEA T R E, SYI)N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
. __ Plans at Theatre.
W T H S ’ CIRCUS.
Wirtlis Hippodrome, Hayinarket.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Matinfies Wednesday, Saturday and Holidays, 2.30.
Children half-price to all parts at Matinees.
THIS YEAR SOMETHING SPECIAL.
NEW ARTISTS. NEW THRILLS, NEW ACTS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
J.
WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SPRING CLEANING.
K ING’S THEATRE, M ELItOUR NE.
GUY BATES POST in
THE MASQUERADER.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
“The Little Giant of Musical Comedy.”
AT HENASDM THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
J- C. Williamson presents, by arrangement with
E. J. Carroll,
JOHN D. O’HARA,
in the Three-act English Comedy,
SKITTLES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S
THEAT K E S. MELBOURNE
Aluo SYDNEY.
WILLIAM DESMOND in
BIG TIMBER.
PAULINE FREDERICK in
SMOULDERING FIRES.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ALICE CALHOUN in
CODE OF THE WILDERNESS,
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
New bijou theatre. Melbourne.
Twice Dailv, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO. IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — .think of
A*
' SCHUTE,
BELL & Clu.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
New Zealand and
South Seas Exhibition,
Dunedin, 1925-26.
OFFICIAL SOUVENIR CATALOGUE.
application for Advertising Space in the
Official Catalogue, which is now being rapidly
taken up, is advisable.
Intending advertisers may obtain full particulars
and information on application to the official adver-
tising contractors.
GEO. A. BISHOP’S ADVERTISING AGENCY
Crawford Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
G.P.O. Box 221.
Victorian Municipal
Directory for 1925.
834 Pages—Crown Bvo.
£ Bound 14/-
HT HIS Book will be found of great utility
1 and public importance to:—
Parliamentary Institutes, Municipalities,
Public Libraries, Bankers, Insurance
Companies and others.
ARNALL & JACKSON,
PUBLISH MBS,
478 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
___ Legal Notice.
LILY LESLIE McDONALI) formerly of Carlton
Victoria married woman. Take notice that your
husband Allan McDonald has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of desertion.
Unless you enter an appearance by the 14th day of
May 1925 and file your answer by the 27th day
of May 1925 judgment may be given against you
with costs. JOSEPH BARNETT 332 Drummond
Street Carlton Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Missing friends.
JN the Estate of JAMES FITZGERALD
—Deceased. The next of kin of
JAMES FITZGERALD, late of Keira, via
Bingara, or any person acquainted with their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate
with E. J. PAYNE, Public Trustee, Sydney.
HEALY. -RICHARD lIEALY, native
of Co. Carlow, Ireland, last hear'd of
lat Brisbane, 1905. Inquirer, nephew, Sergt.
■ RICHARD HEALY, Ruconstabulary, Gil-
ford, Co. Down, Ireland.
p ONWAY, JOHN, sen of late Patrick and Mary
Conway, and brother of Bernard and Anne Con-
way, or anyone acquainted with the said John
Conway or his wife and family, please communicate
at once with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Frederick c. lamotte.—wm any-
one knowing the whereabouts of Fred-
erick C. Lamotte, for many years Stock and
Station Agent at Coonamble, New South
Wales, kindly communicate with
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. OF N.S.W.,
LTD.,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I FREDERICK EDMUND LINTER,
. Deceased, late of Teignmouth, Devon.
William Linter, who went to Australia many
years ago, is requested to communicate with
Kennaway, Solicitor, Teignmouth, England.
RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL.
II W in troubled with the complaint, write at and
we will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price ia within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
' 104 Queen Street. Melbourne
(By permission of The Attorney-General of N.S.W .)
Help Tor,
Consumptive s
ART UNION
“BIGGEST
and BEST”
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan . . ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car „ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car „ £4OO
sth Prize, Player Piano „ £250
6th Prize, 3 Rooms of Furniture ~ £2OO
200
PRIZES
IN ALL
Tickets 1/-
By post l/l£, 3 or
more, post free.
Five tickets ... 5/-
Every ticket drawn
replaced in barrel.
Each ticket has 200
chances of winning
prizes.
Sale of tickets closes 20th May,
1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney,
3rd June, 1925.
Results published all Sydney
Dailies, sth June, 1925.
T*ckets obtainable from all newsagents and tobacconists, and from the
Secretary, GEO. H. WHEELER, 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
PRIZES
VALUE
MELBOURNE'S
INTERNATIONAL MOTOR SHOW
Over 400 Exhibits, showing latest Designs and Improve-
ments in Automobile and Motor-cycle Manufacture,
Accessories and Allied Industries.
Open Daily, 11 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.
30th APRIL to 9th May.
ADMISSION 1/-, Plus Tax Id.
You Can Lunch or Dine in Comfort at the Show.
Under the auspices of the R.A.C.V. and Chamber of
Automotive Industries.
Hon. Sec. anti Organiser, H. W. Harrison.
THE MARK OF /
A GOOD RAZOR
r-
the y
Atk any mao you know who u»ca • PLUM—
ask him if be doesn't think it the beat
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, ’’Why, rather!"
WOT
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
126
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Healthful
Sleep.
Baby thrives and enjoys healthful sleep upon
Benger’s Fopd. Prepared with fresh cows’ milk it
amply provides all the nourishment needed in just the
form to give the utmost benefit.
Besides modifying the cows milk to the delicate
digestion of a child, Benger’s Food enriches it, so that
it approximates in its composition and properties to
the breast milk of a healthful vigorous mother.
Food
for Infants,
INVALIDS and the AGED,
BABY BOOK FREE, —Send to the address below for our interesting Baby
Book, which contains a Baby’s History Diary, and Weight and Height Chart.
At all Chemists and Stores.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENGER'S POOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
High-grade circular saws need
less re-sharpening
rtf';
N<?9
n*
ss*
Made in Australia of
the finest quality
crucible cast Sheffield
Steel, An Eagle on aGlobe”
brand Circular Saws are
found to need less re-
sharpening. The teeth are cut
with the greatest accuracy
and the plates tensioned for
the smoothest running. These
qualities together ensure
quicker working and a lower
consumption of power. Write
for further particulars, stating
what kind of saw is needed.
Any type is available.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel
SYDNEY „„„
MELBOURNE ViVoi. o 1 Kent street
gSS£i3S“ IK
HOBART ~ r ’ Hs-HO Currie Street
K L Hiliisan, 64 Collins Street


I'Ft-
r
A,
rri
jr
3S
ipf'
'■=> 'fyi
m
Z'M
Ikil
=-<r
-ztfe.
L=^i
[.uixrt,
| I MV
ARPMATIC
NET I
PINT 6
ft oh
“ Where are you going to, my pretty maid?
"I'm going for some Wolfes Schnapps, kind sir," she said.
The almost universal popularity of Wolfe s Schnapps is due to
its unquestionable medicinal attributes, Wolfe’s is first and last
a diuretic, and the health benefits that follow from its judicious
use make it the one stimulant that fully justifies its introduction
into the family circle.
There is a wealth of wisdom in the rule: “One Wolfe's
Schnapps a day for your Health’s sake.”
Obtainable in Quarter, Half and Large Bottles.
AROMATIC SCHIBDAM
“A Blessing to Humanity."


OR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
made
Perfection
pn>r k; rubber
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
c ar ,® Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay•
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
meats may be secuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Featnree
(B'L J
a
\P_
N\
Ci
\\
<sV
<T>
$
cP
V
S?
%
m
eS2.
:ojt|CSosff3
r—>-
■
fefcini
IPEN
Protects
Perfectly
Write*
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don’t delay. Get yours
State whether 'Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’LL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
Skin and Wool Dealers and Collectors.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at Loudon and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
Rumfords
Groats
Obtainable from
ALL CHEMISTS & GROCERS
Best for* Mothers,
Young Children
Si Invalids .
N? OV
''N
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL
THAT BEST
KNOWN OF ALL PAINTS.
AVhat are the attributes wherein lie RIPOLIN’S
World-wide Reputation ?
ITS ABSOLUTE! FIXCE^T/FINDT!
Nothing succeeds like success, and Ripolin
is always succeeding in its results.
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY, Ltd..
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne. Tel.: Cen. 11054.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD.,
171 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Tj. A. COBMACK (Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES— PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes—is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price Sd, per tube, Obto.ino.ble Everywhere,
314
Do ijoußeahse that
aCanadian Tripps
within ijour means?
I
7,
/
3 ri
7^
m
PWQ
/a
This wondrous trip of over 3600 miles—via some
of the loveliest scenery in the world—is now
easily within the reach of most Australians, for
the fares are really most moderate.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
has a service that is unequalled. Trains that are
havens of comfort and relaxation—hotels that are
the latest in luxury—steamships that combine
speediness in transport with every modern con-
venience that you could desire. And you can book
all accommodation prior to your departure.
Remember that you can obtain through tickets in
connection with the Canadian Australasian Royal
Mail Line, whose New Quadruple-screw Motor
Passenger Liner “Aorangi” (22.000 tons displace-
ment) and the favorite s.s. “Niagara” afford an
unequalled service to and from Vancouver, B C
WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Apply to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of NZ
any Tourist Booking Agency, or .J. Sclater, Repre-
sentative, Canadian Pacific Railway Company, Union
House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
Q
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jas. D. (M.L.) : Glad to hear from you,
even though your first par. misses. Now, if you
had told us what his theories are! We never want
the frill without the cutlet Ace: Hardly worth
while.... Maadi Mick: Don't quite get what you’re
dining at.... A.J.M.: But your point is a mere
commonplace... .Facts Verified: It would be wo.‘h
about £5OOO to print if the “curmudgeon in chief''
could be identified; and if he couldn’t be, what’s the
good of it ?... .W.D.F.: Sorry, much too wordy....
I,ys: School Story’s’’ subject has already had atten-
tion. . . .G.S.C.: No room in The B. for such topics.
.... Nugget: It has been done better. Your know-
ledge is apparently rather 10ca1... .Joseph M.: Try
Tost and Bohu, Martin-place, Sydney.... Burr B.:
Your trouble so far is that you haven’t found any-
thing to write about that hasn’t been written to
tatters E.J.H.: Afraid you can’t W.R.8.: But
that’s what the duty was put on for—to allow the
maker to increase the price, because higher costs of
pioduction had left the manufacturer either with
no profit or with an actual 1055.... Lucie W.: Not
baa, but this is a poor market for those g00d5....
S.E.P.D. ; “Jerry” goes rather heavily... .P. 8.5.:
You ask “Why can’t all forreners settle down to
live like brothers in country and town?” It may be
because some people write verse that compels them
to jump on their hats... .Bungaree S.: Falls fai
short T.K.T.; A specially virulent sample of
the alphabetical rhyme... .R.McL.: You have a
poor idea of story-writing Anne B.: No good .
J.E. (Mosman): Not up to the mark. ... Emme M.:
The yarns don’t read true A.M.8.8.: We can't
find any thrills in “Jonas” Wee Mac: Both want
a little better handling H.J.W.: The “Rose Tree”
verse is far too lumpy C.A.L.: Thev haven't
enough point.... G.B. (WoollaKra) : “Desire” is very
etude. .. .D.P.KO K.: It would be a shocking example
if there were more thrill in it 1.P.. (Northcote):
The “Door” comes near being attractive, but the
lines are too distorted for the simple thing thev
are intended to say....P.G. (St. Kilda) : The mirth
is too faint.... Bo. A.: Really, it has not much
resemblance to verse J.F.G.: No use writing on
that subject; but thanks for the compliment....
H.G.8.; An ugly yarn, not convincingly t01d....
H.M.C.: Old yarns tortured into slightly altered
shapes.... Buttcn D.; Too mechanical.... BWII •
Nothing in any of them... .Slam: A number’ of
obvious things said in poor verse G.Iv.D.; Very
lame C.G.T.: We couldn’t let this bit go:—
So I thought I'd go Outback, which may do me good,
fco l sold that blooming racehorse to a chap called
Massey Hood.
Then I hit upon that trail that has so many ends
And many a lonely night I spent in those far-
distant river bends.
1 struck some other friends out there, but when
hungry they would shake the squatter’s sheep,
But I promised when a youngster a straight road
through life to keep.
So again I hit out on my own, across that one wid"
plain,
But left behind those sinners,
But I proved myself a fool again; for I had more
dinner-times than dinners.
But at last I got a job on a Diamantina station
Amongst those colts and jackeroos it was a great
sensation ;
And when we went to Winton, you ought to have
heard us cheer;
The ’roos they spent their time with girls,
I spent my cash in beer.
. ...A.L.H.: As poor as the hound of Lazarus....
Ethel D. : “The Preacher” does not grip u 5.... Paul
L. : They miss. But go on shooting..,. Cedric H. :
Every few lines the metre runs mad H.E.K.: Not
much of a yam there C.W.D.; “Ethelbert” moves
too faint a smile Ben S.: It will still stand im-
provement Paragot: The song is too slight....
M. ; Poor and unattractive... . John S.: Honestly,
John, it couldn’t be much worse.. . .L.D.C.: There
is a lot of charming mystery about the concluding
lines:—
The bright sunrise of New Year's dawn
Through the clouds in gold adorn’d
On the W'ater blue and calm
Among the reefs thick of palms—
Reminds me of my country fair—
O may my folks be happy there.
To the land of the kangaroo
Comes the vessel Tango Maru
With a load of silk and toys
And the people full of joys.
Safety first is her motto,
Young purser is 0. Matsmoto.
They say she’s the Nicest You Know,
Still to somebody Not Yet Known.
Bellerive: That’s the way we like to get it—
right down to the bones of the thing:—
Private betters and punters
Were disappointed and cross;
Among the five candidates
The Hawk was pet horse.
The book’s price on Purser
Was fifteen to one;
’Twas boasted he’s chance
Was not worth a bun;
Steered by a good jockey
He sped round the track,
, And won the great race
With nine-one on he’s back.
Over twenty-five thousand
The stable did net.
When we venture at races,
’Tis no use to regret.
....R.C. (Townsville): The yarn doesn’t carry itself.
... .N.C. (Manly) : The verse staggers along to say
the old things E.M.S.: Too f rail.... Jackson A.:
Not well enough done 1.L.1.: The chair doesn’t
make a yarn... .W.M.8.L.: Wants more marrow in
its bones.... Dorothy B.: Fair verse, but nothing
fresh about it Raphael R.: Choked with common-
place E.G.S.: No use... .James D.: Not quite
A.S.T.A.: Ditto. .. .A.L.R,: The yarn, written on both
sides of enormous sheets of paper to increase the
difficulty of reading, is not in our line... .M.M.
(Glebe Point) : Wants some good strengthening food.
... .W.E.8.: Your skylark doesn’t sing well enough.
Xerotes: Very p00r....01d Colonist: Much
obliged; but you’ve surely miscalculated. Careful
inquiries made lately showed that there wasn’t very
much of it among the traders. You’ll find the best
evidence on the subject in the Wild Cat column....
Bushie: Good to take as a tonic, anyway... .Nick
O. Tine: Not keen on a series of anecdotes strung
round one particular character. Try your luck
with pars... .P.P.: Very well: “The Pelican” ends
unhappily enough to satisfy any slaughterman
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.T. (who is only 13): Sorrv. your performance
indicates nothing thus far... .W.W.: Bruce horror
returned, under escort N.F,: Belongs in the
kindergarten class, and not very high up, either. ...
0.E.: The wrong is mixed, God wot; but on the
whole the drawing is far too rough.... E.C.: Some-
thing similar has been done before.


Bath Your Baby with
Rexona Soap!
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap makes your child a healthy baby. It
keeps his skin fresh and sweet, his scalp so clean and wholesome. Any irritation of the skin
which keeps baby awake or makes him cross and peevish, Rexona Soap will quickly soothe.
A refreshing bath with Rexona Soap, and gently anointing with Rexona, will cool Ins skin
and take away all discomforts, so that baby and mother will sleep quietly.
The pure, sweet emollients used in Rexona Soap are suited to Baby s delicate skin, and keep
it in the best condition. Rexona babies are contented babies, because they feel well cared tor and
comfortable.
ill
Mi
m
§B®
MISS DOROTHY DRUM TON bathing babies with Rexona Soap at St. Margaret’s
Hospital, Sydney, where over 10,000 little Australians have been born, and where J/-
g clay keeps a baby a day. “Give and let live.”
mm
1
“My motto is Rexona.”
—MISS DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Only Rexona Soap is
Good Enough” for Baby.
The purest possible Soap is required for nursery use. The skin of infants and little child
is particularly apt to be roughened and made sore by inferior soaps. A number of the soaps so
for babies are worse than useless, and as skin soothers and healers they are positively injuri .
They, oft as not, are made with crude animal fats, which penetrate the tender s in o m an s
cause obstinate soreness. Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is the purest of the pure. can
•Wl
*S^
mk
'lllli
9*.
IIM
►'a
bt.
o*
tt*
<vO
O 0«
'"III
lllllllfl
ll lfii!!!."iinii
h.i'i.
nothing but good for an infant s
skin, and its healing and soothing
work will be noticeable within
one hour of application.
Mothers, if your baby shows
signs of fretfulness, try giving
him a refreshing bath with
Rexona Soap. Let baby be a
Rexona baby and see the result.
Rexona Soap
'im
Wu,,:!:;.
m&'M
%
m
i
>1 4
Vl
iM
t’iM 1
1K
Wav
'•VT'7
1/-


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
i
' r 'Vr-
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Halls ami Ceilings
of “l''IBItOI>ITJE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Ityof of “MBItOLITK”
Slates, you cat# reduce your costs anil
secure greater durability.
HBROLITE” costs no more than weather-
boards and lining boards, and is superior to
either in every respect. “FIBROLITK" i>
hre retardant, wHite-ant proof and improves
with age. Not only are “upkeep” costs elimi-
nated hut big concessions are secured in in-
surance rates. Before building, send for full
information.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York Sc Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs,Queon Bt., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., 'Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
When Your Stock Move
to market see that they travel in the right direc-
tion. Cattle, Sheep or Lambs—
TRUCK YOUR FATS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
_ , LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
The returns secured will forcibly show the reason
why Winchcombe-Carson’s Sales are such a constant
attraction for owners to consign to the firm.
own
Has two-fold Strap
Buckle Tops. Fits
any size instep. Gus-
setted sides prevent
sand or grass seeds
entering Boot.
Standard screwed
Soles. Black or Tan.
Mention size.
T he
New
Mexican”
Riding
Boot
29/6
Pair
Mail to Desk
"SB”
PIK E
BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen St., Brisbane
Columbia
Dry Batteries
they last longer |
Obtainable everywhere at
little cost; give more power for
a longer time.
'Xnm&tf
,G NITION ANP
purpose*
for
Bells
Buzzers
Radio
Gas Engines
and
All general
purposes.
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Tk Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
No closely-guarded secrets surround the
manufacture of this famous Emulsion. HYPOL
contains 50 % of Cod Liver Oil, a pure natural
oil, rich in health-giving Vitamins, and endowed
with nutritive and healing qualities that no
mysterious formula can equal.
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
JK
HYPOL has proved itself the great-
est specif e ever submitted for the suc-
cessful treatment of Chest Ailments.
A short course will improve the appetite,
promote growth, increase the weight,
prevent rickets, aid convalescence, and
resto re vitaA/Lty.
Those in search of health should try
HYPOL. A genuine, palatable, health*
promoting Food-Tonic strongly recom-
mended by the Medical Profession.
Commence to-day to take HYPOL
Sold everywhere. Made by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
I Limestone
Coal
/ Coke
Salt, etc,
Crushing; Machinery
Stone Breakers, Elevators, Screens.
SEND FPR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,!
Coppin Street, Richmond
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented py:
uS l 'S T ,?^ MOll " D ' LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney NSW
Messrs. FKAXK It. Si «£lS*2£tftS .VT™’
Business, Robbery, etc.
Dad”: Concerning remarks on banknotes,
there was either tragedy or comedy in the in-
scription on a sovereign 1 took as a bank-
toller in ’93. Very beautifully engraved on the
reverse side was “The last token of a
mother’s love.—A. Raker, 1852.”
* * * *•
„ "Note”: I handle small notes to the value
of about £3OOO daily, and on an average
there will be about a score bearing inscrip-
tions (B. 19/3/’25). The following pre-
dominate : “Good-bye, dear —gone but not
forgotten,” “The best of friends must part,”
"The last of a thousand,” “Women and wine
have reduced me to this,” “Till we meet
again” and “I hate to see you go.”
* * # *
1 “Runnymede”; When the Oronsay left.
Fremantle on her first voyage from Aus-
tralia to England she carried a nice little
present for the Orient Co. The fares of her
lu4(i passengers and freight of her cargo
of lead, copper, butter, flour, fruit, frozen
meat and other produce amount to nearly
£150,000 —not a bad little return for one-
half of a voyage. Her passenger-list is an
Australian record.
* * * *
~ “flwpbone”: New liners gets as much
publicity” nowadays as screen actresses.
Every new sea-lady that comes into port
for the first time is larger, more modern,
more luxurious, more comfortable and faster
than her sister who had looked in a few
weeks before. The Union Co. put aboard the
Aorangi for her maiden voyage a Sydney
pressman who had been gaining experience
abroad—his job was to “hand out dope” at
every port of call. Judging by the cables
and radios received during her voyage he did
his work pretty thoroughly.
* * * *
rrv“ G °u gei : ’ : Havc you ever seen bulcroi ?
J.Hough almost worthless as timber, it has
the exact appearance of cainphorwood, bar
the scent. In 1 long Kong planks of it are
soaked in long troughs containing wet cam-
ph or wood chips. The bulcroi absorbs the
scent from the shavings and is eventually
sold in the much-prized form of camphor-
wood chests. Sandalwood, with its powerful
perfume, is imitated in the same way. So
when your bride complains that all the nice
perfume has left the once fragrant' “toiley”
box, you 11 know where to fix the blame.
* * • *
• ’ (B. 26/3/’25) asks how his
nme-bag wheat averages on the Darling Downs
{(.}.) compare with southern figures. Well
the genera! average for thousands of acres
m the Wimmera (Vic.) is 10 bags per acre,
and patches of the Horsham plains have been
known to yield 20 bags. The writer knows
of 100 acres m the Tatiara (S.A.) that went
* w 1 , arcas ln t)ie same district up
to 700 acres have gone 12 bags. One more
sample from Goroke (Vic.). A soldier put
in a paddock of about 100 acres, which was
harvested by the neighbors in his absence.
Ihe average was 16 bags.
* .* * *
There will be unemployment in the Cargo-
broachers Union if an invention applicable
to ships hatches and due to C. W. R. guis-
ted, engineer, of Wellington (M.L.), is
generally adopted. The device consists of
an improved cleat, which takes the bar hold-
down the hatch in such a way as to
make it practically immovable even in the
wildest weather. The cargo rat who at-
tempts to unlock the arrangement by hand
causes an electrical circuit to be completed,
winch lights a red lamp and rings a bell on
the deck and in the engine-room; the
slightest loosening of the hatch at sea is
recorded in the same way, thus helping to
obviate another frequent cause of heavy
loss to shippers.
I( * * * *
“Ces” : The coolest and most casual crook
I ever saw was in the Brisbane Police Court,
lie and a pal were charged with the theft
of a tidy sum from the booking-office of a
theatre. They elected to be dealt with sum-
marily. Evidence was given that when
searched the men had no money on them.
I hey were convicted and sent up for six
months each. Then the casual crook who
had done the filching spoke. “The authori-
ties will look after my property, I suppose?”
he asked. The P.M. assured him they would.
Ihe crook rummaged about his equator, and
pulled out a roll of notes from the top of his
underpants. “Well, would you mind hand-
ing them this to look after?” lie said. The
two detectives in the case looked about the
smallest things in number nines that ever
searched a man for stolen money.
*«* * * *
“Fana”: One of the newest associations in
Sydney is a sort of boardinghouse-keepers’
league, its chief object being to track down
the young men and women who silently steal
away. The owners of many boarding-houses
have lately suffered severely from these pests ;
a few have actually been driven out of busi-
ness. In most cases they have no real
remedy, for the law does not provide im-
prisonment for refusing to pay a boarding-
house bill, though it does a publican’s, and
to track down the delinquent and proceed
against him by civil process is costly and.
tedious and only leaves the injured party
further out of pocket. One well-known liash-
ery lately had on its books within a month
three men and two women who stayed for
varying periods and then departed through
the night, leaving behind them sizable bills.
* * * *
Parama : The wing bones of the alba-
tross have been found excellent for pipe-
stems, being strong and light, and coloring
softly after the manner of meerschaum. A
firm in London is importing regular ship-
ments. The monahawk, or frigate bird, to
be seen all over the Pacific and round ’the
northern portion of Australia, might well be
used for a similar purpose. I know a Syd-
ney man who sports a long cigarette-holder
made from the wing-bone of a monahawk he
shot while holidaying up. the Barrier Reef •
he declares that it is the lightest-weight
liqlder he’s ever used. These birds nest on
Raine Island, 60 miles E.N.E. of Cape Gren
ville, and during the laying season it is
almost impossible to walk without stepping
on the eggs, which are not bad eating if per-
fectly fresh To catch the birds one lands
at night with a powerful headlight- in half
an hour one can supply hundreds of cigarette
fiends with holders.


/
\
">
wm
k'
t
b~
■t
w.
j
Perfect Music Everywhere
A Boon to all Music Lovers.
The Greatest Value ever offered to the public.
"His Master’s Voice ” Portable ZModel
No. C 100
Cabinet of light construction, covered with black leather
waterproof cloth, fitted with leather carrying handle and
metal corners. Length 16}in., height lljin., when closed
for carrying. Equipped with lin. single spring motor,
Klin, turntable, playing records up to 12in. in diameter,
freed indicator plate and regulator, self-closing needle
container for two kinds of needles. “ His Master's Voice"
baH-bearing tapering tone-arm fitted with raising and
lowering device, and ‘gooseneck.’ “ His Master's Voice"
4 Exhibition' Sound-Box.
Provision is made for carrying 6 records in lid .
Price, £ll/-/-
Many other models at many other prices.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists
and name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
“His Master’s Voice'
Regd. Trade-marl:.
HUMaatert Voice
" Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
\^ Q
o«U'&
«gP
«£
CwffiOQi
*£S«?
NkVi
3£
Cs\>^
m
\
%
r
f
L
7/6
'S
V
£
k
r 1
r
/
i
#
-v
“I like the-shoes, but
how can I clean them?”
“There’s a ‘Nugget'
shade for every shoe
made, you know, Madam.
For these you will find
‘Nugget’ Dark Tan just
right*”
Made in Black, Tan, Light Tan, Dark Tan,
Nigger Brown, Red Stain, Patent and White.
u
GET boot POLISH


If
If you would keep
yourself in good
health, eat better,
sleep better and
feel better, take
a daily dose of
Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They
act naturally and
do not nauseate.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
Ghahberlajnslablets
2
>MSimrIWER
WUCe
I/e
%
CHAMBERLAIN'S LIMITED.
STDNII.N4W t WUUNCIOH.N.L
Q
Ssi
MOIRALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY • BRISBANE
OVERLOOKING RIVER. MRS B. KENNEDY,
Handy to Trams and Proprietress
Trails phone cent. 5112
known and used row half a century.
&
V;
<
'V.
*•
N
/.
X
THE WORLD-FAMED
PLEASANT,COOLING,
INVIGORATING,
HEALTH-GIVING
rim. EFFERVESCENT SAUNE,
aCtjs
/
G V?
f Safety '
First!
Avoid experiments with your
health. Rely on ENO’S
'* Fruit Salt ” to prevent that
clogging of the system which
gives rise to liver troubles,
dyspepsia, skin ailments,
prickly heat, constipation, and
other disorders. Follow this
rule : First thing every morn-
ing, drink a glass of water
sparkling with a ‘dash’ of ENO
SOLD EVERYWHERE
IN TWO SIZES
Sales Agents :
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE
v & CO. LTD., /
SYDNEY.
/A
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OP 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S.Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., I Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; \V. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, aha
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
( (
§
dts
4 Plates
by°
CLIFPOR-O LOVE €r CO LTCX
SYDNEY
'S-S'.’>:<
m®
mm
vtc»svv;
m
M&t
m
tor wheeling
with that easy feeling
The BROOKS 890
Model is designed for
the go-any where cyclist.
The loop coil at front
and stranded wire ceils
. at rear make it an
* “easy” matter. Then
v look at the resilient 6
. wire spring bracket.
Made in three sizes.
BROOMS
SADDLES
Ask your local dealer about them.
SCOTT & HOIjL/ADAY. T;TD..
Eagley Building, 143-45 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents for J. B. Brooks & Co., Ltd., Birmingham,
England.
-
Less Power For Heavier Loads
SPLIT PULLEYS
SKF Pulleys, though so much lighter in weight, lose nothing in strength and
yet can —and do —carry much heavier loads in comparison with tlm nsnnllr
accepted ratio of riveted or built-up pulleys. usually
Accurate balancing and rivetless construction also mean savings in wear
and tear of belts, machines and bearings. ngs ln weai
Write us for full particulars regarding all Transmission Appliances.
Gardner Waern 8 Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne
S.P.—2/25.
Distributing Centres also at:—
S\ DNEY: 225 Clarence Street
NEWCASTLE: 142 Scott Street
BRISBANE: 426 Ann Street
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
I.x Waymouth Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.),
Ltd.. 37<-391 Murra.y Street-.
HOBART: Charles DaviSj Ltd.
“H.K.”: Talking of beer strikes, old
N.S.W. South Coast coal-mining hands still
chuckle over a momentous victory achieved
at Helensburg. For three solid and thirsty
weeks both sides remained adamant. Then
Bung hoisted up in front of his pub a large
calico sign bearing this apologetic intima-
tion :
Our Beg-Pardon Sale. Mugs Down to Threepence.
A Vic. member who had notions regard-
ing the drift of country population to the
city showed an ex-Minister the names of an
inquiry committee he proposed to have
appointed by a resolution of the House.
■‘Why, bless my soul,” said the ex-Minister,
“every man on your committee has come
down from a country constituency to live
in Melbourne!” The personnel was changed.
“L.K.G.J.”-: Re master mariners’ power
to celebrate marriages. If “Herodot” has
any doubts (B. 26/3/’25) let him board any
British vessel and ask the master to
let him have a look at his official log-book.
On the page which has the columns for re-
cording births, marriages and deaths he will
find explicit and definite instructions to
masters that they have not the power to per-
form the marriage ceremony.
“Mako” : The Maorilaud society with the
most cumbersome name, the New Zealand
Shipowners’ Acknowledgment of Debt to
British Seamen Fund, has been handed the
immense steering wheel of the dismantled
H.M.S. New Zealand. The wheel, 6ft. high,
will stand at the entrance of Flock House,
where the sons, of dead and disabled British
seamen who kept the seas clear for Maori-
land to get her produce abroad are given a
chance to make good in a new land.
“D. 8.0.”: Re “Amyl’s” inquiry about the
origin of “jake,” I heard the term first in
Canada immediately prior to the war. It
was freemen tly used in the combination,
“jake with the levers up,” which meant all
right. “Jake,” “jakaloo” and “jake with
the levers up” were with many other gems
brought to England by the Ist Canadian Div.
in 1914. The Diggers probably added them
to their vocabulary after coming in contact
with the Newfoundlanders or the branch of
the C.A.M.C. which had a hospital in
Egypt in the early days of the war.
“Bob Dare”: “Boronia” (B. 26/3/25)
puts the sawn product of jarrah as high as
70 p.c. The record of the best of them can’t
be stretched tq 50, the general average over
years is a shade under 45. A bit of an
experimental mill run under late Forestry
Commissioner Lane Poole tried to prove that
60 p.c. was easy, but it didn’t convince, and
the big saws just went on in the old 45 p.c.
way. Some day, when population is more
plentiful and less fastidious, a lot of what
is now wasted may be used; only in that
day there may not be any forest left to use.
“C.M.”: “M.H.H.’s” picture of Norfolk
Island (B. 26/3/25) is years old. There has
not been a bishop since 1914. House-rents are
now nearer 15s. per week than 65.; and the
boarding-house tariff is high, considering the
cheapness of servants and the abundance of
food. The days of which Victor Daley wrote,
when a turkey could be had for 25., will never
return: tourists are too plentiful. The road-
mending tax persists, but is a farce; the
weeds grow thicker every year. The Nor-
folkers’ virtues may be engaging; but as
a problem for administrators their island is
only beaten by the Northern Territory.
“FY7” : Civil aviation is such a common-
place in Central Queensland in these days
that many people catch the first ’plane to
their destination in much the same way as
a Sydney citizen hops on a North Shore
ferryboat. The service has proved such a
success that it is being extended in several
directions. The co. which runs a regular
service through Central Queensland from
Cliarleville to Camooweal, “via stations,” is
extending that run to Brunette Downs, the
Never Never station betw r een the Queensland
border and Darwin, where Boss Smith made
his forced landing. It also proposes to hook
up Brisbane and Cliarleville, and so estab-
lish a direct route from the Queensland capi-
tal to the heart of the Northern Territory.
A straight-througfl line to Darwin should
soon be an accomplished fact. Since the
service began the co. has flown 220.000 miles
without accident or injury to pilots or pas-
sengers.
“Billo”: When in America a while ago
N.S.W. Premier George Fuller told Uncle
Sam about J. T. Cole, of Darbalara—the
man who has been awarded the first medal
struck by the Chamber of Agriculture for
“eminent service to the cause of agricul-
ture.” Mr. Cole has developed the milking
shorthorn until the famous Melba XV. stands
pre-eminent as a butter-producer. This claim
was contested by some Chicagoans until the
visitor produced a photo of the cow and the
printed record of her achievements. He
asked the Americans to send him a picture,
of any animal they ever bred which could
beat Melba. Some time afterwards a photo
of a Friesian arrived which had eclipsed the
Darbalara champion. Incidentally, the send-
ers did not mention that she was a Canadian
beast. The fact did not worry the N.S.W.
Premier, however, for by that time Melba
XV. had beaten her own record and the
Canadian’s as well. All lie had to do was
to send the latest figures. Since then he has
heard no more from America.
“Feng-Shui”: Piracy has always been a
staple industry in the waters to the north
of Australia, but the brightest example for
a long time was the seizing the other day of
the s.s. Hong Hwa, a 1924-ton steamer flying
the British flag but owned by a big Chinese
firm in Singapore. With a Scotch captain,
nine British officers and a crew of 118
Chinese, she should have been a stout crib
to crack, but 30 armed buccaneers, shipped
as deck passengers, succeeded in capturing
the ship. Keeping the engine-room staff on
duty at the revolver-point, they forced the
officers to navigate the vessel for three days
until they reached Bias Bay, near Hongkong,
where they decamped with the loot in the
ship’s boats. They were polite Captain
Kidds: the almond-eyed leader, as he de-
scended the ladder into the last boat, turned
to the purple-faced skinner and remarked
in English : “Good-bye, Captain. I will see
you in Hongkong.” They just missel « lirge
consignment of bullion which should have
gone on the Hong Hwa but was delayed.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•OKAMA 20,500
•ORONBAY .. 20,500
•OTRANTO .. 20.500
•ORMONDE .. 14,853
'ORMUZ
ORVIKTO ...
OSTERUEY ..
ORSOVA
in nnn tons.
Tons.
14.588
12.133
12.129
12,030
♦ORCADES
•First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4 -G Spring Street,
Sydney. __
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots -Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981
(3 lines). 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON^BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney. •
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail— £2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, Public Companies, <Xr<;.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves ~ .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yakwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Licut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge,. M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiej Inspector jor A'.S.II’.: \V. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets').
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
.New Sum ill Mate.'.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street. K.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairiiairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Drdinarv Shares .. . . . . 3.000.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Jenolan Caves
for an Ideal Holiday.
Three Days:
£4/7/-
Extra Days:
18/- per day
Six hours’ delight-
ful journey by train
nn d motor-ear
through gorgeous
mountain scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout and
accommodation at
Caves House—re-
plete with every
modern comfort.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, 6c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and \ ancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
M A KURA 13,500 tons disp. APRIL 23 for San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ MAY 7 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI, from Wellington, May 26, for San Francisco (connecting
steamer ITLTMAROA from Sydney, May 22).
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. JUNE 4 for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route."
TICKETS TO TIIE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER TINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
/William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO.. Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
IHJItNS. l’Hllil’ & CO., LTD..
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TO lIP IST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (.IAVA. CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via Sout'i Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FUSE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CEItAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
lle'-ular Service Between Australia and
“Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd elas3
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THE.MISTOCL.ES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•Vew Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
.. 14,500
.. 14,500
.. 10,000
NESTOR
ULYSSES
/ENEAS
Tons.
10,000
10,000
ANCHISES ..
ASCANIUS ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WAIT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P.&O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOR DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
bank of new south
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR T.TVra.
Head Office— George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E C. 2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand,. Fiji, Papua and London!
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Billg
negotiated and collected, letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports: at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns,
f Brisbane, Mackay, Bow r en, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkeiL^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDABT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug aiul Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates. Eld.
IJlacklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.. Ltd.
AGENTS FOIt
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
ltd Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ttd London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Mnritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide. Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£2,370,000
£4,000,000
£55,800,000
£8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and industrial Assurance Business.
H. \V. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofori I-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission ol the Hon. the
Attorney-General ol N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, WolseJey Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(.Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th. 1925
Results published "Daily Telegraph." June 15th,
1925; other States. June 24th, 1925. or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/11. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets lor 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prize*
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists id
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs, rroud*
Ltd. and Lassetter's, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba. N.S .A


iiSii
aiiiw#
mMHte
mmm'
'•ill:
li SiM fi i
Ml
Af Wj|lj;
Motorists Prefer to
Patronize Wayne Pumps
Because
(1) They supply quick service. Petrol is
transferred from the bowl to the automobile
tank in just a few moments. (2) Because
of the visible bowl, which assures the buyer
of full measure of petrol for his money.
Service stations everywhere
found that Wayne
pumps stimulate a lively,
profitable business. Model
492 (illustrated) combines
attractive design, with speed,
ease of operation, positive ac-
curacy and dependability. It
is operated by means of double
cylinder hand pump, housed
within the column.
Model 491 is of’similar de-
sign, but operated by means
of air pressure derived from
your air compressor with
no interruption to tire inflation
service.
Models 491 and 492 are sup-
plied with glass bowls of either 5
or 10 gallons measure. They de-
liver one to the maximum num-
ber ot gallons at the will of the op-
erator —10 gallons in 30 seconds;
Automatic recording meter, op-
tional.
An automatic interlocking valve
system is an exclusive Wayne
feature, which makes it impossi-
ble to back into the storage
and automobile tank at the same
time. All electric wires are en-
closed in heavy conduits. The
system has the approval of the
U.S. Board of Fire Underwriters.
If desired we will supply the 492 pedestal and visible
container, (without concealed pump)," fitted for connection,
with your present pumps. For complete details of these
models (or other equipment for the storing, measuring and
pumping of oil and petrol) address:
ROBERT F, TjEE. Res. Representative,
!60 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
4on t ß,!J?l?rl an c<. Ki, l s ~C o ■■ Mechanical Supplies, Ltd.,
4.)0 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 7!) Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
icn c ~ Hawkins Equipment Company. Ltd.,
100 Castlereagli Street, Watson’s Buildings, Wickham Street,
Brisbane.
Arthur H. Christian,
SOS Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY, Fort Wayne, Ind., V. S. A.
Ingersoll House No. 9 Kingsway, London, W. C. 2, England
2oin. 3-stage Turbine Pump,
>475 gallons per minute. 500 ft. head.
M
THOMPSON
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Single or Multi-stage Types arranged
for Horizontal or Vertical Shaft Drive.
SOUND DESIGN
HIGH EFFICIENCY
RELIABILITY
LOW MAINTENANCE
SUBMIT YOUR PUMPING PROBLEM TO
THOMPSON 8 CO.
ENGINEERS, CASTLEMAINE,
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House,
BRISBANE:
Engineering; Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. HinUs & Co. Ltd,
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London
hp # t
lime ror
fresh pair
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD., Manufacturers
50 York Street, Sydney. 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Perry House, Brisbane.


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers.
OR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Backache,
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will
refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly what
they say.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if you suffer from Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that (Jin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles would deny the
benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
We are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts: —
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of alcohol,
of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a
remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles,
hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that
if they do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles —at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding more
than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-tliirds of. the
bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle to* the
chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will refund the
money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limited, 131-35
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles.
m
k:::~
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specialty
Suitable for Mailing
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4/- per lib. box
lib.
21b.
31b.
41b.
51b.
Red Metal Box.
N.S.W. Other States.
4/- Postage, extra 9d. 1/2
8/- „ „ 1/- 1/8
12/- „ „ 1/3 2/2
16/- „ „ 1/6 2/8
20/- „ „ 1/9 3/2
No expense Is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
dmStHiiiUA
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Blackball Line.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/A' the Blackball Line I served my time;
Hurrah for the Blackball Line!
In Blackball ships a legion sailed
Who fed or famished, won or failed;
A migrant host who, now at rest,
Once turned their faces to the west
And bade farewell in grief or mirth
To their belovfed lands of birth.
In Blackball ships they’d roll and toss
The North Atlantic surge across
For weeks mayhap, in passage slow,
All packed like herrings down below.
Grim hardships bore, great test withstood,
This matrix rough of nationhood.
From Liverpool to Baltimore,
These black-hulled, crowded clippers bore
In exodus a hopeful hand
Who westward sought the promised land.
All, many were who ne’er won through,
And some whose dreams at last came true;
And some whose hones for ever rest
Along the highway to the west;
These drifters from the overflow
Of eighty changing years ago,
By Fate or by eternal law,
The Land of Promise never saw.
’Neath battened hatches heard they oft
Dread sounds of beating wings aloft,
Weird snarl of angry waves that hurled
Defiance from the water-world,
The challenge of a wicked foe
Full-armed to work them wrack or woe.
In foetid holds, like vaults of doom,
By oil-lamps in the murky gloom,
They huddled, read each other’s fears
On faces drawn or wet with tears.
They told their women “Courage!” then,
And tried to bear themselves like men.
Dull blows of beating seas above,
Where dripping sailors stoutly strove,
And whiskered mates their orders roared,
They trembling heard. Unto the Lord
Their hearts besought, through crash and din,
Forgiveness for remembered sin.
While strained ribs creaked, while bulkheads
groaned,
And blocks complained and cordage moaned,
Til-fed, unwashed and fearing so.
These homely bands bore on below;
And then came sunlight and the rare'
Delight of calm seas, winds more fair.
The Westland dimly seen at last.
With sins forgot and terrors past,
The charm of coasts that slowly grew
Out of the waters, strange and new.
Their hopes revived, their dreams renewed.
So went this fine enduring brood.
So journeyed Europe’s overflow
Of eighty changing years ago.
Though canvas, oak and hemp and tar
No more the salves of transport
We’ll sing one chanty, write one line
In honor of the Blackball Line.
The Blackball ships are with the past.
The Blackball crews have come at last
To anchor in a harbor still.
A haven calm beneath a hill,
A port of clearance in the west,
Where never storm shall break their rest;
Where, all dues paid, all papers clear.
Their voyage done, with naught to fear.
They keen no watch and dread no shoals —
The Harbor of Departed Souls.
The Boadstead of the Deeper Deep.
The Haven of Eternal Sleep.
Victoria.
E. .T. BRADY.
The “Horsey Four.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOON after the Australian Army came
streaming back from the war I began
to wonder why so many, from privates
to colonels, with badges of distinguished ser-
vice, avoided all reference to the struggle
in which they had played their parts. I
have seen scores of young ex-officers abruptly
close down on all efforts to extract remini-
scences from them. I have seen a look of
apprehension, sometimes of fear, flit across
the faces of others at the very mention of
the war. But since my friend explained to
me the real cause of that tragic cliff accident
at Kosciusko which finished the career of a
promising young pastoralist from out be-
yond. I have never introduced war themes
to returned soldiers.
What follows is his story.
* * * *
Before the war we were known as the
Horsey Four. Born and bred out west, we
were in the saddle almost as soon as our
feeding-bottles had been stored away. We
lived in the land of sheep, on adjoining hold-
ings—spacious holdings of wide, rolling
plains out beyond the Darling. It is in such
places that real friendships are formed —not
friendships of constant protesting, but the
quiet understandings which grow up between
isolated men who take a liking to each
other; comradeships which survive every
test of time and circumstance.
When the war came we joined up together,
not from any desire to kill Germans or Aus-
trians, or from any false conception of the
glory of -war, but just because there was no-
thing else to be done. We w r ere English-
men, and without thought or question re-
ponded to the call of the race. But only
three of us came back. .Tack Warbrick was
never seen after the Gallipoli landing. What
could be found of him is under one of those
little white crosses that will always make
the Peninsula a bit of Australia. The three
of us who came back had more than the
average run of luck. Wounded we had been,
and, in sundry hospitals, had battled fiercely
with pneumonic and enteric microbes. But,
somehow, 1019 found three of us on the
Western plains again, each nursing his own
little hell. The horror, the filth, mental as
v/ell as physical, in which wm had wallowed,
made us secretive as to our experiences.
Never very talkative, we agreed that those
four years were to be treated as a period of
delirium. What any of us had said or done
was never to be spoken.
But Phil Longford seemed to have changed
entirely. Before the war claimed us he had
been always cheerful, always leader of the
many boisterous escapades in which we had
indulged. But now he had become sullen
and morose. He avoided us and positively
shunned contact with all others. When the
time arrived for our annual visit to Mel-
bourne —a fortnight of races, theatres and
city venturings—he refused to come. The
bloivfiy, he alleged, was too prevalent, and
he must supervise the crutcliing of his sheep.
Nothing could move him, and we had the
dullest Cup meeting of our lives.
Shortly after our return Phil’s foreman
called' on us with alarming reports. “The
Boss,” he assured us, was “ratty”—always
riding out beyond the station boundary, some-
times not returning for days, wandering
about the homestead at night, talking to him-
self, taking no interest in the sheep; worst of
all, he always carried a loaded revolver.
We raided the homestead that night, _as
we had often done in pre-war days. Using
force and keeping up a semblance of the
boisterous methods of pre-war days, we
dragged Phil twenty miles across country to
my hut and put him on his trial.
It was rather a pathetic farce without
Jack Warbrick, but resulted in some good.
Phil consented to join us in a month’s fish-
ing on the Snowy River. We agreed that
running rivers and snow-capped peaks, with
log fires at the Creel overnight, might do us
all good. Perhaps as years were added to
us the monotony of the flat country, with
its heat and dust and its silence, should be
broken by more frequent excursions. For
a time the trout-fishing interested us all, and
even Phil responded to the change. Six
hours’ wading and casting each day sent us
back to the Creel tired and hungry and ready
for sleep.
But it was not for long. I made it a rule
to look into his room a couple of hours
after we had turned in, and o> the fifth
night found that he had disappeared. The
window was open, and the clothes he had
been wearing that day were gone. We over-
took him two hours later, climbing the road
to Kosciusko. lie resented our following
him, but finally we got him back, and before
a blazing fire spent the rest of the night in
spasmodic conversation. It was a long time .
before we could soften his resentment. We
had always connected his changed tempera-
ment with the loss of Jack Warbrick, and I
fimdly tried him out with an accusation of
disloyalty to the quartette. Was he the
only one who resented the killing of one of
us? Was he the only one loyal to the
memory of our old comrade? Should men
sit about nursing their grief like old women
in widows’ weeds? I had struck the right
note. He winced under my protest that
loyalty to the memory of our old mate could
exist without the parading of it, and finally
confessed that he had forgotten Jack War-
brick —hadn’t thought of him for months.
And then he began to talk. Crouched over
tin; fire, with his hands constantly reaching
out for something, his lean face twitching
with the agony of released emotions.
“You know they put me on special work—
searching out spies in some of the villages
close to our lines, in Flanders. There was a
lot of rotten business going on—leakages of
information, communication with the enemy
—which cost us hundreds of lives. I had
a knack of nosing out spies, and was finally
put on to that work. I didn’t mind at first.
My job was to track down suspects and send
them further behind, with my reports, for
treatment. What became of them was po
concern of mine. I knew of some who were
shot, but I didn’t care. Anyone spying at the
Front knew the penalty was death. They
gambled and lost, and it was not for me to
worry about the stakes. Anyhow, most of
them were abject beasts—riff-raff who would
sell their own children for safety; sometimes
even for a few coins. Such vermin, I sup-
pose, exist in every country, and I had no
compunction in stamping on them.
“Word came to our seetion of the opera-
tions of a particularly skilful gang of spies
lower down the line, in the nearest town
to us occupied by the French, and I was
sent along to take a hand. I spent the next
three months amongst the Frenchies. Half
a dozen men were placed under my command,
and I had a free hand to move about the
villages immediately behind the lines.
“Ostensibly we were a band of enter-
tainers. My men had been specially selected,
and knew just what form of amusement went
down with their compatriots. Whenever we
had a show I did some stockwhip stunts, and
took part in a burlesque boxing contest. I
was finally ordered to put in a week or two
in the village of X, from which it was sus-
pected important information had been get-
ting through to the enemy. Following my
usual methods, we started with a show in an
extemporised hall, and as a couple of thou-.
sand poilus were resting in and about the
village we had a fine house.
“More than once I had got on the right
track by closely watching the audiences at
these shows. They usually crowded, without
class or distinction, about the stage, and
certain items of the programme were always
framed to make unusual appeals to different
emotions. On this night, while playing the
fool, with hands encased in huge boxing-
gloves. I claimed a foul. The referee de-
cided against me; so, knocking my opponent
down, I sat on him (we always fought this
battle the same way) and harangued the
audience. This night I did it in German
(I know a good deal of the language), and
saw at once that one woman in French
peasant garb understood what I said.
“It was on that slender clue I acted. In
such affairs everything depended on prompt
action. There was no preliminary investi-
gation, no searching for a prima facie case,
no issue of citation to appear. Within an
hour I had found that the woman lived with
her widowed aunt on a farm about a mile
from the village, and at midnight the house
was surrounded. My demand for admission
was responded to by an old woman. I
brushed her aside and made for the one
room in which I had noticed a light. The
door was locked, but the place was old and
ir. great disrepair. One heave of the shoul-
ders and I was in the room, revolver in hand.
Standing at the far end of the room was the
woman of the hall—no longer a peasant, but
robed in resplendent evening-dress. The
room was lighted with a hanging lamp and
several candles, and all the windows were
heavily curtained. I had developed a sixth
(Continued on next paye.)


t
?>r
4^
*
ase^
P
*?
ACCIDENTS occur when least expected
—the slip with the knife or tin-opener
—the hot oven door against your bare
arm—the kettle that boils over—the twisted
ankle on the steps—-and the children’s cuts
and bruises.
An efficient and the most compact first-aid
ever known consists of a box of that ever-
ready healer, Zam-Buk.
First wash away any dirt or grit
from the wound; cover it with a
piece of tint or any bit of dean rag
on which some Zam-Buk has been
spread. Rub gently with Zam-Buk
for bruises and sprains. Keep
covered up (especially in burns
and scalds), and let Nature and
Zam-Buk do the rest.
Pain is quickly soothed by the Zam-Buk,
inflammation and swelling are allayed, and
the germs present in all wounds are pre-
vented from setting up blood-poisoning.
The growth of a new covering of healthy
skin proceeds apace, and very soon all trace
of the injury is quietly but effectively
removed.
It is important to select Zam-Buk because
it means safety first. Unlike ordinary oint-
ments, Zam-Buk is of purely herbal origin;
it contains no coarse mineral drug or rancid
animal fat to corrode the skin.
Buk
am
THE SAFETY-FIRST HEALER
cientific test proves Zam-Buk to be absolutely pure, so
it may be diluted with pure olive oil or used as sold. Never
e without this Safety First” healer; use it for obstinate skin
lseases like eczema, ulcers, poisoned wounds, ringworm, etc.,
as well as for superficial injuries.
Of Chemists and Stores everywhere at 1 /6, or 3/6 family size.
FREE SAMPLES OF ZAM-BUK. To obtain a free sample of
am-Uuk, send your request to C. E. Fulford (Aus.) Ltd.,
Sydney. Mention “The Bulletin” of 23/4/’25. Please write
your name and address clearly.
sonse in this work. I knew at once that
danger—imminent, overwhelming danger—
was lurking in that room. In one corner
was a curtained recess. I saw the curtain
move. I just caught a glimpse of a circle
of steel slowly protruding from a slit, at
which two curtains joined, and I fired—
two shots. There was a groan, and the body
of a man in French uniform sprawled into
the room. The woman, white and tense,
never moved, but watched me with sombre
eyes which seemed to have become reservoirs
of all the hate in the world. Two of my
men, hearing the shots, rushed into the room.
" ‘Search that body,’ I ordered, and a
few moments later they handed me a bundle
of jiapers.
“ ‘Keep that woman covered!’ I directed,
and glancing hastily at the papers, saw that
some of them were written in German, some
ir. French, some in English.
“ ‘Take the body away and keep the old
woman under arrest.’
A moment later I was alone with the
spy. She had not moved. I could see
that the surprise had ljeen complete, as she
was unarmed and unprepared for any de-
fence.
“ ‘\\ ell, Madame,’ I said, ‘you know what
this means?
“ ‘«/e nc vow* comprcnds pun.’’
u t° me in English,’ I said.
“ ‘Jc nc rauit comprcnds pus.'
“I raised my revolver slowly and said:
ion go to join your brother-spy. No one
will question my action.’
No Englishman would,’ she said in per-
fect English. ‘They make war always on
women and children !’
“ ‘s° you can speak English?’ I replied.
Well settle what’s to become of you later
on.
"/Why not settle it now? I am waiting.’
lou may buy your life if you have any
information to sell.’
‘You have killed my lover. I have no
further desire to live. 1 have nothing to sell.’
‘‘Your lover, eh? That accounts for the
fine feathers!’
“ ‘He told me that some day my desire to
be beautiful when he came would end in
trouble. He Avas right.’
“ ‘But isn’t life still sweet? There are
other lovers. If you tell me everything about
your organisation in this village you may
wear that frock for another. .. .some day.’
“ ‘I have no information.’
“‘Come now. 1 would hate to see you
shot. The French are very touchy about
spies, and it must be very trying to be a
target for a firing squad.’
“ ‘The French do not shoot women. Only
the English do that.’
“ ‘Where did you get that idea?’
Our \\ ar Lords tell us the truth. We
know.’
“ ‘You don't Avan t to live?’
“ ‘lt—it is hard to die.’
“The strain had reached breaking point.
Suddenly all the rigidity went out of her
body, and, collapsing into the one.armed chair
in.the room, the woman wept. God, how she
cried! But the recollection of Avliat I had
so narroAvly escaped from behind the curtain
steeled me. I waited calmly until she be-
came coherent again.
“‘Where did you learn English?’ I asked.
“ ‘I was sent to an English college.’
“ ‘You were trained for this work?’
“ ‘Yes. Many of us Avere. I was sent to
this village two years before the Avar. We
expected war long before it came.’
“ ‘And your aunt?’
“Again she was silent, and no cross-
examination could extract a line of informa-
tion.
‘lf 1 were found in a village behind your
lines, sending information to the enemy, what
would your people do to me?’
“ ‘They'd shoot you.’
“ ‘lf a woman were caught doing the same
thing t
lor the first time fear was in her eyes
and she had no answer.
. What would they do to her?’ I per-
sisted.
And then she began to plead with me—
she was young; the war Avould soon be over;
somewhere back in Saxony she had a father!
a great scientist, and a mother, very old and
very lonely. Her two brothers bad been
killed and she Avas the only child left. What
benefit would her death be to the great
armies of England and France?
“I reasoned with her a little lon e’er —told
her I might be able to save her life if she
disclosed the names of her confederates.
But if she- would not pay that price for the
right to live, a right forfeit by the usage of
war, then But it was useless. She
declared that her life wasn't worth that
price.
The time to end the parley had come. I
abruptly ordered the woman to get together
what things she needed. ,She asked for a
few .minutes to herself, and I agreed to wait
outside the door. ‘Five minutes,’ I said.
“She pointed to my revolver and whis-
pered ;. ‘Will you, dare you, forget to take
that with you?’
“I remembered how, after her first heroic
attitude, she had wilted at the reality of
death a spy’s death. Her contemptuous
gibes at Englishmen were still in my mind,
and I thought this was another pose. So!
not to be outdone, I indulged in a grand
flourish. I emptied the magazine of my re-
volver, re-inserted one cartridge only, placed
the weapon on the table, and left the room.
“I never thought she would use it! I
never—— But a few seconds later there
was a shot.... and I rushed back.
“She had evidently aimed at her temple,
but her hand had wavered. I — l can’t for-
get that broken face. At first it was a
long way off, but since I came back to
places Avhere we are human beings again.
Avhere things are quiet and uneventful, it
gets closer —closer !”
We talked with him till daybreak. He had
done the right thing. It was far better to
let the woman die that way. We warned
him of the danger of brooding. I told him
of some of the horrors I had passed
through—exaggerated them, urged him that
life after war was only possible to those wdio
could forget.
We got him to bed just as the sun was
rising, and rejoiced in leaving him in a
sound sleep.
A few days later we were doing a big
w r nlk near the top of the mount, the three
of us more cheerful and companionable than
ever since our return. But he got on
ahead of us on a bridle track skirting a
ravine. There was a sheer drop of six
hundred feet. Suddenly we saw him stop
and gaze for a moment into the depths. Then
he to us and cried —
i ,^‘ e "Oman ! The woman with the
broken face ! She’s down there !"
Ihe coroner found a verdict of accidental
death. We thought it better so.
GEO. S. REEBY.
Side Shows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f INHERE was a very good attendance at
1 the Bcomonoo Show, and a crowd
stood in front of two neighboring
booths. The rival spruikers were exerting
themselves to the utmost. The crowd ap-
peared to be unable to make up its mind
which tent would provide the better value.
It it seemed likely at times to move towards
one booth, the spruiker at the other redoubled
his efforts and indecision came again.
hire you ’ave the Laughin' Hyena, ladies
tin' gents," yelled one. "A ferocious animal
that waylays the children goin’ to school an’
steals tin* sandwieh-cs from their lunch-es.
But not for the meat. Oh, no! For the
butter, with which he greases himself an'
slides down the Himalayas, laughin’ like
billyho.”
A slight wave of people rippled towards
the hyena tent.
“S-s-snakes an' s-s-scrpents,” hissed the
other spruiker. “ 'Ere you 'ave ’em, ladies
an gents. R-r-reptiles an' r-r-rattlers. Snakes
of every sort and size. Black, blue an'
brindle ’uns. An’ ’e eats 'em!”
The thought of this gastronomic indiscre-
tion weighed powerfully with the crowd.
People were visibly making up tlieir minds.
The blandishments of the caller for a third
side-show, a boxing tent, could be heard from
no great distance away, endeavoring to in-
duce some “local lad” to take a glove and
prove himself another Les Darcy, “who, don’t
forget, sports, we picked up at Dubbo jest
hke this, and put on the way to for-
tune.” But the boxing booth was practically
deserted. The farmers were going to spend
their money on either hyena or snakes, and
for the moment the snakes and the unknown
gentleman who dined off them were in the
ascendancy.
The opposition threw itself into the
,' e *J c h : “/B’s a terrible, a norrible an’ a mys-
tifyin animal, the hyena. ’E laughs loud an’
long. Do you know why ’e laughs? I
don’t. The medical facuhality don’t. ’Ear
nn laugh !” From the interior of the tent
came a dreadful bellow, blood-curdling in its
ferocity and carrying thoughts of jungles
and of torn and bloody bodies. Laugh or
bellow, it was too horrible to be withstood.
] Ij e . crowd made for it, hands in pockets,
delving for the admission money.
The snake expert, already red of face and
raucous of voice, doubled himself up in a
frenzy of ('(fort: “But, ladies air gents, ’e
ciil.s 'em ! 'E eats ’em alive. ’E likes ’em.”
Irresolute the ci’owd paused again. The
two spruikers, each preparing himself for a
last stupendous effort, were silent for three
seconds. In that time the argument started.
*he two angry voices from the middle of
the crowd barged and blustered. Nobody
knew what the row was about, but all were
interested. “I was jest walkin’ parst yer
an yer chips me,” snarled one of the em-
broiled ones. “Settle it in the boxin’ tent,”
somebody suggested. The angry men agreed
at once. The whole crowd surged towards
the. boxing booth, leaving the rival spruikePs
•dismayed and speechless.
The snake expert found his voice for a
final attempt: “Ladies an’ gents, ’e bites
their bloomin’ 'cads off,” he roared.
But the crowd did not heed. A fight was
a fight, and to a genuine fight no attraction
could be superior.
Inside the marquee the combatants retired
to a hessian screen to strip for the fight.
Ihe proprietor of the show, having taken
the money at the entrance until the last of
the crowd was inside, also entered the hes-
sian screen.
“’Struth, you got ’em all riett. boys.”
he whispered. “Twelve quid. That’s the
way ter get ’em—they’ll always foller a arg’-
rnent. Here’s yer quid apiece; now give
em a bit of a show for their money.”
A. A. ADAIR.
The Lost Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A STRANGE wind blew r in Georgia Straits
Last night; I heard it go
So sadly through the harbor gates
And whisper to and fro,
Seeking warm beaches where the foam
Marches in ranks of white —
It was a long, long way from home
That wind I heard last night!
It had swung in wdiere Flattery burns
Her light to warn the ships
And up the Sound by straits and turns
Where swift the dark tide slips.
Bringing the incense of the Line
And south of that again,
The lost w r ind stirred more l hearts than mine
With its south seas’ refrain.
It touched a sailor’s sunburned cheek
Down where the liners lie,
And made him turn as though to speak
To someone passing by.
For in its fragrant breath he heard
Across the leagues of seas
The call of an Australian bird
’Mid sighing messmate trees.
Vancouver’s quays were swathed in mist;
And out beyond the buoys
The soft rain smoothed the waves it kist
And hushed their idle noise.
Most beautiful, the city lights
In radiant clusters burned ;
But by deep bays and snowy peaks
The lost wind cried and turned.
The strange wind in the hill-girt strait
Was from a southern land
Where sunrise and the sea-winds wait
To travel hand in hand.
Seeking w*arm beaches wdiere the foam
Makes gleaming lines of white —
It was a long, long way from home
The wind that blew last night.
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
WILL LASON.


WW.'r’Mi
i:V.
-
J
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
1 “ ■ ll (ji
V, z Omc^_tf e^ s ~ HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
>ctori an offl 107 Ee *therston Street, Wellington.
Uffice 99 Queen streetj Melbourne.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
s
m
7>
>
The
or.
~ He Knows
Pap er are right, and Cavanders maintain that thick
° nze Powder and Printers’ Inks are best not inhaled.
v PER’S “ARMY CLUB” CIGARETTES the Golden
Sl na r i
Eg Qcco J s wrapped in pare ribbed rice paper enhanc-
es flavour and aroma, and to distinguish this
f
S Yli . Irorn all others the name “ARMY CLUB” is water -
a^er> obviating the use of Printers’ Inks.
W ANI) ER’S “ARMY CLUB” CIGARETTES smokers
Perf ection.
Cavander’s
"S^Ptny Cluh
Cigarettes
RIBBED RICE PAPER”
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6.
Ca
Va nders Limited, Estd. 1775, London, England.
TOWNS & CO., Reiby Place, Sydney,
Agents.
r ßely for Relief
upon a thoroughly reliable remedy—a remedy
with a big ' reputation ! The reliability of
Beecham’s Pills explains their solid reputation.
They fulfil expectations. This they have done
for thousands of people ever since they first
came into use. You can therefore depend
UPON
Beecham’s Pills for giving relief in most
cases of Stomach and Liver trouble. Such
symptoms as acidity, biliousness, constipation,
headache, heartburn, loss of appetite, unpleasant
taste in the mouth and general lack of tone call
for the immediate use of that reliable remedy—
k
V 45
4
//;
Va
mm*k
a
u
titf* in
m
m/j
111,
wmTiTimiTnuM\\\\^^
•L:
$8
pJVCv
(AQ
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full Btocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. &, W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Tohnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
■Utttt i ■"I"' ■ 1 ,
p
«ieiST«K»*
THAOF «*«»«
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable Never requires cleaning.
" T IWBIIL;! '■
Australasian Reprawta ti v
Norman Baker & f,cngb«wt
6O fork Street, %o-g.»
SUNDAY TOURIST 11 ! £ £
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children
Middle Harbor and ill
SUNDAY EVENING CRUIbt, ic/
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
Remington. UMC =
DUCK LOAD
Supplied only in Nitro Club Cases
LOADED SCIENTIFICALLY to get the highest
J velocity consistent with the best pattern, these
Jsvrir'i'c-
rv.
O
, • ■*_:
b. |7ca. Ji^sfsgisa.
32,16 duck load
\..r.
/t'WS
cartridges are “Wetproof”
throughout—top-wad, crimp
and body—positively sealed
against every climatic change.
Next time you are going after
ducks, ask your dealer for a
box of DUCK LOAD cartridges
—give them a trial.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686 Melbourne, Viet.
E 24


A
7
p
A
R
A
D
O
X
m
m
/n,
urn
am
I
»*>-!(
Ik -si I
s l\Htt
imiimmniuii
ISIP.Vt
• y/ - fill
„V\V)
l»U!V
nnvi\A\Wv
iapfi ;
i
IB
H til
m
§ l soßm
m
as I
IfSiiiK^
yi;«
l £-= • £==== =
i'S t: Sill 1a.,. rrw" ,a!
■KSir'S
I™
pß»*
iijyMrtMß
Bl
life
q]
'ifli
wwiiiif
ii
r*i
i Jssi.liimiuiniil/ !T.‘
ir»
L i.iid:iMyiVwfe^Hufe*w
■ ££''
'i' , !Jllllllt!llUL'iiiiiii<iiitw ti'iimmiiuiiliUl
il
w
§Nw#i§
aiili
IllllS
a
s
:ir"^
A
P
A
o
hJLi
1
&
$
or
see
PARADOX: A tenet or proposition contrary to received opinion,
absurd, yet true in fact”—/ Webster's Dictionary)
malTchworks in Melbourne have
. „ IN THIS COUNTRY, OR IN ANY OTHER.
THEY
d
