

> N s
X^
y \ *c
X
\
£
\v
Al
m.
m
m
m
/
s? 5
X
\
X
PRICE
BERRY
our
am
p6)\\\/lf)iPii:
>w
jr
B-l
\
7
&
-x
yy
/
%
S'
y/
Ya
%
u
jpERHAPS it doesn’t seem important to you. After
all, it’s only a penny. But multiply it by the millions
of boxes of matches that are used each year to light
Australia’s pipes, and it begins to total an enormous sum.
(Last year £750,000 was spent in Australia for matches).
Where is that money going to —to Norway, to Sweden,
to Japan, to Czechoslovakia—or is it going to stay in
Australia to provide work, food, and wages for Aus-
tralians.
See that your pennies go into the right pocket. Next
time, and always in future when you buy matches, insist
on the Australian-made, and if you want the best, ask for
o
o
!.)
BRYANT I MAYS
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
The Bulletin
Vol. 46.—N0. 2364.
Thursday, June 4, 1925.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


[E NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
FAULTY BELTING WASTES POWER
To get the full advantage of all the power you pay for insist on
MANGROVITE LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
when making renewals. This high-grade transmission medium
invariably passes on a full quota of power to the machines
and, by reason of its high quality, is unusually long in life.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Dfraotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide. *
VICTORIA : W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANI A : W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd.. Launceston A Hobart.
/
£ <
PpW
35
BENGER’S Food is
entirely delicious,
and always enjoyable.
Delicate and aged
persons find in it the
one Food which never
disagrees.
You prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new
milk, with which it
forms a dainty cream
of delightful biscuit
flavour.
Benger’s Food contains
in a most easily digested
form almost ready for
absorption—all the essen-
tial food elements to
sustain life in health and
vigour.
Prescribed by Doctors
for over 40 years.
For
the
Aged
V
Food
'for Infants,
InVALI DS and the AGED.
Send for Booklet to-day.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., 117, Pitt Street, - SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
A. 257
;p
•KiisTtaa*
TIA9K MARS
Quarantead*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
, a , ® ner appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO„ Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
I l.'Hll" tlx- «
‘"'isr,,,/* 3
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker k LonghuTst
6O York Street. Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prt*e Medals.
Wor-Ug : nirmingham, England)
These series of
Pensneither scratch
nor spurt
They glide orer
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
POST FREE j
WE P
m
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE, GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! CO
.DS! INFLUENZA!
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 1-
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 : or forward 1/6 in stamp*
to the Manufacturers, Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
4U
\\t*
aw®
MtncM.«sttmruf(s
HUDSON
nurtHKt.<
The Red Page
The Letters of Loti
The reader of Lettres de Pierre Loti d
Madame ■Juliette Adam ( 1880-1922 ) will
learn something about an elusive personality
from a perusal of his correspondence with his
literary mentor, lifelong friend and adopted
mother, Juliette Adam, herself a distin-
guished writer (her books appear to be the
only ones Loti bothered himself to read),
and for many years the all-powerful Direct-
ress of La Noeveele Levee, in which a great
part of his work appeared. Madame Adam
was born at Verberie in 1830, and is still
living. In her capacity of Directress of a
powerful journal she was of great use to
Loti, as she was able to pull political strings
and stir up lazy bureaucrats to action, and
even to bring pressure upon a recalcitrant
Minister when it was a question of interces-
sion on behalf of Loti’s army of protdgds.
For years he toiled unceasingly to get pro-
motion for his greatest pal, by name Pierre
Le Cor, whom we meet as the hero of “Fleurs
d’ennui” and “Mon Frhre Yves.” He is
Yves Kermadec in those stories, the merry,
trustworthy, considerate, almost femininely-
kind Breton sailorman whose only failing
was a love of alcohol, and to whose humble
home in the wilds of Brittany Loti used to
fly when mental overwork had taken toll of
his easily-tired and ill-balanced nervous
system.
The instability of his nerves was a sore
point with Loti from his youth, and he attri-
butes it in part to being coddled in his in-
fancy, and to being allowed to grow up like
an ivy vine instead of a sturdy, independent
oak. In his letters he refers to his lack of
physical fitness, and laments his want of
beauty of form and figure. He took every
means to counteract his neurotic tendency,
and was a great apostle of gymnastic Exer-
cises (l-eaders will remember his antics in
the circus-ring at Joinville which he wrote
about in the first part of his “Journal
Intime”: the second part, by the way, is
appearing as a supplement of L’lllestba-
tion). But all was to no purpose : he had
reluctantly to admit that he had begun too
late. The reader will suspect that these
references are tinctured with his old com-
plaint, neurasthenia. One finds in the let-
ters that he had frequent houts of this dis-
ease. and as he grew older it strengthened
its hold upon him. He carried his hatred
of publicity to such an extent that when he
visited Paris, which was rarely, for he
loathed the capital, he put up at the Palais
d’Orsay or the Hotel Continental under an
assumed name. Our Rudyard Kipling has
to do the same when he visits La Villc
Lumihre, or enterprising French pressmen
would be climbing up to his apartments by
means of a ladder to interview him. Loti
would never give an interview to the press:
but when things were getting a bit lurid, and
scandalous stories about his private life were
being circulated, chiefly through the instru-
mentality of his pseudo-friend and fellow-
academician Camille Doucet, he wrote out
an interview himself and looked about for
a friend to father it and a journal to pub-
lish it. He eventually selected his friend
Stegler, and the interview was published in
Le Temps. Madame Adam was responsible
for broadcasting the “interview” for foreign
consumption.
Madame Adam points out that the public
will have to alter materially its notions con-
cerning the personal characteristics of the
great writer, and declares in a forcibly-
worded and eloquent preface that he was
the most sympathetic soul she ever met.
Loti was usually referred to as an individual
who was cold, proud, selfish, diabolically
egoistic and self-laudatory; but a perusal
of the letters will show indubitably that, in
fact, he was exactly the reverse of all this. He
was unselfish and self-sacrificing to a super-
lative degree, readily listened to a tale of
woe and suffering, and was up in arms im-
mediately at the mere mention of persecu-
tion or injustice. He often got into hot
water in defending a lost cause (he quar-
relled bitterly with Madame Adam because
she was pro-Greek, instead of pro-Turk), and
one remembers in his books his almost child-
ish love of every kind of animal, his prime
favorite being, of course, cats —a predilec-
tion which every sailorman will understand.
Loti was never very communicative about
bis literary work, according to Madame
Adam, but, in addition to sending her his
MSS. on his return from a naval station, he
would give her a rdsumE of what he had
thought about and written during his
absence, and she was proud to be able to
relate that she was the only one who had
the privilege of being acquainted with his
creations in both seed-time and harvest. It
was always his idea to try to convey to his
readers the emotions he felt and the visions
he saw whilst writing a story. His charac-
ters were real persons. One may cite
Rarahu. Aziyadd, Fatou-Haye, Okane-san and
Gaud Mdvel. Madame Adam was of opinion
that Plumkett, who figures in “Aziyadd,” Was
Loti himself. But .no, Plumkett was his
best friend, next to Yves. Plumkett, by the
way, was allowed to scribble on the MS. of
“Le Spahi.” Loti got into hot water over
his ephemeral matrimonial experience in
Nagasaki when his ship was there in dock
in 1885. The lady in the case, Okane-San,
became the heroine of “Madame Chrysan-
thfemo.” He wrote that it would make him
feel ill to write a story dealing with Japan-
ese life, but he rapidly succumbed to the
temptation to use the “copy” that had come
his way. However, he made a solemn vow
that if he returned to Japan there would be
no more matrimonial experiences; and when
he did go back he kept his word.
Madame Adam is afraid that Loti will be
nngry with her in the Hereafter for betray-
ing the secrets of his heart; but her mater-
nal pride cannot resist the publication of
the letters which reveal the real Loti. She
has no reason to fear: the secrets are simple
enough, and the many good actions that
were accomplished without ostentation —-he
forbade the mention of his acts of benefi-
cence, and requested that the letters deal-
ing with them should be ruthlessly sup-
pressed—add a new radiance to his crown
of glory.
During a sojourn in Brittany, whither he
had vanished without leaving his address for
the express purpose of avoiding importu-
nate letters and visitors, Loti wrote a long
letter, the longest in the volume. In this
there was a kind of confession of faith. He
wrote that in his childhood he had a pas-
sionate enthusiasm for Christ; but since
then he had passed through many phases.
At the time of writing he conformed to a
sort of vague, sad pantheism. lie loved the
sunshine above all, and the solitude of the
deep woods where he found repose and
where he could forget everything. He under-
stood Nature in a fashion at once profound,
mysterious and anxious. He was utterly
wrapped up in her. His life was spent in
struggling against the perishability of things
and in endeavoring to retain a hold of things
that persistently fled away-—in consequence
he clung to the buried past. He had a
supreme fear of the time when he would be
loved no longer. He preferred to live like
his friends, the Breton peasants, who grew
up like healthy plants, gave up their har-
vest, and passed away tranquilly at the ap-
pointed time. He adored the same God as
Madame Adam, but the symbol was different.
She leaned towards Apollo, he towards Baal,
It was Baal-Zelioul le grand pourrisseur that
attracted him. Madame Adam talked of
hope after death. “Pray, tell me what
hopes you and I have,” answered Loti. But
on beautiful sunshiny days, when the shadow
of neurasthenia was lifted for a while and
when everything was green around him in
the woods of Brittany, and the air was odor-
ous with the scents of a thousand flowers,
his opinions were inclined to veer Apollo-
wards, I fancy.
L. G. D.
“Ulysses” and the Future
At the Tailteann gathering in Dublin,
where prizes were given for literature as well
as games, the “Ulysses” of James Joyce, like
the works of Bernard Shaw, Padraic Colum
and George Moore, was excluded by the defi-
nition which required that an author should
be domiciled in Ireland. But in the literary
report, Mr. W. B. Yeats, who was one of
the judges, writes: “We feel, however, that
it is our duty to say that Mr. James Joyce’s
book, though as obscene as Rabelais, and
therefore forbidden by law in England and
the United States, is more indubitably a work
of genius than any prose written by an
Irishman since the death of Synge.” Joyce,
who has since returned to Dublin, has been
credited with saying that he would write
no other book, as he had said all that he had
to say about life in “Ulysses.” But we now
learn that he has a new work in progress.
It is conceivable that he may produce a work
that may be the necessary complement to
“Ulysses,” which is certainly a vision of
reality, but, considered by itself, a partial
one.
A great deal of nonsense has been circu-
lated about Joyce’s masterpiece by critics
who have made no serious effort to under-
stand it. It is still expensive and difficult
to procure, though it is not at all the kind
of book that people who have never read it
imagine it to be. It is not, for example,
a Futurist work written in an obscure and
esoteric style. It is not based on a study
of the Freudian Unconscious. And though
it is as obscene as any book in English, more
exuberantly coarse in expression than even
the comic passages in Ben Jonson and
other Elizabethan dramatists, it is never
pornographic, which is a different thing alto-
gether. In “A Portrait of the Artist as a
Young Man” Joyce dismisses both the porno-
graphic and the didactic as bad art.
“Ulysses” is a formidable work, as long
as three ordinary novels, and for its propei
understanding it is essential to study the
author’s other works, “Chamber Music,” a
book of verse; “Exiles,” a play; “Duo-
liners,” a volume of short stories; and especi-
ally “A Portrait of the Artist as a Young
Man,” which serves as a brilliant Prelude to
his greater Excursion. Like all Joyce’s books
it is set in the Dublin of his own time, and
perhaps it is a help to a reader to know
something of the aspect of that city and of
some of the real characters introduced, such
as A.E., John Eglinton, Buck Mulligan and
others; for Joyce, like George Moore, has no
scruples in using his friends for models.
*'Ulysses” is thus local as well as universal.
In following the fortunes of his two heroes,
Stephen Dedalus, poet and student, and Mr.
Leopold Bloom, an advertising man, for one
day through the streets and pubs of Dublin,
and realising their reactions to events, their
words and thoughts, their emotions and medi-
tations, we cannot fail to learn something
of. the meaning of the life of all men on
this earth. We meet with scenes of birth,
marriage and death. We have a learned
dissertation on Shakspeare and some richly
idiomatic dialogue in Barney Kiernan’s pub.
We drive through the streets of Dublin, see-
ing, hearing and smelling everything. There
is a marvellous chapter giving little vignettes
of people passing and repassing, equalling, if
not excelling, Flaubert’s famous opening
chapter in “The Sentimental Education.”
We have the greatest funeral in literature,
Paddy Dignam’s, conceived in a spirit of
tragi-comedy brooding over the fleetingness
of the life of man. “Funerals all over the
world, everywhere every minute. Shovelling
;hem under by the cartload double quick.
Thousands every hour. Too many in the
world.” Mr. Bloom, scientist, who is a superb
comic creation, thinks it is a waste of wood.
There is a great gathering in a newspaper
office, and then there is Gerty MacDowell’s
inimitable romance, written in the style of a
nursemaid’s penny novelette. It is pathetic
as well as wildly comic, but this is character-
istic of the whole work, which presents a
high tragic view of the world in terms of
hilarious comedy. The astounding scene in
Mrs. Bella Cohen’s disorderly house is a
nightmare; and the book concludes with Mrs.
Bloom’s reflections which are so indecent —
no doubt a tribute to the refining influence of
woman—-that they become almost gorgeous.
But no amount of Rabelaisian language,
or of colloquialisms commonly used by men
(Continued on page 3.)


xute
All-Wool Serge Frocks of Charm and Distinction
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
A lower-than-usual cost is the reward of the
woman who shops at Anthony Horderns’,
for, while the styles are exquisite, the values
are keen. These examples are very smart,
and of a quality to grace any occasion and
ensure long service.
•m
•or
V' te
V 1
D.65G
D. 701
XT'
*F
w
0.703
D.7Q2.
D.6s6—Frock for practical wear, fashioned in
excellent quality fine All-Wool Serge.
Plain Silk, braid combined with narrow
Oriental braid, is arranged in an attrac-
tive manner. Small buttons, set in groups,
are most effective. In shades of Nigger.
Navy and Black. Sizes: S.W., Arxj/*
W., O.S. Price 49/6
D.7ol—Twill Serge Frock, made on easy lines,
featuring small bone buttons to tone as a
trimming, varying tones embroider the
smart imitation pocket. Braid finishes the
full-length sleeves. The waist is encircled
with a narrow belt of self material. In
shades of Grey, Nigger, Navy and
Black. Sizes: 5.W.,W.,0.5. Price WfO
D.7G2—lnexpensive All-Wool Coating Serge
Frock, charming beltless style and show-
ing buttons and braid from neck to hem.
This frock is slightly gathered on hips and
is finished with buttons. The new long
sleeves and becoming flat collar is edged
with braid. Note the braiding on the imi-
tation pocket. In shades of Grey, Nigger,
Navy and Black. Sizes: S.W., Afxi* -t
W., O.S. Price 1 1
D.7o3 — Tailored Frock in fine All-Wool Serge,
showing the latest long sleeves and smart
roll collar. Contrasting shades are used
to embroider the bodice, as illustration
shows. Braid gives finish to the two quaint
pockets. The narrow belt is of self
material. In shades of Grey, Navy,
Nigger and Black, Sizes: S.W.,
W., O.S. Price O/ U
We Pay the Carriage iu N.S.W. an<H to the Nearest Interstate Port.
New Dress Goods
Constantly Arriving
All Represent Wonderful Value.
Covert Cloths, plain or self-
checked ; soft finish, specially
woven for the Smart Ensemble
or Tailored Mannish Suit. In
all Brown tones —Fawns, Tans,
Copper Penny, also
Beaver. 40in. wide.
Price, yd
7|6
54in. wide, in sel£
check designs only.
Price, yd
13/6
Suiting Tweeds, excellent
weight for present wear: de-
signs that are smart and correct
for Suits. Available in exceed-
ingly good combinations of
Brown and Grey, with the
favored overcheck,
40in. wide.
Price, yd
4/11
Faire Isle Tweeds, 40in. wide.
Splendid for Costumes and
jaunty Skirts for sports wear.
Patterns are exclu-
sive and colorful.
Price, yd
4/6
Jersey Tweed, 54in. wide.
Something new —a cosy fabric
for Costumes and Frocks, in a
complete color range, including
ombre effects in Mustard, Saxe
Sunset, Fawn, or
Frown.
Price, yd
4/11
LININGS.
Tunings—for . every conceivable
purpose—for Frocks, Costumes,
Coats, Suits, and Wraps—in
every conceivable color—are here
for your selection.
(Dress Materials—First Floor.)
Fur Trimmings.
Rabbit Fur Trimming, in
shades of Black, Brown, Mole
and Grey.
Widths 1 2 3 4 in.
Prices 2/3 3/11 8/6 12/6 yd.
White Chinese Rabbit Fur
Trimming.
Widths 12 4 in.
Prices 2/11 5/11 11 /6 yd.
Imitation Ermine Fur Trim-
ming.
Widths 2 4 in.
Prices.... 7/6 15/-yd.
Black Coney Seal Fur Trim-
ming.
Widths.. 2 4 6in
Prices.. 7/6 15/- 22/6 yd.
Mole Coney Fur Trimming.
Widths.. 2 . 4 6 in.
Prices.. 8/6 16/11 25/-yd.
Beaver Coney Fur Trimming.
Widths.. 2 4 6 in.
Prices.. 8/6 16/11 25/- yd.
Skunk Opossum Fur Trim-
ming.
Widths.. 2 4 0 in.
Prices.. 22/6 45/- 65/-yd.
Grey Squirrel Rabbit Fur
Trimming.
Widths 2 4 in
Prices. .... 15/- 30/- yd.
Thibet Fur Trimmings, of
super quality, in lovely pastel
colorings.
Widths 3 4 in.
Prices. .. . .35/* 45/- yd.
(Dress THminings—
First B’loor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


<"• —*v
LAJP
'
m
■
itH
BUS
■■
■
m
■
REX PURE FOODS
reign supreme)among canned delicacies. They are recognised in every
household in Australia as the highest standard of quality. The sale is
enormous; the raw materials are superior to those used in any factory in
the world, whilst nothing is lacking in skill and experience in their prepara-
tion. Equal care and skill have been devoted to the containers; the tins ai ’
jars are perfectly hygienic—no solder (lead) or soldering flux, yet hermeE
cally sealed. We were the first in the world to use these cans successfully.
Rex Luncheon Cheese
in 40x., Sox. and 16oz. Tins, and
in handsome soz. opal porcelain
Jars with screw top.
lib. Tins.
Camp Pie (in jelly)
Pork Sausage
Beef Sausages
Fry and Bacon
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Lunch Ton cues (in jelly)
Pork and Beans
Baked Beans
Ox Tongue (in jelly)
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Red-y-mele (a ready meal)
Devilled Kidneys
K-be-B (kidney, beans and
bacon).
3 2 oz. Jars.
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste.
£lb. Tins.
Camp Pie (in jelly)
Devilled Kidneys
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans
Baked Beans
K-be-B (kidney, beans and
bacon)
Ox Tongv.e (in jolly)
Lorraine Smoked Sausages.
3gOZ. Tins.
Ham Pate
Veal and Tongue Pate
Devilled Ham.
l |oz. Tins.
Veal and Bacon
Devilled Ham
Ham and Tongue
Veal and Tongue
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste.
THE “SQUATTER” CASE
of assorted REX Canned Delicacies is of special interest
to the Man on the Land. It is an excellent investment
for him, because of its convenience, its splendid variety
and the first-class quality of the goods; it is cheaper
than ordering the different lines separately.
Note the contents of the special “SQUATTER” case:-
0 Tins Rex Camp Pie
(5 Tins Rex Pork Sausage
6 Tins Rex Lorraine Smoked
Sausage
4 Tins Hex Fry and Bacon
4 Tins Rex Pork Brawn
3 Tins Rex Ox Tongue
3 Tins Rex Pig Feet
6 Tins Rex Ham Pate, 3ioz. Tins
6 Tins Rex Luncheon Cheese, 4oz. Tins
6 340 z. Jars each of Rex Bloater and Rex
Anchovy Paste.
Order the SQUATTER CASE from your Store-
keeper or Station Supplies Agent.
Accept no imitation; look for REX, the crowned pig.
FOGGITT JONES LTD
Curers of the Choice REX Hamg and Bacon.


a
1
The “Marlboro”
A Shirt of exceptional
Quality and Durability
“Made by David Jones’ ”
David Jones’ introduce the “Mar’boro"
Shirt, made by experts in their own
Factory, Only the most carefully se-
lected materials are used in the manu-
facture of these sh.rts, and quality and
durability alike are guaranteed
One style illustrated above is of woven
stripe Poplin in a range of new designs in
grey, blue, sand and mauve effects.
With*collar to match. Price 17/6
DAVID JONES’
For Service —SYDNEY
in pubs, can disguise the grandeur of its con-
ception and its nobility of aim. Llysses is
simply the story of the life of man on this
earth. The physical side is given enormous
prominence, hut not in the jolly style or
RabrJais. who is not perturbed by it, but
rather in indignant protest. In many respects
it suggests tlie sombre and savage commen-
tary of some idealistic father of the church
who depicts the world of the flesh m the
darkest colors lor the greater glory of the
life to come. Joyce has a subtle, erudite,
mediaeval mind, but he has not the faith ot
the earlier theologians, and in _ "Ulysses
there are no consolations of religion. I loP e
is dope. Man has to face the tacts of life
and go through without illusions. But per-
haps life itself is an illusion.
“Ulysses” is a great and profound work.
The danger is that it may exercise too great
an influence. For there is no one to com-
pare with Joyce. Even D. 11. Lawrence,
who i<s a writer of genius, fades, into insig-
nificance beside him. Lawrence is romantic,
idealistic, propagandist, where Joyce is hard-
headed and clear-sighted. Lawrence sees
life through a kind of brilliant Turneresque
mist. Joyce has the precision of a great French
painter. As far back as 1915 Ezra Pound
noticed the distinction. Lawrence, he
thought then, wrote in a loaded, ornate style,
heavy with sex and fruity with a certain
sort of emotion, while Joyce wrote with a
clear hardness, accepting all things, defining
all things in clear outline. Pound delighted
in these “clean, hard surfaces,” and found
them a relief from “the softness and mushi-
ness of the neo-symbolist movement and from
the fruitier school of the neo-realists, and
in no less a degree from the phantasists
who are the most trivial and wearying of
the lot.” Joyce uses the ordinary stuff of
life for his material, and presents it with
imaginative truth. He requires no out-of-
the-way subjects, no picturesque surround-
ings, no grand characters, no fanciful or
romantic episodes, lie writes in different
styles to suit his purpose, one amusing chap-
ter starting in the manner of Piers I ’low-
man and working through the eighteenth
century to Carlyle and the moderns. Again
he gives the half-thonglits and impressions
that pass through a barmaid’s mind in an
abbreviated-language form. But his general
style is natural, idiomatic, straight out of
life. By his new and penetrating method,
which goes beneath the surface of things and
reveals a whole teeming world of sensual
impressions, memories, fancies, emotions,
conscious and half-conscious thoughts,
meditations and speculations that make
up the real mind of man, he has
freed literature from many superficial
conventions. He shows the richness and
abundance of life, its infinite suggestiveness.
The smallest part of the life of man. seen
with true vision, is fraught with the deepest
human interest. As he puts it in a phrase:
“Art is an affirmation of the spirit of man.”
LOUIS ESSON.
Subconscious Creation
It is not often that a man who is a great
creative artist is able to explain himself.
Great artists are usually too temperamental
to be intelligent, and for this reason creative
giants are rarely capable of teaching, or
even of making sane criticism of the works
of others The artist is very often a shallow,
almost unconscious, vessel through which
some divine message of beauty is conveyed
to the world. He is the natural medium for
the expression of certain phenomena of
beauty, and in many cases lie can scarcely
help himself. This, at any rate, is how we
explain to ourselves the disappointment ex-
perienced in making the personal acquain-
tance of some soul-stirring tenor who has
exalted us to spiritual heights that he per-
sonally seems never to have known, or when
we learn of the ugliness and petty foolishness
of the lives of poets who have set our hearts
afire with noble inspirations. So there seem
to be many masterly painters who get then-
results, hut are unable to estimate their own
genius, and are as unaware of just why and
how their art is achieved as a thrush when
it pours out its morning flood of melody.
In the case of Blamire Young, however,
culture and cold intelligence are allied with
genius and unbridled imagination; so it
happens that he is almost able to explain
himself in everyday language. The collection
of his water-color paintings lately hanging in
the Athenamm Hall, Melbourne, was an orgi-
astic spread of surpassing beauty. Poor city
dwellers, creeping about with their eyes upon
grey pavements, were maintaining their
commonplace existence in a world of drab
and opaque monotone. Then, presto, along
comes this harlequin, opens an unlikely
enough door, and reveals to the crowd a won-
derful glowing world of rainbow beauty.
The blues were there all the time in the
skies; the greens, the purples and the flaunt-
ing gold and russet were spread over the
countryside or shouting in the sunset. But
we had forgotten them until this alchemist
extracted them for us and spread them in
brave array for our delight.
Yet the beauty spilled upon these walls
is no haphazard exuberance. It is the
very soundness of his technique that is the
explanation of the wealtli of splendor that
we accept as the art of Blamire Young.
In the course of a modest little lecture he
delivered at the Lyceum Club one night last
November, Blamire Young in a few illumi-
nating phrases supplied the key to the mys-
tery of his unique art. He referred to “that
area of the mind called the subconscious,”
declaring that “it is the subconscious part of
the mind that is at work when we start to
paint,” and he maintained that “in painting,
above all things, the subconscious mind re-
quires plenty of elbow-room.” But in order
that the subconscious mind may be free and
unshackled when it is ready to express itself,
it is essential that an artist should be quite
sure of his technique. The actual mechanical
skill must be at his fingertips, practised and
automatic as walking or breathing, that
there may he nothing to trouble or divert the
mind from what it desires to express. Just
as a musician must first diligently work and
practise until he is mechanically master of
Ins instrument before he can hope to express
his thoughts through the medium of sound,
so a painter must devote himself to the five-
finger exercises of the manipulation of his
medium before he attempts to express Ins
ideals in color and form. In the creation
of the present collection Blamire Young has
evidently given his imagination, under the
control of the subconscious mind, free play;
and his sound technique, like a well-trained
pair of legs, has taken him where it listed.
There are many who may have as sumptuous
and poetic an imagination; but when they
attempt to express their dreams in terms of
paint, they are halted continually by the
inadequacy of their craftsmanship. They
have to dismount from Pegasus, borrow
wheelbarrows, pull and push and scramble,
to the detriment of the original conception,
which could only remain intact while com-
pletely under the control of the subconscious
mind.
Another valuable footnote to his own art
was supplied by this artist-intelligent when
he emphasised the importance of individual-
ity. “You cannot get too much of yourself
into your pictures,” he said, “You may
not have a pleasant personality; nevertheless,
if your art is to be of any value, it must
express that personality. You may learn
all the craft, the secrets, the subtleties of
technique from others, but nobody can supply
you with ideas; they must be your own.”
And his creed is expressed in a concluding
paragraph of the little hook he has made of
27 of his paintings: “So, though unhappiness
may overtake the artist in the end, he has
for the most part been proud to spend his
days in the practice of his art, and may pos-
sibly have derived from it a greater satisfac-
tion than comes to those who pursue more
material aims.”
HATTIE KNIGHT.
The Net of Gold
■‘America suffocating under the overwhelm-
ing mass of material wealth that it is itself
creating”—this is the theme of an excep-
tionally powerful and thoughtful novel by
Arthur Train, The Needle’s Eye (Scribner •
liymock). There is a love interest running
through it, but sex is subordinated to the
socio-economic problem: the relation of Capi-
tal to Labor.
Thornton Graham is the head of the
banking-house of Graham and Co., Wall-
street. The partners had reached that point
of magnificent affluence where they ceased
to care for money, except so far as the
amount of profit indicated the vitality of
an enterprise. Their attitude upon business
problems was one of intellectual detachment.
They had no penchant for rich people, and
no hostility to Labor. They posed impas-
sively as buyers and sellers of money. Had
Thornton Graham stood thus aloof from the
hot-blooded issues of the industrial world
he and his son would have passed in gilded
serenity to their graves. Into their lives,
however, obtruded the Mid-West Coal Co.,
and when son John left Harvard he was
given a place in the management of the
colliery properties. He took it at a time
when the situation was complicated by a
partial tie-up of the coal-carrying seaboard
railroads and a general strike of bituminous-
coal miners throughout the country, save
those in the non-union mines of Utah, Colo-
rado and West Virginia, where the Mid-
West properties were. “One-tenth of the
city’s population shivered with cold, and the
other nine-tenths shivered for fear of it.”
To the youngster the situation was a mess
of which he could make nothing; but he had
the Graham regard for duty, and faced it.
It was not what wealth could buy that had
any charm for Thornton Graham, his father.
He and his family lived a domestic life
devoid alike of squander and display—■
almost austere in its simplicity. “Money
had not harmed; but it had deprived him
of leisure, of tranquillity, and to a great
extent of human companionship. He had
been a slave bound to the wheel. The only
satisfaction he had derived from money had
been a certain sense of power, and that had
been more than counterbalanced by the
accompanying sense of responsibility.”
In West Virginia the coalfields -were run
on non-union lines. These non-union fields
had long been a menace to the unions, whose
wages scale was fixed by contract over a long
period. In West Virginia wages rose and
fell with market price. .So long as this non-
union competition existed, it was impossible
for a successful strike to be engineered. The
story turns on the efforts of the union lead-
ers to induce or compel their non-union
brethren to fall into the union line. The
situation w r as becoming acute, and acts of
violence had been perpetrated. Thornton
Graham recognised that the issue must be
faced sooner or later. But his brother direc-
tors maintained their autocratic attitude.
When the old man died his son had to pick
up the reins of control. “The chief trouble
isn’t, in my humble opinion,” says his friend
Maitland, “economic at all. The real thing
the unions are fighting for is human recog-
nition. They want recognition of the unions
because that is a recognition of men....
We’ve got to restore the human relation-
ship.” He illustrated his argument. “The*
Mid-West spends more money on the com-
fort of its employees than any coal comnany
in the United States: but the milk of its
human kindness is fed out through fellows
like our gentle associate here. Brother Kurtz.
No matter how much of a Samaritan he’d
like to be, his chief concern is bound to
be to show a good balance-sheet at the sell-
ing end in New York.” Influenced by the
conviction expressed by his father that the
issue should be faced, and moved sentimen-
tally by the declared sympathy of the woman
he loves with the strikers, John determined
to visit the field and meet the enemy. By
a subtle stratagem he has been able to over-
come the opposition of the Board, and been
authorised to treat with the men. He arrived
at Bitumen, the head centre of the field, to
find that it was practically in charge of the
strike leaders.
“But there is no strike!’’ said John. Warren
uttered an ironic laugh. “Halloran says there is.
He says he wants you to meet him and the com-
mittee in front of the post office at 9 o’clock.” “Tell
the committee that as president of the company I
am willing- to confer with them regarding any griev-
ances they may think they have; but that I won’t
talk to anyone else; and that so long as they are
on the company’s pay-roll they must come to its
offices if they wish to confer with me.”
The committee came headed by “Big Ed”
“Well, Mr. Graham,” said “Big Ed ” “I guess
ou know bout why we re here. This property is
regukrly organised now as a local of the United.
Mine crkers of America.... The union is in here
to stay. It there are any grievances they must be
taken up with the union in the regular way later
on, after you’ve signed.” “Signed?” Ned tumbled
in his pocket, and took from it an oblong paper
somewhat grimy. “The regular U.M.W. contract.”
He offered the paper to John, who read it over
carefully. “Apart from anything else in the con-
tract,” said John, “there is one provision which
absolutely precludes my signing it. That is the
clause by which 1 should bind myself not to employ
any men who were not members of the union. That
1 would never agree to.” “You can just sign on
that little dotted line or” “The interview is
closed,” snapped John; “good morning.” He was
urged to think it over. “I have nothing whatever
to think over,” answered John. “My position is
simple enough. I will recognise the union. I will
even sign a contract with it. But I won’t discharge
men who have been loyal to me or who do not wish
to join the union. That is my last word.” This
time “Big Ed” held out his hand. “You’re a good
sport, anyhow,” he said. “But God have mercy on
your soul! ”
Followed chaos. The militant unionists
flooded the little township, secured arms and
marched on the mine property, destroying by
dynamite the plant that furnished power for
the whole valley. In the struggle to save
the administration oflioes John was wounded,
but eventually returned to New York. At
this point an uncle who held a heavy interest
in the co. died, and it was found that with
the bottom knocked out of the market for
Mid-West stock a “big man” had secured
this block and other shares sufficient to give
him control. lie proposed to work the pro-
perty on militant lines. Money should he
master. John’s interest he would buy if
it was for sale.
John had got up and gone to the window. The
world was vibrant with life and color. How beau-
tiful God had made the world ! And then like spots
upon the glory of the sun he saw the black mouths of the
drifts [tunnels] along the hillsides, heard the roar
and crash of the tipples, and saw the crouched forms
of the miners working in the darkness of mile-long
tunnels. The sunlight became tarnished with coal-
dust ; the beauty dimmed. He saw the black and
sweaty faces of millions of marching men —of every
race and color—marching onward, struggling on-
ward, stumbling blindly onward, altogether—to any-
where- —to something that perhaps waS better.
John Graham turned to the coal magnate.
“I’m told,” he said, “one of the best things
for any management is an active and per-
sistent minority interest.” After all, lie
might yet help in the solution of the pro-
blem. He felt as if his father wore standing
there at his side. “I did my bit,” the father’s
eyes seemed to say; “now. Jack, do yours.”
He saw “not the miner doing the world’s
work in danger and darkness, not the serf
ground down by the power of either Capital
or Labor, not men struggling for freedom
under fallen walls of coal, but souls crushed
under the weight of materialism.”
This presents but one side of a many-
sided novel, full of graphic characterisation
and making an earnest attempt at getting
to the heart of the spiritual problem that
lies in the industrial struggle,_ against the
vast accumulations of money in the hands
of corporations and individuals in modern
America —the menace of an apparently irre-
sistible power.
T. B. C.
A Satchel of Books
The Jealous Keys, by F. E. Mills Young (Geoffrey
Bles). The war—scapegoat for sins—-was nominally
responsible for Ashton Wade’s infidelity. His wife,
Ursula, with fine generosity, took the child of her
husband's light o’ love into her home and trained
him as their own, in the end bringing the errant
spouse back to her arms broken and repentant.
Quite a well-told tale and as full of melting melan-
choly as an egg of meat.
Green Islands in Glittering Seas, by W. Lavallin
Puxley (Allen and Unwin). An encyclopaedic
account of animal and human life in the Pacific
Islands, interspersed with bright pen pictures. Illus-
trated with excellent photographs.
Gladys Peto’s Children’s Book (Frederick Warne),
Something unusual in children’s books, with stories
by such giants as Sheila Kaye-Smith and Gilbert
Frankau. Mothers will get valuable hints re dress
ing their girls from Gladys Peto’s delicate illus-
trations.
The Divine Lady, by E. Barrington (Harrap).
The love story of Nelson and Lady Hamilton lms
passed into history. The author’s object is to give
the story life “with all its love, cruelty and
heroism.” It is cast in the form of a novel, and
has the charm of picturesque expression.
The Paid, by L. Noel (Stanley Paul). Lady
Fletton is ultimately rescued from the fate of chief
wife in the Moor’s harem by the Hon. Clive Aylsham
with the “clean handsome face and rather drawling
voice” who arrives by way of an aeroplane. The
dusky Moor, wrapping himself in his burnous, with
draws in melancholy to the consolation of the second
and other wives. “With a happy sigh” the lady
“surrendered her body” to the arms of the clean-
faced youth—“and her lips to his lips.” Then they
return to England. That, they may long remain
there and trouble Morocco no more will be the
devout prayer of the reader.
■ Groho, by E. 11. W. Meyerstein (Cecil Palmer). The
central figure of the novel, which is prefaced by a
quotation from Rabelais, is one Groho, of whom it
is related that “at his nativity the; moon was of a
sickly hue like green cheese, of which, according to
some, it is made.” What between the ill omen of
the moon and the lamentation of his mother at
having brought the “unhappiest of human creatures”
into the world, Groho gets but a poor start on the
adventure of life. After a strange eventful history
he takes leave of the bewildered reader “beaming with
smiles and sweat, holding a beautiful girl bv the
hand, dressed in spotless white.” Some will call
it unconventional; others merely silly.
Principles of Money , Banking anil Foreign Fr-
change Applied to Australia, by R. 0. Mills, LL.M..
I).Sc. (Econ.), who professes economics at Sydney
Uni., and F. 0. Bonham, B.Sc. (Eton.), who assists
to expound the inexact science. An interesting and
welcome little, addition to finmcial literature by
men who are of the historical or practical school
of economists. With a deference to establish usage
modern theory is tersely applied to or contrasted with
present-day practice. Causes and effects in the varia-
tion of price-levels are stated from the premises
that the aim of our monetary system is the stabilisa-
tion of prices; and the functions of our trading
banks and that, of the Commonwealth Bank as a
central bank, together with movements in foreign
exchange and return to the gold standard, are all
neatly discussed in 135 pages.
Blind Raftery, by Bonn Byrne (Sampson Low:
Robertson and Mullens). Of this author’s “Messer
Marco Polo” Cabell said: “It is a small masterpiece
of wisdom and art” ; and readers of the chronicle of
the blind harpist Raftery and his wife, Hilaria, will
feel inclined to endorse this as equally
applicable to the present volume. It has charm and
appeal, is distinctive in its setting, musical to the
ear, beautiful to the eye of imagination and informed
throughout by a rich human charity. The story,
all too brief, is cast in the Irish counties of Galway
and Mayo in the closing years of the seventeenth
century, and with vivid touches creates the atmo-
sphere of its time. The art of the writer lifts the
woman of Spain, Hilaria, out of a sordid setting
into a world of romance pure as the mountain air
of Connemara.
In “T.B.C.’s” article “The Dice Box
of the Gods” (R.P. 30/4/’25), he refers to a ball
on the eve of Waterloo. This was Byron’s error
A ball attended by British officers did occur on the
night prior to a battle in Wellington’s campaign—
Quatrebras, I think—but there was not one on the
evening preceding Napoleon’s final defeat.


\cwC
We are sole agents for the
“Lomax” in N.S.W., Western
Australia and Queensland.
Write to our branches for price
leaflet.
Swing Over
to the
“LOMAX”
Cord Grip
Lamp Holder
for Dependability
Screws eliminated. No tools
required. Wired in less than half
the time.
For Whiter, Brighter Lighting
Install the
British Union
Highest Quality, Drawn
Wire Metal Filament
Lamp
British Union Lamps
are stocked by our
Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane branches.
Send for leaflet and
price \ list.
Carbon Filament Lamps
Traction Type Lamps
Spiralyte Lamps
Lowest Prices.
William Adams & Co. , Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. 53 King Street, 1 NEWCASTLE.
Edward and Mary Streets, BRISBANE. 35 King Stre et, PERI TL


c
T
Vfe Havt>
£or> 'fho &*&&& ot Sol£r
QMXTEEN YEARS AGO,
when we began business,
there were barely a thousand
golf clubs; now there are 3034.
We do not claim to have
supplied these new clubs with
all the new members; but we
do know this:—
A couple of hundred
thousand men are getting
a lot more joy out of life
than they used to.
Some of them who now
swing a wicked mashie
never had anything more
interesting in their hands
than a brief-case full of
back work.
Life, of course, is just a
matter of squeezing much or
little out of your allotted
twenty-four hours.
The equipment is standard:
two eyes, two ears, two legs, two
arms, a slight difference in the
wheel-base of brains —but not
much.
The real difference is in what
you do with what you’ve got. It
keeps some men busy the whole
twenty-four hours to earn £lO
a week, and they are almost
nervous wrecks at that.
Others have it coming in at
the rate of about £lO a minute;
and work never interferes with
their golf.
The secret, of course, is em-
ploying outside forces to help
you; to put it bluntly, in getting
someone else to do the work.
The idea behind the Alex-
ander Hamilton Institute is
simple. If you could employ
the biggest man in every line to
attend to the particular part of
your business that he knows
most about, you would be on
safe grounds.
Well, we employ him for
you. We put his ideas, his
methods, his experience at your
service. We have lectures by
other men of his type.
We have problems based on
actual business situations —what
the law books call the case
system.” You squeeze every-
thing you can out of the minds
of these big men and use it as
your own.
What you pay us for it is a
tiny fraction of your increased
earning power. In fact, we are
sometimes accused of giving too
much for the money. “People
would be more impressed,” it is
said, “if you charged them ten
times as much.”
But we are doing very well,
thank you; and so are the
250,000 men who have joined
our ranks. Their average salary
has gone up and their average
score has gone down something
wonderful.
Let us send you the book
that tells all. A good many
men have read it, and found it
worth an evening’s time. Among
them are numbered the adminis-
trative heads of just about
50,000 concerns.
Alexander Hamilton Institute of
Australia, Ltd.,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Modern
Send me “Forging Ahead in
Business.” which I may keep with-
out obligation.
B. June.
Victorian Representative Box 1673 G.P.0., Melbourne
Queensland Representative Box 91+3 G.P.0., Brisbane.
South Australian Representative : Box 891+ G.P.0., Adelaide.
Western Australian Representative .... Roual Bank Chambers. Perth
New Zealand Representatives Box I+ls G.P.0., Wellington.
Box 1+22 G.P.0., Auckland.


r®’-
a
u
PACKARD EIGHT SEVEN-PASSENGER TOURING CAR
Important New Features in the
Packard Straight-Eight
Motor Oil Rectifier —which, together with a force feed pump, insures the
circulation of undiluted oil to all moving parts with-
in the motor. It promotes longer motor life and
smooth and silent operation through automatically
maintaining all the desirable properties existing in
fresh oil.
Chassis Lubrication — rlle 45 Ciiassis P oints requiring regular lubrication
are oiled by means of a pressure pump operated
from the driver’s seat. Lubricating the chassis is no
l° n ( er a garage job. The driver can do the work
whLe the car is travelling at top speed. It takes just
one operation.
Balloon Tyres together with an exceptional total spring length of
' 15 ft. 8 in., and a wheelbase of 143 inches, make the
riding-ease of this new Straight-Eight incomparable.
The Packard Motor Car Company has been building cars of the highest quality for more than twenty,
five years. The Packard cars of to-day have an old and most honorable ancestry.
The Packard Straight-Eight, however, is the finest of all the fine cars that Packard has built.
No sweeter vehicle ever left America.
IRA L. Si A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Foy’s)
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart , Tasmania.
PACKARD


f
'J>
A
W'"
Use Cuticura Soap Daily
Bathe with Cuticura Soap and hot
water to cleanse your skin and free
it from impurities. If rough, anoint
with Cuticura Ointment. Cuticura
Talcum is ideal for perfuming as
well as powdering.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Try our new Shaving Stick.
Values Her
Complexion
Photo Howard-Harri*.
diet
The Beautiful "Good-Luck" Girl appearing
at the Palais , Manly
Miss Alexandra values her com-
plexion very "highly. Therefore, She is 3.
staunch advocate of pure mercolized wax
for the complexion. All over the world
smart women are abandoning face creams
in favour of this marvellous wax simply
because it has a “two-dn—one” action. It
not only clears the skin, but it also pre-
serves the new complexion thus revealed.
Ask any chemist for Dearborn’s genuine
mercolized .wax. (Try the new 2/6 jar).
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
if you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO ? Est. 1553.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secuied separately the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
* r *»TS
Hi, T»B ***
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd.. 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney. N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HGRLiCKS
MALTED MILK
KORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng
<3*
Try THIS Truss
Once wear Denyer's Elastic Truss, and it
is “good-bye for ever” to Rupture woiries.
For this .scientifically-designed, truly com-
fortable appliance is just wliat you require
to give you back complete freedom of
mind and body.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
For privacy and prompt reply, address
letters to Dept. 1.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts
and Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 281 George St., Sydney.
*
Oats
C L I FFOdD
4 plates forTy4
Manufactured by
LOVE CO, LTD., 5Y D
N E Y.
■
I
■
II 11
1
dm
PlubUdl
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. I
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
H°v youn<^
vill you be
at
Mother looks as
youno a® her ,
i
D B .B. Allens
DA
AIN
“Why, she looks as young- and charming as her daughter.” How
often have you heard these words spoken about women who have retained
their girlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up around
them! Have you ever stopped to think what the real secret of their
youth is? The turning-point of youth to earlv middle-age comes when a
little silvery grev creeps in amongst that crowning glory of women —their
hair. No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure its easy
girlish form, the hair appearance is the mirror of the age.
Ston for a moment and think of the really smart women that you
know : they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs, the unmistakable symbol
of advancing- years, to creep in and spoil their beauty.
Grev hair can never be fashionable —it is the first sign of old age. A
man mav be as old as he feels—but a woman is as old as her hair.
Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the confidence of women
for 25 years—it is perfectly harmless, easy to applv, immediate in action,
and, above all, undetectable. Carefully carry out the instructions and let
it restore you'- hair to its natural shade. Grey hairs will vanish like magic
and youth will walk in at your door.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Picture.
All day she leans her chin upon her hand
And looks at love, who chisels idly there
Upon the ancient Grecian porch they share,
Far from the city’s roar in some far land.
A garden at her elbow winds have fanned;
Her old-time dress is folded loose as air.
There is a red rose in her soft black hair,
And on the old flagged floor, love-thrilled,
they stand.
Above my radio-set. they wait and dream —
Old lovers from a vanished world long gone.
I tune-in leisurely. The slow clocks chime;
A jazz band jangles and my glad eyes gleam.
But still they love and linger, pondering on
The measureless immensity of time.
• JM.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Drenched Coast.
The skies are grey and grey the land,
And in their scattered flocks
Beside beach-pools the sea-birds stand,
Snow-white against green rocks.
Smooth combers, breaking into foam,
White arms, wide sweeping, fling,
lake weary folk glad to be home
From too much wandering.
Far seaward as the eye can reach
All sailless is the waste;
Curved lines along the lightless beach
The ebbing tide has traced
Where, stirred by neither bird nor breeze,
Ti-trees and slie-oaks group.
Above the wash of ceaseless sea
Drenched headlands dully droop.
All still, all silent are all things,
All feathered life and furred ;
Along the ridges no bird sings,
No lilt of joy is heard.
But only here and there some stream
Among brown roots and stones,
As though it. murmured in a dream,
Drones low in broken tones.
Still standing in the stirless air
Of sodden groves and glades,
Wet rocks, wet trunks are everywhere.
Drenched leaves, drenched fronds, drenched
blades.
As dusk draws nigh, and in the skies
Day’s ghost-liglits slowly wane,
It seems as if the landscape lies
Exhausted by the rain.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Mastery.
Madeline.
The thunder rolls along the hills,
The lightning splits the p‘’i>»r skv:
And the rain from the lakes of Heaven spills
Over the trees with a dee]) cry.
And I, in a frail house and blind.
What am I that the storm should mind?
A trembling keeps the house of life :
The mountain pillars break with age.
The fang of the wind and the great red knife
Of a tameless, ageless, dreamless rage
Are ever in chase of the small white flame
That has come to speech and knows its name.
Man, man, man. man.
Lord of a pencil-point of power!
Out of the darkness, where life began,
Has he crept for an age or crept for an
hour?
Answers the thunder above the hill.
“I am the master, the master still!”
A star has looked through veils of cloud —•
The stars and I were ever kin.
O fool, whose boast is deep and loud,
1 have the red of wire to spin
That, though the blackness fill the south.
Shall be bit and bridle to hold your mouth !
When you art' broken to desire
My hand shall soothe your‘cloudy mane;
And the fear of man shall be in your fire
And the truth of years on your rein.
And 1 shall ride you fast and far
To seek the gods that lit my star!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Little lady, lavishing lady.
Is the earth a dancing floor
Made for sparkling feet’s enjoyment?
Is delisht your only lore.
Carelessness your one employment?
Like the fabled butterfly,
In sheer brilliancy you thread
Through the moments flashing by,
Too amused to look ahead.
Winged with merriment you flit,
Guided by caprice imperious.
All things serve your glancing wit:
Nothing yet can make you serious.
So the foolish wise folk say:
“After smoothness comes the rough:
Let her frolic while she may.
Time will teach her pain enough.”
Ah, the pride of woman’s pride!
Madeline, dance on unheeding;
From all curious watchers hide
How your heart is bleeding, bleeding.
Dazzled by your dainty qirjos,
They will never recognise
Steady sweetness on your lips.
■Steady courage in your eyes.
Take my homage, lady rare!
I alone, who know your story,
See the laurels in your hair,
See you clothed in flames of glory.
You are flinging rosy flowers
Back to stabbing grief and hate:
You are laughing down black powers.
Little lady, splendid lady,
You are greater than your fate!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


jHeMmo
WfwrfvU'
11
' /
a:.
■ •;
■
t
j;
Ir
■■■•. ■<>
Wmt I
wmm
COMEDY KING,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1910.
Owner - - - S. Green.
Trainer- - - J. Lynch.
Jockey - - - W. McLachlan.
Weight- - - 7st. 111 b.
Time- - - - 3min. 2 7fsec.
Australasian Agents- B-SEPPEU 6 SONS, L T -
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE £ BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2364.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 1925.
Trice 6d.
CRIME UP TO DATE.
“Perth strikers have complained to the Labor Government that some members of the police have interfered with the picketing of the hotels and restaurants which
the unions have declared ‘black.’”
HIS HONOR: “Well, what’s the charge against this prisoner?”
BURGLAR BILL: “Your Honor, I was doin’ a bit of burglin’ last night, bein’ a member of the Locksmiths’ Union, when this ’ere copper ups
and interferes with me!”


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mu.sgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Oeorjre Street. Svdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australiu House, Strand, W.C.2.
I'UBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUKSCMEERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austkalasia, weekly;
12 months, £ 1 Os. ; G mouths, His. Od. : S months, 7».
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper ere copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by ’.he publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge m the “ Correspondence” co timn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3060 words, are specially acceptable i, Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A l communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, lint
no MS. will be relumed or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, tvill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing « good idea
but unfitted lor direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid lor as a
suggestion only. The conditions tinder which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Is
1,. St. C. Grondona. Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at tiie entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. I/: E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street. London, E.C. ; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
Town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban:
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. St Forsyth and Co., JjJjl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz Neivs Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and .)2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West J/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 70!f Market Street. San Francisco:
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and Netvs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Fort Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva,
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. Australia House:
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St, Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C..).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
tOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: )os. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: ICoz., 1 Id,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/OZ. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 1925.
THE MICE HOLD AN ELECTION.
“Neither you nor I will live to see revolution in
Australia. The Australian’s intelligence and indepen-
dence of -spirit make it impossible that he will be
hoodwinked by insurrectionary propaganda and propa-
gandists.”—Extract from the frequent oration of
our well-known fellow citizen, Podsnap Australis.
New South Wales has gone through the
formality of having an election, and as a
result it has probably gained a little time,
which is useful, provided there is any states-
man about to whom time is of any use. The
population was passionately urged to regis-
ter a convincing vote against Communism,
and that growing power didn’t turn a hair.'
Certainly it saw the few candidates it put
up for election ignominiously beaten;
but it never expected anything else.
Its fixed intention is to be, as it is in Russia,
as it would still be in Hungary if a foreign
army hadn't broken up the machine, and
as it would have become in Britain if the
upheaval which began at Glasgow hadn’t
been met by a more than adequate force,
a small, well-armed and well-organised min-
ority of slave-drivers ruling and exploiting
a disorganised majority of slaves. If that
end can be- achieved a really large party
would only be an encumbrance. All that it
considers is the material strength against
it. and this compares rather quaintly with
what men of affairs consider necessary in
the Cold Country. For instance:—
The latest “Official Year Book” gives the total
strength of the police force of Australia and Tas-
mania as 6990. The fact that it has to do a multi-
tude of duties which are not of a constabulary nature
makes the strength really less than it looks. The
whole police body belongs to the State Governments,
and some State Labor Governments have a habit of
bidding it look on and do nothing when the dis-
turbance is labelled “industrial,” as it almost invari-
ably is. How much care is taken to prevent the
police being “white-anted” with the Communist dis-
ease is not known, but in some States it is probably
very little. The Federal authority doesn’t own a
bobby so far as the public is aware, but it has a
doorkeeper or two.
The London police take care of an area of 700
square miles. The population to be cared for is
about a million more than that of the Common-
wealth. The force numbered, by last available re-
port, 21,578, with a reserve of 9826. The men are
well paid and well pensioned as British standards
go. Last year there were 12,250 pensioners on the
list, including widows. The pay-list for the year
was £7,256,882. The theory may prevail that the
Briton’s intelligence and independent spirit ensure
that he will never go a-Bolshing; but J. Bull keeps
ceaseless watch all the same.
The British Government has two or three hundred
thousand soldiers in the British Isles alone, and there
is no doubt at all as to what both they and the
police are for if “industrial trouble” takes a Com-
munist turn. The Australian standing army is
monotonously returned at 1703, and they would
probably be hard to find at short notice. And it
is illegal to employ even this handful unless a
State Government, run by Theodore or Collier or
Uoolioy, asks for them, and lends its railways to
carry them.
The State Governments have no armies, as they
have in the U.S.
Amid tluise remarkable conditions the local
Communists go happily on their way, especi-
ally in N. S. Wales, preparing and arming
without disguise for the coup by which they
propose to take over the machine of adminis-
tration in a night and make an end of their
leading opponents in the morning. Their
view is that, if the mice care to hold an
election and win a great, victory among them-
selves with no regard to the cat in the
oiling, it is purely a mouse affair. The fear
that an election may produce a Ministry
which will take something resembling the
British idea of adequate precaution, and do
really serious damage to their plans, is
reckoned barely worth a thought. The Com-
munist or Russian idea of revolution, wholly
different from the polite Spanish-American
method, has an appeal for the unreasoning
and uncivilised, at least till disillusionment
comes, and the proportion of such folk is
remarkably large. In Sovietland every
civilian immediately lost his vote, barring
the peasant and artisan. Men addicted to
learning, science, invention or business man-
agement were set aside in the “bourgeois”
class. Their pay is low, that of a college
professor being often no more than £4 a
month. None of the cheap privileges granted
by the State in the way of food, travelling
and amusement come their way, and the
much-advertised State hospitals are barred
to them, likewise the schools, the trades
unions and the labor bureaus. Even the
room a “bourgeois” has allotted to him in
a tenement house has to be given up if a
“Avorker” wants it. He and his children
and grandchildren can no more get out of
their class than a no-caste Hindu can be-
come a Brahmin by passing an examination.
This idea of obtaining cheap, practically-
enslaved service for the “proletariat” struck
the SoA'ieteers as profitable, and as a p:c-
turesque retaliation on a set of people who
were suspected of pitting on “dog” or its
local equivalent; but as the slave element is
liable both to deteriorate and to die out,
the profits from the original stock of bond-
men can be only temporary. The root ideas
of Moscow Bolshevism are this inversion of
society, combined Avith the confiscation of
all property, the abolition of God and the
maintenance of a standing army strong
enough to buttress the new ruling oligarchy.
The same ideas are at the root of Australian
Bolshevism, it being imported from the same
factory, and neither State nor Federal Gov-
ernments, nor the police, the army, the
railway management nor the law courts, in
their present torpid condition, present any
visible obstacles to success. Private Ent«r-
prise resistance may do something but the
most lively hope is that the revolution may
be badly managed and get cold feet.
The natural finish of the Australian re-
volution which is being so industriously and
confidently prepared is to founder on the
rock of outside interference. That was the
fate of the four-months’ Communist regime
in Hungary, Budapest not being inaccessible
in the same sense as Moscow is. The big lead-
ers fled by special train into Germany with
immense plunder, all except the wretched
and unpunctual Szamuelly, who missed the
’bus and Avas torn into several pieces. Then
the foreign rescuers took most of the port-
able property that remained as the pay for
their services. The British Government
would probably interfere in its gradual Avay
here to blot out the reA'olution and hang
those principals who didn’t get out of sight.
If it didn’t take a band Japan or the U.S.,
or both, probably A\ r ould, at their own time
and on their OAvn terms; for a Communist
continent hereabouts would please neither.
But there would be room for many happen-
ings in the interim, especially Avhile the new-
crank Government was settling itself in its
saddle. The close of a Communist revolu-
tion might even leaA'e Sydney and Melbourne
looking like Rome after its occupation by the
Bourbon’s army, when it was said that only
three things were amiss: that half the city
Avas ashes, that two-thirds of the inhabitants
Avere missing, and that neither a coin nor
a virgin could be found among those a\-lio re-
mained. Rut the revolutionaries haven’t
begun yet to consider the possible sunset
of their movement. They concentrate on
Avhat they consider its assured and approach-
ing sunrise, which seems promising enough.
It is a long while since even the most trucu-
lent and outspoken of them was successfully
conA-ieted of anything, or even accused of
anything serious. It is a long while, so far
as "the public is aware, since any insurrec-
tionary reinforcement from abroad has been
denied a landing on. the charge of being a
reinforcement, or since an alien resident
Bolshevik has been sent home for being a
Bolshevik. The best-remembered case is very
ancient history now, but the way in which
sympathetic doctors and parsons and other
misguided “bourgeoisie” rallied round tbe
netted victim is still not quite forgotten. It
is also some period since any union of per-
sistent strikers was mildly deregistered, and
the more militant Communist leaders begin
to say they would as soon be deregistered as
not. Having to a great extent taken charge
of affairs, they hold that legal recognition
grows ' superfluous. And leading imported
Communists, appearing in court as advocates
or witnesses, have pretty well given up any
labored pretence of civility to the Bench.
As for any interference with the spread of
revolutionary literature, such an act has
seemingly ceased to be thought of. Where-
fore, it is natural that the revolution wears
its hat at a supercilious angle, and makes
noises like the male fowl addressing the
dawn and authorising the sun to rise.
AUSTRALIA AND BIRTH-CONTROL.
The public preaching and open advocacy of
birth-control recently arrived in Australia
with a bang. It was enthusiastically given
the glad hand in some quarters, and in others
it was excommunicated on the spot; but
everywhere it was treated as a newly-minted
notion and an importation from overseas.
The fact is, however, that the doctrine
ascribed to Marie Stopes is not a fresh idea
at allj but has been religiously and irreli-
giously believed in by multiplying humanity
ever since the ascent of man. It was known
in a rough and ready fashion to the Aus-
tralian aboriginal, and the tarsius-man
doubtless practised it in a muddled sort of
way by knocking the heads of his too num-
erous offspring together occasionally, or he
would never have survived. At a time when
the food-supply consisted solely of nuts and
roots the well-fed tribe, the tribe most likely
to survive, would be the one that kept its
numbers down. It has been reckoned that
the descendants of one couple, multiplying
at the rate of only 1 per cent, per annum,
could in 2000 years have produced the pre-
sent population of the world; so it is fairly
obvious that the Stopesian creed has had
many disciples since man arose, even allow-
ing for other methods of getting rid of sur-
plus humanity, such as wars, pestilences and
family doctors. Some primitive islanders
have carried the principle to extremes by
destroying all their offspring, obtaining the
babies necessary to carry on by purchase
from other tribes. The ancient Greeks kept
a check on the excessive powers of multi-
plication of the Attic mother by publicly
exposing the unwanted children, but this
was a wasteful and untidy method. Late
marriage and celibacy were substituted for
infanticide in the Christian era but these
roundabout endeavors were ineffective, and
much misery resulted. The industrial era
allowed of such a huge increase in the popu-
lations of .European countries that the need
for limitation was temporarily removed: but
now that Britain has two million people on
the dole, and Europe’s economic machine is
out of gear, while U.S.A. refuses to be a
melting-pot and Australian workmen clamor
for the exclusion of all aliens who are not
millionaires, the sub ject in the older countries
has resumed its previous importance.
**•■**
The truth is that limitation always has
been practised, and so long as human beings
desire a high standard of living, it always
will be practised, or Nature will do the job
instead. This is very clearly illustrated by
the survival rate in England and Wales on
the ore hand, and British India on
the other. The British birth-rate in
1010 was 25 and the death-rate 13; in India
the corresponding figures were 40 and 33.
Anybody who has wandered through an
Asiatic city knows what that means in
misery, poverty, disease and crime. E' - en
in modern France, where the population
seems to have nearly reached its optimum
figure the same phenomenon can be observed.
Although in 1023 the number of b'rths in
France and in England, which have almost
the same population, were nearly equal.
73.000 French infants under one year died
as against 52,000 English babies ; and med’cal
science is at least as far advanced in the
continental republic as it is in the island
kingdom.
* * * *
It has been asserted, and with a certain
amount of reason, that scientific birth-con-
trol is the greatest discoverv of our era.
It is maintained that the deliberate appli-
cation of the principle by a nation whose
numbers have reached the figure at which
the territory it occupies will give the largest
return per head would tend to raise the
standard of living of every individual, abolish
unemployment poor-law relief, doles, str'kes
and the preaching of socialistic counsels of
despair. Just as lawyers. wool-b"yers,
dentists, university professors and million-
aires are able to maintain their own stand-
ards with three children better than their
cooks and gardeners can theirs with
ten, so the national exercise of pru-
dential powers, it is argued, would
raise a nation of coolies into one of
super-men. Unfortunately nations, h'ke pro-
fessions, are not self-contained units; and
just as the earnings of lawyers and dentists
are constantly being threatened by fresh re-
cruits from below, so the overcrowded and
less prosperous countries are always threat-
ening to overflow into those less crowded.
The huge armaments of France are a recog-
nition of this threat, and the high standard
of the Australian worker and the emptiness
of the land he occupies are a shouted chal-
lenge to it. For that and other reasons the
Australian woman’s attitude towards the
alluring doctrine whose advantages are blared
from every bookstall needs to be widely
different from that of the women of France
or England. Australia’s pre-white popula-
tion has been reckoned at about one abo. to
every 15 square miles; its numbers since
have risen with painful slowness to about
one and a half to the square mile. In Eng-
gland and Wales there are about P5O persons
to the square mile, and in normal times the
British working-man is not conspicuously
worse off than the Australian. This country
can. therefore, do with less elbow-room than
it enjoys at present: and. since immigration
up to date has largely resulted in loans and
talk, a substantial increase in the birth-rate
can be sustained wdthout any lowering of the
standard of living. In fact, a thickening of
the population would certainly result in an
improvement in general well-being, owing to
the cheapening of distribution and mass pro-
duction. In any case, the refusal of the in-
digenous mother to fill our empty spaces
will inevitably result in the empty spaces
being filled by someone else.
THE LINE OF NO-RETREAT.
When Amompiiaretus, in the course of
the troop movements before the battle of
Plataea, refused to retreat in the face of an
enemy, on the ground that it was not done
by Spartans, lie came near compassing the
destruction of Europe; yet his action was
based on well-established precedent. The
Spartan theory of never retreating became
a proud boast, then a habit, then a military
nuisance. A Spartan general had to take
definite note of the fact that his troops
would move in only one direction; and
though that might be the direction of cour-
age and honor, it was also a key that locked
up every movement once made, and narrowed
the possibilities of applying skill in the con-
duct of the battle. The thing that thus
hampered the Spartan leaders in war has
become in the political field the outstanding
feature of modern democracy. A movement
for some kind of alleged reform —it may be
only a doubtful economic experiment—is
successful after many years of debate, dis-
cussion and wire-pulling. It is possibly not
even successful, but merely ends in a com-
promise which its advocates acclaim as vic-
tory. Some kind of legislation embodying
the idea is passed, and the political parties
turn to other points of disagreement. Then,
after a. lapse of years, it is shown that the
idea, which has become part of the law of
the nation, is working badly ; yet experience
proves that retreat is a ; metical impossi-
bility. No matter what a •_ ■monts may be
advanced, no matter wi; proofs of failure
there may be, the thing ,liat was obtained
by a long and hard fight remains. To re-
move it might be gain to every i - on in the
community, yet the democracy ; 'ms to re-
gard it as part of itself, and will not retreat
from the position once taken up. States-
manship, tired of suffering injury by con-
tinually driving its head against that mass
of obstinacy and prejudice which is democ-
racy at its worst, tries to forge ahead into
new places and leave the old obstacle in the
rear; but this is a difficult process, and sel-
dom carried out with success. It is as if
a traveller who was unable to turn round
had taken a wrong path, and could only set
the matter right by a circumnavigation of
the globe. In some of the cruder democ-
racies attempts are made to beat this inflexi-
bility of the popular will by a revolution
of blood; but the method rarely attains its
object.
# # * *
The outstanding example of this deter-
mination to follow a bad course once it has
been entered upon is the British attitude to-
wards Freetrade. When Con den and Bright
first brought forward the proposal, England
was suffering from bad food-distribution,
combined with a severe industrial depression.
Though many of the keenest minds of tin-
day opposed the idea and shrewdly guessed
where it would lead, the hungry crowd an :
swered eagerly to the new’ appeal. At the
moment they w-ould have been ready to sup-
port any proposal, however fantastic, that
seemed to ensure a bread supply. Then
came the compromise. The large experiment
which Cobden wished to try was never en-
tered upon, but something which bore a
resemblance to it became law. Many cir-
cumstances —of which Freetrade was not one
—combined to lift the general depression :
and the thing became a fetich set up for
public worship, and has never been displaced.
The democracy had risen to the call, and
secured wdiat it thought might be its objec-
tive ; and there it stayed, resolute against
change and deaf to argument. Other de-
pressions came wffiich were obviously due
to Freetrade; more hungry periods were
endured, though there was no bar to all
the food of the wmrld entering British ports.
None of these things shook the popular faith.
The Liberal party lived for years on Free-
trade ; the Conservatives disliked it, bur
only at rare intervals was a voice raised
strongly against it; the Labor party in it.-
m-w strength did not dare to say a w 7 ord for
the Protection which would have given tin-
unemployed work and the children food. So
powerful is Cobden’s legacy in politics to-
day that Baldwin, suggesting the mildest
of fiscal reforms, was thoroughly beaten,
and a few 7 months later the same leader,
bending an unwilling knee to Freetrade,
scored a complete triumph. Judged by elec-
tion results over a period of 50 or 60 years,
it would seem that British Freetrade is abou r
as solid an institution as the Church of
England; not quite as firmly established,
perhaps, as the throne or trial by jury, but
only standing one degree lower than these in
popular regard.
Among the achievements of democracy
from which it most stubbornly refuses to
retreat are its Constitutions. Some of these,
like the British, are the result of ages of so-
called reform, and have a sacred light burn-
ing about them which obscures many of their
serious defects. In sheer truth, the British
Constitution is neither a very beautiful thing
nor a very useful vehicle for democracy. A
business committee could produce a better
article in a fortnight; but by comparison
wMtli some others it is good. The United
States, for instance, drags with it a great,
clumsy mass of out-of-date machinery; but
the framers of the original Constitution o f ‘
the republic w r ere hampered badly through
their unwillingness to imitate the English
way of doing things, even in its best features.
Democracy is very proud of its misfits ; and
in most countries, with a little working up
by politicians, tens of. thousands of people
would be ready to die in defence of the most
clumsy and awkward features of their holy
machine. The Australian Constitution is
still very young, and in many respects very
bad ; but already it is becoming one of the
sacred things of our democracy, and unless
it. is improved pretty soon* - it will take its
place among the awkward national calami-
ties from wffiich there is no retreat. Its
history furnishes a ready explanation of its
faults; for it stood as a compromise between


enthusiasts and narrow-minded opponents of
everything national. The enthusiasts were
willing to accept the best they could get at
the time in the high faith that whatever was
wrong could easily he righted; but a quarter
of a century has gone by, and the righting
process lias not yet begun. Meanwhile, Aus-
tralia’s necessities cry aloud for the crea-
tion of Now States, and the Constitution
stands in the path of that reform, as of a
dozen others. Indeed, the whole story of . a
quarter of a century of Federal government in
the industrial sphere and elsewhere is such as
to make any Australian seriously doubt
whether he has even the second-best possible
machine. In any case, it would he. a good
thing to got into the habit of feeling that
it was open to us to improve our own pro-
perty when we wanted it improved. Once
the democracy comes to imagine that the
Constitution was written by the finger of
Deity on the top of Kosciusko and handed
down by Captain Cook, and the saints, it
ceases to be a democracy.
REMAKING JAPAN.
Ti almost appears as if the Architect of the
Universe, 11 is aesthetic sense outraged, de-
sired to wipe out the worst features of West-
ern industrialism in Japan, in order to give
that country the opportunity of getting back
to its pristine ideals and starting over again.
The area selected for the latest stroke, as
in 1923, is one of Japan’s most densely
packed and hideous imitations of the English
“Five Towns” of two generations ago. It
is a hasty improvisation which has all the
appearance of having been run tip for a
night’s sojourn by a tribe of nomad abori-
gines ; yet it carries a population of over
300 to the mile. The ramshackle nests of
one-storeyed wooden shelters huddled round
the factory-chimneys—the only erections in
the landscape that betray any elements of
permanency—invite fire, tempest or earth-
quake to wipe them out. The so-called cities,
with their low roofs, their electric-light wires
strung loosely from one staggering pole to
another, the rusty tramcars wandering down
the middle of the roomy streets, and the frail
rickshaws, like children’s go-carts, rumbling
to and fro, resemble a depot in a war area
liable at any moment to be abandoned to
the enemy.
To get the picture in the right perspective,
however, it i" necessary to imagine much of
the charm of old Japan pushed to the mar
gins of the composition : the deep-toned notes
of Buddhist bells mingling with .the thud
of factory hammers; the gracious curving
roofs of ancient temples looking under their
heavy eyebrows at the blazing fronts of
picture-palaces; priestly mendicants in
masks tapping their little drums on’ the edge
of the hurrying crowds in foreign clothes;
the carriage of the fox-god, borne by hun-
dreds of male bacchants drunk with rice-
wine, tangled in the telephone-wires at street
corners; pilgrims climbing up out of the
fog of manufacture to pools of contemplative
quiet at the famous hill-shrines; and the
very ancient and incorruptible institution
of the yoshiwdra (among the first buildings
to be re-erected after the last earthquake!
standing cheek-by-jowl with the Japanese
Y.M.C.A.
The call recently paid on the Mikado —•
the first of its kind—by an Australian war-
ship was a timely one. Coming when Fate
has dealt our Pacific neighbors the second
heavy stroke within two years, it will serve
as a reminder to well-meaning but impetu-
ous patriots that Australians have no im-
mediate cause for quarrel with the persever-
ing little brown men. Australia has no iso-
lated colonies in the Pacific where there are
large and growing communities of Japanese.
There is no community of Japanese in Aus-
tralia which threatens the white man’s stand-
ard of living or is multiplying at such a rate
as to give any State Government insomnia
for a single night. No Australian politician
has lost an hour’s repose over actual cases
of Japanese evasion of the immigration laws,
a subject that has made Californian states-,
men see picture brides' in every shadow. Aus-
tralia has not developed her manufactures
to such an extent that Japanese rivalry in
the Chinese market is of any real concern
to her; nor has she up to date produced a
local brand of international financier who
needs an open field in Asia for the invest-
ment of his surplus millions. It is doubt-
ful. in fact, whether this country’s interests
in China, the great debatable land of the
new economic Imperialism, are worth the
hones of a single recruit from Cobbitty.
It is far otherwise with the nation whose
prize armada is executing the present large
gesture in the Pacific. Since the American
Perry thoughtlessly pushed open Japan’s
front door in 1853, the white nation and the
brown have raced neck and neck for the
privilege of being, next to Britain, the China-
man's chief customer, until their spheres of
economic influence begin to overlap in every
province. To-day neither can make a move
without meeting the opposition of the other.
Every mining or railway concession extracted
from the weak Chinese Government by the
traders of one nation is vigorously opposed
by the Foreign Office of the other; and while
Japan, by right of conquest, has been able
to shut American capital out of Manchuria
and Korea, the poorer nation has been un-
able to hold her own with the richer. in
the more lucrative business of advancing
loans to China. To-day Uncle Sam has a
heavy talc of dollars invested in Chinese
loans, trade and industry, and his citizens
have set up over 3000 signboards in the
country. This is an invisible empire which,
in the view of American investors, the de-
velopment of Japanese industrialism directly
threatens. Australia’s empire lies within
her own borders, and so long as Japanese
statesmen make no move that menaces it.
there is no call for ns to search for provo-
cation or stretch our feelings of brotherly
love to cover all aspects of the peculiar and
private squabble with America.
It is only in Japan that you would be
able to engage a rickshaw-puller with a
knowledge of English. French and German,
a State school education and a passion for
landscape painting and drawing from the
life. This was Morimoto. the precious pro-
duction of a nation of aesthetes. He left his
rickshaw and became my guide, showing pro-
found knowledge of his country’s art. litera-
ture and creeds, and a sympathy so delicate
as to seem grotesque. While I gazed from
a ruined pavilion over the immemorial land-
scape of Lake Biwa, he squatted on the
ground committing the scene to paper. He
has since entered a modern boot-factory, but
he still sends me the ethereal output of his
brush. Morimoto gives one ground for hope
that Japan is not destined to remain for-
ever a bad copy of the West of 60 years ago.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bankrupts on the Band.
The fantastic notion that* because a man
was at the war before, he ought to be on
the land now has made a heap of misery, and
it may be that its devastating career is only
started. No demand existed for an abnor-
mal or forced rush of settlers after the war.
But “the promotion of settlement” is a
habitual cry, and given (1) a dull Minister
in office, (2) an ex-soldier at a loose end
and carelessly willing to have a shot at any-
thing, (3) a heap of borrowed money, and
(4) some land, swamp or rock, the way was
easy. By the lavish and offhand expenditure
of No. 3it came about that. No. 1 left No.
2 marooned on No. 4, took his promissory-
notes for the earth and for some future
advances wherewith to buy cows and hens
and a shack, and went away. The man was
settled, provided for, and out of the road,
at least till the first instalment of the land
payment fell due, or the cow, hen and shack
money gave out., or till both events hap-
pened together. Then, in a vast number of
cases (probably in the majority of cases),
more or less complete failure became appa-
rent, and the man became unsettled again.
The system gave the Ministerial person a
blessed interval during which to rest on
his laurels, and that might not have been
the case if a solid effort had been made
to accommodate the bulk of the ex-soldiers
in factory industries for which there was
genuine need. The situation at latest show-
ing (June, 1924) was that the six States,
in addition to doing some settlement on
Crown lands, had spent £70,980,000 of loan
money, borrowed at high rates, on buying
private soil for settlement purposes. The
area involved was mostly sold in earlier days
and the money used as revenue, so when it
was re-purchased out of loans there was
£70,980,000 more debt on the land and no
more land under the debt. Further, as it
was a matter of buying back already occu-
pied areas, there was little, if any, more coun-
try settled as the result of all this lavish
outlay, though it might be more thickly
settled for a time. In many instances, it
appears that the result was the planting of
five or ten bankrupt families where one sol-
vent family dwelt before, the chief causes
of bankruptcy being that settlers were often
unsuitable, that they had to be deposited too
far from a market, that the land was insuffi-
cient. and that the politicians who whooped
np the game spent money like water, and
loaded their clients with impossible liabili-
ties. Just because the Lawson Government
in. Victoria was the maddest, that State
spent the most—£2B.B4l.oo0 —though it is the
most densely-peopled State, and has the least
need of settlers. Westralia, under Mitchell
and others, was a good second in the. mad
game (in proportion to population it was
really the leading lunatic), and spent
£12.339,000. Some of the results of this
Devil's dance or rake’s progress are shown
as follows;—-
Increase of Population. 4/4/'2l to 31/12/’24.
Capital Citv. Rest ot' State.
Victoria .. .. 119,194 6,372
Westralia .. .. 21,601 10,310
If. the inquiry is narrowed down to the last
two years, 1923 and 1924. the results are
worse; in Victoria the One Big City absorbed
more than the entire increase, while the rest
of the State, where £25,841.000 had been
spent inside a few years on the acquisition
of “settlers,” lost a couple of thousands; in
Westralia the One Big City grew a little
faster, while the rest of the State slowed
down. A Soldier Settlement Commission has
been wandering round Victoria for some
time, inquiring into the great failure, and
on a recent day it struck a patch of swindle
and misery at a fragmentary spot 113 miles
east of the gay metropolis, and on the edge
of Gippsland’.s rocks and ferns and other
beauties. It found a settler who had signed
up to pay £l7 10s. per acre for 100 acres,
without buildings and fences. Another
had pawned his body and soul up
to £l4 10s. per acre for 125 bare
acres, said to be one-half swamp. Some
of the clearing cost £lO per acre. What
these strangers didn’t know till they arrived
on the spot, and what the generous boUowers
who sat in city offices and sent them to the
spot probably don’t know yet. is that the
lush and picturesque Gippsland fern is an
unchained devil to grow, that the way to
extirpate it consists in cutting every few
weeks for a year or two. and that the new
arrival who runs a one-man show is apt to
find it a hopeless race, especially if lie is
endeavoring to clear a farm with one hand
and milk a cow or two for current expenses
with the other. But the case is really one in
which details are not necessary. When it
is set out that, in the past two years, Vic-
toria went into debt another £5,800,000 in
buying land on which to deposit country
population, and in that period gained 63,800
new Melbourne inhabitants and lost 2100
country inhabitants, the conclusion is that
the policy should be abandoned. And this is
the astonishing postscript to the story (at
least it would be astonishing except in Aus-
tralia. where so many weird things happen) :
The Federal Government has an unsettled
estate of its own, measuring 335.000,000
acres, good, indifferent and bad. It includes
one of the finest ports in the world. The
making of a railway through it to that port
would have cost just about as much as was
borrowed for land repurchase during last
year alone. The making of the line would
have furnished employment, and it would be
an asset when finished, which the loss of
country population isn’t. The Commonwealth
could give away farms in the huge area thus
opened up, with a few simple conditions as
to settlement, and the utmost cost would be
a trifle of compensation to dispossessed lease-
holders. That would be a very different
matter from paying £l4 per acre for fernv
country in Gippsland. The railway would
make some promising mineral fields access-
ible as a side line of settlement. But it
has never struck the Federal outfit to take
practical measures for sending even a dozen
settlers on to its own property.
J. Bull and His Brother Sandy.
The secretary of the British Miners’ Federa-
tion has announced that a great industrial
struggle is due before the end of 1925. The
miners, railway men, waterside workers and
engineers are all to be in it, but it will be
primarily the coal-men’s affair. On this
matter three principal observations may be
made. If British manufactures were more
brisk they not only would use more coal, but
would be able to pay a higher price for coal,
in addition to employing more “hands,” and
perhaps paying them better. But no one
lias discovered how to boost British factories
except by checking the influx of the products
of foreign factories, and no one has dis-
covered liow to manage that save by Protec-
tion. The coal-miner is, notwithstanding all
that, a dogged Freetrader, chiefly, it would
appear, out of a hereditary belief that dukes
and big landowners in general are not Free-
traders; and the one Labor Government
Britain ever possessed set about the aboli-
tion of the scraps of Protection there were in-
stead of suppling more. Further —and this
is the second observation —the British coal-
miner works seven hours per day, which is
below the British average. (A bill fixing
the working day at eight hours, save for sea-
men and farm laborers, who were to toil
longer, lately tried its luck in the Commons
and hadn’t any.) Borne employers suggested
to the House that a return to eight hours in
the mining business would mean cheaper pro-
duction, which might help the local demand,
and alluded to the fact that the Hun works
longer than that. Nobody listened, but the
Miners’ Federation countered with a demand
that more wages should be paid for the seven
hours. It said that 100.000 miners are out
of work, and somebody else said that a great
many more would be out of work if the cost
of production rose any higher. Ramsay
Macdonald wasn’t very helpful by propos-
ing that an appeal should be made to the
working class in Germany, Britain’s great
European competitor, to demand higher wages
and fewer hours, and thus lessen the pressure
on J. Bull. Other members thought Fritz
might not respond in time, and others again
that he might not respond at all. not because he
liked his capitalist over much, but because
lie liked his successful enemy less. A gloomy
theory lias also been advanced (and this is
the third observation) that undue consump-
tion of liquid refreshment is one of the draw-
backs of British industry. The official esti-
mate for 1924 was that the said consumption,
which includes late-hour drinking and Bun-
day drinking, averaged £7 ss. per head, or
11s. 2d. per week for an average family of
four. Glasgow is the overgrown commercial
capital of a little country which supplies
coal and whisky in great quantities. It lias
a very large non-British population, and it.
is the centre of the British Communist faith.
A tenement-house room up three or four stairs,
reckoned quite good enough for a family of
four, though somewhat lacking in the decen-
cies of life, used to cost a minimum of 2s. 3d.
per week and taxes, though it has now gone
up to ss. or more. The proportion of the
population which lives in such domiciles is
immense. That the drink bill should exceed
the rent is regarded as a matter of course.
In addition John Bull’s country lias gone
mad on horse. It doesn’t go to the course
and take a breezy view of the animal so much
as Australia does, but it bets incessantly
with the tout who canvasses factories and
cheap residential streets. It is reckoned that
500,000 bets are made daily, and that:
£500,000,000 goes out in this fashion every
year. Some of it comes back, but with
30,000 bookmakers living on the game, and
the biggest ones supporting 100 or 200 em-
ployees. the return can't he very much. If
John Bull and his more or less red-headed
brother Alexander took a pull on their petty
gambling and large refreshment habits, the
tide of misery might ebb to some extent. But
there are always leaders who regard the tide
of misery as an asset. Their pose being that
of friends of the poor, they require poor to
befriend. Otherwise they would be in On-
position of a rabbiter without rabbits.
Lloyd George and Singapore.
I. loyd George, the Unaccountable from the
misty hills of Wales, joined forces with
Labor, which is always pacifist, and usually
aloof and frosty about Dominion matters, in
denouncing the Singapore naval base. His
view, for the moment, was that any expen-
diture on it “is sheer madness in view of
the terrible earthquake, which must have
put out of Japanese minds any plan of aggres-
sion, even if they li ' previously been disposed
to contemplate one.” There was no special
need to drag in names, but the Welshman
is remarkably clumsy at times. Also, it was *.
indicative of his cocksure habit of thought
tiiat he knew the workings of the Japanese
mind so intimately. The Japanese earth-
quake of 1923 was doubtless a catastrophe,
but the damage is being repaired, like the
much worse war damage in Serbia, Roumania
and Northern France, and the insurrection
damage in Ireland. The people of these coun-
tries haven’t changed their nature or their
political views, or their religion, or even their
costume, because a few things were broken.
The Japanese budget for 1923-24 and 1924-25
indicated that the revenue was expected to come
in much as usual. The programme of naval
construction in 1924 continued to be the
biggest among the Powers, and no tendency
to leave off has been heard of. Japan is still
referred to in books of reference as a coun-
try which is even more crowded than it looks,
for. by reason of its mountains, only one-
sixth of the area is fit for cultivation. The
mountains having a tendency to fall on
people, in addition to being of small profit,
the desire to expand where the ground is
flatter and less unstable must assert itself
some day. But quite apart from all these
irrelevancies: there is no reason why the
Empire shouldn’t construct a naval base at
Singapore, to excite interest, the same as a
Botanic Garden, to provide exercise, and
in case an enemy may turn up some
day. Many precautions appear super-
fluous to the unthinking—among them
the fact that London is guarded by
31,504 bobbies, including reservists; also
by an army of soldiers far bigger than
anything Australia and Maoriland possess or
hope to possess, and by a fleet prowling to
and fro on the narrow seas. Behind these
defences cower Lloyd George and I'mi ir
Snowden, asking petulantly why, in this
meekest of all possible worlds, anybody
should think one naval base, to serve half
the globe, anything but a horrid waste of
money.
Rhodes Scholarships.
One who ought to know discusses them :— ■
The visit of Dr. M. J. Rendall, a former head-
master of Winchester College, who is touring the
different parts of the Empire in the interests of the
Rhodes trustees, provides an occasion for considering
how far the Rhodes system has benefited Australia,
and whether there is not inherent in that system some
grave defects calling for review. To put the matter
briefly: Should there attach to the award of each
scholarship a condition requiring that successful
candidates return to their native shores, at least, for
some period of time, upon the completion of their
studies abroad? The project is mooted of bringing
women within the scope of this or some similar
scheme, and such extension gives further point to
serious discussion.
Each normal year sees seven young men from
Australasia depart overseas. They represent flic
very best types that the country produces. They
are chosen for their all-round ability, for their
general proficiency, for their excellence of character
and high moral worth. In the main, as their records
show, they are men who would, or ought to, make
their mark anywhere in the world. It cannot be
denied that the social, commercial and intellectual
attractions existing in Europe and in England are
many and powerful, and it is cause for no great
astonishment that lhey find there outlets for their
ambitions in accord with their training, and superior
to any offering in Australia. Further, if and when
they return, they are apt to find that, after being
placed upon a pedestal, so to speak, the pedestal is
kicked away and they are left in the air; no definite
material encouragement is offered them to return
and none when they have returned.
The true objects of education are the development
of the individual and the spread of culture; not
“Kultur,” that is, nor, as John Bright would
scornfully have said, the acquiring of a “smattering
of the two dead languages of Latin and Greek,” but
in the sense employed by Matthew Arnold : “Culture
seeks to do away with classes and sects; to make
the best that has been thought and known in the
world current everywhere; to make men live in an
atmosphere of sweetness and light.... This is the.
social idea, and men of culture are the true apostlps
of equality.” Can Australia, from any point of
view, and especially from the national one, abandon
to other countries the flower of its manhood, from
whom it has a right to expect so much in this direc-
tion? The defection of every single individual is
an irreparable loss.
In 1920 the Rhodes Trust issued a publication
summarising the careers of all scholars from its
inception down to 1915. In all 84 had gone from
Australia and Maorilar.d. Some were sacrificed at
the war. Of the others. 21 are now occupied in
business or in professional, political or professorial
appointments abroad—a loss of 25 per cent, of the
pick of our manhood. Can Australia afford this?
It is submitted that the price is too high. As it was
aptly put at a recent Melbourne function, the Rhodes
system has given us many “blues,” but never a
statesman or leader of note.
4
“Lex” : Here is a case for feminists to pon-
der. In 1898 a man and woman married,
had two sons, fell out, and a deed of separa-
tion was executed. The husband agreed to
allow his wife £3 a week, he taking custody
of the two boys and maintaining and edu-
cating them. Apparently the latter duty bored
him, for later on he passed them back to the
wife, who took them without demur and
asked for no more money. When the older
sou grew up lie contributed to the family
fund, then married and his contributions
ceased. The younger son also in course of
time gave his mother some portion of his
earnings; then he too departed with a wife.
So Mother was left to dodge along as best
she could on her £3 a week. Meantime Dad
flourished and grew rich. The £3 didn’t seem
rmite fair to Mother, so she thought she'd
try what the law could do for her. She laid
au information against her well-to-do hus-
band—it was in Victoria —charging him with
having left her “without means, of support."
The P.M. said it was obvious that he couldn’t
help her—she had means of support, viz.,
£3 a week. Then she appealed, and the case
came on before Chief Justice Irvine. The
woman argued, or counsel did on her behalf,
that, though she had a sum of about £250 in
thi‘ Savings Bank, all of her own scraping,
and, of course, the weekly allowance under
the deed, still it was a pinch to make ends
meet, and surely “without means of support”
meant without means having regard to those
of Iter husband, who was wallowing in wealth.
There was the usual wrangle, but in the end
the Chief came—lie said “reluctantly”—to
the conclusion that the wife had means with-
in the meaning of the Act. Said he: “Though
it is entirely for the benefit of the community
that wives should not be left destitute, it
cannot be considered a matter of public in-
terest that any particular wife should have
such an allowance as would be suitable or
becoming, having regard to the measure of a
wealthy husband.” So the wife wont back
to licr £3 a week and bit of savings—and left
it to her friends and neighbors to measure up
the man.
Some recent remarks of Justice Angas
Parsons (S.A.), if not pleasing to counsel,
may commend themselves to the public—in
moderation. He had at the request of coun-
sel put a charge of larceny at the bottom of
the list, though Mr. Wig had wanted it
carried over still further,_ as he had another
important matter engaging his attention.
When called Mr. Wig did not appear in the
case, but a learned brother explained that
the brief had been sent to him that morning
and it was not until a few minutes before
the Court sat that lie had received instructions.
Hence he did not know the accused's defence
and had not had a chance of even reading
the charge. The accused also had a say in
the matter. As the case had not come on
when it was set down for hearing, he, the un-
fortunate in the dock, had to let his witnesses
go back to their homes 30 milesi away. as. he
had no means to provide for them in the city.
All this to meet the convenience of Mr. Wig
overburdened with briefs! His Honor did
not take the matter in at all the spirit which
counsel might have expected from one who
had himself earned bread and butter at theßar.


£
c
TURKISH BATHS
on, the Seventh Floor. Note the additional day
(Monday) for Ladies, also the extended time for
Gentlemen on week-days.
GENTLEMEN. —Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday,
Saturday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday, 7 a.m.
to 1 p.m.
LADIES. Monday, Thursdaj', 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
bßslTHreSfral
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon
oi Dinner from .)/-; Light Luncheon in the Winter
(tarden from 2/6.
Write for magnificently illustrated 20-page folder
ij you intend visiting Sydney.
r
yon are ajyured iiv every bottle
of thatj-elffanve j'tan.dard of
excellence which haf made
‘KING GEORGE iV[
FAMO Uf THE WORLD O’ER
ar\d conceded bycormoiyjeuTj to be
JcOTLANDjrJbUNDEfTJTIMULANT
lie said he was most displeased at the way the
Court had been treated, and counsel would
receive no concession of the kind from him
again. Here the Sheriff had the audacity to
say a few words on behalf of the public,
interjecting that the delay of one day for
which Mr. Wig’s legal friend had applied in
order to learn the charge and study the
brief would cost the country between £SO and
£6O in jury fees. Nobody suggested that the
original counsel should be required to pay that
amount before the Court would again “see”
him. What did happen was what always
happens. The adjournment was granted. It
is very comforting, no doubt, to know that
lus Honor was very displeased about it; but
when is counsel going to be required to do
some ot the paying and the suffering*?
♦—
The N.S.W. Elections.
Vast numbers of N. S. Whies electors
avoided the polling booths on Saturday, and.
as is always the case when that happens, the
Labor party gained seats. How many seats
it is impossible to say at the moment, owing
to the maddening delays incident to “absent”
voting and the proportional system, and to
the postponement of the poll in districts
where there have been flood,s; but the
Nationalist Government is obviously in
danger. For this Premier Fuller blames
the Progressives or Cockies, who have evi-
dently wrested a seat from the Nationalists
in Byron, and who, all things considered,
have done pretty well. But the Progressives
did not contest Balmain, Bathurst, Sydney,
Newcastle, Parramatta or St. George, where
the Nationalists may lose seats to the Labor-
ites, and their lone candidate in Wollon-
dilly would have materially helped the Gov-
ernment with preferences, as he did in 1922,
if the Ministerial vote hadn’t slumped. Mr.
Fuller will have to find a better explana-
tion. It may be that his Government was
undone by its very strange allies. Especially
disastrous was the intrusion of the leaders
of two Protestant organisations who pub-
lished manifestos to the effect that the
Labor party was run by Rome, one
alleging that 68 of the 91 Labor can-
didates were R.C.’s, and the other that,
the proportion was 55 per cent. These
Belfast tactics may appeal to some
people, but it is not in the average Austra-
lian’s nature to vote against a man because
of his religion, as was clearly shown. The
eleventh-hour introduction of bigotry un-
doubtedly hurt the Nationalists, and no-
where was the effect so palpable as in the
Premier’s own electorate, where the inclu-
sion of his name in a list of candidates “en-
dorsed by the Protestant Federation” (he
acquiesced in the impertinence) cost his
party a seat. Possibly the votes still to be
counted and the distribution of preferences
will enable the Government to carry on with
the aid of the Progressives; more possibly
Lang will be given a chance to redeem some
of his multitudinous promises, with assist-
ance from Skelton or Fallon. In any
case, it is doubtful whether the new Parlia-
ment will run its course, and its first legis-
lative performance should be an amended
Electoral Act abolishing pre-selection,
“absent” voting and proportional represen-
tation, and restoring single electorates with
the preferential system.
Small Sister’s Poll.
Tasmania has had the quietest election
campaign in the memory of the oldest in-
habitant. The fact that there is consider-
able trade depression and more unemployed
than is good for any Small Sister to main-
tain, and the further circumstance that
winter is on the land and the nights are too
cold to make meetings a popular evening
pastime, doubtless accounted for some of the
calm. But the chief cause of the uncheer-
fulness of the proceedings appears to have
been the disinclination of the anti-Labor
candidates to say a word in praise or in de-
fence of the Nationalist or Country parties
to which they nominally belong. The nearest
approach any of the (nominal) National-
ist candidates made to politics in their public
speeches was to warn their hearers that,
though Premier Lyons has done exception-
ally good work for the State during his 18
months of office, Mr. Lyons, with a Labor
majority in Parliament, might be a very
different sort of ruler. It wasn’t a very
courageous attitude, of course, and it wasn't
at all spectacular, but from a tactical stand-
point there was not much wrong with it.
For one thing, it made few personal enemies,
and for another it left the Labor men with-
out a scrap of controversial material with
which to whip up the enthusiasm of their
followers. The only anti-Labor candidate to
break away from the “stonewalling” game of
his side was farmer Hobbs, who ended last
session as nominal leader of the Opposition,
and was unenthusiastically followed by half
a dozen candidates calling themselves the
Tasmanian Liberal party. Mr. Hobbs, pro-
bably bored stiff by the awful dulness of the
proceedings at a meeting, questioned the
accuracy of some of Premier Lyons’s figures,
and even dared the latter to attend one of
his (Hobbs’s) meetings and reply to the
criticism. As Lyons was campaigning at
the other end of the island, with
every available night booked, it looked
a fairly safe challenge. But a couple
of nights later a travel-stained Premier
made a dramatic descent upon a Hobbs
meeting and blasted his critic’s never-too-
robust reputation as a financial authority
amid the delighted yells of the audience. It
was positively the only election meeting of
the series that was not (as Edward Tre-
gear's old Bulletin simile had it) "as dull
as a dead policeman in a wet macintosh.”
The polling yesterday (June 3) was no more
exciting than the campaign. A small poll,
perhaps the smallest on record, may be ex-
pected, and at the moment of writing the best
that either party hopes for is to make a dead
freeze of it —15 all. If the highest hopes
of both parties are realised as the count
proceeds the chances are that Captain Evans
will continue in the Speakership and .1. A.
Lyons will again be Premier.
O
While every device of the press-agent has
been used to excite Australian interest in the
somewhat purposeless attempt of a Scandi-
navian party to fly over th<J -i North Pole,
the flight from Rome to Broome (W.A.)
of Major de Pinedo, chief of the Italian Air
Force, in an Italian-built bombing hydro-
plane, has received less attention in this
country than is usually given to a case of
criminal assault. Yet, apart from the very
fine nature of the Neapolitan’s achievement
AFTER A COURSE OF ELECTION MEETINGS.
“There goes another of ’em,—parasites whats ruinin' the country, feedin' on the blood
of wimmen and childrun.”
—he opened up several new routes and made
a remarkable jump across India in a machine
that is helpless when forced to alight on
land—the successful and effortless journey
throws a vivid light on this country’s vul-
nerability in the matter of defence from
aerial attack. For his final hop the Italian
selected the 570 miles of ocean that sepa-
rates Koepang, the capital of Dutch Timor,
from the pearling metropolis of the Austra-
lian nor’-west coast, and he did it in six
hours. If he had been the scout of an in-
vading air force instead of the ambassador
of a friendly Power, he could have aimed
for Cape Bougainville, a little higher up,
and done the trip in less than three hours.
Ilis total flying time from the mainland of
Asia was under 24 hours. The Dutch East
Indies provide a million convenient hopping-
off places within a few hours of these shores.
They are in the hands of a weak absentee
Government, and in Borneo and Sumatra
contain some of the richest stores of flying
fuel in the world. The object-lesson kindly
provided by the visiting airman is that,
while the Australian Government continues
to footle with its air arm and leaves the
fostering of civil aviation to a handful of
private enthusiasts, it is a good thing that
the British Government is going ah°ad with
Singapore.
“Df.r Jong” : The enthusiastic reception of
the Prince of Wales by the natives in South
Africa recalls that the Kaffir of the kraals
throughout the Union is strong for British
as against Dutch rule. Even in Zululand,
clinging to independent ideals, the same feel-
ing has long over-ridden the old urge to
rebellion. This attitude of the natives will
have to be considered by those who wish to
raise again, at some future date, the banners
of the old Boer republics. In the last Boer
war the native in the mass was a more or less
active ally of Britain. He was not allowed
to fight, but his territory was closed to the
Boer, who never dared to violate it, save for
one cattle-raiding incident in Zululand, which
resulted in the mobilisation of several Zulu
ini pis which the British had great difficulty
in restraining.
*
Sydney got the benefit of a large sanitary
reform last week when its crematorium at
Kookwood was opened and the first corpse
was reduced to dust instead of being trans-
ferred to the earth to breed corruption. It
has been a hard struggle for the very small
band of enthusiasts to get that far; apart
from setting aside the necessary ground, the
Government has given no help in the matter.
And even now the crematorium consists of
little more than the mere furnace: the chapel
and other requirements have still to be fur-
nished. Other Australian centres of popula-
tion have been much more progressive. Both
Adelaide and Melbourne have long had their
crematoria; and the trustees of the great
Fawkner Necropolis, outside Melbourne, have
just decided to build another. The least the
authorities can reasonably do in Sydney is
to either take over the crematorium or pro-
vide the funds necessary for its completion.
It is not a fair thing that the burden of a
sanitary reform of this nature should be
imoosed upon a few private individuals.
.. : ♦
The disabilities of the Australian whisky
industry are about to be placed before the
Tariff Board. During the war years the
Customs duty on imported spirits was raised
from 14s. to 30s. per gallon; meanwhile
the excise on the product of the local distil-
lery went from 10s. to 265., thus greatly re-
ducing the proportional protection. Further-
more. on Australian whisky fortified in a
similar fashion to most of the imported stuff
an excise of 38s. per gallon is exacted, which
places the distiller actually on the wrong
side of Protection to the extent of Bs. The
whisky trade is an important one; 100,000
gallons were sent to England not long since
in one shipment to help the depleted stocks
of the British distillers. And there was always
a steady sale for the Australian article to
importing firms for blending and for sale in
hotels as “house” whisky. But in the effort
to put Australian brands on the market ax
such, the local industry is handicapped in
the astounding manner indicated. This has
made it difficult to get rid of its stocks, and
as a result the one Victorian distillery out
of four which is still working is only work-
ing quarter time; a distillery which began
operations in N.S.W. is closed altogether.
* , .
A party of South Australian and Federal
politicians has been inspecting the interior
of Australia in connection with the proposed
North-South railway. The interior is a large
area to inspect all at once; nevertheless, the
expedition managed to learn a few things
that other people have known for a long
time. It found rich country covered with
Mitchell grass and other good fodder; vege-
tables, lemons, limes, mulberries and grapes
growing at Alice Springs without fertilisa-
tion ; stock in splendid condition, but
marooned for lack of transport; a climate
with a shade temperature of cSOdeg. by day
and near freezing-point at night; and a
population that doesn't require health weeks
to keep it hardy, happy and strong, and is
also "courteous and generous to a degree.”
The first white woman it met after leaving
Oodnadatta was the young bride of a station-
manager at New Crown. The exploring
party stood around and admired her courage
in forsaking the amenities of social life. After
which it is to be hoped the Federal end of
the party sat round its camp-fire in sack-
cloth and ashes and did penance for having
helped the delay in bringing the amenities
to the lady in the shape of the railway.
♦
“Griffith Moses” on his friend: —
It is really difficult to know what George Mkudei.i,
is hosanna-ing' about (B. 28/5/’25). He says Aus-
tralia’s manufacturing output is “amazing, prodigi-
ous and unparalleled.” It was about £792 per
employee, or £5B per inhabitant, at last advices.
When last the U.S. made a complete census, its
figures were £1027 and .£123 respectively. He says
the value of other products (wool, meat, agricultural
output, minerals, timber, fish, etc.) is about £43
per inhabitant and is unparalleled also. The farm
produce of the United States is almost as much
per inhabitant. He holds that our population of
not quite six millions is unparalleled ; likewise our
male population of 2,990,000. He claims that our
public debt is unparalleled, and there he is nearer
right than usual. It is his conviction that our
foreign commerce, carried almost wholly on other
people's ships, is unparalleled; and it would be if
some other countries weren’t ahead. He attesls
that there is no decay of the country districts in
Victoria save in the fading away of mining towns,
and that the One Big City policy is not injurious.
Vet the last official estimate is that Melbourne
gained 68,900 new inhabitants between December,
1922, and December, 1924, while the rest of the
State lost 2030, despite the outlay of another
£5.800,000 of loan money on the “land for settle-
ment'’ dodge. Mr. Meudell helps, by wild asser-
tions, to mislead Young Australia with the idea that
he is entitled to loaf a little more and take more
well-earned holidays, all by reason of the marvels
he has done. It strikes me as a poisonous gospel.
An enemy couldn’t do worse.
‘‘X.N.O.” : May I butt: in on G. D. Meudelt..
who says London Daily Telegraph has put
his argument re the foolishness of worrying
about invasion (B. 28/5/’2sf in a nutshell
by pointing out that the warship has not
been designed which can cover the enormous
Pacific distances and then be fit to fight. This
dictum is one of those catch-phrases that
won’t really bear analysis. A warship fights
with the following: (1) Officers and men,
(2) guns and ammunition, (3) torpedoes:
alj assisted mainly by (4) rangefinders and
15) electricity to operate gun-control gear.
The list might be prolonged, but the above
will do for my purpose, which is to ask Mr.
Meudell which of these things is less effici-
ent at the end of a long voyage. Cer-
tainly not the guns, torpedoes, ammunition,
etc., provided they were efficient when the
voyage started; and the personnel is likely
to improve after a period of enforced absence
from the fleshpots of the beach, taken to-
gether with the opportunities at sea for gun-
laying, range-finding, and other practices.
The only thing that could militate against
fighting a successful action after a long voy-
age would be lack of fuel. If that can be
got oyer —a much easier job with oil fuel
than it was in the days of cumbersome coal
—three or four trips round the world
wouldn’t affect a modern warship’s ability to
fight.
♦
“T.T.R.” : They call them “social diseases”
in Uncle Sam’s country, but there is no lack
of thoroughness in the methods employed
to .stamp them out. The Public Health
Institute of Chicago, “organised by Chicago
business men as a corporation ‘not for pro-
fit’ under the laws of the State of Illinois,”
received during the five years in which it
has been in operation more than 60,000
patients and gave more than one million
treatments. It has examined and treated
one out of every 50 people in the city; it now
treats more than 1200 patients daily. Small
fees are charged when the sufferer can
afford them, but “no one is refused treat-
ment for lack of ready money.” The popu-
lation of Chicago is about 2J times that of
Sydney, but, allowing for that, can any re-
sults comparable with these be shown by
fhe State clinics in Australia’s biggest centre
of population?


Fore!
ABBOTS
LAGER
Is Always To The Fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
&
7209
The DORR COMPANY y Engineers
New York Denver London Mexico City
Equipment for the mechanical washing, removal,
recovery, classification or treatment of finely
divided solids suspended in liquids.
Agents for Australasia:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Yonth helped the N. ,S. Wales Labor party
to score so well last week. Many of its can-
didates were under 35, and few were beyond
50, whereas most of the Nationalists were
50 or more. A young candidate has a dis-
tinct advantage over an old one in appeal-
ing to voters who are young themselves —
20 p.c. of the electors are in the 21-30 age
group—and is better able to stand the phy-
sical and mental strain of campaigning in
electorates bloated by proportional repre-
sentation. Then people are apt to gather
the impression that a party in which youth
predominates is a party with a future, and
that the future of the other crowd, which is
content to be represented by so many quaver-
ing old bores, is as thin as their hair. The
N.S.W. Nationalists will have to put young
men on their platforms if they are to sur-
vive. They have that stupid prejudice against
youth which blighted the “Liberals,” their
predecessors.
It is only at the counting of the first
votes that the stupidity of the elector can
be fully appreciated, for his ballot doesn't
get beyond that stage. The S. M. Herald’s
figures on Monday morning were interesting.
N. S. Wales is divided into 24 electorates,
and there were four in which “Informal”
would have had a good chance of being
elected if his preferences had been counted
like those of other candidates. In St. George,
the very worst specimen, there were 21 appli
cants for seats, including “Informal”; and
he was ninth on the list. No less than 12
scored fewer votes. At Sydney he came
tenth on a list of 22. At Botany he scored
eighth place among 17, and at Cumberland
and rarramatta he was exactly half-way up
the catalogue. Only in one electorate
(Bathurst) was the ghostly candidate de-
cisively outed and put at the bottom of the
poll.
From an exultant Prog.:—
The N. S. Wales Progressives polled creditably on
Saturday. At the 1922 election they won nine seats ;
this time they have carried two each in Byron and
Northern Tablelands, and one each in Cootamundra,
Murray, Murrumbidgee. Oxley and Wammerawa, and
they have fair to middling chances of getting four
more—in Goulburn, Cootamundra, Murrumbidgee and
Namoi. With a candidate like Crawford Vaughan
each of this four would have been a good thing,
but the sometime South Aus. Premier was sacrificed
in Ryde. The Cockies should give Vaughan a
nomination for the Federal electorate of Gwvdir.
where Gordon Wilkins ran Cunningham to within 37
votes last time: Wilkins has publicly stated that
he will not stand again. As usual, the Nationalist
Government attributes its setback to Cocky opposi-
tion. although its fate will be decided in half a
dozen metropolitan constituencies where there were
no Agrarian candidates. The Nationalist idea is
that there should be ‘‘unity against the common
enemy,” which is interpreted to mean that the
Progressives should withdraw from any constituency
in which they haven't an odds-on chance. This
was done in Bathurst last week, and the result was
that the Nationalists lost a seat which was won in
1922 by .means of Progressive preferences. Still h
is safe to wager that the example of Bathurst will
be wasted on the National Federation.
Australia passed the Canadian Recipro-
city treaty a long time ago, but Canada still
plays a dodgy garni*. The document was
insanely generous in its concessions, and the-
Canucks apparently reason that people who
are so easy-going might be more easy-going
still if properly handled. Their attitude
apparently is: “The benefits you offer us
being fixed by your law. we can grab them
at any time, so we lose nothing by hanging
fire and fishing for more.” Australia’s reply
should bo the repeal of the one-sided and
unaccepted treaty, with the remark to Brother
Canuck that the inspection of the mouth of
a gift horse can be carried too far. Then
a fresh agreement could be negotiated if it
seemed worth while, Canada to ratify first
next time.
It being past the time for disguise, even
the polite £. M. Herald says things like this;
To-day loan money raised by Australia abroad is
used principally to pay interest abroad.
Of course a corresponding amount of local
paper money is spent on “works” of some
sort here, so as to preserve the fiction that
the gold, or its equivalent, raised in Eng-
QUITE A SURPRISE.
“A suggestion is being- discussed that the kangaroo be adopted as the National Trade-mark for all
Australian exports.”
JOHN BULL: “Why, there's Joe Cook with the Kangaroo brand on him! lie must hare
something to do with Australia!"
land is for public undertakings here; but
the pretence has worn very thin. During
last financial year the States increased their
gold debt abroad by over 33 millions, and
their local paper debt by 11 millions. If
it had been merely a matter of raising money
for public works the whole lot might have
been raised here in paper. But as all the
paper that this country can print won’t pay
£1 of interest or other liability in England,
it follows that, if it hadn’t borrowed to
pay interest. Australia would have had to
work much harder and export more, or live
much more frugally and import less.
Job-hunters of all sizes await further in-
formation about the Prime Minister’s scheme
for making another rich billet in London.
As he put it when he broached the subject,
Australia will arrive at so much importance,
immediately or some other day. that it will
require "to have in London an ambassador,
or somebody in a semi-ambassadorial posi-
tion. who will be able to watch developments
on the spot and from within, and warn the
Commonwealth Government in time of pro-
bable developments.” With the cable ser-
vice. the tremendous progress of wireless by
which the listener-in can hear the thoughts
of princes and the inmost rumbling of kings,
with ambassador Cook keeping! perpetual
vigil at Australia House, six Agents-General.
and seldom less than three Australian states-
men in England at a time, one would think
there was no lack of warning. Perhaps the
real need is for the right man at this end to
know what to do with the warning.
The Westralian Government still struggles
to hold the scales of justice—somehow or
other. Perth brewery men having been called
out along with pub and restaurant strikers,
the strike leaders demanded that beer from
country breweries should not be brought to
the city by train. The Acting-Premier
assented right off. Some people will now
drink water instead of beer, and thus make
themselves independent of both pub and
brewery employees. Obviously this difficulty
will have to be met by the Cocktail Govern-
ment ordering the water to be turned off
from the Government mains.
When Theodore went to T.ondon to negoti-
ate the renewal of a big Queensland loan, he
had to face a frosty market. It had been
aggravated by the breach of faith with the
pastoral tenants, and not at all mollified
by thi' veiled threat of Agent-General Fihelly
that some real repudiation might follow if
100 much was said. With Fihelly out of the
way, Theodore got over the difficulty, making
some concessions in the process; but there
was a certain amount of surprise that London
consented to treat with him at all. It has
now leaked out, on Ministerial authority,
that Federal Treasurer Bruce interposed and
smoothed down the difficulty. But it doesn’t
appear, whether he did it by assuring .7.
Bull that Father {Australia wouldn’t let even
the wildest of his sons go broke, and that
Father’s name was really on the bill, or
whether he relied on his inimitable bedside
manner.
Mexico’s decision to take Japanese immi-
grants to her discolored bosom, coupled with
her genial invitation to single .Taps to come
along and marry Greaser girls, should have
interesting ethnological results. The Spanish-
Indian foundation of the present Mexican
people has been liberally dashed with negro
blood : and when the Japanese racial charac-
teristics get well woven into this nightmare
pattern, we may expect something: unique in
the history of miscegenation. Yet it may
be that the setting-in of a flood of .Tap ini-
migration to Mexico would be a good thing,
not only for countries in the position of
Australia, but for the world in general. No
Japanese crossbred could possibly be worse
than or as bad as the Mexican, and nothing
could happen to Mexico which would not
improve it.
The N.S.W. Rural Bank will be taken as
a pattern by the A ic. Government in prepar-
ing its Rural Bank Bill for next session,
t ooch. acting-general manager of the Vie.
Savings Bank, is tapping the Ma State for
information. As the three parties in tin*
Assembly are favorably disposed, the bill, if
well drafted, will have a swift passage
through the House. The Log. Council -mav
exhibit a more critical spirit.
J first New State to be cut out of
N.S.W. celebrates its centenary next month.
It was on June 14, 1825. that the Order-in
was issued enacting that Van
Diemen's Land should be a colony independ-
(ill of N.S.W. The same Order-in-Council
assigned Macquarie Island to the Speck.,
Last financial year was the worst of a
gay series for piling up State debts abroad,
the additions being those:—
Porn: toy Debts op States,
Added
During Year. Total at Had of Year.
1920 .. .115.212,171 .C 208.412.174
1921 .. 0,005,790 270,077,970
1922 .. 27,408,000 297.545,970
192:! .. 11,070,331 .'{09,210,201
1924 .. 33,444,221 342.000,422
The London Mo uni no Post, .a Conservative
organ of intense respectability which never
sold itself below 2d., has issued a warning
tlmt the razzle must slow down because .1.
Bull. Who is in the once unimaginable posi
Lion of having a large foreign debt of his
own to work off, can't last the pace. If he
got. real money in payment, of interest', or
oven real goods, it. wouldn't be so bad; but
actually he is getting only more lOO—as
the S. M. llerapd now admits, “loan money
raised by Australia abroad is used princi-
pally to pay interest abroad." Poor, bur-
dened old Father has some queer friends!
According to oflicial figures there were. 7N
eases of drunkenness at Perth in the IS days
from May 4 to May 22. when practically
every hotel in the. city was closed owing to a
strike of employees. During the preceding
IS days, from April 15 to May when the
hotels were all open for business, only 57
cases of drunkenness were recorded. This
looks about the best testimonial the liquor
trade ever got in W.A.
The other day the British Labor party
accepted an invitation from the Russian Gov-
ernment to send .a deputation to study the
possibilities of Anglo-Russian trade. Il
reads like a bit of ancient history. Three
hundred and seventy-two years ago Sir Hugh
Willoughby sailed, with letters to Oriental
potentates, to find a way round to Asia by
the north-east. lie died in Lapland, but one
of his people, Richard Chancellor, pushed
on. discovered Moscow, and was the first
Englishman to enter that uncouth city.
Chancellor returned to England the follow-
ing year with the Czar's grant of trading
privileges in his pocket, and out of his dis-
covery grew the Muscovy Company. Russia
was lost again in 1917. The present explor-
ing party will find it in much the same stage
of culture as Chancellor found it in 1554.
The Soviet's protest to China against the
enlistment of Russians in the Chinese army
savors of nerve. These mercenaries were
recruited from the White army and the refu-
gees driven out of Vladivostock in 1922
when the Japanese attempt to annex Siberia
came to a dead end. Most of them drifted
to Shanghai, where they have been bringing
the white man into disrepute. Some of them
have recently looked towards Australia, and
a recent cable reported that several hundreds
were on their way hither. As the Chinese
army is engaged exclusively in civil war, their
enlistment cannot be regarded as a menace to
the noble institutions of their Bolshevik
fatherland; on the other hand, the nucleus
Red armies which the Soviet is establishing
in every country it can reach are a menace
to society in general.
The old centralisation rut is a very deep
one. The N.S.W. Government imported turn
experts to advise on railway matters, and
they made the dashing suggestion that the
Commissioners should be put in full charge
—so full that they might make railways
where they would yield a profit, even though
they carried trade elsewhere than to Sydney.
Much political hair stood on end w r ith horror
at the idea. Still, something had to come of
the expensive report, so it has led to the
creation of “The State Advisory Board of
Railway Finance.” This institution of three
wise men is “to advise the Government re-
garding the loan requirements of the rail-
ways over a period of years.” Now, if it
advised about crooked railways, duplicate
railways, parallel railways, neglected ports
and needless distances, it might be really
interesting.
HIS NEW JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The North Sydney Council resolved that rate-
payers with complaints and grievances against the
telephone service should be invired to communicate
them directly to Mr. Hughes, the Federal member
for the division.”
Time was when urgent, frenzied supplications
'Most any morn was liable to bring.
Requests to settle the affairs of nations
Or give a bit o' counsel to a king :
Time was Fame's fiercest searchlights played about you
And few would have been willing to allow
That Europe’s map could be re-cast without you.
Billy, how different now!
You —on the beach for years the biggest pebble-
You —once the goodliest oyster in the stew
Approached in rumbling bass or piping treble
By X 3418 or 202,
Abruptly urged or with a curse incited
To fling your wiry frame about and see
How quickly you can get some grievance righted
By Gibson, P.M.G.!
You, erst Australia's managing director.
Who brooked no colleague very near the throne,
Placed at the beck and call of each elector
Who can contrive to raise you on the 'phone!
You, for whose speeches Britain hungered clamant
And greeted with a roar from cheering throats,
Given a job without a scrap of payment—
Unless it be in votes.
The summons tinkles. William, are you spurred on
By thoughts of virtue being its own reward,
On whom gold boxes rained of old for guerdon
And one spontaneous shower of sterling poured?
And will you word replies in courteous phrases
With prompt attention guaranteed? You should.
An answer that concludes with “blithering blazes"
Might be misunderstood.
The path of duty Bumbledom’s assigned you
Some resting statesmen might regard askance.
But what a chance, permit me to remind you,
It offers, what an admirable chance.
After a life of storm and stress and fever.
Patience to learn and cultivate restraints
Of diction as Municipal Receiver
Of Telephone Complaints!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


VOTERS.
TiK WEEK
VOTERS.
LAST WEEK


-r
it's a 333 -there is no
throat-harm in a million
gPI^ESS
MADE IN LONDON BY
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“H.K.” To-day (Thursday) is the 137t1i
anniversary of the first proclaimed public
holiday in Australia—King’s Birthday, 1788.
On June 4, when George 111. attained his
50th year, Governor Phillip decided it was
a fitting occasion to have a little fresh meat.
A sheep was to be selected from the Colony’s
meagre suply of livestock and killed for the
official dinner. But when the day and, inci-
dentally, the butcher arrived there was no
sheep. It had been stolen overnight, and,
doubtless, consumed by a section of the more
hungry convict populace.
* * * *
“Oxmoad”: “Edjudina” wasn’t the only
unusual name bestowed on a girl baby in
the humming days of the W.A. goldfields
(B. 28/5/’25) ; somewhere in the Common-
wealth or out of it there should be an
Auralia who acquired her label at much
the same date. In her case it wasn’t a
struggling mining centre that was being
commemorated; it was a State that never
materialised. About 1899, when the late
Bigjohn Forrest was alleging various excuses
for refusing to ask the Groperland Parlia-
ment to submit Federation to a public re-
THE THREE ESSENTIALS.
LISHETH : “Yes, hut what causes divorce?”
ANNETTE: “Oh, silly! Why, men. women—
and marriage!”
ferendum, the hotheads of Kalgoorlie and
Boulder started a secession movement—
" Separation for Federation” was their
slogan. They petitioned the Imperial Gov
eminent about their grievance, and, not con-
tent with fixing the boundaries of the hunk
of W.A. which was to break off from the
Forrest-dominated coast, they devised a new
name for it, designed to emphasise its golden
promise, viz., Auralia. And in a fierce burst
of patriotic emotion and esprit de tcrre, one
of the leaders of the crusade for self-govern-
ment christened his infant daughter after
the potential State. But about this time
Forrest began to weaken, and finally he
climbed down and an undivided Groperland
voted itself into the Union, and the Auralia
there was so much enthusiasm about only
survives—if anything of it is left in a
young woman’s front-name.
* * * *
“F.G.8.” : Compromising tattoo-marks V
Years ago I knew a man who carried the
name “Amelia” in bold letters upon his left
forearm. The young lady in question, hav-
ing been deposed from her position in his
affections by another charmer whom he was
about to marry, it became necessary, or, at
all events, desirable, to get the evidence of
a prior attachment deleted. My friend
accordingly went to a skin-clinic at a metro-
politan hospital, only to learn that it would
require a lengthy operation to remove so
large a piece of hide. But the doctor was
a sport; realising the man’s predicament lie
suggested that a better plan would be to
get a ship tattooed above the offending name,
and the letters S.S. put in front of it. The
bridegroom-elect, who had been a seafarer in
his earlier days, gladly fell in with the sug-
gestion.
*-•>'**
“Hasen”: I’ve had little experience of
persistent suicides, but a good deal of per-
sistent talkers. The one that remains clear-
est in my mind was a “shock” case with an
element of doubt about the shock. There
were a hundred patients in the convalescent,
deck of the hospital-ship that carried him,
but he easily outweighed the ninety-and-nine
as a prize nuisance. At all times his voice
was loud in lamentations about ill-treatment,
discomfort and the like. And constantly
recurring through it all was the threat of
self-destruction. One day I came unnoticed
on the sergeant in charge of the deck talk-
ing to him on his pet subject. The sergeant
seemed abnormally excited. “There you
are,” said lie, slamming down on the table
a dinner-knife, “there’s a knife; I’ve just
sharpened it. And if you don’t like that
here’s a rope.” This he dumped beside the
knife. “And if that won’t do, there’s the
way to the deck and the whole dam’ sea out-
side to jump into. Go to it, son.” And away
he went. It was heroic treatment, but I’d
already formed an opinion about the poten-
tial suicide, and left him to it. Nothing
happened, and I’ve found the louder the
talker the less likely anything is to happen.
* * * *
“Adelaide" : South Aus., which has always
been proud of having no birthstain, has sur-
prised itself lately by the discovery that il
once transported its own criminals. The
earliest records of the Supreme Court have
been unearthed for the benefit of the new
Archives Department. It appears that the
first criminal court, in May 1837, started in
the regulation English style by letting a
“grand jury” (including Eight, Kingston
and other leading citizens) find a “true bill”
against each accused person before the “petty
jury” handled the case at all. Small fines
met most of the cases—Light undertook to
pay one of them himself. But a burglar
and a forger were each sentenced “to be
transported beyond the seas, either to New
South Wales or Van Diemen’s Land, accord-
ing to the will of the Governor-in-Council,
for the natural term of your life.”
“Trapper”: Herewith my entry for the
absent-minded beggar competition. Recently
1 moved my family, furniture and myself
v into a house just vacated by a retired school-
master, wel! known locally
for his frequent fits of
abstraction. A week ago
my wife and I, on our
way to town, ordered half
a ton of firewood from a
woody ard. Returning home
that afternoon we found
the ex-tenant swinging
the axe and reducing the
blocks to stove wood. He
had absent-mindedly re-
turned to his old home
after visiting the public
library, and, seeing the
pile of wood in the yard,
and remembering that his
wife had that morning
complained th a t the
wood needed chopping, he
had immediately set to work with the axe.
As woodchopping and I are enemies, and as
the schoolmaster had chopped about 2cwt., I
willingly accepted his apology.
* * * *
“Albatross”: I have known at least one
skipper who solemnised a marriage at sea
(B. 21/5/’25), and another who performed
an even more useful service. This is Captain
Alec Nicolson, of Adelaide. He was skipper
of a small steamer, the Herbert, plying be-
tween Esperance Bay and Albany (W.A.),
and took on a lady passenger at Ho.petoun,
who was bound for Albany in anticipation of
an interesting event. The distance is only
150 miles, but bad weather and violent sea
sickness made the interesting event prema-
ture. There was no other woman on board,
not even a stewardess: but Nicolson consti-
tuted himself an obstetrician and attended to
the case most capably. Both mother and
child did well, and on arrival at Albany the
skipper was complimented by local medical
men as well as being warmly thanked and
suitably recompensed by the husband. The
child —a man now—bears two front names,
Herbert Nicolson. It was fortunate for him
the ship wasn’t named Nonesuch or Koh-i-
-noor.
* * * *
“Two Seas” with a wharf-side romance:—
“Kazan’s” reluctant bridegroom (B. 21/5/’25) re-
calls the scene to me. We were hauling out of the
Sou'-West India docks to the chanty “I’ll go no
more a-rovin’ with you, fair maid,” when a girl
STUFF TWAT DREAMS ARE MADE OF.
“See that hoy—he told me last Sunday he often dreamt about me."
“Yes, and he asked me last night if I knew anything to cure night-
mares.”
standing on the pier opposite our f’c’s’le head sud-
denly burst into song. Just then the order came to
“’Vast heaving for’ard,” so we leaned on our capstan
bars and looked at her. She was obviously a factory
girl, and a pretty one, with a sweet voice. I can
still visualise her as she stood with her eyes uplifted
singing to us one of the popular ballads of those
days with a strong note of pathos in it:—
Oh, take this flower, dear love, said she,
She spoke with a tearful sigh;
That night he was going across the sea
And this was her last good-bye.
Then, as one man, we took up the chorus:—
Oh, love for a year, a week or a day;
But alas! for the love that loveth alway.
When she finished her song she threw a rose up to
the deck, and it fell at the mate’s feet. The mate
swept his eyes over the crowd inquiringly, but
no one came forward. “Who’s it for, Missie ?” he
asked. “He knows!” said the girl. Then the order
came to “Heave away for’ard,” and as we swung
out into the stream the girl waved her hand and
walked away. Twelve months later we tied up at
the same pier, and the same girl walked up the
gangway with a baby in her arms. The mate
beckoned her on to the poop. “Are you looking
for Johansen?” he asked. “Yes,” was the answer;
“how did you guess that?” “Because the blighter
tried to give me the slip at Bombay and again at
Calcutta. But I’ve been saving him up for you.”
He turned to me with “Pass the word for’ard for
Johansen, and see that he doesn't make a pier-head
jump for it.” The crew invited themselves to the
wedding.
* * « *
“Wizard”: Speaking of mock duels, one
that I am never likely to forget occurred in
Victoria a good many years ago. the con-
testants being two lads- in a boarding-school.
One, who was markedly gullible, was warned
by the other against calling too often at the
house of his (No. 2’s) intended; the warning
being disregarded, a challenge was issued
and duly accepted. There was'.no lack of
stage management. The principals, their
seconds and a bogus doctor all assembled on
the beach at dawn. The pistols were loaded
with blank cartridges and the duellists faced
one another at 10 paces. It was arranged
that when they fired the challenger was to
drop, which lie did in a manner that would
have reflected credit on any actor. The
alleged medico examined him, also in accord-
ance with the programme, and dramatically
announced “Dead ! Shot through the heart.”
Then the other principal suddenly dropped,
too; the only difference was that when he
was examined he was dead —dead from shock.
I was the “doctor.”
“X2X”: The criminal classes lean towards
bizarre tattooing: prison officials could tell
some strange stories of specimens of the art
carried by their charges. There is a house-
breaker at present serving a sentence who
carries a realistic picture on his chest
of a corpse dangling on the end of a rope.
Another convict, a past graduate in assault
and robbery, has a
decoration in the
phallic line on the
same part of his
body. A murderer
exec ut e d some
years ago had a
circle of small por-
traits tattooed
right, around his
waist to represent
a belt, the gallery
consisting entirely
of notorious crimi-
nals. The subject
of such tattooings
is almost always a
morbid and grisly
one, or else some-
thing of a sexual
nature, often hid-
eously perverted.
“Albatross”: I
have been ship-
mates with two
Jews (B. 21/5/’25).
One, a cook in a
windbag, had negro
blood in him, but
I don’t suppose
this rules him out.
His narn e was
Isaac Cohen, and.
incidentally, he
made the rottenest
“dog’s body” I
ev e r assimilated.
The other, a boy of
18, was an ordi-
uary seaman. His
racial characteris-
tics showed them-
selves when he
started to make a
book on the day’s
run, the odds being
laid in plugs of
tobacco. The sur-
plus tobacco Reu-
ben Levi accumu-
lated he sold back
to his shipmates at
slop-chest rates.
But he didn’t stick
to the sea, two years of it was enough for
him. Then he went into “peeznes” in Ply-
mouth.
* * * *
“Briny” : The persistent Mr. Snodgrass is
still certain that Australia can get more rain
whenever its Parliament likes to say the
word. Plis idea is that when a likely-looking
cloud drifts along in a dry season steps
should be taken to put salt on its tail. “As
salt,” says the ingenious Mr. Snodgrass,
“will dissolve in moistures at 15 degrees
centigrade, which is equivalent to 69 degrees
Fahr., mixed with sand, I argue that, if
it is distributed in an enlarging circular
course over the thick heavy rain-bearing
cloud-masses that move across Australia (see
Job xxxvii, 11), many of which do not
precipitate until reaching the more saline
atmosphere of the sea and coast.’ it will
open up the clouds, and they will respond
and produce rain “over the limited areas
operated over and upon.” The meteorologist
in a dry season will keep his eye open for
any cloud formation that may venture to
cross the brazen sky. Having seen it, he
will order out the aeroplane, call for the
salt bag, and, taking his seat, mount into
the heavens, and, getting well astride of the
cloud, throw far and wide his salt and sand.
The reference to Job in the description of
the process suggests that if the first salting
does not succeed it might be well to send up
a second ’plane with more salt and sand,
accompanied by, say, an archbishop or, at
least, a minor canon, though whether either
dignitary should be dumped into the cloud
also the recipe does not say. The proposal
has been submitted to several high officers
of State, but, apparently, they have with
one consent begun to make excuse. How-
ever, Mr. Snodgrass is still hopeful.
* » * *
Her shingle costs my lady linlf-a-crown
Each other week or so,
Merely to keep the wild luxuriance down
With which it used to grow.
i Wherefore must we revise the ancient story:
A woman's hair is her half-crowning glory.
N.S.w. BART.
(Continued on page 16 .1
THE NAPE OF HER NECK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The nape ol her neck was a nice place to kiss
The flapper who flourished two seasons from this.
When you felt you were safe from a chilling- rebuff
And the chance of the girl going off in a huff.
The thrill it inspired gave a moment of bliss.
The same anatomical spot in a Miss
of to-day, pressed with lips (in a parenthesis),
Will cause you to feel you are “right in the
rough,”
The nape of her neck.
The stubble is prickly; you need artifice
To pretend you enjoy it immensely, I wis ;
You feel you have struck quite a different stuff,
And your lips of the gesture have soon had enough.
No place for a fashion so barbarous is,
The nape of her neck.
S.A.
F. E. R.


PROVIDED that the quality and price are equal, every true Australian chooses local
productions in preference to importations.
But when the quality is infinitely superior and the price lower, then patriotism and
commonsense combined are overwhelming arguments in favour of the Australian article.
Hence the ever increasing popularity of
Gramps ORLANDO WINES (S. Aust.)
PORT, HOCK, CLARET, FRONTIGNAC.
The fact that they won special gold medals against all-corners at Wembley Brewers’
Exhibition is definite proof of their superiority.
Agents: GATTINO & CO** LTD.) 39-41 York Street* Sydney.
“Life Line”: Like “Albatross” (B.
21/5/’25), I sometimes wonder if there is
anything in palmistry. On the way to the
Big Scrap our padre held a seance on the
boat-deck one afternoon. “I don’t see any
fighting in your hand,” he told one young-
ster ; the same boy contracted rheumatic-
fever as we lay in Lemnos Harbor a week
before the Landing, and was sent back to
Australia. “I see sickness and wounds,
honors and promotions,” he told another.
This Digger had pneumonia, was wounded
three times, and returned to Australia hung
all over with decorations. Two others were told
by the Reverend —in fact, Very Reverend —
seer that their future was not clearly revealed ;
later he confided to me that neither would
last very long, and both were killed in the
first week at Anzae. But I still wonder if
there really is anything in palmistry, for I
myself was told of wealth in store for me.
and “Time is slipping underneath my feet.”
* * * *
“Roundsman”: When one McFarlane, an
employee of the Defence Department in Vic-
toria, snapped his fingers at a constable for
charging him with a breach of the State
Motor-car Act, he could hardly have antici-
pated how much work he was providing for
the lawyers. Grant, P.M., held that the
State Act did not apply to a Defence De-
partment official on duty, and the State
thereupon appealed to the Vic. Full Court.
When that stage was reached counsel for
the Federal Government, which had thrown
its cloak over McFarlane, invoked Sections
38 (a) and 40 (a) of the Commonwealth
Judiciary Act to, support his contention that
the High Court possesses exclusive juris-
diction in such matters, and asked that ti ie
case be remitted to that tribunal. The
State Full Court ordered the papers to be
NO IMPROVEMENT.
“By Jove, I was a fool when I married you!”
“Yes, dear; and I did hope you would alter!”
endorsed, transferring the case; but the Vic.
Government, having been advised that the
two sections of the Judiciary Act were un-
constitutional, got busy, and just in the ni k
of time got leave from the Privy Council to
appeal to itself, mainly for the purpose
of settling the constitutional point. Mean-
while, the appeal came before the IL’gh
Court, which took umbrage at the woy the
State had sought to usurp its jurisdiction.
As the matter stands, it looks as if the H : gh
Court and the Privy Council will be trvi”g
to straighten out the matter simultaneously.
John Taxpayer will pay the bill, whatever
the ultimate decision may be. So far as he
is concerned it is merely a question whether
the money will come out of his right-hand
pocket or his left.
“Hasen”: “Feng-Sliui” (B. 21/5/’2s>
might be less glad about the immunity from
prosecution of Chinese herbalists if he had
seen a few of the many cases that drift into
any big public hospital after weeks or months
of Ah Fat’s attention has given them the
necessary time to become hopeless. It is
EFFICIENCY.
THE LADY: “I want a hat in the very latest style.”
THE PERFECT SALESMAN : “Ah, Madam, might I trouble you to wait two little minuter
—the fashion is just changing!”
just this touching credulity that has brought
into hospital dozens of these easily-recalled
cases (in my own experience, that is; God
knows the unpleasant total of a general esti-
mate) too late for effective interference —-
cases, unlike that of “Feng-Shui’s” quoting,
in which during Oh Slim’s curing of “pain,
in the bowels,” the appendical abscess has
burst, with a resulting terrible peritonitis
and an ugly death; cases of advanced tuber-
culosis, nursed by the herbalist under a mis-
apprehension through the curative “bad-
cold” stage; cases of early malignant ulcers
treated as simple sores, malignant joints as
rheumatic and so on. Grant that the Chir k
medicine-man may right a callous constipa-
tion or “make the average person sweat his
boots off,” the veriest medical tyro with
the tiniest smatteri”g of the pharmacopoeia
can do the same. But, also, he can mostly
make a pretty fair shot at diagnosing condi-
tions which drive Mee No into the mists of
his mumbo-jumbo. Unfortunately _ there _is
nothing upon which mankind insists with
quite such firmness as upon being gulled in
matters of health.
* * * *
“Wanchai” : A Melbourne bank got a plea-
sant surprise lately. Many years ago a
trusted officer absconded with over £20.000.
,\ week previously he had booked his passage,
for Holland. Tie left fir bmk one Thurs-
day at the lunch hour, boarded the vessel a
few minutes later, sailed under an assumed
name and got clean away. In Holland he
became a rnturalis-d Dutch citizen, and by
and bye left for Colombo where he com-
menced to trade as a tea-mer°lmnt. He pros-
pered materially, his true identity remaining
quite unsuspected, though he retained his
Dutch citizenship as a safeguard against
discovery. Later he married, probably
it was his family mmousib’litDs which
promn+ed him eventually to commumeute
with the bank a”d offer to refund the stolen
funds, plus cowoound interest fit the rate
of 7 pc. for "11 the inter"en ; ng veers, on
th" understand I’"g 1 ’"g that the institution wo”ld
“erv quits.” The accepted the offer,
which was duly carried out.
“Ex-D’g ”: TV “privates’ batman” is to
pfi-i-o hffi introduction to the Aust r °lian
Artillery units and Armv F"gi”eers Corns,
hitfierto haughty ams which disguised the
firat rung on the ffiAUer of p i -n~ i ot ; on under
other names. Bomb"rdi" I 's a"d secernd-cor-
norals are to to nwke room for
tt)r> “ TI batma 11 ” w°s
nrob"blv the b'st D-Va-w effort t n tabulate
t-V.. D~/»n--inck: a lengthp>r defi-it : ou w"s:
“The bloke who does all the work that the
yWhr-pc. d' l "' l ?m A fWfc 1-Vir
that travel down from the Iwads for it.” A
Digger once suggested that, the corporal
being the most useful man in the army (a
favorite A.I.F. excuse for the non-promotion
of some splendid soldier was ui u _n r.
are any amount of men we can make officers
of, but we’re darned short of good cor-
porals”) , the lance was created so as to give
him something to kick.
“Borom”: America may be the first coun-
try to perfect a method of transmitting com
plete sets of criminals’ finger-prints by tele-
graph (B. 28/5/’25), but an Australian long
ago devised a system by which a numerical
description of prints can be used for exactly
the same purpose, enabling a suspect to be
identified as quickly and surely as if a copy
of his finger-prints were available. The sys-
tem consists of giving a numerical or letter
value to each type and variation of the dif-
ferent whorls and spirals; these are so
classified for such purposes that any set of
dactylographs can be quickly reduced to its
numerical formula. The row of figures and
letters is then telegraphed; it has helped to
put more than one dangerous crook in gaol,
and has even been used by cable. Nobody
seems to know anything of its inventor
except that he was an official in one of the
Australian identification bureaus.
* * * *
“Gouger”: I remember being very hungry
one ble°k morning on Gallipoli. We’d just
been warned to be very careful of our bully-
be"f biscuit ration as the submarine
campaign might prevent the landing of stores
altogether. As I passed along Shrapnel
Gully, subconsciously runnirg low past the
bad spots, I remember musing dolefully on
the prospect of semi-starvation being added
to our other hardships. Suddenly, on the
side of the gully, I saw a hand, a very
brown hand, a very shrunken hand,
smelling evilly and with a cloud of
flies humming around it. Maybe I
wouldn’t have noticed it particularly,
for these fragments of humanity were always
cropping up in unexpected places, but in
this hand was clenched—an army biscuit!
As I looked, I could almost see the humor-
ist’s strained smile as lie placed the good
biscuit in the dead man’s hand. A horrible
idea was telegraphed to my brain by my
empty stomach; but I shivered in disgust
and passed on quickly.
“Ejok” : The force of habit! It was the
last tram. lie was long and lean, bony of
knees and knuckles, with a drooping mous-
tache and a woebegone look, intensified by
the attempt he had evidently made to drown
his sorrows. Our entrance aroused him
from his brooding, and he addressed the com-
partment in general. “Left my wife this
morning,” he informed us. “Left ’er for
good. Couldn’ stand it any longer. No
man could. So I got out before she was up.
I wasn’t cornin’ back. See,” and he pro-
duced from various pockets three collars, as
many handkerchiefs and a pair of socks.
He re-pocketed them sadly. “But T got
drunk since then, and I’m goin’ back. I
swore I wouldn’t, but I am. Dunno what’ll
happen when she sees me like this. She’s
bad enough when I’m sober. Gawd knows
what she'll be like now I’m drunk.” And he
relapsed on the thought.
* * * *
“W. J. Digger”: Mick was the cheeriest
runner in the A.1.F., and his soul delighted
in a scrap. He had red hair, a freckled
visage and a smile that could be heard a
mile off. There were two teeth missing from
his upper register, and his nose was battered
but unbroken. Out of the line he was
wretched and unhappy, but give him a mes-
sage for Garcia, somewhere up in the thick
of it, and his rugged countenance would
light up immediately. I came across him
the other day, and we recalled old time*.
“How are you doing now, Mick?" I asked.
“Fine,” lie assured me as they filled them
up again. “I was markin’ up to a bit ago
at the Wild-and-woolly Billiard Serloon, but
nothin’ doin’. Before that I was spruikin'
fer a picture-show, and that was worse’ll
a rest-camp. But fer the last month”- —here
the light of battle shone in his eyes—“l bin
chueker-out at the Three Jolly Sailormen
down Rough’ouse-lane.” And I could see
that interest had come back to life again.
# •» * *
“Hasen” : “Bagman’s" par. (B. 14/5/'25)
re quaint letters to travelling medical-officers
recalls one that came to a unit of the Hook-
worm Campaign in Queensland. The writer, an
cx-Digger with an evident recollection of offi-
cial correspondence, put it this way : “Hook-
worm Disease, Officer-in-Charge.—Dear Sir,
Having heard that you are travelling for
the said disease, and wanting treatment, I”
.... However, the intimate details that fob
WHAT MY HUSBAND DOES.
“When I have a row with my man he
takes me in his arms and gives me a
wonderful kiss.”
“When I have a rote with mine he takes me
in his car and gives me a wonderful hat.”
lowed showed that his complaint was an alto-
gether more widespread and less innocent
one. He explained later that he had seen
the twisted outline of an illustration of that
unpleasant germ, the spirochaete, and had
concluded that the Campaign, too polite to
call a spade a spade, had hit on this subtl?
alias.
THE MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The reason for the murder is still a complete
mystery.... Apparently, the dead man had no
friends.” —Press report. ■
The murder is a mystery;
The corpse is now on view;
But to its gory history
There’s not a bloomin’ clue,
And Gawd knows if the ruddy thing
Will clear up in the end.
‘Go can have done the bleedin’ thing?—
’E ’adn’t got a friend!
It’s really very curious,
Although it would be clear
If ’e’d a mate penurious,
Or pretty full of beer.
The cause of death deficiently
Supplies a relic grim—
’Oo was it cared sufficiently
To spoil an axe on ’irn?
A mystic death ’as conquered ’im.
P’raps, in the dim, cold morn,
’ls brother might ’ave stonkered ’im—
But ’e’d no brother born,
it makes a bloke feel shivery
To think that, though no friend,
Some blighter ’oo’s turned livery
Can bring ’im to ’is end.
VICTORIA.
HAROLD HARDUPP.
THE REPUTABLE GUNMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Nicholson, the Chief Commissioner of Police,
suggests that any citizen of repute who has fust
reasons should be permitted to carry a revolver.”
Your brain-wave, Mr. Nicholson, is one that does you
credit;
I hope that the authorities agree.
A loaded automatic—the Commissioner has said it—■
Shoul 1 be allowed to such as you and me ;
To justify our potting, I presume in open season,
The human pests that blight the earth we can
produce good reason.
There’s the man with the loud speaker, with his jazz
and bedtime story ;
The man whose motor roars and coughs at night- -
They each deserve to meet a fate both summary and
gory ;
’Twould please me much to shoot them both at
sight.
The man who spoils a play because he knows and
tells the plot
Deserves to die in boiling oil; I would not have
him shot.
But when all these are pushing up the daisies, thei’e
remain
Two men far worse than infidel or Turk —
The scoundrel who composed the song abolishing the
rain
And the human fiend who first invented work....
And yet on second thoughts a doubtful element I see—•
For all 1 know some blighter may come gunning
after me !
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


LADIES!
Win a Trousseau worth £lOO
FOR ONE SHILLING.
The Golden Egg Art Union, in aid of St. Margaret’s Hospital, where I/- a
keeps a baby a clay, gives you the chance to win
A Beautiful Trousseau. . £lOO
Groceries worth £lOO
Furniture worth £lOO
Men’s Wear worth .... £lOO
Edison Phonograph, Books
and Tools £lOO
FOR lI-
SEND 5/- TO
The Secretary. Golden Egg Art Union, Box 2755 G.P.0., Sydney for 5 Tickets.
Space generously donated by Southern Cross Assurance Co.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTP.AU A) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped
and Works in the Commonwealth tor
Steel Foundry
production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders Si.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank, ok Austkalia (Mel-
bourne) To Re .
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£• £
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 S p.c. = 12,000 7,485 260,401
Sept., 1916.. 19 590 8 „ „ 12.000 (,590 2G(,991
Alar 1917 22 104 8 ~ „ 12,000 10,164 2<8,100
S C pt’ 1917 22 807 8 12,000 10,307 288 462
Mar" 1918“ 25,256 8 „ „ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept" 1918.. 20’13U 8 „ „ 12.000 14,180 31o,o9»
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 „ „ 12,000 1..413 333,311
Sent 1919 41 489 9 ~ ~ 22.500 18.989 302 300
Mar.',’ 1920“ 4<Vi96 10 ” 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept., 1920.. 55,230 10 „ ~ 25,000 30,230
Premiums on new shares, 140,000.. 444, „2j
Mar., 1921.. 59,194 10 p.c. = 37,500 21,694 460,919
Sept., 1921.. 58,216 10 „ „ 37,500 20 <l6 486.03 j
Mar. 1922.. 58 722 10 „ ~ 37,500 21,222 50(,8,>7
Sept" 1922.'. 58392 10 „ „ 37,500 20,892 528,749
Mar" 1923.. 60,913 10 „ „ 37,500 23,413 552 162
Sept. 1923.. 61,643 10 „ ~ 37,500 24,143 5(6,.,05
Mar. 1924.. 62,196 10 „ „ 37,500 24,696 601,001
Sept.' 1924.. 62 533 10 ~ ~ 37,500 25,033 626,034
Mar.,’ 1925.. 63,363 10 „ „ 37,500 25,863 651.897
That looks like quick progress; but it took
the Royal a long while to get any sort ot a
move on, and even now there tire ,l ei_t vw
spurs nor whip on the premises. Still, it is
an exceptionally solid little business; and a
good many others have looked longingly to-
wards it—on those foundations there are
people who think they could build faster.
Shareholders, however, have not much reason
to complain. Even on market price the 10
p.c. gives them a decent 6 p.c. or 7 p.c.;
year by year the disclosed profits move up
just a trifle, which presumably is the Boardls
way of intimating that things are steadily
improving; and even if all the profits are
disclosed less than three-fifths of them are
distributed. This last is a matter of unusual
importance to many of the shareholders;
for of the 390,000 £4 shares issued no less
than 270.000 are paid to only £l, and the
holders of this lot live in hopes of all or part
of the other £3 being called for. The big
lay-by will, of course, if the profit is main-
tained, make it easy to pay 10 p.c. on a
larger paid capital presently.
If the bank wanted to launch out it plainly
could get plenty of money to do it tvith. its
deposits have increased much faster of late
than its advances :
Liabilities.
March,’l4. March,’24. March,’2s.
Notes .. £1,103 £B4O £B4O
Bills etc." .. 59,322 298,349 399,363
Free deposits .. 833.490 1.997,072 1,977,249
Fixed deposits .. 1,491,800 2,774,763 3,085,670
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1.261,233 1,884.688 2,194.310
Advances .. 1,590.682 4,419 338 4,650,810
Premises, etc*. . . 62,965 155,5Q0 15(,400
The bank on March 31 owed the public
£5 463 122. Of that £2,194,310 was lit Id
liauid,’ leaving £3,268,812 of deposits and
other liabilities to be covered advances
and premises with a book value ot £4, rOS.Ai u.
Those assets could thus lose almost a million
and a half in value before depositors would
know anxiety. Fixed deposits have increased
by over £310,000 in 12 months; and the bu'k
of the money was still held liquid on March
31. The position in this respect was un-
necessarily strong; and until the bank can
see its way to lot out more money there seems
no good reason for getting in more capital.
And from another point of view there isn t
any immediate need of more capital, not-
withstanding the recent increase of deposits
the Royal still holds only £3 18s. of the pub-
lic’s money for every £1 of its own fund;.
The figures make it look as if it
wants a larger borrowing connection. It b.-'.s
done exceedingly avcll ; in_the March half ot
1915 gross profits were £35,166 and now they
are £108,633. But, assuming that remunera-
tive business can be got, it has all the
materials available for doing still bettei.
The*Coi.oNTAL*Mtmr l Life Assukance
Society, Ltd.-
OniHNAUY Department
Ex- Written Added to
Dec Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
1900. . £406,428 £218,526 £77,735 £67,969 £42.198
1905 . 461,663 281.453 101.078 £50,000 29,13*.
1910 557.103 333,339 115.976 107, (OS
1914 243 327,210 125,302 11,182 104,489
1915“ 616 237 318.307 92.326 11.081 194.523
191(l“ 649.440 367,261 99.698 10,724 171.757
1917 692 062 368.618 112.911 8.175 202.358
1918“ 732.389 414.448 109.982 7.473 200.186
1919 790.102 434,797 129,775 5.580 219.950
1920.. 880.031 344.660 144.684 4.303 386.384
1921 932 177 424.255 160.840 14.340 332.(42
1922.. 972.331 446.662 154.156 4.283 367.230
1923 1,042.210 481,770 164.889 1 817 393.713
1924! .1,123,881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403 645
Tl.o Ordinary branch has passed the million
.mark and is still moving forward. In the
glow of its latest success the niglitmaie
period during which the co.’s progress fell
to a snail’s pace and ex-employees made
£ rave but unfounded charges against the
management is almost forgotten New
business written last year amounted t
£3 389 436 in 10,008 policies, wlncn sur-
oassed the £3,227,737 of 1912. It. took a
long time for the new blood, starting out
with a heavy handicap, to exceed the old
record; but it has been done at last:
1880 .. £823,210 I 1918 •• £1,654,400
1890 .. 1,880,800 1919 .. 2.20/.923
1900 .. 610.638 I 1920 .. 2,482,385
Q 99 401 1921 .. 2,5/8.774
1910 ’ 2 598’.247 I 1922 . - 2,317,665
1019 3,227,737 I 1923 .. 2,816,327
1915 . . 1,298,248 I 1924 . . 3,389,436
Certainly there is this to favor the manage-
ment of to-day: the average amount in-
mired is now much greater than it was
chiefly because £lBO is worth no more to a
man’s widow than £lOO was in 1911. In
1912 13,( 43 policies were written tor; an
average of £237 ; last year’s figure was £3oB.
Actually, therefore, since to provide msui
mice equal to what was considered adequate
in pre-war days means taking out almost
twice as much cover, the old record is the
better of the two. .
The proportion of ordinary income neces-
sary to satisfy claims has fallen consider-
ably : in 1910 it was 60 p.c.: m 1920, 4 ....
p.c.: last vear. 45.7 p.c.—quite satisfactory.
In the matter of expenses there lias been im-
provement, on the whole:
EXPENSES COMPARED WIT" TOTAL INCOME,
1905 .'. £2l 17 10 p.c.- 1918 ..£l5 0 4 p.c.
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ 1919 .. 16 8 6 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 ” 1920 .. 16 8 10 „
1914 .. 19 19 8 „ 1921 •• 1.5 1 „
1915 .. 14 19 7 „ 1922 .. 15 17 1
1916 .. 15 7 0 „ 1923 .. la J ”
1917 .. 16 6 4 „ 1924 .. 1/10 3 „
That looks like a substantial increase. But
new business costs money, and, although
some comes to the older concerns without
much effort or outlay, by far the most of it
has to be won in the face of competition from
the young concerns whose enthusiasm, gener-
ally speaking, is not qualified by economy.
The Colonial Mutual’s figure will be easily
excused if the business written sticks, tor
although it is not comparable with the
£9 19s. of the A.M.P. last year it still is
well within reason. Calculating on the basis
that old business costs 7 p.c., and charging
the balance of exes, to new business, last
year’s rate was 110 p.c. compared with 108
pc. for 1923. 123 p.c. for 1922 153 p.c. for
1914 and 172 p.c. for 1913. On the other arbi-
trary assumption that new business costs 10
times as much as old. renewals cost 9.7 pc.
last year and new writings 97 p.c. compared
with 9.5 and 95 p.c. respectively for 1923
and 12.1 and 121 p.c. in 1914. Recent
figures show a steadiness that gains in com-
parison because of the increasing costs ot
previous years. On the other hand figures
prior to 1917 were affected by the low pre-
mium rates which the Colonial Mutual
adhered to until it found that the average
insurer attached far more importance to what
he got back in the form of bonuses than to
what he had to pay in the first place as
premiums. Bonuses, by the way, are largely
helped by an increased interest rate: —
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 .. £3 17 11 p.c. I 1919 .. £4 16 0 p.c.
1910 .. 4 3 10 „ I 1920 .. 4 17 9 „
1915 .. 4 9 11 „ I 1921 .. 50 5 „
1916 . . 4 10 5,, I 1922 . . 5 2 6 „
1917 .. 4 10 11 „ I 1923 .. 5 2 11 „
1913 .. 4 13 10 „ ! 1924 .. 5 1 _ 5 ~
That compares pretty well with the £5 11s.
lid. of the A.M.P.; for the figures in tins
case represent the interest after taxes pay-
able on investment income have been charged.
With increased earnings from interest and
a lessening in claims and expenses, the sur-
plus was quite handsome. Total funds
(£6 656116') were found by actuary-seer"-
tnrv Pull-ar to be £305 511 in excess of polmy
liabilities, earnings being assumed on a 34
p.c. basis. So bonuses on the higher scale
fixed for 1923 were paid the practice of
paying the premiums in the case of old poli-
cies being again adopted.
The Industrial department belongs to re-
cent years. It is making splendid progress,
although for long it was a heavy drain on
Ordinary, the “extension of organisation
account swelling to huge proportions. It
was steadily worn down, however, and there
is now no intangible in the balance-sheet.
That is very good. The Colonial Mutual
certainly has worked its Industrial well, and,
by the “non-forfeiture provision” in poli-
cies. which protects policy-holders from
lapses through temporary causes, and bv
welfare schemes, has won a goodwill the
value of which it would he lmrd to estim° f e.
Bonuses are paid which also help. The
year’s expansion was substantial: —
Industrial Department.
Inmm». dims. Exnoosps. FiwHs.
1914 .. £97,036 £15,476 £49.623 £19,267
1915 ... 104.807 18.809 48,735 56,030
1916 121,308 15.616 ,51.24 a 110. 9<;
1017 .. 138.4 '<8 21.530 48.234 179.621
1018 155.253 20.158 50.595 2*4 I*l
1919 .. 174.605 20,096 57,405 361.225
1920 .. 211.184 14.156 65."30 4"3 °-> <
1921 . . 225.847 27,848 76,585 614.638
1009 251 4'3 43.962 77.718 744.410
1003 ” 297 "S 3 61.912 106.608 879 873
1924 .. 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
Funds were found by the actuary to exceed
the liabilities under policies by £55,498, and
£48.457 of it was used to pay bonuses on the
same scale as last year. The first bonuses
followed the 1921 valuation, and by yearly
increases are now twice as great as the first.
In its child-welfare activities the society is
rendering a social service, besides, no doubt,
doing itself some good. It has 15 nurses con-
tinually employed.
Bonuses are also paid on Accident policies,
but progress has not been very raiiid,
although last year the branch shared in the
general improvement: —
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funis.
1913 .. 11.875 5748 4«20 1807
1914 .. 10.517 3103 4540 2808
1915 .. 12.250 3480 5978 2792
1916 .. 13.238 4275 6110 2853
1917 .. 13,550 4451 6438 2661
1918 I! 13/J7l 4518 6498 2890
1919 .. 15.917 6045 7063 2809
19“>o .. 17.620 6231 8174 3210
1921 .. 18.817 5193 9215 4409
1922 .. 18,575 6774 8641 3160
IQO.s 21.880 5981 10,739 4660
1924 . . 27,290 7599 14,329 5362
The foot tint the Colonial Mutual was the
first Australian office to pay bonuses on
Accident policies has apparently not helped
much. The position of the branch is never-
theless strong: in .addition to the provision
for uneven red r’sks there is a general reserve
of -HO 951. The surplus for the year was
£SONO. and the bonus recommended by the
actuary was 2 p.c. compared with the special
21 p.c. of 1928.
There has been a big change in the form
of the Colonial Mutual's assets in the past
20 years. the -P7.712.1P5 at December 81
(combining all funds) being placed in the
following proportions:—
1904. 1914. 1920. 1924.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities and de-
bentures 9.5 22.7 63.5 62.3
Mortwm .. .. .. 39-2 37.3 13.4 16.3
Freeholds, etc. .. •• 23.8 21.9 12.6 Hat
Cash and deposits .. 5.7 5.5 1.6
Other assets.. .. .. 21.8 12.6 8.9 10.0
Cash and deposits, always small items, have
disappeared from the balance-sheets since
1922. a sign that funds are not allowed to
remain idle. But loans on policies on
December 31 were r 567,992. and this Column
would prefer to see that item clipped witn
a large pair of shears. The amount of mort-
giie’os is growing, and that is not a bid
thing either if extreme caution is exercised
mid tlie money isn’t used to assist specula-
tors and others to put up more city offices
for indent agents and commission hounds.
In 1922 the old Equitable building in Mel-
bourne was bought for £280,000. It is in-
teresting to recall that it cost the Yankee
co £OOO,OOO to erect in the boom of the
’eighties. The purchase has disturbed the
percentage but little, and £62 out of
every £lOO of assets is in gilt-edged securi-
ties. And that figuring is all tlie better
because there h°s been liberal writing-down
of assets—£23l,so7 since 1904. #
MoDowet.t.S, Ltd., formerly McDowell and
Due-lies T,td.. which was reconstructed m
1920. eight fnlly-paids being given for every
five shares held goodwill given a book value
of £lO 093. and leases written up ( ! n the table
tlie goodwill of this Sydney retail drapery
store has not been treated as an "Sset) : .
Towards
Dividends , Re-
Feb Profit Pref. Old. Total, serves. Deficit.
1921*.. /s 274 8 p.c. 7 p.c. £4970 £304 £16.389
192 a 5 (jt9 8 „ 5 ~ 5 42 16,50'-,
1923 11.464 8 ~ 71 „ 8284 3180 13,37-
£26 I°o of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 14 606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5.976 9,29/
1925 i : 27J60 8 .. 121.. 10.588 17,172 26,469
* Eight months.
It was a golden year for McDowells, lo
win a- profit almost twice as fr*e"t as that
of the previous year in face of keen com-
petition is an achievement. Quick selling
lines and a management which lmew its
public partly explain tlie record. Turnover
was much greater than in 1923 24: gross
profits amounted to -692 403 compared wTh
£"1.732: and net profits fallowing £BOO tor
the prefs.) were equal to 30 p.c. on ordinary
capital T" addition to expanses and depre-
ciation £3360 was nut aside fm- taxafon
But good stock won’t always sell itself, and
there is a limit to wliat even good salesmen
can do Lately, in most Australian ciies,
but particularly in Svdney, money has been
spent more freely than ever before; and
Generally sneaking, the woman have bad
more than their ordinary slml-e. Just what
has brought tin’s about it is hard to say
And it is emmlly bard to sav bow long it
v-ill last. The person says,
of course, that the s’ Ik stocking and motor-
car O’-a will soon run u s course. But will
it 7 No doubt there will be plenty of times
when we shall rot have the money to spand
that we have Imd latelv. Wool won’t often
fetch recent pr'-ms. °nd wheat crops won t
lm as good. But the production of most
tbii'o-s b°« baen so enormously improved that
we arc infinitely better off than we mere even
few vears ago. So. though th" draper has
Iven in a patch of extra-good Dover l«1-»ly.
the ehanees are that, generally spaakwg.
lie is going to have a much larger turnover
in the future than he had in the past, and
the public buying won’t be so keen.
Perhaps with something of that sort in
its mind, McDowells is seeking fresh capital,
and 88,309 ordinaries are offered to share-
holders at par—one for each pref. or ord.
now held. Existing leases expire shortly,
and the co. is seeking its own freehold.
Bricks and mortar are not the most directly
profitable asset, but retail drapers must
be in the shopping district, and security or
tenure almost necessarily means nowadays
purchase of freehold. The shares are offered
o s gci. each application and allotment, with
the balance in six calls, spread over 12
months. Shares paid in full will rank for
div. on the full amount as from the date
paid. The directors “are convinced” that
the co. will be able to pay divs. “in keeping
with the co.’s ordinary rate” on the full
capital. The ordinary div. last year was
10 p.c. (24 p.c. was by way of bonus) ; on
the new capital that will call for £16,661.
although the current year’s divs. will be
less owing to the spread of the calls. East
year's profits were over £ll,OOO in excess
of the full amount, and the management re-
ports increased business already in the cur-
rent term. The balance-sheet discloses this
position:- im 1923 1924 1926
Liabilities .. £7,217 £9,243 £6,955 £456
Leaseholds, etc. .. 21,501 21,490 11,2*6 11,58,>
Stock .. 60,411 64.509 63,011 58,800
Book debts . . 18.078 21,147 22,893 23,078
Cash, etc... .. 3,543 3,963 14,696 32,046
With -only £456 owing, and all but £11,583
of the £125 507 of assets in a more or less
liquid form, the position is remarkably
strong. Further, providing the management
can hold its business connection, the 10 p.c.
div. looks easy. . #
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Profit Profit on
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. (7 p.c.) serves.
Dec 1916. . £2907 £195 £3102 £2678 £39,729
June, 1917.. 2714 83 2797 2678 39,848
(8 p.c.)
Dec, 1917.. 2891 241 3132 3061 39,919
June 1918.. 2983 2983 3061 39,841
Dec ’ 1918 3088 120 3208 3061 39,9^8
rw 1019 3210 3210 3061 40,108
88:: gjg
Dec., 1920.. 3009 - 3009 3061 | 38 ,96!
Written off, £1399 )
tune 1921.. 3011 3011 3061 38,911
Dec.,’ 1921.. 3639 3639 (174 pc ) 39,489
June, 1922.. 3938 3938 6705 36,722
(8 p.c.)
Dpc IQ9 2 3507 3507 3061 37.16 S
June, lltl. 3373 - 3373
Dec., 1923.. 3347 3347 3826 37,001
Tunc 1924 5307 5307 3826 38,48..
Dec.,’ 1924.. 3903 - 3903 3826 38,559
Old Land Mortgage Bank shareholders have
little interest in last half-year’s profits, nor
in those of any since 1913. In that year
Freehold Assets, which was nursing tne
b-'oken-down Freehold Investment and Bank-
ing Co. of Vic., took over this other derelict,
paying 12s. per share; and it is reported
to hold all but a few thousand of the 145,7711
on the register. The last of the properties
was sold in 1914 and the co. has been gathering
up the payments since. Now the management
has got the old derelict off the rocks, and
is steering her back into the old business
route again. In Dec., ’23, she earned £sob3
of deposits. At Dec., ’24, the amount was
£131,452. Here are three chapters ot the
strange, eventful history :
Dec.,’l2. Dee.,’23. Dec.,’24.
Mortgages .. •• £7,561 £44,222 £63,734
Balances owing .. 52,256 1*,913 90J321
Cash, debentures, etc... 39,403 61,000 96,528
Total assets £100,193 £ 123,135 £251,08*.
Liabilities .. •• 50 5,778 132,169
Net assets .. £100,143 £117,357 £118,914
The exes, are very light, the concern being
managed from Freehold Assets ofhee. otiJj,
it is quite amazing that, despite the growth
in deposits and corresponding expansion m
assets, managerial expenses should bo no
more than £1155 (including taxation) com-
pared with £947 in the June half. After Fo -
ment of the div. there were net tangibles
with a book value of £115.088 to represen
£70.529 of capital, or 15s. 9d. for each
share paid to 10s. 6d. An excellent return
to Freehold Assets, Ltd., seeing that it has
averaged almost 8f p.c. p.a. on its purchase.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a deficit of £2930, representing
preliminary expenses: —
1 To Reduce
Dec. Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1915.. £3076 5 p.c. = £1750 £1326 £99
Loss.
1916. . 1092 „ 1191
Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 2072 2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. = 2450 349 1230
1919 3561 8,, „ 2800 *6l 1991
1920!. 4538 10 „ „ 35C0 1038 3029
19?1 4174 8„ „ 2800 1374 4403
1922.. 4305 8„ „ 2800 1505 5908
1923.. 6618 10 „ „ 3500 3118 6026
1924.. 5892 10 „ „ 3500 2392 11,418
(Continued on page V. 9.)


THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
"The Tariff-reduction platform agreed upon by the Nationalist and Country parties in Westralia is expected to produce a crisis which may wreck the Bruce- Page Government.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The IJuu.etin Office. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/(5 per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney; and Taylor and Elliotts, Charlotte
Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
Reports continue to be emphatically favorable to
Pioneer Wood Pipe. One from the Town Clerk at
Oamaru, N.Z„ says: “It is now some years since
we first gave a trial order for wood pipes manu-
factured by the A-ustralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
used, for watennains, and so far they have proved quite
satisfactory. They possess distinct advantages in
their lightness and the ease with which they are
joined and connections made. The fact that this
Council has placed several repeat orders speaks
for itself.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.-— Advt.
* * * *
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product ot many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. They
produce a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp.
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part of the plant. The price of a two-
light plant, complete and installed, is only £2O.
There is practically no additional cost, the only
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station—positively no wages or train fares.
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sidney,
N.S.W.—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
«■■*»•*
. IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Fodijn” Steam Waggons.
‘‘.Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd.. Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. —Advt.
Babcock A Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimvvade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * • •
The pvdney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
panv, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.—AdvT.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.
ESTATES UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £9,000,000.
This Company lias over thirty-seven years’ experience in the control of all
classes of estafe. It guarantees to its clients absolute security, continuity
of service, expert handling of trust matters and the elimination of all the
disadvantages of the individual trustee. TlieDirectors are men of high standiug
in the community, and the officers of the Company are always available
to clients.
Arrange an interview or write for Booklet .
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman).
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
O. E. FRIEND.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Armstrong Whitworth Pty. Ltd
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO-ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London :
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch:
Catheart House,
11c Castlereagh Street,
From the co.’s formation in 1910, until 1918,
a 5 p.c. div. w r as the only refreshment share-
holders had. Since 1918 conditions have
been improving, and last year’s profits were
equal to 16.8 p.c. on capital: £3500 went m
a 10 p.c. div. and the balance was added to
reserves. Original shareholders have aver-
aged less than 44 p.c., and if the improve-
ment which seems likely brings them a few
pickings it will be no more than they deserve.
Among the causes for the long dry spell were
war, ’flu-epidemic, rising costs and 6 o’clock
closing.
The directors anticipate that improved
profits will accrue from alterations and addi-
tions completed too late to influence last
year’s figures. These are reflected in
balance-sheet movements
1913. 1918. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities .. £30,225 £24,771 £26,075 £27,170
Liquid assets . . 4,083 6,240 11,718 10,401
Excess liabilities. . £26,142 £18,531 £14,357 £16,769
Buildings, etc. . . 56,934 56,161 60,133 64,937
Apart from the debenture debt of £20,000
there was a surplus of liquid assets (after
paying the final div.) of £l4Bl. The posi-
tion was thus not at all uncomfortable. Con-
siderable improvements have been made to
the premises during the past, couple of years:
and profits in excess of the 10 p.c. div.
have paid for the lot, less about a thousand
pounds. Certainly Country Cousin has been
coming to the city and the seaside with ex-
ceptional rolls of wool and wheat notes in
his big brown fist during those two years ;
but even so, assuming that current repairs
and renewals have been kept up to the mark,
the performance has been very satisfactory,
and so is the outlook.
* * * *
Two lucky finds on the Northampton lead-
field are being talked of in the West. In
one cape a galena deposit was discovered by
a plough striking and breaking a piece off
the cap, and in the other two boys, while
throwing stones at birds in the bush, picked
up rocks which contained a high percentage
of lead. The finders took some of these mis-
siles to their homes, with the result that
their fathers pegged out a claim and named
it “The Boys.” Both finds are said to give
promise of opening up well.
* * * *
Brilliant (W.A.) struggles on. Aided by
calls, and assisted by the Mines Department,
it has deepened the shaft on Gnow’s Nest
mine to near 400 ft., and hopes with more
help from these sources, and possibly the
bank, to reach and open up the reef at that
point and have a market flutter. Vendors
of this show —some of the cutest mining
men in the West —sold out when all the gold
had been extracted down to 285 ft., believing
that it would he unwise to fritter away their
profit in going deeper in hard ground and
heavy water. Brilliant, convinced that it
had secured a bargain, has carried on since.
The co. may strike a fair shoot at 400 ft.,
hut all that it is likely to have left after
meeting its liabilities will be more than
swallowed up if. flushed with success, it
attempts to go deeper. Apart from the
chances of a risky market flutter, the stock
has nothing to recommend it.
A State prospecting party is now cn route
to Camden Sound, on the Kimberley (W.A.)
coast, to search for gold, copper, tin and
other metals. Alluring stories of the. mineral
wealth of that part of the West have reached
Perth from time to time, and color lias been
lent to them by the fact that in the convict
days a party under guard put into a creek
and ballasted its boat with stone, which on
reaching Fremantle was found to be very
rich in tin. Search was afterwards made for
the spot where the rock was obtained, but
it was never found.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop., which for some months
spent money like water in draining its Sand
Queen and Gladsome options at Comet Vale
(W.A.), now reckons it has succeeded. Years
ago the Sand Queen was worked by Frank
Moss and party down to 800 ft., where the
shoot, then said to be “rich as ever,” pitched
into the Gladsome. But the latter’s work-
ings were flooded from the abandoned Sand
Queen, and operations had to cease. Later
on an effort was made to drain both mines
from the Sand Queen shaft, but it was un-
successful. In all nearly half a million
sterling was extracted from these two shows,
and no ore lias, been taken from the Glad-
some below 400 ft.
Devon (W.A.) is lucky. By getting rid
of 15,000 ss. shares it has managed to carry
on for some time without making calls, but
whether good fortune will continue now that
treatment has begun is another matter.
Latest official reports state that the mine
never looked better and will soon pay ; but
that, or something similar, has been said
over and over again for years past without
shareholders getting a farthing of tlieir capi-
tal back.
“Billy See”: The suggestion (B. 7/5/’25)
of an electrically-driven central treatment
plant for the Golden Mile (W.A. I is the
right talk. Apart from staff reductions, the
clearing-away of the present mills and bat-
teries, with their heavy foundations, would
release thousands of tons of rich ore from
lodes which cannot be worked through to
the surface because of the danger of collapse.
. x . * * *
Two statements made on this page within
the last two months have been borne out by
the No. 10 Black Star shaft and the Mt. Isa
Proprietary bore, viz., that the zinc indi-
cated primary sulphide and that there have
been in recent months no prospects of a
secondary enriched zone such as Broken Hill
lias enjoyed. In each case the lode has been
tested to the vicinity of 300 ft., and at least
100 ft. below water-level. The ore is, below
the latter level, a dense fine-grained sulphide
with none of the physical characters of
leached ore, and contains uniformly, as far
as it has been possible to sample, medium
to fairly high contents of zinc sulphide, a
mineral which was entirely absent above
water-level. While all hope of an enriched
zone is gone, small pockets or bonanzas may
be met with at or near water-level; for, after
all, these immense lodes have been tapped
in onlv a few isolated spots below 7 180 ft.
The gross value of the 80ft. in the Black
Star lodes, viz., £7 a ton, as indicated in
No. 1 Prop, bore, is very promising over such
a width of primary sulphide.
* * * *
Ore supplies from the new finds at Lawn
Hills (N.Q.) will be very welcome at Chil-
lagoe, for the ore is high in silver and lead,
and the Lady Jane at Mungana, from winch
the Government smelters draw 7 most of their
best ore, has been indisposed. A couple of
months back there was a serious creep in the
Jane, and the miners had to be taken out
of the stopes. Production was stopped tem-
porarily, and has since been curtailed owing
to development work. The Jane ore runs
about 18 p.c. lead, and is a fine smelting ore;
in fact, it is the backbone of the smelters,
which would have been up Queer-street be-
fore this without her assistance.
* * * *
A few' parties still are working the auri-
ferous deep-leads around Clermont (C.Q.)
which paid very well in olden, golden days.
The last two efforts have unfortunately
proved duds. Ted Giese struck wash on the
Black Ridge, but it w r as too poor. Another
party on the Wild Cat lead struck an under-
ground flood at a depth of 160 ft., and had
to abandon the ground. It has been sheer
bad luck, and it all seems to come in a heap.
Giese is one of the diehards, and lie has
already picked another location, and is well
on the way down to try his fortune again.
* * * *
The partial eclipse still hangs over the
Blair Athol coalfield (C.Q.), and the
monthly output is only 4000 tons, divided
between three cos. The B. A. Coal Co. has
had a trying year, but a couple of weeks
ago it made its first shipment of 200 tons
of export coal, and so w r as able to take the
Government special freight rate of jd. per
ton per mile to the coast. This transaction,
small as it is, is held out as a ray of hope to
shareholders. Shareholders have had a
rough spin, reflected in the lapsing of 7000
shares through non-payment of calls. If
Blair Athol is not an ideal export fuel it
is yet a very good coal, and may earn a
standing where competition is not too high-
class. But at the present moment it is as
well to prepare for the future, for the Jd.
freight, rate is only promised for two years.
And B.A. .coal must undersell Maitland
(N.S.W.) export coal, for there are less
calories in a ton of it than in the latter.
The hope of the field lies in endeavoring to
locate the seam where the overburden won’t
be a crushing imposition and in working by
open cut. The 60ft. of overburden ruined
the last attempt at this method, and wasted
a few thousands sterling.
As a lode tin-field Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.)
is a great disappointment. Both the Sar-
dine and the Canary have been much over-
rated. Each had some very rich shoots, but
they don’t last, and the field can scarcely lay
claim to one continuous reef. The Sardine
lode channel is a big affair, but the shoots
are few and far between, and that applies
generally to the field. The old Shrimp has
never been able to get along on its own legs,
although three years back it was boosted as
a future big producer of low-grade ore. The
proof of the above is the fact that the field
has produced only nine tons of concentrates
from crusliings during the first, four months
of the year, and the price of tin and the
water-supply is O.K. The liveliest spot at
present is at Waverly, where the Castles
Dredging Co. is erecting its steam-pumping
plant and pipe line. Work is approaching
completion, and sluicing will start next
month if nothing unforeseen hapens. Some
of the ground there will touch 51b. to the
yard, but the quantity has been kept dark.
The ground was previously tested by drill-
ing by E. G. Oxley and Rolfe over three
years ago for a southern co., but the then
projected float fell through owing partly to
the large capitalisation necessary to supply
water for what appeared a limited area, and
partly to the then uncertain market. The
measured beat of a Bellis-Morcom engine
from the old H.M.A.S. Australia will be
heard in this out-of-the-way corner as soon
as operations start.
With New Long Tunnel (Vic.) glued on
to the call-list, Henry Hartrick’s swan song
is less florid. His men have punched nearly
400 ft. into the hillside in the North Long
Tunnel gully, where the giants of old days
splashed £IOO,OOO in the hunt after the Ex-
tended shoot, and didn't get a cent back.
Hartrick's shooting out goes on until three
runs of stone picked up near the surface
are cut. Further ahead is Longfellow’s reef.
None of the formations he is after ever set
Walhalla aflre in the Pearson days of big
Long Tunnel and Extended divs. Still, the
present skirmishing, even if a forlorn hope,
will settle the fate of the old field.
Hound Hill (Tas.) has for many years
been flattering the hopes of its holders, but
the promise has again been shattered by the
past year’s work. Production has been ex-
tensive : 7177 tons concentrated to 608 tons
gave 21,6200 z. silver and 345 tons lead, which
sold for £11,291. The loss was £1358; and
£ll4O went in administration exes. Calls
(£2500) had to be made to meet these excess
outgoings. Certainly a good deal of ground
has been opened up; but it is patchy.
The curtain fell on the Crown (N.S.W.)
fiasco when the directors, empowered by a
meeting, sold a plant said to have
cost £5OOO for £735 in order to appease
pressing creditors. The prospectors desired
a tribute, but the hoard declined, as the
bailiff would then have seized the assets.
Lucknow Pups (N.S.W.) No. 4 vein re-
mains short of the necessary rich “dab.”
Chased to its hanging wall, “nearly an aver-
age sample” gave loz. 24dwt. A couple of
feet away a piece carrying coarse pyrites
gave 4oz. 18dwt. and 15 p.c. arsenic to the
ton.
* * * *
South Lucknow (N.S.W.) had a parcel
crushed early last month at the old Luck-
now battery. This ore was taken from one
of the boulders which Government Geologist
Andrews avers the co.. has been operating on
in mistake for a reef. Instead of telling just
what the parcel disclosed, the office talks
about the reasons why somebody will not
become managing director, and how the drive
on the lode has developed a watery face,
“always looked upon as a good sign in the
old days.”
Bribbaree (N.S.W.) returns confirm the
Wild Cat’s old contention that the show is
one for a working syndicate instead of an
80,000-share co. The king point of the
workings is No. 2 s.-e. level, and the latest
announcement presages another disturbance
in the reef, at 170 ft. from the shaft, where
it is “much broken up, indicating close
proximity to another fault.” Stoping here and
driving there on 12in. of “medium quality,”
and rising from the back stone of No. 1 n.-w.
level on a reef averaging 20in.. “values not
too good,” are uninspiring details.
Peak Mines, Cobar (N.S.W.), has met
disturbed country in the promising winze at
the 226 ft. level. At 20ft. below the rails
assay values were lighter, reading 1350 z.
silver and llldwt. gold over a width of
24in.. then a fold came in from the east and
pinched the lode to 12in. A slide has in-
truded in the north end, and this seems
likely to throw the lode west. At the 150 ft.
level on the east: lode the drive is in 12,1 ft.
north of the main east crosscut. At 110 ft.
a sample hole bored west averaged 124dwt.
silver and 7dwt. gold over 36in.. and one
east gave lldwt. silver and 44dwt. gold.
Values elsewhere are microscopic.
* * * *
The statutory meeting of Flagstone Tin
(N.S.W.) empowered the directors to go
ahead and erect a 10-stamp mill. With the
metal above £250, hustle is desirable. The
1000 reserve shares have been issued for bat-
tery purposes, and the show is now in 4000
shares of a nominal £5 apiece. Of these
1500 are fully-paid vendors’, and 2500 con-
tribs. have £2 paid on them. The tunnel
giving over 100 ft. of backs is now in 65ft.
from the eastern side, and the lode continues
with an unbroken face, said to retain 5 p.c.
oxide. A crosscut to determine width re-
ports over 16ft. without reaching the hang-
ing wall. If there are not too many blanks
in the lode, optimism regarding the find is
justified. The locality is fashionable enough,
and local feeling is in favor of the venture.
* * * *
Kampong Kamunting (F.M.S.) recovered
716 tons tin oxide during the past 12 months
from 2,028.000 cubic yards. The product
realised £102,682, working costs (4.34 d.)
being £36.710, leaving a working profit of
£65 972. This was supplemented by £13,000
in divs. from the co.’s holding in Asam Kum-
bang, and £3276 brought in from the 1923
accounts: but depreciation and amortisa-
tion reduced the available amount to £66,761.
Four divs., giving Bs. 6d. a share, were dis-
tributed, and £7261 carried forward. Capi-
tal was reduced during the year to £70.000
in 140,000 10s. shares, and holders received
one in five in Asam Kumbang and Tliabaw-
leik. Authority lias been secured to dredge
the village of Kamunting, and No. 1 dredge
should put in six months there in 1926.
Other contiguous areas will thus be opened
up. The co. has closed with Austral Malay
and paid £lO,OOO for 363 acres at Karangan
in Kedah, about 65 miles from Taiping. The
area is said to contain 7,000,000 cub. yards
with 19ft. depth of ,771 b. ground, and will
he reserved for No. 1 dredge in 1928, after
it has cleaned up Kamunting village and
adjacent areas.


AMERICAN
FLEET WEEK
BOOK FOR
CLIFTON GARDENS
HOTEL
and view arrival of Fleet
through the Heads and coming
up the harbor.
25 Minutes from City.
Ferry service passes through the
Fleet at anchor.
Apply Manager, Mosman.
Tels.: Y 3012, 3013, 4 lines.
Cosy Slippers for Comfort.
ON cold Winter mornings wear these warm
heavyweight Check Felt Slippers. Felt
and Leather Soles.
Women’s. 5|11,«/IU/6
Men’s. . . .4/11, 6/11, 8/6
Men’s Felt Buckle Boots,
7/6, 10/6.
Send for yours to-day.
We pay postage.
Sena us
your
repairs.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
IS9 Pitt Street. 135 King Street. 22 Strand, SYDNEY ; and Burrowa Street. Young.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
The new G.-G. is a descendant of one of
the famous Scottish ironmasters who raised
Glasgow from a fishing port to a great indus-
trial centre. The founder of the family for-
tunes was “Jeems” Baird of Glensharry, a
bosom friend of James Merry, himself an
ironmaster and for many a year one of the
giants of the English turf, whereon he won
two Derbies with Thormanby and Doncaster.
Both Baird and Merry were the hardest of
cases, and there was some surprise when
Baird one day gave half a million to the
kirk o’ Scotland. “Man,” said Merry, when
he next met his crony, “whit th’ de’il liae ye
got tae dae wi’ releegion? Ah’ll bet ye a fi’-
pun’ note ye canna say th’ Board’s Prayer.”
“Dune wi’ ye,” said Jeems, not to be bluffed:
“Th’ hoard’s ma shepherd, Ah shallna want.
He maketh me tae lie
By pastures green; He leadeth me
Th’ quiet watters by.”
"Weel, that dings a’!” said Merry, reaching
for his pocket-book. “Here’s y’r fiver. Man
•Jamie, Ah didna think ye kent it.” It was
a son and heir of James Baird who, as Abing-
don Baird, became better known than liked
on the turf.
Another Australian who has scored points
in English ’Varsity football is It. It. Sholl,
Victorian Rhodes Scholar for 1924. With
no knowledge of the game when he got to
England, he made such progress in it that
he was one of the
season's Oxford
te am to to n r
France, playing in
the forward line in
every match; and
lie is regarded as
a certainty for next
season’s inter-TJni-
versity fixtures. If
so, lie will he the
first Victorian to
win an English
University Rugby
blue. As he took
honors in his law
course exams., all
his energy isn’t
going into sport.
H. C. RICHARDS,
member for Sturt,
( S.A .) and head of
H. C. Richards, Ltd.
Lighty-six shears old in February last,
Byron Moore is exchanging liis job as V.R.C.
secretary for that of “adviser.” which will
carry the old salary but free him from all
detail duties. The fine old man has been
sec. tor 4o years, and blends religious music,
horticultural hobbies and broking with
Jus V.R.C. activities. Tlio bank crisis of the
early nineties hit him hard; and one of
the reasons for the high esteem in which he
is held is the four-square way in which he
laced his obligations. He is reputed to have
completely mended his fortunes, and to be
a wealthy man to-day. The vacant secre-
taryship is regarded as a certainty for Dunn,
the assistant-sec., who has grown up with
r^™ übs basiness - It carries a screw of
±l5OO per annum.
Ramsay Macdonald’s son Malcolm is an
earnest young Scot of 23, with a Doric
accent, unspoilt by Oxford. His Sunday lec-
tJaeii^-^eb:,ourne Socialist Hall disappointed
the Ginger group.” He wasn’t “militant”
enough. There was no reference to “all
mi tli being “produced by the workers.”
Ihere were none of the usual cant phrases
about the class war.” He hadn’t the right
Marxian dope. He stated his case as if it
were a matter for calm discussion. There
was no thrill in it. The tocsin did not ring
to-night. There were no reserved seats in
the tumbrils. He seemed to have the idea
that the reform of society was a matter of
evolution, that during a transition stage
there would be groping and experiment, and
tliat the test of any system was its efficiency.
GouJd it produce and deliver the goods V There
was nothing to get excited about, nothing
to cheer: lie might have been expounding the
Einstein theory. Of course, it is the only
way to deal with economic problems ; but it
lias no chance with the “wake and arise”
school that gets the cheap and ready cheers,
and makes politics as one-eyed and hysterical
as barracking at a football match.
They couldn’t afford to be over-particular
when it came to filling professional positions
m the early days of Australia. The first
Attorney-General, Bannister, knew nothing
of law: the first
archdeacon was a
w i n e merchant,
who had never been
trained for the
Clinrch; and
Oxley, the first
! Surveyor - General,
was not a surveyor.
BLLWOOD G.
BABBITT. Ameri-
can Trade Com-
missioner for
Australia, who
struck a popular
note when he
exhorted Australia
to utilise its
“marvellous Mar-
supial,the lean-
karoo, as a national
trade-mark.
That portion of Melbourne which dearly
loves a lord lias been thrilled by the informa-
tion that Victoria has been entertaining a
rather interesting type of viscount unawares.
The lordling is the 30-year-old Apsley, heir
of Earl Bathurst, and D. 5.0.. M.C. and
M.P. on his own account. Determining to
familiarise himself with the conditions await-
ing British immigrants in Australia, he came
to Melbourne as a third-class passenger, using
a plain name like Biggs, and made trial of a
couple of jobs m the farming districts before
he divested himself of his incognito. The
suspicion that other viscounts in disguise are
knocking about may lead to Cockydom being
politer than ever it was before to casual
strangers who profess to be looking for a job.
Maoriland’s new Prime Minister. J. G.
Coates, who steps into the late Bill Massey’s
shoes, kept warm for a week by Francis
Bell, has solid virtues, and the best-run
department in the country—the Posts and
Telegraphs—to his credit. Son of a Hawkes
Bay farmer, he was a keen miiitia-man, and
did real soldiering in France in the Big
Scrap, out of which he emerged a maior
with M.C. and bar. Only 47 to-day. he
entered politics in 1911, and became one of
Massey’s lieutenants in 1919. Being an
uncompromising person, he -is not likely to
further the hoped-for entente between the
Reform and liberal parties which would
enable the Government to face Labor's on-
slaught at the next elections with equani-
mity. Not that the gap between the prin-
ciples of the two parties is as wide as a
church door, but the Liberal requirements
of at least three portfolios at the expense
of Reform would tax any leader’s powers of
persuasion.
Vic.'s ex-Governor Arthur Stanley, now a
peer, styles himself Lord Stanley of Alderley.
which was the second title borne by his late
dad, Lord Sheffield. Apparently he thinks that
flume is a better chance of his being remem-
bered if he retains the old name of Stanley.
On the other hand, the new G.-G. is spending
his spare time practising how to write
“Stonehaven” with ease instead of the “John
Baird” to which he lias been accustomed.
Archie Stewart, secretary of the Vic. A.L.P.
and general secretary of the Federal
Labor organisation for a term, died during
the counting of the ballot for the Labor selec-
tion for the Senate, in which he was a can-
didate. Of the 42 candidates whose names
went in. he is the second casualty, the other
being Alec Taylor, see. of the Vic. branch
of the Railwaymen's Union. Stewart was
an old Labor warlior.se who just failed to
clear most of bis hurdles. He lost the Bal-
larat East seat in a State election by 34
votes, and in Federal politics missed the
Grampians by 159. An original A.W.U.
member, he followed mining and shearing,
with an occasional spasm of storekeeping on
mining camps, until he got his last job 12
years ago.
Wongacurra, a native from the far north
of S.A., has been sent home quietly after
serving only three years of a life sentence
for murder. A strong deputation put it to
the Government, ineffectually at the time, but
successfully now, that he honestly believed
the death of his wife and child was caused
by the pointing of a bone by another lubra,
and that he considered it his tribal duty to
kill her. He submitted cheerfully to arrest,
and helped the arresting trooper back through
dry country on a long march to civilisation.
So now he goes home. What account he will
give of the white man's justice and what
the relatives of his victim will do to him on
arrival are left for the future to reveal.
The oldest of the war veterans at the
annual shivoo in Melbourne the other day
was Harry Moore, ex-R.N. man, who was
born the year after Waterloo, and, there-
fore, is 109 years old. There was one other
centenarian, Sergeant-major Gamble, who
served with the Black Watch during the In-
dian Mutiny, and divides liis pride between
that and his 104 years. D. C. Holmes, who
Avas in the Crimea, is 97 years old. Into
this company of the really elderly a mere lad
of 77, 11. Brown, ventured to intrude. But
perhaps liis record entitled him to some lati-
tude. His first soldiering was in the Soudan,
yet he did not think himself too old when
the Big War came, and he actually got into
khaki.
Lord Plumer, who raised a corps of rifles
containing many Australians in Rhodesia,
and made a dramatic struggle to get to the
relief of Mafeking, is to succeed Sir Herbert
Samuel as High Commissioner and Com-
mander-in-Chief in Palestine. Plumer served
in the Soudan and Matabele wars before the
Boer affair, and had charge of the Second
Army in the Big Gore, after which as a field-
marshal he was given £30,000 and the Gover-
norship of Malta. Sir Herbert Samuel,
although a Jew, did not satisfy his com-
patriots in Palestine or out of it; the Loudon
Jewish Chronicle strongly attacked a
movement to have his term extended. The
complaint against him was that he was so
beastly anxious to appear impartial that it
became a disadvantage to be a Zionist in Zion.
If the high hopes of Frank Clarke and his
friends are fulfilled at to-day’s poll he will
win the South Melbourne seat in the Dreary
House comfortably, and be re-elected Presi-
dent. Then the strings will be pulled—
judiciously and inconspicuously, of course—
for the title which all his predecessors in the
chair have gained. Willie Edgar, who
though known as Holy Wullie is really a
very amiable chap, will hold his East Yarra
seat and be re-installed in the £4OO-a-year
job of Chairman of Committees.
There is a hoodoo over the nursing Sisters
Le Messurier, natives of the Bathurst
district (N.S.W.). Twelve months ago they
were on their annual visit to their father at
Hill End, near by, when their sulky over-
turned and both were injured. The other
day, on their next annual visit, at almost the
same spot on the Bathurst-road, a Lizzie
they were driving turned turtle, and both
girls were again pinned under their vehicle
and both again received serious injuries.
A fine organiser as well as a good fisher-
man went west when George Taylor Stephens
was drowned while attempting to cross the
bar at Lakes Entrance, Gippsland. He
helped to float the Victorian Fishermen’s
Association, which secures for the drawers
of nets a fair return for their daily catch,
and later he became one of the first directors
of the V.F.A. Then he placed the Queens-
cliff Fishermen’s Union on better ground.
Although well over the age-limit he stopped
baiting hooks to bait the Kaiser, and served
with the 22nd Battalion. His only brother,
H. J. Stephens, was for many years editor
of the Farmer and Settler. Sydney.
Tom Dalton, chairman of directors of
Dalton Brothers, has gone aloft at the age
of 54. Son of the late Thomas Dalton,
M.L.C., of Sydney and Orange, he was for
many years honorary Vice-Consul for Spain,
and the Pope made him Knight of St.
Gregory. Ilis two hobbies were sport and
Lewisham Hospital; the latter benefited
largely through his generosity.
His friends consider that his usual luck
will put R. V. Keane, general sec. of the
Railways Union, near the head of the Vic.
Labor Senate ballot. F'ortune seems to have
put his present job in his way, by the retire-
ment of Will Smith for health reasons, just
in time to serve him as a stepping-stone to
higher things, and the same goddess has
saved him from death on at least four occa-
sions. One of them was the Richmond rail-
way smash of 1909; the change of a daily
habit kept him out of the guard’s van, which
was completely smashed and its occupants
killed. Ill’s political and trade-union career
has been full of kindred lucky chances. Be
backs his luck with a great capacity for
organisation ; but he is a poor speaker.
Hammond Haywood has just retired with
a pension nearly equal to his salary after
over half a cen-
tury's connection
with Buckley and
Nunn, where lie
was high Kangani
of the hat depart-
ment. He has seen
many changes from
the one-storey shop,
with three win-
dows, which was
the principal dra-
pery business of its
day in Melbourne.
Buckley's pensions
are a free gift, by
the way, and the
employees are not
required to contri-
bute.
J. M. D. GOD-
DARD, the Royal
Sydney Yacht
Squadron's hon-
orary treasurer.
A. N. Lewis, who has been appointed Lec-
turer in Law at the Tasmanian Uni. during
the absence of Professor MacDougall on long
leave, is under 30. He is a son of that ex-
i remier of the Speck who retired from poli-
tics three years ago after three decades of
it. loung Lewis won three pips at the
war. and collected an M.C. His hobby is
geology, on which he is already a recognised
authority in his native State.
the Moyes family of Adelaide seems deter-
mined to rival the Whitingtons, one of whom
became an archdeacon in Tasmania and the
other secretary of S.A. Jockey Club. J. S.
Moyes has just been made an archdeacon,
too; Ins _ brother, A.G., the inter-State
cricketer, is editor of a Sydney sporting
paper. The two archdeacons have a con-
necting-link. one being brother-in-law and
Aie other son-in-law of Richard Butler, the
S.A. politician who lately died in London
and whose remains are on the way back to
S.A. for burial.
Ann Macleod, just dead at Wallan
(Vic), aged 87. married in 1855 William
Macleod, manager for J. H. Wedge, the sur-
veyor who came from the Speck with John
Batman. At Wallan her husband built a
bluestone house, in which his wife lived
from the date of her marriage up to the day
or her death, 70 years afterwards.
Balala ; Add to the list of June birth-
days that of Billy Ross, 109. Australia’s oldest
native, now m the Lidcombe (N.S.W.) State
Hospital. Born on a convict ship in Syd-
ney Harbor the year after Waterloo, Billy
has been in turn cabin boy, able seaman,
miner, drover, driver for Cobb and Co..
tarmer. barman and groom. Ilis sight is
stiil keen, but time has removed teeth and
hair.
A roving light of other days shipped his
oars recently when J. L. Power heard the
lma! call. Thirty-five years ago he defeated
champions like Peter Kemp and Mick Rush,
''ut with all the others had to dip his oars
1o Bill Beach. Settling on the Tweed manv
years ago, he had brought up 84 on Time's
scoring-board.
Just gone out at Kyoglc (N.S.W.) James
Hayter, the man primarily responsible for
driving out sugar-cane and planting Straw-
berry on the North Coast of N. S. Wales
instead. A born experimenter, when he left
the South Coast for the North over 30 years
ago he proceeded to try various grasses, and
soon found that paspalum liked the soil and
climate best. Right till the end at 82 the
pioneer kept up his experimenting.
The fact that most people in Australia
did not know anything of the new G.-G.
till they read the biographies which the
newspapers compiled recalls the fall which
Gibson Carmichael, another Scottish baronet,
took out of Alex. Peacock when he got well
seated in the saddle as Gov. of Victoria.
Peacock had just proposed Carmichael’s
health at a Masonic function and had re-
ferred to the high status he had attained in
public affairs in England and Scotland. In
replying Carmichael (who later became a
lieerl said that it was all very well for
Peacock to talk like that, but when he
was selected the Bent Government, of which
S’Alex. was a member, cabled to the Sec. for
the Colonies asking who the deuce the fellow
was.
THE ALSO RANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Among the organisations which ran candidates
for the N.S.W. elections were the M.A.L.P, (Majority
Australian Labor Party), the P.I.L.P. (Protestant
independent Labor Party) and the Y.A.P. (Young
Australia Party).”
The Nats marched on to the field, and the Progs;
The Labs swarmed thick to the fray.
The yells of a thousand demagogues
Arose like the croak of myriad frogs
At the close of a summer’s day.
There was promise a-plenty and mud in gobs
As they howled for opponents’ scalps;
But amid the din from these rival mobs
Tv, as hard to hear the screams and the sobs
Of the N.O.E.’s and the Thingumbobs,
The Yaps and the Pilps and the Malps.
There were lusty buffets and stunning bats,
. There were vicious stealthy stabs,
Hard kicks from behind by the Progs and the Nats,
Straight blows from the shoulder with fierce “Take
thats 1”
As both sailed into the Labs.
They belted like decent men, did some,
And others like impish Quilps,
Hut over the pandemonium
(>i the Parties Three and the beat of drum
How thin the twitter and faint the hum
„ Of the Yaps and the Malps and the Pilps!
The tumult dies like a waning wind,
The smoke clears off, aiid the fug.
Have they got their gruel, the. Com and the Ind?
Are the throbbing ranks reinforced or thinned
Of the Lab and the Nat and the Prog?
You should know by now. But where pasans rise
You may spare a tear for the chaps
Who were just as full of liigh emprise
A n i faced t.ie odds with unflinching eyes—
\nd with colors flying went down likewise—
The Pilps and the Malps and the Yaps.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


GENUINE BALLOON TIRES
STANDARD EQUIPMENT
The 7 Passenger
Phaeton
Greatest Itelue HUDSON £ver Offered/
Hudson’s consistent leadership in value is emphasized again in the
adoption of genuine balloon tires as standard equipment on all models.
Do not confuse with “semi-balloon” types. Hudson s are genuine
balloon tires. Compare the difference. Also note that Hudson has
not simply “added balloon tires.” Both running and steering gear
have been specially designed for the radical differences balloon tires
bring. The result is the easiest steering and riding Hudson ever built.
In All Ways a Finer SUPER-SIX
Note that in Hudson this costlier tire
equipment is not reflected in the price.
It merely adds another factor of con-
trast to Hudson’s advantage of low cost
among fine quality cars.
Of course, as always, Hudson’s chief
advantage is in the superiority of me-
chanical design and construction.
In speed, acceleration, hill-climbing and
endurance it holds marks that are
famous among all stock cars. Many of
its official records have never been
equalled by any car regardless of price.
In this territory, as elsewhere through-
out the world, the great number of
Hudsons you see in service is the best
proof of the value and satisfaction they
consistently render. Greater fuel and
oil mileage, exceptionally low cost for
replacement parts, and easy accessibil-
ity give the new Hudson remarkable
economy of maintenance and operation.
And the position of its builders —the
sixth largest producer of cars in the
world —assures the standard of quality
you may expect, as well as the acknowl-
edged policy of satisfaction to owners,
that stand back ofthe Hudson Super-Six.
/ FAMOUS \
RECORDS
100 miles in 80 min., 21.4 seconds,
averaging 74.67 miles per hour with
stock 7-passenger touring car.
75.67 miles in one hour with driver and
passenger in stock 7-passenger touring
car.
102.53 miles per hour, for one mile,
with stock chassis. »
San Francisco to New York and return,
7OOO miles, in 10 days, 21 hours, 3 min. A
The COACH
Closed Car Comforts
At Open Car Cost
The Coach is a Hudson-Essex inven-
tion. No other type and no other car
gives “Closed Car Comforts at Open
Car Cost.” Everyone knows it rep-
resents the highest closed car value.
That is why it is the largest selling
6-cylinder closed car in world.
HUDSON, 7-pass. Phaeton
HUDSON, Coach
HUDSON, 5-Passenger Sedan
HUDSON. 7-Passenger Sedan
..£585
. . 595
. , 725
.. 750
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U S.A
GILBERTS, LTD.,
896 Hay Street, and 41 Pier Street,
Perth, IV.A.
DAJLGETV & CO., RTD.,
Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALi’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
NO Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, Vic
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street.
Adelaide. S A
MOTORCARS, LXU.,
Desmond Chambers.
Adelaide Street.
Brisbane, Q
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas. *


■\\\\\\\\\\
m
%
Deafness Increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send yf>u an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
tl ° slt ’ no °kl!gation, no expense,
the crime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson c Store Co 102 Dakmg House,
, a Service •» Svdney.
.. 7 Olderneet, Collins Street Melbourne.
a °i.^ roc,or - 200 High St.. Christchurch
W A:—H. Little &- Co., 851 Hav St., Perth
RABBIT DESTRUCTION
WITH
CALCIUM CYANIDE
FUMO
BRAND
Practical experience all over Australia has proved CALCIUM
CYANIDE to be the most efficient means yet devised of
exterminating the rabbit pest.
It is blown into the warren like dust, so that its fumes
are not dissipated before they reach the desired spot, as
they are not generated outside but inside the warren.
A smoke cloud arises from all openings. There is no danger
to the operator and no chance of escape for the rabbits.
The fumes from the dust continue to be
generated for at least twenty-tour hours.
It is both economical and effective; is
non-inflammable and non-explosive.
For its application the Fumo Dust Blower
has been devised after twelve months’ ex-
perience. You can obtain full particulars
from any of the
STATE DISTRIBUTORS :
New South Wales: Buzaeott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Alarket St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. V'ictor Ueggro & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Utd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Sca.rfe & Sandovers. Utd., Perth.
The Genuine Wieneke
Stock
Saddle
is actually-
made by JACK
WIENEKE and is
recognised to be
the Best Saddle it
is possible to buy.
Write for my new book
To-day.
Jack Wieneke
C/o JOHN IiItUSH
Ancl at
432 Queen St.
Brisbane.
371 George St M
SYDNEY.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
117 : Writing of the Australian natives f
custom of decorating their bodies with raised scars,
W.J.C. asked (B. i6/4/’25) what implements the
opeiatois used before the white man introduced
glass bottles. Both inland and seaside dwellers
used shells, as well as stone knives. I can remember
seeing the Barcgo black's use the shells of the big
freshwater mussel for the purpose, as well as for the
careful scraping-down which finished off their wooden
weapons and implements. Glass was then available,
but the plentiful mussel shell, which took a razor
edge when broken, seemed to be preferred. Dr.
Koth, in his monograph on the customs of the
natives of the Boulia (Q.) district, specifically
mentions the use of a stone knife by the old man
performing certain operations. The pain must be
considerable, but anyone who has noticed the im-
munity from “shock” in cases of accident or iniurv
to primitive peoples will realise their exceptional
power of resistance.
* * *
AdeL. ; Both the block and the white
wild dogs, often met with in the interior and in
the far North, like their brother the terra-cotta
one are of true blood. In my fur collection I have
a snow-white skin of a pure-bred dingo collected
hve years ago in the Calvert River locality Gulf
ot Carpentaria. Also, 1 have a glossy black and
many black and white, black and red and white
and red. These pied varieties are, evidently the
progeny from crosses between black and white and
black and red; they were much smaller than the
otl.ei sort,. but had. all the characteristics of the
pure-bred dingo—white brush-tipped tail, short erect
pointed ears. By the way, the pest is getting more
numerous than ever in the Far North.
‘“Buttenderry”: I nominate the green frog
as one of the champion homers. The owners of
Dyraaba (N.S.W.) decided that numerous croakers
which had taken up their residence in the homestead
were due for a change of scenery, and to that end
they were carried some miles away and deposited in
a swamp. A few days later every water-jug in
the house again had a frog for tenant. Suspecting
that they were not strangers, a member of the family
them and, after tying a silk thread round
a leg ot each, turned them loose about 20 miles
away. Before many days had elapsed a croakim--
chorus announced another invasion, and inspection
showed that each frog had a leg-band of silk thread.
* * # if.
“Gouger”: The common coastal mangrove
has been our friend in protecting and reclaiming
the shores of Northern Australia,
particularly the Gulf country. It
has a foothold on thousands of
miles, and its success in planting
is due to a wonderful method of
self-propagation. The seed pod
is about IBin. long, shaped like
an inverted carrot, the bottom
end being heavy and provided
with a sharp spike. When ripe*
the pod drops straight down from
the branch into the mud, is
caught fast and immediately be-
gins to grow. If, however, the
tide is in, it is at the mercy of
wind and currents, but artfully
makes these its servants. The
heavy end holds the pod vertical,
the “sprout” being just above the
surface, and thus it goes cruising
down the coast. Sooner or later
the voyager is washed ashore and
sticks fast to its new home. Thus
the low shores become completely
lined with trees that gradually
advance into the sea, stopping only
when the water is deeper than
themselves. Their dense growth
and interlocking umbrella roots
materially check the suction
action of tides, and also block the
land-washing action of river and
creek mouths on sandy coasts. A
barrier is thus formed along the
beach by a deposit of sediment,
vegetation, shells and driftwood
banking against the massed roots.
In time this becomes solid ground.
As the mangroves thus reclaim
land from the sea, the inland
trees die out; they don't seem
able to live where tide water does
not wash their roots.
“Umfaan ’: Death once came to me in
At ica when 1 was a youth in the alleged war of
a quarter-century ago. On Koetzeesberg, the highest
point in Cape Colony, a blizzard struck us, and
snow to the depth of more than 2ft. fell. Sleeping
with my horse under a blanket and overcoat, I was
an old enough campaigner to know better than to
move till morning. But my body melted the
snow and it leaked through in a depression, and
I passed most of the night on folded arms and
knees, with water under the bridge, as it were.
In the morning T found the horse dead, and a
heavy snow-fall. I began to walk to get off the
heights towards where another outpost might be.
Like a good young soldier I carried saddle and
bridle on head. But the drag of the snow was
too much. I dropped the saddle. Then the 600
rounds of S.A.A. was reduced to 50 in one bandolier.
Overcoat went next, then haversack. I lost sense
of direction. Then rifle and remaining bandolier
marked the trail. My feet were leaden; I was
becoming numbed but I struggled hopelessly on. T
knew the end was near, but tired and exhausted as
my limbs had become I still refrained from resting.
Yet that had to come. It became increasingly
difficult to rise to my feet. I began crawling with
a hazy notion of “getting on v somewhere. Lying
down I became aware of a warmth from the snow,
and my youthful mind recalled tales of adventure
in snow countries. “When you fall r deep, overcome
in the snow, there is no waking.” I distinctly
THE CRASH.
PROHIBITIONIST: "Yes, my friends, that poor fellow had sunk so low that he actu-
ally came to me with a request to lend, him a shilling!”
VOICE FROM THE CROWD : “And, oh, what a thud he came!”
remember saying aloud to myself, exasperated at
the unreasonableness of the situation: “It’s damned
hard to come to Africa to die of snow.” Africa
bad always meant warmth to me, a relief from the
fogs and drab dulness of London. That was all.
That was my 7 last thought. Neither past nor mother
nor sweetheart appeared. I was accidentally found
by two Dutchmen. After much rubbing' and pommel-
ling they brought life back, carried me down hill
to below the snow line and had me moving before
I entered the farm of a generous Dutch matron —one
Marais. Coffee and a warm sleep helped. The
aftermath was a bad quinsy. The snow death is
not nearly so unpleasant as death by drowning. I
have been half-way to the other side of the Styx by
the water route. There is pain and a savage effort
to get out of the clinging, vicious element that is
missing in the gentle snow sleep of resignation and
benumbment.
* * * *
“Xamilc”: “Werriinee’s” jumbucks (B.
9/4/’25) that were cn the road for 18 months put.
up a good performance but no record. Early in
1901 drover Jim MacGowan left Amby Downs (Q.)
witn 5000 sheep under orders to keep ’em on the
roads until the drought broke. With the exception
of about three months’ shepherding on unfenced agisted
country, the woollies hoofed it until after the drought
broke in 1903, having been a menth or two over
two years on the track. The mob was well known
in S.-YV. Q. as the Israelites, and their wanderings
took in Blackall, Tambo and Augathella routes and
a large scope of country south of Charleville an I
Mitchell. The pile of summonses Mac. collected for
not doing his six miles per day and for other offenses
would have filled a tip-dray, but, fines and all, ii
was the cheapest agistment going and still is when
home paddocks are bare and a “pick” exists on
the stock routes. I cannot recall how many Israelites
this modern Moses brought home, but a sheep-owner
was considered lucky to have anything at all left
alive cn those parts after 1902.
“Polycarp'’: An Australian in England
usually suffers a severe shock of disappointment
when he hears for the first time the canary-like
whistle of the famous nightingale and compares it
with the strong, rich notes of our butcher-birds and
magpies ; but the bird from which the early English
settlers named our maggie furnishes a bigger suri
prise still. Both birds are black and white and
about the same size, but there all likeness ends.
The English magpie belongs to the crow family, and
its voice is only a harsh clatter. It is a most un-
popular bird, omnivorous, and a great nuisance about
farms and country homes. The nest is a remarkable
bulky and dome-shaped structure of twigs, often
protected by an outer covering of thorny brambles.
A deep cup of mud is made inside and lined with
feathers. The original magpie is now becoming one
of the rarest of English birds.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko’’: “Quero” (B. 7/5/’25)
may he assured that in a tussle with a comparatively
small octopus—say with yard-long tentacles —a
naked man, if unassisted, would be in trouble unless
the body of the mollusc happened to be in front and
the attacked person knew that to bite the ’pus
just beneath the bulbous head would cause spas-
modic relaxation of the tentacles. Kanakas when
hunting the octopus for food sometimes have the
tables turned upon them by tackling one that
proves larger than they bargained for. In all such
cases, however, the octopus acts in defence. Except
to the large specimen and the decapods, which so few
have seen, man would be of no use as food, and
consequently is rarely molested. The octopus does
not search the beaches for tucker; tidal reefs and
flats are its haunts, and then seldom far from some
available hole for concealment, and protection. It
does not naturally, as almost invariably pictured.
encircle its prey with a tentacle. Its hold is by
means of countless, saucer-shaped suction discs capable
of stripping skin and flesh off the bones. After every
encounter with octopuses that I have seen the
naked skin was covered with button-like blood-
blisters from these hook-ringed suction discs.
* * * *
‘‘Geordie”: The Australian abo. lias as
many ways of arranging his beard as a flapper has
of shingling her locks. Each part has its own par-
ticular style of beard-dressing. In the old clays,
along the river Murray, in Victoria and N. S.
Wales, long, square, full beards were the fashion.
Further to the west and north-west more elaborate
styles still obtain. Bound Cooper’s Creek and
Lake Eyre the beard is looped up and kept in that
position by win ling hair round it. North of the
Macdonnell Ranges the natives wear their beards
in a style ridiculously reminiscent of Farmer Giles
of the comic papers ; they Iceep the upper lip clean
by pulling out the hairs one by one,, but allow
the beard to grow on the chin. Along • part of
the northern coast of Australia, more or less clean
ANSWERED.
ELÒDED-OUT COCKY: it was only last
Sunday parson prayed for rain. Not
too had for a little church like ours, eh?"
shaving is the fashicn; men above a certain age
singe off or shave the entire beard. The queerest
fashion of ail is seen among the tribes of the
Cambridge Gulf, Nor’-West Australia. There the
old men of the tribe twist each end of the moustache
and roll it in beeswax, leaving the tips projecting
like the hairs of a paint-brush. The beard is divided
and treated similarly.
(Continued on page 2Jf.)
THE OLD SPRING WELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Below a garden, where there grew
Bed currants, thyme and rhubarb fine,
Reposed a rushy flat I knew
When boyhood’s dreaming days were mine.
From underneath a willow-tree
That in the summer-time would swing
Green branches o’er it shadily
There, gurgling, gushed a mountain spring.
The winter’s frost might crust it o’er ;
But though at times the creeks ran dry,
It never failed through seasons four
Our household vessels to supply.
This haunted spring, a fairy well
(Though eight and forty years have cast
Their leaves of rue and asphodel),
Still from a blue, enchanted past
Brings back to me a fancy clear;
And cool and ever sweet of sound
A water-music I can hear
Played softly somewhere underground.
The spurwings with their breasts of white
And golden earcaps swiftly ran
About the meadow on the right;
But over on the left began
A sloping scrub of banksia. There
The roving gillbird’s noisy tongue
Found honey in the branches where
Betimes stiff “bottle brushes” hung.
But that was in the splendid Spring,
When with one’s joyous heart athrob
One lightly went afield to bring
Sweet-briar for the white-washed hob;
WIND-POWER.
“ What's the idea turning on the electric-fan this
weather?”
“Its not turned on, sir. 2he gentleman with the soup
is doing that.”
AVhen winter logs rio more were laid
With snow upon their mighty girth,
“nd hook-strewn hearthrug, tendered, made
A magic carpet by the hearth.
Beyond that meadow, o’er a hill,
The road to Oink in wound and curled,
But eastward lay, and lieth still,
The winding road around the world.
Along that highway ot the years
That endeth where we cannot tell,
One yet in musing moments hears
The bubbling murmur of a well;
And sees the Busliland of a child—
Ere grief is writ or Fate is spun—
In forest spread, in mountains piled,
A marvel in the morning sun.
Oh mystic well, oh sacred shrine,
O’er which green boughs of memory bend,
Still clear and cool, my fouut .divine,
Be with me always to the end!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


tntyuc
m
*
I
3 \
wmm
J
i
1 i
w .
w
W:
WHAT’S the use of liv-
ing if a man mustn’t
smoke as often as he
feels like it—or take a drink
when he’s thirsty? You might
as well be a slave!
The right kind of drink never
hurt a man yet —nor the
right kind of smoking; and
the right kind of smoking
can be summed up in two
words, “Matured tobacco.”
When you mature tobacco
for at least 3 years in the
wood you take away from
it all impurities, all harsh-
ness and bitterness, and if
you want to preserve your
health take my advice and
smoke nothing but matured
tobacco.
"TURF
W
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
3
0
c
c
1
•6*
*
*
«£
3C£
3
TO
0
>k
BIG” SIZE
20 for 2/-
THE NEW-SIZE “TURF”—
“JUBILEE.”
Look for the
BLUE BAND
20 for 1/6
10 for 9d
GUARANTEED MADE FROM TOBACCO AGED IN THE WOOD FOR AT LEAST 3 YEARS


.. . . -V ■ • .
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes
Also lib. glass jars. Made an Virginia, U.S.A
i
Australian Agents; R. TOWNS & CO.„ SYDNEY.
SHAVING CREAM
A MAN’S appearance, reflects
his personality. To look
smart means more than personal
satisfaction—your prestige is at
stake! For want of a better
shave many a man has met with
disappointment in a business
and social way.
Shave yourself quickly and well
with Hygeia Shaving Cream and
look your best. It creates a free
abundant lather and will not ;
draw the skin.
■EVER BROTHERS LIMITED
"AVIHg
C/ ?CAM
CREAM
? .^itro Hirro v
rtY-36
“Centurion”: As to the sheep-and-water
controversy (B. 7/5/’25), both “Jacky Roo” and
“Buttenderry” seem to have overlooked the dew
factor. 1 was particularly struck with - the fine
condition of the Bedouin sheep and goats in Sinai
in 1916. They had never known fresh water, and
even drinking at the scanty brackish wells was
denied them. Their only tipple, was the dew on the
desert bushes on which they "fed. Certainly there
is a heavy nightly dewfall on 'Sinai, but the days
are like a seven-times-heated furnace.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: As an old sleeper-cutter, a
recent par. about cutters getting 100 per cent, cut
of logs left me gasping for breath. Even if I could,
find a perfectly square log and split it into an
exact number of billets requiring no squaring, there
would still be some sap to be backed off. I don’t
know what is the percentage of waste in milling,
but I do know several reasons why sleepers can be
obtained in “cut out” scrubs where mills cannot
operate. It is always possible to get sleepers out j
of a log that would be too short for milling, and ,
hollow trees which are no good to the mills are j
easily worked by the cutters. Then, in a scrub which ,
has been cnee or twice cut through for sleepers, ,
there are plenty of “windy” or twisty logs which /
have been passed over in favor of free splitters. ]
These can be worked by means of grooving, which ,
consists of chopning a Y-shaped channel the length •
of the log. When the wedges are entered the ,
crack will follow the course of the groove, splitting ,
across the winding grain of the wood. Manv cutters |
prefer grooving to splitting, holding that the work J
is compensated by the lesser amount of squaring
required after the billet is out. But there is no
100 per cent, about grooving. ,
HIS GUARANTEE.
PATIENT: “Oh, but I've heard of doctors
treating patients for pneumonia who
afterwards died, of typhoid-fever.”
DOCTOR ( heatedly ): “Madam, if I treat a
patient for pneumonia I can safely sap
he dies of pneumonia.”
“J.K.”: Queer acidents? About 12 years
ago, when the Kyarra was hauling alongside the
wharf at Melbourne, ol 1 Paddy the Cabman, who
used to stand under the viaduct while waiting for
our chief steward, a regular client of his, got his
ticket across the Styx. He and another cabman
noticed a two-shilling piece on the wharf at
the same moment, and they dived for it simultane-
ously. The pair met head on, and Paddy’s skull
wa.. fractured from the impact. He never regained
consciousness.
“J.D.C.”: “8.0. G.” says (B. 14/5/’25)
that seven men could not catch 9300 sheep in a
day, and estimates that one a minute is fair going.
As a matter of fact, the impossible is done. The sheep
are penned tightly in an oblong yard about Bft.
wide, holding about 70. There is no running, except
AN EPIDEMIC CALLED FOR.
“What about another spot?”
“Make it a rash!”
for the last half-dozen or so. Seven good men can-
empty such a pen in from four to five minutes with
ease, then hop in to the see <n 1 yard and carry on
while the first is being refilled. Two a minute is
slow going. Has it ever struck “8.0. G.” that three
mi: utes to “skin and dress” a sheep is not a record
and that a good man with a shearing machine can
“crutch”, up to a thousand in eight hours wittij§ss
bursting anything? Yet he wants a minute to catch
o'ne! The seven m n mentioned worked about 11
hours to get their i'STiO each. I consider this a big
day’s work, but 1000 per man was estimated as
only a - fair thing, and has been done hundreds of
times. The man using the" syringe has to know
his join but I personally inoculated 27,000 in two
and a half days at Eremeran and ‘Wirchilleba in
1908, and this tally has been exceeded by other
operators in Riwferina prior to that date. The sanje
year nine men on Brothercny caught 9!fb well-
grown lambs in 27 minutes in a final burst to
finish a mob of 5000. .„>■
* * ' * *
“Henry Wadsworth” : As one who has had
a varied experience, let me .tell “Askeaton” (B.
7/5/’25) that no comparison can be made between
lifting animate and inanimate objects. One acquires
< on-paratively easy methods of handling material that
comes into position (regularly—like “Askeaton’s”
boxes of cow-grease. It is a very different propo-
sition from catching woollies in a dusty sheep-yard,
swinging each bleating kicker into position with;
its hindquarters dangling Over, at rail about 3ft. frojp
. the ground, and holding it steady for the operator.
The actual weight lifted may not amount to .fas
great a total as “Askjgaton’s,” but more effort and
endurance are requireff. I know that at this job
1 was far more fatigued at the end of each day’s
work thrn I had been at the finish of a 26 hour go
at coal-trimming when somj? of us miners took
time off from the Wallarah pit, Catherine Hill Bay
(N.S.W.), to load a steamer for S. Australia.
* * * *
“Nimshi”: “J.D.C.” (B. 16/4/’25) asks
what is. the greatest weight a bushworker hah been
known to shift in a day without mechanical aids.
On Warrana station near Coonamble (N.S.W.), in
January, 1886, I was one of a team of six who for
four consecutive days caught and lifted on to a
* 3ft. 6n. fence 10,000 woclly ewes and rams for
sheep-dressing. Fully 5 p.c. of these were rams,
and a full-fleeced ram isn’t a featherweight. As
“J.D.C.’s” task was to aid six others to lift 9300
ewes on to a 2ft. 6in. rail, the seven of them
averaged just 1300 sheep for one day, whereas our
average was 1670 daily for four days—and a higher-
lift. We didn't \yax opulent over the job either, as
our remuneration was only 4s. 2d. per day.
“Nicanor”: “T.A.C.” (B. 7/5/’25) is
wrong when he says that 127 degrees is the record
heat registration for Australia. I know of one case
where 128 degrees was registered for three days in
succession. This was n.-w. of Brewarrina (N.S.W.).
It occurred some years ago, but I can still produce
'three witnesses to prove it.
“Troophorse” (B. 14/5/’25)
mny not be acquainted with “Gouger’s” spiney
poison-fish eggs; but Poison Island on the east of
Mountnorris Bay (N.T.) is probably known to him.
Natives will net eat the fish caught in the vicinity
of the island, alleging it to be poisonous. The
N.T. native and myself
differ widely in many
matters; so, to prove
him the lovely liar
that I have often
known him to be, I
years back fished from
the shores of the island
a variety of rock-cod
and small garfish.
Cooked in peanut oil
my catch was tasty,
but within half an
hour I became dogsick
and lost the meal. Be
the cause what it may,
so far as fish at Poison
Island are concerned
the nigger has the best
of the argument. A
remarkable experience
I met on the north
coast of the Territory
was a 'fish epidemic
slowly working down
from the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. It must have
destroyed thousands of
tons of fish. I was
quartered at Bowen
Strait about 1913, and
in July it was reported
to me’ that the Gulf
was a sea of marine
derelicts. Between that
an 1 early September,
when the scourge was
manifest off my sta-
tion, natives reported
its gradual movement
along 300 miles of
coast. Passing me it
went west 40 miles to
Port Essington, and
no evidence of it was
noticed beycnl that.
Above the high-tide
level all beaches were
strewn feet deep with
dead fish, from the
shrimp to the i6-feet
maneater. The cause
of death appeared to
be asphyxiation. It was a dry season and the
seas were calm. Do any of the Council know of
a similar epidemic, and its cause?
I », * ~ * * *
“Karim Khan” : When the Dunster force
was on the way to Persia, we journeyed from Suez
to Koweit on a fi’.thy tramp steamer which had been
promoted to the transport service. The crew con-
sisted chiefly of Lascar seamen, who cherish a firm
belief that solitary sharks which dog a steamer on
the high seas are evil spirits requiring a human
sacrifice to appease them. Early one morning a big
shark appointed himself our escort. That night a
hale and hearty white engineer mysteriously dis-
appeared. At daylight the shark was still with us,
and after dark a Lascar seaman went suddenly, and
just as mysteriously, off the pay-roll. Next morning
the . shark had disappeared, too. These uncanny
incidents worked on /the imagination of every man
aboard. Even the sudden outbreak of small-pox
among the Lascar sailors seemed an insignificant
calamity by comparison.
* * * *
“Dawson”: There stands in tlie main
street of Taroom (.>,..) a link with the lost explorer
Leichhardt—a coolabah-tree bearing the explorer’s
blaze, “L.L.” This tree was marked by Leichhardt
on his famous overland trip in 1814. Years ago
-other marked trees with a similar
blaze were found in the vie inity of
Taroom, but bushfires and the ring-
barker’s axe have-taken toll of them.
Between Miles and Taroom is the
L Tree Creek, so called because of a
marked tree growing on its bank. The
coolabah marked by the explorer is
known to all Taroom people as the
Leichhardt Tree. Between 40 and 50
feet high, it furnishes ample shade
and Stands as the solitary specimen
of its, class in the township. An old
aboriginal, Remus, a Dawson River
black, proudly claimed association with
Leichhardt’s expedition, and the pro-
prietor of a local hotel possesses a
silver coin of the reign of George 111.,
dated 1817, said to be another link,
as it has the letter “L” scratched on one side. The
coin was found by an aboriginal during some excava-
tion work on the licens’ee’s land.
* * * *
“Abe”: “Peter” taunts “Simon” (B.
2/4/’25) with having mixed his liquors, and de-
scribes arrak as a product of sugar-cane with a
rum flavor. Having recently returned from Lebanon
and Syria, and having been in various centres
planted wholly with vibes whose main industry is
the distillation of arrak and the production of wine,
I must state, in justice to “Simon,” that, although
in Persia, Holland, Sweden and Germany the name
“arrak” may be applied to a beverage made up
of 'the concoctions mentioned by “Peter,” neverthe-
less the spirit referred to by the former,: which is
the national beverage in Lebanon and Syria (where
hardly any sugar-cane or rice grows), is made purely
from the grape-juice, distilled in an up-to-date fashion
and flavored with aniseed. The two prominent vine
yard districts in Lebanon (viz., Zahleh and Shitouri)
are world-famous for the pure quality of their arralc.
which is exported largely to Egypt, the continent
of Europe and at one time to the U.S.A. I would
like to add that ouza and mastick are not
made nor known in Syria, and their resemblance to
arrak is in the milky whiteness they assume when
mixed with water, this being due to the aniseed in
them all.
* * * *
“Tony”: Notwithstanding “Colub’s” flat
contradiction, I say with “Up North” (B. 14/5/’25)
that a snake’s head can be cracked off. Wally
Creagh, of Gloucester (N.S.W.), has done the trick
dozens of times, and is prepared to do it again.
The only risk the onlooker takes is the chance of
getting his eye knocked out when the wriggler’s
head parts company with his body. I won’t say
the head will fly clean off every time. Sometimes,
though the neck is broken, the skin holds it on;
and occasionally only a portion of the head comes
off. But in every case the result of the operation
is a dead snake. The last time I saw it dene a
brown snake was the patient. Greagli held its
head in his left hand, and gripped it about six
inches from the tip of the tail with his right hand.
Releasing the head he did the whip-cracking act
with the right. The head flew clean off and landed
about 15 yards away.
“J.J.M.” Despite the theories advanced by
“Colub” in answer to “North’s” assertion that
a snake’s head can be flicked off in the manner of
cracking a whip, I wish to say positively that this
can be done, as I have personally witnessed the feat
cn scores of occasions. Tom and Harry Reid
(Cangai), Bill Power (Jaekadgery Creek) and the
Ware brothers (Copmanhurst) were all experts at
the game. Tom Reid tells (and his veracity is
beyond doubt) of an incident at Ramornie where a
man, picking up a carpet-snake, whip-cracked its
head off, the head flying and becoming firmly
Attached to the thumb of his wife, who was standing •
near by. She had to be taken to Grafton for
medical attention.
* * * *
“Brady’s Lookout”: Adobe-mud walls 20
years old are in the teething stage. “Lobjc” (B.
7/5/’25) can have a look at some 90 years old next
time he is in Tassy. He will find them near the
main road not far from Jericho. They are known
as “The Mud Walls,” and look as solid as When
they were built, and that was in Governor Arthur’s
time. And he left Tasmania in 1836.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: In January we turned out
seven horses into a 50-acre paddock of lucerne, two
feet high. The prads are mud-fat now; but they
persist in attacking the young willow-trees on the
creek and stripping off and eating every particle of
bark. The trees are dead now. Is it pure cussed-
ness on the noddies’ part, or is willow-bark a more
palatable meal than lucerne?
* * * #
“Hanuabada”: When the Purari River
Papuan goes line-fishing, nature provides him with
bait and hook in one. The bait is the shrimp
(kekeni) , which has a sharp blade-like spike pro-
jecting forward from the head. This becomes caught
in the fish’s gullet or mouth, so that the shrimp is
hook as well as bait, The line is threaded through
the bodies of two shrimps and then tied round the
head of the second.
* * * *
“Nitric” : A unique but possible explana-
tion of the sudden appearance of grasses and bul
rushes along bore-drains where such vegetation was
not before known was given to me the other day.
At Widgee, a Western Banamland station, a bore
that was put down some years ago became sur-
rounded by a luxuriant growth of what is known as
Lake Eyre grass. The startling fact about it is
that until lately this grass was not known to grow
anywhere else than on the shores of Lake Eyre. The
theory put forward is that the waters of this lake
HIS INKY WAY.
“Bill was an old newspaper-man, -wasn’t ’e?”
“Huh, pairs—in the Sydney Domain.”
constitute a reservoir for the sub-artesian supply of
the West. And this surmise is borne out by the
fact that even in flood-time the water-level of the
lake does not alter. Grass- and rush-seed would pass
through with the subsiding water and be plunged
up through the bores. Widgee, by the way, is over
400 miles from the lake.
A SHOW-TIME TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a man in Sydney Town, a fascinating bloke:
He took a fancy to my dial, he liked the way 1
spoke.
\t least i take it that is why he made himself my
friend
And said “Let’s wander arm-in-arm while we have
cash to spend!”
He paid for drinks, he paid for meals, he took me
to the Tiv.,
He swore that 1 was much too bright in Dead Gum
Creek to live.
'Ye passed a day at Manly, his was the dough we
spent;
He hinted he was “on a deal” which might yield
cent, per cent.
He brought a motor-car to light; ’way out by La
Rerouse
He squeezed my arm and said: “Old friend, it’s not
a chance to lose!”
He asked me to his room that night and he had
whisky there ;
In deep and earnest confidence he laid his secret bare.
“Let me have eighty quid to-night, I’ll take this
opticn up.
(Why, man, I'm not the sort of swine to sell a
friend a pup!)
7:ou find the cash, I’ll do the work, the property
is sound —
Within a week we stand to clear at least a thousand
pound !”
I counted out the eighty notes —the parting caused
me pain—
I took them from my wallet and I put them
back again.
I scanned him with a dreamy eye—his suit was
neat and new,
His collar clean, his footgear bright, his socks of
sporty hue—
And, opening the door, I spoke: “Not ev’ry country
goat
Judges the city sausage by its shiny overcoat!”
N.S.W.
YARRAN.


Indemnify Losses Caused by Wool Slump
Increased Production is the Only Practicable Way.
This comes by correct feeding. * The
feeding of
Meggitt Limited’s Pure Linseed Sheep Nuts
is correct feeding because the Sheep Nuts
supply, in a highly concentrated form, Pro-
tein, Oil and Mineral Salts —the essentials
for W ool-growth, High Lambing Percent-
ages and Milk in Ewes.
We have proved beyond all doubt that
the feeding of
Meggitt Limited’s Pure Linseed Sheep Nuts
at a cost of 6d. per sheep per month
gives one hundred per cent, better results
than the feeding of maize at a cost of 1/-
per sheep per month. 1
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE ON THIS SUBJECT.
When Writing Ask for Meggitt’s Sheep Book, 2nd Edition.
-w.
mg®M
V
ms*.
m
:
yNSHoai^
jGiifUt&oL
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
ilessrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Messrs. Corser & Co., Maryborough.
Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville
and Cairns.
TASMANIA:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. I*ty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston!
GGI
UNStfooiiMyi
iMJ
nECGITT
WVfIRAMATTA
°fAe hoy on the hag
guarantees quality


A. SAUNDERS’
FIRST-QUALITY DIAMONDS.
Specially Selected. Platinum Settings.
8138.
A. Saunders’
finest quality
double-cut
Diamond All-
Platinum Rim
£95.
Smaller, £5O
£75.
8189.
A. Saunders’
line double-cul
Diamond All-
Platinum set
Ring, £55.
8203.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond All-
Platinum set
Ring, 18ct. Gold.
£2O.
Larger, £25.
Biol.
V. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring.
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £2O.
Larger diamonds,
£25, £3O.
DIAMOND
KINGS
of
Unequalled
Y 7 alue.
15170.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Button
Cluster Ring,
1 Set. Gold, Plati-
num set, £25.
Smaller dia-
monds, £2O.
Biir,.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
8191.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
1 Set. Gold, Plati-
num set, £l5,
£2O, £25.
ANY
DESIGN
MADE TO
ORDER.
blob.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond and
Emerald Bing',
18ct. Gold Plat
mini set,* £3O
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
Larger diamonds,
£‘ > rt.
8209.
A. Saunders’
Pleonest Ring',
set fine Diamond.
£4/10/-
Larger diamond.
£O/10/-
8210.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Diamond-
set Signet King',
loct. Gold, £2.
RING
HOOKLET
WITH
SIZE-CARD
SENT FREE.
BIG 9.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
King, 18ct, Gold,
Platinum-set
£l5.
Smaller dia-
monds,
£l2/10/-,
£lO.
8160.
A. Saunders’
double-cut.
Diamond Ring,
IKct. Gold, Plati-
num set,
£l2/10/-
Larger diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
8211.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5,
SENT
PER REG.
POST
FREE.
8188.
A. Saunders’
finest quality
double-cut
Diamond All -
Platinum set
Ring, £100.4
: Smaller, £5O.
£75.
a i
8234.
A. Saunders’
fine double-cut
Diamond, IBct.
Gold. Plati num-
set, £2O.
Smaller, £l5.
8143.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond 18ct.
Gold Platinum-set
Ring, £l5,
£2O, £25.
8163.
A. Saunders’
double-c ut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, Plati-
num set, £l5.
Larger diamonds,
£2O, £25,
£3O, £35.
A. SAUNDERS
J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Look in Ten Days
See how your teeth improve
Make this delightful test. It has
brought to millions new beauty and
new charm. .To careful people of
some 50 nations it has brought a new
conception of clean teeth.
Dental investigators have in late
years made some remarkable dis-
coveries. They have found ways to
whiter, cleaner teeth. It means a new
dental era.
A new-type tooth paste embodies
those discoveries. The name is Pep-
Protect the Enamel
Pcpsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent
far softer than enamel. Never
use a film combatant which
contains harsh grit.
Made in Australia
MARK
TRADE
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold everywhere
in two sizes.
Price: 2/-and 1/3
sodent. Leading dentists the world
over have for years advised it.
You can see the results wherever
you look. You see glistening teeth
which bring to men and women attrac-
tions which they lacked.
In fairness to yourself you should
learn the way to this new beauty and
new cleanliness.
Send the coupon for a io-Day Tube.
Note how clean the teeth feel after
using. Watch the new lustre that
comes. And all without harmful
scouring.
You will be amazed and delighted.
As long as you live you will want in
your family such benefits as these.
Cut out coupon now.
AB 1383
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family
/
m
S>.
m
in
Exclusive English Smoking Mixtures
at P eapes' Tobacco Department.
Perfect
i
The soft comfort of pure Australian wool —warm and
smooth and neatly fitting* Elastically and durably woven in
Peapes* "Warrigal” Underwear
When you purchase any article of men's tuear tuhich bears
the “ Warrigal 55 Trademark you know that Peapes vouch
for its superior quality and all-Australian origin. For
greater warmth and service, choose Peapes 5 “ Warrigal 55
Underwear.
32' 34' 36' 38' 40' 42' 44'
AE 25 —Light tueight pure natural Wool
Undershirts, half sleeves . . 12/- 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/-
Full length Underpants to match 13/6 13/6 14/- 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
AE 28 —Medium weight pure natural
Wool Undershirts, half sleeves 15/- 15/- 16/- 17/- IS/- 19/-
Full length Underpants to match 16/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 21/-
AE31 —Heavy weight pure natural
Wool Undershirts, half sleeves 18/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/-
Full length Underpants to match 19/- 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/-
PcaDcs cay postage. Please state chest measurement
PEAPES & CO. LTD. - J
MEN’S AND BOYS* OUTFITTERS
Qeorgc Street (opposite Hunter Street), Sydney.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public llisk, Itoiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
o.
tti
I***
a**
mi
■
Spring Street, Melbourne.
The bright and homely atmosphere produced by the
perfect appointments, the cpiick, courteous service, and
the pleasant central situation, amid old-world parks and
gardens, of the Hotel Windsor, make the stay of every
visitor a long-remembered pleasure.
The cuisine is of the same high standard of excellence
that characterises every other detail.
Hot and cold water and telephones in all bedrooms
are special features.
Minimum Tariff from 20/-
inclusive.
Room and Breakfast from 13/6.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor.”
Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 92(H). Manager: B. C. Jones.
• I *
nns
me
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1532, 1533.
The Mayoral drawing-room at the Town
Hall on Friday morning was dolled up with
chrysanthemums, autumn leaves, holly and
bowls of carnations, when Mayor Brunton
and his wife extended friendiy hands to
Dorothea Spinney and her ghostly partners,
Euripides, Hamlet and the shadowy Homer.
A brew of tea and a baking of cream-puffs
were the Elysian fare. The hostess, who
passed over a posy of carnations and pansies
to the willowy elocutionist, smiled above
platinum grey and black furs. Mayor Brun-
ton, who wasn’t making any mistakes, shook
the guests out of comfortable chairs to toast
the King in half-filled teacups, and poured
out much praise to “the lady who makes
Greek plays so very palatable.” Dorothea,
who sported modern black velvet millinery
above a Grecian robe of pale gold brocaded
crepe de Chine, was so pleased with the
greeting extended to herself and her ghostly
entourage that she forgot the living Gilbert
Murray, who made it possible for her to
present Euripides to us so vividly in our own
language. During her almost four years’
absence the lady spent much time in
America, where the study of Greek is con-
sidered good training for business. Brown-
ing’s “The Ring and the Book” and maybe
portions of the Iliad are likely to be in-
cluded in her recitals, beginning at the
Assembly Hall on June 9 ; and she has speci-
ally studied the “Chariot Race” as likely to
be of interest to this sporting land. During
her stay in Sydney the roof of Mr. Michaelis
will give Dorothea and • her ghostly com-
panions shelter.
Pauline Frederick learned the difference
between acting before a lens and an audi-
ence one night recently when at her first
entrance, which opens “Spring Cleaning,”
her mind became a blank, and left her panic-
stricken. Instead of waiting for the leading
man to help her out, she retreated, and the
curtain had to be rung down before a word
had been uttered. Shortly afterwards all
was going smoothly, and tiie film star, still
however on the verge of hysterics, was able
to carry on. The new piece, “The Lady,” in
which we are shortly to see Pauline, is said
to be very French, and the Frenchiest
things are said in that language, which will
be a drawback to some; but bless you, few
of us will let on we don’t understand. Frock-
ing of the piece includes the frills and fur-
belows of the Victorian period, even to tie
tarlatan skirts of the ballet of that time.
Last week Victoria went after the hounds
for the first time this season. Berwick
countryside took a day off, and all who could
stick a horse joined in the opening meet.
Attire was as varied as the mounts and the
company. Governor Stradbroke’s son, Vis-
count Dun wick, was of those anxious to be
in at the death, and so were the local small
boy and girl, farm lads, General Johnston
and even a train of motorists who trusted
that fate would let them see the grand finale.
Beautiful weather, a good kill and no acci-
dents caused the day to be pronounced the
best ever. Not so satisfactory was another
meet, where Reynard would not materialise
and all the hunt viewed was mushrooms —
tons of ’em!
Destructive Man is doing his worst with
the Treasury Gardens, leaving piles of felled
trees in his wake and ignoring artist John
Longstaff’s plea. Even the ’possums which
sport among the elm walks are not escaping.
These, it is said, are being poisoned. This
Chatterer, wandering through Fitzroy
Gardens at sundown recently, spied one
hopping from bough to bough with a wee
offspring clinging to its back —a real bush
scene not five minutes from the bustle of the
city.
Austral Salon was all chrysanthemums
and chatter for the at-home engineered by
Mrs. John Iliffe, a vice-president, and hon, sec.
Mrs. May Quinnell. A well-tailored, -furred
and -hatted fair-sex feasted upon tea, cake and
intellectual items. The clear flexible notes
of Mollie Mackay. of Warragul, excited in-
terest, Dame Nellie Melba having approved
of them and encouraged the songbird to pro-
ceed further with her studies. Tenor Walter
Kirby said some complimentary things of
Mrs. May Quinnell’s practical help for musi-
cal debs., and as the lady sails for England
in July Walter’s dissertation served as a
preliminary to good-byes.
The unoffending cornflower being no longer
'banned from loyalists’ parties, it helped
crimson and white carnations to make a
floral scheme at the Empire Day dinner of the
Royal Colonial Institute at the Hotel Wind-
sor. President Dr. James Barrett and his
lady, in drapings of oxidised silver lame,
beamed the welcome to fellow Royal Coloni-
alists, including Priminister Bruce and his
partner.
The decision of the Full Court in tin;
hard-fought Bibron case is regarded as a
blow beneath the belt by convivial Melbourne.
There was no atterhpt to disguise that revel-
lers in Paul Bibron’s dance-rooms had liquor ;
but it was contended that they supplied their
own. all tin 1 proprietor’s assistance being a
matter of corkscrews and glasses and the
solid refreshment that needed washing down.
Knight, P.M., thought there was no offence,
but the Full Court regarded the circum-
stances with a less tolerant eye and ruled
that the I’.M. was wrong. The line imposed
was only a liver, but the judgment will hit a
score of well-conducted places which tried to
dissipate some of the gloom that hangs over
Melbourne o’ nights. On the other hand it
will doubtless give a fillip to the business oi
numerous illicit groggeries which never even
try to keep within the law.
Melbourne, had its 90th birthday one day
last week. The landing of John Batman at
St. Leonards on May 29, 1835, was celebrated
by a small band interested in Victorian
early history. C, R. Long, editor of the
School Papkk, who is vigilant in preserving
the links between the past and present, was
the arch-enthusiast of the crowd.
Modern British composers and the art of
an Aussie painter walked hand in hand when
Mrs. Alberto Zehnan sang in the Athenaeum
Hall in front of Nora Gurden’s show of dim
green gum-trees and grey skies. In a frock
of sparkling yellow, the mezzo-soprano pre-
sented some numbers that were attractive
and others that interfered with the digestion.
First hearings included a trio of fine “Hymns
from the Rig Veda,” by Gustav Holst, and
a group of “Traditional Songs of France,”
varying from weird to pleasant, composed
by Arnold Bax. Agnes Fortune, in beaded
mauve, accompanied the singer, who gathered
much applause and some posies.
At the Alexandra Club’s select shelter on
Thursday afternoon, Mrs. Austin Embling
regaled with tea and buns some smartly-
upholstered friends. The hostess, just off
the sick list, was habited in nigger chiffon
velvet with a dash of almond green and some
fur and harmonising millinery. Brown and
black tied for first honors, and navy blue
was a place-getter in the visitor’s frocking.
Lady Dutton, back from her jaunt to Adel-
aide, the Littleton Groom lady and Mrs.
Percy Alderton were followers in gowning
and hatting of cigar hue. Mrs. Norman
Brookes was muffled in furs over black;
Mrs. Robert McDonald cast her vote for
sable draperies, and Mrs. J. Whittingham,
niece of the hostess, topped brown with a
black velvet hat.
This hammerlike headpiece belongs to
Peter MacCullum, who recently arrived from
the dre a r y
Scottish cli-
mate to absorb
some real sun-
shine and fill
die chair of
Pathology at
Melbourne Uni.
Born in Glas-
gow 87 years
-go his parents
took him at
the age of 11
m ontli s to
Maori land,
where he
absorbed nour-
ishment at
Christ’s . Col-
lege, Christ-
church, an d
Cant e r b u r v
University Col-
lege. Deciding
on a medical
course at Edin-
burgh, he shipped as a coaltrimmer on a
cargo boat, did the course in brilliant style
and collected all the medals and scholarships
available. He served in the big row with
the R.A.M.C. pud got the M.C. before being-
put out with gas on the Menin-road. In
1919 he met Belle Cross, the only M.L. girl
to have the combination M.A., D.Sc., and
induced her to give up her post as a Botany
lecturer at the Edinburgh University to
marry him. Witherington, London, made the
picture.
Dr. Georgina Sweet, who leaves in Sep-
tember for about a year’s travel in Asia, has
given £lOOO for two scholarships for research
in biology (including physiology), natural
philosophy, geology or economics, to be
awarded to women grads, who are of the
International Federation of University
Women. It is compulsory that successful
candidates come to Australia or Maoriland
to do six months of their year’s scholarship
work. Dr. Sweet’s gift is sufficiently generous
to permit of the winners paying their passages
from any part of Europe, Africa or America.
With the blessing of her cousin, Canon
Herring, at a choral service, tennis-champion
Helen Margaret Outhwaite, of Toorak, took
on a life partnership with Alastair Cameron
Gray, second son of the William Grays, of
the P.L.C. Bride arranged her great-
grandma’s wedding veil in hood and cape
mode over gowning of vellum-toned geor-
gette with silver embroidery. Small Susan
and Bill Outhwaite guided their big cousin’s
train, and sister Jocelyn and Marjorie
Boothby ’maided in delphinium-blue dolled
up with velvet flowers. Helen’s parents
staged the after-jollo.
A lately-returned traveller complains of
the want of an Australian Club in London
—a plaed where the Aussie from home,
whether young or old, can have all the privi-
leges and comforts of membership that are
enjoyed by luckier S’Afrieans. “Australia
House?” queries the stay-at-home. “Oh,
that place!” the Australian who has
wandered in London exclaims.. “Why,,
when the A.N.A. (which is now largely
Maorilander) wanted to have a special
historical gathering, the eating couldn’t
he done there; the Association had
to pav for the hire of a hall!” The Over-
seas Club meets some deficiencies, but there
the red tape of election has to be untied.
Meantime the lonely Aussie gets what solace
he can from the wonderful and gorgeous
fittings of the cold official caravanserai which
lie has been taxed to build.
’Pile Sears Studios picture for us Dr.
John Carew Eeeles, whose career to date
has mainly consisted of scholarships. Be-
sides being first in the lately-conferred M.B.
degrees of the
Melb. Uni., lie
shared t h e
honors of the
Keith Lev i
memorial
s c h o 1 arshin
and the Jamie-
son prize for
clinical medi-
cin e, and
romped away
with a Rhodes
.s c h o larship.
Earlier sn c-
cesses brought
him from War r
nambool High
School to Mel
bourne High
and thence to
Newman Col-
lege. Since be-
coming a full
blown medico
he lias been doing research work under Pro-
fessor Osborne. At Oxford, whither he goes
in August, he means to try for the degree
of Ph.D. under the guidance of the great
Dr. Sherrington. Pole-vaulting is his athletic
card, to which he hopes to add a rowing blue.
The doctor's only sister is doing arts at
the Uni.
Wholemeal bread is gradually winning its
way to Melbourne breakfast tables. Dr. S. E.
Pliilpots is helping with his professional de-
nunciation of the vitamineless white article;
he quotes J. Ellis Barker, of London, who
attributes cancer to vitamine starvation. But
the craze or fad or reform or whatever it is
has made but a start here compared with
America; over yonder in some States the
making of white bread is forbidden.
Melbourne's Hospital has a pillar of
strength in its Ited Cross Auxiliary, which
has a dozen branches sprouting from its
solid trunk. Fresh offshoots oft-times appear,
to lend a helping hand in tearoom or out-
patients’ canteen or in gathering in the
ever-required linen, foodstuffs and such. One
afternoon last week the Board-room of the
hospital housed the first annual stocktaking
of the combined forces. The Central Execu-
tive, which was founded last year, and of
which Mrs. S. M. Bruce is president, issued
the cards. To veteran John Grice’s lady
the honors of the organisation of the R.C.A.
are due, and the vice-president handed her
an appreciation in the shape of a Red Cross
Auxiliary badge. Mayor Brunton, as a mem-
ber of the hospital committee, gave much
praise to the folk for their work, and a
special quota of thanks to the country
branches. Hospital still requires heaps and
more heaps of help, for it is figured that
half a crown just keeps things going for a
minute, and that all the, R.C.A.’s efforts
foot the bill for only 16A days.
The drawing-room of Scott’s Hotel was
filled with English Speaking Unionists on
Friday afternoon to say how-d’-y’-do to Sir
Frederick Dutton and his lady and Dorothea
Spinney. Willie Watt did the official say-
ings for a sextette of hostesses, the S. M.
Bruce. Harry Emmerton, Colin Fraser, F.
W. Eggleston and Ernest Graham matrons
and the lady of ex-Attorney-General Robin-
son. Sir Frederick of the Royal Colonial
Institute discovered a common interest be-
tween the E.S.U. and the R.C.1.: and Doro-
thea painted tone-pictures of America and
its more-or-less-English-speaking people. Be-
tween the talking and the teaing Nirman
Bradshaw sans to Mrs. Pauli Carter’s accom-
paniments.
The Quarnby Club housed both the
ceremony and after-jollo for the nuptials of
Marjorie, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J.
R. Crooke, of Narbethong. and Ewing Rixson,
of N’York. Bride, who was sheathed in
white silk crepe with sprinklings of diamente
and silver, had floatings of tulle from coiffure
bands of old rose point li*ce. Bridesmaids
were cousin Ruth Burbank and Connie
Murphy, who wore mermaidy frocking of
green glimmering with silver; and Eileen
Boyes, of Wangaratta, attended in cyclamen-
pink beaded wrapping. Raiment of cream
georgette, with adornment of beaten gold,
was the wear of the bride’s mother. The
young couple journey shortly to the U.S.A.
Melbourne City Mission makes a fervent
appeal that sometime in the month of June
its numerous interests shall be remembered.
In the whole of its 70 years of usefulness
this is the first big demand the mission has
made, and it thinks £16,000 not a bit too
much to ask for.
Norman Lee, of Pauline Frederick’s com-
pany, is a brother of Gertrude Lee, who
teaches young Victoria to boil and bake as
the Department of Education would have
it done. Norman, who is strangely like
Andrew Higginson in his young days, had
his first stage experience with the. Allan
Wilkie co.. and later understudied Seymour
Hicks, llis father, W. R. Lee, was a well-
known turfite, who owned some fine horses.
The family hailed from Burnley and the
same street that heard Nellie Melba’s first
arias.
A mother to whom two clever Australians
owe a great deal closed the book of her life
when Mrs. Bridges died in Melbourne last
week. Roy Bridges, author of several novels
which have gone through printing-presses in
England and Australia, and Hilda Bridges,
a writer of bright short stories, are the
children in whom she sowed the seed of a
sound literary sense.
Trinity Grammar, at Kew. is making a
call, especially directed to old Trinitarians,
for £20,000 for enlargement purposes. The
school stands as a sort of memorial to the
energetic cleric and good Australian who
is now Bishop Long of Bathurst (N.S.W.).
As a curate of the Kew Anglican church he
found the usual poorly-attended parish
school; before he left students were crowding
in, and since then the institution has ex-
panded until it has become one of Mel-
bourne’s most popular educational establish-
ments. The money now being sought will
bicrease the school accommodation from 270
to 450.
Adelaide goes to the meet
Saturday saw the opening run of the hunting sea-
son from the ill-savored Patawalonga at Glenelg to-
wards Tapley’s Hill and thence back to the kennels
for tea, with no worse disaster than a fall for Mrs.
Teesdale Smith, which looked far worse than it
turned out to be. Her husband was in his place as
Master, though few people expected to see him in
the saddle again so soon after his smash at the
races last year. It was a perfect day of grey clouds,
showers and intermittent sunshine, but after days
of rain pea-soup ran between the road hedges, and
those who followed the hounds on Fords and Hudsons
came off worse than the horsemen.
The Repertory Theatre brought Zangwill’s “Melt-
ing Pot” to the boil the same evening, considerately
timing the start for 7.15 so that patrons could get
their last trams home. However, the curtain had
views of its own, arid it was 8 before the belated
thing rose, and nearly 11 before it fell, and the
usual scraping of chairs and stealthy exits accom-
panied the denouement. It was a good show notwith-
standing, with the honors mostly for Clive Carey.
He, by the way, conspired with pianiste Dorothea
Vincent the other day in a delightful dish of modern,
folk and classic music, which a large audience highly
approved of.
What with tumbling paint-pots and errant chisels,
progress through the streets of this village has its
sensations. Not long since a damsel had a paint-pot
tipped on her head, and now a parabolic chisel cuts
through the side-window of a car and misses its
feminine driver’s face by a hair’s-breadth.
A lawn-tennis blue has come to D. J. Sumner, this
State’s 1923 Rhodes Scholar. He played for the local
’Varsity when he was here, won the Oxford lawn
tennis championship this year, and is billed to play
against Cambridge at about the present moment.
More Queen Adelaide possessions. This time a
couple of cases of cutlery, with drinking-cup, cruet,
etc., used by H.M. when travelling, with Queen
Mary as the donor and Sir John Cockburu as inter-
mediary.
Adelaide has started to throw mud at its joss,
Colonel Light, who laid out the city. The plan is
much the same as Melbourne’s from east to west,
with the priceless addition of a broad belt of park-
lands all round the city' boundaries; but from north
to south there are, unaccountably, only three breaks
through the barrier of bricks. King William-street
gets all the burden, the other two being too far
away, and the network of little thoroughfares pri-
vately arranged and not connecting with each other
is hopelessly congested. Light is blamed for the
original plan, tut successive city councils have missed
excellent opportunities of improving it. Meanwhile
a new set of traffic rules is mooted.


5
£3)12/6
Carry a Notebook
Camera.
Take pictures of the things that interest you wherever
you happen to be. Carry a Camera with you every day.
1 he British-made
Aluminium Ensignette
No. 2
is small and light to carry and easy to bring into action.
Daylight Loading Roll Films are used. Pictures are 3x2,
and the price, fitted with a T. T. and H. Luxor Anastigmat
Lens F 7.7, is £3/12/6.
We have DE LUXE Models of the Aluminium Ensignette
with a full range of movements and fitted with High-grade
Anastigmat Lenses at £6/7/6 and £B/5/-
Come in and look them over.
PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RADIO WAREHOUSE,
SYDNEY: 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
KATOOMBA:
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
Katoomba Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
The House for
Good Cameras,
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
Forget!
What Your Former
Opinions of Player
Pianos Were !!
Hear and Play
the
GULBRANSEN
Zsuo?&encerfo
Registering Piano,
and understand what it means to Register Your
Personal Touch.
Though this instrument is played by Music Rolls
and Pedals, it is not e. Player Piano in the
ordinary sense. With the Duo Concerto every
note is separately controlled by you—your own
individuality cannot be suppressed.
Cash or Terms. : : Open Friday Evenings.
0
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE AGENCY: 10 HUNTER STREET.
City 10751 and 10752.
HAR.DY BFLOS LTD.
JEWELLE
ENTREE DISHES
of Uneqiuilled Value.
Oval Entree Dish, in fittest Silverplate.
Lid can be used as separate Dish. Length,
10 inches £3/12/-
: m
Silver plated Oval Entree Dish, with re-
movable handle, making cover suitable
j or separate Dish. Length, 10 f inches.
£5.
Hardy bros:
Silverplate i s
trebly plated
with pure Silver on
hard white-metal. It
has all the design,
finish and appear-
ance of Solid Silver,
for which it is the
recognised substitute
Each piece is stamped
“Hardy Bros., Ltd.,”
as a guarantee of
special quality unsur-
passed in Australia.
A handsome Catalogue sent
anywhere on request. Goods
forwarded on approval. Five
ver cent. Discount allowed for
Cash.
HAFLDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
9/te7/ouse oP &c&hiswc 3cu>elUnj
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
BIG VALUES IN MEN’S
RIDING WEARABLES.
. '-W
mm
n' 1 i Ira ? ?: { '
MS
... i
• V/
1 ▼/
I 'M* l
m'
i
Footwear and Leggings.
“Stockman” Riding Boots, in Stout Black or Tan Yearling
Calf. Sewn Soles and best elastic sides 27/6
Riding Leggings, in Stout Tan Hide, perfect fitting,
made on anatomically shaped blocks. In spring front
or Puttee Styles, JB/6. Better quality, 22/6,
Leviathan Riding
Wear is made on
lines that ensure per-
fect freedom of movement
and the utmost saddle-
comfort. Materials are of
textures specially-selected
for their hard-wearing
qualities, and every gar-
ment is honestly tailored
to withstand heavy strains.
Military
Twist Breeches
Heavy quality gar-
ments in regulation
Military Twist, and
30/-
fitted with self strappings.
Riding Tweed
Breeches,
High-grade Breeches
in specially-woven
tough material of
35 1-
unequalled wearing capacity.
Fitted with leather strappings.
Pockets and lining of best,
heavyweight Drill. Fawn and
Grey shades.
Suede Drill
Riding
Breeches,
In Khaki or Olive
shades. A wonderful
19/6
wearing line of washing
material, with self strappings.
Judhpores (Riding Trousers')
on the same quality, 21/- pr.
Write for our New Winter Catalogue, post free on receipt of your Name and Address.
Mail Orders are personally attended to by an Expert Shopper.
The
LEVIATHAN
Pty.,
Ltd.,
Cr. SWANSTON AND BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
King;
George V
Vintage 1914.
CH AMP AG >1 I
CharlesHeidsieck
XUSXMS
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
I
w
CHAMPACHE
Giarleslleidsieat
Heims
Un u«,
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Austra Indian Asrentn—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Svrhev.
Wentworth Hotel
THE NEW ADDITIONS TO WHICH, JUST COMPLETED,
RENDER IT UNRIVALLED IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Steam-heated throughout, its ..suites of rooms and wonderful lounge and
dining-room provide that element of simple luxury so difficult of attainment.
In addition to the wonderful service of the Hotel those staying
in the house are cordially invited to the famous Wentworth
Ballroom adjoining, where Sydney's Society entertains its friends.
Church Hill, Sydney, or
’Phone 8W1361.
Code: “Mum,” Sydney.
The Coolest Spot in Sydney,
%
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 72.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
a
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday anu Thursday, 21/-
• Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, lti/6.
Luncheons. 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-. with
the privilege of two hours’ delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors' New York Band
Keserves, ’Phone M 3666.
AVOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
AVagga, Queanbeyan, the Riverina! Tokio,
Kobe, Fuji-Yama! Which are the names
that stir the Australian heart the deepest?
Which, Avlien devastated by some act of
Rod not to be covered by any insur-
ance policy, should make the speediest
call to Australia’s sympathy and pocket?
A fortnight ago the sullen floods rose about
the farms and the homesteads of our back
country, sweeping away in a few hours the
labors "of years, leaving many a poor cocky
staring wide-eyed at a ruin which will be
all the more hitter because .it _ must
be shared by the wife and the kiddies. A
fortnight ago! And this State has not yet
started one relief fund for the victims.
Tokio, Kobe, Fuji-Yama! In less than 24
hours after the Japanese disaster every city
newspaper, putting itself into sackcloth and
ashes, was acknowledging contributions to a
central relief fund for afflicted yellow
brother. AVagga, Queanbeyan, the Riverina?
Last week Sydney was busy Making a
Man of Him, and the Boy Scout responded
Avitli an expansive grin that warmed the city
better Ilian a day of cloudless sunshine.
Every A'ariety of Scout rally filled up a
Rowing week for the small boy with the
hare knees, and on Friday, after lie had sold
everybody on view a badge, lie hung up the
traffic while he marched past in hundreds,
Avatched by thousands of mothers and sisters
and young daddies and old daddies —-mostly
the sort of daddies avlio have contrived to
be pretty good Scouts through many a year,
though their chests never expanded under
a Baden Poavoll shirt. The organisers of
the open-air market for the Scout funds
chose two of Sydney’s most picturesque
backgrounds for their pitches. One was the
Custom House-square and the other the slop-
ing bit of Macquarie-place, just beneath the
trees of the tiny reserve. What the birds
had to say about the hubbub under their
arboreal flats Avlien they Avere settling doAvn
for the evening only another city sparroAV
could understand.
Out of the welter of Scout Week racketings
the Governor-General has secured a quilt. It
is a knitted quilt, and Queen Mary herself is
responsible for the purling and plaining
thereof. The work of Royalty met the com-
mon gaze at the Boy Scout matinee, when
Claude Flemming, during the interval, coyly
demanded bids for its beauty. Sir Dudley
de Chair, an eager look in liis eye, sent the
first whispered hid of £lO across the foot-
lights. Gladys Moncrieff, furiously anxious
for the quilt to adorn her nesting-place, beat
Sir Dudley’s offer by £5. Then Lady de
Chair decided to secure it by any means for
Government House and cut Gladys out by
bidding £2O. G.-G. Forster couldn’t bear
the thought of a mere State Excellency walk-
ing home with the prize, and in a voice
tense with excitement exclaimed £25! And
the quilt was liis. The matinee Avas one of
the week’s successes, and the Kelso Kings
and Chief Justice Street’s lady were the
leading conspirators on a committee of really
hard workers. What then missed was cleaned
tip by crowds of SAveets and programme
brigands.
Trumpets echoed and a thousand (or
thereabout') swords flashed as the vice-regals
entered the ToAvn Hall to join in the Free-
masons’ revels on Thursday. First under
the arch of steel paced the tAvo sets of Afice-
regals and their train, supported by Masonic
grandees, and afterwards a covey of debs,
fluttered under the fearsome thing to the
pinkly-blooming dais, Avhere the smile and
greeting of tlie near-royalties unlocked the
door into the social Avliirl. The girls looked
sAveet in their Avhite frocking, and carried
high white wands, the tops blossoming into
posies. But it Avas father’s night out, as far
as gauds and baubles Avere concerned. One
gentleman in damson robes Avith a gold staff
Avas belle of the ball, but others Avere only
a shade less resplendent. Hopeless for flap-
per daughter and fondly gloating Avife to try
to rival them —it Avas their night of nights,
and they Avore their magnificence with an
air that any ancient sultan might have en-
Aied. The Excellencies, too. had put on their
best frocking for the occasion, Lady de Chair
sporting the sea-blue frock flashing a beaded
design of the flora of old Japan that has made
only one previous appearance, and that at
a private dance in Race Week. Lady Forster
filmed black-and-gold brocades in black lace,
and both flashed a thousand gleaming facets
on a dazzled multitude. Elaine de Chair
dimpled over jade green, glittering like a
fish in the net with opalescent embroideries.
Grand Master Goulston’s lady was sheathed
in gold brocades, and the same richness
veiled in black tulle was worn by Mrs.
Neville Montagu.
The Uni. Senate stuck to its guns and this
year there was no students’ procession
through the city. In return some sorehead
tried to cruel the Senate’s big evening con-
versazione by sending out bogus invitations.
But somebody passed on the good word to
the dons, who, losing their block, rang up
the police and had a fine squad of P.O.’s put
in guard over the supper—presumably be-
cause it was only just enough to go round
the really and truly invited. Then notices
were stuck up warning off the unofficial
guests and barricades were got in readiness.
But nothing happened. The guests with the
Avrong cards, after one look at the grey cold--
ness of the Great Hall, decided that the
movies might be more hospitable. And theirs
was the better part. The State Viking and
his lady and the Viking’s daughter went out
to the Uni. earlier in the week for the “cap-
ping” ceremony. The most notable feature
of this function of conferring the degrees
was the punctilious observance of ceremonial
among the men students and its almost com-
plete absence among the girls. On the re-
ception of their degrees the men bowed
deeply to the Vice-Chancellor, not so deeply
to the Governor, and lightly and in friendly-
wise to the Dean of the Faculty. But tlje
lasses —who with a total absence of origi-
nality sported one-bar shoes and light stock-
ings—conveyed rather the impression of
wresting their degrees from a hostile force,
and in many cases rewarded the dons and
dignitaries with the merest flick of the head.
At last those splendid District Nurses
have a home where they can take a deep
breath of sunshine. Up till the other day
they carried on their humanitarian work
from headquarters in congested Darling-
hurst. Now they are established at Mon-
tana, one of the old homes of Glebe which
still retain their Avide gardens. Lady For-
ster, who has alAvays been very interested
in the association’s work, travelled out on
Friday to whisper the opening incantation
over the neAV home, and was greeted by Dr.
Cluhbe, who is an enthusiast over the district
nurse, and by lots of Knoxes, the new Chief
Justice’s lady and battalions of the asso-
ciation’s friends. Sister Mulholland, one
time of Graythwaite, is in charge. The
home, incidentally, is free of debt. Kindly
I'. G. Sargood threw in one of the four
thousand Avhieli Montana cost.
This is a picture of Miss Preston Stanley,
who, at the moment of writing, looks like
being this State’s first woman member of
Parliament. Miss Preston Stanley is a
direct descen-
dant of Bruce
and the spider.
“Try again”
lias been her
motto election
after election,
and like her
historical fore-
bears “a bold
little run at
the very last
pinch put her
into the
wished - for
spot.” One
thing, the Par-
-1 i a m e n tary
barman will
never get cock-
tail elbow
through “shak-
ing up an-
other” for the
lady, for she’s
Sahara-dry. She has put in a lot of good
work for the betterment of the laws relating
to women and children; and she is known
to thousands as a clever speaker and the
president of the Feminist Club. It was in
the Eastern Suburbs that she made her
latest fine run.
The Young Australia League, whose chief
object seems to be the encouragement of the
globe-trotting instinct among our young,
ripped up the carpet the other night at the
Palais and plunged into jazz in the interests
of its treasury. The military had taken the
hall in hand and swanked in scarlet and
gold to arm the debs, to the vice-regal pre-
sence ; and pretty girls were so plentiful
the room had a look of a Hollywood beauty
contest. Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair
did not arrive till 9 o’clock, hut Elaine, who
came with the Brigadier-General Lloyds, had
been among the early arrivals, and footed
it gaily in a poem of blue and silver. The
Viking’s lady, wearing tissue in many colors,
snuggled under a black-and-gold wrap, and
smiled happily over a nosegay handed up to
her by Juno Lloyd, the tiny daughter of
the Brigadier-General couple. Premier
Fuller’s lady looked out above night-blue
frocking armored in silver. The Naval
Robinses came, she under the softening influ-
ence of black Spanish lace. Captain Brough,
who is a sort of Y.A.L. Bayard, was an-
other notable. Mayoress Cecilia Walsh’s
mauve brocades were sprayed with ostrich
fronds, and 20 debs., suggesting the white-
and-silver ornamentation of a wedding-cake,
pleased the eye as they dropped their bobs
before Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair.
One of the brightest dances of last week
added its glamor to the Wentworth ballroom
when the old pupils of the Brigidine Convent
made merry among its arches, archives and
anchovies. The flutter was to benefit the
Convent Chapel building fund, and the
Brigidiile girls did the occasion proud in
numbers and ehiffonery. As usual this sea-
son the black frock scarcely put in an appear-
ance, but gay little neck-to-knees in the pale
pinks and mauves, the blues and shimpiering
silvers that fashion fancies, wheeled and
turned under the green and gold of the school
flag, like a host of delicately-tinted moths.
Kitty Mason was president of the committee
and ruffled in silver brocades, and secretary
Breikda Chestei*-Wells put a glow into the
night with beaded white georgettes.
Here’s a May Moore picture of Nevill
Smith, as well known for a good singer in
Christchurch (M.L.) as in Sydney. Mr.
Smith, who has been in Europe for a great
deal of his
life, had the
unique experi-
ence of being
the music
critic of the
Continental
Times in Ber-
lin when that
paper, before
the war, was
edited by Pro-
fessor Delmer,
of Melbourne.
He has studied
in America with
Alice Parker,
whose method
of production
owed much to
her training
under that Dr.
Will i a m
Curtis who
showed such
stars as Melba and Caruso how to use their
vocal cords with the least possible wear
and tear. At his recital in the King’s Hall
on the 17th Mr. Smith will introduce Babel’s
“The Peacock” to Sydney.
“The River” had a wedding all its own the
other night when the Barton clan of Wool-
wich went to All Saints’ Church at Hunter’s
llill to marry Sylvia Margaret Barton to
Herbert Palmer, of Longueville. The bride's
ivory satin frock flew to originality at the
hem, which was circled about with a deep
growth of cream and gold blooms. A swirl
of satin train and a mist of tulle veiling
were sartorial postscripts worth while. Molly
Mayne ’maided in vellum cr§pe romain that
wore cosy edges of. brown fur and was fur-
ther embellished with a hat and a bouquet
in chrysanthemum yellows and browns. The
Town Hall at Hunter’s Hill was the ren-
dezvous of hosts of congratulators, upon
whom the bride’s mother, in shimmering
black, smiled over a bunch of red, red roses.
On June 9 many a man and woman, in
thankfulness for being painlessly divorced
from a faithless appendix, will dance at the
Palais Boyal in the interests of Lewisham
Hospital. The attendance not being limited
to appendix cases, any family grateful for
a renovated* heart, kidney or liver is wel-
come to join the jazz and swell the treasury.
An interesting visitor to Sydney last week
was the slim, shingled; and attractive Mrs.
Edgar, of Washington (U.S.A.). She and
her husband are just returning after spend-
ing some time in Pago. She is a direct
descendant of Benjamin Franklin, while her
husband comes from the line of Noah Web-
ster, the man who made the dictionai’y. At
an afternoon party a new acquaintance in-
quired : “I suppose you named your little boy
Dallas after the town in the States.” “Oh,
no,” was the quiet reply. “The town was
named after my family.” The Dan Kellys,
of Kirribilli, were the lady’s hosts.
A factory in Chefoo, China, has reduced
its staff from 18,000 to 2000. This doesn’t
seem to have any application in Sydney,
hut the fact is that the establishment manu-
factured hair-nets, and the shingle fashion
lias made hair-nets unnecessary. Another
example of the far-reaching effects of
fashion’s fickleness may yet appear in con-
nection with batik. A girl pranced down
I'itt-street the other day in a Javanese sarong
—not made of imitation batik, but the
genuine article. She had caught it in at the
waist and put a collar on it, and very nice it
looked. If the fashion takes, thousands of
women and children will he drawn out of
the mud of the ricefields to supply the de-
mand for a pittance of 2-id. to 4d. for a
15-hour day. And then, when the fashion
changes, there will he widespread unemploy-
ment. Whoever the deity is that dictates
the feminine fashions of Asia is more con-
siderate. This year’s baju in Borneo, India's
sari and the sloppy bine pants that hide
the under-pinnings of Chinese ladies from
Peking to Canton are the same as they
were when Marco Polo first beheld them.
It is to be hoped life up there has other
compensations.
Danish pianist Haagen Holenbergh will
give his first-recital since his return to Aus-
tralia on this (Thursday) night week at
the King’s Hall. The consul-chiefs of Den-
mark and Sweden will be among the lis-
teners to a programme culled from the melo-
dic rather than the modern composers.
The Dresden-china Miss Ahern, who has
been a pictorial adjunct to David Jones's
showroom for a decade or so, was trans-
planted last week, when the little lady left
to enter the business world on. her own
account.
Storekeepers are never quite sure that
they have seen the last of an article they’ve
sold. There are purchasers who will keep
a thing for two or three weeks and then
bring it back, saying they wish it changed.
A few years ago it was reckoned a smart
thing to buy a pair of horse-clippers about
closing time Saturday night, clip the family
steed with it over Sunday, and return it in
the original wrapper Monday morning. But
the executrix of a deceased person’s estate
reached the limit the other day. She was
going through the departed one’s wardrobe
and found a nightdress with an old Sydney
firm’s sale-ticket still fastened to it. Al-
though obviously never worn, it was yellow
with age and cut in the chaff-bag style of a
dozen years before. Yet the executrix was
quite indignant when Soft Goods refused to
take the nightie back and return the money.
Sister Brisbane’s P.S.: —
A race meeting, a dinner and a ball were the
accessories provided by Walter Hague Kirk, of
Auburn station, tor the coming of age of daughter
Sheila. The deb. and Nora Palmer, of Sydney, were
among the jockeys, and in the numerous birthday
remembrances collected by the lady of the day were
a wallet of notes from friends in the district, a
travelling-case and rug from employees on the station,
and from the “outside hands” a fine racing-bridle.
Father Kirk said thank you for the other gifts,
but Sheila gave her own thanks for the racing-
bridle, which she eyed with the beaming look of
the born horsewoman.
Solicitor E. W. Cleary, of Toowoomba, and dark-
eyed Hollie Moore, also of Toowoomba, will face the
usual shower of rice and confetti in June. Sydney
will be the ’mooning-place.
The Australian Painters-Etchers’ Society will hold
its first exhibition in Queensland this week. Too-
woomba has the honor, and is rather patting itself
or. the back in consequence. Sid Long, Shirlow,
Squire Morgan, Goodehild, Traill, Osborne and
Robins are some of the artists.
When bis Ex. gets back from the Long Trail be
will find the turban of the Maharajah of Jhalawar
banging on the pegs behind the front door. The
potentate, who left his studies at Oxford for' a
health trip, is a patron of authority on education
in his own land, where he founded a high school.
Colonel Bdhn, C.1.E., Mrs. Bern), Dr. Phatia and
A.D.C. Kahn are his retinue.
Kreisler won’t complain of his reception in Bris-
bane. Three hundred people were left in the cold
night at his opening concert in His Majesty’s, and
even the stage was packed with listeners. The
magic bowman stepped off the Sydney mail straight
on to the stage, and got the civic handshake from
Mayor Barry next day. Afterwards the lion was fed
at Lennon’s, and given two decorated boomerangs as
a graceful hint to come back again some day. Mrs.
Kreisler was left in Sydney to pack her husband’s
warm vests for the trip to Maoriland.
The Mayor arranged a concert in the Exhibition
Hall for Empire Day. Shields and greenery, Union
Jacks and the Caledonian pipers, aided and abetted
by the Municipal Concert Band, filled the night
with loyal sound. Harry Borradale and Georgs
Sampson, at the organ, took leading parts.
Mrs. Dearden laid the cloth at home for the Allan
Wilkie pair the other afternoon. Others bidden were
the J. M. Thomson, Whittingham, Connolly, Gilbert
Lees and Harry Mills dames, Mollie Brenan and
Leonard Monk. The Shakspearean specialists have
done better with “The School for Scandal” than they
did in Melbourne, but return this week to their
customary beat with “Twelfth Night.”
Longreach broke out with a Show ball last week.
The Edkins, Macartney and Murray clans were
amongst those who gathered.
Rosevale Valley is now echoing to the megaphones
of the camera-man. Franklyn Vale, the 80-year-old
homestead of the Mort family, has been lent for
some* of the “shoots” in “The Moth of Moonbi,”
which Chai'lie Chauvel is making into a picture.
Upwards of 300 pairs of feet danced through the
Carnival ball at the Brisbane Gymnasium. D. Carr
and the Tomlinson maid carried off the first prize
of the big event—the fox-trot competition.
Mrs. A. B. Stark tea-ed the committee of the
Women's Board of Missions at her home, in a
setting of pink roses, sunflowers, marigolds and early
wattle, with which the hostess’s brown marocain har-
monised. Bishop Lefanu’s lady played the piano.
A wristlet watch was handed to Mrs. Winterford,
who goes on mission work to the Mitchell River
station.
The highbrows of the Shakspeare Society played
bits of the Bard in the Women’s Club rooms. Leo
Guyatt, who holds quite a lot of firsts in elocution-
ary contests, Estelle Dent, A. Portraits. pretty Grizel
Gibson, Feo Todd and Jean Trundle showed how the
lines should be spoken.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and GeraUlton
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
WHEN A MAN
PACKS-
THE FIRST THING
ME MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS-
m
r
t fcrsfl
X
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
POLDI STEEL
FOR HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
Including—
High Speed, Special Alloyed Tool
Steels for Hot Dies.
Pneumatic Tools, Ball & Thrust
Races, Jewellers’ Rolls, etc.
Also
Motor-Car Steels, including Air, Oil
and Case Hardening Chrome
Nickel and Nickel Steels, “Im-
proved” Nickel Chrome Axle
and Crank-Axle Steels, Valve
and Spring Steels.
POLDI STEEL COMPANY
(Aust.), Ltd.,
Sydney, 343 Sussex Street.
Melbourne Branch, 278 Queen St.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The wonderful Steve Donoghue has ridden
another Epsom Derby winner—his sixth in 11 years
—in- Manna, a bay colt by Phalaris —Waffles, owned
by one Morris from Shanghai. Manna went out at
9 to 1, took the lead at three furlongs, and made
hacks of the field, finishing eight lengths ahead of
Zionist (10’s), a grandson of Carbine (he is by
Spearmint—lndia), Sirdar, a 50-to-l chance, being
third. The going was so bad that, although Manna
exhibited exceptional speed and stamina, it took
him 2min. 40 3-ssec. to complete the journey.
“Brownie” Carslake, the Victorian, was aboard
Zionist, while Frank Bullock —second last year on
St. Germain—rode the favorite, Crossbow, who fin-
ished a bad seventh. Truly Australian horsemen
have had no luck in the Derby. The thrge jockeys
mentioned are much older than the majority of
boys riding in Australia. Donoghue is 41, Bullock
just on 40 —he has a birthday on the 25th—and
Carslake 38.
“Iford”; The “internationalisation” of the
English Derby seems to be about complete. The
owner of the first horse in this year’s classic event
is described as a hugely opulent Jew who runs a
business and inhabits a palatial mansion at Shanghai ;
the owner of the second is an Indian prince, the
religious head of Ismaili Mohammedans; the owner
of the third a Yankee millionaire whose horses are
trained in France. Their respective jockeys were
Irish, Australian and French.
A large section of the Brisbane popula-
tion cheered lustily when Admetus (s’s) downed Te
Kara (5 to 4 on) at w.f.a. in the King’s Plate at
Eagle Farm. Certainly 10 furlongs is not the Maori-
lander’s best distance, but he ran creditably in that
9-furlongs w.f.a. event at Warwick Farm in which
Wallace Mortlake and Windbag beat The Hawk;
and the Queensland champion’s performance was
brilliant. He made all his own running and finished
24 lengths in front of Ardglen, who beat Te Kara
by inches, the time being 2min. ssec. Quintus
(6’s) was the favorite for the Stradbroke Handicap,
with Taupo and Persse’s Double next in demand at
B’s, but the weight (9st. 121 b.), proved too much
for Quintus, who chased the place-getters home.
They were Highland, by Highfield—Regulator (16’s),
Pigeondor (30’s) and King Seremond (20’s)—-a rare
good race for McShortodds. Loyal Shepherd (5 to 2)
added to the number of his Brisbane Cup friends by the
handsome fashion in which he overcame Memcraft
and Belberd in the St. Leger. Orrell rode the
Shepherd King—Lady Buddah colt, and Toohey steered
Memcraft, who was second favorite at 3’s.
That unfortunate beast Sweetmagne, who
was second in the A.R.C. City Handicap last year,
was second again on Saturday to the untliought-of
Mentellini, a three-year-old gelding by Pistol —
True Friend. The race was run in heavy going, and
Mentellini, who was ridden in a masterly fashion by
little James, cut down Blabung at the distance
and won by a length from the topweight, with Bla-
bung third and Kibano, last year’s winner, fourth;
time (for seven furlongs), lmin. 31sec. Mentellini
is owned by S. S. Stephenson, who collected £7OO
from the club besides tote dividends at the rate of
£27 7s. for every £1 staked. Whittier was a
starter in the Parkside Stakes, but he was in no
condition to run more than a few furlongs, and
The Night Patrol simply cantered in from Bold and
Bad and King of Mirth. Petunia gave Scobie his
second win for the day, shouldering lOst. 71b. like
a real good one in the Adelaide Stakes. Strange
that he failed so badly in Sydney.
Those Sydney punters who have been
following Chatterbox got 6’s for their money in
the Auburn Handicap at Rosehill, Foxy, Absurdum,
Gaelic Maid and the Westralian filly Jolly Handsome
helping to make a market for the Magpie—Galtse
Princess mare. A furlong from home the bonny little
brown lady looked to have little chance of catching
Gaelic Maid, to whom she was giving 191 b., but,
joining with a great run on the outside, she beat
the Maid by half a length, Janitor, an early winner,
being three lengths off. Jack Kelso, who trains her,
has only had two successful horses, this being his
first season: Troubadour, the hurdler, took two
races in succession and was a close second
in a third, and now Chatterbox has done
the hat trick which the hurdler just missed.
Jack is certainly travelling in the way
young trainers should go. Two other recent winners
in Royal Howard (4’s) and Dialogue (3’s) obliged
again at Rosehill, and Royal Howard jumped so
nicely and showed so much pace on the flat that he
looks like being very hard to beat in the £2OOO
A.J.C. Hurdle next Monday, in which he has lOst.
lib. Not much of a weight for a Queensland Cup
horse who has taken kindly to hurdling and has
evidently come good again.
* * * *
Teddy Webster, who had been out of luck
for a long time, landed the two races for leppers at
Saturday’s Moonee Valley (Vic.) meeting; nor # did
the ex-circus performer have to exercise any of his
erstwhile magic. In the Federal Hurdle he allowed
Parupa (7’s) to trail Autrolite and Curling until
approaching the toy straight; then Parupa ran
away, Sir Charles-—perhaps another Jaekstaff —and
Autrolite following him home. And Brenda’s Son
(6’s) never looked like being beaten in the Com-
monwealth Steeple, except, perhaps, when Perambla
and St. Roseland gained a few lengths on him at
the turn for home. Then Webster applied pressure,
and T. M. Burke’s solid jumper went away again.
The Williamstown winner, Pukka, second favorite
at 4’s to Susie Pye (5 to 4) in the 12 furlongs
handicap, was plainly not good enough at the
weights—he had plenty—and finished well back.
Susie Pye followed Pluto (20’s) into the straight
and was a length in front at the end. Like her father,
Wallace Isinglass, she is a very determined finisher.
The T. M. Burke-W. Burke combination took out its
second race for the afternoon when Some War’s
(12’s) great run on the outside of the field proved
better than Pom Pom’s (4’s) on the rails. Some
War, who is by Burrabadeen—All War, won by half
a length.
|“Chircn”: Fed Up, once owned by Tas. Agent-
General Eccles Snowden, was all the rage for Some
War’s flutter. He now races in the colors of George
Cann, who makes a hobby of buying young horses
cheap in Victoria, turning them into champions in
Tasmania, and, after winning a race or two in their
home State, selling them again at an immense
increase. Danton, who ran second on Saturday, is
a case in point. The energetic youth bought him for
a song, accumulated £2OOO with him in the Speck,
and passed him on to T. M. Burke for £l6OO. A
similar destiny awaits Fed Up, whose last race up
the Elvvick hill was won with his mouth open,
although he carried lOst. 10lb. and ran the six
furlongs in the very good time (for the track) of
lmin. 16see. Cann was a furniture carter before he
took to the “game,” and the first neddy he trained
was an infirm trotter. Nowadays he sits behind a
comfortable pile.
* * * *
“Ilasen”: As the race-special started home-
ward from Aspendale, a husky voice was raised in
the next division of the Tate carriage. “Now,
look here, fellers,” it began. “I don’t know
much about this game; oidy learnt it meself las’
month up at Cooktown. Just let’s get this board
on me knee. Now, y’ see these cards”.... I
CHARLIE SPENCER, English centre-half.
An international, he played for New-
castle United.
almost stood up and cheered. It was a resurrection.
“Dam’ scoundrels!” grunted the old gentleman beside
me. “Ought to be in gaol.” “Yes,” I said. “I’m
not too good yet,” floated over the low partition,
“but I practise whenever I can”.... “Beats me
how they get anyone to come at it these days,”
grumbled the old gentleman. “The papers have
been exposing it ever since I was a boy.” He stood
up to look over the partition. “They’ve got some
sailors from the Concord!” lie informed me; “it’s
a dam’ shame.” At last his indignation led him
to walk round into the next compartment. When
the train slowed down for Caulfield, 20 minutes
later, I walked round as well. Then I saw the ganie,
and the old gentleman. His face was red, his
eyes flashed, and his hand reached out to—put
10s. on the middle card.
“Adelaide”: The South Aus. polo four,
winners of the Australasian tournament at Sydney—•
Angas, Law Smith and two Murrays—all hail from
the same Adelaide “i-hool, St. p “ter’s. Record?
• * * •
“H. Hardupp” : It takes a tot to
kill any game in which a “sport” can rake in
numbers of sixpences for the gift of an occasional
box of chocolates, so, although “Housey Housey”
has been definitely pronounced illegal, the proprietors
of the joints are still busy. Of course, they are
not playing the prohibited game. “Q-Ball” is the
alternative ; adopted by some of them. Each player
uses a cue to push marbles into numbered slots.
He has four shots, and the highest aggregate of
numbers wins. The game is as skilful as a Charles
Garvice novel is literary, but it retains the “Housey
Housey” characteristic of enabling its promotors to
GERALD PATTERSON, habitual Davis
Cup player.
make a living with the minimum of exertion, and
so do half a dozen variations of the forbidden gamble
- —a new one is invented every day.
At the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
Walter Miller, though 131 b. lighter and suffering
from boils, overcame Billy Meeske (12st. 81b.) for
the third time. The Australian had a substantial
advantage on points until the man with Job’s com-
plaint tricked him with a clever fall in the sixth
lap; after that Miller played for safety, fending off
Meeske’s vigorous efforts to get even. The Aus-
tralian, a keen student of the game, worried Walter
with headlocks moulded on Karasick’s methods, and
towards the end Miller was showing signs of exhaus-
tion. Afterwards Karasick and Limutkin threw out
challenges to all and sundry but woke no enthusiasm.
The public has grown tired of seeing masses of
meat straining on the mat.
There were about a hundred unemployed
Australian boxers in the crowd that saw De Leon
(Bst. 121 b.) stop Fernandez (Bst. 1211 b.) in four
rounds at the Sydney Stadium. De Leon is a
Filipino; his victim a Cuban. The former, a
Stadium “champion,” and his compatriots Pelkey, a
second-rater, and Jamito, a light of other days, have
had 16 contests in three months. Were the
Orientals superior to the local lads the preference
would still be questionable ; as things are, it cannot
be excused. De Leon got a very dubious decision
over Congress, and the Melbourne boy’s requests for
a return match have been refused. Easy marks
are picked for the Stadium’s pet, and the well-
beaten Pelkey and Jamito continue to get dates
while better home-grown pugs, are told there is
nothing doing. An Australian Boxing Commission is
long overdue.
“Shrewsbury”: The mission field seems to
have a curious attraction for athletes. Bishops Sel-
wyn and Patterson, of Western Pacific fame, were
both noted oarsmen, and two of the famous cricket-
ing family of Studd accepted the call to guide the
heathen in his blindness, in Africa. Among recent
examples are Herbert Ashton, the Cambridge ama-
teur cricketer, who did so well against the last
Australian XI in England. He has gone to spread
the Word in India and paste the Devil’s bowling
there. Now comes news that Eric Liddell, the
Cambridge and Olympic middle-distance runnel’, has
heard the call to China and goes to mish in the
Flowery Land. With a Christian name like that
Liddell was predestined to the job. Still his splint-
ing powers may come in handy next time the Pongs
start a missionary battue.
* * * *
At the Sydney Cricket Ground on Satur-
day a N.S.W. Rugby League XIII, with a strong
in usion of new blood, made a valiant effort to do
what no N. S. Wales side has done since 1922 —beat
the Queenslanders, but never quite looked like
succeeding. The Bananalanders won by 23 points to
15, and although one of their tries was a bit doubt-
ful, they were unmistakably the better team. For
the most part the game was a battle between two
fine packs of forwards, and the heavier and more
experienced Queenslanders prevailed. Armbruster
(who got two tries), Potter and Steinhort were a
great Queensland trio, and with their three comrades
in mass formation kept the Blues in check. These
methods gave Duncan Thompson opportunities of
which the Toowoomba half-back made so much use
that the N.S.W. team grew tired chasing him.
Frauenfelder, the full-back, did many wonderful
things, particularly in gathering the kicks from
awkward angles; and all the three-quarters played
solidly, with Craig and Paten the pick. The best
of the N.S.W. forwards was Hardman, who got two
or the side’s three tries. He has weight and pace,
and will be a certainty for the next Australian
XIII if he trains on. Justice, the hooker, was
hardly heavy or aggressive enough for the job, but
Latta and O'Connor battled manfully, as these fine
players always do. Outside the pack, little Doig (half-
hack) had a gruelling time, and the forwards might
have protected him more. Wearing was the brightest
of the three-quarter line. His handling was faulty
at times, but near the end he played like a man
inspired. Queensland has now won seven matches
in succession and scored 169 points to 80—39 tries
and 26 goals against 18 tries and 13 goals. An
exceptionally fine record.
All doubts as to the financial success of
the English Soccer team were set at rest on Satur-
day, when a crowd of 45,000 saw the visitors beat
N. S. Wales at the Sydney Show Ground by three
goals to two. The gate was £3700, and then the sale
of tickets had to be stopped. Most of the spec-
tators predicted an easy win for England, but the
local men played right up to their opponents all
through, and had the better of matters during much
of the second half. The Englishmen, much superior
in ball-control and cleverness, were slower than the
N. S. Welshmen, who kept on top of them tirelessly,
bustling them off the ball. The apparently leisured
tactics of the Englishmen usually staved off danger,
an 1 their superior shooting did the rest. Masters,
the South Coast centre forward, played a capital
game for N. S. Wales, scoring both goals, the first
with a head in from a clever cross by McNaughton.
This young Cessnock winger had already met the
visitors in Melbourne, and his experience helped
him to a brilliant showing on Saturday. Edwards,
at centre half, was a leading factor in the fight put
up by N.S.W., while the Granville back, Leabeater,
was fine in defence. Cartwright in goal had some
hot stuff to stop, Batten’s last goal being a teaser.
The stars of the English side were Graham, at left
half, Batten, centre forward, and the two backs,
Poynton and Charlton. Both backs got tremendous
distance on their kicks, as did Hardy in goal, and
the ball always found an Englishman. Graham, the
captain, was the best of the visitors’ halves, and
his support of Batten gave the brilliant centre many
chances. Batten scored twice, and in spite of the
fact that he had Masters and Edwards to deal with,
stood out by himself in the front line. The English-
men will be in N. S. Wales until June 14, meeting
the State again on June 8. Then they go to
Queensland, where the first Test against Australia
will be played in Brisbane on June 27.
“Centurion”: As an excuse for refusing the English
Soccer players the use of Sydney Cricket Ground,
the N.S.W. League complained in the press that
Woolwich Arsenal Soccer club would only lend its
ground to the League Australians in England for a
midweek match. This, says the League’s spokesman,
spoilt their gate! All the gate a Northern Union
game would draw in London, the heart of Union
Rugby and boasting half a dozen leading Association
clubs, could be carried in silver by the office boy.
The gate the League match drew on that occasion,
small as it was, would have been much smaller on
a Saturday, with the other codes in action. The
League game has as much chance of catching on in
London as it has in Melbourne, and for the same
reason.
* * * *
There were big crowds at all the League
matches in Melbourne on Saturday, and the Colling-
wood-Fitzroy match was thrilling enough for any-
thing. ’Roy led by 10 points at the opening of the
last quarter, and 25.000 people yelled themselves hoarse
as Collingwood tore in with snappy, short exchanges
which swiftly travelled the length of the ground,
’Wood running out winners by 52 points to 47. Fitz-
roy also had its opportunities, but wasted them by
erratic kicking from goal-getting positions; in fact,
’Roy threw the game away in the last 10 minutes. Essen-
don was more lucky, although Richmond gave it some
uneasy moments. Scores were 58 to 51 at three-
quarter time, with the Tigers leading; and there
was no stately Spanish air about the proud ’Dons as
they fought madly to grasp victory from disaster.
Some good work by Mauger helping them, Essendon
won by 67 to 61. Melbourne put down the new-
comers, North Melbourne, by 85 to 52; South Mel-
bourne overcame St. Kilda after the Saints had
hung on well for three quarters (100 to 73) ; Geelong
put up the season’s record score of 144 in wiping
the grass with Carlton, 72 ; and Hawthorn further
humbled Footscray (74 to 58), the team that
last year was the pride of the Association.
“Trekle”: Though Stockdale, of Essendon, has
been a good footballer ever since he came from
the bush to the Melbourne League, he had one
really amazing year. That was when he put himself
into the champion class, only to return after a time
to his old post among the merely usefuls. Till
the last game in 1921 Stockdale was a dependable
back man. In the final, as the ’Dons were horribly
weak forward, he was sent up there to try his foot
at goal-kicking. Immediate was his success ; of the
team’s six goals he got five, and all but won the
game. Next year he stuck to his new post and
was the champion of the season. This left other
Essendon goal-sneaks with no seeming chance of a
game, so young Moriarty got his clearance to Fitzroy.
Next season, Stocky mysteriously lost all his ability
to find the posts—was as completely lost as Amund
sen—and had to resume his old position of defender.
The ’Dons, thus left without a competent forward,
have a grievance against Fate, for the man they
passed out —Moriarty—has broken all records with
Fitzroy, and is still improving.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the course of 50 years the
job of secretary to the Victorian Cricket Association,
now vacant through the resignation of Ernie Bean,
has been held by five men. W. H. Handfield was
the first, but. after suffering retrenchment in the
civil service at the same time as Byron Moore (whose
resignation of the V.R.C. secretarvship is coincident
with that of Bean), he notified the V.C.A. that he could
not carry on without a salary. Some was provided,
hut Handheld resigned again in 1879. and H. H.
Budd filled in two years, followed by T. H. Chuck
for a couple of months. Then E. D. Heather, on a
definite salary, reigned for .30 years. In 1912 J.
Healv got the job; and Bean took up the running
in 1915. The idea of having a paid secretary-
obviously needed by an association whose finances are
now a big affair, and which owns a valuable block
of offices —has led to an absurd proposal that the
screw should be “somewhere about £5 per week.
Bookmakers’ clerks get more than that.
“Shrewsbury”: The reason for Gillignu s
utter failure as a bowder in Australia, after his
undoubtedly good showing on English wickets, may
be found in the medical ukase that he is to play no
more cricket this season. The Sussex skipper never
looked like having the stamina necessary tor a fast
bowler in this country; and he was very fine drawn
at the end of the tour. A blow over the heart
received in the Gents.-Plavers’ match before coming
to Australia is still troubling him. Unless he dis-
ohevs the doctor, Gilligan will be absent from the
challenge match against Joel’s M.C.C. team which
toured South Africa —it is to be played at 1 olke
stone in July.
THE WRESTLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A punishing toehold caused Miller some anxious
moments in the fourth round, and with Meeske
hanging on like a terrier, twisting and grinding the
toe backwards, the American worked in a frenzy of
facebars, grinding the Australian’s nose around until,
in a convulsive wriggle, Miller cleared.” —Akgus.
Sing a song of wrestlers straining in the lists,
Toeholds and headlocks and vicious turns and twists,
Arm-levers, facebars —that’s how points are scored.
That’s the stuff wherewith to dump a fellow over-
board !
Slam of heavy-handed “leads,” charges o’er the ring.
Twisted toes and kneaded conks that hurt like any-
thing.
Draw a heaving, squirming twain, grimly aiming at
Getting down a brawny pair of shoulders on the mat.
Tell a tale of gruelling rounds, cunning trips and
traps,
“Scissoring” with legs entwined in the other chap’s,
Weight upon the ribs applied, arms that backward
strain,
Till it hardly seems they can straighten out again
Limn a sketch of hapless snouts ground too tight
to snort
(Do you need a glossary? Not if you’re a sport.)
Half-nelsons, pull-overs, all manoeuvres that
Help to put a pair of shoulders down upon the mat.
Paint the scene in vivid words picked to stir the
blood,
Words that make the football scribe’s look as cheap
as mud,
Tortuous and torturous terms, full of bite and sting,
Putting in the shade the blague of the fistic ring.
Sing a song of wrestlers’ arts, grips that rack and
screw,
Double wristlocks and the like, deadly crutch-holds,
too,
Snaky wriggles, agile feats that would tax a cat.
That’s the way to get a champ, down upon the mat.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Economy !
TMoff milefper Gsllon-
Non-stop Petrol Consumption Test Proves
OVERLAND ECONOMY
37 Standard
Overland Cars
Avenged 43.2 Miles per Gallon
BHIS phenomenal figure was averaged by thirty-
seven (37) Standard Overland Cars in a
petrol-consumption test held among Overland
Dealers in New South Wales during week
ending May 23, 1925. The highest mileage per gallon
attained was 63.2 by Mr. A. F. Bartley, of Coota-
mundra, and the lowest mileage recorded was 30.25
miles per gallon.
This test was carried out under the full glare of
publicity and under official observation. The original
37 certificates may be inspected pny time at the
Company’s Showrooms in Sydney.
Once again Overland proves its remarkable economy
and consistency. Once again Overland challenges
competition in the Light Car field.
YOU, TOO, may get this remarkable figure. Thousands
of Overland users get phenomenal results like this
every day. Let us prove our statements.
W
Any of the following distributors will arrange a demonstration: —
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q,
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street
Perth, W.A.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Neals Motor*. Pty., Ltd.,
Willys-Overland Division,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Overland Sydney, Ltd.,
147-49 Castiereagh Street,
Sydney, W.S.W.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.


Beauty is Only Skin Deep
But Ripolin also
“HAS THE GRIP.”
It is Quality and Permanency
that Count.
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL PAINT
for
MOTOR-CARS OR BOATS,
Hospitals, Mansions, Bungalows and
all interior and exterior painting.
White and 100 shades procurable.
Send for Booklet and Color Card to
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY.,
Limited,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11054.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD.,
171 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
L,. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep ),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
i LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
\ should read the British Australian
Cnd Nkv t Zealander, (id. weekly—an illus-
i rated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
\nd New Zealander Reading-room at the
• >fiices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, \\ .C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
i heir friends, use the telephone, and obtain
a formation without charge.
KNOWN AND USED FOR HAUFACEHTUJJt
S'
5
9
*
0
m%
Miff
ItSfc
THE WORLD-FAMED
PLEASANT,COOLING,
INVICORATINC,
health-giving
ffi?
ONLY
PREPARED
ENG
OON
f Safety
First!
Avoid experiments with yom
health. I'ely on ENO’S
" Fruit Salt ” to prevent that
clogging of the system whit h
gives rise to liver troubles,
dyspepsia, skin ailments,
prickly heat, constipation, and
other disorders. Follow this
rule : First thing every morn-
ing, drink a glass of watei
sparkling with a ‘dash’ of ENO
SOLD EVERYWHERE
IN TWO SIZES
Sales Agents :
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE
& CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY. A
MASTERTOUCH
MUSIC ROLLS
MUSIC LOVERS are hereby requested to obtain the following OPERATIC
and GILBERT & SULLIVAN MASTERTOUCH WORD ROLL
SELECTIONS:—
D. 417 One Fine Day (“Madam Butterfly”).
D. 460 Favourite Strains from “La Boheme.”
D. 464 Favourite Strains from “Madam Butterfly.”
D. 465 Softly Awakes My Heart (“Samson & Delilah”).
D. 469 Barcarolle (“Tales of Hoffmann”).
D. 4.72 Favourite Strains from “Pagliacci.”
D. 482 Favourite Strains from “Rigoletto.”
D. 491 Favour - to Strains from “Pirates of Penzance.”
D. 1004 Favourite Strains from “The Bohemian Girl.”
D. 1005 Favourite Strains from “II Trovatore.”
D.lOlO Favourite Strains from “Carmen.”
D. 1016 Favourite Strains from “lolanthe.”
D. 1021 Favourite Strains from “The Gondoliers.”
D. 1027 Selections from “The Belle of New York.”
D. 1029 “H.M.S. Pinafore” Selection.
D. 1036 “The Mikado” Selection.
D. 1044 Favourite Strains from “Faust.”
THE MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLLS contain the full score of the words
in English with every selection, opening up a new field m Music Rous.
Never before have' you been able to fully enjoy Operatic M Tmir'H
vital part of the Opera has been omitted. Remember the MAbihKiutcu
MUSIC ROLLS are the only ones containing this feature.
All of these selections are beautifully played and should appeal to the most
discriminating musician.
Obtainable from all MASTERTOUCH MUSIC ROLL Dealers.
JWASTERTOUCH
\
ttana
PI ayea
A\
ROLLS
J 5
the
are
EST
B
EST
AT
-
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney,
Missing Friends.
June Poisnand.
T N FORMATION is required of the present address
1 of JUNE POIGNAND (the third son of Wil-
loughby Poignand and Chiyo Poignani), who was.
born at Shanghai, China, on March 3, 1900, and who
formcilv resided at ISo. 1 Ward Road, Shanghai.
June Poignand left Shanghai for Sycn y, Australia, on
or about thtober 9, 1918, and was last heard of at
Sydney shoitly afterwards, if the said June Poig-
nand is dead, particulars are required of the time
and place of his death. Information to be forwarded
to the undersigned.
BLAKE & RIGGALL,
120 William Street. Melbourne.
Hissing: Friends.
XF any persons who can claim descent from
WII LIAM MOON and AMY WELLER,
who were married at Brighton, Sussex, Eng-
land, in or about the year 1815, com-
municate with Messrs. RITCHIE &
PARKER, ALFRED GREEN & CO..
Solicitors, Launceston, Tasmania, they will
hear something to their advantage.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
An Absolutely Dependable Watch is
necessity, particularly in the country,
Observatory time-
a practical
away from
“The Super
Fx & R”
Watch
IS the finest value ever
offered. For rough riding
and general hard-wearing
conditions it is unequalled.
A strongly constructed,
1 5-jewelled, f-plate lever,
with compensated and ad-
justed balance, brequet
overcoil springs and every
latest improvement, it is
profoundly accurate and
always reliable. However
much money you might pay for a watch, you could nol
buy a better or one more suitable for general Australia!)
conditions.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST H'WK! 1 ERV « x SVDNWY
“The Super Fx & IT’ Watch, in
Open-face Sterling Silver Case,
84/-
Or Oxidised Steel, .66/-
Fairfax&Roberts u."
Zb(?Zb Hunter Street Sydney
THE INKY WAY.
A M.L. paper, striving for originality in its
account of the recent riflemen's meeting at Trent
ham, headed the report: “With the Cracksmen.”
One of the worst instances of word
distort! n in Australia is to be seen in the expres
sion “fair dinkum. ’ This is the blatkfeilows’ way
of saying “fair drinking. ’ The Collius-street bush
men turned it into an adjective, and by degrees the
“fair” Was left out and the “dinkum’ changed into
“dinkie,” “di” being a ded later, possibly by some
one hailing from Shoreditch.
The Bulletin has just had the honor bestowed on
it of being refused admission into Russia; and
copies sent to its subscribers in that country have
been returned to the office. The Press Bureau of the
Soviet continues, however, to receive a copy; and
whin this paper learns to speak kind.y of revolu-
tion and murder and arse n and a few other playful
practices, it is understood the embargo will be
withdrawn.
“F.T.K.”: The long-promised “autobiography” of
Melba is about due When she was in Australia
with her opera company her secretary, Beverley
Nicholls, accompanied her expressly to knock into
final shape the memories of tne Li me. Nicholls is
a novelist with “Patchwork,” “Prelude” and “Self”
to his credit. But as the autooiography deals
almost exclusively with Melbas career as a vocalist,
muc h that he would like to have included has
been cfmitted.
H. R. Gollan, formerly sub-e litor of Melbourne
Evening Sun and before that political reporter fox
the Aimes, has fallen on his feet—-Clapp, of the
Railways, grabbed IIL.I as soon as the Sun crashed.
He will carry on under A. E. Hyland, Railway
Publicity Officer, who is also Chairman of the
Betterment Board in the service. Uollan had nearly
five years’ service in khaki, gained the D.S.u. and
M.C., moved up from private to captain, and was
“mentioned” three times.
“Gan”; W. J. Turner, an Australian writer who is
well in the swim in London, has presented his second
fantastic play’, “Smaragda’s Lover,” which appears to
be as bafliing on the stage as his first effort, “The
Man Who Ate Popocatepetl,” or something to that
effect. Judging from the books it is difficult to
see how they could possible’ slicece 1 on any stage.
They are only mildly daing in dialogue, and it
takes something unusual to shock successfully in
these days. Turner is a musical critic as well as a
dramatist.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Of all N.S.W. politicians.
Jack Fitzpatrick has easily the fu.lest record, He
graduated as a comp in a A ilbourne office
in 1880, conducted papers at Gunnedah, Narrabri
and aai raniatta, and was a reporter on the Daily
SouTHniN Argus, Goulburn. In 1888 he established
the W'n sor and Richmond Gazette, which he con-
ducted for 11 years. In 1895 he purchased the
Molong Argus, only disposing of it when elected
member for Orange in 1907. And in between he has
written half a shelf of books.
“Centurion”; A declaration in a libel suit couched
in what is described as Arabic was filed in Sydney
Supreme Court the other day’, and has roused a
mild interest am ng lawyers’ clerks. The partners
are Syrians, and presumably the weird d 'cument is
in order, though there may be some trouble wh<n it
comes to interpreting it. There are several varieties
of Arabic spoken and written, apart from dialec to
and patois. The colloquial Arabic of the camel
drivers is ouite different from that used by the
sunerior E#endi ; fn' he in his turn cannot stay
with the highbrow c. n.ersation of the scholar.
“Slam”: Peter J. N’ally’, Compiler of Publications
for the Queensland Intelligence Bureau, has been
appointed to take charge of the Sydney Tourist Office.
Ever since he sta.ted his career as printer’s devil
on the Warwick Argus, “P.J.” has lived in ;n atmo-
sphere of ink, becoming a star reporter while still
a lad, and editor and manager of a West Queensland
paper at 18. Presently the city called, and he filled
various positions on the CoURirR. His abilities next
gained him the job of Government Publicity Officer;
and during the last 13 years he has tu n d out
quite a library of handbooks on Queensland s indus-
tries and tourist resorts.
“Sieri’a”: A valuable addition to the Australian
War jiuseum vvou.d be an authentic list of slang
words and phrases coined during the war. All the
lists 1 have seen are almo t valueless through the
dragging in of Crimean and Boer War veterans and
civilian greybeards. In the December Nineteenth
Century a writer introduces, among others, “clink.”
“on the carpet” ml “wind up’ as products of the
war. “Clink” was the common name for gaol in
the ’seventies, and I remember “wind up” an 1 “on
the carpet” for at least 33 years. “Washout” and
“eyewash” I am not sure about. The expressive
“swinging the lead” was new to me. i first heard
it on a troopship in 1917. If it really was born
of the war its birth should be registered at the
museum. The Nineteenth Century vvr'ter gives
the word “pozzy” (jam). Did the Australians ever
use it :n that sense? 1 never heard it.
“Woodki”: Downward, now Minister for Lands in
Vic., was the means of getting me a lesson in country
newspaper work which has since proved mighty
profitable. He Was the principal speaker at Jum-
bunna, in his electorate; and i Went cut to report
him for the KorumbtiiTa Adv cate. Fresh from the
city I gave Downward two cclumns and to the other
toast-discussers, all local nobs, 1 gave three inches.
Gannon, my editor, wept when he saw my copy’;
ana with appropriate emphasis I get this tip: “Vou
must kid to your own town people, sonny. All
these babbling butchers and bakers want to duck
about the street to-morrow morning showic g each
other what they sail at the shivoo; and we've
get to print it for ’em to show!” The lesson
went home. Ever since the local _somebodies have
“get it” from me, with plenty of butter. That’s
why the wife and kids can have their butter —and
jam with it if they like.
Ex-Speaker Simon Hickey (N.S.W.) has just
earned the cheers of the country press. The other
day a Syc'n v agency sent out this wire:—
“Wiliam Lovelock convicted having received
quantity shawls stolen from warehouse Simon, Hickey
former Speaker Assembly was at Dailinguui'ot to-
day sentenced 18 months’ imprisonment.”
The Armidale Chr.nicle and the Dubbo Liberal
had the shocking bad luck to make two items of it,
: n 1, instead of putting in an “of ’ after “warehouse,’
sent the ex-Speaker to gaol. When the city papers
arrived and those country editors rea.ised the mess
they had made of taings, t.vo anguished proprietors
waited on Hickey s doorstep and wondered how
much they would have left after the ex Speaker had
done with them. But instead of coldly referring
them to his solicitor, the good fellow said he was
quite sure they wou.d fix things up in their next
issues, and when they had done that he would only
remember it as a good joke.
The chairman of directors of Victorian Newspapers,
Ltd., issued a circular to shareholders the ct .er day
telling them that “definite arrange mints have com-
menced for the publication of the M using Post.
The whole of the required pi mt has been procured
and applications are being call, d for the necessary
staff. C ntracts are being entered into for the
supplies of newsprint, ink, etc.” This co. was formed
at the end of 1921, but it didn t get very far. Its
nominal caDitl was i 250,001 in 50.010 £5 shares;
and 8836 of the shares were used to buy out the
Farmer ’ A.dv cate Newspaper Co. Apparently in
all 38.669 shares have been allotted; but on those
taken by the public only £2 per share has been
■laid up. The co., besides proceeding to get in the
ther £3 per share, is now offei'n; 10,000 £5
8 p.c. prefs., with the right to follow the ordinaries
point' by point in dividends beyond 8 p.c. The
capital already got in has been spent in buying the
ol 1 Herald building in Flinders-strect, along with
some plint; the price for the lot was £67,000
and £33.500 has been paid. Meantime the eo. has been
carrying on the Farmers’ Adv cate business (the
title of that weekly was changed to the Countryman)
For the sale of shares the co. is going to depend
iargeiv on the branches of the Vic. Farmers’ Union.
The directors have hoaes of reading the first issue
of the new daily “well before the end of the year.”


is the
ANEW
Willard Battery
See this new battery at any
Willard Service Station. It re-
tains the old reliable Willard
features—Threaded Rubber In-
sulation and All-Rubber Case.
Sold Charged Bone-Dry. The
price will interest you, too.
No more than you pay for a
wooden case battery.
These passenger cars and
trucks are equipped by
their makers with genuine
Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Cole
Cunningham
Daniels
Davis
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Export)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Franklin
Delling
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
McFarlan
Oakland
Ogren
Oldsmobile
Packard
(Export)
Peerless
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Steams
Studebaker
Stutz
Westcott
Wills St. Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All-American
American-
La France
Atterbury
Bridgeport
Case
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dodge
Dorris
Fifth Ave.
Coach
Fremont
F. W. D.
Fulton
Garford
Giant
G. M. C.
Graham Bros.
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Independent
Indiana
Kankakee
Kissel
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Meteor
Miller
Nelson 66
Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Riddle
Ruggles
Sandow
Sayers 8s
Scovill
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Velie
Vim
Ward-
La France
White
Wilson
CLEVELAND,
OHIO,
STORAGE
BATTERIES


.v ••
[ ' . Vv'
Ih I
f iww *
Wm Is •
IS
til
»£ A
m
<*• ;
■.: / .
m
IliillSS
lli
. “i:
Hi
AS «
U
m
igsg
-•■■•--. . f
7 *
«
I
7
Hi
HH
n
' ■ ■
mm
m
IMII
wpppai®
H
■m
THE CAR THE DOCTOR ORDERED.
10/15-h.p. 4-cylinder Italian Coupe ... / £595
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD Melbourne, Vic.
GARRATTS, LTD Sydney, N.S.W.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD Adelaide, S.A.
ARTHUR ANDERSON, LTD Perth, W.A.
FIAT SALES AGENCY, LTD. ... Brisbane, Q’land
ROBERT NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD., Sub-Agent for Tasmania.


SEiorit
w.
m
Z*N
1
GREYS
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
J&cond / Hon&
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN 6C CO. LTD., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd.
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/*
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kid Boots”
Criterion “The Skin Game”
Royal “The Eady of the ltose
Palace “Gappy Kicks’’
Grand Opera House “The Honeymoon Girl
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Primrose”
Royal “The Lady”
King’s “On Our Selection
AtHejoeum “Thank U”
Princess’s “Little Jessie James
Palace • “Snap”
Tivoli • Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Even the modern standard lamp on the
stage on Saturday night could not take away
from Sydney Town Hall the eighteenth-
century atmosphere created by the Sistine
Soloists in their brave Goldonian costumes
and perukes. The music, too —of the. first
part of the concert, at any rate--—was chosen
from works by composers who wove their
musical fancies about the period when the
Perugian was building up the tradition of
Italian comedy. Each of the eight men in
the company has a good voice, and all are
experienced soloists. But the outstanding
organ is that of Burani. This young man,
who looks like a toreador, has a bass voice
of resonance, flexibility and dramatic power,
and his singing of Carissimi’s “Yittoria” was
one of the notable events of a crowded even-
ing. The slim Paganelli, breeched in blues
as virginal as his thistledown tenor, proved
devastating in his sentimental arias. Auchner
and Belli had their most tumultuous recep-
tion in the duet from Cimarosa’s “Secret
Marriage,” and also gained individual appro-
val. the former in the Verdi aria from “Un
Ballo in Maschera” and the latter in “Star
of Eve.” Faccliini put his best work into
the tender “Amarilli,” and little Sarti greeted
old and new’ friends with Mascagni’s “Song
of the Falcon.” There is nothing thin or
ragged in the concerted numbers on the pro-
gramme. Indeed, the eight singers produce
a miraculous volume of tone, and the
ensemble work is polished, effective and
MELBOURNE PALACE—“SNAP”
REVUE.
The highly-insured ’Enery Slugg has the
temerity to come home without having
met with an accident. Vivien Carter
and Hector Si. Clair, in “Accidents Will
Happen.” Howett Worster sings of “A
Cocktail at the Carlton.”
beautifully balanced. Particularly notice-
able was this on Saturday night in “Matti-
nata,” the soft passages of which were a
revelation. Casolari is the musical director
of the artistic venture.
“The Lady of the Rose” still trips along
her song-strewn way at Sydney Royal.
Mouselike, as fearing light, stole in and out
The dainty tootsies Suckling wrote about.
“Kid Boots,” such as Her Maj.’s boards are
gracing,
Are not so timorously self-effacing.
At Sydney Opera House the vamping of
Mamie Watson as Cherie in “The Honey-
moon Girl” continues to be like the driving
of Jehu, the son of Nimshi; Mione Stewart is
a dulcet-toned Dulcie.
There is a certain appropriateness in “The
Skin Game” moving over to Sydney Gri.
to-morrow night, Sliylock Moscovitch having
just thrown in his hand at the pound-of-
fiesh game.
if t!: sj:
English tenor Arthur Jordan, back in
Sydney, filled the King’s Hall with sweet
song on Saturday night. His opening num-
ber, “Celeste Aida.” exhibited a voice at
once manly and melodic. The encore, Hohl-
brooke’s “Come Not when I Am Dead,” im-
pressed his audience even more with the rich-
ness of its tone. But the most appealing
group on his programme were the Hebridean
Songs of Mrs. Kennedy Fraser. In these all
the light and shade of the tenor’s voice are
brought out —its tenderest notes and most
glowing exuberance. Tern Barnett served
brilliant accompaniments, and Bindley Evans,
Gladstone Bell and Lionel Lawson helped
the evening’s success.
Nowadays in the vaudeville world
magicians follow each other like trams
down George-street, and as each is
reckoned by his press-agent to commence
where his predecessor left off, the arrival of
the marvel who will turn the waters of the
harbor to champagne is sadly overdue. Bar-
clay, Sydney Tivoli’s latest mystic, has learnt
his trade well, but the market has been so
glutted with this class of entertainer that
their value has dropped. The Melbourne
express will take Will Fyffe south at the end
of the week and bagpipes in the homes of
thousands of the Tiv.’s Scotch customers are
emitting a medley of mournful dirges. Fyffe
r3i resents the biggest catch this house has
had this year.
Con Moreni, George Wallace’s successor in
the revue line at Sydney Fullers’, shouldn't
require a recruiting-agent to enlist the sup-
port of everyone who served in the Great
Stoush. His “Caught in Cairo,” which re-
lates the adventures of two shrewd Aussie
lead-swingers, is a scream from the start.
The great many who sport the returned-Dig-
ger’s badge should find it entirely to their
satisfaction. The chorus, a collection of
dark-eyed brunettes, is in keeping with the
atmosphere of the revue. In the vaudeville
department the singing of Alice Hollander,
a local find with an unusually presentable
contralto, is as remembersome as a long brew
on a thirsty day.
“Decameron Nights” is the most powerful
and best-directed film that Hoyt’s (Sydney)
has screened for a year or two. _ It is mag-
nificent in its photographic settings, which
strive to suggest rather than to portray, and
yet remain realistic enough to give point to
the narrative. The producer, an Englishman,
has borrowed extensively from the more
advanced technicians on the Continent, and
has triumphed where undoubtedly an Ameri-
can would have murdered the picture. He
is also to be congratulated to sticking pretty
well to the original story._ There is little to
be said in favor of “Playing with Souls” at
the Piccadilly and a whole lot to be said
against it. Advance views of Tom Mix, of
whom it is said he will visit us soon, can be
had at the Strand, where “'The Deadwood
Coach” is scattering thrills.
The chooks come in from Windsor: —
Those who know Windsor (N.S.W.), where de-
livering letters is hereditary and cows have longer
lineages than Potts Point millionaires, will find
much to refresh their memory and gladden their
hearts in the show of Alfred T. Clint’s water-colors
at the Australian Fine Art Galleries, George-street,
Sydney. Those who don’t know Windsor will still
be able to appreciate the artist’s forthright way of
looking at his landscapes and the cleanness of his
paint. Sometimes his record is a shade too en-
cyelopaßdic, and as in No. 6, “Lengthening Shadows,
Freeman’s Reach,” a little more suppression might
have improved the composition. No. 10, “The
Hawkesbury,” and No. 12, “Windsor Landscape.” are
also overflowing measures, but far more satisfying
than the short-weight goods of less enterprising
painters. No. 3, “Damp Weather,” is a strangely
alluring bit of work; and No. 16, “The Big Barn,
Freeman’s Reach,” is full of country charm and is
neatly composed. Some clever studies of the
monarchs of the barnyard are included in the show.
One lady makes a variety show: —
At first sight Cristina Asquith Baker’s show at
the Hordern Gallery, Sydney, suggests a whole
galaxy of artists ; but closer inspection reveals under-
lying motives which pull the collection together.
She has poetic designs on Nature and does not
scruple to cut a landscape into feet and make them
scan according to her mood. Some of her smaller
lyrics are crude and hardly worthy of the poet’s
corner in a provincial paper ; but in her larger can-
vases she elevates her theme towards epic heights.
Such is No. 5, a singularly broad handling of
sun-drenched fields and spindly trees, with a very
living sky, all, however, keyed in undertones. No.
45, “The Road to the Farm,” is another strong
and simple composition. No. 49, “At the Ford,” :V
an experiment in vers libre and a successful one at
that; and in 44, “Prince’s Bridge,” she has stated
Melbourne's murk in terms of vivid verse. In her
pastels she is inclined to relapse into prettiness, and
in this medium and in oils none of her portraits
ar e remarkable, except No. 4, which, though weak ip
characterisation, has some brilliant painting about
the window. No. 24, “Nocturne,” is an extremely
clever litho.
❖ sj: ❖ :!<
Just as much of Melbourne as could get
into the King’s Theatre attended on Satur-
day night to proclaim that “On Our Selec-
tion” has lost none of the popularity that
has made the cheerful parody of out-back
“THE LADY OF THE ROBE," AT
SYDNEY THEATRE ROYAL.
Claude Flemming as Colonel Belovar, and
Suitangi, the silhouette-cutter (Blake
Adams).
Australian life a constant visitor since its
first production in 1912. Six members of
the original cast appear in the revival,
playing their old parts, and Bert Bailey
(Dad) with Fred Macdonald (Dave) share
the principal honors as laugh makers. The
other four, Alfreda Bevan (Mrs. Rudd),
Queenie Sefton (Dave's mother-in-law, Mrs.
White). Willie Driscoll (Uncle Rudd) and
Jack Lennon (Cranky Jack), fitted well
into the scheme of things; and, of the com-
parative newcomers, Lillie Molloy made a
laughable Sarah, Fred Browne was the
squeaky-voiced Billy Bearup, and Jack Mc-
Gowan played Maloney on conventional
comedy lines. In the rather unthankful
“straight” roles, Vivian Edwards was the
wrongly accused Sandy, with all the manly
virtues which lead in drama to wrongful
accusation, Eileen Alexander the Kate who
has qualified to be a heroine by working in
the city, and Dan Frawley and Austin
Milroy the conventionally villainous father
and son. The audience provided a poultice
of loud cheers to draw some patriotic re-
marks from Bert Bailey at the curtain-fall.
“John Gabriel Borkman,” the third of the
Ibsen dramas of the season at Melbourne
Queen's Hall, was staged last Saturday. It
is a play in which Ibsen’s ability to present
strongly-drawn characters is shown at its
fullest in portraying the failure of age to
hold youth, which searches for life and
happiness, to its diseased ambitions and pur-
poses. John Gabriel Borkman, a miner’s son,
is a man who, feeling within himself the
power to be an industrial Napoleon, has
used the wealth at his disposal as managing-
director of a bank to forward his ambitions,
but is brought crashing just when he feels
success within his grasp; thereafter, after
serving a term of imprisonment, he imposes
his gloomy resentment of life upon those who
come in contact with him, including a wife
who herself bears a bitter resentment towards
the man who disgraced his family, and aims
at rehabilitation through their son. The son,
however, breaks away from it all for the
pleasures to be found in a love affair with a
grass-widow seven years his senior. The
performance, though weakened by a too-
constant effort to get a full grip on its
strength, and though stiff in some of its
joints, was an intelligent one. J. Beres-
ford Fowler, as John Gabriel Borkman-,
gave a forceful study of the gloomy, rugged
egoist; and Charles Row’s representation of
the humbler, less confident ambitions, of
Vilhelm Foldal was excellent. Winifred
Moverley, as the lady with the mysterious
disease which was one of Ibsen’s regular
stage properties, and Ruby May as her
twin sister. Mrs. Borkman, were over-
weighted ; Miss Merl Emery Avas weak as
the life-seeking and careless Mrs. Fanny
Wilton, and Will Rees had awkward
moments as her lover, Erhart Borkman, when
called upon to show emotion. In the slight-
part of Frida Foldal, Dorise Warnecke did
very well. A further performance of John
Gabriel on Saturday completes the season.
On Saturday the Melbourne Royal’s
“Spring Cleaning” will be over, and "The
Lady” will be introduced by Pauline Fred-
erick.
The “Hoosier Blues,” with its mystifying
lighting trick which is liable to turn the
stage of gay dancers into niggers at any
moment, is still the item that stirs the
loudest thunders in “Primrose,” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s; but the whirlwinds of
Cunninghame and Clements run it close for
popularity.
** * ❖
“Little Jessie James” entertains so many
guests nightly at the New Princess’s that she
cannot doubt her popularity; and Leslie
Pearce sings his “First, Last and Always”
song to two girls in succession, without rous-
ing the enmity of either of them, in a way
that excites the envy of many young men
who don’t find it. so easy.
The affairs of the new Australian Musical
Productions Co. go with “Snap” at the New
Palace, the light frivolity moving on the
legs of a chorus of bright girls who maintain
all the energy of the first night, and are in-
cited in their frivols by music which re-
mains fresh and lively. There is no occa-
sion for any complaint about the humorous
interludes either.
v $ *!* •{' *
Making the most of the slight but pleasing
story “Thank IT" has placed in their hands,
the strong cast at Melbourne Athenaeum gives
a performance that improves on acquaint-
ance. Particularly meritorious is the work
done in sketching the churchwardens. The
author gives good backing to the performers
here; there is no dragging of action to de-
velop the characters, but, with their few
words each, they stand out well.
Another recital at the Assembly Hall by
Phil Cohen confirmed the promise of the young
violinist, who in the Adagio of the Beetho-
ven Sonata in C Major roused the audience
to enthusiasm. The fiddler’s technique is
good, and when lie develops greater depth
and conviction in his heavier work he will
be a fine performer. The programme was
agreeably helped out by Harold Elvins, whose
playing "of Chopin’s F Major study was
brightly conceived; John D. Sullivan, who
sang the Flower Song (“Carmen”) well
but wants to study voice-production, and
Miss Romola Hanstein, who was pleasing in
several songs, but is weak in her upper notes.
>;< * * *
A new wayfarer on the showman's path is
ex-coachdriver W. J. Smiley, who at the age
of 68 looks 15 years younger. Helped by
a very fine collection of lantern slides he
proposes to travel the country lecturing on
“The Old Coaching Days.” He gave the
show a trial run in aid of a St. Kilda (Vic.)
charity the other day, and his shots brought
do-wn the applause of a large audience.
Smiley was born with the ribbons in his
hands', his father being a famous coachdriver
in Maine (U.S.A.), who was lured to Aus-
tralia by a lecture. Smiley, senior,
drove the “Open Coach” between Mel-
bourne and Geelong in 1855-57, and the son
is able to give personal anecdotes of how. at
“THANK ,” AT MELBOURNE
ATHENAEUM.
Maggie Jarvis as Diana Lee, Edward Landor
and Eardley Turner as the two unctuous
church vestrymen (Abner Norton and
Morton Jones).
the opening of the Melbourne-Geelong rail-
way, the first train was so late in arriving
that the hungry Geelongites ate the official
dinner long before the caravan arrived with
the starring dignitaries. There are other
yarns of the Leviathan coach, so faithfully
built in ’62 by Morgan brothers, of Ballarat,
that it lasted half a century, and often
carried more than its complement of 60; and
of the Bohemian, which carried 52. The old
(Continued on page 37.)


Westinghouse
UGHT AND POWER PLANT
■jp#
wm
SS-1
A
• ,;iii y//m
w
*
Electrical development received its biggest impulse
when Westinghouse conceived the idea of harnessing
the tremendous reserves of power in Niagara Falls.
This was the starting point of modern electrical endeavor, and the
experience gained over fifty years of electrical achievement has been put
into the development of the WESTINGHOUSE FARM ELECTRIC PLANT.
George
Westinghouse,
Founder of the
industries made
possible by his
Discoveries.
f
EASY
TO
OWN
You can pay for your
Westinghouse Plant
while it is working
for you. Make a
small initial payment,
and meet the balance
conveniently. Cost
for fuel is very low.
LIGHT THAT SAVES POWER THAT SERVES
There is a lot of satisfaction in knowing that your plant has been designed and built by men who know how.
HAVE A WESTINGHOUSE FOR A SERVANT.
At the snap of a switch it will: —
FLOOD YOUR HOME WITH LIGHT.
WORK YOUR RADIO.
DO YOUR WASHING AND IRONING.
COOK YOUR BREAKFAST.
OPERATE THE MILKING-MACHINE.
WORK THE CHURN.
LIGHT YOUR OUTBUILDINGS.
PUMP YOUR WATER.
SHEAR YOUR SHEEP.
WORK YOUR KELVINATOR.
PROVIDE COOL BREEZES IN SUMMER AND
WARMTH IN WINTER.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE TWENTY-FOUR PAGE
BOOK IT TELLS THE WHOLE STORY !
JOHN GILBERT & CO., LTD.,
143 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Pacific Islands: —W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul and Tulagi.
AGENTS WANTED IN OTHER AUSTRALIAN STATES.


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
REENER
IS
'mm.
w. w. cßEimlffc
CUMMAKERS, BIRHINCHAI
w
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTXV
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Swallow & Adieu's
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
IWWMUNfIU
X.*
EHB
m
-c.-T-y -
ss
v*.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only— European Plan.
Dining Service it la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
u
nation
m
Tariff—Write for descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
coaches were better timekeepers than Clapps
trains. In four years 2500 coaches arrived
at Echuca, and according to Smiley only
one was late.
Edward Goll’s recital at the Assembly
Hall on the 28tli gave Melbourne an intro-
duction to a wild and confused work of Bela
Bartok, the Hungarian composer, weirdly
beautiful in patches, but sometimes harsh
and unmusical, a jumble of Magyar folk-
songs and the near-music of even wilder
races. There was nothing lacking in the
pianist’s rendering, but the item was more
interesting as the exposition of a freak spirit
in music than as music. The player over-
came the difficulties of the Brahms Sonata,
Op. 5, with particular success in_ the
Andante expressivo • and the “Prelude” and
“A Minor Study from Op. 25” of Chopin were
finely done.
At Melbourne Tivoli, where “The Romany
Trio” make .the notable addition to the pro-
gramme, Wee Georgie Wood will be regret-
fully farewelled this week. The Daros are
making themselves popular, Eroni continues
to toss himself about on a wire, and Tom
Clare tries hard, and with some success, to
be amusing with a monocle and a piano.
Stiffy and Mo have dished up “Remnants”
for a last week’s flutter at Melbourne Bijou
-—a compote of rough humor improved by
the absence of the sort of unnecessary rough-
ness which provoked words of disapproval
last week. A likeable addition to the pro-
gramme is Geo Castles, who, now that his
sisters have iinished for a. time with the
concert tours he managed, is exercising his
own voice for the public amusement, in con-
junction with Torzillo, the man with the
harp. The concert item is remarkably well
received.
$ v
The dog-star, Rin-tin-tin, has dimmed the
radiance of vamps, innocents and screen
heroes at Melbourne Majestic, where “The
Lighthouse by the Sea” gives him his chance,
with W. Collier, jun., and Louise Fazenda
as ~ supports; the liquor pirates associated
with the story make it topical. “Thunder-
ing Hoofs” fill the rest of the programme.
“Butterfly,” the tale of a lady to whom the
flatteries of men act like a candle flame to a
moth, is Hoyt’s de Luxe chief fare; “The
Kingdom Within,” though somewhat throb-
fui, is a better picture. An interest-
ing event was the private screening “So
This Is Melbourne” at the Majestic. The
photography is excellent; and the well-
arranged picture, for which Alfred Spence is
responsible, gives a very concise view of the
city in many phases, from its most entic-
ing views and the humor of its cable trams
to sections of some of its factories —a revela-
tion to most Melburnians themselves. A
series of such pictures would do a lot to
make each little section of this big country
better acquainted with the rest.
Zangwill’s “Melting Pot,” given twice by
the Repertory Theatre in Adelaide, is a pre-
war reflection of his American experiences.
David, the young N’York Jew, who as a boy
saw all his family massacred in Russia, raves
about the U.S.A. as the crucible in which all
the European races can be fused into one
great nation. “God is making the Ameri-
can !” “False to my race? I keep faith with
America!” With him are nicely contrasted
an uncle, sad but contented, and a great-aunt
who, though safe in the Republic, has never
troubled even to learn its language, and
whose favorite remark is—in Yiddish —
“Cursed be Columbus!” Even for the uncle
it is too much when David proposes to
marry a Gentile, another refugee, aristo-
crat but Nihilist; and, to her. marrying a
Jew seems equally strange. Then a New
Yorker who wants her for himself imports
her father to stop the match, and David
recognises the face of his nightmares, the
officer who had supervised the massacre.
When David refuses to marry the “butcher’s
daughter,” and she is sternly forbidden to
marry the “enemy of Christ.” all seems over.
But, if it were. Zangwill’s whole theory
would be lost. So the good old Melting Pot
does not boil over even under this strain,
and the happy ending which seems dragged
in appears on further reflection to be sound
art.
* * * *
The gloomy drama was well played. Clive
Carey, of the Conservatorium staff, is a
great find, and did justice to the young
genius who varies from bright visions to de-
spondency. Catherine Neill played “n to Vffm
quietly, but left him the stage. The older
Jews were Frank Johnston and Mrs. Cole-
man Phillipson—difficult parts soundly ren-
dered. The small cast was strong, but had
the tough task of speaking, in. every case,
with a marked accent of some kind. One or
two of the best were guilty of over-delibera-
tion. It is a fine thing to be able to “hold”
an audience; but when the pause lasts so
long as to bring an uneasy suspicion or for-
gotten lines it is overdone.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Hamfat” : Maggie Moore, who Was trained
in a school the curriculum of which ranged
from tragedy to knockabout farce, started
her stage career as a
singer of some of those
sob-ditties discussed by
Poverty Pointers. At
eight years she sang “Just
Before the Battle,
Mother,” at a benefit per-
formance in San Fran-
scisco—sang it with such
effect that a manager pre-
sent waited for her after
the show with a contract
for an engagement at the
equivalent of 255. a week.
By the way, Maggie cele-
brated another jubilee at
the theatrical charity
matinee on May 21. It
was just 50 years since
she had appeared in her
first charitable perform-
ance —a show' given in
aid of the Melbourne Eye
and Ear Hospital.
“Flaming Youth” :
Norman Shepherd helped
to put the mystery into
“The Masquerader.” He
supplied the double -when
necessary, and did it with
baffling effect, especially in
the Buddha’s Shrine scene
when John Loder and
John Chilcott were on the
stage at the same time.
In “The Nigger” Shep-
herd had the small but
very necessary part of
Joe White, and after
dying in the first act put
in good work on the
thrilling stage effects. A
pal of the stage-assist-
ants, the useful mummer
knows their ways thor-
oughly, and was able to
show that it takes an Australian to get the
best work out of Australians.
“Gan”: Rose Quong. the Melbourne
Chinese girl, has been hailed in London as an
actress of genius. A great enthusiast, she
always worked hard in the local Repertory
societies, and her “Nan” :in Masefield’s tra-
gedy is remembered as a notable performance.
But her opportunities here were limited; and
critics who thought nobody except an. -ex-
pensive imported star could possibly be good
failed to realise her powers. At ter-
centenary performance in London of “The
Maid’s Tragedy,” a drama by Beaumont
and Fletcher, containing scenes worthy of
Shakspeare, she made a deep ; impression in
the part of Aspasia. Rose has any amount
of quaint humor, but she is best suited for
tragedy, especially poetical tragedy.
“Hamer”: Gertrude Boswell was respon-
sible for an excellent bit of character work
as Jinny, the old negress, in the G. Bates
Post production of “The Nigger” in Mel-
bourne. Wilson Barrett discovered the lady
in America, and she was a member of his co.
for a decade. She was Stephanus in “The
Sign of the Cross” when Barrett introduced
that drammer to this country; that is nearly
28 years ago, but Gertrude remains remark-
ably young looking. After leaving Barrett
she made a long tour of the English provinces
with a company in which she starred in,
among other things, “Sunday”—the play in
which Australia saw Tittell Bruno.
“The Listening-Insect” :■ —-
The people who get the most lecture, music and
song delivered at their door are precisely those who
can most easily go and get it. The present Australian
broadcasting stations are not audible on a crystal
set beyond a radius of 25 or 30 miles, a fact, by
the way, that city shopmen don’t always make clear
to country purchasers of cheap receivers; so that
under present conditions the deserving pioneers of the
Backblocks are denied the privilege of listening to
Fred Bluett unless they purchase elaborate valve
sets, which, despite their high cost, give a very
doubtful replica of the human voice, even under
the best conditions. This is a situation that is
viewed with equanimity by bloated-city advo-
cates, but it is not one that will entieo
on to the land immigrants coming from
England, where super-transmitting stations have
been erected that make possible good crystal reception
at distances of over 100 miles. Many radio sub-
scribers will therefore be sorry to hear that, according
to Mr. Fisk, of Amalgamated Wireless, the sparse
population of this country does not warrant the
budding of similar stations here.
“Lysander”: Probably never before has so
piffling a play as “Thank II,” now at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum, had a cast of so many
high-class players. Juniors in Martin Walker
and Maggie Jarvis share with John D.
O'Hara the leading roles, but the presence
of Maggie Moore as a maid, of Emma Temple
as a heavy mother, of Jimmy Atholwood as a
bibulous “brand from the burning” turned
ancient servitor, of Reg Roberts, Edwin
Lester, Eardley Turner and Edward Landor
as a parish vestry, and of Arthur Styan as
heavy father invests minor parts with an
importance which vies with that of the prin-
cipals and makes the comedy one very well
played indeed. Only the addition of Mrs.
Brough, John Forde. Vin Scully and Wil-
liam Lockhart is needed to make the stage
IT HAS ITS COMPENSATIONS.
CONCERT SINGER: “Rather tedious, y'know, singin' for these
broadcasting people. One misses the bouquets so.”
BRUTAL FRIEND: “Yes —and the eggs.”
an epitome of Fifty Years of the Theatre in
Australia.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: There is a craze in
America for turning tags of slang into titles
of plays. Since Jesse James, the train-
robber, flourished, any alert Yank who shows
cleverness at getting out of scrapes is apt
to be called a Jesse James. Hence “Little
Jessie James.” Now comes “Thank U,” which
mighf-ijust as w T ell be “Good Lord” or “Hail
Columbia’’ for all it conveys to the Aus-
tralian;; ibind. It really derives from an ex-
pressidji applied to underpaid parsons for
whom' life is made possible by gifts from
affluent members of their flocks. Because
they are expected to be becomingly grateful
the shepherds arc known among the unre-
generate as “the ‘Thank U’ brigade”; and
so “Thank U.” ’ ? •
“Topee”: Australia is threatened with a
plague of saxophones, the chief U.S. makers
having launched an “extensive advertisin’
cahmpaign” in Sydney. I don’t know when
or where this instrument first broke the
silence, but the late Sebastian Hodge, a one-
time bandsman who ended up as licensee of
the old King-street Commercial Hotel, intro-
duced one about 1884. “Bas” attracted
attention at occasional concerts, not so much
by. his playing as by his grotesque appear-
ance on the platform—he weighed about 25
stone. Phil May used to say Bas re-
minded him of a hippopotamus sucking a
German meerschaum. A transcription of “The
Heart Bow’d Down” was* his usual solo, and
his muttered remarks before starting on the
variation were an additional joy. Mighty as
be was, I doubt if he would have man-
aged the hypertrophied ship’s ventilator now
on view in a George-street window. Even if
he could have lifted it, he would have re-
quired assistance to blow it.
“Sturt” : Lawrence Power, the young Adel-
aide tenor, goes to Italy for further study.
Since winning the Sun prize at Ballarat
last year, he has been singing in Sydney and
Melbourne, on the advice of Alfred Hill, who
was judge on that occasion, with the idea
of earning enough to take him to Europe.
A Sydney man, who prefers to remain anony-
mous for the present, has now offered to
frank the young genius to Milan for three
years at least. Power, who got all his train-
ing at Adelaide Conservatorium, is an ath-
lete as well, with inter-State cricket and
inter-university baseball reputation.
“H.M.” : David Belbridge has been appear-
ing with Walker Whitiside at the Chicago
Playhouse in “Sakura,” a drama with Japan
as its background. Belbridge, a keen young
Australian, was rehearsed in the part of the
young advocate for the Muriel Starr produc-
tion of “Madame X” ; but, some misgivings
having arisen in the management’s mind,
Frederick Ward was put in his place. At
the opening performance, however, whilst
Ward was waiting for his entrance, he was
suddenly hurled aside and sent spinning.
When he got up it was to find Belbridge on
the stage speaking his lines. Belbridge made
a hit; but his offence was reckoned unpar-
donable, and abroad he had to go.
“Peter P.”: I’ll accept “ll.M.’s” assurance
(B. 21/5/’25) that Allan Wilkie did not
draw the crowd with “The School for Scan-
dal” in Melbourne, but I can tell him that at
the somewhat obscure and out-of-the-way
Brisbane Royal he has just concluded a
thumping big week with it. So Sheridan’s
play is not always the failure that “H.M.”
would have one think. Wilkie always seems
to do better in Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide
and Hobart than in the two big cities. Evi-
dently their taste runs more to “legs, laughs
and lingerie.”
“Topee”: The “Kreutzer” sonata (B.
28/5/’25) was named after Kreutzer, a vio-
linist contemporary with Beethoven and a
personal friend. All Beethoven’s violin sona-
tas bear dedications, and the composition in
question was dedicated to the fiddler whose
name has been immortalised thereby.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The stout matron who
sat near me at the fashionable concert bad
obviously paid for the seats, and in her de-
sire to get her money’s worth she distressed
her companion, who looked capable of real
appreciation. After every number she
banged her hands violently together and made
some fatuous remark. The first I heard was
“Now, isn’t that thrilling? So much better
than the pictures, don’t you think?” And so
it went on until her harassed companion
rapped out “She didn’t sing that well at
all.” The fat lady was momentarily startled
into silence, but at the end of the next song
she was her voluble self again. “I don’t
think she can sing a bit!” the sufferer hissed.
“No, of course not,” Mrs. Corpulence agreed
cordially; “but they tell me she and her hus-
band get on splendidly together!” Then she
clapped and cackled more vigorously than
ever.
On a passing show: —
Theatrical houses now proclaim that there are
separate, arm-rested, upholstered seats in their gal-
leries. They have put peanuts, oranges, beer and
smokes upon the index, and the rattling aerated-
water-bottle will inevitably follow. The newest
houses are even abolishing the word “gallery”: amphi
theatre, upper circle and balcony the worldly-wise
call it. And the “gods” are changing. They, too,
are becoming consciously respectable. The early-door
brigade which queues up so docilely nowanights :s
different from the crowd we used to know; better
dressed and better mannered, but older. Gone is the
panting pack in the side lane; gone the danger -
spiced scramble when the great door, governed by
preposterous fire laws, swung impossibly outward into
the mass; gone the big-chinned lumper who dared
the packer to shift him, and always shifted; gone
the packer, too. Seldom now does a gallery—l mean
amphitheatre—burst into song. It no longer ripples
into laughter and ironic cheers when a stumbling
man sits in a lady’s lap. It has hardly enough
of the primeval left in it to bawl a stentorian “Sit
down in front” to an offender excited by the acted
scene. As for dropping fragments of ice-cream down
the decolletage of Mrs. Avoir du Pois in the stalls—
why, it simply isn’t done. Much, indeed, of the
tang of gallery-going (and 1 have practised (lie
rite for 30 years, from the fourpennies of English
provinces to the three-and-three of Australia's
latest imposition, plus tax) has vanished. One enjoys
the play better, perhaps, but one misses the im-
promptus of the free prologue.
MODISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gloria Swanson and her most recent husband,
the Marquis de Falais, have arrived at New York
from France.” —Legend beneath •press photograph.
Oh lady, lady, passing fair!
Uncertain, coy, the poet labels
Your vagrant fancies; light as air,
Each swifter goes and, gone, enables
A newer, neater, niftier flair
To tilt your hat or twirl your hair.
In vice or virtue, silk or sables,
Unsettled stjll your fickle taste;
To-day’s new frock to-morrow’s cables
May well decree to discard’s waste.
The week’s last words are next month’s fables,
Fit but for jests at Fashion’s tables.
What yet is sin will soon be chaste;
Last year’s bad eggs they’re now declaring
Quite good. The fashions are in haste,
So follow after, trim and daring.
Be not by speedy ones outpaced;
In men and modes be undisgraced.
For, when through greyer days you’re faring
And all the season’s styles you don,
Though Autumn’s latest you are bearing,
What comfort will you draw upon
If this you hear, a sneer unsparing;
“Last Summer’s husband she’s still wearing!’
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Amusements.
g V'DNE Y’S chief theatres.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S— KID BOOTS.
CRITERION : THE SKIN GAME.
ROYAL: THE LADY OF THE ROSE.
PALACE : CAPPY RICKS.
G RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
. Proprieror, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Ptr., T.td.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
THE HONEYMOON GIRL.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pDLLER’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
w * ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE LADY.
ING’S THEATRE. M E L IS O U R N E.
Lessees and Direction : Bert Bailer & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY & GRANT Present
Steele Rudd’s Famous Australian Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
AUSTRALIA’S FAVORITE.
BERT BAILEY AS DAD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 5/-, 4/-, 2/-, 1/44. Plus Tax.
Matinees, Wednesdays and Saturdays: 4/-, 3/'-, 1/44.
Plus Tax.
AT H ENM U 31 THEATRE. 31ELBOURNE.
" Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•T. C. Williamson presents, by arrangement with
E. J. Carrol],
JOHN D. O’HARA,
in the American Comedy Drama,
THANK U.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
pALACE THEATRE, 3IELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HOWETT WORSTER Presents
SNAP.
Music by Kenneth Duffield: Boole and Lyrics bv
Dion Titheradge and Ronald Jeans. All Star Cast
includes KITTY REIDY and HOWETT WORSTER,
also Hector St. Clair—principal comedian.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements.
O V T ’ S BE LUXE ‘THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LAURA. LA PLANTE in
BUTTERFLY.
RUSSELL SIMPSON in
THE KINGDOM WITHIN.
Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
“The Little Giant of Musical Comedy.”
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EDNA MURPHY and JACK MULHALL in
INTO THE NET.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.3 C. Nights at 8.
|\|EW BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
GEORGE WALLACE IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Missing Friends.
Notice to next op kin.
Re HENRY WILSON, Deceased.
Will all persons claiming to be the next of kin
of the abovenamecl HENRY WILSON deceased, born
in New South Wales, but who died at Winton, on
the fourth June, 1919, after residing for some
time in Queensland, or any person knowing the
present whereabouts of such next of kin, kindly
communicate with the Local Deputy Public Curator.
Townsville, on or before the thirtieth day of
September, 1925. And it is hereby notified that the
estate of the abovenamed deceased will be distributed
as at that date among the next of kin only of whom
I shall then have had notice.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of May, 1925.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, Queensland.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . ~ . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WAKEFIELD
msi
i
msL
Rome-Tokio Flight
Marchese di Pinedo
Arrives in Australia.
34,000 Miles.
Rome, Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, Batavia, Kupang,
Timor, Broome, Onslow, Carnarvon, Fremantle, Albany,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, New Guinea,
Manila, Tokio.
The flight of Marchese di Pinedo, the great Italian Airman, further
contributes to the pioneering of a new Trans-Oceanic Air Route. Like
other World-Explorers of the Air he uses the famous British-owned
Lubricant “CASTROL.” The manufacturers of his machine, a
“Savoia” 8.61 Flying Boat, and his engine, 450-h.p. “Lorraine I detach.”
like the British Aircraft and Aero-Engine Manufacturers, specify
“OASTROL,” and ordered his supplies of oil for the Australasian and
Philippine portions of the route from the Head Office for Australasia,
C. C. Wakefield S Co., Ltd.
The All-British Firm,
Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Tel. 87465-6.
STEAM TURBINES
OF QUALITY.
MANUFACTURED
IN AUSTRALIA.
Q.R, ENGINES.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
SURFACE
CONDENSERS.
LOCOMOTIVES.
GRAVEL
PUMPS.
REES
WATER-TUBE
BOILERS.
-• 8
; ** V
m
*
m
m
mm
i W
'■w*
hr-'L \
m
m
I IBM
m i
m
*J
■
R
li
Bans
Ri
BLOWING
ENGINES.
EJECTOR
CONDENSERS.
PUMPING
ENGINES.
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMPS.
DREDGING
PLANTS.
FORGINGS
and
RAILWAY
MATERIALS.
MANUFACTURING UNDER LICENSE FROM METROPOLITAN VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO., LTD., MANCHESTER, WE ARE IN A POSITION TO
SUPPLY TURBO PLANT OF MODERN DESIGN, SOUND CONSTRUCTION
AND GUARANTEED ECONOMY.
COMPLETE POWER PLANTS INSTALLED.
Thompson 8 Co. (Castlemaine) Pty., Ltd.
ENGINEERS,
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
CASTLEMAINE,
BRISBANE:
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren, Ltd.
VICTORIA.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.


SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Lvillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Femmes, Limited.
The
.
&
X
'JT'HIS famous English
two-valve receiver now
sold at the English price,
viz.:
£16!51-
Complete with all accessor-
ies, comprising Valves, Bat-
teries, Telephones and Aerial equipment.
Manufactured by the Marconi Company
of England, the Marconiphone incorpor-
ates the most advanced technical features
in radio engineering, is beautifully finish-
ed, and above all is simple and reliable.
A Marconiphone at £l6/5/- represents
unparalleled value.
s s
" (Must rotas -
JVrite for illustrated booklet
or risit our Show s^ poms
97 Clarence Street, Sydney
as
Learn What
Power
YOU Can Save
Any manufacturer knows that power
saved means profits increased.
BALL BEARINGS
save 15 to 30 per cent, power that is wasted where
plain bearings are installed, and save 80 per cent, on
lubricant and maintenance costs as well. / .
We Will Gladly Demonstrate
These Facts at Our Showrooms,
CALL TO-DAY
Gardner Waern & Co. Pty., Ltd.
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing: Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: 143 Scott Street,
BUIS IJANE: 42C Ann Street.
ADELAIDE: Win. Adams &
Ltd., 157 Waymonth Street.
Co.,
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Etd., 877-391 Murray Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Etd.
8.8.—8/25.
Increased Output
brings Lower Prices!
D
MOTOR CYCLES
Important Announcement:
or
THE tremendous increase in the sales
B.S.A. Motor-cycles, not only in Australia,
but throughout the world, has enabled the
B.S.A. Co. to reduce their prices, which are now
well below pre-war prices and provide value for
money that has never been equalled in the history
of motor-cycling. From June Ist the prices o
B.S.A. Motor-cycles throughout Australia will
be as follows: —-
MODEL 8.1925, 2.49-h.p., with all
chain drive, clutch and kick
starter
£59 10 0
MODEL L.1925,3.49-h.p.,3 speed,
all chain drive, clutch and kick
starter
£69 10 0
MODEL 5.1925, 4.93-h.p., 3 speed
all chain drive, clutch and kick
starter
£77 10 0
O.H.V. SPORTS MODEL, 3.49-
h.p., 3 speed, all chain drive,
clutch and kick starter
£B5 0 0
MODEL E. 1925, 7.70-h.p., Twin-
cylinder, all chain drive ....
£lO5 0 0
MODEL G. 1925, 9.86-h.p., Twin-
cylinder, special Colonial model,
heavy powered
£ll2 10 0
NOTE.—When comparing prices do not forget
to also compare specifications. B.S.A. 1925
Models include frames with forged steel lugs,
strengthened front forks and springs fitted with
shock absorbers, all chain cushion drive, mechani-
cal lubrication to engine, grease-gun lubrication
to moving parts, wide mudguards, ample
clearance, etc.
Write for New Illustrated Catalogue—
It is worth studying.
D. Y. RENNIE, B.S.A. Australian Representative,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
Or from B.S.A. Agents throughout Australia.
NSW 1
Q’LAND'' ' ) Bennett & Wood Ltd., 284 Pitt Street ’ Sydney *
VICTORIA. . . . Finlay Bros.,Motorcycles Pty., Ltd., 322 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: J. N. Taylor & Co., Ltd., 121 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Mortlock Bros., Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA . . . Sim King, Brisbane Street, Launceston.


FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m •'
.
RITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitnk: rubber
SO SIMPLE
CARD
TRICKS
THAI AMYOHC CAN Ot
•Kb •» Ot*m~ to* «f Cm*
HWMIUt HU«C*
0
ANDRADE
50 SIMPLE CARD
TRICKS, 1/6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/<J.
Levinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
Easy Conjuring
Tricks, 2/6.
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
FREE CATALOGS—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 201 Bourke Street,
SYDNEY, and MELBOURNE.
[4
RUPTURE,
A FREB TRIAL.
II yea are troubled with tha complaint, write n and
wawill tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbeisome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from ihe
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we slate I
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, nnd the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Streets Melbourne
No effort
to lift a heavy car
with the
Weed Chain Jack
Just a few pulls on the chain of the
Weed Chain Jack while you stand
erect—away from springs and other
projections, and the work is done.
No crouching in a cramped position,
no groveling in mud and grease. So
simple that a child can operate it. To
lower, pull chain in opposite di-
rection.
The Weed Chain Jack never gets
out of order. Quickly adjusted to
any height. Be sure to have it along
for that unforeseen emergency.
Weed Chain Jacks can also be sup-
plied with extension handle which
allows you to place the jack under
the car with greater ease.
At good dealers everywhere.
Made by the makers of Weed Da
Luxe Tyre Chains.
American Chain Company, Inc,
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Building
New York. U. S. A.
Representative:
EDWARD G. VAUGHAN
P. O. Box 845, Sydney
Missing Friends.
VirANTED to know the whereabouts of WM. HOWIE
* ’ and DAVID HOWIE, brothers; born in Scot-
land. Father’s name BRYCE HOWIE, last residence
•n Stevenston, Ayrshire, Scotland. Wm. Howie last
heard of when visiting Scotland about 22 or 23 years
•ago. Their youngest sister. Elizabeth, would like
them to communicate with her at this address:
Mrs. CHARLES McEWAN, 1174 Calyer Street,
Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
GREGORY FAHEY, son of the late Francis Fahey
and the late Harriett Brown, formerly Fahey,
both of “Glendower,” Rocky Point' Road, Kogarah,
Sydney, last heard of in Queensland. Anyone knowing
>f his present whereabouts or any information con-
cerning him, please communicate with Makinson
and d’Apice, Solicitors, 47 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
Skin and Wool Merchants.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling: Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
Send to Robinson & Cleaver for
your HOUSEHOLD LINENS
ROBINSON & CLEAVER of Belfast, noted for
their Irish Linen, will be pleased to send
the readers of this paper their new Illustrated
Catalogue No. ,534 of Household Linens. Com-
pare their prices and quality and you will find it more
satisfactory to buy direct from the manufacturers.
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double
damask by the yard. Any leng:h
cut A very fin : heavy make which
will give good dependab.e wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6 n
SHEETING BY THE YARD
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
80 ~ ~ ~ ~ 11/6
LINEN FACE TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all
linen huck towdling. By the
yard. Will give endless wear.
17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 i/8
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing.
Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4 6
45 .. .. - 53
’ Pricelist
IRISHLINEN
ROBINSON t CLEAVER
linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
WRITE FOR
OUR CATA-
LOGUE WITH
SAMPLES
POST FREE
We guarantee
delivery of all
goodsandcarry
out your orders
int elligently
and promptly.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER Ltd
Linen Manufacturer's
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND
%
N*l
%
I
a
ffoN
Smooth-running saws that
need a minimum of
re-sharpening
C LC oH **
PERFECTLY tensioned plates ensure easy
running and low power consumption where
"An Eagle on a Globe’ Brand Circular
Saws are used. Australian made, of the finest
crucible cast Sheffield Stteel, they are notable for
durability. Re-sharpening expenses are cut to
the lowest.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Circular Saws are
supplied in types to suit all needs. Write for. full
particulars, stating what kind of saw is required.
The & Globe Steel Go. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
SThXfJI 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 342-318 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 64 Collins Street
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
fiame and address must appear on the MSS. Mo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.P.H.: ‘'The Lie” has vigor, but not
much else.... W.E.8.: You write verse as though you
were barking out a telegram.. . .LA.J.: A fair exer-
cise in rhyming; but there’s not a trace of real
feeling, and nothing can take the place of sincerity.
....Jessie M.: Not quite... .Hymen; Too many
bumps in it; and it’s late, anyhow. .. .Polycarp; The
winter wind blows through it....Wiremu: See if you
can't put it all into a couple of Abo. pars. . . .L.O’N.;
It balanced a while on the edge; then the last line
pushed it over on the wrong side....W.E.R.: The
long piece is too often prose cut into stove-lengths;
the other is commonplace. ... Box 194: “Crop” is
very limping doggerel.... Ripponlea : The “sonnet”
voices the complaint very strikingly:—
’Oft it begins to strike me that a creative artist
Like myself gets, mayhap, a rotten spin;
Not that I altogether blame The Bulletin,
But simply that Genius takes adversity hardest.
I’m afvaid I can’t see the savvy of doing my darndest
When mv poems, in front of mine very eyes, as
though it were to grin,
Belittled and beridiculed when I try to get one in,
In deference to poems (so called) as dry as sawdust.
What is the matter with them? I shouldn’t wonder!
I don’t mind admitting, for that matter, I’m no
wizard ; •
But, dash it, we are all apt to make slight blunders,
Though to improve is, no doubt, very desirable;
And that sort of thing sticks in my gizzard,
And tends to make me very miserable.
. ...P.A.M.; Too slight. .. .W.J.S.; Doesn’t make a
yarn... .T.McC.: Far too crude... .A.J. (Randwick) :
Not for us H.L.T.: No g00d.... Bruno : Done too
often. .. .F.A.D.: You may find it a delight to
“listen to the voices of the night,” but none of the
delight gets into your lines... .T.J.: Both miss in
the telling. .. .Yenda: Dull stuff on topics of little
interest. .. .E.McL.: Too late... .L.G.S.: You waste
too much time in saying the obvious things....
E. : The intention is better than the verse....
David W.: That yarn, with a variety of backgrounds,
has been told rather often.... Overlander; It bumps
and skips in a wild fashion, but what it is trying to
say remains a deep mystery... .M.P.F.: Hasn’t
enough freshness or vigor.. . .Alfred H.: It lias all
the usual trimmings and exactly the usual ending. ...
J.M.D.: Not well enough done... .Pacabo: The idea
is all right, but the verse bumps about in a terrify-
ing fashion.... Ethel D.: The “Theatre” idea is
heavily handled. But the “second-hand remorse” is
a good touch.... Rita C.: “Nights” are not up....
F. (Canterbury); “Slave” must go back... .V.C.:
Verse isn’t something that just falls together in
sloppy heaps... .John M.: Hasn’t any of the feeling
of the storm. . . .H.W.W.: Not up. .. .D. 8.0.: The
verse doesn’t carry itself... .S.R.F.; Bad verse and
Sorrowful prose... .1.D.: Doesn’t stir a whisker....
E.M.P.: It’s a darn good idea, anyway:—
Of course we’re sore, same as you, we could have
been a seller.
And instead of being caught ourselves, have got some
other feller ;
And that’s just life through and through, you hate
to think you’re tricky,
But the way 'they’ve dropped the wool on us —well,
don't you think that’s sticky?
But we won’t frown now wool is down, we know one
way out of trouble;
And if you think it ain’t no good, we think we
know a “double”:
We can’t breed sheep for wool if other coves won’t
buy it,
So keep the wool and make them pay, we’ll make
the cloth and dye it.
. ...Selah: They get married, and in a fine imagina-
tive burst you send them to a desert island for their
honeymoon. Reminds us of the pious old dairy-lady
who gave her calves only one feed. on Sundays to
make them, she said, remember the Sabbath....
H.J.8.: Sonnet too stiff and artificial. .. .D.B. (Cocla-
mon) : P00r... .M.H.H.: The biting bugs are without
mirth Idler; Doesn’t strike us. . . .S.B. (Kalgoor-
lie) : Too weak... .P.C.C.: Both fail.... J.S.D.: Not
well enough done.... Harry P.: Doesn’t say enough.
. ...W.H.R.; Misses.... Calluna: Verse on that sub-
. ject must be good ; yours isn’t... .C.C. (Willoughby) :
Badly told in poor verse... .C.L.J.H.; No use for
thin screeds of blank verse Sarong: We can’t
undertake to return MS. of unprinted pars... .R.G.:
“Glories” not much in our line, thank y0u....
Leam; The last two lines nearly saved the otherwise
poor “Confession”... .Frank W.; Afraid he has been
too successful in pulling your 1eg.... J.D.McD.:
Youi sheik is now travelling in the desert....
J.H.A.: Interest rather slight; but not badly written,
though much too long M.S.G.: Heroine suffering
from surfeit of sentiment; give her a day at the
wash-tub. .. .F.F. ; Golden-haired daughter and
devoted papa coffined.... J.D.S.; It came and it
has gone without making a ripple... .H.L.M.: Does
not make us believe it’s true.... Rosemary: A poor
lot K.C.; Abuse you? Certainly not! We
embrace you;—
THE STRUGGLING POET.
A bottle of ink,
A pad and a pen,
A pain in the head.
Black despair, and then
An inspiration.
Ah! this will he fine
If I can but th ; nk
Of another line....
But what is the use?
The editor will
Only use abuse
On one who will still
Persist in penning
Nonsensical rhymes
That have no meaning.
A.M.; Sorry it can’t be done; but the attempt
to rhyme “Crusader” with “saved her is heioic.
X.Y.Z.: Not up to the mark; but “Sonnet” has
an idea or two. Get to work on it, knocking out
the banal commonplaces... .M. Gil: “Clancy” isn’t
much of a rider L.McD.: Hopeless The Owl:
Couldn’t read it all. Perhaps that’s a handicap.
Anyway it didn’t seem any good Black Sand:
But we don’t see the connection between the cutting
and the verse.
TO AUTISTIC (AND IN AUTISTIC)
COIIII MS PON DENTS.
L.D.; Wintry sort of humor, dolorous art....
C.E.P.: Images, made of w00d... .A.K.: Hasn’t as
much promise in it as a Labor manifesto; but it
has promise... .A.P.; Copybook exercises P.L.H ;
Nature note re dewdrops on noses not in our line... .
A.M.; That silhouette stuff has to be ever so much
better done. . . .C.W.: Forty dozen gags wouldn't push
the drawing through H.W.T.: Not up yet by a
lcn°- way F.W.L.E.: Only a hint or shorthand
note. .. .J. 8.: Bright of you to think of Noah in
connection with the recent deluge D.S.: Highlv
improbable persons and quite impossible joke
J.AjcB.N. ; Bathing costumes may be like that nect
season, but we won’t anticipate W.H.: Hardly
a caricature, is it?


m
%
G 23
/
o
rz
m
■a
hT
«^r*
*v
S\ ,
f
GREATEST ARTISTS—
FINEST RECORDING
When such stars as Kreisler, Galli-
Curci, Dal Monte, Melba, Paderewski,
Chaliapin and Ruffo make records for
it exclusively, do you need further evi-
dence that “His Master’s Voice” is
the Instrument Supreme?
The great joy
of good music -
In those quiet hours when you sit at peace
with your sewing or your knitting, how
perfect a companion is
His Master’s Voice”
Its glorious music creates an atmosphere of happy content.
Under its soothing influence every care is forgotten.
How wonderful an entertainer it is, too, when friends call!
Every visit is a successful one to the home that possesses
“His Master’s Voice.”
MANY MODELS - - - MANY PRICES.
TERMS ARRANGED.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists
and name of nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITI STREET, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
Hi s Masters voice
A WORKSHOP OUTFIT
FOR THE HOME
Ingeniously combined in one compact
outfit are a 4in. Bench Vyce, a 3-speed
Grinder, a Drill, a Pipe Vyce, a small
Anvil and a Cutting Hardie.
Handy Worker— for handy men
For the man who likes to do his own tinkering,
and to be really worthy of the title of “handy-
man,” this combination tool comes as a boon
without doubt it’s the most useful thing such a
man can have.
The “Worker” is one of. those things whose use-
fulness seems to increase as time goes on; the
longer you have it the more highly you prize it
for you find it useful for an ever-increasing
number of jobs. Soon you wonder how you ever
managed to do without it.
Tt comprises 6 tools, of which every householder,
every farmer and every motorist has constant
need, and it has been aptly called the “Tool of
100 Uses.”
A Vyce is an essential for the home workshop,
and also in the garage—you get a powerful 4in.
vyce in the Worker.
A Grinder is necessary for sharpening tools,
axes, shears, meat-choppers, etc. —there’s a 3-
speed grinder in this unique outfit.
A Drill is a mighty useful tool —the Handy
Worker has it!
The Pipe Vyce enables you to bend pipe or to
hold it firmly while you cut and thread it.
You often need a block of metal to hammer on
- the small Anvil of the Handy Worker outfit
will prove most useful, and so will the steel
Cutting Hardie —for cutting off wire, etc.
You Can Get It from Any of the Under-
mentioned PRICE £5/15/-
SYDNEY—
Cooper Engineering Co., Ltd.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
MELBOURNE —
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE —
Australasian Implement & House Furnishing C*.
South Aus. Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Ltd.
PERTH—
Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd
Hugo Fischer, Ltd.
KRIS BANE —
Clark & Fauset, Ltd.
Ironmongeries, Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON—
Illustrated Descriptive Pamphlet can be had for the asking from any of the Firms mentioned.
Proprietors: Cooper Engineering Company, Limited, 129-131 Sussex Street, Sydney.


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
FFETFoTITfe
liy building; your new home with
Exterior and Interior AValls and Ceilings
of “FIBROEITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with “FIBRO-
UTE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITF” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every'respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,
Cor. York &. Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., IVlelbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
Top
Rates!
The Attraction
And they act as an influence in more ways
than one. They are the magnet which
attracts an ever-increasing number of sheep,
iamb and cattle owners to take this step.
TRUCK THE FATS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Stock Salesmen, LTD.
Home bush Yards, Enoggera Yards,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
[1
The
“Stronghold”
Work Shirt
Our Biggest
Work Shirt
Value
10/6
Three for 30/-
Mail to Desk “SB”
Built with strong
Seams, two Breast
Pockets with flaps.
Patterns Plain Blue,
P-'ue with White or
Black stripe. Washes
well. State size.
P I K
BROTHERS LT
in Sgsen St., Brisbane
Wq
Columbia
Dry Batteries
they last longer
Best for bells, buzzers, gas
engine ignition, radio and all
general purposes. More power,
better service for a long, long
time.
Obtainable everywhere
at little cost.
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 Bast 42d Street
New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
i IGNITO®
Djsajf cEii
,c NIT?ON
, all
ru**** 5
m
CM**
28
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Rumfords
Groats
Best for*, Mother's,
Young Children
Sl Invalids •
Obtainable from
ALL CHEMISTS & GROCERS
♦ Shoe Cream
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6 d. per tube . Obtainable Everywhere .
® 3 JA
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Fana”: At last the matter of a seven-
day-a-week train service between Sydney and
Melbourne is to receive attention, the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce having inter-
ested itself in the question. Probably there
are no other tAvo cities in the world situateu
like Melbourne and Sydney which suspend
railway communication for a full day once
a week, at the cost of inconvenience to travel-
lers and an irritating delay to mails. The
fault lies with the Melbourne railway
authorities, for Sydney has been running
Sunday-night trains for years past, and try-
ing to get Melbourne to reciprocate.
-x- * * *
“Pax": Most Australians look upon the
water-rat as a pest. The furrier, however,
is of a different opinion. I was recently
showrn a fur boa which I took to be of
expensive seal-skin—price, 14 guineas. I
was assured that it was made of the skins
of common water-rats, dyed and dressed.
Owing to its oily nature, the dyeing was very
difficult, and therefore costly, otherwise the
skins would seriously compete against rabbit-
fur, which passes under any denomination —
save that of its original parent.
“Pax” : On one of the inter-State boats a
traveller came aboard carrying an extra-
large swag. As he wiped the sweat away, a
steward offered to carry it down to liis cabin,
an offer which was resolutely refused. Find-
ing that I was a cabin-mate, he, however,
accepted my assistance. Clear of the Yarra
the second mate eanle round, and collected
the tickets. The swagman then proceeded
to unroll Matilda, which had hidden within
it a grinning urchin aged about eight. Dad
explained that he adopted this method to
get out of a difficulty due to shortage of
funds.
* * * *
“Wanchai” : Although appearance and other
qualities are the same, a timber expert would
not be needed to distinguish buleroi from
camphor-wood (B. 23/4/’25). If pieces of
both be tapped, the sounds are distinctly dif-
ferent. “Gouger’s” assertion that buleroi is
"doctored” in Hong Kong is correct; but
lie unconsciously creates a misunderstanding.
Those who have not trodden the narrow
alleyways of Hong Kong naturally enough
would suppose the much-maligned Clunk re-
sponsible for the deception. Except in rare
instances, such is not the case. Ninety-nine
times in a hundred the Jap is the guilty
party.
* * * *
“Umfaan”: “Ces” was rather over-ebul-
lient in favor of Mirboo North's “highly-
developed education conscience” in making
vip £lOOO towards the cost of a high school
in the district. The practice is by no means
rare in Victoria. Mordialloc and Carrum
recently put in £2500 between them for a
high school and donated the land and play-
ing grounds. The “education conscience,”
by tbe way, is lacking in the Department,
which, after promising a new building to
take the place of a temporary hall, now
says it may not arrive for years and years.
Vic. districts also have a highly-developed
railway-station conscience, and any month
sees a district handing over a substantial
cheque towards the cost of a new station.
* * * *
“X2X”: An industry for which there
should be an opening in Australia is the
manufacture of lenses for telescopes, micro-
scopes, magnifying glasses and other optical
instruments. Thefe is a fair demand for
these in the Commonwealth, and to satisfy
it scores of thousands of pounds have to be
spent annually on imports, largely from Ger-
many. No extensive plant or capital is re-
quired. The Australian workman has already
shown himself capable of carrying out work
which requires precision, and if given a start
under Protection there is not much doubt
that the industry could be established.
America, once compelled to import all her
lenses from abroad, is now making more of
them every year, and what the American
manufacturer and workman can do Austra-
lians should also be able to accomplish.
* * * *
“Mercator”: “James 8.,” noting that a
Scandinavian ship has left the Common-
wealth ivith £2OO 000 worth of whale-oil,
asks Avhether it is not possible for Aus-
tralia to tap “this mine of wealth” (B.
7/5/’25). In 1913 a Norwegian co. erected
an up-to-date station costing £60,000 at Ft.
Cloates, on the nor’-west coast of W.A. Its
operations returned them £90,000 in 1913,
£225,000 in 1914 and £150,000 in 1915. At
that stage the company was offered such
tempting prices for its vessels that it sold
them. A local co. of £50,000 was formed
to take over the station, and in 1922 and
1923 its whale-oil and other products fetched
about £40,000; but the smallness of the
steamers engaged proved a handicap, and the
difficulty of procuring efficient whalers led to
the discontinuance of operations. It is hoped
to make a fresh start this year, however,
with the assistance of English capital, and
two new wlialing-boats are on their way to
Fremantle.
* * * *
“Troophorse”: The Australian mother-of-
pearl fisheries are the most important in
the world. The peak of the produc-
tion of pearl and shell was reached in
1912, when pearls valued at £106,375 were
reported, and 2103 tons of shell, ivorth
£530,298, were produced—ls 96 tons of it
from W.A. waters. One of the finest of the
pearls ever taken was won late in 1917 by
a lugger of Clark and Co.’s fleet at Broome.
It Aveiglied 100 grains, and was valued at
£20,000. The question nowadays is, “Who
controls the industry in Australia?” The
Japanese have a big say in it, and at the
rate they are going it Avill not be long before
they work white owners out. The Japanese
Clubs at Broome and Thursday Island have
a big say in running the fleets. If, for in-
stance, you have a row Avith your diver, who
demands too much cash “advance.” he will
talk it over with his secretary. The secre-
tary will instruct the diver to proceed to
sea as usual. But your take for the season
will be very small. You will lose, but the
diver Avill be compensated for his losses by
the club, on the basis of the previous year’s
taking. So, instead of fighting one man for
your rights, you find you are fighting a well-
organised body.


STUDEBAKER’S
♦
New Model Sales
eclipse all previous records
HTHE New Studebaker
models have received
the unparalleled endorse-
ment of motor car buyers
throughout the world.
Every month, since Nov-
ember, has seen a new
high record established for
Studebaker export sales.
The New Studebaker
models offer values with-
out precedent— features
never before shown, and a
quality of construction that
assures long and economi-
cal service. That is why
more people are buying
Studebaker cars.
See the New Studebakers
before you buy. They rep-
resent the latest develop-
ment in motor car design.
STUDEBAK E R S o u t h Bend, Indiana, U. S. A>
Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
113 in. W.B. 60 B.P.
6-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton £490
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster £465
5-Pass. Coach £540
3-Pass. Country Club Coupe .... £570
5-Pass. Brougham £575
5-Pass. Coupe £590
5-Pass. Sedan £625
5-Pass. Berline £650
5-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £430
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body £420
4*wheel brakes, 4 disc wheels, £l5 extra.
SPECIAL. SIX MODELS.
120 m. IV. B. 65 11. P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton £5BO
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster £545
3- Sport-Roadster £575
4- Victoria £735
5- Brougham £685
5-Pass. Sedan £765
5-Pass. Berline £785
5-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £535
7 -Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £550
3- Roadster, Aus. Body .... £515
4- brakes, 5 disc wheels, £2O extra.
BIG SIX MODELS.
127 in. IV.B. 75 H.P.
7-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood £685
7-pass. Duplex-Phaeton 705
5-pass. Coupe 895
7-pass. Sedan 985
7-pass, Berline 960
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
Studebaker open models cun also be
furnished with foldiny tops in place of
the Duplex body and top.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. TEENER. BROS., 396-400 Swanstou Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide. ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
ISLAND MOTORS PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Hobart.
19 New Studebaker Models
from.£> 420
The car illustrated is the New Studebaker Stand *
ard Six Duplex-Phaeton; folding top is optional,
■
~ - r
■■■■■ : :-: A : ■
r A
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 7 3
JB-624
YEARS


“ COUGH u
REMEDY
Wn
CRO
sue;
CH= , S
RE'NL&Q'tf
:h>i
!|* ,5
•T
SORE THI
INFLUE
,1,1 s !
THROAT and
rur
MADE in AUS
m
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY I
!l 1!
lllil
I'll*
SMALL.
UIAHBtRUINS LIMITED.
srs.i
The most successful
Croup medicine known.
Do be careful of Croup.
Have Chamberlain’s al-
ways handy. Even in
the most severe attack
it will bring quick relief.
Given when the child be-
comes hoarse or even after
the croupy cough appears
it will prevent the attack.
CHAMBERIAIHS
“cough Remedy"
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Features
■m
W-l
in
w
oi
o »>'*
<S>\
1\&
V> '*\\ Ml''
g. \Vjfr
* 0 V>.V
a V-- •.■■•■'
>4
■f*Pl
Writes
Wonderfully
Protects
Perfectly
Ten Good Reasons
why the “Security” is
preferred.
1. 14kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3 Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
G. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong S E A M-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome 18kt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
Ami Inst., but not least:
10. Perfect Steel Whe e 1
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don't delay. Get yours
State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
YOU’LL BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposi t
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; IV. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
m
Ob
m
m 3
a
?y
)NDOti
OX 5
ET every one gang his
ain gait” is a very
happy philosophy for
the wheelman.
IT
It tolerates the other fellow
whatever his mode or pace,
it allows for the inevitable
variety of tastes.
It recognises the different
ideas of comfort.
And whatever your mode
’ tis comfort makes the
wheels go round.
Look to your saddle at once.
Have the correct pattern
for your style of riding —•
and have a saddle that
will last for years.
SADDLES
BROOKS 8.90. —For long distance riding,
comfortable for sauntering or moderate
speeds—and designed for those who
prefer a resilient seat. Made in two sizes.
BROOKS B.IO—A saddle that gives
comfort by virtue of toe s..a, e, it
permits energetic pedalling for mile
after mile. Made in two sizes.
Ask for the latest Brooks literature.
SCOTT & HOLLA DAY, LTD.,
Eagley Building, 143-45 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Asrcnts for J. B. BROOKS &. CO., LTD., Birmingham, England.
THE
K
&
23
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
HEAD OFFICE—273 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital . . . . • • • • • • £10,000,000
Capital paid up . . • • • • £4,000,000
Reserve Fund . • • • • • 2,207,380
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 1,500,000
Total . . . . • • • • £7,707,380
Total Assets, 31st March, 1924, £38,209,226.
Directors:
SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY.
F. M. STRACHAN.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept.: E. J. OSBORNE.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N. S. WALES —Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 29 branches.
QUEEN SLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies;
E. H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, King W T illiam Street, Adelaide,
and 48 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 37 branches.
TASMANIA —Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE —7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand.
Agents throughout the World.
“Percy Pawnticket” : According to a Mel-
bourne newspaper, when asked why he did
not keep the place in repair, defendant re-
plied : “I’ve got no time : I’m a married man. ’
Told that he would have to pay for repairs,
he replied that his wife had all his money.
Poor man is ever doomed to climb
The treadmill of the ages:
To earn his money takes his time;
His wife then takes his wages.
“Mepliisto” : Every morning one may see
a well-dressed young man rowing a boat on
the Brisbane River from Victoria Bridge
to Circular Quay and back again. He was
left a considerable sum of money on con-
dition that he did half-an-hour’s work each
day. He chose to work with the oar. And
I’m not sure that he isn't right.
Sport and philanthropic money-raiser was
Father Roche, who had been parish
priest of Warragul (Vic.) for 20 years past.
"I’ll get it,” the cleric used to say; and
rushing off in a cloud of dust he invariably
did get it. His capacity for drawing dona-
tions from well-lined pockets made him an
asset to the West Gippsland Hospital; and
mainly off his own energetic bat he scored
fine churches at Warragul, Drouin and
Neerim South.
The death of F. B. Kenny at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) recalls the fact that nearly 100
years ago his grandfather, who gave his
name to Kenny’s Point, Lake George, started
an immense stone house on a hill overlooking
the lake. The 20 rooms of undressed stone,
with walls of enormous thickness, were car-
ried to their full height. Then something
went wrong, and the work stopped. The
walls still stand, a tribute either to the skill
of the workmen of a century ago or to their
cheapness.
The man who makes a fortune out of a
fire isn’t always called Abraham. In the
earliest days of Broken Hill flames licked up
T. J. Treloar and Co.’s drapery, and instead
of starting again in a mining town the two
partners put their insurance money into a
general store at Tamworth (N.S.W.). The
two soon separated : Treloar, a big Cornish-
man, stayed on at Tamworth, and every-
thing came his way, including the deeds of
many farms and grazing properties. But
at 70 he has had to leave it all behind.
R. W. E. Wilmot, known as “Bung” to
every footballer and cricketer in Melbourne,
is further notorious as “Old Boy” of the
Argus and Australasian. Increase of
work has compelled him to resign his con-
nection with Melbourne Grammar School, an
institution greatly indebted to him for liis
labor as hon. sec. of the Old Melburnians’
Society, editor of the school’s register of
former pupils and editor of the school quar-
terly. For 21 years “Bung” has worked
strenuously, and at the annual dinner of
Old Melburnians a gold badge of honor was
presented to him.
“Coot”: The Vic. Education Department
is taking practical steps to interest scholars
in forestry. It has arranged that the stu-
dents of the Melbourne, Coburg, Essendon,
Williamstown and Uni. high schools shall
take over 70 acres of forest land between
Sherbrooke and Belgrave for a pine-planta-
tion area. Two country high schools have
'already areas under their care. The lads of
the Uni. High School have already com-
menced clearing at Belgrave. It is computed
that in 25 years the first trees planted will
be ready for cutting and selling, and the
proceeds are to be used for school equipment
or improvement.
Heber A. Longman, the director of the
Queensland Museum, has never lost his
youthful enthusiasm. Every day his mail
brings him a weird assortment of eggs and
skins, bottled reptiles, scraps of fossil bones
from the western plains, and all kinds of
crawlers for identification, but he has the
patience and thoroughness of the enthusiastic
naturalist, who is a different being from the
mere professional scientist, The big display
cases at the museum, with their lifelike
groupings, have popularised the place, am
visitors to the Banana capital have to cal'
at Bowen Park before they can say they
have properly “done” Brisbane.
“lan C.” : The new coat-of-arms issued by
the British Government may .be accurate, but
is a doubtful improvement on the old one
from the artistic standpoint. A Tudor crow::
has been substituted for the old one over
the shield, and the lion has become an
impossible-looking animal with a mannish
head and his tongue poked out. Altogether
Leo has a three-o’clock-in-the-morning look.
The unicorn, while still graceful and less
spruced up than his mate, also shows his
tongue, but lets it hang more loosely. The
Government Printer should hang on to liis
old blocks in case the new ones should be
frowned off gazettes and documents.
The Australian priest is coming on. Arch-
bishop Kelly has appointed Father Bond, an
Australian, as administrator at the Cath-
edral; and his secretary, Robert Peoples, is
also an Australian. Incidentally, the Arch-
bishop is taking no chances of dying the
same lonely death as his predecessor—Cardi-
nal Moran was found dead one morning in
his bedroom in Manly Palace, lying on the
floor, the watchful O’Haran being away re-
cuperating after an attack of typhoid. Dr.
Kelly retires now to his quarters in Lewis-
ham Hospital, where the night staff can keep
an eye on him. His coadjutor, Archbishop
Sheehan, once a bright light of Maynooth
College, Ireland, lives at Strathfield.
“Jesmond”: I don’t see why Australian
retail chemists should object to National In-
surance (B. 7/5/’25). Most of the objec-
tions raised in the U.K. proved to have no-
thing in them. My dad had an old-estab-
lished business in a city suburb, with a popu-
lation which included all classes, and “the
Act” increased our profits. It made no
difference whatever to our legitimate dis-
pensing, and we were very soon doing up
to 50 insurance scrips a day, showing an
average profit of 4d. each. I admit that
sales of “patents” dropped 50 p.c., but as
the drop was most pronounced in the cheap-
est and least profitable lines, it was more
a benefit than otherwise. The only draw-
back was that the bulk of the work was
brought in during the busy counter-hours at
night, and during the first week or two we
worked overtime. However, by keeping all
the commoner drugs in solutions of standard
strength, we soon managed to close on time,
and Dad was blessing the National Insur-
ance Act.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•DRAMA 20.500
•ORONSAY . . 20.500
•OTRANTO .. 20.500
•ORMONDE . . 14.853
Tons.
•ORJIUZ 14.588
ORVIETO ... 12.138
OSTERIEY . . 12.129
ORSOVA 12,030
•ORCADES 10.000 tons.
•First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981 - 12'Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m.; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail —£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,490,435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector jor N.S.'V.: \V. Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SVDNF.Y (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
■New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Riindle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. ..3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
- land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Jenolan Caves
for an Ideal Holiday.
Three Days:
£4/7/-
£xtra Days
at Jenolan
Caves House
18/- per day
Six hours’ delight-
ful journey by train
an d in ot o r-c a r
through gorgeous
mountain scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout and
accommodation at
Caves House—re-
plete with every
modern comfort.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
NEW SOUTH W ALES
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney,
Shipping, Me.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. JUNE 4 for Vancouver.
MAIvURA 13,000 „ „ JUNE 18 „ San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ JULY 2 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. JULY 16 ~ San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
4®i
/
i, >'
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE I Oil RETURN
BY OTHEII LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —-
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
>-
: i i
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 .weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
elass Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REUUi.AU SAILINGS OF THE FUME AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUE VIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
'’Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCL.ES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*Np\v Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPAJVY. LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
NESTOR
ULYSSES
/ENEAS
Tons.
. 14,500
. 14,500
. 10.000
Tons.
ANCHISES .. 10,000
ASCANIUS .. 10,000
Pares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE GAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA.
BENALLA
BO EDA
B ERR IMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
['"ares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liiatoility
Directors:
- £0,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 0.000,000
£10,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falki.ner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
Charles. Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LIVES
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threndneedle Street. E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports: at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address-
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENT'S FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
ITitzroy Estates. Ltd.
Ulacklieath Collieries, JLtd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. C'o.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg- and Bowen.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Tear.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924
Yielding Reversionary Auditions to
Policies of ovet ..
Accumulated Funda . •
Annual Income
£2.370,000
£4,000,000
£55,800,000
£8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Best Value for Your
Money
Double “D”
Eucalyptus *
Guaranteed 70% Eucalyptol
Large Bottles, 1/3


-
m
■
pi
> a
I
Jr
mak
m
/
A WAX Finish Denotes Refinement
THROUGH all their centuries the beautiful interiors
of famous European castles and palaces have known
no finish but wax. Perfectly preserved—the waxed
wood mellows and glows with the years. This same
beautiful finish can be easily duplicated on the floors,
woodwork and furniture of any Australasian home with
JOHN SON’S
Pasfe - LiQLttd - Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
Johnson’s Wax is the ideal finish and polish for all your
floors. It will make them beautiful —easy to care for—
they won’t be slippery—and will not heel-print. And
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is, by far, the most economical
finish for floors and linoleum. With waxed floors
expensive refinishing is never necessary, for walked-on
places can be easily and quickly rewaxed as worn spots
appear, without going over the entire floor.
The easy way to wax floors and linoleum is with a
Johnson Weighted Polishing Brush. It spreads the Wax
evenly —polishes the Floor easily—and is an ideal
floor duster.
JtmNSONS ip joH —**
PREPARED WAX
Polishes Everything!
I ELOORS-L INOLEUM ji|C.JOHNSOM&SOH
WOODWORK
SHOES
eT
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia—
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
from your local dealer—write us, mentioning his name
and we will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by as:
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.
2
Tur
GENUINE
BOSCH
HORN
is the most efficient and economical WARNING SIGNAL
in existence.
Gives a clear, melodious and penetrating note.
PRICES WITH BRACKET:
2-note, complete . . . £6/10/-
Single note . £5j19,6 6or 12 Volt.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
250-258 Latrohe Street.
Sydney Robert Itoscli Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagli Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Elpliinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Ltd., Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., 20 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand.... Jas. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Not genuine without the name of ROBERT BOSCH
and this TRADE-MARK.
Increase Your Petrol Sales
urith quick service, visibly accurate
Wayne Pumps
Filling station operators and garage men
find Wayne pumps to be exceptionally
profitable equipment because of (l) their
conspicuous but tasteful designs, which
attract trade and (2) their quick, visibly
accurate service, which holds trade and
makes satisfied customers.
Wayne Pump No. 276-V, for example,
is the fastest, easiest hand-operated
5-gallon pump on the market. Operates by
a continuous forward motion of the pump
handle for both up and down strokes of
the piston, thus saving much time. It is
equipped with many popular features,
such as the Wayne positive filter, com-
bination 20 gallon discharge register,
100,000 gallon meter, and the Wayne ex-
clusive sliding housing and lock. It is ab-
solutely safe, with no danger from fire or
explosion. Furnished with or without the
attractive light attachment.
For complete details of this model (or
other Wayne equipment for the storing,
measuring and pumping of oil and petrol)
address:
ROBERT F. LEE, Res. Representative,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Shipman, King & Co.,
490 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Mechanical Supplies, L.td.,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Hawkins Equipment Company, Etd.,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney;
Watson’s Buildings, Wickham St., Brisbane.
Arthur H. Christian,
805 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY
Fort lnd., U. S. -A.
Established 1891
o
HONEST MEASURE PUMPS


ME
... .^.
»
% ;■
wzM
>
u
SfVWS
■* J-
mm
m
S2S*sBSSSS
'
'-ffi/.'
O^siir;:
f§*
-
MissNELLE DEAN,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, of 25 Tus-
cullum Street,
Potts Point, N. S.
Wales, writes: —
“1 use only
Rexona Soap, for I
find it absolutely
the best Soap for
the skin and hair,
and always recom-
mend it to my
friends.”
Be a Rexona Girl!
It Means Health and
Beauty.
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To be a
Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona Soap, and enjoy that natural beauty of the
skin and hair which cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its regular use,
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain
free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even
the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin
affections is known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day,
and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the
pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
Rexona
Soap,
the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
p
'{/A
%
m
m
v
,o :, ba iH
'S>,
wa
FA
S^is
HStS
Ctt^
fcNO
a
tA'-s
.r«t*
pu«‘
/M
.0/
1
lib. Box.
These Soxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing .
51b. Box,
Hillier’s
Chocolate
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4/- per lib. box
N.S.W.
Postage, extra
99 99
99 99
99 99
9d.
1/-
1/3
1/6
1/9
Other States.
1/2
1/8
2/2
2/8
3/2
No expense Is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a x'esult as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
102-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
Sea Haunted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE is no peace in the pastures
I where the white sheep play and run,
“ ■ No song in the flowery slopes that
are brushed by the happy bee ;
There is no shining welcome down the
roads with their flutes of sun,
Only a fierce, sweet longing that for ever
lives with me.
There can be no rest for the heart of her
who has givcui her heart to the sea !
The little square windows are curtained and
the sun slants over the sill
Right in from the orchard-edge where the
honey lies gold in the comb.
The old chair by the fireside creaks and the
kettle sings shrill;
But the peace of the hearth is broken by
the sound of a storm-smashed foam.
For her who has lain with her lips to the
sea, for her there can be no home.
The wind comes out of the distance, where
the sea-pink flaunts and sways,
And whinnies along the corn-ricks, the
stubble and leaning byre,
Calling me out and calling to the blue-drift
over the haze,
Stinging the blood that is in me and fanning
my veins to fire.
There can be no waiting and waiting for
her who has known tbe sea’s desire.
The cry of lonely peewits and the hiss of a
spreading tide —
Spindrift and white wings tangled and a
wave that shoreward slips—
All these are in my heart-beats— they are
with me, deep inside —
The blown heath on the headlands, the
kelp on the sandy strips
And the bleached, brown nets in the fish-
ing-coves and the sails of little ships!
Wise are the souls of the sea-loved, with the
wisdom the earth has known —
Sad as the sea’s own sadness and free as
the winds are free—
Their eyes hold strange, dark secrets, and
their feet must walk a10ne....
Oh, urge of the wild wind-voices that will
never let me be !
There eon he no rest for the heart of her
who lias given her heart to the sea!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Word.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the great army of Tencris
Khan paused at Trebizoml 1 i.
after waiting there throughout the
winter, continued its rest far into the middle
Spring, all Europe watched in growing alarm
for the leap of the tiger. So great had been
the terror inspired by his earlier campaigns
that resistance was urged in a spirit of de-
spair. Rich princes engaged twice the usual
number of mercenaries; games of arms re-
ceived a new encouragement; and military
statesmen sat long over plans of swift re-
treat. It was said that the mighty Khan
would divide his army into three parts, in-
vading Europe simultaneously through Spain,
Thrace and the Caspian provinces. Again
and again reports were spread that the march
had actually begun ; but the surer word fol-
lowed that he was still at Trebizond, where
his tents blackened an area nearly 60 miles
in circumference.
There was something ominous about the
long inaction. Hitherto the movements of
the Tartars and their allies had been so swift
and impetuous that the distances covered
seemed all but incredible. In six years no
such delay had occurred ; and as they had
suffered no military check and had no reason
for anticipating one, the camp at Trebizond
hung over the world like a vast black cloud
from which some storm of an unusual and
terrible nature must at last break forth.
But while Europe waited and trembled
Tencris Khan had already reached Samar-
kand with a small and faithful party. In
the early days of the winter the Tartar leader
had allowed the complete freedom from mili-
tary restraint which he had found so useful
after every long campaign. His soldiers
could do as they pleased within wide limits;
but he trusted to his emirs to rally the men
into fighting shape before the end of January.
February was to be spent in strict and severe
training; and with the first winds of March
his standard would be moving again.
Accustomed to hold himself entirely aloof
from his hordes, except when he displayed
himself in the actual stress of battle, Tencris
trusted to his organisation and the zeal of
his emirs; but when the middle of February
had been reached a suspicious quiet in the
long rows of tents moved him to action. He
sent for two of his leading emirs and inquired
the reason of the total lack of martial dis-
play.
The old soldiers when they appeared seemed
to have lost something of their stiff dignity.
Leader of the faithful,” they said, “it is
well. The men grow wise in the pursuit
Ol the new learning. They will be ready
to march with the Spring.”
True to his practice, Tencris Khan
accepted the explanation. Learning was a
K °°” thing. Had he not himself spent the
cold days and nights reading many books?
\\ hat the new learning might be it was not
lor one. as highly placed as he to inquire,
-•-he emirs.were faithful; all was well.
A fortnight later the captain of his own
‘ sought audience, and stood gravely
with his shoes in his hand at the dividing
curtain of the tent.
Tencris, always gracious to his veterans,
motionod him to comp nearer.
Leader of the faithful.” said the man,
rfi w . lse .above all men.”
Tencris 3 *" 1S y ° U would know? ” said
thrnnH? Ve n SOU i. gslt , tlirou £h ail tile camp and
through all the books of the wise for the
name of a small animal which contains three
letters and makes a noise like the wind of
a spinning-top when it is pleased.”
“That,” said Teneris, smiling, “is easy
to discover. It is found in Persia and is
called the cat.”
“Leader of the faithful,” said the captain
with deep solemnity, “how would you spell
such a word?”
“C —A—T,” said the Khan slowly. "It
is a small word, but held to contain magic.”
At once the old soldier prostrated himself
on the mat, not slowly and with true Tartar
dignity, but as if in haste to perform an
unwilling act. Then with the agility of a
young man he leaped to his feet and ran
from the presence.
Teneris Khan stroked his beard seven
times. The interview had been unusual:
the conclusion strange. lie stroked his beard
seven more times and wondered.
But the captain of the guard was only
the first of seventy-six visitors who came
on similar errands during the next three
days. Seventy-five times the Khan gave the
correct answer to the question asked ; on the
seventy-sixth he failed to do so.
The failure occurred in the ease of the
young soldier who entered his presence still
wearing in his turban tin* crescent of purple
jade that the Khan had himself pinned there
when he saved the lift l of the Leader of the
Faithful at the battle of Mosul. His demand
was for file name of a river in Paradise which
began with K, ended with Q and had Z for
its middle letter. The soldier brought with
him a paper, and Teneris Khan saw for the
first time the form and nature of the new
learning.
Together the Leader of the Faithful and
the wearer of the purple jade struggled with
the problem till morning. They ate together,
drank coffee and slept on the rugs with
tlie paper between them. They awoke and
the Khan sent for all the books in Trebizond
and all the holy men likely to know the geo-
graphy of Paradise within a radius of fifty
miles. After a week of feverish search the
name still eluded them.
“I know that there is such a name,”
said an old man, who had ridden a donkey
20 miles, with his beard falling about its
neck, “but it is too holy to remember.”
“I have heard the name,” said a Kurd
patriarch from near Lake Van, “for it was
spoken to mo in a dream; but now it is
known only to the prophet and a man in
China, though some of old time may have
set it in a forgotten book.”
“It is in a book in Yezd,” said a third,
“and in another book in Samarkand.”
The next day Teneris Khan and the young
soldier sgcretly left the camp and journeyed
to Yezd. At Yezd the name was lost, though
many witnesses were rea'dy to swear that it
had once been known. The searchers went
north-east and came to Samarkand; but
the fame of the word they sought had gone
before them. The whole town turned out
to tell the Khan that the name had been
taken to Nan-King, where it was guarded day
and night by seven holy men who had cut
out their tongues lest they might accident-
ally speak it to a profane person.
“To China!” said Teneris Khan. “Shall
a mere word defeat the conqueror of the
world?”
At Trebizond the great Tartar camp was
still stationary at the beginning o£ June;
and Europe began to breathe more freely,
hoping that sickness or a miracle of God
had interposed on behalf of Christendom.
Rut Ivan the Horrible, of Moscow, who
had brought an army to the Crimea at the
close of winter, resolved to cross the Black
Sea and discover for himself the cause of
the delay. From old experience he doubted
the fighting strength of an army that did
not move on when the loot was plentiful and
the weather good.
No attempt was made to resist his land-
ing; and his soldiers dug trenches and put
up defences a mile from the shore and less
than three miles from the Tartar outposts.
There he raised his standard and awaited
events.
At 3 o’clock on the second afternoon his
scouts brought word that there was a move-
ment in the great camp. The Muscovites
were formed up in order of battle, bugles
were blown, cheers were (officially) given
for Ivan the Horrible; and everything was
ready for a well-arrayed and picturesque
battle. A cloud of dust to the south appeared
to mark the advance of the enemy’s horse.
Prayers were being said by a group of
priests on a little hill to the right of the
main force; and pictures of saints were
displayed along the line. But the cross-bow
men were hidden among the ruins of an old
village and a line of ragged-looking Cossack
horsemen had taken their place in the hollow
beyond the priests. Then the cloud of dust
parted and out of it came a mixed array of
walking horses with turbaned riders and men
who trudged on foot. The whole troop was
led bv a person on a white mule who carried
a flag of truce.
Ivan the Horrible rode out of tbe lines on
his large black horse and halted before the
mule. A long-legged interpreter in a black
cloak came panting behind the stirrups of
the prince.
“Ask them what they want,” said Ivan.
There was an interchange of words in an
unknown tongue; then the interpreter spoke.
“Your Highness, they have come to ask
you of your mercy to tell them a word
with H for its middle letter which will after-
wards cause much trouble, but which is not
yet in general use. The word is thought to
be in the Slavonic tongue and consists of
nine letters.”
Ivan the Horrible looked the mule full in
the face.
“What reward shall I have if I give the
answer required?”
The interpreter spoke again and the lead-
ing beards moved softly under the white tur-
bans.
“They say you will have the blessing of
Allah; for the greatest problem of the new
learning will then be complete.”
Ivan regarded the mule steadily. He sought
to scratch his head, but his fingers found
only his iron headpiece.
“Nine letters... .middle letter II,” he mur-
mured.
The cross-bow men fitted their shafts. The
Cossacks reined back their horses. The
prayer of the priests came like a wailing
of lost souls.
(Continued on next page.)


m
5J #?
m
if
n
y
%
Cuts
heed quickly
with Zam-Bm
SELDOM a day passes without an
accident in the household. The
mother cooking and preparing meals
meets with cuts, scrapes and scratches;
ironing brings its burns, and cleaning
its knocks and bruises. The children
seem to be always “in the wars,” as
they are for ever bruising and scraping
their little limbs and' faces.
That’s why no household can afford to
be without Zam-Buk, as a box of this
healer comprises a compact, reliable
little surgery for a hundred emergencies.
Timely dressing of the cuts, burns and
scratches with this powerful antiseptic
means that all liability to infection by
disease germs is “nipped in the bud.
Zam-Buk soothes and relieves smarting
pain and itching—it keeps away festering
and poisoned sores, and assures natural
healing with clear, healthy skin. Buy a
box of Zam-Buk to-day and keep it handy
—every family medicine-chest should
contain its box of this healing balm. Be-
ware of common ointments containing
gritty minerals or crude animal fats. Ask
for and get Zam-Buk.
Obtainable of Chemists and Stores,
1/6 and 3/6.
-BUR
am
•A SURGERY IN A TWO-INCH BOX”
Send your request for a FREE SAMPLE now 1
It costs you nothing to try Zam-Buk. Just send your
request, with name and address clearly written, to C. E.
Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, mentioning “The Bulletin”
of 4/6/’25, and a trial sample c-f Zam-Buk will be sent
to you by return post.
Ivan the Horrible slapped liis thigh.
“Bolshevik!” he shouted. "B—O —L—S
— H—E—V—I—K !”
“B O L S —H—E —V—I —K,” re-
peated the interpreter.
The Tartars drew together in a knot
around the mule. They wrote with pencils
on paper; and every eye looked with ecstatic
triumph at the letters written. They did
not see the signal of Ivan the Horrible: they
did not hear the gallop of the advancing Cos-
sacks; the first flight of arrows whistled
round them unnoticed.
“Seize that paper!” cried Ivan. “It is
magic—magic of the East!”
An arrow transfixed the mule. The paper
was waved on high. The Tartar horsemen
suddenly awoke to their danger, set spurs
to their horses and galloped for their lives:
the men on foot held up their hands and cried
“Kamerad!” in Mongolian. Chinese. Persian,
Pushtoo, Kurdish and Arabic.
Ivan the Horrible looted the great camp
in a thoroughly business-like way. The
menace of Asia was broken; and the Holy
Cross-word Puzzle was borne back in tri-
umph to Kiev Cathedral.
Tencris Khan heard of these things in
Nan-King while turning over the pages of
the fifty-six thousand volumes of the great
Imperial Dictionary.
“A river in Paradise,” lie murmured, “be-
ginning with K. ending with Q and with
Z for its middle letter.”
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Battle at Maroubra.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOUNG Philpotts, the auctioneer’s
clerk, was responsible for the bright
idea. He wanted to end the un-
pleasant situation that had developed since
Gustav Bhurspoofski, the morose and sinis-
ter young foreigner with the tawny skin and
the diamond ring, had come to live at the
Rockies —our tall and densely-populated
boarding-house in the city’s densest suburb.
The trouble was, of course, over a
woman, the pride of our establish-
ment—the lithe and shapely Milly Fitz-
allan, mannequin at Spool and Wal-
let’s warehouse, who took even more liber-
ties than “Ma” Bilkins, our Bohemian land-
lady, usually allowed dwellers in her uncon-
ventional liash-tower. For during the past
year both Milly’s room parties and the num-
ber of her guests had dwindled, until now
there was left only our lean fellow-boarder
Billy Spelter, saxophonist at the local movie
hall. Him she entertained alone each night
with supper after his day’s work was done.
Being at the Rockies, no one questioned the
propriety of such proceedings. It was only
when the offensively be-ringed and insinuat-
ing Bhurspoofski butted into Milly and Billy’s
romance that public feeling became aroused.
The women blamed Milly, of course, for en-
couraging him. The men sympathised with
Billy, urged him to desperate measures, even
offered their moral and physical support. But
after a dreadful scene over the breakfast-table
one morning, in which two ladies fainted, a
cup of coffee was spilled over Ma Bilkins’s
last clean cloth, and Mr. Bhurspoofski was
struck over the eye with a small, burned
mutton-chop, the brooding Mr. Spelter de-
cided to resort to other measures.
He consulted young Philpotts; and Phil-
potts produced the Great Idea.
Early next morning (Sunday) a taxi left
the back of Ma Bilkins’s establishment, and
was soon skimming along the road to Marou-
bra Bay. Inside were (1) Wm. Spelter,
pale, grave and dignified ; (2) young Philpotts,
with a brisk and cheery master-of-ceremonies
air about him; (3) Gustav Bhurspoofski,
dark and lowering, and clearly writhing under
the insult of the small, burned mutton-chop;
and (4) old Steve Gourlay, stage-door keeper
at the Royalty, the only person in the Rockies
tolerant enough to hold converse with
Bhurspoofski. For Philpotts had carefully
explained that the proprieties demanded that
the foreigner should have at least a nominal
friend In the proceedings that were to
follow.
Arrived at its destination, the party dis-
embarked, and waited while the grinning taxi-
driver nroduced a kerosene-tin and filled it
with water at the tramway stop. Then, led
by young Philpotts, who also carried a tin.
it wended its way through sand and scrub till
it reached a fairly level clearing between two
sheltering sandhills. There Philpotts emptied
from his tin a set of dingy, pillow-sized
boxing-gloves and a bundle of Ma Bilkins’s
towels, and took, in their place, half of the
water from the taxi-driver’s tin. After which
he formally relinquished control of affairs to
the taxi-man, and went with the water and
one of the towels to where Spelter had seated
himself on one side of the clearing and was
busy removing his shirt. The taxi-person took
the rest of the water and one of the towels
over to where old Steve Gourlay, on the other
side of the clearing, was gruffly assisting the
plump, perspiring and excited foreigner also
to disrobe. A minute later the gloves had
been distributed, the taxi-man assumed the
role of referee (by arrangement with Phil-
potts), and both warriors advanced to the
centre of the clearing.
“Remember, he’s as soft as butter an’
couldn’t fight his way out of a bun bag.’’
young Philpotts had whispered to Spelter by
way of final instructions. “Don’t out him
whatever y’ do. At the finish yon gotter get
concussion so bad that th’ bloomin’ Dago ’ill
think he’s nearly killed you, an’ won’t dare
show his face in Sydney fer years. Go in,
boy, and pull his leg a treat!”
Mr. Spelter smiled confidently and nodded.
The contest that followed will never figure
in the annals of Australian ringcraft; never-
theless, the taxi-man referee, the two seconds
and an early youthful surfer who was sub-
sequently hired to keep the contestants sup-
plied with w'ater agreed that it was a far
more stupendous and entertaining perform-
ance than any ever staged in a regular
stadium. In fact, the small surfer told his
pals at Sunday-school that day that it was
“better’n a pantermine, a circus an’ th’ Tiv.
all in one.”
It began with the plump and agitated
Bhurspoofski making a wild open-handed
swipe at Spelter and missing him. Then
he recovered from his surprise and hurled his
whole person forward in a most frantic
fashion. Spelter ducked confused!,.v, re-
ceived the full force of the other's avoirdu-
pois on his neck and shoulder and collapsed
to the ground. There he lay gasping for
breath; and the foreigner got up. looking
puzzled but gratified, while Philpotts eagerly
poured water over the recumbent man's ear
for the sake of effect.
During the two rounds that followed Mr.
Spelter succeeded to the extent of presenting
his rival with five resounding slaps on the
stomach while his arms were busy describ-
ing fearsome circles in the air. But at a
hint from Philpotts he loyally but reluct-
antly made amends each time by collapsing
before the other’s wild charges and open-
handed swipes, whether they reached Ills
vicinity of not. And Philpotts, in helping
his man from the ground, invariably smeared
dust over his wet and perspiring face, in
order to make him look as woebegone as pos-
sible. Ilis sulphurous muttered protests
were met with the argument that "you’ve
gutter look ’orribie when y’re laid out at the
finish.”
The end came in the middle of the fifteenth
found. Spelter had risen from one of his
numerous falls in time to meet Bhurspoofski
coming at him again—this time with head
lowered, like a bull. For a moment he
seemed in danger of receiving a most devas-
tating bump amidsliip ; but as his opponent’s
dark and glistening cranium came close, he
began to run backwards, at the same time
forcing the other’s skull earthwards with a
series of chopping blows with the side of his
hand on the back of the neck. But the
terribly earnest Mr. Bhurspoofski could not
retard his speed had he wished to.' He
forged ahead faster than his opponent could
retreat, till his depressed head shot between
that gentleman’s legs. Next moment Mr.
William Spelter was being carried astride
the other’s stout, red neck like a small boy
riding backwards on an infuriated billygoat,
and giving vent to his outraged feelings in
spanking his enemy’s rear elevation with his
open hand, like a mother chastising a
child.
All good things must come to an end (as the
delighted taxi-man referee philosophically ob-
served), and the hilarious spectacle ended
with a top-speed rush and a collapse into a
clump of prickly bush. There, while the
referee was joyously counting both men out,
it was discovered that of the two Bhurspoof-
ski was (naturally) the most exhausted:
whereupon Philpotts seized the opportunity
to advance the great plan another stage.
Whispering to Spelter to lie flat on his back
as though he were unconscious, Philpotts pro-
duced a cake of red paint borrowed from the
schoolbag of Ma Bilkins’s little nephew, and
proceeded to smear his wet and glistening
face in a most gory fashion. Then he
beckoned the taxi-man over and instructed
him further in the plot.
Suddenly missing the ministrations of his
second, old Steve, Bhurspoofski sat up and
looked round wearily. He saw Steve and the
other two bending over the prostrate remains
of one who appeared to have had a horrible
encounter with an express engine or a pul-
verising machine or something.
“Gawd, don’t he look horrible!” he heard
Philpotts say in quavering tones.
“Concussion er th’ brain, 1 sh’d say.”
growled old Steve, “judgin’ from th’ blood
around his nose and eyes. Anyhow, th’ worst
that can happen to ’im is ’e might be a bit
silly for life if ’e gets over it.”
“Strewth, then I don’t wanter be mixed up
in it,” interposed the taxi-man. “You’ll have
to take him to hospital, an’ then th’ police
are sure to find out about this. I’m off now !
Who’s cornin’?”
There followed an awkward silence.
“Well, someone 'll have t' go an’ ring up
an ambulance, an’ someone ’ill have t’ stay
with ’im until it comes,” ventured old Steve,
straightening up.
A second awkward silence, was broken by
Philpotts. “All right, boys,” he groaned, in
tragic, martyr-like tones. “Steve had better
leave with the taxi-driver an’ ring up th’
hospital, an’ I’ll stay here till assistance
comes.” Then he proceeded to tenderly pil-
low the head of the silent Spelter in his
arms.
The taxi-man jumped to his feet with
alacrity: but old Steve hesitated. “What
about Bhurspoofski?” he asked, turning to
where that unhappy gentleman sat pale-faced
and horrified, listening and watching all that
was going on. “We can’t leave him ’ere till
someone comes. He’ll be in a ’ell uv a mess
over this! We’ll ’ave t' get ’im away some-
place where ’e’ll be safe if th’ pleece start
nosin’ inter this business.”
Philpotts groaned: “Oh, don’t bother me
just now, Steve. I must look after poor old
Billy. Get Bhurspoofski away from here,
anyhow. When he reaches home he can pack-
up and decide for himself where he’s going.
Now leave me, and go and send an ambu-
lance, for Gawd’s sake!”
Old Steve and the driver hurried towards
the taxi, and Bhurspoofski followed eagerly
with his shirt, coat, tie and collar under his
arm.
It was not till late that night that Mr.
Spelter, young Philpotts and old Steve de-
cided to return to the Rockies. They wanted
to allow Bhurspoofski plenty of time to settle
his affairs and flee from the consequences of
the fearsome battle of Maroubra.
When at last they did arrive, Ma Bilkins
threw herself on Spelter’s shoulder in great
agitation. “Oh. Mr. Spelter. I'm so glad to
see yeh safe an’ sound!” she wailed. “That
low blackguard Bhurspoof”——
“Well, what about him, Ma?” said Spelter
in a cheery, devil-may-care fashion. “What’s
he been sayin’ and doin’?”
“Oh, Mr. Spelter, he's gorn! He came
’ome boastin’ an’ braggin’ t’ Milly that ’e’d
thrashed you to insensibility ! And Milly” -
For a moment Mr. Spelter had paled ; but
he recovered himself with a superior, confi-
dent smile. “And what did Milly say to the
poor fish, Ma?” he asked.
“Oh, Mr. Spelter, I hardly like t’ tell y’!”
wailed Ma, collapsing suddenly on his shirt-
front. “She said —she said she alius thought
you had a yellow streak in y’r make-up, an’
packed up an’ went off with ’im!”
A moment later young Philpotts was trying
to revive Mr. Spelter in real earnest.
TED COLLES.


■mr
«•
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
the westinchouse BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington,
’ictorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
'S
N
si
t7>
I
3
55
“ The Major."
Something
Different
Dozens of brands are' being sold in this country. In blend
they differ slightly.
In CAVANDER’S “ARMY CLUB” CIGARETTES smokers
have something different, something better, something for
which they have unconsciously waited.
CAVANDER’S “ARMY CLUB” are made from the best
Virginia crops blended in the best possible way. Their
size is sufficient to allow of a full and long appreciation
of the delightful tobacco. ,
Wrapped in pure ribbed rice paper, the name water marked
in the paper.
SMOKE CAVANDER’S
CIGARETTES
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
“Pure Ribbed Rice Paper”
Cavanders Limited, Estd. 1775, London, England
R. TOWNS & CO., Reiby Place, Sydney,
Agents.
Goldberg 2.
Rely for Relief
upon a thoroughly reliable remedy—a remedy
with a big reputation! The reliability of
Beecham’s Pills explains their solid reputation.
They fulfil expectations. This they have done
for thousands of people ever since they first
came into use. You can therefore depend
UPON
Beecham’s Pills for giving relief in most
cases of Stomach and Liver trouble. Such
symptoms as acidity, biliousness, constipation,
headache, heartburn, loss of appetite, unpleasant
taste in the mouth and general lack of tone call
for the immediate use of that reliable remedy—
T
WWM
nnm
HU
7,.
*
m
/
ss
m
v
\\
9
m
w/
va
Ya
'a
frtCQ f
PSCR®;
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
rhanian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup*
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, FitJtroy, Melbourne.
r
Host Hoi brook' Scujs~
“ A good brew of Worcester-
shire Sauce improves with
age. I mature my sauce in
huge vats before bottling.
Ah! It makes the whole
world hungry.”
A»4
Wo LB ROOKS
I
A Handy Knife of Fine Quality
USEFUL for the elec-
trician, motorist, radio
owner, or the man who
needs a handy tool for
quick repairs.
Combined insulation
scraper and screw-
driver, locked when
open; a keen-edged,
all-purpose blade; coco-
bolo handle; length
closed, 3% inches.
ft 45*
Electrician’s
Knife
No.
R 4548
imsrn
Ask your dealer for Remington Cutlery
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
r E-2S G. P.0.80x 686


m
'/4Wf
\
m
m
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF THE MOTHERLAND
Go to the four corners of the earth and there are the sons of the Motherland. Sweep
the seas of the universe and there are the ships of the Motherland. Search the hearts
of the Empire and there are ties to the Motherland. One of them is ... .
DEWAR’S
H A (AO L-O
NELSON
