

Is
IB
vk
&
ifr.
I
V. t
m
L
0
n
n
MS
1
<y
m
N
£
lE
B
1
H
ss •
TOOTHS
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
VoL 46.—N0. 2346.
Thursday, January 29, 1925*
Price 6d»
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Library Catalogue and full terms
and particulars and lists on all subjects.
Post free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
-'{2B George Street, SYDNEY.
NM
ntiimiiiSis
m
■TiTiili
SSSKlfiiirirSgiSi
THE MOST CONVINCING ARGUMENTS
in favor of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
are the service records established by it in every industry.
Proved by comparison to be the best in Australia, it gives
complete satisfaction on every class of drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co.. Perth.
QUEENSLAND • Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edwan
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND : P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenleli
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
STEADS REVIEW.
The paper with an appeal to every
thinking person in the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
All the old popular features retained with
many new special ones.
On sale at all Newsagents and Booksellers.
ONE SHILLING MONTHLY.
Or direct from the Publishers, post free,
12/- per annum.
REVIEWS PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
48a Queen Street, Melbourne.
J
II
6*
*•
BhA&K&IRD
Self ■ filler
The strongest and
most reliable self-
filling pen offered
at a low price . . .
The new “ Blackbird ” Self-
filler has a chased vulcanite
holder, a safety screw-cap, and
is fitted with a 14-ct. gold nib,
tipped with iridium ; supplied
in any style of point to suit
your individual requirements.
“Blackbird* 9/6 (postage extra)
Non-self-filling 7/6 M
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS
AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue Post Free
Mabie, Todd & Co.. Ltd., Swan House, 133 & 135,
Oxford St., London, W.l. and at Manchester;
Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Johannesburg, Barcelona,
Sydney, Wellington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative
J, A, Burke, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George
Street, Sydney,
«AOc
Hi
p «n*
~o~o°s
Brand
Cornflour
G'the best basis ftp
desserts & eafees .nourishing
soups 6 sauces?
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
Concerning Rag Dolls
After fashioning her figleaves into her
first apron, Eve made a rag doll out of the
scraps. This, being the first-born of her
spirit, became her most • darling child. All
her female descendants have inherited this
capacity to cherish rag dolls. Only in this
way can one account for the universality of
the feminine passion for these beloved
objects. Each woman of us has her own
special rag doll. As we grow older its form
changes. It becomes, i perhaps, a man, a
child, a theory; but whatever its corporeal
form or abstract essence, no amount of logic
can persuade us that it is but a shabby old
thing. We refuse to accept, in the fondling’s
place, any beautiful waxen image, though
the would-be donor points out that it can
walk, talk, has real hair and is almost
human. It is one of the many injustices
man hasi done woman that he accuses
her of an altogether different besetting sin
—curiosity. It was man who was the origi-
nal Pandora. His fingers are for ever trying
to pull apart the poor coverings of woman’s
rag doll to see if he can find any reason for
its alleged value. Nor is he appalled when
he finds his mischievous efforts have but
loosed a score of troubles. Ilis curiosity
cannot be satiated till he has explored every
cranny of the wrnrld without, and the world
within.
Concerning the world without, it is but a
span of time since to civilised man it was
but a fringe of land lapped by the romantic
Mediterranean. It was a satisfying land.
But man couldn’t let it go at that. He must
negotiate the shores of the Dark Continent
and lift the veil from the void beyond. He
dissipated the outer darkness, revealing new
land and sea, which he can now mark into
satisfactory squares on neat little maps. Was
he content? Not at all! Land and water
lost some of their charm, but there was still
the air. He is busy with that.
Concerning the world within, it is but a
span of time also since we had a comfort-
able enough theory of our origin and desti-
nation. Under it, for example, we could
have felt reasonably safe in leaving the Ger-
mans to God! But, again, man brewed
trouble. He wouldn’t hear of us sticking
to the story of the little garden plot. -Hie
has clearly demonstrated that none but a
credulous fool of a woman could believe in
a divine creation. He resolved the problem
into a rational form, easy of credence. He
proved himself to be but “a fortuitous con-
course of atoms,” evolving through fortui-
tously appearing advantages of survival value
or environmental adaptations. His was no
garden home. It was the topmost bough of
an ancestral tree. He could speak and think.
True, he finds the chief use of speech is to
conceal the ravages made in his vitals by
the gnawing fox of thought. How often
must he envy his ape forebears the warm
friendliness of their heedless chatter!
Man had now succeeded in making woman
aghast at the serious rent in her rag doll.
He had mapped out most of himself very
satisfactorily ■ and. again, lie might have
let it go at tlrat. But no! There was still
a Dark Continent within. He calls it the
Unconscious now, and is at this moment very
busily engaged in prying into it. A book
has been written by a man who believes that
in this Unconscious he has found the link
which binds the world without and the world
within into one beautiful, harmonious whole.
His new , doll, he thinks, is so fair that it
must satisfy even a woman. The book is
named From the Unconscious to the Con-
scious. Its author, Gustave Geley, is Direc-
tor of the Metapsychical Institute, Paris.
It is impossible to summarise briefly a
book so compact of thought, but one may
glance at the skeleton of this beautiful new
doll. While holding that the fact of evolu-
tion is irrefutable, Geley indicts the classi-
cal factors of adaptation and selection as
powerless to explain the mechanism of evolu-
tion ; they never cause it. The cause lies
not without, but within. Evolution takes
place by an internal impulse, “a primordial
effort, unerring, but still mysterious and
absolutely inexplicable by classical natural-
ism.” To this matter-moulding effort he
gives the name of dynamo-psychism. Evolu-
tion, conditioned by this essential, indestruc-
tible force, is a movement from the Uncon-
scious to the Conscious* The body and the
universe are but representations. The idea
of an immanent, divine principle in the uni-
verse is not new. It has come down through
the ages under many names. But older phi-
losophies founded on this idea have all been
open to the objections that they are more
or less metaphysical, intuitional, non-scien-
tific. They have either ignored the Uncon-
scious or considered the gulf between it and
the Conscious was impassable. Geley con- *
tends that there is no such gulf. The Un-
conscious and the Conscious constantly inter-
penetrate, the Unconscious constantly tend-
ing to become conscious. The natural com-
plement of this evolutionary idea is the
teaching of re-birth. “And as the funeral
aspects of death disappear, so also the monu-
ment of injustice raised by classical evolu-
tion crumbles down. In evolution there are
no longer those who are sacrificed and those
who are privileged. All the efforts, both
individual and collective, all the sufferings
will have ended in the building up of happi-
ness and the realisation of justice; but a
happiness and justice for all. The end and
purpose of life are henceforth comprehen-
sible, and we find them conformable to our
dearest hopes.” Our bodies are but “fugi-
tive representations,” experience-planes
through which the divine essence comes to
self-knowledge. After death “man finds him-
self carried far beyond the old habits of
thought and memory, the old loves and hates,
passions and mental habits The Summit
of Evolution is. a kind of conscious Nirvana.”
Here, then, is a philosophy which a great
man believes will be satisfying to his fel-
lows. Yet I believe it will bring but cold
comfort to most women. These fugitive re-
presentations which shed the chrysalis sheaf
of life to emerge as Very Superior Beings
will not interest woman. She will see in this
teaching but another effort to foist upon her
a beautiful new wax doll in place of her
ragged old beloved. These “fugitive repre-
sentations” so wind themselves around her
heartstrings that, if she is to lose indivi-
dual touch with them when the heart ceases
to beat, then no sublimated essence of con-
sciousness will greatly interest her. Per-
haps this belief convicts me of being at a
low evolutionary level—a being who cannot
appreciate the true inwardness of the beauty
of this philosophy of the Realisation _of
Sovereign Consciousness, Sovereign Justice,
Sovereign Good. At any rate, I persist in
hoping that the removal of ithe final veil
from the Unconscious* will give us some other
revelation than this. I trust it may even
shed some enhancing glow over the beauty
of my own pet rag doll.
ALICE JACKSON.
The Esthetic Novel
The Dent volume of selections from J. K.
Huysmans gives a very unfair idea of that
extraordinary book, “A Rebours,” which 40
years ago, and for at least a decade after,
made such a stir and aroused -such curiosity
in the minds of us who were young. I won-
der if anyone nowadays looks at it save as
a quaint old-fashioned bibelot. There is,
I believe, an American version under the
ridiculous title, “Against the Grain”; if I
had to render the name, as I luckily have
not, I should find myself hesitating between
“Perversity”—for the book is a study in
that—and a Lewis Carroll reminiscence,
“Contrariwise.”
There is something boyishly amusing in
the idea of the fastidious neuropath shut-
ting himself up with his careful selection of
books add pictures; it has the same charm
as sets youngsters playing Robinson Crusoe
or Red Indians, and it keeps the book alive
as a story. The study of decadence and
dandyism, orchids and jewelled tortoises, will
to-day haruly arouse more than a smile;
partisanship on either side is now rather
languid. The model died quite recently; we
do not know what he thought of the study
for which he, in part, sat.
The abiding value of the book, of course,
lies in those chapters which, set in alter-
nation with the narrative or character
chapters, describe and criticise the contents
of the hero’s bookcases or the pictures on
his walls. Even if based (as it had to be)
on Ebert’s history of mediaeval literature,
the sketch of late Latin literature is no mean
thing, and will yet stand comparison with
its 12-years-lnter rival, Mackail’s treatment
of the same theme. As for modern French-
literature, Huysmans has proved himself a
master critic; one goes back to this book
to find, said for the first time and once for
all, the essential thing on Baudelaire and
Verlaine, or a revealing remark on the tech-
nique of MallarmA No small achievement
for one whose own gifts were so foreign from
all kinship with those rare poets.
But it is the general form of the book,
and something, too, in its general spirit, that,
where we can look beyond surface differences,
constitute one of the queerest coincidences in
literature. This form of narrative inter-
larded with essay, which the Parisian civil
servant had employed for his fancy of a
perverse Thebais of art and literature, pro-
jected on a background of pessimism, was
at the very same moment chosen by an
Oxford don to convey the fine shades of an
exquisite soul scrupulously anxious to justify
the higher hedonism. Walter Pater, too, in
“Marius the Epicurean,” plays a game of
hide-and-seek with life, dainty reserves, deli-
cate refusals, gracious acceptances; and this
it is which makes me rate Huysmans and
him together as aesthetics. .Estheticism is,
essentially, playing with life. Des Esseintes
and Marius are both ancestors of Dorian
Gray. The form which these two novels have
in common is an independent development
from the form of novel practised by the
brothers De Goncourt, to whom both Huys-
mans and Pater in varying ways go back —
the sub-title to “Marius the Epicurean,” is
an acknowledgment of indebtedness. Huys-
mans. having once developed this form, never
abandoned it. In “En Rade” he interlards
a very stagnant _ story with the vivid and
elaborate dreams that visit his hero; in
“La-bas,” where, for the first time, he pro-
jects himself into the book under the thin-
nest of disguises, the book within the book
enables him to sandwich his studies in
mediaeval and modern Satanism. In “The
Cathedral” it becomes quite static; story,
God bless you! there is none to call by that
name, sir; you are simply going in and out
of the church and round about it, listening
at times to disquisitions by ' a learned and
enthusiastic guide. Later on, when religion
does not suffice to furnish forth a book and
oven the liturgy threatens to run out. Huys-
mans will remember that there are many
slabs of good reading in old cookerv-books.
(Thank goodness the new “Enquire Within”
has not omitted that charm of my child-
hood’s days, the recipe for marbled goose!)
Pater is not as continually amusing as
Huysmans is at his best. His modern pro-
blem, which he created for himself by set-
ting before Oxford youth the pagan honey
of the epilogues to his “Renaissance,” he
projected into the times of the pagan de-
cadence, and so secured a good variety of
material for his interlarding. Some of it is
well worked in; but there is a great deal of
dead matter. Translations from philoso-
phers—and of both Marcus Aurelius and
Lucian a little goes a very long way; and
essays on philosophers—the kind of thing
•Towett taught Pater to write. They used
to call this, at Oxford, the study of ancient
philosophy. Pater’s views on Heraclitus
have little value or interest to-day; it is
further distressing to have them set forth
in such English as “the radical flaw in the
current mode of thought.” In “Gaston de
Latour ’ Pater had planned a novel wherein
an impressionable youth should be moved
about among men and events of the French
Renaissance and its religious conflicts. Here
perhaps the theme of Marius would have
been modified by that of “Wilhelm Meister” •
but that was a modification of “Gil Bias”—
and so you start on a long journey back-
„ v
(Continued on page 3.)


A,
a
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
is an Event of Unusual Import.
Neckwear, Laces, Veilings
Show Big Reductions.
Artificial Silk Knitted Scarves, in Cham-
pagne, Fawn, Henna, Purple, Grey, Helio,
Nigger and Ivory, 54in. long, 32in. wide.
Usual Price, 13/11. (C/1 1
Reduced to 0/11
Georgette Neck Wraps, 3Gin. square, in
Royal, Black, Reseda, Grey, Champagne
Ivory, handsomely embroidered with Gold
and Silver Thread'. Usual Price,
32/6. I^/11
Reduced to 10/11
Fine Silk-Embroidered Net Millinery Laces,
4 to 10 inches wide, in Brown, Navy, Royal,
Red, Jade, Fuchsia, Saxe, Emerald, Grey,
Mole, Ilelio.
Usual Prices .... 1/- .1/6 2/6 3/6 yd.
Reduced to ... -/G -/9 1/- 1/9 yd.
Silk Net "Veilings, with fancy border, in
Black, Navy, Brown, Mole, Saxe, Cham-
pagne, Ivory.
Usual Price 1/3 1/6 1/11 yd.
Reduced to ... -/6 -/9 1/- yd.
Black Net Flouncing, effectively embroidered
in Gold and Silver Tinsel and Artificial Silk
in all good shades.
18in. 36in. 36in.
Usual Prices ... 4/11 7/11 9/11 yd.
Reduced to .. . 1/11 3/11 4/11 yd.
White, Madapolam Underskirt Flounces,
trimmed Embroidery. Usual Price,
9/11 each. n/ 11
Reduced to 0/11
Dainty Jap. Silk Underskirt Flounces,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace. Usual Price,
23/6 each. 1 C /(C
Reduced to *■ U/ Q
(Neckwear and Laces First Floor.)
Chinaware at Bargain Prices.
Dinner Sets, blue edge, Norton make.
26, 32, 36 pieces
Usually 45/- 52/6 61/- set
Reduced to ... 37/6 42/- 49/6 set
Plain Semi-Porcelain Dinner Sets, round cover dishes.
26, 32 pieces
Usually 33/- 37/6 set
Reduced to .... 26/6 29/6 set
Granite ,Cups and Saucers, block handle, best English
make. Usual Price, 10/6. C/1 I
Reduced to . **
White and Gold Cups and Saucers. Usual
Price, 6/6 doz.
Reduced to
5/6
Mottled Brown Teapots, globe shape, with two white
bands.
Reduced to 2/3, 2/6, 2/9 each
(Chinaware —Third Floor.)
Its advent means money saved,
which is undoubtedly equivalent
to money gained; and, therefore, a
most vital matter, especially when
shopping allowances are limited
and needs many and various. In
each case the reduction, substan-
tial as it is, comes as an added
attraction to a price already keen.
Bargains in
Axminster Carpet Squares
No. 1 QUALITY.
Write
for the
Sale Catalogue
A copy will be
posted free.
FURNITURE BARGAINS.
Bookshelves, 22in. wide, 29in.
high, mountain ash, finished any
shade. Usual Price, ,
21/- IQ/.
Reduced to
“The Hay” Rasy Rocking Chair,
upholstered in shadow tissue.
(G 646). Usual
Price, £5/5/- £4/18/6
Reduced to .. . ***' 1 ° u
3ft. Dressing Chest, Oak or
Maple, three long drawers, oxi-
dised handles. Usual Price,
£r,/:L% £5/5/-
Reduced to A,«J /
4ft. Gin. Oak or Waxed Maple
Sideboard. 2 drawers and 1
large cupboard. Usual Price,
i 8^ 776 -, , £B/5/-
Reduced to
8-Piece Oak or Waxed Maple
Spoon-back Dining-room
Suites, lift-out soring' seats in
imitation leather (G 172). Usual
Price, £l7/17/6. £l6/I Q/-
Reduced to
(Furniture —First Floor.)
Silver-plated Spoons
and Forks
Well Reduced.
(Prices quoted
Quality— Al.
Soup Spoons,
Usually . . 60/
Reduced to 55/
Table Spoons,
Usually . . 67/
Reduced to 59/
Table Forks,
Usually . . 67/
Reduced to 59/
Dessert Forks,
Usually . . 50/
Reduced to 44/
Dessert Spoons,
Usually . . 50/-
Reduced to 44/
Teaspoons,
Usually . . 32/-
Reduced to 26/
(Silverplate—
are per dozen.)
A. B. C.
48/- 45/- 43/-
45/- 42/- 40/-
56/- 51/- 46/-
49/- 46/- 42/-
- 56/- 57/- 46/-
- 49/- 46/- 42/-
39/- 36/- 34/-
- 34/-32/-30/-
39/- 36/- 34/-
34/- 32/- 30/-
22/- 20/- 18/-
18/617/- 15/6
First Floor.)
Tapestry Table Covers
All-over Floral Design, size 63 x
63 in., with border.
Usual Prices .... 35/- 40/-
Reduced to .... 30/- 32/6
Plain Blue Centre, size 63 x 63 in.,
floral border. Usual Price,
27/6. o>|/
Reduced to “
All-over Floral Design, with bor-
der, size 64 x 79 in.
Usual Prices .... 38/6 50/-
Reduced to .... 29/6 35/-
Plain Blue Centre, floral border,
size 64 x 79 in. Usual Price,
35/- 97/
Reduced to / m
Plain Blue Centre, floral border,
size 64 x 96 in. Usual Price,
40/- q£/
Reduced to O*J/ -
All-over Design, with border. Usual
Price, 52/6. a e% /n
Reduced to O
Art Serge.
Art Serge for Table Covers, 70in.
wide, in blue, green, brown, crim-
son. Usual Price, 6/11. C/1 1
Reduced to O' *
(Furnishing Drapery—Third Floor.)
White Blankets.
Size 72 x 54 in. for single beds.
Usually 29/6 33/6 38/6 pr.
Reduced to 26/6 30/- 34/6 pr.
Size 81 x 63 in., for three-quarter beds.
Usual Prices 39/6 45 /- pr.
Reduced to ... 35/- 40/- pr.
Size 1)0 x 72 in., for double beds.
Usually 57/6 59/6 87/6 pr.
Reduced to 52/- 53/6 79/6 pr.
Size 99 x 81 in., for extra large beds.
Usually .... 57/6 63/- 67/6 pr.
Reduced to 52/- 56/6 60/-pr.
Grey Blankets.
Size 72 x 54 in., Silver-Grey. Usual
Price, 26/6 pair. OA/m
Reduced to
Size 81 x 63 in.. Silver or Dark Grey.
Usual Price, 35/- Ol IC.
Reduced to 1 / v/
Size 90 x 72 in., Silver or Dark Grey.
Usual Price, 45/- ACi/
Reduced to ’-xVJ' “
Size 99 x 81 in. Silver-Grey. Usual
Price, 53/6. AR/&
Reduced to **o »
(Blankets —First Floor.)
Acceptable Bargains
in Men’s Wear.
MEN’S SERVICEABLE
TROUSERS
Designed with side or cross and
hip pockets, plain or cuff
bottoms.
Cotton Tweed, no hip pocket.
Usual Price, 11/6. Q/fi
Reduced to O' V
Striped Cotton Tweed (no hip
pocket), neat designs. Usual
Price, 12/6. 1 H/Q
Reduced to &
All-Wool Tweed, dark grey and
brown. Usual Price,
w- 1 'x/a
Reduced to xO'O
Grey Twist. Usual Price.
21/- 1 £/£
Reduced to 10/0
Fancy Tweeds, in fancy stripe
effects. Usual Price, 18 /6. -i g*/r*
Reduced to AO/ O
(Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor.)
MEN’S GOLF SHIRTS.
Made in our own Workrooms.
Striped Cambric, V-cased front
soft double cuffs, neat stripes of
Blue, Black and Helio. Usual
Price, 6/6. ,4/g
Reduced to *• u
Superior Quality English Cam-
bric and Repp, Y-shaped front,
double cuffs, in a variety of neat
stripes on White ground. Usual
Price, 7/6. £'/£'
Reduced to U/ v
British Repp, Y-cased front,
double cuffs, detached collar, in
all the latest stripes. Usual
Price, 8/6. *7 /ft
Reduced to • ' "
British Crepe and Zephyr, V-
cased front, double cuffs, detached
collar, Blue, Black and Helio
striped effects. Usual Price,
9/6. Q/fi
Reduced to O/
(Mercery—Ground Floor.)
We Pay the Carriage on Fashion Goods, Family Drapery and
Footwear in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.
G.P.O. Box 2712.


o o
D
PC
l
build motoring
history by
achievernetit.
'
J
«sj
***&
k %r
, /£,
Galloh or
fi £TR OL i
rgfSXir
Citroen Agents:
Messrs. Salmon’s Motors Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs Preston Motors Pty.Ltd,
Clifton Hill, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. Maughan Thiem
Motor Co..
Flinders Street. ADELAIDE.
Messrs. Gilberts Ltd.,
47 King Street. PERTH, W.A
Messrs. Mohr, James & Robinson
Pty. Ltd.,
29 Cameron Street,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA
Messrs. Citroen Sales (N.Z.) Ltd.
Box 859 G.P.O.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Messrs. Brisbane Equipment Co.
453 Ann Street. BRISBANE
The World’s
Economy Car
Ee^erjt^diiG£etnGtit3
79 Miles Per Gallon
R.A.CA., N.S.W., 1 Day Reliability Trial, 7.5 h.p. Citroen,
under test, obtains a Petrol Consumption Figure of—
-77 Miles Per Gallon
“Guardian" Test. 1 10 miles. 7.5 h.p. Citroen averages 30
miles per hour and
75 Miles Per Gallon
THE FIRST BIG MOTORING EVENT OF 1925
CITROEN ESTABLISHES NEW
NEWCASTLE—SYDNEY RECORD
165 MILES 3 HOURS 48 MINUTES
tfou lee
iiu ■ ■ J ... 1
UANJEN
Factory Distributors
W» A. CROWLE LTD,, Crowle House, Castlereagh .St., Sydney,


DAVID JONES’
SALE
David Jones’ Guarantee—a re-
duction on every item in their
entire stock (except on a few
proprietary lines), also discount
Less 2\ - in the £ for Cash
Men's Felt
HATS
ah 06
Less the Discount for Cash.
Pure Fur Felt Hats for Men, obtainable in two
shapes or models, with three colors in each shape.
The colors are light grey, steel grey and slate.
These are real quality hats with self bindings, black
bands and fitted with good grease-proof leather.
Sizes 6f to I\. Usual Price, 1 7/6» Sale Price, 12/6
Less 2/- in the£ for Cash
DAVID JONES’
OPP. G.P.O. for Service SYDNEY.
wards; the modern novel is a many-com-
pounded chimera.
The author of “Dorian Gray” failed to
make an aesthetic novel out of what was only
material sufficient and suitable for a story
in the style of Poe; but he points the moral
if he does not adorn the tale. The
author of “A Bebours” had said that
the need to escape was poetry itself, in sum,
and there are many at the present day say-
ing the same thing; not merely poetry
but scholarship and religion are escapes. It
is the aesthetic avoidance of the crude variety
of life. We are all somewhat queasy; that
abundant feast may be over-rich for us. But
if we wish to stand by a choice, if we deter-
mine to abide by a refusal, we must have a
system to guard us. If the freedom of the
universe is oppressive to ns we must make
sure of our cell. Des Esseintes had to abandon
his Thebais; his creator found refuge under
the rule of St. Benedict. Marius never made
up his mind and ended up by getting cap-
tured with some Christians in the Cata-
combs ; his creator died just before taking
orders. The author of “Dorian Gray” forgot
that it was a game of masks, and took the
perversity seriously; and he, too, found his
safe cell.
CHRIS. BRENNAN.
The Evolution of the Fat Man
As the Fat Man flourishes on American
soil, though the soils of all countries seem
to suit him, it is fitting that a citizen of
the U.S.A. should state the case on his behalf.
The task has been undertaken by Thor-
stein Verblen in The Theory of the Leisure
Class (Allen and Unwin) in a very compre-
hensive way. What the gentleman of Nordic
ancestry does not know concerning the Fat
Man may be regarded as negligible. lie
turns him inside out in a closely printed
volume of 400 pages, with the promise of
other volumes to follow.
The Fat Man began with an instinctive
urge to own something, and the first things
he owned were “persons, primarily women.”
With “a propensity for dominance and coer-
cion,” the utility of women as evidence of
his prowess, and the further utility of their
services, provided him with the necessary
incentive to acquire them, and lie did so
sometimes by the art of war, and at other
times by guileful barter. “Women and other
slaves,” remarks the candid Mr. Verblen,
“are highly valued, both as evidence of wealth
and as a means of accumulating wealth.
Together with cattle, if the tribe is a pas-
toral one, they are the usual form of invest-
ment for a profit.... The accepted evidence
of wealth is the possession of many women,
and presently also of other slaves engaged
in attendance on their master’s person and
in producing goods for him.” Having ah
initio exempted himself from vulgar labor,
the primitive capitalist commences a pro-
cess of progressive exemptions from the com-
mon run of industrial employment. He starts
probably with the chief wife to serve his
dalliance and share his leisure. She is set
apart from undignified employment. A
further disintegration goes on when a divi-
sion between personal attendants and those
engaged in industrial production is set up,
and so step by step Jeames rises and Bill
and Ilodge are thrust down. Those close
to the person of the Fat Man become “gen-
teel” —a base corruption of “gentle”—and
those most remote from him constitute the
vulgar crowd—“l hate them,” said Horace,
“and keep them from me.” As the master
waxes fatter he increases the number of his
personal attendants, and, noticing that the
men are, after all. a bit better fitted for his
purpose, “the performance of a conspicuous
leisure,” he turns a less glad eye upon the
women. Men, he observes, bring him more
obtrusively into view, and are, as we would
say to-day, better advertising agencies.
“Men, especially lusty, personable fellows,
such as footmen and other menials should
be, are obviously more powerful and more
expensive than women”—the women here
referred to are, of course, the women of
long, long ago. “Hence it comes about that
in the economy of the leisure class the busy
housewife of the early patriarchal days, with
her retinue of hard-working handmaidens,
presently gives places to the lady and the
lackey.” But, after all, lady and lackey
do something, for they wait with deference
and humility on the Fat Man; on them de-
pend the maintenance and elaboration of the
household paraphernalia. They may be said
to labor in the sun of leisure. But its dignity
is not theirs. “The leisure of the master
class is, at least ostensibly, an indulgence
of a proclivity for the avoidance of labor,
and is presumed to enhance the master’s own
well-being and fulness of life: but the leisure
of the servant class exempt from productive
labor is in some sort a performance exacted
from them, and is not normally or primarily
directed to their own comfort. The leisure
of the servant is not his own leisure.”
Abstention from labor by the Fat Man
becomes in time not only honorific or meri-
torious, but presently is a requisite of de-
cency. “The insistence on property as the
basis of reputability is very naive and very
imperious during the early stages of the accu-
mulation of wealth. Prescription ends by
making labor not only disreputable in the
eyes of the community, but morally impos-
sible to the noble, free-born man, and incom-
patible with a worthy life.” Was there not
a king of France said to have lost his life
through an excess of moral stamina in the
observance of good form? “In the absence
of the functionary whose office it_ was to
shift his master’s seat, the king saf uncom-
plaining before the fire and suffered his royal
person to be toasted beyond recovery. But
in so doing he saved his most Christian
Majesty from menial contamination.”
As time went on a middle class was
evolved, something a little lower than the
high gods of leisure and a little higher
than the industrially productive common-
ality: and here occurred a curious inversion.
The Fat Man of the middle class made no
pretence of leisure—-he left that to his wife.
"The middle-class wife still carries on the
business of vicarious leisure, for the good
name of the household and its master.” The
leisure here referred to is not necessarily
idleness or indolence. “It almost invariably
occurs disguised under some form of work
or household duties or social amenities, which
prove on analysis to serve little or no ulterior
end beyond showing that she does not and
need not occupy herself with anything that
is painful or that is of substantial use.” And
nowadays there is the complete merger, for
no man wots where Mrs. Middle Class goes
down and Mrs. Demos comes up. So it
amounts to this: that it ill behoves any of
us to cast stones at the Fat Man above us,
for what are we ourselves but Fat Men of
lesser girth?
T. B. C.
The Origin of Dialects
In spite of their manifold good qualities
and the endearing ties of kinship, Uncl-i
Sam and Cousin Jonathan are object-lessons
to us of many things we should carefully
avoid; but they are not altogether respon-
sible for the pernicious modern English
attempt “to make the punishment fit the
crime”—that is, the pronunciation fit the
spelling, instead of the other way round.
Since Carlyle went to Ireland last century,
ana in a thoughtless moment afterwards
said that the purest English in the world
was spoken in Dublin, English people have
endeavored with some success to imitate the
Irish patois. For instance, “what,” “when,”
“where” and “whale” are now by a large
class pronounced “phwat,” “phwen,”
"phwere” and "phwale.” Our modern English
w emigrated originally from Asia, and, be-
ing mostly debarred in southern and central
Europe as an undesirable immigrant, travelled
through the north and finally took passage
to England with the first Norsemen, It
hud a strenuous fight with the Saxon fow
and vcy, or, as we now call them, v and w,
but in the north-east and northern parts
of England was a conqueror. From Nor-
folk to Northumberland, and even in the
Saxon lowlands of Scotland, Mr. Weller
could not have had the option to “spell it
with a wee.” Even the Boman bequests,
suen as “very,” “vile” and “vice,” became
"wery,” “wile” and “wice” in those parts,
among the illiterate, and to this day “weal,
wine and winegar is wery good wittels, 1
wow.” But in the south-eastern parts of
England, where for long Saxons held tneir
own—and, although for some time governed
by, were not superseded by, the Normans —
and especially in London, which always re-
mained a semi-independent Anglo-Saxon
republic (and to this day, the “thieves’ dia-
lect” is chiefly Anglo-Saxon), the fow and
the vey mostly triumphed over the w (imp.),
and it is still “Vy?” “Yen?” and “Vere?”
When literature began to take a hand, to
try to standardise our language, it was neces-
sary to indicate to' the uneducated that
this imported w was not the old homely vey
they knew so well, and as this could not be
done by writing them in the same form,
the new w was written wh, to distinguish it
from the old w, which then meant vey.
The student was taught w-h-a-l-e spelt
“wale,” because formerly w-a-l-e had spelt
“vale”; the latter did not, however, mean a
valley; it meant a value or worth. (But
the north-east and north still called it “wale”
or “walley”). V-a-l-e spelt “faile” ; that is,
land falling or descending. So comes “the
vale of tears,” “failing light,” “failing
health,” “the vale of death.” But now
that we all recognise the difference in sound
between the w and v, and the wh is no
longer required, it is quite time the h was
knocked out of the words, and it is very
desirable that this should be done before
the abominable practice of trying to
pronounce it by the Irish method of
putting pli before the w becomes uni-
versal. If the epidemic spreads, we may
some day start using the Irish s to try to
acquire another h and so for “sin” say “shin.”
In this matter of the Saxon and Norse
influences on the pronunciation being un-
equally distributed in different parts of Eng
land, it is interesting to note that the ter-
minal hard y, which was invariably used in
Saxon has in most parts of England
entirely disappeared, and is superseded by a
soft, almost inaudible y; in fact, in the
colloquial there is a tendency to eliminate
the final y altogether, except in words of
only one syllable; for instance, although it
is always “ring” or “fling,” we generally hear
“buildin’ ” and “erectin’.” But in London
and the south-eastern counties, although they
are not averse to discarding the final y, yet
when they use it they not only insist upon
its Saxon pronunciation, but even make it
harder and more emphatic. As examples
“nothing” and “anything” are liable to be
“nuffink” and “anyfink.” And the / instead
of th is another instance. The Saxon, lik ’
the modern German, could not pronounce
the th as in modern English. The modern
German can and does say “somotingue” or
“somedingue”; he could, but seldom does,
say “somefin’ ” or “somotingue.” The last
word is the Cockney’s ideal of the word’s pro-
nunciation, and it is the way iiis ancestors
would have pronounced the word, had it
existed, a thousand years ago.
It seems almost miraculous that, in such
a small country, which has been advancing
a thousand years from semi- to advance !
civilisation, the languages have not amal-
gamated and modified equally all over, in-
stead of still containing many very varied
dialects.
WILLIAM CLOWES.
A Dynasty of Misfortune
A small but interesting contribution to
the world’s literature is The Jacobite, ex-
tending to four small pages and issued at
Feilding (M.L.), a town of 4601 population
on last census day. It comes out quarterly,
and has just made w’hat seems to be its
21st appearance. A notice on the title-page
sets forth that it is “the only Jacobite paper
in New Zealand.” Most people will be-
lieve this, and they wrnuld also believe if
they came across an asbestos publication
which claimed to be the only agricultural
paper in Sheol. There is lack of space
for two, but still the unexpected may hap-
pen, and a great and influential Jacobite
daily at Auckland is among the possibili-
ties.
The purpose which the quarterly has in
view is, of course, the restoration of the
Stewart family to the throne. There are
small scattered congregations of the faith-
ful in many parts of the empire winch keen
the claims of the denosed dynasty alive with
dog-like fidelity. They base their doctrine
chiefly, if not wholly, on the divine right
of the Lord’s anointed or head-greased, and
little, or not at all, on the idea that an-
other row of Stewart kings would be helpful
or beneficial. It is hardly possible to imagine
that a race of such consistent bad luck w r ould
be helpful to anybody. Even the Valois
rioted in good fortune by comparison.
The Scottish Children of Mishap ran to
34 sovereigns, three of whom lost their
thrones, while two lost their heads and two
lost their bodies in the sense that their re-
mains weren’t identified after the fuss. The
direct succession ended with two childless
queens and two childless princes, one of
them a cardinal and one, the “bonny Prince
Charlie,” a drunkard of 40 years’ continuous
drinking, also a wife-beater and a borrower
of small change. In respect to their taper-
ing off they differed but little from the
Tudors and the Valois, who degenerated or
fizzled into oblivion with three childless
sovereigns apiece.
If the Stewarts are restored the man with
the divine right appears to be the really
unpleasant Rupert of Bavaria, who did nasty
things in France and Belgium during the
war. His branch has lived up to the family
tradition by mislaying its throne. His claim
comes through his grandmother—a princess
of Modena, which is another lost throne.
Don Carlos of Spain drifted into the ex-
treme outskirts of the Stewart family by
marriage, and his branch was diddled out
of its really good claim to the Spanish
crown as a matter of course. It was the
family trouble. Three successive Carloses,
all bigoted and disagreeable, have tried
vainly to recover the property. One Stewart,
the “Old Pretender,” married a Polish prin-
cess, and Poland had no luck afterwards.
In fact, its bad luck began retrospectively,
before the marriage. An outstanding fea-
ture of the crowned Stewarts was that the
king had an insane habit of dying young,
leaving an infant to succeed him. and the
infant had an insane habit of falling into
the hands of the worst titled scoundrels in
the kingdom. Their tendency to be locked
up in castles, dungeons and fortresses was
almost a mania. To restore these people
appears something in the nature of a hazard-
ous experiment. If the Irish Free State
became a republic, and the inhabitants tired
of their republic and called this dignified
old family to the throne of Tara, that would
be a partial restoration—a breaking of the
news, and a trying of it on the dog. so to
speak. And if the result gave reason to
suppose that the hereditary hoodoo was ex-
hausted a further experiment might be made
with the Isle of Man. But there is no sense
in rushing things.
J. E.
Henry, Banjo, Bill and the Rest
“G.A.L.” (R.P. 25/32/’24) is not singu-
lar in his lament over the gradual disappear-
ance of bush verse from the pages of The
Bulletin, but he must not blame an editor
for ceasing to publish something that no
longer exists. The bush writer can hardly
be blamed either, for there is no back coun-
try now, not as Lawson, Paterson and
Ogilvie knew it. The advent of petrol and
“awards” and the extension of railways has
transformed the station life they pictured out
of all recognition: big stations are no more;
the esprit- tic corps of the old-time station-
hands, together with the personal relations
existing between them and their employers,
lias vanished; “strictly business” has sup-
planted sentimental pride, and owners, man-
agers and employees now regard diminished
station-areas and the stock depasturing on
them simply as money-making concerns. The
conditions which inspired such verses as
“The Shanty on the Rise” and “Farewell
to Tringalee” are only memories of the past;
and when it is recollected that in those davs
working hours were from daylight to dark;
that the tucker was bread, mutton and
brownie; that the name of applicants at
sundown for a pannikin of flour and banjo
of mutton was legion; and that the men’s
huts were little better than bare shelters, in
which they both ate and slept, it is just as
well to let them remain memories. The only
redeeming point about them is that they gave
birth to the best and most characteristic of
Australian poetry—the songs of the bush.
RITA COGHLAN.
A Satchel of Books
Heal the Sick, by J. M. Hickson (Methuen). An
account of the author’s work and experiences in a
“five years world-wide healing mission.” Through-
out Mr. Hickson is so much in evidence that the
volume suggests a bound copy of advertisements and
testimonials.
The Critic’s Armoury, by Cyril Palls (Cobden
Sanderson). A collection of essays, most of which
have appeared in English reviews and newspapers.
The critic has been defined as “a parasite of letters” ;
Palls ranks him as one who may be “definitely an
artist and definitely original.”
Doi/s You’d Like to Meet, by Rowland Johns
(Methuen). “In the Latin lesson little Bertie asked
the governess what was the English for ‘cave canon,’
and sister Doris chirped in that it meant ‘Never cane
anyone, even a pup.’ ” It is much in this spirit
that the author approaches his work. Genuine affec-
tion for all dog life informs its well-illustrated pages
from first to last.
Opal: The Gem of the Never Never, by T. C. Wol-
laston (T. Murby and Co.). The author is well
equipped to tell the story of the opal, described by
him as “Australia’s national gem,’’ for he did much
in pioneering the White Cliffs, Lightning Ridge and
Coberpedy fields and marketing their produce in
Europe and America. Were it to serve no other purpose,
his book may help to advertise one of bur natural pro-
ducts too little known abroad. He claims that for the
last 35 years Australian opal has been practically the
only opal on the world’s markets, the yields in other
countries being negligible. In the author’s opinion the
gem will grow in favor, as no other can compare with
it in depth and variety of color. The volume is
well illustrated and contains, beyond descriptive mat-
ter of the gem and its habitat, a number of interest-
ing sketches of opal-field characters.
The Sold of Wit, by G. R. Hamilton (Heinemann).
In compiling this anthology of epigram, the author
confesses that he has followed his own personal taste,
and thus anticipates any objection that may be laid
against it on the ground of non-inclusion of some
of the better-known examples of this order of verse.
No existing collection of epigrams, in his opinion,
gives sufficient- space to serious and imaginative wit,
and he declines to limit his selection to the humorous
and satirical type, established by Martial, and com-
monly regarded as the epigram proper. The book
includes some 500 of the best verse epigrams, rang-
ing from the early seventeenth century to the present
day. The following epitaph has a certain appropriate-
ness at present, though the dead lives again in a
numerous family of tax-gatherers:—
“Here lies the father of taxation:
May Heaven, his faults forgiving,
Grant him repose; which he while living
Would never grant the nation.”


BETTER
IRON
CASTINGS
'
Cost no more than Ordinary Castings, and
Save Machine Time.
Cylinders and all classes of intricate Cored Work are
being daily produced.
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 CO. LTD.
have the most up-to-date foundry equipment and machine
shop, and will be pleased to furnish quotations for any
class of machine design and manufacture.
Our drawing office, foundry and machine shop are at your
disposal for any repairs or alterations.
WILLIAM ADAMS AND COMPANY LIMITED
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Works and Foundry: FOUNTAIN STREET, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
Telephone: Redfem 799.
Branches: MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON and NEWCASTLE.


V,
V
\
J
Vv
ss^
Linder/'
Flan-
/
US I
{mud?
• -ps>Drrrpo-icf
mi
-prrjrusrjdr
If You Ask for C.O.R.
Your Garage will Supply.
THE great Oil Refineries at Laverton, near Melbourne,
have been established by joint enterprise of the
Commonwealth Government and the Anglo-
Persian Oil Company—the first aim being to assure for
Australia an ample supply of fuel for naval and transport
purposes should overseas supplies ever be cut off.
To Australians the obvious necessity of such a
national safeguard is alone sufficient reason for support-
ing C.O.R. products. The perfection of C.O.R. Motor
Spirit—unsurpassed for power, responsiveness, volatility
and economy—claims your preference on sheer MERIT.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Company Limited)
Victoria: Poolman Street. Port Melbourne. N.S.W. ; Cathcart House, Castlereagh S reet, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Agents for country districts of N.S.W.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia.
MOTOR SHOT
UK.
r>
4-0 90
QUICK-REVOLUTION STEAM ENGINES
AND
AIR COMPRESSORS.
m
m
MB aqn
. ■ . -~
mm
■
■■■BN
Q.R. Steam Engines of simple, compound or triple
types, with forced lubrication.
Suitable for direct connection to Generators,
Centrifugal Pumps, Fans, etc., and for belt or
rope drive.
High Economy and Reliability Guaranteed.
Q.R. Air Compressors, designed
for direct steam or motor drive.
Forced lubrication throughout.
Robust design and construction
resulting in reliability of opera-
tion and long life.
Highest Guarantees Given.
£L.ugmmm
t Wm
s' , f . *. | ‘
\
c
'--r I
Ml
, ; ;
. ■,•■■■■. ■
ilf®
1® ,
THOMPSON 8 CO. (CASTLEMAINE) PTY., LTD.
ENGINEERS,
CASTLEMAINE,
9
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE
E.S.C.A., Ltd
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.


Friends of the Motorist
182 Searchlight.
SPOTLIGHTS
that are
Searchlights
217 Searchlight.
With every motorist there arise occasions when the need of a good spotlight is felt.
To read signboards end house numbers, to show the way
round dangerous bends, to enable him to view doubtful
patches of road ahead, and as an aid in locating engine and
tyre trouble—for these and other purposes the spotlight is
acknowledged to be a necessity, not simply an accessory.
If you have omitted to equip your car with a spotlight it is
certain that at some time or other you have regretted it. Do
not wait for further regrets; decide now to have a good spot-
light—you will quickly realise its advantages.
Stewart Spotlights look good, hut are better even than they
look. They are of excellent construction, and have been
designed to give the best results in actual operation. They
provide for every requirement, and are priced to suit every
pocket. No motorist need be without one on that score.
The handy Model 206 Spotlight illus-
trated here may be fitted either inside or
outside. For inside installation it is simply
necessary to attach the bracket to the
windshield strip, thus eliminating the need
of cutting a hole in the windshield glass.
PRICES:
Stewart de Luxe Searchlight Model 182,
with nickelled shell and glossy
black enamelled bracket vO "
Model 2 1 7, similar to the De Luxe Light,
but entirely of glossy black „
enamelled finish. Price
Model 206, also black enamelled
finish. Price O0|"
A boon for wet weather motoring
ELECTRIC
Automatic Windshield Wiper
Keeps the glass free of raindrops without the necessity
of being operated by hand.
It is entirely automatic—getting power for the sweeping motion of the arm
from its quiet-running, constant-speed electric motor. This little self-contained
motor gets its current from the battery—hence the Stewart Windscreen Wiper
works continuously—there is no slowing up or stopping when the engine of
the car is suddenly speeded up or is pulling heavily. It is self-lubricated—
easily installed, and no further trouble when you have it fitted.
Price
57/6
Stewart Products are sold by all Accessories Dealers, including the undermentioned Stewart Service Stations:—-
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Sydney; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Melbourne; MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD.,
Brisbane; CORNELL, LIMITED, Adelaide; ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Perth.


Choose
Your Guns and
Rifles from
Mick Simmons’
No. 1.
No. I.—Greener D.8.8.L. Ham-
merless Gun, 12-gauge, treble wedge,
fast action, rebounding, “Siemen’s"
special steel barrels, shooting guaran-
teed ; both full choke; splendid pigeon
gun.
30-inch.
£22/10/-
32-inch barrels.
£23/10/-
Carriage Paid.
15
No. 14.—The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock ; weight about 71b.
Carriage Paid.
No. 15. — The “Cert” Gun, as above,
but with X bolt. . £4/26
Carriage Paid.
No. 17.
No. 16. —The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12 gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar locks,
pistol grip, neatly engraved, superior
finish ; weight about 71b £4/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No 17. —-The “Cert” Gun, as above,
but with X bolt £5/2/6
Carriage Paid.
• No. 11.
No. 11.—Winchester Single Shot
Rifle, 1902 Model, 22-calibre, rim fire,
ISin. round steel barrel, bolt action ;
peep or V sights, scroll trigger guard,
rubber heelplate; weight nn /«
about 31b. «J#/0
Postage 1/0. Other States, 2/8.
No. 26
No. 26.—Remington Hammerless
Repeating Rifle, Model 12a, 22-
calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 22in. round barrel,
handles 15 short, 12 long, or 11 long
rifle cartridges, adjustable rear and
open front sights ; /■t /
weight, 4Mb Xt> IU -
Carriage paid.
Mick Simmons Ltd.,
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Denyer’s Artificial Limbs
and Deformity Appliances
are the best invented.
They are devised on the most improved scientific principles
and ensure the utmost comfort and convenience to the wearers.
Extreme care is taken in the manufacture, the finish is perfect
and we guarantee the fit.
Denyer’s supply the best appliance to meet any kind of
requirement. We make on the premises, and send to all parts
of the Commonwealth.
An enquiry will be promptly answered with full information.
Bros.,
Makers of Trusses,
Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
isi
*
<•>2?
m
mi
■v
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
lIAIIt of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Slake the most of your
charms by using
DR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless-
Waterproof—Permanent 1
All Chemists.
Cuticura Keeps The
Complexion Fresh
Use Cuticura Soap daily for the toilet
and have a clear, fresh complexion, free
from pimples or blackheads. Assist
when necessary by Cuticura Ointment.
Do not fail to include the exquisitely
scented Cuticura Talcum in your toilet
preparations.
Soap la.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment la. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Townc & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Try ou:* new Shaving Stick.
*teisT*»«»
THAOS MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
GUTLERY.
WIIS r
wtn
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
CO York Street. Sydney.
GOSFORD “FIVE” ART UNION.
RESULT OF DRAWING.
First Prize, K 111492 ; 2nd, V 183276 ; 3rd, B 78282; 4th, D 66155; sth, K 382603 ; 6th, J 377553 ; 7th,
L 159187; Bth, A 66290 ; 9th, A 72239 ; 10th, K 147933 ; 11th, J 346967 ; 12th, 858969 ; 13th, H 298673 ;
14th, K 328410; 15th, K 116574 ; 16th, J 248423 : 17th, H 235312 ; 18th, Gl9llOl ; 19th, L 260442 ; 20th,
N 282458; 21st, K 171487 ; 22nd, A 16310; 23rd, A 34458; 24th, 1.239057; 25th, X 126164 ; 26th,
H 340535; 27th, H 120248 ; 28th, N 129193 ; 29th, L 122328; 30th, D 57040; 31st, E 140221 ; 32nd,
T 132461 ; 33rd. K 397794 ; 34th, G 172930; 35th, T 197833 ; 36th, L 154113; 37th. L 129691 ; 38th, 827608 ;
39th, C 89723 ; 40th, J 238859; 41st, N 193068; 42nd, K 125579 ; 43rd, A 32001 ; 44th, C 89239 ; 45tn,
J 383272 ; 46th, J 174070 ; 47th. C 85291 ; 48th, 846329 ; 49th, M 241573 ; 50th, F 140805 ; 51st, K 115213 ;
52nd, K 350578 ; 53rd, M 178379; 54th, J 372385; 55th. J 245498; 56th, C 83461 ; 57th, A 23912 ; 58th,
E 146326 ; 59th, C 49763 ; 60th, G 189667 : 61st, X 175311 ; 62nd, C 89936 ; 63rd, A 25498 ; 64th, J 369768 ;
65th, Z 158251 ; 66th, H 289.297 ; 67th, C 48240; 68th, K 380150; 69th, 816002 ; 70th, L 246272 ; 71st,
K 216664 ; 72nd, H 110213; 73rd. 897020 ; 74th, D 64330 ; 75th, E 169903 ; 76th, C 54964 ; 77th, E 147798 ;
78th, J 369135 ; 79th, D 26633; 80th, A 65449 ; 81st, L 247838 ; 82nd. H 190538 ; 83rd, XlB6OBO ; 84th,
H 363869; 85th, 845519 ; 86th, C 84877 ; 87th, Z 172458 ; 88th, X 183579 ; 89th, 815892 ; 90th, F 147757
91st, L 157016; 92nd, E 170336; 93rd, V 199183 ; 94th, D 23989 ; 95th, Z 194999 ; 96th, A 62492 ; 97th,
E 152153 ; 98th, H 290319 ; 99th, V 168200 ; 100th, M 260691.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that the drawing was conducted in our presence and under
our supervision at the School of Arts, Gosford, on the 9th January, 1925:—•
SIGNED; Walter Bennett, M.L.A., Chairman Brewing Committee; W. C. Toohill, Sergeant of Police;
R. J. Baker, Newspaper Proprietor; G. I. Adcock, Chairman Executive Committee; E. Rowlands, H n.
Secretary Executive Committee; F. A. Stutfield, President Gosford Sub-Branch R.5.5.1.L.A., Promoter-
Prizes can be obtained by presenting winning ticket to the Promoter, 178 Gastlereagh-street, Sydney,
or by posting tickets UNDER REGISTERED COVER, to the Promoter, Art Union Office, Gosford, N.S.W.
PLEASE NOTE the letter of the ALPHABET IN FRONT OF NUMBER, and compare with yours.
Prizes not claimed within three months sold by Public Auction.
F. A. STUTFIELD, Promoter.
p
f
r*
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free,
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Epigraph.
If death should call before the -work is done
And leave no key to all that went before,
Only a thin inscription on the door
Hinting of hidden gems that have not won
The touch of light and sparkle of the sun,
There should be space for tears ; and ever-
• more
Some easy phrase repeated to deplore
The speed of heart-beats and the sands that
run.
But if, with idle scythe and long delay,
Garrulous death should gossip in the street,
Forgetful of the reaping and reward
'Pill the last ink was dry and. all complete,
Life had no more to do, to think, to say,
The stony eyes of age might grow too hard.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Off Kurnell.
The early day is bright and warm,
A nor’-east breeze the water lulls;
Beneath the tide the pilchards swarm,
Above them hovering beaky gulls.
From saplings low and gum-trees high,
Where long-billed honey-suckers throng,
Now loud, now faint, now far, now nigh,
Cicadas sing their moving song.
While through the heads a lazy swell
Sways softly from the outer seas,
Along the shores of old Kurnell
The tide strays through the mangrove-
trees.
Leaf-hidden, sun-glanced gloom about
His singing place, with matchless throat
A single butcher-bird gives out
His lovely, liquid flute-like note.
Across the bay soft-footed treads
The breeze. I wonder was it so
When sailing in through yonder heads
Came Cook, came Phillip, long ago?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
From an Upstairs Window.
A windmill turning in the rain,
Backwards and forwards and round again,
With clanking arms that strive and strain.
Across the muddy road from me,
A wet tin roof and chimneys three
As red as polished porphyry.
Tall poplars past the ice-black flags,
Round-shouldered in the wind, like hags
Trembling in all their tattered rags.
A waggon splashing up the road,
With silver milk-cans safely stowed;
A burly man upon the load.
Greyness that gathers like a tide
And drowns the plains immense and wide —
Greyness without —greyness inside!
My thoughts that turn with gusty pain,
Driven around and back again,
Are like the windmill in the rain !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
A Road Song.
Down the winding way I ride
In the summer weather.
High adventure for a guide,
Mine’s a realm of pleasance wide—
Wood and shore and heather.
Mine the mist upon the hills
In the dawn’s red waking
And the flash of eager rills
Tumbling white among the hills
As the morn is breaking.
Have I wealth in garnered store
For a vagrant spending?
Ay! of treasures score on score,
Goblin trove and elfin lore,
Joyanee never ending.
By the winding road there gleams,
Caught in fern and bramble,
Gold and.hue of fairy dreams;
Bracken gold 1 see in gleams
As I onward amble.
Dusk and I together go
Through the valley roaming;
Fires on friendly hearths I see,
Beckoning rosily to me,
Traveller of the gloaming.
Could I dwell in warmth and ease
In a bowered cottage
Barriered from the Pleiades?
What to me is firelit ease
And a share of pottage?
Ah, the bending road for me!
Always I must follow,
Down the hill and through the fern,
Seek what lies round yonder turn,
Find what fills the hollow.
On the winding road I sing
As the sunset flushes;
All the world is wondering,
As with laggard larks I sing,
And the last, late thrushes.
Night upon the darkened road
Finds me in the heather.
Here are tiny, wilding things—
Pulsing fur and fluttering wings—
Here we rest together.
Here my comrades of the skies
Guard my gentle sleeping,
With their myriad sparkling eyes
Twinkling from the velvet skies,
Faithful night-watch keeping.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


; ;
-
■
ARTILLERYMAN,
Winner of Melbourne Cup,
1919.
Owners - - Sir S. Hordern and
A. D. Murphy.
Trainer - - P. T. Heywood.
Jockey - - R. Lewis.
Weight - - 7st. 61b.
Time - - - 3min. 24£sec.
Australasian Agents- BSEPPELTsSONS.L™
SYDNEY• MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE £ BROKEN HILL


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 46.—N0. 2346.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1925.
Price 6d.
BOARDED OUT.
“The Peace Protocol adopted by the League of Nations at Geneva would, if accepted, hand the destinies of Australia over to a council on which the representatives of
Brazil, Czecho-Slovakia, Japan, Italy, Spain and Uruguay constitute a majority. Mr Charlton, the Australian Labor leader, nevertheless approves of it.
CHARLTON: “Your child? Of course it’s jour child, Madame. But these strange gentlemen are much more capable of bringing a child up than its
mother is.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William ol
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted tO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly!
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS, - 12 months, £1 10s. ! 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper ere copyright by the
publishers. The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this member is hereby
expressly reserved by ihe publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able. acknowledge M the “Corres-pondence'” co limn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SO'O words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it xvill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ISlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted ior
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be redrawn—ivill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Oromlona. Australia House, Strand.
W. 0.3. Copies of “The Bulletin” can l»e ob-
tained fromliiinortbeseUerattbeentra nc e
toAustraliallouse. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons. Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, \6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 5S Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/il Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 83 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/Znd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty Nexus Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01/ Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hont, Kong. — Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —lVhitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. 'Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Iluirdressinq Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Kepresentatives.
London. — L. St. C. Gromlona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus. E.C.’i.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: h to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional J/oz., lcl.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 2 0z., Id.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1925.
CHANG RUNG AND A PROTOCOL.
Chang Kung, who lived in the eighth cen-
tury in perfect peace although nine genera-
tions of his family simultaneously inhabited
the same back yard, exuded pacifism to such an
extent that 100 dogs were polite enough to
wait for each other when he brought them
their daily food. Few people are to be found
nowadays who possess this faculty, but a
notion is becoming prevalent that it can be
instilled into official documents and en-
shrined in legal phraseology. An example of
this new faith is the trust put by some people
in the Peace Protocol which recently set out
from Geneva on a world-wide canvass for
signatures, and which will shortly be ringing
the front doorbell of this Commonwealth.
Great enthusiasm is displayed for the scheme
by Matthew Charlton, leader of the
Pacifist party of Australia, who had some-
thing to do with the framing of it and should
understand all its implications. Some of
his followers are believed not tp share
his feelings, but others do. E. C.
Magrath, secretary of the N. S. Wales
Printing Industry Union, recently ex-
pressed himself as heartily in favor of it,
and quoted as justification for his simple
faith the opinion of the Executive of the
International Trades Union Federation of
Workers and the Socialist International,
which recently carried a resolution at Brus-
sels declaring that the Protocol, though not
perfect, was a marked step forward in the
cause of world peace, and that it was the
duty of all workers’ movements to urge its
ratification.
* * * *
The official text of the document, which
has just come to hand, does not convey any
impression that it is the reincarnation of the
harmonious Chang Kung. It looks rather
like an efficient instrument for the propaga-
tion of new wars. Thanks to the annotations
of M. Politis (Greece) and M. Benes
(Czecho Slovakia) we are able very clearly
to see where the new Protocol differs from the
old Covenant which it is to supplant. The
original was not a perfect instrument either;
but it was a rough-and-ready method of
dealing with the problems that beset the very
rough and very ready world into which it
was born. Its provisions were designed so
that the accredited representatives of the
various Governments constituting the Council
of the League could get together, when trouble
brewed, to talk things over, try to conciliate
any two parties that were spoiling for a
fight, and offer their services as mediators.
If the Council’s well-meant efforts proved un-
availing and war broke out, the Council was
expected to express an opinion as to which
party was the guilty one. It had to be a
unanimous opinion, but of course the bel-
ligerents were not to be allowed a vote. The
members of the League were then to decide
for themselves whether the verdict was a
good one and whether they would back it
up with economic "sanctions” —that is to
say, penalties. Only by unanimous decision
could the military dogs of war be loosed. The
new Protocol is quite another bird. In the
event of arbitration being refin ed and war
breaking out, the Council, which is only a
portion of the League, takes charge. It de-
cides which party is the aggressor and calls
upon the signatory States to apply the
"sanctions.” In other words, the Council
constitutes itself a G.H.Q. for the entire uni-
verse.
* * * #
A somewhat brutal cynic has declared
that the League of Nations is an absurdity:
nations are a collection of people organised
for war, not peace; and we do not form
a League of Thieves to make locks unneces-
sary. A glance at some of the achievements
to the League’s credit in 1924 will show,
however, that this is too hard a judgment.
Last year the League put Austria on her
legs again, adjusted the frontiers of Albania,
made life easier for some of the 1,500,000
Russian and 300,000 Armenian refugees
scattered about the world, and considered the
opium and white-slave traffics and the inter-
national trade in implements of war. It
was flattered and embarrassed by a request
from the Australian Government for per-
mission to lend £67,000 to the Administra-
tion of New Guinea. It has commissions
studying malaria in Singapore and sleeping-
sickness in Africa, and its health and relief
committees are welcome institutions in many
distracted realms. Last year the Council
settled a dispute that had nearly led to war
between Turkey and Britain concerning the
frontiers of Iraq. Neither party was
charmed with the decision, but both accepted
it for the same reason that two civil liti-
gants may accept the decision of a Court —
because their tempers had cooled and they
saw that compromise paid better than war.
In a world torn by commercial rivalries and
criss-crossed by racial hatreds, the League
keeps burning, distinctly and dimly, an ideal
of international accord. Few spectators of
the condition of mediseval Europe, when
every city was a fortress and every fortress
was in the hands of an independent bandit,
could have visualised the modern State, in
which the claims of those cities and barons
are settled in courts of law. It takes a lot
of . faith to-day to see the same hopes of
ultimate world peace in the hesitating efforts
of the League of Nations; but it is the only
hope there is. Only professional pacifists,
however, will believe that the fundamental
issues for which nations in the last resort
take up the sword can be settled by the
League. One has only to consider how the
Protocol would have worked if applied to
the issues of democracy versus autocracy
that broadly confronted the world in 1914;
or to the quarrel between the ideal of a
White Australia and the necessities of
crowded Asia in 1925. Whichever way the
Council’s verdict went, the parties concerned
would not consent, and the League would fly
to pieces.
* * #
The final argument that is made in favor
of the Protocol is that, if it is rejected, the
projected conference for general disarmament
will not eventuate. It is not likely to event-
uate in any case; and, if it did, it would
not result in anything of value to the world.
Disarmament can only be effectual if the
parties which are likely to go to war dis-
arm together. The two parties in Europe at
the present moment are France and her
associates on the one hand and Russia on
the other. The members of one party are
in the League; the other hates it and all its
works. There is already almost a balance of
power between them. France and the other
countries that are interested in maintaining
the Treaty of Versailles have armies total-
ling a million and a quarter, Soviet Russia
has a Red Army of a million. Only the
international Socialist, who believes in no
war unless it is a class war, or the imported
Communist, who is working for the world-
dictatorship of the proletariat, will pretend
that Russia will disarm to suit the League or
that France will disarm to suit Russia.
THE BALANCE.
The things which make for national per-
manency are probably the same in essence as
those which make for individual stability;
but superficially there would appear to be
a good deal of difference between them. The
chosen hero of England—the man who has
been more exalted in song and story than
any other of the nation —was small in
stature, slight in build, of delicate constitu-
tion, exceptionally high-strung and tempera-
mental ; his face was rather ascetic, his
features un-English, his methods and modes
of thought at all points except one strong
variants from the national type. England
for more than a century has accepted
Nelson, placed him on the pinnacle of love
and honor; and yet even in doing so a sort
of broad ideal of beef and beer, of round-
faced joviality and solid comfort, lias been
far more in the national mind than any
desire to emulate those intense, passionate,
almost hysterical qualities which made her
chosen hero great. It is probably in the
balance between beef and beer and the finer
and more spiritual qualities that strength
and endurance are found.
* • * *
The fierce upheaval which we call the
French Revolution, though springing in the
first place from the terrible pressure of
hunger and physical misery, was almost en-
tirely spiritual in its nature. Ideals, crystal-
lised into catcli-words, filled a greater part
than plain considerations of the national
roof and next week’s breakfast. It was to
the lack of balance that failure was mainly
due. France rose, terrible in its hysteria,
lit a great fire, shook all the thrones of the
world, and then settled down to cultivate
small fields and carefully collect francs. It
was only when a set of ideas utterly foreign
to the first Revolution were accepted as a
permanent compromise that the nation
gained something of solidity and new force.
To-day Frenchmen are only proud of the
Revolution because they read into it some-
thing which the original dreamers and
slaughterers would have repudiated. No-
where is the balance of idealism and plain
bread-and-butter connnonsense more clearly
exemplified than in the case of the earlier
Roman. On the Italian peninsula we see
four nationalities at that time struggling for
permanency. In the south are the
greater Greek settlements with their
wealth and luxury. Further north
are the Etruscan cities of an intrusive
Asiatic people. Here there is also
great luxury, but combined with a
good deal of energy. Still farther
north are the Gaulish tribes—wandering
fragments of a greater people whose homes
stretch across the middle of Europe. These
people are unlike the others. They are
almost all fire and idealism. They will wage
a war for the sake of a word, and despise
the fruits of their victory. They arc far
more earnest about beating a foe than rob-
bing him; they are far more concerned about
their reputations than about their grip on
the soil. In the general clash of races on
the peninsula they plant themselves on the
most fertile parts and stay there, though in
the process of years they come under alien
dominion and alien laws.
ti * * *
In the centre of the peninsula is Rome;
and the Rome of the third century B.C. is
a name that can still call forth w’onder. A
practical, simple people, attending to the
ordinary business of life in a humdrum way,
they have developed out of the commonplace
an idealism that touches the greatest heights.
Any one of thirty thousand citizens can be
counted upon to instantly face death for the
good of the city; and not merely to face
death in the brotherly association of the
legion, but to take it with all the trimmings
of ancient torture wherever it may occur.
Any man of a select couple of thousand or
so will do more. He will be ready to efface
himself and accept the most bitter disgrace
for his country’s good. But they are not
rash about these things. There must be
some real gain to Rome and its citizens be-
hind their sacrifice. The Roman Senator
who returned from Tarentum and showed
the filthy toga, which the Greek gentlemen
had defiled, did not immediately persuade the
Senate to fight. They considered the matter
very carefully; and had the prospect been
too bad they would have left the insult un-
avenged. The spectacle of that earnest,
commonsense Rome in the midst of all the
greedy jangle of the nations —the careless but
magnificent Gaul, the plundering Etruscan,
only energetic in vice ; the lazy, voluptuous
Greek and all the minor peoples that hid and
fought and dug themselves into cities —is a
curious corrective of the general estimate
of moral values in the ancient world. The
idealism of the little nation was such that
when a whole army gave its parole and was
allowed by the enemy to go home for the holi-
days, not one Roman failed to report at the
prison camp when the respite was over. But
behind was always the plain reality of the
little house on one of the seven hills. Bread-
and-butter must be maintained there; the
youngsters must have their chances as free
citizens; the wife must be kept safe at all
hazard. The stern but practical puritanism
planted very deep roots in Italian soil; and
even when the gathered spoil of the world
and the evil effects of contact with Greece
and Alexandria had altered the whole ap-
pearance of the nation, it took five centuries
or more to uproot the human force that re-
presented a balance of the practical and the
ideal.
* * * «
Something like a similar balance has been
shown in the making of the British nation ;
and Australia, as an offshoot of Britain, took
up the British tradition in a loose way—not
the tradition as it had shaped itself during the
strong years of Britain’s evolution, but the
ready-made article of the nineteenth century.
Tarentum, the slothful bed of luxury in
which the Greek in southern Italy wallowed,
was a blood relation of Sparta; but not one
trace of the vital force that had made Sparta
supreme in battle remained there. Though
Spartan ideals were narrow and the Spar-
tan political intelligence never robust, the
old Dorian home was in marked contrast to
the new. Australia is the child of Britain
in the sense that Tarentum was the child
of Sparta; and it is fair to say that the
British tradition is stronger in Australia
than the Spartan tradition in Tarentum. But
the point is that a mere carrying on of British
tradition in some loose way is not sufficient
to give permanence and stability here. We
must have our own traditions —our own bal-
ance of the practical and the ideal suited to
our own soil and our own conditions. So
far the practical finds us a good deal want-
ing; and there are times when anything 'ike
Australian idealism seems in doubt. That
tens of thousands of people would sacrifice
their lives for the country when the bugle
was blowing and the rhetoric flowing
goes without saying. What is not so clear is
that any important number of people will
give a little serious consideration to our
future. Australian idealism has so far found
expression only in the doctrine of White
Australia. We are all mouth-perfect in
that article of our faith; but how many are
ready to bring pressure upon our politicians
to get ahead with those things without which
White Australia can never be a stable real-
ity? All the idealism of Rome began -with
a passion for the security of the home. It
is well within the power of Australian citi-
zens to make every home in the continent
secure; yet that is about the last thing to
which the average man gives any considera-
tion. That Australia should win a Test
match is important in his eyes; but that
Australia should take and hold Australia—
that can be left to chance. We have wealth
and potential wealth here such as Tarentum
never dreamed of; yet it is ill-distributed
and poorly employed. Instead of having
the full-furnislied machinery of life on our
own shores, we are content to run a shop
of all-sorts. With areas larger than the
whole world of some of the best of the
ancients, we have created a congestion of
population and manufactured slums. All
these things show a lack of practical sense as
well as an absence of national idealism. We
boast of the number of our imported motor-
cars and of the splendid buildings in which
onr poor lop-sided trade is conducted; and
then we fancy that the account is somehow
squared when we talk about loyalty to the
Empire and the deeds of the Anzaes. Some
critical day we may ask a Pyrkiius to come
over and help us; and the very best over-
seas skill and intention may fail to do the
thing we could so easily have done for our-
selves. A little of the Roman balance of
sense and idealism turned upon our own
problems would do more for us than overseas
aid backed by all the modern military
elephants.
THE DECLINE OF AUSTRALIAN
ORATORY.
“Where the city stands with the brawniest breed of
orators and bards;
Where the city stands that is beloved by these, and
loves them in return and understands them....
There the Great City stands.” —Walt Whitman.
“Government of the people, by the people,
for the people” needs must be vocal, acclaim
we never so sarcastically the virtues of
silence. The Queen’s Hall of Federal Par-
liament House most impresses by its motto
in the mosaic: “Where no counsel is the
people fall, but in the multitude of coun-
sellors there is safety.” The democratic
root of the matter is not in us unless this
truth be perceived.
Some newspapers, if they trouble to treat
of the thing at all, invariably speak with
a sneer of speaking. Typical sentences from
an Age editorial are these: —
Civilisation is suffering from a surfeit of public
meetings and propaganda. If the regeneration of
mankind could be achieved by speech-making, the
process would not fail from lack of speech-makers. . ..
Inevitably the speech of the average self-seeking poli-
tician is regarded with contempt by people capable
of reflection.
The Argus as typically says:—
Now, all this talking, while it adds to the enjoy-
ment and vivacity of the talker, at the same time
subtracts from his working power and thinking
power and learning power. Who ever heard of a
great talker who was a good pilot, or a good servant,
or a good student, or a good researcher, or a good
administrator, or a good worker at any kind of real
work? Yet, sad to say, except in time of war, talk
rules the world.
The answer to the contentions is that they
have nothing to do with the case, inasmuch
as their points could as aptly, and as
absurdly, be applied to writing, and still
leave writing an art. It should be self-
evident that greatness is to be sought in
each sphere as the w’ay to greatness. If
public speaking is falling into contempt be-
cause it is not being well enough done, the
remedy will not be found in gibing at the
limitations of the art. Australia’s attitude
is a reflex of the disdain and discouragement
of influential newspapers. Indifferentism
follows upon disparagement. Thus we have
the marked decline of the public meeting and,
even worse, the decline of interest in the
public assemblage of delegated authority.
If it be pleaded that the disparagement of
public speaking is directed to the lack of
accomplishment, the conduct is as damaging:
not thus, for instance, are singers made. The
objectionable aspect is that the poor per-
formance is used to point the poverty of
the art of speaking rather than to prove the
need of its acquirement. It is a rich art,
but cannot scatter its riches unless asked
to do so.
As an example of indifference one has m
mind that when last year the Melbourne
University sent a debating team to meet
the nick of Brisbane’s University in three
debates on national issues, no results were
telegraphed to the Melbourne press. Con-
ceivably the press sometimes inadvertently
misses news, but the pity of it is that a re-
presentative debating tourney is not regarded
as “news.” Yet the discovery of a first-
rate debater ought to be as much a national
event as the discovery of a Ponsford.
America makes inter-city debates a fine
feature of its civic life, and nationally sets
out very thoroughly to stimulate public
speaking by officially attaching importance
to securing excellence in the art. In Aus-
tralia we take debating societies as “child s
play,” and even damn with faint praise any
attempt to keep alive the open forum that
helped to make the ancient Athenians the
superb giants of all civilisation.
This suicidal outlook is the more to be
marvelled at when it is transcendently plain
that of Australia’s great Federal leaders the
one likely to blazingly pass into history is
Alfred Deakin, the product of debating
societies and Australia’s chief asset in ora-
tory. Read Murdoch’s graceful Alfred
Deakin” if you would know the value of
the environment of the debating society, and
how oratory aided and adorned great gifts
and placed Deakin where others durst not
soar. Deakin swept the people off their feet
with his vivid utterance of winged lightning,
and it is certain that as the years grow
older his prowess will tower as the tallest
gum of the Titanic forest. Walter Mur-
doch supplies an enlightening footnote to n
reference to Bryan O’Loghlen (Berry s
Attorney-General) : “ ‘I have heard the great-
est orators of the Old World,’ said O Logh-
len, ‘and none of them ever rose to the
heights reached by Mr. Deakin in those
West Bourke electioneering addresses. The
tribute is notable, being paid by a com-
petent observer not easily moved to enthusi-
asm.”
The belittlement of public speaking cannot
but be disastrous to public life. “The appe-
tite grows by what it feeds upon,’ and given
the inferior the people will have a poor
standard of judgment for the superior, home-


how a desire to excel in this respect must
be reborn, or soon the Watts and the
Ansteys will have disappeared altogether
from the arena. The two Parliamentarians
named are in their scarlet merit a complete
refutation of the commonly-held foolishness
that good speaking mysteriously means a
divorcement from intellectual strength and
administrative action. Mr. Watt and Mr.
Anstey are at the head of their parties as
much by the possession of ideas and
the skili to apply them as by oratori-
cal pre-eminence. Add Mr. Hughes, air.
Maxwell, Mr Frank Brennan —and shall
we say Mr. Bruce and Mr. J. Scullin, and
almost complete the Federal group who take
speaking seriously and have enthusiasm and
energy in and for its majesty and mastery i
It is true that Australia has still efficient
speakers; but to them homage is somewhat
shamefacedly paid, for the fashion of the
hour is to ridicule what are contemptuously
described as “talk” and “talkers.” But
surely it is ominous that the more this is
being" done the poorer our speaking becomes;
and the poorer it becomes the shabbier our
political life! Is it so hard to see that m
the days of the great speakers all else was
relatively great, and that with decline in
speaking the decline in all else is in almost
mathematical ratio? The generalisation
applies no less to institutions, movements,
parties, societies. Strength and status and
sincerity are as the speaking—high or low,
brilliant or banal, mediocre or mean. Good
speaking, like good writing, ever has some-
thing to say; otherwise it is not good. With
rare exception the great artists of either
the written or the spoken word have said
much. It is by a man’s expression that we
know him. It is so easy to be silent. A
Parliament of dumb would soon be degen-
erate. Silence socially makes a cemetery
of reciprocal repartee as well as of all the
graces, touches, devices and distinctions
which make human speech the beautiful
symbol of gregariousness and genius, and,
as nothing else does, establish the suprem-
acy of the human species.
How remarkable of all times and all lands
it is that Patriotism and Oratory climb the
heights as indissolubly joined in the achieve-
ment, the measure of the one the proclama-
tion of the other! Those causes live monu-
mentally where oratory inspires and records
their deathless deeds. Wise and alert
patriotism has ever understood that national
preparedness for crises is as much a matter
of oratory as of arms. Who really destroyed
Carthage but that Cato who tirelessly
mouthed extinction? Who freed the slave?
Who made Australian Federation? .
Nevertheless, the present British Prime
Minister last year quoted with approval the
saving of Froude that “oratory is the harlot
of" the arts.” Yet, just before, the cables
were busilv informing Australia that the
lack of debating skill on the part of Bonar
Law’s colleagues had made the then I rime
Minister shoulder a larger share of respon-
sibility than was good for him, to his
lamented undoing! Mr. Baldwin’s view is
characteristic of the topsy-turvy times. \v e
are constantly being pathetically reminded
that this is a practical age, and an age or
commonsense, and, therefore, but secondarily
oratorical and rhetorical. But do we not
thus rationalise our deficiencies? At all
events, when the great orator emerges the
world kneels to him. We even excuse our
shortage of orators by saying they are born
and not made, forgetting that only when
they have been made do we fall back on
that aphorism to explain their lustre. It
is Cicero who insists that nobody can attain
the glory of eloquence without the height ox
zeal and toil and knowledge. How aptly
the test fits Deakin and many another of
Australia’s noblest sons —not forgetting a
list of legal lights of radiant remembrance,
nor Church celebrities, whose speaking was
at once the foliage and fulfilment of then-
scholarship! “Too many people talk m this
world,” scornfully says millionaire Kocke-
feller. “It is better to keep silent. Think-
ing thus, humanity had remained voiceless.
And, unless Australia waken and understand
that not to speak well is to do its thought
and destiny a disservice, it will remain
An infant crying in the night,
An infant crying for the light,
And with no language but a cry.
R. S. ROSS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Masters.
Some time ago it became evident, that the
new strike is no strike at all in the ordinary
meaning of the term, inasmuch as it lacks a
definite industrial aim or stopping : place, and
is capable of stretching into infinity. It is,
in fact, the uprising, or attempted uprising,
ol' Communism against the civilisation and
self-governing rights of a foolish nation
which is short of arms and organisation, very
casual and accustomed to trust in its lucky
star, and very much in the habit of relying on
its Government for everything. The idea of
those who have lately taken possession of our
coasts is a job-control State with Karl Marx-
ian trimmings. The job-control signifies that
the rank and file of the toilers take charge of
shipping, railways and factories, and of in-
dustry and property in general, and are
taken charge of in their turn, and m a
fashion that the “capitalist” couldn t pos-
sibly attain, by unskilled but violent organ-
isers of the WAxsh and Joiianson type -
one, at least, an unnaturalised alien of
dubious English. Karr Marx, who
formulated international socialism, was a
genius of a remarkable sort. He defined Ins
political faith as a struggle for the utter
destruction of the fetiches of patriotism,
race, country and religion; but as his own.
narrow life was confined, so far as is known,
to four countries of western Europe, his
practical knowledge of races was limited. He
has been described as a Jew under an assumed
name, belonging partly to Germany and
partly to France, not in urgent demand in
either country, not visibly wanted in Pales-
tine and not missed in the synagogue. Being
rather homeless himself, he possibly grudged
that any other person should have a home.
His tenets, which are included in the pro-
gramme of all the squalid dictators whom
the Australian unionist is learning to obey
with fear and trembling, are hostile to a
White Australia, to a sovereign Australia,
to a well-defended Australia, and to any
Australia at all. If specimens of every kind
of doe and dog’s missus that exists could
be collected and herded together till inter-
breeding reduced the progeny to an iden-
tical mongrelism, the final animal would
be the Karl Marx dog. Yet the gospel
makes a wide appeal. It has attractions or
every species of criminal, for the !dea .
a wild and ill-managed revolution which
has got out of hand opens a prospect of
breaking the whole decalogue at once with
impunity, and in addition some scores or
hundreds of commandments which are out-
side that skimpy compilation. It supplies to
Jack the Ripper a prospect of killing on
principle for the purification of society, and
to William Sikes of robbing on a high
moral plane, because he is taking the smtui
wealth of the plutocrat and the oppressor
to give to the poor, even if the poor be only
himself. The programme has a lure for the
addle-headed fanatic, the push, the poor,
the unsuccessful, the moron, the plain mad
and other sorts. It is helped by the alto-
gether inflated estimate which is made in
many quarters of the possibilities of looting
as a steady source of income,and this lias led
to many disappointing revolutions. The fact
is that a rich city can be looted inside a
week, and half its accumulated wealth, to-
gether with all its wealth-producing appara-
tus, destroyed in the scuffle, and in another
week most of the rank and file will have no-
thing to show for their efforts save lack of
wages and jobs and hopes. Much question
has been raised as to where Communists
come from, and the easiest reply is that they
happen, like grasshoppers or epidemics. In
the most eminently peaceful city that it is
possible to imagine it has only to become
known that the law has left off working,
and Communists, professional and amateur,
appear from somewhere to take charge and
propound their gieat project for the re-
storation of savagery. In countries like
Esthonia, Poland, Servia, Roumama and
Italy the preaching of revolution, and
of the stoppage of industry, and of
the red ruin which will follow are made lotty
misdemeanors, and the native Johan-
sons are being run in on indefinite sentences,
and the imported ones are being run out to
take their chances. To judge by the tide of
polyglot immigration that has set in of late
a good number are taking their chances here,
having perhaps been informed that this is
the one country where no law of any value
exists against them, and that the I rime
Minister, unlike his impatient ancestor of
Bannockburn, isn’t likely to make one.
Immigration of One Sort and Another.
According to a newspaper report, Prime
Minister Bruce thinks that “Australia is not
yet in a position to inaugurate a quota sys-
tem of immigration on the U-S.A. pattern.
Why not? Will Australia be in a better
position for keeping more mixed peoples
out when more mixed peoples are in, and it
so why so? Events are moving in a hurry.
The U.S.A. began by limiting the annual
influx of the people of each race to 3 per
cent, of the number of its people already in
at the census of 1910. That cut down immi-
gration from over 800,000 (and it was fast
increasing) to about 350,000, the proportions
being about 192.500 Nordic (from Western
and Northern Europe) and 157,500 from
Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean. It
made matters exciting in the Mediter-
ranean, whence a gigantic influx was in
progress. But later the admission rate from
each country was altered to 2 per cent, per
annum of the number of that country s
people already in at the census of 1890. That
reduced the influx under the Act to some-
thing like 160,000, and made the proportion
about 144,000 Nordic and only 16,000 from
the east and south of Europe, the composi-
tion of the Uncle Sam nation being very
different at the two census dates. Uncle had
decided, after much experience, that the
Nordic folk were far the best, and he acted
accordingly. So a stupendous flood is seek-
ing a new outlet, and our share of it is
likely to beat all previous immigration
records unless big things are done. In the
year before the partial closing of the door
Italy sent 222,260 of its spare sons and
daughters to the G. Washington Republic,
and it sent as many as 284,000 in one year
just before the war. That number and more
is available, and our title to Empty Australia
looks like being qnestkmed at last.
Australia’s Extremities.
Tasmania had a natural increase of popu-
lation last year of 3251, but lost 3782 by
migration. There is always a drift of island-
born folk to the mainland, but it has been
rather worse than usual since construction
work ended on the State’s biggest ventures,
the hydro-electric scheme and Risdon zinc
works. Similar periods during which the
Speck failed to retain her natural increase
occurred in 1850-55 (the gold-rush years),
1873-75, 1891-93 (the V.D.L. Bank was
the first in Australia to hang the. fateful
“Closed Pending Reconstruction” banner on
the outer walls), 1904-06 and 1909-11. Un-
like the mainland States, she possesses no
Outback. There are few sheep (the wool is
worth this year about £600,000), hop-picking
lasts only a few weeks, and raspberry-picking
is a briefer pursuit still. Winter comes early
and stays late, and unless a man gets a
start in a nice, deep, dry mine or a smelting
works (mining is not much good as a steady
job anyway, and in Tas. there are only a
couple of little coal-mines in constant work),
it can be pretty cold and cheerless. These con-
ditions are known to everybody but the local
maunderers about Secession. They existed
long before Federation was thought of, and
will continue to exist when the last Secession-
ist has penned his last furious epistle to the
local paper and been gathered to the cemetery
of his Tory forefathers with his martial
whiskers around him. It is now too late to
argue about whether Tasmania made a merely
bad bargain or a horribly bad one when,
largely on the fervent advice of the present
Secessionists, she agreed to join the Federa-
tion. She married into the family and must
make the best of it; and so must the family.
It will reflect no credit on anybody’s brains
if those members of the fraternity whose lot
it is to live and work on the out-stations of
the run cannot be made as comfortable and
prosperous as those who dwell nearer the
centre of things. The extreme north and
the extreme south of the Commonwealth need
special and very similar treatment. That
treatment might be expressed in terms of
steel. A railway for the Territory would
make settlers think it worth while. A solid
subsidy would enable Tasmania so to run her
railways that struggling industries would be
lifted beyond the struggling stage and new
settlers would be attracted. If tiie Common-
wealth Government feared to deal unkindly
with the land monopolists who are directly
responsible for the loss on the Tasmanian
railways, it might be preferable to make the
island'a present of a ’cross-Straits shipping
(cargo and passenger) line. Much is said
about the desirability or redistributing the
population of the Empire. Let the Common-
wealth do its bit towards the Empire scheme
by redistributing its own population. People
of the Australian breed will settle anywhere
on earth if the inducement is good enough.
Tuberculosis in N. S. Wales.
Pulmonary tuberculosis is on the down-
grade in Australia, taking the continent as a
whole, but it is not decreasing to any extent
in the thickly-populated parts. The 1923
report of the N.S.W. Director-General of
Public Health—it has only just been printed
—shows that 1029 cases came from the
metropolitan sanitary districts in that year,
an increase of 100 on the 1922 total, and
that of 657 deaths from pulmonary tubercu-
losis in N. S. Wales the metropolis was
debited with 539. Notification is compul-
sory in some districts and not in others,
still there is no disputing the fact that the
disease is much more prevalent among kid-
ney’s million than among the same number
of people in less congested areas. And Dr.
.7. S. Purdy, the metropolitan M. 0., is satis-
fied that slum conditions have a lot to do
with the city’s evil pre-eminence; he refers
to “the slight incidence of the disease in
the richer residential ouarters,” and ‘the
comparatively high incidence in the poorer
and more squalid congested areas.” Mosman,
which is well housed as housing goes, had in
1023 a death-rate from all tubercular dis-
eases of only .05 per 1000 people, whereas
the death-rate in slummy Redfern was 1.16,
in Leichhardt .81, in Waterloo .79, and m
the city proper .88. On the other hand,
Erskineville, which is not exactly fashion-
able and has 45.5 people to the acre, recorded
only .13 deaths per 1000 ; and Glebe, a grubby
place with 43.8 people to the acre, recorded
.39, whereas Hunter’s Hill (6.2 to the acre)
registered .49 and Ryde (2.4 to the acre)
.52; so plainly there are other factors. Dr.
Purdy, who is an enthusiast for better hous-
ing, reports a harrowing case: —
The D family, of 12 people, is the progeny of
one tubercular mother who re-married after the
death of her first husband from tuberculosis. Every
member of the family, except one married daughter
and an infant of five months, has been at the
Waterfall sanatorium or the Thirlmere institution
for varying periods. The children by the first father,
B , were mainly brought up by the aid of the
Benevolent Society. The younger members of the
family of the second husband, D , who is in
receipt of a Red Cross pension for tuberculosis, are
being reared by the conjoint help of the State Child-
ren’s Relief Department and a.grant from the Chief
Secretary’s Department. At present there are four
children by the second father at Waterfall, for
whom special education has been provided by the
Education Department. Two daughters by the first
father are married. One who was herself as a child
an inmate of Thirlmere lives with her two children
in one room, and is still thin and has a chronic cough.
Dr. H. W. Palmer, the medical superinten-
dent at Waterfall, states that bovine infec-
tion, so dangerous to infants, could be pre-
vented by sterilisation of milk. The control
of human infection, which is responsible for
the great majority of cases, is obviously more
difficult; but it would be quifTT practicable if
consumptives could be persuaded to collect
and destroy all their sputa and discharges, m
which case they would be harmless to other-
human beings. And “if sufficient inducements
were offered a large proportion of the un-
fortunate would do this” :
The suggestion is that persons found with infective
tuberculous sputum should enter an institution and
learn the proper way of living, receiving the minimum
wage so long as they remained under treatment On
leaving the institution, they should be provided with
suitable work, perhaps in village settlements cr
farm colonies, with the promise of financial assistance
only so long as they followed strict hygienic lives.
Recognising the inability of all consumptives to com-
pete with healthy individuals, and the impossibility
of many early cases leaving their homes to undergo
treatment through straitened circumstances, better
monetary aid must be forthcoming. This is also
important if children of tuberculous parents are
to have a fair chance to grow up strong and healthy.
Dr. Palmer’s proposals should, in ( common
humanity, be given a trial. If sufficient
inducements were offered” likewise factories
might be shifted from overcrowded industrial
suburbs like Redfern and Leichhardt to coun-
try towns handy to the source of raw
materials, and where the workpeople could be
housed in healthy surroundings for very
much less than it would cost in Sydney.
♦
Would You Prefer Hanging?
“Sus. per Coll.” decides that he would: —
In recent Bulletins J. H. M. Abbott and
“M.G.S.” have dealt interestingly with certain psy-
chological and sociological aspects of judicial hanging.
Neither has, however, paid any real attention to the
technical side of the question, and from the view-
point of both actor and audience —at least amongst
white folk —any neglect or carelessness in technique
is apt to be wholly unpleasant. Amongst the more
salient details of the Unwritten War History of New
Guinea there is a quaint episode wherein the native
to be hanged was taken up on to the branch of a
tree by a fellow-countryman police corporal, the rope
adjusted round his neck, and the victim pushed off
into space, under the curious gaze of some hundreds
of other natives who were there for the express
purpose of being awed and impressed by the
solemnity and efficiency of white-feller justice. Un-
fortunately, the amateur executioners had forgotten
to attach the other end of the rope to the branch, and
when the astonished prisoner hit the ground with a
squelch and bolted for the bush with his halter
trailing behind, the resultant shouts of delight from
the audience established a record for New Guinea.
Subsequent proceedings, although partaking of a
sporting character, were, to say the least, undignified,
and when at last the recaptured one dangled from
the limb, white-feller justice was firmly established
in the native mind as the most excruciating joke
that had ever come to New Guinea. Hanging
promptly became a highly popular amusement in parts
untroubled by D.O.’s, missionaries and similar spoil-
sports.
Contrast with this gross bungling the methods of
an American doctor who about 1911 was acting in
various joint capacities of military commander,
magistrate, gaol governor and medical officer at the
south end of Luzon, in the Philippines. A gang
of Sulu pirates wiped out a village not far from
his headquarters, and in his capacity of O.C. lie
mopped them up neatly. Sixteen survivors came under
his official attention as magistrate ; the facts in the
case were sufficiently clear for him to sentence them
to death, and to hand them over to himself as
gaol governor for safe keeping. The only available
apparatus for execution was an old Spanish garrotte
chair, in which the victim’s neck was encircled by
a contractile steel band operated by a heavy revolv-
ing handle like that of a copying-press, a steel
blade being simultaneously forced into the back of the
neck. It was quite efficient for its purpose; but
in the Spanish days the friends of subjects had
not infrequently neglected to come across with a
proper fee to the executioner, and the distressingly
protracted results had impelled the American authori-
ties to debar the use of the garrotte entirely. To
save trouble and expense, the medical officer recom-
mended his headquarters in Manila to authorise
its use under the supervision of himself in all his
capacities, only to receive in reply a peremptory
order to erect a proper gallows and hang the
prisoners. So he set to work, and by next day was
able to inform Manila that he had completed the
gallows, using up four pirates for testing purposes,
and, all being satisfactory, had worked off the
remaining 12 without a hitch. Then he wrote the
best article ever published on the comparative merits
of the sub-mental and ear knots, the use of the
chin-trough for holding the sub-mental knot in place,
and the anatomical results produced by judicial hang-
ing. Then he got on with his various other jobs.
Probably the world’s leading authority on the
methods and technique of various methods of judicial
execution is Professor Harvey' Littlejohn. He has
recently stated that the British method of judicial
hanging is the most efficient and humane of all
the forms of judicial execution in the world. With
a drop of from 6 to ?| feet, according to body
weight, death is practically instantaneous in every
case. No accidents occur nowadays—in the past
there have been some unpleasant ones where the
drop has been too long and the head has come off.
In most cases of death by judicial hanging, the heart
continues to beat strongly for ten minutes or so,
then slows, and stops in five or ten minutes more.
The whiff-of-gas-at-night alternative is attractive
enough at first sight, but it possesses one inherent
defect from the humane aspect—the awfulness of
waiting. It would obviously be necessary either to
warn the prisoner or not to warn him. If he were
not warned as to the time at which he might expect
to depart this world, however painless the actual
procedure might be, life would become for anyone
except an utter human brute one long agony of
shuddering expectancy. Every faintest whiff of
hitherto unnoticed odor, every hitherto unfelt vibra-
tion or sensation from the working of his vital
mechanism, would be to him a sign of imminent
impending death. He would never sleep, and the
mental agony for anyone with average sensibilities
would be horrible. If on the other hand he were
warned, he naturally would not sleep at the appointed
hour, and unless a heavy opiate were given to him
he would undergo his gas poisoning in conscious
terror. The mental distress beforehand would cer-
tainly be no less, and for the average prisoner would
indeed be much greater, than with the present
system.
♦
Leprosy in the North,
“Anophele ': I have seen native lepers all
along the coast from Wyndham to Boora-
loola, many of them in a pitiful condition. It
is satisfactory to know that the authorities
are at last taking some notice and making
an effort to locate and segregate the affected
persons. The difficulty of transport will be
the most serious to overcome. When Dr.
Bbienl, of the Townsville Institute, visited
the Territory, I discussed with him the cases
of supposed leprosy seen on the Alligator
River. I had previously seen many of these
cases myself; lost fingers and toes and facial
disfigurements were frequent, but I had
never noticed an open wound. No doubt
such had existed, but had healed up. This
disease Dr. Brienl diagnosed as a form ot
nerve leprosy, due to the fish-eating habits
of the tribe. A change of diet may effect a
cure, for I have since seen some of those
affected youngsters grown into healthy
adults, and attribute it to the amount of
meat they now consume by following the buf-
falo shooters in the season. Dr. Cook, who
was the last to investigate leprosy in West-
ralia, recommended the State Government to
try to induce the Federal authorities to
establish an up-to-date leper station at Dar-
win to deal with all cases in the North.
Humanity demands such action; pitiful is
the case of the human being who is segre-
gated at Mud Island, the present lazarette
consisting of little beyond a few sheets of
iron. The island is a breeding-place for
insect pests innumerable, and the sunning
spot of crocodiles. At times it is hardly vis-
ible half a mile away on account of the heat
haze that is thrown off frcun the low, swampy
tidal waters. One white man recently spent
the last remaining months of a deserving old
age in this hell, with only natives for com-
panions. Two younger white men of the
Territory, one born there, have contracted
the disease within 12 months. For-
tunately they had travelled south before their
trouble was diagnosed, and are now receiv-
ing treatment in a southern leper station.
The seven natives and half-castes at Mud
Island have recently been reinforced by an-
other batch from the Roper River district
brought in under very difficult conditions;
and if word goes round of the unspeakable
circumstances under which they are confined
I am afraid we shall have great difficulty in
rounding up other sufferers.
*
The Man Who Planned the
Evacuation.
In the second volume of his “Official History
of the War” C. E. W. Bean reveals how
great were the services rendered by the
Victorian-born Brudenell White in the
last phase of the Gallipoli campaign. IAN
Hamilton was of opinio” tlmt the Penin-
sula could not be evacuated without the loss
of half the Army. “I pace my room at night,
said Kitchener to Asquith, “and see the
boats fired at and capsizing, and the drown-
ing men.” Yet if the invaders tried to hang-
on there was a danger of their being isolated
from the Navy by submarines or winter
storms for days, perhaps for weeks. (Ihe
storm of November 27 had caused havoc
among the shipping, and 205 soldiers had died
from exposure, while 15,791 had to be evacu-
ated mostlv from Suvla Bay. owing to sick-
ness. 4795 being cases of trench feet.) During
that period, or later, what was left ot them
might, in their weakened condition, be over-
borne by weight of numbers or smashed by


Australia P
“ —after all, there's only ONE ‘Australia ’ ”
If YOU INTEND Visiting SYDNEY
—then let us send you a copy of “The Book of The Australia,’ ” in
which are described and illustrated some features of the Hotel of the
Commonwealth—thus enabling you to anticipate something of the
luxurious comfort we offer.
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
“THE AUSTRALIA,’’ The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
big guns. For the fall of Serbia had enabled
the Central Powers to establish contact with
Turkey, and Austrian or German howitzers,
firing on November 29, 1915 (“the first occa-
sion on which Australian infantry in trenches
were to heavy modern bombard-
ment”) , had in two or three hours destroyed
a section of the Lone Pine defences, inflicting
130 casualties on the 23rd and 24th Bat
talions. From all these perils the Anzacs
were rescued, without the sacrifice of one
life, largely by the organising genius of
White. He it was who drafted the plans
for the Evacuation, plans which, adopted
with some misgiving by the British
generals, so deceived the Turks that the
operation—-one of the most difficult ever
attempted in war—was completed before the
enemy was aware of it. This is admitted by
Liman von Sanders, the German Com-
mander, who in his book, “Five Years in
Turkey,” states that the Evacuation was
“prepared with extraordinary care.” And
W hite had a leading part in the execution
■>f his scheme (“the very skilful execution,”
according to Liman von Sanders) :
The night’s programme [that of Dec. 18-19]
was carried out with almost exact precision at both
Suvla and Anzac.... For the past 10 days . Whim
had exercised almost single-handed control over the
movement at Anzac. .. .It was White whose vision
—combined with an unfailing sense of proportion and
a power of lucid explanation and courteous insistence
in conference—influenced probably more than any
other human agency the tactics by which the Evacua-
tion, not only at Anzac and Suvla, but also at Helles,
was carried out. At Anzac, throughout the operation,
almost all reference on important points was to him.
From morning till late at night he was at his
telephone, explaining whatever was not understood,
unruffled, courteous, quiet in voice, showing always
an inexhaustible patience in dealing with men less
quick in perception than himself.
It is the same White, now a member of the
Federal Public Service Board, who was re-
ferred to in the House of Reps, last session
by a Labor member named Cunningham as
a “brass-liat,” a “bounder,” an “old, conser-
vative, dust-laden, brainless idiot,” the maker
of “a dirty insinuation against men whose
boots he is not fit to blacken” certain Govern-
ment employees whose derelictions were
mildly criticised), the owner of a “dirty,
rotten mind, - ' a “troglodyte whose principal
characteristics are ignorance, arrogance and
egotism,” and one who has “crawled and
‘scabbed’ all his life, has never had to fight
for anybody but himself, is without principle,
and has been pitchforked into a high position
by social influence and patronage.” He may,
however, draw what consolation he can from
the. reflection that it is the common fate of
eminent Australians to receive a full issue
of malice, envy, hatred and uncharitableness
from the blackguardly section of their coun-
trymen, and that because they are eminent
Australians.
Red Unionism v. Australian
Democracy.
In the Commonwealth Arbitration Court on
November 27, Justice Powers was told to
his face by Walsh, president of the Sea-
men’s Union, that unless a disputed claim
for overtime was conceded to a handful of
men employed on the s.s. Wyandra, regard-
less of his Honor’s decision on the point,
“ship after ship would be tied up.” Ship
after ship was tied up accordingly. In the
meantime Walsh proceeded to Westralia,
where, picking a quarrel with the State
Labor Government in its capacity of ship-
owner, he ordered a hold-up of the principal
Westralian port, from the effects of which
Fremantle may take years to recover. Hav-
ing by these and similar devices brought the
Australian shipping industry to a standstill,
and done- all the harm he could to British
shipping, although the sinister fact remains
that foreign steamers have not been inter-
fered with, the gentleman promised in the
Arbitration Court last week that the idle
steamers should be manned. At the moment
of writing the undertaking, or whatever it
was, had not been honored. It is question-
able whether there is any faith at all, except
bad faith, in the organisation lie controls,
with the assistance of the Dutchman
Johanson and other aliens. Certainly its
proceedings during the past three months
have revealed no sense of duty to the com-
munity which protects it, nor any gratitude
for the extraordinary favors it has received
from that community, one of which favors
is a monopoly of the coasting trade under the
Navigation Act. and another a line of steam-
ers in which thousands of members of the
maritime unions are employed—“our steam-
ers,” as they exultingly declare when they
hold one up—and which have been run at
a loss of £2,797,000 in two years. On be-
half of the Australian shipowners it has
been declared that during the last five years
—since _ the coasting-trade clauses of the
Navigation Act were brought into opera-
tion, in fact —a deliberate effort has been
made to destroy the shipping industry,
which is “fast disappearing” as a result.
To that statement, made in the presence of
tlie voluble Walsii, there was no reply. A
cry for relief from the Navigation Act has
gone up from Tasmania, which has been
repeatedly isolated by the arrogant mon-
opolists established by that measure, and
brought in sight of ruin. The deep-thinking
Prime Minister now asserts that his Gov-
ernment “will not hesitate to take any
aetion that may be necessary.” His Gov-
ernment, it seems, is at last thoroughly
aroused, and will “provide not only machin-
ery for the rapid and pacific settlement of
any dispute, but also machinery for the
effective protection of the community.” It
has taken his Government over three months
to discover that it is expected to act like
a Government and not like tailors’ dum-
mies and painted laths; and until he trans-
lates his promises into actions he may rest
assured that nobody will now be satisfied.
♦
“The Listening-Insect” : That the ther-
mionic valve, which looks like the poor rela-
tion of an ordinary electric-light bulb, is to
be installed in Sheffield furnaces (Ping.) to
melt iron and manufacture nickel alloys will
startle many radio enthusiasts ; but it is a
development that has long been brewing. The
idea originated in* the research laboratories
of the American G. E. Co. about three years
ago, when the application of a coating of
thorium 1-100,000,OOQjtli of an inch thick on
the tungsten filament of the valve was found
to increase the electron emission one hundred-
thousand-fold. It was claimed that by this
means valves of 1000 kilowatts, or about
lSOOli.p., could be made. This converts the
little marvel from a mere wireless adjunct
into a portable power-plant. Its possibili-
ties for Australia are immense. Power elec-
tricity is nowadays invariably transmitted as
alternating current, and heavy rotating
machinery has to be installed to convert it
back to direct current. By using large valves
alternating voltages of 100,000 or more could
be transmitted and changed to direct current
for ordinary use with an apparatus not much
more cumbersome than an ordinary radio
“HONORARY” JUSTICE IN VICTORIA.
“At the Port Melbourne Court W. G. Smith, P.M., was obliged to dismiss two charges of illegal
gaming because he was over-ruled by a majority of the honorary justices, who said they knew the place,
and had never known it to be conducted as a gaming-house.”
set. Power-houses will be carried in the
hand, and sources of supply will be tapped
as easily as a linesman taps a telephone
cable. If the problem of transmitting the
necessary power through the air is solved
the unsightly electric-light poles will dis-
appear from our streets, and our suburban
villas and boundary-riders’ huts will be lit
from the same central power-house in the
cities. The cocky will adjust his little box
of tricks to the required wave-length and
get all the power he wants to drive his
chaffcutting machine; and the timber-
getter will drag the forest giants out of the
gorges of the Dorrigo with a tractor driven
by the same device. Theodore’s new State
should benefit. A few hundred valves would
do more work than untold lakhs of Asiatic
coolies.
+
“Clarence O’Hagan” : We want more
crimes made capital—not fewer. We need
to get rid of the violent criminals, otherwise
they are going to get rid of us. All this talk
about “morons” and crime being “a dis-
ease” and no felon being “responsible”
is just so much wicked and sickening cant.
Were the ruffians who assassinated Sir
Henry Wilson on his own doorstep
“morons”? Was the scoundrel who killed the
Sirdar of Egypt a few weeks ago a “moron”?
What were the murderers of the unhappy
Roma not es ? If crime—and especially crime
with violence, such as the recent bank mur-
ders in Victoria —be a “disease,” or the act
of an “irresponsible,” then virtue, and gener-
osity, and industry may be so described. But
we know what we should call the man who
said so. No; the only way to prevent—or,
at least, to minimise—murder and assassina-
tion is to make it so certain that the alleged
moron will be promptly hanged or guillo-
tined (a better method) that anybody not
blinded by jealousy or fury will pause ere
he or she takes human life. Where anger
or legitimate jealousy deprives persons of
their reason momentarily, excuse would be
right. Nevertheless the crime should be pun-
ished with something more than publicity
and “the rising.” Mercy to the merciless—
and all deliberate murderers are merciless —
is a rotten thing. It has been overdone for
a long time, and the inevitable reaction is
about due. Persons say (as they say of
war) : “Oh. but force is no remedy.” I
retort: “But it is a good preventive”;
and prevention is better than cure. It is
great to be broadminded and tolerant, but a
river that broadened to 30 miles is apt to
be quite useless for shipping, while there is
a “toleration” that is only a euphemism for
sheer cowardice and flabbiness.
*
Italian opinion is said to be rising against
the Mussolini Government, which may
mean that the Communists whom he sup-
pressed propose making another bid for
power, and are stirring up the cauldron. The
ostensible causes of anguish are rather in-
definite ; but the real storm centre is pro-
bably the new electoral law. It dawned on
Mussolini eaidy in his reforming career
that there is little good and not much sta-
bility in a Parliament where there are liable
to be six to ten parties, and where work of
a sort is apt to be made possible only by a
big party buying one or two smaller ones,
either by surrendering its principles or by
plain robbery of the public funds. So the
law of November, 1923, made all Italy one
constituency, divided for voting purposes
into 15 districts, with manhood suffrage,
secret ballot and the other usual furnishings.
When one party scores a bigger vote through
the whole kingdom than any other, its candi-
dates are to be allotted 356 seats (two-
thirds) —more if they have earned them, but
356 anyhow. This is conditional on the
winners having scored at least one-fourth of
the votes. Failing that the only visible
way out is another election. The losing
parties will be allotted the other 179 seats
pro rata. Barring a great split in their own
ranks the victors ought to be thus fixed for
the life of Parliament. The party which the
people most favors is to rule—-.which didn’t
happen in England under Ramsay Mac-
donald, nor in Victoria under Prendergast,
nor in many other places on many occasions.
And it is to rule (bar accidents) so definitely
that its leaders will be driven neither to
corruption, to concession nor to coalition. The
Nitti Parliament was made up of six parties,
tour being represented in the Cabinet. The
Prime Minister belonged to one of the small
and violent crowds, and his surrender to the
Bolsheviks produced results which Musso-
lini’s scheme is expected to prevent for the
future. But the minority leaders, especially
the small and violent ones, see no good in
Mussolini or his plan, and are madder than
wet hens.
“Labor Student” tells of a re-birth:—
After the 12 I.WAV. men were gaoled in N. S.
Wales in 1916 and the police closed the Sydney
headquarters, those of the rank and file who had
more pluck than the rest banded together, and
formed the Industrial Labor Party. With Betti'
Mathias, a delicate little fire-eater, red-haired and
crippled, at the helm, they began to
cry aloud for the release of their comrades, and
iNDUSTMAii Solidarity was published to further the
agitation. In Melbourne those of the I.W.W. who
were not behind prison bars carried on business
beneath the sign of the One Big Union League, later
altering the name to the International Industrial
Workers. The Brisbane agitators continued their
propaganda under that brand also, and Sydney fell
in line soon after. Branches were established in
Cairns and Adelaide. Each branch, excepting Cairns
and Brisbane, ran its own journal. Proletariat
superseded Industrial Solidarity in Sydney, but
lasted only seven numbers, perishing with the burst-
ing up of the branch. In Brisbane the local printers
refused to handle Rank and File. After Sydney
gave up the ghost, the branches in the other cities
wilted, and when the Storey Government let the
1916 men out, four years later, the old organisation
disappeared and most of its members were lost sight
of. With the exception of Donald Grant, who be-
came a Communist and has since joined the A.L.I’.
to court the N.S.W. Senate pre-selection, the dozen
rebels have faded out ot the picture. Recently,
however, the I.W.W. has cropped up again and is
flourishing in Melbourne, openly and defiantly, in
despite of the “unlawful association” law of 1916.
Betty Mathias, older and frailer, but still flaunt-
ing her auburn hair and erupting gall and vitriol, is
the star artist. She spares no one; the “accursed
capitalist” and the tactless comrade alike are lashed.
She has two bloodthirsty lieutenants in Noel Lyons
and Edward Dickinson, infants of 23, whose fiery
outbursts on the Yarra Bank on a Sunday afternoon
are robbing the Communists, who shelter a number
of ex-1.W.W.-ites, of a lot of their glory. The
Communists consider themselves the vanguard of the
“Reds,” and are nettled at the resurrection of the
I.W.W. The only grain of satisfaction they have
derived so far is that when Lyons and Dickinson were
arrested for speaking a while back and wouldn’t
pay their fines, the magistrate refused to make
martyrs of them by sending them to gaol. Seeing
that the I.W.W. have come into the open in Melbourne
under their old name, it will be interesting to see
what the authorities will do. It will also be
amusing to watch the Communists’ official attitude
towards their more crimson allies in the fight against
Jack Fat.
O
The claim set up by Ratana, the Maori
faith-healer, that Henare and the men of
Nippon are racial brothers will fail
to get the endorsement of the Japan-
ese Government, which long ago accepted
the finding of its savants that the
Japanese were originally a white race,
descended from the hairy Ainu. The
savants, however, are not likely to be any
nearer the mark in this than the Japanese
historians who trace the Mikado’s family-
tree back to the Goddess of the Sun. There
is a proved affinity in language, customs and
appearance between the Japs and the
Malays; and as many ethnologists accept the
theory that the Polynesians came down from
India via the Malay Archipelago, Ratana
may have some grounds for cherishing his
relationship. When, however, he claimed,
as he was alleged to have done during his
recent visit to Japan, that the interests of the
Japanese and Maori races as against the
white are identical, lie was speaking wild
and whirling words that are not likely to
appeal to his brothers in Maoriland. The
Japanese is closely related to the Korean, but
that fact hasn’t helped the Korean to love
his foreign lord’s dominion. The Japanese
found the Formosan aboriginal on the
same scale of civilisation as the Maori
was when the arrival of settled British
government stopped him from exterminating
himself. So little has the Formosan savage
become reconciled to his yellow master that
the Japanese Government has given up try-
ing to subdue him, and has built a barbed-
wire fence around part of the isb.nd and
left him to his murderous devices: and it
isn’t recorded that a Formosan M.P. has
been made a Minister of State in Japan yet,
as a Maori M.P. has in Ratana’s Dominion.
But even better proof that the Maori and
the white man have learnt to get along to-
gether lies in the fact that the native race,
after slumping heavily, is steadily increasing
in numbers again.


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
and the wisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effecting a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
covering all Accidents and Sicknesses. . . .
The A.P.A. Standard Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Austra asia.
Premium from £l per annum upwards. Apply for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIA:
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AVEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers. St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
or any of its Branches:—
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers, King V\ llliam Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tom Walsh and the other ’eads know the
couplet:—
He who fights and runs away
Lives to fight another day.
And that explains everything that Tom
did and said before the Arbitration Court
last week.
Australian seamen are beginning to recall
that during the 27 years the late Senator
Bob Guthrie was president of their union
they didn’t lose half an hour’s work through
strikes or lockouts, and yet won extraordi-
nary concessions both as to wages and condi-
tions. But then the Walshes and the Jolian-
sons came along, and between the two stools
of direct action and arbitration the Austra-
lian seaman has been pretty often on the
floor nursing a bruised rump.
The N. S. Wales Government had the
courage to disregard precedent and make one
of the Puisne Judges Chief Justice. Justice
Street has been a conspicuous success on the
Bench; and not all good lawyers are con-
spicuous successes there. Now that the Gov-
ernment has made a new rule, or, at any
rate, put an end to an old one, there may
be less disposition on the part of first-flight
lawyers to “pass” offers of seats on the
Bench on the off-chance of one day getting
the Chief’s chair.
Uncle’s attitude towards the Peace Pro-
tocol, with its fantastic proposal for the
mere handful of nations comprising the
League to take on the pacification of the rest
of the world, is extremely cold; nevertheless
there is a growing feeling in U.S.A. that if
the League of Nations would think of itself
as a League of Europe it might be possible
for the New World to do business with it.
The recent bickerings in Albania show that
there is plenty of scope for such a league’s
peacemaking activities within European
borders. When it had achieved some appear-
ance of unity in its councils it might be in
a better position to ask for Uncle’s co-opera-
tion in the larger job of universal peace.
TlieA.W.U.is seriously though quite unjustly
offended with Theodore, the Queensland Pre-
mier ; hence perhaps the latter’s announce-
ment that he would love to run a new State,
to be formed out of parts of the N.T. and
Northern Westralia. As arbitrator in the
affair of the faked ballot-boxes. Theodore
had the courage to pronounce Bailey, the
A.W.U. boss, guilty; and the umon
or the majority section thereof—maintains
that he is innocent. Bailey has been re-
clected president of the central (N.b.W.)
branch, and it is expected that the A.AV.L.
Convention will reaffirm _ its faith in the
M.L.A. for Goulburn and insist on Ins being
nominated again as a Labor candidate.
Whether the union is right or wrong, it is
in a position to defeat Theodore for the Her-
bert—in which case a New State job would
be handy.
A Royal Commission’s report: —
Reporting on charges made last session, Judge
Edwards acquits the Bruce-Page Government of
having discriminated in favor of big pastoralists in
respect of land-taxation, as was alleged. In no
case, he states, has the Government interfered with
Commissioner Ewing, whose “honesty, impaitiality
and ability” are placed on record. As for Sidney
Kidman, lie didn’t pay the tax on Crown leaseholds
for eight years, and the Department contends that
he owes £130,065. Kidman’s reply is that the
valuations are all wrong and that he doesn t owe
a. penny; and considering that other departmental
valuations have been upset in the High Court, that
there has been a severe cattle slump, and that the
business of taxing leaseholds has been muddled from
the start, the man has a case. The Royal Commissioner
is, however, of opinion that Kidman should have
been prosecuted for not sending in returns. In
extenuation, the cattleman pleads that his agent,
Jolly, had his hands full for years as a member of
the Royal Commission on Taxation. For that
remarkable appointment the Hughes Government was
respcnsible, though of course Jolly himself is greatly
to blame for accepting it.
Bruxner, the N.S.W. Progressive leader,
has a notion of letting some other Cocky
candidate (perhaps Crawford Vaughan, some-
time Labor Premier of South Aus., at pre-
sent ticketed for Ryde) have his safe seat
in Northern Tableland, while he himself has
a shot at Wearne, Secretary for Lands, and
Chaffey, Minister for Agriculture, in Namoi.
There is a big C.P. vote in that constituency,
MORE DINGOES.
“The sale of the Zara stud in Tasmania to Sir Abe Bailey, of South Africa, is regarded by sheep-
farmers in Cape Colony as of the utmost importance. It is believed the Zara strain will correct weak-
nesses in S’African flocks and vastly improve the quality of the clip."
THE LITLE MAN: “I think it’s about time I took a hand in this!"
andWearne has hitherto got a large percentage
of it, but the whiskered Minister is not now
regarded as a Cocky, and especially in the
West his neglect to handle the dingo problem
has put him at the bottom of the class.
The difficulty is that if Bruxner were de-
feated for Namoi he would be out of the
next Assembly altogether. The fantastic
N.S.W. variety of Proportional Representa-
tion would not admit of a Cocky returned for
another electorate resigning in his favor.
Yet it is sometimes desirable that a seat
should be found for a defeated party leader.
There was the case of Edmund Barton, who,
when leader of the N.S.W. Opposition, was
fighting the battle of Federation against Reid.
And Balfour, when British Prime Minister,
was beaten for his Manchester seat in 1906.
Sydney’s new City Council was not long
in restoring some of the brightest features ot
the Bill Lambert regime. The 44-hour week
is back again, and once more the municipal
employee may canvass for his aldermanic
boss (Labor variety) at city elections.
Public gambling in the parks will be re-
sumed under the guise of “galas” and "car-
nivals” to raise A.L.P. funds. Preference
of employment is to be given to financial
unionists, and the Town Clerk has to take
on a union-organiser’s job and see that em-
ployees remain financial while in the Coun-
cil’s service. The end of a perfect evening
came when Alderman Mick Burke, the com-
mission agent” who has no banking account
and doesn’t keep books, passionately referred
to the wickedness of the Government in
appointing a lop-sided tribunal to injure him
in his political campaign.” Alderman Mick
was returned unopposed before his particular
case was opened, or even discussed, but no-
body reminded him of the fact or suggested
that his room was preferable to his company.
E. T. Fisk, managing director of Amal-
gamated Wireless, foresees the time when
ships will be driven without crews by wire-
less. The system might be profitably ex-
tended. Members of waterside unions who
are concerned about picking-up places might
be saved further bother if ships were un-
loaded wirelessly. Much unnecessary tur-
moil would be saved if foreign, agitators
making for this country could be given a new
direction by the same means. A “selective
tuning circuit” should certainly be attached
to Mr. Bruce immediately, so that the united
will of the people in the matter of the ship-
ping strike might galvanise him into action.
The usual thing has happened in Vic.:
most of the Diggers who were pushed on to
the land (to get rid of them) find they
can’t make a living, so the Government, in-
stead of facing the situation and writing off
half or more of the debt as bad, kicks the
liability into the distance. . Payment for
livestock, implements, etc., is spread over
ten years instead of three; payment for per-
manent improvements is to slop over 30
years instead of 20; and, after the free
period, only half of the fixed instalment ot
capital is to be collected for five years, the
other half being “spread over the balance
of the period.” And the Digger says
“Hooray!” hardly realising that to-day s
troubles are merely pushed off till to-morrow.
From a student of voting systems:—-
N.S.W. Labor supporters have already decided
that the party misled by Lang will obtain a
majority at the coming State election, but few
have troubled to analyse the position. Lang’s party
now has 38 supporters in the Assembly, and that
number includes Gregory McGirr, Bailey and Dr.
Fallon, but not Skelton of Newcastle. To secure
even the “half mandate” that John Storey got, 35
seats will have to be retained, pledged supporters
elected in place of Gregory McGirr, Fallon and
Bailey, and seven new seats won from the enemy.
The seven seats that are possibilities are Sydney,
Balmain, Parramatta, Newcastle, Byron, Bathurst
and Wollondilly, but it will be desperately hard vo
gain the lot under proportional representation. In
no other constituency has Labor more than an outside
chance of adding to its score. And in order to come
back with 45 seats, it will have to lick Speaker
Dan Levy in Sydney, Skelton of Newcastle (he
topped the poll easily at last election), Charles
Bosenthal in Bathurst, and George Fuller’s brother-
in-law in Wollondilly. There are few things more
difficult in politics than to convert a minority of
seven into a majority, with only 90 members to be
elected, on the proportional principle.
A Hobart meeting, harangued by ex-
Agent-General Aslibolt, «ex<-Senator Earle,
Seabrook, M.H.A., Piggott, M.H.A., and
others, resolved to exact a cast-iron pledge
from every one of the Speck’s Federal candi-
dates at next election to place Tasmania
first, independent of party ties, under pen-
alty of being placed last on the ballot-paper.
The “Tasmania First” platform consists of
three planks: (1) Abolition of Arbitration
Act, (2) repeal of the coastal clauses of
the Navigation Act, (3) maintenance of
adequate steamer communication between
Tas. and the mainland. But it won’t do in
that form. Planks 1 and 2 render Tas-
manian unanimity impossible, as no Labor
candidate will subscribe to them.
“G.M.” : Two Dutch tugs have turned up
in Hobson’s Bay from Sourabaya (Java),
towing three second-hand dredges and one
second-hand steam-tender for the Melbourne
Harbor Trust. Why were not the jobs of
building these things given to Australian
dredge builders? Or is it a repetition of the
Electricity Commissioners’ expensive error
when they bought second-hand briquetting
plant for the Yallourn factory in Hamburg,
and found, when it arrived, that it was made
iu England? Most likely these Dutch dredges
were made at Belfast or Glasgow. If
Australian prices are reckoned too high, why
deal with Dutch manufacturers when there
are such a multitude of workers in the U.K.
living on the dole?
Following on various much-discussed
promotions in the Vic. railways, an
elderly and aggrieved officer pottered up to
the Commissioners’ office the other day and
asked why he had been overlooked in a
recent appointment —as a matter of fact he
had been doing the work for a couple of
years. He was told that the Commissioners
regretted having to pass over such an able
officer as he had proved himself to be, but
that, other things being equal, it would be
their policy in future to give preference to
young men. It sounds cruel; but from the
“strictly business” point of view it is sound
policy.
The latest information from Bolshevik
H.Q. is that the anti-Bolshevik General
Wrangel has re-appeared, and White armies
are brewing in Serbia and Bulgaria. The
general with the quarrelsome name was not
much of a success in the past, and it is
doubtful whether the Allied Powers have any
tickets on him; but as the Soviet Govern-
ment has been busily intruding its revolu-
tionary propaganda into Afghanistan, Persia,
Mesopotamia, India and other places, it can’t
complain that its enemies have dug up the
hatchet. Moscow’s notions of liberty, equality
and fraternity having brought this country
almost to the brink of revolution, Australians
need not be surprised that Finland, the
Balkan States, the Government of India and
others, which are living within bomb-throw
of the beast, show signs of having got the
jumps.
Said U.S. Senator Borah recently:-
The Eighteenth Amendment gave notice to all the
world that the U.S. would undertake the stupendous
task of putting an end to the liquor traffic. We
are entitled to have all other Governments respect
this policy, and have them compel their nationals
to respect it.
China made the same sort of appeal to
Britain over opium, and John Bull gave up a
lucrative trade and destroyed an enormous
industry in India to oblige. China then
set to work to grow her own supply of the
sleepy drug. Senator Borah’s utterance sug-
gests that smuggled liquor may be threaten-
ing a great American industry too.
When Victorians who are liable to pay
income-tax forwarded their last returns
were not required to say whether, if mar-
ried, their wives were alive or whether the
ladies, being alive, had incomes exceeding £lOO
a year. Since Parliament has decided to
allow a deduction of £5O in respect of the
wives of those whose incomes are £BOO. or
under, the position has become embarrassing.
Weldon, the Commissioner, will try to get
over the difficulty by assuming that every-
body who claims deductions for children
under 16 has a living missus with no means
of her own. Next year he will adjust mat-
ters for childless married taxpayers. They
will get allowances for two years. Widowers
and those who have wives with £lOO a year
or more will have to refund the deduction
permitted for 1924-25.
EASY HONORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Another prize has been awarded for a scheme to
promote universal peace.”
The scheme to catch a swallow
By salt thrown on its tail
Is rather hard to follow
In a sou’-wester gale;
But braver far his act is
Who on the sandy heath,
To keep in dental practice,
AVill draw death-adders’ teeth.
Some love to enter cages
Where hungry tigers prowl,
Some seek the lion’s rages
And some the grey wolf’s howl,
While others like the feeling
Of bricks that ebb and flow
On broken buildings reeling
To all the winds that blow'.
But stopping wars in motion
Is not considered wise,
When murder like an ocean
Sends blood-spray to the skies ;
When red-hot hate is flying
From every reeking gun
There seems small use in trying
To offer Mars a bun.
But schemes for peace are simple
When peace is holding tight;
The war god wears a dimple
And smiles in all men’s sight,
And with a tie and collar
The finest viking goes
To music of the dollar
He spends upon his foes.
Then is the time for waiting
The new prospectus out,
The shareholders inviting
To put their fears to rout.
Oh, very strong and wise is
The bloke who strives to win
A bushel of peace prizes
Before the wars begin !
N.s.w.
MARY McC.


“ONCE ABOARD THE LUGGER AND THE GIRL IS MINE.”


A/
*
.ilmijt
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist.
20
for
m
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Quack” : Ex-doctors, too, are met in queer
surroundings. In a little town on the N.S.W.
North Coast there dwelt a dilapidated ancient
known as Jimmy, his residence a lean-to
constructed from odds and ends. His sole
apparent occupation consisted of drinking
all the liquor he could induce others to buy
for him. One day, while a steamer was dis-
charging cargo at the jetty, with Jimmy
loafing around, a sling broke, and one ot
the workers received serious injuries. The
local doctor was away, and there was no
other within 20 miles; and nobody had even
NOT INTERESTED.
“I swear you are the first girl I’ve ever
loved, sweetest.”
“But why tell me about your wasted life?
sufficient knowledge of first-aid treatment to
stop the bleeding which was draining the
man’s life away, until the old deadbeat rose
to the occasion. Shambling down to the
sufferer, he bent over him and stopped the
haemorrhage with his fingers. Then lie
started to issue orders, and the new quality
in his tones caused them to be obeyed un-
questioningly. Somebody went to the local
doctor’s house, and borrowed a case of instru-
ments ; with the aid of these Jimmy neatly
tied the severed arteries, and sewed up the
wounds. In an hour or so the patient was
out of danger. Later it turned out that the
operator held the degree of M.D. of London
University College, and had even acquiied
some fame as a specialist before liquor got
him down. I am aware there ought to be
an edifying ending to this, but there isn t,
simply because all the subsequent well-mean-
ing efforts to reform the lifesaver ended m
complete failure; lie refused to either mend
his ways or leave his lean-to, and the .patient,
when he recovered, showed his gratitude by
buying enough liquor to keep his preserver
perpetually sozzled. * #
“X2X”: Australian Medical Boards fre-
quently have stories brought to them about
unqualified and unregistered doctors prac-
tising somewhere within their jurisdiction;
one Board is just
now investigating
such a case. Actu-
ally, it is not very
difficult for a bogus
doctor', especially if
he possesses a little
medical or surgical
knowledge, to carve
out some sort _of
practice for him-
self. The police
are supposed to re-
port the arrival of
a new doctor in
a distr i c t, but
they rarely do it.
In some States a
practitioner is re-
quired to notify the
authorities when he
engages a locum
tcnens, but the rule
isn’t universal, and
an impostor who
had succeeded in
convincing a medi-
cal agency about
liis bona fi'des may
easily find the rest
plain sailing. Usu-
ally the impostor
has been a medical
student, but not
always; four or
five years back a
sham medico, who
fled the country
when detection and
arrest threatened,
was ascertained to
have acquired his
previous experience
as doctor’s steward
on a mail steanier.
Since he rarely pre-
scribed anything
but Epsom salts,
and sent all surgi-
cal cases to a hos-
pital, he managed
to carry on for the
best part of three
years in a Sydney . .
suburb without arousing suspicions.
* * * *
“FY7” : Preparations are. being made by
the “internationalists” for giving the Ameri-
can Fleet a hideous shock on its arrival m
Australia. The chief attraction of the cruise
to the boys of the Ku Klux breed is the
opportunity it offers to get ashore in a wet
port, and there fill up to the back teeth
without danger of sudden death. A strong
section of Melbourne unionists, 4 as a protest
against America’s political methods, is pro-
posing a boycott of the fleet. Sydney is ex-
pected to follow suit, and every effort will
be concentrated on organising the liquor-
trade employees with a view of getting them
to refuse to serve liquor to the unhappy
Yanks. Cafe attendants and shop assistants
may be required to join in the movement,
but the beer-dispensers are expected to strike
the cruellest blow. It may work all right,
but one doubts it. If there is any alien job
the amateur can make a decent fist of it
should be serving out drinks of the baser
sort; he has watched the process closely
for years. # *
“Jeobb” : You should look in at Darwin
to see the ancient game of pak-a-pu in full
swing. Although half of the population is
on relief work, there are seldom less than
12 drawings of the “bank” a day. In the
boom days when the well-paid meatworkers
had money to burn there was a drawing
every half-hour, and I have seen £3O paid
into a drawing. A fiver is about the limit
nowadays—unless some fool bushman has
drifted into town and spends 50s. in marking
the full ticket. Payments are made at the
rate of 18s. for six winning numbers, £<
for seven, £2O for eight, £7O for nine; should
the whole ten marks come right the lucky
one may look to draw about £l5O, but this
has been done only once in 20 years. A
speculator can mark a ticket at almost any
Chinese shop; agents or runners visit all
places outside where there is a chance of
finding a few clients. One old chap, just
on 70, has for years done his ten-mile walk
a day. Starting out at 7 a.m. his route in-
cludes the railway workshops, the meat-
works, all likely houses on the way, and even
tiie Public Hospital, where there are always
a few bushmen prepared to try their luck.
His commission is twopence on a shilling
ticket. Some men here have bought tickets
for years without striking more than a few
shillings; at the other end of the scale you
may put a new arrival in the railway ser-
vice who has taken out some £BOO in three
months.
* * * *
“Jus”: Occasionally solicitors who have
gained notoriety in the metropolitan police
courts pay visits, or are paid handsomely
to make visits, to country towns. We had
such an occasion recently, when one of the
great men visited us, and quite a crowd
assembled at the courthouse to see him.
Of course, he appeared for the defendant,
THE REAL ENIGMA.
“If you must know, I married you because I thought you had
money.”
“Bah, I know that! But can you tell me what I was thinking
about to let you?”
and, knowing some of the circumstances of
the case, I was present myself and stood
near three men whom I knew would be
called as witnesses. Much was expected from
the city solicitor, arid when the car drew up
he was eyed as intently as ■ the Prince
would have been. Jumping out he made
straight for the court-room. One of the
witnesses-to-be looked at the other wide-eyed
with astonishment. “Blime!” said he to his
mate. “That’s a nice sort of lawyer! Why,
he ain’t even told us what to swear!”
* * * *
“Ping Hsu” (China) : Hasn’t “Cartot”
(B. 9/10/’24) got his facts a little mixed?
I have never heard that a dark streak down
the back indicated
indiscretion on the
part of one’s ances-
tors ; but let “Car-
tot” examine some
of his friends, and
just at the nape of
the neck, where the
hair comes down to
a point, he will
find a small reddish
mark. This varies
with different indi-
viduals —in some it
will be a slight dis-
coloration or small
spot; in others a
distinct triangle or
perhaps a streak.
I have tried this
dozens of times in
Singapore, where
there are mixtures
of all kinds, and
have never found it
on any of the
known Eurasians,
but all the Euro-
peans had it with-
out exception. I
have never put it
to the test in Australia, so don’t know how
it would pan out there.
“Trapper”: I was on the Haverford when
the Southland, carrying Diggers from Egypt
to Lemnos, was torpedoed, and helped to
pick up the men strewn around in boats and
on rafts. Most of them treated the incident
as a joke. A rope was thrown to the 10
occupants of one raft which came drifting
past our bows, but the shipwrecked men were
so intent on a game of crown and anchor
that they ignored the would-be rescuers.
As they passed by I recognised in the
manipulator of the dice an old acquaintance,
and heard his slogan of “What’s the old
crown an’ the diamond done? Plonk it down,
thick an’ ’eavy.” Destroyers were already
racing up from all points of the compass,
and the Haverford was ordered out of the
danger zone. Later I met the hardy specu-
lator in Lone Pine; he mentioned cheerfully
that when he and his raft-mates were picked
up by a destroyer he was 740 piastres to the
good. His luck didn’t hold; he went west
when Abdul shelled us on November 29.
“Dingo”: “Wai-hoi’s” half-caste who
makes up monthly bills two at a time (R.
22/l/’25) is not unique. Some years ago
there resided in Darlinghurst Gaol a pen-
man who could write two different letters
on two different subjects at the same time,
giving a hand to each. But I can’t claim
for him that he never made a bloomer; it
was a slip which accounted for his location.
He had signed another gentleman’s name
on a cheque.
* * * *
“X2X”: Sometimes after a person has had
a limb amputated he complains of intense
pain where the limb ought to be. This pain
frequently persists for 24 hours or so, and
then ceases suddenly, after which it never
recurs. In a N. S. Wales country hospital
recently a young man whose right arm had
to be taken off after an accident suffered so
much from pain of this nature, after regain-
ing consciousness from the anaesthetic, that
it was necessary to give him morphine ; and
the fact that the drug did stop the pain
seems to indicate that the latter was not
wholly imaginary. One explanation might
be that, although the limb is no longer there,
the cerebral centre in which pain stimuli are
set up still exists, together with some of the
nerves associated with it. Stimuli originat-
ing somewhere else can be still carried along
these and back; and, although they naturally
don’t go as far as they previously did, the
subject, from force of habit, thinks they do,
with the result that he imagines he feels
pain in a limb which is really out in the
incinerator.
* * * *
“Quero”: One of the M.L. troopships,
homeward bound by the Panama route, put
into Newport News for fumigation on
account of an outbreak of measles, and the
American authorities quartered the M.L. con-
tingent in a huge camp with some thousands
of their own “doughboys.” In their spare
time the Maorilanders taught the Yankees
two-up. The popularity of the game became
such that in four days the authorities held
a conference on the best method of suppress-
ing the mania, as not only was the dollar
changing hands at an alarming rate, but the
Americans, with their characteristic thor-
oughness. were staking all their possessions,
and farms in Wyoming, ranches in Texas,
blocks in N’Yark and shipping companies on
the Lakes were passing daily to new owner-
ship. One M.L. man won a chemist’s shop
(the owner called it “my little drug-store
down in Portland”), and, like the rest of
MERELY A MOVE INTO LARGER PREMISES.
“Twiggs business will go to the Devil now he’s dead."
“Oh, well, that’ll give him a chance to get it again."
the Maorilanders, took out the value in dol-
lars. Those were hectic days. The same
thoroughness in laying the odds led to the
Californian ban on racing, for, when he
gambles, the Yank, like the Romans in
Rome’s quarrel, spares neither land nor gold,
nor anything else that he can lay claim to.
10 ! 10 !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Has anyone seen the Flying Dutchman on the
Australian coast lately? Strong evidence for one
appearance is given in the published story of the
cruise of H.M.S. Bacchante, on which our present
King made his first visit to Australia.”
’Twas H.M.S. Bacchante
With seaweed in her hair
That sailed the dark Pacific
And saw—oh, sight terrific !
The Flying Dutchman flare
O’er seas in such confusion
That, though not prone to funk,
She came to the conclusion
The rising tide was drunk.
But still she braved it, slipping,
Rctl-rolling up, and tripping
(The while she roared a chanty)
O’er waves that were not there.
High, with a sound like thunder,
The great sea-serpents reared
Their horrid heads and wiry ;
Their wicked eyes and fiery
Her quaking timbers seared.
While tipsy waves cavorted
And rollicked like buffoons,
The awed lookout reported
A whole-hic \-fleet of moons;
Then in his lambent veiling
They saw the Dutchman sailing—
It had been greater wonder
If he had not appeared!
Demur’s not to be thought of,
’Tis very rude ; besides,
Though confirmation’s tardy,
None but the most foolhardy
A lady’s word derides.
Her consorts two need never
Corroborate the dame ;
We have no doubt whatever
All three beheld the same.
But, ere this apparition
Is passed into tradition,
We’ll wait for the report of
H.M.S. Sobersides.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


CHAMPAGNE DELBECK
Clear as crystal sparkling like starlit waters just after sunset.
Bouquet that brings memories of the happiest hours of your life—
and through all a 22-carat quality which stamps
CHAMPAGNE DELBECK REIMS
THE KING OF SPARKLING WINES.
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD.
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“Tourniquet’s” tale of a major operation:
Oapt. T. Hutton, who died, aged 82, a few days
ago %vas responsible for the most remarkable surgical
operation ever performed. He was the surgeon, with-
out the smallest training for the job, and hating
it so that for months after he “couldna abide raw
meat.”
It was in the- early ’seventies, and Tom Hutton
was the skipper of a small sailing-ship making for
London. A seaman fell from the rigging and was
disembowelled on part of the mainmast. The wretched,
screaming man lay on the deck until the noise
brought the skipper from his dinner. No medical
stores were carried in those days—the skipper had
one bottle of brandy and a few junks , of camphor.
AN ANNUAL AFFAIR.
THE 'STUTE: “Harry, you grow more handsome every day.”
THE BRUTE: “H’m, yes — it's a habit of mine just before your
birthday.”
In spite of threats from the crew, who wished the
man left alone to die, Hutton enlisted the help of
the apprentice, John McEwen, the only volunteer.
Then he went to the cabin and poured half his
precious brandy into a tin dish and dissolved his
camphor in the spirit. With rags soaked in
this he bathed the spilt intestines and the jagged
wound. To sew him up there were only sail
needles and hemp, and John McEwen threaded the
needles and helped to hold the yelling patient.
Then the skipper found that the round sail-needle
would not penetrate the skin; so a sail “stabber”
was obtained and a hole bored for each stitch.
But the stitching was nothing to the returning of
the intestines. This is somewhat difficult for a
skilled modern surgeon, With the patient relaxed
and calm under an anaesthetic. What it was to
skipper Tom Hutton with his clumsy tarred fingers
no man can tell.
At last the job was done, a rag soaked in the
camphorated brandy was all the dressing, and
the skipper rose from his knees a white and sweat-
ing man. The rough crew were half mutinous
at what they believed was deliberate torture; but
Hutton was in no mood for criticism. “Ma nerves
were like fiddlestrings, and maybe I’d ha’ killed
any man theet spoke to me then.” Judge of his
feelings when his only passenger, a dipso remittance
man, returning to England, staggered up the com-
panion, having smelt the brandy as a pointer
smells quail, and having swallowed it all, thickly
accused Hutton of being a torturer. “I juist dropped
him with one on the jaw and put him in irons the
rest of the voyage; for, ye’ll understand, I was
not feelin’ vera peaceable just then.”
The patient, by all the laws of surgery, should
have died in a day or two of acute peritonitis.
But he recovered perfectly. Hutton slept beside him
on deck to keep the crew off, who would have fed
him on scraps of salt pork. “I juist starved him
for days, until he was fair roarin’ wi’ hunger, and
then I gave him meat extract —all I had in the
way of soft food. Man, but I was aye glad to be
rid of him when they took him off at London Docks
to Guy’s Hospital.” “But why,” I said to the old man
one day—-“why did you use the camphor and brandy”
—both good antiseptics—“to bathe the wound?”
“Ah, that’s what all the doctors in London were
askin’ me,” the old man replied. “Weel, I’ll tell
ye—because I had nothing else!”
“F.T.K.” : My most casual bridegroom was
a signalman who occupied a box in the
Sydney area. His shift was from noon till
S p.m.; and one afternoon about 3 o’clock
he asked the s.-m. for an hour off duty “to
get married.” The request granted, he left
—in his shirt sleeves, I remember—and re-
turned a Benedict in less than the stipulated
time. Incredible though it may seem, the
same signalman, albeit working and living
not 30 miles from Sydney, had never seen
the Central Station until seven years after
its erection. I recall another railway man
who wasted no time over his nuptials.
Leaving his shift at G p.m., and being due to
return at 6 next morning, he hurried home,
washed, changed and entered the holy state
of matrimony. The beano was kept up till
the small hours; but the bridegroom spoke
when he returned to work in glowing terms
of the foresight of his wife, who annexed
sufficient eatables from the wedding breakfast
to fill his tucker-tin the next day.
* * * *
“J.A.K.”: Pars, about insecure lockups
(B. 25/12/’24) recall a story told by a Mac-
quarie-street doctor who was formerly m.o.
in a country town.
It was after mid-
night when a drunk
who had blown into
town the previous
day with a sizeable
cheque disturbed
the medico’s slum-
bers by bellowing
Bacchanalian songs
under his bedroom
window. The lone
representative of
the force having
ridden away on
some of his official
duties, the doctor
finally decided to
arrest the roy-
sterer himself. Hur-
riedly dressing, he
approached the
vocalist with “Come
on, my man, weVe
had enough of
this,” and, getting
a good grip of his
prisoner by the
collar and the slack
of the pants, he
hustled him to the
police-station, de-
positing the captive
on a heap of straw
in the stable. About
7.30 a.m., over his
third rum, the un-
appreciated singer
confided to the land-
lord that he had
been pinched the
previous night.
“But how did you
get out?” demanded
Bung. “The court’s
not on yet.” “That’s
the joke,” explained
the escapee, “the copper forgot to lock the
cell.”
* * * *
“Lex”: It has always been a neat point
how far the chemist is justified in varying
the quantities of drugs—often poisons in
the popular sense—prescribed by medical
men. Probably a variance, or even a gross
mistake, in making up a prescription from
which death resulted, wofild have serious
consequences for the chemist; but there is
the other case where the variance is alleged
to have been such as to deprive the patient
of a benefit which might have accrued to
him had the prescription been followed. A
suit interesting to everybody in the drug trade
recently came before Lord Justice Darling
in the King’s Bench Division. It was sought
to obtain damages from a reputable firm of
New Bond-street chemists for alleged negli-
gence in compounding a prescription. Negli-
gence was denied ; the defendants said they
HER LEGACY.
“If I were to die I wonder if you would remember me for long.”
“I think so, dear.—the doctor says my indigestion is incurable.”
had merely exercised a reasonable discretion.
The facts were that a Harley-street doctor
had prescribed for a patient suffering from
epilepsy a medicine which was to contain a
grain and a half of luminal sodium. The
chemists used only half a grain. The patient
obtained no relief. The plaintiffs contended
that had the full quantity been used such
relief might have been obtained ; at all events
they were entitled to the full benefit, denied
them by defendants, of the prescription as
given. , Unfortunately for the plaintiff, the
prescribing doctor, under cross-examination,
udmitted that he could not say that the
absence of one grain of luminal sodium each
night for 10 months —that was the period of
the prescription—would have had any material
effect on the course of the trouble, and fur-
ther admitted that the omission by the chem-
ists had done the patient no harm. The
jury failed to agree; but it is evident that
the plaintiffs had some doubt of the strength
of their case, as they declined to accept the
verdict of a majority. The jury was there-
fore discharged.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: There is a man up in
Central Queensland who is beginning to
think he is destined to remain a bachelor,
for, although he has on three occasions
arranged with the parson, the Rev. T. H.
Taylor, of the Methodist Church, Barcaldine,
bad weather has intervened and prevented
the locksmith from attending. The man
lives on a station, 95 miles from Jericho, on
the Jordan, and each time the parson’s car
has been bogged on the way, and further
rains have compelled him to abandon the trip.
“FY7”: They breed them tough up in the
Tamworth district of N. S. Wales. The
other day Bert Munford, aged 14, while
some way from home in the bush, was bitten
twice in the thigh by a brown-snake. He
scarified and ligatured his leg, and then
set off for home. His father met him on the
way and treated the bite with permanganate,
and after a trip to the hospital the plucky
kid went home.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: An A.I.F. man named
Martin had a rougher run of luck than any
other Digger of my acquaintance. We both
went away with a volunteer crowd hastily
gathered to fill an unexpected vacant space
on a transport; and three days before we left
I helped him to make his official will in
favor of his mother. A day after leaving
I helped him make another—his mother had
died. The second document was in favor
of a sister in South Africa. The news came
at Durban that she was dead. So, when we
reached England, was the brother in the
A.I.F. in whose favor a third will had
been executed. Just before he could get
away on disembarkation leave Martin broke
his leg in an accident. He was patched
up, but, only a week after reaching the line,
lie was blown to pieces—the only casualty in
ihe batt. on that day. The sequence of
disasters covered less than a year.
... * * * *
“Nikko” : For resourcefulness I nominate
George, who occupies a junior desk in our
office. While up-
town on the firm’s
business the other
afternoon he met a
girl, and, being
financial to the ex-
tent of 35., invited
her to afternoon
tea. As they seated
themselves the
guest confided that
she had missed her
lunch and was fear-
fully hungry, and
George foresaw
trouble. It came
in the lady’s devi-
ation from the
straight track;
raspberry ices and
sundaes brought up
the bill for their
united efforts to
Is. 9d. But there
were an elderly
couple at the ad-
joining table, and
George had kept a
calculating eye on
their orders. Leav-
ing, he manag«d to
trip against a pro-
trud i n g chair,
stumble against the
table and upset the
old gentleman’s
cup. In the com-
motion that fol-
lowed it was a
simple matter, amid
apologies and
efforts to straighten
the table, to ex-
change the slips of
paper. Thus George
slid out of his
quandary for 35.,
and is still a hero
to the lady.
“ J. 8.”: Some prospective brides are un-
believably blind. A young woman in Christ-
church (M.L.) invited her intended hus-
band to inspect a house she had bought for
a home. The woman who was tidying it
up recognised him as a carpenter who had
recently repaired her house, and was known
to her as a married man. Next day the
woman came across the prospective bride-
groom with his real wife, and gave the show
away. Though Christchurch is only a hand-
ful of a town, the girl and the gay deceiver
had been “keeping company” for six months
without any fraud being suspected. More-
over, their homes were in the same suburb,
and less than a mile apart.
A WASTED OPPORTUNITY.
“I hear you had a terrible experience a few
days ago.”
“Yes, I was rescued from drowning by an-
other girl.”
UELUM NON ANIMUM MUTANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
English family, social position, would like to
meet some Birmingham people. Social evenings.”
—S. M. Herald advt.
Transplanted from across the main
Some exiles yearn to hear again
The mellow accents of Cockaigne,
While other ones become
Wild for Devonian cream and jam,
Or of Gknlivet old a dram.
We crave beneath the diaphragm
For somebody from Birmingham—-
Colloquially Brum.
Beneath these soft and azure skies
What tugging memories arise
Of screw-producing factories
That clang and roar and hum;
Of Chamberlain, illustrious Joe,
Assertive Austen, too, you know,
And stately Highbury 1 Heigh-ho !
A welcome warm he’ll have who’ll blow
In with a breath of Brum.
No Devon combe, no Yorkshire wold
Upon our wistful hearts is scrolled;
Auld Reekie’s glories leave us cold ;
Scant stock in Barrie’s “Thrums”
We take or Quiller Couch’s “Troy” ;
When Wessex yokels might annoy
And Caine’s quick-jabbering Manxmen cloy,
’Tis always undiluted joy
To meet some fellow Brums.
0 brothers here, across the sea,
Who revel periodic’lly
In stunts like “Back to Bungaree”
Bear with the “animum”
That still we hold to, nor condemn
Or find it strange we seek to stem
Sickness for home by calls for them
Who come like us from Brummagem—
Curtailable to Brum.
ST.S.W.
IFORD.
CAVE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Frocks are to be trimmed with hair.”
Still in a circle fashions go
To hunt old trails again ;
The latest trimming women know
Is very old to men.
And, ere the new-born fad is praised,
Let would-be wearers note:
The very devil’s oft been raised
By hair upon a coat!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


x O NE^
*
Pioneer Leather Belting
is the standard high-grade belting that has been
specified for a large proportion of the most
important drives in Australian industrial and
manufacturing plants for the past 64 years.
WHERE TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES AND
QUOTATIONS—
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E. Madder Pty.,
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Etd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production ot
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Nation at. Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
1900. . £524,121 £294,974 £87,779 £690 £140,678
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
1916.. 1,663.128 763,001 168,805 731,322
1917.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 741,603
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 Q4O -039
1919.. 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716 810,571
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1921.. 2,519,203 912,321 262,925 1,343,957
1922.. 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,304
Equitable of U.S.A. business taken over. .
1923.. 3,940.177 1,343,406 286,188 206 2,310, 3 n
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,918
The National Mutual has taken oyer another
bulk lot of insurance. In 1923 it was the
Australasian business of tlie Equitable, poli-
cies totalling £1,310,878. This time the co.
concerned is the New York Life and the sum
assured is said to be over two millions.
The agreement, which dates from January 1,
provides that
(a) The National shall take over the management
of the Australasian business of the New York Life,
acting for it in all dealings in connection with its
policies.
(b) All the conditions of the policy contracts
shall be carried out by the National exactly as they
Would have been by the N.Y.L.
(c) The policy-holders shall receive from the
National the same bonuses or dividends as they
would have received from the N.Y.L.
If they prefer it policy-holders may change
over from the N.Y.L. to National member-
ship on the same terms and conditions as
are embodied in their policies.
This big deal is an event of the past few
days, so the influence of the new purchase
will not be visible until next balance. But
without any such help last year’s figures are
entirely satisfactory. If from the 1923 re-
ceipts the amount received for the reassur-
ance of the Equitable’s risks are excluded,
last, year’s premiums exceeded those of the
best previous year by £184,931. In all
14,782 new policies were written assuring
£6,279,105, yielding £249,069 of premiums,
compared with 13,870 policies for £5,884,786,
yielding £234,389, in 1923; and compared
with 1922 total income was £538,224 greater.
This is such an achievement that the office
claims to be now “the largest British life
office established during the last 55 years.’
And yet, through the obstinacy of its founder,
it has never written an Industrial policy.
But while it has thus robbed itself of a
valuable feeder, it has. especially of recent
years, shown remarkable activity, and a
large disposition to go outside beaten tracks:
vou can find proof of that in its acquisition
of the Equitable and New York Life busi-
ness. Helped by a considerable S’African
connection and a fair-sized one in Great
Britain and British territories in Asia, it
has now in its 55th year an income 3|- times
greater than the figures it had reached after
its first 40 years of business-getting.
The improvement in the expense rate con-
tinues. last year’s touching the record low
level of £9 6s. Id. p.c.:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905. .£lB 2 9 p.c. | 1920. . £ll 14 6 p.c.
1910.. 15 0 3 „ | 1921.. 10 8 9 „
1914. . 12 0 0 ~ | 1922. . 9 16 2 „
1918.. 10 13 1 „ | 1923.. 9 12 9 „
1919.. 11 4 7 „ | 1924.. 9 6 1 „
That is £2 Bs. sd. p.c. less than the figure
of five years ago ; and 20 years ago the rate
was almost twice as great. _ The low-level
record was all the finer in view of the fact
that the new business written, £6,279,105,
has only once been exceeded. It follows that
the office is getting its new business at a
very low price. Assuming that the old busi-
ness costs 7 p.c. and the remainder repre-
sents the cost of the new, we get these re-
sults ;
Exes. New
New Chargeable Business
Business to New Expense
Sept., Premiums. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 . . 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1920 .. 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1921 .. 210,909 153,264 72.7 „
1922 .. 189,715 150,448 79.3 „
1923 . . 222,136 162,348 73.1 „
1924 . . 233,517 170,982 73.2 „
Had old conditions continued —if, that is to
say, there had been no Great War and the £
had kept its old value or thereabouts-—there
would have been a greater shrinkage in
costs.' But no insurance office is entitled
to complain on that score, because what it
has lost on the swings it has more than made
upon thenmndabouts : not only, have larger
insurances been written, but the income from
investments has grown enormously. Atter
deductTnftaxes and rates the return on aver-
age funds last year was £5 9s. 4d p.c.
2s. 2d. p.c. lower, certainly, than for 19-3,
but in that year a good profit w * s
the redemption of a parcel of Government
stock. Recent records have been :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1920.. £5 3 8 p.c.
iQin 4 12 3 «< 1922. . o 8 4 »
1914'.: 4 16 8 1923.. 5 H 6 „
1918.. 4 19 9 „ 1924.. 5 9 4 „
On last year’s average funds each Is. p.c
represents approximately £l°.MO- so
from this source alone about £llo,ooo more
is available for bonuses than would have
been the case if the funds earned only what
they did 10 years ago. How the figures have
bustled along this comparison shows
Gross Interest Rates Net Interest
and Rents. and Taxes. Return.
1914 .. £418,326 £13,624
iqis ’ 597 218 34,330 562,888
\l\l •' 653:939 27,160 626.779
1920 709,761 28,550 681,211
Tool 791 589 38,062 753,52/
1Q92 ' ' 897 697 39,624 858,073
1923 '' 1,037:377 50,288 987,089
1924 . . 1,123,086 51,091 1,071,995
Against the rapid increase of taxes pretty
well all mutual offices protest periodically;
but there is no prospect of any substantial
relief. They must draw what comfort they
can from the reflection that things might
easily be a good deal worse.
Assets expanded during the year from
£19,329,651 to £21,470,155. They are m
these shapes. 1910. 1914. 1920. 1923. 1924.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities .. 5.1 6.9 39.9 38./ 42./
Mortgages . . . . 65.1 .»9.0 34.8 2. .
Foreclosures .. • • 1.3 0.6 0,2 0.2 0.2
Freeholds .. -.12.8 9.9 6.0 5., 4.9
Loans on policies .. 9.8 9.4 7.8 10.0 10.
Other assets . . ■ • 15.9 13.9 11.3 16... 14.1
“Other assets” are chiefly cash, mostly on
deposit. There is nothing wrong with that
table The least satisfactory feature is the
growth of loans on policies; and there is
nothing unsatisfactory about even that trom
the point of view either of security or ot
earnings. Owing to the change in the charac-
ter of the assets during the past It) years
the co. carries far less risk of depreciation,
nevertheless it has a handy depreciation re-
serve of £106,890. The £18,236 which has
been added during the year is probably proht
on sale of securities.
The National Mutual now has an annual
valuation and distribution of bonuses; but
apparently with some idea of saving a tew
shillings, the actuary’s report is still pub-
lished only triennially. During the last
triennium (to September, 1922) the
interest earnings were £1 15s. 7d. p.c. more
than the rate assumed in the valuation, and
the mortality was only 65 p.c. of the expec-
tation For many years the National
Mutual’s bonuses were comparatively small;
but the extraordinarily favorable death-rate
(notwithstanding that the office has to a
great extent cut out the medical _ examina-
tion) and the great improvement in the in-
terest rate have given policy-holders much
larger refunds during the last two or three
years: and, assuming that the policy-holder
is still living longer and paying more pre-
miums than was expected of him, the pros-
pects in that line are still first-class.
* * * *
The Rosella Preserving and Manufac-
turing Co., L/td., of Richmond (Vic.), which
took over a proprietary in 1910: —
To Re- Nominal
Oct Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914. . £12,017 71 p.c. = £7,500 £4517 £15,258
1915 13,317 81 „ „ 8,500 481/ 20,0/ j
1916*' 10 040 7-| „,, 7,500 2540 22,610
Si?:: 18:021 7! :::: 2521 25,1.36
1918’ 8 607 8 ~ „ 7,500 1107 26,243
" 14 724 10 11,510 3214 29,457
I 990" 15 721 10 ”,, 12,500 3221 32,673
1921"' 13 089 8 ~ „ 10.000 3089 35,76,
]ll 2” 18,183 12 ~ ~ 16,983 1200 36,967
1923.. 24.155 12l „ „ 18,750 5405 42.3/2
1924.. 26,228 15 „ „ 23,853 23/5 _ 44,/ 47
Of the past year's div. 21 p.c. carries the
label of a bonus; and that may be a hint
that the directors don’t feel at all sure ot
paying 15 p.c. as a regular thing. There cer-
tainly isn’t a great deal over, even for the
past fat year, when it is paid; and, though
conditions in the business have improved,
partly as a result of the settlement of the
su-ar-supply problem, there is nothing in
the past record of the co. to suggest that 15
p.c. can be regarded as sure. Down to 1918
the capital was £lOO,OOO, and in the eight
years to that date the co. never once showed
a profit of 131 p.c. and didn’t average 12. In
the next four years, averaging the capital
at £125,000, the profit was 12$ p.c. p.a. Last
year further capital was got in: and it is
now proposed to issue another £25,000 m
order to extend tlm business in Sydney, mak-
ing the total £200.000. If the co. can forth-
with make even 12$ p.c. on this new capital,
issued at par, it will be doing remarkably
well. Certainly, the past two years have
shown results far better than those of the
previous 12; but the point to consider is
whether the past couple are a safer guide
than the previous dozen.
The co. is an energetic child of an ener-
getic parent—Moran and Cato. With what
vigor it has developed the industry which it
took in hand these figures illustrate: —
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1911 . £27,997 £16,123 £1842
1913 . . 36,848 21,832 2293
1915 . . 44,164 28,601 2246
1918 . 41,843 30,014 3222
1919 .. 53,481 34,753 4004
1920 . . 65,811 44,256 5833
1921 . . 62,524 44,357 5078
1922 .. 80,226 54,764 7278
1923 . . 96,883 63,758 8971
1924 . . 107,235 72,691 8316
The figures suggest a fourfold increase in
turnover since 1911; and that has been
accomplished on an increase of only 75 p.c.
of capital, and without anything at all start-
ling in the way of outside liabilities. The
next table illustrates that and some other
points:—
1913. 1918. 1923. 1924.
Capital . . . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £150,000 £174,258
Creditors,
deposits, etc, 25,063 79,689 41,522 58,366
Property, plant
and goodwill 59,772 64,340 94,582 120,270
Stock .. .. 51,552 100,485 89,067 108,613
Debtors and
bills . . . . 31,650 48,608 57,190 68,931
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 330 —— 11,806 3,409
The fine growth of trade in relation to capi-
tal makes one doubt whether the earlier
record of the co. is a faithful guide to the
future. As to the security for capital, there
rarely is a great deal of it in a manufactur-
ing business of this sort: apart from what-
ever goodwill may stand at in the books, the
value of the bulk of the plant depends largely
upon the profit it can earn; and that isn’t
governed much by its cost price or its re-
placement value. It is rather on the recent
profit-earning record of the co. that the
market values the shares at 31s.. —on that
and the chances of the co. following in the
footsteps of Henry Jones’s co. and making
many more issues of capital in the future.
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane) :
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
1912.. £3,030 6 p.c. = £1438 £1592 £3,132
1913.. 3,326 7 „ „ 1951 1375 4,507
Internal reserves disclosed.. 5000 9,507
1914.. 4,289 7 p.c. = 1951 2338 11,845
1915.. 3,945 8 „ „ 2230 1715 13,560
1916.. 3,819 8 „ „ 2230 1589 15,149
1917.. 3,789 8 „ „ 2230 1559 16,708
1918.. 4,449 12 „ ~ 3344 1105 17,813
1919.. 5,421 12 „ „ 3344 2077 19,890
Reserves capitalised, £12,151 . . 7,739
1920.. 6,913 12 p.c. = 3688 3225 10,96.4
1921.. 10,594 12 „ „ 6096 4498 15,462
1922.. 11,618 12 „ „ 6525 5093 20,555
1923.. 14,027 12 „ „ 7794 6233 26,788
1924.. 18,277 12 „ ~ 10,548 7729 34,517
This is the old and rather disastrous Federal
Building, Land and Investment Society, Ltd.,
and it is still more of a building society
than a bank. Brisbane. has shown extra-
ordinary signs of prosperity during the past
few years. Not all of it has been real pros-
perity ; but, real or artificial, it has led to
more building in the city than this genera-
tion had ever seen, and that and large ex-
penditure on water and sewerage and other
public works has caused great activity in
the suburbs also. The old Federal had
cleaned up and got itself _ ready to take
advantage of the new conditions. Writing
down its assets hard, it was able, when the
tide turned, to show rapidly increasing
profits, and thus get in new capital without
difficulty. How T matters have gone in that
and other respects this comparison shows: —■
1921. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Capital .. £52,725 £55,746 £74,328 £97,265
Deposits, etc.. 303,562 379,859 478,476 563,83/
Debentures . . 12,500 12,500 12,500 12,500
Advances . . 245,089 301,366 410,59/ 448,308
Properties, etc. 13,431 13,407 13,304 13,100
Govt, securities, „ „ „ _
etc . . 60,657 56,605 59,664 110,105
Cash, etc. . . 69,195 100,600 109,321 142,198
Share capital and deferred debentures plus re-
serves amount to £146,282; and the co. owes
the public just under £4 for every £1 of
these funds. That would be quite as much
as a building society should have; but, un-
like the ordinary building society, this co.
carries a large amount liquid—no less than
£•>46,415. or nearly 44 p.c. of all it owes
the public. Taking that into account the
profits are excellent; and that is largely due
to the exceedingly moderate working ex-
penses • income- and land-taxes and rates
amount, as a matter of fact, to within a few
hundreds of salaries, fees and general exes.
It seems too much to expect last years
profit to be maintained: and, though there
was then a wide margin after paying the
12 p.c., it has to be noted that 12 p.c. now
calls for more than three times as much as
it did five years ago, that part of the extra
capital has been transferred from reserves
and that none of the balance has been issued
at a premium. If in these circumstances the
co. can continue to pay 12 p.c. it will be a
rather remarkable performance.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in x\us-
tralia and Maoriland :
Dividends,
r~ —
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£££ £ _ £
1916. .137,131 49,460 6 p.c.= 50,059 10.000 589,01 i
1917. .184,978 49,460 7 „ ~58,401 30,000 636,134
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 ~ ~ 66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,228 49,730 8 „ ~ 75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 6J „ ~ 65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 „,, 20,000 518,448
Profit.
1923.. 92,583 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 521,031
1924. .126,725 50,000 6 ~ ~ 60,000 10,000 527,756
That table begins with the year when this
wholly or almost wholly British co. shook
out of its sleeve nearly £lOO,OOO of profit
made from the sale of severely written-down
assets. In the ’eighties and ’nineties it
carried on a big far-back squatting business
and made very heavy losses. The cobbler got
to work and put on various patches; and
when he was finished in 1912 there wasn t
much of the old pair of boots left. How
things changed this comparison shows :
1912. 1924.
Preference share capital (5 p.c.) Nil £1,000,000
Ordinary shai'e capital . . £135,350 1,000,000
Ist debentures (4 p.c.) .. 2,350,000 1,000,000
2nd debentures (4 p.c.) .. 540,765 ( 00,000
3rd debentures .. . . 405,573
Total £3,431,688 £3,700,000
That volume of 4 p.c. money should be a
valuable aid to-day. Yet, somehow, even
last year’s profits show that the co. is not
getting very much from it. With £1,700,01)0
of 4 p.c. debenture stock, and over half a
million of reserves, the disclosed net profits
showed only 6i p.c. on share capital.
The assets side of the balance-sheet pre-
sents almost as many changes as the other.
The co. lias sold its squattages (mostly it
got out a bit early), and nowadays depends
mainly on commissions, agencies and gen-
eral-merchant business (it bought out Gol-
lins a while ago). The chief balance-sheet
items other than those set out above are:
1922. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities . , . £690,688 £640,531 £608,601
Advances . . 3,000,361 2,883,285 3,136,080
Property .'. . . 4,617 1,804 959
Premises .. . . 280,290 297,247 295,408
Merchandise .. 144,255 188.755 239,6a0
Shares in other cos. 36,873 245,686 219,303
Liquid assets .. 1,487,740 1,309,783 1,029,92 a
The strength of the position ought to be
grateful and comforting to clients who may
want a few r pounds some time. But there is
nothing in the co/s earnings to make share-
holders enthusiastic. Whether it is the m-
vestments that are weak or the expenses that
are strong, or whether the directors are
making large additions to the internal re-
serve for contingencies, the Wild Gat doesn’t
know.
Broomfields, Ltd. (Sydney), hardware
merchants and ship chandlers, from the time
the co. took its piesent title: —
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1920. . £23,540 12£ p.c. — £9,657 £13,883 £33,71G
Reserves capitalised . . £31,500 2,210
1921.. 12,166 74 p.c. A 11,693 473 2,689
Deficit.
1922.. 45,644 Nil 42,955
Capital written down . . £42,657 298
Profit. Reserve.
1923.. 3,740 2J p.c. = 3,165 575 2"
Loss. Deficit.
1924.. 4,859 Nil L 582
It is hard to say why some lines of business
are money-spinners and some are not. It
isn’t always by any means a matter of man-
agement. The Wild Cat has known men who
have given one line of business the best they
have had in them and made no money out
of it, and who have then turned to another
and made a fortune. In this case a com-
mittee of shareholders was appointed recently
to ascertain what was wrong. It reported
last month that nothing was wrong—work-
ing exes, and overheads were distinctly mod-
erate, the stock was all right, and it couldn’t
see anything amiss with the management.
The committee was probably right. The
hoodoo is on the business: an even bigger
co. in the same line has had its serious
troubles, too, and in that case the dazzling
harvest of a few war-years misled hundreds
of investors. In 1917 the co. now on the dis-
secting table took over the ship-chandlery
business of John Broomfield. For two years
it did very well, net profits being £12,884 and
£ll.BOO respectively, and a reserve of almost
£20,000 had been built up by 1920. At the
latter date stock was £69.547 and liquid and
semi-liquid assets totalled £101,318, with
fixed assets £9532, while liabilities were
£18,136 and the bank was lending support
to the extent of another £18,136. The posi-
tion looked all right. Conditions m 1920
seemed even rosier. But the value at which
stock appeared in the books was shattered
in the following term, and the co., having
divested itself of the protection which a re-
serve would have afforded, had to reorganise.
The cut was insufficient; and, after showing
a small profit in 1923 (and paying it nearly
(Continued on page 19.)


IN THE SOVIET’S HAPPY LAND.
"The deposed Trotsky is a prisoner in the Kremlin. His opponents arc tightening up the Soviet regime and their methods are implacable.”
THE DRIVER: “On, I say, on! There is glory at the top!”
THE DRIVEN: “Mercy, mercy! Every day for six years we have been flogged up a new hill— let us stay a little in the valley.”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The 4 ‘Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydnev.
and The Bulletin OHiee. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/0 per annum,
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coke breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
* *• * #
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
\dams's Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
Low initial cost, long life, and freedom from any
type of corrosion are factors which make Pioneer
Wood Pipe the ideal conduit for all classes of fluids.
It is simple to instal, cheap to maintain, unaffected
by electrolysis or frost, and will consistently deliver
a greater volume of flow than any other piping.
Send for our free illustrated book of reliable infor-
mation. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
* » * #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* » * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — -Adst.
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel renuirements. — Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade !c Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole ’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
panv, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Armstrong, Whitworth Pty. Ltd.
PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEERS
AND CONTRACTORS
RAILWAYS, WATER SUPPLY, IRRIGATION,
BRIDGES, DOCKS, HARBORS,
HYDRO-ELECTRIC WORKS,
etc., etc.
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
Westminster.
HEAD OFFICE:
305 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Sydney Branch :
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagli Street.
GEORGE ELLISON’S
Circuit Breakers (Air and Oil), Disconnectors,
Switch Gear (High and Low Tension), Crane
Equipment, Starters and Panels, Oil Break Panels,
Trailing Cable Connectors, Rotor Starters,
are of wo rid-wide fame.
Australian Agents (except W.A.) :
GUTHMDGE LTD., 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
all away in a rasli dividend), the co. has now
had to confess another loss. Fortunately
liabilities are not heavy:—
1920. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities .. .. £29,255 £22,703 £23,689
Mortgage . . . . 25,000 25,000
Premises and plant .. 15,319 55,313 54,909
Stock 89,463 85,095 79,244
Book debts .. . . 52,020 37,058 35,070
Cash 1,689 269 1,777
The co. therefore isn’t by any means down
and out. It has a possible future in the
development of other lines; and on the selec-
tion of these the future mainly depends. At
present it is quite speculative.
* * * *
Stan Ricketson, of ,T. B. Were and Son,
by arranging the £2,000,000 Vic. Savings
Bank loan, made old mouths water. The
iirm gets a clear ss. per cent, as over-riding
com., so starts with a cool £5OOO. Next, if
clients who are not underwriters are putAn,
the firm will take 80s. per cent. If ISpey
are underwriters it has a brokerage of 10s.
per cent. Everything was kept as quiet as
a Quakers’ meeting until the Savings Bank
Commissioners released the news. The old
underwriting circle learnt what was up by
getting a cheery note to ask if they wanted
to share in the good work. Whether they
liked the letter or not most of them are said
to have accepted the invitation to come in.
It costs them £97 10s. per £lOO to obtain a
(>i per cent. State tax-free stock having a
currency of 12 years. Such an investment
is as good as shown in the list of gilt-edged
trustee stuff. Late Melbourne loans, except
the Electrolytic and the B.H.P. deb. floats,
have been handled by the issuing authority.
The arrangement is a reminder of the days
when John Goodall and Fred Thonemann
fought fof control of the State and Board
of Works underwriting, which ended after
a fateful 31 per cent. Victorian pre-war loan
hung fire. The only plums since then have
been the two Baillieu scoops over the B.H.P.
and the Electrolytic Zinc floats.
* * * *
Lai Lai brown coal is being handled by Vic.
Central Coal and Iron Mining Co. The co.
got an overdraft of £5500, but as it has
good debts of half that sum it isn’t so hard
up as most Vic. mines. Altogether £33.865
has been sunk at Lai Lai during the last
decade, and there is a fair-sized plant and
a big open-cut to show for it. The plan
followed is to air-dry the coal: in that
state it is easily sold. Cash is now being
sought to provide a big de-hydrating unit
so as to get rid of moisture rapidly and
hasten sales. Then Morwell will have to
look out, because a lot less than 51s. a ton
will pay Lai Lai.
* * * *
Vagaries of the arsenic market have hit
Stanthorpo (Q.) severely. The output of
grey arsenic has dropped £lOOO per month
in value recently, . and production has
stopped at the State mine at Jibbinbar as
well as at the Beecroft and Sundown mines.
Tibbinbar has almost exhausted its prin-
cipal reserves of high-grade ore, but the
manager reckons there will be no difficulty
in locating plenty more if the market
brightens. So it looks as if the next few
months will see little work done there, while
the Beecroft will keep a few hands on to
supply the Wallangarra poison works.
* * * *
A report comes from Quilpie, near Cliarle-
ville (Q.), that on two oil-prospecting areas
taken up there a bore lias located films of
oil at a depth of 1500 ft. The supporting
information does not look too promising,
but the Government has taken a hand, and
an expert is having the bore bailed out and
examined.
* * * *
The desperate straits of the Blair Athol
coal industry has moved the Queensland
Cabinet to grant the co. a special freight rate
of a farthing per ton mile for coal produced
for export. This means, of course, that the
railways will make nothing, if they don’t
actually lose, on the carriage of such coal.
The Blair Athol local trade a few years ago
ranged from 15.000 tons to 20,000 tons a
month—now it. is 3000 to 4000 tons. This
is the result of the opening of several State
collieries and the Dawson Valley colliery of
the Mt. Morgan Co. With the freight con-
cession the field can got coal to the sea-
board for about ss. a ton. On open-
cut working it can then beat other fields to
the bunkers as far as cost is concerned. The
Blair Athol Co.’s open-cut scheme lias so
far cost too much owing to miscalculation
as to the amount of over-burden, but the
idea has not been abandoned. J. W. Hether-
ington. on behalf of the co., carpet-bagged
the globe a couple of years back looking for
foreign orders, and he reported a promising
outlook. And the field ought to have one: its
coal is probably the best for export that
Queensland has to offer. It is tough., high in
calories and low in ash —-run-of-mine fuel
may be expected to average 0 p.c. to 9 p.c.
—and the seam is 93ft. thick in places.
* * * *
A report comes from Cloncurry of a very
high-grade cobalt deposit. Prospecting
work has been delayed by litigation between
claimants for the ground, but this has now
been settled. Assays show up to 30 p.c.
metallic cobalt, but the statements that the
lode is Bft. wide need confirmation. This
is the third cobalt prospect found jn the
Cloncurry district since -the Mt. Cobalt
mine was opened; and as operations there
are being considerably extended and further
hands put on, a considerable impetus has
been given to prospecting for this metal.
Cloncurry looks like becoming one ot the
chief producing cobalt districts in the world
in years to come. # #
Queensland gold yield last year was
valued at £406,518. That’s bad enough,
still it’s a long way better than the
£214,060 of 1921—the fearful abyss to
which the figures had fallen from the
£2,341,200 which the State averaged per
annum in the first 10 years of the century.
Divs for the year amounted to a miserable
£8421.
* * * t
The Empire Extended Co. threw up its
option on the Salvation at Marvel Loch
(W.A.) too soon. In the year or so since
it backed out, the owners—a syndicate of
miners—have extracted about £4OOO worth
of gold, and values at 100 ft. below the point
where the Empire Extended left off working
are reported to be “better than ever.
* * *
Westralia Premier Collier’s mission to
London includes a talk with speculators
there about the opportunities for mining in-
vestment which the State offers. But Lon-
don mine-buyers of substance want proved
properties, and Westralia is unfortunately
out of them at present. # #
South Australia Oil Wells Co. has cir-
cularised shareholders to take up the toi-
fcited shares at 2s. to pay for storage tanks,
for cementing No. 1 bore, and for drilling
No. 2. For this latter work a standard
rig has been hired from the Goldfields Dia-
mond Drilling Co. capable of going to 2009 ft.
The new hole will be on the A ictorian side
of the Caroline area in S.A. No. 1 bore-
hole contains 400 ft. _ of oil-sand, but if
petroleum is present in quantity it is kept
back by 'strong gas and oil pressure, so it
is necessary to cement off a line of om.
pipe at about 840 ft. to keep the upper
water from getting into the oil-sand.
This job and the subsequent drilling out ot
the cement may take two months.
* * * *
There is not likely to be any labor trouble
at Broken Hill. The men want more pay,
of course, and they will get it; but the in-
creases will probably be governed by the
height of metal prices above the normal—
if a normal can be ascertained or agreed
upon. The cos. can afford to pay something
more than they are paying; and it is re-
called that the sliding scale was one of the
chief causes of the long peace at Wallaroo
and Moonta. Broken Hill isn’t Wallaroo
and Moonta yet; but it isn’t at all the
Broken Hill it was a dozen years ago either.
Then it was the Reddest town in Australia.
To-day, largely because it has a much saner
Labor daily, it is almost reasonable.
*
It has been decided by the N.S.W. Mines
Department that miners may enter btate
forests but must not cut or remove timber
unless it hinders prospecting. Authority
must be got to use timber for other than
mining purposes. * #
Tin glia Tin (N.S.W.) finds its suction
cutter-dredge an unprofitable instrument in
the stiff ground. The estimate of 20,000
cubic yards a month has been reduced by
half in practice. Alteration follows altera-
tion, the latest being to equip the cutter
blades with teeth; and the directors claim
that this should raise the .yardage to 12,000
in February. The 20,000 yards, however,
will depend upon the capacity of additional
plant yet to be installed. The present suction
pipes choke too easily and fail to deliver
when hard ground has to be negotiated.
Shareholders in Crown, Mudgee (N.S.W.),
finding themselves holding 7s. 6d. paper mar-
ketable at about 7d. with 3d. calls accumu-
lating, started asking questions. Two direc-
tors, C. H. Kerry and Aubrey Bartlett, re-
signed ; those who were left deputed YV. LL
Cundy to re-sample the show and report.
A. C. Bartlett has since reconsidered his
resignation.
* * * *
Vimy Ridge (N.S.W.) brings its first
annual report to Sept. 30. The co. lost
£llO4 during the year, and £556 still stands
against flotation expenses. AY lule the 10-
head mill ran spasmodically it treated 600
tons for 2500 z. The dividend stage appears
afar off. despite the optimism of chairman
N. C. Clark. *
Broken Hill Prop, has grown tired, of
paving high prices for coal and is now sink-
ing a shaft at Belmont, Lake Macquarie,
which is the beginning of a mine of its
own. The shaft will cut a 6ft. seam of
fine coke-making coal at 900 ft., and modern
appliances will enable the co. to handle
1,000,000 tons per annum —miners permit-
ting. »
Mt. Tumblong Development (N.S.AAL),
which skyrocketted and fell last year, has
another iron in the fire. It is seeking more
capital to acquire an option from J. T.
Beckett over Laurie’s Reward claim at Tana-
mi (N.T.). Beckett was formerly Chief In-
spector of Aborigines in the Territory, and
is a seasoned Territorian. Dr. H. I. Jensen,
who visited Tanami, found that quartz reefs
abounded “over a vast area,” and colors of
gold are obtained by dollying. He is posi-
tive the Tanami reefs contain payable gold,
as he “had no difficulty in breaking quartz
containing coarse gold out of Laurie’s and
other claims.” Laurie had recovered 1300 oz.
by the dolly-pot, and Jensen found evidence
on which to base an estimate that 100,000
tons of ounce stuff and “very much larger
quantities” of half-ounce were ready for
opening up.
* * * *
It is a long trail from flotation to pro-
duction in the case of tin-dredging concerns
launched in Australia to recover metal in
the P.M.S., Siam and Burma. Thabawleik
shares have had a year’s run on some of the
Australian Stock Exchanges; and it is now
announced that 500 tons of machinery have
been landed at a spot at the head of naviga-
tion, and still require carting seven miles to
tlie property over a new-made road “almost
ready for use.” The pontoon material being-
included in the 500 tons, “it is expected”
that construction work will begin before this
month expires.
# * * *
Kuala Lumpur worked 806,925 cub. yds.
for 291} tons of tin oxide. This brought
in £48.531, but the little brown man snapped
up £7259 as royalty, leaving £41.272 as a
base for all working calculations. These give
the value of the wash at 12.275 d. per c. yd.,
and as costs were 5.964 d., the refreshing net
profit of 6.311 d. is shown. Of course, tin
has been a great price—oxide averaged
almost £142 a ton. But a high price was
needed if divs. were to be kent up, for a
tangle of driftwood put up costs and made
yields low. Now better wash can be handled
and Kuala can amble along comfortably for
a reasonable spell. By picking up ah
option over 180 acres of rubber plantation
next door, a good speculative chance exists
of an extension of the life of the show. Am-
brose Pratt’s idea is that if bores on the
new ground are all right, divs. can go on
as usual, or even a bit better, even though
the land has to be paid for. But all that
depends on the tin market.
* * * *
Back in April, 1923. Tongkah Compound
asked Thompson of Castlemaine to put a
suction cutter dredge on its Eastern tin plot.
The minimum output of the plant was to be
80.000 cub. yards a month. Up to Oct. 31
last only 29,900 c. yds. had been dredged
for 8} tons of oxide. Then Rex Thompson
posted off to Malaya, and in Dec. he had
the plant at work again. But there is still
something wrong, and in a 548-hour cam-
paign. only 40.656yd5. were dealt with. How-
ever. Thompsons are still sure they can pro-
duce the contract figures. As the Compound
has the No. 2 pup at work, and as it is
swinging along in fine style, shilling divs.
from it stifle immediate anxiety about the
cutter plant.
* * * *
The crop of tin floats in the E.M.S. grows,
the Pratten-Newman group doing some over-
time in the business. Alluvial Tin, a hold-
ing co., is being built up on Austral Malay
lines. Already the 20 000 £1 shares arc
valued on ’Change at £6 6s. each. Quotes
received an impetus when it was reported
that the co. had mothered two pups, Tanjong
Tualang and Kuala Kampar, each in 120,000
£] shares, of which 55 000 are fully paid
and 65,000 contribs. paid to 55.; and that
the parent had received 66.000 fully paids
and £lO,OOO cash as commission. The Syd-
ney fraction of the contribs. in these con-
cerns was parcelled out among a select circle
without the issue of a prospectus. It was
casually announced that the areas to be
operated were “in the vicinity of Malim
Nawar South” —itself a fledgling with all its
future a long way ahead. The next phase
was a premium of about 100 p.c., produced
for the edification of the less favored who
were not in the float.
Kampong Kamunting directors have re-
commended shareholders to take 353 acres at
Karangan, Kedah, F.M.S., from Austral
Malay for £lO.OOO. The tin averages .771 b.
according to 178 boreholes on 290 acres of
it; and the mean depth is about 20 feet. No.
1 dredge will be utilised after working out
its present area at Kamunting about three
years hence. Estimates give £lO.OOO a year
profit from the proposed area with tin at
£2OO.
* * * *
“Anaf”: Although nothing has ever been
done in the way of searching for them in
recent times, there is a strong possibility
that diamonds exist in certain parts of the
Mandated Territory of New Guinea : and it is
believed that the object of one German ex-
pedition towards the head of the Markham
somewhere about 1912 was to see if it could
find precious stoims there. On one occasion
a native in Wilhelmshafen showed a
German official some stones which he
had picked up on the banks of
a creek, and which at least strongly
suggested diamond wash; and several per-
sons have pointed out the geological and
physical resemblance between certain dis-
tricts of the Territory and the diamanti-
ferous regions of Brazil.
* * * *
On the latest of the great rushes
The biggest gold rush in America since Nome is
in full swing in Mesa county, south-west New
Mexico, hear the Mexican border. Alluvial gold J s
said to be plentiful. The area is a desert in summer,
the playground of snow in winter. The only fuel is
brush. This field can’t be far from the country
of the Mexican Yaquis, an independent tribe of
Indians who have kept prospectors out of their
country for many years. They have always had
plenty of gold dust to trade with at Guyamas and
other Gulf of California towns, but have kept
their secret close, in spite of many an attempt to
penetrate it. This may well be one of the last
of the world’s great alluvial rushes, and the cine-
matograph will almost certainly record the event.
What wouldn’t Australian historians give for films
of the alluvial days of Ballarat and the Turon and
others of our big rushes!


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Peapes' Riding Breeches
Unique in Comfort Supreme in Value*
These English Riding Breeches feature those details
which ensure riding comfort and make instant
appeal to the horseman.
Cut to give ease when in the saddle—there is plenty
of room where comfort demands it.
Made of 1 awn Moleskin, excellent in quality and
finish, soft in texture, yet very durable. Correctly
cut and strongly finished with self-strapped knees,
cross and hip pockets.
35/-
Please state waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (opposite Hunter Street), Sydney.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Ushers
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Some February birthdays :
Geo. Swinburne (Vie.), 64, on 3rd ; Frank Lever-
rier, Iv.C., 62, on Bth ; Brig.-Gen. Forsyth, 58, on
®th; R. R. Garran (Federal Solicitor-General), 58,
on 10th; Edward H. Wittenoom (W.A.), 71, Albert
.T. Gould (former Pres, of Federal Senate), 78, Prof.
Ewart (Melb. Uni.), 53, and Major-Gen. Rosenthal,
50, on 12th; Edward Lucas (S.A.’s Agent-General),
68, on 14th; “Banjo” Paterson, 61, on 17th; Arch-
deacon Samwell (S.A.), 64, on 18th; H. I. Cohen,
K.C., 53, on 21st; Justice Starke (High Court), 54,
on 22nd; Norman Lindsay, 46, and Octavius Beale
(Svd.), 75, on 23rd; Walter A. Selle (Registrar of
Syd. Uni.), 42, on 24th; R. R. Stuckey (Under -
Treas., S.A.), 44, and Staniforth Smith, 56, on 25th;
ex-S.A. Premier Barwell, 48, on 26th; and Dr. James
W. Barrett (Vic.), 63, on 27th.
M. B. DUFFY, president of the A.L.P.
(Vic.) and assistant-secretary of the
Trades Hall Council.
Philip Whistler Street is N.S.W.’s second
consecutive home-grown Chief Justice. The
new man’s father was that J. R. Street who
for many years sat in the Assembly and
did the State perhaps a greater service as
managing director of the Perpetual Trustee
Co. Certainly in the latter capacity Street,
senior, greatly helped to set the high standard
for Australian trustee offices which they have
never lost.
Neville Howse, the new Federal Minister
for Defence, did a memorable bit of work
in cleaning up Itabaul when the Australian
troops occupied it in 1914. As P.M.O. he
found the place a hot-bed of disease, prin-
cipally malaria. In the few months that
liowse was there he made the town and
its surroundings a comparatively healthy
spot, and laid the foundations of the work
which Colonel Strangman later carried out
tor the whole of the Territory. Strangman
deserves full credit for the system of tropical
hygiene which he introduced, but had it
keen for Ilowse in the beginning the
Jittle Itabaul garrison could never have car-
ried out the work it did.
E vJj ee Neil, who has been appointed by
the hederal Government to control the Aus-
trahan section of the Empire Exhibition,
" embiey, when the show re-opens in May
can be a staunch friend as well as an enter-
prising manager. When accusations were
mined at an Anglican parson in one of
the suburbs by highbrows and lowbrows,
i\eil stood up for the vicar and made the
critics sorry for themselves while the con-
troversy lasted. Before becoming managing
director for Myers Pty., Ltd., he was a
partner m the establishment—only a small
show then. J
PDnn ™ kinet h ?s just re-appointed H. W.
f Japp Chief Railway Commissioner for a
further term of five years. The Vietorian-
t" d ankeo-trained railwayman, slogan-
n” t ‘; p . and . fruit-booster was known in the
1 epartment to have had designs on an extra
a y ear - but no alteration was
made to Ins present screw of £5OOO.
A ?2n‘ le ’ Victoria's great rifleshot,
1 n m ' nc the other d& y at a too-
raiiy He re-
presented his State
on many occasions,
and was a success-
ful coach of youth-
ful triers at the
butts. When he
shot at Bisley with
the 1907 Austra-
lian team, he was
the only competitor
who notched a full
score.
GEPRGE
PEARCE, the
Adelaide Conser-
vatorium pianist
and tennis-player.
If Maurice Blackburn, a lawyer, is re-
turned to Yic. Assembly as Fitzroy’s repre-
sentative, as now seems certain, two mem-
bers of the same legal firm (Slater, ex-
Attorney-General, is liis partner) will be
in the House at the same time. But
it will be no new thing. Bob Best
and Theodore Fink were in the Assembly
ar the. same time; and Cuthbert and Wynne
were in the Uppah Chambah together.
A pioneer who did much to open up and
aptly name the land of his adoption was
Captain William Albert Greaves, who at
the behest of Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-
General, came to N. S. Wales 72 years ago.
He did good work in the then little-known
country, and deserves a bouquet for his bes-
towal of aboriginal names on most of his
surveys. In 1858 he was appointed Crown
Lands Commissioner on the North Coast,
and in 1865 was appointed with Queens-
land’s representative, Surveyor-General A.
C. Gregory, to determine the position of the
29th parallel of south latitude, the boundary
between the two colonies. He retired over
30 years ago, and lived to be 96.
“Gerphlin” : The new Minister of Defence,
Neville Howse, General and V.C., says he is
not a soldier, never has been, and is never
likely to be. He is just the ordinary family
doctor, and his job at the wars was simply to
look after the health of the troops and see
that they were kept fit to withstand the
hardships of vigorous campaigning. A hard
worker, Howse thought nothing in pre-motor
days of a 50-mile night ride per horseback.
He was a whale for plain food, and corn-
beef and cabbage was his long suit. He had
a great practice in Orange, and last week
said that with two motor-cars he could still
rake in £6OOO per annum at his profession.
For a perfectly uncanny fatality, take
the death of policeman A. L. Bowley,
brother of the inter-State cricketer. An
ex-blacksmith and an athlete of 6ft. 2in.,
and broad in proportion, he was riding a
bicycle in suburban Payneliam (S.A.), when
a loose verandah-blind blew out, and the
wooden pole spiked him in the abdomen with
fatal results.
Gone where the good gangers go, Mick
O’Lauglilan, light-hearted Irishman and old-
time railway-construction foreman. He was
foreman on the Mareeba-Chillagoe construc-
tion, and at the finish of that job transferred
to the Etheridge line. He saw that through
to Forsayth, and then returned to Chillagoe.
One of the old brigade who helped to make
the hard life of the navvy a trifle less hard,
Mick was ever-ready in organising sport and
arranging matches between the champions of
various sections. These pay-day events be-
tween ballast-pit shovellers, sleeper-packers
and plate-laying artists stimulated interest
in the work, and kept together the best of
the gangs.
John Broughton, just dead at 67, was a
Hunter Itiver native who, as soon as he
passed his surveyor’s exam., began work along
the Clarence —that was in 1881. Thence
he was shifted to the Metropolitan (Sydney)
area, wliere he did good work on the Blue
Mountains before being transferred to the
Riverina and the New England country. In
1895 he became Surveyor-General, finally lay-
ing down the theodolite two years ago.
There are still 13 survivors of the 50 Con-
ventionists who assembled at Melbourne,
January 20, 1898, to discuss federation.
They are Joe Carruthers and William Mc-
Millan (Ma State), John Quick, Alexander
Peacock, Justices Isaacs and Higgins and
W. A. Trenwith (Vic.) ; Josiah Symon,
K.C., Dr. Cockburn and Paddy Glynn, K.C.
(S. Aus.) ; Elliott Lewis (Speck) ; Walter
.Tames, K.C., and A. H. Henning, K.C.,
(W.A.). Twenty-three of the original 50
were lawyers, and 9 of the 13 survivors
belong to the profession.
An intrepid Maorilander, Commander Frank
Worsley, will be Algarason’s lieutenant in
the expedition to the North Pole which some
Liverpool adventurers are financing. In the
expedition which proved fatal to Shackleton
Worsley was in charge of the Endurance,
and performed the daring feat of navigating
a boat from Elephant Island to South
Georgia. In August last he was beating
about the Orkneys in a motor auxiliary
schooner when a gale drove the vessel
on to the rocks. Worsley jumped overboard
with a rope and reached the shore, enabling
the whole crew to scramble to safety, just
before the schooner went to pieces. In his
early days he thrashed about the Shaky Isles,
having been trained in the N.Z. Shipping
Co.’s sailers. He was for a while chief officer
of the M.L. Government steamer Hinemoa,
and later commanded the Countess of Ran-
furly, trading between M.L. and the
Chathams.
“Nom”: Jack Bailey. M.L.A. for Goul-
burn, who refuses to accept the disqualifi-
cation imposed on him by the present
A.L.P. executive as a result of the ballot-
box inquiry, is a bit of a wag in a dry way
" s well as being a dogged fighter. The
JN.S.W. Storey Government had raised the
Parliamentary screw to £875 p.a. (it will
go to that figure again if Labor returns
t° office), and Bailey w r as tackled on the
subject. He justified the increase in a few
words. “Before we can make you feel that
we are fit to look after your interests,” said
Bailey, “we’ve got to show you that we
can look after our own.”
Despite frenzied opposition from the union,
Clapp succeeded in sweeping a drastic broom
through Vic. Railways Transportation
branch. With Molomby’s promotion to third
Commissioner, M. J. Canny drops the “act-
from his title of general superintendent •
and W. Thomas, his assistant, sees his old
chair in the outdoor superintendent’s office
filled by J. Fitznatrick. formerly district
superintendent at Seymour. T. W. J. Cox,
the ex-Ballarat district superintendent, has
beaten J. G. Lee for the job of metropolitan
superintendent, his rival seeking solace in
the supervision of the eastern district. The
union’s toughest bone, however, is the pro-
motion of stationmaster H. E. Russell to
district superintendent at Seymour and
chief-clerk T. 11. Maddern to the same posi-
tion at Ballarat.
Dead in Adelaide, at 41, F. H. Cowell, a
director of the timber co. founded by his
father. He was one of the governors of
King s College, and a winner of many prizes
at horse shows.
The pioneer of early-closing publicans in
Melbourne was William Barton, a Lon-
who kept the John Bull Tavern in
Little Collins-street* in the mid-’sixties. lie
closed at 9 o’clock, and did no Sunday trad-
ing An enemy knocked him up for a drink
at 10 o clock. Barton refused to serve • he
was summoned, and Mr. Sturt. P.M., fined
him one shilling, no costs, and wished there
were more publicans like him.
TP. s pen picture of a good citizen :
When Jim McLachlan isn’t ploughing his lonely
furrow for N. Gippsland in the State House of
|ioth and Bubble, he bolts off to Seaspray, Sale’s
“seaport,” dons an old pair of breeches and a
singlet, takes off his socks and boots, and sticking
his hat on the end of a pole, catches the shrimps he
needs for bait. In the course of the years he has
built up on the Ninety-mile Beach this seaside
resort, a godsend to his section of Gippsland. By
the forced labor of visiting doctors, lawyers, teachers,
chemists and dentists, he fenced and planted, in
the centre of the settlement, a long, wide piece
of land; and a thriving young forest now protects the
village from sandstorms. He induced the State to
reserve a dozen acres in a prominent position for
future sports purposes—the summer population will
shoitly be thousands instead of hundreds, he predicts
with a wave of his chapped hand and a nod of his
sen scorched, surf-bitten head. At present he is
building still another tennis court for youngsters,
and visiting nippers are joyfully dragging ti-tree
for breakwinds; and he is planning golf links. Last
week Jim reckoned the Board wanted stirring up
over a Soldiers’ Settlement near by, so at night he
tramped the 22 miles to Sale, caught the 6.15 a.m.
train to Melbourne, fixed things, whizzed back at
night, got a car down, snatched some sleep in his
shack which has holes in the walls instead of
windows (for “sea air is good”), and, before anyon''
knew he had been away, was running early-morning
races for children on the beach. In a century’s time
there will be a statue in Seaspray with “Good Ole
Jim” cut into the base.
The latest Ancient Mariner to haul
down his flag is Cap’n Hutton. A Scot of
the East Side, he
commanded several
windjammers en-
gaged in the Syd-
ney-Lon don wool
trade, but in ’9B
tired of blue water
and settled among
the heather till his
holding was re-
sumed by the Brit-
ish Government for
the Rosyth naval
base. Returning to
Australia he
acquired cattle in-
terests in Banana-
land and became
one of the pro-
prietors of the
Bowen meatworks
(Q.). Throughout
his life of 82 years
lie never found
time to get married.
NEVILLE
HOW HE, V.C.,
the new Minister
for Defence and
Health.
John McWhae, ex-Agent-General, is again
associated with Harry Lawson, ex-Premiqr.
Both are now directors of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society. Norman
Bayles’s resignation from the Board made
room for Big John.
“Sixenate”: Amongst the queer names
that have cropped up in police-court cases in
Melbourne during the last few days were
Bonus, Cabbage. Hardcash, Buckup and
Blabbs. Straightline was another. He was
charged with drunkenness.
From a N.S.W. Gallery hand:—
M fitch Joe Coates, Labor M.L.C. As a commercial
traveller he was credited with being- able to sell
anything down to a second-hand railway tunnel, and
the atmosphere of the Council neither kills his hustle
nor sours his friendliness. These points will not be
overlooked when. Labor is seeking someone to engineer
things in the lflevated Chamber. The somewhat
narrow and rather uncivil track by which so many
Laborites reach Parliament is not-the best training
ground for men who have to work amongst others of
very different views.
A. T. Markman, the messenger boy who
was never known to sleep and rose to be
Secretary of Maoriland’s excellent P. and
5. Department, has come back from the
Jubilee Session of the International Postal
Congress in Sweden full of admiration for
that 100 per cent. Nordic land. During the
six days, the report of the proceedings was
being printed the delegates were shown the
country in railway specials, and no matter
where they went their mails were delivered to
them en route by aeroplane. In Berlin he ex-
ploded the myth that living is fabulously
cheap for foreigners: only 18 of the new
rentenmarks went to the English pound,
against 20 before the war. London’s G.P.O.
opened his eyes with the efficiency of its
mechanical appliances, but he was able to
tell the . officials that a belt-conveyor which
the engineers approved but the mail super-
visors were dubious about had been in use
in M.L. post-offices for many years.
Frank L. Edwards, just appointed sec-
retary of N.S.W. Chamber of Manufac-
turers, was “discovered” by W. A. Holman
at Grenfell (N.S.W.), which was then in
his constituency, and brought to Sydney as
a -youth 20 years ago. By 1910, when
Labor came into power, he had become a
very wideawake secretary. Besides being
able to write exactly like Holman, he could
talk like him over the ’phone, with the re-
sult that Holman got the reputation of being
a wonderfully übiquitous politician. When
in 1913 it was necessary for the safety of
Labor to win the generally anti-Lahor seat
of Albury this aptitude was turned to
account. Every Maryann and hotel groom
in the town got such a nice kind letter from
Mr. Holman, the Premier, that not a
mattress was left unturned to secure the
return of Laborite Jack Cusack, who duly
won on the second ballot.
MACHINE HANDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tne sewing-machines like clockwork turn;
There’s a stuffy odor of flannelette ;
We drive the seam till our fingers burn
And palms and forehead are damp with sweat.
Brown heads, bright heads, red heads lean
Over the arms of each swift machine.
Yet, with fingers guiding a piece of work,
What law forbids that the thought shall rove?
When hands are busy the soul can shirk;
And mine lies alone in an orange grove.
Where a turquoise sky meets a turquoise bay,
My heart’s a harp for the wind to play.
With a leaf-brown smock in the yellow caught
Of gathered pollen the bees wing by;
I have shaped white doves of my wandering thought
And cast them wheeling about the sky.
Down the shiny seam that my fingers meet
Comes dancing youth on his golden feet!
To-night when I seek my clingy room,
With its rusted bed and its broken ware,
I shall fill the corners with orange bloom,
I shall pluck a blossom at every stair;
For an orange grove that in dream has root
Keeps a friendly dragon to guard the fruit.
A man at the corner hawks balloons,
Pink and yellow and tangerine,
But the jinn I summon sells saffron moons
And ilex-trees with the sea bet.ween.
Oh, the hands of fact and of fancy met
In a morris dance down the flannelette!
Only the sounds of the street come here
And the endless thud of the foot machines.
By a needle’s aid what a barque I steer
Where the white swan drifts and the green
bough leans!
For to the hearts that the fairies love
What wage forbids that its thoughts shall rove?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


-<T
V
«»,§, a
[Ba
»“U->
■rrs
m
'Zi\
r
ggga/g=^—2 \\
Vg
1 --— iesUs ~—~
Wi
"?r«rcy^
-VJ
&
52^
r--:
L
r_ qL-_^
*S=££r.&%
U(j -<JV
:v:;
- v'e?
<E§^*gfife
i;
ITS
YA
m
?M
m
C<V»
55
~flp-'
N
.<//
SL
\\
SA
ss
-Kr-^:
fa
. ' - ■'
s
II I
>s
f! ill M
I I;
£$
'i! V>mj|
3. V*
fe M
II A.- -? —• -J
f
Vf
'-. i (
EL
/.Li„
&JPS
TO
=.
% ■:;>.
FI
lie
:J
V ■,
r.
y
\
aLL'.-
7i
K«s>
-
'Wm
ITtJsaSP
ggOS
•ii r
««'!:: I 1!
‘t‘■'c ' '' i
■ -v.
w*
4DE
P
*
M
r A
HAMPION RESERVE
- PORT
/
Pi
p ’bOTTUED by THE makers :
E'homas hardy &sons limited
I“ U ‘ ~0 E MELBOURNE s. S yt, N[v
. A)
3*w
SO^TH AUSTRALIAN W| NE
1^
Set 1 PINT 6 FLUID ozs.
Shs*
R£
smfiu
aac*
\
•->
2^
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The
reputation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence, which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


equitable
Eife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Brancher•
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
wear
Work in Comfort
Macnaught’s “Wombat” Emperor
O TRONGLY built and serviceable—
give greater comfort to the man
who works on the land. Strong,
sewn soles, narrow for the stirrup.
Elastic protectors. Made of
enduring leather for solid
wear. Sizes: s’s to 7’s.
Black Calf 21/-
Tan Calf 25/-
We Pay Postage.
211-
■
■
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 PITT STREET SYDNEY 135 KING STREET
Do You Realise
The value
.of a more
comfort-
able saddle
like the
GENUINE
WIENEKE?
Read what Mr. W. Davis,
Yulearley Station, Bourke,
says: “The saddle is every-
thing; that I want. This is
, not the first ‘Wieneke’ that I had,
as I have one about 27 years old.
Everybody should have a ‘Wieneke.’ ”
Write to-day for my new book,
post free.
John J. Wieneke
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
BRISBANE, 371 George Street,
434 Queen Street. SYDNEY.
BEWARE OF IMITATORS.
ABORIGINALITIESM
ADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Dry”: When “ropey” bread appears, the
cook usually gives all utensils a thorougn cleaning.
Yeast jars or bottles are cleaned; or new bottles
and new y-east are used. And all without result.
I have seen bread hot from the oven “ropey” and
the cook nearly frantic. It requires courage to tell
a cook that the cleaning up Was not thorough; still
it has to be done. The trouble is in the oven or
oven bread-tins. If using a camp-oven, the best
thing to do is to invert the oven over a big fire,
thoroughly roast it, then clean. If a stove is used,
make a good fire inside —see that the bottom gets
hot coals, not soft ashes. Burn the bread tins: don’t
forget them ; they may be the cause, not the oven.
Leave the oven-door or lid open when not in use.
Closed doors or lids are often the start of the
trouble. If a brick or stone oven is employed, fire
it well and let the air in after. Usually-, however,
such an oven has to be pulled down and rebuilt to
get rid of the trouble,
* * * *
“Nitric”: I can back at least three
Queensland birds to beat “The Rumpus’s” wet-
weather prognosticator from W.A. (B. l/l/’25).
First, the bluish-black stormbird, with its mourn-
ful wail, sounded as soon as clouds appear. The
cry- is not unlike that of a curlew, only deeper
pitched and less prolonged. Then the cockatoos are
sure precursors of rain. I’ve seen them collect and
join in communion squawking hundreds of times, ari l
these rowdy mass meetings have invariably meant a
storm. Finally, our old friend the “Micky,” or
Queensland mina, will sound the warning note and
collect all his comrades. But his may be a false
alarm—he makes the same noise when he spots a
hawk on the horizon.
* * * *
“Jarrah”: The canny canine mentioned
by “J.G.” (B. 25/12/’24) was not in the same class
as one on a station near Saltia
(S.A.) owned by the late Andrew
Tennant. The cook used to kill
twice a week, on Mondays and Fri-
days. An old sheepdog, Nigger, would
be away with the boundary-rider on
the other day-s, but on these days he
would always be found at the slaugh
teryard in the afternoon. At 4 o’clock
the cook would come out with knife
and steel and say, “Nigger, fetch
the sheep.” Away would go the
tyke in a streak of dust. It was a
mile to the gate of the paddock where
the killing sheep were kept. The dog
would stand on his hind logs, pull
the gate-fastener back with his teeth,
push the gate open and round up the
jumbueks. About 100 were kept in
the paddock, but the custom was to
bring in about 20 at a time. The
dog would round up the mob, cut
out about 20 of the fattest (some-
times he had the exact number, some-
times a couple more or a couple less),
then drive them through the gate
and shut it. Arrived home he would
y-ard the woollies, and when the
cook had picked out his couple would
take the remainder back to the pad-
dock. One day he came in 10
minutes late with his 20, and both
he and they w-ere greatly excited.
The cook looked at him, and saw he
was minus an ear, chunks were chewed
off his dial, one eye was nearly gouged
out, and a strip was torn from one
of his front legs. The damper fiend
could not understand it, but he picked
his sheep and asked Nigger to take
the rest back. Then Nigger struck.
He looked at the cook with his one
good eye and growled, while his hair
bristled, and he kept turning his
head to look down the road. So the
cook decided to go back with him.
When they got through the gate
Nigger rushed across to a gully,
where was lying a big dead dingo,
mangled and torn, showing ample
evidence of having been engaged in
Homeric strife. Though the wnnrUrfnl
old dog had been thfough a fight to the death he
didn’t miss his count.
* * * *
J.K.”: Butting into the argument about
the capabilities of different nationalities as sailors
from what I have seen of the Jap I would not class
him alongside Binghi or the Fijian, both of whom I
nominate for places equal to anything, and without
drawing a color line. I have known a Binghi in
Torres Strait, when the only white man in a beche-
de-mer lugger was out of action through fever, brin-
the boat through a terrible cyclone whilst hampered
by all sorts of difficulties, the other boys with him
being greenhorns. This was about 30 years ago,
when the Channel Rock light-ship went down with
all hands at her moorings, and was never after heard
of. He manoeuvred his little craft with the jib, and
at times under bare poles, through the reefs, and got
her in the lee of Claremont Island, where he dropped
his anchors and rode the storm out without even
breaking a rope yarn.
UNCTION FOR THE SOUL.
MRS. BRANNIGAN : “Share, how’s Hannigan this mornin'?”
MRS. HANNIGAN : “Faith, ’tis poorly he is, an' a moighty expin-
sive disease he hov’. The doctor says Oi must kapc him
in foine spirits.”
“Keppel”: I can’t agree with “F. Clinton”
(B. l/l/’25) that a dog on seeing his reflection in
a mirror will simply walk away and not behave
as a bird does. I have a two-year-old fox-terrier that
will play with its reflection in a mirror for as
long as half an hour at a stretch, jumping up, paw-
ing it and licking it. Certainly the sense of smell
makes some difference as between birds and dogs,
but it has always been my experience that a dog is
just as keen to play with its reflection as a bird.
As a matter of fact I’ve never seen a bird preening
itself before a mirror, but I’ve seen countless dogs.
• * • •
“Bouragi”: The imaginary line which
sharply divides the Austro-Papuan fauna from the
Asian, as described by “Videlicet” (B. 8/l/’25), is
known as Wallace’s line, from the famous naturalist
who was the first to define it. The only creature to
be found on both sides of it is one of the birds of
paradise. The line, in Wallace’s opinion, marks the
physical division between the Asiatic and Austro-
Papuan continents. Torres Strait, though parting
Australia and Papua, has only done so in compara-
tively recent times, for such birds as the cassowary,
tne fantails, honeysuckers and one of the paradisae,
the rifle-bird, are found in both Papua and North
Queensland. So are some of the marsupials. Our
emu, by the way, is not a rhea, that South American
fowl being more closely related to the true Ostriches.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: The spider-web bait and book
combined, described by “Gouger” as being used by
North Queensland abos. for catching small fish, has
a rival in the cobweb landing-net used by the
mountain natives of the Eastern Gulf district of
Papua. The Papuan goes to little trouble, letting
the spider do the most important part of the work.
He bends a length of rattan into a loop with a
long handle, and leaves it in a likely place. Mrs.
Spider obligingly- comes along and works on the
prepared loop. Presently the darky returns and
goes after tiddlers with his new landing-net, without
pothering about the spider’s feelings. The Ferguson
Island - apuans catch a small surface fish witn a
bait of spider-web flicked along the top of the
water on the tail of a small kite.
* * * *
“Wart”: “E.S.S.” (B. l/l/’25) puts in a
good Word for the crow. He says the bird that does
all the damage is the raven, which has white eyes,
while the common crow has hazel eyes. In the Speck
there is only one species, and that is the raven.
In my opinion he deserves anything that could be
said against him. When sheep are at all weak at
lambing time, it is necessary to watch them con-
tinuously-. Here, at any rate, the raven has hazel
eyes until three or four years old, and then the
eyes turn white. The white-eyed birds are the most
destructive, and are as cunning as the Devil himself.
If one finds out where a fowl is laying, he will
pay the nest a daily visit, spear an egg with his
black bill, fly- away, drop it on some clear spot,
and have omelette for dinner.
“C. Gull”: The drunk seldom has more
than a vague idea of time, but I met the limit on a
recent Saturday. He boarded the train, demanded
the hour, and, on being informed it was half-past
one, la7.ily inquired. “What —to-day?”
* * * *
“Simon II.”; “Moe’s” theory that short,
thick cod are found in slow, deep streams, while the
gentleman with *the
long, streamline body
is found in the swifter-
running streams, sounds
all right, but I don’t
think it is satisfying.
On the Gwydir River I
have seen the stocky
cod caught near Bun-
darra, and the slender
ones caught near Keera,
30 miles away. Now,
the upper reaches of
the Gwydir are not
particularly deep ex-
cept in spots, but the
water, especially dur-
ing a slight fresh,
travels at a terrific
pace. When someone
can give the reason
why there are no dew-
fish, bream or yellow-
belly to be found in
the Gwydir above the
falls, or in the Severn
River, then the mystery
of the short and long
cod may be solved.
While on the subject,
can anyone tell me the
real name of the small
fish found in the upper
reaches of the Gwydir?
He is something like
a garfish, rarely ex-
ceeds 407,. in w r eight,
has no scales, and is
a splendid table fish.
Also, a pal of mine
wants to know by what
process a codfish ex-
tracts the meat from
tlie mussels lie swal-
lows in such quantities.
He knows they are
swallowed with the
mussel inside, and that
after a time the fish
disgorges the shell, ap-
parently in the same
condition as when he swallowed it, but investiga-
tion shows that the mussel meat has disappeared.
* * * *
“Nitric”: An extraordinary Christmas
snake episode occurred at Pullen Vale (Q.) and was
witnessed by a strict teetotaller. He was on a hill-
side near his home when he saw what appeared to be
an empty oil-tin approaching through the long grass.
When within a few feet, the tin suddenly sprang
into the air and showed itself to be attached to
the business end of a large black snake. It rushed
hither and thither, and flogged the tin on the ground
in an endeavor to free itself; then it lay still and
was killed. Inside the tin was a mouse, still
alive; the snake hadn’t been able to get in
through the hole far enough to reach the poor
scared little mite, and apparently hadn’t been able
to pull itself out either. -
THE BACKSLIDER.
YOUNG HOPEFUL, (to parson ): “Say, mister,
you wanter keep an eye on that shudder
of yours—see where it’s goin’ now!”
“28” : There is no need for “Boronia” to
cut down Westralian redgums to procure cheap
potash for soil enriching. The common bracken if
reduced to ashes will fill the bill, its potash 'content,
being 15 per cent. This is higher than that of any
otner Australian vegetable ash.
(Continued on page 24.)
MARY ANNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is tragic—or Life is jest.
Drama or dream? Well, God knows best.
Only- God in His mercy can
Explain it now to Mary Anne.
To Mary- Anne, the squatter’s miss,
W ho dreamed another day than this,
Waiting the morn, resigned and still,
Waiting the mom on Gumtree Hill.
The morn will bring you roses red;
A grand new dress lies on your bed ;
An orange wreath, a long white veil
To hide y-our face so drawn and pale;
To hide y-our face so drawn and white,
Wet with the tears of overnight,
Tired with the pray-ers y-ou could not pray-
For grace upon your wedding day.
Last year you were but seventeen—
And now, and now, the world between
Your life and his has placed its ban;
It ails you, ails you, Mary Anne.
So dour and hard can parents be—
A curse upon society-!
A curse upon the “social” life
That bids y-ou be a rich man’s wife 1
A blight upon conventions fall!
A thousand curses on it all!
We know your story-, Mary Anne;
We know you loved a younger man.
An old, old tale, too worn for words.
An honest lad—but lands or herds
He did not own; so far away
He rides upon your wedding day;
THE FUNERAL MATCH.
THE BOSS : “I thought I gave you the afternoon off to
attend your grandmother's funeral."
OFFOCE BOY : “Please, sir, it was postponed.”
THE BOSS : “Yes, I see by the papers the wicket was
too wet.”
So far away- ’neath northern suns
He rides with stock on Laurie’s runs,
Still pining for his Gippsland maid
Along the distant Adelaide;
Still thinking in his exile lone
Of how ye twain, from childhood grown
To lover’s age, with sudden fire
Of youth and passion and desire,
One Sunday of an Easter week
Rode knee to knee by Reedy Creek,
And how at last, a squatter’s miss,
You gave a stockman kiss for kiss 1
The morn will bring you roses red ;
A wedding dress lies on your bed :
And God will help you if He can—
He knows y-our story, Mary- Anne.
An orange w-reath, a white veil laid
Like mist along the Adelaide
A cheese-cloth ’neath a banyan-tree,
A hollow heart, a memory-....
(And later on to Darwin town
He’ll take his cheque and knock it down.
It is the way, alas! of man,
And well we know- it, Mary Anne.)
A pillow w-et with futile tears;
A tale as ancient as the years.
So take such comfort as you can—
God knows your story, Mary Anne.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


The Joy of Succeeding
while you are still Young.
j 'WO MEN work equally
l hard, and both succeed.
But to one man position
and independence come at thirty-
five; to the other not until sixty.
Success is sweet whenever it
comes; but at sixty the capacity
for enjoyment is less keen.
The travel that seems so
alluring at thirty-five has lost a
little of its charm, the distance
to the end of the road of life is
shorter; and many a man finds
fortune in his hands so late that
there is time only to arrange to
pass it on to someone else.
Happy is the man who finds
a way to save somehow the inter-
vening years; there is joy in suc-
ceeding while you are still
young.
There is a way to save the
wasted years.
The reason why success
comes so late for most men is
that there is so much to learn.
Only a man who knows all
the different departments of
business is qualified to reach the
higher positions, or to enter
business for himself. And the
learning of all departments
from practical experience in
each is a matter of many years.
Is there no way to shorten
this process? Must every man s
life have so many wasted years?
Thousands of able men have
determined to eliminate those
wasted years from their lives;
thousands have found the
answer in the Alexander HamiF
ton Institute’s Modern Business
Course and Service,
For years the Alexander
Hamilton Institute has special-
ised in the single task of training
men for the higher executive
positions of business,
Into its Course have been
built the experience and the
methods which have made many
of to-day’s business leaders suc-
cessful.
Its subscribers appropriate
the knowledge of other men,
and profit by other men’s mis-
takes and successes. They learn
in months what ordinarily takes
years.
The experience of the most
successful made available to all.
Business authority of the
highest type is represented on
the Institute’s Advisory Council
Hundreds of successful
executives have testified that the
Alexander Hamilton Institute
has been a tremendous factor in
their success.
More than 50,000 directors
and business heads are num-
bered among its 250,000 suc-
cessful subscribers.
“In the past eight years,’’ one
man wrote recently, “my income
has increased 750 % . The Course
has been the foundation of my
business training,”
Would you like to save the
wasted years? Would you like
to know the joy of rapid instead
of moderate progress the joy of
succeeding while you are still
young? If so, this is the call of
opportunity to you; a moment s
decision is all you need.
Any man who is sincerely
interested in his future will clip
the coupon at the bottom of this
page. It is placed there for a
purpose —to separate from the
mass of drifters the few men
who are asking themselves:
‘‘Where am I going to be ten
years from now?”
Send for “Forging Ahead in •
Business,’’
The book which the coupon
will bring is ‘‘Forging Ahead in
Business” —a 1 1 8-page book
that tells how the Institute has
helped so many other men to find
success while they are still
young. It is a valuable book,
but it is sent without charge.
There is no obligation; send for
your copy now.
Alexander Hamilton Institute of
Australia, Ltd.,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Mode
Send me “Forging Ahead _in
Business,” which I may keep with-
out obligation.
Name
(Print Here)
Business
Address
Business
Position
Bl
Victorian Representative Box 1613 G.F.0., Melbourne .
Queensland Representative Box OJfS G.l.oBrisbane.
South Australian Representative Box 891+ G.P.0., Adelaide.
Western Australian Representative Royal Bank Chambers, Perth.
New Zealand Representatives Box I+ls G.P.0., Wellington.
Box 1+22 G.P.0. , Auckland.


The end of the rabbit pest.
CALCIUM CYANIDE
/fumo
BRAND
No rabbit has a chance to escape when CALCIUM CYANIDE is
blown into the burrow, hollow log or other aperture. This remarkable
dust-like preparation mantles the walls of the warren and gives off deadly
fumes over twenty-four hours. Immediately a rabbit moves, it meets
its fate.
The Stockowners’ Association says in its letter to the Minister for
Customs:
“It has been proved to be the most efficient known method of
dealing with the rabbit pest.”
Use CALCIUM CYANIDE —keep your property free from rabbits!
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA-
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:—
Victoria
South Australia
Queensland....
West Australia
A. Victor Leg’s:o & Co., Melbourne.
S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Buzacott's (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
A " Alston” Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Oyer 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture W'indmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON S SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
m
i 17%
A FELLOW FEELING.
SQUATTER'S DAUGHTER: “Yes, I’m a smoker, too, Susie, and
I’d give anything for a packet of cigarettes note.”
SUSIE : “Here, miss, you hab a draw out o’ this phella.”
“The Crueteer” : Remarks by “Bad Aus-
tralian” (B. 25/12/’24) concerning the activities of
white-ants on Melville Island in old days recall the
sad fate of Bill Kelly’s artificial leg at Croydon
(N.Q.) in the dear wet days of long ago. Bill lost
the dinkum leg in a mining accident, and the crowd
came along with a substantial “hat” for a shop one.
The article was duly delivered by a famous firm, and
gladded the heart of Bill beyond even beer. None of
your shoddy timber pegs was that leg, but a work of
art, with all the latest gadgets in it, and so reason-
able was the price that a substantial balance remained
after it had been settled for. Only one course laj'
open to Bill, whether he was guided by etiquette or
his own wishes—that limb had to be christened
properly. So the balance was invested in the
requisite vital fluids, the guests assembled at Bill's
camp, and the christening began. After the initial
viewing, the wearing of the leg was an obviously
wasteful and flash superfluity—legs, indeed, of any
kind were very uncertain things at best during the
later stages of a Croydon celebration in those days—
and it was planted safely out of harm’s way. When
the last guest had taken his devious and tuneful
way along the track, Bill crawled to its hiding-place
for another look at the prized possession. Alas!
there remained only a little heap of metal screws
and plates in a heap of dust. The white-ants had
eaten it.
* * * *
“28” : “Tully Banyan’s” white snake may
have owed its color to the fact that it had not been
exposed to strong light. I once opened a small
case which had come direct from abroad. it
contained a thriving family of white cockroaches.
Being left undisturbed till the following day, they
turned as brown as the common sort.
* * # #
“Adelaide”: For the Queer Accident com-
petition. A Port Adelaide boy was quietly watch-
ing others swimming. A passing motor-car went
over a horseshoe in the road, and a wheel picked
it up and flung it straight at his head. Con-
cussion of the brain was the result.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Stories of the Papuan’s tele-
pathic powers are plentiful. One day, in the Purari
delta. J. B. Holmes heard the local natives discussing
the death of Buchanan, a very well-known Gulf
trader who had settled as a planter in the West many
years before. Holmes knew the trader was at Port
Moresby, 200 miles away, and asked how the news
had come. The answer was simply that it came and
that “everybody is talking about it.” A fortnight
later a boat brought news from Port of the trader’s
death. “When told that Holmes and his wife had
known of the death a fortnight before, the master
of the ketch said: “Impossible! That was when he
died. I attended the funeral and sailed the same
night, not making a call anywhere along the coast.
How could you people hear of his death the day
he died?” Holmes could not explain, and the
natives refused to enlighten him, if they knew them-
selves.
* * * *
“W.D.W.”: I would like to ask if any
member of the Council can give me specific informa-
tion re the number of eggs an echidna (porcupine)
hatches at one time. We know that the ornithorhyn-
ehus hatches one or two and sometimes three small
platypuses, but I am unable as yet to find out if
anyone has ever seen more than one echidna egg
or young one in the pouch at one time.
* * * *
“Carcharias”: Talking of swimming
powers of various animals (B. 25/12/’24), the wily
and übiquitous rat is
fairly useful in this
direction. I have seen
one, after being hunted
into the water, swim
a river the width of
the Yarra at the Vic-
toria Dooks in real
Charlton style. Some
years ago one of the
Australian Health De-
partments published
some experiments
which showed that ordi-
nary ship rats could
swim several hundred
yards in rough water
at the rate of 20 yards
a minute. The black
rat is a better per-
former in the water
than the brown, al-
though the latter is
the commoner along
wharf fronts. Rats are
also very durable ani-
mals in other ways.
In the same series of
experiments one was
thrown from a ship’s
upper bridge and fell
50ft. into the water;
it swam away uncon-
cerned. Two others
thrown from a height
of over 30ft. on to a
wharf ran away unhurt.
Two more were thrown
over a cliff 55ft. high,
came down uninjured,
and bolted for cover.
Rats have been seen to
jump from the floor to
the top of a table
nearly 2ft. 6in. high,
and when hunted they
"’ill clear 6ft. in a long jump,
* n * * *
® .8.0 R.” : Can any rabbit-expert ex-
plain what are the white lumps sometimes found on
the lungs of rabbits, and generally grown ones? Some
sa y they are fluke and some hydatids. Also, what is
the best method of keeping bugs and weevils out
°f rabbitskins when dried ?
* * * *
“Artifex”: The most unusual accident that
has come under my notice happened to a new chum
on the Dawscn River (Q.). He was lost in the bush
and, it is surmised, climbed a tree to try to learn
his whereabouts. The trunk branched from a very
narrow fork some 15 feet from the ground, and |
small dead branch extended several feet above thii
fork. The new chum stood on this branch, which
broke under his weight, and he slid down the
trunk into the fork, where his foot jambed so tightly
that he could not extricate it. The poor fellow’s
body was found there a couple of weeks afterwards*.
JOB’S COMFORTER.
MINER: “Ever been down in a caage before, maister?”
NERVOUS VISITOR: “No. Gives one a [?]gueer feeling,
doesn’t it?”
MINER: “Nawthin' to the feelin' ’e’d give ’ee if the rope
broke.” (Long pause.) “’E did wance.”
“Toby C.” : Re the 37 sperm whales which
came ashore on the n.-w. coast of Tassy some 14
years ago, “A.A.” (B. l/l/’25) is wrong in stating
that the syndicate worked them at considerable
pront. Fact is, shareholders received a bill from
a Hobart bank representing expenses incurred trying
to market the stocks of ambergris, which went
stale on the premises during the search for a foreign
buyer. One shareholder certainly did show a small
profit on his original £ 6 share —he passed on half
of it to a pal for £2O.
* * * *
“The Dale” : I have baked bi'ead for years
and never had it “ropey” ; but I remember that a
meeting of master bakers some years ago discussed
the defect and decided’ that it was due to the flour
not being kept cool enough. They advised storing it
in a cool, dry place; also, the scalding or boiling of
all vessels used in making yeast or, bread. It sounds
good advice, and I say “Try it.”
“F.W.F.”: Mum gave a sniff when I read io
her “Valamac’s” par. (B. l/l/"25) about “ropey”
home-made bread. Said she: “Tell ‘Valamae’ to let
his missus get a lump of unslaked lime, about the
size of an ordinary orange, and make half a gallon
of lime water. When mixing her bread she should
use a pint of the solution to a bucket of water —-
say, enough for a dozen loaves; then I’ll guarantee
there’ll be no more ‘ropey’ bread for the fowls.”
* * * *
“Werri”: Koonal, a Wooroowoolgen
(N.S.W.) black, had lost his wife, and was enticed
into matrimony a second time by Susie, a very old
gin. Soon afterwards, while in the town, she dropped
dead in the street. “Serve her right,” was Koonal’s
comment. “I bin tell her she was too old to get
married.”
*** * *
“Pfella”: With a little knowledge of stone
anu metal values, the more intelligent of our re-
maining aborigines could be turned into the finest
prospectors. Although their bump of locality depends
a lot on waterholes, trees, hills, etc., the most of
their geographical sense can be traced to the
different sorts of stone and rock obtaining. Even
in his star game of tracking, he is at his best over
a hard mineral surface. I once put the test on
my own trusty Black Range (W.A.) nigger, by
showing him specimens of different stones gathered
from far-flung corners of Westralia. Always he was
right in his answers as to their place of finding, even
to a lump of peculiarly colored slate I had picked
up out of an immense basin of it back of the Ash-
burton River. When, however, I showed him a
piece of green quartz from Queensland, he shook
his head, telling me not to make fun, of him.
“Azae” : The mystery about
the “bush sickness” (or “Iho
skinnies”) among cattle and sheep
in certain portions of Maoriland
has now been cleared up: the
stock have died from iron starva-
tion. The Patetere plateau is
the most affected area. This land
is excellent timber country, and,
when cleared, cocksfoot, red and
white clover and other grasses
thrive so abundantly on it as to
deceive even the best of farmers
into rushing it for cattle-gracing.
For a few months mature cattle
and sheep thrive; then, though
the feed remains plentiful, the
ruminants lose condition rapidly
and soon die, apparently of star-
vation, the most noticeable symp-
toms being progressive anaemia
and emaciation. Post-mortems
proved nothing. The mystery,
while it remained, was still fur-
ther deepened by the fact that,
though sheep and cattle died,
horses thrived almost indefinitely.
Analysis of plants, the soil and
remains of dead and affected
animals, and the carrying out of
feeding experiments on the actual
areas, proved iron starvation. Tii>
soil of the region-—that on the
surface, at any rate—is derived
from air-borne pumice, and con-
tains only from .03 to .07 per
cent, of available iron, while a
normal soil contains about .3 per
cent. The green pasture of the
plateau contains only .0025 per
cent, of available iron, whereas it
should have about three times that
much to keep cattle and sheep in
health. (Horses require much
less.) At first, phosphate defi-
ciency was suspected, as in the
case of Australian “bone-chewing”
country. Superphosphate and lime
were consequently used on the
pastures; but, while the super,
gave slight relief, the lime made
matters worse. It has since been
proved that the iron united with
the lime to form an even less
soluble iron compound than previ-
ously. Iron in the form of one
or other of its organic salts is the
only remedy so far found. A
6 per cent, solution of ferri-
ammonium citrate, given in 2oz.
doses twice daily, will effect a
recovery if the animal is not
too far gone. Perhaps the “coastal
disease” of King Island (Tas.) is
due to the same iron deficiency.
This soil contains an exceptionally
large proportion of lime, which may tend to hold
the iron in an unavailable form.
* * * *
“FY7” : “Gonger’s” statement that a dingo
always catches an emu by the neck is news to any-
one used to running down the bird with dogs. So also
is his statement that the “dragging dog” jambs its
feet against logs and tufts of grass, till the bird
falls. A new dog usually grabs the bird’s bustle of
feathers, and, if he survives a broken neck, next
time imitates his wiser friends in taking a thigh
grip from behind. Even if a dog could get high
enough to reach a running emu’s throat, he would
literally have the stuffing ripped out of him by the
forward slash of the powerful claw. I have seen
this happen more than once, when an eager dog has
pinned a thrown emu by the throat and the bird has
had a chance to bring his toe up. Good kangaroo-
dogs also grab their quarry in the same place, and
when at its throat take good care to keep away from
the hind leg, which is brought right up to the dog’s
DEFINITION.
HERB : “What’s yours?”
HORACE : “Mine’s a mother-in-law.”
BARMAID : “And what’s a mother-in-law?”
HORACE: “Stout ’n’ bitter!”
head and then released downwards. Every Western
Queenslander who keeps kangaroo-dogs sees that each
is equipped with a thin string of greenhide round
its neck. This catches the old man’s toe, and the
ripping cut down the body is blocked, though dogs
are sometimes torn from their grip by the strain.
THE WATCHER OF THE MIRAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I the ne’er-do-well, the outcast,
I the butt of scornful mirth,
I that have no roof above me,
I without a friend on earth,
Safe and sound abides a secret
Sealed and cloistered in my breast—
I the watcher of the mirage,
I the bond-slave of the W est!
Red her mouth was as the quandong
When it ripens on the plain;
Blue her eyes were as the skies are,
Cleansed of dust and heat by rain.
It was day’s end, dewy twilight,
When I chanced upon her first,
And she seemed like cooling water
To a man gone crazed with thirst.
For a magic while thereafter
I w 7 as loved of God, it seemed;
Loved of her, too, that’s the wonder 1
Never ray of glory gleamed
Out of rifted skies at sunset
Over leaden land or sea
Like the soul-suffusing glory
That her presence shed on me.
Then we parted—why is sacred,
Why no man on earth shall know —
Said good-bye with long embraces,
Sighed good-bye and parted so.
Parted so! I saw her standing
By her window, bowed and white ;
Turned to stone, to mourning marble,
As I blundered through the night.
Afterwards ? Well, plains are boundless,
Tracks are long, and track and plain
Gave me room at least to suffer,
Curse my star and nurse my pain ;
Through great halls of starlit silence,
Sunlit space, I moved, a guest;
And the West laid hands upon me,
And I could not leave the West.
For at moments comes a vision
When the hot lands seem to swoon,
And the burning air uprises,
Blue and shuddering in the noon ;
Then, when mirage-lights take being,
Gleam and glimmer for a space,
Limned against the western skyline,
Lo! I see her.... see her face!
’Tis not spectral lakes I gaze on,
I the bond-slave of the West,
I the watcher of the mirage,
But a vision bright and blest;
Spectral lakes I do not gaze on,
Tree and rivei-, rock and range;
But her face on far horizons,
Pallid, beautiful and strange.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


ESSEX-*Jzr
BuiltbuHudson UnderHudsonßstents
Essex
Touring
r r
n
T\
o
o
£
Genuine Balloon Tires
Standard Equipment
The addition of balloon tires gives a final note
of distinction and luxurious riding comfort to
the mechanical superiority and notable per-
formance of today’s Essex.
Its advantage of price and value is more marked
than ever.
The qualities of economy, inexpensive mainte-
nance and endurance which won such wide
preference for Essex in this territory as in other
parts of the world, are continued and improved
in the new Essex,
Economy and performance are better. More
accessible for replacements of repairs, which
means less maintenance expense.
It is important to know the real facts regarding
balloon tires. Essex tires are genuine, full-sized
balloons.
And with lower center of gravity and unique
spring arrangement they give greater safety
and comfort on ail roads at all speeds.
To all you know of Essex reputation is added
the confidence that it is built by the Hudson
Motor Car Company, on the famous Hudson
patents. Thus in this moderate priced “Six”
you get the very features for which the Hudson
Super-Six is noted —long life, reliability and
brilliant performance.
You are invited to see the new Essex and take
a ride. In either the Coach, with closed car
comforts, or the open touring model you will
agree that the Essex provides ideal transpor-
tation. The price takes it out of all competition
with cars of comparable quality.
The COACH
ALL CLOSED CAR COMFORTS
AT OPEN CAR COST
The Coach is a Hudson-
Essex invention. No
other type and no other
car gives “Closed Car
Comforts at Open Car
Cost. ’ ’ Everyone knows
it represents the highest
closed car value. That
is why it is the largest
selling 6-cylinder closed
car in the world.
iiiiiinm
ESSEX PRICES:
Essex Standard
Phaeton .. £395
Essex Coach .. £450
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LTD.,
Desmond Chambers,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Q.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-C3 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
W7SSTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street,
Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, Vic.


' '
m i
i mm
issbm^bb*
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silverplated, hand-
pierced and burnished, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish and Knife, silver-
plated, opal-glass lining, 5/6.
A. Saunders’ Preserve Dish and
Spoon, pure silverplated English
China bowl with floral border,
12/6.
SI
>.y;
<7.
as
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
pure silverplated mounts,
crystal-cut barrel, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS' EXCEPTIONAL VALUES
IK
A. Saunders' 32-piece Dinner Service, English China, assorted
designs, £3/10/-, Others, £4, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Basin and Sifter, Eng-
lish China Bowl,
silverplated mounts
and sifter, 10/6=
A. Saunders’ Eight-day Mahogany Clocks. Strikes hours and
half-hours, £3/10/-
Bag §
5 ffl
m
m
A. Saunders’
Honey Jar and
Spoon, pure
silverplated
crystal-glass
jar, 7/g,
SEND YOUR ORDER DIRECT TO A. SAUNDERS’
POST-FREE DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL CATALOGUE FORWARDED FREE.
IQ(.
SYDNEY “V
MADE IN SHEFFIELD
... RUSTLESS
SJ7UNV
A. Saunders’ Stainless Knives, Sheffield manufactured, Square Xylonite Handles. TABLE or
DESSERT size, 14/6 per half-dozen.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER—JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
silverplated crystal-cut bowl, 17/6,
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure silverplated, guaran-
teed quality, 80/-
A, Saunders’ Silverplated Teapot, highly
burnished, plain design, 20/=
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
silverplated crystal-glass bottles,
HARVESTER
To rescue the Grain
from storm-flattened
crops there is one
Machine.
'
m i
m
m
«
'•Mmst&’P.
H ■
S - Hi
SS3BSS
sSS
■I ■ ,
■ a
X r r 5®T5 5 stiSrauF
ife*
MSS
a
s :'sss;:' :s : ;;
| |
sags
§T V -
bn t
ggMSfiiyg
7
n. ■
111
.
V-, j
>■- '■*>'
mm*
m
W
mm
not
»sw
y v^M
'
■*%'
■
jsiß
H. V. McRAY PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Harvester Works,
SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
2 7-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
36 Pier Street, Perth.


VELVET 1
SHAVING STICK
NOT FOR ONE
PARTICULAR MAN
BUT FOR ALL
PARTICULAR MLN
,r
/
m.
a
79 r,
W£'
8
IV
KING GEORGE
'OpStaytir
«fi>qsyugi
Hk.
ii
•-■•■'•
r*
You are a/fared. in every bottle
'of tKatj-elffanve j’t&ndaj’d of
excellence which, haf made
FAMOU/* THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded by connojjyeurj* to be
jTcOTLANDiTjOUNDErWIMULANT
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges (or Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service il la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
*tiona
st
iS©
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address. Manager,
“Rowes" Cafe and Hotel Proprietor*,
Brishare.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?] [?]
MISSED MONK & DOVLE
Phones Cen[?] 1522, 1533.
How the City has invaded the Country
jf late years! No longer do our best-known
damsels in their oldest togs repair to quiet
rural spots to recuperate from the social
giddy-go-round. Miss Toorak has now en-
listed in the ranks of the summer girls who
flood seaside and country liostelries and
hash-houses in search of a good time. For-
tified by a trunk-load of summer chiffons, a
bathing-cap and suit and a couple of jazz
frocks, she fills in the dizzy weeks with golf,
tennis and dips in the briny, followed by
nightly jazz. Nowadays every seaside place
lias its dance-hall, where everyone meets
with cheerful disregard for social exclusive-
ness—and occasionally with startling conse-
quences.
The Phillin Island capital, Cowes, where
the vice-regal Stradbrokes spend the summer
holiday weeks, is now a serious rival to
Portsea _as a mixed-bathing centre. The
dizzy riot of bathing-gowns colors the
beaches like flights of parrakeets; and it
would need a beauty competition to decide
which set of sands holds the prettiest girls.
Lome and Barwon Heads also claim atten-
tion in the matter of smart bathing-suits
and good-looking wearers. Where everyone
is burned golden brown and very few can
lay claim to the perfect form, a pink-
and-white skin and a shapely silhouette are
almost as out of place as the fabled fox that
lost its tail. A Chinaman who joined the
bathers at one of our most favored beaches
showed a skin more alabaster than any of
the White Australians. Our girls, however,
are beginning to wake up to the fact that
the sun’s rays soon reduce the youthful
roundness of the eyes, and dozens of them
now sport smoked glasses in order to pre-
serve their optic charms. Cold cream and
umbrellas may yet save Australia from
joining the brown races.
The Sorrento Golf Club drew the crowds
from the beaches to the rain-washed links
for a four days’ tourney, in which the youth-
ful Kath Home defied a heavy handicap and
secured the ladies’ stroke handicap. Her
mother and schoolboy brother Keith are
both experts, too, and Kath herself threat-
ens to develop into a candidate for cham-
pionship honors. Amongst others of note in
this contest were the medical Henry O’Hara
widow, the Simon Fraser widow and Mrs.
C. M. Stoddart.
Hard-up railway systems in other parts
of the world would do well to take a tip
from the electrie indicators on Flinders-
street station which are amongst the best
revenue-producers Commissioner Clapp lias.
The mysterious juice that works them plays
pranks occasionally, and the stations they
indicate as stopping-places aren’t always
the ones'the engine-driver intends to put the
brakes on at. Consequently citizens hurry-
ing home to their curry and rice at a near-
by suburban station find themselves landed
at Box Hill or worse. This is where the
money-making value of the device comes
in. An honest but wooden bureaucracy
won’t let the victims of the plot retrace their
steps except at the usual rates. Judging
by the number of infuriated people who get
distributed daily at the wrong address, the
Department must make millions out of it.
The off-side of the lounge at Menzies’ was
roped in one day last week for Mrs. Hidgcock
to say good-bye in tea and cake to Mrs.
Mclnerney and the Kentucky’s cheery
skipper, Woorster, and his wife. The tea-
eups wandered in a fragrant wilderness of
carnations and blue delphiniums, and the
cake got bushed in thickets of pink roses.
The hostess, who. being tall and slim, is
known to her intimates as the Lady Jane,
wore a slinky black crgpe frock and flowered
picture-hat. Her daughter, Mrs. Cust. helped
to fill the cups in a frock of white flowered
silk, and Dr. Norman MacArthur, Col.
Mclnerney, Arthur Woolcott, the musical
Dr. Bartolini and Major Hilliard supported
the Kentucky’s skipper. Both the feminine
star guests got a full lading of gift posies.
Lady Forster, supported by Miss Carle-
ton and a gent.-lielp, motored up to Marys-
ville to view that famous mountain beauty-
spot, while his Ex., who was a cricket cham-
pion of former days, crossed to Adelaide to
watch England lose the third Test.
Near relatives only had been beckoned into
the flower-decked guest-pews at St. Andrew’s,
Balaclava, when Dorothy Boyd was claimed
by Ivan Van Asshe, the youngest hope of
the Oscar Van Asshe pair, and grandson of
the Ir, G> Justice Holrovd. Prettv Dorothy,
who was handed over by her uncle, Frank
Short, breathed her vows in golden draperies,
panelled in front with pink georgette. Jessie
Dods 'maided in blue georgette and a black
hat with an ostrich feather uncurling on the
brim; and Spencer Harper best-manned the
’groom. The Frank Shorts, who reared little
Dorothy from her baby days, had the jollo
in their St. Kilda parlors—the lady in white
georgette cobwebbed with gold and sashed
with delphinium blue.
The Premier is having a little party at
Mount Buffalo to take stock of the State
chalet and the roads leading thereto. It
recalls Bent’s excursion to the resort to
open the road in October, 1907. As the Par-
liamentary party got half-way up the mount
a snowstorm came on, and when it ceased
the landscape looked as beautiful as a Cold
Country Christmas card. Looking around
Premier Tom said to the company: “I
arranged for that —didn’t I, Craven?” And
of course the then Chairman of Committees
admitted it, with a grin. If Allan can
“arrange” for snow in January, the tourists
will give him a place in their memories
alongside the niche reserved for bluff Tom
Bent.
Scots’ Kirk was crowded with onlookers
at the wedding of Mrs. Kitty Houston, of
Williamstown, and Captain E. G. Rawlings,
second in command of H.M. yacht Euphro-
syne, Vila, New Hebrides. Three unusual
features marked the event. First, the bride
was gowned in white, which has hitherto
been eschewed by widows; second, neither
’groom nor his supporter removed their
caps; and, last, the Caledonian Society’s
Boys’ Band, although the temperature was
weil over 90deg., appeared in all the glory of
the feather bonnets lately presented by
brither Scot Captain Lauchlan Mackinnon,
and, lining up on either side of the entrance,
piped the pair as they entered and left the
church.
The crooked finger of speculation is being
held up towards one of our most heavily-
gilded elderly widowers, who is suspected
of intending matrimony with a personable
spinster having no claim to social distinc-
tion. Old family friends sniff disbelievingly,
although there seems to be no earthly reason
why the accused should not comfort the
loneliness of his later years by taking a
second wife.
Camperdown St. Paul’s looked like a
yarding-paddoek one day last week when the
Western District rolled up to see the Leland
Greenes’ third daughter, Isla, exchange vows
with her Irish ’groom, Frank Massay-
Burnside. The glittering bridal georgette
was snowed over by a rich lace veil, fastened
with orange-blossoms. Sister Nancy, a dawn
of pink georgette shining from under a black
canopy, followed her up the aisle. The T. C.
Manifolds’ homestead, Talindert, heard the
popping of the corks.
The eyes twinkling from this Broothorn
picture belong to Barbara Sisley, a Mel-
bourne girl who now instructs the youth
of Brisbane
how to tear a
passion to tat-
ters with the
eight inflec-
tions. When
she stages a
recital origin-
al it y will
always push
its head
through the
p r o g r amme
somehow. Last
year she not
only produced
“The Trojan
Women” for
M e 1 bourne’s
classical dra-
in ati c s, but
starred in the
arduous role
of Hecuba.
Thomas Sisley,
one-time elocutionary teacher at the Mel-
bourne Working Men’s College, taught Bar-
bara to lisp her first lines; Irene Vanbrugh’s
brother, Kenneth Barnes, director of the
London Royal Academy of Dramatic Art,
taught her how to hold her hands; and at
Elsie Fogarty’s summer school in the Im-
mortal • Bard’s home-town she took deep
draughts of inspiration at the fount itself.
Brisbane’s first efforts in Repertory should
profit by her ripe experience.
Following the Government’s move to pro-
secute listeners-in who have omitted to pay
the 355. license fee for installing a wire-
less set, the combined musical societies
under the leadership of Mort I’ettigrove are
pointing out that their services, hitherto
supplied gratis, entitle them to a portion
of the loot. They know that it is hopeless
to bring every singer into any organisation,
and they therefore suggest that the Gov-
ernment should help them by providing that
a portion of the license-fee should be ear-
marked for the performers. At present the
whole fee is cut up between Government and
broadcaster, without any stipulation as to
what the latter shall do with his little lot.
Wesley headmaster Adamson is slipping
back into harness again after a vacation
spent in picturesque Honolulu, which, he
says, has progressed out of all knowledge
since he saw it last in 1904. The land where
woman hides her brown loveliness in Mother
Hubbards is simply plethoric with pros-
perity, has a climate as soft as a Hawaiian
chant and roads as flat as the face of an
island maid. The only snake in the paradise
is the 49 mixed races who all have votes
and all want different things; and Uncle
Sam is getting grey hairs trying to please
the lot.
Lafayette introduces you here to Lorna
Stirling, just back from two years of musi-
cal London, and with a return-ticket in her
pocket. Lorn a
is on the edi-
torial staff of
Evans Bros.,
and looks after
a brace of
musical papers
for children:
“Panpipes” for
the smaller fry,
a n d “Music
and Youth”
for those in
their teens.
She is also am-
bassador of a
World League
for young
musicians
started by one
of these jour-
nals. In her
M elbourne
days Lorna
was a head-
light of the ’Varsity Corn’s instructional staff,
and used a facile pen on the Children’s Page
of the Musical News.
Another pedagogic wanderer, who went
as far as San Francisco, met a new Cali-
fornian craze—for blue doors. Country
houses in particular, no matter what their
color-scheme, throw a blue door open to
you. That’s for happiness. “Isn’t it
cute?” they all ask you. “On the part of
the decorator who thought of the new craze.”
you say to yourself; to your enthusiastic
friend of course you exclaim “Isn’t it just!”
If the Amurrican Fleet anchors in this
port before June it won’t find Consul-General
Maxwell-Blake waiting on the shore. Urgent
business affairs call him back to the U.S.A.
in February, and will chain him there till
May. The Consular dignitary’s beauteous
Spanish wife will brighten her grass-widow-
hood with a lightning-speed trip to Madrid
to introduce her small child to his relatives
in the country where football umpires get
terms of imprisonment for giving unpopular
decisions.
Pianist Waldemar Seidel, who has joined
the East Melbourne Con. staff, preluded his
nc-w job by contracting for the eternal duet
with the Mark Barlows’ only daughter, Irene.
The deed was signed in the St. Kilda Kirk.
Brother Kurt supported the ’groom through
the wedding barrage, while Ruby Kilgour,
fluttering lemon georgette and lace, looked
after the bride. The latter glittered in silver
lace, and her head was veiled with old Lim-
erick. The Mark Barlows had the health-
drinking in the Rivoli tearooms.
Mrs. Tim Mclnerney farewelled a sheaf
of friends one afternoon last week over the
teacups in Carlyon’s dining-room. Small
tables blossomed like flower-beds with white
and yellow. The hostess had tucked her fair
head into a black hat, and hung herself with
white and frothy lace; she cuddled
enough gift posies in her arms to satisfy a
deb. Daughter Aileen was frocked in white
and fawn under a picture-lid.
Our old Repertory worker, Rose Quong,
who went to England last year, has been
getting acquainted with some of London’s
most famous highbrows and theatrical head-
lights, and rumor has it she will be heard
in one of the forthcoming dramas. One
playwright wants her to wait until he dishes
up an Eastern play specially for her to
star in. Speaking to Sibyl Thorndyke some-
one remarked on the similarity between
Sibyl’s voice and Rose’s. “Ah, but hers is
real and mine was made,” retorted the Eng-
lish star generously.
The nation’s flag was half-masted for E. T.
Hubert, assistant clerk of the Federal Par-
liament ; and the irony of it was that to
Hubert the bit of bunting was as a red
rag to a member of the Millions Club. Actu-
ally his pre-war name was Huber, and his
pay and allowances were stopped during the
Great Commotion, but were restored later —
an incident the sensational papers missed.
Apart from his racial bias, Hubert was a
first-class official.
Artist Aileen Dent’s show of paintings
opens on February 10. Portraits of Ethel
Wellesley, our old friend John O’Hara, and
Melbourne’s oldest music professor, Alfred
Montague, will be among the pictured
throng; and Harold Swanson’s pottery will
be dished up at the same time. Irene Van-
brugh has promised to unveil the show,
which includes a study of Charles Hallard,
one of her leading men.
H. P. Down is leaving Melbourne Gram-
mar to take over command of Grim wade
House, in succession to the late 11. McG.
Walker, killed so tragically by an out-of-
hand motor. The new prep, head has been
eight years on the Grammar teaching staff,
lately as acting-head of the Lower School.
Before that lie chalked blackboards at
Maryborough, in Queensland. To follow after
a pedagogue with a record like Mr. Walker
is not easy, but the young man is a dinkum
Aussie and a fine sport who can make the
most obstreperous juvenile eat out of his
hand.
The approach of Lent recalls the com-
ment a well-known parish priest of an
inner suburb made last year after reading
the clauses in the regulations relating to
exemptions from fasting. Said his riv’-
rence: “It seems to me that the only two
who are absolutely, bound to fast nowadays
are meself and the local po-liceman. And
it’ll surprise me if the po-liceman doesn’t
claim a dispensation.”
Marion Jones, the clever Bendigo girl who
steamed to London a few years back on a
National Gallery travelling scholarship, has
landed back in Melbourne to rest her cara-
van among her native gum-trees for eight,
months or so. She is off to Sydney in
February. Marion feels rather torn be-
tween art and heart. The former calls her
back to the Old World, while the latter
tempts her to anchor here. She has already
made her name in England as a portrait-
painter, and has canvases hung in nearly
all the big exhibitions in Paris and London.
In the struggle between the Tramway
Board and the private ’bus cos. the latter
have just scored a point. Hitherto public
transit utilities in this jazz-smitten city have
been switched off at midnight, after which
Shanl's’s or a taxi has been the only means of
getting home. But the ’bus cos. are going to
run an all-night service, and the slow-moving
public bodies which have long negatived all
requests for such facilities will suffer.
A Quamby Club lunch party, given by
Mrs. Monty Grover, served to welcome back
Canadian Commissioner Boss's wife after
her trot around the globe, and to cheer Mrs.
Mclnerney on a jaunt to England. Mrs.
Mclnerney’s gift posy was contained in a
miniature wheelbarrow.
The Bishop of Singapore and Mrs. Fer-
guson-Davie, who spent a few days here
cn route for England on furlough, were the
guests of the Boucicault pair at luncheon
and also at a performance of “Trelawny of
the Wells.” Mrs. Boucicault (Irene Van-
brugh) is a daughter of an English church
dignitary. Prebendary Barnes.
Mrs. W. Wallington, a J.P. who is official
visitor to the S.A. gaols, is on a visit to
Melbourne, and has been making the rounds
of its prisons, asylums and hospitals. After-
wards, by way of diversion, she took her
seat on the Bench at the City Court, the first
woman to do so.
“Willie” Robinson, who pulls so many
financial strings in London, is expected here
next week. He will get a cordial welcome
from Collins House magnates, including
brother Arthur, ex-State Attorney-General.
W.S. and Arthur are sons of A. 8., now
under the sod, who, when he was commercial
editor of the Age years ago. always gave
the impression that he was born to be the
sun of Australasian finance, but conde-
scended to be a satellite of David Syme.
Sister Adelaide’s gleanings :
From the first ball of the Test to the last the
Oval stands were a-shimmer with heat, feminine
dresses and fans. Federal and State vice-royalty
saw the match out under the wing of President
Harold Fisher. They lunched with the teams, who
were dined at Government House on Saturday, and
at the final lunch on Friday the Federal Ex. gave
the English professionals a pat on the back, which
may have helped to console them for what a brother
peer had said. He unveiled the portrait of Giffen,
too, that his fellow’s in the G.P.O. have presented to
the S.A.O.A. —an excellent bit of work by May
Grigg.
Mounting temperatures have taken some dancing-
parties to Glenelg’s new floating Palais, with Mrs.
A. G. Fenner and Mrs. Gordon MacFarlane among the
hostesses, and an inter-State visitor or so—-Miss Edna
Armytage, from Melbourne, and Miss Kathleen Vicars,
from Sydney, were two of them —among the guests ,
but at mid-week this State’s centre of social gaiety
shifted to Clare. Adelaide teams put in their final
practice at Birkalla at dawn or thereabouts on
Wednesday, and found a cold wind and drizzling
rain waiting for them. Next day saw the carnival
well started, with a couple of preliminary games in
the afternoon and an evening ball which opened at
9 o’clock and carried cn until the supper fruit-salad
shook hands with the breakfast bacon’n’eggs. The
gymkhana was the next day’s feature, with Mrs.
S. A. Ayers, Miss Phyllis Bray, Miss lola Murray,
Miss Bowman and Miss E. Hill as the feminine
prize-winners. Local accommodation having burst
at the seams, house parties have spread as far as the
George Melroses at Kadlunga, where Miss Enda
Armytage, Capt. Brooke and Mr. J. Tanner are
among the guests.
Gilbert, one of the J. H. Joses’ sens, has booked
his passage homeward and will bring a Fellowship
of the London Royal College of Surgeons with him.
The engagement is announced of Evelyn, only
daughter of the A. A.. Scarfes, to Dr. V. R. Delaney,
of the Alfred Hospital, Melbourne.


m
The Eall-marJc
TON
of Quality.
It’s Just Delightful-
Taking Snaps with the
No. 4
Watch Pocket Carbine.
1
A new British - made
Camera designed o n
thoroughly up-to-date lines.
It is so small that it can be
carried quite easily in the
pocket.
Daylight - loading Roll
Films are used, and the size
of the picture is the popular
3\ x 2}.
Postage 1/»
UJ?
The House for
Good Cameras,
PHOTOGRAPHIC AND RADIO WAREHOUSE.
SYDNEY: 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10
KATOOMBA: Katooniba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
Bundle Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
Popular Meat Safes
Reduced from 15/11 to 11/9
—at NOCK & KIRBYS
Genuine Old •time Sale
POPULAR SQUARE-SHAPED FLY-PROOF MEAT
SAFE, perforated sides, secure door fastenings.
Painted green and white. Necessary in Summer and
handy in Winter. A great bargain; 16in. size.
15/6
USUALLY
SALE PRICE
BLUE ENAMELLED PRESERVING PANS, with
bail handle and polished wood grip, with good lip
for pouring. Heavy quality enamel. Made in three
sizes, approximate capacity: 181 b., 201 b., 241 b.
Generous value at this low sale price.
USUALLY
SALE PRICE
9/6
Lemon Squeezers.
GLASS LEMON SQUEI7SSERS, the most
popular shape. Has rim, to fit on tumbler ;
also lip for pouring j fiice, and grip' for
tipping. A sale speifial!
USUALLY „ Bd. Cf 1 J
SALE PRICE . .4 D^d.
BREAD AND BUTTER PLATES, (Sin. in
diameter, attractive pattern, and one that
is very popular.
USUALLY 5/6 0/1 i
SALE PRICE 0/11
white footless eggcups, 2d. ea.
Made of relLble quality svare. This
unique shape envoys, a wide? popularity.
USUALLY . 3/. doz. /
SALE PRICE Z/-
Honey Jars.
FINE QUALITY GLASS HONEY JARS,
with spoon hole. These look most attrac-
tive on the table. Note the low sale price
USUALLY 1/11 1 /Q 1
SALE PRICE
lOdoz. ONLY! WHITE SALAD BOWLS.
81 inches across. Good quality. 6ld. off
for the sale!
USUALLY 1/6 -fii i
SALE PRICE 1 1 2d.
VEGETABLE DISHES, 250 ONLY, of
best English manufacture. For the Sale
they are reduced from 5/6 and 8/6 to
4/6
SALE PRICE
SenrJ your order to-day !
Main orders are promptly despatched.
NOCK & KIRBY’S
George Street, Sydney
HARDY BROS-4.TD.
JEWELLERS
: '--\
§M{fM
* *.,, m
M^
New pattern “Slide-action”
Cigarette Case in Sterling
Silver with neat Engine-turned
design. The catch is con-
trolled by a sliding hinge,
giving security and neat
appearance. Price, £6/15 /-.
“ Slide-action ”
Cigarette Cases
A New Idea from Hardy Bros.’ Displays
THE new “Slide-Action” Cigarette Cases showing
4 at Hardy Brothers’ are unique in their neatness of
appearance and specially fine quality. The usual “push-
piece” is omitted, and in its place a sliding hinge
controls a secure catch which cannot be released
except by a gentle sliding pressure of thumb and
finger. These attractive cigarette cases are obtainable
in Gold and Silver in a wide range of prices from
£6/15/-. Selections are forwarded on approval
throughout Australia. Prices and full particulars sent
anywhere on application.
Five per cent. Discount allowed on Cash Purchases.
An attractive Catalogue pouted tree to any address.
HARDY BROS LTD
“The House of Exclusive Jewellery"
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON.
116-IJB Queen St. t
BRISBANE.
>7- X
L ' ■<
.V,,
iff-. Jh
1
SI
Xi:
n
n
»
KiQ
m
tdieioji
J
[OO
XElimlEl ft
[Dix
AM* l ™
Choose Durabestos
for your Walls and Roofs
WITH complete confidence
in your judgment, you
can choose Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-
cement) for your Walls and
Roofs. Sturdy, rock-like
Durabestos Sheets, in various
handy sizes, provide pictur-
esque External and Internal
Walls. Shapely Durabestos
Slates of a pleasing grey
color make an ideal Roof-
ing at a cost that is very rea-
sonable. These Sheets and
Slates are perfectly weather-
proof, so do not need painting
for protective purposes. May
we send you our Catalogue
D. 8.3, which attractively pic-
tures Durabestos?
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY;
Baptist St.,Redfern.
NEWCASTLE:
63 Hunter St.
MELBOURNE;
243 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
Amelia St., Valley.
ADELAIDE:
113-119 Currie St.
LAUNCESTON:
71 St. John St.
PERTH:
Lord St.
HOBART:
139 Macquarie St.
.URABESTOS
ZrCe r TVunderlich -Cement
SLATERS


Under
Royal
■A&rrant
Vintage 1914.
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMP
Charles Heidsierk
HEIMS .
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qarttsnridsie*
Reims
1— •
T2P
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Are You Going To Melbourne^
t\
M
UJI
iiiiTT
uni
H linn
II Hiii
i in ii
})
7373
If so, remember that sumptuous hotel accommodation is
just as important as any other feature of your visit.
Jfoteffamdaofc
Spring Street, Melbourne,
means pleasure AFTER pleasure.
Every comfort is provided. Luxurious fur-
nishings, that provide real rest; quiet sur-
roundings in a high location—yet in the
city proper.
Telephones and Hot and Cold Water in all
bedrooms.
TARIFF:
Room and breakfast from 13/6 per day.
Inclusive tariff from 18/6 per day.
Book NOW and be sure of accommoda-
tion.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
’Phono: Cent. 9260.
Manager: B. C. Jones.
Summer Season at
nm
UP
sv
POPULAR SUMMER EVENINGS.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY.
There will be delightful
Dining and Dancing from 7.30 till
12 each evening.
For the very modest sum of
1016
(Evening Dress Optional.)
Nothing in any way in value approaching this
has ever been before possible in Sydney.
Tuesday and Thursday, 217-
Suppers. from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons, daily, 12.30 till 2 30, 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 till 5.30, 5/-
with the privilege of two hours delightful
dancing to the most enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone K 13666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
The A.J.C. gave the punters a chance
to beat the books with an Anniversary
rally at Randwick. It was purely a holiday
flutter, and was aired for only two days—
Saturday and Monday. Saturday’s crowd
was thinned by the out-of-town comb, and
the dressing would not have called down a
homily on extravagance even from a Puri-
tan. A sulky morning had brought out a
crop of bargain-brand umbrellas, the short
variety with gay knobs and stubby ends,
and the stands were mostly dressed with an
eye to the weather. The Matterhorn of the
official stand was duly scaled and descended
by the familiar crowd of women. Here came
the Knox coterie, Barbara, off-stage, looking
like a handsome actress. Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar's black marocain whirled a Sar-
gasso of black fi'inge, and was shaded by
a drooping black hat on which Persian blue
rested Hike a benediction* Sister-in-law
Dorothea Mackellar looked as though she
had wrapped a field of red poppies about
her, catching up a purple iris or two in the
act. Bea McDonald’s frocking hold the
greens and browns of a Donegal twilight.
Surgeon MacCormick brought his lady, and
sat among the mighty in tbe vice-regal pew,
where their State Exes, held court, and
gave daughter Elaine a first glimpse of
Randwick. Lady de Chair wore cigar-
brown marocains weighted with bead em-
broideries and brown millinery dashed with
blue. The girleen’s whites and mauves
were snuggled in a feathery wrap. In the
party were the General Lloyd couple, and
J. Armitage, of Sutton Forest, squiring his
two nieces. Visiting Sea-Lord Heard was
of the group, which strongly savored of
brine, Commander Grant being in attend-
ance on the Exes., and Commanders Crau-
furd and Morris helping to man the craft.
Monday brought holiday thousands to
Randwick, but the official stand was only
comfortably full instead of overflowing, and
there were no vice-regals. Mrs. Pat Osborne
was to the fore, clothed in mauve and white
and an air of victory. The Lindemans
were down from Moss Vale; visiting daugh-
ter Mrs. Cavendish wore black tube frock-
ing and a close-fitting hat. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers was another notable. Her New
Guinea accident is still with her in the way
of a limp, but there was nothing amiss with
her vivid frocking.
Fur and feathers and beads gambolled
joyously over the frocks at Dorothy Brun-
ton’s cabaret for the babies of St. Margaret’s,
and a long line of Peris who came late and
couldn’t push in at all only succeeded in get-
ting a flash of secretary George Fitzpatrick’s
Titian locks as he kept the stairs that led
to the mellow lights of the Ambassadors.
Then those who couldn’t get in by intrigue
or sheer weight took their chiffons to other
tea-haunts, where they said the usual things
about “hating crushes” and “liking to have
their tea in comfort,” while the vietors who
had pierced through to the goings-on clapped
hands for everything, from jazz encores to
the wide blue streamer that coquetted with
the pink roses in the rustic garden that Dot
Brunton wore on her goldilocks. It was an
afternoon of electricity and electro-plate, for
David Stewart Dawson had dropped a hun-
dred pounds’ worth of the latter into the
Arabian Nights basement of his Pitt-street
shop, and through the whirling moments
Jolly John Kirby auctioned 'the shining
array.. There was a tilt to the kilt of many
a Paris gown—that flared lamp-shade flounce
makes or mars the straight frock. Many of
the garments came from Sale, owing to the
Providence which lias ordained a bad, wet
summer and an early display, therefore, of
bargains.. These could only be distinguished
from their foreign sisters by the accent with
which their owners wore them. Those whirl-
ing dervishes of our youth, Decima and Eddie
McLean, dazzled the senses with a new brand
of ballroom sleight of foot. Mrs. Stewart
Dawson swathed her presidency with rich
raiment and a circle of stars, the latter
theatrical in their orbit and coruscating in
their attire; foremost amongst them Sirs.
Guy Bates Post, who radiated charm and
reflected glory. And when Sydney’s own
Dot Brunton and Leslie Pearce sang of
"Wedding Bells in June” there wasn’t a dry
collar or powder-puff in the assembly.
The Mclnnes Annuity, that was known
on its foundation as the Archibald Prize,
has again been paid. This year the amount
handed to the Victorian artist came to £5OO
—and probably no country in the world can,
or would care to, point to such an Art prize
being awarded four years in succession to the
same man. This year there vvere 40 entries
and a complete lack of public interest. A
condition, by the Avay, annually ignored by
the judging committee —the trustees of the
Sydney Gallery—is that the winning picture
should preferably be a portrait of one dis-
tinguished in the Arts.
The Stork called at Government House
cottage the other day and left, instead of
a visiting-card, a son and heir with the
Commander Grant couple. Commander
Grant is a nephew of that Excellency Her-
cules Robinson avlio once reigned at Govern-
ment House, so the neAv arrival has a double
claim on his bit of Australia.
Well-known pastoralist S. P. Ward, of
Cootamundra, handed over daughter Lilian
the other day at St. Stephen’s to Dudley
Cross, of Townsville, Padre Ferguson
administered matrimony to the twain, Lilian
standing up to it bravely in, among other
things, opaque beads and a wide crinoline
hat. Sister Gwen ’maided in old rose, with
addenda of beads and a black hat. The cake
Avas cut in the white-and-gold room of • the
Mary Elizabeth. Bridegroom manages the
Townsville branch of Burns-Philp.
Still another of Colonel Cox Taylor’s
chicks is set upon building her own nest.
Last week younger daughter Dell announced
her engagement to Maurice Bramley, of
Suva. Dell is the witching little lady of
independent spirit who tossed her head and
said “I’m going to earn my own living,”
and went off to Fiji to do it.
Elisabeth Dods, with the breath of “the
Continent” still in her nostrils, breathed the
right word to a Digger sweetheart the other
day. He is John Flower, one of Brisbane’s
most popular young men. Elisabeth’s father
was R. S. Dods, a notable Sydney architect.
With the sudden passing of Dr. Sydney
Jamieson Sydney has lost one of its kind
hearts and keen pathologists. He was in
I.emnos in the Digger A.M.C., and on his
return did splendid Avork among the soldiers
at the Prince of Wales Hospital at Rand-
wick. The doctor leaves a widow, a son,
Stewart, at Oxford, and a daughter, Anne.
Two brothers and well-known Cissie Jamie-
son are also plunged into mourning. The
doctor was buried at Bathurst, his wife’s
home town.
This is a May Moore picture of Mrs. Talbot,
wife of the Dean of Sydney. Mrs. Talbot
has a genius for the violin sufficient to evoke
admiration from Heifetz, Godowsky, Daisy
Kennedy and
such front-
rankers. The
lady’s auburn
tresses grace
every concert
of note in Syd-
ney, and her
flat in the T.
and G. echoes
to as many
hours of prac-
tice as it
would if she
were earning
her living as
a professional.
Most of last
year she spent
in England
studying with
Sammons. Be-
fore coming to
Australia she
was at the
Manchester College of Music; and, in-
cidentally, it was famous John Tiller,
of that artistic city, who gave her her first
lesson in dancing. In New York Mrs. Talbot
was the guest of the Godowskys. While with
them she met musical celebrities from all
the world over, and renewed acquaintance
with Sydney’s old friends Heifetz and
Moiseiwitsch. The Godowskys’ youngest
daughter, Dagmar, is acting in the movies
with Rudolph Valentino; Mrs. Talbot’s own
sister, Bernice, has. given up the flickers for
drama. It’s not so severe on the appetite.
Over the door of every film-studio might be
written: “Abandon food all ye who enter
here.” No movie heroine at the moment
must weigh more than Bst. 51b.: the film’s
ideal Helen of Troy is literally “a rag and
a bone and a hank of hair.” When you
put on flesh you resign your job to concen-
trate on reducing. All the women in New
York look hungry, and the fashionable out-
line is herring-bone. Bernice doesn’t pretend
to a flat on Riverside, but she is never out
of an engagement, and is now serving in that
best of all schools for a young actor —a stock
company.
Died last week, an old friend of this
Letter’s: Padre N. .1. Cocks, of the Pitt-
street Congregational Church. Born in
Adelaide, Sydney TJni. and Camden Theo-
logical College fitted him for what may be
termed the technical side of his work —the
spirit of the pastor was born in him. A
gentle personality, he was punctilious in
acknowledging the courtesy of others, and
was a master of the gentle art of letter-
writing. A great scholar, he wrote of phi-
losophy, and also turned out much good verse,
profound and lyric; indeed it was with some
idea in his mind of having a book of poems
published in London that he was looking
forward to a holiday in England—the Eng-
land of which he once wrote: —
Though vast seas rolled between,
Out on our sunburnt autumn plains
We knew your meadow green;
And in our upland silences,
Where even Hope seemed furled,
We caught your wind-borne melodies,
Your songs that lift the world.
In earlier days Mr. Cocks was tutor with
Dr. Fraser at Camden College.
Returned violinist Dagmar Thomson was
floating about Sydney streets the other day
in sky-after-rain blue muslins, Brussels em-
broidered, and with one of the new order
of neck scarves
in light wall-
flower tones.
It Avas a cun-
ning combina-
tion with her
bine eyes and
gold-dust hair.
Dagmar has
been three
years in
Europe, and
for more than
tAvo of them
has been study-
in g with
Ysaye, that
master to
whom the great
fiddlers of the
earth go when
they feel in
need of re-
pairs. Ysaye
has written
of the Sydney girl: “I look upon you as
an artist, not as a student,” and has packed
the letter tight with commendation. Two
London recitals, a tour of Italy, opera in
Paris and a draught of Devon lanes and
Welsh villages were other ingredients in the
years’ experience; but the most deeply-
etched memory is of a Brussels avenue of
chestnuts in bloom —the long line of pink
and creamy petals inspired her to a com-
position that the Con. will probably hear
at her home-coming recital. She takes up
her duties as instructor at the Con. when
it opens after the holidays.
May Milne’s sudden death at Frampost,
her friend Mrs. Ewan Fraser’s home in Eng-
land, caused a sensation last week-end. May
had been Sydney’s de luxe teacher of dancing
for years. All the children and gro wing up
girls and boys of Darling Point and Point
Piper graduated through her classes; and
when Governor Davidson reigned in Mac-
quarie-street Miss Milne went every week to
the big ballroom, Avliere Daphne and Diana
and a group of their small friends were
taught not only the foxtrot, but the pic-
turesque folk dances of England. May was
one of a group of popular sisters avlio kept
hospitable home at Double Bay. They were
all tremendous workers, and very entertain-
ing. It was Miss Milne’s friends avlio in-
sisted on her taking her holiday in England,
and on her departure overAvlielmed her with
a testimonial cheque to express their enthu-
siastic regard.
Mrs. W. Shakespeare—she was Jean
Barnes, of Dyraaba station, on the North-
ern Rivers —is in Sydney, and has been
for four or five weeks in Molong private
hospital. The lady was on her Avay home
to visit her family when she developed iritis.
She was to have picked up her husband on
the return voyage at Colombo.. He is one
of the OAvners of the Bibby line, and the
Galle-Face Hotel is another trinket on his
chain. Their home is at Weybridge, out-
side of London, Avhere the lady can wear,
AA'hen she feels disposed, one of the most
opulent ropes of pearls in Britain.
Last week Sydney Avas' inundated with
telegrams from the young matrons on the
Orama telling of social successes at the vari-
ous ports. But the honors so far are with
Mona Daley. She and her husband had a
mid-day snack with the G.-G. and his lady
in Melbourne. Thereupon other society
leaders aboard drew telegraph-forms towards
them and recorded how they were lunched
at Adelaide by the “cattle king” Kidmans.
Evidently there’s going to be a rival eaten-
erary of this voyage.
Harry Bates, who has been Collector of
Customs of Vavau, Kingdom of Tonga, for
over 15 years, has just resigned to take, a
similar appointment under the M.L. Admin-
istration at Apia, Samoa. Harry Bates and
his wife have enjoyed wide popularity, and
will be greatly missed in Tonga. Before
her marriage the lady was a nurse, and her
knowledge and skill have ever been at the
disposal of the islanders. In his earlier days
Harry Bates was a purser in the Union Co.’s
service—for some time on the old Taviuni.
There was a cheery glow over Victoria,
Barracks on Saturday night when the staff
staged a farewell dance to Lieuts. Pitt and
Woodward, who are forsaking horse and foot
for Avings, and are about to join the R.A.A.F.
at Point Cook. From the cannon shining
like minted gold before the front steps, the
officers’ quarters were bedecked. Gay awn-
ings and gum-tips turned the high narrow
verandahs into a happy trysting-ground. In
the circumscribed mcssroom General Brand
and General and Mrs. Lloyd did the honors
and the enthusiastic danced. The billiard-
room—an ode to Britannia, with the lights
streaming through gallant red and blue
shades on to the white supper-cloths—shel-
tered the toasts.
The old law firm of Allen, Allen and
Ilemsley has added still another young part-
ner—Norman Cowper, whose father was a
former partner. Norman is the young man
who is to wed Huntley McCrae before the
year is old. Meantime Waliroonga build-
ing sites are his study.
Once more the girl student holds her
head high in the honors list for the leaving
certificate. In the 13 subjects seven first
places were Avon by girls. In English,
modern history, German, botany, geology,
physiology and zoology sister ran aAvay with
the field, and in Greek and French she was
a good second.
The musical Coad couple—she’s remem-
bered as Marjorie Beeby and he as probably
Sydney’s most academic fiddler—-are doing
well in New York. He has been appointed
first Auolin to a symphony orchestra, and she
has plucked one of the coveted choir appoint-
ments at a leading church.
The first real fog of the season gloomed
over London for the first Dominion Artists’
Ball. The party was held in Australia
House, good-looking basso Benham taking
the tickets at the door. Rene Maxwell,
Jean and Lute Drummond, Gladys Verona
and Sara Hyman (Nellie Stewart’s niece)
were a feAv Sydneysiders on the big floor,
and Clara Butt’s son and daughter dropped
in about 10 —just when the fog was de-
scending. About this point the dancers
began to feel their throats raw and sore,
and the air hung over them in quite visible
masses. At midnight, when the revellers
began to leave, the danger was too great
for either taxis or motors to run.
The papers that announced a record meet-
ing at Tirranna may be interested in the
fact that, although the same number of race-
books were printed this year as last, 400
of them remain unsold.
Boots, boots, boots! That’s the insistent
note of Miss Boswell’s appeal for another
of her famous collections in the crypt of
St. James’s. Date, February 6. Any male
clothing you can spare will be gladly placed
by the lady among her objets d’heart.
Annette Kellerman drops a note from
Hidden Rancho Club, Los Angeles. This is
Annette’s idea of an All the Year Round
Club for Women. In 100 acres of valley
are a gymnasium 165 ft. long and 60ft. wide,
a swimming pool also 165 ft. long (exact
Olympic measurements), four tennis-courts,
a croquet lawn, practice golf links, a health
restaurant and a theatre in miniature. Every
woman in the club (there are now o\ T er 700
members) is given a plot of ground, 25ft.
x 60ft., where she can put up a lodge. Some
of those already up are quite luxurious—
one miserable cabin cost £llOO. Society, pro-
fessional and business Avomen are enrolled
members: 50 of them are girls from the Uni.
of Southern California. Annette’s idea is
to develop champions, and to this end eight
out of every twelve of her months will be
given to the club. The idea took root Avhen
Annette was doing special health articles
and radio talks for the Hearst papers and
acting as “inspirational” health-speaker to
the TJni. of Southern California.
The newest bloom for the lapel of your
coat is a brown-velvet speckled orchid-
white and crimson gardenias are gone the
way of all grass, and the tiger-lily or orchid
is the choice of Mayfair and Paris.
Brisbane’s bundle:—
Premier Theodore turned the first sod of the
Brisbane-Kyogle railway at Rocklea, and when that
missing link is finished Sydney won’t have an excuse
for not coming up to see us every winter. There was
afternoon tea for all, and bouquets for the wives
of the Premier and J. W. Davidson.
The H. Smiths celebrated their golden wedding last
week. Of two old friends present, one had acted
as bridesmaid and the other had been a looker-on
at the original knot-tying. Mr. Smith was born in
’5l, in Kent, and educated at the Greenwich Naval
School. Old St. Thomas’s Church saw the Avedding.
The bride was a Brisbane girl. They had 12
children, 11 of whom survive our climate; and there
are 19 grandchildren. One son scored a D.C.M.
at the landing at Gallipoli. ' A 50-years friend of
the hale couple was presented with a gold matchbox
by Smith plre, and Mrs. Smith gave her bridesmaid
a brooch.
Freda Bage is in Melbourne on her way back from
a year in England, U.S.A., and elsewhere. fn
Copenhagen she held Australia’s feminine end up at
the International Council of Women; and in Norway
she spoke for our blue-stockings at the Uni. Women’s
Conference.
Olive Foxwell said “I will” to Robert Bignell in
ivory marocain and carrying a sheaf of lilies. Rev.
Quirk put the leading questions, and some 150
guests dealt with the breakfast. The Foxwell parents
opened the doors of Island View for a ball in
the evening. The honeymoon rises in Sydney and
the Mountains.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sale Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Still Another Record for
SYDNEY TO
NEWCASTLE
AGAIN
WAKEFIELD
ULt
i
By A. Vaughan, driving an 11.4-h.p. CITROEN—I6S miles of rough roads in
3 hours 48 minutes. This record had been previously held by Norman Smitn,
driving an Essex, and before that by W. O. Langliam, in a Delage —all three
record-breakers were on regular grades of “Castrol” obtainable from leading Garages.
Head Office for Australasia:—
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., LTD.
Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Tel. : 87465-6.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
The wet course at Moonce Valley suited
Tarana (7 to 2), and the black daughter of Mountain
King—Sky-land placed the 10-furlongs Caldefmeade
Handicap to F. J. Mitchell’s credit. Peithias, who
had won bis last three races very easily, and had a
71b. allowance, was a hot favorite, but for once
he ran badly-. The only- one to trouble Tarana
was Some War, a rank outsider, and with a heftier
boy in the saddle the roughie might have done the
ringmen a good turn.
McCramp obligingly
offered to take 6 to 1
The Night Patrol for
the Valley people’s
newest w.f.a. sprint,
the William Reid
Stakes. The Governor’s
horse let Quintus make
the running, and was a
couple of lengths in
front of Bold and Bad
at the end in lmin.
13|sec. Bold and Bad
was finishing nicely-,
and will be a much
tougher proposition for
The Night Patrol and
The Hawk when the
autumn leaves are fall-
ing in the Fitzroy
Gardens.
A. V. HIS KENS,
secretary of the
Moonce Valley
Club.
A 3-to-l favorite at the opening of the
betting on the Challenge Stakes at Randwick, The
Hawk drifted to 7’s; at some stands B’s were offered.
Many punters who had gone to Randwick intending
to back the topweight decided that it looked peculiar
and put their money on something else. They were
very sorry for themselves when the M.L. flier,
ridden in Pike’s best style (and Pike, on his day,
is the finest horseman in Australia), ran past the
pacemakers at the distance, and, going on, reached
the judge's box two lengths ahead of Rock Dove,
who was followed by- Bairn and Fair Rosaleen, with
daylight between. The time was lmin. Ilf sec.,
which has seldom been beaten for six furlongs at
Randwick. It was a very rough race for about
half the field of 16, and Friarsdale, the favorite,
struck trouble in especially- large quantities, as also
did Parody, but The Hawk would very likely have
won in any case. Not a favorite got home during
the day, and there was very- little support for Shady-
lancl (16’s) in the Welter; hardly any for Triplex
(33’s) in the Nursery Handicap. Even Prince Woorak
(l4’s), a well-backed horse as a rule, was deserted
by- most of the public in the January- Handicap, for
which five others were preferred. Truly is Rand-
wick a bookmakers’ paradise.
Considering that he had outstayed The Wild Goose,
Bernesk, Note, Wildun, Sea Risk and Prince Sandy
at 10 furlongs, and was meeting them on better
terms in the Anniversary Handicap, 12 furlongs,
Prince Woorak looked a fair thing for that race on
Monday. In appearance he is only a weedy beggar,
but he showed by running third in the Metropolitan
that he could stay-, and by winning City- Tattersall’s
Handicap after the severe Spring meeting that lie
could stand more racing than most of the Wooraks.
However, The Wild Goose, who has never exhibited
a ljking for a distance, was favorite at 7 to 2 ;
Prince Woorak was at 9 to 2, Eudorean at 7’s,
Prince Minimbah at B’s, and Irish Flower a point
longer. After the first half-mile. Prince Woorak
always looked to have the race at his mercy, and
he won in very- easy fashion by- four lengths from
unlucky Irish Flower, who tarried at the barrier,
Dion and old King of the Forest; time, 2min. 33fsec.
R. Marsden, a relative of the trainer, had the
mount. The Victorian filly Versine, ridden by vete-
ran Bobbie Lewis, was backed as if she were a
certainty- for the Adrian Knox Stakes, but she had
had enough at seven furlongs, and Meenah (4’s)
romped home. Meenah is a natty chestnut by
Bowman —Monarda; trained at Rosehill for Booth
ahd ridden by- Toohey, she has won several good
races for Miss Una Clift. Another fair owner, Mrs.
Pat Osborne, has a Newmarket possibility in Quix-
otic, a three-vear-old gelding by- Absurd—-Los Vegas,
who took the Flying Handicap at 9 to 4, and was
the only- favorite to score during the two days.
Between Meenah’s race and Prince Woorak’s, Alertful
landed the Novice Handicap at 20’s, and Kiga (14’s)
ended a meeting that punters will long remember
by routing the favorites in the Ilighweight Handicap.
* * * *
After J. R. Corteen was disqualified over
the running of Purser in the Caulfield Cup his colt
Heroic was reported to have been sold to a gentle-
man named Wenke, described as “a well-known Syd-
ney sportsman,” for 14.000 guineas. The new owner
nominated Heroic for the Newmarket Handicap, and
anjilied to the A..1.C. for permission to run the colt
in the Randwick St. Leger. He was coldly rebuffed
in both quarters. Obviously it would have been
better for Corteen if he hadn’t commenced those legal
proceedings which were incontinently dropped.
* * ■* *
“.Timber”: IT. L. Collins’s luck in winning
the toss in Tests reminds me of his good fortune
in gambling on a homeward-bound transport. At a
sitting of pakapu the pool contained £75. about
£25 being H.L.’s own contribution in losses. Collins's
hand of cards contained a seven of spades, a six
of spades and a three of clubs. Having the bank
the last time round, I turned up cards to all the
six other players for their bets on the whole or any
portion of the pool, the bank winning each time.
The last three cards to turn up were black. Collins
was the last player to make a bet, and the odds
against his hand winning anything out of
the pool were write-your-own-ticket. “Go the lot,”
he said. A two of clubs turned up, and he won.
Any red card in the pack or black card above those
in his hand, and it would have cost him £75.
Another night Bert was introduced into a game
of hazards. As he did not know the game, his
bets were light for a start, but when the players
went to bed Collins had broken the school. There
wasn’t a fairer or gamer gambler on the boat.
“Topee”: I don’t think ex-pugilist Ben-
digo wound up as a Methodist preacher (B.
22/l/’25). When I saw him in London he belonged
to the company of freelances known as “ranters.”
One of his stands was in the Edgeware-road and,
with a coadjutor, he conducted service on the con-
y-ersational plan, thus; “What was we before we saw
the Light, Charlie?” “Miserable sinners, Bendy, the
good Lawd forgive us!” Then, while the offertory-
was being taken up, the pair would howl a sort
of doxology- of which one couplet remains in my
memory-:
“Praise God from whom all blessings flow!
Praise Him ; bless Brother Bendigo !’ ’
Bendy was subsidised for a time by a circle of serious-
minded elderly ladies, but the circle withdrew its
support on discovering that the reverend ex-bruiser
put in most of his time between Sabbaths holding a
modest bag at some pigeon-shooting grounds near
Hendon, his usual text being “Now who wants to
back the bird for an even shillun?”
* * * *
Sydney tennis critics ate agreed that
Haege, the Melbourne youngster, has a Davis Cup
future. In the match for the Lincoln Cup at
Rushcutters Bay, Haege was much too fast and
sure for H. T. Hicks, the crack Sydney junior,
and in the Australian singles championship his
displays were astonishingly good. The junior compe-
tition had an uncommonly exciting finish, Colvin
and Dunlop winning the cup for N.S.W. in the
26th game, after Haege and Coldham had beaten
them 10—8 in the preceding set. Another player
who is the subject of much Davis Cup talk is Gar
Hone, the South Australian, who brilliantly defeated
Baker, of Newcastle (the latter’s recent form has
been very good), in the Australian singles. There is
a consensus of opinion that Hone has it in him
to make a great partner for Anderson, who is
intent on another visit to America in quest of the
Cup, but it is complained that he won't take the
game seriously- enough. O’Hara Wood had to play
all he know to defeat Gemmell. the Westralian, wlio
took the second and third Sets at 4—6. It was
the finest display Gemmell has given on this side.
“Past Grammar” : With the assistance of
Aitken, formerly the All Black centre, and Johnny
Wallace, once of Sydney Uni., Scotland outed France
at Inverleith by 25 to 4. The scores at half-time
were 5—4, with Scotland leading, but Caledonia
rolled up six tries after the spell, Wallace scoring
two. The result suggests that the French have
not yet learned to keep going to the finish —-always
a fault in their otherwise attractive Rugby.
“Hamer”: The smashing defeat of Essen-
don, the Vic, League premiers, by Foot.scray, the
crack Association side, so impressed the League bosses
that Footscray, North Melbourne and Hawthorn are
in future to play as League clubs. Last season there
was an agitatioh for the admission of an extra for-
mation to the League, which has so strongly estab-
lished its superior standing that any- dub would leap
at the chance of admission ; but the League was cold
on the subject until ’Scray- dusted the earth with
its own premiers. Then it pondered deeply, and
the inclusion of Footscray-. Hawthorn and North
Melbourne is the result. The triple bite will set
Association football back considerably. In sport,
there should be no such feeling as exists between the
two bodies; but their relations have never been
good since the breakaway in 1896, when Fitzroy,
Carlton, Essendon, Melbourne, Collingwood, South
Melbourne, Geelong and St. Kilda cut adrift from an
Association which was as arrogant then as the
League they formed is now.
* * * *
“T.”: Gilligan's cricketers are to follow
the example of McLaren’s, A. O. Jones’s and Warner's
in playing a Soccer football match in Perth during
the stay of their homeward-bound boat in Fremantle.
The match is to happen on Monday, March 23.
Perth can field a decent side and Gilligan, Hendren,
Bryan and Chapman are good footballers, although
the last-named pair prefer the Rugby- code.
The Adelaide Test match developed quite
unexpectedly to a dramatic finish. At the end of
the fourth day England was just being worn down
in the usual way, Australia, with seven wickets in
hand, having added 211 to its first-innings lead of
DESPERATE MEASURES.
REV. FOOZIE : “Dear me, I've missed it again. What
shall I take next?”
CADDIE : “ 'Ow about a bit of silent prayer? We seem
to ’ave tried everythin’ else.”
124. Ryder was 82 n. 0., having apparently “in his
pocket” a world's record of a century to be bracketed
with his 201 n.o. A quarter of an inch of rain in
the night changed all that. In these days of a
covered pitch, Australian batsmen know nothing about
wet wickets, and on Wednesday morning the left-
handers Woolley (4 for 77) and Kilner (4 for 51) did
just, as they pleased. The last seven men went for
an absurd 39, of which Kelleway made a priceless
22 n.o. That left Gilligan’s men with 375 to win. All
next day they batted steadily, except when more
rain stopped the play for an hour at tea-time;
Wliysall scored 75, Sutcliffe 59, Chapman 58, Ivilner
24 and Tate a merry 21. Gilligan and Freeman
made a long stand when 61 were needed, and if it
hadn’t been for that hour’s stoppage they might,
have got them. But on Friday they were still
27 behind, and they failed to play themselves in.
Amid keenest excitement, and with the gates thrown
open, Gilligan (31) lifted a ball from Gregory (2
for 71) to Vic Richardson at mid-off, and Free-
man (24) snicked one of Mailey’s (3 for 123) into
the wicketkeeper’s hands; and Australia had won
the match by 11 runs. Likewise the rubber. Its
batting was more consistent than that of the English-
men, and it dropped fewer catches ; and that is the
story of the Tests.
“G. 0.8.”: Our sorry sticky-wieket debacle should
prove even to officials who place financial results
before the traditions and good of the game, that
covering the wicket for Shield matches is a farce.
As our batsmen had been dry-nursed for years, there
was no one who could, like Trimmer. Worrall and
Harry Graham of old, carry on as if the rain hadn’t
fallen. What was even worse, we had no bowlers
who knew how to take advantage of a damaged pitch.
They had never had the opportunity to learn. If
Turner, Hugh Trumble, Saunders or even Macartney
had heen playing, the Englishmen would have
been beaten on the fifth day. If the next XT’s
visit to England coincides with a wet summer,
they will be fortunate to win a Test, for they will
be quite unpractised at a phase of the game that is
artificially avoided here but is an everyday happening
over there.
“Centurion”; Though Parkin, the Lancashire pro.
has not yet been struck with writer’s cramp for
his latest criticism of Gilligan as a captain, the
wrath of the Mighty threatens him. Lord Hawke, a
Sir Oracle-peer who has been the big hit in Yorkshire
cricket this many a year as captain and chairman,
has poured out the vials of his wrath. If Parkin
had been a Yorkshire pro., he would never be
allowed to play again on a Yorkshire ground, said
his ludship. “For a man calling himself a cricketer
to attack Gilligan is beneath contempt. 1 pray God
no professional will ever captain England.” This
because Parkin advocated Hobbs as captain, and
although pros, often captained England Xl’s in
bygone days. Strangely enough the pompous old
gentleman has been one of the best friends the
Yorkshire pros, have ever had. He it was who
instituted the system of winter pay for them, and
he organised their benefit and superannuation systems
so efficiently that the County club is a model for
all others of its kind. Cricketers who know the old
chap’s sterling qualities smile at the characteristic
explosion.
“Flicker”; The second day at Adelaide when
Ryder’s marvellous 201 n.o. lifted Australia
from gloom to wild delight, was productive
of many “best efforts” on the part of
those who looked on. One excited —and slightly
intoxicated—gentleman in the stand near us
rose when Ryder was 150 and, holding a bottle
of beer in one hand and half a sandwich in the
other, began to chant an improvised version of
“Where Are the Yeomen, the Yeomen of England.”
For “Yeomen” he substituted “Bowlers,” and he
would perhaps have made an epic of it if he had
not been hit by a bottle flung by an infuriated
spectator whose view he was obscuring. He turned
to argue, but was hauled into his sea,t by a mate
and told “not to be a fool.” Thus are ‘great in-
spirations lost to the world. More striking still was
the outburst of a quiet little woman who had sat
placidly throughout the day, displaying no emotion
whatever till Gregory skittled Whysall. Then she
looked. up. “Strike me ruddy well dead, he’s bowled!”
she said, and relapsed into mood.v silence.
“H. Hardupp”: There is a
man in Melbourne who will give the
name “Hampden” to the house he
intends to get if his luck holds. After
a very rough spin he went out to
Caulfield on Jan. 17 with a pound-
note he had received by letter from
a pal, the monetary document having
“Good Luck” scrawled about it. Half
of it went on the first race; and then,
hoping against hope, he looked for a
roughie. Nothing looked rougher
than Hampden, about whom 100 to 1
could be got; and when the race was
over he was £25 in. He next punted
substantially on Sailing Home, and
then he struck Broad Check and Lady
Warwick; winners all. Before he left
the course he paid £3 to a punter
who was putting across the bar the
original note with the “Good Luck’’
on it—the other had just collected it
from a bookie. On the Hampden man’s
way home a sportsman who heard his
excited story mentioned that if a
job was wanted he could have one.
He started work on the Monday, but
was given time off to plant over £2OO
in the bank.
* * *
“Trapper”: Our wonderful
language again. Entering into con-
versation with a strapping wench at
a Diggers’ sports meeting in Mildura,
I was informed that she had driven
in from Merbein to compete in a race.
As I knew there was no event for
girls of her age I produced a pro-
gramme and asked her to show me
which of the races she expected to win.
Promptly she pointed to the one
headed Maiden Handicap, 75 yard?,
for runners who have not won a race
over this distance. “I’m not married,
and 1 have never won a race,” she
said. I did not enlighten the damsel;
I left that job to the starter.
Aided by villainous catching, a weak N. S.
Wales XI —at least Edgar Mayne regarded it as
weak- —put up 614 against Victoria on the Sydney
C. G., the Sheffield Shield holders being without
Ponsford and Ryder. H. O. Rock, the Uni. batsman
so long ignored by the State selectors, played a
great knock for 235, following on his 127 against
South Australia, and Alan Kippax was 212 n.o.
at the finish. Both were missed in the field, Kippax
giving several chances near the end in his rate for
the runs. Guy Morgan made a dashing 87, and
young - Salmon was batting well when he was run
out at 31. The remainder contributed 29 runs.
Hartkopf bowled well to get 5 for 121, and ’keeper
Mat Ellis stumped two batsmen and caught one.
And little Schneider’s fielding in the country was
brilliant. After Scott had been no-balled 10 times
in a few overs, and had skittled Mayne’s stumps
twice —the first ball was called, but Mayne didn’t
hear-—the Victorians set out doggedly to catch the
N.S.W. score, and another dreary seven-days match is
in prospect.
“Trcn”: Don Blackie, who bowled well for Vic.
toria in the Ma State’s first innings, but had bad
luck in the matter of missed chances, is quite an
old hand, though it is his first Sheffield Shield game.
Quite 20 years ago he was a good all-rounder with
South Yarra. Later he .joined Prahran, and under
.John Worrall's tuition concentrated on bowling,
learned to combine length, swerve, flight, variation
of pace and finger-spin, and was consistently success-
ful. For five years he retired (like Kelleway, he
loves his garden), but St. Kilda induced him to
return, and in his old age he gets his chance. The
Vic. selectors never become really enthusiastic about
a cricketer till he is past 40.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: F. R. Spofforth, the most
famous bowler of all time, has returned to
his native land on a visit, with his English
wife and daughter. “The Demon” told the inter-
viewers that he thought the English selectors ha<
erred in not sending out Parkin, here with Douglass
last team. “Spoff’s” record shows the amazing
amount of work early-day bowlers had to do. on
the tour of the first Australian XI, in 18(8, he
took 613 wickets for 6.08 runs apiece—l3o m the
prelimihary “colonial” tour, 320 in England, »•
in America and Canada, ahd 88 during the hnai
tour” of Australia. On the 1880 tour his tail)
was 763 wickets for 5.49 runs each, 349 ot these
in England. Many of the games in those day
were against local “18’s” and “22’5,” but even then
the feats are extraordinary.
TURBULENCE REPROVED
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Irish Rughy Union has complained to the
French Rugby Federation that the spectators at the
international match at Colombes on Jan. 1 forcibly
expressed disagreement with the English referee s
decisions. It adds that any repetition of such conduct
will imperil good relations between the two coun-
tries.”
If football you would play- with us„ said Patrick to
Pierre,
Our reverence for authority y-ou'll hay-e to try and
share.
A referee is like a cop ; he's there to boss the show,
And, wrong or right, his word is law- and what he
say-s must go.
Y T ou mustn’t jeer and mock or even glare at him
askance,
Please take a leaf from Erin’s book, you football
fans of France.
To meet, your doughty champions in mimic strife we
went,
Prepared to make allowance for the Gallic tempera-
ment ;
But flouting law and order thus surprises our entire
lan 1,
We wouldn’t think to tolerate that sort of thing in
Ireland.
To games you’ve come a trifle late, said Patrick to
Pierre,
And Latins are excitable, we Celts are well aware.
But, if you’d keep these contests up, ’tis time y-ou
were acquaint
With our ideas of discipline and decorous restraint.
Along the Boyne’s or Liffey’s banks or on the Shannon
side
It seems to us deplorable that law should be defied.
Authority must be preserved. The rule is just the
same
In football as in politics or any other game,
And men who’d hiss a referee would hardly bear
them meeker
When reprimanded by a Judge or cautioned by a
Speaker.
If in your House of Deputies, said Patrick to Pierre,
You needs must shake your fists and scrap and tear
each other’s hair,
And let the gibe and insult flow, and angry passions
burn,
And shameful scenes eventuate, that isn’t our concern.
But when upon the football field you try your
strength with us
You’ll have to curb what scholars term the furor
Gallicus.
To hear tne man who wields the sacred whistle
hooted at,
What is it but rebellion foul and insurrection flat ?
Come, mend your ways, Pierre my lad, or in your
froth-and-fire land
You’ll never see another team of footballers—from
Ireland.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Why not get all the service out of your
automobile battery?
There’s only one way to do it. Get
the battery before any of the service
is gone.
Scientists know, and any battery
engineer will tell you that the life of
a battery starts when the acid solution
is poured in.
Willard Threaded Rubber Batteries
are CHARGED Bone-Dry. Filling
their cells with acid starts their life for
the first time. This is done in your
presence when you buy the battery.
You know too, you are getting a
genuine Threaded Rubber Battery, for
Willard is the only battery that can be
supplied in this condition.
Look for the Willard Trade-mark
and the Willard Service Station Sign.
m
f ;;||| L. I;; fa
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.


j *»nV
1
r^
& i
¥
u
ms*
m*!<
The full joy of a run
on the harbor or river is not possible
if your mind is continually on the
qui vive —wondering whether the engine
will take you there and hack. Th IS
element of uncertainty is entirely
removed when you use the reliable
Shell Motor Spirit
Shell Spirit distills from Nature s hands free
from all impurities, and as it needs
no artificial aids it retains
all its natural power, sue
Shell never varies—the
standard is inflexible !
The British Imperial Oil Coy. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND
NEW ZEALAND.
MS.
Perfect Safety in
Poisonous Atmospheres.
ROTO Self-contained Oxy-
gen Breathing apparatus is
the simplest and safest avail-
able. Five minutes suffice in which
to become conversant with the
working of the whole apparatus.
Very little practice makes the
wearer expert in its use.
mm
%
m
m
m
v
i
,
Proto apparatus is comfortable and allows the greatest freedom of action.
It has fewer connections and joints than any other equipment of this
kind. It is compact—a man wearing it can crawl through an aperture
1 5 in. by 1 5 in.
Full particulars about the equipment of mine rescue-stations, etc., are supplied on request. >4
Proto demonstrations will be arranged when required.
At the reopening of Beil bird Colliery, Proto Apparatus
was used exclusively. The British and American armies
in the fin Id also were Proto equipped.
Australasian Agents:—
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN & ACCESSORIES, LTD
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Sielx? Gorman & Co., Ltd., Neptune Works, London, S.E.I.
THE INKY WAY.
David Gordon is the third knight to come out of
the South Australian Hansard gallery. The others
are Langdon Bonython and Will J. Sowden.
“Alastor”: Queensland’s latest authoress, Miss H.
Beach-Webb, has just returned from London, where
Ward, Lock are about to publish her first novel,
“The Honorable Fool.” Miss Beach-Webb was born
in South Aus., but has lived in Queensland for a good
many years.
“Etho”: Still in harness, at ripe 83, Tom
Hunt, editor and proprietor of the Kilmore (Vic.)
Free Press. He will in March have completed ;i
60-years run as editor. In his time he has
founded half a dozen newspapers and been more or
less everything from printer’s devil upwards. He
sat for 30 years in Parliament and reached Cabinet
rank. Of the Vic. Parliamentarians of ’74, he is
probably the only survivor.
“C.”: J. M. Walsh, young Australian novelist and
short-story writer, is leaving Melbourne for London
with a bride and a bunch of manuscripts. Walsh
began writing four years ago when he won second
prize in C. J. de Garis’s novel competition with a
yarn called “Lost Valley.” Since then he has
written over 30 serials, numberless short stories
(some for The Bulletin), and has seen his name
on the covers of three or four novels.
The Cotton Farmer and Dairyman, the monthly
organ of the Queensland Cotton Growers’ Union,
published at Rockhampton (Q.), has been amalga-
mated with the Australian Cotton Grower, issued
by the British Australian Cotton Association, Ltd.,
at Sydney, under the cumbersome title of the
Australian Cotton Grower, Farmer and Dairyman.
A. M. Pooley, of Sydney Evening News will edit it,
with the vigorous Captain F. Rhodes as Queens-
land correspondent. The transfer is one of the
results of the recent conference of Queensland
growers and the 8.A.C.A., at which the former were
given a chance to take over the business a few
years hence, with the right to representation on
the Board straight away.
With the death of F. T. Brentnall at 90, the
Brisbane Telegraph building is like to lose its
reputation for astonishing quantities of whiskers.
The Cowlishaws, George and James, Brentnall, Wool-
nough and Dr. Ward were all possessed of terri-
fying beards. The two great adventures of Brent-
nail’s life were his election to the Leg. Council
and an encounter with the Tichborne claimant, for
whom, when “F.T.” was a Wesleyan minister, he
nearly performed a marriage ceremony. Apart
from that, his long life was devoted mainly to
unobtrusive charity and the pursuit _of what he
himself was wont to term with unction at share-
holders’ meetings “More and more dividends.”
“Hamer”: A mournful touch at the end of the
report of a fatal accident:—
“The loss of three sons within a few years is a
heavy blow to Mr. Blank, who is one of the best-
known dairy Shorthorn breeders in the Common-
wealth.”
Inept expressions in hurried obits seem characteristic
of the dairying industry. It was a M.L. paper that
was responsible for “She was one of the most expert
milkers in the district, having won competitions at
several agricultural shows, and very great sympathy
will be felt with her father in his severe loss.”
“The Deacon’: Changes of a more or less drastic
order are pending on the staff of Sydney’s Catholic
Press. After death had removed the penetrating
personality of Tighe Ryan, P. S. Cleary moved up
from the sub.’s chair, and Archbishop Kelly approved
of his place being filled by Patrick J. Sheehy, who
had held an important professorial chair in the
Cardinal’s College. But both Cleary and Sheehy
lacked a pronounced literary touch, and there have
been complaints about the stodginess of the paper.
Now Sheehy takes a 12 months’ holiday abroad, and
if the strings that are being pulled don’t run awry,
a vacant chair in All Hallows’ Missionary College in
Ireland will be found for him.
“Uramao”: Some country journals in Maoriland
find it hard to. pay a whole-time editor, hence other
means have to be sought to keep the editorials
flowing. One paper is edited by a doctor, who
manages to squeeze in a leading article during
a lull in writing medical prescriptions. Another
place with a wild and woolly name boasts a paper
edited by the Anglican parson. A rumor got round
the township that the holy man was about to turn
down the pulpit for a permanent job as editor, and
he nailed the canard down thus: “A rumor has
reached us that the present editor of the News
intends giving up his parish and devoting all his
time to journalism. On the best authority, we learn
that this is not true at all. Our editor took up
the editorship on the understanding that it would
not interfere with his life work.”
“The Bhoy”: When the Sydney Daily Mail, then
at its last gasp, was acquired for the proverbial
song by A. C. Willis, for the A.L.P., and converted
into the Labor, Daily, it looked as if one of the party s
ideals was about to be realised. But almost im-
mediately a vitriolic attack was launched in the
Worker by Boote on behalf of the A.W.U., and
things have been much the same ever since. Tnen
the reconstructed and rebaptised paper’s editor, Roy
Connolly, collected the ancient order of the boot
End promptly flung a writ in for £5OOO. Dwyer
Gray, of the just dead Tasmanian organ, the World,
succeeded him. Next came Q. S. Spedding, late
editor of the Sunday News. The latest row is over
the new man’s alleged Nationalistic tendencies. JSow
that Common Cause has gone out of existence, a
section is clamoring for its late editor, S. A.
Rosa, to be given Spedding’s job; and meanwhile
the malcontents have declared the paper “black.
“Seebee”: The par about Deeming’s one-time police
escort recalls the official precautions that were taken
to lanid the woman-slayer at Melbourne without a
disturbance of the peace. A party of pressmen went
down Port Phillip Bay in the Vic. Governments
steamer Lady Loch early in the morning, 33 years
ago, to meet the mail steamer that was conveying the
Windsor murderer over from W.A., George Turner,
who was Customs Minister (under Shiels), having
given the reporters a special order to go on board
at Port Melbourne. But it turned out that the little
boat was only a decoy duck; it had been arranged
to slip Deeming into a launch and land him at St.
Ivilda, while the Lady Loch fooled about and formed
a screen between the mailboat and the crowd on
Port Melbourne piers and sands. The coup came off,
and it was an angry lot of scribes who presently
discovered the joke that had been worked.
irake it worse, most of them had been seasick as
well. By the way, the quill pen Deeming used while
in prison was found recently when Melbourne Gaol
w’as being dismantled. I don’t know “who secured the
interesting curio.
REJECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A poet I shall never be,
I cannot see the thing- that ain’t;
The clouds seem just like clouds to me
They never look like daubs of paint.
My river like a river flows
By ferny banks or mangrove brakes-
Winds smooth or ruffled as it goes,
But never makes me think of snakes.
The sun gives light, but why the fuss?
For though the yarn is pretty old,
I’ve never seen him drive a ’bus,
Nor yet dispensing* showers of gold.
Nor sounds the sea like organ roll;
If Maughan Barnet played like it,
They’d say “The Bloke’s gone up the pole—
Give him his brads and bid him quit.”
But, all the same, when sings the thrush.
When from the spray his soul is tossed,
What poignant mem’ries through mine rush
Of something 1 have lost!
MAORILAND.
BLACK WATCH.


The
Very
Idea
That imp of a page-boy again,
sir.
No, sir, he is not refined —not
at all refined, sir.
Said he was tired of seeing my
face and hearing me talk about
Kensitas.
Couldn’t I cc buy a mask and
find something else to gas
about ?”
When I’m ashamed of my face,
sir, I’ll buy fifty masks and a
muzzle too, and when I find
a better cigarette than Kensitas
I’ll retire. But until then
A light, sir? Certainly, sir.
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA
20 for V 6
50 for 3/9 ■ 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists
'.preferred cijarette,
Manufacturers:
J. WIX & SONS, LTD., LONDON
As good as Genuine BOSCH MAGNETOS
Absolutely Gaslight, Non-Fouling, Non-Oiling.
PROLONGED LIFE.
£
The Chisel-shaped Electrodes Promote
EASY STARTING.
Millions giving satisfactory service throughout the
world.
Melbourne: Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co.
Pty., Ltd 1 ., 256 Latrobe Street.
Sydney: Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 199 Castlereagh Streetv
Adelaide: Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane: Elphinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.
Hobart: D. J. Nettlefold & Co., LtdC., Elizabeth St.
New Zealand: J. J. Niven & Co., Ltd.
Genuine Bosch Sparking Plugs are stamped with this
Trade-mark and the name of ROBERT BOSCH.
A Step Ahead in Wireless
Have You the Brains of a 10-year-oid Child?
THEN YOU CAN
CU6em6UXjouA.GwH
SET TO-NIGHT.
tttti
mm,
Two-Valve “Assemble Your Own,” Price (without
accessories), £5/11/6.
Simply take a screwdriver and a pair of pliers., and the
“Assemble Your Own” wiring system does the rest.
“Assemble Your Own” Points.-
“ASSKMBLE_YOUR OWN” means you buy a set from us ready mounted on
panel at HALF THE Pit I OF, you would pay for a completely-assembled set.
Wiring it up is Simplicity itself, with the aid of our free plans and instructions,
especially compiled by our experts.
Don't hesitate to write for particulars of these sets wherever you may be.
There is no obligation to buy. ~
Our free inquiry department —our free delivery system—solves the radio
problem for you.
Some “Assemble Your Own” Prices.
Jfo. 1 One-Valve Set, in handsome cabinet without accessories (ready mounted
for wiring) £3 13 3
AVith all accessories including Brunet ’lHiones, Valve and Aerial AVire—-
£7 13 10
No.' 2—Two-Valve Set, in handsome cabinet without accessories (ready
mounted for wiring) £5 11 6
AVith all accessories, including Brunet Phones> Valves and Aerial
AVire £ll 0 0
No. 3 Three-Aalve Portable Set (in strong fibre suit-case, ready
mounted on panel for wiring), without accessories .. £7 19 1
AVith all accessories, including Brunet ’Phones,
Valves and Aerial Wire £l5 3 4
No. 4 Four-Aalve Set, without accessories .. £ll 3 10
With all accessories, including Brunet
’Phones, Aalves and Aerial AVire £24 14 11
%. "Si <?>
tP X
%■- '% &/: \
* .
$
LOUIS COEN WIRELESS
PTY.,
LTD.,
65 SVMSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
CHICAGO
LONDON
Wholesale, Retail.
Free Radio Catalogue on application.
Murdoch? s
RED
§O^4LE
li
w
'
This 301- Hat for-
-21/6
SPECIAL SHIPMENT of high-grade English
Soft Felt Hats for Men. Obtainable in three
popular styles:' “Nail Curl,” smart, slightly
turned-up brim (as illustration) ; also
“Lounge” and “Prince” styles, in Light, Mid
and Dark Greys. Silk bands and bindings
All regular sizes
Usually 30/- l/t
RED SPOT PRICE , ...21 |D
Hundreds of similar Bargains! Send to DESK R for Bargain
Catalogue—costs you nothing and will save you pounds.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Do not delay!
Orders for cut-
price goods re-
ceived only till
first post Feb. 16.
itf
1
ii:
St.
When ordering
kindly state size.
Address your
letter to DESK
R.
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


Dddbe Brothers
TOURING CAR
The surplus power of Dodge Brothers
Touring Car is one great source of
unusual satisfaction in driving.
There is ample power for stubborn
grades—there is no worry over the
difficulties of bad roads nor the com
stant necessity of shifting gears.
Dodge Brothers owners travel comfort-
ably and confidently with minimum
effort.
After all, this is the true basis of
economy in driving.
a
□□
A)%l/
A
1
i, y r
■'l <•
a ’i ■:
vy
□□
nn
«\ n
* * V'-isA S' \ t -J*’
\A
>C
V'
x vj
>x\
*K=.
TT
I I I nU
>V 7; '
'
A
V 5
!'\
Standardised Motors, Ltd,,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide. Australia,
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
896-898 Hay Street,
Perth.
29/l/’25.


-silo,
&
C
O,
*y/2e
GREYS
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Of all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN &. CO LTD., LONDON
Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co Ltd.
Jjzccmd -ber / Horvo
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK..
Hi:n Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Criterion . “The Green Goddess”
Royal “Wildflower”
Palace “So This Is London”
Grand Opera House .. “The Rise of Rosie O’Kcilly”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MKi.IIOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Good Morning, Dearie”
Royal “The Outsider”
King’s "Trelawny of the Weils”
Princess’s “Cinderella”
Palace “The Midnight Frolics"
Athenjsum Hai,l “Cappy Ricks”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Picture*
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
“I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice
remarked.
“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the cat. “We’re
all mad here. I'm mad. You’re mad.”
“How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.
“You must be,” said the cat, “or you wouldn't
have come here.”
Which is precisely what Alfred Frith
might have said to the audience that laughed
so unrestrainedly at his delightful idiocies
in “A Night Out” at Sydney Majesty’s on
Saturday evening. The inconsequential
comedian is indeed an unconscious plagiarist.
Not only does his nonsense wear the specious
air of wisdom of Lewis Carroll’s incom-
parable classic, but he has even copied the
unearthly smile of the Cheshire cat; so much
so, that if this Page reproduced John Ten-
niel’s picture of the feline in question as a
caricature of the comedian, nobody would
know the difference.
* * * *
The play, in fact, might have been
adapted ~ from “Alice in Wonderland”
as -well as from the French of George S.
Feydeau and Maurice Desvallieres. Frith,
as Joseph Pinglet, a sculptor, is locked in
his studio by Rosie Le Varde, his shrewish
wife, while she goes off to visit a sick sistei\
Frith Pinglet attaches a bellrope to the
bottom of a canary-cage and escapes over
the balcony to join Winnie Collins (Mar-
eelle) at the Hotel Pimlico, a haunted hos-
"THE RISE OF ROSIE O'REILLY ,” AT
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Some fragments of Chas. Hestop as Jimmie
Whitney and of Sadie Gale as Cutee
Magee.
telry outside Paris. Marcelle has been driven
to it through the coldness of her fianc6,
Paillard (W. H. Senior), who is an archi-
tect and has been summoned to the same
hotel on the same night to investigate the
cause of the ghost walking; and nearly every-
body else in the cast has made the same
date at the same rendezvous. Like every
French comedy ever written, the hotel is
shown with a w’all reproved, exposing to
the public view the vestibule, a private
room apd the haunted chamber. Owing to
the management’s insistence on flooding the
whole act with an aching blaze of light,
there is an absence of the supernatural atmo-
sphere, except when Field Fisher, the hilari-
ously funny waiter with the carp-like face,
forgets that he has entered a room through
the door and makes his exit through the
wall. A succession of more or less related
incidents ends in the return of Pinglet to
his prison by way of the bellrope and the
bird-cage, and the shrew, his wife, is tamed
through being wrongfully suspected of hav-
ing compromised herself at the Hotel Pim-
lico along with the rest.
Described as a musical play, the tiling
has more play than music in it, and more
Frith than either. Maggie Jarvis, as Vic-
torine, a housemaid, sings rather shrilly
about love of the sentimental kind; and
Winnie Collins, Rosie Lc Varde, Frith and
Senior give a spirited exposition of what
the same passion is like in the country that
is alleged to have nationalised women. Cecil
Kellaway and his four daughters take mod-
erate advantage of the opportunities that
are given them, and Cunningham and Cle-
ments, the specialty dancers, are discovered
to be better at the gymnastics of the dance
than the rendering of dramatic motives.
The acting of W. 11. Senior, the frigid lover,
suggests that the coldness has got into his
limbs and is interfering somewhat with his
circulation. Both the dressing and the danc-
ing of the ballets are refreshingly simple:
it is doubtful, however, whether the Patents
Office would unhesitatingly endorse the offi-
cial statement that they were “invented”
or “created” by anybody in particular.
At Sydney Opera House o’ nights
Are various musical delights
And rhythmical surprises.
And like the lark tMt blithely sings,
The while his upward way he wings,
So “Rosie O’Reilly” rises.
Sing a song of stirring scene ’neath an
Indian sky, love and vengeance and "The
Green Goddess” at the Cri. Daring deeds,
no end of ’em —mysteries, a host. Isn't that
the sort of play for Guy Bates Post?
“Wildflower,” at Sydney Royal, spells romance;
Italian gaiety and song and dance
Within it lurk ;
And various accessories enhance
The charm and tunefulness and elegance
Of Marie Burke.
“So This Is London.” Who demanded
where it is? To Sydney Palace let him fare
and gaze upon the show of Britisher and
Yank, in vulgar phrase, being “wised” to
one another’s little ways by Thurston, Hall
and co.
The colored trio listed as the Versatile
Three on the Sydney Tivoli programme
ought to confine themselves to darkie turns.
There is something incongruous about big
niggers wailing sickly sentimental songs;
and as for “The Dinkum Aussie Blues,” a
trashy ditty, popular with visiting artists,
it’s up to the Musicians’ Union to pass a
resolution forbidding any of its members
to play the rubbish. On the other hand the
spiritual. “ ’Tis Me, O Lord, Standing in
the Need of Prayer,” is first-rate, and the
trio would level up previous bad impres-
sions by including more of the type. Oswald
Williams is an uncanny trickster, and there
are a few married men who’d like to know
how he makes his female partner disappear.
* * sk *
Jazz rules the roost at Sydney Fullers’
nowadays. Linn Smith stepped into the
Castlereagh-street house last Saturday with
a boisterous band of syncopated melody
manufacturers, and proceeded to give the
audience all the noise its primitive soul
craved for. The goat-acting among the play-
ers mightn’t appeal to more serious-minded
lovers of music, but the crowds at Fullers’
declare it to be the dinkum article. And
Charles Lewis, a storyteller from overseas,
has found that there is a keen demand for
his line of goods.
* * sk sk
Johnny Hines, “the Speed Spook,” is
tearing eerily across the Sydney Lyceum
screen, steering his camouflaged car from
beneath a false bonnet. Johnny is a droll
humorist. “The Lights of London,” at the
Lyric, illuminate the dark corners where
nasty-minded villains are waiting for the
good little heroine. At Iloyt’s “The Man
Life Passed By” is Percy Marmont, inven-
tor. A rascally millionaire steals his plans,
and Percy has to sell his coat to buy liis
dying mother milk. In the end the million-
aire makes restitution, and Percy has
enough cash to purchase a whole dairy.
Lionel Barrymore is at the same address,
and a repellent person he is until he nobly
pours lysol down liis throat. If you want
thrills Hoyt’s can give them.
Though still not much good, “Trelawny
of the Wells” has improved a little at Mel-
bourne King’s, and will run for another
week before the Boncicault-Vanbrughs round
off their season with a series of revivals.
The programme will be “The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray” for a few nights, then “Mr. Pirn
Passes By” and “His House in Order.” After
that the co. will make a dash into Sydney,
skip back to Adelaide and then off to Perth.
From there the principals go to England to
make their selection of Barrie plays for next
Melbourne Cup-time.
A shuffle in J.C.W. arrangements has sent
“What Money Can’t Buy,” which was to
have started its experiment next Saturday
at Melbourne Royal, back to the park, and
“The Outsider” is going to expound the magic
of quackery for the few more nights now
allotted to the Moscovitch season. Next
Saturday (Feb. 7) “Betty,” with Maud Fane
in the lady’s petties, is to smile on Royal
patrons, and the crowd is getting ready to
give her a welcome.
“Gappy Ricks,” whose approach has
already been signalled, will sail into port at
Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday (Jan.
dl). The cheerful Hawaiians, who will have
to go out to make room, could have lasted
“WILD-
FLOWER,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Marie La Varre as
Lucrezia La
Roche, the light-
hearted vamp;
and John Fordo as
Luigi, the old
Italian farmer.
longer. On this Showman’s last visit a
pleased management was once more proclaim-
ing that the house was full, and a stream
of would-be patrons was flowing away. A
disturbing result of the popularity of the
show is the growth of the ukulele habit m
Melbourne. Teachers of the tinny instru-
ment are burgeoning into big advts., and
music emporiums report preposterous sales.
One place, by the way, has a sign which
runs: “All kinds of musical instruments;
also bagpipes, ukuleles, mouth-organs, etc."
The Australian Sunshine Girls, the whirl-
ing Jazz Band and Josie Melville show no
sign of growing weary in the legs which rush
“Good Morning, Dearie,’’ through its nightly
success at Melbourne Majesty’s.
With frequent changes of programme.,
“The Midnight Frolics” still draws its public
to the New Palace, where “A Day at Wem-
bley” gives an idea of what people who try
hard to be humorists would have done had
they been let loose at that exhibition. The
flippant show is well-meaning in its worse
phases; in its best it justifies the laughter
which patrons come prepared to spill.
In some of the gasping nights that Mel-
bourne has been given recently, the enchanted
lake into which some spritely Australian
nymphs at the New Princess's descend hi
search of Cinderella’s shoe gives an appeal-
ing sense of coolness. There is no mention
of any need to write an obituary notice about
the panto yet.
The Newcastle Steel Works Band is giving
Melbourne a call; there will be a clash of
brass at Wirths’ Olympia on Saturday night,
which will allow people to judge how the
Australian combination won its English
laurels.
Tom Brown’s expert saxophonists having
left Melbourne Tivoli, Maidie Scott has re-
turned with what would be a _ repertoire of
new songs if the audience didn’t insist upon
hearing the old ones; and on Monday the
Femina Quartette dropped into the bill.
But the ranid act of the Four Ortons is
still the best. Running through eight
minutes of breathlessness, it is a model of
what a vaudeville act should be, and stands
in refreshing contrast to the time-wasting
posturings which managements sometimes
permit “stunting” vaudevillains to inflict on
a bored public.
* * * *
A film actor with the delightful name 9f
Wallace Beery is bracketed with Virginia
Yalli in “The Signal Tower” at Hoyt’s do
Luxe. He might be more entertaining if he
was more Beery. “The Sideshow of Life” is
the story of a circus clown who makes a
rise in life, but, despite the lure of a Society
maid, preserves that true heart for his
circus-girl love which is more than a coronet
—in fact, is worthy of a film hero. “My
Man” is the Majestic front-line offering; it
is supported by the Alaskan “chechahcos.”
Stella Power is both an artistic and a popu-
lar help to the programme at this
house. Fullers’ damn-phool comedian Claude
Dampier is shown in a Beaumont Smith
picture, “Hullo Marmaduke,” at the Para-
mount : “The Ten Commandments” at The
Capitol ran last week to its 200th showing;
and the Auditorium has struck an uncommon
success with Douglas Fairbanks's spectacular
“A Thief of Bagdad.”
A New Gallery show:—
The first display of the year at the New Gallon',
Melbourne, is a mixed collection of water-colors and
oils showing mainly the work which the exhibitors
have failed to dispose of at previous shows —or,
perhaps, some that previous purchasers want to re-
sell. “Portsea,” by the late Penleigh Boyd, is
here ; Louis MeCubbin has two striking landscapes,
and the conscientious work of Harold Herbert shows
in a couple. Much of the work is not up to the
exhibiting artists’ best, as in the Heidelberg studies
of Leslie Wilkie, and one by George Benson. An
A. H. Full wood is one of the most attractive; A.
E. Newbury, David Davies (a big, breezy sea-
scape), Daryl Lindsay, Margaret Preston, Joan Weig-
all, Thea Proctor and the late Frederick MeCubbin
ire amongst the others; and there are etchings by
Lionel Lindsay and Victor Cobb.
Among good tilings seen lately in pictures
in Adelaide are Jackie Coogan, natural and
very funny in “Long Live the King,” at
Wondergraph, and Hutchinson’s "Clean
Heart,” at the York, which also had a really
comic picture of the three intelligent apes in
“Darwin Was Right.” West’s has had mixed
attractions, Betty Blythe, Test-match pic-
tures and the simply superb Newcastle Steel-
works Band—which afterwards moved on to
the Town Hall and crowded that too. In
tlie open Billy Maloney is hard working
and popular on' one side of North-terrace;
George Ross, of quieter methods, is on the
other. The Prince of Wales keeps the
spoken drama going with a series of popu-
lar revivals —“Robbery Under Arms, ’ “The
Squatter’s Daughter,” and such well-tried
things.
“Lud”: Suicide or, rather, attempted
suicide has on occasion been resorted to
by desperate publicity-mongers in the theat-
rical business. Not often; the job has its
risks. A still-living actress in England owes
her name on the boards to being fished out
of 3ft. of water into which she had thrown
herself in full view of a policeman, who
promptly “charged” her. One of a crowd
of small-part girls at the Gaiety, she was
ambitious to become a real live actress, and
her relatives all testified at the police court
how her disappointments in this connection
had got on her mind and for the time being
had rendered her irresponsible. Let off
with a caution, charming Mabel was soon
being starred in a comedy company, and
“TRELAWNY OF THE WELLS,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
James Telfor ( Henry Latimer) drinks the
health of Rose Trelawny (Irene Van-
brugh).
postcards with her portrait on them couldn t
be printed fast enough. The “mysterious
disappearance” is likewise a theatrical stunt
that has its advertising value. A year or
two back a Cockney vaudevillain on a visit
to Sydney suffered “loss of memory, ’ and
was nowhere to be found when the printers
were ready with the bills and programmes
on which he was announced to make his
first appearance. He discovered himself
just in time, and blushed horribly to find
himself famous. He was never so much
talked about before or since.


0
ANNOUNCING
SERVANTS
at a new address in both N.S.W. and Queensland.
There is a Servant for Every household
need. Electric Irons, Percolators, Toasters,
Grills, Curling Irons, Heaters, Warming Pans, Electric
Ranges, and the numerous other indispensable
Servants, comprising the entire flot/ioigt
range, unsurpassed in efficiency, dependability, conveni-
ence and economy, are available from all (M) Distributors
throughout Australia.
Guarantee
All Jfot/udnt Appliances are guaranteed against
mechanical and electrical defects for a period of one year
from date of purchase by the user, providing they are
used on circuits of voltage no higher than stamped on
nameplate. We will replace defective parts under the
above guarantee, free of charge, if returned to our nearest
office with transportation prepaid. We pay return charges.
Reduce transportation costs by returning defective parts
wherever possible.
; 35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
i SYDN EYT
Hi
116 QUEEISt STREET
MELBOURNE
Phone: City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O
Phone : Cen. 2646 80x.538 G.P.O,
Corner Queen and Wharf Streets, Brisbane. * Hunter Street West, Newcastle.
Agents:—
Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd., Brisbane.
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
Oliver & Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart & Launceston, Tas.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
BEENER
S
WZ'.
m
m
"///,
m
m
m
mm
mm.
wz
mm
w
W. W, GRBMftfl
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only).
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Malt is a Wonderful
Nourisher
Thai is,_^
Why I
Is such a
&
Beneficial Beverage
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Corn*
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“Hamer”: This week the J.C.W. electrics
will blaze in other parts of the world in
earnest, Josie Collins opexiing in. Edinburgh
with “Fresquita” and “Lightnin’ ” starting
at the Shaftesbury, London. (Incidentally,
John D. O’Hara is not to be the Lightnin’
Jones of the latter production.) The J.C.W.
chain abroad includes four theatres in Lon-
don and five in New York, and what amounts
to control of the leading . South African
theatres. A several-times millionaire named
Gaunt is backing the venture; and, having
roped in some of the leading stars (they
include George Grossmith), the Firm’s mana-
gers reckon upon getting the first refusal of
all the best attractions by offering _a world
production. A previous venture into the
London show-world was made during the
war, at the Adelphi, where J.C.W. ran “High
Jinks.” The war-profits tax, however, sat
heavily upon that venture, the Government
taking about 16s. in the £; and after run-
ning the one piece for 10 months the Firm
dropped out.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The most obvious faults
in “The Outsider” are the grotesque happy
ending, worked in on Ethel M. Dell lines,
and the ludicrous identification of a kiss
by the heroine, who until Ragatzy kisses
her a second time, imagines that the lips
pressed to hers in a restless half-sleep of
her illness were those of her lovei*, Basil
Owen. The original conclusion was better:
the cure of the lady did not become effective,
her disappointment in love having a psycho-
logical reaction which undid all the good
work. The end, in fact, was almost, tragic.
But audiences arose as one god, and insisted
that love had to triumph before the curtain
dropped. And the dramatist obliged.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Hugh Ward is reported
to be finding a difficulty in getting new
attractions. The real Australian theatrical
war is being fought in England and
America, where the rival firm at present
has a decided pull—its powerful allies in
London and New York can guarantee pro-
duction in several countries to those with
good things to offer. Ward was fortunate
in getting “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly,”
which has proved a money-spinner. Tbe
other people wanted it, but Ward beat them
by about a week.
“Hamer”: Those pars, about Rudyai’d
Kipling’s dramatic experiments recall
Charles Dickens’s efforts in the same medium.
They were all failures except perhaps “The
Lamplighter.” and that wasn’t much of a
success. “The Lamplighter,” with a few
others, can be obtained in a single volume;
but nobody is recommended to read it. Yet
all Dickens’s books were dramatised by
others iix his own day, some of them several
times; and the novelist was justly bitter
about the playwrights who stole his stories
without paying for them. Of the five ver-
sions of “Dombey and Son” two songs sur-
vive—“ Florence” (beginning, “Homeless
and friendless whither now, ah whither
shall I fly?”) and “What Are the Wild
Waves Saying?” “Lady Dedlock’s Secret ’
(founded on “Bleak House”) is played
now and then, and “A Tale of Two
Cities” is frequently revived in Britain.
Sydney Carton is a character in which
several leading actors have fancied them-
selves. Tyrone Power was the most com-
pelling we have seen in Australia.
“E.T.” : The mummer who “took a chance
to put himself right with his audience” (B.
22/.1/’2o) reminds me of when I was
appearing in a “Forty Thieves” pantomime
in a North of England town. One night
our Cassim Baba showed signs of hiccups,
and the leading comedian, who was playing
Ali Baba, improved the occasion with a
new gag. His job it was to introduce Cas-
sim to two or three of the other characters
with the words, “My brother Cassim.” On
the night in question he added, with a wink
at the gods, “Not my full brother —just half-
full.” The jape went splendidly with the
house, but Cassim was righteously indig-
nant. Throwing up an unsteady hand, he
appealed for silence. Then, toddling down
to the footlights, he remarked: “Ladish an’
gentl’men, I may be full or I may be
half-full; but, anyway, he”—indicating the
leading comic—“didn’ pay for it.” As Ali’s
closeness was notorious, Cassim’s gibe got
the laugh of the evening.
“Slipstick”: Peggy Pryde was one of
several oldtimers who trod the boards at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The other day she
had the character part of wardrobe mistress
in a theatre scene that was being acted for
the movies. Twenty years ago Peggy’s name
was writ large on the bills of the London
halls, and she earned a lot of money for
Rickards during two or three Australian
tours. Her songs were chiefly remarkable
for the genial vulgarity dear to the Cockney
heart. The little woman, whose mother was
Jenny Hill, the “Vital Spark,” retunxed to
the business for a time in Sydney two or
three years ago.
“F.T.K.”: Talking of quick changes
(B. 15/l/’25), Nance O’Neil’s last Sydney
season wound up witli a fortnight of reper-
tory. Fourteen different performances,
including matinees, tested the versatility of
the massive dame and her company. “Queen
Elizabeth,” “Magda,” “Camille,” “La Tosca,”
“Ingomar,” “Fedora,” and “Fires of St.
John” were some of the productions.
“Hennoc”: Ai’thur Roberts (B. 15/l/’25)
was very difficult to play with. You never
knew what he would do next. Some years
ago, in a court case, the script of a comedy
was put in as an exhibit. The judge asked
the meaning of “Mr. Arthur Roberts : ad lib.”
Witness replied that as Mr. Roberts never
bothered to learn the author’s lines, it was
not considered necessary to wi-ite them. One
of Arthur’s chief delights was in tying his
fellow mummers up, and, I regret to say, he
often succeeded. The late Florence St.
John used to complain bitterly about this,
and he promised to reform, but he never did.
I have been a victim myself on more than
one occasion, but they were “benefits,” so it
did not matter.
THE INCOMPREHENSIBLE.
JONES (to daughter of celebrated Lion
Comique): “No , dearest; having seen
your father my love for you remains
unaltered. It only adds a deeper sense
of mystery to your beauty.”
“Alba”: Dion Titheradge, the son of
George, is London’s youngest successful pro-
ducer. He has just made a start on his own
account at Her Majesty’s, and he is also
running various little houses. He specialises
in revues, and has written several himself.
Dion recently bought a home for himself in
St. John’s Wood. It formerly belonged to
A. S. M. Hutchinson, of “If Winter Comes,”
and is “a dream of a home.” Hutchinson
had it for his mother, whom he adored —this
explains the quaint Perch mother and son
in “If Winter Comes,” perhaps. When the
old lady died recently he could not bear to
enter it, so sold it in a hurry and departed
for foreign lands. It is something of a
coincidence that when George Titheradge—
a good many years ago now —took his young
family to England, it was at St. John’s
Wood he established them, quite near Dion's
present home.
“S.T.S.”: As to loss of memory on the
stage (B. 15/l/’25), there is a good story in
a new history of Birmingham Rep. Theatre
about John Drinkwater. The Rep. was to
give afternoon and evening performances at
a garden-party. During the afternoon show
one of the chief actors was hopelessly “fluffy”
in his lines, and finally left the stage. Drink-
water saw that the show could not possibly
be picked up again, so he entered, staggered,
put his hand to his head and fell flat. He was
carried to the house, and the performance
was cancelled. Those who saw it (and knew
the facts) say it was one of the best bits of
BETTER FUEL.
“What are you doing now?”
“Oh, just a few pot-boilers.”
“Why don’t you use thicker paper?”
acting he had ever done. A different play was
arranged for the evening, at which Drink-
water “was accorded a great reception, all
the audience regarding him as a hero for
rising from a sick bed to do his work.”
“Pip Tok”: To-day I saw a genuine bushie
in a Perth music-shop trying an accordion
before purchasing it. I was so pleased to
find that the race of “accordeen”-players
was not extinct that I induced him to partner
me in a heraldic tableau ; we posed as sup-
porters to two pots effervescent. Perhaps
the “Made-in-Germany” taint has had a good
deal to do with the decline of the accordion
and the mouth-organ in favor of the cissified
ukulele and the banjolin and the saxophone
—that brutal retaliation on the Scots for
the bagpipes. But what has become of the
ocarina, once so popular with the gallants
of Surry Hills and Footscray? Gone the
way of the rebeck and the psaltery, I
suppose.
“Amity” : Yes, I once saw a live female of
the species “unadorned in a reputable play-
house” (B. 15/l/’25). It was at Maunga-
kakaramea, a wayback M.L. village. A small
and hard-up company had arrived to do
“East Lynne,” and the s.-m.’s young wife,
who played Isabel, found that the occupants
of the boarding-house all intended to be there
to see Little Willie die. Dreading fire, she
therefore took her daughter, aged three, along
to the hall, and during a pause in Act I un-
dressed the infant, intending to put her to
sleep in the dressing-room. Jane, standing
in the nood while her nightie was being, ex-
tracted from a suitcase, heard a familiar
voice on-stage, and toddled off joyously to
verify her suspicion that it was Daddy. The
delighted yell of the audience was the first
indication Jane’s mother had that something
untoward had occurred. It was certainly
the greatest reception that company had ever
had, and the uproar continued long after
Jane had taken her first curtain-call, hur-
riedly draped in an antimacassar.
“V.V.”: Cassius, the theatrical manager,
made a practice of acquiring a controlling in-
terest in any rival undertaking that threat-
ened to be dangerous. Stormer, the actor,
was ruminating on this policy when he
noticed a small boy struggling with a barrow
of empty bottles. “How does this business
pay you?” he asked the merchant of dead
marines. “Not too rotten, mister,” was the
reply. “It’s a bad week when I don’t make
two quid.” “Hush, boy,” said Stormer.
“Keep it dark, or Cassius will want to go
into partnership with you!”
“Te Pana”: Many travellers will miss
Sam Gilmer, of the Royal Oak Hotel, Wel-
lington (M.L.),who died the other day. Sam
had set ideas on hotel management, and
wouldn’t have an actor living on the pre-
raises. Julius Knight got in there once, bur
was called up next morning and told that
his room was wanted —his company wasn’t.
Sam was a good sport in many other ways, anu
waiters and housemaids only left his service
to get married or start in business on then-
own account.
“F.L.H.” : A letter from Dublin tells me
that Skalski, whose piano-playing and con-
ductorship of the N.S.W. State Orchestra
after Verbrugghen left will be fresh in Aus-
tralia’s memory, is using the stick for the
Carl Rosa co. in the Irish capital. Skalski’s
work was popular—it was particularly noted
in “Madame Butterfly” that the voices did
not have to struggle to be heard against the
accompaniment. Another conductor with
this co. is Hubert Bath, who toured Aus-
tralia with Quinlan in 1912, and has since
dabbled in composing.
“Penn Chant”: Tell “D. Street” (B.
25/12/’24) that Millie Ilerberte, his “sweet
sentimental balladist,” is not forgotten. 1
met Millie at Fuller’s Waxworks, Courtney-
place, Wellington (M.L.), and in fancy I
still hear her beeting out this chorus:—
She may be somebody’s mothah as good as yaws.
She may have someone to love hah when she’s indaws.
Though she’s got haggard teachers,
We should love our fellah-creachers;
She may be somebody’s mothah just as goo-00-d as
yaws.
“Ibsenshaw”: That remarkable Irishman
Lord Dunsany had some witty and true
things to say about playwriting at a dinner
given in honor of the founder of the Birm-
ingham Repertory Co. Some of the gems:—
We must get rid of the fetich “what the public
wants.” Who on earth knows what the public
wants ?
Plays are not Paris fashions, but human emotions ;
dialogue is but the bricks in relation to the archi-
tecture ; it is technique that matters. If a play
has no technique it is a bad play.
It is the dramatist who is the first man to be
discouraged in the theatre. But, on the other hand,
there are certainly some manager's who come by
their bankruptcy honestly.
Dunsany has been writing brilliant plays
for 20 years, yet I don’t suppose more than
two or three of his shorter pieces have seen
the footlights in Australia. That is because
managements are bankrupt—in ideas.
“Flaming Youth”: A Melbourne family
which cultivates theatrical acquaintances
had Millie Largescrew as one of its honored
guests. Strangely enough, Millie appeared
not to notice that the equally distinguished
Hubert de Humbug was also at the party,
and an embarrassed member of the family
was moved to ask a question. “But, surely,
having been so long on the stage together,
you know Mr. de Humbug?” she said. The
reply came sweetly: “I'm afraid I don’t.
You see, it is quite two years since I divorced
him.”
“De Oriel” : The origin of the slow-motion
picture was suggested to an onlooker in a
restaurant. He saw two Scotchmen reaching
for the ticket at the same time.
The soubrette’s story :
I once saw a needy actor throw his salary away.
It took him from Monday morning, first rehearsal,
to Thursday to decide about it. The manager’s office
was up a flight of stairs, which you could reach
from the stage by using the producer’s door and going
through the stalls. We weren’t supposed to use
that door, but sometimes we did. On Tuesday morn-
ing the actor took his part as far as the door
and came back to me in the wings. “I can’t do
it,” he said wildly. “Do what?” I asked. “Mur-
der a man in cold blood. I’ve never played the villain
in a melodrama before.” I laughed, having committed
numerous murders myself. “Oh, it’s all in a salary,”
I said; and the rehearsal continued. On Wednesday,
however, he went to the door, opened it, walked to
the other side, and came back running his hand
through his hair in a manner that thrilled even me.
“It’s impossible,” he groaned. “I abduct a child
and throw her over a cliff.” “She won’t be killed,”
I laughed. “We always save the child.” The
rehearsal continued. On Thursday I saw him walk
quickly from the stage and rush through the stalls.
I could almost hear him taking the stairs to the
manager’s office three at a time. He came back
breathless. ,“I had to give it in,” he said. “I
couldn’t put arsenic in the baby’s milk.” I was
guilty of giggling. The producer ’phoned another
actor, who replied: “Yeh! Put a ton of arsenic
in the milk if you like.” He came and did the
job for a few quid less. I often wonder if Reynolds
Denniston is glad or sorry about it now.
“Tickets Please” : Side by side with maud-
lin ballads might be considered lines from
melodramas that plumbed the vast abyss of
bathos. Take this spasm of dialogue from
“A Soul Worth Saving,” now deservedly
dead and damned :
“You have a mother, yourself, to whom you are
devoted. Think, before you do this to Terence, that
whatever he may have done, he has a mother who
will suffer.”
“His mother is dead. She died in his infancy.”
“Then how can you blame him for what he has
done? The boy who has grown to manhood without
a mother’s guiding hand is surely more to be pitied
than blamed.”
It never failed to get a “round,” and a
thumping big one. Probably every male
person in the audience had a mother and
believed (for the moment, at any rate) that lie
loved her, even if he had driven the old girl
to keep the family by going out washing.
PIERRETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winds of the twilight, lithe and sweet,
Stir pine-needles beneath our feet,
Here where starshine and shadows meet.
Scent of the bluegums, dusk-dew wet,
Seems to cling in your hair, Pierrette —•
Theme enough for my chansonette.
Dreams fly past us on soft grey wings,
Ghost hands pluck at my viol strings,
Whispering secret, sorrowful things.
Winds in the dark, a-roving free,
Storm and shine of the changing sea
Cry for voice in the heart of me.
But somehow they change on my lips, Pierrette,
To light little songs of vague regret—
Songs to whistle and swift forget—
Of starshine lighting the way to a kiss,
Moonglades darkened for lovers’ bliss,
Warm lips clinging—no more than this 1
Give me your soft lips, crimson-sweet,
Bold red poppies among the wheat,
Weeds to trample ’neath godly feet.
What if the Jester bids me dream
Of silver star-pale lilies agleam,
Floating dim on a lonely stream?
Cold, white lilies, with dawn-dew wet,
Hearts of gold ’mid pearl petals set —
Such flowers bloom not in the world, Pierrette!
Give me your soft lips, cherisette,
Scarlet thread of my chansonette,
Far too sweet to have drained regret—
Wiser than Solomon’s, gay Pierrette.
M . L .
IRIS WILKINSON.


Amusements.
gYD N E Y’S CIII E 1' THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION: THE GREEN GODDESS.
ROYAL: WILDFLOWER.
PALACE : SO THIS IS LONDON.
piCKAItDS' TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pOLLE R’S THE A T RE, SIDNE Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor. George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
EVENINGS AT 8. Matinees, Wed. and Sat., at 2.15.
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
MY CASTLES’ GRAND OPERA CONCERTS.
ASSOCIATE ARTISTS:
SIGNOR CAPPELLI (Tenor),
Mr. A. C. BARTLEMAN (Baritone),
MAESTRO E. KOST (Musical Director), and
Miss EILEEN CASTLES.
Sydney Town Hall, 21st 24th, 26th and 28th Feb.
ATHENJSUM HAL L. MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J- Carroll
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 31, at 8 p.m.
E. J. CARROLL presents
The Uproariously Funny Three-Act Comedy
CAPPY RICKS.
The stage version of Peter H. ivyi.e s famous Novel.
A Specially Selected Cast.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
C WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MAURICE MOSCOVITCH in
THE OUTSIDER, __
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“The Theatre Beautiful.”
Every Evening at 8. MatinSes Daily at 2.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
THE GORGEOUS LONDON FAIRY PANTOMIME
CINDERELLA.
A Feast of Delight for Young and Old.
PALACE THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
“The House Exquisite.”
Every Evening at 8. MatinSes Daily at 2.15.
WHITE and EDGLEY Present,
By Arrangement with
Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.,
THE MIDNIGHT FROLICS.
The Show of Speed, Spice and Sparkle.
ING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
TRELAWNY OF THE WELLS.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
VIRGINIA VALLI in
THE SIGNAL TOWER.
ERNEST TORRENCE and ANNA Q. NILSSON in
THE SIDE SHOW OF LIFE.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FIND YOUR MAN.
Featuring Rin-tin-tin, the Wonder Dog.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Position Vacant.
INNISFAIL DISTRICT HOSPITAL
APPLICATIONS are called for the posi-
tion of Matron to the above Hospital
(a Training School).
Applicants must be double certificated and
members of the Australian Trained Nurses’
Association.
Salary £2OO p. annum (Award conditions).
Applications stating when able to com-
mence duties, together with references, to be
in the hands of the undersigned by 16tli
February, 1925.
H. W. SCHMIDT,
Secretary.
To Let.
TO LET (Vacant March 1).
GENT.’S WATERFRONT RESIDENCE
(UNFURNISHED), grounds Two
Acres, boatshed, swimming bath, garage,
electric light; to let on a 12-months’ lease,
with option of purchase. Terms, etc., from
the owner—
BOX 5, P. 0., ROCKDALE, N.S.W.
Australian Mutual
87PittSt!!Sydnay PfOVidCllt SoClCty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Ollice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103,220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies in over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income £7,865,000
The Society transact* Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H- W. APPERLY, F. 8.5., General Manager.
o
o
<■&©
Übffl
WM
0
4/
ONOTO
Best
INK—
for all Pens
THE MARK OF /
A GOOD RAZOtf
THE
PLU
m
foil any man you know who use* a PLUM—
silt him if he doesn't think it the best
Rotor he has ever used. Hour him
answer. “Why, rather!"
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 Georg' Street. Sydney.
Missing Friends.
D.G.A. —Write without delay to N.A.,
GALBRAITH & McGILL, Writers, 78
Street, Glasgow.
c/o Messrs.
St. Vincent
ANY person in Australia claiming to be a relative
of ROBERT A. HARRISON, who died recently
in the United States of America, is requested to
furnish proof of Relationship to the PUBLIC
CURATOR of Queensland, Brisbane.
7IMMERMAN.— The NATIONAL TRUSTEES COM-
PANY is anxious to obtain information as to
whether the following children of JOHN ZIMMER-
MAN (who died in 1916) and JANET ZIMMER-
MAN (who died in 1890) are still alive, or, if dead,
proof as to deaths, and whether married and leaving
issue:
JANET JAMIESON (formerly Zimmerman),
HENRY ZIMMERMAN,
BARBARA LOUISA ZIMMERMAN.
Anyone acquainted with any of the above, or who
can supply any information concerning them, please
communicate at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
r For
V up-to-date s
DECORATIOI
in the HOME,
use
RIPOLIN
PAINT
Protects and Beautifies.
procurable everywhere: A
Standard Agencies
Pty., Ltd., A
L 379 Flinders,Jg
Bk. JM
!MH
tmrflnll
-,v
-
m*
vfl
I=.
8
!!!!!! lii
mm i)
Hill j
lillll
ia
■•. I
□
■=o^},
Hi
in
r
Who Makes the
Electric Lamps You Use?
1
THE experience of many years and much experimen-
tation is woven into the making of an Electric Lamp.
It does make a difference who is the maker. The effect
of electric current on a given element is best analyzed by
the creator of other great electrical apparatus.
In the manufacture of Westinghouse Electric Lamps,
will be found incorporated all of the years of experience
in the studying and analyzing of the effects of electricity.
Westinghouse lamps last longer.
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Westinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company, «Ltd.,
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Yorkshire House,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Bin
N
102*
%
ESTtNGHOUSE
ELECTRIC


QLout
>@ ®®®®®®®®®®®®®®®® @
?? ®
r* r y/ r
QmH^
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
®
*>
f) Introduced by Cavanders Ltd. (Est. 1775) to
i) meet the insistent demand for a really refined
J cigarette, in pure ribbed rice paoer
1 without ink, at the popular price of 10 for 9d.
ARMY CLUB “ SANDHURSTS ” are
made from the best Virginia crops blended in the best
possible way. Their size is just perfection and they
have the following unique features ....
The Tobacco is wrapped in pure ribbed rice paper,
to enhance its perfect flavour and aroma,
1 and to distinguish this cigarette from all
) others the name “ ARMY CLUB is
water-marked in the paper—obviating
D the use of Printers Inks with their
® attendant dangers to health.
®
®
®
The Cigarettes are wrapped in tissue and again
in foil to keep them clean and fresh.
Hygiene. Danger of contamination by
handling is obviated by the use of the
®
®
most up -to-date machinery.
Army Club
CIGARETTES
‘Sandhurst’ Size
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
R. TOWNS & CO.,
Reiby Place, Sydney Agents.
CAVANDERS LIMITED, LONDON,
Est. 1775.
m:
m
//
g
77/
1
1
7
0® ®®
%
,© © <g> ®@>® © ® <§> ©®©©©©©©© © © © ® ® ® ® ® <B><§> ® ©
®®®®®<s>®
We are after the Shillings for the N.S.W. Hospitals.
Will You Help the N.S.W. Police Hospital Carnival and Art Union to Raise
£50,000?
TO INDUCE YOU TO HELP WE ARE GIVING PRIZES VALUED OVER £3OOO.
No. Prize.
1. 23/60 “Vauxhall” Motor Car Value
2. “Bight Six” Studebaker Motor Car.. „
3. Beale “Maestro” Model Player Piano „
4. Suite of “lnlaid Sycamore” „
5. “Indian Chief” Motor Cycle and Side
Car »
6. Beale No. 8 Model Piano «
7. Binen Chest full of Household linen
£1250 0 0
525 0 0
258 0 0
200 0 0
175 0 0
130 0 0
100 0 0
Prize.
No. Prize.
8. Cabinet of Cutlery
9. Dining-room Billiard Table
10. No. 10 Mahogany Cheney Talking
Machine
11. Silver Tea and Coffee Service
12. “Westminster” Chiming Clock
13. Gent.’s Gold 15-Jewel Watch ....
I t. Cady’s Gold Expanding Wristlet Watch
15. Cabinet of Cutlery
And 85 Other Valuable Prizes.
Fill in - this Coupon
and Post to Constable A. IjENDRUM,
Hon. Sec.., Police Headquarters,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
I ENCLOSE
send me ■■ ■
The. N.S.W.
and Hospital
Please
TICKETS in
Police Hospital Carnival
Art Union.
Name
Address
S.B.
Art Union Drawn April 30, 1925.
TICKETS 1|- EACH.
Postage on 1 ticket, IW. Postage on sor more tickets, tree.
To ensure Result Slip, send stamped addressed envelope.
Obtainable at All Hospitals and Police Stations throughout
the State, or from
A. LENDRUM, Hon Sec.,
Police Headquarters, Phillip Street, Sydney.
“V.McC.”: Tliis is from Brisbane, where
nobody is supposed to get busy. One gang,
on Dalgety’s wharf, loaded 13,764 boxes of
butter into the Medic in two days. First
day, 6000; second, 7764. Actual working
time, 14 hours, an average of 983 boxes per
hour. It is believed to be a record. Is it t
“Coot”: The “devastating dredge” has had
its uses in north-eastern Victoria, to set
against the havoc it played with the scenic
beauties of the Ovens and other rivers many
years ago. Many of the areas are now covered
with wattles, and enterprising locals hope to
divert their way some of the cash which Vic-
toria is in the habit of sending to South
Africa for wattle-bark.
“Bon Viveur” : Twenty years ago I bought
one of the last available plots in Melbourne
Cemetery, before it was closed to outsiders
who did not hold titles to ground there. It
cost me 30s. for six feet; the day came
when a funeral-director gave me 18 10s.
cash for it. Part of the money went in a
dinner at Menzies’; the balance I invested
in a plot at the new cemetery at Spnngvale.
I am hoping values may rise before crema-
tion becomes fashionable. I enjoy a good
dinner.
“Borom”: “D.F.’s” discovery that Tas-
mania’s capital is not the only Hobart on
the map (B. 15/l/’2s\ reminds me that
there is another Australia besides this one.
It is in Louisiana (U.S.), some 40 miles
up the river from New Orleans, and last
time I passed consisted of a landing-stage
with a small township attached. I won-
dered whether the spot was named by some
exiled Australian. Anzac I found m the
Canadian Rockies—a small lumber camp
with a C.P.R. siding.
“The Dip” dissects his profession:—
Although I could name more than a dozen artists
of merit in Sydney and Melbourne to-day, the
quality of the Aussie dip or pickpocket is not what
it used to be. The average practitioner is only
capable of lifting a wallet from a drunken man ,
and there are several who are making good picking -
even from this work at races and in hotels. But
the top-notch men still compare favorably with the
English product, although the methods of the two
differ materially. The Australian works alone or
with but one mate, whereas his English brother
has the assistance of several “frontiers,” “backers
and “eiders.”
“Bridge”: The trials of the Union Co.’s
new motor-driven Aorangi, now on her way
to Australia via Panama and I ancouver,
hfive proved an astonishing success. Dno
of them was an hour’s run backwards with
reversed engines, when the „O.UOO-tonner
covered 13 knots without appreciable vibra-
tion, though most steam-driven ships would
have shaken the powder off the chief steward-
ess’s nose in similar circumstances. Her suc-
cess has thus early brought her builders several
orders for internal-combustion engined ships
for passenger services; so, possibly, our old
friend the- stoker, so useful in these days
of job-control and irritation strikes, will
have to find a new job ere long.
“Herodot” : Australian whisky, for all its
merits, is unlikely to find a market in Mexico
(B. 15/1/-25). One reason is that the
Greaser lias no palate for spirits of that
sort, regarding them as in the soft-drink
class. His native stimulants, such as
pulque, are mostly made, from anything which
happens to be handy, prickly-pear and cactus
being a favorite base. The. cacti are first
shredded, and then treated with steam, after
which the mess is fermented in the ordinary
way and various flavoring agents added, in
the town of Juarez I once ventured on a
nip of beverage known locally as tehuila /
it was days before I felt normal again, Sub-
sequently I learned that it was manufactured
from spiny cactus and rotten fruit, and
flavored with chillies.
“Harold Hardupp”: A Melbourne em-
ployer can certify that the. rush for a job
was never keener in his neighborhood. An
employee was killed in a motor accident, the
place of employment of the deceased being
mentioned in the evening press reports of
the accident. Next morning’s mail brought
four applications for the job. But none of
these applicants landed it; preference was
given to a man who had been waiting for a
personal interview since 7.30. This recalls
the rush for a cottage in a waterside town
where cottages were very scarce. Smith
saw Jones struggling in the water, and pre-
sently drown. As soon as the poor man was
definitely gone Smith rushed off to Jones’s
landlord, and, explaining that Jones wouldn’t
’u-ed the cottage any more, sought to rent
it. “Sorry,” said the landlord. “You’re too
late. The man who pushed him in beat you
for it by an hour.”
THE MODERN WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Various steamers, a few newspapers and their 1
editors, and a number of other persons have been
‘declared black’ by some organisation or other
during the present shipping trouble. Reprisals on j
similar lines are contemplated.”
When primal man first hit the idle breeze,
Or roosted nonchalantly in the trees,
Authority had various ways to mark
Him whom the tribe regarded as a nark.
A stcnc, a bone, when pointed at him straight,
Apprised the mauvais sujet of his fate,
And forth he promptly tore along the track,
Hot on his heels the yelping human pack.
Beast-hunts were good, but ne’er, since time bagan,
Was sport so thrilling as the chase of man.
The world rolled on. And, as one might expect,
Less drastic modes and actions less direct
Unto the shuddering pariah conveyed
Opinions that the game he hadn’t played.
Sometimes a prelate banned him, hard and well
And fluently, with candle, book and bell;
Sometimes a waxen image, stabbed with pins,
Attested him an outlaw for his sins;
Shielygh’s black curse occasion’lly he had,
Like T. Mulvaney and his Dinah Shadd;
Or to an Ishmael-penance tramped away,
As Caine’s distressful Manxman, Dan Mylchrea;
Or, some exclusive club surveying, rued
The damning rule that “two black balls exclude.”
Upward, still upward, genus homo climbs,
Still milder methods mark the changing times.
A civilised community’s forbid
To hunt the heretic as once it did.
To show your sense, and make your view prevail,
That I have placed myself outside the pale—
In short, to relegate me to the “pack”—
You hold a meeting and declare me black ;
And I, with sympathetic friends a few,
Can just as simply do the same—by you.
jr.s.w.
T. THE R.


LEARN TO DRAW
BY POST
You can learn drawing by post
and quickly fit yourself to in-
crease your earnings in interest-
ing and fascinating work.
Send for free booklet, “There’s Money
in the Pen.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
20 Commercial Buildings,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m
•v
BRITISH
MADE fg»
Perfection
POSK RUBBER.
Narooma, N.S.W.
NOOROOMA Guest House, in best
position, overlooking ocean and
inlet and alongside the best swimming
pool in Australia, which is protected
from sharks and 500 yards long. Large
garage. Excellent menu, in sin dir 0 - the
famous Narooma oysters. Beautiful
scenery on all sides, perfect climate
and no trouble from mosquitoes.
Boating, Fishing, Golf, Tennis
and Surfing.
For terms apply to the Proprietress.
The “BARB”
RIDING TROUSERS
Just hard long - Wearing Riding
Trousers for men str ngly built.
Won’t show dirt or perspiration—
Cross pockets, loops. There’s no
better value. Fawn IC/ pair
and Grey / "
Mai! to Desk “S.BJ
Stating Size
Pike Brothers
LIMITED
In Queen St., B nsbane
“NEVER
NEGLECT
A
RUPTURE.”
If you need a Truss or RUPTURE Appliance
write at once for our Illustrated List No. 26. Many
years’ practical experience, and intelligent service,
enable us to efficiently supply you with the most
suitable support for your own individual requirements.
We make Spring and Elastic Trusses of every
description for Men, Women and Children. Agents for
Brooks Appliance Co., Ltd.
GUYATT & CO •*/ Est. 1863.
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
jr\. should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
MARTELL'S
BRANDY
c Hxe Essence of
Hospitality 0
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality*
Shipped Solely from tke
Cognac district
rv'c v e T"’o T ~ 0 Y „ T
aundrena
THE DAINTY WOMANS FAVOURITE STARCH
||a> c lflakes iromnS a JQ? /
' by”
CLIFFORD LOVE £> CO. LTD
SYDNEY
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
lift?
m m
SF
Less Power for Heavier Loads—
SPLIT PULLEYS
SKP Pulleys, though so much lighter in weight, lose nothing in strengtn
and yet can —and do—carry much heavier loads in comparison with the
usually-accepted ratio of riveted or built-up pulleys.
Accurate balancing and rivetless construction also mean savings in wear
and tear of belts, machines and bearings.
Write Us for Full Particulars Regarding
all Transmission Appliances.
Gardner, Waern 8 Co.
Pty., Ltd.
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: 1 Royal Cour*
Chambers, Scott Street.
BRISBANE: 426 Ann Street.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH : Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., 377-391 Murray St.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Pip Tok: (1) George Dibbs, having had
some trouble with the heads of the Chicago Exhibition,
was ashed about it on his return to Sydney. Dibbs,
tired of the subject, said “Damn Chicago!” (2)
Dan O’Connor, who wasn’t any more 'Scotch than
Patrick O’Rafferty, w 7 as P.M.G. It is wickedly alleged
that, there being a doubt whether Jones, Brown or
Maloney should get an available job, he minuted the
papers with a simple, straightforward “App’int
Maloney”....Kai Viti: That’s all very well. But
Fritz is still fighting—he has merely changed his
weapons of attack and his field of battle Mid C.:
Much obliged... .J.S.H.: Too stiffly told; and you do
too much songandance before you come to the stoij’.
... .Edmac: Breaks no new ground. .. .David D.:
Ditto.... Stumpy: You’ve been fixed up very well.
Now give the other fellows a chance Carson C.:
Wants disinfecting. Honestly, did you think that
was publishable?. .. . L.E.A.: Unsuitable....Vinda■
Thanks; but the subject has been pretty well ex
hausted. . . .T.A.0.: Not badly done; but this isn't
a good market for those wares. .. .J.M.; “The Con-
voy” has too many humps.... Emer; Misses
W.L.P.; Parodies and adaptations rarely appeal to
us. The best that can be said for yours is that it
is not entirely poisonous K. 8.; It falls far short.
.... .W.R. (Hawthorn): They are botli too thin....
R.G.P.: A little gentle commonplace about a pipe....
E.R.R.: A poor attempt that limps and then falls
on its nose C.W.S. : No use E.: Such a feeble
little flutter!... .8.C.F.; It has the insanity without
the mirth. . . .8.F.M.; There’s no track in that wilder-
ness. .. .C.S.M.: Doesn’t strike us quite hard enough.
.... Ripponlea; The beginning of the epic of the
steam-roller is very graphic:—
Of colossal proportions and undoubted prepossession,
Th’ steam-roller leaves a deep impression.
A myrmidon of th’ Council walks ahead
Waving a flag of vivid red.
Not a Bolshevik as one might fear.
No. Simply a journeyman engineer
Who must warn th’ people out of th’ way
And be on his mettle most of th’ day.
Human beings have been squashed beneath its wheels
And thus its destructive qualities we feel.
It must be thoroughly oiled and stoked and
Guided by a man with tense face and steady hand.
....Avis: It works old ground in an old way....
Willie Mac: Not the apples for this barrow....
0.H.L.: Insufficient interest in “The Pillar of Fire.’
. ...W.D.F..- “Bugs” doesn’t make a yarn....B.W,
(Kensington): Too loose and general Edith B.:
Not very interesting N.L. (Katoomba) : Those
animal stories, with human motives attributed to
mongrels, leave us cold Peeta: “Minnie” wants
sandpapering 8.0’C.: Misses; but the shot was
in the right direction Syd S.: Poor sort of yarn.
.. . .Josephine A.: Too far from reality, and not con-
vincingly written M.H.H. : The rescue of the mat
lady is not thrilling W.D.M.: Far off our beat.
. ...W.C.E.; Fair verse which voices a commonplace
in a way that is neither very interesting nor very
poetical Mousquetaire: Too many of the lines are
screwed out of their meaning Eve: Weak and
wobbly C.0.N.; The pump leaks badly at the
rhymes. .. .D.C.G.: Two modern novels out of five
state the matter very much in that way.... Tarpaulin
Jacket : Rubbish,.. .A.W. (Cairns) : The mountain
ought at least to keep steady; you make it behave
like a yearling calf C. (Christchurch): Both miss,
but not by much C.M.N.: Irritating verse that
takes an awkward method of saying nothing....
W.E.8.; It has some quality, but the workmanship
is too crude. .. .A.H.D.: Don’t know why you label it
“Demosthenes,” but no mere name could disguise its
beauty:—
I sit and nearly shed a tear
Whilst list’ning to the tune of “A Perfect Day.”
And oh, if you were near!
But you’re far away.
Ofttimes it brings back mem’ries,
Of yesteryear:
You’re far o’er the seas;
My wish is you could only hear.
. ...J.R.S.: Moves like a hamstrung dromedary....
Mavis R.: Not enough meat on its bones. .. .R.E.F.:
Hopeless.... Margaret A.; Doesn’t quite make a yarn.
.... W.C.W.: We didn’t find any thrill in it.... U.K.L. :
It didn’t keep us awake Stelle O.: The incident
wants more convincing detail 1.W.: Just misses;
the good old horse has passed the post a time or
so too often Yelia C.: Very well told; but that
track is knee-deep in dust.... May K.: The idea in
“Lover” is good. Put a bit more work into it,.,..
T.Y.T.: Acceptable if it didn’t give a wrong im-
pression. The theme isn’t taboo. On the contrary,
we are hungry for that sort of verse, .. .Curlew:
Clever. But can’t you make it a little less stiff
in the joints?... .Askarri; A bit clumsy. ...A.F.G.:
Hopeless. You bump into every constable on the
track and break every verse-traffic regulation....
Wanchai: But you’ve got nothing fresh to say about
him... .G.M.L.: That’s a well-worn note... .Wager:
Sorry can’t oblige you. There are no “official figures”
of the world’s population. Some countries have
never had a census, and the last time Tibet had one
was in 1737 Centurion: You’re quite right and
“Curlew” was quite wrong—the Golden Hind was
Drake’s ship Mallara: (1) Yes, James Edmond
is “imp.” too. And if he sought to capsize govern-
ment of the people by the people and bring revolu-
tion to this country, he would deserve deportation,
too. (2) He didn’t. He was very ill during that
period Craigend: It won’t scan, and it only
rhymes now and then, and there is no song in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.E.A., R.G.S., G.W., H.M.D., L.McR. and about
963 others: First destroy every English and Ameri-
can comic paper in the house. Then get a water-
jug, kerosene-tin or sheep’s skull. Draw it. Then
draw it again. Draw it a million times. Draw it
back and front, inside and outside, for hours, weeks,
years. By that time you will know if you have
any “natural talent for Art.” In the meantime, we
are always glad to consider suggestions for drawings.
. ...R.McG.: Doesn’t quite clear the distance....
A.H.T.: The point of your topical Test-match car-
toon was blunted before the ink had dried... .H.W.T.:
Your figures are rather wooden. Wooden images don’t
talk except through oracles; and the oracle in this
case hasn’t the wit of an Aristophanes or even a
Stephen Leacock... .A.L.F.: Leaves us unlamented.
“Clerk”: Tas. Railway Commissioner Mis-
camble has struck a good idea to boost
the Speck: he is stirring up its bumbles and
leading citizens to arrange facilities for a
hundred or so Victorian business men to
visit the Speck and look kindly on the State’s
young industries and weigh in their hands
its vast natural resources. The damage will
be £25 apiece, and the tour is expected to
take place in March, provided the idea meets
with the approval of the Seaman’s Union.
The Ma State and Bananaland will be can-
vassed next.


YOO CANNOT BOY THIS BOOR ABOOT
HOLIDAYS IN NEW ZEALAND
83
m
$
K
£
o
f^B
e
a
Fill in and mail coupon. Send it to any branch
of the New Zealand Government Tourist
Department, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney or
Brisbane, or their agents, to Thos. Cook and
Son, or direct to
WHITE STAR TOURIST
SERVICES LIMITED,
P.O. Box 305, Christchurch.
Yet the news of it has spread like
wildfire, and requests for the free
copies are pouring in.
'CtsAJctacoim
This book transports its readers into the midst of the world’s scenic wonder-
land the South Island of New Zealand. It is a well-written story depicting
natural wonders which cannot be “over-painted.” It is profusely and beautifully
illustrated. It comes to you FREE.
We know that there are hundreds of Australians who are longing to see the
South Island of New Zealand but have stifled the wish because they thought the
trip would be expensive. The White Star book tells how the White Star
organisation has made it possible for Australians to visit every beauty spot
in the South Island, to tour the island in luxurious cars free from all troubles
and inconveniences for a surprisingly moderate sum.
This Coupon makes the Book Yours—Sign and Mail.
1 want a copy of Booklet “G,” described in your announcement. Please
send it free, post free , and as soon as possible.
Name
Address .
H.R.H.
The Prince of Wales
on
“SPORTSMANSHIP.”
An “His Master’s Voice”
Record that should be in
every home.
The Prince’s remarks will
be found to reveal that in-
born sense of true sports-
manship which we as a
nation hold so dear, and of
which His Royal Highness has proved himself a
worthy possessor. Such an address by so qualified
a speaker will make this record of lasting interest
to present and future generations.
On the reverse side of the record is an appropriate musical selection
rendered by a special male-voice choir and the band of H.M. Coldstream
Guards. “God Bless the Prince of Wales” forms the principal feature,
and the Regimental Marches of the Household Brigade are introduced.
12in. Double-sided Record No. R.D. 887, Price 5/6
The Gramophone Company, Limited, will place their profits arising
from the sale of this historic record at the disposal of H.R.H. the
Prince of Wales, for the benefit of Field-Marshal Earl Haig’s Fund
for Ex-Service Men.
“His Master’s Voice”
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and
name of nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
bLx
His Master’s Voice
0
HIS MASTER’S
VOICE” enjoys
the distinction
of having been
chosen by their
Majesties the King
and Queen to convey
their messages ail
over their vast
Empire.
The greatest celebrities of the music
world also make records exclusively for
“His Master’s Voice” because they
recognise it as the supreme medium of
reproduction.
On “His Master’s Voice” you hear the
original voice or music with absolute
fidelity, as clearly and truly as though
those who made the record were actu-
ally in the room with you.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments are
available in many models at prices to
suit all desires.


BUILD
Your Home with
FiE’FiiTiTfe
A modern bungalow home, built with
Exterior Walls, Interior Walls and
Ceilings of “FIBROliITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and roofed with
“FIBROliITE” Slates, costs no more
than an ordinary weatherboard house
with an iron or clay-tile roof.
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets meet
every requirement pertaining to strength,
Durability, Hygiene, Fire Protection, Per-
manency, Economy and Climate. The big,
firm sheets are easily and quickly erected.
There is no waste, as the sheets'are made
in 33 Stock sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor, York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’grs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
When Your Stock Move
to market see that they travel in the right direc-
tion. Cattle, Sheep or Lambs—
TRUCK YOUR FATS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
The returns secured will forcibly show the reason
■why Wincheombe-Carson’s Sales are such a constant
attraction for owners to consign to the firm.
American'
FLASHLIGHTS
make, Darkness
i. Safe
PORTABLE
CONVENIENT
ECONOMICAL
cMade in
(Many Styles
'National Carbon Co., In<*~ ;
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
*■ *•“..**• troubled with the complaint, write ua i
Jf* * e " d y ° u our catalogue, fully describing
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 bis appliance does away with all cumberiome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
prat day a use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
inyyijed for this complaint. It will hold • rupture
brmiy and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO VOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If It la not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
104
WINSLOW CO.,
Queen Street, Melbourne
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRPN PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Motherhood
Wkile Students of Lav?,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Motkers are learning dteir
business in tke grim uns;pm-
patketic sckool of experience.
After all, experience is die
best teacker, and tkat’s wky
tkousands of Motkers wko
ka\>e reared large families so
strongly recommend
Kruses .
FMdHa^M
Ohis faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal botk for Nursing Motkers and tkeir little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
KRUSE’S FLUID Magnesia is particularly valuable
during die trying period of pending mofkerkood. It
preyents vomiting and nausea, and keeps tke stomack
in a kealtky condition.
Don t try to do without KRUSE’S during tke kot Summer moniks, but get
the genuine, 'tfith our name, Felton, Grimwade & Co. Ps. Ltd. on ike label.
BOTTLED IN THREE SIZES.
■*4
r
“Maxa”
Manganese
Steel.
■ • • ■
Japes
Gyratory
Stone Breakers
Capacities
from 1 to 400
Tons per hour.
PORTABLE ROAD PLANTS, ELEVATORS, Etc.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured by
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland,
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Deacon”: Apropos of the salesman-
ship of the genius who could have sold bacon
in a synagogue, let me in with the other side
of the medal. “Him sell anything!” said
a disgusted motor-trader in Sydney of one
of his employees. “Why, the blighter couldn’t
sell fish to Archbishop Kelly on a Good
Friday!”
* * * *
“Eve II.”: S’Africa has developed a novel
trade with Holland and is utilising her
locust pest. Recently 88 bales of locusts,
weighing 18 tons, went from Durban to a
Dutch port. Oil is extracted from them to
be used in aeroplane engines: it is said to
retain liquidity at a very high altitude. What
remains of the locust is fed to livestock and
poultry.
* * * *
“Uramao : Chief-Forester Entrician, of
Maoriland, has been discussing the proba-
bility of utilising some M.L. hardwoods, in
view of the prohibitive prices the Australian
timbers are _ soaring to. While admitting
the superiority of the Australian gum to
anything the Dominion could produce, he
points out that kawhaka and silver-pine have
qualities not to be despised. Their strength
is equal to 5001 b. to the square inch, 20 p.c.
more than that of America’s popular pole
timber, the western red-cedar.
* * * *
“Wart”: In the early days of the Tas-
manian West Coast fields the gold the pros-
pectors brought into Zeehan and Launceston
nearly always contained osmiridium. I have
spent hours picking the steel-grey specks out
of parcels of gold before making it up into
jewellery. If any was left nothing happened
until the manufactured article was being
polished; then specks of osmiridium stood
up all over the surface, and no file or graver
would cut them. There is a jeweller’s shop
at Zeehan which has had ounces of osmi-
ridium thrown on the floor to be swept out
in the back yard. I wonder if it wouldn’t
pay to pan off the ground round the back
door.
* *
S.N.O. ’: I can’t quite see how every
purchase by Australians of imported petrol
o iYanks to get cheap spirit (B.
8/1/20) when actually most of the motor-
spirit that comes into this country is from
the East Indies. From there, too, comes
most of the residual oil used for shifting
white-ants—and the Commonwealth liners
when lorn Walsh allows them to be shifted
Another erroneous idea, prevalent long be-
fore the C.O.R. commenced distilling spirits
from Asiatic crudes, was that Australia was
in the grip of a Persian oil octopus. Up
to a year ago we hardly got sufficient benzine
from there to remove the beer-stains from
a dean’s gaiters.
* -* * »
“Harold Hardupp”: A new and well-
organised system of sly-grog distribution has
set. the Melbourne police scratching their
Heads.' The festive citizen rings up on
the phone and the beer is rushed out by
motor-car; the purchaser need not even know
the name of the man who supplies his needs
oi the place where the liquor came from.
Ihe man who gave me the card with the
phone number on it was filling an order for
a city office adjacent to mine, and he men-
tioned that he was a little late because he
had just been running out three dozen beer
/f Per 1 bottle) and two bottles of whisky
(at £1 each) to a party at St. Ivilda. He
added, as a guarantee of his reasonable fees,
that he had charged only 10s. for “mileage.”
“F.J.E.” : The Eastern has sailed her last
voyage under the E. and A. Co.’s flag; she is to
be replaced by the more modern Tan da in the
Australia-Japan trade. Except when com-
mandeered for war service the Eastern
has maintained the Melbourne to Kobe run
since she was built 35 years ago. She was a
very graceful looking vessel, being the last
ot the E. and A. ships with a clipper bow
and a figurehead. Colliding with Venus
Bank, Moreton Bay (Q.), some years ago
when under pilotage, she helped to make
ffigal history in the protracted litigation
which followed between her owners and the
Queensland Government, and incidentally to
advertise then barrister T. J. Ryan, who
Councif Government ’ s case before the Privy
* *
t * *
. Pat Bushie”: When the B. H. P. Co.
obtained an authority to prospect for coai
on lands comprising the township of Toronto
(with rent at 6d. per acre per annum), the
job of remitting the rent by registered letter
m stamps, as the sums were principally id..
Id. and lid., was felt to be rather iijisome
by tbe co.; and the recipients of the stamps,
who mostly had to pay more for posting
eceipts than they got in rent, found it
equally annoying. Consequently when the
lo p!°f Ug !i tl ’ e Warden’s Court’s authority
to enter the township of Belmont (with an-
other huge list of owners), the Warden had
no difficulty in deciding that not only would
me B.H.P. be saved much work and ex-
pense if no rent were allowed, but the
owners of the land would also be in pocket
It is perhaps the first occasion on record
«M r p "id J 'to e him S aggrie ™ <i *>y •“"ns
(( * * * «
“Make”: The great Waikato River, the
finest waterway in Maoriland, rises near the
world-famous fishing-grounds of Lake Taupo
w! ib?/' ir °" gll u le productive
VY aikato dairying districts some 200 miles
t° , h e Pacific. Like all M.L. rivers it is
badly bar-bound, and in addition finishes its
course with a treacherous delta that has
Sdl cr-Tft Utl T n f, athe ? Perilous for all but
mall ciaft. In the pioneering days a shin
with a contingent of settlers for one of the
up-river townships lay for 11 weeks off the
coast awaiting a chance to breast the stormy
w'-i ; Vl tn the phenomenal growth of the
Waikato trade the necessity for river trans-
nnnVt 18 reSU u ed in tlie forr nation of a com-
pany to purchase special light-draught ves
•sels for negotiating the flats aSd shal'
lows; w hen these 300-ton vessels and tuts
arrive, the railways, alreadv hard hit bv tfie
motor-lorry competition, will have to
means to combat the tendency of the Wai
t 0 <,eviate “> «■* choppXS


ESTAB
7A2
BY ROYAL
APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.
KING GEORGE V.
The White Horse Cellar
ESTAB. 174-2
SCOTCH WHISKY
■
m
■
■
■
Bif
■
i a
■
■
1
■
i
HHi
■
H
¥ .
wmwmmimiMMk
:
m
> ■:
Hi
•■- :
m
tm
. ;
:; : ' .
■
■■
L
.
HHi
■
..
■;
msmm
g n
••: :
./-y
■E
-v*;
is
mm
TAM O'SHANTER.
u Tam skelpit on through dub and mire
Despising wind, and rain f and fired i
s.
ESTAB. 1 7A-Z
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow & London.
ESTAB. 174-2.


tm
Merit tells. The
sales of no other
laxative medicine
sold in Australasia
have increased so
rapidly the last
few years as those
of Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
Isn’t She
a Beauty i
. i
TJTe Popular Hugh Ward Star
Charming Miss Belle Bellechambers
is only one out of thousands of
sparkling stage beauties who use
and recommend pure mercolized
wax for the complexion. This
delicate and harmless wax has found
unprecedented international fame
as a face-dressing because it not
only preserves good complexions,
but it quickly corrects poor ones.
It does so by gentle absorption
It softly dissolves the tiny dead
skin-particles which form a stifling
and disfiguring film over the com-
plexion when Nature fails to throw
them off normally. Use this won-
derful wax to clear the skin and
also to keep it clear.
Any chemist or department store
can supply the genuine “Dearborn”
mercolized wax in original pack-
ages. Refuse substitutes.
The “MOR”
Extension Suit and
Attache Case
The “MOR” will always
Take More.
TO the many hundreds of folk who
have tried to cram more articles
into a suit or Attache Case than was
intended, the “Mor” offers a happy
solution to this vexed question.
By merely operating the hinges at the
back (simple enough to be operated by
a child) you are enabled to take 40
per cent, more articles without the case
losing its perfect shape.
Stocked by all leading Stores, or obtain-
able from Manufacturers.
Write for descriptive Folder to Dept. “D/’
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Buildings,
Martin Lane, SYDNEY.
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANLA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S. Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and S 5 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
Made specially for
Puff Bowl in powder blue*
with gold inlaid waratahs
s rmounted with an excellent
model of a Kookooburra, 84/-
In grey or canary tones with-
out waratahs, 75/-
Ash Trays in black or powder
blue outlined in gold with
clever model of Kookooburra
square design, 25/-, round
22/6.
Exquisite
Royal
Worcester
Ware
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
in magnificent colourings
showing Kookooburra and
Waratah designs
MM
*Plain Figures Cash Only
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
FAIRFAX&ROBERTS Uf
Zb &2s Hunter Street Sydney
SJ&SJVSJSJSJSJSJAJ.
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
r
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream —put up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube .
Obtainable Everywhere .
<©3l4.
4
POLICE
uie’re after shillings
fwtKe
NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICE
hospital art UNION
over £3200 inPr^es
TICKETS 1/-
.. .. valued £1250
STUDEBAKER “Eight Six” Car .. .. « *525
Beale “MAESTRO” PEAYER PIANO .. „ £258
Suite Furniture (Inlaid Sycamore) .. .. « £2OO
“INDIAN CHIEF” Motor Cycle & Side Car „ £ll5
Beale No. 8 Model Piano .. .. •• » £l3O
Einen Chest full of Household Einen .. ~ £lOO
And 93 other Prizes, values ranging down to £5.
A. EENDRUM, Hon. Sec., Police Headquarters, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
Ist Prize VAUXHAEE MOTOR CAR
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
7th
Drawn 29th April, 1925.
TICKETS may be purchased
at any Police Station or Hos*
pital in the State, or on
application to A. Lendrum,
Police Headquarters, Sydney.
TICKETS 1/- each, postage
on one ticket lid., postage on
five or more tickets free, lo
secure result slip send ad-
dressed envelope.
“Nikko”: I was interested in watching the
painter put a business statement on the new
shop opposite. When he had finished this is
how it read :
John Brown,
Draper and Haberdasher,
Telephone, Mercer, Postbox, Stamps, Agent for
Blank Insurance Company, Stationery, Justice
of Peace and Ironmongery.
John was undoubtedly a comprehensive per-
son, but the list of liis attainments caused
such hilarity that the sign was painted out
three days later.
Jerry Moore was a cobbler whose trade
address was a stall against the brick wall
of St. Andrew’s cemetery in George-street,
Sydney. He gave his customers books to
read while they waited to have their foot-
wear heeled and soled: and thus he
began to build up a second-hand book busi-
ness. No Sydney firm with a country con-
nection can afford to be without a copy of the
“Almanac” which Jerry Moore founded in
1552, and whose 74th number has just been
issued by G. B. Philip and Son.
“Yowi”: Though much evidence has been
taken by the Queensland Commission inquiring
into the causes of bruised beef, and several
witnesses have explained the methods that
should be adopted in building trucking yards
and handling cattle in yards and trucks, J
have failed to read of any expert touching
on the question of bad and indifferent drov-
ing as a factor in the damage that is done.
Cattle driven carefully and well nursed re-
tain their condition, and on arrival at the
trucking yards are content to take things
quietly, whereas cattle that have been
rushed become a bundle of nerves ready to
take affright at the least strange sight. It
is these that find all the hard corners of
yards and trucks.
The “Who? Who?” Ministry was redeemed
from complete nonentity by having two men
of mark (Derby, and Disraeli), but that
much cannot be said for the Royal Commis-
sion on soldier settlement just appointed by
the Vic. Government. Turnbull (chairman),
Rankin, McGalliard, Park and Wiltshire,
the quintette selected, are unknown except
to their own coteries in Sandringham, Colac,
Alberton, Kyabram and Murrayville. They
are to draw fees for the nine months they
are to roam over the State at £4 4s. a day
for the chairman and £3 3s. a day for the
other four. All reside in districts repre-
sented by members of the Cabinet. There
were scores of applicants for the job. And
there was no false modesty about 97 p.c. of
them.
The widow of the original Jackson, of
Young and Jackson's Hotel, has just died at
Jolimont, which used to be an aristocratic
village and is now a fringe of hash-houses on
Melbourne’s skirts. Mrs. Jackson was one of
the village’s old inhabitants ; another is Mrs.
Sharp, who still lives in the house which over
50 years ago wr.s the home of Bishop Perry.
At one time the little village that used to he
was adopted as a sort of Bohemian settle-
ment. Bertram Mackennal was born there;
and literary-men Wheeler, Britton and
Howard Willoughby ; sculptor Summers ; the
literary auctioneer Walstab; and many
actors and actresses lived there. But
decay has set its crumbling touch on Joli-
mont ; even the old home of Governor Latrobe
in the Square is now disappearing.
“Centuj-ion” : The new British battleships,
plans for which have just been completed,
should be the queerest-looking craft afloat-
marine monsters calculated to make Drake
turn in his hammock at Nombre Dios Bay
and Nelson under his sarcophagus. Details
of tonnage are not published, but as they are
to mount nine 16in. guns all crammed up
forward, they will be no cockle-shells. The
after-part of the Nelson and Rodney will be
an aerodrome, for scouting and torpedo
’planes. The ships are to be steam-driven,
but without funnels, smoke and furnace
draft being carried off through tubes along
the sides. Except for the citadel forward,
protecting guns and magazines, there will be
no heavy armor save that the decks will be
specially guarded against air attack and
high angle shells.
On another nobleman of the old school:—
The ninth Duke of Beaufort, dead at 77, was a
mighty huntsman. In fact, he lived for little else,
unlike his dad, the eighth duke, who was in the
habit of chasing folly as well as foxes. In one
respect, however, he earned the right to
be remembered as the prize blockhead of his order
and period. Shortly after the Boer War, he resigned
his more or less hereditary post of officer command-
ing the Gloucestershire Yeomanry. The reasons he
gave were two. One was that the troops had been
required to put in their training on cold Salisbury
Plain—“just when a war is over and there is no
possibility of another one,” declared the indignant
peer. The other was that the War Office had
required the Yeomanry to get into khaki, like the
regulars—“thus depriving us of our smart, hand-
some uniforms and forcing us to look like a lot of
convicts,” complained his Grace indignantly. It
was a duke outraged in his tenderest feelings who
bade farewell to soldiering, even in the home
paddock, under such oppressive conditions as these.
“Stellsby”: A cable mentions that many
Australians, mostly men who had signed
on for single voyages, are stranded' in Eng-
land : and the circumstance ought to make
Australian sea-going men wary. When a
mate or second engineer engages a man in
Britain (they don’t have picking-up places
there) for an Australian voyage, he gener-
ally looks first for the seaman’s birthplace
on the discharge paper or “book.” The
mariner of Australian origin will generally
be passed over in favor of a man of U.K.
birth, for the very good reason that a Briton
is less likely to “jump” his ship at the other
end. Before the war it was nothing unusual
for half the “black squad” to clear out in
Sydney and Melbourne from an overseas ship.
On several occasions, before beginning the
long run home, we had to scour Port Adel-
aide and Fremantle, the final ports, for men
to make up our full complement, offering
them at times lump sums of upwards of £3O
and £4O for the trip. It is thus easy enough
for an Australian to get to England: it is
harder to get away. Australians, acting on
the advice of a kind-hearted ship’s officer —
invariably an Australian or Maorilander him-
self —have given their birthplace as England
when signing on. The move provides them
with a better chance of securing a return
passage from the U.K. in another ship.


Shipping.
ORIENT line
AUSTRALIA
Via SUEZ.
. . LONDON
•OBAMA •
•obonsat
•OTRANTO
•ORMONDE
fleet.
Tons.
20.500
20.500
20.500
11,853
Tons.
ORMUZ 14 588
OKVIETO ... 12184
OSTERLEY .. 12.129
... nF Lioo * OBSOVA .... 12.036
npr E «nFS 10 000 tonS -
°* First anti Third Class only.
regular monthly sailings.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA —SIERRA —VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knot* Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
three WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
87981
(8 lines)
THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
B.S WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.in.; passengers clue in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
B.S. ORAUA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9j).in.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, c p.m.
Through 1’ are, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH. 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Bunking, Public Companies, Sic.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2.000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,435
Directors: Sir Mark Shisluon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.0.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
11. It. Lysagut, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Uol. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
111 C A 1) OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets').
Branches and Receiving Offices at 160 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (2C4 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rnndle Street).
Manager: R. .T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns FairualßN.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
r.vciy description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock ..
Preference Shares ..
Ordinary Shares \\
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,500,000
3,000,000
2,831,513
GRANTS DHAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
" w land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
and other places.
receives deposits
transacts all other „„„1 Bank,,,* ffj 1 * »' 1
Hotel Kosciusko,
Mount Kosciusko.
golf season,
Splendid Nine-hole Links,
Elevation 5000 ft.
trout season,
100 Miles Of Stocked
Snow-fed Streams.
SUMMER TRIPS.
Dai l y b - v Motor— 7305 feet.
Magnificent Modern Hotel,
Buuards P £ 8t a “ d Tele S ra P h
uiiards, Dancmg, Library.
INTER PEAN now open.
Apply to Manager, or
Ante for Tariff Booklet.
N.S.W.
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis Ho »se, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, Ac.
CANADA, UNITED S TATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
MAKURA 13,000 tons disp. FEB. 12 for Vancouver.
MAUXGANUI 11,350 „ „ FEB. 26 „ San Francisco.
AORANGI 23,000 „ „ MAR. 12 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. MAR. 26 for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BV OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
(.William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUItXS, PHILP & CO M LTD.,
Sydney. Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
j
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
~ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or wellingrton, N.Z.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Btickland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR T.TNF.S.
Head Office George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. T.etters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World,
ROWLANDS
DRY GINGER ALE
The Best
forTOTears
Shipping.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12.000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route,
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500 1 ANCIIISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES .. 14,500 ASCANIUS .. 10,000
/ENEAS .. 10,000 I
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. &0. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
DELTANA
DENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
.. 11,100
.. 11.100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerL^SS
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Hlacklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Koval Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofor I|=
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission ol the Hon. the
Attorney-General ol N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p, Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th, 1925
Results published “Daily Telegraph." June 15th,
1925 ; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, 1/IJ. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets lor 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizes
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Prouds
Ltd. and Lassetter's. Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


Sixty-Six Countries
Buy Studebaker
Motor Cars
Evidence of the world-wide popularity
of Studebaker cars is clearly shown by
the fact that since January 1, 1923,
Studebaker automobiles have been
shipped to 66 different countries.
In these countries, twenty-eight different
languages are spoken. Yet in every
language the Studebaker name stands
for high-quality transportation vehicles
—just as it has for 73 years.
I
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Indiana, U.S.A.
Australasian Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY (Q’land), LTD., Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
IP
THIS IS A STUDEBARER
YEAR
Time
?
fresh pair:
r G
5022 m
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
/STS'
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD.. Manufacturers,
50 York Street, Sydney* 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Perry House, Brisbane.


Girls! Beautify Your
Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of
your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant and appears as soft, lustrous
and charming as anyone could desire after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A
delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected or is scraggy,
dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves
every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, forever
stopping itching and falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair and lots
of it —get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
Rexona Soap
.
ma
\ *•*
gnii'iiiTml
Miss BETTY DAIIL,
a charming Rexona Girl,
of Salisbury Road, Ken-
sington, N.S.W., who says
Rexona Soap has improved her
skin and hair in a wonderful
manner.
wwm
CHOCOLATES
Is*
m
Kill
m
mSrT:
&
-ef/
aHo|j
162 PITT S T
SYDNEY.
PX'WITMi/N
y/ ■'!'/
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA
PER V.P PARCEL POST IF DESIRED
.rf> Sy X:
ON THE SAME DAY
THEY ARE MADE.
ERNEST HILLIER
162-166 Pitt Street. Sydney
PRICES:
3/-
5/6
6/-
10/-
12/6
20/-
AND 30/-
Grains of Sand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
melon-seller goes to-day in fine red
' I slippers shod ;
JL He spreads liis store upon the ground,
ripe melons gold and green,
gome arabesqued in spidery white —a break-
fast for a god—-
Some colored deep as Chinese jade with
slices set between
Of rose-red pulp. The desert blows sand
grains upon his wares
As with black pip and honey juice the
passer-by he snares.
jje lifts an orange sackcloth tent betwixt
them and the sky,
Then seeks the shelter of the palms and
most devoutly prays.
j-Je heard the yellow camels pass, he watched
them stringing by ;
Perhaps he saw a beckoning hand where
one rich burden sways
Or little hennaed foot look out with jewels
on the toes —
There came a whiff of ambergris that on the
heart-fire blows.
I know the melon-seller dreams; he goes
barefoot no more.
His turban shows a gleaming stone, he
smells of orange flowers,
The muslins of his flowing dress are whiter
than before.
Instead of hawking melons now lie muses
through the hours;
He gazes where the blue skies meet the brown
walls of the khan
And always through his dream he hears a
tinkling caravan.
Did it come from Arabia with cinnamons and
gum ?
Did it rock in from Kandahar with jars of
liquid flame?
With willow wands and Persian silks and
ambers did it come?
It does not matter what the route—he
only knows it came.
To-night it rests within the khan. There is
no moon to light
The little window in the wall—much may be
done to-night.
’For when the melon-seller moved to where the
shadows lie
I saw the ridge beneath his robe a hidden
weapon made.
There came the flapping of the wings of vul-
tures down the sky ;
Perhaps they guessed the uses of a blue
Damascus blade.
Oh, is it for a hidden sheik or for himself he
woos ?
Was it blood-money or a theft that bought
a bare man shoes?
To-morrow when the cameßs rise to take their
wooden crates
Out to the shimmering!; desert line —the
“thirst of the gaztfile”—-
Will that rich palankeen jolt through the
frowning city aatete—
To-morrow, when the ‘dawning paints with
amethyst the well ?
Or will it sway—an empty nest —from one
white bird's release
Who scents some hungry bearded lip with
musks and ambergris?
And will the orange 'sackcloth screen sway
gently in the breeze,
While flies upon the melons pounce to
drink the sugaSred sap?
ill that poor seller ary his fruits beyond the
* clustering tree?},
With furtive counting of the gold chance
poured into his lap
And fear he never felt before for every
I , stranger’s hand.
r» hile ever from tli.e desert blow the glitter-
ing grains ofj sand?
Or will the scattered melons fall to rot upon
the ground-
No luscious red£ and greens ag'ain to tempt
the caravafn —
1 he sackcloth tenjt a coverlid for bridal sleep
be found,
Or hide beneath its orange folds the body of
a man?
■ -thought on its racing camel goes so wildly
and so fleet
>e cause a melon-seller wears red slippers on
his feet!)
>v, t those who touch the desert’s rim know
many desert things—
Plown to their hearts as grains of sand are,
, r on the melons blown—
marriage feasts are followed by the
swoop of evil wings
-And there are poison cups behind the
p, arras of a throne.
>e tween the swathings of a veil a grain of
Pin # saiKl may slip,
UJ fancy seals a lover’s kiss upon a \urgin
lip.
flick of gems may set ablaze a fire to
scourge a land,
An uncut melon hold a slip of parchment
* , closely writ;
d late may place instead of flowers a dag-
ger in your hand
And chance may mutter in your ear the
n,l ed for using it.
r tllo se who live upon the edge of an: en-
chanted strand
II mad strange stories in tire dance of
drifting grains of sand !
Queensland.
M. FORREST.
Artistic Achievement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rHE little shop in Dinghy-street, with the
muslin curtains always fresh-washed
and stiffened, intrigued my curiosity
°m the first glimpse. It 'was so futile and
ei *iinine.
ow ner of the big house whose grounds
f ® ll ° w a crowded suburb had named one
streets after his yacht: and to call
;t . ot off-shooting thoroughfares Ding hy-
|j . w? ,s a humorous after-thought. Actu-
* Proved a more convenient tliorougli-
man the larger road: and time, circtim-
w * ce and the public idea of the fitness of
j gs made it “Dingy-street.”
l hp i m^st of the dull the little
cy s aop stood out strangely, with, its
quaint array of baby clothes, crude paint-
ings on easels, cushions, and articles reminis-
cent of fashionable crazes of some years be-
fore —in all the weird collection not enough
to make a decent business if such goods were
marketable; and amongst them a card inti-
mating that a room was "To Let.”
Every time I passed I paused to have a
look at that window and wonder about its
proprietress. For of course it was a propri-
etress. The signs of that were all over it.
I had met so many of the unbusinesslike
women who, needing money, and full of a
conviction that they were capable of “suc-
ceeding in business,” had opened up establish-
ments which were equally grotesque in their
way, though seldom as mixed. . Nearly
always these little Women, old or young,
were bright, likeable creatures, maintaining
a steady optimism which assured them that
they were bound to succeed in time. But
invariably the time arrived when the land-
lord was hard, and the poor little assets
vanished.
I wondered what sort of a woman it was
who had chosen the little shop in Dingy-
street for her venture, and the wonder in-
creased as the grotesque but dainty window
continued its existence, seemingly un-
troubled by landlords and other dangers com-
mon to all businesses. The wondering led
me into all sorts of excursions in the lands
of imagination; but it w r as always some little
faded woman, intensely eager to welcome
any chance customer but restraining the
eagerness to avoid giving the impression that
a customer was a rarity, who rose in my
vision. And then one day I met the shop-
keeper by the grace of a sporting-looking
man, recognised as a bookmaker with whom
I had had racecourse dealings. I had de-
cided to make the arrival of a baby in the
house where I was staying an excuse for a
purchase, and met the sporting-looking man
on the doorstep.
“D'yer know the party who keeps this
place?” he asked, pausing to speak and jerk-
ing his head towards the door.
“No,” I answered.
“A regular character,” he said. “A weird
old party. If you’re coming in I’ll intro-
duce you.”
The introduction put me into a state of
amazement. Standing behind a counter,
which was daintily decorated like the win-
dow, was a man who by no stretch of imagi-
nation could be designated dainty. He was
fat and fairly tall, and a little fuzzy hair
grew on top of an otherwise bald head. His
shirt sleeves were rolled over massive, if
flabby, arms to the elbows, the shirt being
by no means clean; his face was calmly
benevolent, but it needed a shave. He wore
no collar, and though his waistcoat was
fastened, his corpulence had sundered waist-
coat from ti’ousers, and in the gap showed
the not-clean shirt and the tabs of untidy
braces.
“This is Mr. Poison —we call him ‘the
artist of Dingy-street,’ ” said the sporting man.
“Always pleased to meet a friend of yours,
Mr. Keeling,” said Poison, holding out his
hand.
It was a big and stubby hand; but there
was something beautiful in his voice, and it
helped to subdue the laughter within me.
There was nothing feminine about it except
a quality of remarkable gentleness.
“I’ve gotta pal wants some pictchers for
the walls of his ’ouse, so y’ might as well
send ’arf a dozen up—l’ll pay the carrier
an’ send you a cheque,” said Keeling off-
handedly, as if in the habit of ordering
pictures on the basis of groceries. “Poison
paints all these ’ere pictchers ’imself.” Ilis
fingers circled round indicating crude can-
vases on the walls. “ ’E’s an all-round
artist, Poison, Not only paints pictchers,
but carves wood ; an’ then ’e can do work
with a needle —lace sort of things, an’ all
that —would surprise you. An’ show ’im
the statooette you made with wax, Polly.”
Poison, flushed with pleasure, hastened
to show us, and went from the little wax
statuette, which had been made worse by
color crudely applied, to a host of other
“artistic” achievements. It, indeed, seemed
there was nothing approaching artistic work
Poison had not touched, from fine needlework
in gaudy silks to clay modelling. As he
showed us his samples with all the excite-
ment of a child pleased with its accomplish-
ments, there was some pleasure in listening
to his voice and in observing his complete
innocence of failure.
“Do you find it easy to sell these things
about here?” I asked.
“Not easy.” he admitted : “but you would
be surprised at the love of art that there
really is in a neighborhood like this.”
His artlessness was amazing, and when
we had spent some time in inspecting the
various items he produced for our delecta-
tion, I felt almost ashamed to bring him
down to such a mundane thing as the sale of
a pair of bootees. But he had ecstasies for
the design even of these. “There is art in
everything,” he said, as he wrapped them up.
Keeling delayed till I had concluded the
purchase, and left the shop with me.
“A wonderful man !” he said, when we had
gone some paces.
“Do you buy many of those pictures?” I
asked, looking at him curiously.
“I ain’t strong iri art,” he said, and his
eye gave a half wink, “but b ’ave some cob-
bers ’oo don’t think much of ’is paintings,
some’ow —say they would spoil the walls.
So I don’t ’ang them in me ’ouse. But I
buy ’em.” Then, after a pause: “You see, I
reckon he’s a fine sorter chap; an’ I owe
somethin’ to ’im.’ E’s got a great ’eart, that’s
’ow I got to know Im. There was a girl, a
sorter relative. She ’ad married a crook
jockey, an’ got in bad with ,’er people over
it; so bad that, when ’e left ’er, she was
afraid to go ’ome. An’ when she did write
no notice was took. So she was down ’ere,
crook an’ starvin’, and ordered to clear out
of ’er room, when Poison ’ears of it; an’
along ’e goes to ’er, an’, sayin’ ’is i*qom was
vacant, tells her she might as well ’ave it until
it's let. an’ then takes down the sign so’s ’e
won’t let it, an’ gets ’er food an’ waits on ’er
like a woman —better’n a lot of women. An’
when I ’ears about ’er ’aving written an'
no notice bein’ took. I goes along an’ finds ’im
attendin’ to ’er like that —an’ ’im as poor as
a twelve-stone jockey!”
He paused again; and there was genuine
feeling in his voice when he resumed.
“I’d nursed thht girl on my knee as a
kiddy, an’ I felt sore when I see wliat she
’ad come down to. She died, poor girl; an’
(Continued on next page.)


o> c
A
m
> .I*
' a
I
a
Even The Least
sure that the least sign of skin
trouble receives prompt and care-
ful attention. There is nothing so
gentle in its beginnings, and afterwards
so difficult to eradicate, as skin in-
fection. Neglect may spell months of
disfigurement and actual physical pain.
PRICKLY HEAT— “Last
summer my skin got into a fear-
ful state with prickly heat,”
writes Mrs. E. Cook, of Ken-
nedy Terrace, Brisbane. “It
was almost impossiple to keep
my hands away from the burning
itchy surfaces On a friend’s
advice I applied a dressing of
Zam-Buk Its soothing cooling
sensation was really amazing.
More Zam-Buk soon dried up
the eruption and teplaced the
bad surfaces with a splendid
growth of smooth healthy skin.”
WEEPING ECZEMA
“I was afflicted with weeping
eczema for thirteen years,”
writes Mrs. J Moran, 8 Reuss
Street, Leichhardt, N.S W.”
“After attending hospital for
months, besides spending a lot
of money on useless salves and
ointments, I decided to give
Zam-Buk a real good trial. This
great balm had a magical puri-
fying and healing effect on my
diseased skin, and in compara-
tively short time, it caused all
the sores to dry up and die away,
leaving my skin perfectly clear
and healthy.”
POISONED LEG —“lt
was an ordinary insect bite that
first started the tiny sore on my
right leg,”saysMiss Noonan,i39
Barrett St., Bendigo, V. “ This
sore rapidly increased in size and
developed into a bad ulcerated
leg. It was not until I had ex-
perimented with many different
ointments that I was recom-
mended to get Zam-Buk. This
healer gave remarkable ease as
soon as applied Daily I applied
Zam-Buk, and as I kept up the
treatment the ulcerated sore was
gradually cleansed of all inflam-
mation and foul matter, and
perfect healing with fine new
skin resulted.”
At the first sign of unpleasant irri-
tation, eruption, or little roughened red
patch, anoint the place with that
valuable herbal balm
otik
am
This will speedily remove any in-
cipient trouble.
When the skin is already aflame with
eczema, or poisoned or ulcerated, Zam-Buk
is the one external medicine powerful enough
to reach the root of these troubles and
replace unhealthy tissue with new clear skin.
Zam - Buk owes its splendid healing,
soothing, and antiseptic properties to its
unique herbal character, and its complete
freedom from rancid fats and coarse mineral
drugs.
Zam-Buk is sold at rjb and 3 16 a box
by all chemists. The 31/6 family size is
specially recommended as being the more
economical. Get a box to day and avoid
all substitutes. I'here's nothing like
ZAM-BUK.
tONTAI«3
ft ANIMAL 0»to-
SA
wmm
§^-
CONTAINS
anfmai
FAT i
D«y?
M* M *S
»w«
BRUI
one
us
•ATI
#/orff
GET A BOX TO-DAY!
**A Pine Forest in Every Home. 9 *
Safeguard
“THROAT & CHEST
BREATHEABLE Peps soothe away all soreness
or inflammation in the throat, make the
breathing comfortable, and safeguard the
chest and lungs against the perils of damp, cold, or
fo;. Unequalled for Couzhs, Colds, Bronchitis,
and Throat and Chest Troubles, etc.
These ■unique silver-wraiped Peps are sold only in sealed boxes at ijO and
Si ‘ (3J - size contains three times the 1 16 size). Or all Chemists and
Stores, or post free from C. E Ful/ord (A/sia ), Ltd., Sydney .
the kid’s out at my place. I ; fecl as if I
owe a sorter debt to old Polly.”
That was my first introduction to the good
acts of Poison, but afterwards, as we became
friendly, I found that they were many. It
may have been because of them that he
gained reputation as a man of artistic attain-
ments. I soon found that the "artist ot
Dingy-street” w T as a well-known identity, and
the little business not so poor a thing as 1
had imagined. Many a local resident was
satisfied that a gift which would show artis-
tic taste could safely be procured at Poison s.
One of my meetings with him was in the
street, and, as a hotel was near, I suggested
a drink. It rather surprised me that he
accepted; somehow it added an incongruity
to his association with the quaint little shop.
But he was anxious to get “back to the
kids”; and he wanted, also, to ask my
opinion about a piece of music he had com-
posed.
“Music, too?” I asked amusedly.
“Yes; I go in for music, too,” he repeated.
“And writing poetry, besides. I think I’d
sooner write a bit of poetry that got into
print than do all the other things. But,
lie added, sadly, “I haven’t had any success
yet.”
As we went along he told me that he had
let his room to a woman with a couple of
little girls. He enthused over the woman
and said he intended to paint her—as a
Madonna. Secretly I wondered what sort
of a daub he would make of it, and whether
the lady would be flattered when she saw
the work.
Apparently she was a casual person who,
on the strength of occupying his room, had
left the children in his charge. They were
in his sitting-room at the back of his shop
—which I saw now for the first time; two
little girls who rushed to him affectionately
as he entered, and called him “Daddy.”
“I like them to call me that,” he said.
“Their mother asks me sometimes to keep an
eye to them, and I do. Look what Hilda here
has been doing! Oh, it’s only a picture that
isn’t much good, and I told her she could
play with it —look how she’s chalked out the
outlines ! Only eleven, too ! She’ll be an
artist, that . girl. And Nora here is a musi-
cian. She’s standing beside the piano all
the time I’m playing.”
“Play something,” said the smaller girl,
whom I judged to be Nora.
The room was littered with evidences of
Poison’s activities, and against one wall
stood a ramshackle-looking piano which
appeared as if it had been several times
second-hand before it reached Poison’s
possession. He exhibited a sheet of music
paper dotted with single notes.
“This is it!” lie cried. "I dotted it down
here as I picked it out; and I think you’ll
say it’s fine! You see, 1 don’t know much
about music, and I’ll have to get someone to
write in the bass; but that should be easy
for a man who knows how, if lie’s given the
air, don’t you think? And this is a good
one.”
He sat at the piano and strummed, with
one hand, an air which was .certainly pleasing.
“What do you think of it?” he said, turning
with the triumph of one who knows he has
deserved approbation. “Don’t you think that
will make a hit?”
“It sounds familiar,” I said cautiously.
“Does it?” His face showed disappointment.
“It is very like the ‘Blue Danube,’ ” I sug-
gested.
He thoughtfully pondered for a moment,
and then disappointment blanked out the in-
genuous delight of a creator.
“So it is,” he assented. “It is the ‘Blue
Danube.’ But I might have made a name for
myself with that if someone had not done it
before me.”
It was an amazing point of view, which I
let pass; for a rustle in the doorway
occurred, and Poison was speaking past me.
“Home again !” lie said cheerfully. “The
children and I left some lunch for you, seeing
you were so late, and might like it.”
“Oh, it’s all right. I had lunch in town
with Mr. Keeling,” came the answer.
The voice was hard and there were no
thanks in it. Turning, I saw a woman in
whose face the hardness of the voice was
repeated. It was a handsome face, cer-
tainly, or had been ; but there were vicious
lines on it, indications of the character of the
woman which filled me with a sense of danger
for Poison, whose eyes were adoringly on her,
and the bright children who were her charges.
Poison walked with me to the shop door,
when the woman, after some little conversa-
tion, had taken the children up the stairs
with her.
“My friend,” he said, “I feel is if a great
happiness has come into my life. It is only
a couple of weeks that Mary—Mrs. Ogden—
has been with me; but never before, since the
days when I was a young man, have I had
the same feeling for any woman. And I
love her children, too. I have asked her if
she will marry me, and I think she will.”
Grown fond of the simple-hearted fellow,
I went away bitterly sorry, judging the woman
as I did ; but an absence from Sydney pre-
vented me from going to see him again. On
my return I got my next news from Keeling,
whom I happened to meet in town. And he
was full of indignation.
“That blanky woman !” he said. “You met
her? She was a bad egg right through. She
was kidding poor old Polly all the time she
was going out with me. I ain’t so short of
cash that I mind sploshing' a bit on a
woman if I take a fancy to ’er. but to think
she was kiddin’ poor old Polly like that!
She got on ’is soft side by tellin’ about the
’ard life she’d ’ad with a crook ’usband. ’Er
’usband’s dead, an’ she’s been livin’ ’ow she
could, takin’ down men, ever since.”
“But what’s happened?” I demanded.
“Gone an’ bolted with a damned crook just
outer gaol, leaving the two kids on poor old
Polly’s ’ands. An’ never paid a bean for ’er
lodgings— not that Polly would mind that,
poor coot! The other nearly broke ’is ’eart.
It was the way she done it was so crool.”
“That’s better than if she had married Poi-
son,” I commented.
“Rather!” he retorted. “I wouldn’t have
stood for that, knowing what I did about ’er
—and ’er coming out with me as she did. A
man’s only human ; but I couldn’t ’ave stood
and seen ’er marry Polly after I knoo she was
like that.”
“An’ the children?” I asked.
“Polly’s goin’ to look after them as if they
was ’is,” said Keeling. “That shows you
’ow wicked she is—leaving ’er kids like that.
Why, any decent person thinks about kids,
even if they ain’t their own! I tell you what,
I made ’or a fair offer: to keep ’er and give
’er enough to look after the kids, too; but she
goes off and marries this crook. Some women
’ave no moral sense!”
When I called on Poison I found him with
the children, who were happy enough, and
appeared to have no regrets for the mother
who had deserted them; and Poison seemed
interwoven in their happiness. He was deter-
mined in his intention to keep the children,
but was concerned about their future.
“It is strange how sorrow helps you in
art,” he said. “I’ve achieved something that
all my life I’ve been trying for: I’ve had a
poem published in The Bulletin. Yes, I’ve
got one in! After trying for seventeen
years! I’ll show it to you—l’m sure you
will like it. But, I say, do you think there
is much in what they say about a taint
being handed down from generation to gen-
eration, always likely to break out?”
I saw the anxiety that caused him to
check his way to secure the printed proof
of his poetic triumph, and answered, com-
fortingly, with assurances of all that environ-
ment might do to counteract the effects of
heredity.
“Ah, that’s it —environment,” he said
thoughtfully and as if consoled. ‘‘There
must be a good environment. It is the
weeds spread their seeds, not the soil that
produces them.”
Afterwards I remembered that I had not
been shown the verses which, normally,
would have been produced with much eager-
ness ; and the omission struck me as a
pathetic indication of his preoccupation.
When I called a few weeks later the door
of the little shop was closed, and, knocking
having produced no response, I was turning
away, when he came up suddenly. He was
in work-soiled clothes, his hands were grimy,
and the marks of sweat were on his face.
“Glad to see you,” he said, opening the
door. “You see, I’ve taken on a job wharf-
laboring, and it’s only 'when there’s nothing
doing on the wharves that I can open the
shop.”
“And the children?” I asked.
“I’ve got them at a school —a good school
where they’ll get all the training that’s
right. The proper environment, you know,
which this place doesn’t have,” he said.
“That’s the reason of the job. By myself
I could grub along with the little shop, but
there wasn’t enough in it to pay school fees.”
He said it cheerfully; but I saw the mag-
nitude of the sacrifice.
I shook hands —I was about to go to the
war—and took leave of him as of one who
was doing a great deed.
When I returned from oversea many acti-
vities kept me from going near Dingy-street;
and a long time passed before, impelled by
a desire to sec Poison and hear how his life
had gone, 1 went that way. But the shop
that had so drawn my curiosity had been
refronted, and in a much improved window
a medley of sweets and fruit appealed to
purchasers. The Italians in charge knew
nothing of P’olson ; and, even when recalled
at all, the “artist of Dingy-street” was only
a vague memory. The nearest definite in-
formation I received was that “the old bloke
went about a year ago.”
Then I met Keeling unexpectedly. He
had retired from the turf, and “the religious
side of the family” having apparently claimed
him, he told me, with some pride, that lie
was a churchwarden in the suburb where
he was now residing. He was genial; the
main change religion had made in him appa-
rently being to mend his speech, quieten his
clothes and give him a certain staidness of
demeanor. When I mentioned my desire to
hear about Poison, lie whisked me into a
car and drove me away.
The shop was labelled “Art Furnishings,
Ltd.,” and in its prosperous-looking window,
with the name “F. Poison, manager,” neatly
done in gilt on one side, were many articles
which might easily attract. I was soon shak-
ing hands with a Poison strangely burnished,
from his snowy hair to his shoes. His well-
cut clothes and gold pincenez challenged a
comparison with his old array. And Poi-
son, easily and without offence, laughed as
he noticed my surprise.
“My daughter Hilda’s responsible,” he
said. “She was only a schoolgirl when she
had the idea of getting me out of the old
shop ; and she put it to Keeling here. Well,
we got the money, and the thing pays—and
here we are ! A great girl that! Business-
like as anything; and a manager—why she
managed to brush me up ! Nora’s going to
be a great musician, but Hilda’s an artist—
look, there’s some of her work.”
It surprised me. It was immature, of
course; but the quality was good, and in li-
cated strong talent. I took a look at several
pictures, and came across one or two that
were reminiscent of the old shop.
“There’s just one or two of mine,” he said
hurriedly. “I still dabble in paint a bit;
but we don’t try to sell them. It’s only for
my own amusement now. I’ll get my satis-
faction in seeing Hilda’s pictures. She’s
engaged to a young chap—an artist, and a
wholesome young fellow —and they intepd to
work together. You must come to their
marriage. Why, as you were coming in I
was writing a poem to have ready for the
wedding.”
“You had a poem published, I remember,”
I reminded him. “I happened never to see it.”
“Why, I’ve got it here!” he cried pleased.
“I brought it in to help me with this one.
But, after all, it’s not only in painting pic-
tures or writing poems that there’s art.
There’s art in everything.”
As he spoke he had been leading us to-
wards his office at the end of the shop, where,
with a rummage amongst some papers, he
picked up a printed slip and handed it to
me. Then he broke away at a merry-voiced
babble in the shop, where there was an in-
cursion of youth—two fine-looking girls, one
with her hair still “down,” and an equally
good-looking youth—excellent types.
I laughed at the paper in my hand. The
printed triumph of Poison was a verse pub-
lished with a comment in the “Answers to
Correspondents” column.
But as I looked up laughing and saw the
girls around Poison, it seemed to me that
the man who had wandered along so many
blind alleys in his search for artistic expres-
sion had attained an artistic achievement
in wlmt_ those girls—whose fate might have
been so harsh—had become.
HAMER.


m
',y.y
n
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joinl
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE westinghouse BRAKE CO.
iz* or"' 1
_ ct orin n q Heell street, Melbourne.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
-HOLMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SJ
I*Bs
KTCO
•VV
(-•O
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
& w. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
® Waste of power with “An Eagle
n ® Globe” Brand Circular Saws
p
M
!'%
m
Made in Australia, of the highest
quality Crucible Cast Sheffield Steel,
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Cir-
cular Saws are cut very accurately,
with perfectly tensioned plates. They
run smoothly, needing a minimum
of power. The quality of the Steel
makes less re-sharpening necessary.
Any kind or size of circular saw is available.
Write to the nearest address for a quotation.
Ask also for information about working
speeds.
Eagle & globe steel co. ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street
342-348 Swanston Street
“ Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
HfttT'AlDF John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
"ART j •...., Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
R. L. Milligan, 32a Arg.vle Street
!°tel
v><.
ETROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
’i'Ut
l ' t *n c* n c,ut * ****** Two Minutes
*® *o Domain and Circular
Quay.
biP 1 l 8 Per day, or apart-
Secured separately by the
hftrtio i "awards. Cards of Tariff
cuh , " C p oste( j on application
The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
/ %m\
SCHUTE,
BELL & O ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
New!
<3 AMtrvb Aw\>S
|?oa. AJg22"?g*£»-4 ca
Heavy Duck Load
NITRP mrß Wet proof
Special
Loads!
Kepiingtcn Game Loads
In ‘'Nitro Club” Cartridges
CORRECT LOAD for whatever game you are
going to shoot —the proper amount of powder and
sh °t and the right shot size.
these loads you may be certain of quick, hard
Jetting cartridges for Duck, Goose, Grouse, Quail, Snipe,
Rabbit, etc. No guesswork—Remington guaran-
tee s each load to be the best for the purpose.
your dealer does not yet stock these loads, write us.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
m
upon a thoroughly reliable remedy—a remedy
with a big reputation! The reliability of
Beecham’s Pills explains their solid reputation.
They fulfil expectations. This they have done
for thousands of people ever since they first
came into use. You can therefore depend
UPON
Beecham’s Pills for giving relief in most
cases of Stomach and Liver trouble. Such
symptoms as acidity, biliousness, constipation,
headache, heartburn, loss of appetite, unpleasant
taste in the mouth and general lack of tone call
for the immediate use of that reliable remedy
2
0
#
//
0
m
i/i,
St
mumW
mrm
\\
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens
Seven
PHie Medals.
Works i rsirmingham, England^
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for aQ
assorted Sample Box.
(By permission of The Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
< e Heup For
CONSUMPTIVES
ART UNION and BESI
“BIGGEST
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan . . „ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car „ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car ....... „ £4OO
sth Prize, Player Piano „ £250
6th Prize, 3 Rooms of Furniture „ £2OO
200
PRIZES
ALL
Tickets 1/-
By post 1/IJ, 3 or
more, post free.
Five tickets ... 5/-
Every ticket drawn
replaced in barrel.
Each ticket has 200
chances of winning
Sale of tickets closes 20th May,
1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney,
3rd June, 1925.
Results published all Sydney
Dailies, sth June, 1925.
T'ckets obtainable from all newsagents and tobacconists, and from the
Secretary, GEO. H. WHEELER, 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
t
The Super
Fine Old
\r. •
Virginia,
Oval,
20 for 2/-
K. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney.
N. Z. h. & M. A CO., LTD., Melbourne,
R&J HILL L TD LONDON.


\ \
4
»
rTTT
it
A
9
S'-' ■ ■
*F7-W
\T*W IWI «
Gc-L—
-v
v\ ’
ft
A'
9
j-^^s
WOLFES
7
(CNOEDAN
tin i ni
u
ut>
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
BEVERAO^
AROMATIC
.I.*"*
rv
f%
•nr*
n«t
V>\
v\ '
SX * t
►'WVT
OX?
FL
PINT 6
NET
\>
C:
m
m
n.
SSBZZ
i
\
■BCT
i '•;>
/v_s4
Schnapps is not
merely a trade name
THE term “Schnapps” is not
merely a trade name. It signifies
a UNIQUE spirit produced in
Schiedam, Holland, and it originated
nearly a century ago with the introduc-
tion of the distinctive beverage, which
has long been world-famous in associ-
ation with the name of “Wolfe’s.
If No other liquor possesses the
FLAVOR, the AROMA or the potent
MEDICINAL VIRTUES that distin-
guish Schnapps, and no other liquor
can be truthfully described as “just the
same as Schnapps.”
IJ The simplest way to make certain
of obtaining genuine, pure, aromatic
Schiedam Schnapps is to ALWAYS
ASK FOR “WOLFE’S.”
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
“A Blessingto Humanity
