

ess
a
US
f iC
<*■ J>
"sr "1
;|£
V'
-£- •
<*'
)W /
/
-.• .V-‘; ? {V /y; ■•-
Good pictures
from the start
A Kodak means good pictures from the very start —splendid snap-
shots of everything you want to remember—groups of friends, happy
incidents, delightful bits of scenery. Get your Kodak to-day!
You should see the No. 1 Pocket Kodak, Series 11, at 85/-, for pictures
2| x 3| inches. Other Kodaks from 42/-; Folding Brownies from
47/6; Box Brownies from 11/3. You can learn to use the one you
select in half an hour.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, and 108
Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street,-Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Fambton Qnay and Willis Street, Wellington, IS T .Z-
The Bulletin
Vol 46.—N0. 2361.
Thursday, May 14, 1925.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue
for 1925 is now ready and will be sent,
post free, with full terms and particulars.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
•428 George Street, Sydney,
LYSAGH r
O
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
is
liiiiHislini!
MANGROVITE LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Continues to Gain Prestige
among go-ahead engineers on account of its unequalled power-
saving abilities and low run.ting expenses.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright, k Co.. Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenloll
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: IV. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TABMANI A • W. *'G. Genders Pty.. Ltd.. Launceston k Hobart.
\*
*sag
2INI
QIONO
suag
11 8 JO J I
4sag '#////""*.
| OIOKO f
‘''tyZZZ#*'"""'"""""'"'"* 2%%*"'
'" J ‘'"'" / ''''Sss'sss/SSSfssssss/ss/ssss//ssf*sss?S/s///SS///‘ l 'S?‘'S/S'
{, '"f""/ssss,„„ „„SSS" y '' / ~ '''
4 'iifii 1111111 $ 1111111f % y i! - j
—~~~
'
J
41
M
w
%
€
%
m
m
m
m
m
p
i
“Yes, Sir, you are quite right. If you want
to keep the leather supple, apply ‘Nugget’ Boot
Polish regularly. We have found it is the
most reliable polish on the market.”
Made in B’a Tan,
Light Tan,
Nigger brown, Red
Stain, Patent and
White.
“nugget
BOOT POLISH
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6,
m
A. The
Organ of dice.
B *The Trachea o-
Windpipe.
C The Bvonehini
Tubes of Dissected
D *The Lobe of one
‘of the tun**
The Red Page
Crossword Puzzles
, Man lias a being of numerous sides, and
ever;' 00. of liis sides makes a special appeal,
ilis "infinite variety is born of the differing
strengths of these appeals. But there are
sides that are more or less common to all
of us. These make up the popular demand.
From childhood upwards, for instance, we
are nearly all interested in puzzles. We
like filling in gaps and putting two and two
together. Also from childhood upwards we
are nearly all interested in the chase. We
take pleasurable excitement from solving
crossword puzzles ourselves or from watch-
ing the solving of them. We take a like
pleasurable excitement out of hunting or
watching the hunt. The demand for each
of these excitements is probably born of an
instinctive survival. Our ancestors solved
puzzles to live, and hunted to, live. Now
we play where they lived. The chase is a
game for us; so is the puzzle. The inborn
love we have for both of these games creates
the demand for the modern detective tale.
There is probably not another thing that
rouses the primitive, in man so much as the
man-liunt. When the murderer is at large
the community almost to a man through the
daily newspapers follows him with the police
like terriers after rats. The criminal is a
menace to the community, as the man-eater
once was to the tribe. The hunter who slew
the man-eater became the tribal hero, In
time, starting from him, a legendary hunter
would be created by the tribal singers. And
we can be sure that the demand for those
songs was there. In our own time the legen-
dary hunter of criminal man grows out of
the ordinary detective in response to a de-
mand, too. We get the super-detective, he
get Sherlock Holmes.
If we are not all idealists at heart, we arc
at least all idealistically inclined. The ideal-
ised man appeals infinitely more to the
imagination than the real man. Our neigh-
bor is nothing to us until the romantic
idealist gets hold of him. He puts him in
a novel, and we thrill as we read it. It
is the same with the detective. As our
neighbor and what the novelist has apotheo-
sised him into are beings wide apart, so
the detective of fact is far removed from
the detective of fiction. The detective of
fact seems to rely for his success mainly
on his acquaintance with the -under-world
and the help lie gets from the public. Re-
wards and witnesses count greatly with him.
But the rewards way is, after all. at least
an unromantic way of getting information,
and witnesses detract from the, cleverness
of the detective. Therefore, the detective
o'f fiction is not great on the reward method,
and does not make much use of witnesses.
He relies mainly on his acting and his
powers of observation and deduction. And
that is what we want him to rely on. It
is thrillingly satisfying to be able to slip
our imaginative beings behind the disguise
of the detective and hear the duped criminal
eonfidb. We get much the same sort of
satisfaction the benevolent spider must have
got as he saw the fly coming into his parlor.
Then putting clues together is like working
out crossword puzzles, and we most of us
think we have a flair for that sort of thing.
Further, the detective of fact frequently fails.
The detective of fiction, on the other hand,
rarely fails; and even when he does his
failure is only. temporary, and is merely
to make the task he accomplishes in the
end the greater. Whereby he becomes the
greater, too.
Sherlock Holmes is not a detective of
fact, and what he accomplishes is quite
easily done. In books we make circum-
stances wait upon us; we do not have to
wait upon circumstances as we do in real
life. It is quite easy to disguise oneself
in fiction, for instance-^—very much easier
than it is to do so in real life. In fiction
it is also very easy to make your reasoning-
come true. A man steps into Sherlock
Holmes’s room, and the super-detective
notices a small smear of clay on one of his
boots. He knows the only part in all Lon-
don where such clay is to be found, and
surprises the man by telling him from that
part he comes. And he does come from that
part. That is fiction. In fact, a detective
notices some clay on a man’s boot, and by
a marvellous coincidence does remember
where in London such clay is to be found.
He tells the man lie comes from that part,
and finds out that he does not come from
that part at all. A dray carrying a load
of that clay has spilt some just outside
the detective’s front gate, and the man has
stepped into it. Such little things come
again and again in fact to upset the best
of reasoning. In fiction such inconvenient
little things are not brought in at all. And
their omission is not noticed. The detective
of fiction has not got to look for them as
has the detective of fact. And we do not
mind. It all might be true. As long as we
do not know we do not. want to know, and
the illusionment endures.
We love puzzles, and we love the chase.
Sherlock Holmes is a wizard at puzzles and
a sleuth in the chase. What more do we
want to take our minds off everyday depress-
ing things, to engross our attention pleasur-
ably for k few hours? We read detective
stories as we play games. We do not play
games to learn things, and we do not go to
detective stories for instruction. But the
surgeon operates none the worse for his
game of golf, and one might prescribe far
worse things than crossword puzzles and
detective stories for the tired man of affairs.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Australian Oratory
The visit of the Oxford debating team,
(.up member of it a former president of the
Union who claims New College as his alma
viator, recalls the fact that Sydney as far
hack as I.BSO furnished a president to the
Union. Bernhard Ringrose Wise Avas one of
Ihe most brilliant students this State ever
sent to the ancient home of learning. His
college was Queen’s, in which one of the
present team, Mr. Malcolm Macdonald, son
of the Prime Minister of the recent short-
lived Labor Government, is enrolled-, and
the coincidence is accentuated by the fact
that Wise in his youth, as is so often the
case with youth, inclined to espouse dm cause
of "the people - ’ as against “the classes. ’ He
was a close friend of Arnold Toynbee, the
hiaugurator at Toynbee Hall, in the East
End of Eondon, of the first working-mans
university ; and later, in his life in N. S.
Wales, when politics claimed him, lie hud
the foundation-stone of our industrial arbi-
tration system.
The Oxford Union has been long a nur-
sery of English oratory. From its benches
have been drawn scores of men who, passing
into public life, brought to their duties a
dialectic skill whose rudiments if not more
were acquired in the Union. Wise was cer-
tainly one of those who profited by the teach-
ing and the discipline. Institutions such
as that of Oxford carry, with them certain
traditions of style and conduct which, apart
from the apt use of words, are of the 1 greatest
value to the dialectician. He is taught self-
command, “good form” —and “good form is
only a phrase for fair and clean dealing be-
tween man and man ; it permits the rapier
thrust, but bars the garbage-tin. Anything
approaching ‘‘cant” and “rant” is anathema.
Obviously in a new country manners are
slacker, and in the rough and tumble of
pioneering life the King’s English is some-
what maltreated; but we are now growing
old enough to try to put our oratorical efforts
on a higher plane than, as a whole, they
have held in the past. We have had our
outstanding orators and debaters. Some of
them, as in the case of Wise, had an educa-
tion abroad ; others, such as Alfred JJeakui.
have owed nothing to academies or seats- of
learning for their cultivated gift. Unfor-
tunately their number seems to be spindling
out. To-day in tlie public life of N. S.
Wales the one outstanding speaker who can
claim the orator's gift is W. A. Holman,
and he has had a special technical education
in the art. Other instances might be cited,
but all told they make up a small number.
There are, of course, robustious speakers
of note, such as “Billy” Hughes and others
of lesser consequence, who add a loud-
tongued vehemence to the small meat of their
discourse, but our group of orators is dimin-
ishing yosvt by year.
Is it too much to ask that our univer-
sities should take this matter in hand? That
is, the serious training of its undergrads, to
enunciate clearly, to avoid slipshod collo-
cations of words, to arrange the matter of
their speeches? To help them acquire the
restrained and genial tone which nine times
out of ten carries home the point of an
argument where confusion of thought, a
shrieky voice and a tub-thumping arm leave
but disgust and headache? The debates of
the Oxford team ought to be a lesson not
only to our young ■ lions, but to those also
who have the government of our universities
in their hands. The Sydney ’Varsity team
is probably an average sample of its Union,
and gives a fair exposition of its dialectic
style. If so, it was scarcely flattering to
ns at the first debate.
LEX.
Expressionismm and Australian Drama
Ever since we realised we were a nation
Australia has had an increasing army of
prose writers, artists and musicians with an
intense consciousness of our racial charac-
teristics. These characteristics they have
endeavored to translate faithfully into terms
of their different arts. While some have
made great advances in doing so, the Aus-
tralian dramatist has lagged a generation
behind. Despite assertions to the contrary,
this is not wholly a question of technical
ability. For although his art must neces-
sarily be a distinctive literature, having to
stand both a literary and a dramatic test, its
acquisition is not as difficult as detractors of
the Australian dramatist would make it out
to be. Our dramatists are quite capable of
acquiring all the necessary technique of
their art. The trouble lies not within them,
but without. In Australia to-day there is
no open market, on a large scale, where the
local dramatist can place his work; and as
the dramatic writer always has his eye on
stage production, the absence of this means'
furnishes an obvious explanation of deficiency
in our drama. Between him and an audi-
ence there stands an almost impregnable bar-
rier in the form of a theatrical combine
commanding most of the suitable playhouses
and the services of the best actors.
The standard of this combine is wholly
commercial. Art is subordinated by it to
the monetary end. Its sole concern being
financial,' it -lias in effect ruled that the
theatre does not exist as the mouthpiece of
its time for the expression of present-day
problems, or for any other end than that of
private gain. Hence on our stage the world
is distorted out of recognition to meet an
uneducated but popular taste. There is no
censure of bad things; no beacon set up to
guide us; no truth enunciated. The public
has dished up to it the old fare of ballet
girls, standardised heroes and villains, and
crude “crook'’ dramas. Australian life as
pictured bv the few plays accepted and rele-
gated to third-rate houses to be played by
inferior actors is generally a libellous cari-
cature drawn by unskilled artists. The atti-
tude of the combine towards a local play
with any. pretence of intellectual appeal
ranges from indifference to denunciation.
The local dramatist, resenting this contempt-
uous attitude towards anything vitally Aus-
tralian. ceases to produce the good work of
which, lie may be capable. Nor is he alone
in his attitude of despair before the stupid,
frivolous rubbish which, masquerading under
the name of drama, comprises the bulk of
the plays imported into this country. I-Ie
has been joined by an increasing body of dis-
satisfied theatre-goers who are not given the
opportunity of witnessing plays by the
younger dramatists who are establishing a
new school of dramatic art embodying modern
thought and modern social outlook.
The world is in the throes of a dramatic
renaissance. The realism accepted as a
(Continued on page 3.)


ace
m
H,
TJuL-ttnwit. o^-
ousewives
V can save moneij
I
By stocking the
Xjnen Cupboard with
Manchester
Specials
r 'from.
Anthony Horderns'
Quality Bed Linens
White Sheeting, plain and twilled
Hemstitched and Embroidered Pillow
Shams; beautiful quality; designs
will instantly appeal.
Prices 6/9, 7/11 pair
Bed Spreads, effectively hemstitched
and beautifully embroidered; lovely
laundering quality.
Size 72 x 90in.—
Prices . . 16/6, 20/-, 22/6, 27/6
Size SO x lOOin.—
Prices . . 27/6, 32/6, 37/6, 47/6
Linen Bed Spreads, hemstitched and
embroidered; made from the finest
linen and embroidered in novel de-
signs.
Size 72 x lOOin.—
Prices 60/-, 67/6, 75/-
Size 90 x lOOin.—
Prices 67/6, 70/-, 75/-
Linen-fmished Pillow Calico, 40 inches
wide; a superior weave.
Prices .... 1/3, 1/6, 1/9, 2/- yd.
Hemmed Sheets. Made by Anthony
Horderns’ from superior quality
sheetings; ready for use.
Size.
54 x 90in.
64 x 90in.
72 x lOOin.
80 x lOOin.
90 x 108 in.
Prices, pair.
10/- 11/3
11/9
14/9
16/6
20/6
13/-
16/6
18/3
23/-
13/-
15/-
18/3
20/9
25/6
Hemstitched and Embroidered Linen
Pillow Shams; embroidered in dainty
designs.
Prices 17/6, 20/-, 27/6 pi.
Hemstitched Housewife Pillow Cases,
Size 20 x 30 inches.
Prices 6/3, 7/9, 8/6, 9/6 pr.
Finlay’s Finished Sheeting, plain and
twill; renowned for long wear; soft
finish.
Widths— .
54 64 72 80 90 in.
Pnccc
2/9 3/3 3/11 4/6 4/11 yd.
Circular Pillow Calico, 40 inches wide;
specially woven for pillow cases.
Prices 1/7, 1/10, 2/- yd.
Table Linen Economies
Damask Table Cloths; a fine even
weave, excellent for laundering.
Sizes. Prices.
70 x 70in.—
10/9 12/9 15/- 18/6
70 x 88in—
-13/6 15/6 19/6 23/6
70 x 106 in—
. 18/11 22/6 26/6
Serviettes; quality to launder perfectly;
wide range of select designs.
Size 18 x 18in. Price, half-doz., 4/3
Size 22 x 22in.—
Price, half-doz. . . 4/9, 6/51, 7/3
Hemstitched Damask Cloth, made from
the finest damask. Each laundering
will enhance its lovely sheen. Novel
designs.
c;,p Prices.
70 x 70in 12/6
70 x 88in I 5 6
70 x 106 in 19 6
All Linen Serviettes. A splendid wear-
ing serviette; designs will please.
Size 22 x 22in„—
Price, half-doz.. . 10/6, 11/9, 13/3
Size 24 x 24in.-
Price, half-doz 12/8, 14/9
How Easy to Economise on
COSY BLANKETS
when Prices Are so Low!
White Blankets, soft and thick,
for single beds. Size 72 x 54
inches.
Prices .... 29/6, 33/6 pair
White Wool Blankets, for three-
quarter beds. Size, 81 x 63
inches.
Prices 39/6, 44/- pair
Double-Bed Blankets. Size, 90 x
72 inches.
Prices. . 49/6, 57/6, 63/- pair
Size, 99 x 81 inches.
Prices. . 59/6, 63/-, 67/6 pair
Size, 108 x 90 inches.
Prices 82/-, 87/6 pair
DOWN QUILTS.
Down Quilts, covered with Floral
Cambric, showing panels and
borders of Sateen. Size, 6ft. x
4ft., for single or three-quarter
beds, in shades of Pink, Rose,
Blue, Black, Brown, Helio.
Prices
40/-, 45/-, 50/- to 65/- each
Size, 6ft.xsft., for double beds.
Prices: 48/6, 52/6, 100/- each
Attractive Values in
Women’s Dressing Gowns
Ripple Cloth Dressing Gowns,
with long roll collar, tie sash at
side; scalloped and button-
holed in White on collar and
cuffs. Colors: Mauve, Sky,
Shell, Saxe, or Red. Sizes, W.
and O.S. /i -
Price 17/11
Other styles in Ripple Cloth —
Price 3 18 9, 21/9
Ail - Wool Flannel Dressing
Gowns in Rose, Saxe, Mauve,
Shell. Desis;ned with roll collar,
tie sash at side; scalloped and
buttonholed in White.
Price 30/-
Dressing Gowns in Australian
Flannel, fashioned with long
stole collar, gauntlet cuffs,
trimmed silk blanket stitching.
Colors include: Saxe, Vieux
Rose, Maroon, Mauve, Violet,
Grey or Navy. Sizes W. and
O.S.
Price
41/6
Figured Ripple Cloth Dressing
Gowns, cut with long inset
sleeves, roll collar, and tie sash
at side. In Dark Mauve, Saxe
or Brown. Sizes, W.
and O.S.
Price . .
17/11
We Pay the Carriage on Fashion Goods
and Family Drapery in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
. „„ BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY • Telephone: City 9440.


Exibe
BATTERIES
F
rm
5
51E39
TP
OJ
r
n
f
/
o
Avoid Battery
Trouble
BATTERIES
SERVICE STATION
A critical look at your battery
occasionally, regular addition of
water —that is the way to stop
trouble before it starts.
Let us do this for you. If any
repairs are needed, you will find
our work quick, skilful, and at
right prices. Our repair service
is for all makes of batteries. Will
you pay us a visit ?
Australian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosin
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd
Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.
We handle only genuine Exide parts.


Pleasing' Contrasts
in
FOR
MEN, WOMEN
AND CHILDREN,
You are offered the most delightful choice of full-
fashioned and semi-fashioned styles in all new shades.
In every pair of HOLEPROOF Hosiery you will
find flawless perfection of texture —richness, lustre
—snug-smooth fit.
Sold only in retail stores.
If not available locally write direct to
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
true version of life yesterday has given place
to svmbolism, impressionism to what tor tlie
want of a better name is labelled expression-
ism The drama is breaking through the
limitations of its form. Dogmatic formu-
laries are being jettisoned. The new school
seeks to restore the ancient wisdom of the
theatre, but because it presents truth frankly,
and by symbols and characterisations that
arc new, it is not as yet appreciated by
those accustomed to the older form of
dramatic expression. The entry of tne
modern and ultra-modern schools of thought
into the field has in other lands aroused an
interest of which only faint echoes have
reached Australia. Our repertory theatres
as a gauge of modern dramatic art and its
tendencies are, with one notable exception,
years behind the times. The plays of Shaw
and Galsworthy, once considered revolution-
ary, now enjoy the patronage of the conser-
vative. Yet they represent the nearest
approach of our Repertory “right wing to
modernism. Shaw and Galsworthy were
forerunners of the new school, they do not
constitute it. They revealed things as they
once were, but they cannot speak for to-day.
With the one exception noted, the Repertory
movement in Australia follows the lines of
the commercial theatre by ignoring the new
and living and supporting the antiquated and
inanimate. Standing alone in its pioneer-
ing spirit and the ambition of its productions
is the little Playbox Society of Sydney, under
the direction of Duncan Macdougall. Dur-
ing the past 18 months it produced for tae
first time in Sydney live new plays. I hey
were essentially plays .of constructive
strength, poignant in criticism of sham
and make-believe, and rich in imagination.
All were good examples of the. newer
dramatic technique. The Playbox is to be
congratulated on its enterprise and courage
in presenting them. In a recently issued
prospectus it states that it stands for the
production of international drama, the en-
couragement of the Australian dramatist and
the advancement of theatre-craft. It should
have gone further and said that in its exist-
ence lies the hope of the Australian dramatist
and the development of a national drama.
What the modern drama is expressing to-
day in the old world, Australia feels with-
out having the means of giving it dramatic
expression in terms of its own nationality.
There is here the same contempt of limita-
tions, the same demand for freedom .of
thought and expression, the same intensity
of spirit. Yet before we have our own
national drama we must evolve our own
theatre, for the history of the theatre proves
that it is the people wiio determine the course
the theatre will take. It therefore rests
with our serious-minded theatre-goers to build
up a national theatre, through which our
dramatists can represent us, with our
own characteristics, to the rest ot tlie
world. The living Australia of to-day can
onlv honestly be expressed through the new
style of drama. Just as the characters,
scenic effects and properties of the expres-
sionistic play are representations of a mass
of unseen impulses that influence every out-
ward action, so are the outer symbols of Aus-
tralia signs of the dynamic forces that are
beneath the surface. The mysterious som-
breness of the silent bush, its grim master-
fulness, the riotous wealth of. its beauty,
these are all svmbols of vital, hidden signifi-
cance. Of course it is not expected that the
great many will appreciate the intrusion of
this new and disturbing stranger into the
fields of entertainment. But they are not
obliged to attend; there will still be the
wearisome musical comedies and tedious
vaudeville shows —excellent sedatives for the
dull-minded.
WILLIAM FITZ HENRY.
Rosebery the Biographer
Rosebery, the Man of Promise of our
younger days, was perhaps the most disap-
pointing politician that Britain has pro-
duced for the past hundred years. He was
of brilliant parts; was blessed (or cursed)
with an aristocratic lineage that went back
to Duncan Primrose, a shrewd dealer of the
days of Mary Queen of Scots; was not only
blessed with‘abundance of money of his own,
but married into the Rothschild family and
became more money-blessed still. Yet some-
thing in his upbringing, possibly in his
family antecedents, seemed to attenuate the
resolution of his younger days and paralyse
him at the moment when a decision of steel
alone could have saved him. His early
Radicalism decayed as he grew to know the
world ; yet something of that youthful faith
seemed to linger and sometimes paralyse him
when he threw in his lot with a more con-
servative party. He was like the unfortu-
nate hero of the Ibsen tragedy. “They cling
to their dead here at Rosmersholm,” said
Rebecca. “Now I should say. Miss,” an-
swered the old servant, “that it’s the dead
that cling to Rosmersholm.” Perhaps Rose-
bery, like many another, was haunted by
ghosts of his dead past to his own political
undoing.
If the man of learning was once expected
to carry his liquor like a gentleman,
then the gentleman might be fairly
expected to carry his learning in the
same fashion —lightly, gracefully and with-
out ostentation. Rosebery certainly did it.
Delicate banter and the dryly humorous phrase
characterise him; and when the golden sen-
tence does come, it comes easily, naturally,
and he enjoys it accordingly. As a piece of
nearly perfect portraiture it would be hard
to surpass his picture of Randolph Churchill
in the days of his prime:—
His demeanor, his unexpectedness, his fits of caress-
ing humility, his impulsiveness, his tinge of violent
eccentricity, his apparent dare-devilry made him a
fascinating companion; while his wit, his sarcasm,
his piercing personalities, his elaborate ironies and
his effective delivery gave astonishing popularity to
his speeches. Nor were his physical attributes with-
out their attraction. His slim and boyish figure, his
moustache which had an emotion of its own, his
round protruding eyes gave a compound interest to
his speeches and conversation. His laugh, which has
been described as “jay-like,” in its very weirdness
and discordance was merriment itself.
He had the vital mainspring of zest. To whatever
he applied himself... .politics or pleasure, it pos-
sessed him entirely; he did it with gusto, with every
nerve and fibre....ln congenial society his conversa-
tion was delightful. He would display his mastery
of irony and banter; for with those playthings he
was at his best.. Nor would he hesitate to air his
most intimate views of persons and characters; he
did not shrink from admissions which were candid
to the verge of cynicism; he revelled in paradox.
He was, moreover, absolutely unaffected himself, and
ruthlessly pricked the bubbles of affectation or cant
in others. In graver discussion he had, when he
chose, a subtle and engaging deference; his idea 3
were luminous and original.
Rosebery’s writings are full of vivid
touches, sharp, glowing, unforgettable. You
are transported to Trafalgar by this verbal
magician, and there you stand “amid _ the
rush and hubbub of the half-naked sailors
and powder-monkeys... .all of them black
and glowing with the sweat and the passion
of conflict.” He takes you on a visit to the
great Burke, and yon see him making his dog
“jump into the pond after a stick to show a
lady visitor how well it swam.” Next you find
Burke compounding rhubarb pills for his
poorer neighbors. Cromwell comes down to
us “tramping through the ages in his great
wide boots, a countenance swollen and red-
dish, a voice harsh, sharp and untenable,
with a country-made suit, a hat with no
band, doubtful linen with a speck of blood
on it.” Cromwell, we are told, was the first
ruler who really understood toleration;
though he exported Englishmen as slaves to
tlie West Indies, lie welcomed and favored
the Jews.
Rosebery was a man of diverse tastes, and
paid the penalty of his versatility. He was
a statesman, yet not of the first rank; he
was a titled sport who won the Derby, yet
he remained a sporting aristocrat, and was
never the supreme aristocrat of sport. He
loved letters intensely, but his achievements
therein do not carry him to the first rank
or near it. English Premiers have been
men of varied diversions. Chesterfield was
a society man; Walpole was a fox-hunter;
Carteret was addicted to business and brandy.
Chatham loved business and gardening:
Gladstone cultivated theology and exercised
himself in tree-cutting. Disraeli’s recrea-
tion was novel-writing, and Salisbury would
dance for hours, and sometimes wrote casual
poetry. Rosebery’s real business was to be
the nobleman —the nobleman of politics, of
sport, of literature. Naturally he achieved
a nobleman’s success.
How wonderfully he condenses and epito-
mises from Boswell the meeting between
Wilkes and gruff old Sam Johnson: —
We admire the consummate diplomacy of Boswell
in face of the difficulty of securing Johnson to meet
a man he abhorred, luring his elephant to capture
with extraordinary skill ; then when they met, Wilkes’s
material attentions to Johnson. “Pray, give me leave,
sir, a little of the brown... .some fat, sir... .a little
of the stuffing some gravy let me have the
pleasure of giving you some butter.... allow me to
recommend the squeezing of this orange,” and so
forth; so that Johnson, who looks at him at first
with surlv virtue, is reconciled through his palate
to his bugbear, and they talk through the whole
evening with brilliancy and even with cordiality. As
we read we realise the whole affair, the crafty
crimp Boswell, the wheedling demagogue and the
reluctant moralist.
As another piece of vivid summary it
would be hard to beat Rosebery’s picture of
Napoleon after the Revolution :
In the centre of all is the Ruler, watchful, prudent,
far-seeing. He is seldom seen, except once every
10 da vs, when he holds an inspection of troops... .
His only relaxations are the austere sittings of the
Institute and the week-end parties at Malmaison,
where he plays prisoner’s base like a boy. When seen
he is scandalously ill-dressed; Royalists say ugly;
all say short, save when he raises his head and
glances with his eye; then he seems suddenly to
tower up. He is always learning and absorbing.
All France seems to flow into that self-sustained
vessel.
Napoleon at Longwood was as colossally
egotistical as ever. He expected all his little
Court to think of him and him only, and
was angry with this general for talking about
his wife, and with that for wanting to see
his mother.
It demands originality, after all that Decky
and Macaulay have done, to write of such
men as Walpole, the Temples, Carteret and
the elder Fox with freshness. Yet Rose-
bery has achieved it. He introduces us
to George 11. and his Queen, and we find the
Papa alluding to his eldest son as the great
est beast and liar and scoundrel in existence
—a sentiment shared by the Queen. “Fred-
erick,” says Rosebery, “was a poor creature ;
no doubt a vain and fatuous coxcomb. But, ’
he continues in explanatory vein, “human
beings are constantly the parents of cox-
combs without regarding them as vermin.”
Rosebery’s greatest gift, as these excerpts
indicate, was a power of vivid summary.
He was endowed with a wit keen, urbane,
penetrating. He is still “ploughing his lonely
furrow.” It must be a long one by this time.
P. AIREY.
The Origin of wh
William Clowes (R.P. 2/4/’25) seems to
have misunderstood my meaning with regard
to the words in English which begin with
the consonant group wh. A comparison
with the corresponding group of words in
Latin will serve to show that the h element
did exist in the original forms from which
they are derived, and that the It is therefore
not an intrusion, as he appears to suggest.
The English wh words are cognate with
those in Latin beginning with qu, since both
groups have ultimately a common origin.
To take an example, “what” is akin to
“quod,” “which” to “qualis,” “when” to
“quando.” In these Latin words the q
represents an unvoiced palatal stop, followed
by the semi-vocalic u. _ This combination
may be expressed phonetically by the letters
lew. Although the modern English forms
are not actually derived from the Latin,
this was the nature of the sound-group
from which the wh in this class of words
developed. The two elements of the com-
bination, however, are highly dissimilar,
the lc being a palatal and the w a labial.
Such dissimilarity tends to bring about the
decomposition of one or other of the ele-
ments. In the case of English the initial
palatal stop lost its character and became a
palatal fricative —that is, a sound similar
to that represented by the last two letters in
the Scottish “loch.” This stage in the de-
velopment of the pronunciation may be
compared with the Old High German
“hwaz.” meaning “what,” in which the let-
ter h represents this palatal fricative. It is
true that this sound disappeared entirely
in these words in German, leaving no trace,
for, as early as the Middle High German
period, the same word had become “waz,”
and is spelt in New High German “was.”
where the w has undergone further modifi-
cation and is pronounced as a v. In Eng-
lish, however, the palatal fricative did leave
a trace: it softened down into an h. a change
which involved nothing but a slight raising
of the palate, allowing the breath to pass
out more freely. This h later became an
unvoiced w, which preceded the voiced w.
This means merely that the lips are placed
in position for the sound, and a slight emis-
sion of breath occurs before the vocal chords
actually begin to vibrate.
This is the general pronunciation of wit by
careful speakers in the south of England at
the present day. In the north of England and
in Ireland and Scotland there is a tendency
to overdo the unvoicing, but neither this
pronunciation nor the total omission of the
unvoiced wis standard English. It is inter-
esting to notice in connection with this that,
in the word “who,” the w element has en-
tirely disappeared.
From this illustration it is clear that the
It is essentially not an intrusion ; it has
merely been misplaced in the spelling. I
agree with William Clowes when he says
that the h in the wit words in English has
no rightful claim to its position, in the
modern spelling, but that is all. Certainly
at no time in the development of English
was there an It sounded after the voiced w.
The spelling wit, however, although it never
did represent the actual pronunciation, has
become crystallised into the language. When
I said that the former spelling with hw was
more accurate, I did not mean to imply that
we should adopt that spelling at the present
day. That would be to raise the question
about the general reforming of English
orthography. This is only one of a host of
illogicalities in the language, and will not
an alteration here necessitate countless other
alterations, if we are to be consistent? If
any reform is to be made in our spelling, it
must be made systematically, and for this
purpose our existing alphabet is utterly
inadequate. On such questions an Academy
alone can decide.
I. A. H.
A Satchel of Books
Loaves and Fishes, a comedy, by W. S. Maugham
(Heinemann). Though produced many years ago,
this delightful play, full of social satire and telling
epigram, is only now published. An evening with
it. a pipe and an easy chair is worth more than a
lifetime of modern revues and musical comedies.
The Down Train, by Cuthbert Baines (Edward
Arnold). A chub’y young bachelor, precise in
manner and conventional in habit, is persuaded to
take the down-train to the country instead of the
up-train to his office at Whitehall. He alights at
a village where the Brothers of Beauty and Purpose
are working out their gospel in a topsy-turvy settle-
ment where pose seems to count as a set-off to
lamentable productions in pottery and other wares.
The book is calculated to excite only a very languid
interest.
Enchanted Moments, by R. O. Blackman (Corn-
stalk Co.). The compiler of this selection of
passages from the plays of Sir Arthur Pinero has
prepared a volume on unconventional lines. His
declared purpose is to embody extracts from the Pinero
plays “with the object of interesting, in particular,
the vounger generation in works of such varied and
exceptional brilliance.” In attempting his difficult
task it is doubtful whether the compiler has not
fallen between two stools. Isolated extracts from a
play intended, as all Pinero’s work is, primarily for
stage expression lose the sustained interest of a full
text —they become the amputated and dead members
of a living body. On the other hand, if extracts are
made for the literary value of their contents, the
jewels would perhaps be better displayed if taken
out of the commonplace texture of stage dialogue as
a whole. Nevertheless, Mr. Blackman has succeeded
in bringing together a very complete and interesting
body ot' extracts which amply illustrates the wit,
wisdom and worldly knowledge of the Victorian
dramatist who has survived the keen rivalry of his
younger competitors. The book is typographically
excellent and wholly produced in Australia.
♦
“C.8.M.”: Mr. Raymond Bremis regrets (R.P.
l/l/’25) that the Sydney Art Gallery did not buy
the well-known Nerli portrait of Stevenson, and
fears that the treasure may find its way to America.
Mr. Bremis may be interested to know that the;
portrait is now in the National Gallery of Edinburgh.
Surely this is the most fitting place for it: interest-
ing though it would have been had Sydney acquired
such a relrc, Stevenson’s native city has the greater
claim upon it.
“Veronal”: Conditions arising out of the war seem
to have hit Gregory Mathews, then engaged on his
great “Birds of Australia,” pretty hard. Most of the
German and Austrian subscribers and some others
failed to fulfil their obligations. Of the first volume
300 copies were produced, but of succeeding ones
considerably fewer. So far 11 volumes have been
published, and it is estimated that only 200 complete
sets, all sold but one or two, exist, so that the
work bids fair to become scarcer than Gould’s great
folios. It seems vandalistie, but all plates, it is
said, will be destroyed after completion of the work,
including the splendid color blocks from designs by
famous bird artists. Gould’s monumental work still
costs in the neighborhood 5f £3OO.
“Mercutio” : “S.T.S.” (B. 23/4/’25) asks how far
Australian writers have used Australian imagery. His
citation of the German Morgenstern’s reference to the
blackfellow’s angel throwing a boomerang may bo
paralleled by the following stanza from the Lone
Hand of December, 1910:
AT NEW MOON.
Now Night, the dusky hunter, goes
Across the sky, pursuing day,
And after his fast-flying prey
His boomerang of pearl he throws.
The author, Alex. C. Welsh, is the writer of “Nancy
in the Bush and other Australian Rimes for Children,”
which has been much used by the 3LO station,
Melbourne, for broadcasting during their “Children’s
Horn - ,” and of which he gave a reading on A.N.A.
Day. Morgenstern’s dates are 1872 —1914. The
Australian wrote his lines in April, 1910. Probably
it is, mutatis mutandis, the old tag about great
minds thinking alike.
“S.T.S.” : Does anyone know definitely the begin-
nings of Masefield’s character Harker? “Of Sard
himself we demand to know more. He is unreal,”
says I. R. Maxwell, reviewing the novel (B.
26/3/’25). Several people have queried that un
Christian name Sard, which is explained at the start
of the book as a nickname shortened from “Sar-
donic” ; yet the hero as developed in that story is
distinctly not sardonic. A just-out collection,
“Twenty and Three Stories,” reprints one by Mase-
field, a mere fragment, telling how a terribly hard
case named Harker dices with the Devil, who
presently retires, grumbling that he is no match for
the man. At a guess, one would say: (1)
Masefield long ago invented tne name Harker for
the type of tough sailor-man. (2) In “Sard H.” he
essayed to write a long novel round the character.
(3) The story took charge and developed along
unanticipated lines. “It begins like an epic, and
ends like a serial film,” says Mr. Maxwell, very
justly. A wise editor would have cut out the last
50 pages altogether ; but the first 50, with the blind
struggle against the forces of Nature in the swamp,
will live as Literature, or I am no judge.


23
Big Car
Quality
Points
QUALITY is built into every detail of
the Overland construction.
The Overland aim has always been to
build UP to the highest standard of
Quality—not DOWN to a price.
The result of this is that every Overland
owner is proud of his car —proud of its
appearance and proud of its performance
under every possible road condition.
The 23 Quality points tell you why.
1 — TRIGGER Power —The bigger Overland Engine is more than a match for any hill.
tl Its smooth power and quick action give you more thrills per mile than you
can count.
2 Triplex Springs (Patented) —Overland is the only car in the world with Triplex
Springs. This ingenuity of engineering gives Overland a springbase 30 to
60 inches longer than any other car at or near the price.
3 Bigger Brake Area —Overland gives you greater safety in driving. Overland
brakes are more dependable because the extra-wide brake bands provide 25%
more braking surface than any car near the price.
4 Rear Axle Strength— No other car at or near the price duplicates the sturdy
Overland rear axle construction, with so many Timken and New Departure
bearings. The axle shaft is Mo-lyb-den-um steel.
5 Rugged Front Axle— Overland's front axle is heat treated —with an elastic limit
of 75,000 to 90,000 pounds! King-bolt bearings longer and larger. Larger
wheel spindle. Heavier cross-rod link. Heavier yoke.
6 Disc Type Clutch —Superior smoothness and great dependability feature Overland's
Borg & Beck disc clutch. It runs in a bath of oil, completely encased and
protected from dirt.
7 Gear Box —The shaft and gears are 50% larger and stronger than any other light
car. The gears run in a continuous bath of clean oil —this means longer life
and less noise.
S — Stronger Brake Rods —Overland brake rods are solid and dependable, _ with
adjustable ends. The entire layout of Overland brake rigging follows the highest
engineering practice.
9— A Different Differential —One-piece construction gives greater strength to. the
Overland differential case. No bolts to work loose! Extra-large pinions.
Extra-large ring gear of spiral type used on the most expensive cars.
10 — Longer Gear Lever —One of many Overland driving comforts is the extra-long
Overland gear lever. You can reach and work it without bending.
11 — A Rigid Windshield —Overland windshield stanchions go clear through to the frame
of the car, instead of merely being fastened to the body. A built-in windshield
instead of a clamped-on windshield.
12 — Bigger Propeller Shaft —The greater strength of Overland is nowhere more in
evidence than in the unusual size of the Overland propeller shaft. Being
bigger, it is sturdier and more dependable.
13 — Airplane Fan- —The Overland fan closely resembles an airplane propeller carefully
engineered for shape and balance —which, with the cooling system, makes
Overland an exceptionally cool-running car in hot weather.
14— Ease of Entrance —Overland makes it easy to step from the left running board to
the driver’s seat. The front spacing and the placing of the wheel give* -
Overland unobstructed ease of entrance and exit on both sides.
15 — Balanced Crankshaft —The Overland crankshaft is balanced while standing and
running at high speeds, thus eliminating objectionable vibration.
16 — Greater Leg Room —Overland gives drivers fully four inches more leg room !
Overland drivers can stay at the wheel all day.
17 — Better Upholstery— Deeper cushions, with extra padding around the edges. Coil
springs held firmly in place by metal strips. Patent fasteners used instead of
ordinary upholstering tacks. More comfort and longer wear! Rear seat and
upholstery are removable, quickly converting the car for any purpose of light
hauling.
18 — Substantial Fenders —Feel the thickness of Overland fenders. Look at the strong
brace rods under them. Here are fenders of solid strength, fastened to the
car in a way that keeps them solid!
19 — Legal Headlights —Overland’s smart drum headlights are equipped with lens that
are legal wherever you may drive.
20 — Greater Rear Vision —Overland’s rear window gives you 168 square inches of
clear vision—almost twice as much as in the average light car.
21 — Simpler Lubrication —Overland is the easiest of all cars to lubricate. There are
only 27 places for oiling in the entire car —all accessible.
22 Complete Equipment —Overland comes to you fully prepared for a long career of
good service. No extras to buy. Nothing to do but drive it away and keep
on driving it.
23 — Economy —Great economy in first cost, in upkeep, in gasoline and oil. Overland is
built for long, long service, and its big, powerful engine gives you 20 miles or
better to the gallon of gasoline,
§
Q
u
0
<7
n
Any of the following distributors will arrange a demonstration: —
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd,,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street
Perth, W.A.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Neals Motors Pty., Ltd,,
Willys-Overland Division,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Overland Sydney, Ltd.,
147-4 S Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.
76-78 Murray Street,
> Hobart, Tas.
OVERLANDS FIRST BECAUSE OVERLANDS LAST.


Itrrfrffnrrl'f/TKbi
mm
i ■
f
i
»
Fabric
in
'.V
TOORONGA ROAD, HAWTHORN, VICTORIA ,
CONSTRUCTED for the Hawthorn City Council.
ENGINEER: A. R. Bruford, Esq., C.E., L.S.
Nature of old road: Water-bound Macadam.
Nature of new surface: Complete Concrete Road Reinforced with
No. 655 B.R.C. Fabric.
CONTRACTOR: W. B. Carr, Constructional Engineer.
Road Reinforcements
When reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric the strength and
length of life of a concrete road are greatly increased.
B.R.C. Fabric ensures correct distribution of steel in the
concrete, gives perfect continuity, and reduces labor
costs to a minimum.
Used by experienced highway engineers throughout the
world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES. . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA .... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston St., Wellington.


/&*&*■ A
*\ ygPdSgw
vs
39
*3k
60,000
BEALE PIANOS
have been produced in
these Factories and are
now in use in Australian
Homes
m\
« ;• 8:;
>1
AJ
ICC
I
mm
mam,
5LsJj&
a
T
n
W^rPy v i
t<\*A * \
j *
tH c
. JiJM
el*
S< 1
x *
51
•C*
V
&
* j
* 5
zrn
r,
5 V
&
n a
3
\TSS
Cs
3 3 r
Serl
/
SEP
&JT3
:<N Jj
ir
11
tos
6he Largest Piano Factory
in the British Empire
Some of the Reasons
which enable Beale &
Co. Ltd. to give a 25
Years Written Guaran-
tee with every instru-
ment sold:
x. The Beale iron wrest-
plank makes permanent
and safe the vital parts
of the piano. No other
piano is so protected
against trying climaric
conditions andchanges.
2. Any piano bearing the
name"Beale”has a gen-
uine ivory key-board,
and the ivory is West
African, of the highest-
gradecutfromthe point
of the tusk only.
3. The six-post back, mor-
ticed and tenoned in
each joint, combined
with a frame of great
rigidity and strength,
makespossiblethe main-
tenance of true'Yoncert
pitch” under any and all
conditions.
4. To ensure apermanent-
Iy responsive touch, all-
wool key cloths and
punchings are used.
Vegetable fibres and
hair quickly lose any
quality of elasticity and
resiliency they m syhave
HE traditions of piano-building—the
‘ hereditary skill of generations of musical
instrument makers—are preserved and
fostered here. They are applied by crafts-
men with the characteristic native ability
and initiative that distinguishes Australia in industry,
sport and war.
More component parts of a piano are made in the Beale
Factories at Annandale than in any piano factory that
has ever been established. To this is due the striking
uniformity and smoothness of Beale tone. Every Beale
Piano possesses the full, rich, round bass so delightful
to the true musician. The full singing middle register,
shading imperceptibly to an exquisitely clear, liquid
treble, is an accepted Beale characteristic. The complete
result is a perfect balance of tone-scale—impossible with
piano parts drawn from widely-differing sources and
put together in an assembling factory.
The unceasing research and thought of a comprehensive
T echnical Division maintains the most complete factory
equipment and organisation in the world.
A quarter of a century’s piano making, a complete factory organisation,
skilled craftsmen, the manufacture and sale of sixty thousand pianos
in horizontals, players and uprights have conferred an exact know-
ledge of the requirements of a music-loving public.
The reputation for durability of Beale products is the result of but few
secret processes. It is in the main due to sheer quality of materials. When-
ever the best is to be had, it is purchased: Rosewood from Brazil and
•East India ; walnut from Italy ; pig-iron from the rich deposits of Iron
Knob, South Australia; copper from Port Kembla (the purest copper '
obtainable); casein from New Zealand (for moisture-proof glue); cedar
from the North Coast; ivory from Western Africa ; mahogany from
the Spanish Main.
The New Beale Player-Piano is beyond all question the most perfect yet
produced anywhere. The price is low. To see and hear this instrument
involves no obligation of any kind. The easiest of terms can be arranged.
May we explain them ?
Player-Pianos from £l9B. Pianos from £l2O. Descriptive literature post free on request.
PLAYER-ROLL
DEPARTMENT
A stock of over twenty thousand rolls is
maintained, including the largest selection of
classical music in Australia, hand played by
eminent pianists. Regular monthly lists con*.,
taining all the latest player music mailed
without charge, upon application. '
Her Majesty Queen Mary
purchased from Beale & Co.
Ltd. at Wembley Exhibition
in November, a Beale Player-
Piano for her own use in
Buckingham Palace.
THE BEALE
SERVICE DIVISION
Our Staff of factory-trained tuners and technicians ts
always at your command, enabling us to maintain inde-
finitely that delicacy of touch, precise tune, and perfection
of regulation required by concert-pianists. Modern equip-
ment and an efficient organisation assures complete satis-
faction, which is available at the ordinary tuning rates.
Communications should be addressed to
The Service Manager
2} Years guarantee
5. Silver-steel wire is used
lor the reason that, be-
sides being rust-resist-
ing, it gives a brilliance
of tone-quality unob-
tainable with ordinary
piano wire.
6. The air-motor of the
Beale player is ofthe"six-
throw” type, giving that
instantaneous accelera-
tion and smoothness of
operation under vary-
ing load which distin-
guishes the six-cylinder
motor engine. The en-
gineering principles in-
volved are precisely the
same (no satisfactory 5-
cylinder or 3-cylinder
car has yet been evolved)
These are some of the
reasons why a Beaie
Piano, under ordinary
tuning care, never loses
that sympathetic tone
which is at once the
pride of the academic
pianist and the delight
of the true music-lover.
The Beale Player Piano
priced within the reach
of the moderate purse.
The balance remaining
after deducting the
value of your old piano
is cared for by our sys-
tem of easy payments.
\M
mm
l
BEALE
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney.
COMPANY
limited.
Head Office and Factories:
P'47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
I^llfrolula
m
lIKiSSi
™ S n W - : o athur f t ; V smore ’ Newcast le, Goulburn. VI CTO RIA: Maples in all Melbourne Suburts.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SJUTH AUSTRALIA: Saverv’s Pianos Ltd
Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA: Thomsons Ltd.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, ( opp . Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


<&
Cuticura Maintains
Youthful Freshness and
Beauty of Skin
Daily use of Cuticura Soap, assisted by
Cuticura Ointment, overcomes a tendency
to disfiguring eruptions in youth and lays
the foundation of a clear skin through life.
Always include the Cuticura Talcum in
your toilet preparations.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns&Co.. Sydney. N.S.W.
9MF** Try our new Shaving Stick.
VENUS
V PENCILS
largest selling
quality pencil
in the world
17 degrees Black
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
For ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere
W use m
f ONLY THE %
r RELIABLE BRAND. =
DOUBLE “D”
EUCALYPTUS
A Eucalyptus Oil of Quality
for Internal and External use.
Invaluable for
Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throat, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, Lumbago
and Sciatica*
targe Battles:
!k 1/3 jm
The “MOR”
EXTENSION SUIT
and ATTACHE CASE
DJUSTABLE to almost any required
size, the “Mor” Case can be used
for a variety of purposes. Whether
it be a week-end, a week or a month’s
trip, you do not have to worry about
your luggage problem if you have a
“Mor” Case. By simple adjustments of
one-third of an inch increases, the “Mor”
Attache cases will extend 1 inch to 1§
inches in depth, and the larger suit cases
up to 2$ inches, still keeping their
original shape. The “Mor” Case is
always neat; always filled, but never
full.
Sold by leading Stores or direct from
the Manufacturers.
Write for full particulars.
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Buildings,
Martin Lane, SYDNEY.
AH! THE DECCA
DECCA
SUTTONS PTY. LTD.,
290-2 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Sydney, Ballarat, Bendigo & Geelong.
Unde Tobys
Oats
4 Platjes/Srs|
clTlaimfaetapeci byo
Clifford. Love &.Co. Ltd., gijdneif.
PLUM
s
a
s
PN
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, dean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Bay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
JD ” ”
aq noX"
buno/C ya.oj.j
Mother looks as
ycundas her
Dauohter i
m
■
M gf|
m I
mm
D"B. Allen's
MESOGAI
MMJ
“Why, she looks as young and charming as her daughter. How
often have you heard these words spoken about women who have retamea
their girlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up around
them! Have you ever stopped to think what the real secret of then
youth is? The turning-point of youth to early middle-age comes when a
little silvery grey creeps in amongst that crowning glory of women tneir
hair No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure its easj
girlish form, the hair'appearance is the mirror of the age.
Stop for a moment and think of the really smalt women that you
know; they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs, the unmistakable symbol
of advancing years, to creep in and spoil their beauty.
Grev hair can never be fashionable —it is the first sign of old age. A
man ma'v be as old as he feels—but a woman is as oM as her nair.
Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the conndence of women
for 9 5 vears —it is perfectly harmless, easy to apply, immediate in action
and, above all, undetectable. Carefully carry out the instructions and let
it restore your hair to its natural shade. Grey hairs will vanish like ma B
and youth will walk in at your door.
VRIOUS VERSE
The Deserted Road.
Back in the marvellous mornings of old,
Stretching afar for the seekers of gold,
Filled with the joy of the world and the
strife of it,
Thrilled with the vivid and passionate life
of it,
Proudly it shared in the wonders foretold.
Years are but moments to red roads and
white.
True as the hills are and strong as the night,
When morning was golden or midnight was
black o’er it,
Waiting the ones who would never come
back o’er it,
Patient, it passed by the lowland and height
Now it goes dreaming of music that beat
In clatter and fall of the galloping feet,
Laughter that rang to the rhythm and ring
of it,
Voices that sang to the lilt and the swing
of it
Making a melody strong and complete!
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Amaryllis Belladonna.
Small and scarce the buds appear;
Spring has laid her glories by;
Garden walks are dull and sere
And the garden beds are dry;
Yet one gracious presence there
Sweetens all the languid air.
She, with regal carelessness,
Scorns the coquetry of leaves,
And the gallant wind’s caress
With indifference receives,
Seeming in her perfect poise
Far removed from vulgar joys.
In her satin and her scent,
With her dainty air of pride,
Haughty head a little bent,
Delicately dignified,
She’s no breathless, rustic Phyllis
But court-lady Amaryllis.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Thais in Pace.
Let her lips rest —she is so tired of laughter—
O gods that laugh above!
She needs soft sleep and some sweet dream
hereafter
Who has her fill of love.
There’s peace in this white-raftered desert
dwelling
Where sand blows round the door;
Her mirror, knowing beauty past all telling,
Lies idle on the floor.
Vermilion and kohl in pewter glowing
Stand in a gaudy row;
And henna, for her fingertips fair showing.
This lady placed them so.
I was her lover. Desert winds are singing
Her death-song; I am old.
The sunset light has found her lips, is
clinging.
Sleep, Thais, in your gold!
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
In Farewell.
Northward, far northward, the swift snipe
are flying,
Northward on tracks that were theirs from
of old;
Autumn approaches and summer is dying—
Summer bright-vestured in azure and gold.
Lavish of glory, a bountiful spender,
Wasteful of gold, he is bankrupt at last;
Soon shall his noons and his nights lose their
splendor,
Soon be as parcel and part of the past.
Soon shall the fire and the flame that he
kindles,
Reddening petal and leafage, grow wan;
Daytime, deprived of his golden hours,
dwindles,
Night its chill marches of gloom pushes on.
When he has perished there shall not be
laughter—
Laughter of children on gold sands at play ;
Surfers shore-hurtling, with waves charging
after;
Surfers wave-cleaving through white foam
and spray. t
When he has gone, and a western wind only,
Keen-fanged, blows shrilling by night and
by noon,
Silence shall wander by dunes, bleak and
lonely,
Solitude walk by lone lake and lagoon.
Deep in green forests and orchards rich-
fruited,
Gullies thick-fronded and heights timber-
crowned,
Soon shall the song of the thrushes be
muted,
Soon shall the joy-note no longer resound.
When like a guest, like a radiant comer,
Summer departs with his vesture of gold.
How shall it fare with us, we that love
summer.
Crouching at hearthsides with marrow
grown cold ?
Watching the death 1 of each roseate ember.
While the night drenches the earth with
wild rain,
Shall we not, seated thus, sighing, remem-
ber
All the delights that he brought in his
train?
Soon shall the soft silken breeze that is
blowing
Over sea-spaces be silken no more;
Autumn aoproaebes and summer is going—
Farewell for a little, oh bright visitor!
ST.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


m m
I
'y ; ‘
* .#
11 * *;
ft ||
If %
h If 18
\\
HWmP '
r
jgKF')
. ">
m
kliL®
i
■:;
1
■
.
' ‘ . .rji, % pi.
■ ■ s /vv’ y V
.
I BBC
e *'**>, ft
■' , - * *
V '• ' M-*
m
if /
. Vy<
; '
I I!
■I
- ’ ; f/v ‘ Jmi
<■■
' ' ■ 'V
rr
* «r. • ** «r* * *


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 46.—N0. 2361.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1925.
Price 6d.
THE NEW STATES REPORT.
“The N. S. Wales New States Commission has reported against the creation of new States on the ground mainly that their establishment would add to the cost of government."
PERCIVAL: “I’ve come to ask your permission, sir, to set up a new home wih your daughter.”
DAD: “Young man, if you’ve got any money to spare, give it to me. Don’t waste it in putting up a new roof when you’ve got one over you already.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tile White Wan.”
Printed and published by William Maci.eod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 fieorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Blinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SU It ECRT TIERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austkalasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 lis.; 6 months, 18s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; S
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notlco.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right tr reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved bp the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co,nmn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are. observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlnclc and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Uondon is
lA__St. C. Grondona,. Australia House, Strand,
W-CDL_Copies_of “The Bulletin” ean be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C. ; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
r South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
Toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News. Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
, U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 27th Street, New
ork City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street. New York City.
Wasnmgton: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01, Market Street, San Francisco.
Wallace: The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt.—-Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.— -W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo .
I apua.— -Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
~ — 4- Marker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.),.
■sr J toland Faf) Co., 161 East Erie Street,
A. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postagre Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz. Id United Kingdom: ),oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ),oz. or part thereof,
la. Elsewhere, 20z., id.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1925.
YOU MUST NEVER LEAVE MOTHER.
Lhe report of the Commission which was
appointed by the Fuller Government to
relieve itself of responsibility has been pre-
sented, and its decision is that the subdivi-
sion of N. S. Wales into smaller States is
“neither practicable nor desirable.” The
document makes not the slightest difference
in the case, partly because of the composi-
tion of the Commission, partly because of
the method of collecting popular opinion in
scraps and fragments, and partly because of
the reasons assigned for the conclusions.
The question is one between the old, deeply-
imbedded Big-City tradition and the new idea.
Briefly the tradition is that the Australians
are a Peculiar People, to whom alone the
making of States and cities is impossible.
This frame of mind is evidenced by
the repeated declaration that the sub'
division of the Ma State isi “not prac-
ticable.” The subdivision of Austria and Ger-
many and Russia, likewise of the Undesirable
Turk, proved fairly simple when purposeful
men got to w-ork; but purposeful men are not
always available. Australia imports droves
of costly experts to report on droves of sub-
jects, regarding some of which local men know
as much as the - experts. But it has never
yet imported two or three big political and
financial men from a country like the United
States, where they have small States and
make new States, to report on the subdivi-
sion question, of which local men know
nothing at all—by experience at all events.
The Commission showed its inability to
absorb new ideas when it put into its report
the aged and banal remark: —
The drift of population to the city is a world-
wide phenomenon, and it prevails in small as well
as in large States.
The drift of the population of a place like
N. S. Wales, which is larger than any Euro-
pean country bar Russia, and as large as a
dozen minor European countries combined, to
one city is not a world-wide phenomenon. Lt
is purely Australian. The phenomenon,
which this country has seen at intervals, of
the one city absorbing the State’s entire in-
crease of population is also purely Austra-
lian. As the immovable Big State habit is
purely Australian likewise, the circumstances
are naturally linked together. In 1900 the
United States had 38 cities with over 100,000
inhabitants each, and they represented nearly
19 per cent, of the population. Ten years
later there were 50 such cities, and they
stood for 22 per cent, of the population. In
1920 the cities with more than 100,000 in-
habitants had increased to 68, and despite
this increase in number they held barely 26
per cent, of the population. Continental
Australia had five cities (all State capitals)
in 1911, with over 100,000 inhabitants. It
had the same five in 1921. Apart from New-
castle, which is a doubtful proposition, for
coal is transitory, like all minerals, there is
not the slightest prospect of another 100,000-
peopled city arising on this continent for the
next 100 years unless it is a new State capital
or a capital of some sort. The five cities contain
about 45 per cent, of the population, which
is widely different from distributing 26 per
cent, over 68 cities. The apology for Aus-
tralia's congestion habit, that it represents a
world-wide movement, should not. therefore,
impose on the common or garden infant.
Other statements made by the Commission
include these: —
It is not true that “the country is bled that
Sydney may flourish.”
Certainly there is very little evidence that
the country is being bled, barring (1) that
the last census showed the population of Syd-
ney to be growing faster than that of any
other city in the British Empire, while more
than half the country area was losing popula-
tion, and (2) that the city contains about
two-thirds of all the factories the Ma State
possesses and is getting more, while the coun-
try has fewer than 20 years ago. On the
other hand, the unsatisfactory Commission
offers no scrap of proof that the country
isn’t being bled.
It is not correct to say, as has been said, that
the North is “self-supporting.”
Whether the North supports itself or not
seems pathetically irrelevant. The point is
that it is willing to do so if given a chance.
If the North separated and set up for itself it
would have to pay more taxes than it does now.
In Australia’s own experience small States
cost less per head for management than big
ones. But even if the Commission’s state-
ment is right, it seems to be strictly the
North’s own business.
It is not true that the Riverina contributes much
to the revenue and receives little. It is rather the
other way about.
Yet the Commission couldn’t be more de-
cisive about keeping the Riverina inside the
►State, whether it desires to be there or not;
wherefore many people will continue to be-
lieve in the milch-cow idea.
The establishment of a new State would not be
to the financial advantage of the people of Monaro.
Judging by the experience of many years,
.Separation represents the only chance to get
the railway completed to Twofold Bay, so
that another Sydney, or at least another
Brisbane, may grow there. But the Com-
mission possibly doesn’t regard a city as a
financial advantage—unless the city is Syd-
ney. So the Commission proposes more
county councils, the county council being a
subordinate body, having such powers as Par-
liament has given and hasn't troubled to
take away, and formed, by permission, for
some limited purpose. The last “Official
Year Book” records the existence of three
such bodies in N. S. Wales, one to eradi-
cate water-hyacinth and two to provide elec-
tricity. No council has been formed to
do anything very big, like making a railway
and a port and a city, and the suggestion
that such a one should be formed would be
an outrage on the One Big City tradition.
If the county council contained any germ of
independent self-government it wouldn’t be
offered, and as it contains no such germ it
is hardly worth acceptance. The most
notable feature about the idea is that it
provides for four layers or strata of govern-
ment—Federal, State, county and shire or
municipal. The New State idea could get
along with three layers. The Government
which rules an area of manageable size can
manage without farming out its powers to
a complication of understrappers.
* * * *
The sending of persons with set opinions
from the city to collect opinions from strag-
gling persons in the country leads to no
definite result, anyway. There are people
who live in decayed towns like Cooma or
Bombala or Inverell and have no idea that
there is anything amiss with the condition of
things, being used to decay. There are also
people who live in the dense slumminess of
Woolloomooloo and have no idea that there
is serious need for improvement, being used
to dense slumminess. Neither collection is
much more helpful than Bingiii, our aborigi-
nal brother. If a more general diffusion of
population was brought about, and the coun-
try became less desolate and the city less
unpleasantly packed, they would probably
realise that there had been much room for
improvement; but they are not aids to im-
provement. And those who take the trouble
to know that it is not well for a Land of
Promise to consist of one vast and rather
slummy multitude and one vast wilderness,
with a few suburbs between the two, are not
so numerous as they ought to be.
LANG, THE WONDER-WORKER.
Lang, the wooden estate-agent who “leads’’
the N. S. Wales Labor party, or at least one
of its many sections, is appearing before the
public in the role of a political magician.
The age of miracles is to return provided lie
is made Premier. There is to be “a reduc-
tion in country railway freights and
fares": also “a reduction in second-
class fares on suburban lines and in
tram fares." There are to be pensions
for widows, allowances to “the families of
workers living on low wages," an industrial
bank, insurance against unemployment, and
multiplied benefits under the Workers’ Com-
pensation xVct. The 44-hour working week
is to be restored, the 8-J p.c. reduction
during the Dooley-Lang regime having been
“distinctly beneficial to industry”; and
wooden houses are to be built for all who
care to apply for them, this “offering a
quicker solution of the housing problem than
anything yet attempted in the State.” Super-
annuation and Arbitration Act rights are to
be extended to all public servants. There
were 84,604 when Statistician Smith last
enumerated them, and he didn't include per-
sons employed in the Government Savings
Bank, in the N. S. Wales branch of the
Common wealth Savings Ban k, in the Com-
monwealth Shipping Line or the Cockatoo
Island dockyard. As regards the Govern-
ment schools, fees are to be abolished, “full
conveyance facilities restored," and free
dental treatment provided in all cases, while
High School and University students are to
be “assisted with living expenses.” Kail-
ways, bridges, motor roads, hydro-electric
schemes and country water supplies and
sewerage works are promised galore. And
a farm is to be provided for “every qualified
applicant who wants to go on the land” —a
“qualified applicant” is presumably a person
who, farming being essentially a pursuit for
the thrifty, has never saved 10 pounds in his
life—while for the thousands of “qualified”
agriculturists who are now “in difficulties”
there is to be “a writing down of values to a
point at which the settlers will be able to
succeed,” together with a wholesale “defer-
ring” of debts due to the State Rural Indus-
tries Board. And all these boons are to be
conferred on the people without dipping fur-
ther into their pockets, although the 44-hour
week alone will increase administrative costs
by at least £500,000 a year:—
The Premier audaciously declares that Labor
intends to impose additional burdens if returned to
power. Labor intends to do no such thing. If
returned at the present elections, steps will be
taken at once to lighten the burden of taxation
now falling on shoulders little able to bear it.
* * * *
If a man dropped from the clouds and
told us that be could make gold out of air we
might possibly believe him. But if our next-
door neighbor told us the story we should
immediately reflect that all the days of his
life he had been desperately in need of gold,
and against that, one certain fact all his
words would count for nothing. And that
is precisely the position the suburban house-
agent is in. He has been Treasurer
before. He has had his chance to do
all the things he says he is going to
do now; and what was his performanceV
In his first Budget he increased the income-
tax by 4d. in the £ on small incomes and
Is. 3d. on large ones, the result being that
the poorest N. S. Wales taxpayer was
charged Bd. in the £ more than the wealth-
iest Victorian, and N. S. Wales companies
Is. 6d. in the £ more than Victorian com-
panies. Then he increased the stamp duties
on numerous legal documents, imposed taxes
on racecourse-admission and betting-tickets,
raised the harbor and tonnage rates, added
nearly 20 per cent, to the previous Govern-
ment’s railway fares and goods rates, and
made Sunday fares dearer on the Sydney
Government tramways. In spite of all, these
exactions he wound up the financial year
with a debit balance of £445,000. The gentle-
man's income-tax increases had brought; in a
bit more than two millions, and in his second
Budget speech he announced that ho would
have to bump up the rates again so as to
get an additional two millions, otherwise
there would be a deficit for the year of
approximately that amount. This pretty plan
was frustrated by the 1022 general election
and by the advent of a Government which
contrived to reduce the income-tax instead
of raising it sky-high, as Lang intended.
Incidentally. Lang’s Government increased
the public debt by £11560.000 f£4 ss. 6d.
per head) in 1920-21 and by £12.338,000 (£4
Is. 4d. p.h.) in 1021-22. According to Labor
theories this lavish expenditure of loan money
and revenue wrung “from those best able to
bear it” should have brought about general
prosperity. In actual fact, 61.743 N. S. Wales
citizens. 7 p.c. of the total breadwinners,
wrote themselves down as unemployed at the
census of 1921, when Lang’s crowd had
been 13 months in office, and Smith, the
N. S. Wales Government Statistician, in his
survey of the period, records that “building
activity decreased during 1921, although
housing needs had not been fully met.”
Fuller’s programme, like his record, is
humdrum, but at least it is honest. Lang’s
programme is arrant humbug.
MEN AND MACHINES.
A RESIDENT of Strathfield (Sydney) talked
the other night for half an hour to an' official
in the Naval Research Laboratory in Belle-
vue (U.S.A.), nearly 10,000 miles away. It
was an example of the rapid process by
which Australia is being dragged, almost
against her will, into the world stream. The
method used was Morse, which isn’t really as
mechanical a medium of speech as might
appear. During the still watches of the
night I carried on a passionate lovemaking
with a lady 200 miles away in Sourabaya
over the Javanese international landlines,
onlv to find on visual inspection later that
my inamorata was 60 and rather dark: never-
theless the passion was there and the dots
and dashes were perfectly adequate to con-
vey it.
The other tentacle of the international
octopus I controlled on the occasion men-
tioned was the very ancient and teredo-riddled
cable from Banjoewangie to Port Darwin.
It was Australia’s first link with the outside
world, completed in 1872: and even
in those days the old hands were shaking their
heads over the mechanisation of telegraphy.
There were no operators in the real sense
any longer—only machines. The great in-
vention of their day was the mirror galvano-
meter. Its devotees sat like members of an
esoteric priesthood in darkened rooms, whose
walls were sometimes tarred black. A shaded
lamp, murmurous with tropical insects, threw
a thin ray of dusty light on to an instrument
of gleaming brass, under whose single eye-
brow a little silver eye snapped viciously.
The spot of light reflected from it fell on the
operator’s writing pad, and as it flirted to
and fro under his attentive nose lie tran-
scribed its message. When earth-currents
were bad —condensers were not invented then
—it wandered oft' the pad on to the table,
and sometimes even crept along the walls;
but the telegraphist’s skilled eyes were used
to its aberrations, and his scribbling went
on steadily. There was none of the modern
rush and uproar in those overheated and air-
less cells, from which the initiates came
forth at intervals with blinking eyes and very
infrequent messages. Rates, if I remember
rightly, were £23 a word, and only a pluto-
crat could cable Christmas greetings or
market intelligence at that figure.
When English youths in top-hats and beards
pulled the Sydney end of the Australia-
Maoriland cable ashore at Botany Bay in
1876, Kelvin’s siphon recorder was begin-
ning to replace the spot of light. The mirror
workers groaned and said romance was dead,
and that a clumsy tube of glass, half a milli-
metre thick, that dipped into a well of ink
and sprawled its signals on a moving tape,
could never replace the human eye t'ol
accuracy and speed. A great expansion in
the cable business followed the invention,
and coils of paper started to unwind —some
of them are still unwinding—in native
villages on coral atolls and lonely sea-cliffs
all round the African coast, down the Red
Sea, in India, Malaya and as far as China,
where the first cable had to be secretly
operated from an anchored hulk because the
mandarins would not allow the sleeping
dragon that guarded the welfare of their dis-
trict to be disturbed by the intrusion of a
sea-snake from overseas.
La Perouse, on Botany Bay, became the
training-school for Australian cablemen —the
place is now a week-end rest-home for nurses
from Long Bay—and hundreds of youngsters
went out from that lotus paradise to help
open new stations all around the shores of
the Pacific. The jungle has gone over many
of the stations they operated: the modprn
tendency is to make wider and wider steps
across the globe; but few of them have no
tales to tell of the. pioneering days. Some saw
from their office verandah the taking of the
Taku forts, or despatched their messages by
the light from the burning Imperial palace
in Peking; others worked isolated stations
in the Philippines through the Spanish-
American dispute; and the Emden incident
is only one of many blessed interludes that
lightened the deadly monotony of press and
casualty-list transmission during the war.
The old name of Australia’s first cable-
station at Darwin was the British-Australian
Telegraph. The glory of the 8.A.T., with
its tradition of noble cocktails and a magni-
ficent hospitality transcending the financial
means of its members, departed when the
C.S. Anglia appeared at Fremantle in 1902.
spinning out of her interior the copper thread
of the Coeos-Perth-Adelaide cable. In those
days the total daily output of Australia was
not more than 200 messages, and the fingers
of the expert keyman and the caligraphy of
the receiving operator were still factors of
supreme importance. The elegant hand-
writing of Jones was famous from Broome
to Bacolod, and men spoke with awe of the
miraculous operating of Smith, who “sent”
during the temporary restoration of an in-
terrupted cable at 170 letters per minute for
four hours without breaking, off signals that
were illegible to everybody else, and which
Smith himself was utterly unable to read
next day when the divine afflatus had de-
parted. But the Australian traffic increased
until a fresh route across the Pacific became
necessary; every new invention improved the
capacity of the cables and pushed the opera-
tor further into the background; but still
the tide of “business” rose. To-day the
operator is a meek and harassed person,
usually with a bald head, who checks figures.
Phalanxes of females sit at adaptations of
the ordinary typewriter and tap the letters
in the shape of holes through a paper slip.
The paper slip is put in a machine in
London, there is a soft burr in Cornwall, a
buzzing at St. Vincent, a rapid chattering
of relays at St. Helena, Capetown. Cocos
and Adelaide, a clatter of platinum points
at Wagga; and a printed slip unwinds on to
the floor in Sydney.
There is little room for the old-time opera-
tor in this wilderness of revolving cams, but
what there is is threatened. Australia is
now linked with the outside world by half a
dozen submarine cable routes, and will
shortly be in direct communication with
London by wireless. But besides these there
are changes promised for the future that will
make the present era seem like the Dark
Ages of telegraphy. The discovery of an
alloy which when introduced into the com-
position of a cable increases its speed from
an average of 30 to over 300 words a minute
makes possible the use of another invention
which will probably be regarded as an epoch-
maker like the thermionic valve. It is the
invention of Donald Murray, a Maorilander.
whose automatic system of signalling is
already widely used. The start-stop teletype
will eliminate the telegraph operator alto-
gether, and will even threaten the existence
of the telegraph office as well. It is, briefly,
a typewriter connected to a telegraph wire.
It can be operated by any novice, and when
its keys are depressed a similar machine at
the other end of the wire starts and stops,
printing the message on a sheet of paper in
the same way as an ordinary typewriter.
This instrument until recently has been con-
fined to short lengths of land-line, but the
laying of Permalloy cables will make it appli-
cable to submarine communication. Its in-
ventor believes, possibly with reason, that
the cable office of the future will be a tele-
type exchange, resembling an automatic
telephone bureau. The business man in
Sussex-street will ring up the Exchange, re-
quest to be put through to the firm he wishes
to correspond with in New York or London,
and tap out his message on his typewriter,
knowing that the letters are coming out in
readable print almost simultaneously on the
other side of the world.
While all these wonderful but inhuman
devices, are steadily pushing men into the
background, there are operators still living
who spelled out in that tarred and darkened
room in Darwin the first message signalled
to Australia from the outside world.
M. G. S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Father Australia and His Sons.
N.S.W. Premier-Expectant Lang has
already mentioned several times that if the
wild gallop of loan expenditure which will
attend his assumption of office exhausts the
com and the confidence of London he will
make for New York, as Theodore did. and
ask Uncle to dig the dollars out of his
striped pants. W herefore Sydney Telegraph
in a familiar vein:—
No doubt America would be willing to give Mr
Imng, if he were Premier of this State, all the
accommodation lie wanted, well knowing tw n
could look beyond him for
monwealth could not let a State default to a
foreign creditor, for that would be fatal to its own
credit. Nor could the Mother Country allow the
Commonwealth to similarly default.
After all, couldn’t it? Or couldn’t both of
them? Suppose N. S. Wales, the most
populous State, and so much the richest that
its mineral output represents seven-elevenths
in value of the mineral output of the Com-
monwealth —suppose it went broke, under
Communist rule. Ts it likely that the Com-
monwealth would tax much poorer State's to
make good the deficit? If it did, isn’t it
likely that the other States would stop pay-
ment in self-defence and let the Common-
wealth shoulder the whole liability? Or else
secede in self-defence? Then if the whole debt
burden was left, like a huge abandoned in-
fant, on the Commonwealth’s doorstep, and
the Commonwealth failed to carry the load,
the Old Man in London would be an enor-
mous loser, and Uncle Washington a very
secondary loser. Why should the Old Man add
to his losses, or his possible losses, by com-
ing to the rescue lest Uncle should drop a
trifle? The Government at Washington has
gone on the principle that if foreign lenders
care to trust a State Government, and it
fails to pay, the loss is theirs. It lias also
gone on the principle that if the Government
which represents these foreign lenders
attempts to collect in a forcible manner, the
whole armed force of the U.S., including “The
Star-spangled Banner” and “Hail Columbia,”
will protect the defaulter. Light States are,
and have long been, in separate and blatant
default to British creditors, and the whole
of the Confederate States are in joint de-
fault. The accumulated deficit, quite apart
from the Confederate debt,* is now estimated
at £60,000,000. Even in his most friendly
moments Uncle Washington has never
offered to pay a bit on account, and has
never looked ashamed. If there is any
sketchy idea that_ one of these Australian
States, going to New York for money as a
last resort when London has grown tired,
brings with it the credit of all Australia, or
of the British Empire, or any credit save its
own, the idea should be dissipated. Father
Australia isn’t responsible for his sons’ debts.
»
A Tragedy in Twenty Million Feet.
By renewing the McKenna duties, which the
Clumsy Macdonald Ministry abolished, the
Baldwin Government has done a little for
the British film industry, and there is reason
to expect that it will do a lot more. Of them-
selves duties of sd. per foot on negatives and
Id. per foot on positives cannot revive the
fortunes of the British film-maker, who
during the last 12 months has almost been
driven out of his own market by American
and German competition, financed in the one
case by Wall-street and in the other by the
Deutsche Bank; but there is a measure
called the Safeguard of Industries Act under
which the necessary Protection may be
afforded without violation of any election
pledge. If sufficient Protection is granted
—and it has been applied for—the British
Government may be induced to place Aus-
tralian photo-plays on the free-list as well
as currants and the like: when the film
duties were in force before it gave Dominion
producers a concession of one-third. And
the success of the “Bloke” pictures indicated
that the British public would welcome a
regular supply of films dealing worthily with
the romantic side of Australian life, so rich
in picturesque types of humanity, colorful
scenery and strange and eventful histories.
However, the Australian producer would be
content to take his chance in the British
market if he could get an assured footing in
his own. A few Australian films are made
from time to time, and one or two new com-
panies have been asking for capital, but
in a return just issued by C. 11. Wickens,
the Commonwealth Statistician, it is shown
that of 20,040,746 feet of “exposed or de-
veloped films representing dramatic or Aus-
tralian subjects" introduced last vear.‘only
40,056 feet was Australian. The dismal
particulars follow :
Country of Origin. Footage.
U.S.A 19,102,141
Britain 647,261
Germany 106,566
France .. .. .. 52,387
Italy 49,722
Australia .. .. .. 40,086
Sweden . . .. .. 16,474
Maoriland .. .. .. 15,044
Other countries .. .. 12,075
Total 20,040,746
This virtual U.S. monopoly is made possible
by a tariff which is a bad joke even from
the revenue point of view—a tariff so low
that a mere £109,631 was collected on the
20,000,000 feet of film, although Holly-
wood’s cut was probably £BOO,OOO or more.
(By contrast, £1,808.277 was paid in Customs
duties on 26.234.4881 b. of unmanufactured
tobacco, 25,204,4251 b. of which came from
the U.S.A.) The position is that an Aus-
tralian producer who sets out to make a
6000 ft. photo-play has to spend about
£5OOO before he can get one positive (i.e.,
a copy ready for exhibition), whereas the
owners of a 6000 ft. U.S. film which has had
the run of the American market can strike
off a positive and land it in Australia for
something like £lOO, all told, the duty being
£37 10s. Then there is American control of
Australian cinema-theatres, direct and in-
direct, and many a showman is so fixed that
if he screens an Australian picture
he has to pay for a full Ameri-
can programme as well. Again, there
are ways and means of dodging income-tax
where films are owned abroad, whereas it is
next to impossible for an Australian produc-
ing company to escape paying on its profits,
if it makes any, while it remains in the
business. Another consideration, and a very
important one, is that the dominant U.S. film
is propagating Americanism of a very cheap
and nasty description. Few Hollywood pic-
tures present those features of American
life which are really fine and admirable;
many of them are preposterous, artistically
considered, and abominable in point of morals
and manners. The Commonwealth Government
gets about £650.000 p.a. by means of a tax
on entertainments. It would be a good
plan to drop this impost overboard—States
could fish it up again if they needed it for
their own purnoses—and clap Is. or Is. 6d.
per . foot on all foreign films, Britain to get
the same preference as it gives Australia.
In the result, no doubt. Americans would be
among those who would make pictures here,
for the Commonwealth, according to the
Saturday Evening Post, is their best
foreign market, and British discrimination
in favor of Australian productions would be
an additional incentive should J. Bull pro-
tect his own. Still it would be better to
have even American-owned films turned out
in this country than to pay Hollywood from
£7r'o,ooo to £3,000,000 p.a. for impressing
its vulgar blataney, its posturing silliness
and its smut on the mind of the Australian
child.
4
Massey ot' Maoriland.
“L.8.F.” throws a sprig of rosemary:—
Massey, of Maoriland, is now only a memory. The
genial old fighter who, leaning on his hoe 35 years
ago, saw great visions in the sunset, and strode out to
catch the political rainbow leading to Elysium, has
gone west on the eve of great things.
William Ferguson Massey was never a clever
man; but we Maorilanders had tired of clever men,
and were ready to welcome one whose honesty and
tenacity of purpose had lifted him from the plough
into the House of Representatives. Probably his
greatest quality was his notably fine capacity for
leadership. Indeed, only a Massey could have held
his political pack together with such success at a
time when big issues hung on such slender differ-
ences. The Reform party is not by any means a
brilliant combination of geniuses, and one or two
figureheads stumbling along with a portfolio made
the lot of their leader more difficult.
Massey, the man—the simple, earnest farmer— l
was a kindly, good-natured soul, whose eyes could
gleam with optimism and good cheer, or flash fire
at taunts from the opposite benches; but wherever
he was he commanded respect. On the floor of the
House there were no half-measures: it was straight-
out war to a finish, or as far as Mr.* Speaker would
allow.
A natural desire to “clear the air” on all occa-
sions and to answer every question and interjection
made him the butt of the practical jokers, who often
had great fun in watching him rise like a trout
to the fly; but it was this very spirit of fairpla.v
that had been recognised when he was elected as
member for Waitemata in 1894, as member for
Franklin at the following election, as leader of
the Opposition in 1903 and as Premier in 1912. It
was, again, Massey, the man, rather than the poli-
tician, who got loans from London on such favorable
terms. His slogan was “Never abuse your credit,’’
and both personally and internationally he carried
this out.
An Imperialist of the first water, his big, appeal-
ing eyes were ready to moisten with indignation if
anyone dared assail his faith. He was never the
humorist that those eyes would have you believe.
His apparent easy-going manner and cheery exterior
were among his subterfuges. At heart he was a
discipl nirian, and he believed that one of the
things that were going wrong with the w-orld was
that there was a reluctance to get things done
instead of squealing so much. Yet he was very
human and nothing of an autocrat. His barber,
his typists and the messengers were as heartily and
as sincerely greeted in the Parliamentary lobbies as
the Governor himself.
He had just celebrated his 69th birthday and
was on the verge of smashing the record for term
of office held by that other beloved and remarkable
man, Richard John Seddon. There is no doubt
he would have broken that record had not an internal
growth had the final say.
The last of the war-time Premiers is now only a
memory; but his work will not go to the grave
with him. In a few years when somebody says
“Do you remember old Bjll ?” there will come before
the mind’s eye the picture of a corpulent old
gentleman, eyes gleaming with the fire of a, man
inspired. Then one will see him bring his hand
down with a terrific bang that makes even the books
on his desk tremble. And he will defend Reform
and his followers as a party or his little flock as
individuals. With his powerful though jerky voice,
in which the North of Ireland can still be heard,
he will all but ram his opinions down the throats
of those opposite. That is what we shall conjure
up when we think of Massey in the years to come.
A fighter—a fighter for what he believed to be
jurtice and fairness. And a man who died game.
4
Tobacco anti Tea.
Some time ago the company which controls
the Australian tobacco trade, and which the
Labor party used to be so keen on “taking
over,” announced that it was in the market
for all the Australian-grown tobacco it could
get. As earnest of its enthusiasm, it entered
into an agreement with the Tariff Board for
a schedule of prices satisfactory, it was
asserted, to the growlers, and undertook to
send an expert round the country to teach
the latter how to flue-cure their leaf. In
the circumstances it is rather amazing that
more unmanufactured tobacco than ever
should have been imported last year. In
3921-22 the quantity brought into the coun-
try was 17,104,3351 b., valued at £2,178,765;
in 1922-23 there was a shrinkage to
15,755,5251 b., valued at £1,897,094; last
year the weight increased to no less than
26,234,4481 b., the value being £2,854,897. No
information is available as to the Austra-
lian production in 1923-24, but it must have
been pitifully small. Perhaps the trouble
is that the districts in which tobacco-growing
has been attempted are too cold and
damp—too far south, in sort—but the
company which professed a paternal in-
terest in the experiments has not vouch-
safed an explanation of their seeming failure.
On the face of it, Australia, with
its variety of soils in the tropical
and semi-tropical parts, which are the
parts _ best adapted for tobacco-culture,
according to authorities, is capable of
producing all the Indian weed it can do with ;
certainly it cannot afford to buv £3,000.000
worth of tobacco in one year from the U.S.A.
whose exports to the Commonwealth in 1923-
24 exceeded its imports from the Common-
wealth (a mere £7.109,496) by £27,447.033.
Another plant of which imports are excessive
is tea. Our foreign purchases last year
were 48.2021101 b. in bulk, valued at
£3 302 Q !vl. and T66lb. in packages, valued
at C2l 627 —£3 324 478 altogether. More than
half of it (1,714,086 centals, the total being
3 224.4Y5) came from our near neighbor the
Netherlands East Indies, whose trade is not
of much value to Australia —the adverse
balance last year was £3.007.000. Incident-
ally. a lot of the cheap tea now sold in Aus-
tralia tastes as if it had been soaked in
kerosene. Ridiculous as it seems, our total
evnorfs of e-old (12 812 2^o), coal
(£3 460.148), copper (£466 924), currants
(£420 380), jams and iellies (£B5 062),
bacon and hams (£132581), eucalyptus oil
(£66 339) and sandalwood (£357.025) did
not suffice last year to pay for our imports of
tea and tobacco leaf. This comes of our
stupid over-concentration of agriculture in
the southern parts of the Commonwealth and
our neglect of it in the North.
«
Decentralisation in Queensland.
Rockhampton is being energetically prodded
to emerge from its comatose state and build
itself a wool-top manufacturing mill to treat
some of the IUO,OOO-odd bales of fleece that
usually hurry past in the grease; whereat
someone remarked, drowsily, that it might
be an opportune time to make an effort t<i
have all Central Queensland’s clip sold in
Rockhampton. On that a terrific calm super-
vened, and Brisbane heaved a sigh of relief and
went on with the plunder. One of the last
acts of the Denham Government was to
allow a special rate on wool from Rock-
hampton to Brisbane, which rate is just half
that charged by tapering scale from Blackall
to Rockhampton, although the distance is
5 per cent, greater:—
Woon Freights, run Ton.
Miles. Scoured. Creasy.
Blackall to Rockhampton.. 377 182 s. 4d. 1465. 3d.
Rockhampton to Brisbane. .397 90s. 6d. 735. 6d.
The latter rate is allowed to operate only
if wool is booked through from stations west
of Rockhampton to Brisbane, which enables
it to be dragged through Rockhampton with-
out stopping and while the town is slumber-
ing, which is almost always. It would be
less iniquitous if Parliament were not bulg-
ing with Labor decentralisers. The insanity
is furthered by a hoary argument between
Gladstone, where the port for Central
Queensland should be, and Rockhampton,
where it is. To keep this pair angered
while Brisbane plunders both of them
is • easy for astute politicians who have
got rid of any squeamishness in the
matter of spending public cash to rob
the public, so an occasional bone is
tossed to them to wrangle over, while their
trade escapes in train-loads. Combining the
trade of the two highly disrespectful neigh-
bors, for every 20s. worth per head of popu-
lation they had in 1911 the Brisbane citizen
had 405.; but by keeping them snarling at
each other Brisbane’s 40s. had grown to
SBs. in 1923. The Brisbane citizen also
owned 525. worth of rateable property in
1911 for every 20s. worth owned by the in-
habitants of the two cut-throat ports, but
this had climbed to 70s. in 1923. The climax
to the burlesque is that neither of the two
ports can pay the interest on capital sunk
in their respective harbor schemes, princi-
pally because the creditor Government util-
ises its railways to steal the trade from
both of them. Some day someone will cart
away the Rockhampton post office per bul-
lock-dray, and then there may be a real row.
The Government did close the reception-
house, so that even Central Queensland’s
lunatics are now taken to Brisbane. At any
rate, some of them.
♦
The Booster.
Dear Bulletin, — G- D. Meudell did a
loud hosanna in The Bulletin of 30/4/’25.
A previous hosanna, if I recollect aright,
was to the effect that we shouldn’t worry
about defence, because Japan would always
be too busy annexing the unparalleled natu-
ral wealth of Siberia to give us a thought,
and no one else would think either. This
one is to the effect that we shouldn’t worry
about people who believe that Australia
should “work harder or progress faster,” be-
cause we arc the salt of the earth already.
This was part of G.D.M.’s superlative case :
Estimated Private Wealth per
Wealth. Head.
1921 . . £2,16.6,000,000 £397
Public wealth, £667,000,000, makes the total
wealth £517 per head. For a sparse population, one
that does not fully use its resources because it
has np need to, this £517 per head is more than
extraordinary, it is unparalleled. The latest esti-
mate for the U.S.A. is £427. . . .Here is an un-
equalled record of factory output made by all
Australia 1922-23, £326,000,000... .What have
our traducers to say to that?
I suppose this is what is called boosting. It
is badly done, and the teaching of fat con-
tent and smug self-satisfaction to a commu-
nity which has a great deal too many race
meetings already is a poor business. Aus-
tralia is so thinly peopled that there are
30 acres of freehold to each inhabitant (about
20 acres “alienated” and 10 “in process of
alienation”) and about 170 acres of Govern-
ment; leasehold (a lease often has some sell-
ing value) per inhabitant. With 1000 acres
of freehold and leasehold to the credit of
every family of five, the average of wealth
should be high—on paper. The value of
buildings per head is also high compared
with British and some other standards. In
Britain schools, police and poor relief are
mostly charged up to local rates; so it is pos-
sible for a tenant to pay 20s. per week rent
and 21s. per week rates. Wherefore the Aus->
tralian may buy and include in his wealth
estimate at least 50 per cent, more house than
the Briton and yet really own no more. In
any case £397 of private wealth per head
in Australia isn’t more than £427 in the
United States, nor is it so much, and no
eloquence or excitement will make it so. Fur-
ther, there is lack of information as to whether
the foreign mortgage on both public and
private Australian assets has been allowed
for. It is a big mortgage, and no other
white man’s country has so much reason to
wonder if its £397 per head of private wealth
per head may not be a boom and a collapsible
item, as it proved to be once before. The
£326,000,000 gross output of Australian fac-
tories in a recent year is a pleasing item,
but it represents only £5B and a pair of
shillings per inhabitant. The United States,
in its last complete return, alleged that its
factory output for a year was worth between
570 and 600 dollars per inhabitant, which
was twice Australia’s figure. Canada
credited itself with about 456 dollars of
output per inhabitant, which was also far
ahead of Australia. The Yankee further-
more claims to produce fully 2| times as
much value per inhabitant in agricultural
produce as the Australian does, and though
he is a trifle behind in sheep, he is immea-
surably ahead in cattle, horses and pigs.
Australia has climatic drawbacks, and it is
wretchedly hampered by big States, _ closed
ports, absurdly long and crooked railways,
too many race meetings and too much abject
subservience to vulgar imported intruders
like Tom Walsh. In addition it has too
many decaying towns, the natural result of
its Big State and Big City policy. For a
A Ballad of the Aftermath.
The chief had bowed his heavy head
In brooding long on evil things;
For the good days were a word said,
And the bad days heavy and sad and red,
And the black dawn came on wings.
He had set a sword to his thigh for peace,
He had struck at war with a warrior’s
might;
Yet ere they stored the year's increase
The horns that victory bade to cease
Were blowing death in the startled night.
He had drowned his sword as a goodwill
token
And yielded much that his land might rest;
But the echoes lingered on good words spoken
When the day on its shaft of noon was
broken
By a storm of horsemen out of the west.
He had harried the foe with shafts of steel,
He had bought the foe with a gift of bread.
He had broken a land ’neath his chariot
wheel,
He had turned from wrath to succor and
heal;
But the tires of death burned red.
The chief rose up with a heavy frown.
“Will no man keep the faith V” said he.
“Now by my father’s old renown,
The hate of hate, till the years are brown,
Shall rage for men to see.
“Blow hard on the horn that the hills may
hear
And the valleys green and blind.
Let who will make a truce with fear,
The death in my strong right arm is near;
For I war on all mankind!”
The red sun rose and the red sun set,
And a river of tears grew wide.
For west and east were the foemen met;
And ever and ever the fields were wet
Where the blood had lately dried.
The day of mercy was overspent,
Nor truce was there nor stay,
Nor quarter where the ranks were rent;
For death went where the legions went
And the chief’s will was to slay.
Then peace came, weary and wounded sore,
And sat at the great chief’s side.
The ruin wailed on the sea and shore;
And death was gorged till he asked no more
Of a world that had fought and died.
The chief’s domain was wide and free
And his soldiers turned to the plough.
The war was dead ; and the swords might be
Hung up to rust in the victory
That none might challenge now.
But a west wind blew along the land
And a fear came in the night.
The east wind crept from a place of sand
And the north wind laughed for a treason
planned;
And each wind brought its blight.
And a mist came up from a weeping place
And a mist came from the sea;
•Old a mountain mist, like a dead man’s face,
Fell in the night and clung for a space
To thorn and grass and tree.
"This is war's aftermath,” they said,
( While the harvest failed in the land ;
But the chief brought down his books and
read
Of the cure of blight and murrain red
Till he walked with a healing hand.
They cured the harvest and sowed again;
And the summer days were good.
The fields were full of happy grain :
And the yellow hills forgot their pain
While the barns were filled with food.
But Cain and Abel walked in hate:
And Abee turned on Cain.
He slew him by the chief’s white gate;
And Rahab, when the night -was late,
Poisoned her lovers twain.
“This is war’s aftermath,” they said,
“But it will turn to peace.
Though the quiet ways are murder red
And every lane has its mangled dead,
The Avonder soon will cease.”
And men ate well and men drank well,
And through the death in life
There was much to buy and much to sell;
And evil eyes in the market fell
On a neighbor’s heedless wife.
But the chief sat still with brow on hand
And heavy with fears was he;
For twice a plague came up the land
By paths that were sunny and fair and bland
And its breath was a mystery.
Then, clamorous round his own white gate,
A dreadful people cried:
“If this be love bring back the hate;
If this be peace, though the hour be late,
Bring back the war that died!”
But the chief looked out with a wistful eye
And saw on a fair green field
A child that rati with a laughing cry •
And a great light filled the Avorld anil skv.
hor the pain at his heart seemed healed.
“Patience,” he said, “the years are strong,
But I may not know their will.
I have dreamt a dream that is dark and long,
1 ha\e seen a star, T have hoard a song;
There is light on the far last hill.”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
and the wisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effecting a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
covering all Accidents and Sicknesses. < .
The A.P.A. Standard Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Australasia.
Premium from £l per annum upwards. Apply for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIA:
56 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
or any of its Branches: —
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers, Macquarie Street. Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers. King William Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
land of such recent settlement its stock of
decaying towns is a disgrace. It badly needs
people who will tell it to “work harder and
progress faster,” provided they are intelli-
gent people who will tell it how, and not
glib land-agents with allotments to sell, talk-
ing through their hats. And it does not need
fatuous city prophets to tell it with com-
placency that it has fought the good fight
and topped the score, and earned its harp
and crown.—Yours, etc., Griffith Moses.
♦
Education in Victoria.
“Country Fed” foresees trouble at school:—
If some drastic reforms are not rapidly carried
out Victoria will be faced with a serious shortage
of qualified teachers. Already the classifiers are
complaining that they cannot get enough teachers
to supply the legitimate demands of anxious parents
and school committees. With the advent of State
secondary education in 1908, many primary teachers
transferred to the higher paid branch ; and the same
thing occurred when the Department assumed control
of technical education. But nothing was done to
make the primary service more attractive until
1920, when force of public opinion startled the
Lawson Government into a revision of salaries. Still
the obsolete, parsimonious junior-teacher system was
retained, even though the Government was well aware
that young would-be teachers were becoming less
every year. Young men especially, after spending
four years at a high school and securing the leaving
certificate of the University, will not willingly seek
to join a profession that starts them off at £OO per
annum (since the beginning of the year raised by
£24 for those living away from home), and that
sends them out into the Country schools after their
three years’ apprenticeship at a commencing salary
of £3 a week. (Lady teachers receive four-fifths
of these amounts.) There are plenty of other
avenues of employment that promise higher emolu-
ments for intelligent young men.
Coupled with this absurd exhibition of parsimony
has been the equally foolish extravagance lavished
on the high, technical and country schools. There
are towns of less than 10,000 inhabitants that
boast (besides the ordinary neglected primary schools)
both a high anl a technical school, abundantly
• equipped, in which many subjects of the curricula
overlap. And so there are often two teachers doing
one teacher’s work; whereas in the primary school
the staffing is based on the mean, discreditable prin-
ciple of one qualified assistant plus one young junior
teacher to every 90 pupils—at least, that is what it
works out to in practice, even in some cases an
assistant and an apprentice to every 108 pupils.
What a travesty on sane educational practice, where
the ideal is one certificated teacher to every 30 pupils 1
On the other hand, there are hundreds of little
( ountry schools with an attendance of less than 20 ;
some as low as 10; few over 30. Certainly the
one teacher in charge has to teach eight grades ; but
that does not alter tile fact that the preparation
necessary to teach a grade containing only three
pupils will provide for a class of 30. Therefore
every teacher of a school under 20 means waste of
teaching power and waste of money. It is only
since the Country party achieved a niche in State
politics that these little schools have been built
wherever demanded, whether necessary or net. The
Director of Education boasts that Victoria has the
finest country schools in the world, and with a certain
amount of reason too; but they arc extravagant
schools none the less, since with their high average
staffing and high annual upkeep they do not provide
an education equal to the town schools.
And when the Minister of Education is approached
cn these matters he replies that next session the
Government will bring in a bill to obviate the present
block in the promotion of teachers —as if that is
all that is required to attract aspiring teachers to
the service. As for amalgamating many of the high
and technical schools in the • interests of sane
economy and efficiency, and as for consolidating the
rural schools, as is done in the U.S.A., Canada and
Maoriland, the same Minister says these things are
not needed because the people have not demanded
them. One always thought that it was the work
of the Education Department to point the way of
educational progress, not to hang behind and listen
for the voice of the people, often so wearisomely
slow in becoming articulate.
♦
“1 >r. Nil” : I agree with everything that “A
Family Doctor” says in his article on
“Woman” (8.30/4/’2s),and would like to add
an observation of my own. Years ago, in com-
piling material for a paper on the incidence
of puerperal septicaemia in city and country
practice, I found that a greater percentage
of doctors’ wives contracted the disease than
any other class of women. I made this
statement before a very large meeting of
doctors, and it went unchallenged. My ex-
planation, which was accepted nem. eon., is
germane to the remarks of “A Family
i >ocTor.” To put it briefly, resistance to the
effects of disease germs varies with the
physical ahd mental condition of the in-
fected person. It is known that fear predis-
poses people to infectious diseases, and
renders the effects more severe. The doctor s
wife is always hearing of the “bad” puerperal
. cases; she seldom hears much of the “good”
ones. Probably no case of parturition is
free from some form of germ infection, and,
whatever it may be, the doctor’s wife under-
goes a bad preparation for resisting it. The
exaggeration and anticipation of what are
in themselves natural and not very grave
risks tend to bring about the very results
which well-intentioned meddlers are trying
to avoid.
“Clement R. d’Uppe” on a matter of large
importance:—
Reference to the putting-off of hands at Bryant
and May’s fag-ignition factory (B. 16/4/’25) and
the blaming of Australian workers for not preferring
Australian-made matches to those of foreign manu-
facture, brings one to think that if B. and M. per-
sisted in a universally-advertised slogan, such as
“Buy only Australian-made!” and made it plain
on their matchboxes that the contents are clinkum
Aussie, the Jap and Swedish manufacturers would
soon have to seek other fields. Quite a number of
well-informed folk are still laboring under the
delusion that Bryant and May is solely an English
concern, and the printed label on the box does
nothing to disabuse their minds. The only in-
scription on the box now at my elbow is: “Pro-
tection from Fire. Trade-mark. Security. Bryant
and May’s. ‘Bryrnay.’ Special Safety Match. Is
Not Poisonous.” That, with the picture of a Noam’s
Ark and the reproduction of four medals, is all I
can see to indicate that the matches are Australian-
made. Perhaps, after all, it is an article from
overseas that I have been so patriotically using to
light my bumpers, it is idle to blame the workers
if they are not given well-advertised encouragement
to specialise in wares of their own country. The
casualness of the Australian in matters that do not
affect him directly Is proverbial, and should be
well-known to all Australian manufacturers. They
should also know that the average housewife, not
having been taught to ask, say, for Australian-made
matches, merely asks her grocer to send along “a
packet of matches.” Any old matches will do her,
so long as they are good matches. She doesn’t even
look to see whether the box bears the imprint of a
Noah’s Ark, three poodle-dogs or a dancing girl.
The old man and the boys pinch Mum’s box off the
gas-stove or the bedroom candlestick, so they can’t
be blamed for the shortage in demand for Australian
made. The “Bryrnay” match beats any of its
foreign competitors for quality; but before any wail
is made, let us know what is Australian and what
isn’t.
THE JOY-RIDERS.
“At a meeting of the Supreme Economic Countil at Moscow, the Commissar for Industry (M.
Dzershinsky) stated that the Soviet Government had decided to lease to former owners the nationalised
undertakings at present not working or running at a loss.”
SOVIET COMMISSAR: “There you arc, brother. We've had a hell of a good run, and
now you can have your old ruin back at our figure.'"
Apparently the curtain has fallen on the
last act of the Younger case, the circum-
stances of which have perturbed some Vic-
torian women’s associations. Y’ounger, an
affluent builder, married a woman young
enough to be his daughter; she lived with
her husband for 11 days, and then, leaving
him, sued for maintenance. Evidence ten-
dered to the Court decided it that the hus-
band, by his conduct, had practically forced
his wife to leave him, and £6 per week
was awarded; but. on an appeal heard by
Judge Williams, the decision was reversed,
his Honor declining to regard as adequate
the woman’s reasons for remaining away
from husband and home. Justice WKigali..
in the Banco Court, supported this view
last week. On the same day a man who
had left his wife was told that, although
she was a virago and her moral conduct
doubtful, and although he probably hud
found life with her insupportable, he would
have to pay her maintenance until such time
as he was able to prove his charges against
her in the Divorce Court. Such cases
occur almost as frequently as those in which
obviously frightened women are told that, if
they want support, they will have to go
back to husbands who have ill-treated them.
A fair balance of justice will never be
reached in matrimonial causes until there is
a revision of the legal fiction that the party
who stays at home is right and the one who
flies is wrong.
“Windsor” : “X.N.0.” (B. 30/4/’25) is
surely carrying his zeal for politeness to
absurdity when he accuses the Yankees of
“extreme international discourtesy” because
the statement has been made in official circles
that the American naval manoeuvres are
directed against an “attack such as Japan
might deliver.” After all, what other pos-
sible Pacific enemy could the Yankees have
in mind? Siam is not thought to have any
hostile designs on'the United States at pre-
sent. and the Chinese fleet, in consequence
of the inconsiderate activity of pirates which
prevents it leaving harbor safely, is debarred
from contemplating the invasion of America.
There remains, of course, Borneo, but it
would take such a long time for a few
hundred head-hunters to paddle canoes across
the Pacinc to San Francisco that Uncle Sam
has every excuse for declining to regard that
country as a potential enemy. America has
only one foe to fear in the Pacific, and the
U.S. Admiralty would have shown scant
respect for the Jap.’s intelligence to have
ever suggested otherwise. Britain, no doubt,
went to a lot of trouble in order to avoid
treading on Germany’s corns when her naval
manoeuvres were carried out in the years
before the war, but history doesn’t record
that Germany was in any way visibly
affected by that sort of politeness—some
plain people call it hypocrisy and humbug.
«
Tiie cry of an unmarried father: —
Aonhs K. Goode (B. 23/4/’25) raises the question
of the obligations and rights (if any) of the
unmarried father. As one of them, I can substantiate
all Agnes K. Goode has written. There is no need
for me to go into the whole history of the mblc-
hearted mother, or the child. The material facts
are these. The mother died, leaving the infant.
I, the father, picked the golden-headed dot up, and
together, as strangers in a city, we battled through,
Time sped on. The child is well grown up. Manv
hundreds of pounds’ worth of Government bonds
are in a city bank to the child’s credit. I made
application to the authorities to allow me to adopt
the child, whom I have loved and cared for from
birth, and for whom I have provided should my
death take place. My application caused quite a
surprise. I was informed that no provision was
made in the law for the father to adopt his own
child.* Had I been a stranger, desiring cheap child
labor, the so-called Child Welfare Department could
have granted my application, but being the child’s
father, seeking only the advancement of my own
flesh and blood, the official door is closed against me.
If this be Justice to the innocent, then the lady
with the scales is truly blind. If this be Christianity,
rather would I be a Pagan!
O
“Buttinski” : Of a total strength of under
2000 permanent troops employed by the Com-
monwealth, less than half are actually en-
gaged in administering and instructing the
citizen and cadet trainees; and besides main-
taining records of these, those of the small
army of exempts, medically unfit, etc., must
also be kept in order. A further addition to
the duties of the undermanned staff —in Vic-
toria at least—is the serving of summonses
on the reluctant type of trainee, which, by
the way, produces the anomalous situation
that the instructor is first policeman, then
prosecutor, and finally escort to his pupils. In
view of these multitudinous duties on the part
of his instructors, it is small wonder that
opportunity arises for a lad to evade his
obligations; but with a few slight alterations
of the Act (and a more even distribution of
duties) this evasion could be defeated. All
places where permanent troops are engaged
should be places of detention, and in the
event of u trainee persistently dodging his
obligation lie should, if found guilty by a
civil court, be detained until such time as
he reaches the standard set for his particular
quota. Another necessity is the revival of
the Record Book. If no person were per-
mitted to be employed in any occupation
unless this book was produced with satisfac-
tory endorsement of service, the boy who con-
scientiously fulfils his obligation would be
given a further incentive to continue
so. This is applied to all candidates for
entrance to the Public Service, and there
should be no objection to applying it to all
service. In regard to actual training, some
time back a suggestion was made to hold
camps of three months’ duration in each year
for the Citizen Forces. This was strenuously
opposed by employers; hut a modification
should meet the case. All drills should be
held in the employers’ time. The senior
cadets during their training should go
through the equivalent of a recruiting course.
Then during their citizen training their ser-
vice should comprise attendance of three
hours weekly or bi-weekly over a prescribed
period, culminating in a camp of continuous
training of not less than 14 days. This
would .permit of the training of the sections
and platoons prior to camp, reduce the ab-
sentees to a minimum and permit the carry-
ing out of tactical drill when under canvas.
It would not be necessary for all to
commence their training at the one time. The
camp period would be fixed for a brigade el-
even a battalion, and the personnel would
then commence their home training so that on
its completion they could enter camp with
a full strength of trained men instead of the
present-day mixture of attenders, evaders and
shirkers.
♦
“Morehead” in retrospective mood: —
The Labor movement in N. S. Wales, outside the
A.L.P., is to-day split into half a dozen different
parties—Communists, Socialist Labor, Majority
Labor, Protestant Independent, Greg. Me Cir it’s Young
Australia party and the far from defunct I.W.W.
It is interesting to compare this plethora of working-
class parties outside the fold with the crowd that
existed six years ago. Nowadays most of them
may be classed as pale-pink, while in 1919 all the
Labor bodies outside the A.L.P. were deep-red.
There were then, in addition to many insignificant
organisations whose cnly possessions were a red
flag, a tattered copy of K aim, Marx and a passion
for garlic, four fairly strong socialistic bodies—
the Australian Socialist party, the Socialist Labor
party, the Social Democratic League (of which the
first Bolshevik Consul in Sydney, P IST Kit Simonoff,
was a leading light) and the Socialist party of
Australia (including A. C. Willis, S. A. Rosa and
Arthur Rutherford, the Industrialists who broke
away from the A.L.P. at Conference that year).
These four bodies met in conference in August,
1919, for the purpose of welding themselves into
one mass against their arch enemies, the A.L.P.
and the Capitalist Class. Each party sent six dele-
gates, and weeks were spent in heated wrangling
and bitter recriminations. The conference finally
broke up, having achieved nothing unless greater
dissension is an achievement. Many of the
principals at that conference have taken queer somer-
saults since then. Willis, Rosa and Rutherford
are back in the A.L.P. ; so is R. Corcoran, who
belonged to the S.L.P. ; H. L. Denford, one of
the S.D.L. delegates, is running in the N. S. Wales
State elections as a Communist; while Jock Garden
and P. Drew, Communist candidates for Sydney, be-
longed respectively to the S.P.A. and the A.S.P.
Lionel Leece, another A.S.P. delegate, is also seek-
ing political honors as a Communist at Balmain.
Vance Marshall (S.D.L.), who did a term at
Long Bay over the Paul Freeman case, has settled
down quietly at Brisbane, while A. S. Reardon
(A.S.P.) has postponed the coming of the Revolu-
tion while he indulges in amateur theatricals. The
first attempt to consolidate the socialistic forces in
Australia was in Melbourne in 1907, when the
Socialist Federation of Australia was formed. Pro-
minent figures at that conference included Tom Manx,
M.L. Labor-party-leader Harry Holland, Tom
Batho, J. O. Moroney, Horace Hawkins (to-day
one of Brisbane’s biggest men in the cinema busi-
ness) and J. P. Jones (the Melbourne time-payment
tailor who became M.L.C.). A rift occurred soon
after, and, although there have been several attempts
to coax the host of little socialistic bodies into one
parlor, they have all proved unsuccessful.
+
S’African tariff alterations have resulted
in the raking up of a few figures about the
trade between the Union and Australia. Last
year we sent over two million pounds’ worth
of goods, chiefly wheat (£897,720) and flour
(£408,115), with timber, hard to get in
Africa and much needed for mines and rail-
roads, valued at £278,713. The Union sent
us in return a little more than a million
pounds’ worth of goods—among them maize,
£513,855; fish, £75.910; tanning bark,
£27.702. That Australia should import such
vast quantities of nigger-grown maize i«_a
disgrace, and the fish item goes close to it.
The explanation all round is black labor, of
course. But can’t the Commonwealth, which
taxes copra and other goods from its own
black dependency of Papua, make an effort
to block S’African black-grown maize, black
caught and -handled fish, and even black
mixed explosives—these last valued at
£84,692?


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers an classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work oil behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions cf the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Y\ eilingtou, 4\e w Zealand.
SHAVING
CREAM
tftkfel
a
Ya
CTI
HAVING
CREA^
WOTHfr
VOTHfA
Yields a profuse
Creamy lather in
either cold or
hot water; it re-
freshes the skin and produces a
delightful feeling of spruceness and
invigoration
LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED HY-33
I
J
I
Usher's Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Batlis-de-Euxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER*
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Cargo rates are to go up another 10 p.e.
on the Australian coast. This means, among
other things, that an additional handicap
will be placed on the Australian manufac
turer in his own market; and he has so
many handicaps already, chief among them
being the revenue tariff, that imports of
merchandise exceeded exports by just on 25
millions in 1923-24. The new rate from
Sydney to Fremantle is 435. per ton, where-
as a Royal Commission reported last year
that machinery was being carried from Con-
don and New York to Fremantle for 38s.
p.t. Shipowners protest that the increase
is an inevitable consequence of the Bol-
shevik war on Australian shipping. The
job of confuting them may be left to the
Labor party’s new anti-Australian friend.
Walsh (imp.), and his satellite Johanson
(imp.).
Garden, the ex-parson who runs the Trades
and Labor Council in Sydney, lately scoffed
at Labor-leader Lang and his pretence that
Communists are kept out of his Labor move-
ment. The situation is that any Com-
munist may get into the Labor movement
provided he doesn’t also join up with the
avowed Communist movement. It is just the
same as a White Australia policy which
admitted every nigger so long as he didn’t
shout aggressively that lie was a nigger and
flaunt his ticket of membership in the
Amalgamated Ethiopian Association: A
Communist may also join a National-
ist organisation; but there is this
difference —to talk rank Communism among
the Nationalists would completely bar
him as a candidate and lead to his expulsion.
Among Laborites of the new brand talking
Communism is a help and almost an essen-
tial.
More Labor “government” :
Nowadays when a Red strike occurs in Perth or
the neighborhood the chicken-hearted Westjalian
Labor Government abdicates in favor of the Trades
Hall Disputes Committee. It implored that body’s
aid when Walsh’s ruffians were molesting overseas
passengers during the seamen’s strike. So when a
large section of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees’
Union struck in defiance of an Arbitration award and
adopted what are called “militant tactics,” the
Government crawled into its hole and the Disputes
Committee took charge of the city. There was
boisterous hilarity among the committee and its
friends when Davies, the new Labor-appointed Presi-
dent of the Arbitration Court, ordered the strikers to
observe the terms of their agreement; and by way
of showing Davies what a small circumstance he is
in the eyes of the new unionism, the Perth barmaids,
who get £5 a week, were called out. Also the
police stood by while gangs of men and women
pushed their way into restaurants and assaulted those
who were working, exploded smoke bombs on the
premises and forcibly prevented the entrance of
hungry citizens. Sooner or later a -price is exacted
of a community in which pigeon-livered Governments
habitually surrender to lawless mobs ar.d committees
unknown to the Constitution. In other countries
blood has been the price.
Ex-Premier Theodore, who is among the
crowd of Labor politicians from other States
now invading N. S. Wales, asserts that the
amount added to the Queensland public debt
in eight years of Labor rule, 1915-23, was
a mere trifle of £25,000,000. “The A.B.C. ot
Queensland Statistics,” issued by the Regis-
trar-General’s Department, states that the
public debt was £50,945,830 at the end of
1915 and £89,034,590 at the end of
1923, an increase of £32,688,700. In the
same publication it is shown that the Gov-
ernment railways returned a profit of £49,000
in 1914-15, the last pre-Labor year, but were
run at a loss of £509.000 in 1915-16, £735.000
in ’lO-17, £1.020,000 in ’ 17-18, £1,518,000
in ’lB-19, £1,230,009 in ’l9-20. £1.740,000
in ’2O-21. £1.743.000 in ’2l-22, and
£1,475.000 in ’22-23. As regards Queens-
land factories, the Commonwealth Year
Book states that there were 43,282 hands
employed in 1914 and only 121 more in 1923,
although there were increases during the
same period of 35,655 in N. S. Wales,
34.260 in YU‘., 7821 in S.A., 1457 in West-
ralia and 1402 in (lie Speck. Incidentally,
the Queensland Arbitration Court has just
refused an increase of the basic wage, which
is £4 p.w. in Theodore’s alleged earthly para-
dise. It is 2s. p.w. more in N. S. Wales.
The Commission which is inquiring into
the cruel wrongs of Westralia was last seen
alive in Melbourne, where it was being fed
with the usual guff. Thus Battye, “public
librarian of Westralia.” is reported as re-
peating the old gag that “the attempt to
establish secondary industries in Westralia
had always been crushed by competition
from the eastern States, principally Vic-
toria.” Yet the Federal Statistician puts
it on his record that the number of West-
ralian factories increased by five in the year
to June, 1919. by 53 in 1920, by 78 in 1921,
by 91 in 1922 and by 213 in 1923. As a
side-issue, it may be that the kind of people
who build factories would look more kindly
on Westralia if its Government kept a little
better order. The most recent happening
THEY LOVE LITTLE HUESY.
“The Allan-Peacock Government of Victoria appears to have found a way out of the Redistribu-
tion of Seats impasse. Informal discussions are taking place among Ministers with a view to referring
the matter to an Electoral Commission.”
“Puss , puss, puss! Come here while we teach you to swim with this round your neck.”
in Perth was a demand that hotel and restau-
rant employees should be furnished by the
union. The proceedings developed into a
riotous hold-up of the trade, the police look-
ing on even when one hotelkeeper was mak-
ing a display of firearms to discourage a mob.
Some owners of secondary industries dislike
the mob life.
The International Council of Women, to
whose convention at Washington (U.S.A.)
this country sent delegates, struck trouble
the other day when the negroes present
walked out in a body because they were com-
pelled to sit apart from the white audience.
This was quite in line with Auntie Sam’s
attitude to Black Sister on the premises and
might have been expected. Neeresses are
oven excluded from the Y.W.C.A. in
Yankeeland. A few years ago there was a
court case over six girls who had been ex-
cluded from the white schools because of a
duskiness of hue which turned out to be
Portuguese in origin. Nevertheless, in the
absence of the black ladies, the usual large,
vague resolutions were passed by the Inter-
national Council proclaiming the essential
oneness of the human female, and sentiments
of the purest lovo were expressed for the
mothers of the Swahili tribe and the oppressed
daughters of the Fisliskin Tartars. A few
thousand miles of ocean roll between them,
however. Russell Lowell made his Pious
Editor say:—
I do believe in Freedom’s Cause
As fur away ez Paris is.
In Plaistowe’s, .1 fid., Westralia, has a,
manufacturing concern which knocks a hole
in the persistent allegation that the State’s
secondary industries have been smothered
by the competition of the eastern States
since Federation arrived. Commencing
in the smallest way as a maker of
chocolates and lollies, the company pre-
sently launched out as manufacturers
of ice-cream containers, candied peel,
sandalwood-oil, peppermint-oil and boronia
perfume. The co. has always been strong on
chemical research work, hence the widening
of its field of operations. W.A. is now too
small for it, and it exports most of its pro-
ducts, pays substantial dividends and has
always managed to keep clear of labor
troubles.
Tasmania’s Town and Country Federation
has thrown in the towel because nobody
loved it. Anti-Labor election candidates in
the southern end of the State (Denison and
Franklin) will run nominally as National-
ists, but really as Independents, while most
of those at the northern end will label them-
selves “the Tas. Liberal party,” and proceed
to the place of execution under the nominal
leadership of former Country-party chief
Hobbs. There is such demoralisation in the
ranks of the antis that nearly anybody would
be willing to lay odds on Labor winning at
the elections on June 3, despite the Hare
system of voting and the hostility of every
newspaper in the island.
With an embarrassing tendency to take
Premier-Expectant Lang too seriously, “a
large meeting of unions affiliated with the
Trades and Labor Council” has demanded
that the N.S.W. railways shall be handed
over bodily to the 39,000-odd employees.
They are to elect from among themselves a
“tribunal” of seven, and this body is to hold
“all the powers at present vested with the
State Government,” which include fixing
rates, collecting the money, dividing it among
employees and others, and providing a good
or bad service or none at all. They are also
to elect commissioners. And if Fairy God-
father Lang doesn’t put this little lot on his
programme, certain people will set him down
as “bourgeois,” which a house-agent often is.
An electorate in which the N. S. Wales
Laborites hope to gain a seat at the end
of the month is Wollondilly. They might
do it with a stronger No. 1 candidate than
the gassy Davies, but the personal popu-
larity of George Fuller is a stiff obstacle to
overcome. In 1922 Fuller polled 4285 more
than the quota (7222), and his surplus
helped to give Mark Morton a majority of
2080 over second Labor-man Cleary. And
then there were 1340 Nationalist votes un-
distributed. The Opposition has a better
chance of ousting a Ministerialist in
Bathurst, where factors that helped Rosen-
thal three years ago (notably a Labor mem-
ber’* evidence before a Royal Commission)
are absent now. Still, matters looked worse
for Rosenthal before Mont St. Quentin, and
every Australian knows, or should know,
what he did there.
“Miss Preston Stanley,” says the Sydney
Worker peevishly, “isn’t a mother, and her
knowledge of the lower strata of our social
and economic conditions is a minus quan-
tity.” Still, if not being a mother is not
regarded as a disqualification or disability
for Labor women who seek a seat in Parlia-
ment, why should it be alleged as such in
the opposite ranks? The one woman who
was reckoned worthy of a place in the
Clumsy Macdonald Government was Miss
Margaret Bondfield. And the one Labor
woman in the House of Commons to-day is
another spinster, Miss Wilkinson.
Thus the stern S. M. Herald on the con-
gestion policy of Vic. and South Aus.: —
The truth is that vested interests in the ports of
Adelaide and Melbourne will not consent to a new
seaport at Goolwa, which would at once attract the
whole, or most, of the outward Murray-Darling trade
in wheat, wool and fruit. If the South Australian
Government will not act, we hold that the Federal
Government ought to do so.
If the Federal Government applied Grannie’s
new dictum to Grannie’s own capital and
State, the old lady would have several varie-
ties of spasms upon the spot.
Vic. Premier Allan’s lukewarmness with
regard to a compulsory wheat pool has
angered a section of his Cocky supporters.
Apart from the antagonism of the Council,
there is a doubt whether this sort of com-
bine in one State is not a breach of the
Federal Constitution. It may be taken for
granted that Attorney-General Eggleston,
who holds strong views on that point, will
fortify himself with opinion likely to carry
more weight than his own. Besides, Pea-
cock, Allan’s equal-in-all-things, has to see
that his 17 supporters and the five half-and-
half Ind.-Libs. are not flouted.
The impossibility of getting a ratifying bill
through Parliament was the argument that
appealed most strongly to the Vic. Cabinet
when it turned down the proposal of the
Lands Department to excise 12,0(10 acres of
Otway Forest for farm settlements. Whether
Victoria has developed a forest conscience is
not quite certain, but Ministers have a strong
suspicion that the conscience exists. Their
decision is a triumph for Owen Jones. Chair-
man of the Forest Commission, over William
Melver, Director of Settlement, and the Com-
mission is following up its success by inviting
members of both Houses to Creswick Forest
for an inspection of the famous plantations
there. Its exultation is pardonable: forestry
has had few victories in Australia over the
vandal with the axe and firestick.
Melbourne’s factory suburb of Richmond
has a number of awkward municipal matters
to settle, and whichever way councillors vote
they know they will make some enemies.
Whenever, therefore, Councillor Lough rum
brings forward any of these subjects a suf-
ficient number of councillors walk out to
leave the meeting without a quorum. Finally
the persistent bumble moved that the Minis-
ter for Works should be informed that, as
a result of meetings lapsing, the Council was
unable to transact its business. The result
of such a condemnation of itself would be
that the Minister would have to order the
dissolution of the council and either arrange
a new election or appoint an administrator;
but, of course, there was never a hope of
such a motion being carried. Obviously there
should be some way of dealing with the
tomfoolery.
Arthur Griffith’s bouquet:—
Of the Nationalist candidates seeking seats in the
N.S.W. Assembly I consider W. H. Wood easily
the most capable. When Wood and I were in the
Assembly together we were probably the two
bitterest opponents there (in fact, one torrid con-
troversy terminated “outside”), still I always recog-
nised his great capacity and undoubted courage,
much as I resented his bad temper and overbearing
manner. On several occasions during the Wade
rfgime, when acting as deputy-leader, Wood showM
quite exceptional qualities, and the one thing we
Labor men feared was that Wade might drop out
and leave Wood to lead the party. But the High
Gods were good to us in this matter, or there
might have been no McGowen Government. During
the six years I held office I introduced more bills
than any otner Minister, and Wood was the only
critic whom I feared. Wade’s blundering denunci-
ations,' Cohen’s ponderous platitudes, Fitzpatrwk’s
perky personalities I could ignore, but if there was
a weak point in a bill —and there usually was —Wood
got to it with merciless incisive ness. His inclusion
in the Nationalists would do a good deal to improve
the debating power of the next Parliament, which
doesn’t promise to be of a very high order.
THE THREE FISHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over the harbor bar they went,
Sailed at the close of day,
Out of the Port of Parliament,
Heading for Hustings Bay.
“Where are you bound in your crazy boats?”
The old moon asked the three.
“We are off to fish for the precious votes
That are hid in a heaving sea.
On each of our craft is an eager gang,
Said Fuller, Bruxner and Lang.
“Over the gunwale our nets will go
Whete the finny school’s at play.
What they will draw from the depths below
None of us three can say.
But we’re all a-hoping for cushy jobs
In paths by earth’s favored trod.
Don’t think of Shingle, Binglc and Bobs,
Or Wynken, Blynken and Nod.
Our names Fame tells with a louder clang,”
Said Fuller, Bruxner and Lang.
“Our nets are made of the old, old gags,
Our bait is the old, old dope,
And each of us gammons and brays and brags
That the others haven’t a hope.
There’s a National tub and a Labor smack
And a rough-hewn Cocky scow,
And out through the Heads we wallow and tack
All loaded from stern to prow
With specious promise and cheap harangue,”
Said Fuller, Bruxner and Lang.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


THE WINDOW-DRESSERS.
"The Budget speech, to be presented by the Federal Treasurer (Dr. Page) at an early date, will strike an optimistic note owing to the stabilisation of finance, the migration agreement and a 34 million Customs
surplus. An almost certain reduction in the income-tax is predicted.”
SHOPWALKER BRUCE: “Excellent, Mr. Page! A leetle forward with the lady— she should feteh ’em!”


[ know- there is no throat-harm in a million j
20 >
VIRGINIA CICARETTES
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD.
w
n
4
/
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Salvo”: Quaint army orders? Here’s a
local one, or rather the amendment thereof,
dated only last year:—
FORM E.2—32—PROVISIONAL WAR EQUIPMENT
TABLE FOR A DIVISIONAL TRAIN.
Amendments.
Section No. 12 —
For “Ladies, cook’s” —read “Ladles, cook’s.”
Moralists who may have feared that an issue
of ladies was in contemplation, so many for
each culinary artist, are breathing more
freely.
* * * *
“Bagman” : The travelling medical officers
of the N.S.W. Education Department find
that the co-operation of the parents is usu-
ally forthcoming, and indeed they rather
seize the opportunity for a health spring-
cleaning. The doctors receive, a large amount
of correspondence, some of it very lengthy
communications, ranging from speculations
on worms to dire misgivings of appendicitis.
Others are the soul of wit in their directness.
THE PUT-AWAY.
CONDUCTOR: “How old is the Utile girl, Madam?"
MOTHER: “Four and a half.”
LITTLE GIRL ( brightly ): “And mum is firty-two!”
The gem of the lot came from one good mother
with apparently too many cows waiting to
be milked to allow any dalliance with the
pen. ‘‘Please repair Johnnie where neces-
sary,” was all she said.
“Bullwlianger”: The casual Australian
again. In a southerly blow the other night a
small sailing-boat broke away from her
moorings in Mosman Bay, Sydney, and was
run down by a ferry steamer. The occupant
of the boat, a boy, was asleep when the crash
came and was rudely awakened by the
steamer’s propeller blades tearing the frail
craft to matchwood. He went right under
the ferry, came up the other side astride the
wreckage and drifted ashore. The impact
must have been terrific, as the whole of the
port side of the boat was torn out and the
gear simply pulped. Yet the kid evidently
regarded it as all in a night s work; the next
morning he was down at the bay bright
and early to salvage what was left of his
craft.
* * * *
“Henry Pannikin”: Thcre’d been an extra
amount of strafing one morning at \ oor-
mezelle, and our
trench was a sorry
spectacle. T here
were casualties in
nearly every dug-
out, and the rein-
forcements that had
lobbed during the
night were receiv-
ing a baptism of
Hell. The O.C. was
flying from one bay
to another inquir-
ing how things
were. Passing a
dug out he saw one
of the new chaps’
heads sticking out.
“What d’ye think
of this?” asked the
O.C. “Well, sir,
rep li e and the new
bloke, I don’t
think it’s too jolly
safe.”
* *
“J.P.R.”: While
on a walking tour
at Easter I caught
up to and walked
with a country
parson, not long
“out,” and a very
pleasant fellow he
was. We passed a
swaggie who called
out —“Got plenty
of tobacco, mate?”
Being a no n-
smoker I couldn’t
take the hint, but
my companion re-
plied, with a genial
nod: “Yes, plenty,
thanks very much.”
It struck me as
rather a novel
way of meeting the
situation, and I
was about to make
some remark, when
the parson forestalled be with “Awfully
decent of him, wasn't it?” I couldn’t con-
trol my feelings and simply roared. Then
lie saw the joke too. But In' was a sport;
for he insisted on going back to share his
weed.
* * * *
“Der Jong” : The recent trouble with the
uatives near Bloemfontein, in the Orange
Free State, which has moved
the African National
(Native) Congress to sug-
gest boycotting the Prince of
Wales by the natives, was
the result of a “beer-drink.”
This ceremony takes place
every autumn when the crops
are in. Then every kraal goes
on a jag, which ends only
with the supply of the millet
from which the “beer” is
brewed. While the “drink”
continues work is hung on
the peg, and the baas lias to
shift for himself. The millet
is spread out on the beaten
earth-floors of the kraals by
the women and moistened.
When it sprouts it is ground
on stones, aud after being
mixed with water is fer-
mented in big earthenware
jars. The result is a pinkish-
grey, rather gritty liquid,
with a sub-acid taste and a
faint flavor of cockroaches.
The weaker variety of
T’tcala, brewed for ordinary
use, makes a decent drink
for hot weather, and most
Afrikanders get used to it.
The festival stuff, however,
allowed to ferment much
longer, carries a deadly kick,
and a big Baralong or Basuto full of it is
well worth passing by on the other side.
* * * *
“F.N.W.”: Some seaports are acquiring a
sinister reputation among master mariners
for their abundance of stowaways; at I re-
mantle the overseas liners now employ
special watchmen to boost seedy suspects off
the gangway. The necessity for such pre-
ventive measures may be realised when I
mention that last year, when our boat was
leaving Fremantle for _ the U.K., a last-
minute search resulted in 16 unwanted pas-
sengers being passed out; on top of this no
less than a dozen were dug up at sea and
had to be returned from Cape Town by the
next available vessel. Nevertheless, in spite
of Holmes, Blake and Cos. at the top of the
ladder and exhaustive searches of the
bunkers, potato-bins and other favorite lairs
of fare-dodgers, an unexpected trio worried
through the mesh on the Barrabool’s last
trip. Nobody knew of their presence until
four days after leaving, when a woman came
up and weepingly surrendered to the chief
officer with two daughters in her wake, aged
16 and 13 respectively. They were all well-
clad and showed no signs of poverty; they
IN HIS OWN COIN.
“The boss sags he can't take this cheque—it mightn't be any good.”
“But even if it isn't it will be quite all right—neither was his
supper .”
had calmly walked aboard and mingled with
the passengers on sailing day—the girls even
taking off their hats whilst the ghip was leav-
ing the wharf, in order to aid the deception.
Official opinion on board is that it is more a
case of attempted wangling out of the fares
than genuine hardship, and that the females
were put on to the little dodge by someone
conversant with the ropes on board. Only
once before have I encountered a feminine
stowaway, and that was in the Benalla.
After wringing people’s hearts with her
hard-luck story she left with a collection ol
clothes and coin bestowed by the kind-hearted
passengers. Three days later she was
placed securely in quod for improper be-
havior in the streets of Aldershot. Is the
advent of women into the old-established game
of stowing-away another instance of the
spreading rage for “sex equality”?
“Sierra”: Among the Captain Cook relics
in the State Museum, Sydney, there is a
feathered and iron-barbed arrow, the shaft
of which contains about eight inches of
bone, said to be a portion of one of the
navigator’s legs. According to the testimony
of Captain King and Assistant-Surgeon Kills,
this can’t be authentic. Cook s remains were
received aboard ship on Feb. 20. 1770, and
buried at sea the next day. Captain King
records that the thigh and leg bones wore
joined together, and the ligaments of the
joints were entire ; and Ellis says that among
the remains were the bones of the thigh, legs
and arms. The Rev. William Ellis, who
visited Hawaii in 1822 and spoke to wit
nesses of the tragedy, states that only the
ribs and breastbone were preserved by the
islanders, and these were deposited in a
temple dedicated to the god Rono.
“Nakhoda”: “Quack’s” most persistent
suicide reminds me of a Malay in up-country
Sarawak (Borneo) who at 70 grew tired of
life and opened his stomach with a parang.
The district officer and I succeeded in shov-
ing his intestines back and sewing up the
wound, and we were just arranging him com-
fortably for the sleep that spells recupera-
tion when a determined look came into his
eye, he took a long breath and blew his
fittings out again. After being made whole
for the second time he repeated the offence
with more resolution than ever. Realising
that the operation would never be satisfac-
torily completed without an anaesthetic, the
D.O. smote the old warrior on the head with
a billet of wood and lie relapsed into insen-
sibility. At the hospital on the coast a few
days later he was once more opened by the
doctor, his organs, which in our final attempt
had been replaced in a somewhat disorderly
manner, rearranged, and a few articles that
had no business there removed. He was
none the worse when I last saw him, and
was contemplating a green old age with
equanimity.
“Chliota Peg” : It is not only among aged
Scots and Irish that the snuff-taking habit
still prevails (B. 30/4/’25). In the officers’
messes of many British regiments snuff is
regularly passed round the table on guest
nights, and the same practice probably still
obtains in Oxford and Cambridge wine clubs.
Certainly it is taken more as a joke than
anything else, but as most members indulge
it must mean quite a lot to the merchants who
supply the dust. Apart from the fact that it
is an old-established custom, one reason for
its retention is that all messes possess valu-
able gift snuff-boxes which they naturally
like to parade before their guests. The
most popular form is a tiger’s head mounted
in silver with a small silver box let into the
top. It is on wheels, and is carefully pushed
round the table.
* * * *
“Foretop”: There is a very simple ex-
planation of the widespread delusion that
a ship’s captain has the right to perform
the marriage ceremony. Scotch law allows
any third person to declare two people legally
wedded (incidentally, it provides also that
when two people living together have let it
be known that they are man and wife, they
are man and wife without any ceremony),
and the captains of vessels on which eloping
couples were escaping from hostile relations
have been called upon to tie the knot more
often than any other people except the his-
toric blacksmith’s family at Gretna Green.
From that start the idea that ships’ captains
are entitled to marry spread in the same
way as scores of other delusions.
“Lilli Pilli” : It was at Polygon Wood on
September 26, 1917, and amongst the Fritzes
who stood with arms aloft waiting to be
taken prisoners I noticed one whose tunic
could scarcely be seen for braid and floral
decorations. I had never caught a glimpse
of a German general, but it struck me that
this could be nothing less, and mindful of
the belief among Diggers that the sure way
to get a week’s leave was to capture a gen-
eral and be sent back to Le Havre as his
escort. I motioned this particular Fritz to
precede my fixed bayonet. He obeyed with
alacrity, and “prisoner and escort” duly
started for the rear. The fellow seemed
so anxious to oblige that presently I allowed
him to put down his arms. Soon we were
on quite amicable terms, and when the shells
started to fall thick ,wc dived together into
the handiest shelter. I gave my prisoner
tobacco, and he, not to be outdone, presented
me with a mark-note and a pocket-knife.
The man’s behavior was quite unlike what
I had expected from a German general, and
I began to have doubts. “You general?” I
THE REASON WHY.
BINX : “ How's new car going?”
PAIB NOVICE: “Awful at first. Nothing but
punctures. But John found the car-
buretter had been put on upside-down,
and ever since then we’ve had no trouble
at all.”
asked at last, pointing to the braided epau-
lettes. Por a moment the eaptive looked
puzzled. Then his face cleared, and placing
one hand near his mouth, he slid the other
to and from it expressively. “Trombone!
Trombone ! Band !” he said. Disillusioned,
I started him in the direction of Paris and
rejoined my unit.
(Continued on page 16.)
AT SIXTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At sixty, heigh-ho! with one’s feet to the glow,
Memory marshals results in a nondescript row.
Still, when all has been said,
The good wine was red
And ginger was hot, too, for weal or for woe.
Yet at sixty, ah me! the tides backward run
O’er the things we have setn and the deeds we have
done.
At sixty, my heart! what are these make us start —
Things we had never mapped out on Life’s chart?
Spectres that shock us,
Memories that mock us
Of pleasures whose sweets linger less than their
smart,
And physicians, grim-faced, or oily with grins,
And their idiot gag: “The reward of your sins.”
At sixty, alack t the embers burn black.
Oomes Regret (with sister Remorse in her track)
For the fortune we should have,
The girl that we could have,
Opportunities golden to ruin and wrack 1
At sixty alas for Conscience’s list
Of the duties neglected, the things we have missed 1
At sixty—well, well, it’s too soon for a knell;
Stir the fire, drive the gibbering spectres pell-mell.
Fill up a fresh pipe.
Wisdom mellow and ripe
Finds a solace in this that the gloom will dispel,
For at sixty, ah yes! we begin, without doubt,
To discover the things we can manage without.
8. A.
ALEX. SOMERVILLE.


g/ -^L?N?L‘A,
is tfic
ONLY
NON-SCEATCH
PHONOGRAPH
Ofie. Grz&.t
Toti Dal Monte
«Lys it is MARVELLOUS
obtainable
ONLY
at
Home Recreations H
<3BB George St, Sydney
[°Pp Beo-rd WeJSo/i’s j
V
d'
HI
■m
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root preparjd in accord-
ance with the Biitish Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put off by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
EASY CONJURING
TRICKS, 2/6
Fifty Simple
Card Tricks, 1/6
Funniest Four
Farces, 2/6.
Levinsky at the
Wedding, and 70
other Recita-
tions, 2/6.
How to Learn Ventriloquism, 2/6.
FREE CATALOGS—
Plays and Recitations,
Magical Apparatus,
Make-ups, Masks, etc.
W. C. ANDRADE,
173 Pitt Street, 201 Bourke Street,
SYDNEY. and MELBOURNE.
[1
“Old Parchment”: “X2X” is wrong in
suggesting (B. 30/4/’25) that Mrs. Edith
Thompson, executed in London in 1922, was
enceinte at the time. It is a fact that a re-
prieve was claimed for the woman on this
ground, but a medical examination disposed
of it. The common law is most explicit on
the subject, and the execution of a pregnant
woman has long been, and still is, illegal
in England. But a medical examination has
superseded the old jury of matrons. In
France they were not so squeamish, for we
read of a witch giving birth to a child in the
flames. The infant, which had rolled out of
the fire, was thrown in again by the order
of the attendant clergy, it being, presumably,
begotten by the Devil. Even in humane
England the pregnant mother rarely had
her sentence commuted; it was merely post-
poned until she had recovered from her con-
finement, the infant “going on the parish.”
HIS MISTAKE.
JEAN : “So Tom and you are to be married? Why, I thought it
was a mere flirtation.”
JOAN : “So did Tom.”
“Spare Corp” : The biggest shocks of the
war came from what might seem little things.
We took over a possie on the Meteren-Bal-
lieul front from the “Nock and Kirbys”—
the Diggers’ pet name fo# the Notts and
Derby Regiment—and I put in an early
spell in an o.p. in a shellhole. There were
two Mills bombs there; and within a few
minutes I saw a prospect of using them.
Some shadows loomed up in the mist, making
directly for me, and I waited until I could
give them a well-placed surprise—I had visions
of throwing the bunch into confusion and
marching in its remnants as prisoners. All
the same, it was some relief when the shadow
wheeled and passed to the left —my instruc-
tions were to avoid as far as possible any
action which would reveal the post—and in
the reaction I fiddled with the base-plug of
my bomb until it came unscrewed. The
bomb was undetonated! The idea of what
might have happened had the Huns continued
on their original line and the dud been
thrown amongst them made me feel
sick; but a worse feeling followed with
the thought of what would happen if
an attack came and there were more
undetonated bombs in the trench to meet
it with- Actually, there
I got back and an inspection was made, two
dozen duds were discovered. Ripe for hos-
pital at the time in any case, the incident
got on my nerves so much that I would wake
with a start to inspect the bombs lest any
duds had been overlooked; apd even when
in hospital the thing was a
night at the C-S.S3. I had to be taken back
to bed, from which I had risen to look for
duds on the medicine table.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Oswald Pryor’s ininjitnble Cousin
Jack drawings always brine to my piind the
Mt. Pleasant (Ballarat) Wesleyan choir of
over 30 years ago. The hassi, half a dozen
stalwart Cornish miners, sal; ip the choir
front seat; the other singers were at the back
of the church. The congregation heard little
but basso prof undo. The sopranos squeaked
at the rear, and dear old Jonpifer Tre-
week, sitting in the back congregational pew,
next to my grandfather, sang the bass notes
in a tremulous treble. A new conductor, a
young musician, wfio hailed from some part
of England outside the Duchy, once ordered
“Sopranos to the front.”; but the diggers
sat firm. “If ’e do try to shift we again,”
their leader said afterwards, “us’ll scat’ un
awl abrooard.” By the way, Oswald Pryor
is the son of a fine old Cousin Jack who
successfully managed a Moonta mine for
many years; Oswald himself was trained
there as a metallurgist, and fop years
was on the Moonta and Wallaroo Co.’s staff.
That’s why he do knaw all about the salt
of the earth—we Cousin Jacks you!
**' * *
“Trapper”: Why does memory play these
pranks? Tp illustrate. For one week in
1916 I was in Bovington Camp, England.
To-day I vividly
remember a Digger
sitting at the hut
table writing on a
belt As he wrote
he said aloud:
“Number 916, G.
A. Freeman, 7th
Battalion.” The
picture is so deeply
impressed upon my
mind-that I would
recognise Freeman
if I met him to-
morrow. 'I have
no real reason for
remembering him,
his number, name
find unit so well.
We first met at
Bovington, we ex-
changed no more
than a dozen words,
and a week later
our ways parted. I
Cave a volume con-
taining the number
and name of every
one belonging to the
original A company
of the 23rd Bat-
talion. I was with
A Co. from its
formation at Broad-
meadows about
March, 1915, until
I left it in France,
May, 1916. On last
Anzac Day, reading
over the names of
the Diggers I had
been closely associ-
ated with, I was
amazed to find that,
while I clearly re-
membered many, I
have no recollec-
tion of the rest.
Though I have tried
hard I cannot pic-
ture their features
or remember their
history. I want to
remember those who
lived and fought by
my side, and I feel
my memory has committed sacrilege. Yet
there is the picture of Pte. Freeman, a
Digger in whom I had no interest and who
had no interest in me. Why does memory
do such things?
* * * *
“Wilfrido” on a lawsuit arising from the
maltreatment of a bowler’s pants :
The M.L. Court of Appeal has just decided a case
that has set sporting clubs revising their articles.
In 1907 James Dickson Sievwright, a retired jour-
nalist, paid his subscription and arrayed himself
in the colors of the Wellington Bowling Club, Ltd.
As the years rolled by Sievwright’s firebrand methods
created a bias off the green which culminated in some
humorist cutting off a leg of the offending member’s
moth-eaten trousers, which hung in the dressing-
room. Not to be outdone, Sievwright cut off the
other leg, and appeared on the rink looking like
an elderly edition of Slip Carr. Words passed, the
atmosphere became disturbed, and finally a member
stopped one in the eye. Then the committee took
a hand, and pronounced sentence of expulsion on
Sievwright. Panting for justice, he took the matter
to the Supreme Court, where his counsel argued that
an article purporting to forfeit a member’s shares
THE NEW WAY.
FIRST TYPIST: “The boss shook me up yesterday.”
SECOND TYPIST: “Yes; I’ve been out in his Ford, too.”
on the ground of misconduct was ultra vires. It
was on another ground, however —viz., the com-
mittee’s neglect to comply with the rule that a
copy of the charge against him must be sent to a
member about to be expelled—that the Bowling
Club had to suffer the indignity of an injunction
with £1 damages. But on appeal it was established
that, when the plaintiff joined, more shares had already
been allotted than were provided for in the articles,
and he had been given one belonging to a member
who had resigned. Although the club had accepted
his subscription for 17 years, it was held that
he was not a shareholder, because the co. could
not issue shares it did not own. Of course, it is
elementary company law that a co. cannot traffic
in its own shares; hence it acquired no ownership
in the share of the member who had resigned. Accord-
ingly, Sievwright stands to-day without club, satis-
faction or (so to speak) trousers, his only sop being
publicity and a run for his money. The case, tod,
is unique in another respect: it reversed within one
month the first decision given by newly-made Justice
Ostler.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The claim that Forby Suther-
land, seaman, buried by Cook at Botany
Bay (N.S.W.) on May 2, 1770, was the first
Englishman to find a grave in this country,
doesn’t bear examination. Gn July 5, 1609,
10 men arrived at Batavia, Java, in a ship’s
boat and stated that they were part of the
crew of the English ship Trial, which had
been wrecked in 20deg. lOmin. southern lati-
tude. They had come to their sudden end
through following the course of Dutch ships,
then in the habit of running down the
Trades until they sighted the Westralian
coast, before turning northwards. Ninety-
seven men, most of them presumably English-
men, found a grave in Australia on that occa-
sion.
* * * *
“Hayband”: When “Bay Webb” (B.
16/4/’25) states that 1857 was the date of
the first assistance given by a British
Dominion to the mother country he is at
least three years behind the truth. Eight
men left Stanthorpe (Q.) in 1854 to go to
the Crimea. Proof of this interesting fact
is in the Stanthorpe School of Arts. Note
that I say “at least” three years. It wouldn’t
surprise me to know that there w T as an Aus-
tralian or two at Waterloo.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The visit of the Prince of
Wales to South Africa has served to bring
into the limelight that catch-as-catch-can
lingo once known to the Boers as the Taal,
but nowadays dignified with the title of
“Afrikaans”; and a week-end message told
that the Union Parliament had decided to
make it the official language. When the
Transvaal and Free State began to rise in
the world under the urge of Jo’burg gold,
the queer old mixture of Low Dutch, seven-
teenth-century French, Kaffir, Portuguese,
Malay, English, etc., which had been good
enough for the Veldt Boer, was taken in
hand for a brushing up. Reitz, the notori-
ous State Secretary of the Transvaal, was
head of the movement, and a desperate at-
tempt was made to turn the syntaxless,
genderless patois into something resembling
a real language. Much has been made
of the Prince’s ability to speak a sentence
or two in “Afrikaans”; but, like its whis-
kered parent, the re-named and spruced-up
lingo is easy to speak colloquially, and most
men pick up a working knowledge of it be-
fore they have been three months in South
Africa.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Recently in a Melbourne sub-
urb a whole family—mother, father and two
children —were discovered by accident in an
unfurnished house in a weak condition from
starvation. Out of work and penniless, the
man had secured the keys of the house and,
having no furniture, had simply moved the
family in for shelter. An overweight of pride
or sheer helplessness kept him from applying
for charitable relief; and the family starved
for nearly a week before the call of the house-
agent led to the discovery of the horror. An-
other example of the dreadful loneliness of
the crowded parts of a city. It can be very
different in country towns. Once I took a
furnished cottage at Glenbrook (N.S.W.).
We couldn’t arrive until evening, and, fear-
ing a difficulty in getting stores, I took
provisions with me. They were quite un-
necessary. A lamp was lighted, a lire burn-
ing in the sitting-room and the kettle merrily
boiling in the kitchen when we arrived; and
as no arrangements had been made tor such
preparations they were rather startling. But
a lady who appeared at the door explained:
she lived in the next house, and hearing the
place had been let, and was to be occupied
that day, she had thought the new tenants
might come in late and tired. So. with the
splendid mateliness of the Australian bush,
she had taken the liberty of putting her boy
through the window; and to save us tne
trouble of preparing any food her boys were
bringing over a meal, if we wouldn’t mind.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Another strong attempt is being
made by the Aborigines’ Friends’ Association
in S.A. to obtain the release of Wongacurra,
a far-north native who three years ago killed
a woman who had, he said, killed his wife
and child by “pointing a bone” or some such
magic. A deputation to Government claimed
that he had suffered enough for an act which
was “not committing murder in the ordinary
sense of the word, but carrying out a tribal
custom which he thought was law.” Wonga-
curra took the whole process of law quite
amiably, guiding the trooper who arrested
him out back, and quite possibly saving the
officer’s life by skill in water-finding. He
seems now to be on a good wicket at last,
for Jelley, Chief Secretary, told the deputation
that if the crime had been committed at or
anywhere hear a mission-station, it would be
a bad one; but “the fact that the State had
not educated this man took the responsibility
off him to a great extent, for he had carried
out his own tribal law, instead of a law lie
did not understand.”
* ■* * *
“Light Horse”: Concerning queer tattoo-
marks and their location (B. 9/4/’25). The
M.O. off a transport bound for Egypt told
me, after one of those surprise inspections
we can all recall, that he had unearthed one
gentleman with a lady’s name tattooed on a
usually secluded portion of his anatomy. I
am also credibly informed that many of the
more hospitable ladies of Cario in those
days had the Arabic word sai-eeda (“wel-
come”) tattooed on their chests, at the base
of the throat, so that those who ran might
read. Police employed in recording pri-
soners’ markings and tattooings have some
weird tales to tell also, for a fondness for
abnormal tattooing seems to be one of the
stigmata of the criminal mentality.
REASONABLE RAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When he got in a temper he would smash any
thing that came in his way. Pictures went flying, but
he did not smash any crockery.” —Witness in Mel-
bourne matrimonial case.
He was sometimes —well, say, playful-like,
Or perhaps a bit put out,
And the chest o’ drawers a chair might strike
A sickening sort of clout;
And with backyard bricks he’d sometimes make
The parlor like a rockery ;
But although the very walls might shake,
He never smashed the crockery.
On the grand piano with his boot
He’d often play a tune,
With a crash of ornaments to suit
Some raw, barbaric rune;
On mirrors upon pictures piled
He’d jump with quaint baroquerie ;
But, still, however mild or wild,
He never smashed the crockery-.
Settees and whatnots round him flew,
And like a'savage flame
The house he’d ravish through and through.
Yet one thing held him tame:
Though shattered wall and roof brought low
Made home an empty mockery,
He still enjoyed his food, and so
He never smashed the crockery.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


m
: i
M
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
MSPHSS
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Moreobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Large Returns from Small Investments
are offered by
N. Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
Co-operate with Nature and
£25 will grow into £5OO
Death Benefits. Easy Instalments.
Write for particulars.
Agents: SMITH, WYLIE & CC., LTD.,
Rembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
Pirburv House,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.*.
Replacement
Year and lie-
ended preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1915 ... £529,069 £406,250 £235,474 £500,000
Asse ts written up and £3,250,000 capitalised
to establish Fiji and M.L. Co.
1910 .. 582,580 406,250 411,804 678,974
1917 . . 613,963 400,250 619,517 904,236
1918 .. 602,290 406,250 815.557 1,068,385
1919 .. 578,830 438,750 955.037 1,313,574
1920 .. 572,349 438,750 1.089,230 1,376,988
Capital returned. £650,000. _
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,025_,000.
Cash bonus, £203,125.
1922 . . 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
i 498,590 325,000 ? , ?
Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation:
J no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
1923 4 not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
V liquidation, £325,000.
( Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 1 Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
I 673,639 446.875 1,153.480 1,140.177
1925 . . 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
For the second half of the past year the
shareholders get at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
by way of div. and at the rate of 21 p.c. p.a.
by way of bonus. Managing-director Knox
murmurs doubts about the maintenance of
the bonus, which wasn’t paid for the first
half, but that, of course, means nothing.
There is no cloud in the co.’s sky. Certainly
last year’s crop was so large ■( 189,000 tons
for Australia and Fiji combined) that a
surplus remained for export, and this year
the record will probably go up to 210,000
tons; but, though this surplus has to be sold
at a price far below that maintained in
Australia, there is no: particular reason for
believing that the C.S.R. loses much in the
process of either refining it or handling it.
Since 1008 no call has been made on
shareholders for capital; but Santa_ Claus
has made almost a dozen v isits with his gifts.
Consider them: —
1908-13.. Parent co.’s bonus shares .. £825,000
1915 .. Bonus shares in subsidiary . . 3,250,000
1921 . . Scrip in parent co. called in
and cashed .. .. .. 650,000
1921 ~ Scrip in subsidiary called in
and (a shed .. .. .. 1,625,000
1923 .. Scrip in subsidiary called in
and cashed . . .. .. 1,625,000
1923 .. Bonus shares in parent from
Fiji liquidation . . . . 650,000
1924 .. Bonus shares in parent from
Fiji liquidation .. .. 1,625,000
Reserves are moving to high levels again
and it looks as if the Board will have to do
something about it soon. At the half-yearly
meeting chairman Knox referred to a fore-
cast which had been made of a bonus issue
and dismissed it with a Avave of the hand;
shareholders, he said, would hear of such
matters direct from the Board. Of course
they will; meantime, since even a cat may
look at a king, they are plainly expectant—
you can tell that from the fact that only 736
shares out of 243,750 were by
market sale from Jan. 1 to March 31. What
the real reser\ 7 es are they don’t know, and
the Wild Cat doesn’t know either: probably
it is far more than the £1,365.696 mentioned
in the table. That is merely the total of the
formal reserve fund and the carry forward:
it doesn’t include the ±1,305.857 in the
replacement and depreciation fund, though
there is little doubt that most or all of that
is accumulated profit; also, incidentally, the
£165,680 added to the fund during the half-
year was not reckoned as profit, though it
probably wan.
The balance-sheet position, so far as it is
reckoned good for the shareholders to know
it. is as follows :
Refineries—Commonwealth and Dominion £2,364,224
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth . . .. .. 2,160,318
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve).. 1,146,230
Ocean steamers .. .. .. • • 100.000
Distillery . . .. . . . » .. 86.292
Office premises .. . . .. .. 52.850
Stocks and some book debts .. .. 3,225.413
Other book debts, investments, rtc. .. 1,690.484
Cash, deposits, etc. . . .. .. 1,211.193
£12,037,004
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. £1,607.274
Suspense accounts .. 2,538,945
Final div., 1925 .. 304,687
4,450,906
Net assets .. .. ' .. £7,586.098
Assets on March 31, 1924, totalled
£11,047,570, which liabilities of £3.832.953
reduced to a net £7,214,617. On paper
the co. thus paid its divs. and was
£371,481 better off. Again and again it
has looked too good to be true; again and
again it hns sceiued certain tlmt some CjoV"
ernment or other would do something dras-
tic But the co. is managed with such con-
summate skill that the most dangerous-
looking Governments have generally been
those from which the co. has won the best
bargains.
* * * *
Burns, Piiilp and Co.. Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, merchants, etc.:
Tolte- Re-
March. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916.. £98,317 6i p.c.= £62,500 £35,817 £254,984
1916.. 118,583 7 j „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
1917.. 161,466 7l „ „ 78,750 82,<16 3*7,533
1918.. 199,747 74 „ 78,750 120,997 498,530
.£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,0^0
1919.. 227,488 74p.e.= 93,750 133,738 532,26 S
1920.. 260,139 10 „ ~ 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Burns, Philp (South Sea) jhjl*
1921 132 274 10 p.c.= 125,000 7,274 6*4.681
1922.'. 194 718 10 „ ~125,000 69.718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c. = 125,000 67,242 *86,641
Written off steamships, £25,000 761,641
1924.. 182.357 10 p.c. = 125,000 57,357 818.998
1925!'. 190,155 10 „ ~ 125,000 65,155 884,153
There were people who wondered what would
happen with James Burns gone,, following
quickly after his two very able lieutenants,
Adam Forsyth and P. G. Black. Ratlier to
the surprise of some of them there is no
sign of any change of plans; certainly there
is no lessening in the vigor of the co. s policy.
r l io largely-new Board doesn’t prophesy. But
it considers the past year “progressive and
satisfactory,” and talks of a considerable
building programme. The motor-vessel Mala-
bar for the island service is expected to be
in commission before the end of the year;
the Eudunda has been chartered for the
Rabaul and “Eastern” trade, and one or
more modern vessels are to be built to re-
place older ones in the “Eastern” and Island
services. Having recorded those intentions
the Board declared the sixth consecutive div.
of 10 p.c.. and sent half as much to re-
serves. The admitted profit disclosed for
the year was not quite as much as the intro-
ductory table says it was: as usual a few
thousands had been dropped into the msur-
ance arid other reserves on the way. But
this Column wouldn’t care to swear that
even the £190,155 fully states the true profit:
on the contrary, it is almost certain that
some was hidden in the £103.244 written
off depreciation, losses, etc. Here , are the
amounts set aside under that heading over
the past nine years :
1917. . £69,935 1920. . £86,773 I 1923.. £96,284
1918.. 107.600 1921.. 88,835, I 1924.. 118,350
1919.. 68,664 1922.. 106,587 I 1925.. 103,244
8.-P. has a rich nephew in Fiji: in 1920
the co. passed its island interests over to
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd., for a
half-million in shares, 8.-P. shareholders
assisting the infant with a quarter-million
in cash. Or, rather, the big co. passed over
trade in those islands which were not con-
trolled by the Commonwealth Government.
The continued improvement in the value of
island produce plus the normal growth o,
the co.’s assets last year sent a larger amount
along to uncle in Sydney, his two-thirds in-
terest representing £31.250 as compared with
£25.000 for the previous year. This shows
how the subsidiary has behaved: —
Burns Piiilp (Soutii Sea) Co., Ltd.:
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920 .£102.846 10 p.c. =s £75,000 £27,846 £27,846
1921.. 57,549 74 „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 NR 4 > 192 £3,33*
1923.. 37,791 6 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,273 6£ „ ~ 46,875 4,398 38,026
During the term the main stores, trading
stations and stock-in-trade of Merediths
(Samoa), Ltd. (in liquidation), were bought,
and the year’s results were looked upon as
“more satisfactory.” The balance-sheet of
the subsidiary shows a solid position.
The parent co. went on expanding: —
Liabilities.
1915. 1922. 1924. 1925.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves . . 347,484 869,399 943,998 1,009,153
Liabilities.. 261,095 944,537 1,205,981 1,361,444
Assets.
Pro perties,
s h i pping,
cash and in-
vestments 622,808 1,573,379 1,998,760 2,154,792
Stock, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 769,608 639,380 683,968
Book debts 382,624 720,949 761,839 781,838
There were market anticipations of gifts,
and scrip was well held throughout the year.
Certainly with visible reserves equal to 70
p.c. of capital, such an expectation was not
unreasonable. 'There has been no gift issue
since 1919, and there has been only £150,000
of capital asked for since 1914. Just prior
to that year shareholders had a rich harvest,
accumulated profits being capitalised in big
parcels. For a long time capital stood at
£800.000; then between 1911 and 1914 it
was lifted tp a million, of which shareholders
had to provide only £257.500 in cash. The
great founder of the co. had it in mind, when
he made the biggest increase of shares to
build up reserves equal to the capital. They
look nearly £866.000 short. But the short-
age is probably a good deal less than it looks.
Of the investments a substantial amount is
in Queensland Insurance shares; that won-
derful money-spinner was an offshoot of
8.-P.’s. As they are doubtless in the books
at face value or less, the big premium at
which the stock is selling represents a fine
inner reserve. And there are others. The
non-disclosure of the amount of subsidy re-
ceived from the Federal Government for the
service rendered by the co. in the Pacific
and the lumping of fixed assets with invest-
ments help to make it impossible to closely
estimate the co.’s strength. This lumping
of assets ought to stop. Regarding the sub-
sidy, R.-P. can make a good case for a con-
tinuance of it despite the volume of its
profits. For there needs to be something
solid to lure a co. to the sparse settlements
scattered over the big spaces of the Pacific.
* * * *
The Union Trustee Co. :
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1915.. £7,440 7 p.c. = £5,168 £15,305 £707
Premiums on new shares, £4,014 19,379 707
1910.. 9.273 7 p.c. = 7,000 21.052 711
Written off investments, £2.000 19,652 623
1917.. 9,735 74 p.c. = 7,500 21,837 623
1918.. 10,889 8J „ „ 8,500 24,276 604
1919.. 12.119 94 „ „ 9,500 20.895 709
1920.. 12,420 10 „ ~ 10.000 29,315 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24.315 734
1921.. 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
1922.. 14.020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~ 11,000 31,814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~ 11.000 37.838 1047
1925.. 20,853 10 „ ~ 11,000 47,691 1047
The Union does not tell the amount of trusts
it administers, though in 1924 it was whis-
pered to shareholders that for the previous
six years more than 94 millions had come in.
This comparison witli Australia’s greatest
indicates that the total figures must be big:
Gross
Trusts. Income. Expenses.
Perpetual (Sydney) .. £23,683,701 £95,781 £71,078
T. E. &A. (Melbourne) . 15,718,767 62,961 37,010
Union .. . . .. ? 80,658 59,805
Its business, once less than the T.E.A.’s, is
now apparently greater, which is not sur-
prising; seeing that it works in the three
eastern States, that it has a big pastoral
connection, and that pastoral estates have
lately been gold-plated. Established in Vic-
toria in 1885, it opened, in Queensland in
1890, and in N.S.W. 11 years ago. Its pro-
gress was at first slow—it took 32 years to
get the div. beyond 7 p.c.—but aided by high
property values the speed lately has been
almost enough to catch the eye of the traffic
police:—
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1895 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
1900 .. .. 5,927 4,861
1905 .. .. 8,916 5,489
1910 .. .. 11,840 7,565
1915 .. .. 17.318 9,728
1920 .. .. 37,029 24,609
1924 .. .. 62.520 45.496
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,805
Expenses in 1920 amounted to 66 p.c. of
income; last year they were 74 p.c. But
that long jump is chiefly due to taxation and
penalties (apparently £lO 600) charged by
the Queensland Commissioner owing to omis-
sions from returns—an incident which the
Board “greatly regrets,” and of which it was
“entirely unaware”—as it was of a few other
things in the Brisbane branch. Profits, how-
ever, can Stand it. Last year they amounted
to almost 19 p.c. on capital and 13.1 p.c.
on total funds.
The expansion of the co.’s own investments
and their nature are shown next: —
1990. 1915. 1920. 1925.
Capital .. .. £73,822 £73.822 £lOO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 144 1,231 6,084 24,401
Premises . . .. Nil 50,474 83,925 94,015
Public securities 39,214 32,732 62,668 52,880
Mortgages and
debentures .. 28,069 1,724
Cash, etc. . . 3,915 7,117 2,235 21,826
Sundry debtors
and sundries. . 4,394 1,660 2,305 19,919
The co. is its own landlord in the three capi-
tals, and investments are of the best. Thus
far there has been only £lO,OOO of gift scrip,
and part of that came the sale of de-
ferred prefs. in the Deposit and Mortgage
Bank on liquidation. Reserves are now so
corpulent that shareholders may be pardoned
for getting notions.
* * * #
Beatii, Sciiiess and Felstead. Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen. Melbourne (the co.
started with a deficit of £56,187, represented
by goodwill, etc.)
r —Dividends.—
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
Jan., Profits, fit.n.c. naries. Reserves. Dcfim't.
1915.. £12,814 £6500 5 p.c. = £3,590 £2,814 £39,625
1916.. 14,938 6500 6 „ „ 4.200 4,238 35,387
1917.. 19,327 6500 „ „ 5.250 7,577 27,810
1918.. 26.569 6500 8 „ „ 6,600 14,469 13,341
Reserves.
1919.. 48.003 6500 10 „ ~ 12,000 29,503 16,162
1920.. 60.072 6500 121 „ „ 25.250' 28.322 44.481
1921.. 80.860 6500 121 „ ~36,875 37.485 81.969
Taxation reserve taken in .. 39,000 120,969
Loss.
1922.. 111,628 6500 Nil 2.841
Deficit.
1923.. 45,620 6500 Nil 49,279
1924. . 108.096 3250* Nil 160.625
Capital written down, £110,625 .. 50,000
Assets written up, £20,050 .. 29,950
1925.. 24,929 Nil Nil 54,879
*Div. for six months.
In the prospectus an auditors’ certificate
stated that, excluding a very bad year, aver-
age profits for eight years showed “that a co.
with a capital of £320,000 would on pre-
sent turnover be able to pay” £21,000 in
divs. and carry forward nearly £lO,OOO. It
was not until the war-boom was nearing its
peak that the co. did anything like this.
Of the £320,000 mentioned, the vendors took
£lOO,OOO in 5 p.c. debentures, £36,000 in 61
p.c. cum. prefs., £30,000 in ordinaries and
£50,000 in deferred shares. The defer reds
became ordinaries when reserves of £30,000
had been accumulated.
In the 1923 report the directors stated that
“practically no further losses on stocks need
be anticipated, and consequently a return
to dividends on both classes of shares may
be confidently predicted.” It was, however,
soon realised that things were not what they
seemed, and H. E. Wickenden, chairman of
the London Board and chief buyer, was
called to Australia. His recommendation re-
sulted in stocks being written down with
an axe. The Board, to even things up,
wrote down ordinary capital'by 371 p.c.;
but goodwill was allowed to bulk unbeauti-
fully in the books at £50,000. There were
other changes: Managing-director W. Wil-
liamson and warehouse-manager Tracie Fel-
stead resigned, and Clive Baillieu followed
“owing to the exigencies of his private
affairs.” The drastic chopping and chang-
ing gave the Board another supply of confi-
dence, and it reported in 1924: —
The business is being maintained and the turn-
over for the year was most satisfactory, and there
is every reason to hope for an immediate return to
such profitable results of our trading that substantial
dividends may be looked for.
But again their expectations were ill-founded,
and in the last report they have to record
still further effort to find rock-bottom.
Arthur Longland, appointed g.m. in the pre-
ceding year, went on where Wickenden left,
off. It was decided to discontinue carrying
heavy stocks in Sydney, Perth and Adelaide:
Sydney has been made a distributing house.
Perth has been closed as a warehousing and
manufacturing business, and Adelaide will
be made a distributing centre with a small
stock. The boot department at headquarters
was also closed. The liquidation of those
stocks meant considerable loss.
Last year the Melbourne freehold was
written up £20,050; but that and more was
swamped by further ascertained losses. The
balance-sheet movements show the effects of
the year’s changes:—
1920. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Debentures . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 33,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Other liabilities 203,459 264,100 283,070 250,973
Freeholds, etc. 43,862 58,689 43,868 63,595
Plant, etc. . . 11,811 16,392 16,228 16,598
Stock .. 493,086 513,710 417,240 378.035
Book debts . . 150,083 149,120 163,774 145,453
Cash, etc. . . 47,370 4,960 5,294 3,217
Creditors are well enough protected, liquids
and semi-liquids amounting to £526,705,
which, if book values are at last sound,
would leave £1 15s. 2d. for each £1 of pref.
capital. And for the six months ended Jan.
33 a fair profit was realised, according to
the directors. The statement is quite credible,
because the co. has retained a very fair con-
nection in spite of mishandling, and has
further, like all importers, had the advantage
of the recent exchange position.
* * * *
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, hardware
merchants and general importers at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914 .. £13,417 10 p.c. =£11,580 £1,837 £18,308
1915 .. 21590 15 „ „ 18,000 3,890 22,198
1916 .. 25 021 15 „ „ 18,000 7,021 29,219
1917 .. 28,342 15 „ „ 18,000 10,342 39,501
Transferred to capital •. 30,000 9,561
1918 . . 25,980 15 p.c. = 22,500 6,480 16,041
1919 .. 30,071 10 „ „ 15,000 15,071 31,112
Transferred to capital . . 25,000 6,112
Co. re-constructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £65,000 and seven £1 fully-paids in
new co. issued for every four in old.
Net To Reduce
Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920 ..£32,279 10 p.c. = £ 17,5751
(6 inos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 £5,704 £59,296
Employees’ bonus, 3,000 )
1921 .. 26,588 6j p.c. = 21,963 4,619 54,6<7
Loss. Added.
1922 . . 39,425 2J „ „ 8,787 48,212 102,889
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 50,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,836 . . 59,000
1923 .. 2.966 Nil 2,966 61,966
1924 . ! 4,674 Nil 4,674 66,640
That last line discloses the position at
December 31. But the annual meeting agreed
to certain recommendations, and a few words
will have to be added to that already straggly
table to convey this information: —
Capital reduced £79,088 by wiping 4s. 6d. off
each of the 351,500 shares paid to 175.; goodwill
of £59,000 (not included as an asset in the table)
and accumulated losses £7640 written off; deprecia-
tion and other provisions made amounting to £4967 ;
and £7480 put aside for contingencies reserve.
It has been a wise move, although belated.
The worst of the trouble started with the
ill-judged bonus issue of 1920, when the
Board raked every penny into the light, tvrote
up almost everything which could be written
(Continued on page 19.)


A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS.
"Since the Washington Conference there seemed to be a rash to armaments on the part of the nations. Unless they conld stabilise Europe the volcano was likely to burst at any moment” — E. K. Bowden, late Commonwealth Minister for Defence.
THE REVEREND LEAGUE OF NATIONS: “Gentlemen! Gentlemen! Has all my preac'ring fallen on stony ground?”


“IS MY MONEY SAFE?”
CONSULT
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
PUBLISHED THE FIRST
SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH.
INDISPENSABLE TO THE
INVESTOR, LITTLE AND BIG.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/G per aiinun),
post free.
Modern Gas Producer Plants for wet unscreened
brown coal, wood, peat or coi<e breeze, with or
without extraction of crude tars. It will pay you
to investigate our plants. Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (Aust.), Ltd.—Advt.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, m
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from \\ m. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
The success of Pioneer Wood Pipe in mining opera-
tions is strikingly illustrated in this report from
Western Australia. “After expending a lot of money
on iron and steel pipes in the Gem Consolidated
Mine, Kundip, we gave the wood pipe a trial, and
we are pleased to say that we would never think
of iron pipes again. We consider the life of the
wood pipe is five to one in favor of wood against
steel or iron, especially in bad water.” Write for
a free manual of detailed information. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.- — Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems are the product of many
years’ experience, and are in use throughout Aus-
tralia for lighting homes, stores, halls, etc. They
produce a brilliant white light of over 100 candle-
power for less than a halfpenny per hour per lamp.
Very convenient cooking stoves and gas rings are
available as part of the plant. The price of a two-
light plant, complete and installed, is only £2O.
There is practically no additional cost, the only
extras being the freight on the goods from Sydney
and the mechanic’s conveyance from your nearest
railway station—positively no wages or train fares.
Wizard Lighting Systems, 55 York Street, Sydney.
N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. _ ...
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writs
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
Babcock Si Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W.. for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered bv
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY, A. AUBREY,
Governing Director. General Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUT I' TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC."
Ordi-
narv.
2/6
Daily
Deferred.
1/3
Daily Letter
Telegram.
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
GREAT \
BRITAIN T
Week-end 7£d. (minimum charge i.z/u, iu »urus;
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
2/6 1/3
CANADA .. 2/- 1/- 7d. (minimum
11/8. 20 words)
Week-end sfd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND., lid.
f N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum charge
1 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Svrtney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen's House. Queen Street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
r,
&
pOORD&SOiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
I
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
ENSURE THE SAFETY OF YOUR ESTATE
by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY®?)
AS EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE UNDER YOUR WILL, TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE
OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY UNDER POWER OR AGENT
Subscribed Capital £1,000,000. Reserve Fund £lOO,OOO. Perpetual Deposit with Government £20,000,
Trust Funds now under Company’s control exceed £24,500,000.
IVnte or call for Booklet which explains the Company r Methods and Charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LTD
55-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Manager : R Copland Lethbridge.
Secretary : R. L Massie
up. placed goodwill in the books at £60,000,
and gave shareholders seven shares lor every
four they held. In 1922 the folly became
evident and 3s. was written off each share.
But although the downward plunge in hard-
ware prices had started at the beginning ot
the year an interim div. was paid; and it
look two more losing years to key the direc-
tors up to the latest recommendations.
Whether the knife has been used sufficiently
even now is hard to say. At the 1924 meet-
ing the directors said they expected to be
able to pay divs. at the end of the year, hut
their judgment was sadly astray. However,
“drastic measures” have been taken now and
the impression is given that tlm stock has
been written down with an axe. Yet balance-
sheet figures don’t make it evident; —
1920. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Capital . . £351,500 £361,500 £298,775 £298,775
Reserves (inc.
taxation) .. 32,279 262 328 388
liabilities . . 223,956 174,618 161,257 153,765
Premises,
plant, etc... 138,593 151,988 145,474 143,797
Stock . . 316,470 220,328 199,131 193,601
Boole debts .. 70,485 49,031 45.429 45.959
Cash, etc. .. 27,187 2,143 5,359 2,931
(Goodwill . . 65,000 69,000 59,000 59,000
The latest decision writes off 4s. (id. per
share, or 7s. 6d. in all; which means that old
shareholders are still 7s. 6d. worth of scrip to
the good on the 1920 distribution, in addition
lo the capitalisations of 1917 and 1919.
Those who were attracted into purchase by
Ihe events of 1920 have had a bard run : a
total of 9 p.c. iff four years arid 7s. 6d. per
share of their capital lost! The directors
“recommend patience on the part of share-
holders, as they believe it will be justified.”
It is probably good advice. But, though as
a matter of policy they may have patience,
(here is not much on the records to give them
confidence.
* * * *
The decision of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to remove the embargo on the export
of gold marks the end of Gold Producers’
Association, Ltd. The directors recommend
to shareholders that the co. be put into volun-
tary liquidation. Accounts are being closed
as expeditiously as possible, so that a final
statement may be presented to shareholders
and the balance in hand distributed.
Surprise lead-mine, Northampton (W.A.),
once in a shocking state as regards mine
workings, equipment and sundry creditors,
is reviving fast since the Mines Department
took a hand. After advancing a substantial
amount the Department deemed the time ripe
to tender some much-needed advice to the
management. Result, the show is now making
good profits, which arc drawing liabilities
down towards the £lO,OOO mark. Provided
lead keeps near £3O per ton. the co. will
soon possess something foreign to it for
years—a credit balance.
# * * *
Golden Hope (W.A.) progress report to
April 10 shows March output 690 tons for
a gold return worth £1402. which will just
about meet expenditure for that month. The
report is somewhat noteworthy in that it is
sufficiently clear for the average shareholder
to understand. It might be taken as a pattern
by those numerous managers who issue
reports which look like cross-word puzzles.
Kanowna Red Hill (W.A.) pays a 6d.
div. occasionally, and generally has £5OOO or
so on fixed deposit. Its mine is efficiently
managed, operating, as a rule, on small rich
leaders. Still the profit is all right, and
as £l2 ore is now being broken over a width
of 30in. shareholders may get another 6d. in
July.
One of the best gold shoots worked during
recent years by W.A. prospector-owners is
the Mt. Monger, which dipped into Mc-
Cahon’s Great Hope lease at 90ft. from the
surface. Ore ranges from Sin. to 24in. wide;
and from 2000 tons £40,000 worth of bullion
has been produced, while residues are ex-
pected to yield an additional £5 per ton.
As the continuation of the rich vein lias been
located recently at the 300 ft. level, the
owners should be in a position to break
high-grade stuff for another year or two.
Adelaide is responding to the call of the
Manxman, Southern Cross (W.A.). as a
number of apparently dead companies are
showing signs of resuscitation. Hansel
Mundy was first in, then Telfer North ; the
Adelaide crowd who secured tin* Racilo mine
under option followed with intent to float
that show under a name to be decided. Ives
Prop, is the latest co. to book a lease at
Manxman, which shows a significant lack of
faith in the Ives district.
* * * *
Costs at Ives Reward (W.A.) have been
reduced since January from 565. 4d. to 235.
a ton, and arc to come down to the level
pound. That will be an achievement. With
ore carrying 425. of values the debit at P.
and L. will not take long to disappear. Ore
has been opened up in the mine to 200 ft.
both on the main and the Blue lodes, and
there is plenty of stone proved to keep the
10-head battery on the go without another
foot of development being done for months.
To get water the old Victory, 44 miles off, was
taken, and upon examination it is thought
to be good enough to spin out profits. If
values average 40s. and costs are kept, at
205., the, margin available will give a better
return than most other gold shows in the
State. Moreover, so long as more 40s. ore
can be developed ahead of the battery, the
problem of finance isn’t going to bother Ives
Reward.
* * * *
Clonc-urry (N.Q.) can still show some
copper bonanzas. The St. George, near
Duchess, gave its owners a nice shoot between
50ft. and SOft. down, and the last parcel
of 50 tons averaged 42 per cent, copper.
At Styx River (C.Q.) the No. 3 State
mine appears to have struck a decent seam
at last, although it is on the gassy side and
special safety equipment has been installed.
The sft. seam at 550 ft. has been abandoned
owing to the large amount of clinker
duces, but the lower seam of 4ft. at 770tt.
has given encouraging results. This seam is
in fairly settled country, though the No. 2
mine, where the seam is well tumbled about,
is still producing. Coalcutters and up-to-
date pithead equipment are being installed
at No. 3, and after a long period of pros-
pecting and development the Styx field now
looks like settling down to steady produc-
tion.
* -It * *
The Wilson mine at Chillagoe (N.Q.)
closed down lately owing to the usual trouble
in that district-—oceans of underground water
in the limestone caverns. It was supplying
the local smelters with high-grade ore, but
latterly too much zinc blende had been creep-
ing in—-and there is no zinc-recovery in the
north. The workings, though only about
100 ft. deep, had passed into Bft. of galena
ore, and it looked likely to develop a big
ore-body when operations ceased. If a plant
for zinc-recovery is put up at Mt. Garnet —
it is not known yet whether the deal there
is on or oft" —the Wilson is likely to be re-
opened.
*• * * *
The Bowen Consolidated Co. (Q.). by
proving 17ft. of workable coal in its shaft
on the Bowen seam, greatly the
reserves on the field to the west of the State
mine area. Yet even this thickness has been
exceeded in one of the bores on the field,
where 20ft. Sin. of coal was. passed through.
Consolidated has been working the 7ft. sec-
tion on the Garrick, but the coal, though
good, is soft and carries a fair amount of
sulphur. The rumpus in Cairns over the
raising of the cost of Mt. Mulligan coal to
the City Council for its power-plant supplies
may result in a few extra customers for
Consolidated. Bowen coal can be landed in
Cairns for about 355.. whereas the new price
of Mt. Mulligan is just over 38s. Bowen
only needs a market to become the biggest
producer in Queensland. Unfortunately
none is looming at present.
Yield of Tinglia tin (N.S.W.) for April
was even worse than for March —34 tons
oxide from 8500 yards. March figures were
4 tons for 0800 yards—£67o against £5OO.
Although bonanzas are still absent from
the Lucknow Pups (N.S.W.) there has
been an improvement in assay values from
loz. 4dwt. to loz. 6dwt. 20gr.. with 14dwt.
“alongside the lode in vein formation.” And
it is a vein. “Width proved to date is 30ft.,
the level having cut through three sections
each carrying arsenical pyrites ore.” The
densely mineralised lode cut a fortnight ago
is 2ft. wide, and has been followed for 6ft.
"Bulk of mineral is iron pyrites, but copper
and arsenical pyrites, zinc blende and anti-
mony are present.” The assays quoted came
from this lode.
Bribbaree. the only producer among the
N.S.W. gold bantlings, reported that a fort-
night’s crushing of 130 tons produced 2020 z.;
but the market remembered the weeks when
the battery remained inactive. The stamp-
ers arc well ahead of development work. Last
month the old No. 4 Phoenix at Gympie
(Q.V got 318 oz. from 88 tons. It has been
producing for over 40 years, and there are
only 30.000 shares compared with the SO,OOO
in ' Bribbaree. Which suggests that at
Gympie they work mines and in N. S. Wales
they work markets.
Vegetable Creek. Ardlethan (N.S.W.).
continues poorly. The last three yields read:
Ore. Concentrates.
4 weeks to March 0 .. 216 tons. 5.2 tons.
4 weeks to April 2 .. 206 „ 5.05 ~
4 weeks to April 30 .. 479 „ S.B ~
The last shows easily the poorest average of
the three. Western pipe is still "poor grade” :
No. 2 pipe “poor grade and small; and
No. 4 pipe “good grade but small.” And
the open cut at the old battery shaft is “poor
grade” with occasional makes of good oxide.
Despite uneven falls in prices of silver,
spelter and lead, the levels are still highly
profitable, and the Broken Hill mines are
tearing ore out as fast as labor -will permit.
Last month the men employed at mines and
works aggregated 5550, distributed thus:
Proprietary, il!4: South, 1099; North. 796;
Zinc. Corp., 789; British, 704; Central
(where the fire ; s). 331; Block 14, 182;
Junction North, 157; Amalgamated Zinc, 63.
The low price of copper ruled out most
Australian producers long ago. And the
downward drift has not stopped yet. Other
metal prices are holding fairly well, although
the phenomenal January quotations have
shrunk. The following comparison of Lon-
don average prices shows what Australian
cos. have had to face: —
Jan., April,
Ton. Ton.
Copper, stan., spot .. £66 2 6 £6O 12‘ 9
Copper, electro. .. 70 16 10 64 7 2
Lead soft, spot .. .. 40 10 2 32 9 9
Spelter, spot .. .. 37 12 9 34 1 11
Tin, stan., spot . . 265 13 7 237 2 8
Tin, stan., 3 mos. .. 269 7 11 240 1 2
Oz. Oz.
Silver, stan., spot . . 2s. 8.19 d. ' 2s. 7.37 d.
Still, except for copper, the prices are far
better than the pre-war average.
A sft. seam of coal has been out through
by a shaft within a mile of the Werris Greek
(N.S.W.) loco depot. An area of (>4U acres
lias been taken up.
* -X- * *
-New Langi Logan (Vic.) recovered 1 .•floss.
17dwt. from 54 fathoms in the fortnight, and
the accompanying report spoke of "prolitable
wash" in several drives and rises, duly tabbed
and enumerated. The trouble is that, trans-
lation of “profitable wash” into dividends is
a shock yet to be felt by New Langi
shareholders. Even a cessation of the chronic
call-making habit would be some consolation.
* * * *
Golden Lily, at Aberfeldy (Vic.), hasn’t
blossomed so far. This is because, with the
winter near, mountain mining had to be
made a comfortable job, or labor would not
collect round any old shaft. The battery
isn’t yet ready to rattle out. its tune, and in
the south end of the rise the stone isn’t up
to the mark. South on the hanging-wall reef
pay dirt is exposed. So little that is definite
comes out about the Lily that, the market
prefers to speculate on Were and Sons’ next
move rather than estimate what Lily ore is
proved and what the battery will treat
monthly. Some Melbourne brokers are said
to be oversold. But covering up lias been
done quietly, so that prices will stand or
fall by battery results, once the mill is
started.
J. H. M. Moatc’s Adelaide Oil Exploration
Co. hasn’t struck oil anywhere, but, much
more remarkable, it has £190,000 of its shares
placed under option and £35,000 cash in the
till. Moate’s net is cast wide. A big block
of the Speck’s shale land is owned, shares in
Taranaki Oil are held, and areas in Chili
and Bolivia are either under option or partly
purchased. Moate chirps about his largo
cash reserve and the ownership of “coal and
rich coal-bearing shales estimated to be worth
millions of pounds sterling,” and beats the
drum over the large ai-eas of probable oil-
producing lands in S. America. But all
that the work done so far has produced is a
handful of possibilities. Until a gusher is
found the best thing to do is to regard Adel-
aide Oil Corporation shares as a picturesque
gamble.
The proposed building of the Sydney Har-
bor bridge caused the cement eo. at Railton
(Tas.) to get a hustle on, with the result that
by this time it should be producing, and at
an early date delivering. Dorman, Long and
Co., who are to build the bridge, have con-
tracted to take a large quantity of their cement
requirements from Railton. Even then,
according to Sir Hugh Bell, of the Dorman,
Long firm, there will be plenty left for other
customers. He estimates the value of the
annual output from the one unit now nearing
completion at between £150,000 and £200,000.
The co. specially obtained the consent of the
Ma State Government to procure portion of
the cement in the Speck.
* * * *
Tom Laurie telegraphed last week from
Hall’s Creek (N.T.) that a party of Pros-
pectors had arrived from Tanami and re-
ported payable gold 150 miles s.-w. of
Tanami, at a point believed to be in
Westralia.
Huey Yot, Southern Siam, is in the same
stable 'as Naung Pet. There are a million
2s. 4d. shares, of which 400.000 went to the
vendor, A. J. King, fully paids. He also
lifted 165,767 Malay-States dollars out of
the float, and an additional 34,285 dollars
to “cover his expenditure during the two
years he has been occupied in prospecting
and consolidating the options.” Thus 565,767
dollars were cut out of the nominal million.
King surrendered 404 acres and options over
206 acres. Kuntang, the Siamese port, is
31 miles from Huey Yot and 15 hours by
steamer from Penang. In 1923 the Naung
Pet group attempted to float the concern
under the name of Trang, but the result was
a misfire. The present co. was floated
over a year ago. The “dollar” propositions
have never commanded much popularity; and
there is a move to convert both Rawang
and Naung Pet into sterling. Huey Yot has
issued a circular in which the starting of the
120,000-yard suction cutter dredge is
scheduled for August, and a monthly profit
of £6185 is calculated on with tin at £250.
II the co. makes good these forecasts, it will
be a rare bird among mining concerns.
Taranaki Oil Co.’s Tarata bore has been
cleaned out preparatory to running down the
lOin. casing. A burst of gas in the Moturoa
bore resulted in the drilling tools becoming
fast, but these were quickly released and
drilling has been resumed.
Mandated Development has been advised
that No. 2 bore was down to 106 ft. on April
24, and was cased to 150 ft. It was still
in grey shale. Meantime a new Board has
been elected in Sydney.
* * * *
Kuala Lumpur’s latest boring experiences
on the adjoining ISO acres of" rubber land
cover 44 holes, and the average goes over
9oz. —easily the best to date. The holes
varied from 19ft. to 59ft. One went up to
61b., and another was 21b. Then values ran
down from 18oz. to traces and nil, though
there are only two on the barren list.


“If Youth but knew what Age doth crave,
How many a penny Youth would save!”
The couplet needs no elaboration. It is just our way of saying SAVE
NOW, in the heyday of Youth and Health, and rest comfortably in Old Age.
The spectacle of penniless Old Age is pitiful, but preventable.
Your COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA provides a Thrift
System throughout the length and breadth of the Continent that safe-
guards your pennies and your pounds.
Regular deposits, no matter how small, will increase your bank
balance at a surprising rate.
Start an Account and see the Miracle work for yourself.
The savings bank service extends to every Post Office in Australia,
and there is a General and Savings Bank Branch in 79 cities and towns.
Commonwealth lank of Hnstralia.
SeoryiW
cfctcfr WptGj-
liiß*.
ks*«<ci of K°*ii!i
mu
i’liiiljiiiiiniliiiiiliiiiilillHlin..,, ...mfWiijijjiiEl
"n in' ' iii i i,. ~i, .| |1 , i''|| *' i .
4
CHISMS
,M r .
t9 Ss» l *
m
THE WHISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
M.L. Premier Massey’s death, at home,
among his friends, was in vivid contrast to
that of Richard Seddon, who died at sea
on his way from Sydney to Wellington. The
steamer he travelled by left Sydney early
on the Sunday morning, and on Saturday
night Seddon was entertained at the Hotel
Australia. To his speech that night he made
a dramatic ending. “Gentlemen,” he said
in his loud, ringing voice, "I am leaving
you to-morrow for God’s own country.,’
Dr. W. G. PRICE, Melbourne City
Organist.
The words were prophetic. There was no
wireless at sea then, and the news of his
death could not precede the ship’s arrival.
But she entered port with flags at half-mast.
One of the oldest Wellington pilots, a stoop-
ing old man, boarded her. As he reached
the bridge he asked what the flags were for.
When he was told he sobbed “Dick Seddon
dead!” and pitched to the deck in a faint.
Scddon’s monument stands on the western
hills of Wellington looking over the city.
Massey’s will be on Point Halswell, wdiere
the steamers turn sharply into Lambton
Harbor. So he will look towards the city
from the east.
When the just-dead H. E. Barff. M.A.,
took office in the Sydney Uni. in 1882 there
were eight professors and 20 lecturers and
demonstrators for about a hundred students.
In 1922, when he resigned his post of Regis-
trar through failing health, there were 39
professor!, 163 lecturers and over 3300 stu-
dents.
After two years in his present position and
50 in the Department, N. S. Wales Deputy
P.M.G. Frank Whysall will sign off to-
morrow (May 15). Entering the service in
’75, his knowledge of the complicated quad-
ruplex telegraph led to his appointment in
1888 as telegraph-master at Broken Hill,
then in the throes of a boom. The specialisa-
tion of to-day was unknown then, and Why-
sall was his own testing-officer and, occa-
sionally, lineman. After terms in Sydney as
head of ’phones and superintendent of mails, he
became, in 1911, Deputy P.M.G. of Wcstralia,
relinquished that in 1914 to return to Syd-
ney as chief clerk, and stepped to the
D.P.M.G.-ship two years ago. As a tele-
graphist Whysall was a star; as a head he
was at all times approachable, and the best
wishes of the staffs of two States follow him
into retirement.
Old-time sporting memories were revived
the other day when Brother Urban Corrigan,
of the local Marist teaching order, received
his M.A. degree after a brilliant University
course. Till the present he has been science
master and physi-
cal-culture director
at St. Joseph’s,
Hunter’s Hill.
Now lie goes to
the Mai 11 an d
Marist institution.
His father was
that great cross-
country horseman,
little Tommy Cor-
rigan, who was
killed in a Vic-
torian hurdle race
over 30 years ago.
South Australia’s
Railway Commis-
sioner WEBB.
George E. Lydiard. the oldest identity of
Euroa (Vic.), has closed the book at the
age of 94. His father was an English
admiral, and reports of the new country
published by his uncle, the explorer Sturt,
brought him as a youngster to Australia. The
gold fever faded and he settled down as a
grazier first in the Mount Gambier district,
then in the Riverina and later near Port
Fairy, where he became a famous breeder
of Lincoln sheep. It was only 25 years ago
that he went to Faithful’s Creek, Euroa, full
of energy to look after his own affairs,
although he had then reached the Psalmist’s
span.
The only pair of gaiters at the Church
Conference in Melbourne that graduated
from an Australian State school belong to
Bishop Long, of Bathurst (N.S.W.). He
got his spankings at the State School at
Alexandra, whence by the scholarship step-
ladder he reached Melbourne Uni.
It occurred to a few Melbourne citizens
to remember that May 6 was the anniversary
of John Batman’s death; and at two
functions citizens not largely in the public
eye remarked that Melbourne makes less of
its founder than is decent. Born in Parra-
matta in 1800, he was the first native-born
who in a big way expanded the borders of
settlement.
The failure of the Victorian fund for the
William Farrer memorial is another illus-
tration of the little honor which comes to
the man who, with unshowy work, intro-
duces a big profit to his own country.
Farrcr’s improvement of wheat has added
millions to the collective and individual
wealth of Australia; it is reckoned that
about 80 per cent, of the crop grown in
Victoria is ' Federation, the rust-resisting
result of his labor. The committee which
took charge of the fund looked forward to
getting a bag of wheat from the harvest of
each wheat farmer, and estimated that it
would rake in £12,000. But it got only
£2OO, at which sum the fund has closed,
leaving a committee, which had sanguine
hopes of doing something substantial in
agricultural research, wondering what is
to be done with the hopeless trifle.
Several Vic. first-families were plunged
into mourning by the death of Leo Gavan
Duffy, who was killed while motoring near
Port Fairy. He was a son of J.G. and a
grandson of Charles Gavan Duffy, formerly
bright lights of the Vic. Assembly, a brother-
in-law of Justice Starke and a nonhew of
Justice Duffy, of the High Court. His young
widow is a niece of the late Chief Justice
Madden and of the late Speaker Frank Mad-
den, and a cousin of Mrs. Bourchier, wife of the
Vic. Minister for Agriculture. Leo was
working up a fine law practice among the
sub-sqnattocracy of the Middle South-West,
and his outlook was rosy. At the Uni. he
had a brilliant career; also he lent a hand
in the Big Disturbance for three years and
came back with a pair of pips.
Laid aside pencil and compasses, John
Barlow, F.1i.1.8.A. Native-born, he was
educated at the Benedictine institution at
Lyndhurst (N.S.W.), and after serving
articles with the late Benjamin Backhouse,
the Judge’s father, he specialised in ecclesias-
tical architecture. Many R.C. churches in the
early ’nineties were built to his design. He
trod the Inky Way, too, in the interests of
his profession, being editor of Art and
Architecture, as well as one of the founders
of the Institution of Architects and a most
earnest “town-planner.”
“Twopence”: “Wealsman” is not a gal-
lant gentleman when he says (B. 23/4/’25)
that Enid Lyons, wife of Joe Lyons, Premier
of the Speck, and herself a Parliamentary
candidate, is not “much over 30.” As a
matter of fact, the lady is 27. She married
in 1915, when only 17, Joe being then 35.
The next Ballarat South-street competi-
titions will miss an old identity, W. Hautrie
West, whose association with music and
Ballarat went back for 35 years. Born 81
years ago in England, West left a job as
organist at the Sandhurst Military College
to follow his calling in M.L., and drifted to
Ballarat after a score of years in the Shaky
Isles. The quiet old man, still in harness
at the time of his death, died as unob-
trusively as he had lived. He was on his way
to give music lessons at Maryborough; on
arrival he was found dead in the train.
“Vosadina”: Early in 1914 a German sur-
vey party of two, Captain Detzner and Herr
Klink, left Morobe, German New Guinea, to
trace the then boundary of the German and
British territories. Some months later they
returned to Morobe, to find that war had
been declared. Not wishing to be taken
prisoners, the two made; for the bush and
there lived the native life. Presently Klink
determined to give himself up to the Austra-
lians, came down to the coast and was made
prisoner. Detzner remained in the bush.
Two and a half years later, in August, 1917,
an officer named Humphries, on patrol duty
in the district, heard rumors from the natives
that a white man was hiding in the bush.
He refused to credit the seemingly impossible
story, and it was not till after the war ceased
that Detzner came down from the hills. His
story of those four years should be in-
teresting.
“M B. 1922”: The Bulletin (23/4/’25)
said it was likely an effort would be made to
fetch Prof. Hunter’s body from England and
bury it in front of Sydney’s Med. School. My
dear friend Hunter would have been the
first to veto such a proposal. There is a
body lying in South Head Cemetery which
has a prior right to any such distinction,
the body of the man who made things pos-
sible for me and Hunter and many other
Australians; the man who built the august
pile of the Medical School, in the face of
bitter opposition, and who preached the faith
that his graduates would be as good as or better
than any graduates the world over, and
whose words have been borne out fully—even
before the war, and before the researches of
Hunter and Rovle—by such men as Parkin-
son, Grafton Elliot Smith and Raymond Dart.
That body was once the person of Prof.
Anderson Stuart, the first Dean of the Medi-
cal Faculty at Sydney and the greatest medi-
cal man of a generation in Sydney. He has
now been dead some five years, and the
straight old figure in the morning coat and
tall grey Jhat has been well-nigh forgotten ;
but with his old students his memory still
remains green, and, though we loved Hunter,
“Andy” comes first.
This is the first N.S.W, general election
for over 30 years in which R. D. Meagher’s
name doesn’t figure amongst the nominations.
In 1904 alone he fought three elections as
an Independent, and was only beaten on
each occasion in the last stride; and he has
never been out of a Sydney municipal
election contest for 25 years. But he is not
feeling his old self these days.
“T. 0.1.” : Hugh Mackenzie, of Melbourne,
who halted recently close to his 90th mile-
stone, had been for a lifetime attached to
the Vic. Customs Department. In the early
’fifties, when not out of his ’teens, he had
charge of a boat doing Customs duty in
Hobson’s Bay, the main object being to pre-
vent smuggling. A suspicion existed that
Governor Sir Charles Ilotham roamed
the Jbay in disguise to see if the officials did
their duty. Mackenzie chased the suspected
boat, overtook it and tore the disguise from
Ilotham. The Governor did not pursue bis
bay inquiries further.
A parson has been elected Mayor of Christ-
church (M.L.) for the coming two years—-
the Rev. J. K. Archer. He got the right to
wear the Baptist collar at Nottingham Col-
lege (Eng.), and has been 16 years in the
Dominion. Archer is a vigorous Labor
apostle, and for a while was vice-president
of the M.L. Labor party. Another parson.
Clyde Carr, will sit among the councillors:
and Mrs. E. R. McCombs, one of the Do-
minion’s best speakers, will put her feet
under the council table for the fifth succes-
sive year.
“Parama” : I nominate Saimoni. of Vorovoro
village, in Viti Levu, Fiji, as the youngest
candidate for Royal Humane Society l-ecogni-
tion. He dived into a 12ft.-deep bathing-
pool after a small three-year-old girl who
had been pushed into the water over a 21ft.
bank by a com-
panion. The child
was lying at the
bottom of the
water, and catch-
ing her by the hand
the rescuer man-
aged to get her to
the bank on the
other side of the
pool, where the
water was shallow.
Once ashore he sat
down and howled,
overcome with ex-
citement and fright.
He is only four.
The Into Lord
LEVERHULME.
prince of soap-
boilers.
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant”
(Mr. J. M. Forde) completed his <Ssth year
on May 9.
The hundred and ten ancients who rolled
up as the guests of the International Motor
Show Committee at the dinner to the Cobb
and Co. drivers of coaching days—ls of
them came from other States —furnished a
good advt. for the 'healthiness of their call-
ing. Although not the oldest, “Tom” Cawker
was probably the oldest who still handles
the reins. lie started “driving stage” along
country roads in 1865. and prospered suffi-
ciently to become the owner of some good
racehorses—he won the Adelaide Brand
National Hurdle with Learoy and History,
and, with the former, the Caulfield Grand
National. He drove the present King be-
tween Adelaide and Hamilton (Vic.) in
.1901; and. still running coaches between
Mount Gambier and Castorton, he thinks no-
thing, at 88, of taking the ribbons himself
for the seven hours’ journey.
R. J. Stuart-Robertson, elected 17 years
ago and now the veteran of the N.S.W.
Labor party, is having a busy fight for
Balmain owing to the intrusion of new blood.
He probably holds the Australian record for
a maiden speech—it lasted three and a half
hours. His strong point is history, his
specialty genealogical trees. While still a
boy he traced himself back to James VI. of
Scotland and discovered himself a grandson
of the Royal Stuart 20-odd times removed.
The passing of George Elkington Roddis
removes, at 49, a quiet scholar who combined
a devout faith in Anglicanism with a sincere
belief in the Labor movement. An English-
man, he taught at the small grammar school
attached to Christ Church, near the Sydney
Central Railway—the leading High Church
in N.S.W. —and also at Knox College. From
private he rose in the Great Stoush to the
rank of lieutenant and on his return
became organising secretary of the
Christian Industrial Fellowship. The C.1.F.,
which was composed of A. C. Willis and
other prominent Laborites as well as clergy-
men of various sects and political opinions,
strove to direct the minds of the workers
along spiritual as well as economic lines in
their fight for better conditions. Although
it was scoffed at, Roddis brought an earnest-
ness into his work for this body that won
admiration even from freethinkers. He also
ran the “Church Notes” in the Labor Daily,
and they were closely read, too.
Bungendore (N.S.W.) claims the oldest
inhabitant. He is William Kershaw. When
four years ago lie applied for the old-age
pension, to verify his statement that he was
then 102 years old inquiries were made at
the Registry Office in Wiltshire (Eng.)
where lie said there was a record of his
arrival. It was found that the ancient had
dropped a year. He was born and registered
in 1818.
Probably no one has noticed any great
resemblance between J. S. Marks, the
recently retired Chairman of the N.S.W.
Public Service Board, and Henry Kendall,
the poet; but Kendall was a first cousin of
Mrs. Marks. Incidentally, Mr. Marks’s
mother was christened in IS3I by the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, from whom the old home of
the Marks family gained its name of Mars-
den Hill. As. the late P.S.B. chairman
is connected in some way with George luller,
it looks as though the Premier might, also
claim some connection with Kendall if he
feels like it.
A CAPETOWN CANZONET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Interviewed by the Cape Arcus after the Cape-
town banquet to the Prince, a prominent I.aborite
said: ‘South Africa will never be quite the same
after Saturday night.’ ”
In Adderley-street, where Van Riebeck stands,
A statue tall, while the eager bands
Of hunters for fame and fortune come
To the threshold of Afrikanderdom,
I met a wight with an unsoiled paw
And a loose-hung, easily balanced jaw;
So I forthwith placed him—and I was right—
As a really prominent I.aborite.
His eye was ,red and his mien was dull,
And he croaked like an atrabilious gull ;
For, when I stayed him, he gave a groan
And gasped in disconsolate monotone;
“Fiz an’ whisky an’ Durban rum,
Old Cape Cango an’ Van der Hum—
An oijul job we’ve ’ad ter git right,
Since we wined ’ls Nibs lurs’ Satterdec night.”
“Come, give me,” I begged him, “the dinkum oil
About the recalcitrant Son of the Soil.
Is the Empire outlook so beastly blue ?
And what is Von Hertzog planning to do?
What do they say on the High Veldt, now’,
Predikant, Hopper and fat Mevrouw,
Of the Cove from the Rooinek’s misty isle
With the winning word and the ready smile?
Has Jewburg hopped it to Palestine yet ?
And where can we sample a decent wet?
But he only shuddered and faintly swayed,
And this cryptic statement in answer made:
“Fiz an’ whisky an’ Durban rum,
Old Cape, Cango an’ Van der Ilum —
Th’ top’s bin liftin’ orf every ’end
Since, Satterdec night when we welcomed Ted.”
So I tried him again on another tack.
“Well, what,” I cried, “of the Swarming Black
Who grimly threatens, so some folk say,
A white South Africa ravaged at bay ?
Tip us what’s doing in upland kraals
When the fires are lit and the darkness falls,
And the noble savages 101 l at. ease,
And drink their beer mid the family fleas.
Do you reckon the danger’s. a false alarm
And their sulks will yield to the Princely Charm ?
But he wearily waved me to stand aside,
And back on the breezes his answer sighed:
“Fiz an’ whisky an’ Durban rum,.
Old Cape Congo and Van der Hum —
Never again can we be th’ same.
An’ Teddy’s th’ bloke that yous all can blame!”
x.s.w.
J. B. H.


Po Lo”
CIGARETTES
( Ovals )
i
a»i
:
m
m
u
m
>
m
w
m.
fgp
\
i-
w
/
.
r«
P
Wmm
■
~ ; -
■
W A !
: ■
a
%
i®§
*
Jmmm'
Jfc
* %
m
I
i
J
' .
it / %.
;;
■
f
ilil
3
■ ■
*-■■.
1 ■
, v
u
i
.x
i^*ss
■ 111
I fM
\
V
■ :
■Ms
■
1
r i
v ‘
...
iiSil
«W iSij
- . C II
" £ '£mm
% # ** 'OK. jP
V. * * Jw ;,. Jt
'IP' %
fim w
w»\i' .vl JPSKS® ?"f yV
i ,«rfHWB
■ ■ -- .
!||§|
w. ■
Map
■ ■ was
i w •„
1
s * *
: iilMmWilili>««&i; :
2
5
m
Wt* i
FI
V
Jb
: -.i
m
M
v: ■:
sta,
Mnsi/ a
Q-tMeA&ntc ”
Yy^oeeo-
Packed in
Handsome Gold Finished
Pocket Cases of
2(5* and 50
W.D.&H.O. WILLS


UNIVERSAL
ELECTRIC HOUSEHOLD HELPS.
<I T I NIVERSAL’ Appliances offers the best value obtainable,
whether that value is measured in quality of materials,
attractiveness of design, in workmanship, or in Service
rendered, Every appliance, is unconditionally guaranteed to satis-
factorily perform the task for which it is intended.
There is a “Universal” Household Help for every Home Need.
y°" r n ei ghk o r or your dealer about their merits—THEY
IviNOU and will be proud to tell you.
Wholesale Distributors —
W. G. WATSON & COMPANY, LTD
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
RABBIT DESTRUCTION
WITH
CALCIUM CYANIDE
&
FUMO
brand
&
m
*
Why let your land continue to be infested with
rabbits ?
It matters not what the country is like—wet or
dry, rocky or sandy, river banks or timbered, moun-
tain or pIain—CALCIUM CYANIDE will clean
it up.
CALCIUM CYANIDE is liter-
ally worth its weight in gold to the
stockowner, when used with the
Fumo Dust Blower.
r ull particulars promptly on request.
State Distributors:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzaeott's (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
ABORICINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
F 3.7 : The old-time sheep-dogs that wove
leggings (B. 16/4/’25) recall a character who had
a run in the Dawson country (Q.). Sheep were
then washed before shearing, and picked up a lot
of dirt again by the time they reached the shed
Determined to prevent this, the old chap had a
number of waistcoats made from unbleached calico.
These had four “armholes” and were put on flic
sheep in the drying-vards, being fastened down (lie
“front” with large wooden buttons. More than
one stranger to the district took the pledge after
meeting a mob of these jacketed jumbucks on their
way to the shed. I think it was the trouble of dress-
ing and undressing them that caused the abandon-
ment of this bright idea.
“Up Top”: Every 12 months or so a
pearling lugger needs a spring cleaning, and that’s
the time to get cheap fish. The boat is weighted
down on the beach so that the incoming tides will
swamp her decks. The year’s crop of cockcroachcs
hop from their hiding-places and come up for a
breather. That’s when the fish get busy. The boys
with brooms sweeping the ’roaches from the masts’
and the white men, using dynamite, collect a great
haul of fish. The ’roaches originally come aboard
attracted by the fragments of meat adhering to the
oyster sh'ell, breed quickly, and then raid the crew’s
provisions. This, of course, means retaliation. And
so life laughs on, everything eating everything else.
* * * *
Yarrum” : I’m satisfied, after what I saw
near Merriwa (N.S.W.) a month ago, that the
wildest bullock will not harm a man unless the
latter be afraid and show it. Jim Lennox, of
Borramlnl, well over 60, faced a long-haired Here-
ford and kept his eyes steadily fixed on those of
the beast. The bullock charged a dozen times, but
•Tames never shifted his No. 10’s. Each time he
flicked a handkerchief into the maddened critter’s
face; and he turned, and charged the other wav
about Once only the man looked away, and the
bullock then came at him ; but the hanky fluttered
again, and he was off. Of course, it is not every
man could do it; and it is not many would try.
Billy See ’: The processional caterpillar
seems to be fairly common throughout Australia,
in the W.A. desert it is pure white and fluffy like
a Persian cat. I have never seen any parchment-
like nests in the trees (B. 5/8/’26), but species often
vary greatly in their habits. At night these insects
coil up like an old-fashioned rope mat. The Cool-
gardie goldfields, despite their sterility, are the most
catei pillar-infested regions I know of. Dozens of
species exist and, when they hatch in the spring,
the offspring number millions. They all seem to
be moving towards the east. I reckon this directional
instinct is intended by nature to prevent them turn-
mg on their tracks and wandering back into eaten-
out districts. Of course the tail end of the migra-
tion gradually drops off from starvation.
“Morob”: A beautiful little animal is the
Jving.squirrel of Manus and the adjoining islands
in the North-Western p ac i fic . xhe avera?e length
of these little creatures is four to six inches but
I saw one, apparently full-grown, which measured
•U , 0I " the h P of , its tail to its nose. They
a e excellent pets, quickly becoming so tame tha*
*7 u ca " be ca, ' ri cd about in a coat pocket, from
which they will emerge at intervals to run up a
sleeve and sit on one’s shoulder or climb on to the
brim of one's hat. Since they are almost identical
m every respect with the larger squirrels of other
i ount ries, the chances are that the ancestors of the
present inhabitants were of the ordinary squirrel
size.
* * » *
“Pick” : Nature does not fashion likenesses
out of gold alone (B. 9/4/’2i>). On the northern
shore of the Port Hacking River (N.S.W.) is a
sandstone rock weathered into the form of a sheep
stumbling into the water below. Even the facial
expression is that of a dejected sick-worn straggler
stumbling on to death.
“Mephisto”: “Nitric” (B. 16/4/’25) seems
a bit mixed about bee paralysis and dysentery.
Paralysis in bees is caused by poisoning by pollen
or honey, while dysentery is brought about by damp-
ness. or the honey-dew collected from the secretions
oi honey-dew lice (Lecanivm ailiae). Obviously, lee-
la ml-popp\ pollen could not cause dysentery, and J
doubt if it has any bad effects at all. My dad’s hives
are particularly free from disease, and we and our
neighbors grow Iceland poppies in profusion. But
ihere are plants poisonous to bees. In some cases —
ihe wild jasmine, for example—the honey is capable
ol poisoning human beings as well. Fortunately
such cases are scarce in Australia. At present medi-
cal men are doing some research iri the matter of
paralysis of humans due to pollen-poisoning. Flowers
may fall from trees to a roof and be washed into
the tank. Pollen grains may also be blown from
flowers over a large area and may be inhaled. An
OUR MODEL FARM.
example of this is the catching of hay fever by a
person riding a mile to leeward of a dried field of
hay. It is interesting to note that certain pollen
poisons on analysis give reactions identical with
those given by some poisons that cause disease in
human beings.
* * * *
“Coolabah”: I have frequently seen birds
trying to destroy one of their own kind (B.
23/4/’2o). Peewits and magpies are the chief offend-
ers. As a rule, the fugitive has met with an acci-
dent, such as a disabled wing or leg. In such case
the unfortunate creature is condemned to death, but
one would not expect its companions to exhibit
so much ferocity as they do. Crows and hawks will
also cuff' and peck a wounded comrade to death.
In the case described by “Hecagus” the peewit set
on was probably an alien driven from his own dis-
trict because no mate fell to his lot, and by chance
reaching a locality where the pairing had come out
even.
* * * *
“Hopalong”: In Queensland mud-wasps
build everywhere. The ceilings and corners of a
house have to be continually watched. Behind doors
and pictures and under shelves the creatures are
continually building. The sleeves or folds of a
Sunday suit are favorite places, and if one opens
in a hurry an umbrella which has been unused for
a time there follows a shower of mud, remnants of
spiders and caterpillars and babv wasps. The spiders
and caterpillars provide the food of the larvre of
the wasp, which passes through iis insect stages in-
side the mud cell. Another variety seems to have
been sent specially to fill with mud every hole in
a house. Keyholes are much favored by them. A
friend of mine cemented his garden paths before
going away on holiday, thinking to give the con-
crete a chance to set before he returned. On coming
home he found every keyhole in the house cemented
up. How the wasps expected their young ones to
get out when it took a carpenter half a day to let
l’.rown and his family get in is a mystery. The
one redeeming feature of the wasp is his diet; for
he must destroy many harmful caterpillars in on«
season to keep his tucker-box full.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”; Brown Brother was giving
evidence in a Papuan native court. “Now,” said the
magistrate, severely, “how far away were you when
Aikari threw the spear?" “’Bout fipteen yard,
taubada,” was the prompt response. “You savee
how’ far fifteen yards?” asked the magistrate, sus-
piciously. The boy looked hurt, “f savee, taubada,”
he answered. "Fipteen yard all some fipteen
mile!”
“Tamornie”: Years ago two men from the
Batchelor Farm (N.T.) went into Darwin and com-
plained to a clerk in the Agricultural Office that
there had been no fresh meat at the farm for some
time. They said there were numerous goats there
which would have been acceptable if the manager
had permitted them to be killed. The clerk returned
that the goats, being pure-bred Angoras, were for
breeding purposes. One of the men replied that he
was well aware of that., but there were wether
goats which were useless for any other purpose than
eating. The clerk insisted that the goats were
breeders. The man, exasperated, said: “You can’t
breed from wether goats, you darned fool.” To
which the clerk airily replied: “Oh, it has been
done, it has been done. When I was in Pata-
gonia”—— The slamming door cut off the rest.
* * *
“Troopliorse”: “Gouger’s” discovery of a
dreadful “sea-egg” (B. 16/4/’25) with its hundreds
of poisoned spines on the Sir Edward Pellew group
is news to us who have spent years in and around
the group, living on Vanderlm Island and combing
the beaches and coves for marine products. We have
worked a good few niggers in the locality, and,
what’s more, mostly marine at that, and never did
w e hear any complaints from them in regard to
this supposed “debil-debil.” The only trouble we
had was with sharks and jellyfish in the wet season.
Possibly Gouger” has been reading all about the
Pellew Islands m the report made by the officers of
the survey-ship Geranium. Walhalla, the fresh-
water lake on the northern end of Vanderlin Island
is a beautiful stretch of water with a golden sandy
bottom. We were the first white people to inspect
it, and 1 personally piloted several officers from the
warship to it. There is a second smaller lake close
by. Fish abound in it, but, strange to say, it is
visited by very few wildfowl. The natives have a
great respect for the lake, for now and again a
rainbow casts its reflection on the water, and the
natives think the big spirit is warning them against
entering it. They will fish on the outer
edges up to their knees, but only when several others
are watching their movements from tree-tops near In.
I lie only real “dead narks” we struck were
gone wild. These brutes would beat us to the
turtle-eggs. Plenty of feathered game visit the
islands, while fish and dugorig are in plenty'. Small
rock-wallabies are to be found on the larger islands.
'H tiny a" ; Charitably assuming that “(i.
Henry was quite sober whrn he ring out that
bluish-green snake with no apparent head or tail
(H. 9/4/'25), what he found was doubtless one of
the so-called “blind-worms,” which really arc snakes.
Ibe eyes are present, but degenerated from want of
ose, and covered by scales, and the reptiles arc
literally blind. The exceedingly well-polished body
scales enable them to move easily through the
earth, and a small, hard, thorn-like point is usually
present at the end of the tail for the same purpose.
They live entirely underground, and their long suit is
white ants. I have never seen one that taped more
than about 2ft.
* * * *
“Sucre”: I want to introduce the mail-
woman, Cobb s coach now being interred. Mrs.
Ooode, one of the finest horsewomen in Australia,
carried the mails from Warwick (Q.) to Lucky Val-
ley, 25 miles, on three times a week. She
weighs only 7st. 21b., but never let a flooded creek
interfere with her duties. I signed her on and off
every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. She got
£42 p.a. for the job.
* * * *
“T.C.8.": For two years I was out on
Walpole Island, 100 miles s.-e. of New Caledonia,
and just within the tropics. It was then being worked
by an Australian co. for guano. When a steamer
called for a cargo, it sometimes brought four or
five fat sheep for fresh meat. Two of them broke
loose and went bush apd joined a large flock of
goats which ran wild on the island. Once a week
w e sent three island boys to shoot two or
three goats as fresh meat for the boys.
They had instructions to, if possible, get
the sheep, but for 10 months both of’ them
evaded the natives. Then they shot one. During the
10 months of its liberty it had never had a drink
because even after a 6in. fall of rain, no water
remained on the surface; the whole island being of
coral formation, it got away as fast as it fell. The
other sheep was brought in about a month later.
Both were in prime killing condition. The wild
goats (once domestic) have been there for years
without chunking water. They live on the leaves of
shrubs and trees, those from the banyan being
their favorite.
* * * *
“Freddy Freelance”: A friend owns a dog,
of no particular breed. A while back she went up
to a position near Cassilis (N.S.W.). She took the
animal with her, although it meant a trip of well
over 200 miles. He travelled to Mudgee in the
train dog-box, and was then taken 50 miles in a
car to Cassilis. After a week or two my friend
was forced to return to Sydney at short notice, and
had to leave the hound behind. As the car took
her out of sight the poor creature howled woefully.
Months passed, and one day I happened to be with
niv friend in Park-street, Sydney, when the dog
lushed frantically up to us. He knew that his
mistress would probably be found in Sydney, and
had made his way through scores of towns, until at
last he had reached the city.
* * * *
Phoney” : In the bad old days of Broome
there was one shell-opener who realised that there
is luck even in dishonesty. On his first trip out
he found two good pearls of much the same size
and shape. He looked at them too often and be-
came fascinated. Being in a quandary, for his cap-
tain had treated him well, he eventually decided to
go 50-50, and handed one to the boss, and sold
the other to a snide buyer. The boss’s pearl brought
the opener £75 in commission; the stolen one
cleaned down until its value, so the snide buyer
said, amounted to a tenner. On board the lugger
he had tossed to decide which pearl he w'ould keep.
* * *. *
“Bunya : What is Australia’s biggest
moth? I have caught and measured the ordinary
brown bat-moth under street lamps at night, and
have found an occasional one just over six inches
across the wings. Queensland certainly possesses
moths much larger than many birds. I think the
largest are the northern wood moths, whose grubs
are the ruinous tree borers so much beloved by
the black cockatoos. The marbled wood-moth goes
half a foot across the wings, but he is a fly compared
with the big, brown, scaly Macleay’s moth which
measures nearly a foot from tip to tip. Is this the
Australian record ?
* * * *
“Joe R.”: While working in a paddock
about 18 months ago a farmer on the N.-W. Coast
of Tasmania, observed a hawk sitting on the ground
clutching what, appeared to be a rabbit. On res-
cuing it, he found it to be a little sow pig. Although
it. was minus an eye and had its nose cut badly, he
managed to keep it alive, and has since been’ re
warded for his trouble with a fine litter of 13.
(Continued on page 24-)
AUTUMN IN BATHURST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down west from the timbered slopes of the steep
Dividing Range
I see the face o' the land in shadow and sunshine
change;
1 speed on the golden plain to a city of spires and
r rees
Thai ding their yellowing leaves adrift on a madcap
breeze,
Sounding rudely among the twigs like the wash of
autumn seas.
The noon is windy and clear, while robed in a purple
gown
The walls of the tree-clad range on the flashing roofs
gaze down ;
And the willows sweep and sway (ill their tresses,
once so fair.
Sail off on a shallow stream from the gusts that
speak despair.
And wings of a fretful autumn gale beat hard on
the branches bare.
The rays of (he evening sun flash gold on the city
dome ;
And across Ihe amber west a squadron of cranes sail
home.
Smoke drives from the stubble slopes and curtains
the furrowed swells;
Leaves droop in the garden-plots and fall from the
. plundered cells.
And sweet is the measure of organ praise and the
sound of vesper bells.
.v.s.w.
CIERARDY.


I WANT
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
PLEASE
« «
■<ar
i -aHk
life*
m
: f.
:" ;;. v ; :
■Hfl
-
;i:
■MB
isOFi> '.St'
■
■
1
«p^Hpp|
88888
HHHaHpii
■ •:. •
m
s i
I
-■■
Blp; . J r '
' ■ ■
' ■' ;'
'
~V>=\
MH
L:i
.i
: -- •' ■ >" :
4 •
* . ■* -\ • •: ."!
■Hi
«'■••-■
HI
■hhhbHWHPB
■ ■
... .-—-i
M
s»Bi
WSMi
mmmm
Ry
v *' : '
lIP
■■i
■
W if
: i
1 »
:
.
■ ■:
: : A«
if^nl
..
*
■
•r.,.: t j
»
m. s
|
: i
• 'v'


Cbe
Equitable
mm
Cife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Brancher •,
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
MALTHOID
a
General
W ater-proofing
Fabric.
&
c#
PABCOLIN
Floor
BUGS
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC
Hard-wearing
Enamel service.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CHaLLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE'S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows —
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe.
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
“Colub” : Somebody lias been pulling “Up
North’s” leg with the yarn about < racking a snake
like a whip so that its head flies off (B. 23/4/’25).
Although the belief that snakes can be killed in this
way has a wide distribution, it is quite impossible to
do it. For one thing, the upper third of the snake’s
body is plentifully supplied with firm and strong
muscles- —the ones it uses to strike and also to move
with—and these form a cushion extending several
inches from the base of its head, surrounding the
vertebraj and protecting it from injury. As for
breaking its back in the same way, this might, be
done were the reptile to keep perfectly still and
limp, during the operation; but, unfortunately, the
average snake will not do so. Instead, it expands
its body and contorts itself vigorously.
“Gouger”: “R.N.W.’s” par (B. 9/4/'25)
re queer shapes of nuggets reminds me of the good
old opal days and the wonderful “patterns” of those
gems of flame. One White Cliffs beauty was a perfect
map of North America and brought a great price.
But there were other “map” stones; I’Ve seen
several perfect representations. A beautiful stone
from the Cliffs Was known as “the Lake”; you could
even see the shadows of the trees within the won-
derful depths. Lightning Ridge, which brought the
gorgeous “flame stones,” was another home of curious
patterns. There I’Ve seen many “sun” stones, rolling
balls of fire whose crimson leaped as you turned
them. Many of the “pattern” stones were perfect;
Scotch plaids, except that the colors were far too
wonderful for man to imitate. The harlequin stones
often had colors of matchless beauty. An occasional
“freak” Would carry the pattern of a well-known
man or woman. I remember “Napolecn,” “Edward
A DAUGHTER OF EVE.
“The serpent tempted her, and she did eat,”
VII.” and “Billy Hughes.” Then there was the
“Ship” stone, a full-rigged ship on a frothy green
sea; and many “Cloud,” “Sea” and “Tree” stones,
were unearthed. E. F. Murphy, one of the earliest
opal buyers of the Cliffs, made a wonderful collection
of these freaks.
A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE.
DAISY: “What a dear little doggie! What do you call it?”
LARRY: “Do you mean mot's ’is name, Miss, or wot I calls ’im?"
“Hamer”: “Ragar” (B. 16/4/’2f>) talks
about a camphor-turpentine solution as a guard
against fleas. A lot of bush Workers have a remedy,
taken internally, which is a buckler against all
insects with nipping tendencies. They reckon that
a tegular dosing with sulphur makes the blood as
abhorrent to the biter as beer to a prohibitionist.
* * * *
“Wandi”: A medium-sized denizen of
Queensland scrubs that the unwary might choose as
a garden ornament is the kajalga-tree fErythTvphleum
laboucheri), „said to be the mdst poisonous tree in
the world. The only other like it is found in Africa.
The beans it produces cause, blindness if eaten, and
every part of the tree is highly poisonous, the leaves
and bark being fatal to stock. It was well known to
the blacks before the first whites encountered it, and
they declared that even the smoke of the burning wood
was dangerous. But they used the wood for making
woomeras, boomerangs and-swords, because it is hard
and tough, With a beautiful grain.
* * * *
“Troophorse” : “Bouragi’s” par. on Papuan
skulls (fi. 23/4/’25) reminds me of an experience
I had in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Whilst combing a little island for
its marine produce, I came oh a
-small caVe With numerous paper-
bark packages holding the remains
of human bodies. Lying handy
were several skulls. From these
I selected six, mostly on account
of the cracks; one or tWo were
complete with every tooth. Hav-
ing carefully packed them in an
old flour-bag they were stowed
away in the hold of the lugger.
Then the fun started ; first, head-
winds, then a young cyclone, and
to cap the lot the reefed foresail
event to ribbons. Naturally, after
all this rotten luck I blamed the
skulls. So I came to the con-
clusion the best thing I could do
Was to heave them overboard.
After removing a haich I stopped
to think awhile, and then made
aft to my mate. “I sgy, Jim.
are you superstitious?” His reply
to me was not to be so dam’
foolish. So I went forward again
and covered up the hatches. Weeks
later we happened to run into an
old mate, and during the morn-
ing's yarn over affairs in general
abo. skulls came info question.
Orders were given to one Of the
native crew to open up the
hate h. I then directed the boy
to hand me up the bag containing
our specimens. Gutting away the
bit of twine from aroimd the
heck, I capsized the contents on
the deck. The boy just stared,
gave one grunt and fell head-over-
heels into the sea, making for
shore in the fastest of times, and would hot venture
on board again at any price.
“8.0. G.”: “GfD.C.” says (B. 16/4-/’25)
that a party of seven inoculated 9300 wethers in
one day. Each man had to catch and lift on to
the rail 1320 sheep. At the rate of one per minute
they would have to work without a break for 22
hours. At what time of the year have we that
many hours of daylight? It cannot be done and
never has been done.
» * * *
“Gouger”: The Cape York Peninsula
nigger grows fat when the Torres Strait pigeon
season comes round. The birds arrive in millions
and every night fly
from the mainland to
their island roosting-
placies in flocks, almost
always keeping to the
same route. Bin jhi
notices a convenient
tree in the usual line
of flight. Just before
sundown he climbs it
and gets out on th?
branches with a 15-
foot baixiboo, and as
the thickly-packed flock
swoops past, down
comes the stick. I’ve
seen a dozen bagged
this way. Occasionally
the route will be be-
tween two closely-set
trees. Between these
Binghi stretches a thin
lawyer-cane. Drooping
down from it is a net
made of twisted grass
almost invisible when
the rays of the sinking
sun strike upon it.
The flock dives info
this net at big sped,
and there results a
great execution. On
the islands where the
plump birds roost in
cm n bless numbers the
natives prepare heaps of
smoke-producing wood
under the trees. They
1R- t them at night,
and the pigeons come
down stupefied in
hundreds. With the
boomerang Binghi is
great at killing both
pigeons and cockatoos.
In the case of Ithe
latter, the wounded
birds act as a decoy and make such a screeching
that the air above is soon alive with feathered
white furies circling just above the ground, whilst
Binghi whizzes boomerang after boomerang among
them. For smaller game he makes bird-lime from
the resin of numerous trees.
* » * *
“1.L.1.”: Among the Torres Islands I've
seen the sail-fish a good 6ft. long. He is blue,
picked out with brown spots. His belly supports two
long fins, he wears a prow like an overgrown gar-
fish, and has a swallow-tail rudder and two strong
Slue oars. Running along his back is a big fin like
a sail with stripes on each side. This sail is fully
3ft. long and 18in. high. When under full rig the
fish travels like a clipper, but if approached downs
sail with a snap.
“W.Y.N.”: A recent writer in The Bul-
letin was in error in stating that the Tasmanian devil
raids settlers’ henroosts. It i* the tiger-cat, or
native-cat, that does the damage. I lived for years
in country where both these animals, especially the
tiger-cats, were plentiful, and it was an almost
nightly occurrence for them to attack the ebook",
but I never saw or heard of an instance in which
a Tassie devil was the culprit. The tiger-cats—
with dark-colored fur and light spots—grew larger
in heavily timbered country than the devils; hut it
was nevertheless wonderful the small hole they could
squeeze through. Cracks that one would have
imagined could hardly allow the pas.sage of a large
rat would permit the entrance of these creatures.
The native-cats, with dark spots on a light ground,
were not much bigger than a. weasel, and it was
almost impossible to keep them out of a roughly
built fowlhouse. Fortunately, they confined them-
selves, as a rule, to the open country, but when they
did pay us a visit the slaughter was Homeric.
Working almost silently and only sucking the blood,
they would he found next morning gorged and
curled up asleep on the scene of their labors, and
surrounded by the corpses of their victims. The
tiger-cats preferred to seize a fowl and carry it off
when possible.
“Herodot” : A Persian prize cat owned by
a Strathfield (N.S.W.) family became the mother of
four kittens, which, as they grew up, were allowed
to play about the yard of the garage in which they
were kept. When they were, about three weeks old
a fox-terrier bitch who some months previously had
had a litter of pups began to take great interest in
them, and to one kitten in particular. A few days
later she “adopted” this kitten, carrying it in
her mouth to her kennel and resisting every effort
of the frantic cat to get it back again. The kitten
was subsequently restored to the bosom (or there-
abouts) of its family, but the fox-terrier seizes
pvery opportunity to take it back, licking it over and
treating it exactly as though it were one of her
fown puppies. That all of. her litter had been taken
away at an early age, and that for some time
afterwards she was disconsolate, may explain her
affection for kit.
♦ * * *
‘‘.Timmy Possum” Rc marsupial mothers’
usual allotment of babies. I’ve seen Mrs. Roo more
than once with two curious infants peeping from
the pouch, arid have shot several lady wallabies
with two young hoppers in the cradle. Mrs. Koala
I have seen swinging in a tree-top with two young
rubber-noses riding on her back, and numbers of
the ordinary forest ’possums with a pair of immature
squawkers in the dillybag. On a few occasions Mrs.
Ringtail has been observed carrying a family of
four of the one age; but, the usual allotment of
DESCRIPTION.
“Hast seen Cap'n’s funny ole two-foot rule, maate?”
“No, bony. Who's 'ee like?”
“ ’ E’s darn great big wan —’bout four feet long.”
this lady is two. Also I have found Ma Bandicoot
making for the potato patch with a family of six;
but the old girl’s average would hardly be more
than four, though she has feeding accommodation for
half a dozen.
“Nitric”: A unique cross from the mating
of a galah parrot and a cockatoo, both pets, exists in
Toowoomba (Q.). The galah produced four eggs and
each one hatched out a bird. These hybrids
possess French-grey feathers on their wings, crim-
son crests, yellow feathers on the breast and orange
under the wings, most of these colorings being inter-
mediate between the parents’ characteristic mark-
ings. The birds are larger than the galah but
smaller than the cockatoo, and all are showing symp-
toms of being good “talkers.”
IN ADVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Please do not wait until I’m dead
And ’neath the grasses laid
To quote the clever things I said,
The merry jokes I made;
But while I’m present stimulate
My auditory nerve
And let me get my joy to date,
The pleasure I deserve.
Don’t wait until I am no more
To write in verses choice
How much my absence you deplore
And how you miss my voice;
But write—if write you must—to-day
Your lyrics full of jam,
And let me read them while 1 may
And know how loved I am.
Don’t, wait until I’ve left the earth
To sigh and bring to mind
That 1 was full of sterling worth,
Good, patient, true and kind.
Acclaim my virtues while I’m here,
My fame in life advance,
Extol and laud me far and near
While you have got the chance.
And, finally, all thought resign
And every good intent.
Of building o’er my graVe a fine,
Expensive monument.
The cash you’d spend this way would come
To quite a tidy fee;
So gather in that welcome sum
And give it now to me.
victoria.
PURSKOLE.


o
o
f:
I
OWNU' '
m
y' t (
\ S~
an
rm
■
t
Cft
wm
*m
10 :
. 00M
v. y • ' V
iii'V- , _ _
, i *'< ‘
S
% ?
mm
m
1
M
jy?
jr
/ i
u
\\
1....
Qbtainable
All Agents,
DUNLOP RUBBER C 9
of AUS.UJB-
ALL STATES 6- N.ZS"


%
ml
A
s
mfJe.
w*
\>
,3
sSK
MO fJj? -ij - _S t/4. A- <'l/>4
DEWAR'S
THE SPIRIT IRRESISTIBLE
The sea has a charm all its own, and so has Dewar’s Whisky. As inyigorating
as the winds that blow from out of space, Dewars, like a well found ship, brings
content; boundless and satisfying.


I *
* I 9
mxe
From Home
To Home
The pleasure of a stay in Melbourne
is enhanced when you make your
temporary home at “ Scott’s. ”
At this exclusive hotel your every want
has been anticipated and is met in a
manner that truly breathes the atmos-
phere of the “ home from home. ”
The Newly Completed Extension
which makes available an enlarged Dining
Room, Spacious Lounge, Bedrooms with
Baths attached, is just as completely, and
palatially appointed as the original section
of this popular and centrally located hotel.
Write for Tariff Card
Melbourne
Fm-S-*
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc,, etc.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne.
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK & DOVLE
Phones Central 1532, 1533.
Boatracc week was a carnival of youth, in
which schoolgirls, flappers and boys of all
ages, back to the third generation, joined. On
Friday and Saturday afternoons barrackers
cheered their favorites on to glory or defeat
with college songs; motor-cars were done up
like flighty dowagers with mascots, college
pennons and yards of ribbon, and enterprising
tiims had the competitors’ badges printed on
everything, from frying-pans to cups. The
palm for business acumen goes to the em-
porium that opened a ribbon-counter almost
on the footpath. Judging by the quantity of
cardinal, blue and gold about, half Mel-
bourne’s population graduated from or is
being caned at Scotch College, which was
carrying off the honors what time its sister,
the P.L.C., was celebrating its jubilee. The
Yarra’s dimensions not allowing for moving
craft as well as contestants, the 50,000 on-
lookers risked landslips on the banks, and
Henley lawns were Society’s chief strong-
hold.
For once, at the dancing resorts in the
evening, Ma and Dad took back seats, and
youth led in the foxtrot. It seems not to
matter much who wins the race, since all
competitors are heroes, and the vanquished’s
“favors” are just as proudly worn as the vic-
tors’. The defeated Grammars got a rousing
reception at His Majesty’s, jvhich was one of
the “flagships” of the evening and was packed
with girls let out of nursery and school for
the occasion. The J.C.W. firm did itself
proud. Shields of all the competing colleges
hung over the proscenium, from which all
colors formed a canopy ; the scent of gum-
leaves came from miles of garlands looped to
golden baskets of blossoms and lights, and
balloons sailed up from every chair. “Prim-
rose” Maud Fane, Frith and co. never had
such appreciation before, and stallites found
themselves smothered in streamers from the
packed phalanxes above. The screening of
the day’s event caused nearly as much excite-
ment as the real race. Tributes for the
artists included a gun for Maud, plus Sun-
day’s dinner in a brace of snipe. Scotch,
Wesley and Geelong competitors rallied at
the Princess’s, - here Dorothy Brunton and
the “Little Jessie James” co. played before a
house hidden behind flowers and streamers
and ploughed their way to the footlights
through a barrage of balloons and paper rib-
bons, released when knight Arthur Robinson
hurled the first coil at the final curtain. The
Oriental Hotel, besides feeding 400, also
housed the annual dinner-dance of the Old
Boys of Xavier College. A skiff picked out
in lights «of Scotch College hung over the
dancers as a tribute to the victors. Jennie
Brenan found the Embassy too small to
accommodate patrons; Carlyon’s, at St.
Kilda, had a record attendance of 1100;
Menzies’ beautiful dining-hall was full of
parties feasting crews; and Scott’s Hotel was
another centre of rejoicing.
Interesting to recall that all this fun and
classic pomp began in a challenge, sent by
Scotch College to Melbourne Grammar on
June 17, 1868, to a friendly four-oar gig
race next day on the Yarra.
The P.L.C., where Melba was schooled,
golden-jubileed last week with continuous
partying. Old girls and former teachers
came from far villages to celebrate. The
college, which sprang from a kindergarten,
began its career with 60 pupils, and over
600 now answer to the roll. Highbrow
education began about 1879, and to-day there
is a brilliant array of ex-students adorning
the professions, and the realms of science,
education, literature and even horticulture
rustle with P.L.C. skirts. A garden party
led off the junketing, Governor Stradbroke
saying the opening words. Moderator Tait,
M.A., presided over the official happenings,
and Principal W. Gray’s other half, Mrs.
•T. P. Wilson and Mrs. .Timmy Dyer, presi-
dent of the Old Collegians’ Assoc., did the
honors of the frivolous side. Present-day
pupils gave a display of eurhythmies, while
former students murmured that they never
had such chances. Edward (Toll caressed
the piano, and there was a spate of tea and
chatter until the shades of night crept around
Fitzroy Gardens.
Four hundred Old Collegians plus menfolk
had a jubilee dinner at the Wattle, while
an overflow of a hundred invaded the Wind-
sor Hotel: and all adjourned afterwards
to His Majesty’s. At the larger eating Miss
A. Murray Fortune, who hon. secretaried
the old Collegians’ part of the jubilee, found
a cheque amid a presentation posy of flowers.
A couple of thousand Britishers witnessed
an Italian invasion on Thursday evening,
even to the raising of the national flag;
but none rushed to tear the emblem down,
for it wms a floral tribute from the Sistine
soloists to Galli-Curci at her final concert at
the Auditorium. Maestro Casolari handed
up the huge pennon in crimson gladioli, white
cactus dahlias and mignonette, merging from
a base of similar flowers and laurel leaves.
It contributed a pleasant touch to Amelita’s
hectic send-off, which went to the tune of
“For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” The star
was hugely popular with Melbourne’s work-
ers, as the numerous decidedly home-made
posies testified. Charming in many ropes
of pearls upon an inexpensive frock of
petunia-hued taffeta, wired at the hips with
darker velvet waistbelt looped to a trail
of huge pink roses, the lady spilled her
delightful notes generously, giving the
Spanish “Clavelitos” as her parting number.
Last seen, the singer’s car was being escorted
to Menzies’ by a bodyguard of police and
about half the audience; and another win
was recorded for the Tait family.
Quite impossible the past week not to
tread on ecclesiastical corns on the broad
highway or in the cable cars, for the
Church (of England) Congress has brought
Holy Orders here in sable clouds. Psychology
was the usual theme in the business trams
morning and evening, unless some homesick
cleric was not led off the path to exclaim
about the weather being frosty and foggy
enough to be quaite English. Social func-
tions included an afternoon of chat and tea
to organ accompaniment at St. Kilda Town
Hall, the President and committee of the
A.C.C. being responsible. His Grace of
Melbourne and Mrs. Harrington Lees received
the visitors, the lady in black touched up
with jade green. A layman, W. S. Kent
Hughes, son of a popular Councillor, rushed
in where the anointed fear to tread by
announcing at a session that the most im-
portant problem of to-dav was “Whv are
the churches empty?” His Grace rebuked
the presumptuous one. All the churches
were not empty. Those that were in charge
of the right men were increasingly full.
Which reminds this Chatterer of a celebrated
divine who asked a theatrical star why he
always had full houses when the churches
were but poorly patronised. “Ah,” replied
the mummer, “we actors make fiction look
like fact. You clerics make fact look like
fiction.”
This is Maorilander Cecil Haines, wdio is
playing the unattractive slavey of “The Mas-
querader” at
the King’s
Theatre so at-
tractively as
to threaten the
laurels of Guy
Bates Post.
Post is never-
theless very
proud of his
find. Seven
years ago she
was in the
'-ole of “Peggy
Forsythe,” the
small girl of
the piece.
Cecil, whose
iome is now
Sydney, began
when she was
six years old
winning elocu-
tionary com-
petitions in
her own islands. She appeared with the late
Sydney James’s “Strollers,” and made the
hit of her few years as Suds in “Seven Little
Australians.” Since her present principal’s
previous visit she has been kept at school,
and this is her first grown-up part. La
Fayette has caught the lass in pensive mood,
evidently wondering whether she can manage
the big part wdiich is likely to come to her
very soon.
Settings of gold are among the favored
surrounds lor brides of the moment. Joyce
Jennings, youngest maiden of the Percy Jen-
nings, of Sandringham, who said “I will”
to Russell Barrett, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. Barrett of Toorak, had church ap-
pointments in white and gold, and a gilded
trio of attendants—niece Joan Whitton
train-bearer, cousin Lorua Macdonald, and
Sheila Barrett, all gold lace and tissue. The
leading lady displayed grandmamma’s wedding
veil of Limerick lace, wdiich rippled over a
narrow train of gold and silver, attached to a
parchment-liued gown of heavy crepe satin.
A sheaf of yellow roses and a string of pearls
were etceteras. Bride’s parents feasted some
150 guests at their home, where gold and
crimson blossoms in gold baskets glimmered
among the eatables. The hostess was nicely
in the picture, with gold additions to black
raiment and ospreyed black velvet millinery.
The George Syme knight and his lady gave
a bit to eat at the Oriental to Dr. and Mrs.
Robertson, of Bananaland, and their daugh-
ter, when they put in here last week on
their way to London. Most of the guests
could have produced stethoscopes—among
them were Newman Morris and Kent
Hughes, with their wives; Dr. and Miss
Fetherston and Dr. Stanley Argyle.
The Dickinson-Monteath studio here pictures
Clive Carey, singer, composer and pianist,
Professor at
the Adelaide
Conserva
torium. Last
week on vaca-
tion here his
fine baritone
notes and dic-
ti o n gained
hirn much ap-
plause. While
a teacher at
the Royal Col
lege of Music,
London, prior
to the war he
produced “The
Magic Flute”
at Cambridge,
and at the Old
Vie. presented
“Figaro and
Don Gio
vanni.” His
own play with
music, “All Fools’ Day," was a feature of
a Glastonbury festival. For four years a
pupil of and accompanist to the late Jean
de Reszke, Mr. Carey pays tribute to the
brilliant talents and energy of his great
master, who at 74 could teach seven hours
a day and still sing with power and beauty.
During the Great Scrap Clive Carey served
in the ranks of the A.M.C. for a couple of
years, finishing in Italy.
Victorian members of the British Music
Society are in luck's way in having as honor-
ary representative Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who
periodically throws open her Toorak parlors
for functions which would lose much of their
charm in the chill of a concert-hall. An
artistically furnished drawing-room, comfort-
able chairs and briquettes glowing in the fire-
places make quite the right atmosphere for a
lecture on folk-songs of Merrie England,
which was the theme of Clive Carey’s musi-
cally-illustrated discourse there on May 4.
President Thomas Brentnall extended thanks
to the visitor, who comes from the Adelaide
Con., and to Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy. Hostess
Mas in a wrapping of black, over which gold
roses wandered; a halo-like comb of black
lace backgrounded her fair unshingled locks.
Lady Forster showed her interest in the
R.A.N. Friendly Union by holding the annual
meeting at Government House, the last at
which she will preside. Hon. sec. Mrs. M.
Ramsay, who resigned after several years of
service, reported successful progress and addi-
tional membership of 63. Mrs. Rawson
takes on the duties. President Mrs. Hall
Thompson thanked the G.-G.’s lady for her
hospitality and regretted that this was a swan
song. Her Ex. gave a sort of general invi-
tation to members who travelled to the Great
Smok'' to look in at Hampshire and say
how-d’y’-do.
The able-bodied citizen will feel proud and
a little chastened when he visits the exhibi-
tion of furniture made in their factory by
our disabled soldiers. For the coming month
at the Charity Organisation’s Society’s pre-
mises in Exhibition-street, corner of Little
Collins-street, the work of these 22 men may
be seen—and purchased: buyers wall get
full value for their money. The French-
polishers, all one-armed men, can compete
with the best of them, as seen in the Royal
Bank and on several of our ocean liners.
Able craftsmen in spite of missing limbs or
serious injuries, they can copy any class of
furniture. A number of period chairs were
made from an original to Dame Nellie Melba’s
order. Inventive genius is seen in a just-
patented extension table. Where the leaves
go when there is no party is the secret —the
thing should be labelled the flat-dweller’s
joy.
Jimmy Baehelder and his Californian
Collegians have gone home, and Bert Ralton
and his Savoy Havana band have come to
gladden the toes of trippers round the
spreading chestnut-tree in Carlyon’s ball-
room. Already capacity houses have been
recorded at the Sunday-afternoon and -even-
ing concerts given by Ralton’s Rumtytu ai-
mers at Carlyon’s, and dancers are extolling
the charm of jazz to syncopated grand-opera.
111-health preventing Mrs. D. Thomas from
further officiating as president of the House-
wives’ Association, her co-workers gave her
a party at the Women’s Automobile Club
in appreciation of her services, and showed
their housewifely sense by adding a wallet
of notes. President Mrs. Andrew Glencross,
in a sheath of black-beaded georgette, ex-
tended the glad hand to the guest of honor,
who also glistened in black. Madame Lottie
Gordon gathered together the music-makers
who assisted in the cheer.
Admiral Sturdee, of Falkland Isles fame,
just gone to the last roll-call, was a brother
of Dr. Sturdee, of Melbourne. A son of
the latter was one of the youngest colonels
in the Permanent Sappers—managing to slip
the regulation which kept the garrison gun-
ners on the chain at Australian forts, he got
away early as a young subaltern in the
engineers, went through Gallipoli, and was
afterwards rapidly promoted on the French
front.
The Union Bank’s general manager, A. H.
Chambers, was on the last outgoing English
rr.ailboat. There’s always something to talk
about with the directors in London ; and this
time perhaps there will be the question of
tbe general manager’s retirement and the
choice of his successor.
Rotarians’ Ball, on Friday night, at St.
Kilda Town Hall, was a smart finish to the
seven days’ round of their Boy Scouts’
Appeal. Decorative draperies and electric
bulbs of red and royal blue showed up the
frocks, and a corner of the hall was devoted
to a truly Boy Scouts’ camp. Chairman of
the ball committee H. G. Mcßoberts brought
his wife sheathed in petunia-mauve georgette.
Hawthorn’s mayoress, Mrs. E. C. Rigby, scin-
tillated in black, and so did surgeon Syme’s
lady. Mrs. P. W. Nunn, in upholstery of
cyclamen, brought her chick Betty charm-
ingly arrayed in orange velvet —the girleen is
to have a coming-out dance of her own
shortly. Mrs. Harold Cohen combined gold
tissue and sapphire-blue velvet-embossed
marocain. And sec. B. 11. Keogh earned all
the success the fixture had.
Sir Frederick Dutton and his lady dis-
pensed tea and food at Menzies’ on Friday
afternoon to folk who had given them cheer;
participants also being culled from the circles
of the R.C.1., Victoria League and Eng-
glish-speaking Union. Black apparel in
more or less elaborate modelling was the
chosen raiment, the hostess herself being so
clad and hatted.
Sister Adelaide’s scented note:—
Bronze and yellow of chrysanthemums and the
russet and gold of autumn leaves decked the ’Varsity
Ball. The R. H. Wallmans and T. G. B. Osborns
said the how-d’-dos for the committee, and debs,
made their curtsey to Administrator and Mrs. Poole
—she in primrose satin and skunk with a flicker of
flame georgette. Mrs. Glover flung a Spanish shawl
over her blue and silver tissues and georgette; and
Mrs. Lavington Bonython, one of the four whose
clever fingers had evolved the decorations, was slim
and smart in black, grey and pink. The Wallace
Bruces’ daughter, in filmy white and silver, was
among the season’s buds. The total of revellers
was over 300.
From England comes news of the marriage of
Pauline, daughter of the Otto Sehomburgks of this
village, to Captain Spedding of the Lake district,
Cold Country. Frank Downer gave away his gold
and silver-dad niece in Brompton Parish Church, arid
the blue-frocked ’maid was Kathleen Powell, a cousin
of the ’groom.
The youngest of the Burstons (Melbourne) is
engaged to Guy, eldest son of the A. A. Lendons;
and Lilian, elder daughter of the Robert Hendersons,
has promised herself to a Maorilander, Capt. C.
W. Lay.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Appeal is mounting towards
the £lOOO mark. Close on £450 came from last
week’s Badge Day.
Enterprising hostesses who were looking to India?
royalty. as the centrepiece of their entertainments
must search elsewhere. The Bahadur of Jlialawar,
etcetera, has turned a deaf ear to all hospitable
wooings and his chief dissipation has been a visit
to the Exhibition, of which he said the necessary
polite things.
S’Henry Barwell spoke the magic word that
opened Ashton’s exhibition. One of the artist’s pupils,
by the way, an infant of 12, named Hele, has just
annexed the highest prize in the Dominions and
foreign section of a London exhibition, and the Royal
Drawing Society has bought the canvas for the
Edward VII. Memorial Collection Art Gallery.
Last w r eek-end saw an orgy of College sports, when
budding manhood from St. Peter’s, Prince Alfred’s
and Scotch College displayed its prowess before its
feminine belongings. Sangster had the St. Peter’s
Cup handed him by Mrs. T. S. Poole, whose husband
is an old Collegian and whose father was once Head-
master there. Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith gave away the
prizes at Scotch College, which is now sheltered in
the R. Barr Smiths’ old home at Torrens Park.
The confident forecast that one residential college
for the Uni. would soon make more is being ful-
filled already. The Anglican venture, St. Mark’s,
has barely got into its stride, and now Josiah
Svmon has offered a building close by on Pennington-
terraee for a women’s hostel. It is an old place
with a history, having been a Union Club towards
the end of last century and Quambi hospital more
recently.
The idea of moving Government House from the
most central point in Adelaide out to some distant
suburb has been revived, and the War Memorial
committee has been encouraged to hope for the
wnole domain, w’hich it wanted and was refused in
Peake’s time. But nothing can be done till Parlia-
ment meets, and the idea of spending large sums
on just shifting the Governor may quite possibly
not appeal when the cost is computed. The one
thing that seems certain is that the great unsightly
wall that encompasses the grounds will come down.
Thelma Bleby, one of Adelaide’s newest women
lawyers, appeared in the Industrial Court with a
junior’s brief on the day after her admission to the
Bar. So far none of the women practitioners have
appeared at the Supreme Court bar. Some ribald
people say they are waiting for the amendment of
the Rule of Court w’hich says “Counsel shall appear
in dark coat and trousers.”


GET AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from thy tVeek-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/- 4d. Postage.
Books on Painting, Decorating,
Polishing and Staining.
Posted.
French Polishing. By P. Hasluck
French Polishing and Enamelling. By R. Bitmead «/«
French Polisher’s Manual
Scumbling and Color Glazing. By A. Millar 'ir/in
The Paperhanger’s Companion. By J. Arrowsmith J/ 10
Paint Technology and Tests. By Gardiner n
Color Value. By C. Clifford °
Paint and Color Mixing. Practical Handbook by Jennings 14/-
House Painting, Glazing, Paper-hanging and Whitewashing. By A. Sabin 10/4
House Painting, Graining. Marbling and Sign Writing. By E. Davidson 10/10
House Decorating and Painting. By W. Brown 0/4
Interior Painting and Decorating in Water and Oil Colors. By Maul.... 4/9
House Decorations and Repairs. By Prebble
House and Home Repairers’ Guide 1/”
Painting and Decorating for Amateurs lod.
Painting Troubles and Their Remedy. By A. Millan *>/»
Paints and Colors. By W. Bowman 1
Graining, Ancient and Modern. By W. E. Wall —"/»
Hodgson’s New Hardwood. Finishing, including Wood Manipulation,
Staining and Polishing ®/“
Practical Graining and Marbling. By P. Hasluck -
Polishes and Stains for Woods. By D. Denning —/”
Staining, Polishing and Varnishing 1/1
Marqneterie Staining. By Fitzgerald 2/5
Graining and Marbling. By W. Savage ; 1/1
Wood Finishing, comprising Staining, Varnishing and Polishing 2/2
Easy Methods in Wood Finishing. By F. Maire 4/9
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
HAR.DY BRJDS LTD
JEWEL L E R~S
- &V • •
. f '■% p -
>sr&' & £
,© > TS ‘W ; <•s& j
* O V *;1 "I 5 1 ‘ fe-i
A
fkV.V ' vf) >/
.<s3 i- ■■ -MiP. i© ■* ( .
f -
M
» - ? ■
•• ' « /am .••-%
W.> ' “ ••• V
l . . . ■ (pi
v-;%W - - ,<K
—iifl
Fine-quality White Crystal Bead Necklet, with
Black Onyx Rondelles. Length SOin., £3 J~> 0.
Fashionable
Bead
Necklets.
CINEST quality
White Crystal
Bead Necklets
daintily faceted and
graduated with Ron-
delles of Black Onyx,
are specially offered
by Hardy Brothers
at 75/- each.
These attractive Neck-
lets are 30 inches in
length, firmly strung on
pure silk and finished
with Gold bolt-ring
snap. They form por-
tion of a splendid selec-
tion of dainty Bead
Necklets and Chokers
in Jade, Amber,
Mother-of-Pearl, Ivory,
etc., selections of which
are forwarded on ap-
proval anywhere in
Australia.
Five per cent. Discount is
allowed on all cash purchases.
An attractive Catalogue posted
free to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
9&7/cmse oP Pocclustvc ‘UeivelUaj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
U6-IJB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
ARE MR. LANG AND HIS
FRIENDS FIT TO GOVERN?
The worker who is not a revolutionary who wants
responsible government and prosperous industrial and
trading conditions should ask himself some questions:
Does Mr. Lang’s record show that he is competent to handle this State’s huge and
complicated finances ?
Can Mr. Lang give effect to his remarkable promises without again increasing taxation
and using vast amounts of borrowed money?
Would not Mr. Lang, as Premier, be dominated by the Communistic elements in
the A.L.P.?
Could our manufacturing industries, now expanding and flourishing, continue to provide
regular employment under the conditions proposed by Mr. Lang?
Would not another spell of Labor Government inevitably make for unemployment and
depression?
Are the general conditions created by Labor Government in this difficult post-war period
such as will assist a man on regular wages to own his own home, educate his children and
give them a start in life, and make provision for old age?
After unprejudiced inquiry along these lines workers should vote for the
NATIONAL COALITION GOVERNMENT
Which, Legislating Fairly for All Classes, is in Actual Fact the Best Government for
All Workers Who Want Good and Regular Wages and a Better Chance.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
Giles Heidsieck
HHi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
m
CHAMPAGNE
Qiaricsllcicisieoc.
S 11
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
THE NEW ADDITIONS TO WHICH, JUST COMPLETED,
RENDER IT UNRIVALLED IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Steam-heated throughout, its suites of rooms and wonderful lounge and
dining-room, provide that element of simple luxury so difficult of attainment.
In addition to the wonderful service of the Hotel those staying
in the house are cordially invited to the famous Wentworth
Ballroom adjoining, where Sydney’s Society entertains its friends.
Church Hill, Sydney, or
’Phone 8W1361.
Code: “Mum,” Sydney.
The Coolest Spot in Sydney,
nmmm
POPULAR SUMMER NIGHTS,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
Delightful Dining and Dancing from
from 7.30 till 12.
Why pay 10/6 for a doubtful dinner when
you can get the best at The Ambassadors and
three hours’ superb dancing for
DINING
DE LUXE
1016
NO FURTHER
CHARGE.
Nothing in value approaches this,
Tuesday and Thursday, 21/-
Suppers, from 9.30, 12/6.
Saturdays, 25/-. Suppers, 15/6.
Luncheons, 12.30 to 2.30, 3/6 and 5/-
Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-, with
the privilege of two hours’ delightful
dancing to the enthralling melodies of
The Ambassadors’ New York Band
Reserves, ’Phone M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
A tooting stream of motors and hundreds
of mere foot-trackers bustled along to_ the
Town Hall on Saturday for the first of the
Kreisler concerts. Within, in an atmosphere
of excitement, there were beautiful wraps,
harassed attendants, a smiling management
and a vice-regal visitation —both the G.-G.
Forsters and the State Exes, rested their
toes on the drugget flung down in their
honor. Organist Lilian Frost, stately m
white and gold, thundered out the “God Save
on which the vice-royalties floated to their
anchorage in front of the platform. _ Lady
Forster’s soft draperies were sable in hue
and brightened by a discreet accompaniment
of diamonds; Sir Dudley’s lady was wrapped
about in a dazzling gold cloak; while
daughter Elaine wore rosy marocains. And
there were so many gent-lielps in attendance
it might have been a first-aid party.
Everybody was at the concert. Then
Marks brought a party; so did Bertie Kelly.
Just-returned Elioth Gruner came with the
Gravestocks, she in all-black, wearing no
ornaments and the newest thing in bingles.
Her coat, incidentally, was one of those new
embossed velours. The Nigel Smiths, Edith
Hill and the handsome Waley lady; Mrs.
Yivers, very graceful in shimmering blues;
Mrs. Tommy Marks; the Ben Fullers; the
Arthur Allens; actress Marie Eaton: Dr.
Sinclair Gillies and half of Macquarie-street s
brass plates ; the peerage in music, and Town
Clerk Layton—these were a few of the notice-
ahles in an immense audience. Afterwards
there was a levee in the artists’ room, where
Mrs. Kreisler, in a wrap tapestried in many
colors and blazing with diamonds, and Mrs.
E. J. Carroll, her soft pinks and whites rising
above some beautiful pearls and a Chinese-
embroidered shawl, brought to her by the
Harry Landers, did the honors. Somehow
at close range Mrs. Kreisler makes one think
that she must have had her Fritz beaten by
half a mile in the race to the local St.
Honan’s well. Accompanist Carl Lamson
and his wife stayed modestly in the back-
ground—almost too modestly, considering the
part the piano had taken in the night s suc-
cess. ,
Over a wet and murky week the I alais
cast the glow of its opening. This was a
colorful affair, and combined the last shriek
in batik decorations with gold and bronze
and orange lamp-shades and accessories, the
whole inset with panels of tropical birds ana
flowers. The batik drapings of gold and
green, billowing to the pillars from the lat-
tice with which the dancing-floor was encom-
passed, added to the tawny glamor ot the
surrounds, suggested the tent that some fiery-
souled sheik had prepared for Ins demi-semi-
reluctant captive. However, there wasn t
a trace of reluctance about the proceedings
the other night—the jazzers were willing,
the band was good (not, perhaps, quite so
good as the old one) and there wasn t a
dry spot in a wet night. As the directors
of the Palais were pushing the gate-money
into the Kindergarten Union s stocking, both
Swisli and Society were featured in the roll-
up. The State vice-regals came early and
stayed late. To begin with, her Ex. was
wrapped about apparently in beaten gold:
hut afterwards a frock flashing like a newly-
minted penny was revealed; and a blue-and-
silver confection that only youth could wear
enfolded the daughter of the Viking. One
of the impressives of a crowded evening was
the Premier’s lady, in ivory brocades. Mrs.
Tommy Marks, softly pink and beaded in
silver, was an almost continuous dancer;
and Mrs. Pat Levy was in thick silk, the
blue of a moonlit night, the same heavily
sown with silver. Sunbeam Mylius footed
it in blue velvet, and Shirley Bavin was one
of the evening’s young things clothed in joy
as well as expensive togs.
It was lucky that St. Paul’s dictator, the
Rev. Mr. Garnsey, pinned his faith to
earthly insurance rather than to Heavenly
favor and covered the college fete on Satur-
day with a rain-proof policy of £2OO. The
insurance against rain (between 2 and 9.30)
and a lucrative game of chance should stiffen
up the receipts considerably. The game con-
sisted of throwing pennies into a tank of
water, at the bottom of which a saucer was
moored. If you got your penny to land in
the saucer the treasury paid you a shilling;
otherwise your brown became an asset of
the committee. The treasurer seemed doomed
to chronic inertia when up stepped a young
woman with the eye of a Newton and a fore-
head suggesting a mathematical tripos. Mut-
tering an Einstein incantation, she cast her
copper on the water, and straight as a homing
bird it made for the saucer. A groxip of
prattling innocents, among whom was State-
Governor de Chair’s son Somerset, strove
manfully to emulate this worthy example,
hut failed utterly. In the early part of the
afternoon —the part that was tine—Sir
Dudley had opened the fete with a neat little
speech.
Lady de Chair and daughter Elaine didn’t
go to the Uni. on Saturday, having a date
of their own with the Women Painters. The
vice-regal lady declared this society’s attrac-
tive show open promptly at 3, hut before
that hour many of the frames sported a coy
red beauty-spot. President Ethel Stephens
welcomed the vice-regals in a black outfit,
the hat of which hoisted a green cockade. Lady
de Chair’s only visible concession to the
weather was a brolly with an inspired handle
of amber —even a vice-reine couldn’t be ex-
pected not to seize the opportunity of airing
it. Otherwise the lady was tailored in navy
vested in white and hatted in black and
green. The show should be one of the most
successful in the society’s records judging
by the opening day’s rally. A surging sea
of womanhood, with here and there a man
looking like a half-submerged rock, ebbed
and flowed from one gallery to another.
The Feminists lured Moscovitch to their
club the other night, and then beckoned the
membei’s and their friends to listen to the
clever one discoursing on the impossibility
of “speeding up art,” on the message of his
own Shylock and on the importance of the
Russian drama and in particular of the Mos-
cow theatres. lie mentioned in passing that
Maeterlinck took his “Blue Bird” there for
its first production. Nearly 300 Feminists
sat round at ease in an atmosphere that
was scintillating to brilliancy. Moscovitch
showed almost a Chestertonian ability to
wrap his truths in paradox and epigram,
and Ruby Rich, as nimble as a chamois in
conversational gymnastics, led him on to
still more dizzying heights.
One of the prettiest parties of the week
was the junior Red Cross Pageant in the
Town Hall. Lady Forster was Queen of
the tourney and sat on the dais smiling
above a posy of red roses, while the Junior
Red Cross tripped past, dressed in some
glittering creation that was a waratah or a
jewel, or maybe two things, like the small
girls whose costume represented Glass for
the march, but Vanity in their dance. A
small boy dressed as the Black Sheep of the
Family smiled ehubbily as he imitated bird
calls; and a small wounded Anzae came in
charge of his nurse —she was really and
truly big sister. There were flags and palms
and pink roses and ice-cream cones every-
where ; and small brothers and a squad of
sea cadets provided the partners for a dance
after supper.
This pretty little girl is Betty Ryrie, who
is becoming well known as _a dancer in
Europe under
the name of
Betty d e
L a une. A
daughter of
the Edwin
Ryries, Betty
w-as born at
Darling Point,
and received
her first danc-
ing lessons in
Sydney. She
has, however,
spent the last
few of her 17
years in Lon-
don and the
South of
France. She
lias appeared
a mong the
famous Zieg-
feld Follies,
and has danced
her way into Norwegian theatres. An
older sister, Dorothy, is doing well on the
London stage.
“Windmill-street on Miller’s Point.” The
address lilts like a lyric, and new settlers
coming from Devon and Cornwall and Surrey
lanes to the new country of wide spaces pro-
bably vision a green way down which a glint-
ing stream meanders, with a mill house and
a few millers dotted about the landscape.
But we Know our Miller’s Point! The only
true thing about the descriptive address is
the wind. That sweeps in from the harbor
beyond the wharves opposite to which the
sign of the Empire Service Hostel now blow’s.
The hostel is another good work of the
Anzac Fellowship of Women, and will pro-
vide a haven for overseas mothers and
fathers arriving with young families. There
are 11 bedrooms, and these and the dining-
room arc dressed up in bright chintzes and
are quite gay and homelike. Lady de Chair
opened its front door the other afternoon.
Big Hugh Denison evidently snatched a
bit for a rainy day out of the Sun embers in
Melbourne, judging by the coat his lady
wore to do the honors for the Royal Colonial
Institute party the other afternoon. It was of
brown embossed velour, and it sported cuffs
and bands of fur so rich-looking it made the
eye blink. This was topped by a brown
winged hat. The lady’s knight took the
salute by her side, and among the notables
who left dripping umbrellas and macs, in the
cloakroom were Dr. Rendall, tin; English
scholarcli who looks after the Rhodes Trust,
and N. W. Kingdom Charles Srnythe was
the afternoon’s musical M.C., and added his
own buccaneering melodics to the offerings
of tenor Charles Stephen and violinist Mary
Judd.
Here is Oli-
ver King,
whose basso
was such a
feature of the
P li i 1 li. a r-
monic success
last week. The
music of Ver-
di’s Requiem
seemed parti-
cularly suited
to his voice,
and it rolled
up from the
deeps in fine
style. T h e
young man
comes from
Rose Bay, and
has already
taken his place
among Syd-
ney’s best con-
cert artists.
Rose Scott’s memory is to be kept green
by yet another memorial —the Longstaff
portrait in the National Gallery is the most
conspicuous of those we know already. The
Feminist Club has taken the matter in hand,
and even on the eve of her political fight
for Eastern Suburbs Miss Preston-Stanley
found time to lead the initial meeting. Ruby
Rich flung her silper-tongued oratory into
the argument, and Mrs. Fred Aronson and
Margaret Windeyer were others who made the
Feminists’ assembly-room ring to the glory of
the dead Rose. Something is going to be done,
but whether in bronze or marble or good
works is not yet decided, though there
wouldn’t be much doubt about it if the lady’s
own wishes could be consulted.
Artist Elioth Gfuncr is back in Sydney,
wearing a necktie given to him by
the Shah of Persia —anyway, it looks
Oriental enough for that. The two
outstanding features of his two years
abroad, apart from artists and art shows,
were that he learned to jazz and visited
Vienna. This city he grew to love, whereas
Paris, made over to the rich tourist, vamped
him in vain. Rich men’s sons playing at
being artists inhabit the Bohemia of Puccini
and Du Manner. No French artist now
paints in an attic in the Quarter —he lets
it at an enormous rental to one of the gesticu-
lating young men in the check trousers and
the flowing black ties who pass their days in
the “arty” cafes which their needs have
created. Maorilanders on the crest of the
wave he found everywhere. Even at the ports
on the way from England wherever there was
a successful show there w r as a girl or a boy
from some one or other of the Windy Isles
taking a lead. As for paint, he thinks that
the artist abroad (lie’s not talking of sheer
genius) can teach the Australian nothing in
the way of technioue.
In typical Monaro autumn weather—
snow, sleet and bitterly cold winds—the
Cooma Polo Club held its annual revel last
week. Four days of polo and three dances
were taken in the proper spirit. The
ground was a smother of expensive furs,
thick stockings and invigorating nips. At
the Club ball General Ryrie’s lady wrapped
a magnificent black fur coat over a gown of
black and white. Her chick Dee, just home
from Europe, was the slim belle of the ball
in blue and silver. Janet Harvey, whose
young man, Jim Litchfield, plays for Cooma
B, looked sweet in pale pink georgette. Others
amongst the throng were Audrey Maple
Brown, Helen Grace, Ruth Worrall, Missy
Smart, and scores of Goulburn Ashtons,
Litchfields and Harnetts.
Elisabeth Dodds, on brother’s arm, de-
murely walked the aisle of All Saints’ the
other afternoon. She was keeping appoint,
view mat. with John Flower, of Brisbane,
and she wore a froth of chenille-embroidered
georgette, through which came the gleam of
rosy linings. In lieu of a bridal bouquet
Elisabeth carried an ivory-backed prayer-
book and a cobwebby hankie which had once
belonged to her great-grandmother. Actress
Mary Macgregor ’maided, in tones of pale
gold. Alan Devereux best-manned, and con-
gratulations were served with refreshments
at Fenton, the bride’s Edgecliff home.
Raymond Longford and Lottie Lyell, who
made “The Sentimental Bloke,” are respon-
sible for a new Australian picture, “The
Bushwhackers,” which had its first screening
at the Prince Edward the other morning.
The photography and the acting are fine, but
the plot, except for setting, offers no varia-
tion on the story of Enoch Arden. The
State Governor, with daughter Elaine, was
in the audience, along with all the actors in
the shadow-drama. Little Beryl Gow, with a
head like Tennyson’s Maud “sunning over
with curls,” considered her pictured self
through eyes serious with youth, in company
with Eddy Reilly and handsome Rawdon
Blandford (lie’s one of a well-known Maori-
land family), the two strong men of the
story.
When the Players made their last exit
from the stage at their studio party last
week. Judge Beeby came centre front as
dispenser of gifts.’ First of all, to Eric
Howell, who produced “The Merchant” for
the Shakspeare celebration a few weeks ago,
his Honor handed a complete pocket edition
of Will’s plays. To W. F. Jackson, who that
evening had presented a clever one-acter,
“Shylock Returns,” he handed an impressive
travelling-bag; while Geoffrey Rex, who
accompanies Mr. Jackson on his walks
through Europe, goes off equipped with an
umbrella and a walking-stick.
The chief of the Lever soap firm, who died
the other day, was a persistent if not very
rhythmic jazzer, and on his last visit to Aus-
tralia, being then 73, he danced both after-
noon and evening. To see him lead out Mrs.
Sep Levy in a fox-trot was to feel amaze-
ment at his intrepidity in asking the lady,
who dances beautifully, and at her courage in
consenting.
Noel Mclntosh is the youngest of the
newest clutch of barristers. The only son
of H. E. Mclntosh, who is also in the law,
he was a pupil of King's and “Shore,” and
was a brilliant athlete of both schools and
at the University. Lately he managed the
University tennis team when it visited Adel-
aide. And that’s why, though he was
chosen as one of the Sydney Uni. Union’s
speakers against the Oxford team, he couldn t
take part in the debate.
The outsize ball of Polo Week threatens
to be the one in aid of the St. John Ambu-
lance Auxiliary. It will be held at the Palais
Royal on May 19; and Cooma, Goulburn,
Bungendore and Muswellbrook are already
arranging parties. Capable Mrs. Jimmy
Ashton has the flutter under her care.
Miss Brisbane’s intermezzo :
Amid flags, balloons and chrysanthemums the
captain, officers and cadets of the Wangaratta spread
jazz and (‘arils on the National Hotel roof-garden,
Lieut.-Commander and Mrs. Mutton, the Glyn-Lewises,
Hillcoats, P. J. Symeses, Weinholts, Doris As win,
E. Carew-Smyth and Mary le Fanu were amongst
the crowd.
In St. Peter’s Church at Southport, Adelaide Pass
promised hand and heart to Leslie Forster, of the
Ashfleld Forsters. The Rev. Meade took her vows, and
the congregation sang the Voice that Breathed as
the bride went to the sacrifice in ivory silk maro-
cain and a georgette train lined with pale blue.
Amy Maggs, in cream, ’maided, and A. H. Forster
best-manned. The usual party was at Durat, and
Jenolan sees the ’moon rise.
Toowomba Show robbed the Ascot May races of
many of their usual patrons, and grey skies kept some
of the best frocks amongst the mothballs. Mrs.
WLittingham walked in black with white silken
embroideries ; Mrs. J. T. Bell was in cream with
brown cloche; Mrs. B. Cowlishaw warmed her black
gown with furs; and Mrs. Hannibal King brightened
black satin with an Oriental scarf.
AVindsor is in the throes of an eisteddfod at which
an unexpected feature is the prominence given to
Australian verse in the elocutionary contests. A
prize is offered for a musical setting to the words
“The Heart You Gave,” by Mrs. Forrest, and Ogilvic
and Paterson are well represented. The finals will
be in the Exhibition Building on the 16th.
Toowoomba races drew a crowd, and President J.
Taylor tea-ed the Isaac Moores, Freshneys and
others. Lady Beatrice Moreton wore navy, Mrs.
RuHedge black, Mrs. Godsall brow n and gold ; Mi s.
Kent was in brown and white and Jean Crammond
in grey with fur.
To hear the Brisbane Apollo Club sing, citizens
drained their umbrellas in the Exhibition Concert
Hall. Leith Coleman, in black satin and sequins,
displayed a nice voice in solo parts.
Southport Ambulance benefited by a ball held in
the School of Arts at which there was a “bobbed and
shingled” competition. Mrs. Dauth had the nicest
bob, Miss A. Duggan the choicest shingle, and Mrs.
Smith the finest growth of unscissored tresses.
Jessie North, of Spring-sure, said she would to
Arthur, only son of the R. E. Sextons, of Brisbane,
in St. John’s Cathedral. Pink and white flowers
decked the chancel and George Sampson was at the
organ. Boy choristers preceded the bride, who was
in ivory mariette with cloth-of-silver train. Isla
North ’maided in rose pink and Owen Woodbine
best-manned. The chief table was decked with the
sth Light Horse colors for the aiter-jollo at Finney's
roof-garden.
Brisbane’s Needlework Guild showed its handi-
craft at Mi’s. Frank Oorrie’s, Bowen-terrace. Nearly
a thousand samples of garments useful to hospitals
and other institutions were spread out. Beres Corrie
and her chums served the tea, and Mrs. A. Huybers,
Mrs. Spencer Blown, Maida Marlay and Mrs. Wilson
the music.
Major and Mrs. Alex. Stevenson let everybody into
the secret of daughter Dorothy’s age at Corinda
the other day. Roses and chrysanthemums filled the
reception-rooms, and a two-tier birthday cake made
by grandma was cut with pomp. The charming deb.
wore flame and lemon brocade and proud mamma
wore blue.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth sad Geratdton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
. 'grant*
Q&a/nft
r UQUEU«
ftctyfok
Srss^
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Gloaming beat The Hawk fairly and
squarely in the mile race for the Ormond (fold Cup
at Hastings (M.L.). They each carried 9st. 101 b.
(there were no other starters), and the younger
gelding, beginning better, led for about five furlongs.
Then Young asked a question of the great old son
of The AVelkin—Light, now rising 10, and, answering
it grandly, he drew level with The Hawk, got his
head in front, and, without being punched out,
had a clear length’s advantage at the judge’s box,
the time being lmin. 38 4-ssee. The Hawk was
ridden by Hector Gray, and Cameron, his owner, had
no excuses after the event. The result was a facer
for those Australian scribes who suggested that
Greenwood and Mason were afraid to send Gloaming to
Sydney for the Easter meeting, although they have
brought him over every year to meet the best in
the land since 1918.
* * * *
Three horses from James Scobie’s stable
earned good money for their owners at Morphettville
on Saturday, it being the opening day of the
S.A.J.C. meeting. E. E. D. Clarke’s Petunia, who
failed in Sydney, beat 17 other two-year-olds in
the South Australian Stakes; the Comedy King colt
Wycherley, who chased Spearfelt home in the V.R.C.
St. Leger, ran from last to first in the S.A. St.
Leger (he is the State’s Derby winner also) ; and
The Night Patrol galloped so much faster than his
four opponents in the Elder Stakes, w.f.a., that lie
was 12 lengths in front of Bold and Bad, who was
six lengths ahead of Stand By, at the end of nine
furlongs, run in lmin. 52 l-ssec. But Scobie’s
elect failed in the Goodwood Handicap, Friarsdale
disappointing Otway Falkiner again. Bright Poppy,
a three-year-old filly by Popinjay—Brilliants, won
the Goodwood ; her fine turn of speed, aided by her
light weight (6st. 101 b.), proved too much for the
more heavily burdened St. Roseate, last year’s winner,
and Sweetmagne when pressure was applied. The
smart bit of stuff is owned by J. IT. Flannagan,
big punter and former bookmaker, but Flannagan
couldn’t have fancied her much—her tote price was
just on 12 to 1.
* * * *
Sydney punters, who have had a rotten
time this autumn, spent a miserable day at Canterbury
Park on Saturday, not one favorite’s number being
hoisted first. The good horses are nearly all spell-
ing, and, with very few exceptions, the competitors
were an ordinary lot. One of the few was Robert
Miller’s Chatterbox (9 to 2), a four-year-old mare by
Magpie—Galtee Princess (the dam used to be a good
sprinter in Westralia), who exhibited a lot of pace
in cutting down Pardex and Valais Queen in the
Flying Handicap. She was saddled up by Jack Kelso,
the youngest of the Randwick trainers—he is only 21.
Royal Thought, a bitter disappointment
since he captured the 1923 Oakleigh Plate, returned
to form at Epsom (Vie.) on Saturday, when the solid
demand for Charlecote (2’s) resulted in the stable
which shelters the Malt King horse getting 4’s
and better for its money. Finishing strongly.
Royal Thought had his neck in front of the favorite
where it matters, after having been fifth into the
straight. Afore judiciously handled, Graball would
have won the ten-furlong handicap for A. T. Cres*
wick, but Daniels rushed him to the front too soon,
and Beeline (3’s) headed him a few strides from
the post, after a pretty struggle. A starting-price
coup failed when Bardelona (B’s), who would have
been a raging favorite had there been much of the
right money on the course, was pocketed in the
Encourage Mile and unable to get clear in time.
The admirably-ridden Gortland (B’s), with Devereux
atop, was a length in front of the unlucky one at
the end.
* » * *
“Hasen”: Some of the weights in races
framed for amateur horsemen read grotesquely to
a public used to regarding anything above 9st. 71b.
in a handicap and list, in a welter as nearly pro-
hibitive. Almost the limit for a flat race was the
parcel allotted to Cornflower at the Warrnambool
(Vie.) Cup meeting. Cornflower, a sturdy little
Buckwheat mare, lias done most of her recent rac-
ing in open company, but, having the necessary
qualifications, she was entered for a pony handicap
for amateur riders. The weight-adjuster awarded
her I4st. 121 b.. which she duly carried first past
the post. Her burden was too much for the official
machine. The rider had to weigh out and in on
ordinary scales.
‘Timo’ : Queensland has a handy sort of
sprinter in the chestnut horse Admetus, by Maltster —
Admeta. Winner of a couple of Thousands at Wren’s
Albion Park course with well over 10 stone aboard,
he was something of a public idol until he got a
stretch of 12 months for not doing his best at Ascot.
And there was talk a while back of a public sub-
scription to raise a a; 1000 side-wager for a match
with the one-eyed Hosier. The public made Admetus
favorite for a six-furlong sprint at the Q.T.C. course
on May 2, and Pat O’Sullivan drove him along to
such good purpose that the Hying chestnut arrived
with something to spare in lmin. 13sec. —fast time
considering the weight, 9st. 91b. T. M. Burke’s
Quintus, who will be a runner in the Q.T.C.’s Strad-
broke Handicap next month, is rated 21b. better by
the handicapper than the Maltster fellow, who ha's
9st. 101 b. For the Brisbane Thousand, to be
decided on May 23, the Queensland champion has been
given 10st. lllb., but in that race an inferior elass
of sprinters is mgaged.
Te Kara, who ran a decent second to Windbag in
the w.f.a. ltandwick Plate, 2} miles, on the last
day of the A..1.C. Autumn Meeting, and afterwards
captured the City Tattersall’s Cup with 9st., lias
gone north in quest of the C2OOO Brisbane Cup, for
which he is topweight with 9st. iolb. It is a
substantial burden, but, on his Sydney running, neither
the poundage nor the distance (two miles) will
trouble him if Brisbane conditions are to his liking.
Though not much to look at, he is a thorough stayer,
and as game as they make them.
“Red Ensign” (Lond.) : At the moment of
writing Frank Dempsey has had 12 mounts in
England and three of them have been first past the
post. But after his first success a lot of ink was
slung at him through the sporting newspapers.
1 -eft 20 lengths at the post, he caught the field,
tried to get up on the inside, pulled to
the outside, shot over to the inside again
and interfered with the third horse. They
don’t like those Rafferty rules here, so the
youth rode with a little more decorum in his
following races. Now he has worked his way into
the luckiest stable in England. the Aga Khan’s.
All going well, he is sure to have a good mount
in the Derby and to uphold the worthy traditions of
the Wootton brothers, Bullock and Carslakc.
* * * *
“Tn ITawaiki”: The Maorilanders who
have come over ro meet Australia’s best in polo at
ALICE IN BOOK LAND.
MISS NEWCHUM : “Ai’ll have faive shillings
on Gloaming, please, Mr. Bookmakak, and
should he win you will faind me seated with mothah near the handstand."
the Kensington (Sydney) racecourse think there is
a lot to be said for experience, whether in man or
beast. They have brought a crack ppny which is
20 years old and knows the game backwards. It
will do everything except the actual hitting of the
ball. And one of the players will never see 50
again.
“Hamer”: “Centurion” makes an under-
standable mistake (B. 7/8/’25) in confusing
“Ilousey Housey,” Melbourne’s foolish craze, with
the old soldiers’ game of “House.” The latter game
still flourishes when gangs of men with armv
memories enjoy their crib-time, and the drone of
the called numbers, as they are drawn, can be
heard, here and there, with the use of all the old
soldiers’ vernacular: “Clicketty-elick” (66)—“Kelly’s
eye” (1) —“Legs” (11) —“Medicine and duty” (9)
—“Devil’s own” (13) and so forth. But “Housey
Housey” is a different proposition. In that, the
players toss their marbles into a wooden dish-like
arrangement, the base of which is compartmented into
numbered divisions: the player whose shot falls
into the highest numbered division wins. Frequently
up to 40 players—men and women—may be in a
game, paying 3d., Gd. or more, the prize being a
box of chocolates varying in size—in the threepenny
game it will be one of a retail value of 2s. 6d., costing
the showman possibly Is. 6d. Whether the game is
a lottery has to be tested; the showmen’s claim that
the “skill” in the throw saves it from prohibition
under the Lotteries Act has so far prevailed; but its
prevalence is a nuisance, anyway. There are 22
“Housey Housey” joints in Sydney-road alone; and,
the game having its own curious fascination, tales
are told of housekeepers who have dallied and “done
in” all the money they had taken out to buy
their household goods.
Walter Miller defeated his fellow-Amencau
Th.ve in the third of their wrestling turns at the
Melbourne Stadium. There was only one fall, and it
came suddenly in the eighth round ; Thve iiad
brought Miller down with an armlock, but the latter,
wriggling out, reversed the positions, and put Thye’s
shoulders squarely on the mat. Th.ve is said to be off
to America with a bagful of Australian currency, so
it is presumed that the pair will not meet again—
for a few weeks.
* * * *
"The Deacon”: I saw the perfect knock-
out punch, not at the Stadium or some other haunt
of gentle pillow-fighting, but at a small circus
in a Sydney suburb. The ex-pug. who attended
to the shilling patrons, scalers and borers of holes
in the worn canvas, was going his rounds, well in
the shadow, when he sighted a man who had one
eve glued on the ring events and was oblivious to
all else. Carefully noting the position, the ex-
bruiser stole inside and, measuring and timing
exactly, swung his right at the bulge made ljy the
unsuspecting citizen’s countenance. It took con-
siderable time and much beer to bring the buok-
shee patron round, and then he said what he thought
of the ensanguined circus mule.
“Polycarp”: A Brisbane business man, a
great financier but a mediocre golfer, started out
recently to knock Kirkwood off the map, and ended
b.v demanding angrily that a caddy should be kept
off the links. In putting over-much energy into
his strokes, he hail sent liis club flying through the
aii' on several occasions, and on the way back to
the pavilion the boy who carried the weapons
addressed, him in the hearing of several lady friends.
"Say, Mister,” he said, "1 reckon you’ll be the
champeen of Aussie before you're finished.” “Cham-
pion of Australia, hey? Do you really think so?”
“Square the dink,” said the kid—“at throwin’ the
'animer! ”
The HO,OOO people who crowded Yarra’s
banks to see the final of the llead-of-the-River
race got full value in one of the most exciting
contests on record. Wesley College and Melbourne
Grammar were prominent early in the piece, and
at tlie bend past the Monier-street bridge the
WesleyaAs were half a length ahead of Scotch Col-
lege, with Melbourne close up. Each crew was pulling
grandly, incited by the roars of its supporters, and
a mighty cheer went up when Scotch struggled to
the front. With 100 yards to go the Wesleyans
made their final rush, but the Scotchies had still
a bit in reserve, and with a great finishing effort
they won by half a length from Wesley, with Mel-
bourne Grammar a good third. The time was smin.
15Jsec., remarkably good for a mile. It was Scotch’s
eighteenth success in these contests, a record
equalled by Geelong Grammar.
“H. Hardupp”: It was on Prince’s Bridge I
noticed him first, swaying slightly and gazing upon
the crowd pouring down to the river bank with
something like amazement. “Wasser masser?” lie
inquired, dazedly. “Ish there a footba’ matsch on
th’ Yarra, t’day?” I told him about the boatrace,
and passed on. Later I saw him heaving himself
about in a section of the crowd that was mainly
composed of Grammar and Wesley supporters, jelling
“Scotch! Scotch! Scotch!’’ And when the win of
the Collegians was proclaimed he howled it again,
like a man who was triumphing over his enemies.
As he came near me I nodded to him and voiced the
supposition that he knew some lad in the winning
crew. “Norratall,” he gurgled, “but when all those
blanky wowsers were wanting Scotch to be beaten, 1
had to cheer for ’em. I like their blanky name!” He
wandered off again in the direction of Prince’s
Bridge, after giving me an opportunity to denv that
I had a mouth on me.
“Hamer”: Some people with keen business instincts
make a point of being on hand with supplies of
empty cases when any big event takes place on the
Yarra; their customers are furnished with soap-
box or kerosene-case “grandstands” which enable
them to see over the heads of the crowd. The price
varies; last Saturday it was Is. 6d. per case; and
as the purchasers leave their pedestals behind when
they go, the business must pay. There is cheap
competition, of course; the small boys from South
Melbourne undercut the regular price; but as the
number of cases they can haul along, even with
billv-carts, is limited, they are at a disadvantage.
* * * *
The retirement or migration of Blinkhorn,
Hallett, Courtney, Rigney, Horder, Watkins and
others has enabled the young fellows to get oppor-
tunities in Sydney League football, and some oi
them are pretty good. In the Eastern Suburbs-
Western Suburbs match, on the Sports Ground,
promoted juniors were the pick of the teams. An
excellent impression was made by Daisley, West's
full-back, and N. Matterson, centre-threequarter;
and Moxon, a hefty East forward, was always doing
something in the heavy going. West won by 12
points to 5. South Sydney had things .all their own
way against University (13 to nil), Wearing scoring
two tries and a goal (8 points) ; and in the other
matches North Sydney downed Glebe (8 —6) find
Halmain obliterated Newtown (12 to 2). Attend-
ances were only so-so. People complained last year
that the game was not as fast as it used to be,
and there has certainly been no improvement this
season. Nothing could be drearier than the spectacle
of a half-back making three or four attempts to
get the ball to the forwards in a scrum.
The English Soccer team began its Aus-
tralian tour at Perth with a pipe-tip eter against a
weak Metropolitan side. This was won easily by
8 goals to nil, and so was the game against a
representative Westralian XI two days later, the
visitors scoring- 7 —o. The first match was played
on a wet ground, with the ball greasy and heavy;
the second took place in typical Aussie winter
weather, the ground being hard and dry and the
ball lively. In each case the visitors impressed the
crowd mightily, their ball-control, combination and
accurate passing and sheoting being far ahead of
anything yet seen in the West. Elkes, the Totten-
ham inside left, Simms, a centre, Graham, a half,
and Williams, an inside left and a wonderful shot,
were exceptionally clever. The bert of the Wcst-
ralians in Saturday’s game were Rowland in goal
(unluckily he had a leg broken), Boyes and Garuuer.
l’hese last two have been picked to represent Aus-
tralia at Adelaide on Saturday.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The Fijians, who have for
years given body and soul to cricket, are showing
signs of falling under the spell of Rugby football.
The Fiji Rugby Union now rules four white and
four native olubs, w'hile a couple of Indian clubs
have just been formed. The Fijians, always having
a good opinion of themselves, are hungering for a
crack at the Maorilanders, and a challenge is being
considered. As a rule, the Pacific Islander does not
take kindly to Rugby, though one or two players
with Island blood in their veins have played in this
country in League football. The writer once made
an effort to introduce Soccer to his Papuan police,
but interest was perfunctory. This was surprising,
since most of them came from the Gulf of Papua,
where a bloodthirsty form of hockey, closely resembl-
ing hurling, is popular among the young- people. The
formation of clubs amongst Fijian Indians is inter-
esting, for though Soccer is played widely and
well by native India, there are no records of similar
Rugger clubs; and the same is true of the Gyppo,
while he plays Soccer excellently, shies at the
tackling game. Apart from one or tjvo Australian
abo. half-castes, the only “black man” the writer
has known to take to Rugby is the Kaffir. The game
flourishes in the S’African “locations” of the big
tow'ns, and the immaculate turn-out of the teams
would not disgrace an international fixture.
At Footscray on Saturday the 1924
Association premiers were at home to South Mel-
bourne, and gave a very good account of themselves.
Smarter and surer in everything- they did, they
won by 70 points to South’s 60. Fitzroy went
across to the former North Melbourne “giuepot,”
now drained and otherwise improved, and found its
enemies over-excited and easy victims, ultimately
collecting 64 points to North’s 39. The Essendon team
visited Carlton and made the once-redoubtable Old
Blues look mere novices, gathering 101 points to 56.
As Carlton has a sizeable overdraft to meet, it had
better get a move on or it will have to field a
team of bailiffs. St. Kilda polished off Hawthorn —-
114 to 60, and Collingwood was too good for Mel-
bourne 7l to 54. The surprise of the day fell
on the Richmond Tigers, whom Geelong—usually
easy meat away from home —clawed mercilessly,
getting 92 points in all to Richmond’s 59.
Tren”: Now that the brutal clashes of the rival
rucks have been eliminated by the out-of-bounds
luie, the authorities should empower the umpire to
order offenders off the field, as is done in Rugby.
1 articularly those ruffians who charge into an unsus-
pecting opponent and bounce him on the ground
after he has taken a mark. In the forward lines
this variety of assault is common, as backs have
tound that players who are dazed by violent contact
with the turi mull easy shots and give little trouble
for the rest of the game. Indeed, the forwards who
can play on under present conditions are brave men.
Lick Leo, of Collingwood. was under continual
punishment for 15 years, yet never flinched. Horry
Clover, of Carlton, stood up to his work in an
amazing manner, and the present champ., Moriarty,
is like a lion till lie gets the ball; then he bunches
m anticipation of the coming blow. But there are
more temperamental players. A few- years ago George
Bayliss was a game forward, and the goals he got
helped Richmond materially to two premierships.
lie became a marked man, however, and the continual
knockmg-about rattled his nerve. After an all-in
match, when he was carried off with a broken nose
and a body that was a mass of bruises, lie changed
lus tactics and his club. He now gets his goals
lor tootecray by waiting to be fed, and then relying
on his accurate long kicks. But where “Daphne"
has been able to change his game and retain his
place, many able men have been scared right out of
the game for want of protection.
* * * *
Hardnpp”; For those who like stoush
Sv- i eir s Port, the Melbourne football season was
httingly opened by two warring ban-ackers, one of
'y hol “ was unusually laconic. He wasn’t looking
oi fight, he explained, but as he saw’ a man who
appeared to be doing so, he “passed him one.” Then
the police interfered. “Outside the ground,” the
laconic gent went on. “I saw the bloke I ’it. an’
i ?? s ,, °2? e friend: ‘They’re waitin’ for me —’old me
a . I hen the pair proceeded to make themselves
subject to charges of “offensive behavior.”
TWO IN ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Two women playing golf at Ramsgate halved a
110 yards hole in on e.”—Cable.
('leaving' the ether, like some shaft unerring
Flies from an archer’s bow towards the goal,
Bali after ball descended, white and whirring',
Fairly and plumply in the cup-like hole.
A ieat that Braid's or Vardon’s deadliest whizzers
In half a century’s driving ne’er had wrought,
And duplicated ! Holy smoke and scissors t
1 wonder what they thought.
Each out in one! Imagination features
The history makers on th’ historic green,
A brace of hushed and slightly startled creatures
Each for the nonce more famous than the Queen.
While caddies gestured plain and gaped astounded
And forth across the links the tidings sped,
Leaving some sceptical and all dumbfounded—
I wonder what they said.
Men would grip hands in vehement emotion
If men could thrill all Golfland through, like this,
Women’s first impulse, I’ve a sort of notion,
Such deathless fame achieved, would be to kiss.
Mon would be celebrating where purveyed is
The purple joy and clinks the gladsome tid
I pon the polished bar. But these were ladies.
I wonder what they did.
N.S.VV.
IFORD.


o rv, t>.
ZM.I.
r - ' {
u
,\4 urm
A. Saunders’ Fruit or Cane brand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, glass-lined, 70/-
33S
A. Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, pure Silver-plated,
Al quality, 80/-
A. Saunders’ Bread Board, plain design, pure Silver-
plated, Al quality, 20/-
With Knife to match, 8/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS
SELECT TABLE-APPOINTMENTS.
iuilii
A. Saunders’ Bread Server, Pure Silver-plated, Xvlonite Handle, 7/G.»
Others, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 21/-
SENT
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ “Spoon and Fork” Canteen, comprising i-doz.
each Tea, Dessert and Table Spoons, J-doz. each Table and
Dessert Forks, A 1 quality, £6/5/- B quality, £6/2/6.
C quality, £5/15/-
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, purq Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £3/15/*
Others, 30/*, 35/-, 50/-, 60/-, 80/-
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway
Station), SYDNEY.
SAUNDERS
tea
S»'J
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, on ebonised wood base, 70/-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 80/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
hand pierced, highly burnished, 35/*
Others, 15/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
L
%
m
m
m
1
is
i
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Waiters, fluted edge.
Din., £3. 12in„ £5/10/- 14in., £7/10/-
18in., £B/10/-
m - ~
a -
MS! i\*'
HO
in stem®
€
or 6Jass
Established
15J5
i is a soft
and mellow ■>
D
<32-
%
ill
iiIIETIIQWSJE
xnj
NtTT '1 ftNT6F^.oO
3TU pi OS.
s *32
HP*"
A. GILBERT TOMLINSON, Supervising Agent, 431 a Kent St., Sydney.
vONEty
It Pays to Invest in
Pioneer Leather Belting
An investment in Pioneer Leather Belting pays for itself many
times over. Provided the correct Pioneer Leather Belt has
been selected for each particular drive, and reasonable care
used in its maintenance, you can forget your belting problems
for years to come.
Could there be better evidence of the enduring quality of
Pioneer Leather Belting than the letter reproduced herewith?
(heat Southern, Emporium,
Ooulburn,
29th March, 1923.
Messrs. J. C. Ludowici cG Son, Ltd.,
117 York Street,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs
We are returning to you one Pioneer Double Leather Belt,
each I.sin. and 1/f kin. wide, which we have no further use /or,
as we have dismantled our Electric Light Plant and connected
up with the Municipal Council Supply.
These were purchased from yon about 25 years ago, and
arc still in very good condition after all these years of service.
They have proved to be a very good investment to us, for apart
from their long and efficient service, they are returning to us
more than we originally paid for them.
Yours faithfully,
( Sgd.) CHARLES ROGERS & CO.,
. per G. A. Rogers.
Pioneer Leather Belting is manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
PIONEER HOUSE, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AND NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:—
VICTORIA: J. & R. E. Madder Pty.,
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell
& Sons, Timpson St., Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Sum-
mers, Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Ravis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland.
Blackburn, Smith & Co., Christ-
church.


DONT SHOOT
until you are convinced of the relia-
bility of the gun. Next in danger
to being in front of a dependable
gun is being behind a faulty one.
MICK SIMMONS’ GUNS AND
RIFLES
delight the heart and pocket of every
true sportsman. A few examples—
No. I—A ni eri c a n Single-barrel
Breech-loading Gun, 410 : gauge, top
lever. Siemen’s .steel barrel. fiOiu. solid,
lock; weight
... 55/-
case-hardened, reboundin
about 441 b.
Price
Carriage paid.
No. 2— American Double-barre 1
Breech-loading Gun, 410-gauge, top
lever, steel barrels, left
choke ; weight about r>e%r i //■*
r»4ib. .-. £6/17/6
Carriage paid.
No. 26 — Remington Hammerless
Repeating Rifle, Model 12a, 22-cal.
solid breech, side ejector, straight grip,
22-inch round barrel, handles 15 short,
12 long, or 11 long rifle cartridges,
adjustable rear and open
front sights ; weight about np /* /
4|lb £5/10/-
Carriage paid.
No. 16 — The Cert. Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
(extension rib, rebounding bar lock,
pistol grip, neatly engraved, superior
tonsil: weight about 71b ei/ir /
Price £4 15-
Carriage paid.
No. 7—T he Ce r t Hainmerless
D.8.8.L. Gun, 16- gauge, with cross
bolt. on
Price 3t #
Carriage paid.
No. 11—Winchester S i n g 1 e-shot
Rifle, 1902 Model, 22-calibre, rim-fire,
ISin. round steel barrel, bolt action;
V sight, scroll trigger-guard, rubber
heel-plate; weight about /*%
Postage, N.S.W.. 1/6; other States,
2/S.
No. 12 — Winchester Repeating
Rifle, 1906 Model, 22-calibre, 16-shot,
20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sight, slide
action, magazine handles 15 short. 12
long or 11 long rifle cart-
ridges ; weight about £g/ jq/
Carriage paid.
Satisfaction guaranteed in gun re-
pairs. Our big illustrated shooting
catalogue is post free on request.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Skin and Woo! Merchants.
You will receive the full benefit of highest Sydney
market prices without any deductions by sending to
L. A. SCANDRETT, LTD.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Also at London and New York.
NO COMMISSION CHARGES.
(Consign to Darling Harbor, Sydney.)
QUICK RETURNS.
#s*
A
as
oj
BEAUTY IS ONLY SKIN DEEP,
BUT RIPOLIN ALSO ‘H AS THE GRIP.”
It is Quality and Permanency that Count.
RIPOLIN ENAMEL PAINT
REQUIRES NO VARNISH.
For Motor-cars, Boats, and all Interior and Exterior
Painting on Wood, Cement, Metal or Stone.
Send for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
THE STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD.,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone; Central 11064.
S. «T. Squires & Co., Ltd., 171 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane.
E. A. Cormack (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood
Street, Sydney.
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream —put up in collapsible
tubes—is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6 d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
514
Aged
years
TURF
BIG SIZE
CI ARETTES
20 for 2/«
THE NEW SIZE
TURF
‘JUBILEE*
(xuilh the Blue Band)
20/o rlfc
10 forty
L
JtSjZz
- - 'NS
V ;
in the wood
guaranteed
Three years in the
wood takes all the
harshness and bitter-
ness out of the tobacco,
and brings the flavour
to perfection. That
is why so many men
are now smoking
TURF
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
GUARANTEED MADE FROM
TOBACCO AGED AT LEAST
3 YEARS IN THE WOOD.
Look for ihe
BLUE BAND
“Machete”: The clergy are often accused
of a lack of business habits, but that can't
be alleged against an “assistant pastor” of
one of Auckland’s fancy religions. This
young man was convicted of stripping his
tabernacle bare of furniture and fittings
and selling them; incidentally, he got mar-
ried on the proceeds. The furniture of the
Church of Assembly of God, as it is called,
presented some, unecclesiastical features. In
addition to benches, tables, organ and so
on, it included a primus stove, some de-
canters and wineglasses, a couch, and two
ladies’ nightdresses. There were other
items, including a teapot, but we can pull
up there.
"Herodot”: Although our calendar gives
the present year as the 1925th after the birth
of Christ, it is actually the 1929th. The
error is due to the looseness of the early
methods of time-keeping. There have been
numerous other mistakes in the Christian
reckoning, the calendar on one occasion being
more than a dozen years out. That a final
adjustment will ever be made is not likely,
for the reason that it is not at all neces-
sary from a material viewpoint, while an
alteration nowadays would produce dreadful
confusion. All the other adjustments were
made when the calendar was not in general
use, and the hulk of the world’s inhabitants
did not worry much what year it was.
“Rounds”: More than six months after
its presentation the report of Alec Cameron,
chairman of Melbourne Tram Board, on his
observations in Europe and America, lias
been published by the Vic. Government. In
the change-over from Labor and the bustle
and stir of the close of a Parliamentary ses-
sion the typewritten document lay forgotten
in the urn into which it had been dropped.
Now it has been resurrected to say things
that would have been apt when the motor-
’bus controversy was helping a silly season.
Cameron scouts the conduit system as too
expensive, and goes bald-headed for poles
and span wires. Motor-’buses, he declares,
cannot take the place of a modern tramway
service, but can be utilised as auxiliaries.
He insists upon traffic regulation to prevent
unfair competition and community waste.
And if tne Government doesn’t like Cam-
eron’s views it can drop him in November,
when his present term will expire.
“Sixenate”: A Melbourne citizen has bom
collecting some salve for his injured feeling ..
lie had only just arrived in the capital when
a policeman called at his boarding-house,
and, charging him with being the man who
had assaulted a woman some time before
when actually he was in Auckland, com-
pelled him to go to the South Melbourne
lock-up. There, as he could not get bail, he
had to spend the night in a verminous and
rat-infested cell, He brought three actions
for damages for wrongful arrest and impri-
sonment, and the arresting John Hopkins
will have to pay him £5O, while the lockup-
keeper and one other limb must part with
£25 each. The case has done good in ex-
posing the outrageous condition of the metro-
politan lock-ups. A new jug is to be hurriedly
provided for South Melbourne; but there are
others which would bring heavy fines for in-
sanitary conditions if the police were not
their keepers.
“Hamer” : A man who runs a land agency
in a N.S.W. town near enough to the Vic.
border to make Melbourne his capital, comes
to town nearly every week to buy a motor-
car, usually second-hand. He sets out to
drive the car home, but seldom gets there.
An easy ability to make himself friendly in-
troduces him to likely buyers in the town
through which he travels; and he is usually
able to pass on the car to some affluent coun-
tryman at considerable advantage to himself.
Moreover, he frequently picks up commissions
from others who ask him to get them a ear
similar to the one he sold Smith or Jones.
It is a prosperous business, which satisfies
him to leave his land-agency in the hands
of employees. The manager of one Mel-
bourne motor co. says he does business regu-
larly with four customers who are specu-
lators of this class. Their chief line is
second-hand ears, mainly sacrificed by owners
with a craze for new models; and the busi-
ness is to simply drive the ’bus about until
a sale is made to a friend or a casual
acquaintance. Last Show week one of the
men bought and sold eight ears.
“Ned”: “Ces” (B. 16/4/’25) tells of the
memorial schools erected in Victoria at Mir-
boo North and at jYJysia. Of course, great
minds do think alikij, but there is evidence
that this idea for the best war memorial evbr
devised originated at Hay (N.S.W.). This
little community of 2500 citizens already
had a high school, established about 1917, and
housed in rooms lent by the local primary
school. i?he end of the war raised the ques-
tion of establishing a fitting memorial to
the many men who went out of South-Western
Riverina. It is a vexed question who origi-
nated the. idea of the Hay War Memorial
High School, but the district inspector
(W. M. West, M.A.), the local Parents and
Citizens’ Association, the Returned Soldiers’
League and the staffs of the High and
Primary Schools adopted the proposal with
avidity. The Department undertook to sub-
sidise the fund pound for pound. Every school
in the inspectorate co-operated—the memorial
school contains many bricks purchased by
little rural schools from Wanboota in the south
to Booligal in the west. The graziers brought
in tlieir two hundred and fifties, the young-
sters their pennies. The amount aimed at
was £6000; the Department undertook to
raise this to £12,000, but when plans and
specifications were drawn up it was found
that £l6 000 was needed to carry out the
work. The Cabinet —a Labor one, by the
way—rose to the occasion, and provided the
extra £4OOO. Work was put in hand, and
on Anzac Day, 1924, it was officially opened.
Upstairs there is a fine library-room, 34ft.
4in. by 24ft. 6in., and containing the fine
collection of 1300 volumes purchased with a
gift of about £2OO presented by Miss Emily
Claughton. The endowments.subsidised by the
Department, exceed £20.000. The Falkiner
family has not been content with founding
a scholarship in memory of the father of
the present generation, but during 1924
contributed a further £4OOO to found yet
more scholarships. These open up an avenue
to University courses that would otherwise
be dosed to the young people of the Riverina.


Construction
I
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Republic Motor Truck Sales,
212-216 Pirie Street (East),
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
If Republic were not a truck with a phenomenal capacity
for earning big profits -
would Republic have more trucks in active
service than any other exclusive truck
manufacturer?
would 70,000 Republic owners publicly
state their absolute satisfaction?
In order to cope with the demand for Republic Trucks, a
factory occupying 600,000 square feet of floor space is
working to capacity. When you know the Republic, you will
know the reason.
Every Republic Truck in the world is constructed as though
it were to be the factory’s sole output. Every Republic
Truck has that remarkable degree of stamina which is
occasioned by such features as faultless engineering, special
ease of springing, scientific distribution of weight, and the
careful selection of components.
fi
/
> \
5
/
r
c
iranik
nunim»it ltml l“S
V*
A
aaM>Mf! 1 * ’ / >• « -i. v , T.*<7gCß^.T«ft..>»:» tf ><>r:*v* w •;» \ i/rF
:» r>,-.^®6S»!«tv.'! : !!>'%v
W. A. CROWLE, Factory Distributors, Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


The New “VALET” Auto Strop Safety Razor
will shave you better every day — in every way
———at a cost of Three and Six
3?
\
I
Y ES. Shave you better every day. No more dragging or pull-
ing. No more half-shaves. No more continual changing of
blades. Yet a perfect, close, comfortable shave every time.
S7z/s is how.
Each “VALET” Razor has a strop; you slip it straight into the razor head. For about
10 seconds you run the razor to and fro. This gives you a perfect shaving edge, and
because the blade is stropped into this sharpness every morning it gives you the same
perfect shave for weeks and weeks. To clean it is just as simple— a rinse, a wipe, a run
on the strop and you are finished.
You can obtain the three and six set in a neat case which contains the razor, one blade
and strop. Ask for the No. 99 set.
BRITISH MADE.
OF ALL DEALERS.
"VALET”
op
Safety Razor
THERE IS
A SET TO EVERY POCKET.
Set. No. 50 —Heavily Silver-plated
“Valet” Razor, shell liorse-hide
strop, aftd twelve blades
in higiiKjf-polished nickel
case .
25 1-
Set JS’o. 101—“ Valet” Razor., strop
and three tested “Valet” blades,
in japanned metal case*
with hinged container for
strop
7(6
No. 9!> Set
(illustriileil),
3/6
kD
CO
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London. England
Managing Agents tor Australia: PHIPSCN & COMPANY', LIMITED, 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
dependable PLOUGH CHAINS
What points do
you look for in a
Plough Chain?
—strength!
—uniform, smooth,
non-chafing links!
—neat appearance!
You get all these
and more in ACCO
Plough Chains. Ac-
co Chains are made
of the best materi-
als on automatic
machines that en-
sure even finish
and extra-great
strength. Each is
tested to maximum
strain before it
leaves our factory.
Of good store-
keepers and sad-
dlers’ ironmongers,
or write our repre-
sentative direct.
£unt
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Bldg., New York, U. S. A.
Representative:
Edward G. Vaughan, P.O. Box 845, Sydney, N.S»W.
Notice the smooth
welding of the links
Doneon automaticma-
chines thatensureuni-
form links, great
strength, neat appear--
ance- Acco chains do
not chafe.
tEGISTERBt
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never reauires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG GRAIN! D
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Raker k Lonerhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
w
•Wf *&>**&*■
r
■ i**"
11
ill
....
a
,s -,'
Sss
. : 111
r&'7 ?■'"<*
'J'HESE Rings, fashioned in the most beautiful designs and set with carefully- selected
gems of perfectly choke quality, represent but a few of A wide selection, equally
magnificent, that is always available for inspection at the firm's showrooms. The
exceptional facilities at the firm’s disposal enable them to select their gems front
the worlds finest offerings, while the experience gained by more than fifty years’
experience of specialising oernrits them to Offer misdsfbflwl workmarwhin that is not
specialising permits them to offer qualify and workmanship that is n
obtainable elsewhere,
,
SPECIALISTS IN FINE DIAMOND 6 OEM RIK3S
-
54.4.345 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service fl la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
ml
!■ ■ ■ ■ ,»U ]■ il
£y*iM
rr
Tarifi—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address. Manager,
“Rowes” Ckfts and Hole! Proprietors,
Britosre.
i
mil
M
TiA S
* Alway:
NIGHT SHOOTING AT 100 YARDS
is quite easily done with a
Winchester Focusing Electric Torch.
The fewest and Most Efficient Electric Torch.
Throws a narrow beam of light 300 ft., or can
be focused to throw a broad beam at. a short
distance. A boon to the man on the land.
Invaluable to Motorists in town and country.
LARGE MODEL takes a 3-cell battery, 9 inches
over all. Fitted with a fixed and flashlight
switch. All nickel 18/0
Same Model, fibre body, nickel finish. . 17/0
SMALL MODEL, takes a 2-cell battery, Nickel
or Fibre, 6-!> inches over all. 15/-
WINCHESTER BATTERIES give best results.
They last longer and give a brighter light.
2-cell Batteries. 1/9; 3-cell Batteries, 2/6.
Wholesale and Retail Distributors;
SPORTS CENTRE.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty’s “Kid Roots”
Royal “The Lady of the Rose”
Criterion “The Merchant of Venice”
I’alace “The Skin Game”
Grand Opera House “Tangerine”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Primrose”
Royal “Spring Cleaning”
King’s “The Nigger”
Athenjsum “Skittles”
Princess’s “Little Jessie James”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
1 1 ♦ '
From the moment the Handel Sonata, filled
with a flowering peace, flowed out into
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night, the
audience sat entranced by Kreisler and liis
magic Guarnerius. It is not only that the
quality of his music is mellow and rich in
song, or that it flashes through intricate
and brilliant passages with the grace and
dancing lightness of sunbeams. Other vio-
linists have these qualities. But this man,
no longer young, pours through his instru-
ment that pure, fresh rapture with which he
first greeted his composers. He brings an
intense sensitiveness to his interpretations,
ai.J nowhere was tin's more notable than in
the Bach Suite in E Major. In vain the
Ouija boards of the world called for J. S.
Bach on Saturday night: he was distinctly
to be seen hovering about this Sydney stage,
clapping enthusiastic, ghostly hands as this
“discerning fellow Kreisler” gave his music
to the world, not only as a supreme bit of
craftsmanship, but colored with the rush of
emotions that had inspired it. Yet it was
the Mendelssohn Concerto that was the
triumph of the evening. There was a
rapture, a pearl-like lustre about the
Andante movement that stirred the audi-
ence to an unbelievable emotional pitch.
This beautiful work curved from Ivreisler’s
bow winged with ethereal lightness and grace.
As the last passage of the concerto died
away applause roared through the hall like
a hurricane. The second and more familiar
part of the programme included Kreisler’s
own “Tambourin Chinois” and “Caprice
Yiennois.” The Caprice of Ivreisler’s bow
suggested Sydney wrapped in the blue haze of
early evening, seen from Bradley’s Head.
If one dread more than another haunts the
dreams of the suburbanite it is of being
built out. To wake on a fine spring morn-
ing and see the first load of bricks deposited
on the vacant allotment next door is a dagger
in the heart of the owner of a pleasant little
freehold commanding an unexampled view of
Harbor and Heads. This, or something like
it, is the fate that threatens Hillcrist, the
English country gentleman of “The Skin
Game,” presented at the Palace on Saturday
for the first time in Sydney. It is to avert
this horror that he allows his masterful and
unscrupulous wife to white-ant his principles,
until he finds himself playing the skin-game
with the man he despised. It is obviously the
production of a novelist, and even more
obviously the novelist is Galsworthy. That
charming writer has never made up his mind
about life in his books, and even the de-
mands of drama failed to force him to any
conclusions in this play. He is not sure
whether Cliloe, the prostitute reformed, lias
still any of the old Eve in her. He
sketches a rudimentary love affair between
the daughter of the house of Hillcrist and
Ilornblower’s younger son, and then hastily
rubs it out. With the exception of Horn-
blower and the auctioneer, who know pre-
cisely what they want, he merely adumbrates
his various characters, and even the suicide
of Chloe is only a hint or rough suggestion
of a climax: as the curtain falls he allows
her to gurgle back to life off stage. Never-
theless, although the characterisation is none
too good, the excitement and interest of the
play kept the audience guessing.
Muriel Starr, as the erring lady, has
almost nothing to say until the end of the
second act, but makes up for it afterwards
by her fine tragic rendering. Frank Har-
vey’s Hornblower is a strong and down-
right person. Harvey Adams, however,
waggles the banner of the Hillcrist family
in a strangely lifeless manner; and as Mil-
dred Cottell, his aristocratic but unprin-
cipled spouse, is not in place, it remains
with Mary Macgregor. as his daughter, to
bear the beat and burden of the play. Beau-
mont Collins makes an excellent old villager,
Roger Barry, as ITornblower’s younger son.
acts with a languid realism; and John Fern-
side, as the auctioneer in the amusing second
act, shows that he has missed his true
vocation.
At Sydney Opera House, we ween.
Are love and laughter and tropic scene.
And shapely limbs a-whirl—
Eight more nights, if you haven't been.
For dreamy, languorous “Tangerine”;
Then hey! for “The Honeymoon Girl."
When “The Lady of the Hose” was staged
in Melbourne, Edith Drayson was the perse-
cuted Mariana and Ilowett Worster the whip-
cracking Colonel Belovar, who makes an im-
proper proposal in Scarpia's vein. In the
production at Sydney Royal Gladys Mon-
criel'f impersonates the virtuous dame, who,
after hinting that she might consent, doesn’t;
and Claude Flemming climbs into the
colonel’s uniform and is diverted from his
’orrible purpose by the midnight vision of
a lady clothed in chastity and very little
else. Belovar is an incredible warrior con-
sidered in cold blood, but Claude Flemming,
though a thought mature, contrives to make
him a fearsome figure at times, and a very
tuneful one when he is duetting with Mari-
ana or singing a fine martial song, with a
chorus of cavalrymen, unseen for the
moment, but presently revealed in miracu-
lously tight red pants. And Miss Moncrieff
warbles beautifully, as she always does;
and some of the music is really beautiful,
though a lot of it is just f.a.q. musical-
comedy stuff.
There are smart “Kid Boots” in the shops to
spare,
But the dandiest, daintiest, dinkiest pair,
Last word in pedal riches,
You’ll see, if you please, at Her Majesty’s
Where George Gee over the golf-links gees
And Josie Melville witches.
In pursuance of its praiseworthy re-
solve to lead Sydney away from mere noise
and movement back to gaiety and music, the
J.C.W. firm revived “The Merry Widow”
last week at the Royal, but risked it for
three nights only. Jazz-deadened tympanums
expanded to the seductive tunes that had
thrilled them in their adolescence, waist-
coats flapped appreciatively at the ancient
gags long since gone into the currency of
the comic supplements, and hearts turned
over and renewed themselves in following
the vicissitudes of Sonia and the cynical
but loving Prince lfanilo. Leslie Holland,
in red trousers and wearing his usual air
or calm detachment, played the latter, and
made up for a lack of voice with skilful busi-
ness ; Gladys Moncrieff was a somewhat
hearty and too practised Sonia, but sang the
old songs charmingly; Nellie Payne was a
chives little Frou-Frou, and put character
into her warbling; and Arthur Stigant and
Blake Adams revivified the ancient gags
aforesaid. William Berryman, replacing
Noel Leyland, made a suitably romantic
Yieomte de Jolidon, displaying a nice figure,
a head like the dome of St. Paul’s, but in
better repair, and a pleasant turn for melody.
This Page had its radio ear to the key-
hole when Maurice Moscovitch told the ladies
of the Sydney Feminist Club the other even-
ing that his version of Shylock is nearer to
the truth than Shakspeare’s; yet only
new element of his interpretation on Satur-
day night at Sydney Criterion was a more
Yiddish method of shrugging the shoulders
and waving the hands, while presenting the
“PRIMROSE" AT
HIS MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
As Hilary Vane (norelist) William Senior
gets his first glimpse of Joan Falls
(Maud Fane): Toby Mcopham (Alf
Frith) assumes the disguise of a profes-
sor of spiritualism.
Venetian moneylender as a man of 40 in-
stead of 70. Where he might have tampered
with Shakspeare’s text in reason —at the
point where the proud Jew chooses apostasy
rather than death —Moscovitch contented
himself with a muttered curse in Hebrew
which hardly anybody understood: thereby,
perhaps, saving himself from being torn to
pieces by the wild dervishes of orthodoxy.
While, therefore, his presentation Avas not
neAv, except in uriessentials, it Avas extremely
subtle and convincing in the larger aspect.
His influence was also doubtless seen in the
handling of the play by the rest of the cast.
Jean Robertson, as a particularly happy-
natured Portia; Eileen Sparks, as a vivacious
Nerissa; and William Stack, very sincerely
Bassanio. made this Sundry Showman at the
end of the third act feel for the first time
in his experience seriously concerned about
the fate of Antonio. Arthur Greenaway, as
the latter, treated the poet’s words and mean-
ing with his usual scholarly regard; Basil
Bowen was an untraditioual Gratiano, and
none the worse for that; Nat Madison, the
producer’s son, Gobboed along conventional
lines, and Gertrude Cremer was a rather flat
and flapperish Jessica.
Will Fyffe sings of Saturday nights in Glas-
gow and of a lost sweetheart. Felovis
juggles with a ’topper and a cigar.
The women show their paint in Sydney:—•
The Society of Women Painters’ exhibition at the
Education Gallery reveals melancholy limitations in
the critical faculty. The unerring eye of the divine
creature who looks so infallibly after man’s winter
socks and general comfort would scornfully reject
a bedstead or a bath that stood on only three of
its legs; yet rickety landscapes in this show out-
number those that are soundly painted by six to
one, and many appear to have been included to
show the male scoffer that a woman can paint, if
she likes, quite as badly as a man. Among the
happy exceptions may be mentioned F. V. Lahey
(Miss or Mrs.), who sends from Bananaland two
admirable sunlit studies whose lack of composition
debars them, however, from the title of picture;
Ethel Barringer (S.A.), who has painted some nice
gums and pleasant reaches of the Murray River;
Gladys Owen, who besides some faulty work has
No. 6, “From Mount Macedon,” a picture so well
composed that the weight of the near-by hill and
the rising up of the distant landscape are almost
physical sensations; Mabel Barling, who lias
approached the denizens o-f the Zoo with courage,
but needs more practice; Frank Payne (Mrs. A.
Clinton), who has two delightful infant studies in
79 and 80, but only a colored photograph in 78 ;
Mrs. A. Hedley Parsons, who has a simple but
effective picture of sea and cloud in 95; Marion
Jones, who presents a Mona Lisa lady with a very
vivid face just breaking into tears or laughter and
a pair of arms a trifle on the short side; and
Ami Zimmerdahl, whose decorations are feminine
ana delightful and contain a full peck of fancy.
Sheila McDonald shows some clean drawing, and
Margaret Clark has been into the bush with the
fairies and has returned with some dainty designs
and extremely beautiful color.
Turning from the Art with a capital A to the
crafts pushed into a corner, there is some well-
wrought jewellery by Rhoda Wager; also some highly
efficient furniture decorated with Australian motives
by Mrs. A. M. Parsons; elegant inlaid work by
Vi Eyre; faithful handweaving by Dorothy Wager
and some Java, batik by Myrtle Times which is
slick but needs to go back to the home of the art
for refreshment. Nothing crank or shoddy here.
The impressive and sonorous Verdi “lie-
fpiiem” rolled its thunders of appeal through
Sydney Town Hall last Thursday. Joseph
Bradley led the Philharmonics in the big
work; and of them it can be said that the
performance of the choir was uniformly ex-
cellent, but that the orchestra was too
tumultuous. This work of Verdi’s has been
branded as more operatic than spiritual, but
the sense of the dramatic is over-emphasised
only in the “Dies Irae,” while numbers such
as the “Agnus Dei” are sweet with the
breath of grace. In this “Agnus Dei” the
soprano and mezzo wore at their best, the
part of the theme for voice and flute being
especially captivating. The mezzo, Minna
Weidele, was not cpiite happy in the earlier
part of the programme. She sang as one
whose feet are set in slippery ways, and
was occasionally almost submerged by the
orchestra. Mrs. Goossens-Viceroy tackled
the soprano music with more confidence, but
her voice had not a sufficiently appealing
quality. Alfred O’Shea’s tenor was as a
light set in a shadowy place, and basso
Oliver King' sent up a great cry in “From
the Accursed.”
Entering the Sydney Tiv. this week you
meet Will Fyffe as a depressed Jack Tar
who has just received his discharge from
his best-girl. The roar of merriment that
follows his gloomy and caustic reflections is
disturbing the peace of the pigeons nested
as far afield as the Town Hall. Also Bill’s
views as a Scotch workman on Parliamen-
tarians and profiteers is a highly amusing
and valued contribution to political oratory.
Sydney Fullerites are in a flutter over
violinist Kris loft, an alleged Siberian exile,
who serves out soulful slices from the clas-
sics, mixed with jazz and jokes of 1900
vintage. The plot of “The Oojah Bird,”
George Wallace’s tenth revue, is as absurd
as the antics of the actors; but the audiences
at Fullers are not fussy.
The Sistine soloists (nine of them, in-
cluding their loader and accompanist, Emilio
Casolari) made a reappearance in the
powdered wigs, brocaded silk garments, knee
breeches and stockings of the seventeenth
century for the opening of a new season at
the Melbourne Auditorium on Saturday
night. The programme was entertaining,
well selected and enjoyable, but somewhat
lacking in inspiration; a certain touch of
monotony was evident, due probably to over-
drilling or the one line of delivery. In the
first part Signor Paganelli scored well with
Giordani’s “Caro Mio Ben”; “ Vittoria,”
sung by Burani, would have eclipsed that
performance, but for an inclination to ragged-
ness in some of the higher-pitched passages.
In the second part the same singer challenged
comparisons with recent performances by
singing the “Monologo” from “Andrea
(Hienier.” The full company gave splendid
effect to “Mattinata,” in which the pianis-
simo passages were very effectively handled ;
and the Soldiers’ Chorus” from “Faust”
stirred the enthusiasm which comes invari-
ably when a concert audience recognises
something familiar.
An eighth concert was added to Galli-
Curci’s Melbourne season; and it was an
occasion for exactions which kept the pro-
ceedings going until the eleventh hour. Even
when the songstress had given the best of
hints by singing “Home, Sweet Home,” the
audience declined to go there; and having
well over-used the lady’s voice, some hundreds
rushed forward and over-worked her hand.
“Spring Cleaning” is still on at Melbourne
Royal, the supply of people who think it
a duty to “see Pauline Frederick herself”
showing no signs of petering out.
Hilarious trouble still associates itself at
Melbourne New Princess’s with the bed
which disappears under the grand staircase.
But the light situations in which the unusual
article of reception-room furniture is in-
volved are treated with such artistry that
not even a wowser need blush. “Little Jessie
James’s” bed is, in short, the most virtuous
couch in theatrical history.
Amid regrets at the passing of one of the
best all-round performances Melbourne has
seen for some time, Guy Bates Post will
cease to duplicate himself in “The Mas-
querader” on Friday night. “The Nigger”
is due to show him in a new role at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday.
Melbourne Majesty’s, finding “Primrose”
very satisfactory, gives no hint of an inten-
tion to decorate itself with any other flower.
The pleasant people who work out the
destinies of “Skittles” at Melbourne
Athenaeum go on their way to the happiness
of the last act in the usual satisfactory
fashion. The motives of everybody are so
decent that nobody in the play is entitled
to even a fortnight’s imprisonment—unless
it is Reg Roberts for his loud-voiced over-
acting of the country butcher.
The atmosphere was green at Melbourne
Queen’s Hall last week when Eileen O’Keefe
and Dorothy Dillon illustrated “the poetry
and music of Ireland.” The former supplied
a very clear-voiced declamation of W. B.
Yeats’s poetic play, “Deirdre,” effectively re-
presenting the different personalities and in-
dicating the conflict of their moods; and
the climes was intense. Dorothy Dillon pro-
vided the vocal uplift with a very light but
quite charming soprano, heard at its best
in the delicate romanticism of “Silent, oh
Moyle.”
Allan Wilkie’s intention of staging “The
Rivals” went by the board on reconsidera-
tion • and last Saturday the company at the
Melbourne New Princess’s reverted to its
Shakspearean habits. Nightly changes will
continue until the 22nd inst.
(Continued on page 37.)


9
A
ISK-.
P
A
K -3
A Page of May Specials
Y Y ERE is a Page of Protective Wear. Warm, comfortable attire
i 1 for Men and Boys that, in avoiding loss of time, the cost of medical
fees and in safeguarding the priceless gift of health, rvdl repay
to you the purchase price a thousand-fold.
• • • •
Strong , Well-made, and Distinctively Tailored
Overcoats for Men
A STYLE LEADER—MEN’S RAGLAN OVERCOATS,
from All-Wool English Blanket Tweeds of extra good quality,
able shades of Grey or Brown. This very smart and
comfortable Coat can be had with or without Full Belt. Made
with strapped cuffs, step collar, vertical pockets. An
easy-fitting and very distinctive style. (As illustration B.)
Ready for Service
fashioned
F ashion-
551 ■
MEN’S GABARDINE “RAGLAN” SHOWER - PROOF
OVERCOATS in the popular Fawn shade. Check-lined
throughout. (As illustration A.) Ready for Service
57/6
MEN’S SUPERIOR QUALITY ENGLISH ALL-
WOOL TWEED OVERCOATS. Serviceable winter
weight in attractive shades of light or dark Grey. Raglan
style (as illustration B, but with full belt). Vertical pockets.
Murdoch’s Price
84b
When ordering please state size around chest (over vest), also height
and weight
Warm Underwear
MEN’S NATURAL COTTON AND WOOL SINGLETS,
heavy winter-weight quality. Fashioned
with short sleeves and well sewn.
Comfortable wearing, soft finish.
Sizes: 34in, 36in
38in, 6/6; 40in, 6/11; 42in, 7/6.
Underpants to match, 1/- extra on above prices.
5/11
Mens Pyjamas
MEN’S HEAVYWEIGHT FLANNELETTE PYJAMAS,
splendid wearing and washing quality. Neatly finished
throughout and strongly sewn for
good service. In a wide range of
broad or medium stripe designs.
Made in our own workrooms
7/11
The “ Warrnambool”
All-Wool Rug
MURDOCH’S PURE ALL-WOOL MERINO TRAVEL-
LING RUGS, made from specially selected Wool of
fine fleecy finish. In a large variety of the season’s
latest designs and pleasing colour
combinations. Reversible. Finished
with deep fringe. Size, 60 x 80.
65/ value. Special Price
50/-
Crirrean Shirts
MEN’S STRIPED CRIMEAN SHIRTS of strong service-
able quality. Well cut with collar and pocket or with
neckband only. Many neat and at-
tractive designs to select from. Com-
fortable and warm for winter
wear
8/11
All-Wool Coat Sweaters
MURDOCH’S FAMOUS ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS
for men. Knitted by skilled specialists in Murdoch’s
own workrooms. Double cuffs, close knitting, flat
, seams, taped shoulders—everything to ensure per-
fect shape and splendid service.
Shades : Mid. Grey, Heather, or
Navy. With V-fronts.
Size, S. Men’s
15/11
Men’s, 16/11; 0.5., 17/11; X. 0.5., 18/11.
Polo Collar, 1/7 extra.
The Popular Pull-over Sweaters
THE SEASON’S LATEST STYLE IN SPORTS
SWEATERS FOR MEN. Made from All-Wool, with
V-fronts to pull over head, two side
pockets. Attractive shaded mixtures - ~
of Rrown and Royal, or Brown and |/ I
Fawn. With sleeves -X. L J\J
Other qualities in Check Mixtures, with sleeves, 25/-.
Without sleeves, 20/-.
Boys' Coat Sweaters
MURDOCH'S ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS
BOYS. V-front style. Serviceable
shades of Grey, Navy, and Heather.
Chest measure, 18in to 20in
FOR
8/11
22in, 24in, 9/11; 26in, 28in, 11/11; 30in, 32in,
12/6. With Polo Collar: Size, 18in, 20in, 9/6; 22in,
‘Min, 10/6; 26in. 28in. 12/6; 30in, 32in, 13/6.
Boys' Overcoats
“THE BRAMLEY”—A smart Double-Breasted Overcoat
for Boys. Fashioned from good quality English
Tweeds and Fancy Mixed Tweeds in
shades of Brown and Grey, also Mid.
and Dark Greys. Sizes: 000 to 1 fit
boys 1 to 3 years
Other Sizes : 2to 5, fit boys 4 to 7 years 30/-
” ” 6 to 8 fit boys 8 to 10 years 32/6
27/6
Winter-Weight Cots wold Suit ;
FOR BOYS. Made from dependable-quality English
and Australian Woollen Tweeds in Light, Mid., and
Dark shade textures, showing attractive designs.
Made with four patch pockets, yoke and gathered
half belt at back; no vent. Knickers
have two side pockets, plain knees, and
are strongly lined. Sizes: 6to 8 fit
boys 8 to 10 years
Other Sizes : 3 to 5 fit boys sto 7 years .. 22/6
9to 12 fit boys 11 to 14 years .. 27/6
13 to 2 fit boys 15 to 17 years .. 32/6
25/-
MURDOCH'S 52-PAGE Illustrated
Winter Catalogue is Now Ready.
Write for a Free Copy. Address all
letters to DESK R.
POSTAGE PAID.
TO YOUR DOOR.
a
is
to**
LIS
■fiWii
Ml
r A
IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY,
€t The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store
ORDERS BY POST
receive Prompt and Efficient
Attention by Murdoch’s
Experienced Mail Order Staff.


Plug-slice or Ready-rubbed, in all sizes.
Also 11b. glass jars. Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The right type of boot for every code
Footballers !
MACNAUGHT’S Football Boots are worn
by many of our leading players, because
they’re right in every respect. Sterling
leathers are used and the quality throughout is
the highest. Note the excellent value shown by
these prices.
League, 14/11 J Soccer, 15/9
Dally M., 16/11
Send us your repairs.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
135 King Street 189 Pitt Street 22 Strand Arcade, SYDNEY,
And at Burrowa Street, Young.
Melbourne Tivoli gave itself up to frivolity
in order to farewell the popular Two Rascals
last Friday; and a crowded house thoroughly
enjoyed itself, although the ordinary pro-
gramme was knocked out of plumb by the pro-
ceedings. That carnival was the introduc-
tion to a largely new programme on Satur-
day. Woe Georgie Wood changed his sketch
to “Black-hand George,” the infant despe-
rado with qualms about punishment. The
Versatile Three made an appreciated re-
appearance, and Eroni is a dare-devil on a
wire.
:!: * * :!=
The Melbourne Bijou has the bailiffs in,
with Stiffy and Mo as the exponents of the
distraint business. The time-dishonored jests
go almost as good. as new. Frank Wilson
juggles with an amazing number of musical
instruments, some of which recall the con-
scientious trader whose shop-sign read:
“Violins and other musical instruments;
also bagpipes, banjos and saxophones.”
** * *
Harold Lloyd is showing in “Girl Shy”
at Melbourne Majestic, where also Mar-
guerite de la Motte is “In Love with Love.”
The way in which the man with the slick
ways and the habit of looking at life through
tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses has come. to the
front is one of the most notable things in
the past year’s picture history. Hoyt’s De
Luxe has a strong cast in a better-tlmn-
average picture, “The Dancers,” to which
“The Measure of a Man” is the following
course, and Billy Sullivan in “The Fast
Steppers” provides a light dessert.
>J< *!*
Some May art show-ers in Melbourne: —
Wedding a fine imaginative faculty to a crafts-
manship which knows the right use of color without
being rigidly bound to its rules, Blamire Young
has an exhibition at the Athenaeum Hall which is
full of delight. He is best in his dream-pictures;
where he ties himself down to exact drawing, as in
“The Daughter of Herodias,” a weakness in this
side of his art spoils the effect. He is more success-
ful in “The Flying Dutchman,” full of rich sil-
houettes, and “The Miller’s Daughter” ; in these
the color scheme and the striking design outweigh
the drawing. All the same, there is no reason why
such an artist should display such lamentable weak-
ness in one essential of his art. But the show is
full of good things, “The Lavender Farm” being
a daring example of the use of water-color backed
by a solid knowledge of how far Art dare go.
Norman Lloyd’s determination to be original is
displayed in a small show at the Decoration Gallery;
but what may be passed as a strong distinctive
method when the artist succeeds, as in “Blue Day”
(No. 10) and some others, becomes mere crudeness
where the success is not achieved. Realism is obvi-
ously his aim; and to secure it the artist cuts
all imaginative trimmings, making his drawing strong,
although his coloring is rather stiff and uninspired.
Still he frequently gets wonderfully appealing effects,
notably with reflections. His method is like whisky;
it needs water.
An unimpressive show is made by the collection
of the pictures of F. G. Reynolds at the Sackville
Gallery. They are oils (some on silk) and water-
colors, and show an artist who can paint very
well, but appears to prefer to play with color for
his own satisfaction; and if a rule of ait doesn’t
please him, he fractures it.
* * :!:
A quaint play is “Cappy Ricks,” having a
highly successful week at Adelaide Royal.
It is a comedy with the artless manner of
melodrama. Whenever the old talker be-
comes more than usually boastful, one is
certain that some heavy reverse is just on
the doorstep ; when he sends a heavyweight
pugilist specially to “beat up” one of his
sailors, one knows that the sailor’s • only
‘trouble will be to carry the enemy to hospital
—and so on, without any change, Yet
the whole thing not only amuses, but has a
distinct appeal. Ward Lyons is a fine old
captain, as natural as the author will allow.
He tends already to broaden his effects, and
may go down in theatrical history as another
“Grumpy.” The feminine side of the co.
badly needs strengthening. A Boucicault-
Vanbrugh season is just starting at the
Royal.
ijs 'i* $
From an Adelaide critic:—
James Ashton has a pleasant show of the results
of a long visit to Ceylon. The highly-colored sun-
rises and sunsets, palm-trees, the shore and the
busy natives are all treated in his effective but
slightly monotonous manner. One hardly knows
whether he was wise or otherwise to include one
large canvas of a home scene, an Encounter Bay
seascape. Finely treated, with tumbling foam, it
is James Ashton at his best, and worth all the
rest of the show put together.
“Hamer”: Our stage villain had run his
evil course, and the heroine was busy telling
him off. “It is all known now!” she de-
claimed, pending the arrival of the police.
“It was you who forged the will; you who
betrayed that poor girl; you who were guilty
of the murder of Summers!” “And while you
are about it, Miss,” came in shrill accents
from the audience, “you might tell him that
he owes me thirty-seven an’ six for three
weeks’ rent.”
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
THEIR CROWNING VIRTUE.
“Haven’t you got one good thing to say about
the movies?”
“Oh, yes! One is not compelled to go and
see them.”
“E.T.”: Alfred Lester, whose death is re-
ported. was knocking about in “the pro-
vinces” with second-rate dramatic companies
for years before London had a chance of
enjoying his lugubrious brand of humor. It
was Robert Courtneidge who introduced the
long-neglected mummer to the AVest End.
Ilis lugubriousness, by the way, was not
entirely assumed. Never robust, Lester was
a sick man who had become embittered some-
what by his ill-luck as an actor. When
an old professional friend congratulated him
on the wonderful hit he had made as Peter
Doody in “The Arcadians,” the pessimisti-
cally-inclined comedian answered: “Thanks,
laddie, but it has come too late.” He was
wrong. For nearly 20 years after that he
held the position of a very high-salaried star
in both musical-comedy and vaudeville shows.
At the time of his death he was probably
England’s wealthiest stage-performer.
“C.lv.’s” speculations:—
It would be Interesting to know which part of the
three octaves the newest S. Aus. contralto, sponsored,
according to the cable, by Seymour Hicks, is going
to concentrate on. Considering that three octaves,
say from C to C, contain the whole effective range
of a tenor, contralto and soprano, it will be rather
difficult for the lady to make a choice. If the range
is A to A, she could sing—with the addition of half
a tone at the top end —all the solo music usually
included in the public performances of Handel’s
“Messiah.” The possession of such a voice involves
a great responsibility. If it is really of
contralto quality, the lady might lop off a big
chunk at each end, and, by incorporating the power
thus conserved into the middle, a “world voice”
might result. But you never can tell. The greatest
effective compass 1 ever personally met was that
possessed by Madame Trebelli, mother of Antonia
Dolores. This great artiste could sing with equal
power any operatic rdle written for either the
contralto or mezzo-soprano voice. But such a gift
is very rare. A man once wrote to the precentor of
Canterbury (Eng.) Cathedral during my time there
wismiig to join the choir. He did not mind which
voice there was a vacancy for; he could sing alto,
tenor or bass with equal facility. The Rev. Fred
Helmore replied that, although hardly suitable for
a Cathedral choir, such a phenomenal organ should
not be lost to the public. He suggested that the
Moore and Burgess Ministrels would afford the most
appropriate field for its exploitation.
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: Proposed structural
alterations to the Bull and Mouth, in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, recall that the pub stands
on the site of the city’s first theatre, the
wooden Pavilion, subsequently rechristened
the Royal Victoria, and, in B'ebruary, 1843,
the Melbourne. Hodge, an actor, and Jamie-
son, who ran the Eagle Inn, next door, were
the management; and the admission charges
were ss. for boxes and pit and 2s. Gd. to
the gallery. Two shows a week were given ;
but this theatre soon yielded pride of place
to ,T. T. Smith’s new house, in Queen-street,
opened in October, 1843, with “Othello,” Mr.
and Mrs. Knowles being the principals. A
Melbourne pressman, Howard, was the Rod-
erigo of the production ; and a reptile con-
temporary took the opportunity to remark in
the candid spirit of the times: “Mr. Howard
made an ass of himself, as usual. He ought
to be smothered if ever he attempts to appear
on the stage again.” The Knowleses kept on
with Shakspeare; and in April, 1844, the
co. struck for higher salaries, and, not get-
ting them, gave performances in the Adelphi
Tavern. Knowles died in May: and in Sep-
tember a riot followed the staging of “The
Jewess,” a number of R.O.’s in the audience
mistaking a representation of the Jewish
Passover celebrations for a mockery of the
Mass. Other troubles of this showhouse,
which had become the Royal after being
first the Queen’s, caused a close-down for
the rest of the year. One of the troubles
was a leading actress who was so addicted
to stimulants that one night she fell into
the orchestra.
“Flaming Youth”: The success which has
come the way of Francesca Duret, who left
Melbourne only a year and nine months ago.
has been continued at the great San Carlo
House, at Naples, where, as Adina in
“Elisir D’Amore,” she made a memorable
score last month. This follows her triumph
at the Milan Opera House in “Lucia” and
“La Sonnambula,” mentioned in Tiie Bulle-
tin some weeks back. Italian press notices
refer to crowded audiences, and, as the
Milan Opera House holds 35G0 people, that
indicates a large success. Il Sole, a Milan
paper, talks of “a pure voice, magnificently
intoned and trained, a rare fineness of modu-
lation and firmness in the high register, a
natural talent.... and true sentiment. She
breathed deliciously the arias”.... And she
had to repeat the Mad Scene. It is all very
good hearing.
“Forebridge”: The recent appearance of
E. R. de Tisne, an American mummer, in
the Bankruptcy Court, revives memories of
one of the most successful theatrical ventures
ever launched in Brisbane. In partnership
with a Canadian, Harrington Reynolds, De
Tisne rented the Theatre Royal, and for some
months every Saturday night saw the pro-
duction of a fresh piece. Resurrecting old
favorites, and occasionally introducing new
ones, proved a howling success; the shekels
rolled in from capacity houses, and the two
principals and their wives had the time of
their lives. Dissensions in the camp eventu-
ally occurred, and the partnership was dis-
solved. Some idea of the profits of this
phenomenal run may be gathered from the
bankrupt’s statement that little parties after
the show not infrequently cost £3O or £4O.
All good things come to an end, however,
and it was his failure to recognise that fun-
damental fact, coupled with a habit of back-
ing slow horses, which brought De Tisne
once more into the public eye.
“Hamfat”: Wilma Berkeley, who has
pleased the musical critics at her first emer-
gence in London, is not so much “Melba’s
protdgee” as enthusiastic notices say. Wilma
was a schoolgirl in Westralia with no great
idea of a musical career when, five years
ago, her aunt, Miss Ada Casey, a Melbourne
voice-trainer, offered to teach her to sing.
When, two years ago, Dame Nellie brought
with her a scholarship for an Australian
songstress offered by a London teacher,
Wilma was one of the students presented,
and won it, presumably, on her merits. Melba
has since been “interested,” naturally; but
seeing that a number of Melba’s “protdgges”
—quite a long list—are young women whose
minds have been merely distracted from
thoughts of washing-up by Melba’s approval
of their voices, and that the majority of
them are still where they were when the
approval was bestowed, Wilma Berkeley de-
serves to be placed in another category.
A note from John Tussaud:—
Will you permit me this opportunity of thanking
tlie public, both at home and abroad, for the great
kir.dness and sympathy shown to me and my family
in the loss sustained through the fire at the Exhi-
WELL TRIED.
THE CRITIC : “Do you think Blank's work
will Stand the test of time ?”
THE ARTIST: “Well, lots of the jokes he
illustrates have.”
bition ? The messages received are far too numerous
to reply to individually. So far as the relics are
concerned, the loss is, of course, irreparable, and
we mourn the destruction of so many historic
mementoes which it was the pride of Madame
Tussaud and her descendants to acquire and exhibit.
One effect of the fire is that it has revealed the
great esteem in which the old lady’s memory is
held throughout the world. The kindly references
in the press and from the public have gone far to
alleviate the effects of the blow we received when
the treasures of several generations of the family,
which had taken a century and a half to accumulate,
vanished within a single hour.
“Lud” : On his last tour of Australia Oscar
Asche was, amongst other things, busy con-
cocting a play dealing with fox-hunting days
in Merrie England. The piece is now com-
pleted and, under the title of “The Good
Old Days,” is going on a provincial tour for
three months before its production in London.
Meanwhile Asche is being much sought after
by West End managers as a producer, in
which department he is undoubtedly in a
class of his own. He is responsible for the
staging of the new Lehar opera “Frasquita”
at the Prince’s, and also for an even more
ambitious piece at Daly’s, “Cleopatra,” of
which the score is by Richard Strauss.
“Emerald”: Why should a London cable
refer to Miss Eda Bennie, the singer, as “of
Sydney”? Several dozen Melbourne hearts
would know the reason why. Eda Bennie
went to school in Melbourne at the P.L.C.
She is a twig of the Bennie tree whose many
medical branches are all associated with Mel-
bourne. She may be “of Sydney” because
she has sung there; but she has sung in
Melbourne, too. She sang here with the
Quinlan Opera Co. in 1912. This year she
has an engagement at Covent Garden. Her
fair slenderness and powerful, effortless voice
make a good stage ensemble.
“R.K.D.N.”: I note this rather intriguing
cable item:—
Mr. Oscar Asche is unable to revive “Kismet,” as
his rights have lapsed. “The producer of ‘Kismet’
refused me a part because I am too fat,” said Mr.
Asche.
Kismet, indeed!
Once managers would say,
“Give Asche a part that’s fat.”
But now, alack-a-day,
Oscar’s too fat for that!
THE RANGER’S DAUGHTE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
D’yeh think y’re back in Blighty
A-doin’ in yer dough,
With talk of ’lgh Soci’ty
And .all th’ Nobs y’ know,
To kid to little Mary
That’s trippin’ by y’r side,
Sweet as a scented fairy?
Square Dink’, ye’ve got a hide 1
The jazz band is in action;
We saunter down the aisle,
The centre of attraction
Located in ’er smile;
’Er shim’rin’ evenin’ wrapper
Enfolds ’er like a sheet —
This coot’s clean orf ’is knapper—
She proudly takes ’er seat.
’Er yeller ’air is gleamin’
In ringlets round ’er ’ead;
’Er bonzer eyes is beamin’,
’Er cheeks is tinged with red ;
But soon the lights ’ave faded.
The screen is silver lit,
And ’er sweet face is shaded—
’Tis then I grab ’er mitt.
The film is branded “Danger.”
Two thousand feet of whirl
About a Wild West ranger,
’ls lovely blue-eyed girl
Snatt hed by a cattle duffer
With shootin’ irons and steel;
Gawd, ’ow ’e makes ’er suffer 1
But in the final reel
Comes ’Orace on ’is ’airy
A-tcarin’ down the Wind
Like fire across a prairie.
The girl is lashed be’ind
The villain’s cow-boy saddle,
Wild torrents roar in flood,
And when ’e can’t skedaddle
’E tries to shed ’er blood.
’ls fate is grim and gory—
’E snuffs without a friend.
A touehin’ little story,
With “close up” at the end
Of 'Orace with ’is Dinah
’Eld in a fond embrace....
A sniff comes from me clinah,
A tear rolls down ’er face,
Makin’ a tiny gutter
Where scented powder glows.
With thoughts too deep to utter
I glimpse ’er pretty nose
A-gleamin’ in the splendor
’Er wondrous optics shed.
A coot is on a bender,
When girl goes to ’is ’ead.
B.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


Amusements.
§YD N E Y’S CHIEF IHEATBES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S—KID BOOTS.
CRITERION:
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
ROYAL: THE LADY OF THE ROSE.
PALACE: THE SKIN GAME.
HAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh .1 Ward Tlieatres Ptv., Ltd
Nightly at 8. Matinfies Wed. and Sat. at 2.15.
TANGERINE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
ICISAIt I) S’ TIVOLI THEATIi 15 S.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
PULLER’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTI)., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SPRING CLEANING.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L 15 O U R N E.
GUY BATES POST in
THE NIGGER.
A powerful drama concerning the color question.
AT HEN A 3 UM THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
« Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson presents, by arrangement with
E. J. Carroll,
JOHN D. O’HARA,
in the Three-act English Comedv,
SKITTLES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
r EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD Presents
LITTLE JESSIE JAMES.
“The Little Giant of Musical Comedy.”
MJOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
* 1 Also SYDNEY.
ALMA RUBENS and GEORGE O’BRIEN in
THE DANCERS.
WILLIAM DESMOND in
THE MEASURE OF MAN.
Prices as usual.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
THE GIRL ON THE STAIRS.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Matinfies daily at 2.3 C. Nights at 8.
NEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
STIFFY AND MO, IN REVUE.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Missing Friends.
PIETRO POLA, late of Rhymney, in
Victoria, deceased. —CHARLES WIL-
LIAM POLA, son of the deceased (or any
person knowing- his whereabouts) is re-
quested to communicate with THEO. G.
GRANO, Solicitor, Ararat. Something
greatly to his advantage.
A ROYAL
ACTUAL SIZC
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
64. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults, 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferried, Limited.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
I to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
!SP
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
sl,Gi»o.oG
F.O B. Detroit
Mich., U.S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Mailne Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
exclusive
Factory Representatives
‘rbanUs-Morse Company (Australasia)
25-27 Clarence Street. Sydney
Kermath. J
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich.,U.SJL
Cable Address - KERMATH
(By permission of Che Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
BIGGEST AND BEST!
“The HELP for CONSUMPTIVES”
ART UNION
OBJECT. The establishment of a fresh air settlement for T.B. sufferers and
to alleviate distress amongst those suffering from T.B.
NEXT DRAWN.
Ist Prize, F.I.A.T. Limousine . . . Value £l3OO
2nd Prize, Hupmobile Sedan ... ~ £750
3rd Prize, Flint Car ~ £625
4th Prize, Durant Car ...... ~ £4OO
200—Prizes in all —200
lj“
TICKETS ONLY
By post 1/1 Vfed. 3 or more post free
with result slip.
Five tickets 5/-
Biggest Art Union ever Conducted
BUY YOUR TICKETS NOW. FILLING RAPIDLY
Art Union Closes Positively not later than 20th May, 1925.
Drawn Town Hall, Sydney, 3rd June, 1925.
Thoroughly efficient management and strictest supervision assures every ticket
holder of an equal chance in the drawing.
Tickets Obtainable Everywhere or from
GEO. H. WHEELER, SECRETARY, 4 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hon. Promoter: Sir Joynton Smith, K.8.E., M.L.C.
A Quarter of a Century’s
Experience
MODELS:
14/40-h.p.,
Four-cylinder.
20/60-h.p.,
Six-cylinder.
Each model fitted
with Overhead
Valve Engine and
Sunbeam Four
Wheel Brakes.
has contributed towards the present-day perfec-
tion of the Sunbeam models. In every part of
the globe they have proved their supremacy, for
the harder the conditions the more is Sunbeam
efficiency apparent. Both 14/40-h.p. and 20/60-
h.p. models are equipped with Four-Wheel Brakes.
The Sunbeam is unique, inasmuch as the super-
efficiency of its engine is fully matched by the
security of the brakes.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
WOLVERHAMPTON.
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square,
London, W.l, Eng.
Cable Address: “Subeamoco,” London.
Authorised Dealers: —
WILLIAMS BROS.,
255-259 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
PERSONS having information as to the where-
abouts of GEORGE ALEXANDER LAWSON,
who is interested in the estate of MARGARET
ELEANOR BAGOT, late of Prospect, South Australia,
ire requested to communicate with W. WRIGHT,
"üblic Trustee, Adelaide.
tT will be to the advantage of HERMANN FELK,
last heard of at Loganholme, Queensland, or his
hildren (_if any), to communicate with A. W. BALE,
Solicitor, Adelaide Stieet, Brisbane, before 31st May.
next. The Trustee is about to distribute his father’s
estate.
LAST DAYS.
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4ooofori |-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission ol the Hon. the
Attorney-General ol N.S.M/.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Value* guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th. 1925
Results published "Daily Telegraph. June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, !|ll. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets lor 6/-
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prize*
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs. Proud*
Ltd. and Lassetter’s. Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie * Chamber*. Katoomba. N.S ’.7.
RUPTURE\
A FREE TRIAL.
II yon are troubled with the complaint, write na and
tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comlorlably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO. f
104 Queen Street, Melbourne
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Kina, Edward VII. A Biography, by
Sir SIDNEY LEE.
Vol. I. From Birth to Accession. With
6 portraits i photogravure, 2 Facsimile
Letters, and 3 Maps. 31s. 6d. net.
“ELIZABETH'S” NEW NOVEL.
Love. By the Author of “Elizabeth
and her German Garden.”
[Macmillan’s Empire Library.]
The Observer: “ ‘Elizabeth’ has never written
more wittily, never with greater imaginative
sympathy. .. .An admirable novel—and quite
irresistible.”
Vera. By the Author of “Elizabeth
and Her German Garden.” Cheaper
Re-issue. 3s. 6d. net.
A Golden Treasury of Irish Verse.
Edited by LENNOX ROBINSON.
Cloth, 7s. 6d. Leather, 10s. net.
The Irish Statesman: “In my judgment this
by Lennox Robinson is the best of Irish antho-
logies. It has more and better poetry in it
than any other.”
THE
ROUND TABLE
.1 Quarter I;/ Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum post free to
any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR MARCH:
EUROPE; THE COVENANT AND THE
PROTOCOL.
THE GOLD STANDARD.
CHINA IN EVOLUTION.
VOLCANOES IN INDUSTRY.
THE PRESIDENT, THE SECRETARY OF
STATE, AND SENATOR BORAH.
IRELAND AS IT IS.
INDIA: THE POLITICAL CHAOS.
UNITED KINGDOM: CURRENT POLITICS.
.1 Iso Articles from “Australia,” “Canada,” “New
Zealand” and “South Africa.”
To be Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO, LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


STUDEBAKER
\
V
4
ss
//i
AGAIN this year—as in 1922, 1923
l and 1924 Studebaker wins the
Gran Premio of Argentine, South
America’s premier race classic 1
To win once might be laid to luck, but
to win this gruelling hard-fought con-
test for four years in succession is in-
controvertible proof of Studebaker’s
superior power, speed and endurance.
And not only did Studebaker capture
first place honors, but second place as well!
24 Cars Start; 9 Finish
Twenty-four cars left the starting line.
The course led from Buenos Aires to
Rosario to Cordoba and return—-a dis-
tance of 943 miles.
So terrific was the strain imposed on the
twenty-four contestants that only nine
cars finished the race! Think of it—only
one third of the cars could withstand
the thundering speed and ceaseless pounding over roads
beset with a multidude of difficulties! And NONE could
equal the victorious Studebakers for speed and stamina!
The Gran Premlo
of Argentine
South America’s Most
Important Race
taiea*""
loss*"
19*4*"
1935*"
won by
STUDEBAKER
A Studebaker Special Six the same
Studebaker model that beat all Trans-
Australian speed and endurance records
in its intrepid dash from Freemantle to
Sydney last year—roared over the fin-
ish line of the 1925 Gran Premia with
the winning time of 21 hours and 27
minutes. Another Special Six finished
second and thus Studebaker’s victory of
the Gran Premio for the fourth consecu-
tive year was complete.
See the a JS > ew Studebaker s
In justice to yourself you should see the
new Studebaker models now on display
in our showroom. Examine their sturdy
construction. Inspect their many fea-
tures—some of which will be found in
no other make of car. Ride in them.
Feel the surging flow of power, smooth
and instantly responsive —characteristic
of each of the Studebaker six-cylinder
engines—Standard Six, Special Six and
Big Six Then you will realize that
-Studebaker’s triumphs in gruelling speed and endurance
tests are only paralleled by its achievement in producing
the greatest motor car value in the world.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE MOT*OR AGENCY, (Queensland) LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand'
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend , Indi
Australian Prices of Studebaker Motor Cars
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
113 in. W.B. 50 H.P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton £490
3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster £465
5-Pass. Coach £540
3-Pass. Country Club Coupe .... £570
5-Pass. Brougham £575
5-Pass. Coupe £590
5- Sedan £625
6- Berline £650
5-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £430
3- Roadster, Aus. Body £420
4- brakes, 4 disc wheels, £l5 extra.
SPECIAL STX MODELS.
120 in. W.B. 65 H.P.
5-Pass. Duplex-Phaeton £5BO
. 3-Pass. Duplex-Roadster £545
3- Sport-Roadster £575
4- Victoria £735
5- Brougham £685
5-Pass. Sedan £765
5-Pass. Berline £785
5-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £535
7-Pass. Phaeton, Aus. Body £550
3-Pass. Roadster, Aus. Body £515
4-wheel brakes, 5 disc wheels, £2O extra.
BIG SIX MODELS.
127 m. W.B. 75 II.P.
7-pass. Phaeton, Imported Body,
Folding Hood £685
7-pass. Duplex-Phaeton 705
5-pass. Coupe 895
7-pass. Sedan 935
7-pass. Berline 960
4-Wheel Hydraulic Brakes, 5 Disc Wheels,
£2O extra.
Studebaker open models can also be
furnished with folding tops in place of
the Duplex body and top.
YEARS
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73


LEARN TO DRAW
FROM LIFE.
r<L
>
You can learn to draw by post, through
the easy, concise, and interesting lessons of
the Harry J. Weston Postal School of Drawing.
Artists command large salaries, and are
independent in that they can earn a big
income in almost any country.
Hr. Harry J. Weston, the well-known
Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every student receives per-
sonal tuition.
Send for Mr. Weston’s interesting free
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
25 Commercial Building,
17 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Note the Difference
Marking Ink often causes annoyance apart
from disfigurement. But You’ll be delighted
with the Pleasureable Advantages derived by
Marking Linen with
mm
NAMES
Any Name clearly Woven in Fast Colour
“A Few Stitches and They’re Cn.”
Be sure and ask for CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
Actual Size, Name Style No. 6
Sold by All Best Drapers.
Prices: 12dz. 7/6; 6dz. 5/- ; 3dz. 3/6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH LTD
85 Oubitt street, Richmond, Melbourne.
"MO I RALAN”
First-Class Boarding
Establishment
NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
NORTH QUAY - BRISBANE
Overlooking River. Mrs b. KENNEDY,
Handy to Trams and proprietress
Trains phone cent. 5112
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
‘INVINCIBLE”
Benzine and Kerosene Engines for all purposes
where reliable POWER is required.
INVINCIBLE Engines for Marine and Stationary
Purposes.
INVINCIBLE Engines for Pumping Service.
INVINCIBLE Engines for driving Dynamos.
INVINCIBLE Engines for driving Agricultural
Machinery.
INVINCIBLE Engines for Concrete Mixers and
Road Machinery.
INVINCIBLE Engines are made in all sizes,
3 to 120 H.P.
One to four cylinders; four-cycle types only.
No matter what you require in the internal
combustion Engine line, we have it, and at a
price which you will find not only the lowest in
Australia, but at least as low as the World’s best
in their own markets. “Invincible” Engines are
sold under a five years’ guarantee. 100,000 items
of Spare Parts always in stock. Write for Cata-
logues, stating your requirements. Our stock of
Engines totals to 8000 H.P.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Sydney Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street.
A COLLECTION OF ORIGINAL
Phil May Drawings
has been secured by
AUSSIE MAGAZINE
and the first instalment of this collection appears in the
MAY NUMBER OF “AUSSIE.”
A fresh instalment of this Series will be published in
each issue for the next six months.
“Aussie”
Buy a Copy of “Aussie” Magazine To-day.
These drawings have never been published before, and are ol
great value.
Get “Aussie” each month and secure the whole collection. Quotes
will be given for reprints from any of these drawings.
PHIL MAY IN MAY “AUSSIE.”
gpsrv
ft i
M
I
:
■
..
The “Texas Ranger
Cowboy Saddle.
This is our most popular style of
Cowboy Saddle. It is made with full
covered seat and cantle, in nut-brown
leather. Double rigged, with two cord
cinchas and wood stirrups.
£l2/15/-
Freight paid for cash with
order to any Station on
N.S.W. Railways.
Write for our Catalogue, showing other
styles of Cowboy Saddles, Fancy Bridles,
Chaps, Texas Spurs, Belts, Cuffs, etc.
REMINGTON
BALLET
KNIFE
No. 815.
It has two blades of High-quality Blade Steel,
Colored Grained Handle and the Shoe forms a
Bottle-cap Opener. 7/6 each. Postage 6d.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
SADDLERS, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Host Holbrook
Saiji
“I have an appetising variety of
table delicacies. Sauces, Olives,
Capers, Malt Vinegar, Flavouring
Essence —all quality goods—the
high-grade quality of the House
of Holbrook.”
a v OLB ROOKS
iQA I IC F I
GBD
Shape
No. 4373
//TN
m
Note the very fine
quality of Grain of
these ‘ pipes with a
pedigree.”
The world's standard
of pipe perfection.
Quality Tells
Pipe satisfaction is dependent upon pipe
quality. GBD pipes are made from the
finest French Briar that money can purchase.
They are shaped by experts in London
and faultlessly finished in every detail.
Many shapes to suit all tastes.
Sold Everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to —
. Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.N.L.: Can’t tell until we see them. We
will print anything that will interest Australians
and squares with our own ideas of decency....
8.G.F.: Doesn’t seem right somehow. The S'African
Labor party is almost entirely English... .Pip T.:
And has it happened in the West, too? Well, that
completes the circle of the States... .C.M.H.: Not
a bit interesting as you put it... .Scrubber: For our
purpose an ounce of experience is worth a ton of
encyclopedia.... H.R. (Hawthorn): Not enough inter-
est to carry it through. ... HEB: The meaning is
too obscure.... K.11.T.5.: Not enough in them....
Ripponlea: The snail is a cheerful animal:—
By the side of mine carrot plantation
Did a snail come out of his shell,
And across an inundation
Struck out remarkably well.
“Is this not then a phenomenon?’’
Thought I. “They walk, though without much vim,
But I swear this snail’s an uncommon one,
For I’m dashed if the insect don’t swim.
Now, when he comes out, watch me brain him,”
Mused I; but on second thoughts
I bemade up mine mind to train him,
. For I found that his species were sports.
So I kept him and studied his diet;
And soon I*was calling him Clive;
And one day when he was game to try it
Did I teach him the swallow dive.
But one day in the salt sea I tossed him
To, as it were, broaden his mind,
Too late I realised I’d lost him
As he fizzled out in the brine.
... .V.G. (Wahroonga) : Well enough told, but an
unpleasant bit of melodrama. S.Y. (Broken Hill):
Makes a very lame story... .Nance W.: The sonnet 'is
the best, but it is in poor form... .T.S.S.: The
only matter of note about it is the attempt to
rhyme “pictures” with “ditches,” “creatures”
“riches,” “blisters,” “mixtures” and “breeches.”
Why not rhyme them with “horse-radish” and
have done with it ?... . E.D.: As rugged as the elo-
quence of the ’L00... .T.T.R.: Poor stuff... .Leone
R.: Doesn’t thrill us... .R.G.H.: Too slight; but
not hopeless D.M.A.: “The Outcast” i 5....
M.G.S. (Fullarton): Can’t get excited about that
mysterious animal... .N.W. (Maryborough) : Too wild
ana improbable... .A.M.8.: It doesn’t make much’of
a yarn. ...M.H. (Challis House): Nice verse, but
not of general interest. The “dawn-born” rhyme is
a defect and should be altered... .C.H.W.: That
sort of thing is very easy and not very attractive.
....Fleet Street: Too thin and as feeble as the
Lachlan in a drought... .R.H.A.: If you had put
more life into it there would have been hope for it.
. ...R.A.8.: Not much use writing unless you
have something to say. .. .P.C.C.: The millionaire
doesn’t make mirth... .E.B. (Ivanhoe) : The
“Lullaby” is short both of music and of thought.
... .E.M.D.: Not up to the mark... .F.S.L. (or some
other letter): The “Orchard” supplies no fruit for
this basket... .J.M.D.: Not quite well enough done.
But go 0n... .G.A.P.: That mountain horse has
worked overtime in better verse Cedric H.: They
all carry a suggestion of something better, but the
work is too sloppy and has too much commonplace.
. ...V.K.L.: It must be a lot better than that to
catch tne judge’s eye....Anzac D.: Not up....
A.A.R.: Not for u5....M.G. (Bendigo): The “Reli-
gious Wood Cutter” is an interesting person:—
Far away out in yonder wood
Is the tallest tree that ever stood;
The mightiest man e’er swung a blade
Toils out there ’neath sun and shade;
He files his saw and grinds his axe
And deals that tree some fearful smacks,
And when she cracks he gives a yell
For the welts on his hands are as sore as hell.
Then down she comes ’mid dust and limbs,
And he jumps in the air, and starts singing hymns.
. ...H.B. (Auburn): Your ill-versified woe can’t
weep here... .E.D.C.: Not for us... .Sidney:
“Romance” is slight and poorly t01d.... J.A.K.: No
g00d....805; Splutters like Japanese matches....
G.E.M. (Lisbon) : We know of no paper in Australia
that they would suit... . J.G.S.: Rambling stuff with
no point worth mentioning... .L.C.R.: Begins well,
but wants better handling. .. .B.P. (Neutral Bay):
Too loose and as thin as the memory of an old
dream... .W.D.F.: The “Blot” is choked with words.
.... R.L. J.: The materia] is good, but it is not
brightly handled A.H.C.P.: The potter has not
handled his c’lay well enough.... Moyah K.: The
verse doesn’t get near the pay desk G.H.G.: Fails
to move u 5.... Bellerive: The supernatural item has
a delicate thrill about it:—
Through a haunted house
At the close of Day
Two spooks and I
Did slowly stray.
As we sauntered about
We were startled by cries;
Doors opened and shut
Before our eyes.
As we ascended a stairs
There was a solemn toll,
Like a funeral knell
For a departed soul.
My blood did freeze
At a wailing sound,
When down the stairs
A cat did bound.
The walls did ?*.ay,
The very floor did shake;
I clashed with a ghost.
And did suddenly awake.
. ...H.8.5.: Not nearly enough substance there...,
G.B. (Cremorne): The towns must go back....
A.R.N.: It flutters, but never gets to anything
J.J.8.: A poor yarn poorly told E.J.S,: You
swear it is true, but the details don’t read like it.
.—Ethel D.; “Guilt” is clever in a way, but it is
not the way we like. There is so little in it; and
the verse is only a trick H.M.D.: There have
been worse first attempts, but it is far below
standard.... J.W.S.: Doesn’t strike us. But why
steal another man’s fire? Get a few sticks of
your 0wn.... J.D.K.: 'A wiv-tched sample of a
wretched kind of verse. You started without having
anything at all to say. .. .P.O. (Springwood) : Does
not move us... .J.A.K.: You contrive to make the
incident very du11.... John O.: Both miss... .Sour-
dough: Far too crude.... James D.: You’ve dawdled
too much over “Virtues”. .. . L.IvD.: Pretty and
petty.. . .C.A.R.: You must give such things an
Australian interest.
TO AUTISTIC (AND IN AUTISTIC)
CORRESPOND ENTS.
E.M.: Portrait of Admiral Coontz returned. Could
not insult the nation’s guest by printing it....
Condg: Why don’t you look for subjects nearer home ?
. ...J.V.: Lively little sketch, but joke quite dead.
. ...G.D.P.: Thanks for frank confession, but we
don’t wittingly republish our own ideas... .R.8.A.:
Shown 0ut....J.J.: Fired G.E.H.: Handed,
jumped on, dusted on the banisters and flung forth
upon the non-existent mat.... J.R.V.: Call again
when we have recovered our august breath.


ForTenYears-Dependable
Exceptional dependability has been a
characteristic of Dodge Brothers Motor
Car since the day the first of these sturdy
cars was marketed.
Not once in a decade has it failed to
uphold and enhance its reputation for
faithful performance.
The reason for its consistent goodness
and continued betterment points directly
back to the ideals of the founders.
Instead of fluctuating between an end-
less series of annual models, they deter-
mined to concentrate on the perfection
of a single chassis.
Dodge Brothers Motor Car to-day is the
embodiment of that ideal —an ideal that
will endure as long as the institution
itself.
□ □obe Brothers
r i:
?r§
rrrr
•.ppnoppnnnnrxi
rf
ft
■ -rJ. V.
ry
_
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
276 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
334 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.
896-898 Hay Street,
Perth.
SO/4/’25.


When Your Stock Move
to market see that they travel in the right direc-
tion. Cattle, Sheep or Lambs—
TRUCK YOUR FATS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yaivds, Brisbane.
The returns secured will forcibly show the reason
why Winchcombe-Carson’s Sales are such a constant
attraction for owners to consign to the firm.
TRADE
o@aß^@E23to
m
MARK
Genuine Balata
Belting.
Whether required for heavy service on
huge main drives, or for light service
on individual motor drives, involving
small pulley diameters and severe
fluctuation of loads—DlCK’S GENUINE
BAIATA BELTING will transmit all
the power at lowest cost.
Also secure our prices for “BARRY”
Steel Split Pulleys; Cotton Wastes;
Leather Belting: Steel Shafting;
Lubricating Oils, etc.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDSE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOIiART 97 Collins Street
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Qua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FIRTH S STEEL
The reputation of
THOS. FIRTH & SONS, LTD.
for supplying the finest quality steel
has been built up (1) By the use of
the highest quality raw materials,
melted in up-to-date furnaces under
highly efficient technical supervision.
(2) By the accurate control of casting
temperature.
(3) By careful attention to the rate
of pouring.
(4) By the use of correctly propor-
tioned moulds.
Carbon and High-Speed Steels,
Automobile Steels,
Die Steels, Mining Steels
AND
Firth’s Stainless Steels, etc.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth § Sons
(Aus.) Ply., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Perry House, BRISBANE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Defiance Levet*
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case
15 Jewels, 2 /i Plate Nickel Movement
/
I=3
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically
and Soundly
Constructed and to
Keep Accurate Time
Special Price:
65/-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled
POSTAGE FREE
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 1871 N.s.w. LTD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
(412 George Street, Strand Corner
i 185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
id's
Ot®
ats
obi«"“‘ t,u^G« cefs
Ch ernisl!
ftes*
£o*
ot ?G% CtV
-.rrri
liypol is a friend indeed to the precious
tittle folk. It chases away gloom and anxiety,
by restoring sick Children to the bloom of health.
For racking Coughs and Colds, the prevention of
Rickets, or for keeping up the strength of Children
who are growing rapidly, there is nothing so reliable
and sustaining as
Delicate Children should be given Hypol during the wintet
jnonths. It will build up resistance to illness and disease,
and improve their condition generally.
There can be no failure with HYPOL. try a Bottle
Sold Everywhere at 2/6 per Large Bottle
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sturt” : The price of land in Adelaide has
made another record. The scene was, of
course, the fashionable north side of Rundle-
street, and it came to £1450 per foot for
an 80ft. frontage (much narrower in the
rear) of the F. C. Catt stcres.
“W.P.T.”: Speaking of Australian-made
rugs, I have one that for age will take some
beating. It was made by my grandfather
in 1880 from rock wallabies, shot on the
Big Jack Mountain, between Bombala and
Eden (N.S.W.). Nothing could be more
Australian, and the rug, which has had two
trips to Ireland and been bed, blanket and
tent in the bush for years, is almost as good
as wdien the skins were first taken from the
growers’ backs.
* * * *
“Mulga” : Australian pastoralists are satis-
fied that they produced a magnificent wool-
clip for the 1924 season, and probably from
most points of view they are right; but the
technical decree has gone out that the merino
wool we grew was too coarse. From the
moment the sheep were shorn in 1923 they
started growing wool, continued the effort
right through and finished strongly with a
bold, dense, well-grown clip, but heavy and
thick in the staple. llow much coarser this
fibre may be it is difficult to reckon, but
it is certain that it is at present a mighty
factor in preventing the re-establishment of
confidence in the wool market. Buyers have
purchased a big volume of our wool, and,
in addition to bad yields, spinning results
have been unsatisfactory. Simultaneously
with this the market has declined, and manu-
facturers all over the world have found
themselves the owners of much dear raw
material. Under the circumstances they look
for a means of cheapening it, and to this
end are claiming against their buying agents
in Australia for many thousands of pounds
on the grounds of the failure of the purchase
to come up to the quality specification, while
salaried representatives are being abused all
around the globe.
“Ces”: When Miss Lucy Beech started
business at Footscray (Vic.) she advertised
that she would sell bread at lOd. a 41b. loaf
—ld. less than the Master Bakers’ Associa-
tion cash price; 2d. less than book-
ing price. Her first difficulty came
when local millers refused to sell her flour
even though she offered spot payment. For
a time she managed to get supplies from
country millers, but now she has to go to
other States. The combine failed to block
these supplies, but tried, she says, to force
her out of business by stopping her supplies
of yeast. However, she battled on, so a
West Melbourne baker started in opposition
and offered bread to her customers at Sd.
cash, in many instances leaving loaves with
householders in an effort to turn them away
from the original price-eutteY. Most of
her customers stuck to her, though, and the
West Melbourne man retired. The combine
seems to be helpless against her, and an
effort to prove that the plucky woman has
been employing non-union labor at reduced
wages has failed. She lately asked Premier
Allan to take up her case against the millers.
Their association told him that flour was
never refused to anybody who paid cash for
it, and he let it go at that. Efforts are now
being made to have the law amended making
it illegal for millers to refuse to sell flour
to anybody asking for it with the money in
his hands, and also making it illegal for
bakers to refuse to serve people who wish
to change their custom because their baker
has been supplying short weight. With ad-
vantage the trade laws of Victoria could cer-
tainly be altered in many directions.
MR. O’COSTS FOR THE DEFENDANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The profit and loss account of B.A.W.R.A. shows
Law Costs for the past year of £29,334 7s.
Naturally shareholders are critical about the necessity
of this huge sum.”
What’s all this fuss about twenty-nine thou.,
Satirical sneers and indecorous row?
Has professional pride
Drooped, withered and died
That scurrilous critics like these we allow ?
Even Judges there are we’d not care to name
Who suggest (with respect) we’re not playing the
game;
Proposing less waste
Of time and more haste 1
Have Judges no sense of tradition or shame?
Mr. Brief, Mr. Gass and other K.C.’s
And a long string of juniors are busy as bees.
Others solemn of face
Are just “watching the case/’
And who would begrudge them their cut of the fees?
Pray don’t be impatient, just let that mood pass,
Though lungs seem of leather and withers of brass,
Don’t give counsel “the bird,”
They’ve a “right to be heard,”
Though Time falls asleep with his scythe and his
glass.
Like circles in water that follow a stone,
Or a gas balloon, or a football blown,
Like the tide on the sands
The issue expands.
Law must take its course, that fact should be known.
Witnesses come, are examined and “crossed,”
On the sea of contention are bandied and tossed
Argumentative tangles
And personal wrangles,
But no-cne bears malice; the time is well lost.
Yet a light’s to be seen in the great dim distance,
And the Court will get there with time’s assistance;
For His Honor gains strength
On the line of most length,
Which is also the line of least resistance.
All this, you must see, involves stress and strain
And much wear and tear of wigs, bands and brain,
To say nothing of skill
(Which should show in the bill)
Expended in saying things over again.
Twenty-nine thousand? A beggarly loot!
So why not pay up and look pleasant to boot?
Why cavil and snort
At counsel and court?
Be thankful Life’s not an eternal lawsuit.
S.A.
WILLIAM O’COSTS, K.C.


IBlfc
1
i
SB
him
N
ES33
w
Rising proudly above the
fields, defiant of the elements,
the “COME!” bends the
winds to its will, secure in its
strength and almost human
control.
COMET
King of the Air it is, wherever
mills rear their heads. A Giant
for Strength, a Child for Delicacy,
a Titan for Lifting Power. A
perfect product of over 40
years’ constant refinement. At
least investigate the surprising
“COMET.” Fully detailed cata-
logues post free from
Sidney Williams & Co., Ltd.
Constitution Rd., Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Office: 255 a George St.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, Townsville.
Agents in over 60 Districts.
SW 36
Westclox
‘Pocket
Every minute counts
r I plays an important part in life. We rise
by the clock; start work by the clock; have
set hours for sleep, work and play. Each day is
timed. The more accurately we use the hours, the
more we get out of life.
With a Westclox alarm clock in your home and
a Westclox watch in your pocket, you can time
your day accurately from the rising hour to the
retiring hour.
Westclox Big Ben, 21/-; Baby Ben, 21/-; Sleep-Meter, 12/6; America, 9/6;
Blue Bird, 10j6; Pocket Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 18/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 27/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 27/6; Glo-Ben, 12/6;
Black Bird Luminous, 16/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A,
A Winter Necessity.
THE CHEF’S RIGHT HAND
The “Ideal” Low-pressure Steam
Boiler,
For Combined Steam Cooking and
Hot Water Supply.
“Yes,” says the Chef. “The ‘ldeal’ Steam
Boiler is my right hand. I could not do
without it for large-scale cooking. It is so
effective—clean —and economical. My ‘ldeal’
provides dry steam for
Hot Water Supply for Bathrooms —
Sculleries —Kitchen,
Steam Presses (for cooking vegetables,
etc.),
Carving Table and Hot Press,
Stock Pots, Bain Marie,
A'egetable and Soup Boilers,
Plate Warmers and Steam-heated
Shelves.
Milk, Coffee, and Hot Water Urns.”
“Ideal” Boilers are made in sections —
allowing the original boiler to be added to
as more demands are made on it through
growth of business.
“Ideal” Boilers require no skilled or certi-
ficated attendant.
Full particulars on application.
Write or call.
Cut Your Hot Water Bill
What is it weekly? Is it out of pro-
portion to the size of your establish-
ment? Compare with what it would be
if you used an “Ideal” Boiler, and stop
the leakage.
The “Ideal” Boiler burns coke as well
as dry household rubbish, and runs for
hours on one filling. It fits snugly into
any kitchen scheme, and supplies from
20 to 2000 gallons per hour, according to
size. The cost for fuel per week for a
two-bath, two-basin, sink and scullery in-
stallation works out at approximately
from 1/6 to 2/- per week, and is propor-
tionately cheaper for larger installa-
tions.
t
1
wjooom
“IDEAL” CENTRAL HEATING.
“Ideal” Radiators connected with one central “Ideal”
Boiler are effective room-warmers. The cost works out at
less than one penny per room for 24 hours. The
“Radiators” are ornamental in design and fit in with
any furnishing or decorating scheme.
DOMESTIC
BOILERS
° R Hot watpr sUP-£ v
BOILERS
h ot water S'
SI
'DIAL
“Ideal” Boilers are used by the leading
Homes, Hospitals, Hotels, Colleges, Clubs,
Sports Clubs, Golf and Tennis Clubs, etc.,
throughout Australasia.
Our advice is free—and waiting you.
■
i
SB
Continuous Hot Water Reduces
Kitchen Labor.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
IDEAL” BOILERS are also used in connection with—■
Drying Apparatus,
Plate-glass Silvering,
Fruit and Copra Drying
Swimming Baths,
Heating and Ventilation
Skin Drying,
Turkish Baths,
Incubators,
Sterilising,
Glue Kettles,
Dairy AVork.


a
u COUGH u
REMEDY
ESC
Coughs.
CROI
Hi??
I*o
COUGH
REMLDY
m
i'll*
BRO
SORE Till
SNFLUE
,1
»ND OTHER AFFECT K
THROAT and
?*.«!
MADE in AUS
*• •£« Of lll»
m
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY N
i
«»• SMALL
CHAMBCRIAINS LIMITED.
Give this medicine to
relieve whooping cough.
To relieve the straining of
whooping cough, that caus-
es so much distress and
often permanent injury,
give Chamberlain’s freely.
It cuts away the mucus,
makes expectoration easy,
and helps to ward off
pneumonia and bronchitis.
PHAMBERLAIN'ft
11 COUGH REMEDY 11
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE LAST WORD-
SECURITY
CHEQUE PROTECTOR
FOUNTAIN PEN.
An Ideal Pocket Combination.
Five New Patented Features
\9^
Protects
Perfectly
L
///.
lllUHlHimi!
mu ill
nuuiim
Write*
Wonderfully
Ten Good Reasons
uliy the “Security” is
preferred.
1. I4kt. FLEXIBLE Gold
Nib. TEMPERED Irid-
ium- Ball Point.
2. Air Cushion NON-BLOT
Feed Bar.
3. Writes INSTANTLY to
THE LAST DROP.
4. New SCREW Pressure
Quick Filler.
5. No projection to catch in
pocket.
6. Rolled Gold riveted
SPRING Clip.
7. Safety SCREW-ON Cap.
8. Extra-strong SEAM-
LESS Rubber Sack.
9. Handsome IBkt. GOLD-
FILLED BAND.
And last, but not least:
10. Perfect Steel Wheel
CHEQUE PROTECTOR.
This feature alone is
. worth the price. (See
illustration.)
LONG OR SHORT PENS.
Prices: 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-
Registered post free to any
address in Australia. In-
cludes Tube Acid-proof Red
Ink, for Protector, FREE,
with illustrated directions.
Don't delay. Get yours
yow. State whether Fine
or Medium Nib.
yOU’LIi BE PROUD
TO OWN A
“SECURITY.”
From all good Stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or send
Money Order or Postal Note
(keep numbers) to the Sole
Australian Agent,
Mr. B. BLDMENTHAL,
Perry House,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE, Q’land.
(Reference —Federal Deposit
Bank, Ltd., Brisbane.)
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FLEET OF ONE-CLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.o.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., I Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAT) OFFICE •• ••• •• BRISBANE
With ofiices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and So Branches in Queensland, aEo
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
L5
ai
Fill
t1 %
M
1*
m
slU
m
m
m
\\
n
mi
n
ii H
m
SI
(3!
5)5?
3 3
isn
p
j
LET THIS BANK BE YOUR
BULWARK I
E want you to look upon this
Bank as yours-il is open for
your benefit, to render you every
possible service, to offer every facility
for saving. In every way. this institu-
tion will encourage and aid you to
become financially independent! * *
BEGIN AND BUILD YOUR FORTUNE
TO- DAY!
4y „ interest up to £5OO, and
3 ViV> on excess to £lOOO
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W
Head Oflice : 19-23 MARTIN PLACE
1. SYDNEY
161 Branches and over 500 Agencies
1
Every Farmer
needs this Flashlight
IN and about the house, barns
or other outbuildings, it fur-
nishes a bright, white light
that can be taken anywhere
without fear of fire or danger.
’AMERICAN
82
Flashlights and Batteries
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
m o t o r-t rips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent b J
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney*
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/*
2nd class, £9l-
- Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/*
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 1"1 William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. DALGETY & CO., Brisbane. ___________
“800 Boo” : iA haughty titled tourist, scan-
dalised at the sparse clothing of many of
the natives anound Lake Taupo, asked a
Maori in severe tones why his people went
nearly naked. “So’s not to shut him dirt
in,” was the simple but rather disconcerting
reply.
“FY7”: There are still a few clothes-props
to be got out of our forests. An ironbark
beam was shipped at Bellimgen (N.S.W.) the
other day which wias 72ft. long, and had been
squared to 14in. x 14in. There was not a
visible blemish i;n the splendid piece, which
measured up 1174 ft. super.
“Nikko” : The successful tour of the Y.A.L.
Boys has made the Auckland Provincial
Industrial Association think about a travel-
ling college. In the M.L. scheme the ago
will be slightly higher, probably about 20
years, and it is suggested that the journey
be made by a chartered tramp steamer, which
will carry cargo, and thus help to defray the
expenses of the tour.
“Tomb”: The Queensland Government has
at last taken a stand on behalf of native-
bears and ’possums, ami there will be no open
/season for them this year. There remains
the question to be settled of excluding the
breeding period from the open season. It is
of little use having a close .season during
the time the animals are not breeding and
then exposing them to the trapper, poisoner
and shooter while the females are carrying
their little furless babies in the pouch.
“Ettalong”: Tuggerali Entrance, which
swarms in tine, season witli fishermen and
holiday-makers from Sydney and Newcastle,
will celebrate next year the centenary of
its discovery. It was literally a case of the
schoolmaster abroad, for the finder of Tug-
gerali Lakes was William Gape, one of the
best-known teachers of early IST. S. Wales.
He took up a gfcant at Wyong, in finding
which he lost himself and was given up for
a week. In ISS26 he followed the creek
down and found that it ran into a large
lake. He put a boat on the lake and found
the point at which it empties itself into the
ocean, now called Tuggerah Entrance,
“Sixenate”: A Victorian publican struck
an unusual snag when one Sunday some of
the villagers came to his pub and demanded
drink. He declined to give then alcoholic
stimulants, but as they persisted in piteous
protests he said they could have some
lemonade if they wanted it. Lemonade
they did have ; and they were still having it
when the Law came upon the scene and took
particulars. Bung said he thought he was
safe in giving lemonade to people he did not
want to offend, and he found a sympathetic
magistrate who argued that ninety-nine
people out of one hundred would think like-
wise. But, all the same, it cost him a small
fine for having people unlawfully on his
licensed premises.
“Light Horse”: The suggestion of
“A.R.C.” that the outbreak of infantile
paralysis in Maoriland might be traced to
milk "affected by the food of the cows may
be left to the faculty to chew over. The
suggestion is certainly worth chewing, for
one epidemic disease at least, Malta fever,
has been traced to the milk of the Malta
goats, which, unaffected themselves, carried
the bacillus in their milk. Further, horse
and cattle paralysis is caused by eating cer-
tain plants. In North Queensland the zamia-
palm years ago produced severe losses among
cattle that ate it in bad seasons, and got a
form of paralysis locally called rickets.
Lantana has also been blamed.
“Bullwhanger”: Probably the crowd of
officials who visited Cockatoo (Sydney Har-
bor) to inspect the new lighthouse-service
steamer Cape Leeuwin didn’t notice a de-
crepit old packet near the ferry wharf. She
was the Governor Musgrave, a vessel growui
old in the lighthouse service. Launched in
1876, she was called after Sir Anthony
Musgrave, Governor of S.A. at the time, and
ran for years on the S.A. coast. Lying at
Cockatoo with her funnel gone and all the
symptons of senile decay, she offers a strik-
ing contrast to the brand-new Cape Leeuwin,
which was launched last December. The
new steamer has finished her steam trials,
and leaves Sydney soon for the Westralian
coast to relieve the Ivyogle, which is to be
transferred to Queensland. The bill for her
was £114,000. But that hasn’t scared the
Lighthouse Department —it has another one
building at the same address.
“Dry” : Two and a half years ago I was
caught into the sort of job that “Solentes”
(B. 26/3/’2o) writes of. A foreman of the
works branch of the N.S.W. Education De-
partment came along, and intimated vaguely
that if the clearing, etc., was not done free the
Department would not build our school. At
a gathering of parents to meet this fore-
man, I asked him if it was a fact that the
Department would not build the school if
we did not provide the labor, blocks, etc.,
free. He hedged, and said: “The Depart-
ment might not build the school in that
event.” Most of the children had never been
to a school, and there were upwards of a
dozen, from 12 to 16 years of age, who could
not read or write.' The bluff came off. M e
all did our bit. I am under the impression that
the stunt is worked in all the smaller country
places. I don’t mind. But why not every-
where or nowhere?
“Borom” : The invention intended to check
cargo-broaching by issuing a warning when-
ever anybody attempts to open the ship s
hatch is not likely to make much difference
to the thieves who plunder vessels. lor
one thing, most of the broaching is done when
the vessel is in port, with her hatches open ,
and those pilferers who do operate at sea
have other means of access than through the
hatches. I was on a ship en route from
Buenos Ayres to Australia. In mid-ocean
the crew began to show signs of having a
supply of liquor somewhere, and as there
was a quantity of valuable wine in the
cargo, instant inquiry was made. It was
discovered that someone had cut away sev-
eral planks in the forecastle, allowing men
to get into a space Where they could unbolt
plates and enter the hold, with the result
that about a hundred pounds’ worth had
gone to slake the thirsts of A.B. s and fire-
men. Little broaching is done at sea, how-
ever, the risks being too great: but a tre-
mendous amount is done while the vessel is
in port and after the cargo has left her
slings.


Shipping.
ORIENT EINE,
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
‘OBMDZ 14.588
ORVIETO ... 12.138
OSTERIYEY .. 12.129
ORSOVA 12,030
"ORCADES 10.000 tons.
*First a iui Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
Oceanic Steamship Company,
** 7981 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,viaYYRONMY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 360 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
SS. ORARA—Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; reach
Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S 'u' J'!°J jLON GB a R —Every Tuesday, ]0 p.m.;
reach Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3.
First-class Steamer Second Rail—£2/13/6.
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Book at 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, or Government
Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Brisbane Booking Agents; Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
, Public Companies. & c .
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14’499, 435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E Chairman -
Frank N. Yaihvood, F.0.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
H. R. Lvsaqht, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D ;
Lieut. -Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Cluej Inspector jor N.S. IF.; IV. G. Hull.
READ 01* t ICE, S VDNI I .V (Corner George and King
Streets').
Blanches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Sou til Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Tlireadneedle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania anil New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
Corner
SYDNEY BRANCH:
GEORGE and WYNYARR
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,500^000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3[oOoiooo
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 876,000
Paid up Capital .. .. ’ £875,000
Reserve Fund 750,000
£1,625,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
with 100 Branches and Agencies in that State. ’
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St. f Sydney
ProvidcntSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Auditions to
Policies of over £4,000,000
Accumulated FumJa .. .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income ../ £8,400,000
Jhe Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
v and industrial Assurance Business.
* iY, APPERLA, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI,
NIAGARA
MATvURA .
AORANGI
from Wellington, May 26, for San Francisco (connecting
steamer ULIMAROA from Sydney, Ma y 22),
18,600 tons disp. JUNE 4 for Vancouver.
13,500 „ „ JUNE 18 ~ San Francisco.
23,000 „ „ JULV 2 „ Vancouver.
(Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.)
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
turn.
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE EOK RETURN
BY OTHER BINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., (Sm?” 6 ’ ®?° rge Stre6t ’ Sydney -
t William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOU RS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3a to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS. PHI LP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney. Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
’ Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4,150,000
- 6,000,000
£16,150,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.I, C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., jf.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR r tvpq
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street PC »
402 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. Panua and T
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. don *
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Rill
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World S 118
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1884.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,700,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. Denutv
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND: Hon. JAMES ASHTON MLC • V
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C. '
General Manager : J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other* parts of
the World.
Shipping-.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Ceraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
* Brisbane, Macltay, Townsville and Cairns.
•(Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma),
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerUM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED*
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 4G9 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS I OH
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., JLtd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackhentli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOll
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin Si Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co..
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian lloyal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
AVIATION
BY
AIR
Adelaide-
Sydney,
via Riverina.
PARCELS
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Aust. Aerial Services, Ltd.


LOCOMOTIVES
■
msm
.
W '"W
0 ' #£--
- , ' X,
b
*
-
4-6-0 D.D. TYPE, MANUFACTURED FOR VICTORIAN RAILWAYS.
LOCOMOTIVES OF ALL TYPES DESIGNED AND MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
RAILWAY MATERIALS.
POINTS AND CROSSINGS, WHEEL CENTRES, TYRES, AXLES, ETC.
THOMPSON 8 CO. (CASTLEMAINE) PTY. LTD., Engineers
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE
E.S.C.A., Ltd
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren, Ltd,
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
HHHM
smmmss
CATALOGUES FREE.
mmm
FOR QUALITY SINCE 1853.
ffiSrt!
lSi|}
EASY TERMS ARRANGED.
EVERY DAY - - EVERY MONTH - - EVERY YEAR - - THE QUALITY OF PALING’S PIANOS
has been maintained.
We Stock such World-Renowned Instruments as
BECHSTEIN - - - - RONISCH - - - - LIPP
and our incomparable
VICTOR PIANOS and PLAYER PIANOS
Why worry about Instruments you have never heard of when you can buy at Palings Pianos that
HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME?
“Quality our Keynote since 1853.”
BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON


Rexona Soap for
Health and
Beauty.
Jt
□
Q
Miss
SADIE X
GALE,
a beautiful
Rexona Giri,
“I find Rexona Soap
excellent for the hair,
also most refreshing
after inake-up.”
Miss SADIE GALE.
Fuller’s Theatre,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Be Pretty! Be Dainty!
Be Attractive! Be a Rexona Girl!
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To he
a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona .Soap and enjoy that natural beauty of the
skin and hair which cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain
free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even
the best of such soaps can only cleanse, they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing,
antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the treat-
ment of skin affections is known
throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does
not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen
the tendency to pimples
and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and vel-
vety.
7/ ///'
VI
fa
as
Wl
F b.
n
75%
w>
Cvt>*
pi)B' f
w,
%IM
1/-
W\u\
CRAV>t
".■=5=£OHHCV\ MVtWX
<CMtXSO
: Mfk
FUI
<T!
kv
3*2
c-'
v
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing
51b. Box.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
ARE NOW PACKED IN
RED METAL BOXES
4 j- per lib. box
Postage, extra
99 99
99 99
99 99
99 99
N.S.W.
9d.
1/-
1/3
1/6
1/9
Other States.
1/2
1/S
2/2
2/8
3/2
No expense Is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
Australia: Enchantress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ENTHRONED upon a rocky eminence,
With eyes the color of the summer
sea
Rolling in lazuline magnificence,
Singing its low impassioned symphony,
Your dimpled, sun-kissed fingers but beguile
The jewelled facets which reflect your smile.
They who have seen you in your fairest guise
Can but adore you ; yet within your heart
Lie burning secrets that have made you wise,
And given you a heritage apart,
High as a mountain cloud of golden light
Gainst faery islets melting into night.
Mid the dream faces of the vanished past,
From Ormuz, Ind, Hispania, Malabar,
Were Egypt’s dark eyes once upon you cast
You, as remotely lovely as a star?
Did King Sesostris ever hear your name
And send his galleys to increase his fame,
Leaving the traces of a natal skill,
Guarded by old inexorable time,
Mysterious lineaments which, living still,
May be deciphered in the racial rhyme —
Skins of an amber-bronze, with blue-black
hair,
Distinctive traits which linger here and there?
Deep in wide caverns glimmering with sheen
And in your veins what hoarded diadems!
Opals blood red, with flames of lucent green,
Where Iris lies concealed with splendid
gems!
Near matchless pearls, lustred to faintest
rose,
The yellow beryl and the moonstone glows.
The perfumed winds have breathed a soft
caress,
As flower-girdled, radiant, supreme
You stand; yet, from your utter loveliness
Steals an inquietude, a broken dream,
A fear lest o’er your mighty coral wall
The blue bolt of a desolation fall.
The cynosure of Orient, your charm
May bring strange suitors, who would
undermine
Your vast demesne, soothing some vague
alarm
With artistry to veil their deep design.
For these broad acres, empty, yet so fair,
Well may you clench white hands in your
despair.
Chagrin you must endure and stifle fears,
To keep the keys of your high citadel
And free them from the rust of future years,
With Faith and Courage, morbid doubts
to quell.
When your grey wardens scour the air and
sea
Inviolate will stand your Dynasty!
QUEENSLAND.
E. COUNGEAU.
The Voice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ladies’ parlor at the Vernon Arms
I is unpretentious, and sparsely furnished
with a table and a number of ancient
chairs. There is a screened counter there, and
through this, as through a grille, orders are
called to the barman. The hotel itself stands
in a side street not very far from the shores
of Blackwattle Bay, and its clientele, like
the locality in which it stands, is drab and
unobtrusive.
She was known in this hotel, and she
cared to go only where she was known. She
found it difficult to make new acquaintances.
A new acquaintance is a new habit, and she
did not wish to add anything to her posses-
sions in that way. She was not set upon
keeping all she had of either acquaintances
or habits, but decidedly she did not wish to
enlarge them. A family feeling had grown
about her in this house, and'she liked that.
There was a time, not so very long ago,
when she would have been ashamed to go
into a hotel. She had not wanted to drink
then. Things were quite different now, and
the time that had elapsed since those other
days seemed to have included more hours
than any one year could hold —it had all
the sense of interminable dreariness of
twenty years.
Except when money was lacking she spent
all her afternoons in the hotel. She would
enter with a certain nervous haste and go
at once into the parlor. Sometimes another
person would be there, and she always had a
feeling that such intrusion was unpardon-
able. She never protested, though; to do so
would mean the raising of voices, unpleasant-
ness and strain —things that were to be
avoided at all costs. She merely wished to
be quiet and alone, and to know that her
movements held no possible interest for any-
body else in the vicinity.
When she sat in the parlor she could not
be seen. She could whisper confidentially
to the barman, “Freddy, get me the same
again,” and he would bring it with an easi-
ness of bearing almost as though he was a
brother of hers. She could stay sheltered
then, and need not lift her eyes from the
drab linoleum that covered the floor, except
when she raised her head to drink from the
glass.
When the glass w-as empty she would sit
staring at the floor for about a quarter of
an hour; then, when Freddy peered at her
across the little counter, she would order
“the same again,” and it would duly arrive
with no more words said. Six glasses carried
her through a very fair portion of the after-
noon. They were expensive, those glasses,
and every day they had a disconcerting habit
of becoming more expensive still; but that
did not matter. Nothing mattered much ex-
cept that the hours should be assisted to go
by, and they dragged less in the parlor of the
Vernon Arms than they did in the two little
rooms at home, Often, while she stared at
the linoleum on the floor, she seemed to see
right through it, and could look into those
two dingy rooms without difficulty. She
saw the bed there, still covered with a dis-
orderly arraj of frayed bed-clothes; but it
is not very difficult to make a bed, and she
would do that when she wanted to get into it
again. She saw the three chairs, two of them
with tattered backs, and the third bristling
and truculent in the seat; but they could be
sat upon for a long while yet. She saw
the gas stove, which had accumulated much
grease and would accumulate more with
the passing days; and she saw the strip of
oilcloth on the floor. It had cracked in a
number of places, but it was not good enough
to sell, and nothing she possessed was quite
bad enough to throw away. She saw all
these things through the linoleum, and then
she reached for her glass, sipped its con-
tents, and replaced it to relapse immediately
into silent dejection once more.
A face peered through the door. She
knew that face, and it smiled at her. She
could not remember the face’s name, but
she knew it lived almost next door to the
two rooms she called her home. The face
sidled into the parlor, and with it came two
other faces, similarly known, yet unknown.
All these faces entered silently, just as
though they were going into church, and
were afraid of disturbing the prayers and
devotions of the other worshippers. The
last one to enter closed the door carefully
behind her, and in confidential whispers the
newcomers told Freddy what it was they
wanted to drink. Then the- three women sat
down together, whispering to one an-
other with a queer, almost savage concen-
tration ; and when one of them raised her
glass and drank from it, they all followed
suit, raising their glasses, sipping and nod-
ding their heads in unison. Sometimes they
included her in their whisperings, and on
such occasions she would lean forward and
whisper back, though what it was all about
she could seldom remember. Maybe it was
nothing important, anyhow.
Presently there was a tiny commotion in
the adjoining bar, and the whispering ceased
suddenly. In a neighboring mirror she could
see that Freddy had turned his back to the
bar-counter, and had taken from the shelf a
glass which he was polishing industriously
with an air of- detachment from the whole
world. His mouth, she noticed, was screvved
up in an elaborately careless and sneering
fashion and his eyes were following the slow
passage of somebody across the outside floor.
The parlor door was jerked widely open,
and a very tall, very dark man stood with-
out. She saw that he wore a clerical collar,
and that his face was very stern ; but she did
not know him. None of the other women
knew him, either, although they knew every
priest and parson in the district by sight.
This man was a stranger—probably one of
those travelling clergymen who conduct mis-
sions of various kinds throughout the coun-
try, remaining for a day or two before mov-
ing on to some other place, and, travelling
continually so, are rarely known intimately
in any one locality.
The tall, dark man stared in at the women
terribly. For a long time he did not speak;
then he thundered:
“Get out of this place at once! Have you
all forgotten God? Go home out of this, and
be decent from this day forward.”
The other three women leaped from their
seats as though they had been touched by
electricity. Abandoning their glasses in the
fury of their haste, they ran out, mumbling
and whispering, and were gone before the
tall man could speak another word.
But she did not move. At first sight of
the stranger her heart had quickened a trifle
within her; then, for an instant, it had
ceased to beat at all; but afterwards it had
gone on as usual, and she did not notice it
or feel any movement of her body. He was
still standing in the doorway staring at her
with eyes aflame. In a detached sort of
way she returned his stare. Then, again:
“Get out of this place, woman, and go
home,” he said.
In a flash she recollected the expression
she had seen on Freddy’s face a few moments
earlier, as he was engaged in polishing an
already spotless glass so industriously. Her
mouth screwed itself up into much the same
expression, and she sneered up into that
lean, saturnine face that was staring down
at her. Deliberately she reached for her
glass, raised it to her lips and drank.
The man walked through the parlor door,
and crossed to the table.
“Will you get out of this place, woman?”
She neither answered nor looked up; in-
stead, she stretched out her hand to the glass
again, and sipped at its contents.
The stranger stepped to the door, and,
turning, shouted at her in an awful voice:
“You’ll die rotting!”
The door crashed to, and for the space of
a dozen heart-beats the whole place was as
silent as a tomb.
“You done the right thing.” It was Freddy
speaking to her across the little counter.
“Them blokes are always running about
interfering with somebody’s business. That
one was at Ryan’s yesterday, they tell me.
Chased some women out of the parlor there,
too. Ryan says he’s trying to knock the
bottom out of our trade. If some people
weren’t so scared of them, there would soon
be an end to their little game.”
Freddy spoke at considerable length, but
she was not paying attention ; and after a
while he went away, and she was alone again.
She could look again at the faded lino-
leum, and away through it she could see
the things that moved in her mind. She did
not actually think things any more; her
thoughts were more like moving pictures on
an endless screen, and these pictures brought
neither contentment nor sorrow in their
wake. They were continually coming, those
pictures. When one had come and been
examined, another took its place, only to
fade away and be replaced immediately by
still another. Sometimes they were pictures
of the many rooms she had lived in during
the past year—or was it fifteen years? There
was another picture that was always coming,
too. It reflected the inside of a gloomy court-
room, where, high up behind a formidable-
looking rampart, a bewigged Judge sat silent,
the pale blue veins showing plainly at his
temples and on the arched dome of his fore-
head. He alw-ays sat so still —even when
lie looked up from some papers and began
to speak, his lips barely moved. Coldly, and
without the slightest trace of feeling, he
went on speaking, while other figures, equally
pale and hawk-like in feature, bent forward
to listen. The picture was not quite so
clear as it had been before ; it was growing
somewhat blurred and indistinct. Still, it
brought much the same thoughts in its train.
The pale-faced Judge did not look like a mur-
derer, but he was. By those carefully-chosen
words of his he had murdered a human soul
—her soul! With icy indifference he had cut
the threads that bound her to honor and
everything that made the world, and in doing
so had earned the plaudits of those other
people, mostly women, who sat in the public
(Continued on next page.)


irr
. mm
4 g
h
SSM
m**
‘Every Picture
Tells a Story'
Tells on the Kidneys
Many People have found this to be true.
The strain of overwork tells on weakened
kidneys. The hurry and worry of business men,
the heavy lifting and stooping of workmen, the
women’s household cares tend to wear, weaken
and injure the kidneys until they can no longer
filter the poison from the blood, and the whole
body suffers from the waste matter that
accumulates. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
prepared especially for weakened kidneys; tired,
worn-out backs have proven their merit in
thousands of cases. Convincing proof of their
worth is here told.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. H. Holder, 235 West Street, North Sydney, says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful
kidney medicine. I have proved this. For a long time
I suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this way have any
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of remedies,
but nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally
very worried about the serious state of my health, and
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills
and recommend them with every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They cured me of kidney disorder eight years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint since.”
At All Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern. Sydney, says: A member of
my family suffered terribly with Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy
is a certain cure for Piles.”
Mr. J. Mitchell. 26 Campbell Street.
Glebe, Sydney, says: “I was a sufferer
with Itching Piles for years, and I
cannot describe the agony of this ail-
ment. Scores of times I have lost
my rest, sleep being out of the ques-
tion. I used a great many Pile reme-
dies, and was treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try
it. A few applications gave me ease,
and by continuing the treatment I
found, to my great satisfaction, that
all the pain and irritation had gone.
I am very grateful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for my cure, and advise sufferers
to try this remedy, and am satisfied
that if they follow the directions they
will soon be cured.”
Ten years later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My husband lias been free from Itch-
ing Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured
him, but he still uses this remedy now
and then, just as a preventive
against any return of his old com-
plaint.”
Price 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
gallery of the court. It would have been
easy for him to temper the sentence by giv-
ing her the two children, but he had not
done so. The people were proud of their
Judge, and the case had only served to
strengthen their admiration of his unim-
peachable integrity. He was grateful for
their confidence, too—that much the picture
clearly proved as he bowed his way from the
bench, the other figures standing erect and
returning his curtsey.
The picture faded, and another took its
place. Sometimes it was a picture of the
people she had known in bygone years. There
went the friend of her schooldays, the one
who had played her a bad turn when both
were mere children. She saw clean pina-
fores, and dirty ones, and stockings with
holes in them—all sorts of people and things
passed before her on that endless screen be-
neath the faded linoleum. Seldom did she
see her one-time husband, and she never saw
her two children. It did not matter, any-
way—the Judge had chosen his words well.
What was it he had said? That did not
matter, either; nothing mattered except that
the hours should be assisted to pass away
as quickly as possible.
So the pictures came, were looked at merely
as a matter of course, and faded away in
their endless sequence. They were beneath
the floor, and in the air all about her; but
inside her there was nothing but silence. She
had learned to listen to that silence while
she looked at the passing pictures, and had
found it growing more compelling with the
passing hours. It was a wonderful silence,
far more interesting than any sound, and it
fascinated her. Sometimes it would whisper
inaudibly, and sometimes it would murmur
gently, ever so gently; but she could never
interpret its murmurings. Some day, per-
haps soon, it would burst into sound. She
was sure of that—quite confident that she
would learn its message sooner or later. Well,
she could wait; there was always the little
parlor, with its homely air, and its plentiful
supply of the stuff Freddy brought at her
command. She strcched out her hand for
the glass again, and raised it to her lips.
Something snapped in her brain. All the
pictures fled. She saw it coming. The silence
inside her was still unbroken, but—it was
going to speak! With her mouth open and
the lips pursed a little, almost smilingly, she
prepared to echo what her silence was about
to say. It held back, however: but slie dared
it, drew it on, until at last it burst upon her
louder than thunder, yet clearer than the
tinkle of a bell. With terrible intensity
she echoed its words, shrieked them into the
roof of the little parlor:
“Your soul is dead! Your body is rotting!
You’ll die rotting!”
Snatching at the knob of the door, she
disappeared from the parlor in an instant.
Freddy, his blood suddenly frozen, and his
spine all creeping and wrinkling, stood rooted
to the spot for a moment; then, leaping
the counter, he rushed to the door just in
time to see her skirts disappearing behind a
neighboring corner. It was the last he ever
saw of her. No, not quite the last of her;
Freddy saw her again next day when the
police fished something out of Blackwattle
Bay, and he helped to identify it as Mrs.
Somebody-or-Other, who lived along the
street not so very far from the Vernon Arms.
“A decent, harmless poor creature,” said
Freddy that afternoon, as the three other
women sidled confidentially into the parlor
and ordered their drinks. And, at his words,
they all nodded their heads in unison, and
settled down to their whispering, that queer,
savage, concentrated whispering that was
mostly about nothing in particular.
W. D. FLANNERY.
The Watcher.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lady in the tight blue gown rose
to the sound of tinkling ornaments
and the squeak of a greatly relieved
chair. She collected, as she talked to the
white-faced man in the bed, a medley of
belongings from the top of the hospital cup-
board.
Alf Jephson, in the next bed, watched her
fingers move amongst these things with a
professional interest. Rings and a watch
and money, and a silver net-purse—they clat-
tered sharply against the varnished wood.
She scooped and talked, filling a large cloth
dorothy-bag, then moved away in a crescendo
of farewell. And Alf Jephson’s eyes goggled.
There winked at him from a background of
yellow a large diamond. It was set in a
ring, and the ring was beside a tin of to-
bacco. The tobacco-tin effectually hid the
ring from the white-faced man.
Alf Jephson, card-sharper and pickpocket,
exclaimed internally, and lay very still. The
white-faced man had raised his head and
tvas staring after the blue-gow r ned lady as
she made her ample way down the long ward.
A few visitors still remained beside beds; a
nurse was busy with a basin at the far end ;
Alf Jephson had only to stretch out his ex-
pert right hand
The white-faced man let fall his weary
head. He turned on his side and smiled at
Jephson.
“Thank Heaven, she’s gone!” he said
faintly. “Greedy devil!” He breathed
anxiously for a little. “Waiting till I die,
damn her!” he finished.
Jephson grunted. The white-faced man
regarded him very seriously and calmly out
of great brown eyes set in dark-ringed, hollow
sockets.
“Wife’s relations,” h e said very faintly
after a pause. “You married?”
Alf Jephson shook his head. He did not
smile. He did not reply. He endeavored
to convey as far as possible, with no casus
belli, a dislike for the other’s company and
conversation. He was very anxious that
the other should turn over and present the
back of his head to him. He himself was
unfortunately a leg case. Beneath the
wooden frame that kept his bedclothes from
the limb his leg held him a prisoner, so that
he was regrettably unable to do more than
employ the language of looks.
The white-faced man sighed deeply. Sud-
denly his face convulsed with pain. His
hands fumbled at his breast beneath the
sheets. He turned on his back and gasped
faintly.
Jephson cursed fervently. He had seen
so many of these attacks that he no longer
took notice of them. But he knew that pre-
sently the white-faced man would moan dis-
mally, which would fetch one of the nurses
to him with a sponge and hot water. And
then, of course, the diamond would be found
and locked up in a safe.
Jephson’s desperate right hand slid from
under the blankets. It hovered for an in-
stant behind the cupboard. Then it shot
back to concealment as the sick man turned
violently.
The white-faced man lay again on his
side, gazing with pain-filled eyes at the un-
sympathetic Jephson. He made as if to
mutter, and frowned. Then the frown van-
ished, and he gave a feeble sigh.
Jephson lay rigid, inwardly ravening.
Time was passing. Soon they would be
ringing the tea-bell. He must get his fin-
gers to the top of the cupboard before that,
at all costs. It had to be done. In all his
life such a minimum of risk and a maximum
of profit had never before presented itself.
It was the easiest, the simplest, the most
childish good fortune he had ever encount-
ered. Certainly it would never come again.
Not to seize this opportunity would be like
a smack in the face to Dame Fortune, and
an insult the lady would be extremely likely
to resent.
Why, in Cod’s name, couldn’t that fool
lie on his other side?
Jephson stole another look at the diamond.
His experienced eye noted every detail about
it that was possible without actually hold-
ing it in his hand. It was to all appearances
a rather fine solitaire. He reflected that the
blue-gowned lady had looked well-to-do. The
cloth, stretched tightly across her heavily
upholstered back, had been expensive stuff.
There was that about the gleam of the jewel
that made paste improbable. If it was
paste it was good paste—good enough to be
foisted on to a sucker as the real thing. He
took a mental roll-call of his various fences,
speculating with incredible shrewdness on
their paying powers—and on their knowledge
of diamonds Steinbergson, Goldman,
O’Shaughnessy, Daniels, Foxy White—the
names flashed across his brain, each weighed
and their weaknesses unerringly thumb-
marked.
In any case it was worth a lot. It was
a much bigger than average haul, for dia-
monds of this class were not worn every day
as were the cheap little stick-pins and
brooches of his daily victims. And the risk
was negligible. There were a dozen places
where the owner might have dropped or lost
it by now'.
His hand tattooed lightly on the coverlet.
His whole right arm itched with the desire
for action. He could visualise, as he lay
staring up at the ceiling, every tiny detail
of the manoeuvre. There would be no clum-
siness about it, no knocking things over, no
noisy contact with anything but the ring.
Just a deft, quick motion from behind the
cupboard and back again, -and then the pro-
cess of concealment at which he was such
a master.
But you couldn’t do it right under p man’s
staring eyes, damn it! Not even this poor
sick fool was such a mug as to let him get
away with a thing like that.
He turned his head. The white-faced man
lay as before. He had drawn up his knees
slightly, but his immense, solemn eyes gazed
into the small greenish orbs of Alf Jephson.
Jephson openly scowled at him. He felt
disposed to make an unpleasant remark,
but thought better of it. The white-faced
man took no notice of his scowl.
Jephson rolled his head back to the hollow
in the pillow 7 whence he could study the
blankness of the ceiling. He prayed fervidly
that some higher power might grin the body
of the w'hite-faced man and turn him in his
bed. He poured blasphemies upon the eter-
nal cussedness of things. Why should the
ensanguined fool have chosen just that side
to lie on? Why hadn’t he lain on his other
side? Or even on his back. A noiseless ex-
pertlike himself could have filched the diamond
iust as well if the man had been lying on
his back.
Stifling his wrath Jephson again studied
the ceiling.
* * * *
Came a subdued clangor. Interest along
the wards throughout the hospital quickened.
Bored, unhealthy people stirred themselves,
grasped eagerly at the break in the hours
of monotony.
Jephson lay and cursed and cursed. He
kept a grip on himself to avoid cursing aloud.
Ilis eyes came as near to filling with tears
as ever they had done in all the stormy
course of his life.
Ills chance was gone. His dream of for-
tune was shattered by a tea-bell.
Oh, why were things so damnable? It was
just like life.
The pale-faced fool was still staring at
him, of course. He might almost have
known the thing was there beside the tobacco-
tin.
Jephson knew 7 too much to risk a snatch
or a brazen acquisition of the jewel. No.
He’d kept out of boob so far, and even in
this moment of desperation he wasn’t going
to risk it.
The orderly was wheeling the buffet dowrn
the long bed-bordered aisle. Conversation
broke out as he passed between enlivened men.
A nurse was coming from the far end
where the w 7 ash-basins were. Jephson lay
and cursed.
The nurse walked to the side of the bed.
Jephson heard her shoes sharply on the
wooden floor. Then, even as he had ex-
pected, she found the ring.
“Hullo, you’ve been left a present.” she
said. “Does it belong to the lady w 7 ho came
to see you?”
Jephson heard her bend over the white-
faced man and repeat the query. He heard
her fumbling at the white-faced man’s sheets.
Then, unaccountably, she was bending to-
wards him.
“When did he die?” she whispered sharply
to Jephson.
“What!”
“Don’t shout. I don’t w 7 ant the others to
know 7 . D’you know 7 w 7 hon he died?”
Jephson was not conscious of the agony
of his leg as he twisted his body about and
gaped at the white-faced man.
“But his eyes—they’re open !” he gasped.
“They nearly always are. unless someone
shuts them.” said the nurse. “Now, lie
down properly unless you want to hurt your
leg.”
PHILIP BENN.


£
’
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
the WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
View®' ce —-93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
' riai > Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Bitumastic
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
“ust Insurance
The use of 'Bitumastic” effects an effective Insurance
a gainst the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than the
preservation secured by using “Bitumastic.
Soltf in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
Full particulars on application.
J - WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR. LTD..
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
A ' nd at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and AUCKLAND, N.Z.
HAIR
THE
MASTERS
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
Perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
.* *°la for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ls ts, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
Refuse all substitutes
„ „ AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
“nsbane • • - Gregory &. Collins.
, 1 ei 'th L. M. Cullen & Co..
1
M
-a
-}
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD.. Willesden Lane, Can fan, ENGLAND.
Remington.
Repeating Rifle
Model 12
*22 CaL
&
Chambered for three
jUunct cartridges
.22 Short ; good for 75
yards; .22 Lng, 125 yards;
.22 Long Rifle, 200 yards.
Excellent for small game with
hollow point cartridges. Maxi-
mum range and accuracy with
Remington UMC 52 Long Rifle
PALMA.
Magazine holds 15 Short, 11
Long or 10 Long R fle Cartridges.
A,sk You Dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPaN i, Inc.
D. D. BftSfASiX, Repres itive
G. P. O. Box 686, tytfclbourtu , * ictoria
Ml
SATISFACTION
with oneself —the knowledge that you have
succeeded where perhaps others have failed—
such satisfaction is good. A bright optimistic
temperament and calm mental poise fit an
individual for doing his or her best. Such a
sound, healthy state of mind is rendered
difficult, if not impossible, when a person is
troubled with digestive disturbances. Tired-
ness, that languid, heavy feeling, is the result
of stomach, bowel and liver irregularities. A
few doses of Beecham’s Pills, however, will
regulate the organs to healthy activity.
s
r*
r.)
/S
n
rS
fi
:oy
a
a
_j
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Shoot to kill with
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE' Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NO
EC
SCO TTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
i HE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
etS
. SSF
Y
pcfl c
WOLFFS
o
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN * HB
r ofcted£ 'r&tvctf tk ( ~7f6rtiz
BRITISH
MADE
For
all engines
in
all climates
under
all conditions
there is no sparking plug: equal to a
InODOE
The name LODGE on a sparking
plug is a definite guarantee of its
inherent high quality and efficiency.
Made in different models, and obtainable
from all accessory dealers, garages and
stores. State make of engine when buying.
Illustrated in standard model (CX)
for nearly all engines screwed metric.
PRICE 5/6.
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
!!4!
■up
a*
J
II
M


The Secret of
the popularity of
}:
Ml
mmms
m
fcy.Y
•V.::
i
f.jV.':;
will be found in-
side every bottle
mm
v.-
V-.v.v
mmm
mm
r»
:::
m
A century’s reputa-
tion for quality is en-
joyable. “JOHNNIE
WALKER” enjoys
the reputation—his
friends enjoy the
quality. Every drop
everywhere is
guaranteed pure and
mature.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervisio]
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland,
<3
a
'•'C
Born 1820
«Still going
strong.
