

THE BEST
DOUBLE
r -^S y
.r«M£a " c —- - \-^>3 zr?i c K}
• ■- n;^;^
a ci j
Q
**t p£a?~ flmFm
-wx *-> r o';' ft - y Z/MmJm
AQAxbA'Pf
j O,M
v^rj
-.? -
Q
3c'
o£4fi£s£\
v/
%ai
s-®
V V /
m
A
K
wm f
t fc
vx
W
"A
&
y
i
f;
«M
Ann
3e<^
LuAhaJuh
I
%
iLa^cA-
I
riu,<;
CJyCvcO
x;
=1
DA
R
t) ait
to
yj
Australiasßest
Jt&s
R
B
-'Ok
B *^4ar
»«
ch’s uw.reP
Si2_MeV A|liT<W*VlS
_ O.
df
cH s
£S
RB LAGER DA
DINNER
ALE
The Bulletin
Vol. 47,-No. 2434,
Thursday, October 7, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the New Library Catalogue for 1926
1 is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
423 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
Unexpected quests
t(C (she prudent housewife doesn't fret ,
She has a stock of dPlnchovetted*
PECKS
pantry
I
The charm of a Kensitas cigarette owes
much to the way it is rolled—so evenly,
so cleanly, and with such endless care
Hsan
K§gsS
. ssx
■ I
n
KBSBS&SB
sm
mm-
mEßm&t
But the flavour and the fragrance are
not the work of men. They are born of
the warmth of sunny Virginian sum-
mers, stored in the golden heart of the
leaf from which each cigarette is made
ro Kensitas cost gd.
10 Club size cost i/-
26 Kensitas cost 1/6
25 Club size cost 2/6
MUSTDIE
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
•nd STORES. Price I/-
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
mmm
The Re d Page
Living and Dead Books
The remark of a man of scientific l’epute,
speaking to the British Association, that the
overgrowth of libraries, like that of cem-
eteries', might be cured by cremation, turns
the attention sharply to the fact that much
of the work of the past is crushing literary
effort in the present. A book represents mer-
chandise to its author; and, while cheap re-
prints of the most famous books written dur-
ing 24 centuries are on sale, the ordinary
reader can fill up all his spare time
with perfectly fresh reading and still
never purchase a book by a living
author. This competition with the dead
becomes a serious matter of bread-and-
butter to many writers; and one publishing
firm has carried the contest into the realm
of magazine fiction by republishing from
moiith to month old stories by the world’s
best-known writers.
It is difficult to see how such a competi-
tion could be reduced by using the firestick
in the big libraries. Many books might be
destroyed, but it would be practically impos-
sible to do injury to those of established
reputation; and the modern authors most
concerned would be the last to agree to the
destruction. The books that would go would
be the pitiful dust-gatherers for which no
one seeks in half a century and which appear
to merely lumber the shelves. Yet here again
a difficulty arises. Many books of sixteenth-
and seventeenth-century origin, which were
mere dust-gatherers through the eighteenth,
are now found to be of lively interest; and
the librarian who had the feeling for the
future that could direct a true selection of
the books now worthy of cremation has not
yet been born. It is impossible (o say what
branches of knowledge and half-knowledge
may link up with the lines of future research.
It is equally impossible to say along what
lines the taste of the future may run in fic-
tion, poetry and philosophy. We have seen
far too many revivals to attempt to dogma-
tise about the death of literary reputations.
The works of Keats and Shelley were still-
born ; William Blake was dead; Herman Mel-
ville was a second-rate writer better for-
gotten ; Fitzgerald’s “Omar” was a scholarly
effort that failed. Cremation of books at a
certain date might have robbed the world of
all these.
The biggest book-burning in history was
the destruction of the library at Alexandria;
and a consideration of our world-losses
through that catastrophe makes all book-
burning look dangerous. The chief loss there
was not literary. It is true that Orpheus
in the original form and Sappho went up in
flames ; but Sappho survived in other copies
for many years and was finally extirpated
by pious and ignorant monks. Sappho really
died because in the whole world she had not
one lover left; and the fire was not to blame
for that. The books we lost at Alexandria
which would have been of deepest interest
to us were precisely those with which the
librarians themselves might have been most
ready to part—those that contained some
account of what a still more ancient world
knew of western Europe and the races now
dominant in civilisation. After these, books
of travel relating to Africa and distant parts
of Asia might have proved of greatest value;
and a tremendous interest would have
attached to all technical works.
It is clear that the huge ci’emation of
letters, which occupied six months in the
public baths of the city, injured the world
most in taking from it the dust-gatherers
which no one then sought to read. Nobody
in the seventh century was concerned about
the origin of Rome, the trade along the
“amber track” with Central Europe, the
means employed to construct the temple of
Baalbec or the sky-scraping Pharos light-
house, the voyages recorded to Britain and
Ireland, the narratives of travel in Gaul, or
the records of distant mining ventures in
South Africa which had failed 15 centuries
earlier; yet there is fair reason to suppose
that books on all these subjects were among
the countless volumes burned to the glory
of Allah, and that many of them dated to
the period on which we are now most desir-
ous of light.
To people most concerned with wireless,
radium and the aeroplane the masses of seem-
ingly dead books so carefully preserved may
appear mere lumber; to a future age the
wireless and the aeroplane may seem the
lumber, and the books now dead may be most
precious. We are not responsible for the
past, but the future is in some sense in our
keeping. The right of selection should be
with those who follow us, and it is only a
fair thing to preserve for them as much as
we reasonably can. They may laugh at some
of the things tolerated —some of the things
even which are greatly admired in 1926
but something to laugh at is not necessarily
something to despise.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
Walter Raleigh’s Letters
A learned professor with a sense of humor
is so rare a phenomenon that one hastens
to recommend The Letters of Sir Walter
Raleigh (Methuen). The very title has a
spacious suggestion of tobacco-smoke of old
Virginia, which almost justifies the anecdote
of this distinguished Oxford don’s landing
in America. In answer to the inquiring
iCustoms official, he gave his name, Sir
Walter Raleigh. The next man to go down
the gang-plank promptly furnished his—
“ Christopher Columbus.”
There is, however, nothing Elizabethan
about these two volumes but their breezi-
ness, for they are engagingly modern in
tone. Here is a literary critic who does not
travel by the trade route or stand in awe of
great names. His complete absence of affec-
tation imparts to his comments a piquant
charm utterly different from the usual aca-
demic stodge. Nor does this happen by acci-
dent. We find him cautioning a correspon-
dent against such “professional English” as
“the development of the poet’s individuality
constitutes a subject of profound interest”
—Which he characterises as the garbage of
words that conceal lack of thought. Again
he tells us that he is most interested in
the concrete, the personal and the petty.
Are not we all, if we are honest enough to
admit it? Raleigh has a quiet confidence in
his own viewpoint, though he acknowledges
he is sometimes too absolute: “Some call it
‘an air of authority’; others call it ‘d—d
cheek.’ The latter are right.”
Ilis first teaching post was at a Moham-
medan college in India; he afterwards held
important lectureships in Manchester, Liver-
pool and Glasgow, and was finally appointed
the first Professor of English Literature
at Oxford, where he remained for 18 years.
He must have been an arresting lecturer.
To Prof. W. P. Ker he wrote: “if I could
answer your questions about Lear, my
address would be ‘William Shakspearc, the
Globe.’ ” He is not an altogether dispas-
sionate critic; he has a few Aunt Sallies
at whom he never misses a shy. The list
is a curious one, comprising John Morley,
Macaulay, Browning and Thackeray—the
last-named is, apparently, a red rag. “Thack-
eray is only a Plymouth Brother caught tuft-
hunting and pretending that he was in fun.
We must speak to these people, Cousin Stig-
gins, in their own way!” But he is honest
enough to admit in another letter that
“Thackeray made living creatures, so I do
not deny that he is a god.”
Meredith also gets a few shrewd knocks.
The poems Raleigh considers much superior
to the novels, in which he detects a strain
.of vulgarity. “Oddly enough, he has no
construction in his books. They are rotten
in build and p10t.... I suppose Meredith'
is the cleverest novelist that has ever writ-
ten—and no more like a good novelist than
I am like Sandow, Fielding, Scott and
Dickens, say.” Thomas Hardy he describes
as a gentle, well-dressed, querulous little
gentleman, who sits alone under trees cor-
recting his proofs.
In one of the eaxdy letters Raleigh relates
to his sister a curious dream about Gordon’s
poetry. He di’eamt that lie asked her if she
knew the Australian’s poems, which, in his
opinion, completely superseded the Psalms
of David. On her protesting that the
Psalms were inspired, they proceeded to dis-
cuss the question of the nature of inspira-
tion. “I knew,” he writes, “only one verse
of Gordon’s poetry, so my statement was
rash.” And he quotes from “Britomarte” the
stanza ending:—
But I clove his skull with a backstroke clean,
For the glory of God and Gwendoline.
He added: “That is the most fascinating
refrain I have met; it matters little what
you do for the said glory, the music is so
good. I should like to have his poems.”
He was a fervent admirer of Christina
Rossetti, and says her poetry always makes
him want to cry, not lecture, quoting Swin-
burne’s opinion that “Passing away, saith
the world, passing away,” is the noblest
sacred poem in the language. Wordsworth,
Keats and Blake are safe in his Valhalla.
Shelley, lie says, he likes better than Byron
as a book; but if they were alive he would
take to Byron and have no patience with
Shelley, whom Henley described as a bright
being, but not a man.
Of the latter-day war-poetry the two
poems that impressed Raleigh most were
apparently Julian Grenfell’s famous “Into
Battle” and Sir Cecil Spring Rice’s “I Vow
to Thee, My Country.” During the war, in
which three sons were fighting, Raleigh did
a great deal of pamphleteering, and lectured
in America. In 1922 he was appointed offi-
cial historian to the Air Forces, but unfor-
tunately acquired at Bagdad the fever which
was the' cause of his death. Flying had
always attracted him: “The people who took
to the sea in the days of the Armada are
very like the people who took to the air
a few years ago. It is the same old country.”
Good things spring up in these pages like
mushrooms. It must not be thought that
the volumes are mostly froth and bubble.
Here and there are remai’ks like this:—
The world is a curious and various place. The
great thing to do in it is to be decent; anything
else is mostly luck. The most of us get some chunks
of luck; and the best of us are all right, even if
they don’t.
The one jarring note is a certain pert flip-
pancy in some of the references to religion.
Goethe held that each soul has its own reli-
gion—must have it as an individual posses-
sion. All the moi’e does it behove us to
deal gently with the next man’s.
Lady Raleigh is a competent and cour-
ageous editor. She has not deleted the
names of various well-known people who
come in for quaint or trenchant comment—
which adds greatly to the gaiety of the book.
CONSTANCE E. LEWERS.
Room for Authors at Home
“J.E.” (R.P. 19/8/’26) complains that
“the scarcity of local material for the Aus-
tralian novel almost amounts to a famine,
and that is a serious drawback. The Blue
Mountains are not high enough, the timber
is scarce, Lake Eyre is uninspiring.” Per-
sonally, I find nothing to complain of in
Sydney Harbor or the Blue Mountains; and
perhaps “J.E.” could find inspiration in the
scenery of North Queensland. If he has
seen the everchanging play of color of the
northern sunset; if he has cruised along the
Hinchinbrook Channel and viewed the
wealth of shadow and foliage, of mountain
and waterfall; if he has traversed the Barron
Gorge and seen its sparkling waters; if he
has explored the wealth of the forest scrubs
and looked down from the mountain-tops
on to the distant seas—-all this without being
inspired by Australian scenery—then I
doubt if he will be moved by what other
lands have to show. Moreover, what is
there elsewhere to match the trials and the
courage of the explorers of this vast country?
But even granting that “J.E.’s” state-
ments about Australian scenery are true—
and it seems very doubtful—this is not
going to be an obstacle to the great Aus-
(Continued on page S .)


Jl
m
r aae
Everything for the Man on the Land
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
XTBS.
“WIARD”
MOULDING OR HILLING
PLOUGH.
Middlebreaker Wood Beam
Plough, made with chilled mould-
board and cast point, Bin. cut.
Specially adapted for cultivating
crops, and is used in the cultivation
of potatoes and for corn 1
ing; also for ditching pur-
poses. PRICE
£5
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low
Prices cannot fail to interest the
Man on the Land desirous of
economising on Farming
Implements. On comparison, the
savings will be found to be con-
siderable.
EMPIRE
STUMP JUMP HARROW
m
yriij
A
XTI9.
EMPIRE STUMP JUMP HARROW.
XT67.
“WIARD”
ROAD
CON-
TRACTOR’S
PLOUGH.
This Plough has great strength and is adapted to
contractor’s work and for tearing up cobblestone or
macadam pavements. Four- or six-ryf 1 /IC/
horse. PRICE . .XII/10/-
Extra Points. Price 30/-
XTI2O.
Similar in construction to
the ordinary U-bar Lever
Harrow, with the addition
of the guards that pro-
tect the end of the tooth-
bars. B.y throwing the
levers forward, the teeth
are thrown back for trans-
porting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. Two
sections, with bar, 50
PRICE ....£7/10/-
60 Teeth, including
long bar
£8
Write for
Illustrated Price
List of
Agricultural
Implements. A
copy will be
posted free.
“WIARD” PATENT STEEL BEAM
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter
Ploughs 5 to 8 inches deep, 8 to 12 inches wide.
PRICE .
PLOUGH.
and adjustable clevis.
£B/15/-
Extra Cast Shares, 4/3. Extra Forged Steel Shares, 46/6.
XTIB2A.
Ben t a 1 l’s Chaffcutter,
C.D.Z. — Rising mouth,
inches wide; cuts four lengths
—J. 4. i and
PRIUR £l3/10/-
Buffalo Forges
XTIOO.
Buffalo Standard Blacksmith’s
Forge, equipped with Buffalo No. 200
silent blower and Vulcan Tuyere. Size
of fan, 14in.; blast pressure, 3in.; speed
of fan, 2200 R.P.M.; size of hearth,
28 x 40 in.; weight, 3321 b., without
Price £l5/15/-
XTIO4.
Buffalo Portable Forge, with
geared hand blowers. Size of firepan,
18in.; height to top of firepan, 32in.;
44in. overall; diameter of fan-case,
12in.
ďf
WINCHES, CHAIN BLOCKS, etc.
scwt. Winch, with cast sides. £4/5/
With Steel sides. Price £5 2 6
Crab Winches, to lift one ton ; r»O/C/
single purchase. Price “
To lift If ton, single pur- X? 1 ft/O/fi
chase, steel sides. Price XI V' ”
To lift 3 tons double pur- i 0/1 fl/
chase ; steel sides. Price.. XJLO' IU/"
Chain Blocks, Weston’s Differential, with
40ft. chains, to lift 10 feet.
i ton. \ ton. 1 ton. 11 ton. 2 tons.
34/6 45/6 55/- 70/- £5
XTIOO.
“WIARD” PATENTED STEEL BEAM
PLOUGH.
Steel Beam Two
horse Plough,
fitted with' iron
handles and ordi-
nary Colonial
coulter. Ploughs
6 to 9 inches deep.
10 to 14 inches
wide.
PRICE—
£7/17/6
Shares. Price 4/6 each,
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


ESSEX 6 COACH
ESSEX COACH,
£325
Him
mu
Closed Car Comforts
for All Year Service
and at Open Car" Cost
Combined with the supreme advantage of the Super-Six
principle, the largest production of 6-cylinder cars in
the world makes this Quality, price and value exclusive
to Essex.
Only among far higher-priced cars will you find compari-
son for Essex performance, its long-lived reliability and
riding ease. At little more than the cost of low-priced
“Fours” the Coach gives all closed-car comforts, with the
advantages of the “Six” not found in any “Four.” And,
equally important, you get the famous Super-Six advan-
tages over every rival “Six.”
Essex Touring,
£255
d
That means not only a motor design that has
long held foremost place among “Sixes” but
the same precision standards in every chassis
detail that time and use have tested in the
service of nearly 800,000 users. Its first-cost
economy is continued in exceptionally low
operation and maintenance cost. The materials
used and the way it is built ensure lasting
enjoyment of those brilliant qualities that
delight you on your first ride.
With Exclusive Super-Six Advantages
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth-
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. O. HEATHORX & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.


jmmpiwiwpwi
J'
A SILK LINED SUIT
to-measure, 6% guineas
For the man who appreciates better clothes this is the
most remarkable suit offer yet. A 6guinea suit
to measure; lined with silk—supreme for comfort and
it lasts as long as the suit itself—ask the man who
wears one. Over eighty patterns for choice. Perfect
style and fit guaranteed. To order in 14 days. 6'/ 2 gns.
DAVID JONES’
tralian novelist of the future. It is the
high privilege of the great writer to overlook
defects, if necessary to paint scenery a little
better than it is.
Life to the average man is not a very
wonderful affair. To sum up briefly in the
words of one of the sages of Anatole France,
‘‘Men are born, they suffer, they die.” The
life of man to-day is certainly not “brutish,
harsh and short,” but it is harsh enough to
the sensitive, and frequently cruel to those
of a passionate nature. To most people life
is something of an idle tale with endless
chatter. As a rule, it has no plot and few
dramatic situations. There are few adven-
tures ; just a series of comings and goings
to and from the everyday task. Misunder-
standings are not cleared up, and the wrong
people are punished. It is the privilege of
the novelist to supply the adventures and to
give life its plot; to lift people from every-day
humdrum existence —away from themselves.
Moreover, whatever the disappointments and
disillusionments of life, very few lose interest
and despair altogether. Men and women do
suffer ; but, as Cabell says, “The body of
man is capable of much curious pleasure.”
There is, then, a persistent glimmer of the
ray of hope throughout. It is for the liter-
ary man to seize this ray and exploit it; to
paint a more or less ideal picture of life;
at any rate, a life a little better and happier
than the actuality, following on that admir-
able principle of Goethe: “Give me your
beliefs and affirmations; they encourage and
stimulate me; but keep your doubts and
fears to yourself; I have enough of my own.”
The Australian or any other novelist to
be really great and successful must appeal
primarily to the emotions. He should be an
optimist, smoothing over the rougher places
(and the inadequate scenery, if it be inad-
equate). He should linger amidst the beauties
of Nature, partaking of the joyous encoun-
ters, chance romantic meetings, the heart-
felt things and dramatic incidents along “the
journey of life.” It is the emotional appeal
which holds us in “Hamlet.” Many have
experienced a situation in which they feel
that circumstances are too strong for them.
Hamlet had everything he could wish for
as far as externals were concerned, yet he
was miserable and moved to a shadowy doom.
The novels of the future great writers of
Australia will deal primarily with the emo-
tions —with men and women in the white
heat of passion, with love that endures for
ever as of yore. The characters will have
the peculiar touch of Australians; and the
atmosphere will be Australian —that of a
strong white people, struggling against grim
forces and determined to conquer. Above
all, our novelist must be as free as the
wind, unfettered and unrestrained by ortho-
doxy and convention. The tendency “to
order the nameless author about” has been
admirably treated by Nettie Palmer in her
article on “Why Authors Leave Home.” If
Australian art and literature is to be a living
thing, its artists and writers must attempt
to represent and express that which seems
to them beautiful in an individual way. If
they fail for lack of a sympathetic audience,
great will be the tragedy.
R. W. SKRRMAN.
Where is this Australia?
From writers, critics and mere members
of literature societies goes up the cry for
the truly Australian novel. Having raised
the wail, they forthwith load any possible
candidate for authorship with a ban upon
kangaroos, stations, the bush, Henry Lawson
traditions, sundowners and buckjumpers.
Where, then, is this real Australia about
which the really Australian novel is to be
written ?
I have had experience of Britain, urban
and rural, and of all Australian States, city
and bush, and I know one or two Canadians
and South Africans; but as far as I can see
or ascertain a Briton conforming to British
conventions is immovably a Briton wherever
he is dumped, and in the cities where con-
ventions count the Briton from Medicine
Hat is as indistinguishable from the Briton
from Pretoria as the Briton from Clapham
is from him of Balmain or South Yarra.
Visiting a squattage in the Western district
of Victoria, I found my host and family
dressing for dinner in the approved black
of Mayfair; and the other day at a theatri-
cal party in a town in the tropic belt of
Queensland the local bon ton paraded in pre-
cisely the same garb. Moreover, their
thoughts were the same on the question of
what was bon ton. _ From Meekatharra, at
one end of the Australian railway system—
regarding it as the long thin thread of civil-
isation and convention in the Commonwealth
—to Forsayth, at the other, will be found
people wearing the same clothes, thinking
the same thoughts, using the same language,
impelled by the same impulses, and worship-
ping the same covenances. Climate will
not affect them, nor conditions of living, nor
strange environments: they are merely Bri-
tons transplanted. Queensland, for in-
stance, is in many ways the most English
country I have encountered—far more Eng-
lish than England.
If to know and picture Australia the
writer is not to levy on the local color which
the extra-urban portion of Australia pro-
vides, where is this “Australianism” in atti-
tude to be found for which the critics and
the intellectuals clamor? Leave the bush
with its peculiarities of living, industry,
foliage, fauna and sociabilities, and what is
there in Australia that is Australian and not
British? Why, in the towns even the street
trees are English, and the architecture after
a hundred years of autonomy and severance
fi*om British official influence is based on
that which suited sunless, fog-blanketed
England !
That other offshoot of Britain, the United
States, while still it was one of the Britains,
adopted customs of its own that gave writers
something upon which to build a distinctive
literature —its buckwheat cakes, its Tam-
many system, its cranberry tarts, pie with
cheese, thanksgiving celebrations, grape-
fruit breakfasts, weird elections, fried nig-
gers, iced “watter,” mode of cutting up its
food, anti-fighting “pride” till all the dalilars
are snug in bank, and its bastard ortho-
graphy—but what one thing has the town-
dwelling Australian that is his own and
not eopied from one or other of his four
Brito-Celtic ancestors? We are cosmo-
polites, it is granted; probably the most
wholly cosmopolitan, peasantless and high-
intelligenced people on earth; but we have
nothing in our average lives away from the
Backblocks—the real Australia —that would
not be as average among middle-class and
intelligentsia in Paris, Ekaterinburg,
Shanghai, Delhi or Cuidad Bolivar.
Why does not one of the advocates of a
real Australian novel be constructive —list
those qualities which the novel should con-
tain? We hear ad nauseam all the things
it should omit.
COPABELLA.
The American Royal Family
The first American girl to marry into a
Royal family was Miss Patterson, of Phila-
delphia, who became the wife of one of the
lesser Bonapartes. In those far-off days
there was a wide gulf between dollars and
thrones, so that it was something of an
achievement for a daughter of the great
Republic to have captivated the heart of
even the least of parvenu royalties. Miss
Patterson’s husband had been King of
Westphalia ; and it may be that the example
of the Philadelphian lady has been an
inspiration for certain other Americans to
hope that life might hold something for
them beyond the mere prospect of going to
Paris when they died.
The best-known member of the American
Royal family now living is the venerable
Countess von Waldersee. She was the
daughter of David Lee of New York; and
since she was not a member of New York’s
Four Hundred her father despatched her
on the Grand Tour in the late ’sixties —
hoping, presumably, for the best. In Ber-
lin Miss Lee was brought to a Court func-
tion by the American Minister; and there
she met Prince Frederick of Schleswig-
Holstein, one of the minor royalties whose
family principality had been annexed by the
King of Prussia. The Prince was a soulful,
doleful, serious and pallid youth; but some-
thing in the engaging manner of the fair
American girl thawed the frozen current of
his heart. He found courage to propose
and to brave the Ilohenzollern wrath. After
a family conference it was decided that, if
the Prince insisted on losing caste, then it
were better lie took some other title; and it
was as Prince yon Noer that he led his
American bride from the altar. The Prince
survived the event only six months; and
subsequently his widow descended into the
ranks of mere nobility by marrying Count
von Waldersee. The Countess adapted her-
self successfully to the German mentality,
and lived through the war in the counti’y of
her adoption. And now, in the evening of
her days, she has but a vague recollection,
perhaps, of her far-away youth in middle-
class Philadelphian society when the greatest
thing she hoped for was the entree to New
York’s Four Hundred.
America’s greatest contribution to royalty
was Mollie Stewart, of Cleveland, Ohio.
Mollie was born with an ambitious spoon
in her mouth ; and after she had buried her
first husband she became the wife of W. B.
Leeds, who was a big man in the tin-plate
world. The Leedses set out for Paris with
money to burn. In those days “dalilars”
did not make the same noise in the French
capital as they do now; and Mr. and Mrs.
Leeds found that they would have some
difficulty in “getting acquainted” with the
best people. However, one day a very bored
W. B. Leeds was strolling down the Rue de
Rivoli, when his eye was attracted by a
gorgeous necklace in a jeweller’s window.
He returned to his suite at the Ritz with
the necklace in his pocket. The price was
a million francs; but it was surely worth it.
for the newspapers noised it abroad, and all
the best Parisians were anxious to meet the
lady who was considered worthy of such
valuable upholstery. Mrs. W. B. did the
rest with her amazing personality. The
pair were asked everywhere, and thev
went everywhere, until W.B. died in
1908. The tin-plate profits were left to the
widow and the only son of the marriage.
War came, and more people than ever bought
tin-plates. In consequence, after the Armis-
tice the Leeds widow found herself back
in post-war Europe, richer than ever.
At Spencer House, Saint James’s, London.
S.W., Mrs. Leeds held court in 1919; and to
her salon flocked princes and noblemen in
abundance. They came, they saw and they
were conquered; but a great many who
came to scoff remained to admire, and the
one who remained most persistently of all was
H.R.11. Prince Christopher of Greece —a
bachelor brother of King Constantine. He
proposed three times, and on the fourth time
of asking was accepted. As money was the
stoutest piece of armament in post-war
Europe, it was not long before Prince Chris-
topher was offered the throne of Lithuania
on the strength of his fortunate marriage.
The offer was very wisely declined, and the
Princess thereupon took the Greek Royal
family in hand and tried to put into them
some of her national “pep.” It was an up-
hill job, but a whole lot of money was judi-
ciously spent in Greece; and then all the
Greeks decided by national plebiscite to
have their Constantine again. The ex-Iving
went back to Athens, but all the tin-plate
millions could not endow the monarch with
even ordinary perspicacity. However, tin l
Leeds money did somehow or other keep the
throne in the family; for it passed to the
Princess’s nephew by marriage, and then,
in order to draw the bonds closer together,
young Leeds was married to the Princess
Xenia. Princess Christopher died in her
London home in 1923, a very remarkable
woman who, had she lived long enofigh.
might have been Queen of Greece.
The titular honor of leader of the Ameri-
can Royal family belongs to H.R.H. the
Duchess of Oporto. The Duchess was
“raised” in Florida, and married an uncle
of the ex-King Manoel of Portugal. She
bad a very short run for her money, as the
Duke was gathered to his fathers before
any serious attempt could be made to prop
up the Braganza throne with American
dollars.
It is only fair to the great democracy to
record that at least one of its daughters
preferred an ordinary husband when she
might have married otherwise. The exiled
Louis Philippe of France offered his heart
and the prospect of a throne to Maud Wil-
lard, of Philadelphia. Maud was not
enamored of Louis, but she put the matter to
her father as a business proposition. Old
Willard told the Bourbon that if he ever
became king he would be too good for his
daughter, and as a poverty-stricken exile he
was not good enough
In The Marriane ' Mnrbol 1 1W
Kin wet no ( Tnlm i7v,,> . het, by Gliarles
Kingston (John Lane. Angus and Rob-
ertson), the author has succeeded in
collecting in readable form a whole lot
of family history from the Old and
the New World. Gossipy books of this sort
are never treated very seriously, for no
doubt wise and obvious reasons However
this pffort should do mm.li tiA
illnsinn 71,77 d Pel i
ll usion that mairiage cannot be compaied
t° h lottery, as in a lottery one does have
a chance.
GERALD DILLON.
A Satchel of Books
Malay Land, by R. J. H. Sydney (Cecil Palmer).
Time was when Malaya believed that all Australians
were either jockeys or bookmakers and when it was
customary for the local press to differentiate between
“white men” in general and “Australians” in par-
ticular in their police-court reports. Nowadays
Australian engineers, doctors and planters are broad-
cast over the thin peninsula, which has become
one of this country’s chief outlets for the surplus
energy of her sons. How the said sons live may be
splendidly gathered from this placidly domestic
chronicle by an English schoolmaster long resident
in Malaya. Well worth reading, especially after a
visit to “White Cargo.”
The Silver Stallion, by James Branch Cabell (John
Lane). Last of a trilogy which begau with “Jurgen.”
Lovers of exquisite irony and life in its full flavor
should be grateful to the New York society which,
by suppressing the first book, introduced the American
author to thousands who would otherwise never have
heard of him. Fancy prices were paid for second-
hand copies of the banned volume, and one wonders
what some of the purchasers thought of their bargain,
if they ever waded through it. The present volume
must be read in conjunction with its predecessors,
or the full savor will be lost; Cabell has lived so
long in his remarkable dream-province of Poictesme
that he expects his readers to know their way about
as well as he does.
A Literary Man’s London, by C. G. Harper
(Cecil Palmer). The author has in previous works
looked at London from other angles. In the
present volume he considers its artistic, literary,
antiquarian, architectural and journalistic interests.
He deplores, whilst admitting their necessity, the
many changes the historic capital has undergone in
modern days. New thoroughfares such as the Kings-
way have swept out of existence mean streets and
tumble-down buildings, many of them associated
with the literary and artistic life of the past.
Disreputable old Holywell-street, where one foraged
among the dusty boxes of second-hand books for
some rare first-edition, has gone. Everything there-
about has been cleaned up. The neighborhood has
gained in sanitation, but lost in charm. Through
what is left of old London the author takes his
readers on a pilgrimage rich in associations with the
past. He does not exhaust the store, but he draws
off a very satisfying draught.
The Vrillic Force, by Mary Rivett, M.A. (Leigh,
Sydney). “Vril,” according to the author, is a
force that can be heard, felt and seen; but the
author’s explanation is difficult to understand except
by those in whom the so-called “inner” senses are
developed. The author calls to her aid Dr. W. J.
Kilner, who claims that the aura is rendered visible
by specially devised screens, and Dr. Baraduc, “who
has on many occasions received very clear and
abundant impressions on photographic plates....as of
fine etheric rain descending upon and permeating
the whole psyche... . This etheric or spiritual electric
shower has left the most distinct impressions as of
countless raindrops bespattering a window pane.”
If the vrillic force is sufficiently strong, the author
says, it results in a peculiar crackling noise. “In
the boots, too, of the demonstrator the sound is apt
to be so marked that it may be heard throughout a
fairly large room.” It also makes a noise like a
“faint rhythmic plash, plash.” Or, say, like a
turnip that has been cruelly wronged.
When the Fight Begins, by Holman Day (Small
Maynard: Dymock). There are two types out of
which the standardised novel of the U.S.A. is
evolved. One is the cowpuncher with the popping
pistol; the other the strong man of the city who
moves mountains by a telephone call. The gentle-
man who puts up the fight in Mr. Day’s piece of
fiction is of the second class. He is rude and
aggressive and embraces his womenkind after the
fashion of the primitive hunter, but in his make-
up there is concealed a fountain of sentiment which
flows at the touch of some impossibly spiritual she.
That was the case with lawyer John Lang, who
took a long time to drink his spiritual potion, but
got it down at last. An excellent book for the
people who believe these things.
The Facts of Industry (Macmillan). Under this
title an unofficial committee consisting of British
employers of labor, trade-union leaders and experts
in economics, accountancy and law, publishes its
report upon the investigations it has carried out to
ascertain the possibilities of increased statistical
publicity being given to the industries of the kingdom.
The inquiry has been based on the assumption
that it is impossible to formulate a wise policy in
industrial and economic affairs without first knowing
the facts. “Until,” says the report, “the maladies of
British industry have been properly diagnosed, and
means have been found for watching the progress of
the patient, it is very hard to prescribe a remedy.”
It is thought that industrial relations would bo
greatly improved if the employees could have placed
before them the actual financial conditions of the
industries in which they are employed, so that they
could see what were the proportions of the results,
in terms of money, appropriated to wages, interest
on capital, working costs and so on. By such means
probably much misunderstanding would be avoided.
The report does valuable work in putting into some-
thing like systematic order the various sources from
which the desired information could be drawn.
Fair Rents, by E. H. Tebbutt (Law Book Co.).
The N. S. Wales landlord anxious to know what, if
any, rights are left to him under the mis-named
Pair Rents Acts will welcome this admirable com-
pilation. It is, avowedly, quite elementary so far as
its notes are concerned, but will still be found useful
to tlie professional man. In the general construction
of the Acts dealt with, the annotator suggests that
the principle adopted in Stockham v. Easton
[(1924) 1K.8.52] might well be followed. It is
to the effect that whilst such Acts should be read
in harmony with their policy and objects generally,
one of such objects is to encourage a landlord in
the provision of dwelling-houses. There is a certain
cynical humor in this proposition, having regard to
the administration of the Acts in N. S. Wales. The
first Fair Rents Act (N.S.W.) was passed in 1915
in a period of concern for the families of soldiers.
“It operated like a moratorium,” remarks the com-
piler, “but contained no provision for expiry with the
war.” The whole tendency since that date has been
towards extension, with the practical effect of holding
up the building of dwelling-houses for the middle and
working classes and casting that burden on the State.
One of the harshest provisions of this legislation is
contained in the proviso to the principal Act limit-
ing the rent that may be demanded to that for which
a dwelling was let on January 1, 1915. Although
a discretion has been given to the Court to increase
the rental “where circumstances render an increase
equitable,” this discretion, as the writer points out,
has been confined to the consideration of such par-
ticular items as increased rates, insurance, cost of
material alterations and additions—apart from ordi-
nary maintenance. The general advance in property
values since the date arbitrarily fixed has been
wholly disregarded.


35 miles on an Imperial gallon of petrol
55 miles an hour— 5 to 30 miles in 13
seconds
4-wheel brakes stops in 51 feet from a
speed of 40 miles an hour
Turns in 34-foot circle—parks in 14 feet
of curb space
5 feet 9 inches high—lower gravity centre
—greatest safety
Modern-type body—provides more inside
room than other light cars
Beautifully finished in Duotone Duco
No light car equals it because
no light car is as far advanced
in modem engineering . . .
mazing 'Performance
FOR over three years Willys-Overland engineers in Europe
and America have been developing the Overland Whippet
• . . 500,000 miles of road tests have proved its practical advan-
tages beyond all doubt. This new-type car marks the most im-
portant light-car engineering improvement in the last 16 years.
The OVERLAND WHIPPET is a complete new car . . . de-
signed and built as a unit... not an old-fashioned chassis recon-
structed. The enclosed models, or the touring model with the
top up are only as tall as the average man. Yet, due to unique
body construction, there is actually more head-room and leg-
room than you have ever found in any motor-car of this class.
The specially designed steering mechanism for balloon tyres
and the four-wheel brakes make steering easy. Its high-torque,
31-horsepower engine of small bore and long stroke embodies
the same engineering principles used in the fastest racing cars of
America and Europe.
In the OVERLAND WHIPPET you have the feeling of riding
closer to the ground ... with the resultant sense of stability and
absence of that sidesway so noticeable in the conventional type
of car. The Whippet’s centre of gravity is extremely low, yet
road clearance is ample . . . thus giving a wonderful sense of
driving security at the high speeds of which this car is capable.
Ana with its wide standard tread it can safely take turns at a
OYE RIAND Whippet
World’s New-Type Light Car
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
speed which would be impossible in the old-fashioned, high-
body car or the small, narrow-tread car.
Here at last is a motor-car that will run 3 5 miles on an Imperial
gallon of petrol. . . well over 1000 miles on a gallon of oil .. .
with incredible mileage on tyres . . . and the smallest tax-rating
of any car produced in the U. S. A.
Exhaustive tests so far indicate that the average year’s
operating cost of the OVERLAND WHIPPET should
save you from £l5 to £3O in petrol, oil, tyres and
mechanical upkeep. Money that goes back into your
pocket. Money you must add to the cost price of any
less-economical car you consider.
In fairness to yourself see this remarkable car. Drive
it... . find out for yourself its amazing performance.
ďfd
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT.
WrL L Y s
FINE MOTOR
-OVERLAND
CARS


71 Afi
/r'
PlaiOfWtWß.i
rf
11
ncinnnn
1
Wtfm
l n
n
i«
Tnrn
MU
rrn rr»
o.
R
s
Q
©
JT is the job of the inner tube
■“"to hold air—to keep the
costly cover well rounded out
and protected against exces-
sive flexing—and there is no
tube that does it so perfectly
over so many miles as the
Goodyear Balloon Inner Tube.
Good tyres deserve good
tubes—Goodyear Tubes.
Next Time Buy
3
9
BALLOON INNER TUBES


Cooper-Hewitt “Work-Light”—
better than daylight, and here’s the proof.
V: . I.
m
Xfr'*-'}
A »■
■r. -'•;::
.1 '
How one manufacturer selected
the light he wanted
This test, recently made by one well-known mill, literally
“opened their eyes” to differences in lighting: A number of fine
threads were hung over a blackboard under the old illumination.
Several men were selected for the test. One man at a time walked
from the back of the room toward the blackboard. When he was
close enough to count the threads accurately, the distance was
measured. The average length was found to be 10 feet.
Then the experiment was repeated, under Cooper Hewitt
Work-Light. The number of threads, of course, was changed.
.Under Work-Light the average distance measured 20 feet. This
manufacturer had learned something! Under identical conditions,
jWork-Light was found to have double the seeing power of
ordinary light.
Australian Banner Hosiery Co.,
Parramatta Road, Annandale,
where Cooper-Hewitt Work-light provides
better than daylight conditions for this in-
tricate work. Glare is no problem with
Cooper-Hewitt Work-light. It does not exist.
Even shadows on the machines are all soft
and luminous.
Erwin Cotton Mills, Erwin, N.C.
2304 Looms weaving blue denim—a chal-
lenge to the best in light. Erwin maintains
an ideal seeing condition with Cooper-
Hewitt Work-light, one lamp to every jive
looms.
Hosiery Mill, Nebel Knitting Co.,
Charlotte, N.C.
In a new daylighted building Nebel oper-
ates full-fashioned machines day and night.
Mr. Nebel says Cooper-Hewitt. Work-light
keeps production and quality at night equal
to or better than day.
The Seeing Test is the Only Test
The merit of any product is not deter
design. The quality of goodness is always
a matter of ability as proved by perform-
ance. An automobile, a loom, a lamp,
for instance, may in theory be perfect;
but unless it can give superior service its
theatrical advantages mean nothing.
Here’s a picture illustrating a test that makes lighting
“toe the mark.” It calls for a demonstration of practical
benefit. What more practical test of light is there than
the seeing power test? Accuracy of sight means fewer
steps, mistakes, errors; that means less wastage, higher
quality of production and more efficient employees. In
silk mills where the rigidly high standards of the ‘‘quality
market” must be met, accurate seeing is especially
necessary. Cooper-Hewitt Work-light is the answer. The
50in. tube of restful yellow-green rays glowing in every
work-light unit casts a light richer in seeing power than
any other light. There is no glare. There are no deep
shadows. It is a light that can be used to supplement
daylight, to keep seeing power constant every hour of
the twenty-four.
The demand for good light is insistent at all times. Make a seeing test in your
plant; you owe it to yourself and your workmen. An open offer to every plant.
Select any department. We will furnish enough lamps to light it, and work-light
engineers will see that your installation is made according to the best modern
standards. If you don’t want a Cooper-Hewitt Work-light after you see it work,
return the lamps and the transaction is closed. An unusual offer, but one proved
and sound in 20 years of use. Further pirticulars gladly mailed.
Curves Showing Reactions in Unit Time Under Different Kinds of Light
FOOT CANDLES
60
Zollinger & Schroth, Emaus, P.A.
“The advantage,” writes Manager J. B.
Brink, “is the most vital one in manufac-
turing —-a production increase of 10 per cent,
to 15 per cent, while using artificial light.”
Cleveland Press, Cleveland, Ohio.
Another great newspaper finds that Cooper-
Hewitt Work-light ideally suits composing-
room requirements of accuracy with speed.
Note the clean touch detail on make-up table.
%
i
mmm
m
tm
Biddle & Smart, Amesbury, Mass.
Wherever five automobile bodies are made
there yon will find Work-light. Every day
this plant manufactures and finishes 200
bodies for Hudson Broughams.
AUSTRALIAN
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney;
Cr. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.
'Jr/.
B
T-H
GENERAL
iAustralian General
ELECTRIC
Electric Company Ltd
Also at
Brisbane, Newcastle and Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
AGENTS:
Oliver and Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, T;


CUTICURA
m
u
•'ey
Mother’s Favorite
For Baby’s Skin
The pure, cleansing properties of
the Soap make it ideal for baby’s
daily bath. Assisted by Cuticura
Ointment it does much to prevent
little skin and scalp troubles be-
coming serious and to keep baby’s
tender skin healthy and clear. Cuti-
cura Talcum is soothing and cool-
ing, ideal for baby after a bath.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: I "R.Towns & Co., Sydney,N.S.W.”
IPF"* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
fate
faieK
Hot#
~ From getting “mixed up"
in the wash, by having
every article
Marked with
ďfd
w
WcaneS
Any Name woven in Fast Color
"A few stitches and they’re on. ’
D SI vans
Actual Size Style No 2
SOLO BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices t
1 2 aot. 7 lfi, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 dor. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Ptjr. Ltd.
asea 85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond. Melb.
ďf
Hi
a
Dark
N 0.5 for
Fair
AMAMI
Shampoos
The only tonic-shampoo you
can buy. The shampoo that
leaves your hair cleaner,
brighter and more fragrant
than you have ever known
it before. From all Chemists,
Hairdressers or big Stores.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
df
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
ď
Some things get better of themselves —rupture
gets Worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while you don't know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
Holds 50$ More Ink
r//s.
m*
fi
jrssssss.
m
o
©
o
■
VM,
[P©OQ
SELFFILLING
SAFETY
1
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK —Best for all Pens.
A
M
3
&
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
V each.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
f
HT HE more beautiful a woman is the greater her dread of old age.
*■ Woman, by her beauty alone, has ruled and ruined nations,
made and unmade kingdoms, suppressed and caused revolutions —
such is the power of her beauty.
Beauty and Youth go hand in hand. As old age appears beauty
gradually fades, the skin loses its peach-like bloom, and, worst of
all, the telltale of approaching years, silvery GREY HAIRS, make
their appearance. As soon as a woman sees the reflection of these
silver threads in her mirror she realises her maturing years. Her
husband, her children and her friends—they all notice it.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN is a simple, harmless liquid, and
when applied to the hair removes these telltale silver threads.
Obtainable in brown or black, it tints to any shade. It is
perfectly safe and easy to apply, and can be obtained from any
chemist or store, price 4/-, or from the Agents, Messrs. Muir & Neil,
Sydney; Lifeguard Smith, Brisbane; or Duerdin and Sainsbury, Ltd.,
Melbourne (by sending 4/6 in stamps or postal note).
Buy a bottle to-day and remember the name.
D 5 ALLEN'S MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
WtLCOC
A W S-S
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Retreat.
He made a garden in a place so wild
That they who looked upon his roses smiled
With pity for the brown days spent in labor
For such mild uses by their toiling neighbor.
Their hearts were set upon the larger things.
The stench of progress gave their longings
wings;
Greased wheels for one —pent power that
lifts and pulls—
Another found his ecstasy in bulls.
But still the garden in the midst of beef
And screaming engines glowed in flower and
leaf
And made a sweetness in the summer glade
Where old faiths lingered shy and half afraid.
All truths were dead, save petrol, on the
road ;
All dreams were gone, save that the engine’s
load
Might yet be doubled or the cows might
grow
With vaster udders on the flat below.
Yet there was magic in the garden set;
And under weight of bloom there lingered yet
Thoughts of old days, old hopes and fragrant
things
That walked the world through all the by-
gone springs.
N.s.w.
D. M. W.
There Is No One.
“Margaret, when I call
Can you hear me?”
There is no one there at all
That eyes can see.
Yet there seems in the gloom
A feeling there....
Some presence in the r00m....
A stir in the air.
“Margaret, it is Paul
Whom you loved long ago.”
There is no one at all
By that name that I know!
N.s.w.
HELEN HENEY.
The Doubting.
Within my garden, winter-bound,
Two wise men dredged in depths profound;
They talked of earth and heaven and death,
Of men and gods and life, its breath,
Of stirrings in primeval slime
And creatures yet in the womb of time—
From delving worm to distant star
They knew the truth of things that are;
No hidden portent passed them by
But stood revealed, it seemed; yet I—
-1 wondered if one ever knows
The mystery that is a rose!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
The Voices.
As at morn they shoreward swing
What is it the breakers sing
In a tone to lure man’s feet
To a while of wandering?
This it is the breakers sing,
As at morn they inward swing,
To the people of the height
And the people of the slum:
“Hither come, hither come!”
At the golden height of noon
When, as though asleep, aswoon,
Heaves the blue heart of the sea,
What is it the breakers croon?
At the golden height of noon
To all folk that mope and moon,
This the drowsy breakers say:
“Let the voice of care be dumb—
Hither come, hither come!”
When dim grows the ocean’s verge,
Dim each pearly-crested surge,
To the tired folk on the sands
What is it the breakers dirge?
This they counsel, this they urge,
On the gleamless shore a-surge,
All-regretful of the glad
And the golden hours gone by:
“Homeward hie, homeward hie.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Wattle-time Song.
Laughing sing the green leaves,
Softly sing I;
Sweetly, while spring weaves,
Dreams draw nigh.
Dreams of morn, of young Love,
Of sun and sea;
Fair Hope, like a white dove
Winging to me.
Dreams of ships freighted down
With ivory,
Stealing from rivers brown
Straight home to me.
Gold from out a magic hoard
Wherewith to buy
Pictures (’gainst winter’s sword)
Of warm, blue sky.
Sculpture of slender faun,
Wine-frothed in France;
Books wise of leprechaun
From old romance.
Knightly men and fair girls,
Dreaming I see
When foaming wattle whirls
Goldenly free.
Greening buds on the tree,
Pink blossom too.
I’m beck’ning Love to me—
Why, would not you?
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.


d
iMmmm m
m
mm
M J
mm
1
n
.
*
m
m s
■:
I :
' ■ ■ • *.*
Swssy I
m
■\
i
its.
aj
/i-
-*.. Lg fti .
'
■• m
:
m
m
Wwa
d
■
i:
I :
■
A:
'' “V F. ■ '
ii®iiiii#ji«is
■ S 3
IPlPfPlpSiliEWitt
fißHMiWaiii
■■
n iiinll $i i
n
11
■
'.-■■F
J
...
mm
m m
life
■n ra
a
nm
3
B
ď


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2434.
October 7, 1926.
THE SUSPECT.
“According to the Geneva correspondent of the TIMES, oue of the most regrettable impressions of the late League of Nations Assembly was the suspicion of Britain’s
attitude. There was scarcely a committee in which the British representatives’ actions were not attributed to some dark and ulterior motive.” suspicion of Britain' s
UNCLE SAM: “Say, John, won’t you admit there are points in what you used to call ‘splendid isolation’?”


the Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Magleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, u-eehly:
12 months, £1 )$. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. lid.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the ■ publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivlien
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —-i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
U. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
f]w_ffin)kstall - n a t Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farrinydon Street, London, E.CJ/.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.).; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” )1)-1 7 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and- Son;
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency. Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))/ Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Buulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, 'The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
5)1) South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China .—Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A.—./. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—-Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10os.. Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., id.
ffie'^uLZeiv/i.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1926.
SYDNEY’S ALLEGED 14-HOURS-PER-
DAY TOILERS.
On a recent day the three-headed Federal
Arbitration Court was doing its bit of
daily struggle with the demand for less work,
which usually means, in the long run, more
loans and more importing. The legal gentle-
man hired by the N.S.W. Government to
assert that the more hours are reduced the
more output is increased was on his nether
limbs. The subject was bricks, though it
insensibly melted into a review of labor in
general, and some of the report ran thusexe
Mr. Poster, referring to the development of the
brickmaking industry, said that some years ago,
when there were 161 works employing 3774 men
who were working 48 hours per week, the production
was 340,000,000 bricks p.a. Since the hours of labor
had been reduced to 44, and with three employees
less, the production had increased to 420,000,000....
The production per man had increased from 90,000
to 97,000. Mr. Foster admitted that new machinery
had been installed.
In bluff off-hand ways like the above the
case for less work is built up, and if the
figures are a trifle casual at times that is
common enough. As a matter of fact, the
brick output of N.S.W. increased to
420,000,000 and then fell to 384,000,000, and
the employees increased from 3774 in 1920
to 3792 in 1923 instead of being three less,
and though there were 21 more brickmakers
in 1925 than in 1924 they produced 18,300,000
fewer bricks, possibly as a result of the 44-
hour innovation. The fact that the average
wage per brickmaker p.a. rose from £167 in
1920 to £215 in 1925 was probably due to
the fact that the employers put in £414,000
worth of extra machinery in addition to
replacements, and that the employees bene-
fited materially in consequence. But there
begins to be a doubt whether a reaction
may not be due. In 1925 the value of the
total brick and tile output was £93.970 less
than in 1924, while the wages bill dimin-
ished by only £250. If the movement shows
signs of being continuous, and machinery
doesn’t further improve, it will become neces-
sary to consider the alternatives of more
bricks, which would .probably mean more
hours, or less pay.
* * * *
It was probably by accident that the
learned gentleman, in his heated pursuit of
bricks, turned his electric torch on another
aspect of the hours question—one that is
generally kept rather in the dark: —
Mr. Foster said that the present-day worker had
to travel a much longer distance to his work than
was necessary a few years ago. He submitted about
3000 answers to a questionnaire addressed to the
employees of the Eveleigh and Itandwiek workshops,
which showed that employees were absent from their
homes on an average of 111 hours per day....
Twenty-three were absent from their homes for
14 hours each day. At Randwiclc there were 176
employees who were absent from their homes for
12 and 13 hours each day. In 1915 the number of
journeys made on workmen’s tickets was 23,000,000.
In 1922 the number had grown to 32,000,000, and
for 1926 the number of journeys was estimated at
41,000,000.
That is an aspect of the case which is more
important than millions of bricks. It was
dragged up in the Arbitration Court, of
course, as part of the eternal grievance
against the employer, and as another reason
why he should pay more (to cover travelling
expenses and other extras) and yet get fewer
hours’ service (so that the worker may get
home before bedtime). But the worker has
a very real grievance against the accursed
policy of trying to crowd all the population
and all the secondary industries of a big
Stiite into one city—a policy which the so-
called workers’ party when in power seems
to foster even a little more earnestly than
other parties. Three obvious ways of dealing
with the problem are always in evidence. One
is that the worker should live close to his
employment. This has been achieved with
conspicuous success in at least one British
city as large as Sydney and even more indus-
trial ; the secret lies in the adoption of the
tall tenement house as the almost invariable
form of residence, with perhaps six persons
in one room, and not the sixth part of the
ordinary allowance of decency among the lot.
The second, much favored by a stereotyped
brand of philanthropist, is that every half-
hour added to the travelling time should be
deducted from the working time, whether
industry can stand it or not. A third device,
especially adapted to this commodious land,
is the cultivation of small industrial towns
to the disadvantage (the premeditated dis-
advantage) of Sydney and other big human
accumulations. Then the worker might live
on the edge of the country and yet be within
10 or 15 minutes’ easy sprint of his daily
toil.
* * * *
If there was a measure of accuracy in the
statistics of the legal authority who dis-
coursed on bricks a serious crisis is at hand
for Australia’s principal city. The State’s
official figures, made up to a year ago, em-
phasise this view. They affirm that 73 per
aent. of N.S.W.’s “secondary” industrialists
work in the metropolis, and more are pouring
in. During this century the metropolitan
workers have increased by 79,507. Those in
places outside, including such spots as Gran-
ville, Parramatta, Newcastle and Broken
Hill, were a mere 20,023 more in 1925 than
in 1901. The country industries have inter-
mittent spells of absolute decline, but the
difficulty of removing gasworks, sawmills and
butter-mills to the city has prevented their
absolute extinction. Possibly milk may yet
be concentrated there by pipes. No satisfac-
tory explanation has been extracted from
anybody of Australia’s peculiarly exclusive
form of concentration madness, or congrega-
tional insanity—the kind which favors a
scheme for building a railway to suburban
Manly, to compete with boat, ’bus and tram,
and shuts down like a coffin lid on the idea
of building to great harbors like Twofold
Bay, Jervis Bay or Port Stephens. This
trait in the Australian character has been
set down in a tentative way to fear of ants,
and also to a dislike for regions where the
race meetings are necessarily inferior. The
people who work the railway machine with a
steady view to crushing country enterprise
are as non-explanatory as the rest. It may
be that they don’t know themselves any more
than an infant knows how it happens to be
an infant. It just is.
NEW POPULATION AND WHAT IT
LIVES ON.
A feature of Australia’s unnatural and
artificial existence is the inextinguishable
craving of a class of city people to get coun-
try people, or any kind of people, “on the
land,” there to grow things for export to
an unstable market a long distance away.
This class is largely composed of importers,
and there is no reason to suppose that the
importer cares twopence more than any other
person about the man on the land except
as a prospective buyer of foreign goods. But
he has a very solid interest in keeping the
man out of the factory, where the man’s
exertions would tend in the direction of mak-
ing the import business unprofitable and
superfluous. If importers had any unselfish
desire whatsoever to do a good turn to their
agricultural or pastoral brother an obvious
course would be to give him access to the
nearest deep-water port, so that he could
do his exporting and any necessary import-
ing at a minimum of expense. Unfortu-
nately the rising of new seaport towns would
necessitate a diffusion of the importing busi-
ness, and it seems to be generally considered
that it is more payable and convenient to
do a huge concentrated trade in a huge city
than to serve the same area by doing a dif-
fused business in half a dozen much smaller
centres. As a consequence of this policy
Australia presents the unique spectacle of
a new” country which hasn’t built a new
town of the least importance, when it could
help doing so, since it got full control of its
own affairs.
n** * *
-1 he heads of a discourse on the general
result may be set out as follows:
Ihe number of people in the Commonwealth who
are engaged in agriculture was considerably less in
1925 than in 1915. The number in the pastoral
industry was a little less. Dairying showed an in-
ci ease, but there are more than twice as many
women employed in cow pursuits as in all other “on-
the-land” industries put together, and child-labor
is rife. Cow is a cheap-labor job.
The number of people employed in all kinds of
rural industry was less in 1925 than in 1915.
ihe area under crop was a little more in 1925
than in 1915, but it was less in 1925 than in
1916.
From this it may be inferred that the besotted
city policy by which a farmer with something to
export may have to send it 400 miles to a port
when his natural sea outlet is a quarter of the
distance away makes expansion almost impossible.
It may also be inferred that the £74,400,000 of
loan money spent up' to 1925, and the millions of
interest paid on the loan money, in the purchase of
private estates so that agriculturists 5 might be put
‘on the land,” was in the aggregate either robbery
and boodling or amateurish city muddle, or a bit
of both.
The remarkable growth of manufactures as a
means of employment, despite the crazy railroad
devices and other tricks adopted to prevent tlxe
growth of factories save in the State capitals, and
despite the fact that no £74,000,000 of borrowed
funds has gone to help the country’s factories along,
raises the question whether “secondary” industry
isn’t really Australia's strong point, whatever in-
furiated importing interests may say to the contrary.
The employment figures for the six States
present a curious variety. The newest re-
turns leave out the Northern Territory and
the Canberra area altogether, and those for
Queensland are incomplete in the pastoral
section for some reason best known to the
people who run that State-—weariness very
likely. Otherwise they are complete, with
these results when 1924-25 is compared with
1914-15:
Decrease in
Decrease in Number Increase in
Number of of All Number of
Agricultural Rui'al Factory
Workers. Workers. Workers.
N. S. Wales .. 19,078 6,822 49,149
Victoria .. .. 13,661 10,629 40,324
S. Australia .. 8,756 13,543 12,857
Increase. Increase.
Queensland .. 7,652 14,818 6,843
Westralia . . 5,278 7,249 7,127
Tasmania .. 190 1,421 2,578
Decrease. Decrease. Increase.
Six States . . 28,375 7,506 118,878
If a further subdivision of workers is made
with special reference to cheap female labor
(cheap child labor is difficult to identify)
other interesting results are arrived at:—
Proportion of
Increase of Female Workers
Workers in Among Total
10 Yeai-s. Employed, 1925.
Dairying .. 22,025 371 p.c.
Manufacturing .. 118,878 244 p.c.
Decrease.
Pastoral.. .. 1,156 1 p.c.
Agricultural .. 28,375 7j p.c.
The only kind of rural occupation which
showed an increase in the number of per-
sons for whom it furnished employment,
taking the Commonwealth as a whole, for
the 1915-25 period was thus the one which
depends most on female toil, and in which
child-sweating is notorious. It isn’t a very
nice occupation. The cow is a muddy early-
morning animal of inferior intelligence, and
no fit companion for a lady.
* * * *
The outstanding position of Queensland
may be ascribed to its canefields and sugar-
mills, both of which are artificially supported
at immense cost to Australia as a whole.
Something is also due to the cotton industry,
which is likewise bonused at the expense of
the taxpayer. Up till about 1920 every-
thing in Queensland was on the down grade,
and in places the grade was very steep. In
fact, the best part of the revival took place
between June, 1924, and June, 1925. The
remarkable advance of Westralia may be
ascribed in part to the Federal tariff, in
part to the transcontinental railway (a
present from the people of all Australia),
which saves the big State from the disas-
trous isolation that periodically blights Tas-
mania and the Northern Territory, and in
part to the possession of a magnificent pub-
lic estate which is the gift of Providence.
Westralia went into the loan “settlement”
business like its contemporaries, and it did
better than the average; but the fact that it
got, in 10 years, 122 more land employees
than new factory employees isn’t much to
show for the £14,512,000 of loan money
blewed on land repurchase. It is impossible
to keep on at the price. There are various
morals to be drawn from the collection of
figures, but the one that stands out most
conspicuously is that Protected “secondary”
industries are a mighty help in time of
trouble and in all other times.
PLANNING MELBOURNE.
.
1 here is a body of expert and whole-souled
enthusiasts in Melbourne called the Town-
Planning Commission. The citizens hear
* occasionally over the wireless, it
requently ans its grievances m the news-
papers, and it appears to be in a constant
state of disagreement with the Government,
which is supposed to act on its advice,
When, after exhaustive inquiry, it selects
a new site for a cattle salesyard, the Pre-
mier decides on another situation. When
it succeeds in getting set aside for the use
of the people a little lung-space, a municipal
council or the Railway Department leases
the lung-space to a garage proprietor or a
maker of confectionery. When it recom-
mends more bridges over the Yarra to obvi-
ate the vast losses caused by traffic disorgan-
isation, the Government says it can’t afford
the saving. And while it recommends and re-
presents, the business of subdividing the
environs of the city on the peculiarly Aus-
tralian system of straight lines and reetangu-
lar allotments proceeds as busily as ever.
The elongated block appears to be an un-
picturesque survival from a time when sani-
tary arrangements were crude and it was
necessary to keep them as far away from
dwellings as possible, but as a town-planning
proposition it is well-nigh hopeless.
Some minor successes have been achieved
by the Commission. It has convinced a few
councils that town-planning is profitable.
The provision of arterial roads and areas for
parks, sport and educational purposes, the
convenient location of shopping centres and
public buildings, and the swinging of streets
in graceful lines have resulted in an increase
of rateable values. Consequently subdividers
in Altona, Coburg, Doncaster and Broad-
meadows have consulted the Commission be-
fore commencing their depredations; and in
Brighton, where Adam Lindsay Gordon
died, a square mile is to be arranged in
accordance with the prize plan submitted
by the Commission’s engineer. But no at-
tempt has yet been made to introduce effec-
tive legislation against wholesale uglification,
as was recently done in Maoriland. Maori-
land has wakened up to the fact that she
was multiplying urban hideousness at a
great rate and to the detriment of the nation,
so she has made it compulsory for. every
council of every city and borough carrying
1000 people or over to prepare a town-
planning scheme within three years, and
when the plan has been approved by an
expert committee to abide by it. It is im-
possible to dynamite the environs of Sydney
into paralysing uniformity except at great
expense. The surroundings of Melbourne
are flat, and present no such difficulties. Con-
sequently the whole countryside is laid out
in rectangles. Will Ogilvie wrote an
elegy in which he said that ’Gordon
was buried within sight and sound of the
sea he loved so well. That may have been
true at one time. At present the poet lies
in the middle of a rectangular suburb, and
the sound of the sea is lost in the din set
up by the builders of “charming” bungalows.
Perhaps he saw what was coming and pre-
ferred to die a poet rather than live to be a
season-ticket holder.
It is impossible to hope that a free spirit
can emerge from a street of houses in which
each dwelling, set 20 feet back from the
roadway, stares across at its replica like a
Prussian Guard on parade. Oases of beauty
are hard to find in Melbourne outside the
public gardens; and they were due to two un-
regarded individuals. Governor Latrobe
may have been a reactionary with respect to
gold-mining and politics, but if he had not
reserved the present site of the Botanical
Gardens, Prahran or Footscray would be in
the place of the paradise Guilfoyle was
enabled to create there. Guilfoyle was
a genius who should be gratefully remem-
bered. liis arrangement of the Botanical
Gardens is so cunning as almost to defy
analysis. His planting of pines, gums,
beeches and visionary poplars must have
seemed feckless at the time; to-day they are
seen to have been as deliberate as the daubs
of the painter in oils. Guilfoyle placed his
trees so that, full grown, they should give
the illusion of infinity. It is an infinity in
which smoking, as numerous notices an-
nounce, is forbidden; and here and there
modern iconoclasts have smashed the great
sweep of his lawns with niggling flower-beds
(there is likewise a mausoleum of pot-bellied
carriage-mops described as a palm planta-
tion) ; but in the main his spacious plan sur-
vives. At least once a year every adult
inhabitant of Melbourne, which will soon
harbor a million people, should be taken to
the Botanical Gardens, even at the risk of
his wanting to smash something or bash
somebody when he returns to his own suburb.
The Town-Planning Commission might thereby
create a town-planning conscience among the
people, after which the politicians would
become its enthusiastic supporters.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How Sydney Labor Council’s Friends
Eat One Another.
Bolshevik horrors accumulate in China,
where crime, chaos and .Communism are
synonymous terms, and robbery and murder
have attained to incredible dimensions, and
the famine which follows on such doings
has brought about a revival of the neglected
practice of cannibalism. The story is not
widely different from that of Russia when
the new disorder was in progress of develop-
ment there. That luckless land also had
famine and cannibalism, and there also the
friends of Garden’s Labor Council were
reduced occasionally to the consumption of
one another or of their opponents. But
Russia was then inaccessible to Western
Europeans, both by land and sea, and it shuts
out visitors, excepting visiting Communists,
with such diligence that it is almost a sealed
land still. Moscow and Novgorod and
Astrakhan are places remote from observa-
tion, too, which Canton and Hankow are
not. Therefore, the Chinese upheaval has the
advantage of giving a much more distinct
view of what Bolshevism really is, and a
much better illustration of what Australia
may be like if its Red Objective crowd ever
achieves its purpose. Bolshevism is a strik-
ingly adaptable institution. In its original
Russian home it was supposed to be a protest
against hereditary nobles, great fortunes and,
in a measure, against great estates. In
China there is no hereditary nobility, there
are no fortunes which Europe would regard
as great, and the land is parcelled out into
something approaching kitchen gardens. So
Bolshevism is advertised as an uprising
against foreigners, who comprise about a
thousandth part of the population. At the
same time the chaotic movement is largely
officered and organised by foreigners, and
these belong to a nation which supplies oyer
a fourth of the alien population, and which
has plundered the Chinese in very offhand
fashion. In Italy, mostly a land of small
proprietors, the Church and the peerage were
supposed to be subjects of protest. Austra-
lia has neither national church nor peerage ;
it is absolutely self-governing, and the soil
is mostly national property, likewise the rail-
ways, and many other valuables. Still, the


local Communist ruffian aches to relieve Aus-
tralia of its “chains,” including its watch-
chain, as if it was Naples when Bomba
reigned there. Bolshevism has taken up its
bludgeon indiscriminately against three young
republics, or attempted republics, against a
royal family which claims 900 years of pedi-
gree, and against the head of a church which
is alleged to have had a recognised head since
a.d. 42. Like the boa constrictor, which
hangs head downward from a tree, ready to
take in the wayfarer, regardless of color,
character, age, station or opinions, it is quite
indiscriminate. Its features are the prompt
adhesion of the criminal or potentially-
criminal classes (and when they come out and
adhere they prove an amazingly numerous
crowd), a vast deal of looting, burning, kill-
ing, torture and subsequent famine, the
emergence from nowhere in particular of self-
appointed rulers and tribunals, and the rise
to power and affluence of a number of indi-
viduals who never showed any sign of the
capacity to attain to either by lawful means.
Gunnery, promptly applied by talented
individuals, is sufficient to quell even a
promising Bolshevik movement; thus the one
in Hungary collapsed like a fortress of
cards when Roumania sent a small but
businesslike force against it. A liberal pro-
vision of gaol for avowed and recognised Bol-
sheviks often prevents the movement reach-
ing the stage of promise. No strong and
far-seeing Government, whether it is as
humane as that of Switzerland or as brutal
as that of Naples when Ferdinand 11. tvas
the record bad man of Europe, is in danger
of being Bolshed. But both to the worst
and the best weak Government the new
horror is an ever-present danger. And in
Australia the Administration is weak enough
in all conscience. So far, by a matter of
luck, the local Communist has been an
irresolute specimen also.
The Smuggler’s Paradise.
Though the Canadian Liberals are back in
office as a result of the general election,
they will have to go in for a pretty drastic
house-cleaning in order to remain there.
Mackenzie King fell some months ago in
Consequence of the investigations of a Parlia-
mentary committee into charges of corruption
in the C'ustOmS, and the stencil of what was
disclosed was SO loud that even Liberal
organs like the Toronto Globe raised an
outcry. While the election was on, sufficient
feeling was aroused against Governor-General
Byng, who had recalled the Conservatives to
office, albeit they were without a majority,
to cover up the scandal; but now that the
war-cries have died down, Mackenzie King
will have to show that he means to root out
the official crooks and smugglers, or the
independent groups may swing to the other
side again. They still hold the balance of
power. All reports show that smuggling has
grown to enormous dimensions in Canada.
Its prosperity dates from the time the neigh-
boring republic went dry, but from boot-
legging it extended to other things. The
smugglers discovered that there was no point
in going back across the boundary with
empty cars. There were larg'e profits to
be made from return cargoes of silks, cigar-
ettes, laces, rubber goods and other commo-
dities against which Canada had built
up a .tariff wall. Soon the shops
that dealt in illicit goods became as
numerous as “fences” in Fitzroy. Legitimate
traders formed a protective association which
induced the Government to appoint the com-
mittee aforesaid. In the course of four
months the committee examined hundreds, of
witnesses and exposed a mass of corruption
that made the average Canadian taxpayer’s
hair stand on end. There was evidence of
highly-placed officials having taken bribes, of
bosom friends of Ministers being involved in
the smuggling industry, and of politicians
working like bees to get serious offenders off
when they were convicted. But the dis-
closures did not damage the Liberal party
in the constituencies, because it came out
that the frauds which had robbed Canada
of millions of dollars were begun when the
Conservatives were in power, and that some
Conservatives were just as ready as some
Liberals to wink at corruption when there
were powerful interests to placate. Besides
the Byng incident was skilfully exploited by
the Liberals to the detriment of their oppo-
nents, who were pictured as anti-nationalists,
Anglomaniacs even. But the smuggling in-
dustry is now so firmly rooted that if the
Mackenzie King Government has the will and
energy to tackle it there will be a protracted
fight ahead. One of its difficulties will be
with the French-Canadian element. It is
hard to convince Pierre Canuck that
smuggling is a crime. The international
boundary between Quebec and the Yankee
States of Vermont and New Hampshire has
been the chief scene of smuggling enterprise.
Canada’s main trouble is that it lives next
door to a thirsty country that wants a drink
and has the money to pay a high price for it.
The process of keeping the American moder-
ately dry seems to cost more in corruption on
both sides of the border than it is worth.
A Foreign-trade Rally for the Farmer.
A collection ot wliat seemed to be the
stupidest men available met recently in Mel-
bourne under the auspices of the Foreign-
trade Town and Country Union to sing a
dirge concerning the approaching ruin of
Australia. It was impossible for all
the stupid men to be present, but they
were ably represented. The mourners
showed no noticeable concern about the debt
and the increasing dependence of this coun-
try on the luck of raising the annual or half-
yearly loan, but were very bitter about any
effort to encourage manufactures. At the
same time, Mann, a Foreign-trade politician
from Westralia, said gloomily that efforts
to artificially encourage agriculture were
costing £2OOO per settler, and that many
of the two-thousand-pounders “were merely
displacing already existing landholders who
were removing to the city.' Westralia,
which sends those sturdy pro-importers
Prowse, Mann and Gregory to the Federal
House, was, of course, much in evidence at
this Foreign-trade rally. Its most notable
orator was William F. Lathlain, a Perth
draper, whose speech, as published, was a
marvel of condensation :
Mr. Lathlain said there was. no political side
to the attempts in W est Australia to secure a re-
duction of the tariff. That State was solely a
primary-producing country, and the tariff w a
burden on the farmer. At the beginning of r edera-
tion the other States had both primary and second-
ary industries well founded, but in West Australia
both were in their infancy. The State was trying
to develop 1,000,000 square miles, with the highest
tariff, the highest rate of interest and the highest
rate of wages in the history of Australia. There
was still sufficient gold in West Australia to pay
the national debt, but working costs would have to
be lower. There should be a decreasing tariff until
it was only a revenue tariff or was completely
wiped out.
This brevity moves The Bulletin to be
condensed in its comments: —
It may be quite true that there is no political
side to Westralia’s noisy little anti-tariff agitation.
Its “side,” which is obvious enough, may be purely
personal and commercial, and not even agricultural.
Westralia isn’t “solely a primary-producing coun-
try.” The gross output of its factories in 1924-25
was £13,928,782, which wasn’t far short of the gross
output of agricultural and pastoral industry put
together. The value of the manufacturing output for
1925 was £1,952,472 more than in 1924. The
Westralian population increased by 8059 during the
year, and the factories supplied work and an average
wage of £196 per annum for 2046 of the new popu-
lation. These 2046 did much of the work of support-
ing the other 6013. If the whole lot had had to
depend on jobs in softgoods warehouses, or “on-the-
land” jobs, they would have been in a bad way.
Incidentally, the very best year’s gold output showed
a mere £8,770,719 gross value. That compares
poorly with the product of “secondary” industry,
and it would have gone no great way in putting
settlers on the soil at a cost of £2OOO each.
Westralia didn’t start its Federal career with any
remarkable scarcity of secondary industries, though
it is hard to see what grievance there would be if
it had done so, as it is getting the industries now.
In 1899 the value of the work actually done in its
factories was given by Coghlan as £8 18s. Bd.
per inhabitant. That was better than the record of
N.S.W., Victoria, Tasmania, S. Australia and Aus-
tralia generally, also of Maoriland.
By latest figures, Westralia pays £4 10s. 7d.
per cent, interest on its public debt. All the other
States pay more. The average for the six States
is £4 16s. lid. per cent., and for the Federal debt
it is £5 os. Id. per cent. Westralia did its most
heroic loan jag when interest was low, which explains
the situation. As for “the highest rate of interest
in the history of Australia,” that has gone up to
8 per cent. Wherefore the yarn about interest is
wrong in every particular.
As for the mercantile gentleman’s hope for a
good time coming when customs and excise receipts
will be abolished, and every industry, even to the
growing of wheat, will be subject to the competition
of the whole world, and income and land taxes will
go up out of sight to make good the lost revenue,
such things happen in nightmares but not in real
life.
The Westralian Foreign-trade movement,
when at its best, is in a category by itself.
It will be a pity if Australians should be
reputed to hold the record, among white
English-speaking communities, for borrow-
ing, loafing, lack of pioneering enterprise,
unparalleled ignorance of their own country
and a habit of weeping over imaginary
wrongs—all by reason of a few inferior
politicians.
The Crime of Working Too Hard.
A tailor’s presser has been writing to the
Sydney newspapers complaining that liis
union goes round to the bosses and gets him
sacked from job after job by threatening a
strike. This sort of thing, according to the
presser’s account of it, has been going on
for about a year—ever since he got into
trouble with the union officials for working
too hard. That lie is still a financial mem-
ber of the organisation which takes such a
keen interest in depriving him of his means
of livelihood says much for the presser s
forgiving disposition—or for his hope of ulti-
mate forgiveness—but it doesn’t deprive his
story of credibility. Even if it isn’t true,
nobody who knows the modern spirit of Aus-
tralian trade-unionism would be brazen
enough to say it couldn't happen. The'only
strange thing about it is that such happen-
ings are based on an imported notion that
doesn’t fit this country at all, especially
under present political dispensations. In
the days when Dickens’s Gradgrind and
his tribe flourished, the English factory sys-
tem was a thing to make angels weep. Sen-
timental Germans like Karl Marx, after
contemplating it for a while, blew up in a
fury of mingled mathematics and invective.
The pioneers of the trade-union movement
fought their battle against tyrannous oppres-
sion and injustice. Law, society, custom,
and, to a great extent, public opinion were
on the side of the employer. British
Labor policy is still colored by memories of
that first struggle, though in the meantime
the whole philosophy of industrialism has
been altered. In Britain there is the excuse
that the reins of government are in the hands
of persons of the employing classes —the
real reason why compulsory arbitration is
still anathema to British trade-union leaders.
But in Australia five of the six State Govern-
ments are Labor, and more or less directly
under the control of the wage-earners’
organisations. There is therefore no excuse
for a policy which regards the employer
as a ravening wolf possessed of supernatural
powers; and deliberate curtailment of pro-
duction, by making the best workers operate
as slowly as the worst, hurts Labor Gov-
ernments as well as the rest of us. Certainly
no Labor Government can make privately-
controlled industry yield real wages in ex-
cess of a certain fairly constant percentage
upon the value of production. Shorter hours,
high rates of pay and schemes like the one
embodied in Badly’s Workers’ Compensation
Act all have to be paid for by industry, and
the benefits are mostly illusory. Every well-
trained socialist knows that, and makes it
a cardinal point in the indictment of the
competitive system. The socialist relies
upon the fact that many men work better
as their own employers than as wage-
earners, and proposes to get that effect by
substituting State officers for private em-
ployers. He isn’t usually fool enough to
think that everybody can get richer by
loafing. But Australia has a type, of trade-
union boss who, while subscribing to a
socialist political platform, clings tenaciously
to ideas Shaw and Belfort Bax and
Blatciiford tore to ribbons 30 years ago.
It is safest, he thinks, and pays best, to
propagate stupidity on the part of his
followers.
Melbourne’s Anzac Memorial.
A persistent attempt is being made in Mel-
bourne to sidestep the proposal to place the
Anzac memorial in front of Parliament
House. Most of the opposition comes from
people who showed little interest in the pre-
vious project, and some of them are suspected
of feeling no genuine interest in the thing
at all. The original scheme was to put the
monument outside the city in a public
garden, but so little enthusiasm was shown
for it that it practically lapsed. The pre-
sent proposal, to resume two hotels at the
top of Bourke-street and make a _ dignified
civic centre, a feature which the. city badly
needs, is described as “materialistic” by a
Labor section which is clamoring for a hos-
pital or something of the kind. One fallacy
in this argument is that if a hospital is
needed it will be provided in any case, the
springs of the public’s charitable impulses
being, as ever, ready to flow when called on.
If it is not needed, it becomes a waste of
money. Another argument is that to have
trams and motor-cars rattling about so
solemn an emblem as a cenotaph will be de-
structive of its significance. _ But there is
little in this contention, seeing that Euro-
pean cities are full of impressive monuments
which the citizen passes daily as he journeys
to his job, thus getting a constant reminder
of the persons or events the symbols com-
memorate. Nobody has discovered any de-
crease in piety since the electric tram was
laid into St. Peter’s-square in Rome; and
the Frenchman is not suspected of being
less loyal to the idea of sacrifice since
the Unknown Soldier was laid to rest in the
middle of Paris. There is no plausible reason
why the Anzac-square idea should not go
forward provided its designing is put in the
hands of men of vision and imagination;
but there is a great likelihood, if the latest
proposal is turned down, of there never
being a memorial at all. This is probably
what many of the objectors really want.
* —
The Case Against the Lazaret.
Dr. E. H. Molesworth, lecturer on diseases
of the skin to the University of Sydney, in
a paper read before the Vic. branch of the
B.M.A. and printed in the Medical Jour-
nal, condemned the practice of interning
lepers in countries such as Australia, declar-
ing that it is “quite unnecessary, and may
be actually harmful.” The internment of
lepers, Dr. Molesworth points out, is un-
known in Britain, France and the U.S.A.
In some European countries segregation in
patients’ own homes is sometimes required;
but, broadly speaking, it has been found
that notification, treatment and inspection
meet all the requirements necessary to
assist the patients and protect the public.
It is doubtful if sentence to death carries
with it a more fearful import to the felon
than sentence to immurement in the lazaret
conveys to the victim of leprosy. It is not
a potential imprisonment for life alone, but
imprisonment under conditions _ and with
associations that surcharge the imagination
with horror. The fear of internment causes
the self-suspect, to conceal from others what
he dreads in the privacy of his own chamber,
and it is not till the disease plants itself be-
fore public notice that hands are laid on
him and he is cast into the lazaret. In
India,” Dr. Molesworth says, “it is found
that patients now come for treatment at an
earlier stage than that at which they were
previously discovered, because the value of
the treatment is recognised even by the
natives. But if there were fear of intern-
ment regulations, the story would be dif-
ferent.” Medical practitioners faced with
the heavy responsibility placed on them in
sentencing their fellow-creatures to a living
death refuse to accept a diagnosis of leprosy
on mere physical signs without demonstra-
tion of bacilli. “These practitioners,” Dr.
Molesworth states, “do not report cases
unless they are compelled to do so by the
discovery of the bacillus.” Yet there are
cases in which it is exceedingly difficult to
produce this evidence, cases which have sub-
sequently been shown decisively to be
leprous. Nowadays there appears to be little
reason to doubt, as was pointed out 30 years
ago by Dr. Taylor, at one time in charge
of the N. S. Wales Coast Hospital, that
there must be an appreciable number of
developed cases of leprosy unrecognised even
“in a settled community, well served by a
large number of trained men.” Australia
maintains lazarets in N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and the Northern Territory, while
patients are sent to isolation stations in
other parts, to be transferred, perhaps, when
the opportunity arises, to Little Bay
(N.S.W.) or Peel Island (Q.). Dr. Moles-
worth has made out a case for the suppres-
sion of these mediaeval horrors. The lazaret
may possibly catch the more extreme cases
—the silver-leper of the Kipling story—but
the awful fear of it that lies in every human
heart will always drive the disease into con-
cealment, and thus shut it out from the
early ministrations of the doctor, with his
chaulmoogra-oil, and the nurse.
“Too Big!”
“Naichoda” : With some Japanese acquaint-
ances I sat in a gargantuan stand at the
Melbourne Showground surveying the grand
parade of Victoria’s best and biggest live-
stock. First came a procession of horses so
small that their boy-guardians were giants
by comparison. My Nipponese companions
laughed decorously. They were reminded of
the dwarf pines they grow in pots in their
own country, and they wanted to know how
the freakish animals were created. Then came
a troupe of Arabs, tliin-legged, full of the
pride of their race. Followed a double file of
gigantic bulls, great sullen beasts; squads of
cows, swinging their surprising udders; enor-
mous draught-horses, with legs like pillars,
chests like battering-rams and necks like arch-
ing girders of steel. One amiable giant lifted
the youngster who was leading him clean off
liis feet every time he tossed his head. A
team of six dragged a lorry fit to be a god’s
car as if it were a toy. Long-legged young
men lay in the saddles of their rearing
mounts as nonchalantly as if they were sit-
ting in armchairs round the fire; and lis-
some girls, as straight as ramrods, and
women, riding gloriously, pranced by on
every variety of mount. Gradually the pro-
cession took shape, curling in and in on
itself until the ring was a sort of orderly
tumult of beef, brawn and human skill and
cunning. I asked my Japanese friends what
they thought of the spectacle. “Too big, too
big!” their spokesman murmured, and he
looked comically despondent. It struck me
there was a whole volume of self-revelation
in those words. The speaker was probably
thinking of his own country, with its sinali
men and women, its NoAH’s-ark cattle, its
toy houses. Observers say that many of
Japan’s actions since the country was swept
into the world stream are capable of a psy-
chological explanation. Although she tells
herself that bigness is no virtue in itself,
especially in an age of machinery, six feet
in one’s boots is the standard of the outside
world for men and three tons for bulls; and
so she won’t be happy till she gets there.
As the spectacle of what the large-limbed
Nordic has made out of the spindling pro-
genitors of the Clydesdale and the Romney
Marsh struck my Show acquaintances, so
does the spectacle of the Western world
strike their nation. “Too big, too big!”—the
words throw light on the efforts of Japan
(successful up to a point) to secure the
empty recognition of her European status;
the attempts of her savants to prove that
the Ainu came from Europe and that the
Basques and the Nipponese are brothers; and
the policy which burdens the country with
the highest taxation in the world to main-
tain an army and a navy far beyond its
needs.
+
Our Imposing Riches.
A certain fascination attaches to calcula-
tions about the total wealth of this remark-
able country. Statistician Wickens, who
issued a previous estimate in 1921, has been
at it again. He estimates the publicly-
owned assets of Australia, Federal, State
and municipal, at 725 million pounds, and
the foreign debts at 700 millions, which about
balances them. In case of any attempt at
realisation, it would probably much more
than balance them. A more interesting
point, however, is that private wealth is set
down at 2425 million pounds, or £426 per
head. This is the biggest figure, both in
the mass and per head, ever yet reached
(on paper), and it raises curious specula-
tions as to how much is boom and how much
is hard reality. On the face of things it
would seem that the more wealth the nation
has the more it has to pawn itself lest its
riches should disappear. The nine official
estimates made since 1862 show these
results: —
Presumed Affluence per Inhabitant.
1863 .. £l3O | 1899 .. £238 1915 .. £325
1888 .. 302 I 1901 240 1921 .. 397
1890 .. 328 I 1903 .. 249 1926 .. 426
These reckonings up to and including 19011
were made by Timothy Coghlan, so lie
covered the first great rise and the great fall.
The lists set out that £9O per head of the
alleged national wealth vanished between
1890, when the old loan and land boom was
going strong, and 1899, some years after it
had burst. It was not a matter of assets
leaving the country, but of assets vanishing
off the earth, when the effort was made to
put a very moderate but still an unusual
quantity of them to the test of realisation.
If an estimate had been made for 1896, the
result would certainly have been worse, for
by 1899 some of the wreckage had been
cleared away and the new gold boom had
got under way. Westralia produced 61 mil-
lion pounds’ worth of gold in 1899, and Aus-
tralia produced 141 millions’ worth, which
was the record up to then. The gold output
reached its zenith in 1903, the top year of
Australia’s auriferous history. Yet, despite
all this, the nominal wealth per head didn’t
again reach the 1890 level till after 1915.
The incoming of the gold boom didn’t com-
pensate for the passing-out of the great
original loan and land boom. The period
1890-1910 was one of what would now be
regarded as very moderate borrowing—about
102 millions in 20 years. Australia has
since proved itself capable, of doing more
than that in three years. Since 1915 State
loans for alleged public works have been on
a grand scale. Though the gold output has
gone to the bow-wows (in fact, it was never
so low since 1851) private wealth has in-
creased (on paper) during the last 11 years
at an annual rate never before equalled,
according to the above table of figures, save
in the two years ending with 1890. That
goes to show the power of the lOU in
making superficial prosperity. The Common-
wealth never produced and sold more than
£16,300,000 worth of gold in a year, but it
has sold over £44,000,000 of lOU’s in a
year, quite apart from war loans. Sanguine
and interested people, like estate-agents and
their kin, may profess to regard the present
burst of prosperity, greatly modified though
it is by the go-slow disease, as a genuine and
reliable growth, quite different from that
of 1890. The Bulletin, not. being an estate-
agent, doesn’t think the silly self-delusion
worth while. And possibly Statistician
Wickens. when he puts the nominal values
on paper, has his own opinion as to their
permanence.
♦
Providing Against the Next Drought.
“Hungry Downs” : Good rains have visited
Queensland, the drought-stricken areas in
particular, so we may hear no more for a
few years about linking-up Cunnamulla
(Q.) with Bourke (N.S.W.). Yet the neces-
sity for bridging the 200-mile gap will re-
main, and it is a thousand pities it has been
obscured by dishonest advocacy of a Queens-
land and N. S. Wales connection, at Federal
cost, with Darwin, a connection which would
rob South Australia of the direct line which
the Commonwealth has undertaken, in the
most solemn terms, to construct. While
stock were dying in scores of thousands all
down Queensland’s central pastoral belt
there was feed enough in N. S. Wales to
save every head of them, if they could have
been shipped south. The Queensland mon-
soon rains rarely coincide with the N. S.
Wales seasonal rains. When Queensland
is dry things are usually good in the north-
western part of the Ma State, and vice versa.
The advantages of an inter-State stock trans-
port system to both States is obvious. Yet
the short connection and the missing link
in the Queensland system, north from Char-
leville to Blackall, have been held up for
years in the hope that a Federal Govern-
ment would sooner or later be persuaded to


T'Vlustralia
■rfyf
ir* (W
o w w
Lit
111
OOILLL
LIL_IL.IL LL
ILILILILLL
ILILILILLL
ILILILIL LL
LILLI L LL
LILILILI
L ILILILI
ULILILI
LILILILI
ILILILI
m
■ ■■
Paid-up Capital, £>i22,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Sydney for a real holiday
COME NOW OR IN NOVEMBER.
You will wonder why you stayed away so long from so delightful a
city and so satisfying an Hotel. “The Australia” expresses luxury,
comfort, convenience and service in a particularly happy way; no detail
is overlooked which can add to the pleasure of the traveller.
If you anticipate coming, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated 20-page booklet.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address; “Austraotel, Sydney.”
r °k Australia and connect Queensland
and N. S. Wales with Darwin. If the Bruce
Ministry would only consign that impious
nope to perdition the big stock-saving, meat-
cheapening idea involved in the 200-mile
connection between railheads at Cunnamulla
and Bourke might begin to take concrete
shape, lhe thing is obviously an enterprise
tor the States—any attempt to shove the
burden on to the Commonwealth taxpayer
would be an intrigue. It would probably be
best tor the Queensland system to be ex-
tended to Bourke, just as the Victorian
system is being extended into the Riverina.
But the cost should be shared by Queens-
land and N. S. Wales, since the connection
would obviously benefit both States.
Symptoms of Conscience.
Sydney Labor Daily, to the deep disgust
ot Mr. P. I. Loughlin, Lands Minister and
candidate for the Premiership, is still harp-
ing on bribery plots. The original story was
that staunch Mr. Lang” was in danger of
being pushed out, and the Government with
him, because four unnamed Labor Assembly-
men were being tempted with £20,000 (sub-
sequently raised to £32,000) by nefarious
Nationalists, also unnamed. This story
created a good deal of uneasiness within the
party. Mr. Lang was known as a director
oi tlie journal, and it was to be presumed he
had Ins eye on the suspects. The fact that the
disclosure of this dreadful Nationalist plot
reflected as much on Laborites as on National-
ists seems to have been overlooked by tlie
Labor Daily, but it was not overlooked by
some important members of the party who
had been left off the directorate of the
Labor Daily. They asked for an inquiry, and
at first were treated with impudence for their
pains. Things got to such a pitch that
Lougiilin resigned his portfolio and split
the party over the question. Lang’s head
was saved by a whisker, at the price of his
Labor Daily directorship, but the skeleton
couldn’t be got back in the cupboard. Dr.
Evatt, M.L.A., moved for a select com-
mittee, which was appointed, and is now at
work. In the course of discussion, Opposi-
tion-leader Bavin, who is one of the Labor
Daily’s constant readers, read extracts from
that journal. lie had found there some
enthusiastic commendations of Mr. Lang for
having countered the alleged Nationalist plot
by appointing Kay, Independent M.L.A. for
the North Shore, to a seven-years’ billet on
lhe Meat Board at £l5OO p.a., and getting
a defeated Labor candidate wafted into
Kay’s seat under the Casual Vacancies Act
or swindle, although Kay was notoriously
elected by Nationalists, having stood as a
Nationalist at a previous election. That
was a raw job, as every member of the
House and everybody who voted for Kay
knew. Another appointment mentioned by
Bavin was that of an inconspicuous civil
servant, who has been associated with “the
movement,” to the Electoral Commis-
sion which is engaged in redistribut-
ing seats, the permanent head of the Elec-
toral Department being passed over. Lang,
in reply, alleged with indignation that an
ex-Labor politician had attempted to bribe
one of the Labor members to vote against
the Premier on the occasion of the tussle
with Lougiilin for the leadership. The
gentleman from Auburn also complains that
there is an Empire-wide conspiracy on the
part of the anti-Labor press to undo him,
and, by way of evidence, points to the
gloomy results of his latest attempt to bite
J. Bull’s ear. But without the aid of the
Labor Daily and things like the Kay job,
for which the Premier was personally respon-
sible, the sharpest shafts of the anti-Labor
crowd could never have been launched. That
this is the case seems to be realised by the
Lougiilin faction. Its restiveness under
the sort of accusations which Labor aider-
men dismiss with a cheery smile is one
gleam of‘promise in a murky sky.
♦—
A Federal official committee is going to
Westralia to have another look at the pro-
posal to subsidise the gold industry out of
taxation to the extent of £1 per ounce. If
the aid lifted production back to the level of
1924 the annual cost would be £675,937, of
which Westralia would collect £475,035,
while at the other end of the list Tasmania
would get £4626 and S. Australia £BBO. But
seeing that the production in 1925 was 24j
per cent, below that of 1924 it is possible
that £1 per ounce wouldn’t be sufficient, and
that more would presently be asked for.
Whether Australia as a whole would make a
profit by subsidising an industry which can’t
in the nature of things be permanent is a
matter for political economists to wrangle
over- —economists who don’t hold Govern-
ment billets in particular. Anyhow, the
State which collected the thick end of the
bonus would make a profit. In 1924, after
21 years of decline, Australia dropped into
last place as a gold producer among the six
producing continents —behind the two
Americas, Africa, Asia and even behind
Europe. Canada alone beat the Common-
wealth by more than two to one.
An unconscionable amount of the material
that Bolshevik patriotism is made of goes
loose about Melbourne these days. It is
addicted to robbery with extreme violence
and bad language, but at times it merely in-
dulges in extreme violence and bad language
without robbery. The wrecking of hotel bars
combined with assault is its regular enter-
tainment, but it also visits the private
houses of complete strangers, and batters
both the inmates and the furniture. Recently
a party of about 40 devastated two bars,
damaged the customers, threw the landlady
into the street, knocked her brother about,
and badly injured the solitary policeman
immediately available. The unexpected ad-
vent of another policeman, like the unusual
apparition of two moons at once, led to the
capture of a pair of the disturbers. The bag
wasn’t a large once, and it was described as
* exemplary” when the bagged got 14 days—
not 18 months. Victoria, by its last published
figures, has 1810 ill-paid constables, 1227
being in Melbourne and 583 in all the rest
of the State. It, makes the poorest showing
of all the States for protection in proportion
to _ population, though none of them is any-
Jhing to boast about. Scotland maintains
6705 officers of the law for a shade over
one-third of Victoria’s area, and if this costs
a good deal in wages it makes a big saving
in pub wreckage.
♦
“Spake Corp.” : The ghost of an old neglect
stirred when the N. S. Wales R.S.L. decided
to endorse a demand for the appointment of
welfare officers to look after the interests of
war orphans. The Repatriation Commis-
sion turned a deaf ear to a request for action
made to it four years ago, when a body inter-
ested in the education of deceased soldiers’
children reported that, in a number of in-
THE IDEAL SALESMAN.
JENKINS (to eloquent estate agent): “My, you ought to have been a parson! I believe
you could have persuaded the Devil to buy a lot in Heaven.”
stances which had come under its notice, child-
ren were in the hands of relatives who traded
upon their pensions and allowances; in
others, the mothers had slipped very badly
or had re-married soulless loafers who
treated the children’s pensions as a life-
income and the children themselves as nuis-
ances. A long list of cases in which the
children would benefit by a change of guar-
dians was prepared, and the Red Cross
Society was moved to spend some of its
surplus funds in the purchase of a home at
Ashfield for conversion into a hostel. It
was suggested that where there was clear
proof that the fatherless were not getting
a fair deal all pensions and allowances
should be withdrawn until the children were
placed in the hostel at Ashfield or elsewhere
—there was an idea of establishing several
—under the care of a responsible committee.
Although the matter was put very urgently,
the Repatriation Commission declined to
move, and, as without its co-operation in-
efficient guardians could not be forced to
relinquish their grip on the money of
the unfortunate wards, the scheme fell
through. In the result the children of men
who died fighting for Australia are being
brought up in distinctly undesirable condi-
tions. Public opinion will support the
efforts of the R.S.L. and those associated
with it to secure a very decided change for
the better.
♦
“Dingo” : The squatter generally dislikes
the trapper because trapping has proved a
failure as a means of destruction, no one
being able to point to a station large enough
to crack a whip on where the rabbit has
been exterminated witli spring traps. Any
landowner who has made good in infested
country knows that wire-netting and the
shovel are the only successful weapons with
which to fight the pest, poisoning having
been proved to be almost as nasty a failure
as trapping. The story that the trapper is
compelled to pay a royalty per head on his
catch or a lump sum for permission to enter
infested lands is not believed anywhere in
the country outside the meeting-place of the
local A.L.P. He would be a fool if he did.
as there are, unfortunately, enough land-
owners sufficiently lazy or thickheaded to
welcome him Avith open arms. Any person
not blinded with prejudice must realise that
at least 10 times the value of the rabbit
“industry” is lost annually in Australia by
reason of decreased pastoral and agricultural
production. The difference between the
carrying capacity of clean and infested land
is not the few extra blades of grass that
have been mentioned, but, roughly speaking,
at least 100 p.c. And the damage done, morally
and physically, to large numbers of men,
women and children engaged in the “indus-
try” is beyond human power to estimate.
No N. S. Wales Government is likely to ever
give trappers free right of entry to private
lands, as “E.S.S.” (B. 23/9/’26) suggests.
This country is not nearly as Red as it looks.
“Northerner” : Preference to unionists has
produced unexpected results in Queensland,
where it has gone further than in other
States. The bitterest fights before the
Board of Trade are waged between rival
unions, each accusing the other of trying to
steal its members. If a union can slip in
a preference clause when its rivals are not
watching, it can annex their members, who
are given the choice of joining or getting oft
the job. Craft unions with a scattered mem-
bership, such as the Federated Engine-drivers
and the Amalgamated Carpenters, are con-
tinually fighting defensive battles against
encroaching rivals. A recent award for
motor-drivers contained a preference clause
which handed Government employees over
to two outside unions. The Public Service
Commissioner and the State Service Union,
for once in agreement, had to appear in
court to get the clause struck out.
4
The people who are interested for pecuniary
reasons in the wholesale demolition of this
country’s dwindling forest-cover are whoop-
ing because Yic. meteorologist Hunt re-
cently remarked that the removal of trees
did not affect rainfall. Scientific observa-
tion on the subject being young and incom-
plete, the statement is probably premature ;
but, in any case, it does not affect the main
argument in favor of the retention in large
though judicious quantities of what remains
of the Australian bush. This argument is
that a countryside which has lost its trees
will be apt, like a galvanised-iron roof, to
lose its moisture very quickly; that the mois-
ture, in running off, carries much soil with
it; and that the remaining soil, in the
absence of belts of trees, wall be exposed to
the drying effects of wind and sun. Also
streams that once ran all the year tend, in the
absence of moisture-conserving roots, first to
go out of business in the summer and then
to give up the ghost in perpetuity. The case
of the river Murray is suggestive. The
original edition of the Oxford Geography
of Australasia states that the Murray “is
the only southern river which never ceases
to flow.” A footnote to the 1924 edition
adds, “Ceased in 191 A”
F. A. Partridge, the President of the
Queensland Irrigation Commission, says that
the Tully Falls, 35 miles north-west of
Cardwell, give better promise for a hydro-
electric scheme than any other falls in the
North. The drop (over 1000 feet) is greater,
and the larger and more constant supply
of water give it the advantage over the
Barron. Data will not be complete until
the end of the year, but if expectations are
realised the Tully will be the generating
station for the supply of power to Cardwell,
Tully, Innisfail, Mourilyan and other town-
ships within the area. It is probable that
the supply of current will exceed 7500 kilo-
watts, or 10,000h.p., and this would give ample
means for lighting and driving machinery at
the sugar mills, besides providing for many
new manufacturing industries. The Com-
mission will inspect and report on other
sources of power iu the Innisfail district.
Meantime the Barron scheme is going on, and
when completed will provide Cairns,
Mareeba, Atherton and the northern end of
the Tableland with lighting and motive
power at a reasonable price. The Herbert
Falls, behind Ingham, are looked to for
supplying Ingham and Halifax and the mills
in the neighborhood with what power they
may need. In a few years it is hoped to
link the whole of the power generated at
stations established at these various falls
into one hydro-electric scheme, which should
make of the coastal district of N.Q. between
Townsville and Cairns the most important
industrial centre in Queensland, and one
of the most important in Australia.
A faint movement, almost a motionless
movement, for the greater use of Portland
(Vic.) as a wheat shipping outlet is re-
ported. The place is admittedly a service-
able port, it is nearer to Europe than Port
Phillip, and the two counties which produce
a third of the State’s wheat lie directly
behind it. As the Age recently mentioned,
only the “tapering railway rates,” which is
the local name for the local railway swindle,
keep it back. All the same, the rates will
most likely continue to taper. Desolate
Portland is older than Melbourne, and so is
the desolate settlement on Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.). They might both be cities if the
world’s railway making idea had been post-
poned to 1889 instead of beginning about
1829, or if Australia hadn’t developed the
absolutely unique craze for distorting the
new blessing into a new curse by using it to
kill the trade of promising outports. Port-
land is credited with a population of 2700
after 92 years of existence, but as Eden, on
the fine harbor of Twofold Bay (N.S.W.),
lias 1050 after a life of the same duration
it isn’t alone. During the 11 years ending
with 1924 the Victorian Statistician reckons
that Melbourne grew by over 29| per cent.,
and the rest of Victoria by less than 2J per
cent. Which is peculiarly Australian, like
the kangaroo.
4
“Griffith Moses” : The “Grand Wizard”
of the Ku-Klux-Klan lately announced at
Washington that the League of Nations
must not pursue its calling of arbitrator
in the Western Hemisphere, and particularly
if it tries intervention in Mexico its forces
will be wiped out. The “Wizard” raised an
interesting question. Of course, it is a com-
monplace that the TJ.S. is invincible and all
that sort of thing, but I would like to know.
Certainly Napoleon 111. allowed himself to
be warned out of Mexico, but he was hardly
a test-case. He was no general. His army
was of medium size and gone to seed, and
he dare not use more than a fragment of it
in America with the shadow of Bismarck
on his soul. He was a usurper of whom his
people grew tired, and too many of his mili-
tary chiefs were just men who had helped
in the usurpation. When the U.S., having
finished its Civil War, and having about
700,000 seasoned troops to dispose of, bade
him quit Mexico, the Mexican nation, which
had never welcomed him as a deliverer, was
busy making the same remark. In addition,
Napoleon 111. had mislaid all his European
allies. He had a well-meaning but unwise
wife, and a cancer in the stomach. George
111. wms not a test-case either. In the time
of the U.S. War of Independence that occa-
sional lunatic was trying his hand at per-
sonal government. His Ministers were
obedient parasites, and he bought them a
Parliamentary majority so that they could
keep on parasiting. The generals they selected,
and the plans of campaign they concocted in
London and posted across, were like them-
selves. On top of all George tried to run
the war to_ a great extent with hired Ger-
mans, and in the process of the disturbance
he drifted into at least three other wars,
making too many at once. A respectable
second-rate monarch, in George’s place,
should have held the American colonies with-
out much difficulty. The Yankee hasn’t been
in Yankeeland so long as the Turk has been
in Europe, and his duration there has been
just about as long as that of the Roman in
England ; so there’s time for things to happen.


\ CONDOR
•*«s_
r
&
Wi
f
"'■' ■"■•
For good cheer and
lasting economy al-
ways ask for CON-
DOR LAMPS. The
concentrated spiral
filament of the mill-
type adds extra-ordin-
ary long service to
their brilliancy.
** The little lamp
with the big light ”
CONDOR LAMPS
(Australasia) Ltd.
143-5 York Street - Sydney
493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chesser Street, Adelaide
Exton Hse., Queen St , Bris.
King’s Chambers, Willis St.
Wellington, N.Z.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Government is moving fast.
So far as the financial year has gone, revenue
is at the rate of £37,682,000 per annum, and
expenditure at the rate of £43,514,072. Both
revenue and expenditure progress, but revenue
is a cart-horse, while expenditure is a road-
hog. The man in charge probably knows
very little of the reasons why expenditure
goes up * it is just incompetence and slat-
ternly housekeeping. Tangible results in-
clude a great increase of hoodlumism in the
Assembly, and so many furious charges of
bribery, corruption and conspiracy that the
situation suggests England in 1678, when
one met a “Popish plot” at every corner and
sleep was disturbed by alleged Jesuists look-
ing in at the window.
After three unsuccessful efforts in 13
years, Vic. Assembly has passed a sort of
Redistribution of Seats Bill providing for
26 city and 39 provincial electorates. The
voting on the final division was 31 to 26.
Blackburn, one of Labor’s lawyers, invoked
the assistance of the Speaker to jettison the
bill because it hadn’t got an absolute majo-
rity of the House on the third reading; but
Bowser ruled that an ordinary majority was
sufficient, the thing being a machinery bill and
not an alteration of the Constitution. The
Opposition contends that the measure, by
discriminating between city and country,
does, in effect, alter the Constitution, and a
petition to the Governor is threatened.
Moscow Jock Garden put his hoof in the
platter at the conference of cockies and con-
sumers at Bathurst. After protesting that it
was the dearest wish of the city union-secre-
tary’s heart to obtain for the farmers “the
full results of their labor,” he propounded
a scheme for a “Grand Council of Farmers
and Workers.” The proposal revived mem-
ories of those Workers and Peasants’ Coun-
cils which helped to make Soviet Russia
what it is, and suggested comparisons be-
tween real farmers and soft-handed sowers of
tares. There were no bites.
At last somebody in Wcstralia has
admitted that Federation has benefited him.
During the hearing of a case in the State
Arbitration Court a Perth furniture manu-
facturer confessed that the tariff had helped
to build up his trade. Jarrahland used to
be flooded with sea-grass furniture from
Java. Now that sort of thing is made in
the State.
Lord Stanley of Alderley, who was once
Governor in Victoria, took the occasion of
a Freetrade conference at Manchester to
warn visiting Dominion Prime Ministers off
the fiscal grass. Britain, he said, was re-
solved to stick to the system “under which
it prospered,” and attempts at conversion
would be in vain. Even if the visitors have
doubts about the prosperity they are hardly
likely (at least our placid Bruce isn’t likely)
to trouble with any missionary business.
Still, if any British politician comes snoop-
ing around asking that the Dominions shall
give Britain more of the Protection which
it professes to be too proud to give to itself
they may be told that there is no business
doing unless with a more adequate equiva-
lent.
Even the unionist gets sick of “solidarity”
sometimes. Last week the miners at Aber-
dare Extended colliery (N.S.W.), tired of
having the pit hung up by the wheelers be-
cause two whelps had been suspended by
their own union lodge, turned to and worked
the skips themselves. The cussedness of the
wheeler has been a nuisance to mine-
owner and miner alike. Raw youths with
swollen heads have given more trouble and
caused more expense to the collieries than
thrice the number of grown men. The solid-
arity cry has been their reliance in the past.
Now that it has failed them at Aberdare
the coal-mining population may get some
peace.
The restoration of Prussian self-confidence
proceeds very fast. Germany paid off its
war and pre-war debts with paper valued
then at a trifle in the £, though it afterwards
fell. It repudiated the paper issue after
selling millions or billions of it to its old
enemies abroad. It contrived to borrow
£40,000,000 from old enemies abroad with
which to rehabilitate its currency. So far
the indemnity instalments have been paid,
but the official declaration that Germany was
the wronged party, and so should receive
instead of pay, suggests a stoppage. The
demand for the return of the los*' colonies
NOTHING TO DECLARE.
“As a result of Customs frauds recently exposed in Melbourne, passengers returning from abroad
with effects in excess of ordinary requirements must now make a statutory declaration as to ownership.”
MADAME BILKEM AT CIE: “Fancy suspecting us, John. I’m sure there’s nothing sus-
picious about us!”
points in the same aggressive direction. Very
little disguise is made of the project for
the annexation of Austria, with its Ger-
mans, to the Berlin republic—if it is a re-
public. This sort of thing is expressly for-
bidden by the treaty, but the Stresemanns
are rather contemptuous towards the treaty
nowadays.
The second series of • big Customs
“evasions” within a month has been inter-
esting Melbourne. The previous case was
that of a German indent agent who arranged
for faked invoices and quoted figures that,
even with the addition of the anti-dumping
duties, enabled him to undersell British com-
petitors. The latest affair concerned ladies
with good old Anglo-Saxon names who sell
under a Gallic cognomen the latest notions
in hats and blouses. It was shown that the
concern had engaged extensively in smug-
gling and the like, but clemency was asked
for on the ground that the publicity would
be punishment enough. The magistrate
assessed the damage at £3126 Bs. lid., £2225
being fines. Meantime, in spite of “evasions”
and the late Tariff revision, Customs revenue
refuses to shrink.
Certain Italians at Ingham (Queensland)
got the surprise of their lives when a union
organiser prosecuted them for starting work
too early, and got them fined £5 each and
costs. They were employed on contract,
and proimsed to earn a little extra and
enjoy the cool of the morning by making an
early start, when they found that freedom
is a back number. The organiser told the
Court that he would proceed with similar
ferocity against even a farmer whom he
found working on his own bit of land out
of hours. Queensland can better afford to
go on like this because all Australia is under
compulsion to subsidise its sugar industry—
to subscribe to it as a unionist has to sub-
scribe to a Labor paper. It would be a fair
thing if Australia insisted on making laws
for the business as well as footing the bill,
which bill includes the organiser’s wages.
N.S.W. wharfies have been granted State
registration by the optimistic Industrial
Commissioner, though there is another regis-
tered union in the field. “Good ole ‘Piddo’ ”
remarked that, though the applicant union's
conduct in 1917 was “censurable,” an
examination of the “economic and social
provocation” it had suffered moved him to
compassion. In point of fact, the matters in
dispute in 1917 did not affect the wharfies.
They struck in sympathy with another
union, the effect being to hold up supplies for
their own kin fighting overseas at the very
crisis of the war. They were beaten by the
rush of volunteers, who did the work the
union had abandoned. “Good ole ‘Piddo’ ”
has an imperfect memory, though he is brim-
ming over with sentiment and polysyllables.
The Allancocks were jolted again in Vic.
Assembly last week because they could not
hold a majority to check the Opposition on
private members’ day. Brownbill, of Gee-
long, brought on the hardy annual Day-
baking Bill, of which the late J. W. Billson
used to have charge. Labor managed to
muster 25 against the Ministry’s 24. Further
resistance was useless, and none was offered ;
but the Uppah House will heave out the
measure, as it did the State Employees Par-
liamentary Candidates Bill, which was
piloted through the Assembly by the same
Brownbill with the same majority.
Cold Tea is carrying on a campaign in
Vic. in favor of closing the hotels on Satur-
day afternoons and on Christmas Day and
Good Friday. Petitions are being presented
to Vic. Assembly, but it is labor in vain.
There is nothing farther from the Allancock
mind these days than tinkering with the
liquor laws.
That inevitable Sovieteer Krassin lately
re-appeared in London with a smile on his
countenance and an extended hand con-
taining an inverted hat. He wanted very
large consignments of British goods on very
long credit, the British Government to
guarantee payment. As manufacturers don’t
regard the Russian Government’s guarantee
as nearly good enough, Krassin pointed
out artlessly liow useful the work would be
to the British unemployed. European
Russia alone is a much bigger gold pro-
ducer than all Australia tit was a bigger pro-
ducer as far back as 1916, and though the
output almost stopped in 1920-21-22 it is
looking up again), and it has no interest
to pay on its public debt —at least it pays
none. Then it professes to have had an ideal
system of government for eight years, and
with all these advantages it shouldn’t need
to send insinuating liars out on begging
expeditions.
When the N.S.W. loan of £4,000,000,
issued at £97 per £lOO and bearing 5 per
cent, interest, closed in London it was found
that the public had put up only £640,000.
The underwriters will make up the other
£8,360,000, but they feel sorry for them-
selves, and will probably ask better terms
next time. Perhaps J. Bull is short, and
perhaps N.S.W. is wearing out its welcome.
Dick Toutcher failed to command a majo-
rity in Vic. Assembly when he launched a
motion in favor of elective Ministries, indi-
vidual responsibility of each Minister to the
House, and a definite tenure of office. The
House is not accustomed to take Toutcher
seriously, although he is one of its veterans
and has held office as Minister for Education
and Chairman of the Railway Committee.
Unfortunately for the motion, this attitude
towards him was maintained. Ministers
were called away from lunching D’Edgville,
sec. to the Empire Parliamentary delegation,
to vote, and they helped to swell the majo-
rity against it.
A Labor proposal for the abolition of
capital punishment got short shrift in
Vic. Uppali Chambali. It was discussed
while the House was waiting close up to
midnight for a Supply Bill to come up from
the Assembly. When the division was taken
there was only a handful of members, and
out it went.
The increase of railway accidents in N. S.
Wales is a sign of the times. The soap-box
orator’s definition of liberty is relaxation of
discipline and establishment of the em-
ployee’s right to be careless about rules and
details and to shake his fist at the boss —
though never by any possible chance at the
union boss. After a year or two an examina-
tion of the sleepers on a State railway is
often a fair indication of what the Cabinet
is like.
In the 10 years 1914 to 1924 the N.S.W.
Savings Bank lent out £7,810,210 for “work-
ers’ homes,” and in 1924 £6,042,697 was out-
standing. It lent up to 75 per cent, of the
value, which leaves a decent margin, though
other lenders prefer to stop at 66 per cent.
On these terms the bank got the offer of
more business than it could do, so Premier
Lang’s decision to lend up to 90 per cent,
isn’t actuated by necessity. Ninety per cent,
is a lot to lend out of the people’s savings
on a wooden home built at present prices,
but votes must be bought, and if you can’t
buy with your own brains you might do It
with other people’s boodle.
Giving evidence before the Federal Arbi-
tration Court re the 44-hour question, a
statistician was reported as saying that the
people of N.S.W.
are dependent on the seasons to sv.ch a great extent
in the matter of prosperity that the question of hours
is not sufficiently important to affect seriously the
gross results of their efforts.
It is a nice office theory, but nothing more.
Taking Australia as a whole the gross value
of agricultural, pastoral and dairy produce
in 1924-25 was £274,177,000, these being
industries which depend a good deal on the
seasons. On the other hand the gross pro-
duct of forests, fisheries and mines was
£37,003,000, and of factories £380,943,986.
and these don’t depend much on seasons. It
seems rash to assume that it doesn’t matter
whether factories and mines work four hours
or eight because it is the rain that counts,
not the keeping of the machinery going. The
figurative gentleman might further have re-
membered that the loan industry is indepen-
dent of the weather. In the five years to
June, 1925, the crop of new State debts
alone beat the output of forests, fisheries
and mines (including gold, coal and all the
rest) by about £7,500,000. In two spacious
years it amounted to half the value of agri-
culture, and it licked the dairy, fowl and
bee business out of sight.
IN THE BEAR PIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The most violent arid tumultuous scene wit-
nessed during the life of the present N.S.W. Assembly
occurred when Mr. Cann, Minister for Health, moved
the gag in the No Confidence debate. For nearly
five minutes there was Bedlam, and for a second
or two there seemed every chance of a free fight.
Miss Preston Stanley, a quiet figure on the back
bench, was obviously wondering what kind of bear-
garden she had got into.”
A storm of yells and jeers. A swirling torrent
Of angry protests, insolent rebuffs,
And epithets sufficiently abhorrent
To indicate impending fisticuffs ;
A scene that would have led to stoush, I’ll warrant,
Among a mob of ordinary toughs.
And musing sadly, ’mid the storm and stress,
If ’tis a place for her, Miss Preston S.
O man, proud man, creation’s lord and master,
Scorning your wives and sisters’ help, you made
The laws for centuries—till Lady Astor
And others of her sex arrived to aid.
And, seeing that they’ll soon be coming faster,
Say, don’t you think it time that you essayed
Some effort at control, however faint,
Some adequate appearance of restraint.
Come, moderate your passions. Interdict your
Mad animosities and coarse guffaws.
Before you fall again to rankling stricture
And fury-lashing gibe, reflect and pause;
D’you want to make the subject for a picture
Entitled (say) “The Men Who Make Our Laws’*
And (inset) “Lady Member Gets a Jar
At Finding Brother Men Are —What They Are” f
The sex line’s blotted out. The barricade is
Down that no petticoat could scale or span.
But, brothers, now that you’ve admitted ladies,
Keep it in mind that “Manners Makyth Man.”
A scene that postulates an empty Hades
(With the addendum that’s Shakspearean)
May fairly make them wonder if a bear
Wouldn’t be happier than a woman there.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


rt
22
ISHIO
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-JO9
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurcn.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, STEEL FOUNDERS, FORGERS,
Works & f Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch | 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Offices \ T. & G. B’l’g, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.: —
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1916 .. £386,979 £210,000 £17,194 £531,204
1917 .. 492,540 240,000 32,245 751,499
1918 . . 334,976 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reconstructed—
Special div., £60,000 .. .. 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 .. 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 ~ 288,443
Other writings up and adjustments
making reserves .. .. .. 390,091
Profits. Dividends.
1919 .. £344,113 15 p.c. = £120,000 614,204
1920 . . 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 . . 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 . . 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
1924 .. 497,633 35 „ „ 280,000 1,156,344
1925 .. 521.590 50 „ „ 400,000 1,277,934
1926 . . 512,249 65 „ „ 520,000 1,270,183
Tlie results of the past two years would
have been even more dazzling had not the
fire in the adjoining Central necessitated
the flooding of South’s 1270 ft. and 1370 ft.
levels in 1924-25, and the water shortage
slowed up operations for three months of
last year, culminating in a complete stop-
page for a week or so in mid-March. Average
weekly extraction of crude ore for the 12
months was 5583 tons; for the 18 weeks to
August 14 last, the average was 6300 tons.
On the whole, market conditions favored the
earlier of these two almost fabulous years.
Lead averaged £33 17s. sd. per ton last
year as against £35 4s. in the earlier period ;
silver, too, was I.Bd. per ounce lower. But
zinc evened matters somewhat, last year’s
average, £35 175.. being £1 7s. lid. higher.
Net profit according to the accounts was
£485,868, but additions to certain reserves
which may be accumulations of true profits
amounted to £26.381. Recent movements in
the various funds are shown hereunder:—
1923. 1925. 1926.
Special reserve . . £264,879 £278,639 £269,311
General reserve . . 88,732 156,474 165,870
Debenture reserve. . 108,434 135,678 149,291
P. & L. balance . . 128,048 291,554 237,891
Total . . . . £590,093 £862,345 £822,363
Depreciation reserve 246,947 313,918 346,149
New plant and develop-
ment reserve .. 101,671 101,671 101,671
£938,711 £1,277,934 £1,270,183
Those reserves are true profit, of course,
only if provision for contingencies has been
adequate apart from these funds. There
are several ways of looking at that. In the
important matter of mine wastage, for in-
stance, the South reserves certainly have
grown as extraction has continued. In 1925,
257,879 tons of ore were taken out, and esti-
mated ore reserves at the close of the period
were 350,000 tons greater, reaching 4,000,000
tons. Last year a further 290,310 tons were
extracted, and g.-m. Wainwright at June 30
“conservatively estimated reserves of fully-
developed ore” at 4,250,000 tons. On the
other hand, though tlie known reserves have
increased, the mine is undoubtedly the poorer
by the quantity of ore extracted.
Very much less was got from old dumps
during the term. Treatment of deleaded
slime residues was suspended from the begin-
ning of January to the middle of April.
These deleaded residues (150,000 tons) are
expected to be worked out this year, and
there will then remain for treatment 119,000
tons of oxidised slimes. Profits to 1924
were swollen by revenue from that source,
£162,661 being won in gross profits from
slimes that year and £204,305 in 1923. Here
is a comparison of the latest figures:—
t Marketed , r Gross Profits —^
1925. 1926. 1925. 1926.
Products of
other years £66,654 £85,362 £66,654 £85,362
Metals from
crudes .. 983,550 1,087,264 419,611 454,503
Metals from
slimes .. 91,292 111,703 34,002 62,227
£1,141,496 £1,284,329 £520,267 £602.092
The 119,000 tons of oxidised crusts, the
last of the old dumps, contain 11.7 p.c. lead,
61oz. silver and 16.7 p.c. zinc. Deleaded
residues treated during the term amounted
to 126,287 tons containing 12.5 p.c. zinc,
2.10 z. silver and 4.8 p.c. lead.
To offset the declining return from the
slime dumps production of crudes has been
increased with energy, not to say enthusi-
asm : in 1922, 164,955 tons were extracted;
1924, 239,508 tons ; last year, 290,310 tons.
Here are additional comparisons relating to
costs: —
1923. 1925. 1926.
Crudes raised. .203,659 tons 257,879 tons 290,310 tons
Enaction .. 255. 11.3 d. 275. 6.5 d. 275. 0,7 d.
Development .. 2s. IO.Od. 2s. 5.0 d. 3s. 7.6 d.
Treatment .. Bs. 0.3 d. 7s. 11.8 d. Bs. 0.3 d.
365. 9.6 d. 375. 11.3 d. 38s. 8.6 d.
High prices for lead and spelter, the vigorous
development in the 1370 ft. level and a labor
team which is enjoying such splendid con-
ditions that it can hardly find anything
about which to kick—these form a combina-
tion which should mean even greater produc-
tion this current year.
Balance-sheet movements over the 12
months were unimportant:—
1923. 1925. 1926.
Debentures .. .. £101,200 £73,500 £59,900
Other liabilities .. 99,205 161,047 189,469
Mine account . . 84,240 84,487 84,487
Plant, etc 771,434 832,998 839,196
Shares in other cos. 454,770 418,870 460,220
Public securities . . 10,000 10,172 10,172
Stocks and stores .. 436,273 468,157 449,596
Book debts . . 19,547 48,348 28,833
Cash .. .. 170,606 465,286 470,481
Increased royalty —the higher scale has
operated since January, 1925 —and taxation
absorbed from profits about 4s. 6d. in the £,
and the co. paid £6874 to the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment as its share of the cost of the emer-
gency scheme to rail water from Menindie.
During the term South, in conjunction with
Zinc Corp. and North, acquired at par B. H.
Prop.’s interest in the Associated Smelters,
its quota being 45,000 shares. With North,
Zinc Corp., Electrolytic Zinc, National Smelt-
ing, Raibl Mines and Burma Corp., South
has combined to form New Metallurgy, Ltd.,
to test a new process for treating zinc-lead
ore and concentrates, its portion amounting
to 6250 shares. A sum of £lO,OOO invested
in the Barrier Roaster Co. in 1917 was
written off from special reserve. Interests in
other companies are nearing the half-million
mark. Here is the list (all are at cost) :
B. 11. Associated Smelters. . .. .. £245,000
Electrolytic Zinc: 150,000
British Australian Dead Manufacturers . . 20,000
Globe Proprietary •Timber . . .. 11,250
Zinc Producers’ Association .. .. 720
B. H. Co-operative Coal . . .. .. 600
Australian Ore and Metal.. .. .. 400
New Metallurgy . . . . . . . . 6,250
British Australian Lead 7* p.c. debs. 26,000
Total £460,220
Most on that list are good profit-earners, but
they are governed by the conditions of the
industry. However, counting them with the
liquids the position at June 30 was as
follows: —
1923. 1925. 1926.
Assets other than
mine and plant. . £1,091,197 £1,410,833 £1,419,303
Liabilities . . 200,405 234,547 249,369
Excess assets .. £890,792 £1,176,286 £1,169,934
The liquid surplus represents 295. 3d. for
each of the 800,000 £1 shares, with the
mine and plant as a hefty addition. South is
very solidly positioned; but, though metal
markets seem to be in favor of producers,
present prices of both lead and zinc are high
—lead is more than three times the price at
which the mine has had to work in some of
the earlier years of its life. A return to
that level is out of the question; but a
shrinkage of a few pounds is within the
hounds of possibility. The gross profit from
crudes was £454,000 odd. The approximate
quantity of lead recovered was 37,700 tons.
On a lead basis the gross profit was thus
about £l2 ss. per ton. Of zinc perhaps
28,000 tons may be regarded as recovered.
Thus if zinc fell £5 per ton, it would take
a fall of about £8 ss. in lead to wipe out
the profit. They are substantial figures, of
course, but they are not so large as to re-
lieve the management of all anxiety. Hence,
no doubt, the action of the directors in send-
ing three of its officers to wander over the
earth to get, if they can, new ideas in metal-
lurgical practice. Meantime, great comfort
can be got from the fact that, whereas the
average of all ore mined last year was 13.4
p.c. lead, 5.20 z. silver and 10.8 p.c. zinc, the
12,905 tons broken from the 1370 ft. (deep-
est) level was worth 13.4 p.c. lead, 7.10 z.
silver and 12 p.c. zinc. Recent sales of
shares have been at 81s.; it will take just
over seven years of dividend-paying at the
average rate of the past two years for share-
holders at that price to get their money
back. And it has to be remembered that a
solid slice of recent dividends has come
from old dumps now almost exhausted.
To produce out of crude ore alone as much
gross profit as was made from all sources
last year will call for about 385.000 tons of
ore of the grade that was mined last year.
Known reserves of 4,250,000 tons seem tre-
mendous ; but, after all, it would last only 11
years if drawn upon at the annual rate of
385,000 tons. No doubt there are other pos-
sibilities possibilities of still higher prices,
of simpler extraction and reduced costs, of
large quantities of ore still unexplored. But
if these are disregarded, or used as a set-off
against the unpleasant kind of possibilities,
it looks as though the market is bidding up
pretty high.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne),
from the 1915 reconstruction:—
i-year to To Re- Nominal
July, Profit. Div. on All Shares, serves. Reserves.
1916. . £38,063 10 p.c. = £36,197 £1,866 £1.866
Premium on new shares, £721 .. 2,587
7ear ending
July,
1917.. 105,865 10 p.c. = 87,679 18,186 20,773
Premiums on new shares, £5004 .. 25,777
1918.. 145,596 10 p.c. = 106,463 39,133 64,910
Premiums on new shares, £23,110 .. 88,020
1919. .177,066 Q r r e d f ' i 3 p'_ C c \ [ 123,744 \33322 121,342
Staff fund, £20,000J
Co. reconstructed; assets written up and reserves
June capitalised. £292,000 bonus ordinaries offered.
..../. .149,162Qj. d f,l gP-£-1 145,684 3,478 3,478
1922. .103,630 | 104,710 2,298
1923. .127,426*£e f -10P-£- j 116,425 11,001 13,299
Refund of taxes .. .. 31,923 45,222
1924. . 130,700 p.'c.' } 133,994 41,928
1925.. 217.428.^‘ I gp‘g_' j 157,421 60,007 101,935
1926.. 252, 186,589 65,992 167,927
Increasing sales of motor-cars with a con-
sequential increase in the demand for tyres
and tubes; continued growth in popularity
of “balloons” ; Protection ; a favorable move-
ment in rubber prices; increased capital
at work over most of the period—these fac-
tors combined to make a record profit. Re-
cord profits are necessary, for the share-
register is an imposing volume these days,
with paid capital close up to two millions,
of which £520,000 is 10 p.c. preferential.
Capital has grown rapidly, more than a mil-
lion having been added in the past decade.
Here are the movements since 1901: —
Ist 2nd 3rd Ordi-
Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. navies. Total.
1901. . £BO,OOO £20,000 £70,000 £170,000
1910.. 180,000 20,000 90,000 290,000
1911.. Bonus shares, £172,500
1912.. 200,000 90,000 - 229,677 519,677
1915.. Bonus shares, £177,500
1916.. 200,000 90,000 £230,000 340,396 860,396
1919.. 200,000 90,000 230,000 595,553 1,115,553
1920.. Bonus shares, £292,000
10 p.c. cum. prefs.
1921.. £620,000 1,171,114 1,691.114
1923. 520,000 1,171,342 1,691.342
1926.. 520,000 1,450,617 1,970,617
The new capital was issued to finance expan-
sion and the amalgamation of Dunlop’s foot-
wear section with that of the North British
in the Dunlop-North British Rubber Shoe
Co. Pty., Ltd. The operation adds some-
thing substantial to Australian industry, and
although the report as usual consists merely
of a statement of appropriations, the ven-
ture should bring in nice returns to its
parents. Incidentally, shares in other cos.
at cost increased from £6600 to £156,600.
Ordinaries have done very well, and old
holders have had a particularly fine time.
Those who were carried away by the lavish
gift-distributing of 1920 and paid a fairly
heavy premium on the market for their shares
haven’t been over-enthusiastic, but the fact
that ords. received 10 p.c. for the full term
—the final div. was at the rate of 12 p.c.
p.a.—wipes out any unpleasant thoughts.
Although ordinary divs. on this occasion
called for more than has ever been disclosed
as net earnings, with the exception of 1925,
there was a comfortable margin, and visible
reserves benefited by £65,992. These at
£167,927 are very small compared with paid
capital, more particularly since goodwill is
in at £lBO,OOO. The name Dunlop is doubt-
less worth that and a lot more, but the times
are too uncertain to depend much on good-
will. There is more than a suspicion that
quite a lot is hidden in stocks which have
been taken in at conservative figures, and
that is supported by the behavior of profits
in the slump years—l92l and 1923-24 —
when the co. paid divs. and did not visibly
show any serious effect. Certainly at June
30, 1921, stocks had a book value of almost
a million and a half, while liabilities
amounted to £829,255, whereas the latest
figures were £984,459 and £413,636 respec-
tively—evidence of solid improvement, allow-
ing for the capital increase. Here is a
further comparison covering recent years : —-
] 919. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Stocks . . £855,533 £766,591 £790,013 £984,459
Book debts 186,687 204,369 306,804 380,043
Investments
and cash 5,345 10,517 10,517 160,624
£1,047,565 £981,477 £1,107,334 £1,525,126
Liabilities 214,733 227,403 296,321 413,636
Net liquid
assets . . £832,832 £754,074 £811,013 £1,111,490
Properties,
etc. . . 171,109 456,374 457,416 453,266
Plant, etc. 186,186 441,532 446,128 504,730
Net assets £1,190,127 £1,651,980 £1,714,557 £2,069,486
Goodwill 180,000 180,000 180,000 180,000
The position at June 30 was quite comfort-
able, and prefs. were well placed. The in-
crease in the div. on ords. suggests that dur-
ing the period of low divs. and. earlier the
management was building up inside, and that
it is satisfied with the outlook. Production
locally, with mills working at full, is in-
sufficient to meet Australia’s requirements
for manufactured rubber; there is no reason,
therefore, to expect other than good earnings
so long as the raw material refrains from
jazzing. And that is the chief factor which
is likely to interfere with the smooth course
of things no matter how wise the control.
The National Bank of New Zealand :—■
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916. £106,529 13 p.c. = £97,500 £9,029 £742,109
1917.. 113,145 13 ~ ~ 97,500 15,645 757,754
1918.. 115,296 13 „ „ 97,500 17,796 775,550
1919.. 136,882 13 „ „ 97,500 39,382 814,932
Premiums on new shares 250,000 1,064,932
1920.. 156,299 14 p.c. = 131,658 24,641 1,089,573
1921.. 206,321 14 „ „ 140,000 66,321 1,155,894
1922.. 176,226 14 „,, 140,000 36,226 1,192,120
Premiums on new shares 200,000 1,392,120
1923.. 186,147 14 p.c. = 172,700 13,447 1,405,567
1924.. 194,991 14 ~ „ 175,000 19,991 1,425,558
Premiums on new shares, £200,000 1,625,558
1925.. 230,827 14 p.c. = 208,687 22,140 1,647.698
Premiums on new shares, £500,000 2,147,698
1926.. 303,087 14 p.c. = 277,741 25,346 2,173,044
Improvement was to be expected: at the
beginning of the term 200,000 new shares
were issued (paid to £2 10s. they carried
a premium of an equal amount) and these
had to be fed for most of the period. Expan-
sion of gross earnings was, nevertheless, not
easy. A number of factors contributed to
slow down profit-earning. The fall in the
prices of Maoriland’s chief exports—wool,
meat and dairy produce—affected the banks
bill business; " the strike of British seamen
played a part; greatest adverse influence of
all, the annual meeting was informed, was
the “too drastic reduction in exchange rates
agreed to by the Australasian banks.” The
reduced value of exports and the heavy im-
ports —partly due to the rush before the
tariff increases of April I—resulted in an
adverse trade balance which is rightly viewed
with disquiet by M.L. bankers. As a result
the banks have adopted a restrictive policy
in advances, “including a certain pressure
on importers to reduce importations.” Some-
thing certainly needs to be done, for while
the surplus of imports was £4,328,000, the
adverse movement actually was £9,280,000
—a reduction in exports of £6,080,000 and
an increase in imports of £3,200,000. The
reduction of £4,095,000 in wool shipments
did much of the damage. Exports of frozen
meat increased, but the tendency of prices
was downwards and some heavy losses were
registered: there are too many freezing cos.
in Maoriland for normal times. Public bor-
rowing has not slackened, and in private
finance the volume of mortgage debts keeps
the banks anxious.
The new money and more —went in ad-
vances. Balance-sheet figures moved thus: —
1914. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. £255,899 £936,541 £943,847 £955,629
Dills, etc. 899,674 1,701,313 2,328,415 2,734,579
D e posits 4,304,654 11,442,153 10,822,912 10,438,468
Liquid
assets.. 2,527,394 7,200,633 7,164,821 6,908,238
Advances 4,362,893 9,291,646 9,804,215 11,111,379
Premises 85,756 392,230 402,836 452,102
Although liquids were £256,583 lighter, the
proportion was still well in excess of the
40 p.c. usually looked for. As the National
at the close of the accounts held only
£3 7s. Bd. of outside money for each £1 of
its own funds—strength far in excess of the
ordinary necessities —depositors and other
creditors haven’t much to worry about. More-
over to that strength may be added the
inner reserves and the £4,000,000 callable on
the 800,000 shares. Of the £452,102 down
for bank premises, £200,000 is said to be
revenue producing.
Foggitt Jones Ltd., who cure hams and
make “camp pies” and other popular lines:
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
39,647
1922*.. 61,963 8,689 13 p.c. =22,339 30,935 8,712
Profit on sale of property . . 385 8,327
9 p.c. Reserves.
1923 . . 34,806 8,792 9 p.c. =16,861 9,153 826
1924 .. 43,923 9,000 9 „ ~16,861 18,062 18,888
10 p.c.
1925 . . 53,747 10,000 10 „ „ 18,734 25,013 43,901
Transferred to capital . . £23,418 20,483
1926 . . 69,278 10,000 10 p.c. =20,391 38,887 59,370
Transferred to capital, £26,342 .. 33,028
*lB months.
The latest piece of largesse represents one
fully-paid ordinary for every eight held. It
wall lift paid capital to £337,080 (there are
100,000 prefs.) and reduce reserves to
£63,028 —£33,028 in excess of the goodwill
item. It was a rich 12 months; gross pro-
fits were £233,732 compared with £203,553
for the previous year and £174,467 for 1924.
But despite that brightness and the sub-
stantial internal resources, the distribution
was rather lavish. Prefs. are 8 p.c. cumu-
lative, but they go to 10 p.c., and last year
they received the maximum for the third
time. Australia has enjoyed a remarkable
run of prosperity, and to the opulence based
on splendid prices and big yields in our
primary industries must be added, the arti-
ficial glitter from the loan-mongering of all
the States. But the longer the run the
nearer the break, and the time to provide, as
the Wild Cat has persistently pointed out,
is in the fat years. In the past three terms
earnings have been far in excess of 10 p.c


44. 1
CREATES in the MEMBERS MINO
A FM.SE VALUATION OF HIS OWN
STATUS .
64 Removal, from his former lowly environment
IT ALSO OFFERS
Opportunities op
GETTING, into the
SOCIETY OF) NICE
CULTIVATED PEOPLe!
41
And oecA.siaNA.LA_y
OF e>EINC, L-AUD ON
TO A GOOD THiNq ,
a
VN/HEN an extra.
Alluring, Temptation
COmes His 'Nkt,
"The scheming, careerist
Falls
EvERy LABOR MENIQER
Should Be compelled
lO RETURN TO H\S Old Calling,
For a term % f f
u #
What are the Remedies ?
THE RAKE’S PROGRESS—NEW VERSION.
“The manner in which some Labor men, returned to Parliament for the purpose of devoting their time and talents to .the emancipation of the workers, fall down on
their job and run after the flesh-pots of Egypt for themselves, is a scandal to the movement they embrace only to betray.” etc. (see above). —Sydney LABOR DAILY.


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
The Bulletin’’ Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * »
The rapidity with which Pioneer Wood Pipe can
be installed by practically unskilled workmen and
its immeasurably long life of consistent full flow
capacity are solid facts which can be demonstrated
at any convenient season. Its light and simple con-
struction also cuts freight and transport costs to
a minimum. Its smooth wooden bore affords no foot-
hold whatever to rust, fungus or tubercles, thereby
perpetuating water-purity and frictionless flow, and
defying depreciation. Pioneer Wood Pipe is used
by progressive engineers .for a great variety of pur-
poses all over Australia. Write for our free illus-
trated catalogue of interesting and comparative data.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
Pai ents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasscl, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 183 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. P'ty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
All Rig'ht!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG U JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe. - '
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
NFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD
•»
10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
requirements, but the gift issues have mopped
up most of the margins and added almost
£50,000 to the share register, which, of
course, increases the annual demand for divs.
The remarkable growth of flat life in the
capital cities and the notable improvement in
the production of canned delicacies, plus
what appears to be a steady tendency to-
wards the consumption of prepared foods
(the motoring habit is partly responsible for
that) have boosted up the trading figures
of Foggitt Jones, and General Prosperity’s
army is a good purchaser of luxury lines. In
such loan-inflated times as these it is neces-
sary to throw words of caution into the
most prosperous concerns even though these
bright figures do not encourage pessimism:—
Prospectus June, June, June,
(Dec.,’2o). 1022. 1925. 1020.
Liabilities . . £100,290 £45,044 £90,601 £103,798
Fixed assets . . 91,013 109,144 167,305 185.724
Stdcks. . .. 89,986 99.150 134.241 144,331
Look debts . . 133,001 104,002 117,830 112,250
< ! aSh, etc. . . 5,067 9,738 7,512 9,903
Shares in other cos. 19,942 32,159 34,222
On this occasion liabilities include provision
for taxation and contingencies, which sug-
gests that the co. finds it necessary to pre-
pare a place in which surplus profits may be
deposited ; "full depreciation has been writ-
ten off plant, machinery, equipment and
buildings and provision m?n'e for taxation,”
according to the report, and fixed assets are
known to b > in the books at considerably
below their true value. The outlook is
bright, and the co. is nicely placed. It is
plain, however, that the gift-giving cannot
become a habit. Visible reserves already
are weak, and even though the internal
strength is considerable there is a third of
a million of capital to protect nowadays.
Great A\ estern Portland Cement and
Lime, Ltd., has a nominal capital of
£750,000 in £1 shares ; 45,(300 fully-paids to
vendors; 130,000 already subscribed; 500,000
offered the public; 75,000 in reserve. The
co. is to acquire from 11. B. Pettigrew liis
rights in limestone and coal-bearing lands
at Clandulla, on the N.S.W. railway, 145
miles from Sydney, and to establish cement
and liydrated-lime works. .Reports on the
property indicate that it is well favored by
having limestone, coal, shale and water in the
immediate neighborhood; Dr. Jensen says
that “practically unlimited” coal and lime-
stone can be got within half a mile of the
site of the proposed works. The vendor's
loading is not unreasonable; but everything
depends on the co.’s ability to win a market,
and that is a matter mainly of management.
Notwithstanding the enormous increase in
consumption, Australia is getting pretty well
supplied with cement works for present re-
quirements; but for the best situated and
handled there are large profits still. The
Great Western has the right geographical
situation; whether it has the other chief
essential only time can tell.
* * * *
The Marshall-Longton group, for whom a
section of the Sydney press found a dazzling
gold-field in the midst of old Lucknow
(N.S.W.) and lost it again, has done
some lively flitting during the intervening
IS months. From a bonanza at Condobolin
the co. retreated to Hill End. No divs. being
forthcoming, and the papers concerned having
become short of space, the group decided to
link up with the New Guinea boom. Con-
currently with the arrival of the Montoro
with 16,0000 z. aboard a prospectus from the
Melbourne office of Marshall-Longton an-
nounced a new float, to be called the New
Guinea (Colvins) Osmiridium and Gold
Mining Co. The document sets out that the
co. Avill be purely a prospecting venture, in
400,000 2s. shares, but half the £40,000 of
capital is absorbed by an issue of 200,000
fully-paids to the Marshall-Longton Luck-
now G. M. Co., the vendors, who have no-
thing to vend but the future. For the pre-
sent, 100,000 contribs. are offered to the
dog-tired holders in Marshall-Longton at Is.
on allotment, and the remaining 100,000 are
earmarked for nine months for prior diges-
tion by the same applicants. Apparently the
co. will lean on T. P. Colvin, an American
who is stated to have been the first to un-
earth reef platinum in Oregon, and who has
used the pick in Borneo, Malay States,
India, the Philippines and Central America.
His latest achievement was at the Adams
River (Tas.) new osmiridium field, “where,”
says the prospectus, “lie has done remark-
ably well, and, from information he lias
received there, he is confident he can dis-
cover an osmiridium-field in the region of
the newly-found gold-field in New Guinea .”
Apart from this aspect, says the document
somewhat warily, “the newly-discovered gold-
fields offer great opportunities for a pros-
pector of such world-wide experience.”
* * * *
Repercussions of the Edie Creek gold rush
in New Guinea appear to be expected at
Woodlark Island; hence the second attempt
by .T. T. Walton, Bridge-street, to float the
linsai reefing proposition there. The pre-
sent title is the Mama, but the change is in
name only. In a prospectus issued last week
a co. with a capital of £30.000, in 120.000 ss.
shares, provides for 70.000 contribs. paid to
Is. on allotment and 50,000 vendors’. The
co. will acquire 25 acres of mining leases
which have been reported on by W. Poole, of
Julius, Poole and Gibson. The engineer
gives particulars of the 773 ft. of tunnelling
and the seven reefs cut therein within a
space of 120 ft. Of these the Marua reef
is 10ft. to 17ft. wide, and on the surface and
underground has been proved to extend for
300 ft. in length. Poole gives its values as
from “lOdwt. to 20dwt.,” and adds that it
has been sampled in four places. In the
early days of Woodlark the Marua field was
a sluicing proposition, and later 4000 tons
of battery stone were treated to the water
level after being exposed by the sluicing.
Mining men mostly regard the place as a field
murdered by half measures after heavy
initial difficulties.
* * * *
“Melbourne Broker” points the necessity
of improved legislation governing companies:
The need for a Commonwealth Companies Act is
stressed by the issue of prospectuses of two coal
and oil cos. Neither prospectus would be legal if
incorporated in Melbourne because neither complies
with the Victorian Companies Act in respect to
definite statements about what cash is being taken
by the vendors and promoters. To find out that —
the most important fact in the whole prospectus—
one would have to travel to Sydney to inspect the
original agreements. Belford Dome, Limited, invites
the prospective Victorian shareholder to inspect the
memo, and articles at S. A. Hill’s office, Barrack
House, Sydney. To say the least, the secretary’s
office is quite a long distance away from Melbourne.
Coal Oil, N.Z., issues the same invitation.
Belford Dome, out of a million pounds’ capi-
ta], gives £250,000 in fuliy-paids to the Hunter
River Oil Co., a Melbourne registration, and grants
it an option over 125,000 shares at 30s. a share for
two years. It would be interesting to know how
much money the Hunter River Oil Co. actually
spent on its coal and oil holdings in the Hunter
River Valley—surely not more than thousands. Coal
Oil, N.Z., Limited, under its first prospectus—
Waipatiki, N.Z. Petroleum Products —stated it was
giving £30,000 cash and 51,500 shares to Harry
Ninham Gooch, of Wellington, the holder of the
assets of a previous co. In the Coal Oil Co.’s pros-
pectus that fact does not appear. Instead, 90,000
fully-paid £1 shares are allocated as part payment
to H. N. Gooch and Albert Adam Wilson, of West-
port, M.L., and Wilson’s cash consideration is not
stated. In addition 300,000 shares are tied up by
options to first applicants for 18 months. In an
active living stock this would be a valuable con-
cession. In a coal and petroleum mining company,
starting practically at the grass-roots, it is valueless,
because 18 months is like Omar Khayyam’s' 7000
years—a mere point in time.
* * * *
“Jason” : No one likes to bo beaten ; Monty
Cohen least of all. The Amalgamated Zinc
stands with its record of the past as the
result of his and W.L.’s backing of Gepp
tit the critical stage of the show. Monty
took up the recommendation of Dave Avery
that the co. start the piper-pulp industry
in the Speck, but opposition on the board
was too strong. The co. has a nice nest-egg
of £253.000 of surplus assets, and was sup-
posed to also have the call on Avery’s experi-
ence. So it came as a shock to keen share-
holders to find that a little outside con-
cern was iii treaty with Tassie for timber
rights and that Amalgamated was not in the
hunt. They brought the matter up at the
annual meeting. Monty remarked that the co.
had been given its chance by Avery, had
declined it, and so ended the matter. The
issue is a very nice one. When a man is
sent away to study or report upon
something, anything lie may do in the
same connection while on the job belongs
to the chap who pays. Avery is back,
and has been told by the board that
it is not out to spend money on
paper. That should constitute a release, but
the position is complicated by the assertion
that Avery was put on the board because of
his paper knowledge. Monty now says that
Avery stops on the board because he is a
good director. With the co. doing so little,
why add to costs?
Orinda Co. (W.A.) is said to have paid
£lOO for an option on the Wentworth mine
at Ora Banda and has undertaken to pay
an additional £4900 if the deal is completed.
The Wentworth lies a few miles east of the
show which the Orinda formerly held and
which was erroneously reported to have
plenty of gold exposed in costeens and drives,
and dumps of ore on the surface worth
ounces. All that the Wentworth is said to
have is a large schist lode of about half-
ounce grade.
* * * *
Re-opening of the old short-lived Donny-
brook gold-mines was recently suggested in
the West. The State Mining Engineer said
what information he had about the mines was
not favorable to re-opening. Donnybrook Gold-
fields, Ltd., worked a few claims for some
years, but ultimately gave up owing to lack
of values. Generally, the history of the
field was not one of prosperity, and mining
men think nothing of its present prospects.
According to some local shareholders
Freney Oil Co (W.A.) is wasting money.
They state that a bore is being put down
to a certain depth for information, etc., and
later a larger one is to be drilled in search
of oil-pools. Why, they ask, can’t one bore
do the lot ? In tabloid the past performances
of this co. have been the compilation of
large-sized plans, the issue of voluminous
bulletins and frequent reports of “traces” in
its bores, and occasional statements about the
presence of “globules.” Something more is
needed to resuscitate the market. Mean-
while a little trading is being done in the
shares at down-and-out prices.
The formation of an investment trust was
mentioned by Chairman Cordner-James at
the Oroya Links meeting. He said that
certain financiers associated with the Lake
View Investment and other successful trusts
were willing to co-operate in the formation
of a new trust on the same lines as the
others, and were agreeable to provide
£200,000 if the Oroya Links would find
£100,000: if the Oroya Links shareholders
subscribed an additional £50.000 the new
trust would have a capital of £350,000. This
would still leave the co. roughly £30,000 for
mining purposes, and if future operations
at Ivalgoorlie were unprofitable and liquida-
tion was decided on such investment trust
holding could be distributed to shareholders.
But dissatisfied shareholders demand immedi-
ate liquidation, and from all accounts it is
only the voting power of a disapproving board
and its friends that prevents this being done.
At last Langi Logan goes west. It has
mopped up about as much cash as any allu-
vial duffer the Cabbage Garden has seen save
the Moorlort fiasco, near Maryborough,
which cost about a million of good money.
The first of the Ararat group to give up was
North Langi. It was early absorbed by the
New Langi Logan. Then, after years of tribu-
lation, South Langi Logan threw up the
sponge. It, too, was gathered in by the
New Langi Logan, and the two sailed out
upon the financial deeps under the title of
the United Langi Logan. Now the flag has
been hauled down, and the next call will be
that of the machinery man. The Logan
not only sopped up all the gold won—
roughly £115,000 —but about £240,000 of
calls as well. Oldtimers never had faith
in the Langi gutter, for the reason that no
ground out of the shallow Ararat rush coun-
try carried values down from the surface
into the gutters as with the great Berry
and Duke leads. The Cathcart was a splash,
but it set a fashion in Langi Logan
floats, making the South and the New Langi
cos. possible. The end of the field would
have been long since, but Jas. Hebbard, of
the Sulphide Corporation, gave New Langi
more than a show. A lot of good cash went
in opening the claim below the Cathcart
junction with the Langi Logan gutter, and
ground there was good for a time, but a
bump in the reef cut out the gold. Jimmy
Mackay sought to save the situation by get-
ting hold of the South so as to work up the
gutter, but the ground was patchy, expense
too high, and the work of the miner not
efficient enough.
* * * *
Wilkinson’s Amalgamated, Yalwal (N. S.
Wales), is so well forward with erec-
tion of a 15-head battery and cyanide plant
that crushing is scheduled to start about six
weeks lienee. The co. takes its title from
W. B. Wilkinson, of Sussex Inlet, well
known as an assayer, who is responsible for
the prospectus and flotation. The capital is
£15,000 in 150,000 2s. shares, of which
30,000 are vendor’s, and 20,000 fully-paids
went as consideration to the Golden Crown
and Usher’s leases, the properties taken over.
There are 100,000 contribs., all called to
2s. on allotment, so all the shares rank
alike. Secretary Alan Davis speaks of a
div. for Christmas, an aspiration which, if
realised, would break a very long list off
similar predictions gone awry in the Ma
State’s gold-mining history.
* * * *
Rawang Tin is making up for lost time.
Notwithstanding a stop of 14 days during
September the bucket dredge produced 40
tons from 58,000 yards, an average of 1.541 b.
to the yard. Run No. 21 of the 14in. elec-
tric plant was completed on September 26,
and resulted in 110 tons from 220,000-odd
yards, an average of 1.121 b. This plant is
being removed to a new paddock, from
which Malcolm Newman anticipates still
better results. Rawang’s published results
from the end of the financial year—March
31 last —show that the bucket dredge has
produced 312 tons of tin, making a profit
of £41,348. The sluicing plant has cleaned
up 195 tons, with a profit of £20,320, total
profit being £61,668. Two divs. have been paid,
which total, roughly, £74,000. That leaves
an untouched balance of £37,668. Share-
holders are wondering if an extra shilling
will be paid at Christmas, or whether the
directors will create a reserve for equalisa-
tion of dividends, so as to insure the pay-
ment of Is. per quarter; it is unreasonable
to expect that present returns will continue
uninterrupted.
* * * *
Tupai and Kota did themselves well when
they threw in £20.000 each to buy the Settle-
ments area at Taiping. They provided a
modern dredge to work the proposition, and
have justified their optimism. Starting in
May last, this dredge was 18 months behind
schedule time. A load of indebtedness was
accumulated; this has now been liquidated.
The show is now on an even keel. Profits
up to the end of September must come near
£20,000. The directors have not yet stated
whether shares in the Settlement Co. will
be distributed to Tupai and Kota share-
holders, or the profits used to augment the
div. of those companies.
* * * *
In view of the recent activity of share
punters in Malayan Tin, an examination of
the tin position is of interest. The product
of Malayan dredges is tin oxide, of a general
average of 72 p.c. metallic tin. The higher
the price of the metal in the world’s markets
the greater the royalties payable to the Gov-
ernment of the Federated Malay States, as
the following table shows:—
Tin, London. Royalty Net Value Tin Oxide,
per ton. Imposed. 72 per cent. Assay.
£lOO £6 12 11 £56 15 3
£l5O £l2 15 2 £B5 17 4
£2OO £lB 12 10 £ll5 4 2
£250 £24 10 4 £144 11 10
£3OO £3O 8 0 £173 18 7
W hat a good wicket producing cos. are on
can be realised from the fact that 10 tons
of tin oxide, at present prices, not only pays
a dredge’s expenses for a month, but hands
the F.M.S. Government £3OO in taxes. A
point worth consideration is whether, in
these days of uplift in taxation, these im-
posts may not be added to.
* * * *
Directors of Taranaki Oil Fields, Ltd.,
have been discussing the policy to be
followed during the summer, but have not
yet made an announcement. Boring activity
is confined just now to the East Coast bore
at W aiapu, but A. LI. P. Moline, general man-
ager in Maoriland, oh his return from the
conference in Melbourne, said that he would
not go so far as to say that the company
was wholly finished in Taranaki.


The unique
333 leaf and State Express
methods of manufacture
ensure the excellence of
20 for K 6
Manufactured in London by Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.
SWE@PR.ESS
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
JUST THE MAN TO HELP HER.
“Oh, Doctor, I feel so ill I uish I would die!”
“ Indeed, my young lady, in that case you have done well to
come to me!”
“Simon” : A friend of mine has a theory
that for sheer conceit and bumptiousness
the physically deformed lead all the rest.
I thought of him the other day on striking
a country town where a circus was pitched.
Danny, the dwarf, had got a bit blithered,
and a friendly cop, instead of running him
in, stooped down, caught him by the ear
and took him back to the hotel where he
was staying. “They tell me,” Danny said,
throwing out his chest as he recounted the
incident to me next morning, “that it took
four of the blankards to get me home!”
* * * *
“Pipards” : I suggest that fashions in men’s
facial upholstery come and go with the same
regularity as the seasons. I have photo-
graphs or pictures of my father, grandfather
and great-grandfather. The last, being a
contemporary of Johnson and Boswell, was
clean-shaven, and doubtless would have worn
a wig as they did if he had been of a
higher rank than yeoman farmer. My grand-
father looks at me from between the rather
sketchy but benevolent side-whiskers of early
Victorian days. My father was generously
bearded, moustached and whiskered for the
greater part of his life. I cling, merely
through habit, to the lip-thatch that was the
pride of adolescence when I was a young
man. My sons are, of course, clean-shaven,
like their great-great-grandfather. And so
the wheel goes round, with men every bit as
much the slaves of fashion as the other sex.
* * * *
“Doodles” : During the winter of 1916, up
on the Somme, a whiz-bang landed in a
frozen shellhole, and Billy received a nasty-
crack in the eye from a flying fragment of
ice. Months later one of the boys met him
in Blighty; he had lost his eye, and was
scouring London to find something novel and
striking in the way of an artificial substi-
tute. He said he had some thought of trying
to find an optician who would equip him
with a luminous orb —“that’d be just the
thing in these blasted fogs.” During Show
Week in Melbourne I met Billy at our bat-
talion reunion. He had succeeded in pro-
curing something that earned him all the
notice he craved, a glass eye with his bat-
talion colors neatly painted in the centre!
* * * *
“Derwentside”: The publicity given to
Tasmania’s convict history by the filming of
Marcus Clarke’s classic recalls that it is
nearly half a century since the Government
of the Speck brought about the oblitera-
tion of the old regime as far as legislation
could do it. On September 24, 1877, a
proclamation by Governor Weld announced
that all the prisoners, lunatics and indigent
persons had been removed from Tasman’s
Peninsula. Not until 1868 could the Penin-
sula be visited except on business, and it
was only in 1862 that the Bass Straits.
Schouten and Maria Islands were removed
from the prohibited list, all of them being-
included within the likely places where extra
penal establishments might be required. Year
by year since then Port Arthur, as the princi-
pal embodiment of all that is conjured up
in the mind as the “convict system,” has
been more or less rapidly changing its face,
few of tin* buildings are now even in decent
ruin, owing to the morbid craving shown
by visitors for mementoes. But perhaps the
Speck is a gainer thereby.
“S.M.” : Complications
accumulate round the
case of Mrs. Aimee Mc-
Pherson, the Californian
evangelist lady who re-
turned from a disappear-
ance with a moving tale
of how she had been kid-
napped and held in bond-
age by some purposeless
Mexican brigands. It has
been alleged that she
merely disappeared to a
cottage with a male
friend, and that, the cot-
tage coming under sus-
picion, another lady and
a different male friend
were hired to declare that
they were the occupants,
and that any charge
against the evan-
gelist lady was a mistake
in identity. Owing, it is
said, to insufficient pay-
ment, and probably to a
feeling that the clumsy
narrative wouldn’t hold
water, the different pair
are said to have gone
hack on their story. At
latest advices the heroine
was in bed, where she
had been photographed
with her hair down, her
alleged partner in the cot-
tage was missing, and the
unknown Mexicans were
still tottering under a
load of obloquy.
“Parly” : The case of the struggling clerk
who established himself in life by showing
a large fictitious income in his taxation re-
turn and paying tax on it is similar, except
in one point, to a case which has just been
dealt with by the High Court at its Adelaide
sittings. A South Australian company, in
its return for the 1922-23 financial year,
showed a taxable income of £25,000, and paid
about £2500 income-tax on it. Actually, the
company had made a loss of about £16,000.
Unlike the struggling clerk, the company
benefited so little by the manceuvre that it
had to go into liquidation about two years
later. The liquidators applied to the South
Australian Supreme Court to compel the
Commissioner of Taxes to disgorge, but that
Court said “No.” The High Court has now
said ditto, but Chief Justice Knox added
some caustic comments as to what one might
expect from a fair-minded man, “and even
from a Commissioner of Taxes.”
* * * *
“Soda”: It isn’t always operating sur-
geons who leave things in the human body.
A Melbourne ear and throat specialist was
recently consulted by a young married
woman in regard to long-standing deafness
of the right ear. The doctor made an exami-
GOOD NIGHT OR GOOD MORNING.
“Now, remember — half-past eleven is quite, late enough.”
”Oh, too late, Daddy! Bertie has to be at the office by nine. We’ll say two-thirty.”
nation with the auriscope. There was some-
thing which lie took to be hardened wax
obstructing his view, and he secured dilute!
spirit, cotton-wool and a pair of forceps for
a clean-up. The forceps closed on some-
thing ; the doctor tugged; the lady yelled;
and in a few minutes a wax-hardened chunk
of cotton-wool was hauled from the middle-
ear. The doctor stowed the trophy away
in a test-tube, and then revived the patient,
who had fainted. Questioned as to previous
disorders, she mentioned that over eight
years previously she had been operated upon
for a laryngeal complaint, and the nurse
beforehand had plugged her ears with wool.
Her deafness dated from that operation.
* * * *
“Light Horse”: All the world over, folk
who have worn the King’s livery will feel
as if they had lost an old friend when they
read that the regulation army razor has been
struck off the strength. The fine old cut-
lass, the same as that issued to, and avoided
by, the men who fought at Minden, was one
of the traditions of the old British Army
that looked like being imperishable. The
passing of the “Razor, steel, one,” and its
replacement by a Yankee “safety” appa-
ratus which will really shave, must have
stricken Brass Hatterdom dumb. No one
was ever known to use the regulation razor.
The years might pass, and shirts, socks and
cholera belts wax and wane, but at kit-
inspection the razor remained bright and
new in its shiny black box. Now it must
return to the limbo whence it came,
for no one has ever been known to admit
manufacturing it, and the story of its birth
is one of the most jealously guarded secrets
of the War Office.
**. * *
“The Listening-Insect”: This planet has
known the Ice Age, the Stone Age, the Age
of Bronze and the Age of Steel. The present
epoch will probably be known as the Canned
Age. My next-door neighbor does his devo-
tions in front of a loud speaker; a time-
payment pianola interprets Beethoven for
me, and the young man opposite is learn-
ing artistic anatomy by correspondence. His
sister is studying Italian and Esperanto
with the help of a gramophone, and a
younger brother is learning Morse receiving
from a kind of music-box that sends out
dots and dashes when you wind it up. The
listeners-in of England were warned the
other day to take no notice of a loud droning
noise because it would be somebody's face
being forwarded through the air by tele-
vision transportation. Things are getting
altogether too complicated. Imagine wliat
would happen if Jock Garden’s face met
Stanley Bruce’s in the ether above Cooma.
The place would be simply littered with
droning teeth and blasphemy.
* * * *
“Stellsby” : My sister-in-law was the nar-
rator. The other morning she had answered
the doorbell several times to find a hawker
there on each occasion. The last caller was
unusually mournful in his solicitations. “Will
yer buy a writin’-pad, lady? I’ve a wife and
three children at ’ome ter keep.” “I’m sorry,”
said the lady, “but I don’t require anything;
there have beeu several of your kind here
already.” “No, lady,” said the hawker re-
proachfully ; “not my kind. Lady, I’m a
limbless soldier. I’ve lorst a kidney.”
“Sphinx”: A lady living apart from her
husband called on a gentleman friend in a
Brisbane boarding-house. He asked her to
wait until he had finished shaving. Suddenly
footsteps were heard on the verandah, and
the light was switched off. When the lights
were re-lit the company was found to have beeu
reinforced by an irate husband and a female
sleuth talking as such persons mostly talk.
The landlady’s husband, when asked for
the name of the newly-barbered lodger, gave
a fictitious name that happened to belong to
a real person several doors down the street.
The upshot was a decree nisi with a co-
respondent who was unknown to the lady
until the day of the trial. Three months
later the Crown stepped in to prevent the
decree being made absolute, and after the
gentleman who had really shaven himself
in the presence of the lady had given evi-
dence, Judge Macrossan remarked that an
undoubted miscarriage of justice had been
averted.
* * # #
“F.J.E.”: “Bullamacow” (B. 23/9/’2GI
will find the figurehead of the German
raider See-Adler in the Sydney War
Museum. An interesting point concerning
the capture of Graf von Luckner, the com-
mander of the See-Adler, which “C. de M.”
(B. 23/9/’26) failed to mention is that the
launch containing the Graf and his party
was captured by the Fiji inter-island steamer
Amra (535 tons), owned by the A.U.S.N.
Co., and manned by a Fijian crew with
white officers. The Amra, whose total arma-
ment at the time consisted of one Colt revol-
ver without any ammunition, came unex-
pectedly on the raider’s launch near
Wakaya Island. She had two holes cut
in her bow. which looked like portholes for
guns, and these caused von Luckner to sur-
render in the belief that she was an armed
merchantman. On investigation the launch
was found to contain enough bombs, arms
and ammunition to have blown the little
Amra out of the water, which von Luckner,
after his capture, cheerfully admitted he
would have done had he known what he
subsequently learned. The Amra, by the
way, was sold by the A.TJ.S.N. Co. to East-
ern buyers at Singapore in 1923.
* * * *
“Strict Yog.”: There are lots of things
the adult citizen doesn’t know about the
junior division. When I read a cable
the other day about the controversy
in the London press as to whether
the Australian girl used cosmetics, I ques-
tioned my 12-year-old. She says she doesn’t
know any girl at her school under seven
who habitually used a powder-puff, and the
youngest lipstick addict she is acquainted
with is 11. I used powder at a much earlier
age, but I didn’t put it on myself.
SPRING SHOPPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you in the Gardens r.ow
Walk with eyes a-quest,
You will note that bush and bough
All have donned their best;
You will see that all have been
To the Store of Spring,
Some to get a dress of green,
Some rich coloring.
At the Store of Spring is sold,
As the Gardens know,
Tints of purple, tints of gold,
Tints that gleam and glow ;
There, with shy, sweet heads down bent,
Violets buy their blue ;
There the rose goes for her scent,
And her damask hue.
As you breathe the scented wind
Blowing at all hours,
Honey’s sold there, too, you'll find,
Nectar for the flowers;
To that strange and hidden mart
Troop the flowers and trees,
Storing golden food at heart
For their friends, the bees.
If beneath green gum or oak
For a while you rest
In the Gardens, feathered folk,
Plumed out in their best,
Warbling loud and warbling long,
Warbling .jewelled notes,
All -will tell to you in song
Where they bought their coats.
With sweet eyes and busy hands,
Just to great and small,
Spring behind her counter stands,
Serving each and all ;
Ne’er a. store was like to hers
On this earth of ours;
Never were such customers —
Trees and birds and flowers !
K.B.W.
RODERTO QUINN.


“Once a bloke in search of solitood could find it outback —
-—but nowadays—
—wot —
—with—
-these trans-continental towerists —
—and—
—one thing—
—and another—-
there ain’t a bit o' peace an’ quiet ter be found—no not anywheres!
GETTIN’ CROWDED.


w : W
mm
m
V
■
6^B
■
WuRUIZER
PLAYER PIANOS
You will derive the utmost delight and satisfaction from your" Wurlitzer” Player.
Delight because of its exquisite tone and ability to play expressively --satisfaction from
the knowledge that your instrument is faultlessly constructed and will therefore re-
tain its tonal beauty throughout the years.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
New South Wales • Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney, J. Goldstein 137 Bathurst St., Sydney,
las Loneraeen Ltd Gulgong, The Australian Stores, Yass. South Australia : The Australian Implement
James Marshall * Co. Ltd., Adelaide. Victoria : Myers Emporium Ltd., Mel-
bourne. IVest Australia : Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives :
PARKER, BLAU SC CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
“Cartot”: The length of a life sentence
in an Australian prison depends mainly on
the State where the prisoner is domiciled.
In Victoria actuarial tables are consulted,
and the prisoner is released a few years
NOTHING DOING.
HIS FIANCER ( impulsively): “ Bobbie, would
you die for me?”
BOBBIE : “ Well — er—mine is a deathless
love.”
before the expiration of the period which
represented his expectation of life, when he
was sentenced. In N. S. Wales it used to
be the custom to release a life-sentence pri-
soner after 21 years, but there is no defi-
nite rule, and of late the matter of releases
has been left to Executive decision instead.
It is the same in Queensland, but there the
lifer generally gets out after about 15 years
unless he can command political influence,
when he may count on being liberated mucu
sooner. In all the States, however tffiere
are men doing life sentences who will die
in gaol. These have had death sentences
commuted with the stipulation that they will
never be released.
* * * *
“iC.Q.”: A number of people have been
waiting for months for the weather to change
in Melbourne. They are the charitable per-
sons who bought, in the alleged interests or
limbless soldiers, squares of pink paper winch
were guaranteed to turn violet when fine
weather was approaching and blue when it
threatened rain!
* * * *
“Roka”: “Benno,” in Dyson’s “Fact’ry
’Ands,” gave his prospective bride the funds
to furnish the wedding nest, with disastrous
results. A counterpart to tins trustful youth
lias turned up in MX. He had been bond-
ing the young woman a large slice _ot his
weekly wages, and she had been having an
enjoyable time buying carpets and furm
ture, with the aid of a young man in the
large department store at which most or
the purchases were made. The latter it was
who helped her to choose a piano with a
nice tone, and match the curtains and
cushions with artistic care. lie also picked
out a house in a good locality, and the grate-
ful bridegroom-to-be drew his spare cash out
of the bank and paid the deposit on it. At
this stage the department-store young man
induced the lady to marry him. When the
pair appeared before their financial prop and
made a clean breast of things they were
quite hurt when lie declined to extend Ins
generosity further. After a strenuous fight lie
got the house and part of the furniture, but
the lady clung to the piano, alleging it was
a wedding present to her, the particular
bridegroom not being specified. #
“Stellsby” : Archbishop Lees spatchcocked
a good story into a broadcast sermon in
Melbourne the other Sunday. He was mak-
ing a railway journey in England, and m
the compartment was an ex-Methodist
parson who had married a lady of consider-
able means and had forsaken the chapel for
a life of ease. The Metliody got out at a
wayside station and a rustic got in. When
the train started again an inquisitive third
party in the carriage asked Hodge if he
knew the identity of the man who had just
left. “Yes, zur, he be Passon, a retired
Christian.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The wiliness of the heathen
Chow is largely a myth. A Customs officer
in Melbourne stumbled the other day on the
biggest opium haul for years—a hessian
bag containing £l5OO worth of the drug, six
pipes and a roll of silk, apparently thrown
down by a smuggler who feared detection.
The incident reminds me of how a simple
country cop on a visit to his parents ±n
Perth earned promotion to the ranks of
the plain-clothes men in the city. He was
coming across from South Perth in the
ferry, when the coat of a vegetable John
'sitting opposite blew open, and disclosed
a couple of sticks of chander in tlie waistcoat
pocket. By mere luck the bobby had been
looking at a precisely similar exhibit at
headquarters that day, and it didn’t take
him a second to act. He had never seen
or thought of the stuff before that day.
* * * *
“Wang”: I, too, know of a man who
escaped damage through the sudden stop-
ping of a lift (B. 16/9/’26), but it was no
safety device he had to thank. Russell-
street, Melbourne, police headquarters were
rung up one evening and informed that a
burglar was operating in a warehouse.
Several constables were rushed to the scene,
and three of them entered the building. An
agitated watchman informed them that the
intruder had disappeared up the stairs, so
the sleuths dashed for the lift and started up-
wards. Half-way between two floors the
cage stopped dead, and refused to budge an
inch in either direction. The trapped traps
remained there till mechanics were procured
and the gear was put into working order
again. By that time the burglar was. pro-
bably away out in North Fitzroy, if he
wasn’t one of the hundred or two interested
spectators outside the building. *
“Flagwagger”: Diggers came from all
walks of life, but I met only one, a man
about 40, who confessed to permanently
carrying a swag. He soon became known as
“Matilda” ; and whenever we barracked him
he would coolly retort that, after the war, he
would pass his days tramping about Vic-
toria and spending a week with each of us.
For this object lie collected a number of
our home addresses in a notebook, disregard-
ing jocular warnings that the dogs would be
let loose if he should carry out his threat.
From the time we left Aussie (May, 191 o)
until he w T as wounded, late in 1917. “Matil-
da” added to the list the address of each
reinforcement and crossed off that of every
Digger who was killed in action or died m
hospital. I haven’t struck him since I was
demobilised, but old cobbers with whom I
correspond assure me that, true to promise,
he tramps Victoria and stays a week with
every A.I.F. acquaintance encountered. And
no dogs are sooled on to him, either; he can
always rely on a cordial welcome. He is
firm upon one point; however pressed he will
TACT.
MISTRESS : “Do you know, Marie, I believe
one of my feet is a little larger than
the other.”
MARIE: “Oh, no, Madam! Smaller!”
never remain more than a week, although in
time of need he will accept old clothing and
a few bob for beer.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Magistrate, clerk of the court,
detectives and police left their usual dug-
outs at Melbourne City Police Court and
sat in an ambulance in the open street the
other day. An application for bail from a
prisoner who had been shot in the chest by
the arresting policeman was the business in
hand. Besides being an ambulance, the car
was officially a court, a Black Maria and a
watch-house at one and the same time.
“Bo’’: The sometime manager of a coun-
try bank told me the story. One of his
customers, a wealthy but illiterate sheep-
man, had a waster of a son who had been
forging his father's signature so skilfully
that the bank had cashed several cheques
without a suspicion. One day the old man
caught him filling in a cheque. Having-
apprised the bank of liiS discovery, Dad was
shown a bundle of cheques and asked if he
A LONG-FELT WANT.
“What are you drawing?”
“A picture of God.”
“But nobody knows what He looks like!”
“Well, they will when I’ve finished this.”
could distinguish the true from the false.
So clever was the forgery that he had to
admit he couldn’t. As he refused to prosecute
the question arose as to how a recurrence
of the swindle was to be prevented. “I have
it,” said Dad at last, with a triumphant
glint in his eye. “I’ll put a pinhole in the
top right-hand corner of all my cheques.
Don’t you cash any without that pinhole.
And it worked.
* * * *
“Miro” : Re the curious snobbery still dis-
played over commissions in the British Army.
In the early days of flying a Maoriland bird-
man, who had built, flown —and incidentally
crashed —his own ’bus, applied for admission
into a British flying corps. He used atter-
wards to relate with joy that he had to till
in a long paper giving full details of parent-
age, descent, parental occupations, education
and social qualifications. About his aviation
experience or aptitude there was not the
slightest symptom of curiosity on the part
of the examiners. He passed mainly, he
insisted, because he happened to be distantly
related to a baronet. He became famous
during the war, and is still a pillar of avia-
tion in England.
* * * *
“Emel”: She was widowed and a grand-
mother, but Time had dealt sympathetically
with her charms. An old friend, a staid and
sober citizen, was courting her with seem-
ing success until she took in a new boarder.
One evening lie was amazed and aggrieved
to find on a dim-lit verandah his lady-love
snuggled cosily in the other fellow’s arms.
Advancing stealthily, he surprised the inter-
loper, and a brisk scrap followed. The cause
of it fled to her daughter-in-law for sym-
pathy. “We were only having a bit ot a
squeeze,” she explained, but the °™ r
bluntly declared that she was scandalised by
such levity in grandma. The boarder, who
had a black eye, went for condolences to
the son, only to be told that all three should
have been old enough to know better, youth
lias no time for middle-aged romance.
* * * *
“Wang”: Melbourne’s discarded cable-
trams are being scattered far and wide and
put to a variety of uses. Many of the
trailers, converted into “sleep-outs,” may be
found in suburban residences; the dummies
are utilised as garden-seats. Others liau-
been sent to the bush, to become sleeping-
quarters on week-end homes or on farms.
Most of them still carry their original desti-
nation signs. I saw one the other day being
loaded on to a railway truck with “Lonsdale-
street” painted on its prow. Its destination
was a remote part of Gippsland. One can
conjure up some great reminiscing* amongst
the boys of the village there when their
optics light on that. It is a name to stir
up memories.
* * * *
“Saref”: “Wandering Willie” says (B.
16/9/’26) that “many Indian races use a
form of bagpipe of their own, but only
Scottish airs are played by the Indian pipe
bands.” Nevertheless, in Kipling s Maltese
Oat,” when the Skidars’ polo team won the
cup, “the pipers marched up and down the
ground playing a wild northern tune called
‘Zakhme Baf an.’ ”
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Romeo met his Juliet at
a dance, and a mutual liking developed, but
when she found out he toiled in a laundry
her face fell. “I thought at least you would
be engaged in some manly work,” she said,
bitterly, “and not stopping some woman from
earning a living.” Romeo protested that no
woman could do his work, but Juliet was
obdurate. “Go and get a job more
suited for a mam,” she shot at him when
parting. Three months later he sought her
at another dance with the air of a suitor
who had made good. “I’ve chucked laundry
work,” he explained. “I’m on probation
now; in six months’ time I expect to be a
full-blown policeman.” Juliet stiffened.
“Once a policeman always a policeman,
she snapped acidly, and left him more de-
jected than ever. That night when she
was crossing a vacant allotment three
sinister forms suddenly loomed up. »he
screamed and fainted. When she came to
she found herself in a little lollyshop. By
the counter stood a uniformed policeman
watching restoratives being applied to her.
“A real live policeman’ll frighten away a
dozen such tugs,” the lady dabbing at her
forehead was saying. Juliet sat up and
looked at the officer. “Do you know a young
policeman named ——-■?” she asked. He
shook his head. “Well,” she said, you
should. He's on probation. Find him and
tell him I'll marry him any day he likes.”
FIFTY MAIDS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A pla°rie of spiders has descended on Geneva.
One newspaper says that the spiders have even pene-
trated the meeting of the League of Nations fifty
maids with 50 mops attacked the ceilings and walls
By evening the intruders had disappeared, but the
delegates, on retiring, discovered that all the spiders
had taken refuge in the beds.”
’Twas seven maids with seven mops
In Carroll’s tale, but here
They’ve found another forty-three,
And yet the story seems to be
A trifle lame; it’s queer
That no one mentions in the stir
The doings of the carpenter
Nor what he said,
Nor if he shed
Another bitter tear.
And no reporter cables
What the sleepy Walrus said
When, weary with the day’s affairs,
He brushed his teeth and said his prayers
And, turning down the bed,
Found that a harried spider
Without a web to hide her,
Most loth to stop
And face the mop,
Had scurried there instead.
But, fifty maids with fifty mops,
All waiting for their cue,
When no one but a millionaire
These maidless, mopless days would dare
Imagine more than two!
Although the reader’s loth to flout
A charming tale with paltry doubt,
Somehow they seem
A dazzling dream
Too splendid to be true.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
m n>
n hh
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes— is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere,
Cream
* . ™ E RT HON.LORD DENMAft
WA&ntto l CW- CEN. of TH£V
7 OSMMONWCAnXofAUSTRAUA
T£siabUsßed 1883^
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES'
TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
A unique honor was paid to John Sul-
man, of Sydney, when the Town-Planning
Congress of Vienna, at which he was not
present—Vogwell, the Sydney City Health
Inspector, was the only Australian there —
elected him as representative of Australia
(in the governing body appointed by the
Congress. Practically every country repre-
sented nominated him. Sulman, who was
“There and Bach Again” COBHAM, the first
man to fig from England to Australia
and home again.
77 in August, ceased his general practice
as an architect 18 years ago, but has car-
ried on as a Sydney Uni. lecturer. He
maintains a multitude of active interests;
but housing schemes and town-planning
notions have won for him a world-wide repu-
tation.
The Speaker’s chair in the Speck Parlia-
ment is vacant, Mick O’Keefe having died
at the week-end. Together with Premier
Lyons, his fellow-member for Wilmot, Mick
was smashed up in a level-crossing accident
last July, and was in hospital for two
months. Returning home a fortnight ago,
he got about on crutches for a few days, but
the end came suddenly on Saturday morn-
ing. A native of Westbury (Tas.), O’Keefe
was a miner before he entered the Assembly
in 1912, being then 46, and no better-
hearted man ever shouted “Order!”
Looking back on his 62nd birthday, W.
M. Hughes probably considered himself
lucky to be alive and comfortable, if not
in a political sense. The years of struggle
were rough on his digestive powers, and in
his great days apples and peanuts composed
his main meal. But he dropped to a shadow,
and could have fought in the flyweight class.
Dr. Nash, M.L.C., spent hours of argument
trying to induce Billy to eat a solid steak.
In his later years Hughes has forgotten his
fads; he eats heartily, plays golf and has
discovered billiards.
W. S. Noble, manager of Queensland’s
Golden Casket, is wary of unknown visitors.
As the temporary custodian of so much wealth,
Noble is an outstanding mark for hardups
anxious to float a small loan. Nowadays,
before he consents to see a stranger, he a<-ks
his clerks, “Does he look like a nip?” One
man who got through his guard lately intro-
duced a pleasing variation of the usual hard-
luck story. “Remember that two bob you
lent me about six months ago?” he asked.
“Well, here it is back. I won third prize
(£500) in last Casket.” Bill hasn’t got over
the shock yet.
Australian artist Fred Leist is one of
those whose fortunes have been affected by
the Florida disaster. His model in relief
of Sydney Harbor struck the fancy of a
Miami millionaire who saw it at Wembley,
and Leist was engaged at a princely fee to
make models of projected extensions to the
mushroom city. Fred's outlook was not pro-
mising when the bottom dropped out of the
Florida land boom, but the necessity for re-
building places devastated by the hurricane
may give him still better opportunities than
that originally offered him.
Arthur Haynes, who defended the two
men under sentence of death for the
Westralian goldfields murder holds two
life policies in circumstances which are
surely without precedent. Coulter, whose
appeal has been dismissed, assigned one
of the policies to his lawyer to cover
the latter’s costs —£1500, Coulter said at the
trial. The other document was made over
to the little man with the brief-bag by C. J. do
Garis, who destroyed himself in Melbourne a
few weeks ago ; and Haynes has issued a writ
for £5OOO and the amount of a bonus against
the insurance company. Incidentally, the
barrister will presently be a candidate in the
Nationalist interest for the East Perth seat
in the I,eg. Assembly. His father, Richard,
sat in the Westralian Uppah House for six
years, and his uncle, John, was a Ma State
M.L.A.
After drawing his pension of £5OO p.a.
for only four years, F. T. Short, ex-sec. to
the Vic. Premier, has passed out at 64. Dur-
ing 40 years as a State officer, Short ren-
dered useful service, especially as in-
spector of charities and sec. to several com-
missions, including the one which paved
the way for the establishment, in 1901, of
oJd-age pensions. Ho took things pretty
leisurely in the Premier’s office, but he hail
a good presence and was capable in
emergencies. His brother was formerly
editor of the Leader, the Syme weekly.
Adelaide was recently invaded by one
Stafford, a youngster of 74, who last saw
the city when 18 years of age. The inter-
vening 56 years he has spent in Central
Australia ; he owns a big patch of country
about 100 miles east of Alice Springs. The
other day he brought a mob of fats to Ood-
nadatta and came down to see them sold.
Not desiring the presidency of Deakin
Shire Council, to which he was entitled this
year, Premier John Allan (Vic.) made a
present of the job and whatever prestige it
carries to his political rival, J. C. Chanter,
who represents the same riding. Chanter,
then a Farmers’ Unionist, opposed John at
the last Assembly election, when Allan won
easily. Between now and the end of June
they will have another tussle, and it will be
more bitter. Chanter (who is a son of
the former Chairman of Committees in the
Reps.) has seceded to the Country Pro-
gressives.
The legal career of Justice Mitchell, who
died while half-way through the hearing of
evidence before the S.A. Bribery Com-
mission, followed rather unusual lines. He
was nearly 40 years of age before he was
admitted to the Bar, and he took to politics
10 years later, becoming M.P. for Northern
Territory. He wound up nine years in the
S.A. Assembly with a short term as Attor-
ney-General, and then became, first, Govern-
ment Resident of the N.T. under the
State, and after that Administrator under
the Commonwealth. The latter job carried
with it a judgeship of the Supreme Court.
But after his sojourn on the Supreme Court
Bench in the North he returned south to be a
police-magistrate at Port Pirie and Adelaide.
Then for a long while he presided over the
S.A. Court of Insolvency. A busy life ended
a.t 75, before Mitchell had had time to ascer-
tain how constables at £4 a week or so accu-
mulate estates, stocks and shares, ride in
expensive motor-cars and employ maids and
gardeners.
Alf Billson, who has been ill for manv
months, has thrown up the job of Chairman of
Committees of Vic. Assembly. He has held
The late REV. BRO. GEORGE, M.A., who
has just died at Auckland, M.L. Head-
master of St. Joseph's College, Hunter's
Hill (N.S.W.), he was nopular with
all denominations.
the Ovens seat for 26 years, with the excep-
tion of 20 months, when Kyabramapootru
kept him out. He had nearly five years of
office under Murray and Watt (1009-13), and
five years as Chairman of Committees; so he
had a pretty fair share of the loaves and
fishes.
Sydney lost its best-known insurance agent
when J. B. Youdale died last week. The
old man, who was the first outside agent to
think of advertising individually, had been
connected with the A.M.P. for 40 years, and,
at 79 was its oldest representative. He was
born in Yorkshire, but all but two infant
years of his life were spent in this country.
One of his recent exploits was effecting an
insurance on the great-grandson of a man
who was one of his earliest clients.
Ex-Inspector Dillon ended an adventurous-
life at Pittswortli (Q.) the other day. A
Victorian native, he signed up with the
Queensland police in the ’seventies, and was
an inspector before his retirement 17 years
ago. The arrest of the Kenniff brothers,
whose trial for murder is one of the classics
of Australian criminology, was due to a
large extent to Dillon’s bushcraft and horse-
manship.
“Gallery” : It will not be surprising if at
least half a dozen members of the present
Vic. Assembly retire voluntarily at the end
of the present Parliament. They have been
disillusioned by the slow movement of the Par-
liamentary machine, the small achievement
for so much effort, the underground work
the tongue-in-the-cheek business, the dulness
between sittings and often at sittings, and
the amount of make-believe stuff. Some of
Premier Allan’s friends think that if the seats
scheme goes through he will take a curtain
voluntarily as a party leader.
“Lang Staggers House” was what a
friendly but misguided paper put on its
contents bill_ when the N.S.W. Premier re-
vealed his 25th (or thereabouts) “bribery”
plot. And what more natural than that
half the community should read it as “Lang
Staggers Home”?
“Hamer”: Paddington (Sydney) has a
family with some roving blood in it; when
the old couple celebrated their fortieth wed-
ding anniversary cables came from one son
in Manchuria, another in Buenos Aires, a
third in Nigeria and a fourth in Egypt. A
fifth, whose home is in W.A., came home for
the event. The family is anchored in Sydney
by the daughters, six of whom have married
and settled down, all within the Eastern
Suburbs.
Ex-Premier Lawson told Vic. Assembly
the other day that he received no remunera-
tion of any kind, direct or indirect, for the
job of President of the Nat.-Feds. He took
Labor-member Keane to task for reckless-
ness in crediting him with getting £lOOO a
year. Dabor members pretended to dis-
believe Lawson, and interjected that every-
body knew he got a salary (Cotter made it
£1500) the same as Bill Plain did. “But,”
added Lawson, “Senator Plain did not get
any pay when he was president.”
If anyone knew more about wool-growing
than Alexander Gilmour, just dead, it must
be the sheep themselves. The first to culti-
vate the golden fleece in Central Australia,
he proved that the Australian type of sheep
was superior to imported breeds. He judged
just 200 sheep-shows in Queensland, and
found time in between to manage Tarilla
station. Just before he died lie led a pro-
cession from Ascot to Brisbane.
Though he hadn’t been there for 40 years,
Jeremiah Corrigan, who has made his exit
at Randwick (N.S.W.), aged 90, was one of
the Maoriland pioneers. He w T as a member
of Bishop Selwyn’s bodyguard when that
determined cleric toured the Waikato to
convert the long-pig epicures.
John Thomas, for many years chief Gov-
ernment mining surveyor in the Ma State,
has retired. Though a non-drinker, J.T. is
credited with having seen the inside of every
N.S.W. pub beyond the metropolitan area,
and what he doesn’t know about mines and
mining doesn’t count. In retirement he will
have plenty of time to swap yarns and dis-
cuss land values with Premier Lang, who is
a neighbor at Auburn.
John Marshall, who died at Dundas
(N.S.W.) a few days ago, was born blind,
and remained so to the end. Neverthless,
helped by an ear for music, he learned to
play various musical instruments, and for
many years was organist of a church. He
compiled a number of books in Braille on
various subjects.
“W.1.U.”: C. R. Herschell (B. 23/9/’26)
had no need to be wild at having to open
47 gates in 726 miles between Broome and
Wyndham. Broken Hill motorists travel-
ling to Adelaide have to open and close SS
gates in 219 miles between Broken Hill and
the Burra. There wore 91 until recently,
and even Birtles complained.
“T. 0.1.”: The Mitchell Library has been
presented with an enlarged photograph of
Thos. Callaghan, a minor legal luminary of
other days. Born in Dublin in ISIB, he
was called to the Bar there in 1839, and
arrived in Sydney a year later. In the
following year he was appointed Crown
Prosecutor, and in 1844 Chairman of
Quarter Sessions. In 1859 he became a
District Court Judge, and held his first
court at Yass. He married a daughter of
Mr. Justice Milford, and died at Braidwood
in 1863 at a remarkably early age for a Judge
and by a curious accident. He had gone to
the saleyards to purchase a horse, when a
turbulent animal kicked a fencing-bar which
in its flight struck the Judge on the head and
killed him. An obelisk marks his grave in
Braidwood cemetery.
The late Due D’Orleans, once epitomised
by Edward VII. as a royal cad. not only
lived up to that description but died in the
odor of it. His will, filed for probate in the
Britain which sheltered him, deprives his
“In my day every girl could make and bake
bread.”
“Quite right, 'Gran’dad. Now we’re quite
content if we get to the dough.”
widow of all interest in his estate, though
jewellery and £6OOO a year go to a lady
whose claim upon him has not been pub-
lished. The Due’s attempts to have his mar-
riage annulled years ago were frustrated by
the Orleanists in France. It may be said of
him, as was said of his ancestor, Philippe
Egalite, that lie could not even be trusted
to be true to himself.
FED-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. A. G. Gardiner, in an article in the London
Staii, says that the Prince of Wales’s limitation of
public dinners is the first sign of a rebellious spirit,
and should command public approval, because an
infinite vista of banquets must be simply terrifying.”
In failing ever and anon off horses
I find a sport that never palls, I vow,
but falling night by night on countless courses
Of deer and sheep and pig and calf and cow,
It gets a fellow’s goat, you know, and forces
The bitter protest that I’m voicing now.
Pity for hungry men you all evince,
Put little for an over-dinnered Prince.
Horseflesh I love, whether ’tis in the stable
Or ’mid the bullfinches that stud the Shires,
But beef and pork and mutton on the table
Become monotonous and turkey tires.
Eve after eve I find myself unable
To bring the appetite such fare requires.
Oft over gorgeous feeds my teeth I’ve gnashed,
And, vainly hankered for a chop and mashed.
Noblesse oblige, no doubt —an adage hoary.
Princes must eat and drink as usage drives.
Mv forebears flashed their swords in combat gory,
With lance and axe they hazarded their lives.
How can one carve a way to kingly glory
With gleaming silver forks and stainless knives ?
The very menu has become —condole
With me! —a nightly menace to my soul.
In many a hunt they know me as a thruster,
As over wall and hedge I gaily pelt;
What kudos can I gain, what pleasure muster
In thrusting victuals underneath my belt?
Risking my neck is, anyway, robuster
Than perilling my turn, I’ve always felt.
Before I come to loathe the very smell
Of turtle soup and caviare, I’ll rebel.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


fd
ďf
d
The Demand To-day is Five Times
Greater than the Mill’s Capacity.
Your Money is Needed
to fill orders already
in hand.
T F the facts are as stated—and the proof is yours
for the asking—can you doubt the safety and
profitable nature of an investment in this key
industry?
The demand for threads is continuous and ever
increasing. Australian importations of Sewing
Cottons and Threads amount annually to over
£1,500,000. About fifty per cent, represents
cottons and threads suitable for manufacturing
purposes. This means there is a local demand equal
to five times the present output of the mill now
seeking fresh capital to cope with this business.
DAVYS PROPRIETARY LIMITED
PIONEERS IN AUSTRALIA OF THE SEWING-COTTON AND LINEN-THREAD INDUSTRY.
Capital £250,000
You are not asked to invest your money in an
experimental wild-cat scheme, but in a mill com-
pletely equipped for mass production, and which,
indeed, is to-day closely approaching a production
of £3OOO per week —an annual production of
£150,000.
To indicate the profitable nature of this business
overseas it is only necessary to state that four
members of one of the largest English firms of
Sewing Cotton Manufacturers left estates valued at
£6,000,000.
The company has issued a prospectus offering
1 00,000 ordinary shares of £l each for public
subscription at par, payable as follows:
On application, S/~ per share.
On allotment, 5/» per share.
Balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals
of not less than one month; or, alternately,
shares may be paid for in full.
An important feature of this issue is that all subscribed capital is
immediately converted into Machinery, Raw Materials, Stock and
other tangible assets. When all the shares now offered for subscription
are fully paid, the surplus of assets over liabilities will be approximately
£200,000, giving wonderful security for this investment.
With these facts before you —the knowledge that threads are
a vital necessity to scores of Australian Industries—that the Common-
wealth Government has granted an adequate tariff protection—that
orders are waiting to be filled—that the management is in skilled and
experienced hands, and that leading financial authorities endorse this
enterprise—will you hesitate to further investigate this splendid oppor-
tunity to secure shares at par which, to use the words of one financial
critic, “should earn something in the neighborhood of 20 per cent.”?
Many thousands of this first public issue have already been
applied for by Australia’s keenest business men. No matter how
little you may have to invest, this opportunity should not be missed,
because an investment such as is offered by the local manufacture of
Sewing Cotton and Linen Threads occurs but seldom in a life-time.
An original investment now should double and treble itself in
a few years, but this advantage can be secured only by an immediate
application, as, in all probability, this will be the only issue placed
upon the Market at PAR. Therefore, it is advisable, in your own
interest, to become an original shareholder, thus ensuring full future
benefits.
pERSONAL inquiries may be made at 26-30 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Copies of the full prospectus and
forms of application will be sent on request. Use the
coupon.
The Opportunity is Yours, Grasp it NOW!
Cut Out, Fill In and Mail This Coupon To-day.
The Secretary, Dacys Proprietary Limited,
Box 2028NN ( G.P.0., SYDNEY).
Dear Sir,
Kindly forward me by return mail, post free and without any obligation on my
part, copy of your Company's full Prospectus, together with the illustrated historic
Booklet and Financial Criticisms.
Signed
Address
B. 7/10/’26.
ď
f
m
Wi
m
■i
s
m


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
4
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
A NEW MODEL
of the Famous
“Fx & R” WATCH
This new type is not so heavy and bulky as the
ordinary pocket watch, nor yet so small as to
impair in any way the time-keeping accuracy for
which all “Fx & R” Watches are renowned.
It is a J-plate lever. It has brequet hair-
springs. It has compensated and adjusted
balance. It is jewelled where the hard work
comes. It will keep time to within two minutes
a month. It is guaranteed for 10 years, and
will be kept in order (breakages excepted) for
12 months.
Wonder value at the price. In Sterling Silver
Hunting or Half-Hunting Case, £3/3/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
■ ■
I
look tot th« Trademark! Apnti Ewijwi»«t.
tVrite for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gi. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pin Street, Sydney
JH
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES"
NEVER FAIL
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Up North”: The terror of the bSche-de-
mer man is the cockroach. It fouls the ship,
fouls the food, abuses liis body in the night
and manicures his toenails. On a badly-
infested boat the man who kicks his mun-
dowies free of the blankets has his toenails
eaten to the quick. ’Roaches have been
known to chew furrows through the roots
of a man’s hair. Their numbers at last be-
come overpowering. Either the crew or the
’roaches must go. The old method was to
ground the cutter where she would be sub-
merged at high tide. The masts then became
invisible under a moving mass of ’roaches,
to the delight of the natives, who speared the
fish attracted by the feast. But science butted
in with a spray of cyanide and sulphuric-
acid. It is effective, but the cutter requires
a second spraying a fortnight later to settle
the new generation.
* * * *
“Spenner”: Can any Abo. identify this
bird? He is new to our district (south-west
Vic.). About the same size as a thrush, but
the legs are very short, making him clumsy
in alighting. Color, slate with a brownish
tinge on the breast; wings folded show a
white slip to the front. His tail is much
longer than that of the thrush, and evenly
marked with bars of darker grey on the light.
He has a call like a low, sharp whistle merg-
ing into a long mournful one. He seems an
expert grubber.
* * * *
"Morehead": The horse is coming to be
looked on in our cities as if it were
some dangerous animal. The other morning
in George-street, Sydney, a miserable, under-
sized pony ’ kicked the front out of the
rabbit cart it was hauling. Fully 50
able-bodied men watched the frightened
beast, plunging about the roadway, but not
one of them made a move to help the driver,
a youth. It was left to the übiquitous
block-boy and another lad to dash in and
hold the refractory prad. In years past,
most of the available manhood in the vicinity
could be depended upon to drag a kicking
neddy to earth and sit on his head. Had it
been a Ford car that had broken down, there
would have been a circle of 100 advisers
offering hints.
“Sucre” : “Hepatic’s” Hindoo (B. 9/9/’26)
who offers only ss. to 50s. for gallstones must
be an unscrupulous price-cutter. A Jap or
a Chow will give 70s. to SOs. per ounce.
Before marketing, the “green” stones are
placed in a warm, dry place on a sheet
of perforated zinc, and sprinkled with fine
rice. Fourteen days later they are ready for
sale. The stones are alleged to contain some
valuable tonic properties, but what they are
is known only to the Oriental.
* * * *
“Wanchai”: Is the creature known com-
monly as the Snowy River crocodile a spe-
cies of alligator, or is it a water-lizard? As
far as I know, it is found only along the
banks of the Snowy and , its tributaries.
Its appearance is exactly that of a small
alligator. The lower jaw is fixed, and
although the reptile is not large enough to
be dangerous—its length being about 28
inches —it displays a wicked set of teeth
when an attempt is made to prevent it
reaching the water. From the beginning of
April until the end of September it hiber-
nates under the mud at the edge of the
river and the creeks.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: In the days when western
Queensland was wide and niggers were plenti-
ful, the abos. made a point of attending the
rare race-meetings held at the little western
towns. On one occasion a gentleman sug-
gested to a black visitor a game of two-up.
The latter lost, of course, and then dis-
covered that double-headers were in use.
Followed a fight. The spieler was hefty and
expected some fun, but his dark opponent
had been trained to fight on one of the
stations, and so had the best of it. Another
spieler, realising what the result would be,
hurled a bottle at the nig, who, turning.
NO FEAR OF THAT.
GRANFER TREZONA (always talking about his ailments): “I do
b’lieve I’ve ’ad just ’bout everything — fever, pneumonia,
brownchitis, roomatics, yellow janders”
BILLY POLGLASE : “I do know wan thing thee ain’t ’ad.”
GRANFER : “ Wha’s that?”
BILLY : “Lockjaw.”
caught and rapidly returned it. It broke the
gentleman’s nose. “You re playing our game
when you throw things,” remarked Billy.
“We learn to do that at home.”
“Old Timer”: Can any Abo. reader say
what is the meaning or the derivation of
the word “yarra”? Over practically the
whole of Australia the natives called a horse
a “yarraman.” Is there any connection be-
tween that word and the name of the Yarra
River? Apropos, it seems strange that ever
since horses were introduced into Australia
the abo. has been an expert both at handling
and riding them, although without anything
approximating previous experience.
• * * *
“Maske”: The natives of Kimberley
(W.A.) have a novel method of catching
wild ducks. At night-time the niggers creep
quietly to a waterhole frequented by the
birds, and close to its edge light fires; then
they frighten the birds till they rise and fly
away. With the return of silence the ducks,
after circling round, try to alight on the
water; but the glare of the fires either
blinds them or deceives them as to the
locality of the pool, for soon the flop, flop
of ducks falling to the ground may be heard
all round, and immediately the niggers get
busy.
* * * *
“Vafsa” : Has any member of the council
had experience in working kanooka (Tris-
tania laurina ) ? It is a hard, heavy, close-
grained dark-red wood, found in rocky creeks
in East Gippsland (Vic.). I have never
worked a piece that did not warp and twist
out of shape inside two or three months.
Once I banked on a slab of kanooka that
had been 15 years in the bottom of a pig-
yard, but it appeared to be no more seasoned
than a freshly-cut piece. It takes. a beauti-
ful polish, is very durable, and is not in-
frequently found figured. Can anyone offer
suggestions as to seasoning this timber?
* * * *
“Ginger”: Some of our big spiders can
put the wind up the loathsome centipede. In
the Mallee nature has furnished the crawler
with means of protection in the shape of
droppings from a prickly mallee-tree. Be-
fore taking a rest on the ground the centi-
pede builds around himself a fence of these
prickles, knowing that the spider cannot
cross his defence. But the spider has plenty
of patience, and waits outside the barrier for
long spells, hoping that the many-footed one
may carelessly stroll outside his defences.
But this seldom happens, and nearly always
the spider has to leave the field unchallenged.
Shortly afterwards, the centipede, after care-
ful reconnaissance, will sally forth. >' 1
ever the spider catches his prey m_the open
the contest is short —and sweet to the^spuler.
“Jesmond”: Several times lately I have
noticed a peculiarly penetrating smell
during my walks
thr ough the
bracken and ti-troe
on Phillip Island
(Vic.). At first I
thought someone
had spilt iodoform,
but as that seemed
improbable I put
it down to charred
ferns. A couple of
days ago I came
across the odor at
a clump of whins
or gorse. On ex-
amination I found
a small heap of
grub - like beetles
on the ground
almost in the
centre of the bush.
They were like
fancy beads, and
the su n shining
through the sway-
iu g bus h gave
them a shot-silk
effect showing
all colors, with
blues and purples
p redo minating.
Owi n g to the
prickly wdiins, I
was unable to get
near them, and
tried to pull some
out with a stick,
but without suc-
cess, though the
stick smelt as if it
had been dipped in
iodoform. Return-
ing half an hour
later with an axe,
I found the insects
gone. But they
had left their smell
behind, and it can
still be sniffed at
the spot despite
the heavy rain we
have had since f
found them. Wliat
are they and
whence their smell?
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: In striking at a huge
octopus in a clear, rocky pool on the s.-e.
coast of S.A., a man engaged in spearing
crayfish had a terrible experience. He put
too much weight in the thrust at the brute
and overbalanced, and had it not been for the
support offered by the handle of the spear,
must have fallen in. As he had the octopus
pinned down by only one of its long feelers
it made desperate struggles to release itself.
By fastening on to the rock it was able to
raise itself and grip the handle of the spear
and so gradually to work upwards until a long
feeler almost touched the fisherman’s hand.
As the water was crystal clear, each was
able to watch the other’s movements, and it
was a foregone conclusion that the fish must
win when the man’s strength gave out. For-
tunately help was at hand, for a boundary-
THEY LET THEIR MAYORS RUN
FREE.
CITY MAN (to friend from the old town):
“So Bill Hickey’s mayor now! Bill
Hickey, eh? How does he look getting
about with a chain round his neck?”
COUNTEY VISITOR (sadly): “’E don’t ’are
no chain, Arthur. ’E goes about loose,
just the same as you and me.”
rider had promised to look the man up and
get some of his catch. He arrived just in
time to haul his friend on to the rock, where
he became unconscious. He never recovered
from the shock and is to-day in a mental
home.
A DIGGER IN HEAVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A funny old bloke, with a silver zifl',
Peers through the gate at me;
And ’e ses: “Well, Digger, yer luck’s dead stiff,
Fer I've lost the blinkin’ key.”
“(lor’ blime, Uncle!” I cries aloud,
“ ’Ere, give a poor coot a chance
To bunk on a cloud in me flamin’ shroud—
I’d sooner be back in France.”
“I’ve ’eard,” ’e ses, in a squeaky voice,
“Yer discipline’s flamin’ slack;
If yer cut up rough—you can take yer choice —
It’s you fer the cinder track!”
Then ’e lets me in, and a narp ’e brings,
With shinin’ clobber to match,
A shimmy and things, a pair of wings,
A nalo fer me thatch.
Next, mornin’ I’m takin’ a mooch about
On the golden boulevard,
When, all of a sudden, 1 ’ears a shout:
“Eh ! Digger, you’re for guard ;
Parade with yer ’arp at two-fifteen
I n front of St. Peter’s tent;
Kit must be clean, with a golden sheen ;
And don’t get yer ’alo bent!”
And I looked in the sar’n-major’s face,
With its little spiky mo.,
At ’is rows of ribbons sewed in place,
Just as they was below;
All dolled up, like a coot on leave,
Ms red ’air plastered down;
But would yer believe, ’twas not on ’is sleev«
That ’e wore a blinkin’ crown!
I met a Fritzy later on,
That I stonkered in the Line;
A noly light in ’is blue eyes shone,
When ’is ’efty paw gripped mine.
“If you’re quaffin’ nectar,” ’e whispered low,
In a gorgeous marble bar,
“Take the tip of yer foe, and go dead slow,
Or yer won’t know where yer are!”
APPLYING THE ACID.
STRANOER : “I wouldn’t think five
hotels could make a living in a
small town like this.”
INHABITANT: “Well, yer see, Mister,
everybody that visits here never
forgets to shout.”
But we stood ’em up fer the world to see,
Too many times to tell,
And the A.P.M., ’e pinches me,
Fer being A.W.L.
Old Pete, ’e jeers through the open grill:
“Too true, yer discipline’s slack.
You’ve drunk yer fill, as a Digger will—
It’s you fer the cinder track!”
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


CYanogaS
“IT WIPED THEM ALL OUT.”
Cyanogas doesn’t deal only with the surplus rabbits—it kills them all!
You get completely freed from the pest. It does it in a fraction of the
time and at a fraction of the cost of any other method.
Mrs. E. A. Carroll, of Berkeley, Manildra., writing on September S, 1926,
states: “I have no further need for Cyanogas. That which I got from you wiped
out all the rabbits on the place in a remarkably short time. I found it can be
put anywhere with the greatest ease, at very small cost, and in my opinion it is
indispensable to the landowner desirous of completely clearing rabbits off his land.”
Get some Cyanogas quickly and be rid of the nuisance.
Any of the following distributors will give you free advice:—
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. ..A, Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND .. .. Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
SMOKINC
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Yetne” : Cyanide is extremely volatile, and
baits set out in the evening may be eaten
with impunity next morning. Another pecu-
liarity it possesses is that small doses (or
large doses of volatilised quality) set up
a condition of immunity. I have seen a dog
lap up the water in which I washed my
hands after mixing baits. The dish was
promptly upset, but beyond being “haughty,”
with head and tail erect, he showed no evil
consequences and next day ate several baits
without injury. A friend of mine had a pet
cow which became cancerous. He decided
that death by cyanide would be more humane
than by the bullet, and gave her a whole
new tin. She turned up next morning appa-
HEREDITARY.
PARSON: “Your little Johnnie has a great thirst for
knowledge.”
MOTHER : “I suppose it runs in the family. His father’s
got a great thirst, too.”
rently looking for more. She had evidently
had previous experience with worn-out
’possum baits, and had thus become immune.
* * * *
“G.S.M.”: There are some freak appe-
tites out back. I know a boundary-rider who
can get outside two emu eggs, a plate of
porridge and several boiled potatoes. And
it isn’t an unusually large breakfast for him
either. The same chap used to cut a plug
of dark tobacco into four squares, and put
one of the pieces, an ounce weight, in his
mouth for a chew. The remarkable fact was
that he never spat, and his teeth, although
black, were perfectly sound.
* * * *
“Blanc”: In the first half of last century
a party from practically every ship passing
through Torres Strait landed on Booby
Island, placed provisions in a cave, and
entered particulars of their visit in a log-
book kept there. The island was a haven for
shipwrecked sailors of all nations; the cast-
aways, besides eating the food, also made
entries in the book. But presently the natives
began pillaging the stores, and the sanctuary
was shifted to Thursday Island. Does any
Councillor know anything of the present
whereabouts of that intensely interesting log-
book?
* * * *
“Gouger”: In the Gulf Country the
youths and maidens set great store by the
favors of the spirits that dwell in mineral-
ised. waterholes only. These beings, of both
sexes, will never harm youth or maid, and
on those who specially attract them they
bestow a wonderful vitality. Just at the
flush of dawn is the time to gaze into the
depths. When the pink tinge fades from
the water, it is too late. Should the day
be cloudy the spirits will sleep on in the
bottoms of the pools. Should a crow caw
in the trees overhead, the spirits will not
move. The bush must be holding its breath.
Then, and only if a boy or maid be speci-
ally chosen, the spirit will arise and hand
up his favors, lie may even speak a few
soft words, and then the recipient returns
to camp radiant.
* * * *
“X2X”: One phase of human suscepti-
bility to the presence of certain animals is
the ability to tell whether a cat is dost'
handy. I know a man who is of normal
senses in all respects but this. The presence
of a puss has the effect of sending him into
a sort of shivering fit, accompanied by mental
depression. He is unable to offer any ex-
planation of the phenomenon. There is a
well-known Melbourne business man upon
whom the sight of an orange or a lemon
exercises a similar effect. He has been
known to leave the table in an almost
hysterical condition when a plate of oranges
has been carried into the room. Pigs, or
even the cooked head of a pig, also upset
some people in a similar manner. Such
facts suggest that there are regions of the
human mind still to be explored.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : The daddy-longlegs spiders
that spin webs in the ceiling corners of
bedrooms and pantries have some taste.
When an ordinary house-fly is snared, no
time is lost making the cap-
ture secure for the larder; but
let a blowfly get tangled up, and
you’ll see Longlegs making-
lightning strokes to let his vic-
tim loose. It takes some doing,
but the spider never relaxes his
efforts until the blowie is on
the wing again. Then you can
almost hear Longlegs sigh with
relief as he sets to work mend-
ing his trap.
“Larrapinta”: There are few
more destructive pests than
rats about a barn or store.
Here’s a method of shifting
them I’ve never known to fail.
Mix four parts of flour and one
part of castor sugar. Put a
little of this mixture in saucers,
and place them around the
building, each with a tin of
water beside it, and keep every-
thing else of an edible nature
where it can’t be reached. As
fast as the rats eat the mixture,
renew it, and also the water—
for a week. Then replace it
with a mixture composed of
four parts of flour, two of
plaster-of-paris, and one of
castor sugar. The rats, ren-
dered unsuspicious, devour the
stuff and, finding it rather dry,
drink the water —with disas-
trous results. The plaster sets
as hard and solid as a grind-
stone in their stomachs, and
they hurriedly vacate the pre-
mises, to die elsewhere. I
began the use of this method
years ago, and haven’t had any
trouble with them since,
although my sheds are full of
honey and other stuff they are
fond of.
“Bisley”: Between lakes Torrens and
Frome (S.A.) lies an extensive deposit of
red ochre that has been visited by abos. from
time immemorial to obtain supplies of the
pigment for body decorations and paintings.
A curious legend is woven round this spot.
The deposit is believed by the natives to be
the converted blood of a sacred emu killed
by dingoes; consequently the approach to it
is accompanied by ceremonial. On nearing
the hill close to the desired ochre the women
are left behind and the males discarding their
belongings race at full speed in its direction.
On their way they pass a number of large
boulders said to be the petrified forms of the
wild dogs. These they strike and assault
with stones. On reaching the quarry their
beards and hair —grown long for the occa-
sion—are cut off and thrown into the air,
they believing that as each piece alights it
commences to grow as a feather on the spirit
form of the sacred emu. The dilly-bags are
then produced, and for every one filled a stone
is cast with anger at the rocks near by.
’OPES.
’ENRY: “I ’ear Gibbins got a 'andred quid
outer Smithers over ’is dog bitin’ ’ini.”
’ERBERT: “ Yairs. I'm gonna send me ole
woman over to Smithers’s place to-night
to borrer a book.”
“F.R.T.”: Digger, a cross-bred fox-terrier,
and his master had been cobbers. The old
chap died soon after having his portrait
painted—about three months ago. When
after his death the picture arrived from the
studio it was hung in the living-room of the
old home. The next evening Digger was sit-
ting with the family by the fire when he
spotted the picture and got up to look at it. He
stayed in that position for fully five minutes,
and then rushed round and tried to jump
to it. He did not understand why he could
not scent his master, but sniffed all round
the room, and then sidled to the door with
his eyes still on the picture. He ran to his
master’s room and smelt all round there,
then returned to the living-room and had
another look. Next day he went through
much the same performance. Now Digger
is content to sit and stare at the fire. and.
perhaps, wonder.
“Rizzle”: The pigs that range wild along
the De Grey River (N.-W. Australia) have
not deteriorated during the 60 or 70 years
of tlle i r revolt
against dome s-
t i c i t y—at any
rate, to any notice-
able extent, for
they are very good
eating, and have
maintained type to
a surprising ex-
tent. Numerous as
they are, one won-
ders why they have
not been extermi-
nated by the
natives. Chief-In-
spector Craig, of
the W.A. Rabbit
Department, says
that in his experi-
ence he has never
known a nigger to
go within eoo-ee of
wild pig. Wild
goats are also so
plentiful in this
territory that last
year one hunter
sent away 1799
skins as a result
of a few months’
activity with the
rifle.
“Alastor”: English ring-necked pheasants
have been added to the bird-life of the Dar-
ling Downs (Q.). A couple of years back a
few of the birds were sent out there by
Rodney Tree. Now there are over 40, and
several of them have been released on Tree’s
farm; so S.Q. may become a pheasant para-
dise one of these days.
* * * *
“Bourri”: There cropped up in the course
of my work the other day the word “asli-
inagandy,” or “hash-
magandy,” or any of
the dozen alternative
spellings supplied by
unreliable authorities.
No two agreed, and,
strange to say, the big
meat cos. and veteri-
narians, who use the
word regularly, could
offer no real help.
Webster’s and the
Oxford dictionary are
mute upon the sub-
jest. Is it one of
those rare words
spoken but never
written, or is it slang
only? Has it a cor-
rect spelling, and what is it derived from?
* * * *
“Eureka” : Here are some backblock remedies
provided by the common gum-leaf and recom-
mended by various bushmen. Sleep on a
bed of the leaves and you will be cured
of rheumatism. If the ground is wet, making
it impossible to find a dry spot, sleep on
gum-leaves and you need have no fear of
contracting colds, rheumatism, lumbago, etc.
Inhale the smoke of burning green gum-
leaves for catarrh, and the fumes of the
boiled young tips to break up a cold or
influenza; chew a leaf and swallow the juice
for a sore throat, and drink a brew of
boiled dry gum-leaves for diabetes.
“E.C.”: As I have found a very good
remedy for pain from contact with the sting-
ing-tree, I pass it on. It is very strong
iodine. I got stung on the arm and back
of the hand one day, and, having a bottle
of this drug in my pocket, poured some of
it over the affected part and rubbed it well
in. I have not felt any; pain in the arm
since. The thumb on my right hand must
also have come in contact with a leaf, as
when washing my hands that night the
thumb throbbed. I put some iodine on it,
too, but, as a few hours had elapsed since it
had been stung, the stuff did not give instant
relief, though all pain had gone by the end
of a week.
* * * *
“Ajax”: What is an outside in land rats?
A boy at Westbrook (N.S.W.) caught one
believed there to be a record in size. It mea-
sured 12in. from the tip of the nose to the
butt of the tail. The latter was llin. long
and tipped with a large wdiite brush.
“Mullarula”: Why do some of the most
beautiful places in Australia bear names
whose ugliness could hardly be beaten? Just
outside Newcastle’s suburban area, and with-
in half an hour’s walk of a tram terminus,
is one of the most charming winding valleys
in the N. S. Wales coastal area. (Surrounded
by wooded hills, it is as completely unspoilt
as if there were not a human dwelling place
within 50 miles. With its steep sides
clothed in vivid green, its bed filled with wild
flowers and ferns, from which giant trees soar
upwards, the valley winds down from its
timbered hills to a beautiful beach. I once
heard one of the few people who have taken
the trouble to visit the place describe it as
“a pocket paradise.” And the name of it is
Murdering Gully. Apparently its godfather
HABIT.
“Seems in a hurry to get there, eh, Lofty?”
“Oh, no, he's one of those Sydney ferry passengers.”
thought that it would bo a nice picturesque
place for a spot marked X, and named it
accordingly. But its name won’t matter
much in future. A sewage farm by any
name would smell as sweet, and Murdering
Gully has been condemned to that fate within
the next few years.
DAD’S OLD BOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The books on my shelf stand straight and bold,
Arranged with the utmost care;
And stately volumes in green and gold,
The tales that Homer or Virgil told,
Are all in their places there.
But one there is with its back split down,
And it boasts no printed page.
It’s written in ink that’s faded brown,
And bears the name of a long-dead town,
And it’s yellow and crumpled with age.
Its pages tell of the early times
When the settlers’ axes rung—
Tell in rough-hewn verse, or the ringing rhymes
That Kendall wrote to the bellbird’s chimes,
Or a song that Lawson sung.
On many a leaf is pasted in
The tale of some maiden’s charms,
A battered copy of “Gunga Din,”
Or something cut from The Bulletin
When I was a kid in arms.
And last of all there’s a lengthy row
Of names with a list of dates—
Strange names that none of us seem to know,
Old cobbers of Dad’s long years ago
When he and the world were mates.
The dates were written to mark the years
When those old mates went to rest;
And now Dad’s name with a date appears—
I’ve closed the list on the page of tears;
For he’s joined the camp out west.
VICTOIIIA,
E. F. MURNANE.


) r p9sn
>O OOO2
From Virgin Forests to Glistenin
performed by the hundreds of associati
the huge quantities of raw material
fargest of its kind in the British Empi
influence on the tnousands of good A


teSF
J
nmiwum.Jmml
Tit
K-
With
/JHWJJIt
-
Sr*
n
'W
o
t
r
I
s>
u
52=
MU*
lu HOLDEN BODY ID
: —: f N
///^
|i y;/ 'r/- ■"■' ■
faked up \rtth the
titj ofjtfusfraUa.
OO -fait (lustexium lUttilKi'
foumcdUj -Ux JfkAdws Bodlar
»
//
HOcOfUC
*OfU<s€
Aoru»foc
° dt-akjp
1
KOIPFNC Xo<|ofe N r
apsumos*
<dofc«»ioe
/*J«
WOtPC.i 0
**ol*4 «*>»» HV»» *U*
z
n%« n»* n«f«<
ing Bodies—right through the long chain of operations
ated industries actively engaged in supplying and handling
1 the Motor-body Building Industry of Holden’s—the
lpire outside Canada—exercises a beneficial and financial
Australian workmen.
Holden’s require 7,000,000 feet of Timber annually
from the forests of Australia for conversion by highly
ingenious methods into worthy Australian products.
Specify a Holden body and thus assist these Australian
industries which give employment to thousands of
skilled Australian workers.
Holden’s as a National Asset.
Annual Wages Bill - -
Annual Freight Paid -
Value of Output - - -
Number of Employees
Number of employees
in associated indus-
tries providing raw
materials for
Holden’s (est.) - - -
Present Annual Out-
put (Bodies) - - - -
£650,000
£lOO,OOO
£2,250,000
2,600
10,000
40,000
HOLDENS MOTOR BOOT BUILDERS L !
TO
MoKupactof ITtotbr Bodicr
Head Office « "n't ain Works' .
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE . S.A
BrauMsUAPi-Wb&cUAiLe., YWsiLLroujc*uu, StfcLujuf. EMLslkxhji,


Under
Royal
AMirrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CMdleidsieck
&SIMS •
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'-taiiesHeidsieo^
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
mrmm
i as a
he Hotel
For Reservations ring 8W1361.
Wentworth Cafe
The name stands for Perfection
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A superb Dinner from 7.30 p.m. served with Continental finish, 217-
Supper from 8.30, 12/6 —an after-theatre specialty. The Cali
Complete Cabaret, including Miss Marie Crowther,
premiere danseuse, Mile. Koslova, Ivan Gorski and the
Famous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast of
entertainment —at no extra cost.
AFTERNOON TEAS—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION,
from B.SO daily.
Order all wines before 6 p.m.
tsasr
Thf cen/ne of Queens/anc/$
Wi Soc/a/ Life.
ennom
Wottl
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines,
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
««nrWmo y^- and lle °P enin S of the A.J.C.
tu ln l coincided ’ and Randwick was
- mil ? ,° f lambs who came tq
?“ be n ia a 1 tlu l lr fi ne array. The tote sec-
X!- . Hi® exclusive area underneath the
wu!i bec ame something like a
Sha nf ; i, her a ° ne wom an had the georgette
mnlir,o f nl dress , polled off. Boucicault,
“ g lk ? a crushed fly, emerged from the
serum and the butterfly on the heel of a
silk stocking was seen to run. In the
scramble to and from the stands gentlemen
pi eferred blondes, judging by the havoc
wrought by trampling feet on fair-com-
plexioned shoes and hose.
Beauty in evidence was only f.a.q., one
ot the exceptions being Judge Rolin’s hand-
some lady, in champagne lace covered by a
satin coat in the same hue. A wide-brimmed
hat, austerely trimmed with a porcelain
ornament, finished her outfit. The flower-
patterned ninons and silks that are so gay
and alluring in a room cannot stand the
test ot free light and fresh air. They get
a bedspready look that becomes deplorable
in a cape effect. Capes were flown by tall
and short, the fat and the fasting. They
are often finely pleated, and mostly hang
from yokes ; but the best result is got from
those of tailored cut that depends not from
yoke or on pleatings. One of the prettiest
cape ensembles seen on Saturday was
of sand georgette, the kilted cape fly-
ing back to display a Chinese dragon of
many colors embroidered on the frock’s front
panel; a shoulder knot of the new feather
flowers was the finishing touch. William
Tell’s daughter, grown up, put in an appear-
ance, the historic apple, very rosy and erect,
standing out above the front of her Bally-
buntal straw.
Sir Evelyn Cecil’s lady and daughter Mar-
garet were piloted by a noted Victoria Leaguer,
and were duly gathered into the vice-regal
fold. Here Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair,
her Ex. shining like an amethyst, held
court. In a place of honor sat the Sam
Horderns, the knightess very smart in navv,
which has swung back to high favor; and
airman Geoffrey Hughes, witii Mrs. Hughes
in fawns and greens like a Morris decora-
tion. The Chief Justice Streets, Elaine de
Chair and Nancy Marsden were also comers
and goers about the brass-bound pews;
Elaine, in cherrys and greens that chanted
of the season, while Nancy drew a black taf-
feta coat about grey georgettes.
Mrs. John McKelvey wore something dif-
ferent ; a coat of darned filet-net, like
the groundwork of the samplers of grand-
mother’s day, though there the resemblance
ended. It was darned in cream wool and
embroidered in a design of cherry and yel-
low. The Knox lady mingled cornflower-
blue and black. Helen and Philippa Stephen
came up even as flowers in nosegay-patterned
ninons; Princess Melikoff allied chinchilla
to grey georgettes ; a hedge of ospreys circled
the crown of Mrs. Albert Littlejohn’s top-
dressing; and none but the Best People ate
a snack at Mrs. A. J. Warry’s lunch.
Sydney doesn’t wait for the A.J.C. baton
before bursting into its race-week paean. The
dizzy whirl started last Friday night, when
there wasn’t a dancing floor in Sydney to
£Hie Rose Bay Golf Club a group
of bachelors (real and grass) made merry,
and maid, matron and widow (grass and
real) came to their party in a glory never
rivalled by Soloknon. Only the very bloom
of Sydney society was dusted on this frivol’s
cheek. A ball held the floor at the Ambas-
sadors in the interests of Sydney Hospital
on the same night.
One of the sensations of race week was
the opening of the new Wentworth ballroom.
The Palm Court is now no more, and an
expanse of polished floor extends where once
were Pompeiian tiles and towering palms.
A series of archways leads from one room
to another, and amethystine lighting and
decorations give an almost Vatican-like
touch, appropriate enough when you con-
sider the ecclesiastical surroundings of the
Church Hill hotel. Santrey’s band, in which
the exuberant and virile brasses are calmed
by the plaintive; sensuousness of stringed in-
struments, played with an irresistible beat
and rhythm from eleven till three at the new
room’s debut.
October the first brought in Rose Day
which is the pretty name that hides the
- thorn in the yearly- give-and-take for the
United Charities Fund. There was an air
of _ brisk elation about the takers on last
Friday that boded ill for any giver of frugal
mind. Martin-place was a carnival of sound
and color, where anything from cultured
pearls to flypapers could be bought or won
from an avenue of chocolate-wheels. His
State Ex. made the speech of the day, and
artist Norman Carter judged the stalls. The
final reckoning is expected to reach over
£lO,OOO.
William Wickham Millner, better known
to his Water Board friends as “Billy,” be-
stowed his worldly goods, with his famous
sipile, on Helen Sutherland Craig at her
parish church, St. Giles’s, Greenwich, one
night last week. The popularity of the
bride, who was enveloped in white georgette,
tulle and lace, was testified to by the crowded
little edifice. Her tiny sister Amy, in a tur-
quoise pompadour sprigged and frilled frock,
proudly held up big sister’s lace train, and
two other sisters and bridegroom’s niece
were a pretty schoolgirl trio of bridesmaids.
Mr. and Mrs. William Craig, the bride’s
parents, entertained afterwards at their
home. The bridegroom is the third son of
W. J. Millner, ex-president of the Metro-
politan Water Board, and while in his teens
served with the engineers in France.
The red and white of Rose Bay Convent
fluttered gaily up St. Mary’s the other night.
An old pupil, Estelle McDermott, had the
pretty notion of combining them in the color
scheme of her wedding group. Like a little
white dove the bride floated up the aisle on
father’s arm, her full skirts of tulle ruffling
like snowy feathers. Ropes of pearls that
moored the fragile frock to the girlish arms,
and finally ended in bracelets of pearls and
diaments, and a train of tulle that spread
into a fan of pearls, gave a touch of the
Orient. A veil of great price and Limerick
mesh was a crowning glory. Four ’maids
and two train-bearers, who mingled lacquer-
red chiffons and lilies-of-the-valley effectively,
were in the picture, as also was the bride-
groom, John (“Bud”) Macken, son of Mrs.
E. G. Ward, of Hampton Court —they belong
to the Mark Foy clan. The ’groom’s cousin,
Neil Smith, best-manned. One of the four
groomsmen was the ill-starred Noel
Meagher. He had come from Wyalong to be
a wedding guest, but found death by acci-
dent lurking for him in the garden of the
bride’s home, Ormond House, at Vaucluse,
even while the wedding celebrations were in
full swing.
This is a picture of Nancy Marsden, the
attractive sing-
ing girl who
is related to
half of Syd-
ney’s best-
known fami-
lies. Nancy is
to sing the
soprano part
of Elsie in the
Phi lharmonic
production of
“T h e Golden
Eegend” on
October 27 in
the Town
Hall; the
music became
familiar to her
when she was
studying i n
Paris. The
contralto i n
the same pro-
duction will be Katherine Poyntz.
A thousand pounds from a dinner-dance
is surely a record. Yet the committee for
the dance-while-you-eat at the Ambassa-
dors, in aid of St. Vincent’s, expects to
have that amount when the cash-register
is cleared. Over £2OO was raised through
the programme advertising alone. The whole
vice-regal family went to this party, her Ex.
in the moss-green velvets of which she is
so fond. A swirl of georgettes encompassed
daughter Elaine; and green velvet raiment
enfolded Mayoress Cecilia Walsh. Major
Lloyd and the tall Captain Penfold were
the guardians of vice-royalty. The surgeon
MacCormick couple, she in black and silver
of austere though handsome design, were of
the party. Five pretty debs., piloted through
the social seas by Mrs. Trefle, in mauve and
silver, bowed their prettiest to Sir Dudley
and his lady. Surgeon McKelvey’s wife was
gladsome and glittersome in georgettes that
suggested a mixture of the bottles in a
chemist’s window. Black lace, rich in weave
and expensive in cut, draped Mrs. John
Maguey. Doreen and Audrey Hordern were
among the -700 dancers, as were Mrs. A. E.
Hughes and Mrs. Bertie Watson, and Mrs.
John Tansey allied the closest crop in the
room to a green frock so crystallised it posi-
tively clanked.
lan Campbell Marsh, of Tumut, was the
young man who, under close cross-question-
ing from the Reverend Rix, admitted that
he was on the premises of St. James’s for a
specific purpose—the taking of Marcia Bad-
gery, of Roseville, to wife. Marcia, com-
pletely arrayed in- white-embroidered moires
and a Honiton-lace veil, seemed almost pre-
pared for this revelation, and added a pleas-
ing bit of dialogue to the three-cornered con-
versation at the altar-rails. Later, sup-
ported by her mother, in sable georgettes
sibilant with beads, and two bridesmaids, all
jade-green and silver, she received congratu-
lations at the Ambassadors.
Here’s a pretty lady who is the head of
a group of girls who literally train their
poorer sisters
to walk in up-
right ways.
She is Mrs.
Ken Burrow
(her husband
is connected
with the
Fisher Library
at the Uni.),
and since her
undergrad.
days she has
been an en-
thusiast among
the Uni.
women’s set-
tlement - work-
ers. Before
her marriage
Mrs. Burrow
qualified as a
teacher of
physical cul-
ture, so it is
the spine and bearing of poor kiddies that
call out her deepest interest. One sees life
from one’s backbone, she declares, and an
inferiority complex cannot live in the same
body as an erect spine and a fearless car-
riage. Mrs. Ken should know, because her
work takes her among the orphanages of
city and suburbs. Her special charge is
the girls of St. Martha’s Home, whose dis-
play of physical exercises and rhythms a
few weeks ago presented a group of young
Australians with the grace and bearing of
princesses. May Moore made the picture.
The Lawn Tennis Association’s cheerio
at the Palais bounced into happiness
straightway. The star item of the crowded
night was the crowning of the tennis
“queen”; the Ariel who plucked the starry
diadem was named Still. Swaddled in
ermine and velvets, she was gallantly con-
voyed under an arch of racquets to where
the Peach of the L.T.A., disguised as a
bishop, waited to crown her. Later, discard-
ing his pontificals, he took his presidential
chair beside Mrs. Peach and was wrapped
in that obscurity that engulfs the greatest.
The “queen” competition added £230 to the
funds, the first girl beating the runner-up,
Daphne Akhurst, by over 10,000 votes.
Daphne, however, bore up well, supported
by delphinium-toned georgettes tinkling with
crystal encrustments. Sports girls, a poster
pageant and impressive White City beefeaters
like G. 11. McElhone, Henry Marsh, G. G.
Tremlett and W. Armstrong were among
the night’s constellations.
Readers who depend on the Bush Book
Club for their literature will find the out-
back mail a thing of infinite variety for a
long time to come. The yearly reception at
the club headquarters in Castlereagh-street
resulted in a rake-in of 1292 books and 922
magazines. Among the stream of callers
was Lady de Chair, who was laden with
offerings.
The P.A.H. committee has booked the
Wentworth for a ball to-morrow night, and
it is expected that both new ballroom (the
Palm Court extension) and old will be over-
flowing. The October bride competition will
be represented by a concourse of charmers.
Shipping-knight Owen Cox is to give the
final accolade, and his guests will be the
G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven.
Horsehair and silk weren’t the only fancy
costumes in King-street on a warm after-
noon last week. St. James’s, next door to
the Supreme Court, displayed a line of
mercery that caused tram- and taxi-rider
to crane the neck. It was the horizon-blue
adorning the guard of honor drawn up to
receive Flying-Officer William James Dun-
can, of Rabaul, and his bride, who, before
succumbing to the cooing notes of Padre
Russell and a fleet of choristers, had been
Mollie Devlin, of the Commercial Bank,
Richmond. A notable feature amid the
gleaming wash of satin and tulle that
frothed about the bride was the delicately
wrought old-silver filigree holder which
held her sheaf of red roses. Nell Charley,
camouflaged as a pink rose, ’maided. After
the pictorial tableau under the beautifully-
seasoned copper spire of St. James’s, every-
body drank a dish of tea at the expense
of the bride’s parents within the one-time
splendor that was the Burdekin home.
There was joy in the ship as she burrowed
deeper within her awnings, but the Marella
herself curled her nose and barked de-
rision at a city whose climate is classed as
temperate. The Marella is used to the
warm, velvet nights of the tropics. She
earns bread and butter for Burns-Philp by
trading to and from the lands where the
breadfruit rises under a yeasty, sultry moon;
and when in last Thursday’s icy blast she
was asked to stay up all night to provide
jazz room for those who danced in the
interests of Tressillian, the mothercraft
training-home at Petersham, she felt there
was something wrong with her world. So
did the Chinese stewards who stood about
the saloon, as aloof as Thibetan lamas.
Rumor had it they had struck, but probably
they were only struck dumb by the amazing
way the foreign devils set about enjoying
themselves. However, in spite of a wind that
blew straight off the Antarctic, the thousand
and one who had paid to come to the party
turned up. As the ship accommodates about
500, the dance was what the charity organ-
iser calls “a great success.” The guest of
the evening was Dr. Margaret Harper, and
in evidence on the crowded gangways were
Isabel Fraser, flying a knutty brocade dinner-
jacket over a frock of turquoise-blue geor-
gette pleatings, and Alison MacCulloch in the
glitter of gold lace. Other active members
of the committee were Mrs. Stanley Patrick
and the J. L. McCreadie and R. Longworth
ladies.
W hite lilies, the Voice that Breathed,
Padre Micklem and hoary St. James’s were
ingredients that formed a spectacular back-
ground for Doris Campbell’s pearl-encrusted
georgettes last Thursday night, when she
married Dr. E. S. Milgrove, of Croydon.
The bridal train was long and sinuous and
held the sparkle of silver in its georgette
depths ; the veil was white tulle ; the flowers
orchids and lilies-of-the-valley. Bride’s sis-
ter, Mrs. Merle Griffiths, aiid Edna Read
followed the leading lady in golden raiment,
and two tiny trainbearers added daffodil hues
to the procession. Bride’s brother Jack best-
manned ; the bridegroom was supported by
brother John. There was a tremendous rally
later at the Australia, where the bride’s
parents entertained on the generous scale
that is associated with the name of the
Goorianawa Campbells.
Miss Brisbane’s cheerful annals:—
Polly’s past has been fully investigated at His
Majesty’s by the Brisbane public, and satisfied on
that score the populace now goes to see “The
Last of Mrs. Chaney’’ in increasing numbers. At
the Exhibition Percy Grainger was closely followed
by Backhaus. For the first of the latter’s concerts,
his ’Gaiters Lefanu was amongst the throng, also
the P. J. Symeses, M, L, Readings, Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, Mrs. Alan Jeffray, and a lot of the
girls from All Hallows’ and the Moreton Bay High
School.
The all-Australian dancing competition at the Cry-
stal Palace has worked off its second heat. The
last of it will be on October 28. Fred Homer, as
a Jazz Baby, won the first prize for fancy dress
amongst the men.
Max Aronsen and Jack Ellis had a recital in the
Albert Hall before a big crowd. The young bari-
tone has a very fine voice and clear enunciation,
and Jack Ellis, the pianist, is a local product to
be proud of. Bobby Kaye accompanied, and Nance
King sopranoed. Both youngsters had a number
of gifts sent up, and the soprano got sheaves of
vegetable tributes.
Pretty Doris Waraker, whose name signs many
charming contributions to newspapers and magazines,
has pledged herself to Louis Townsend of the
Herald staff. He was until recently on the Bris-
bane Mail.
Dr. F. W. Robinson lectured on “The Problem
of the Sonnets” and on “The Voice of Shakspeare”
before the members of the Shakspeare Society. He
objected to Clemence Dane’s “Will Shakspeare” on
the ground that the personality of the poet ought
to be regarded as sacrosanct. Recitations from the
sonnets were given by Jean Trundle, Estelle Dent
and Edith Rowett, while Nell Douglas-Graham con-
tributed from Clemence .Dane’s book.
Emmie Stewart arranged the Myosotis dance, in
Vaughan’s. Silver vases of Iceland poppies and
lotus-yellow shades dressed up the cafe. Emmie
Stewart wore blue, with touches of silver and coral.
Mrs. Dennis O’Connor and Mrs. McCafferty had a
benefit afternoon at Lennon’s for the Sisters of
Charity at Ashgrove. Gumtips and gerberas deco-
rated the ballroom, where bridge and mah jongg
were played. A musical programme was given by
Edna Ryan, Kitty Connors, Tiny Brosnan, Moya
Glassey, Fred Homer and Virgil King. Mrs. O’Con-
nor wore fuchsia crepe de Chine; Mrs. McCafferty
coral-pink georgette.
White lilies dressed up St. Augustine’s, Hamilton,
for the marriage of Stephen Campbell-Wilson to
Doris Turton. The bride was in ivory satin, with
a Limerick-lace veil. Jean McNeven, in turquoise,
’maided, and Dulcie McNeven, in pale pink, with a
basket of roses and sweet-pea, was trainbearer. L.
Gillespie best-manned. Etta Young had made the
handsome three-tier cake, which was cut, in a
setting of pink tulle and blossomry, at the Country
Press Cafe.
Mrs Herring was hostess at a luncheon given to
Mrs. Tawse Jollie, at the Women’s Club. Mary
Galway had a party at Lennon’s on Wednesday
night, and the Hamilton football club had a dance
in the Town Hall to celebrate a victory, and to
present the medals and trophies won during the year.
Brisbane is preparing for the summer by a vigor-
ous pursuit of the arriving mosquito and a cam-
paign of di-aining swamps. Dr. Hamlyn Harris
addressed the Constitutional Club on the wicked ways
of the little pest this week. As a pleasanter sema-
phore to summer days, the first jacarandas are in
bloom, and there is a golden glory on the finials of
the silky-oak.


jt]£
PERFECT
SOLE
J° r
every purpose,
i M j&k
f
!h
"A
'V’j
fen
,■4*
«=?
iW
friit
:-^L f -
<3*
:l I
m
$
i
m
A
v .£
.fr^'<>*>'
teg
;%a
m
'Choose the Shoes
the Champions use/
season wear this better kind of Footwear; Shoes or Boots, with the
1 Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber Sole. Plantation Crepe is pure rubber
gristle that grips the ground and wears longer than leather. And it is
tougher and more flexible than the old-style rubber sole.
TENNIS Stars, Golf Champions, Cricketers
and Bowlers everywhere have adopted
Crepe Rubber Soled Footwear. You, too,
will be delighted with the wonderful im-
provement that you will find in grip,
comfort and durability when you wear shoes
or boots with Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber
Soles.
M 1
[LLE. LENGLEN writes: —“I must tell
you how much I appreciate your Crepe
Rubber Shoes. They are very light and give
a perfect grip. In my own opinion they are
the finest I have ever used.”
Others write in equally glowing terms.
PursPlazit&tion
6
St H
TT OR any kind of sport, or seaside wear, buy Crepe-Soled Shoes or
I For everyday wear, also, there is greater comfort and longer wea
tough, resilient Crepe Rubber Sole,
Ask any Shoe Retailer for Shoes or Boots
with Soles of Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber.
Boots.
* in the
Inserted by The Rubber Growers’
Association, Collins Rouse, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Prince of Wales said
at nlwri%/s
I always wear
Crepe Soles for
For
Golf:
Waterproof, give perfect
stance and do not tear the
turf.
For
Cricket:
More resilient than leather
soles with studs, yet do not
slip.
For Holiday
and Street Wear:
More comfortable, and
smarter, because “Natural
Crepe keeps its shape.”


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining S5O, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tuos., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6 ; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Older all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
Swallows Adieu's
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Vour Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
B®S»
m
iBSWrV
Si
a,
I ID NtT WtICHT
SQ«
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to knovv. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
-T EM'PLE DAYRELE REED. Will
1 Temple Dayrell Reed, formerly of Kaim-
killenbun, near Dalby, Farmer, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, kindly
communicate with D. J. O’MARA &
ROBINSON, Solicitors, comer Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chaţer
Buckley's
Elisa bethan
The Rooms
A lot of red was worn at tlie V.R.C.
October meeting at Flemington on Satur-
day, the danger color being flashed from
frock, hat, umbrella and bag. The world
and his wife who went a-punting saw an-
other sort of red as favorite after favorite
became an also-ran. The omen-seekers might
have benefited by the popularity of the vivid
hue as a tip to back Red Sea in the last
race, a 33-to-l shot, but few seem to have
thought of it. The day was warm, with a
breeze that scattered the hop-like early foli-
age of the elms in confetti-like showers.
The cape-costume was prominent, and there
was a regular outbreak of navy, which usually
had a leavening of white and a dash of red
in leather pochette or parasol. One smart
example had a scalloped cape lined with
cherry tone. Hats on view suggested that
the Eiffel-tower headpiece is going to reign
with the wide-leafed crinoline picture hat,
banded with velvet, as a friendly rival. The
way of it is that the tall millinery accom-
panies the tailored suit of all styles, and the
large hat goes with the lacy and filmy dresses
of warm-weatlier outings. Mrs. Chauvel,
who was along with her soldier husband,
adopted the course of most comfort by hav-
ing a black drooping hat shading a frock of
figured georgette whose chief colors ran to
black and green. The Frank Clarke lady
was a poem in an ensemble suit and hat of
sweet-pea mauve hue. Mrs. Percy Black-
burn’s jumper suit and large hat were of
matched beige. The German Consul’s wife,
Mrs. Busing, held her red morocco bag
against an all-navy turn-out. Mrs. Rupert
Downes cast a glow with her scarlet frock
and sunshade, her hat being black. Mrs.
Barry Thompson was nice in an all-lilac
get-up. The Neil Lawrance couple, Mrs. W.
.T. T. Clarke and Wilma, the Ben Cliaffeys,
the Richard Lintons and some other usual
patrons were around.
Knight Robert Garran, after the first
performance in Australia of Gustav Holst’s
opera “Savitri,” at the Playhouse, took the
stage and poured thanks on those connected
with the production, beginning with Mrs.
Jimmy Dyer, who was the main instigator of
the show. He didn’t mention, however —
probably because he didn’t know—that when
Holst, in London, received Mrs. Jimmy’s
cable asking for permission to produce the
opera, and for the full score he had less
than 24 hours in which to fix up the music
and mail it. Had he not bestirred himself
nimbly, the thing couldn’t have been done
here under Clive Carey’s direction. The
little theatre, which was crowded at a
guinea a seat, was festooned with colored
lights and greenery. Canterbury bells and
irises picked out the line of boxes, and
creeping roses and wistaria bordered the
gallery front. The Oriental atmosphere of
the opera was exhaled by sweets- and flower-
sellers in Asiatic attire. Madame Goossens-
Viceroy, in the title-role, swathed swarthy
charms in draperies of cyclamen and gold
braid. Norman Bennett as her husband,
Satyavan, contrasted a green turban with
a white garb. Death was impersonated by
Clive Carey in the robes of a rajah—silver
and green with flowing cloak and jewelled
turban —seen in the ray of a ghastly spot-
light. A hidden chorus, and instruments
whose strains strayed around and about the
singers’ themes, provided a ; sort of accom-
paniment. Flowers were harided up in large
quantities at the end. The programme also
contained a pastoral trifle, with songs by
Purcell. Dorothy Back, who teaches sing-
ing in Adelaide, was the Phyllis, and made
a most attractive Watteau shepherdess in
attire of white tulle-pink rosebuds, pink taf-
fetas and panniers of painted chiffon, with a
fetching bit of decorative millinery upon her
white curls. Nymphs in filmy draperies of
rainbow hue, and other dancers in autumn
tones, gave color to the opening scene.
The Musical Society’s programme at the
Assembly Hall on Saturday night included
songs from Tennyson’s “Princess” arranged
by Gustav Holst, to which the Cecilia choir,
under conductor Minnie C. Bull, gave voice
with good results. Madame Gregor Wood, a
contralto who makes a distinguished figure
on our concert platform, sang some Biblical
songs by Dvorak and was encored. The
British Music Society’s quartette, headed by
Alberto Zclman, presented some Beethoven ;
and Gertrude Carruthers, with Harold Rod-
gers at the piano played a Grieg violin
sonata. Gertrude and Biddy Healy were
associated in a similar work by Haydn.
Minnie Bull’s playing of the C sharp minor
Scherzo of Chopin earned much approval.
The show for the Free Kindergarten
Union, held at His Majesty’s on a recent
afternoon, not only was graced by the pres-
ence of the Governor’s wife but bore the
title of “The Lady Somers Matinee.”
J.C.W. and Carroll artists supplied the bulk
of the entertainment. A scene from “Is Zat
So?” and an act of “Nothing but Lies” were
the principal concerted offerings, and there
were excellent turns from the Tivoli. Marie
Burke, whose black hair appeared over a
powder-blue ensemble suit, sang solos, and,
with Claude Flemming, duets from “Katja.”
Thurza Rogers and her partner, Robert
Lascelles, got a great reception for their
graceful dancing. Tenor Walter Kirby, who
was accompanied by Edith Harrliy at the
piano, was another professional who gave of
his best and earned tbe cartload of flowers
passed up by admiring friends and relatives.
It’s a long time since Melbourne saw such
a pretty sight as the classic ballet of child-
ren, who recalled, in their interlude “Les
Sylphides,” memories of Genee and Pav-
lova. All white tulle and satin, they
tripped and posed fascinatingly. Jennie
Brenan’s school of dancing produced a
dozen of the younger set, who tripped into
favor in a ballet, “What Could Be Sweeter
Than You?” The query was raised by Gus
Bluett, who capered with maidens whose
frocks just missed being backless, and whose
skirts were piles of petal flounces of vary-
ing shades of pink. Betty Fairbairn,
daughter of the late Charles Fairbairn
couple, undertook the duties of lion, ticket
secretary.
The four Victorian hunt clubs combined
in a meet on* Saturday night, but the horses
were left in their snug loose-boxes, while
their masters and mistresses sang hunting
songs in the new reception-room at Menzies’
and consumed the dinner which marks the
close of the season. About 150 took seats at
tables garnished with miniature huntsmen
flying over green hurdles, scattered among
groupings of pink carnations. There were
many cheery toasts and equally cheery
speeches. The pink coats of the men gave
the scene a flavor of its own, though the
pretty frocks of the women would have shone
more lustrously, perhaps, against the foil of
customary solemn black. Fairlie Lyon wore
the most remarkable bit of finery, her frock
of sunset hue bearing hunting scenes.
Rose Quong, the talented Chino-Australian
actress whose recitations were often heard
with real plea-
sure in Mel-
bourne and
Sydney three
or four years
ago, took a
p r o minent
part in the
American play
“Martinique,”
recently pro-
duced at the
S h a ftesbury
Theatre in
London by
the Venturers’
Society. The
piece is a
m e 1 odramatic
comedy of
French - colo-
nial life in the
West Indies.
The lead was
taken by the
beautiful —some people say superb—Gwen
Ffrangcon Davies; the clever Victorian-born
girl of a Chinese father was a maid in the
haughty household, and Agnes Murphy, who
was present, says Rose made more of the
part than seemed possible. Her voice, heard
alongside others that are regarded as fine,
was conspicuously beautiful.
The cosmopolitan character of the Alliance
Frangaise was demonstrated once again when
Belgians, Russians, Armenians, Italians,
Chinese, Frenchmen and a lot of Austra-
lians sat around the embroidered dinner-mats
at Cockerton’s Cafe to say good-bye to Pierre
Herry, who has secretaried the A.F. for the
past four years, and who severed these ties
on going to join a commercial house in
Sydney. Rene Vanderkelen, the Belgian
Consul, gave the toast of the departing secre-
tary in French, and M. Herry replied
accordingly; but the company sang the usual
chorus in English—it’s one of the things they
don’t do better in France. Mrs. Jimmy Dyer,
who was unable to be present, had a special
gathering at Kinnoull to say good luck and
au revoir , at which a gold wristlet-watch
was handed to M. Ilerry. The Alliance’s
affair was attended by almost a hundred, who
danced after dinner. Lesley Merrick was
there with a couple of mammoth bronze roses
upon coral-pink apparel; Madame Mortill’s
silver robe had punctuation of pink marabout;
Enid Neate, just back from Noumea, sported
an Eton crop above a gown that was of
dark amber hue. Mrs. Tonge and daughters
rhyllis and Lynette were noticed; also
Madame Vanderkelen, Olive Davies, who
secretaries at the French Consulate, Eulalie
and Yvonne Herry and Mrs. Oeui, wife of
the Chinese Consul, who looked scarcely at
home in the knee-length evening frock of
the West.
Members of the Phil, were glad to get
back their secretary, R. J. Oehr, who has
been holiday-making, and said so with coffee
and melody. The chairman of the committee,
S. T. Ellis, the handled Aaron Danks and con-
ductor Alberto Zelman went further, and put
it into words. The guest of honor, who
has guarded the Phil, interests for 21
years, told of what he had seen and heard
in the musical world abroad. Mrs. Zelman,
Mrs. Fincham, Mr. Duncan and C. IJ. Book
provided music.
Rose A. Walker (in private life Mrs. G.
Hartrick) is one of Melbourne’s well-known
painters, and
stands high
among the
water-colorists
of the Garden
City. A. T.
Wood ward,
wh o pitched
his tent in
Bendigo when
he came from
overseas with
his friend Pro-
fessor Laver,
was the lady’s
first teacher;
she hails from
the country
town. Later
Max Meldrum
gave her some
lessons, but her
work shows
little trace of
M e ldrumism.
Mrs. Hartrick was an exhibitor at the
“Twenty Melbourne Painters’ Exhibition,”
and little red spots were added to many of her
offerings. Lately Margaret McLean’s studio
housed a collection of Mrs. Hartrick’s
pictures.
Doctor Fleming Dunstan’s dainty wife
piloted a cabaret dance at Anzac House to
help the Blinded Soldiers’ Social Club. The
convener, prettily garbed in dawn-pink taf-
fetas and georgette, was buttressed by secre-
taries Mrs. May Quinnell and James Martin
and a committee of womenfolk whose badge
of office was a wee wristlet posy of pink car-
nations attached to black velvet. Walter
Kirby brought along a number of his pupils
and some professional friends to sing in be-
tween the dances, and when their night’s
work was done some theatrical favorites
came along and sang when asked. Balloons,
jazz caps, cigarettes and other vanities were
sold to advantage. Mrs. Edwards, in glisten-
ing blue raiment, Mrs. Ed. Dyson, her sister
Mrs. Russell Jackson, Mrs. Jim Angus and
Mrs. John Thrower (who brought many
friends along) were among those who danced
and listened.
Though Mrs. Henry Butler is in England,
her only daughter Lynne motored up from
Brighton on a recent evening to keep a date
at Scots’ Church with Sydney Quale, of
Oakland station, Heywood. The bride was
folded in creamy satin with a deep flounce
of gold lace, sprays of orange blossom con-
fined the cloud of tulle, and the long train
of georgette inset with lace was held at a
precarious angle by a midget quartette —-
Georgina Gadsden, Marie Marks, Peter God-
dard and John Murphy. The little girls’
frocks were of sunset pink taffetas, with
gold lace caps, and the small men had shoul-
der capes of pink taffetas over wine-satin
suits. A black cat watched the ceremony.
During the signing-up Miss Tully breathed
a vocal blessing.
The matrimonial tie between Erma, only
daughter of the Victor McColough couple, of
Western Beach, Geelong, and John, son of
the E. O’Connells, of the same district, was
securely welded at St. Mary’s, Geelong, by
Dean Benson, supported by six padres. The
pretty bride, who is yet in her teens, wore
silver lace and lame, with zephyrs of white
tulle floating over a court-train of gleaming
lace. Eileen O’Connell, in a Frencliy frock
of pink taffetas and blue georgette, em-
bossed with blue blossoms topped by a pic-
ture hat of black, filled the rOle of chief
’maid; and Doris Moore and Olive Maxwell,
carrying pillow muffs of silver and pink
lame against rose-pink taffeta gowns, and
wearing chic millinery, came effectively into
the picture. The Corio Club saw the re-
joicings. The bride’s mother wore opales-
cent beads upon georgette of sandalwood
hue, and a turbaned toque of harmonising
tulle and lamd.
Sydney Fairbairn, son of the Stephen
Fairbairns, took a second matrimonial
chance recently in London. His English bride,
Angela Fane, is a daughter of the Cecil
Fanes, of Cadogan Gardens. Lady Connie
Gore lent her large house in Eaton-place to
accommodate the crowd which swarmed to
the happening.
Mrs. Harry Green, Margery Hicklm and
May Beatty were bidden to taste the four-
o’clock brew at the Austral Salon on a recent
Monday afternoon. Mrs. T. M. Ward, who
presided over the teapot, had fawn edgings
upon her navy frock, a nattier blue hat and
a posy of red roses. There were flowers for
the guests. Madame Agnes Smythe, Mrs.
Frank Tubb, Lena Ward, Iris Shaw and
Master V. Chenue were the afternoon’s enter-
tainers.
At a recent night wedding in the western
district, when the bride went to shed her
white trappings for her travelling dress, she
discovered her hats had not been sent. A
local milliner was appealed to, and cheerfully
opened her shop ; so while the guests waited
the new-made bride went shopping. Another
nuptial story comes from St. Kilda. The bride-
groom was at the altar rails when lie dis-
covered the wedding-ring had been left in the
vestry. So he went back for it. In the mean-
time the bride’s party had been given the cue
at the front door. The procession moved up
the aisle, but without music—the organist
wasn’t expecting it —to find no waiting
’groom. Flustered, the procession backed
itself to the porch and waited until the organ
burst forth. This time it was all right.
Devoted to a country life and all its ways*,
the J. H. Fairchilds’ only daughter, Valerie,
chose to have a very quiet slipping of the
knot which converted her into Mrs. Harry
Matheson. The bridegroom was a son of the
G. Mathesons, of Alpliington. Previous to
the happening, Mr. and Mrs. Faii-child gave
a dinner-dance at Scotts’, to which intimate
family friends were bidden.
Muriel Cumming, youngest chick of the
J. S. Cummings, of Toorak, has decided that
a career, and a hard-working one at that, is
preferable to social gaieties; so instead of
selecting models for race wear she is busy
with uniforms suitable to a trainee at the
Alfred Hospital, which she is about to enter.
The decision has aroused astonishment in the
minds of the more frivolous members of her
circle.
Sister Adelaide sighs for spring:—
Either our climate was more stable in bygone days
or our grandmothers were stronger. Old hands tell
of Hunt Club races in earliest September, and of
feminine youth and beauty bedizened in muslins and
such flimsiness. Now the races are pushed on to
late September or early October in vain pursuit
of spring, and on Saturday, as happens in nine
years out of ten, rain and a biting wind drove lovely
woman back to raincoats and goloshes, with summer
finery languishing in its box. Coats or coats and
skirts were almost a uniform, and the few that
were fashioned from something as gay as green or
rose or pillar-box red were a joy on an otherwise
sombre lawn. The vice-regal box was empty, for
the Bridges were at Broken Hill with the Keith
Broughams, with a Girl Guide inspection for Lady
Bridges as an interlude to shooting and tennis and
riding about the place.
Miss Lucy Ayres has gone for a trip to Colombo.
Lady Marten, who has spent a week or two in
Adelaide as a conclusion to her Australian visit,
was a passenger to Bombay by the same boat.
Press controversies about the iniquities of modern
dancing notwithstanding, life at the moment is pro-
ceeding so dully that there is little for a social scribe
to chronicle. Mrs. C. A. Scales has given a small
dance at her home at Medindie, where guests were
mostly of the younger set, and nasturtiums and
Iceland poppies on the supper tables reflected the
golden-tinted programmes.
For the rest, a fete or two and annual meetings
have been our chief diversion—of the former, one
in the Town Hall to raise funds for the assembly
hall of the Methodist Ladies’ College. Ex-collegians
300 strong had worked to stock the stalls and to
perch parrots innumerable on gum branches by way
of decoration. Trade was brisk enough to augur
a hall that will be all any feminine college could
desire.
Lady Bridges was chief speaker at the Red Cross
Society’s annual meeting, whereat was unfolded the
tale of an excellent year’s service. Few people
realise the demands still made upon Red Cross
funds, but the balance-sheet shows it, and the reserve
fund, now standing at £ 91,000-odd, is eaten into
by about £5OOO every 12 months. The handicrafts
shop is one of the most useful of Red Cross side-
lines ; since its inception in 1918 it has paid
£21,500 to disabled soldiers for their work that it
has sold.
The Zoological Society has been having its annual
meeting, too, with a minor note in its deliberations
due to the death, in transit, of its two giraffes—
one just before it reached Fremantle and t’other before
it left Capetown. The Governor presided, and con-
fessed to one hunting expedition that brought to
his bag a sacred yak, duly embellished with a blue
bead necklace and a bell. Hunters promptly trans-
formed themselves into a burying party, and spent
the rest of the day destroying the evidence of their
crime.
The Girton House dance, postponed from earlier
in the year, was held in the Osborne Hall, with a
committee of one-time pupils to run it, and their
president, Katherine Wemyss, to do the honors.
Streamers of orange and red and green made a
canopy of school colors everhead, and the feminine
guests had mostly been at the school in their younger
days. There has been a dance at Glenelg, too—
its objective funds for the local branch of the Dis-
trict Trained Nurses’ Society, and its sponsors a
committee that saw to it that the frivol was a
success.


JJARDY lja
■
ďfď
Always fashionable and in
perfect taste for every occa-
sion, a Pearl Necklet is a
woman’s most prized posses-
ion, no other Jewels giving
such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is
often purchased, and on
birthdays and other anniver-
saries extra Pearls can be
added, until a large and
valuable string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets and Loose Pearls are
bought direct from the fisheries, only on the most
favorable terms, and offer the best value and largest
selection in the Commonwealth. A selection will be
sent to any address at the Company’s risk and expense.
Pearl Necklets range from £l5 to £5OOO.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash.
Hardy’s new illustrated Catalogue will he sent post free to any
address on request.
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD
S&7/ousc aP &txlusivc3ewclLery
JI6-H8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
And at LONDON.
f
To escape the heat of the Australian Summer,
to arrive in Europe for the Winter Sports in
Switzerland and the Season on The Riviera,
and still to reach England for the Spring,
experienced travellers are now booking for
November, December and January.
To meet this growing demand the ORIENT
LINE will have the following sailings:—
NOVEMBER.
R.M.S. “OTRANTO,” 20,000 tons.
DECEMBER.
R.M.S. “ORONSAY,” 20,000 tons.
R.M.S. “OSTERLEY,” 12,000 tons.
JANUARY.
R.M.S. “ORAMA,” 20,000 tons.
R.M.S. ORMUZ,” 14,500 tons.
ORIENT LINE
2,4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australasia.
02
Amazing Results!
For
£5
Deposit
you can have a
Genuine Guaranteed
Radio Set installed in
your home.
Rawson Street,
Aherdare,
Cessnock, N.S.W.,
The Manager, 21/9/’26.
Radio Department,
Harringtons, Ltd.,
Dear Sir, —
The “Popular Jf” Radio Set I purchased
from you, recently has l)een giving amazing
results.
The Set arrived in perfect condition, and
tvas unpacked at 5 p.m. Wc had 2FC on the
Loud Speaker at 6.30 p.m. Since then wc
have tuned in all the principal Australian
stations.
Imagine our surprise when on Saturday
night we received, at full loud-speaker
strength, IYA, New Zealand, and on a tem-
porary aerial, 16ft. high.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ROUT. DAVIE.
J CCTii
(Reproduction of one of the many letters of appreciation
received every day by Harringtons, Ltd.)
HARRINGTONS’
“Popular” Radio Sets:
“Popular—3,” Complete,
£27/10/-
“Popular—4,” Complete,
£32.
“Popular—s,” Complete,
£4O.
OUT THTS OUT AND POST
TO-DAY.
Please send me, Post Free,
Illustrated Booklet of Radio
Sets.
Fame
Address
B.
COMPLETE WITH ALL ACCESSORIES, AERIAL ACCUMULATOR,
LOUD SPEAKER, etc.
RADIO & PHOTO WAREHOUSES,
d
SI?
(Head Office) 386 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Established 1889.
Newcastle Showrooms: 84-86 Hunter Street.
Also at Katoomba, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland (N.Z.).
ďf
J
NOJLVd
mm
.i.
FEEL the sheer comfort and
firm stance which this
shoe gives—feel the surety
with which it grii»s the ground!
It does not tear the turf, is hard
wearing and absolutely water-
proof.
Get a pair!
Carubo Shoes are made with
THE GENUINE
CREPE RUBBER
SOLE
PLANTATION FINISHED.
Manufactured by
Goldings Pty., Ltd.,
Canterbury, Vic.
They Grip
the Ground
Leather
to the Toot.
Rubber to
the Ground *


1 7^'%
ft
il
>?S
lit
vp
iimtitimu
C/w
Q.
in
Coast to Coast
in a Week
S 0
A New Darwin*Adelaide Record
Mr. Alan Mackay, of Melbourne, after a sporting trip
in his 6-cylinder Essex Car, throjugh Central Australia
to Darwin, made the return journey to Adelaide—
approximately 2,000 miles— in 6 days 18 hours.
Throughout this jotirney Mr.
Mackay used Shell Motor Spirit
and Shell Motor Oil exclusively.
What is good for the record maker is good for
the every-day motorist. Be wise use both
Motor Oils
& Spirit
The British Imperial Oil Company Limited
Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
S 192^
'f
Leaves the skin with a clean, smooth,
healthful feeling.
'I
CASHMERE BOUQUET
Cjoilet Soap
produces a wonderful quantity of
delightfully soft and cleansing lather,
with that unsurpassed fragrance.
A firm cake that wears away slowly
and does not soften and waste. /
c
v "Sh iner,
? sa
\-7?.
Cy f°>7 V
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
HSU!aa
3uwW
'
J
aaaann MKiid
uorpajaad
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUY ATT & CO,, Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
'three
Ounces
of Pre-,
vention
Extend the life and usefulness of your
guns by using an oil that dissolves the residue
of all powders and stops the corrosive action of
the acids before they penetrate the steel.
MARBLES Nitro-Solvent Oil
is a combined cleaner and lubricant. No other oil >3 neces-
sary. Gun barrel and mechanism, if moistened with Nitro-
Solvent. are protected from pitting and rusting. Spout cans;
3 oz. size. At your dealer. Write for catalog of Marble a
Outing Equipment, free.
MARBLE ARMS & MFC. CO. 909 X
611 Delta Ave. Gladstone. Mich.
David Molden. Box 1349. Sydney, Representative
Missing Friends.
MR. JOHN SMITH WELLS, formerly of
Scotland, and whose last known address
was 45 Vernon Street, Woollahra, Sydney,
might communicate with THOMSON &
CAMPBELL, writers, 132 West Regent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland, when he will re-
THE INKY WAY.
“Spare Corp.”: The latest funeral on the
Inky Way is that of the Watchman, though
there is a hare possibility that the warrior
of past sectarian fights may be revived. The
Watchman had some standing in the N. S.
Wales days of Dill. Macky, who used it for
his fulminations against Rome; the noise
of its warfare with the R.C. papers built up
its circulation and its advertising revenue.
It began to slip with an unlucky investment
in city property, and it had faded to a mere
eight pages before the finish.
H. 0. Fenton, who has joined the Vic.
Railway Department as one of its publicity
officers, is the second Melbourne Sun-Pic.
man Clapp and co. have bagged. The other,
Roy Gollan, wlio has been shedding ink for
the department for 17 months, takes on a
more lucrative job as second-in-command
at the Tourist Bureau in the Queen’s-walk,
Swanston-street.
“Morehead”: Touching reporters who
have to answer inquiries sent in by readers
(B. 16/9/’2O). I knew a young chemist
who answered medical questions for a Syd-
ney Sunday journal, and was paid on a
lineage basis. He had a great run
until an inquisitive sub., noticing the
abnormal growth of the medical section
of the correspondents’ column, and a strik-
ing similarity in the typing of requests from
supposedly different persons seeking cures for
pimples, dandruff, ingrowing toenails, etc.,
did a bit of amateur detective work. The
young pill-roller was writing nine-tenths of
the queries himself.
Professor Taylor, writing in Sydney Sun-
day News about the Florida disaster, states
solemnly that “These great hurricanes are
always accompanied by extraordinarily
strong winds.” Almost as illuminating as
the chemistry professor who was reported
by a M.L. journal lately to have said that
“Steam is usually produced by boiling a
liquid.”
“Julian”: I received my first Bulletin
cheque in a backblocks Queensland township
nearly 37 years ago. On the out-station
where I had been stockriding I hadn’t seen
a paper for nearly a. year. At the pub I
picked up the Christmas Number which con-
tained Banjo’s “Clancy,” and I nearly hit
the roof when I saw on the same page some
wild and woolly verses of my own which I
had written three years before. I was cash-
ing “calabashes” and “shinplasters,” which
were common out west those times,
and when the cheque came the publican
growled a bit, but it was a week or two be-
fore he sent it for collection, and everybody
had a close-up of it. To render the occasion
even more memorable, I drew a horse in
Tatt.’s, and when the prize came I owned
the pub for a week or two. Then I went
back to the out-station to brand some more
calves.
“Qwerty”: S. M. Herald readers were
enthralled by the opening chapiters of “The
Honey Buzzard.” No ; it is not an Austra-
lian-made story: the Herald aims higher
than that. The scene is set, of course, in
London, in pseudo-aristocratic circles, where
“moneylenders call themselves merciful if
they extract only 20 per cent.” There is,
of course, an earl in it, though he is “impov-
erished” ; you are permitted to call him
"Bobby.” And there is Sylvia Lancaster,
daughter of merely a wealthy leather manu-
facturer ; hut he lives in the country, and
doubtless Sylvia will live that down. Sir
Charles Howard is one of her suitors —the
Herald loves a noble name. There are
other “personages, mostly smart folk.”
Readers will, however, be profoundly shocked
to learn that “the poetic justice meted out
to the villain is not of the well-worn con-
ventional type.” This departure from the
stereotyped serial is a dangerous experiment.
There are some things Herald readers will
not stand.
“Tuart”: A year or so before the war
the West Australian and the Western
-Mail were valued at £160,000. Desiring to
become sole proprietor, John Wintlirop
Ilackett exercised his right to purchase the
half-interest owned by the estate of Charles
Harper, former Speaker of the Westralian
Assembly (two of his sons died gallantly
in Gallipoli) ; and, the matter going to
arbitration, the Harper moiety was declared
to be worth £BO,OOO. The Melbourne capi-
talists who have acquired the papers and are
floating a company paid more than three
times £160,000. I suppose it is another
count in the Westralian indictment against
the Federal octopus.
“Tame”: The premises for Auckland’s
new paper, the Sun, are well under way,
and it is calculated that managing director
E. C. Huie will be in harness there by
March next. The Sun took over a property
in Albert-street, opposite the Shakspeare
pub ; the building that was pulled down to
make room for a newspaper office was once
the Clanricarde Hotel. I have worked in
paper offices that had been converted from
store-sheds, a stable, a church, and a grocery
shop: but so far as I can recollect, the
Sun is the first paper in P. N. Land to be
reared on the ruins of a pub.
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant” (J-
M. Forde), now in his 87 th year,
has entered upon liis 70th year of continuous
residence in Australia; he arrived .in
Port Phillip in the ship General Windham,
after an 88-days’ passage from Liverpool, on
September 12, 1857. Melbourne was in a
primitive state then; there was as yet no
Melbourne Cup and Government House was
in William-street. Menzies’ Hotel was in
Lonsdale-street and Scott’s at the corner of
Bourke and Spring streets. Henry Barkly,
who had just buried his wife, was Governor:
and William Clarke Haines was Chief Sec-
retary. “T. 0.1.” saw the first Champion
Race won by John Tait’s Flying Buck,
and the first Melbourne Cup won, in IS6I. by
a Sydney horse, De Mestre’s Archer, which
also won the race in the following year.
The grand stand was then on the river bank,
the now famous hill being open-, free to the
public. The Victorian Parliament’s two
Houses were then in swaddling clothes. They
now eeli‘hi':iti)ig their 7ffi.li hir finings


GOWINGS’ SENSATIONAL OFFER
,6
H 001, Guaranteed Dye
Navy Twill Serge
Suits -to -Measure fi
d
ďf
d
Every man who takes advantage of this offer will effect a definite sav-
ing of 22/3 on his suit because Gowings’ guarantee the genuineness of
the reduction. Our London Buyer secured this cloth direct from the
mills at a big concession and we are passing this on to you. The Serge
is absolutely perfect in every detail, and is a beautiful quality in a fine
Botany Twill weave of guaranteed Indigo Dye and fast colour. We
have a big quantity, but as we anticipate a quick disposal of it, we advise
you to place your order early. So that our country customers may bene-
fit, however, we have reserved a number of pieces for their express needs.
Tailored to measure in our usual high grade manner, these suits are worth
every penny of £ 7/7/-, but we now present them at this astounding low
P rice £©/4/0
Stocks Specially Reserved for
Country Customers.
Post this for Patterns
Messrs. Gowing Bros., Ltd.,
486 George-street, Sydney.
Please post me patterns of your Special Serge offer at
£6/4/9, also full range of patterns for suits-to-measure at
£5/5/', £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/15/-, and £9/15/-.
\aine
Address
Gowing Bros., Ltd.,
486 George-Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 and 454 George-Street
We Guarantee the Colour in this Serge.


m y
fK.
s3kS:
. -...j
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
1.1180. J. KITCHEN ft SONS PfT. LTD.
FoolbalLar—
Pass it on that there is no
finer feeling of exhilara-
ting “well biing” than
after a clean, close shave
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.. Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s “Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A..T.0. had perfect weather for the
opening of its most important round of meetings,
but those of the 83,000 spectators who thought to get
their pleasure cheap by backing favorites found no
other element of perfection in the day. Grosvenor
(5 to 4) failed them in the Hurdle Race, which went
to Willanjie (10 to 1) ; and Larkspur (7 to 4) also
disappointed in the Trial Stakes, although he might
have reversed positions with Coolgong (15 to 1) had
the jockeys been changed. Then Limerick (5 to
4) went down in the Derby, for which the Maoriland
gelding eased a trifle, Rampion being at 3 to 1,
Raron at 7 to 1, anil Amusement a point longer;
the others —Royal Tea, Valaisian and King Val—■
were at forlorn-hope prices. On the night of the
llosehill Guineas, two weeks before, it was evens
Limerick, 2 to 1 Rampion, 3 to 1 Cromwell, who
did not start; which shows once more what a
mad game ante-post betting is for the generality of
punters, especially where a fool-Government prohibits
publication of the odds.
Rampion, who had the rails position, jumped out
first, and Cracknell let him stride along smartly in
the lead for about seven furlongs, with Limerick and
Raron following. Four furlongs from home Limerick
was in command, and his supporters were on good
terms with themselves, for Rampion was dropping
back. But the Rossendale-Royal Pet colt soon re-
gained his lost ground. Disposing of Raron and
Royal Tea, he challenged Limerick, passed him a
furlong from home, and, gaining perceptibly in
the last 50 yards, beat him by a length and a half
in the good time of 2min. 33see. Raron, who
shifted about a lot in the straight, but is obviously
the makings of a good handicap horse (he is by
Valais out of a sister to Poitrel), was six lengths
away; the others shaped poorly. A cold, followed
by a cracked heel, did not help Limerick, and this
Page is inclined to think he will turn the tables
in the Melbourne Cup under the lighter scale of
weights; all the same, Rampion proved himself a
clinking good colt. His success was worth £6945
to J. E. and C. H. Brien —£6545 as owners and
£4OO as breeders —but trainer Fred Williams is
entitled to £654 10s. and the jockey to £325 15s.
Form has generally been borne out in the Epsom
Handicap of recent years, and it was so again on
Saturday. Although there were 18 starters, the
closing odds were 5 to 2 Amounis and Fuji .San,
7 to 1 Aorangi and 14 to 1 bar three. The favo-
rites ran first and second, Aorangi third and the
14-to-l chance, Bravado, fourth, the others being
right out of it. Fuji San jumped away smartly,
and Pike took him to the front immediately, his
9st. 91b. notwithstanding, in the hope of getting a
break on the field. Bravado pursued him to the
home turn, with Amounis, Aorangi, Pigeon Pie and
Chris handy. The race was over at seven furlongs,
where Amounis hit the front with an irresistible
run which ended in his being three lengths ahead
of the tiring topweight, who was not quite his ow'n
length in front of Aorangi. The third horse, who
began slowly, might have won an ordinary Epsom,
but he had the bad luck to strike tw'O exceptionally
good milers, whose combined efforts resulted in the
race record being lowered to lmin. 36jsec., which
equals the best time established in Australia. The
owner (W. Pearson) and trainer (F. McGrath) were
so confident about Amounis that they did not trouble
about engaging a jockey till the morning of the
race. Then Munro got the mount which Toohey
would have had but for interference with Fuji San
in that seven-furlong handicap at llosehill —-inter-
ference which, it is now clear, made no difference
to the result.
The Spring Stakes, 12 furlongs, saw Spearfelt
(10 to 1) return to his fine form of the 1924-25
season. Windbag was 5 to 2 on in a field of seven,
and at the entrance to the straight his backers felt
for their tickets, for he seemed to be going comfort-
ably behiud the pace-makers, Piastoon and Star
Stranger. But, having settled this pair, he was
tackled by Spearfelt, who shot up on the rails,
having been racing at the rear with Pantheon; and
the Victorian horse won by a length and a half,
Windbag being a length and a quarter in front of
Pantheon and Valamita, whose owners divided third
money. Star Stranger, who was not punched out,
was a creditable fourth, the time being 2min. 34sec.
Windbag’s defeat was a surprise, but he is getting
to look more like the pride of a stud than a race-
horse in training, though still capable of adding to
his great record, no doubt. Boonala (20 to 1)
closed the proceedings by beating a big field in the
Squatters’ Handicap, 10 furlongs, after making nearly
all his own running—a speedy and game Woorak
pony this.
The Greenstead —Airify filly Calmest, who races
nearly every week and is generally first or second,
put up another sterling performance on Monday in
the Shorts, six furlongs, which she won, at 8 to 1,
in the dazzling time of lmin. lOjsec. It was the
beginning of notable triumphs for her good Austra-
lian-bred sire, for Beckwith (7 to 2), owned
and prepared by Rampion’s trainer, proved the best
two-year-old in the Breeders’ Plate, and Greenhorn
(5 to 1) defeated Royal Tea, Valaisian and other
Derby candidates in the Grantham Stakes. Beck-
with is by Greenstead —Worthy Bee; Greenhorn by
Greenstead —Dupe. The Spring Stakes field sup-
plied the favorites for the Metropolitan: Pantheon
and Spearfelt were at 5 to 1, Valamita at 7 to 1
and Star Stranger at 10 to 1, with Stony at 14 to
1, Boonala and Piastoon at 20 to 1, and the others
(there were 23 starters) at long prices. The three
favorites were badly placed most of the way, but
Star Stranger was always in a good position; in
fact, his name was called as a likely winner before
they had gone six furlongs. Fuji San led from the
start, and showed the way into the straight, with
Larkspur, Star Stranger and Donald next, but the
Valais gelding soon cracked up. Not so Star
Stranger, who shot to the front as soon as Roy
Reed urged him, and gave nothing else a chance
over the last furlong, although Pantheon, who came
late on the scene, got within a length and a half
of him at the finish. Vitality, a 100-to-l chance,
was a close third, and Donald, Buchanan, Valamita
and Spearfelt followed. Star Stranger, who is a
sturdily-built bay gelding by Martian —Star Lady,
is owned by A. B. Williams and trained by J. H.
Jefferd. He had a capital three-year-old record in
Maoriland last season, and his party has been well
repaid for its enterprise in bringing him across the
Tasman—the prize money alone amounted to £5420.
He galloped the 13 furlongs in 2min. 44sec.
*' * * *
Manfred was thegreat attraction atFleming-
ton on Saturday, and he was the only favorite that did
not fail. His four opponents in the October Stakes,
one mile, were not of w.f.a. quality, and the books
demanded 7 to 2 about Ben Chaffey’s beautiful bay,
who never looked better, Waranton being at 4 to 1 and
Royal Charter at 10’s. Lewis has evidently estab-
lished a complete understanding with Manfred, who
behaved handsomely at the barrier and got away in
great style. Waranton was soon in front from Ben
Lomond, with Manfred next, and they kept that
order till just in the straight, where Manfred flashed
past the field in a few strides, to win, pulling up,
by four lengths from Ben Lomond (15 to
1), with Royal Charter two lengths away
third; time, lmin. 39Jsec. A lot of those
TED THYE. U.S. cruiser-weight wrestler,
whose world's title has been taken from
him by Sammy Clapham.
Manfred will have to meet in the Caulfield
Cup competed in the Stand Handicap, 10 furlongs,
and The Banker, who is reckoned his most danger-
ous opponent, was always a warm favorite, closing
at 6 to 4, with Spearer at 7 to 1, All Sunshine and
Beedos at 10 to 1, and Bard of Avon at 12 to 1.
They all failed to pace it with Llanthony (15 to
1), who led all the way and won by four lengths from
Batteryman (14 to 1) ; Bard of Avon, finishing fast,
was a good third. Naos was fourth and The Banker
and Spearer, both a long way back early, were
running on at the finish. Llanthony is not in the
Caulfield Cup. Euston (10 to 1), a brown gelding
by Cooltrim —Royal Fairy, won the first division
of the first two-year-old race of the season, and
Ann of Avon (12*to 1), by Rangag—Belle of Avon,
annexed the fillies’ division. McShortodds had a
“skinner” in the last race, Red Sea (33 to 1) win-
ning to the gentleman’s delight.
* * * *
“Whiz”: Indisputably coursing is cruel.
A defenceless animal about the size of a cat is
pitted against a pair of powerful greyhounds, each
701 b. weight and a good third faster, with the hare’s
life the penalty of failure in the “contest.” Vic.
Senator Guthrie has been arguing that it isn’t cruel
LEN NETTLEEOLD, the yonny Tasmanian
who is amateur golf champion of Aus-
tralia, as well as of his own State.
because, mostly, the hare escapes. But, if so, it
is coursed again, and (if necessary) again till it is
caught. There is no retiring age for hares. Once
put into a coursing enclosure they leave it one way
only—swinging by the hind legs bound for the soup-
pot.
No competent judge who had seen the
first meeting of champion Billy Grime and English-
man Teddy Murton could have had any doubt as to
the outcome of their fight at the Sydney 7 Stadium on
Saturday night. It was obvious to the seasoned
(and two-eyed) onlooker on the previous occasion
that the dual champion was “carrying Murton
along” up till the moment when an alleged foul was
allowed and Grime’s supporters lost their money.
Billy scaled 9st. 041 b, and Murton 9st. 21b. in the
return match. From the initial gong Grime took
command and never once did he look like losing.
The Englishman’s chief asset was his toughness.
Grime banged ear, temple and jaw with the right
dozens of times, but could not get the spot till the
14th, when a tearing hook to one side of the jaw
and a heavy right to the other brought the end near
Teddy flopped, but staggered to his feet at “nine.”
He was instantly dropped again, and Wallis promptly
crowned Grime.
* * * *
Mike Yokel (12st. 7Jlb.) and Martin
Ludecke (13st.) were the wrestlers at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. The swarthy Swiss
gave Mike a stormy time during the early rounds,
but his impetuosity lost him the match. Mike,
having suffered many of the Swiss grappler’s “1000
holts” with fortitude, was trussed up in the “splits”
in the seventh round when he suddenly slapped
Martin on the back, the ruse which tricked the
elephantine Zbysko. Thinking it a sign of surrender,
the Swiss let go. He lost his head on discovering he
had been duped—and within 58sec. was gazing up
at the lights while the fateful 3sec. were ticked off.
* * * *
The Essendon-Melbourne match drew
49,319 persons and a “gate” of £2410 10s. 3d.,
but the scrambling game wasn’t worth the money.
The few players who used their heads were chiefly
Melburnians; the ’Dons did most of the attacking,
but without system or anything but plain bogging-
in. The Red Legs were popularly supposed to lack
determination and force, but on Saturday they
showed they can mix it with the best—or worst —-
of them. Dirty lefts on both sides found solid
resting-places; Corbett, Melbourne’s centre, acquired
a broken jaw. In the last quarter only 8 points were
scored altogether, the Red Legs having 3 to the good
when the bell rang—Melbourne, 42 points; Essen-
don, 39. The winners are to meet Collingwood in
the “grand final” next Saturdav.
*****
Adelaide football kept up to the very end
that mixed form and uncertainty which have made
this about the most exciting season on local record.
(Even in inter-State matches, S.A. first beat both
Westralia and Victoria, and then lost heavily to
each of them in the return games.) In the semi-
finals, Norwood (third on the season), after looking
like losing all the way, produced a last-quarter rush
that beat Sturt (minor premiers). Then North
Adelaide, though it had only just scraped into the
final four, overwhelmed Port Adelaide (second on
the list). The nominal final was anybody’s game.
North beating Norwood by 11 goals to 10. This
meant that North had three hard games in as many
weeks, while Sturt had to wait all that time to
challenge. Sturt won the premiership after an
exciting game, scoring 9 goals 10 behinds to North’s
7 goals 9 behinds.
The Maoriland League footballers now
touring the North of England went down in their
first game against the pick of the Northern Union,
the latter scoring 28 points to 20. This cannot be
rated as a severe defeat, but critics continue to refer
to the bad scrummaging of the visitors and their
failure to get the ball. They are playing the Maori-
land formation, with two men in front, as opposed
to the English and Australian system of three.
There can be no doubt that, given anything like
equality in the weight behind them, three will beat
two, as the N.S.W. Union side showed the visiting
All Blacks last season.
* * * *
“Cash Athlete”: The arrival in N. Yark of
the ebullient Susan Lenglen gains interest by the
fact that tiie fiery star was met by a party which
included “Red” Grange, described as the “great”
professional footballer. The incident illustrates the
ineradicable American tendency to turn any game
into cash as soon as it catches the public fancy,
it began with baseball, and was in turn applied to
such one-time purely amateur games as lawn tennis
and polo. The professional footballer is one of the
latest manifestations, and “Red” Grange, a famous
player of the American game when it was confined
to the amateurs of the great American universities,
is its apostle. All over the States professional foot-
ball leagues are now to be found organised on the
lines of the baseball clubs, and playing the awful
American game for all it is worth. England is
familiar with this aspect of professional sport in
the Soccer and Northern Union organisations. In
Australia, the “pro.” plays the game as a lucrative
side-line only. He is supposed to work on non-
playing days, and often does.
* * * *
The division of the season’s profits by the
N.S.W. Rugby League shows that there is a fair
amount of cash still coming for a game which has
deteriorated considerably in playing standard in the
last two seasons. The premiers, South Sydney,
pouched £2183, University £1320, Glebe £1133,
Eastern Suburbs £1073, Western Suburbs £862.
Balmain £844, Newtown £745, North £697 and
St. George £617. With the exception of University,
which does not divide cash among its members, a
big proportion of the above sums goes to the players,
though the rate of allotment varies with different
clubs. A senior player with a leading club draws
quite a decent little wad in the course of a season’s
“plav” to add to his remuneration for working.
* * * *
“Lilywhite” : There is a reminiscent
flavor in the rumor that W. H. Ponsford, the Aus-
tralian XI batsman, has been offered a good billet to
return to Lancashire and play League cricket. A
similar dodge for evading the professional “taint”
was popular in Australian football and cricket circles
years ago. The writer once belonged to a Queensland
cricket club which was deeply imbued with class-
consciousness. Its members were elected by ballot,
and no one below the rank of bank clerk —high in
the social scale in those days-—was even considered.
We wanted a good bowler badly, and when one
such, and a pleasant, presentable chap to boot—he
had come up with a team from another State —
hinted he’d like to find a job in our city a special
meeting of the committee was called. To find a job
was easy, and it was decided to call on the aspirant
and ask him what his vocation was. His information
was to the point. “Me? I’m a sewer-cleaner,” he
said. We told him we could do nothing for him —
and that was gospel truth, for there were then no
sewers in that city.
* * * *
“The Amateur Pro”: Another knock has
been given to the Australian Xl’s claim to
amateur status by the arrival in Britain of Aus-
tralian papers containing advertisements offering cash
prizes to Australian players for boundaries hit in
the Tests. The critics are pained to think that
Collins should stoop to permit such huckstering de-
vices, though they are taking unnecessary trouble.
They might, with more justice, ask what the Board
of Control is thinking of to allow “Australia’s best
advertisement,” as someone called them, to in-
dulge in scrambling for a shower of 2s. pieces. The
pettiness of this last development should put the lid
on the folly of the amateur distinction as far as Aus-
tralians are concerned. There is no odium attach-
ing to a. player for being a “pro” ; there is a lot to
being one while trying to pretend you are not.
J. A. Riley lias given up the secretaryship
of S.A. Cricket Association, which controls the Adel-
aide Oval and therefore has a big say in nearly
every local pastime. He has had a long innings, both
as lieutenant to the late John Creswell and for the
last 20 years on his own account. The annual meet-
ing made him a life member, and welcomed his
successor, Jeanes, who was at one time Glenelg
town clerk. Bert Scrymgour gives up the treasurer-
ship, though he will still take a hand in manage-
ment ; his successor is Roy Middleton, former inter-
state batsman ; and the trusteeship vacant by John
Hill’s death goes to Charlie Chambers, a veteran
committeeman.
* * # *
The official opening of the N.S.W. rowing
season took place on the Lane Cove River on Satur-
day with the Mosman club’s annual regatta. The
senior eights were won by Mosman, who boated a fine
crew, from Sydney, the latter taking the maiden
eights. On present form, it looks as if Mosman
will represent the State in the big annual race for
the King’s Cup, which will be held at Hobart in
May next.
* * * *
Hubert Oppcrman, from Victoria, romped
away with South Australia’s longest push-bike race.
It was from Kapunda to Adelaide, but by a round-
about way that made up 106 miles. Hubert gave an
hour’s start to the limit man, and had to ride mostly
alone, Beasley, on the same mark, having had hope-
lessly bad luck with punctures. The weather was
horrible, but Opperman plugged through a big field
and finished a winner by about 5 miles in 5 hours
36 minutes 13 seconds.
* * * *
“Centurion” : The swimming of the Eng-
lish Channel by three people (two of them women)
within a month has been ascribed by experts to
the adoption of a fast rate of progress, as against the
old-style leisurely paddle with the idea of conserving
energy, and the crawl stroke is receiving the credit.
No one seems to have noted that the successes have
been directed by pilots with a lifelong knowledge of
the tricky and changing Channel currents. In any
case, it is hard to see where the cash rewards ex-
pected by the swimmers will come in. Gertrude
Ederle, already' famous as an “amateur,” may' draw
good gates as an acknowledged pro., but she was
doing that as an amateur holding world’s records.
The stout matron who did the trick “to earn some-
thing for the kids” has not, apparently, a silver-lined
future. Even less can be said of the German who
had to be sent home by friends, or the unsuccessful
lady who had just enough left to buy a steerage
passage back to America.
RUGBY AT RONCESVALLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bull-fighting in Spain is being outvied in public
interest by Rugby football. .. . The Maoris fol-
lowed up their defeat of Burgundy by beating
Avignon 19-0 Rugby Union football has been
introduced into Japan, and is making rapid pro-
gress.”—Recent newspaper items.
The gaunt and thunder-blasted crags of fateful
Roncesvalles,
Where Roland wound his magic horn his comrades
to recall
And stem the flood of Paynim might, hear now an
echo shrill;
The whistle of the referee that rings from hill
to hill.
From lordly Pyrenean peaks, beneath their crown
of snows,
To where Gibraltar glowers dumb defiance at her
foes,
The boko of the matador, the muzzle of the bull
Are out of joint since Rugby got Iberia by the wool.
And France, she needs some hero souls to save her
from the knock
Worse than she needed Joan of Arc, Napoleon or
Foch.
The Maori, ranging o’er the earth, has put the
kibosh on
The boldest blood of Burgundy, the arts of Avignon.
What matter that the franc go bung; and Uncle
Sam with shrill
Insistence daily bellow for a trifle off his bill?
She’s out to beat the Tout-en-Noir; to take him
down a peg;
For Rugby’s got a rousing pull on la belle France’s
leg.
So round the earth infection’s blown, until in old
Japan
Is heard the shrill, ecstatic yelp of O Mimosa San
Adjuring Togo Ivimono to put th’ blanky boot
Into the ribs of Stoushima, and out th’ flamin’ coot.
The Samurai has cast aside his cult of Bushido,
For all his thoughts are centred in the slogan,
“Bring ’em low.”
Jiu-jitsu, hari-kari, too, are practically banned
Since Rugby came into its own in Cherryblossom
Land.
N.s.w.
J. B. H.


A
Kingly Drink
with a
Kingly Title.
TOP
NOTCH
CM
V
r
OF
SCOTCH
RING
GEORGE IV
Scotch Whisßy
THE
D
ISTILLERS
JIN
IMITED,
(of Edinburgh)
Branches : Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Pertb,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns.
Bottled in Bond under the supervision of the Customs.


for
Dependable
GUNS
and
SPORTING
RIFLES
\
Attractively Priced
No. 16.
No. 16— The Cert Co.’s u.B.R.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar locks,
pistol grip, neatly engraved, superior
finish; weight about £4/7/6
(Carriage Paid.)
71b.
No. 23.
No. 23 — Stevens’ Arms Co. D.8.8.L.
Gun, 12-gauge, ornamental case-
hardened frame, top-lever, cross-bolt,
high pressure compressed steel bar-
rels, right modified, left full choke,
matted rib, barrels and lug forged
from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, vulcanite butt
plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro
powders, weight 7ilb. /*| *7 /
to 8-}lb., 30in. barrels. *o' Li'
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 25.
No. 25 — B.S.A. D.B. Hs.mmerless
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, 30in. barrels,
both choke, nitre proof, fluid com-
pressed steel barrels, automatic
safety pistol grip; JCIA/tZ/
weight about 6|lb.. .
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 1.
No. I— The “Maine” Rifle, 22ca1.,
fitted with plain V-back sight, de-
signed for 22 short, long or long-
rifle cartridges, rim fire. It can be
quickly and easily taken apart by
simply unscrewing the thumb-screw
located under the forearm. The
action used is of the safety bolt
type, and is exceedingly simple. The
barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the
military weapon, and guaran-
teed accurate ; weight about OC /
31b ZO/-
No. 10.
No. 10 — Winchester Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22 short, long
or long rifle rim-fire cartridges, 21in.
heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger,
bolt action, ladder rear sight, length
over all 374 in., plain front Att/
sight; weight about 41b "
(Postage, 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
No. 6.
No. 6 — Stevens’ Visible Loading Re-
peating Rifle, 22ca1., magazine holds
15 short. 13 long or .11 long rifle cart-
ridges, mixed or separate. 22in. round
barrel, slide action, blade front and
ladder rear sights; weight
441 b
70/-
(Carriage Paid.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, NeAvcastle, Brisbane
W&W26.
mwswj®mmn
mm
liOnrfon Office:
"Gresham House/’
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
df
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zine
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the~ Board of Trade.
;OLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HADFIELDS, LTD., of Sheffield, England,
wish to notify their friends and all who
may be interested that the working agreement
they made with Messrs. Hadfields (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., of Sydney, New South Wales,
in February, 1922, has been terminated. The
Sole Selling Agents of HADFIELDS, LTD., of
Sheffield, in New South Wales and Queens-
land are Messrs' J. B. Wallis, Ltd., of Challis
House, Sydney, and Exton House, Brisbane,
and all inquiries and communications made to
them will receive prompt attention.
East Hecla Works,
Sheffield, England,
September 20, 1926,
V
L«-
A
dontfctget
For Invalids, Mothers,
Children and Others.
VOnmf&rdk
Croats
Obtainable from all chemists and grocers.
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE 8C CO. LTD., SYDNEY^
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC )
LIQUID — 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
I n 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.R.P.: Take back “The Heart” thou
gavest... .F.W.W.: Prose-poem far too prosy.... Reg
G. : When we get a 10,000-word story like that
we skip with joy... .G. Jerry J.: Your yarn about
him convinces us that Caesar is dead.... Maud W.:
Lady, your fashion-plate hero won’t strut here....
H. : ‘“Sleep” is only, forty winks... .J.L.H.: Fact
of being a corpse doesn’t make anybody interesting.
. ...8.0.C.: “October” blows in dully and is here
blown 0ut.... Rona R.: Boiled down, it would do as
a par H.H.H.: Color interesting, but don’t care
for the story Job H.: Is your caligraphy meant
to picture the sea? It is a storm of disturbed waves.
. ...J.0.H.: “Tropic Breeze” blows back. .. .E.F.:
Theme of burglar who breaks his way into Hell
has been tackled before.... Sol T.: Your “Mis-
fortunes” are really too bad... .S.R.G.: A touching
little /thing:—
Though to see her kiss my best friend
Made my heart near fit to burst;
Though she had botli arms around him,
I will not believe the worst.
No! my faith in her firm-planted
Is the best thing in my life;
I will never, never, never
Think evil of the wife.
... . Y.L.N.: The “conviction that I can write poetry”
is criminal, criminal... .L.M.G.H.: Returned....
W.S.: You have directness and strength; try to
polish H.G.M.: Peters out 0.8. H.: The man
“who for obvious reasons is called Brown” is tedious.
Just call him Brown and let the reasons explain
themselves... .L.H.C.: A less crude “Montague”
might d 0.... G.A.E.: To answer pars, would take
pages instead of a column. .. .J.S.T.: Stilted stuff.
J.S.G.: The tramp starts well but gets nowhere.
Regarding the other, what are “lunar microbes”'?
J.R.L.: Under no innocent cover shall you bring
that ghost-goat yarn to these chaste pages....
M.L.L.: Too slight A.S.: Thoughtful old neddy
is returned to his home stable.... Leander: Good
subject; but making the characters die is a crude
device. Death isn’t necessary for a tragedy....
L.R.8.: One may do Julius V.: Nothing inspired
about it; and real inspiration is needed for the
unrhymed form.... R.L.: If your caged canary sings
of “music-haunted dells” and all the rest, the spirit
of a remote ancestor must be in him... .S.M.G.:
Not running a Sunday-school section, thanks....
F. : “Life” does seem real; it’s earnest enough.
W.J.: The young i man with the habit of giving-
up girls and drinking himself to death on their
account is not convincing C.T.: The man nick-
named after a giant makes a very small tale
R. : Ever hear anyone thank Heaven for not know-
ing what was going to win?... .M.L.: Du 11....
D.E.R.: “Fate” was doomed from the first “oh.”
J.S.: The long story of “the made” is clipped
of these flowers:—
“Oh Father,” quoth the made in broken accent.
“My life is ruined e’er 1 come to prime
By a maligent Schemer, a fiend of fell invent,
A recreat seeming perfect and sublime.
“And thus this meanly creature hath bereft me
Of that which I had prized more dear than life,
And thus the meanly creature now has left, me
A prey to sorrow’s bitter stormy Strife.”
. ...G.M.P.: “The Jews are a homeless people.”
Have you seen their Randwiek bungalows?
S. : “The Failure” is Sally M.: You can’t
shed your tears in these columns.... .R.P.T.: “Her
Warredrobe” is quaint spelling. And it’s full of
other bloomers F. J.G.: Unreal A. 8.: The tame
tale purrs under every stroke of the pen. .. .N.L.S,:
How Bill didn’t get married doesn’t make a story
K.J.H.: Rhymed summary including—(l) Bees,
(2) x> eac li-blossom, (3) apple ditto, (4) song-birds,
(5) lark, (6) young lambs, and (7) golden wattle
doesn’t amount to a poem. . . .M.F.W.R.: The
patriotic verse is merely four shouts... .A.E.S.:
Some women are not only wonderful, but are as
hard to understand as your story... .M.G.: Tour
versified desire to be buried has no general interest.
S.R.K.: Whatever it is, it isn’t poetry
Pat: Drearily dragged out >,S.: The first time
it was “monks” ; now it is “nuns”; that alteration
doesn’t make it good verse... .R.C.: One of them
went very near 5.8. C.: The verse has all the
monotony of a dripping tap... .R.H.H.: “What need
of me to -hear relate,” you begin. After reading
81 lines we decided that there was no need
John N.: We are not running a museum of freak
literature. .. .5.0. M.: Thinking the worst about every-
body and everything is very cheap cleverness
G. : Are you ill? Your verse suggests it
Stan G.: “The Dance” is merely a bawl... .Isabel
L.: The parson came to pray for the widow, fell m
love with her daughter, and stayed to dinner. Well,
well! Came to pray and remained to scoff, eh ?....
Q.C.: “Bargain” is cheap. .. .R.M.C.: M illing to pay
for the insertion of the “poem,” are you? Send
a million in gold Sam L.: “Immigrant” failed
to pass the language test... .W.S.W.: “Pipes of
Pan” so commonplace that we suspect you are a
plumber J.0.R.: Mush Alan C.: With you the
course of true love runs too much to smoodge
P.H.0.: Mere ramblings.... Job L.: “The Joke”
runs to 6500 words. That’s no joke. .. .Ethel K.:
Merely a verse-pill A.Y.M.: Your “poem” was a
deed without a name.... J.G.T.: Neither suitable.
M.J.F: It’s a river’s job to flow; why appeal
to it to stop? Dorothy M: Just miss; try again.
C.F.DeS.: Too long. .. .Cuchulain: Most of the
ground was covered lately.... Clifford B. H.: Much
too long for its interest T.S.H.: Thud! Well-
shot: Sorry that our warnings tire you; but are
we to let the country go to the dogs without barking
ourselves? Eda : Too sleepy Tesco: You’ve not
got enough to say, though you say your little pass-
ably P.T.G.: Not very interesting Chron:
Thanks; quite welcome W.F.M.: Can’t see a suit-
able Bulletin shelf for it Alan K.: Has points,
but would need a lot of currycombing F.G.11.:
But we’ve heard that old bee so often Roy C.:
That hand is familiar, too Geoffrey C.: Bit too
cryptic.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. •
N. 8.8.: A Leningrad gallery might welcome it.
B.E.: Joke doesn’t suit the drawing R.J.A.:
Why use a bolster as a model when there are traffic
cops available? E.D.: You need never fear imita-
tors while you stick to that style... .R.N.U.: Stodgy
brushwork, and the joke is out of date N. 8.:
Even the walking-stick was badly drawn E.T.: A
tendency to scratch is your chief obstacle R.A.:
You suffer from the same complaint in a more acute
f orm F.C.: Stolid penmanship and prehistoric
j c kes M'.A.L.: Learn to draw before you come
ao-ain... .H.C.L.: You miss both as artist and as
humorist... .C.R.: Sheik with toothbrush mo. im-
shied J.M,; Fifty fathoms too deep.


■
m
mmM
19
wm
CTURtS
m
n
.■. . - ■
H ■
*
H
fiiIHNMHi
HNi
■■
«
: . ■;
HP
’ <■ ■
Bi
.
i - - is
■■H
HH
■ ' ;.
m
11111 l
... ■•■■'
‘i
■ ■ ■ f ' y
m
V
i
■
■
1
■
■
I ■
1§
i
■
■
■
: : :
ST. K/LDA ROAD JUNCTION,
CONSTRUCTED FOR—St. Kilda City Council.
Complete Concrete Road reinforced with No. 9 B.R.C. Fabric.
ENGINEER—R. T. Kelly, Esq., C.E.
Not only in the metropoli and leading cities of Australia, but in the leading
cities of the world, B.R.C. Fabric is being used more and more for road-
construction work.
d
m
am.
d
Concrete Road Reinforcement in Australia originated twelve years ago
with B.R.C. Fabric; it still remains the most correct reinforcement for
Road Work.
A concrete road 6 inches thick reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric has more than
double the life of the same thickness unreinforced.
Every important road must event-
ually have a reinforced foundation.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
nrrrrrr
crrrrnrnTrr
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J* Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA . . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Australia), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
ď
fd


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
in pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAY ANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
G
sy A
(v
X .
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Mary Rose”
Grand Opera Hotoe .... “The Sentimental Bloke”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Royal “Katja”
King’s “Is Zat So?”
Princess “Lady, Be Good”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
AtheNjEUm “Nothing but Lies”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Lynn Starling’s “Meet the Wife,” which
opened at Sydney Palace on Saturday night,
is described as a comedy; actually it is pure
farce. Gertrude Lennox, an American
matron, discovers that Phillip Lord, a world-
famous English writer, whom she has under-
taken to entertain in the hope of gaining
social prestige thereby, is her first husband,
who she thought perished in the San Fran-
cisco earthquake. Lord explains to his suc-
cessor in the domestic menage, Harvey
Lennox, that he had made the catastrophe
the opportunity of securing his freedom;
otherwise, being bound to the real-estate
business, he could never have found his
niche in literature. Neither Lennox, his
wife, nor Lord seems to be particularly em-
barrassed by the situation ; and in the middle
of it the lady’s daughter goes off to Egypt
with her lover as casually as if she was
dropping down the street for a sundae. Lord's
usefulness is shown in providing the daughter
with the husband she wants instead of the
impossible mate her mother lias designed for
her; the redeeming feature of a preposterous
story is in the dialogue, which is a continuous
volley of pistol-cracking humor of a decidedly
American brand.
* * * *
As Gertrude Lennox, Marion Lord lives
at the top of her voice through three acts
as the too-fascinating woman whose activities
oppress her husbands. J. B. Rowe’s work as
Phillip Lord is excellent, and Richard Ehlers
presents a likeable young lover in Gregory
Brown ; but William Macaulay makes Har-
vey Lennox a toneless individual, and the
Victor Staunton of Robert Adams is played
on plainly objectionable lines. Helen Audif-
fred is Doris Bellamy, the ingenue upon
whom the love-interest hangs, and her main
distinction is the command of the American
language. Marion Steriy, in the part of
Alice, a serving maid, is bright and good-
looking.
4s 4s 4* *
“The Sentimental Bloke” appeared at the
Grand Opera House on Saturday night after
some years’ absence from Sydney. The melo-
dramatic story of the crooks who have de-
signs on the uncle of Doreen does not matter
much, but Bert Bailey is impelled by his
showman’s instinct to provide a sob-stuff end-
ing when Ginger Mick, with the lure of
city pulling him, says good-bye to his friends,
to dimming lights and soft, soulful music,
with manly tears choking his utterance. It
is effective, but not artistic; the real Ginger,
stifling any heartbreak, would have simply
said, "Well, so long • I’ll have to get.” Apart
from that, Bert Bailey gave a representation
of C. J. Dennis’s hard-faced friend in a
manner which suggested close study at two-
up schools; every “Blime!” told its story.
Fred Macdonald improves as the Sentimental
Bloke, like whisky mellowed by age. Charles
Renton as Artie Apps occasionally forgot to
be “a trick,” and at other times overdid it;
and Barney Egan fell short of his oppor-
tunities as the Stror-’at- Coot; but a sub
stantial improvement in the cast was pro-
vided by the bright, natural work of Dulcie
Cherry as Doreen. Leslie Gordon as ’Erb,
Edward Landor as Uncle Jim, Stella Pay ter
as Mar, J. Beresford Fowler as “Spike”
Wegg, and Rutland Beckett as the crooked
Steve Gunn were the most prominent of the
others.
*
Sculpture and painting:—
The Macquarie Galleries have an exhibition of the
heavily-priced work of Bertram Mackennal. A model
of the war memorial to sailors, to be erected on
the Sow and Pigs in Sydney Harbor, is a vigorous
bit of work; there is tender feeling expressed in
“Motherhood,” and well-poised movement in “Ata-
lanta.” “The Dawn of a New Age” shows the
new age as a young man rising with eagerness above
the huddled figure of the old one. A thin-legged,
thoughtful Shakspeare surveys his brethren cast-
moulded from the clay from one corner; and a Circe
with compelling eyes and snakes peeping out from
her hair has her hands extended as if in the act
of making mesmeric passes. There are 43 pieces
altogether.
There is a cameo quality in the work of Henry
Fullwood, an old hand amongst the artists, shown
at the Grosvenor Galleries. It is not an ambitious
exhibition, but these small canvases will have an
appeal of their own for art-lovers. The wealth of
detail and the fine distances the artist can get into
these small pictures is a revelation of craftsman-
ship. “The Fishing Ground” (No. 12), “Eagle-
mount” (No. 4) and “Smiling Morn” (No. 23) are
some of the exhibits that charm most—the sun-
yellowed foliage of a tree in the foreground of No.
4 is particularly effective. The main characteristics
of the work are brightness and evenness of quality.
The Kuo Min Tang Hall, at 75 Ultimo-
road, Sydney, was filled again last Satur-
day evening with an almost exclusively
Chinese audience, which flocked to witness a
troupe of their countrymen present another
four-act play, “Kung Ho Hun” (“The Re-
birth of the Republic”). Whereas “Er Nu
Ting Hsiung,” produced three weeks ago,
was a purely political propaganda play with
a fictitious plot and characters, “Kung Ho
Hun” is based on the Third Revolution,
which, in 1915, thwarted Yuan Shih-Kai’s
attempt to. re-establish the monarchical sys-
tem in China. General Tsai Sung-po, Gov-
ernor of Yunnan Province, is the hero of
the present play, and the part was admirably
played by Chu Pai. To the Caucasian, the
mam drawback is the lack of action. The
audience evidently considers the speechifying
the thing.
** * *
“Rose Marie, We Love Ya,” is still being
hummed to the accompaniment of coin drop-
ping into the box-office at Sydney Her
Majesty’s ; the melodious play has now passed
its 150th performance. “Mary Rose,” with
only a short season ahead of it. is doing well
at the Royal; “Aren’t We All?” is to be given
a brief revival before the Boucicault season
finishes., and “Abie’s Irish Rose” is to make
an addition to the floral season on October
2.5. There will be a change in “Mercenary
Mary” on Saturday; the not-too-successful
Mai Bacon is off to London to fill an en-
gagement as principal boy in panto.; and
Madge White, the lady who declared in “No,
No, Nanette” that the only way to keep a
husband straight is to keep him broke, steps
into her part at the St. James Theatre. With
one or two of the worst verbal shocks cut
out, “They Knew What They Wanted,” at
the Criterion, gives Maurice Moscovitch an
opportunity to be an impassioned but for-
giving Italian; and the public rolls up to be
shocked in sufficient numbers to gratify the
management. Ada Reeve opens at the
G.O.H. on October 30 with “Spangles” ; it
was first announced as “Rockets,” but that
was by a publicity error. Wanderers in
Centennial Park have had a foreglimpse of
the show; Ada struck the idea of open-air
rehearsal, and, with picnic-hampers attached
to the procession, she rushed her company
out there one day to combine work and play
under the palm-grove.
❖* * *
The result of Professor Eugen Steinach’s
researches into things human and simian is
shown in a picture at Sydney King’s Hall, of
which there are to be further screenings
to-day (Thursday), and Friday and Satur-
day, the afternoon sessions for women onlv,
and Friday night for men only. The picture
“KATJA,” AT MELBOURNE THEATRE
ROYAL.
Leander Billdroff. and Pat Orpitch looking
for a compromising situation. ( R. Barrett-
Lennard and Thelma Burness.)
discloses the details of sewing up the human
tissues after the operation necessary under
the Steinach method. The claim is not
that the old may bo made young, but
that age may be resisted and human effi-
ciency and vitality extended. Steinach calls
his operation “vasoligature”; and the film
is as frank as it can be made. The mind is
rushed about in a somewhat breathless
fashion in the “Wonderful London” picture
which skips from place to place without
regard to topographical sequence, except in
a trip down the Thames. The picture will
be shown at Sydney Town Hall for a
season. Rin-Tin-Tin is again the star at the
Lyceum lheatre; the sagacious aiiimal
deserves a better medium than the Over-
stretched story of animal ratiocination in-
corporated in “The Clash of Waives-.” “The
Crown of Lies,” Hoyt’s star feature, is a
fevered yarn of happenings in one of those
mad realms patterned on Anthony Hope’s
THE KUO MIN TANG PRODUCES A
CHINESE DRAMA IN SYDNEY.
(1) General Tsai listens to the friendly sinff
tng-girl , and is watched by Yuan’s spies.
(2) Tsai leads a successful expedition
to overthrow Yuan, and everything in
the garden is lovely.
Ruritania. “College Days” is filling the
Prince Edward with hilarity; and the very
excellent “Stella Dallas” is keeping the
Crystal Palace on good terms with itself.
* * *
T. W. G. Dawson, geography master at
Sydney Scots College, is the head of a
local movement for showing educational
films; he puts in his holidays obtaining the
right sort of material for pictures. The
finished articles, along with those obtained
by other operators in the same line, are
interesting enough for inclusion as inciden-
tals in the ordinary picture shows, provided
they are short. So short they have to be;
but Dawson and his friends, using the title
of “Athenteum Pictures,” intend to appeal to
the public with programmes consisting wholly
of educational films. Dawson deserves luck
in his venture.
»!* '!>
The massed formation of the Santreys
having been farewelled, pride of place at the
Tivoli is held by Lee White and Clay Smith,
on the eve of their departure for South
Africa with the blessing of Official Assignee,
a. kindly man who sees no reason for keeping
his flock from the green pastures where
money waits their gathering. Imito mimics
birds and dog-fights with a deal of skill; also
he possesses the unusual gift of whistling
with his mouth wide open. Van Dock’s
lightning sketches have genuine merit; the
graceful dancers Isolde and Alexis are back,
and a new appearance is made by four Aus-
tralian songsters. It is a pity that these
foursomes cannot get something to replace
“Way Down Yonder In the Cornfield,” which
grows monotonous.
* * *
Clem Dawe has found his farcical parody
of a hectic production so successful that
“Black and White Cargo” remains amongst
the otherwise changed “Midnight Frolics” at
Fuller’s New Theatre (Sydney). The
hilarity, written by a local man, remains the
most amusing item on a good menu.
-I. # $
The deathless notion that the powers above
or below can have their legs pulled by any
intelligent human, especially if the human
be a woman, is the theme of “Savitri,” the
Gustav Holst opera which the British
Musical Society staged for the first time in
Australia at Melbourne Playhouse last week.
“Savitri” is a mere episode in the Mahab-
harata, the interminable Indian epic which
requires several days and more patience than
any Occidental crowd ever displayed for its
full recital. The curtain rises on a dim,
woody landscape (by W. R. Coleman, jun.)
and a sky full of stars of the first magnitude.
The “Hymn of the Travellers,” from the
Rig Veda (sung by the Cecilia Choir), is
heard afar off, its thrilling cadences creating
the appropriate atmosphere of expectant
awe. Savitri (Madame Goossens-Viceroy)
is waiting for her woodman husband, but
the arrival of Clive Carey as a solemnly
pacing Yama, God of Death, prepares her
for the worst. She pierces the night with
anguish and a soprano a little inclined to
blare like a loud-speaker in the upper regis-
ter. Satyftvan (Norman Bennett), armed
with an axe and a rich tenor voice* turns
up, exultant in ills Strength and ready for
his dinner; But Death points a finger at Jiiijl
and he expires at his spouse’s feet, Savitfij
having nothing left tp live for in a ldnd
where widows were often buried with their
husbands, turns and welcomes Death as an
acceptable second matrimonial adventure,
and the grisly one is so flattered at the
suggestion that he offers to grant her any
boon she asks except the resurrection of her
late lamented' helpmate. Savitri asks for
life at its fullest. This being granted, Satya-
van, very fed up with lying dead for more
than half an act, automatically comes to
life, since he is essential to the lady’s com-
plete enjoyment of terrestrial existence.
Thus Death is cheated of both his victims,
and paces off in a mist of disappointment and
an outpouring of melodious disgust.
* # * #
There is little orchestration, the choir off-
stage maintaining throughout an Undertone
of impressive chanting oil Which the prin-
cipals paint their various emotions. It is
seldom a critic can conscientiously marshal
his laudations at such an esoteric show, but
here was an alien fantasy beautifully ren-
dered by a British composer and staged with
understanding and imagination by Austra-
lians. Little fault could be found with the
three chief actors, either in their pantomime
or their singing, and the make-up of Satya-
van and his missus would have deceived the
immigration officers at Collyer-Quay, Singa-
pore. In a curtain-raiser founded on Henry
Purcell’s attenuated pastoral melodies the
versatile Clive Carey, '‘inventor” of the
fragment, appeared as a bucolic rooster in
pursuit of a fetching Orpington in the shape
of Dorothy Back,
&& & &
Musical fare was served up attractively
at the Rita Hope-Coral Trenerry recital at
Melbourne Assembly Hall. The pair shared
honors in violin-and-piano sonatas by Cas-
trucci and Brahms, and earned additional
laurels for their solo offerings. Ravel, Chopin
'and Grieg were drawn upon by Miss Hope,
and she also gave an Introduction and Fugue
by Dohnanyi. Miss Trenerry’s fiddle was
heard in two movements of the popular Max
Bruch Concerto and some shorter pieces.
The British Music .Society’s concert at the
Assembly Hall introduced music-lovers to
Henry Purcell’s “Golden Sonata,” the ore
being poured out by two violinists, Marjorie
Prockter and Helen Hamerton, with Rita
Hope at the keyboard. Harold Browning
acceptably sang groups of songs by Vaughan
Williams and Hugo Wolff; and Annie Cad-
dell made effective Use of her light soprano
notes in Bach’s “O Righteous God.” Rita
Hope’s contribution of four pianoforte pre-
ludes by John Ireland proved of interest, and
Elsie Fraser’s accompaniments pleased both
singers and audience.
* * *
More Melbourne shows :
The quality of Gerald Fitzgerald’s art, as dis-
played in 28 water-colors at Margaret McLean’s
Melbourne studio, doesn’t warrant a salute of 21
superlatives. The medium he has selected is exact-
ing, and he has much to learn about composition,
tone and other matters. One or two pleasing fancies
hit the eye, but not hard enough to hurt it.
A. E. Newbury has been exercising his passion for
the panoramic, and the results are to be seen in
57 oils at the Athenaeum. This excellent craftsman
is suffering from a monotony of subject. A strip
of green grass for a foreground, a couple of gums
decapitated by the top of the frame, two servings of
blue hill and a cloud in partial occupation of the
sky comprise his formula, which he embellishes
occasionally with a pair of sketchy cows or a human
ruminant. About 20 of the items catalogued would
fit neatly together to form a cyclorama of the Vic-
torian dairying industry. When Newbury gets away
from this obsession he paints a fetching picture. No,
38 is drenched in the atmosphere of early morning,
and No. 13, “A Country Road,” is typical enough
to make a bullock weep,
$$ # $
Under the title of “The Merry Mas-
querader” Jim Gerald is revealing himself in
the same large suit and arch smile at Mel-
bourne Bijou.
❖ # *
A remarkable picture is “The Phantom of
the Opera,” now having a second innings
at Adelaide Pav. Seldom has one heard an
audience so moved, in the darknesSj as when
the mysterious lover was unveiled and
proved to be no fairy prince but really
hideous. At the York, Thomas Meighan is
up to the minute with a “New Klondkye”
story of Florida, the earthly paradise now
hurricane-swept. At West’s is mother-love,
together with alleged high life and sob-stuff
(very popular), in “Stella Dallas.” Wonder-
graph also is treacly with Elinor Glyn, but
atones with a startling Runaway Express.
In the spoken drama, the Prince of Wales
has American crook stuff, “Kick In”; and at
the Royal, White Australia (as exemplified in
the Sentimental Bloke) has given way to
Colored Brother (and Sister), the Southern
Revue Co.
(Continued on page 40.)


A. SAUNDERS’
RENOWNED WRIST WATCHES
Reliable Movements
s?*"!
5V
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Gold Jewelled
Lever Watch, Silk Wrist-band,
£2/10/*. Extra Jewelled, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold, Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wrist-band, £5/1.0/-
Witli Gold Expanding Bracelet, £6/10/»
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold, Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist-band, £B/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold, Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist-band, £lO. 18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
TO ALL COUNTRY ORDERS we give our imme-
diate and careful attention. Goods are despatched
promptly.
Fashionable Shapes
A. SAUNDERS Guarantees
Every Watch Sold.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wrist-
band, £3/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £4/10/-
Solid Silver Case, £2, £2/10/-
Nickel Case, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Oct. Gold, Jewelled
Lever Watch. Rect-
angular shape,
£7/10/-
With Gold Expanding-
Bracelet, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
r
/ V
VO
<
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE RAPID EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and' concisely all the prin-
mpies of drawing m the simplest and most effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL 1
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his
work.
It Teaches You to Draw-
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr. Weston’s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
■ —which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
tudents’ work.
Pl®!®
PP
■ HP
is
%
r' a
7
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Gxjssfey Motors Ltd
•t?i=
7fy APPOINTMENT TO
HM THE KING
Let a British Car Tour Pride of Ownership
THE BRITISH
Crossley Motors Ltd
By APPOINTMENT TO
H R.H THE PRINCE Of WALES
£399
TOP-GEAR CAR.
Crossley Owners are Enthusiastic
Among Crossley owners are many women drivers. This is natural, for women are quick to appreciate refinements in
appearance and comfort, ease and smoothness of operation.
The simplicity of control of the Crossley, the ease of steering, the ample reserve of power that makes the Crossley a “top-
gear car, the freedom from vibration of a perfectly-balanced engine, the silky smoothness of the clutch—all appeal to
woman s discriminating perception.
Crossley owners are enthusiastic—and their satisfaction and enthusiasm increase with the passage of time. After ten
twenty—thirty thousand miles Crossley performance is still the same; repairs negligible, depreciation small.
Crossley cars are economical; more than thirty miles to the gallon of petrol is the regular performance of Crossley under
Australian conditions.
Above all, the Crossley is the greatest car value at present on the Australian market— built specially for Australian con-
ditions, and sold at almost English Factory Price.
Write for full information and illustrated literature, or arrange for a demonstration at your convenience.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD
87 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
State Agents :
N.S.W.: CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD., 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD., 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


Amusements.
§ VUNEX’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY WANTED.
ROYAL: MARY ROSE.
pDLLEBS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAITDEY IDLE.
Plans at Theatre.
DICKAIt 1) S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World s Best.
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE
EVERY EVENING,
The Sentimental Bloke
With BERT BAILEY as GINGER
MICK and FRED MacDONALD as
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
C. IVILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
KATJA.
KING’S THEATRE:
IS ZAT SO?
|>RINCESS THEATKE, MELIiOUItNE.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
LADY, BE GOOD.
II ENAS U M THEATKE, JIELItODRNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
HARRY. GREEN
In i the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIES.
By Aardn Hoffman, author of “Give and Take.”
Amusements.
pALACG THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE GREAT COMEDY SUCCESS,
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
jy|AJESTIC THEATRE, .MELBOURNE
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY
THE PRICE OF SUCCESS.
WITH ALL-STAR CAST
headed by
ALICE LAKE, GASTON GLASS and
FLORENCE TURNER.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
Amusements,
New bijou theatre, Melbourne.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Oen. 3251.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE
MELBOURNE
BEBE DANIELS in
MISS BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
ALSO
TOM MIX in
HARD BOILED.
Prices as usual.
!
«s>
ftrakeslwenty fwe Years to make this
Pipe/
Out on the sunny mountain
slopes of Corsica, Algeria,
and Tuscany grow the best
Bruyere roots. For twenty-
five or thirty years they lie
hidden in the bosom of
nature, growing, maturing,
and absorbing the sweetness
of the sun-drenched earth.
Then where nature leaves
off, we begin. For- almost
60 years we have been
making pipes Without
blemish. In that time
we have learnt a lot
indeed. Yes, the experi-
ence of a lifetime is in
every "BBB.”
Ask your favourite
Tobacconist to show
you the full range
of “BBB” Pipes.
BBBPipes
The Pipes Without Blemish 1 London made
Manufactured, by Adolph Frankau & Co. Ltd., London, England
Missing Friends.
DOLA, CHARLES WILLIAM (son of
1 Pietro Pola, deceased), your advantage
apply Messrs. Garrett, Christie & Berne.
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. Urgent.
MOEL MACDONALD, Rainbow, write
1N home; very anxious. Alex. Macdonald.
Legal Notices.
George Gilmour —Address Wanted.
("'•EORGE GILMOUR, son of Alexander Gilmour and
U Rachel Gilmour, both of whom are deceased, may
be entitled to share in the Estate of his late Uncle
George Adams (otherwise George Nelson Adams),
deceased, intestate, late of Irrewarra, in the State of
Victoria, the Administrator whereof is The Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Australia,
Limited, of 100 Queen Street, Melbourne. George
Gilmour was last heard of in 1905, when he resided
for a short period with his brother Alexander Gil-
mour at Dunedin, in New Zealand. The ( said George
Gilmour or his legal personal representatives or heirs
should communicate at once with the abovementioiled
Administrator or with the Undersigned;
Messrs. SEWELL & SEWELL, of Colac, Victoria,
Solicitors for the Administrator.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
1 Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO AUGUSTINE ANDREW O’REILLY formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania but now of parts unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this
Court citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Hazel Clare O’Reilly for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE
that unless within Thirty days from the publication
hereof you cause an Appearance to be entered in
the said Court to answer the said Petition the Court
will proceed to hear the said charge proved and
pronounce Judgment your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this seventeenth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-six.
(Son.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
JDE GOTTFRIED KUHN late of Townsville in the
D- state of Queensland Laborer deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to WILLIAM KUHN a
son of the abovenamed and to his children if any
that he or they are required to send in particulars
of their claims against the Estate of the said deceased
to the Local Deputy Public Curator Townsville oh
or before the thirty-first day of December OiiC
thousand nine hundred add twenty-six AND NOTICE
is also hereby given that after that date the Estate
of the said deceased will be distributed amongst
the parties entitled thereto disregarding the claims
of the said WILLIAM KUHN and his children if any
and all persons claiming by through or under them
or any of them by derivative title or otherwise how-
soever.
Dated at Townsville in the said State this Fifteenth
day of September 1926.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator, Townsville.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
a
HisMastcr'sVo'ff
x Records
, «-*
October,
1926-
Selections from the
October Supplement
A remarkable number of exceptionally fine musical items are
included in the latest Supplement. They emphasise the excellence
of the new electrical recordings of “His Master’s Voice” records.
If you have not received a copy qf the October Supplement-
ask your dealer for one or write to us direct.
Greatest Artists - - New Electrical Recordings - - Silent Surface.
BAND OF H. M. ROYAL AIR FORCE—IOin. Plum.
8.2239.—Wien bleibt Wein Schrainmel 47-
Father of Victory March Ganne
HERBERT DAWSON (Grand Organ)—lOin. Plum.
B. Idylle Elgar 47-
Evensong Easthope Martin
NEW LIGHT SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Plum.
C. —Ballet Egyptien Suite (First Record) (J/-
Luigini
Ballet Egyptien Suite (Second Record)
C. —Ballet Egyptien Suite (Third Record 6/.
Ballet Egyptien Suite (Fourth Record)
THE HAPPINESS BOYS—lOin. Plum.
8.2283. —That Certain Party.. Donaldson Bros. 47-
Why Aren’t Yez Eating More Oranges?
Donaldson Bros.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black.
D. —“Tannhauser”—Venusberg Music and 8/»
Bacchaijale Wagner
(First and Second Records.) (With
Chorus of Sirens.)
D.lo72.—“Tannhauser” —Venusberg Music and 8/-
Baccbanale (Third Record). Wagner
“Tannhauser” —Prelude, Act 3. Wagner
DE GROOT AND THE PICCADILLY ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
8.2284 —Only For You M. Strong 4/.
De Groot (Violin), A. Gibrilaro
(Piano), J. Samehtini (’Cello)
Serenade Schubert
CHORUS AND SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black.
D/1070.—“Elijah”—Thanks Be to God 8/.
Mendelssohn
“Elijah”—Baal Chorus .. Mendelssohn
LUGREZIA BORI AND TITO SCHIPA—I2in. Red.
D 8.911. —La Boheme (Act 4). The Death Scene 10/6
Puccini. (In 2 Parts.)
JACK SMITH (Whispering)—lOin. Plum.
8.2270.—Are You Sorry? Milton Ager 4/-
Some Other Bird Whistled a Tune
Bryan, Schafer and Fisher.
“Bis Master’s Voice/’ Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,” Regd. Trade-mark.
8/'
SIR HARRY LAUDER—I2in. Black.
D. —-Keep Right On to the End of the Road
H. Lauder
The Road to the Isles (“Song of the
Hebrides”). Arr. Marjorie Kennedy
F raser.
DE RESKE SINGERS—IOin. Black.
E.417.—-Mattinata (’Tis the Day). Leoncavallo o/6
Can’t You Hear Me Calling! (Caroline)
Caro Roma
VICTOR SALON ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
EA.23—Oh, How I Miss You To-night 4/»
Davis, Burke, Fisher
By the Light of the Stars
Little, Sizemore, Shay
KREISLER— lOin. Red.
DA.7Bs—lndian Love Call. 7/6
Deep In My Heart, Dear (From the
“Student Prince”).
JOHN McCORMACK—IOin. Red.
DA. —You Forgot to Remember .. I. Berlin 7/6
Oh, How I Miss You To-night
Davis, Burke, Fisher
ROSA PONSELLE—I2in. Red.
DB. —Suicidio (“La Cioconda”). Poncliielli 10/6
(Sung in Italian),
O Patria mia (“Aida”) ........ Verdi
(Sung in Italian).
JACK SMITH (Whispering)—lOin. Plum.
EA.28.—1 Care For Her and She Cares For Me. 4/»
Cooper-Stept.
Feelin’ Kind o’ Blue
Wohlman, Ruby, Cooper
VICTOR SAI.ON TRlO—lOin. Plum.
E. —A Perfect Day Jacobs Bond 4/»
Mother Machree Olcott Ball
JESSE CRAWFORD (Wurlitzer Organ)—lOin. Plum.
EA.26—Sleepy Time Gal 4/*
You Forgot to Remember
CHALIAPIN (Bass) —12in. Red.
D 8.932. —Sorfg of the Flea Moussorgsky 10/6
Barber of Seville Rossini
“La Calunnia E Urj Venticello”
(“Slander Is a Whispering Zephyr.”)
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The New
“His Master’s Voice”
Instruments.
Obtainable in a wide range of models
to please every taste.
fd
Model 461.
Table Grand.
Oak £27
Mahogany £3l
Portable £l2
Table Models from £l4
Cabinet Models from £45
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice”
Instruments and Records, with name
of nearest dealer, sent free on request.


Showing the English
Citroen factory, while
on the left is the new
showrooms, Devonshire
House, and on the right
the Citroen Service
Station, Hammersmith.
<c>Li
A .
wm
u
/
5%
Pit
frr
rrr
r=rjc
try
m
\
\
VzMW / /
ree
Buildings
each the largest of its kind
in the world
BEHIND Citroen’s sensational and
sustained success in the world s
motor markets is a degree of complete-
ness of commercial organisation with-
out parallel in the entire industry. In
point of manufacture, sales and service
Citroen controls inexhaustible re-
sources —for the benefit of all the
world awheel.
© II t m@EM
Now made i
England for Australian conditions
The world's economy car!
Citroen
Agents:
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders St., Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
185-189 Tulteney St.,
Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin St., Melb.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay St., Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
453 Ann St., Brisbane.
Cycle & Motor Supplies, Ltd.
Britannia Buildings,
Featherston and Johnston Sts.
Wellington, N.Z.
MOTORING in Australia demands economical per-
formance —and such is the degree of economy
achieved by Citroen that it is acclaimed by hundreds of
owners in this country as a car that provides travel
cheaper than tram-fares! See the new British-built
Citroen at your nearest agent, and be convinced of the
advantages of Citroen ownership.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


HARTELLS
BRANDY
For Over Two Hundred Years
a household word in sickness
and health.
Martell’s for Age and Quality
From the Cognac District
of France only .
-^3
Ihii
You’ll like
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort!
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
,>c They Fit
Only six more nights remain in which to
see “Tell Me More” at Melbourne His
Majesty’s. “Abie’s Irish Rose” is also in its
last weeks at the Palace, the managerial
prophecy of a year’s run for the Hebrew
comedy apparently being meant to apply to
the total Australian showing; even so, this
Showman is willing to wager the prognostica-
tion is over-optimistic. “Lady, Be Good!”
still keeps the seats at the Princess warm,
and “Ivatja” hasn’t any difficulty in doing
the same for the Royal. “Is Zat So?” is
still the question at the King’s, and “Nothing
but Lies” is a farce and comedy cocktail at
the Athenaeum.
** * *
Henry Santrey and his syncopationists
burst like a bomb at Melbourne Tivoli on
Monday, and the joyous din almost drowned
the adieus to Australia of Lee White and
Clay Smith. It is a far cry from the tin-
cans, policemen’s rattles and jew’s-harps of
the 1914 jazz bands to the present pro-
digious outfit, but at bottom the nature of
the noises produced hasn't materially altered.
Santrey is alleged to cost the management
£lOOO a week, and, judging by the attention
given to his entertainment, the money won't
be wasted.
* :{: sfc sf:
The ghost of Rudolph Valentino is walk-
ing at Melbourne Majestic, where “Cobra”
is on show. The reptile has no connection
with any boot-polish, but typifies the “lure
of a fascinating woman possessing the hyp-
notic charm which the cobra wields with
such deadly effect,” and for which the late
61m actor, judging by the number of wives
he left behind, had some secret antidote.
Judith Anderson, an Australian whom the
part raised to fame in N'York in a single
night, is the snake who mesmerises Rudolph.
“Miss Brewster’s Millions” is raising giggles
and envy at Hoyt’s house, but this picturisa-
tion isn’t as sound a burlesque as the play
which found Australia’s funny-bone some
years ago.
*. * * *
Edward Cahill, pianist, and George
Brooke, tenor, have shaken the dust of the
vaudeville circuit from their feet, and will
give two concerts in the Assembly Hall on
October 16 and 18. This is their first facing
of a Melbourne audience, alone and unaided,
since their return from abroad.
“Jj.11.P.” : Drury-lane lias seen worse
shows than “Rose Marie.” Alfred Bunn,
manager in the ’thirties of last century, put
on tight-rope dancers and Van Amburgh, the
hon-tamer. However, he received more royal
patronage through the lion-king than for any
other entertainment, Queen Victoria com-
manding two special performances. Van
Amburgh appeared in plays written around
lions. Bunn was simply a showman; he
made Drury-lane only a big booth. But after
five years he had to retire, thousands in debt.
E. T. Smith, who ruled in the ’fifties, was
a showman, and of a lower grade. He alter-
nated G. V. Brooke and Charles Matthews
with Chinese conjurers, and Rachel, with
a circus. Then Dion Boucicault took charge
THE LAST STRAW.
SOULFUL SARAH: “Darling, life will be one
long sweet song after we are married.”
SUDDEN SAM (with decision): “That settles
it then!”
and hit London hard with “The Relief of
Lucknow,” wherein Madame Celeste (who
played in Sydney in 1866) scored as the
heroine.
“John's Wood” (Lond.) : The “terribly
serious farce” “None but the Brave,” which
bad a mixed reception on its first production
at Barnes, is now such a vastly improved
show at the Garrick that there it may have
a long run. Huntley Wright has tempered
his exuberance, and Eve Gray and Frank
Allenby continue to satisfy press and public.
Poverty
point
“Caul-boy” : After saying he wasn't retir-
ing, Hugh Ward has retired from the Fuller
firm. There is no grief at Poverty Point,
although Ward is personally liked. Loud
applause greeted his first efforts to break
the J.C.W. monopoly, but when he began to
import whole companies from overseas enthu-
siasm languished. Nor did the Fullers, who
made their riches out of ham-’n’-egg sisters and
flipfiop turns in Maoriland, show any special
enthusiasm for Hugh’s mild efforts at uplift-
ing, but they parted on effusively friendly
terms. You still mustn’t mention the word
"merger” or “amalgamation,” but, leaving
vaudeville and the mild enterprise of E. J.
Carroll out of the argument, lots of people
are willing to wager that “J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., presents” will again be written right
across the theatrical map.
“Nero”: “Flaming Youth” is wrong in
saying (B. 30/9/’26) that the Fullers have
a monopoly of the M.L. theatres. The J. C.
Williamson (M.L.) firm controls, if it does
not actually own, the principal theatres in
Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch'.
Only in Dunedin do Fullers command the
situation: they have the Princess, used
throughout the year for vaudeville, and His
Majesty’s, which is always at the disposal
ot visiting companies. This is only a con-
verted concert hall, formerly part of the
Agricultural Show buildings; its many incon-
veniences and bad situation no doubt account
in part for the poor support accorded by
Abe Dunedin people to visiting attractions.
r ln addition to Pier Majesty’s, Auckland,
Grand Opera House, Wellington, and
Theatre Royal, Christchurch, Williamsons
are building two theatres, one in Auckland
and one in Wellington, which are designed
for pictures and vaudeville.
“M.P.A.” (New York) : Valentino’s exit
was carefully stage-managed. I saw the
flower-strewn silver casket, which had an
advance guard of mourners, headed by
Doug. Fairbanks, who posed on a flight of
steps as if contemplating a d’Artagnan
dash on the mob below. Then came the
grand old Anglo-Saxon magnates of the
fillums, Schenck, Marcus Loewe and co.;
as each appeared, the director held him for
the cameras. Black-veiled Pola Negri waited
minutes before moving down the steps to
the waiting auto, below, sobbing the while.
Richard Dix was a busy man in the front
of the house; and the director perspired pro-
fusely while handling principals and extras.
“IPamfat”: William Russell is giving
Hobart a look at the Nellie Bramley co.,
and the Tasmanian capital will see ‘‘Brown
Sugar,” which Renee Kelly introduced to
Australia at the Sydney Criterion. The
piece has taken Nellie’s fancy. The Aus-
tralian stage made its start in Hobart; the
first companies to appear in Melbourne came
from there; but nowadays Tassie is out of
the run of big companies. It is quite a rare
thing for Hobart to see any play before it
lias developed whiskers.
“F.N.W.”: A colored revue flapping its
wings on the stage of White Australia is a
surprise to me. Apart from racial feelings,
dusky performers, as stage history shows,
are not very successful, either financially
or otherwise, when assembled in a tribe for
entertainment purposes. Most of their talent,
such as it is, is in their feet. Real comedy
is rare in the dark races, though Irving
Sayles had a trace. The vogue of tropical
plays like "White Cargo” has provided open-
ings for colored vamps of mumming ability;
but the vacancies are invariably taken
by lighter-hued ladies who have to rely, appa-
rently, on boot-polish to supply the neces-
sary color.
“Ancient Prompter”: Conan Doyle him-
self did a dramatisation of liis novel "Rodney
Stone” (B. 23/9/'26), which was played in
Australia, with Harcourt Beatty putting up
an excellent scrap in the part of the pugilist
hero. Harky’s appearance at curtain-call,
after he had won the fight, with his features
freely bespattered with gore from the pro-
perty blood-sponge, was a glad sight for the
gods. A similar stoushing match was seen
TRIUMPH!
“She did give the stage-manager a dressing-down!”
“Ah, then, she's had a speaking part at last!”
in the Seymour Hicks drama, “Sporting
Life, which, however, was with gloves, and
conducted with the strictest decorum within
the walls of the London National Sporting
Club. The American authors of “Is Zat
Sot nothing if not original, have staged
the fight in a drawing-room.
Hamfat ’: It wasn’t for me to know that
the newspapery, having half its staff down
with flu, had presented the tickets to its
caretaker, but when during the interval I
sought out the representative of the paper
I wanted most to please, he struck me as
being rather rough. Still, some critics are
like that. “What’s your view of the play?”
I asked —it was “Sappho,” then being much
discussed. “Splendid!” he enthused, “I’ve
got one of the best seats in the house; but
the bald-headed chap in front of the missus
is a bit too tall. ’ I put him right, waiting
to see if he was sufficiently shocked to give
us the notice we desired. “Oh, I ain’t got
no opinion,” he assured me heartily. “All
I ve gotta do is to tell the bloke ’oo’ll write
up about it that it’s come off.”
“Centurion”: Australia’s Gladys Mon-
erieff has gone a long way from the open-
air picture-shows in Townsville and Charters
Towers, where the N.Q. girl got her first
singing engagements. She has been telling
a London interviewer that she has turned
down “attractive” London offers to visit
\ienna, where she hopes to acquire some of
Franz Leliar’s latest musical productions
with a view to producing them herself in
London. Gladys also put in a good word
for the reviving English film industry, and
joins the chorus of praise for the great
Mons film. She is asking why Australia
doesn’t try her hand at a Gallipoli counter-
part. It has been done in London, but the
less said about it the better.
“Spearshake”: Moscovitch, in “They
Knew What They Wanted,” is the spryest
casualty seen on the stage since the ghost in
“Hamlet.” In Act i he is carried in with
a leg broken in three places or thereabouts.
In the interval following he has gone through
the marriage ceremony; and in the second
act he lies propped up in his bed the same
evening, able to take a keen interest in the
celebrations, smiling and singing, with all
his mental and emotional faculties working
at high pressure. Only when the act is
closing does the medical man give him a
sleeping draught. And three months later,
in the last act, he sprints over the stage on
energetic crutches without a twinge of pain.
The B.M.A. should obviously intervene.
“F.N.W.”: Recently at Middlesborough
(Eng.) veteran Fred Terry staged “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury,” with Julia Neilson as
Nell. In a curtain-speech (I heard it)
Terry stated that the orange girl was the
only character his wife now appeared in.
Evidently there are others besides our own
Nellie Stewart who cherish a liking for
Sweet Nell —it certainly is a nice “fat” part
for a leading dame.
“F.R.F.”: Scott Alexander, of the “White
Cargo” co., owns the British Empire rights
of certain Grand-Guignol thrillers. He
came to Australia hoping to produce some
of them here, and is still hoping. S'Africa
he entertained with a delightful thing called
“The Vultures.” Doubtful whether it would
go over, he hired an old pro. to faint demon-
stratively during a scene in which two dear
old ladies pluck out the eyes of a girl with
knitting-needles. The pro. duly fainted for
the two guineas promised, but 20 other
women had fainted already.
“Jeune Premier”: It is presumably with
the idea of showing itself
alive to the wholesale im-
portation of mummers that
the Actors’ Association has
bobbed up again (B.
30/9/’26). Many a pro.
had thought it defunct. The
object in joining the other
theatrical unions is to obtain
preference of employment
for members. Managers are
to be “approached,” and
’Uckerby, who squeals so
lamentably when the Ameri-
can picture monopoly is
menaced, is to do the ap-
proaching. The belated move
is not likely to benefit local
players overmuch. The
association is a day behind
the fair.
R. Bates: Touching the
Repertory movement (B.
9/9/'26j. In 1908 Tre-
liarne, Wilkinson, Koehler,
Douglas, Walsh. Neill and
the writer sat in a smoke-
room drafting a constitution
and appointing officers for
the initial Australian Rep.
effort. That minute-book
may some day be historic.
Trehearne and Wilkinson
arc now in U.S.A.; Koehler
is in Africa; Walsh is num-
bered among the A.I.F.
casualties. But 18 years of
histrionic squad drill have apparently not
given Wilfrid Neill the stitch.
*“Qwei’ty”: As to prices for screen rights
of books (“Philm Up,” B. 9/9/’26), a Holly-
wood flicker agent, in reply to an inquiry
from Australia, gives the real oil. “Book-
prices,” he writes, “run all the way from
£3OO into many thousands of dollars. Aver-
age price is between £4OO and £lOOO. Stories,
however, are worth just what one can get
for them.” If Arnold Bennett got only
£2OO for “The Great Adventure,” and the
same amount for “Milestones,” he had to put
up with half the average price that is now
paid even to unknown authors. Maybe
Arnold Bennett is unknowm to the Holly-
wood magnificoes.
“Curtain Raiser” : Paderewski has played
many parts (B. 30/9/’26) since Australia
saw his magic fingers and romantic mane.
Styling himself the “official Polish beggar,”
he raised money during the war in the cause
of Poland’s independence. In 1919 he be-
came President of the unstable Republic, and
on its behalf signed the Treaty of Versailles.
And thereby, like Wellington, he lost his
prestige. His political day was brief and
hectic.
“C. Ockney”: The Father McGee of the
Lnglish production of “They Knew What
3. hey Wanted” was Australia’s old theatrical
friend Wilfred Shine, a brother of that other
favorite of local audiences, the late Harry
Shine. Wilfrid has only recently got back
to the London West End after spending
many years in the provincial wilderness;
and the hardy veteran—always an excellent
mummer has been hailed as a “discovery.”
‘Hamfat”: It was Allan Wilkie’s misfor-
tune which caused Dulcie Cherry to be seen
as the Sentimental Bloke’s Doreen; she
shapes like one who should do good work.
Plus Melbourne girl got her first professional
chance with Allan Wilkie in Melbourne a
year ago, playing small singing parts; but
although he engaged her primarily for her
voice, W ilkie found her an intelligent player
of straight roles. When Jean Athol left the
show, Dulcie Cherry was given her parts.
In Adelaide, owing to the illness of Miss
Hupter-Watts, Dulcie stepped into the parts
of Ophelia and Lady Teazle, and did them
very well. The little lady ought to have a
future.
THE ACTORS’ PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder to what paradise
The ancient actors go?
The universe should them suffice
As back-cloth for their show.
Eo more for them the one-night stand;
The curtain ne'er descends;
For in that everlasting land
The season never encjs.
The Dame who plays in pantomime
Will tell across the bar
His triumphs till the end of time
To every listening star.
The critics will be hurled to Hell.
For ever they will rage:
’Mid red-hot bricks and insults fell
They’ll clutter up the stage.
The supers will get all the “fat”—
A curtain for them each;
But, more important still than that,
Will be the footman’s speech.
And in each paper there will be
His photograph displayed;
He’ll sign his autograph with glee
For each adoring maid.
On every Friday walks the ghost—
No new job need they seek;
But this will doubtless please them most—
Six Fridays in the week.
While cherubim and angels sit,
Entranced from age to age
The actor-r will, in truth, be “it”
The centre of the stage.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


\/
7/7
V
m
m.
f
p
K
0 0
7A
D
W.
&
1
± o
Latest One-Ton Truck
Does More Work.
The carrying capacity of Graham
Brothers latest one-ton truck, the
G-BOY, is conservatively rated.
There is plenty of strength to meet
extra demands and assure long life.
Graham Brothers are the largest
exclusive truck makers in the world.
Only their huge buying and building
/Graham Brothers Trucks, with Dodge Brothers l-Ton 7
Commercial Cars, meet 90°L of all haulage requirements.]
power could put so much enduring
quality into a one-ton truck at so low
a price.
The G-BOY is designed according to
a new system of weight distribution
and is powered by a Dodge Brothers
dependable motor —facts worth in-
vestigating.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.*
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
Built by Truck Division of Dodge Brothers, Inc.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
7/10/’26.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
l-'i' b ir'o I i I'd
, 'X
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “ITBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Booting with “EIB RO-
UTE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability,
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write lor Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
Carry
Your
RABBIT
Skins
3
irw!
Tlriibn
kmw * v
how you like. They’re your skin.s. You are entitled
to sell them where you like. But if you want top
returns you will find it pays handsomely to heed this
advice.
Send Your Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins
UVINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Expert Salesmen, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
12
BRITISH WADE
VfiKi rs
QUALITY PENCIL
I
NOW ft EACH
GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
sO
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
& '
; .
HM|..
If :
-''"' - - '
As Shakespeare says: “That is
the Question”
Eucalyptus OH may l»e ptigeat #f
extrn strong, or may carry excessive
Kucnlyptol, but is it a potent remedy
for human ilia? Experts say: “No,
more harmful than helpful.”
Bosisto’s ''Parrot” Brand Eucalyptus
Is a Potent Oil—ln other words, cura-
tive and healing; truly medicinal, and
a powerful germicide.
As an embrocation, the genuine
BOSISTO’S promotes that delightful
feeling of suppleness beloved by the
athlete; and how refreshing after
strenuous exercise i
Put Potency before Pungency by asking for
Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil
The “PARROT” Brand
Sold Everywhere - 1/3 per Bottle
% *
,v,\ x
;
M Wlvtltu *v<V«« W W\v*nU»
Wi««mn fMfc; .<frn|» • t%rii«lvltt %
IV“4t 4k* rfIPT Mmkt* 4ilpK»
•W*f«4li| ••UUttv pt (nu»
•rAtrtf** •/ /•»/<+Amt
fit # *<rV
A**,
0-yf»\ma/ fa*b>ntt.,,„ ,«/ /hi «».
i.BOSISTO&C?
COWTIW4 a FV.
Si
!
- ,:.:
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Way: Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
New
Way:
Smear lightly
over face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw. Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVEX,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look and feel like satin, and
your face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
Just as fast as you can move your finger!
dfd
Price £9/2/6, Carriage Free.
you can shoot ten hard-hitting, explosive shots from the super-accurate Model 03 “Winchester”
automatic rifle; the finest of its type ever built. Its 45 grain, hollow-point bullets, propelled at
a velocity of 1035 feet per second, make it a weapon fit for serious hunting. The life of the
03 is practically indefinite—many of them that we have sold have been in use for over 20 years.
They cost a little more than most .22 cal. rifles, but you never regret the expenditure.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B,”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Garager”: The latest development in
Yankee motordom, heralded here by a deafen-
ing blowing of trumpets, is the arrival of
the baby car with a short wheel-base. But
of course it’s nothing new outside America.
In Britain, at least 40 makers have been in
that field for years. Car taxation there
depends on horse power—or at least on an
antiquated cylinder-measurement formula —
and small cars command the biggest market.
The reason for the American development
is to be found in the traffic conditions in
the great cities. A short-wheel-based car is
much easier to handle, takes less space to
park, and accelerates and slows down quicker
than a bigger vehicle. It's easier on petrol
and tyres, too; but that doesn’t seem to be
a recommendation in the land of the dahlar.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Ralph Falkiner’s cane-har-
vesting machine is to be thoroughly tested
in Queensland this season; Falkiner has
just returned from England to supervise
operations. If successful, the machine should
go a long way towards solving Australia’s
sugar problem. Falkiner reckons that, cut-
ting, topping and delivering at a record rate
per hour, it will save 3s. 6d. a ton on average
cutting costs, which means £600,000 on a
4,000,000-ton crop. All the same, it is not,
as its inventor claims, the first thing of its
sort. Many inventors have broken their
hearts and their bank-accounts trying to
turn out a cane-cutting machine.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Nearly all the casks used
in the Australian wine industry are of Eng-
lish, Austrian or American oak. The objec-
tion to most Aussie hardwoods is that they
contain tannic-acid, which taints and dis-
colors the wine. Large storage vats are
built of jarrah, but a coating of paraffin-
wax has to be applied to the inside before
they can be used. A cooper who has been
40 years at the trade tells me that only
one of our timbers is good for wine-casks,
and that is she-oak, but he meets with it
only once in a blue moon.
* * * *
“Twopence”: Like Victoria, the Speck is
standardising the high-capacity railway
truck. As recommended a couple of years
ago by a Royal Commission, the old wooden-
bodied seven-ton open trucks are being re-
placed by 25-ton double-bogie iron vehicles.
Besides the technical and financial advan-
tages of the big trucks, they will make better-
looking and smoother-running trains than
the clattering fonr-wlicelers they are super-
seding.
SOAK : “I don't say they can’t make things
in Australia, but I say they can’t make
’em in. the quantities we want.”
HEBE : “Well, perhaps not whisky.”
“Rizzle”: Mount Barker (W.A.), for-
merly the chief producer of Groperland’s
apples, has struck anew source of income
in boronia blossom. In one recent week 21
tons of the fragrant bloom was consigned to
Perth treatment plants for making scent.
An Act of Parliament regulates the manner
in which the flower shall be collected within
certain concession areas held by the per-
fumery people, and an army of gatherers go
over the bush raking off the flowers. The
flowering season lasts about a month.
* * * *
“Due de B.”: C. P. Kininmonth, the valuer
engaged by the Queensland cotton-growers to
overhaul the Queensland assets of the British-
Australian Cotton Association, found among
other things over £20,000 worth of plant
lying unused. He says they don’t do that
sort of thing in Liverpool, where he came
from. Also he classes as “ridiculous” the
B.A.C.A.’s plaint that it is unreasonable to
expect a plant to run double shifts for a
day or two in the peak period. The stranger
may know Liverpool, but it’s clear he doesn’t
know Queensland.
* * * •
“Buna”: The M.L. sawmiller who was
called to answer the quadruple offence of
trapping ’possums out of season, using rabbit-
traps off the ground, not visiting the traps
daily, and doing it all without a license, re-
ceived a blow the other day when the magi-
strate handed out two fines of £SO each, plus
costs. With such a Court to reckon with,
illicit trapping is likely to become unpopu-
lar.
* * * *
“Si”: Enter Australian cotton tweed!
When the present tariff was framed a stiff
duty was imposed against imported cotton
tweed, the object being the encouragement of
the local lower-priced woollens. It is en-
couraging them all right, but it is doing
more. Bonds, the firm that is pioneering
cotton and is being assisted with a bounty
on home-grown, home-spun yarn, has started
a battery of looms on the very stuff itself,
so that the class of “strides” that catches
the eye in shop windows, emblazoned with
gaudily-marked price-tickets, will soon sport
an extra label: “Grown, spun, wove and
made in Australia.”


Thinking people have
confidence in ENO
Our greatest asset is the public's confidence
in ENO’s “Fruit Salt.” To try other lax-
atives is to discover anew how much better
ENO is—pleasanter, gentler, safer, surer.
ENO acts in an entirely natural way to
keep you clean within. It contains noth-
ing to harm you —no purgative mineral
salts, no sugar, no flavouring matter.
Doctors know how fine ENO is for the
many ailments that arise from intestinal
sluggishness, they use it and prescribe it.
Sales Agents : The British
Harold F. Ritchie St Co.
Ltd., Sydney N.S.W.
The words "Fruit Salt” and
ENO. and the label shown on
the package, are registered
trade marks
tn
t
£
X
ď
The above are a few lines, which show
that BOSCH Quality Products may be
obtained at very reasonable prices.
BOSCH EQUIPPED MEANS
A NO-TROUBLE TRIP.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd.,
35(5-258 Eatrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd.,
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand... J. J. Niven & Co.. Etd., Wakefield Street.
Wellington.
đf
THOMAS CHALMERS, Edison Artist.
If you would like to hear how magnificently his
voice can be re-created, call and hear such wonder
records as —•
“Even Bravest Heart” (Faust) ; “La Paloma”;
“Star of Eve” (Tannhauser); “Toreador Song”
(Carmen); “Shade of the Palm” (Florodora),
Edison Owners
really enjoy
their Instruments
Edison owners form one great and world-wide fellowship in the enjoyment
of music!
Happy folk! Their music suffers no limitations. They do not have to endure
makeshifts; they do not have to try and imagine what a great artist’s voice
sounds like in real life. They know that every Edison record they have
would pass with flying colors the only test that really counts —that of direct
platform comparison with the living artist who made it.
The New Edison alone gives that realism that satisfies your musical craving,
It is one of the family, loved by the whole household, and inseparable from
its happiest hours. It occupies a place in the home that nothing else ever
can or ever will.
Call and hear the New Edison to-day.
NEW EDISON
Write for Catalogue, also details of New Edison Dance Reproducer—gives full
Dance Orchestra or Concert Volume as easily as changing a record.
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh
Street.
MELBOURNE —The Edison Shop, 238
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —South Australian Phonograph
Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only: TTIOS. A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling cG Co., Ltd., 86-
88 Queen Street.
PERTH — Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay
Street.
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs cC- Co. Pty., 7 Quad-
rant.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
DOMINIONS EDITION.
Rudyard Kipling’s
New yoiume of Stories,
Debits and Credits.
Also UnSform Edition, 7s. 6d. net.
Pocket Edition, Cloth, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW YOLS.
Harmer Jolm: An Unworldly Story.
By HUGH WALPOLE.
In general characteristics this book is more
on the lines of “The Cathedral” than the two
more recent stories of Mr. Walpole. The
scenes are laid in Polchester, 10 years later
than the tragic death of Archdeacon Brandon.
Some of the character's of “The Cathedral” re-
appear in the present story.
Introduction to Sally. A Novel.
By the author of “Elizabeth and
Her German Garden.”
Good-bye Stranger. A Novel. By
STELLA BENSON, author of “I
Pose,” “Pipers and a Dancer,”
etc.
King Goshawk and the Birds. Bv
EIMAR O’DUFFY.
A remarkable satire erf modern life and
tendencies by an author with a great gift of
irony and invention recalling Rabelais and
Swift.
The Absolute at Large. By KAREL
CAPEK. Translated from the
Czech.
A romance of the year 1943 in which the
invention of a wonderful machine nearly brings
about the extinction of the human race.
To bo Obtained from ait
Booksel/ors.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
AY should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New. Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
for a good
J night's rest
d
it will ensure
In 4
of all Chemists
and Stores
i good day 's
work
sizes
Missing: Friends.
HENDERSON.
IF ROBERT PIENDERSON, a brother of
* JAMES HENDERSON, who left Mel-
bourne about thirty-five years ago and was
once in West Australia, will communicate
with the Equity Trustees Co., Ltd., of S 5
Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear of
something to his advantage. If deceased, his
children are required to communicate with
the said Company.
HENDERSON.
[F GEORGE STEWART HENDERSON,
son of DAVID PIENDERSON, who left
Buuyip about thirty years ago, will com-
municate with the Equity Trustees Co., Ltd.,
of 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
of something to his advantage.
LT ENRY PECKOVER CANDLER, at
* * Gympie and Rockhampton about 1908,
then talked of going to New Guinea. Any
information as to present address, or death,
please communicate to WOOLSEY, SAYER
& THOROLD, Solicitors, Bank Plain,
Norwich, Norfolk, England.
QN
BANK
CHAMBERLAIN’S
Is the name to remember when you
want a good reliable cough medicine.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has
long been famous as the most suc-
cessful medicine for coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Contains Nothing Injurious .
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. IV. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Svdnev and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
ďfd
(JHmt
ďf
d
WRITE FOR GENERAL CATALOGUE
YL
Helmets^
Lighus' and (Coolest Summer
headwear
die *'CALCUTTA” Indian PitK Helmet
and a treat to
v)ear. Cohered with White
Drill. Has White Puggaree.
Chin Strap. Order to day.
cs All Sizes
18/6
eack
POST FREE
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street , Brisbane;
MAIL TO DESK
‘S.B.
Write for a Broods Caialoaue.
R. V. BRISTOL & CO. (Pty.), Ltd.,
t'enchureh Buildings, Pitt St., Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
Into the
Saddle
as oft as you can
during the season —but
take care it is one to
suit you, one that will
last for many years.
0
n
LD
SADDLES
For Easy Wheeling.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZOR
THE
Ask any man you know who uses <
ask him if he doesn't think
Razor he has ever used,
answer, "Why, rather!”
V.
, PLUM—
it the best
Hear him
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
“N.S.”: One of the few imitations of
Yarra Bank or Sydney Domain on a Sunday
afternoon in the Yewnitcd States is a certain
spot in Washington Park, Chicago. When I
discovered the place I found a big crowd
listening to a voice in a good Aussie twang.
It came from E. J. Price, familiar figure
on Australian soapboxes and unsuccessful
candidate against Prank Anstey for Bourke
last Federal election. He was doing the old
stuff—individualism, and had the parlor Com-
munists hopping mad.
There is at least one man in Maori-
land who believes that aeroplanes have a
defensive value —Henry Wigram, of Christ-
church. During the war Wigram founded
an aerodrome and flying-school and trained
dozens of pilots. The place was recently
taken over by the Government, but not
before Wigram had dropped a lot of money
into it that he will never see again. So long
as he was in Parliament —he used to sit
in the Leg. Council —he kept badgering the
Defence Department about aerial defence.
Now that lie’s out he still keeps the Depart-
ment reminded of his existence; a gift of
£2500 to buy a ’plane was his latest argu-
ment.
“Dan F.” : There is a very unusual pub-
lican at Gympie (Q.). I struck his house
before dawn recently, having been directed
there on the arrival of my train by an
obliging porter. Above the front door was
a shaded light, whose beams revealed the
following notice: —
Please do not ring! Turn the key and you will
find the guest-list inside.
Inside I found a cosily-carpeted hall, easy-
chairs and a table, where the guest-list, with
pencil attached, lay beneath another softly-
shaded light. On the list, which was all but
full, the traveller was asked to sign his name
opposite the number of any unoccupied
room, and to add the letters E.B. if early
breakfast was wanted. I signed, went up-
stairs, and found No. 31 as comfortable a
room as I could desire.
“Two Seas” : An interesting piece of legis-
lation is the N.S.W. Rural Workers’ Ac-
commodation Act. If cocky employs only
four men he may house them in a draughty
cowshed, and nobody cares; but if he em-
ployes five hands he is classed as a squatter,
and the Government sticky-beak will see to
it that the accommodation is decent. Why
one employee on a farm is not entitled to
be as comfortable as a crowd on a station
is one of those things that can only be ex-
plained in terms of politics.
One of the handsomest men in Europe
of the last century was Ditlef Gotliard Mon-
rad, Bishop of Laaland and Palster, and
Prime Minister of Denmark at the time of
the Schleswig-Holstein war. He was a great
scholar and a brilliant journalist as well
as a statesman and an ecclesiastic. A little-
known fact about him is that he went into
exile after the Schleswig-Holstein un-
pleasantness, and settled down in Maori-
land, in the Manawatu district, where he
farmed peacefully for four years. Then Den-
mark called him, and he returned to his
bishopric and his seat in the Rigsraad. Some
of his children stayed in Maoriland, and
there are Monrads in Palmerston to this
day. Another memento of the great man’s
stay was a gift of nearly 600 etchings and
engravings, now cherished in the Turnbull
Library at Wellington.
Reginald Barker, dead at Ipoh, in the
Federated Malay States, was one of the best-
liked of the many Australian mining engi-
neers who helped to build up the big tin-
dredging industry in Malaysia. A Sydney
Grammar boy, he took his engineering course
at Sydney University, where he played a
good game of cricket. His earlier work was
mostly done in Maoriland and in Tas-
mania. In 1918 lie joined Minister for
Customs Pratten’s Larut organisation.
Later he came back to Australia, to return
to Malaya as representative of Thompson’s
(Castlemaine). Later again, he took the
management of Macalisters, of Ipoh, for
whom he did a great amount of valuable
developmental work. He was 52 at the
finish.
His 73 years made Bill Law, the cook,
the hero of the adventures of the Maroro,
which had 55 days of ocean buffeting on
a voyage from Gisborne (M.L.) to Sydney.
Although worried at having nothing to cook,
when the rations ran low, William did
marvellously with the material he had on
hand. Law has wandered the seas for 60
years, always on small sailing craft; and
he has been in three wrecks —the Oscar
Robert, on Kangaroo Island; the Natal
Queen, in Adventure Bay; and the Avon,
on the Bellinger Bar.
There is not much of the spirit of the
Washington Disarmament Conference in a
recent speech by General Hines, U.S.A.
Chief of Staff. He wants a minimum per-
manent personnel of 150,000 intensively
trained. The present force is far below the
authorised 117,000, but training, equipment
and arms are lacking even for these. Hines
put up a powerful plea for the increase, on
the ground that the permanent forces would
have to hold the line until great national
armies could he trained and equipped behind
it, and in this respect arrangements for
arms and munitions in case of emergency
were utterly lacking. The whole tenor of
the report runs curiously parallel to that
on Australian defence recently issued by
Inspector-General iChauvel. The most strik-
ing difference is that Hines is able to speak
of a measure of assistance from a reputedly
powerful navy, while the Australian expert
has no such consolation.
THE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s not a cloud in all the sky
To break the glorious blue !
The tracks are dry, but not too dry,
The grass is green and new.
The sun is bright, but not too hot;
There’s just a gentle breeze
That flutters round our cozy cot,
And wantons with the trees.
The birds are warbling in the vine,
The flowers entice the bees;
The lowing of contented kine
Proclaims a world at ease.
The cat upon the doorstep sits
And smiles the hours away;
All Nature sings with joy, for it’s
A bonzer washing-day!
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Jtfatson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
B,9ai - 12. Bridge Street, Sydney
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north o t Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every' Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday. 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.— First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
_ . , . Passengers’ Booking Office:
lounst Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Svdnev.
Briabane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bankol Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Siieldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager ; A. C. Dirdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairhairn. Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at 1 nterest for
fixed periods, and
business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager..
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
dfď
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C Lta.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
Shipping, &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. OCT. 7, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ ~ OCT. 21, for Vancouver.
MAIvURA .. . 13,000 „ ~ NOV. 4, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 „ ~ NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
*New Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
f
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
sy v '
es
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN"
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
No extra charge.
At regular passage rates.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE ]
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
. . . 18,500 tons October 28
* Nestor 14,547 „ October 26.
fThemistocles 11,500 „ November 22
♦Ulysses. .. . 14,626 „ December 7.
JSuevic 12,500 „ December 11.
♦First class only, thirst and Third class.
|“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“JMALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping; Agents, Merchants, Colliery |
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire ' Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker',
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens- !
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, ’Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1019.
Paid-up Capital
lieserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. GiUespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager; OSCAR LINES
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC %
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkcrL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchkist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with 'the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
this appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comlortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘W'ild Cat’ Monthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


/P
a
f
ffi
K 8739
STUDEBAKER-
Faithful Servant of
Transportation
FROM the uneventful task of driving
over broad boulevards in the world’s
largest cities to the gruelling work of carry-
ing heavy loads of mail and freight through
the rugged bush roads of Australia—over a
million Studebaker cars are daily proving
their dependability. Whether the require-
ment be usual or unusual, you can depend
upon Studebaker cars to take you where
you will—safely, surely and economically.
You may be sure that if it costs less, it is
not nearly so good as a Studebaker; if it costs
more, it may be no better.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand-
sfIJDEBAKER


&
m
iy
5
m
A
w
<5
<3
’Rexona
Sor tlea t/h
(ad<§eauty
S©ap
Miss NOLA NEVILLE, a
beautiful Rexona Girl,
lurites: “I have been using
Rexona Soap for some time,
and am really more than
delighted with the wonder-
ful results.”
Cptte Use of c
cAgxona <poap
pnsures ‘peauiy
to Skin an d /fair!
That natural beauty of skin and hair which ca nnot be imitated can be obtained by regular
use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many
of them contain fi-ee alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture.
Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is
known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day
and see if it does not quickly
soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen
the tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
'Rexona
S©<ip
lt’s Medicated !
m
'//■
m
//
t/A
MW
TO»»-C'
( 40BSt BV
FACIAL
Cie» rtSt ..
5
"/
mm
/
Biiiilß
i
I V'
,'w
m
J
« T
%
V X,
X
S?
L‘ '
m
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES: I
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 1
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia. I
£in&dt HiliitA,
162-166 Pitt Street; also
Corner George & King Streets.
Sydney.
DADDYS,
HOME ! „
The Passing Troop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A CROSS the windy hills of thyme
The chapel bells of morning chime
From lofty walls where sunlight leaps
On saffron spires and gable steeps,
While ruddy roof and marble shrine
Glow fondly through the cypress pine.
A broken highway runs between
Two hillocks robed in tender green
And crowned with olive-trees which trail
In sombre beauty down the vale
That falls between the terrace steeps
Where one low cloud a moment weeps.
From out the sable groves of lime
The ringing hoofs of morning climh.
A troop surmounts the windy crest
With buoyant laugh and careless jest
That echo down the broken way,
Shouting a welcome to the day.
From wiser hearts a cadence sw r ells
In glad communion with the bells.
A swarthy Moslem marks them ride,
And breathes his curse upon the pride
Of unbelieving hawks of spoil
That loot the corn and spill the oil.
A Christian maid still-tongued and shy
Smiles gladly as the troop goes by.
The wayworn horsemen rein abreast
And halt along the shrouded crest
Where portals glow and windows shine
Beyond their sentinels of pine.
Ten perfumed hours of calm repose
Are the first joy the trooper knows.
The chapel bells of evening chime
The solemn call of vesper-time.
The horses neigh, the horsemen rise,
Rubbing the slumber from their eyes
To drink from proffered bowls ashine
Deep ruby draughts of Carmel wine.
Astride they leap ! Shod hoofs assail
The road that falls into the vale
Whence darkness steals, ascending high,
To mantle hill and tree and sky.
One sheds her tears of grey regret—
One prays their final sun has set!
From out the sombre groves of lime
No more the careless horsemen climb
Steep highways thrashed by drumming hoofs
And slopes ablaze with ruddy roofs —
Strong posts where hostile blades are
drawn
Against the pallid face of dawn.
Through changeless years the highway sleeps
By sunlit spires and gable steeps,
While one yet hears on mornings still
lloof-echoes down the windy hill;
And day by day the sad bells chime
For morning mass and vesper time.
N - S<w *
GERARDY.
The Flying Dutchman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE little cargo steamer Port Light was
under charter to a Canton firm; but
she carried into strange seas, not with-
out a naive pride it seemed, the Southern
Cross upon her ensign to bespeak her Aus-
tralian ownership.
one day her master, Captain Selvedge,
was afflicted with a fierce onset of neuralgia,
lie had always held the medicine-chest in
small esteem; but, urged by the mate and
the increasing severity of his ailment, he
tried, one after another, all of its appropri-
ate medicaments, but without obtaining
relief.
As soon as Li Hang, a savant of sorts,
who shared the spare state-room with a fat
Cantonese merchant, heard of this, he shuffled
silently to the door of the captain’s cabin,
and stood there in his gorgeous brocaded
robe, saying in his correct English: “I will
cure yon of your pain, Captain.”
And he did cure the pain. He cured it
with a powder which he took from a little
lacquered box, and that powder was an ano-
dyne that had been known to his ancestors
long before Aesculapius practised the art of
medicine. The cure was complete, speedy
and incredibly pleasant; but it would have
been better for Captain Selvedge had he
endured his ailment. Whatever the drug
was, it predisposed him towards another pow-
der which Li Hang administered to his
patient.
The suave Chinaman’s ministrations ex-
tended over three days, and at regular inter-
vals he would appear at the captain’s door
bowing courteously, his long tapering fingers
hidden in his ample sleeves. He would find
the captain irritably biting his pipe-stem, or
moving restlessly about the cabin; and it
was not until Li Hang had presented a little
screw of rice paper that the anxious look
upon the shipmaster’s face would give way
to an eager smile of satisfaction as his shak-
ing hand closed upon the dose of opium.
But on the fourth day the Chinaman did
not appear. Captain Selvedge stamped
angrily about his cabin for half an hour, and
then sought out Li Hang, alternately cursing
and cajoling.
Li Hang held up a porcelain jar, and his
narrow, slant eyes looked straight into the
c aptain’s dilated pupils, while he said:
“Enough for a long time, Captain. Three
hundred dollars.”
“Yes, yes.” Captain Selvedge breathed
hoarsely. “Give it to me.” _
For six months Captain Selvedge went up
and down the narrow seas with Li Hang’s
opium jar, and when it was empty he had it
refilled ; for he found it wais not pleasant to
be without the drug.
But he had yet to reckon with Dr. Contine.
Many people in the East have had to reckon
with Dr. Contine; for the dioctor is a dynamic
force in white drill which might be encoun-
tered at any time anywhere between Guam
and Bombay.
When the Governments of the divers
Oriental States have within their borders an
epidemic that cannot be exorcised by the
medicine men, nor probubly even diagnosed
by their health officers, they send for Dr.
Contine.
While he is proceeding from one storm-
centre of pestilence to another. Dr. Contine
is not indolent, though unfailingly ill-man-
nered; and if you travel on the same ship
as he, and you happen to have a skeleton
in your medicine-cupboard, he will have it
out. .
So that when the doctor occupied the
Port Light’s spare state-room for the passage
to Sarajodak where the Shaking Plague
had broken out, there was no escape tor
Captain Selvedge from the direct patho-
logical stare of the scientist’s spectacles ; and
by the time the vessel had reached the
doctor’s port the master had been broken of
his opio-mania, and a regimen enforced
that was to undo the evil work of Li Hang s
treatment.
Before Dr. Confine followed his cabm-
trunks ashore he turned with one foot upon
the gangway.
“Now look here!” he said roughly. “Not
a grain more, mind. The next thing will
be hallucinations; and a shipmaster who
sees things afloat is no damn good; and a
shipmaster ashore —on the beach—is the
most pitiful thing under God’s Heaven!”
With the will to live free from the drug
habit strong within him, Captain Selvedge
locked up Li Hang’s jar in a drawer beneath
his bunk, intending to get rid of it at the
first opportunity.
A few days out from Hong Kong on her
voyage to Sydney, the glass began to fall.
Before an hour had gone by the steamer
was plunging through a welter of lashing
water; and for three days she hammered
her bluff bows into the madly-rushing seas,
beneath a writhing sky in which appeared
neither sun, nor moon, nor stars.
There was worse to befall her. While the
second-mate was relieving the third-mate, the
jumper-stay carried away, and, snapping the
bridge-awning frame-work like so many
rotten sticks, it struck the second-mate
insensible and broke the third-mate’s arm.
The great wire took possession of the decks,
swinging through the darkness across bridge-
and boat-deck like a giant scythe; and the
helmsman, deserting his wheel to avoid the
slashing terror, let the vessel come broadside
to the sea. It was a work of extreme danger
to secure it, and that was not done until the
mate and the boatswain, in the excess of their
zeal, had been flung violently against a life-
boat and taken up more dead than alive.
Thus the captain, beset with misfortunes and
without an officer fit for duty, began his
long, lone fight against the storm.
On the fifth night, after he had been con-
tinuously on deck for thirty-nine hours,
there came a shift of wind, the sky
cleared, and a bright moon showed Captain
Selvedge his steamer plunging into great
flashing seas, while broad abeam lay the
narrow, crescent-shaped island of Pauma-
lota.
Three points on the weather-beam was a
three-masted full-rigged ship. She had all her
sails set save her top-gallants and royals, and
she was tearing through the water at a
great pace. She was not a mile away, and
as the captain stared at her she drew swiftly
across the steamer’s bows and drove on
towards the centre of Pauma-lota!
“Straight on to the island!” gasped Cap-
tain Selvedge. He changed the course, bring-
ing his vessel on the lee —and convex —side of
the crescent and into smoother water;
although the little island, raised but a foot
or so above sea-level, offered no shelter from
the gale.
There was no sign of the sailing-ship, and
Captain Selvedge wondered how she could
have avoided going ashore, so close had he
seen her drive to the beach.
Then suddenly there issued, seemingly
from the centre of the island, a phantom
ship, black and distinct in silhouette against
the sotting moon!
“My God! She’s been clean across the
island,” he muttered as he watched her sweep
into the south. Then another cloud eclipsed
the moon and he stood shivering in the dark-
ness. Seeing things, as Dr. Contine had
warned him!
In a hoarse shout he asked the helmsman
if he had seen a sailing-vessel. The man
started at the unexpected query.
“No, sir,” he answered, and then bawled
“Can’t see nothin’ fer the dodger.” The
sheltering wall of canvas would prevent the
man at the wheel from seeing much of the
sea. There remained the lookout —stationed
upon the lower bridge because of the heavy
weather. The captain went down and found
a Chinese half-caste curled up under the lee
of the rail, and his slit eyes were closed in
poppy dreams. The captain savagely lacked
the unfaithful watchman into a stupid wake-
fulness, and rushed back to his post.
When the second-mate came upon the
bridge, bringing the good news that he and
the mate were fit for duty, Captain Selvedge
shivered and muttered strangely.
In his cahin he fumbled awhile with his
keys, and then with a shaking hand he
opened a drawer that had not been opened
since the days of Dr. Contine, and took out:
a flowered porcelain pot. He scarcely
appeared on deck until the steamer made
port; and by that time he was not in a fit
state to be in command of a vessel.
There was some mention of the Port Light
in the Sydney newspapers after she had
anchored off Cremorne Point. The directors
of the line warmly congratulated Captain
Selvedge and gave him a holiday and a,
cheque; and the Marine Superintendent,
who had not the perspicacity of Dr. Contine.
hinted at the command of the new 10.000-ton
steamer that tvas to be launched in the New
Year.
* * * *
In a corner handy to the bar counter,
where he could get his glass speedily re-
plenished, Captain Selvedge sat every day
morosely drinking absinthe, an effective sub-
stitute for the drug he could no longer
obtain. He was the hotel’s only regular
customer for absinthe. He drank delib-
erately, joylessly, like a man without hope,
or one who drinks to drown a memory.
“I believe I could give it up at any time,
if I wanted to —but I don’t want to !” he
remarked one day to the barmaid, and then
sank back into his moody silence.
The New Year passed; the new 10,000-
ton-steamer was launched and went to sea.
Another New Year came and another ship
was building; but Captain Selvedge still sat
in his accustomed seat silently drinking Ins
absinthe or staring moodily before him. With
the exception of Selvedge, it was a cheerful
little coterie that met there; and the most,
talkative of its members was old Captain
Chinner. One day the talk was of that itiosr
uncommon of nautical manoeuvres uncom-
mon even in the days when there were no
(Continued on next page.)


C*
m
m
mm
Those Spring
Skin Wbrries
IN the Spring-time many of us are
sorely troubled because, with Winter s
impurities still in the blood, our skin
gets off-color.
Pimples, irritating patches and blotches
may either be little local disturbances or,
if you are out of luck, harbingers of
eczema, ulcers, or other serious trouble.
Don’t worry over what may happen.
Start now and
Coax your skin back to health
with nightly dressings of ZAM-BUK.
This famous herbal balm exerts a sooth-
ing and purifying influence far below the
surface trouble. Soreness, irritation and
impurity are all quickly removed by
Zam-Buk. It makes the skin wonderfully
clear and healthy.
When “Spring-cleaning” keep Zam-Buk
always handy. It ends the pain and danger
of cuts, scratches and abrasions, and prevents sore hands.
Also valuable as a remedy for boils, abscesses, poisoned
wounds, piles, burns, scalds, etc.
Try also Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, which is more
than a mere toilet soap. Used in conjunction with
Zam-Buk balm it is invaluable for ensuring that perfect
cleanliness so necessary for dispelling skin disorders and
healing sores and injuries.
FREE SAMPLES OF
ZAM-BUK AND
ZAM-BUK SOAP
To test the combined
treatment —Zam-Buk and
Zam-Buk Soap—write to
C. E. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Box 1G2788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and samples will
be forwarded by return
mail, post free. Men-
tion The Bulletin of
7/10/’26 when writing.
THE TESTED SKIN-TREATMENT
v&*
ftCRBAL
BALM
y
cutV*"
• o a.'?**, ir^j?
“•s*s
SS«WS
i*^****“St*
K;‘?.ss®
let
Ch «i®
rp* N
Ha
L ***s
u *‘Qu.
c ®io N £!i*cs
*O*U
>»/^o
«*
°C«\o^
ships but sailing-ships—the manoeuvre of
club-hauling.
“There’s a lot of lies told about club-
hauling,” said old Captain Chinner. “Though
I’ve been 60 years at sea, man and boy, I’ve
never actually club-hauled a ship, but I
came dashed near doing it one night. And
that wasn’t long ago, because it was on my
last voyage. Let me see—it was eighteen
months ago. I was three weeks out from
Kobe when I ran into dirty weather. I was
carrying all me canvas, so I lost no time
in getting the royals and t’ga’nts’ls off
her. I hadn’t got a sight of anything for
days. Suddenly the wind blew the top out
of the sky—and it was bright moonlight!
Then I found I was in the tightest corner
I’d ever been in. Holy Moses! What a sight
it was! The sea running mountains high, and
a lee shore right under me fore foot! I
could see the trend of the land as plainly
as I can see that row of bottles. Don’t
know how I’d got so far to loo’ard; but there
I was two blocks up against Pauma-lota!
I don’t know whether any of you know
Pauma-lota. It’s a long, low, narra-gutted
island about 16 miles long and hardly more
than that many fathoms across. Just a low,
sandy curse of a thing like this.”
Captain Chinner drew a curved figure upon
the table-top with a finger moistened for the
purpose in beer.
“A lialf-moon,” suggested an old Bank
Line skipper.
“Yes, that’s it. A half-moon,” resumed
Captain Chinner, after a drink. “And there
I was trying for all I was worth to wear ship
and clear the weather-liorn of that infernal
half-moon. She kept breaking off so often
that I thought she’d never do it; so I had
the mate get the six-inch manila on deck,
and I said: ‘lf the worst comes to the worst,
then damme if I don’t club-haul!’ The wind
was blowing great guns, but I’d had to carry
on me sail. It was pitch dark now, the sky
having filled with cloud; and in a brace of
shakes she was in the breakers and bounding
like mad. The hands who were trying to get
the anchor over_ were washed and tumbled
about on the fo'c’s’le head in the seas she
was shipping for’ard, so I had to order them
to lay aft.
“It was all up! But I made up my
mind that as she was to go ashore she was
going to be beached head-on and as hand-
some as I could do it. I reckoned she’d drive
well up on to the beach. She was going like
the devil under this big press of canvas.”
Captain Chinner paused, raised his lager,
drank, and set his glass down with a flourish,
and leaning forward, tapped the table several
times with his stick, his gaze still upon his
hearers, whose faces bore the ludicious, irre-
solute expression of men who do not know
whether they are next minute to roar with
or to gasp with astonishment.
Captain Chinner smote the table so sud-
denly that everybody blinked.
“She never struck !” he rapped out. “No,
she did not! She never took the ground!
She dashed on through the darkness; and
then the moon shone out, and, hang me,
if she wasn’t tearing through a channel that
was running like a mill-race right across the
island! Yes, the sea had made a breach
right across the island —it’s nothing but a
sandbank, is Pauma-lota —and I’d blundered
right into that channel, never thinking but
what it was all solid, and the wind and sea
carried me through like greased lightning;
and before I could fully grasp what had
happened, the Caluela was shot clear of that
channel and was tearing straight on with
her rail under on the other side of the
island, and” ——-
Volleys of laughter silenced Captain Chin-
ner’s voice.
“Now, now,” protested Captain Chinner.
“I tell you this is the solemn truth.”
A half-animal cry rang out, and a tumbler
fell with a tinkling crash. Speech and
laughter froze upon tlicir lips when they
beheld Captain Selvedge. He was very pale,
but his madly-blazing eyes were fixed upon
the astonished face of old Captain Chinner.
“You old windbag!” snarled Captain Selv-
edge. “Why couldn’t you have told that yarn
before? Here have I been listening to your
confounded yarns every day for nearly eight-
een months. I’ve heard all about your
seafaring days since you were brassbound- —
which must ha’ been when Noah was scullin’
round in the Ark. But you never told that
one about Pauma-lota! Oh, why the hell
couldn’t you have told that one?”
The angry fire in his eyes was extin-
guished by a flood of maudlin tears.
“I sat here going to the Devil—as fast as
I could,” he went on in a broken voice, “try-
ing to forget.... I’ve let the.command of
one ship after another slip—until, until I’ve
come to this. Why, nobody’d take me ’fore
the mast on a scow now—an’ all because I
thought I’d started to see things—thought
I wasn’t fit for command —an’ a skipper who
sees things ’s no damn good”
He stopped, and for the first time looked
self-consciously about him as if suddenly
aware that he’d been making a fool of him-
self. Then he smiled a sad, awkward smile
that was as affecting as his tears.
“But I’m glad to have heard that yarn.
Cap’n Chinner, even if you’ve put me through
Hell for so long by not tellin’ it before.”
His voice was more even now. “It’s a great
relief. It’s —it’s like a curse being lifted.”
“Yes,” he went on, as if speaking to him-
self, “perhaps I can square myself up now
before it’s too late. This is easier to sling
than the dope”
He took up his full glass of absinthe and
dashed the contents into the fireplace. Then
he walked towards the door, but halted sud- .
denly as if he had forgotten something im-
portant.
“You see,” he said, looking very intently
at Captain Chinner, before lie reeled through
the folding doors, “I thought you were the
Flying Dutchman that time,” and he was
gone.
These cryptic words, evidently intended
as a complete explanation, served only to
deepen the mystery of Captain Selvedge’s
strange behavior, and after his hasty exit
everyone in the bar stared at the violently-
perturbed folding-doors until their oscilla-
tions diminished to the merest quiver, and
then ceased.
“Heugh ! A daft, druclien loon, is yon,”
said Captain McNair, breaking the silence.
“Drunk as Chloe,” agreed an old coasting
mate, “an, shapin’ well for the d.t.’s, if
I know anything.... Funny, though, how
he never cut loose like that before, ain’t
Old Captain Chinner sat handling his
white beard and lifting his eyebrows in pro-
found thought. Then suddenly he raised a
shout of triumph. “Ah! I’ve got it! It
was the steamer!”
“What steamer?” demanded a petulant
voice.
“There was a steamer —I'd clean forgotten
her. I ran past her that night when I was try-
ing to beat off Pauma-lota. Now this is as
true as I sit here —it’s in my log. There
you go trying to make a liar of”
“Well, wliat about the steamer?” This
time the voice was truculent in its earnest-
ness.
“It was his steamer!” Captain Chinner
shouted excitedly pointing at the folding-
doors as if Captain Selvedge had but that
second passed through them. “It was Selv-
edge’s steamer ! Must ha’ been ! Didn’t he
say he thought I —the Caluela —was the
Flying Dutchman? Didn’t he now? That's
it; he must ha’ seen the Caluela cross the
island ! Then he lost his nerve—sat here all
these months boozed to the eyebrows, think-
ing he'd run foul of the Flying Dutchman.”
He paused, feeling that further speech was
unnecessary, and sank into the deep medi-
tative silence in which his friends were
merged.
Then Molly, the barmaid, laughed.
“Trust Captain Daddy Chinner to get out
of a tight corner,” she said in indulgent
banter.
They did not seem to hear her, but sat
in mystic communion without word or sign
or gesture, while into the texture of their
thoughts they wove the chance-flung threads
that they had caught. And, although put
asunder from the husbandry of ships by the
dissevering hand of Time, the spell of the
sea fell heavily upon them.
EDWARD SCOTT HOLLAND.
Clancy’s Confession.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Jim Clancy was dying in the
Zeehan Hospital. The doctor said
he could not last long; and it was
evident he was sinking fast. But nobody
felt very concerned about it. Clancy had
been no more than a rouseabout in the pubs
of the town. If anyone missed him it would
be the miners off shift, who would no longer
see him cadging drinks.
For several hours before he died he lay
looking at the ceiling of the ward. He was
quite conscious, and must have been think-
ing. He was interrupted by one of the sis-
ters, who came to his bedside.
“Can I do anything for you, .Tim?’’ she
asked softly.
“I’ve been thinking,” said Jim, “I’d like
to see the”
“Priest?” prompted the sister.
“No, lie’s been. I’d like to see the ser-
geant.”
“The sergeant!”
“You’ve struck it right,” said Jim.
It was not long before the whole staff
knew that Jim Clancy had asked to see the
policeman. He could not have caused a
greater flutter if he had asked to see the
Premier. Everyone knew what it was about.
Jim had committed a crime, and wanted
to make a confession before he died. Per-
haps he would show that some poor convicted
devil was innocent. Many eyes watched the
approach of the officer.
“I think Jim Clancy’s got something to
confess, Sergeant,” said the matron.
“In that case I’d like a couple of you to
stay as witnesses,” replied Sergeant Mason,
pulling out his notebook.
The Sergeant sat on a chair at the head
of the bed, and the matron and a sister stood
at the foot.
“I’ve been informed,” said the sergeant
gravely to the dying man, “that you have a
statement to make.”
“It was good of you to come, Mr. Mason,”
said Clancy. “I thought p’r’aps yon
mightn’t.”
“Duty’s always duty,” said the sergeant
sententiously.
“I won’t last long,” went on Jim, “and
I thought I’d like to see you first. It’s like
this. Seven or eight years ago I cleared
out and left the missus. She’s got a little
pub in Hobart now, and, thinkin’ of ’er and
that little pub, some’ow I can’t die ’appy.”
Sergeant Mason felt all hopes of a sen-
sation vanishing. He closed his notebook
wearily and slipped the elastic-band round it.
Jim woke up from his ecstasy and con-
tinued : “I ’card as you’ve been shifted to
Hobart, and I thought you might let the
missus know what I said. Tell ’er I’m sorry
for what I done.”
The sergeant rose from his chair and
looked at the matron, who appeared need-
lessly affected.
Old Jim had closed his eyes again, and
was dreaming of the paradise lie had missed.
“Was Jim’s confession terribly thrilling,
Mr. Mason?” the day-nurse couldn’t help
asking.
“Staggerin’,” said the sergeant—“stag-
gerin’.”
Five weeks later, in the course of his duty
in Hobart, Sergeant Mason called on Mrs.
Clancy, the proprietress of the Hope and
Crown. Mrs. Clancy did not appear par-
ticularly pleased. She did not like police-
men, especially sergeants.
“You’re Mrs. Clancy, aren’t you?” in-
quired the sergeant.
“And who else is it you’d be expectin’ to
find here?”
“Well, Mrs. Clancy, I want you to pre-
pare yourself for a shock. This will be a
severe blow, and a great loss to you, but I
know you will bear it bravely.”
Mrs. Clancy went very pale, and breathed
with difficulty. “What is it, Sergeant?” she
managed to ask at last.
“Your husband died in the Zeehan hospi-
tal last month.”
Mrs. Clancy gave a tremendous sigh.
“What a shock you did give me, Sergeant!
I thought you was going to tell me you’d
got something up ag’in me license !”
L. C. MURRAY.


d
WESTI NGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO ”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
THE “ATCOT
p&TfiOV.
WQVs/_E»
The ‘ ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2J-k.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season’s prices. Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives: '
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
S 5
F 1
SEK
Long Life to Fine
Mechanisms!
SEWING MACHINES, bicycles, type-
writers, clocks, etc. must be treated,
regularly, with a good oil if they are
to give smooth, silent service.
REM OIL cleans, lubricates, prevents rust.
It cannot be equalled for general usefulness.
Remington guarantees its excellence.
Your dealer can supply or order for you.
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686E, Melbourne, Viet.
Every woman
knows
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health*
Hi
■! ' * %
'■
WMmPmSn
x *:rA . .>
Worth a Guinea a Box.
Sold in Boxes, 1/- and 2/6.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW:—
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over flO
Carriage Paid 'Ey
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
Wm
mm'
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-<s
logue of Fine Irish
together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD,
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world.
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2 X 3 yards, at
33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- per dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, 22 x 24
inches, from 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen.
Gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
ďf
UCE__J
Bosi 80/faooASays -
“Excellent with every
dish —cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.'*
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day. 2/6; Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and Gd.
-Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Hoard
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at3p m .„„ m No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Ferries. Ltd.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).


BOTTLED HISTORY
Every Bottle of
gw?
O
□
O
4U
is a traveller
for the firm
The purity and maturity of
Johnnie Walker is ensured by
the maintenance of an immense
reserve stock of pure Scotch
Whisky, perpetually ageing in
bond as a safeguard against any
immature Johnnie Walker
Whisky being placed on the
market
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
&
m
i
%
i
ii
I
m
Born 1820-
Still
Going
Strong!
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
