

t3!lG.ijsnj/~ui apßUt pasip.t ispueiQ fi/MQ a }/£
P%
f
/
■
——l
4
2SB
A
■ ■ ■
■
w
MB
m m
jm
•?'
H
■
m a
I
, 1
-.
■
m
ssss
81*
1
fi
;.,Y
■■
Obtainable
at all Leading
Mercers
None Genuine
Without the Brand
on ike Leather.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2426.
Thursday, August 12, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
1 is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
%
SS£
DZa
spHgi
m ■■■ ■
/ v *• «
>• SSi-S
■\
* My WHA-A-T* ♦♦ JENKYNI»
‘YOUR MILDMAYS, SIR. I have ventured to suggest ten
of this particular brand' *
‘The dickens you have, Jenkynl*
* so that when you return to your Kensitas, you will — ■
ahem—appreciate them more fully.’
‘Gee! The man’s a marvel! But comparisons, Jenkyn, are *
‘Exactly, Sir hideous I know, but sometimes invaluable.’
‘Righto, Jenk! But it seems to me much about the same as
knocking your head about with a stick to see how nice it feels
when you leave off.’
‘Not exactly, Sir. I will bring you your Kensitas to-morrow- ’
‘When I shall probably present you with nine perfectly good
Mildmays—you can keep the picture.’
10 KENSITAS COST 9d. 20 FOR 1/6
CLUB SIZE, 10 FOR 1/- 25 FOR 2/6
m
:
BOSTOCKS
Liouid suede dressings.
;.VS~ 1
SACK SUBDE
S&ESSINC
BOSTOCK'S Black Liquid Suede Dress-
ing gives a Jet Black tone and preserves
the original density of colour in the Suede
leather ; also made in Brown, Nigger
Brown/ Light Grey and Dark Grey.
gfgh
Obtainable
Everywhere
@315
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAU,TION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes* has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps (o the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B, The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
This Also Is Vanity
Juvenal said it. many centuries ago: “If
you see no glimpse of coin in the Pierian
shade, you will prefer the name and occupa-
tion of a barber or an auctioneer.” Those
scribes who, in the Red Page recently, have
been desponding over the present and future
of Australian literature should cherish those
words as guide and admonishment.
Plainly, they are not so concerned with
a lack of national expression, nor even with
literature, as they are with the diiSculty of
obtaining an adequate return for the writ-
ing of localised copy for a limited market,
and this is an evil only to be remedied by
time and circumstance. Their suggested
anti-dumping law against imported publica-
tions may have some merit as an economic
theory, but it has little of originality. Eighty-
odd years ago, in the high old piratical days
of United States literary freetrade-and-down-
with-copyrigkt, Edgar Allan Poe gave utter-
ance to the same thought in his “Margin-
alia”: “That an American should confine
himself to American themes, or even _ prefer
them, is rather a political than a literary
idea- —and at best is a questionable point...
But of the need of that nationality which
defends our own literature, sustains our
own men of letters, upholds our own
dignity and depends upon our own
resources, there cannot be the shadow
of a doubt.” It was long after Poe had died
in poverty that his demand for protection
was granted; yet the America of his day
had produced a truly national and not in-
considerable literature, and several authors,
himself included, whose work a discriminat-
ing posterity has agreed to label “classic.”
Notwithstanding a vast increase in American
population and output of American printed
matter, one may even say that those years
of literary freetrade, piracy and poverty pro-
duced infinitely more literature (literature,
that is, considered as some notable artistic
contribution to human thought) than all
this later protected age of best-sellers and
affluent authors.
But if genius does what it must, talent
must get what it can. “Mummy is become
merchandise. ... Pharaoh is sold for bal-
sams” ; and, considering a writer’s output
merely as a commodity to be exchanged for
the best possible price, what is there to pre-
vent an Australian writer from competing
with British and American writers in their
own wider fields? Why not write to suit,
and sell the merchandise to one of those
hypertrophied American magazines of which
complaint is made? Rolf Boldrewood and
Marcus Clarke had a much more than Aus-
tralian audience in their day, and so, too,
had Nat Gould and Guy Boothby—all Aus-
tralians. If an objection is raised that the
work of this last pair is neither Australian
nor literature, it will be merely to confuse
the issues, which are, succinctly, a complaint
that Australian writers cannot earn a living
wage, and a demand that Australians should
be made to read less foreign and more Aus-
tralian writing.
If argument is raised that publication in
American and British magazines is no assist-
ance to Australian literature, it must be
ruled out as not being pertinent. If it is
objected that Australian color has no Ameri-
can interest, the reply is that such a sup-
position has yet to be proved. Americans
have only lately learned of the existence of
an Australian nation, and I can even believe
that if Robert Kaleski, for example, could
and would write a gaMoping yarn, ingeni-
ously mechanised after an approved Ameri-
can model, introducing his dogs, dingoes, buck-
jumpers and stockwhips,, with Broome, say,
for a setting, and some ' extra “local color”
borrowed from the Gulf Country, the whole
to be judiciously flavored with pistol-play
and heart-interest, he would stand as good
a chance as most of hieing accepted by one
of those munificent American publications
whose enormous eireuliations and advertising
revenues, and consequent “gift price,” has
been the subject of complaint. Of course, he
would have to make (either his hero or hero-
ine a brave aivd virtuous American citizen,
but to a skilled craftsman that should not
present any ivisupera,ble difficulty.
The average Australian reader is as keen
for that sort, of literature as are the Ameri-
can and British publics, and if he shows a
preference for American magazines and Eng-
lish novels it is nioft solely because they are
cheap, but because they have certain popular
merits and a rang;e of interest that Austra-
lian authors and publishers have not yet
learned to supply*
Doubtlests, when. Australia’s population
lias increased from six to sixty millions its
journals will ha ve correspon jipg circulations,
with advertising rates in accordance, and the
Australian writ er will then be rewarded with
a fair week’s p:*y for a fair dfly’s work. The
real difficulty that confronts an Australian
writer intent on making a genuine contri-
bution to the 'literary Expression of his coun-
try is that hie has no discriminating audi-
ence sufficiently large to encourage him, to
give him that? “fame and reward” which have
been mentioned as the twin desiderata of
authorship. Of Australia’s six millions one-
sixtieth might constitute his
critically- appreciative readers. The audi-
ence is neither large enough nor sufficiently
cohering/ to make its opinion count, to give
an Australian author a zticlyme wider than
his ov/n sparsely-populated continent, and
it is because of this that the literary judg-
ments of Australians are still made for them
abroad, and a prophet has small honor in
his own country.
As for the literary journeyman who in-
sists on making his pen his means of live-
lihood, yet will not seek or suit his market,
his,case is also hard, no doubt; yet he need
not starve. It was Coleridge, I think, who
(following Juyenal) advised every literary
aspirant to have a trade; and there is no
reason why dny of us should write for a
living when reputable callings offer better
or more regular wages. Of the making of
books there is no end, and it is depressing
to reflect on the number of good bricklayers
the world has lost-*—as saddening as it is to
view the long perspectives of pulp and print
a Public Library exposes. So reflecting,
then, let us declare for a long truce. Let
us “down pens”; for in this late age of
rotary and newsprint we can offer little
more than we ourselves iare offered —a wide
choice between things as well unsaid and
things not worth the saying, and there is
great opportunity for silence.
DICK HARRIS.
Rupert Brooke
Rupert Brooke is regarded by many
people as merely a phenomenon of the late
war —something; that came into being with
it, and ceased to be of any great importance
after it. But that is only the Rupert Brooke
who wrote the sonnet beginning “If I should
die,” and then died romantically on a green,
white-beached island of the blue Mediter-
ranean Sea. Rupert Brooke is something
more than this. When the war broke out
he was, as are ever so many youths of the
age he then was, a disillusioned idealist. Had
he lived long enough he might have become
what many disillusioned idealists become
when they have lived long enough—bored.
As it was he was never bored; he was only
disgusted. It is a thousand times better
to be disgusted with things than bored.
When one is disgusted one can be angry, self-
righteous, self-pitying, gloriously indignant,
cynical, satirical. One can still take oneself
very seriously even when one laughs bitterly
at oneself. One can still have convictions —
convictions, for instance, that all those
things that so disgust one are utterly wrong.
One can still dream of beauty—the beauty
that is the antithesis of all the disgusting
things. There is still fire, force, compelling,
vital vehemence. But when one is bored
the fires are out; there is no motive-power;
a sense of human futility is over all things;
the worthwhileness has utterly dropped out
of life. Enthusiastic youth bursts upon the
world in quest of what should be, and finds
what is. Disillusionment breeds disgust,
anger, indignation, intolerance, all feeders of
convictions and beliefs. Later, calmer con-
templation shows that if things are not so
rich and beautiful as they at first sight
appeared to be, neither are they so poor and
ugly. With the coming of the power to
philosophically contemplate begins for youth
the parting of the ways. Beliefs and con-
victions tremble and fall; comes a firmer,
deeper-rooted faith or an utter scepticism
and a sense of futility. The Rupert Brookes
of life become truly great, or. they become
nobodies —merely tired and bored.
Youth is, to use a term dear to D. H.
Lawrence, the purgatorial age. Youth comes
on fire with enthusiasm —the enthusiasm of
the first seeing, the first understanding. It
comes in quest of the healthy, the clean, the
beautiful. But life "is never altogether
healthy or clean or beautiful. Youth
sees' the Blue Bird slipping from its
fingers and is inclined to re-action, to
morbidity and bitterness. Youth dreams,
aspires, regrets where Age remembers and
accepts. There is much resignation, toler-
ance, sympathy about Age.. There is none
about Youth. Rupert Brooke was before all
else the poet of Youth. His works make up
possibly the finest complete expression of
Youth that the world has known since Shaks-
peare gave it “Romeo and; Juliet.”
He might be compared in a general sort
of way with Romeo. Romeo played at liv-
ing. He moved with merry, clever com-
panions, and flirted, and believed himself
greatly in love with Rosalind, and was very
sorry for himself. He took himself very
seriously, and with the conceit of youth
looked down upon the world about him. He
would leave the dance to “wantons light of
heart.” He would be “a candle-holder and
look on.” Then he met Juliet, and just for a
little while lived gloriously, and Death saved
him from any disillusionment that might
have been. Rupert Brooke played at living,
too. There were Cambridge and the Georgian
brother-poets (how clever and clean and
idealistic and pessimistic they all w T ere!)
and flirtation and love-making (of the Rorneo-
Rosalind variety—how else could he have
written of it in the cynically true way he
so often did!). There were touching of
“furs and cheeks and flowers,” and travel,
and basking on sunny island beaches in
South Seas. Also there were seasickness,
and love turning to friendliness, and banality
and vulgarity and ugliness. He was enthu-
siastic, depressed, exalted, disgusted,* and
took a certain amount of happiness out of
being unhappy. Then came the Great War,
and for just a little while he lived gloriously
too. The war was for him something that
was going to purify the world. He welcomed
it as a swimmer welcomes the cleansing sea.
He never came out of it. He never lived
to know what it was not.
It were idle to speculate on what works
Rupert Brooke would have achieved had he
lived as long as Shakspeare did. On the
other hand we know the works Shakspeare
had completed when he had lived only as
long as Rupert Brooke did. His principal
work up to that time was “Romeo and
Juliet.” Rupert Brooke’s works show a great
many of the qualities that go to the making
of “Romeo and Juliet.” His poems are a
times cleverly, brightly humorous and fanci
ful. They are at times cynically bitter and
tragic. They are musical, lyrical, thought-
ful, introspective. They contain unforget-
table lines and deeper, unforgettable phrases.
And they make up, as “Romeo and Juliet”
does, a complete picture of Youth. Rupert
Brooke was beautiful in appearance, and
lived and died beautifully. In a sentimental,
emotional age he. has been universally sen-
timentalised and idealised. But his work has
a quality that all his brother Georgian poets
would seem to lack and that the young
Shakspeare had. It is possible because o
this that in the rarefied atmosphere of some
harder, colder, more critical future age his
cynically intellectual poems like “Menelaus
(Continued on page S.)


m
nee
Shooters’ Requisites of the Dependable Kind
cost less at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12 G. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun, Treble
Bolted Action on the Cross Bolt principle, Steel Barrels, Left
Choke Bore, good Steel Rebounding Bar Locks, well grown
Walnut Heart Stock, Half-Pistol Grip, Snap fore-end
Fastener, Engine-turned Rib, proved for
Nitro Powders
£ll
12 G. 32in. barrels
16 G
20 G. 28in. barrels
Price, £ll/5/-
Price, £l2/10/.
Price, £l2/10/-
YT 173-Savage i ‘‘Sporier” .22 Calibre Repeating Bolt
Action Rifle, Model 1923 a. A Sporting Rifle with the accuracy
oi the finest Target Rifle. 23in. Round Barrel. Full Curve
Pl ?°l ( ' , ' r l //- Sights are Rocky Mountain Knife Blade Front
and Flat lop Elevator Adjustment rear of sturdy construction.
[Action obtains half-cock on opening stroke, full-cock on closing
stroke. Five-shot detachable box type magazine
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle Cartridge. Weight 6lb.
£5/S/-
The wonderful
assortment of Requi-
sites at The House of
Economy bids every
ardent “shot” to be
prepared for every
opportunity the for-
tune of the chase
may bring. There
are Guns of every
grade and type—
one for every pur-
pose—and every one
a splendid value, at
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
YT 65 —12-Gauge Stevens’ D.B. Hammer Gun, 30in.
barrels, bored for nitro powder, right barrel modified, left
barrel full choked, matted rib. Chambered for 2|in.
cartridges. Walnut, checkered pistol grip.
Weight about 7flb. Price
■/S/93
YT 180— Bayard .22 Calibre Self-cocking Automatic
Ejecting Rifle, Chambered for Short or Long Cartridges, 19in.
Barrel, Adjustable Rear Sight, Sporting Front Sight, Plain
Walnut Pistol Grip Stock with Checkered Grip.
Weight, 3ilb.
35/-
De Luxe Model, 232 in. Barrel, Full Checkered
Stock. Price
45/-
fgh
YT 391—Gun Cases,
blocked*
solid leather; for 30in.
barrels. Price
40/-
YT 103
£T. 103—12-Gauge Westley Richards Hammerless Non-Ejector Double Gun, with treble-bite cross-
linlf b , arr oA S ’ bored I , eft choke, chambered for 2'[in. ca: trjdges. Top Automatic Safety Slide,
nalt-pistoi hand stock, 30m. barrels, press-down rod fore-end snap. Weight about 61b. lOoz. £23
As above, extra heavy build for pigeon shooting.
£2B
YT 450 Camping or
Scout’s Axe, in leather
sheath.
Price
66
Johnson’s Folding
Fiber Board Decoys
m
-a—
YT 558 —Johnson’s Folding
Fibre Board Decoys. Weight,
6oz.
Price
3/-
fg
YT 436 — Hunting Knife, of
finest Sheffield Steel; heavy-
blade, adapted to sticking and
skinning. In leather sheath.
sin. Gin. 7in.
Price . . 8/- 8/6 9/-
YT 45 —Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-Hammer less
Ejector Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel, Choke Bored
Top Lever Action, Nitro Proved, Walnut Stock, Half
Pistol Grip, Splendidly Balanced, English
made throughout. Weight about 61b' ....
£5/15/-
hfg
YT 442 — Hunting Knife, 4in.
blade of finest Sheffield Steel.
In leather sheath.
Price
7/6
1 / ■ >
MH
- —■
YT 415 Regulation
Grey, Canvas Haver-
sack.
10 xl2 in. Price, 3/-
13 xlO in. Price, 5/6
14 x 11' in. Price, 6/6
15 x 12 in. Price, 7/6
YT 501 —Cleaning Roils, best quality three-piece
Redwood, solid Brass Joint, complete with
Mop, Wire Brush and Brass Jag, 12G. Price
5/-
As above, three piece, 410 G. Price ....
5/9
YT 497 —B.S.A. Set, complete in box, con-
taining “CUNIRID,” an abrasive paste;
“KLEENWELL” OIL, for washing out bore;
BORE POLISHING PASTE; “SAFETI-
PASTE,” for preserving bore after clean-
ing. Price, set
6/-
YT 441 — The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Knife,
sturdy, efficient and rustless. Blade is 4|m. long;
handle of variegated segments of richly-colored leather,
brass and bakelite, with nickel-silver hilt and
polished aluminium head. Price
10/6
Write for Illustrated Shooters’ Guide. A copy will be posted free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


ESSEX 6
ojß Built by Hudson Under Famous Super-Six Patents
Closed Car
Comforts at Open
Car Cost
PRICES FROM
£350
usmmm
ilium
lllii
mm
More Than 300,000 Owners
Know Its Time-Proved Quality
Essex proved that everyone wants a “Six.” But low price is not
the only reason why 300,000 owners are praising it so highly,
nor does price alone explain the reason for its continued sales
leadership.
Yet its price is the lowest in history. Time-proved qualities are
what owners talk about. They speak of the little attention Essex
requires and of how infrequent and small is the service cost. They
tell of economy in fuel, oil and tyres. And they praise Essex
smoothness in performance, its nimbleness and its power.
The motor is built under Super-Six patents that give a perform-
ance and quality exclusive to its famous
principle. It is the best Essex ever built, and
because of its vast production and the constant
development of economical and precision
methods of manufacturing it is priced lower
than ever before.
The cost is less than for most Fours and little
more than the lowest-priced car on the market.
Can you ignore such facts in the choice of
your car?
hfg
ESSEX TOURING PRICES FROM £275
World’s Greatest Values
Everyone Says It—Sales Prove It.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
149 A.


m
Silk Lined Dress Suits
£9/15/-
Tailored superbly on English lines ; slightly waisted.
Silk Barathea facings and lined throughout with Silk
—the lining that wears as long as the suit itself. A
size to fit every figure. Price .. .. £9/15/-
DAVID JONES’
TH h' MAN’S SHOP
and Helen,” “Friendliness” and “Dead Man’s
Love,” and his enthusiastically idealistic
soldier sonnets, will live when the vast part
of present-day literature has been long dead.
Alan D. Mickle.
Bret Harte’s Letters
Admirers of Bret Harte —and what reader
is not one? —will be eager to obtain his
Letters, edited by Geoffrey Bret Harte,
who is, apparently, a grandson, and published
by Hodder and Stoughton. From the literary
point of view, regarded solely as the letters
of so distinguished an author, the book is
something of a disappointment. But as
the revelation of a gallant struggle with fate
and that “eternal lack of pence which vexes
public men,” it will be found of unique inter-
est. Anyone who may have considered Harte
as chiefly a humorous writer will here find
him in the role of Jack Point; at his best
an artist of rare quality, yet, all his life
never free from financial cares, and con-
demned to work like a carthorse in the
shafts to the bitter end. As you read, you
long for the miracle of a Maecenas, and
recall Thackeray’s answer to a friend who
said “It must be a fine thing to be a suc-
cessful author” —“You had better break
stones on the road.” But he seems to have
been a gold-mine to an extensive circle of
friends and relations, who evidently
appraised if they did not appreciate his gener-
ous nature. “All my efforts to get some
independence—such as a play, or a position
as editor, which would even allow me a leave
of absence —-have failed,” he wrote sadly to his
wife from London in 1887. “I see nothing
ahead of me but my habitual work —as long
as opportunity and strength suffice.”
His Californian experiences were first-
hand ; he lived in Calaveras county as an
impressionable lad of 18. Upon the only
occasion on which he drew on his imagina-
tion for facts and incidents, he promptly
received a letter and newspaper-cutting cor-
recting some minor details. Editing the
Overland Monthly, lie decided none _of
his contributors had the real Californian
tang. So he set to work himself and pro-
duced “Luck of Roaring Camp.” It was
unfortunate that Dickens’s letter of warm
appreciation of the story did not reach Harte
till after the English novelist’s death. Nor
did Dickens ever read Bret Harte’s grace-
ful tribute to his genius, “Dickens in Camp.”
He must have been an ideal editor. To
Charles Warren Stoddard, who preceded
R.L.S. in the South Seas, he wrote: “ ‘The
Albatross’ is better, but not best. And
then you know Coleridge has prior claims
on the bird.” Again: “In ‘Jason’s Quest’
you have made a mistake of subject, it is
by no means suited to your best thought,
and you’re as much at sea in your mytho-
logy as Jason was.”
On leaving California he held two con-
sular appointments abroad, one in Germany,
the other at Glasgow. A change of admin-
istration terminating this, he decided that
his literary prospects were better in Eng-
land. Unlike Henry James, however, he
was never at ease in Zion. He did not like
the English so well as they liked him. “No-
where,” he says. “I believe in the whole
world, can you find a class living so entirely
for themselves and in themselves as the Eng-
lish better-class,” though he admits some
exceptions. He scarcely forgives James his
Anglican veneer. “He looks, acts and thinks
like an Englishman, I am sorry to say. Ex-
cellent as his style is, I wish he had more
of an American flavor —but this is the effect,
of extreme Boston culture and European
travel.” There is also rather a contemptu-
ous reference to Lowell’s “Britannia-New
England predilections.” Contact with the
literary lights did not afford him much
delight. He writes of a Pall Mall dinner,
where he met Kipling: “I sat next to
Roberts, not Arthur, but Lord ‘Bobs,’ a dear
old chap. lam afraid he interested me more
than our mighty intellects. For we are
a conceited lot.” The historian .Tames
Anthony Fronde seems to have been his chief
friend.
Strangely enough, in view of his world-
wide reputation, he was not particularly
well treated by his own countrymen. Dur-
ing his German residence he was deeply dis-
tressed by a paragraph in a Berlin paper
accusing him of habitual drunkenness. He
tackled this libel firmly and obtained a full
apology, but ascertained that it was from
an American source. Again : “I was startled
out of my usual patience to find an article
in an American paper (twice copied) alleg-
ing that I was a ruined spendthrift living-
in England ‘on money I borrowed from my
Englisli friends,’ and that I would probably
stay as long as I could borrow money from
them.” Nevertheless, his patriotism was
staunch. On a health trip in 1805 lie says:
“And, strangest of all, I find my heart going
back to the old Sierras whenever I get above
8000 feet of Swiss altitude; and—dare I
whisper it? —in spite of this pictorial com-
position, I wouldn’t give a mile of the dear
old Sierras with their honesty, sincerity and
magnificent uncouthness for 100,000 kilo-
metres of this picturesque land !”
Harte’s ambition to write a successful
play was never fulfilled, although “Sue,”
written in collaboration with Mr. Pemberton,
was produced by Frohman in New York, and
ran for a month in London. It did not pay,
and it is evident that he felt this final dis-
appointment very keenly. Explaining the
matter at length to his wife, he makes this
pitiful comment on their daughter’s engage-
ment: “I have had no heart to write to you
or to Jessamy regarding her affairs, and
even now I can only congratulate her upon
finding a husband who can take the place of
her father and his precarious fortunes.” The
iron must surely have entered into the soul
of an affectionate father who could write
like that on what should have been a joyous
occasion.
The “Letters” have an excellent index:
and the introductions are well done except
that the editor has a tendency to beat the big
drum by saying “this charming” or “this
amusing” letter. Such classifications may
with propriety be entrusted to the reader.
Their careful perusal leaves one with an in-
creased respect for the clean and chivalrous
spirit of the man who wrote “The Outcasts
of Poker Flat.” His own poignant verses,
“Relieving Guard,” might well constitute
his epitaph.
Constance E. LEWERS.
Intolerance
I have not read Van Loon’s “Liberation
of Mankind,” and I do not intend to; but
I have read “T.B.C.’s” commentary thereon,
and I beg leave to quarrel gently with the
thesis expounded.
“Intolerance,” says “T.8.C.,” presumably
in tune with Mr. Van Loon, “is the child
of fear.” This is a bold remark. The
most intolerant person in history —popu-
lar history, at any rate —was Torquemada,
and no one could accuse him of personal
cowardice. Nor was lie afraid, as might
be suggested, for his church; it then hap-
pened to be at one of the recurring heights
of its authority and influence. There have
been few more intolerant people than Cal-
vin and few more valiant; and in Calvin s
case the “fear that any deviation from the
beaten path” might be disastrous hardly
seems to have been the motive for persecu-
tion, inasmuch as lie himself was busy devi-
ating from every beaten path he knew.
Again, I have never heard Oliver and his
Roundheads, or the Pilgrim Fathers, or
Ilerakleitos, or The Bulletin or even the
Prohibitionists accused of funk; on the con-
trary, it seems that a great deal of courage
was required to win battles and rule a
mostly hostile people, to embark ill cockle-
shells and found an empire, to challenge
the generality with a theory, to frame a
national policy for Australia when Austra-
lia was presumed to be still a colony, to em-
bark on a reform or pseudo-reform that was
new, novel and widely unpopular. And yet
Cromwell and the Roundheads and the Pil-
grims and Ilerakleitos and Tiie Bulletin
and the Prohibitionists were or are most
eminently intolerant.
The truth of the matter is, of course,
that intolerance may rise from fear, but
is quite as likely to spring full-armed from
a strong faith. The most notable persecu-
tors were certainly not moved by fear. If
“T.8.C.” and Mr. Van Loon attempt to
persuade me that the Roman Emperors
were afraid of a handful of Christians, or
Torquemada of a few Jews, they will fail.
Again, if they argue that intolerance comes
only from an old order threatened by new
ideas, I shall merely smile in my elevated
manner, and remember what should be ob-
vious to the most casual reader of history,
and even to Mr. Van Loon, that there is
nothing quite so ridiculous as generalisa-
tions about it.
My view is that intolerance is a frequent
characteristic of periods and men of great
action. The Romans are, generally speak-
ing, an exception ; but the soldiers and colo-
nists and reformers of the seventeenth century
are not. Few men are willing in any age to
die for a faith, and there are fewer still
willing to kill for one; and I am not at all
sure that, considered purely on personal
merits, the sincere persecutor is not a more
admirable figure than the sincere martyr.
On the other hand I am sure that a little
more intolerance.and a little less casualness
would admirably serve the best social ends
in our own day. Just because of its intoler-
ance, I admire The Bulletin, even on those
numerous occasions when I disagree with it.
The Bulletin would give no quarter to
hordes of people, Bolshevik agitators and the
rest; and while I can find little in my heart
against most of them, I recognise the virility
of The Bulletin in its detestation of faiths
alien to its own.
For me, I am a half-hearted person, with
few fears and fewer beliefs; but I could dig
up just enough intolerance, if the opportu-
nity arose, to cheerfully boil oil for the
immersion of people who set up as philoso-
phic historians, while knowing nothing of
philosophy and no more of history.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Life—and a Candle
From a quasi-optimistic angle, Mary Scott
reviews (R.P. 15/7/’2G) the life of man,
and upholds the aged contention that “the
game is worth the candle.” But she scruples
to admit that, when its faint flame has been
dowsed by disillusionment, the game can
still be worth the candle.
Disillusionment has dogged man’s foot-
steps as far back as we can trace. Six hun-
dred years before the Christian era a dis-
consolate son of Adam came to the follow,-
ing conclusion: “Life and death are the
same to me. Men strike me as having no
more value than the swine, and I have no
more value than the rest. Joy and sorrow
cannot change me.” In fact, among the
poets and thinkers generally, throughout the
ages, among those who have registered their
verdict on life, from Seneca to Saltus, there
runs the muted plaint of disenchantment. It
is continuous and insistent whenever men
have sought to establish a philosophy of life.
And the human mind has persistently sought
to establish such a philosophy. To maintain,
as Mary Scott does, that “the thinker needs
no philosophy of life” is absurd. The
thinkers are in such dire need that they formu
late their own. Hence Plato and St. Paul
and the sorrowful pages of Schopenhauer.
Optimism, like its black brother pessi-
mism, is a mood, not a philosophy. And dis
illusionment does one of two things to the
individual whom it afflicts ; either it provokes
pessimism in one or more of its Protean
forms, or, in the less intellectually robust,
it conjures up a camouflage of optimistic
conceits under which the startled soul finds
security. This is a mental reflex to the
mind’s flight from reality. The lunatic
whose mind is obsessed with an intolerable
idea, or racked with menacing hallucina-
tions, creates and lives in a new world of
its own, satisfying to his ego. And likewise
the human being, to whom disillusionment
comes with a shattering impulse, weaves for
himself an intellectual tapestry of opti-
mistic and even altruistic ideals, to shield his
soul from despair. He metaphorically holds
his hand round the candle-flame to guard
it from extinction by the rude winds of
reality.
Progress, despite Mary Scott, has been
buried with other mortified illusions of the
Victorian era. In fact, the present Dean
of St. Paul’s read the burial service (Rom-
anes Lecture 1920). But this does not de-
tract from the curiosity we naturally have
about that “brief biological joy-ride” we
call life. Nor does it deprive us of any
childish joy we may find in forecasting the
future. But it does rather shatter our
sense of security, and it makes us fear
lest, instead of each “modicum of truth”
becoming “the permanent possession of the
race,” our leaders languish, and the sceptre
of power fall into the hands of the morons,
as it is falling with increasing rapidity,
and the pearls of our wisdom be dispersed.
Such thoughts have troubled more than one
idealist; and they harassed Huxley more
severely than most, from whose writings,
since Mary Scott quotes him lavishly, I
take the following sentences, offering them
as hairs of the dog that bit her: “I know
of no study which is so saddening as that
of the evolution of humanity as is set forth
in the annals of history.” And “even the
best modern civilisation appears to me to
exhibit a condition of mankind which neither
embodies any worthy ideal nor even pos-
sesses the merit of stability.”
Huxley was as disillusioned as any man
before or after him ; but I am unaware of
his ever having questioned the worth of the
proverbial candle. Illusions are no doubt
pleasant possessions; and it is well known
that the majority on losing one set of
illusions proceed immediately to create
others, to re-kindle their candles with hope,
even as Mary Scott does by scratching her
verbal flint on the steel of reality.
REG. S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
A Garland for Girls , by L. M. Alcott (Blackie).
A reprint of stories that charmed the children of
the Victorian era.
The Tight-rope, by Sylvia Stevenson (Geoffrey
Bles). The problem that confronted Shirley Mason
was how to successfully serve two masters, one her
profession (she was an architect), which absorbed
all her intellectual and aesthetic self, and the other
the insistent call of sex to the home, the husband
and the child. The story, which is above the average,
tells of the conflict, but leaves the problem unsolved.
“‘I don’t want to give anything up!’, she cried
to her husband. ‘I want to keep on as I am. I mean
to keep you—and William—and my job.’” Can she?
The Nation’s Key Men, by William H. Coombs
(J. D. Potter). A master-mariner pleads for his
fellow-mariner. The “Key Men” of the Empire are
the officer personnel of the British Mercantile Marine,
whose members are most inadequately rewarded for
the services they render to the community. “The
very existence of the Empire and the welfare Of the
British people depend,” the author declares, “upon
the free movement of British ships upon the seas
of the world.” The work of a captain and his officers
is hard, their difficulties are great, and their vigilance
must be unceasing; yet they are rewarded on a scale
almost absurd in comparison with the salaries paid
to men in safe avocations on land. The author
furnishes schedules that should command the sympathy
of the reader.
The Annals of the Magic Isle, by W. Ralph Hall
Caine (Cecil Palmer). The “scene” is not so much
the Isle of Man itself as “the Calf” lying to the
south. At one time, so tradition runs, this islet
was inhabited solely by women, and the Viking sea-
lords in one of their many incursions were lured
by these sirens to land on its man-deserted shores.
Accepting the invitation they for a season mated
with the women of the island; then, wearying of
the enervating life, sought to escape. But the
queen of this little domain wove her enchantments
about them, and it was not until after many attempts
that they finally escaped. This legend suggests a
Norse edition of the classic voyage of Ulysses and
the song of the rock-bound sirens in the blue sunlit
waters of the South. To all lovers of folk-lore and
glamor this book will be welcome. The wonder is
that one small island, now the home of a shepherd
and his wife and daughter, a farm laborer or two,
a few hundred sheep, many thousands of rabbits
and a still more numerous family of wild birds,
should hold so much of fairyland.
Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt, by Frederic
Soddy (Allen and Unwin). The author, a professor
of chemistry at Oxford and Nobel laureate in
chemistry, 1921, offers this volume as “the solution
of the economic paradox.” It is a very solid piece
of work, so exhaustively analytical that its essential
principles are apt to be lost in the mass of detail.
The author describes it as an attempt by a specialist
in one field of knowledge tft solve the problems m
another, by endeavoring to obtain a physical con-
ception of wealth that will obey physical laws.
“If,” he says, “we have available (physical) energy
we may maintain life and produce every material
requisite necessary. That is why the flow of energ'
should be the primary concern of economics. In a
world which' has adequate supplies of energy. . . .and
the man-power able and willing to perform the
necessary duties and services, poverty and destitution
are purely artificial.... Under any scientific system
of government they would disappear’ which is
open to question unless Government had authority
and power to kill off those people who would be
failures under any system. The production oi
wealth, in Soddy’s opinion, obeys the physical laws
of" the conservation of energy, and to it can be
applied the exact reasoning of the physical sciences.
On this assumption he proceeds to elaborate a new
science of economics; to even summarise it would
call for a pamphlet.
*
“W.L.”: There may be some truth in “J.G.P.W.’s”
contention (R.P. 22/7/’26) that the adverb is stressed
quite differently when the split infinitive is used,
but I have yet to find an instance of the form
making a sentence less clumsy. Nine times out of
ten the split infinitive leads to clumsiness —of idea
if not of sound. Take the phrase, “to adequately
deal with the problem.” The adverb certainly has
a different stress, but what is its value until the
mind has seized on the sense of the verb? Suppose,
on the other hand, that the sense of the verb has
been suggested by a preceding part of the sentence
and it is desired to give the adverb a special
emphasis, then the “to” only hampers the effect by
its precedence. Therefore the phrase should be
rewritten “to deal, adequately” in the first case,
and in the second “adequately to deal,” and the
infinitive is not split. Since chaperons went out of
fashion, there seems to be a growing tendency among
a large class of persons to abolish every convention
that is not enforceable by fine or imprisonment.
“J.L.S.”: Like most critical works of Gallic
origin, that reviewed by P. Airev (R.P. 17/6/’26)
on “The World Struggle for Oil,” does not “fairly
and vividly envisage the great conflict for what is
to-day the world’s most vital product” ; it is, more-
over, hopelessly inaccurate in much of its second-
hand information. No longer is there a “world-
struggle for oil” ; there is rather a world rapproche-
ment in which American interests, as exemplified by
the Standard, Sinclair, ' Doheny and Texas groups,
are closely co-operating with, and in some cases
actually controlling, interests associated, with Anglo-
French, British and Royal Dutch operations. Notable
instances are (1) the managemelnt and exploitation
of the concession of the British Controlled Oilfields,
Ltd., in Venezuela by a company entirely financed by
Standard Oil; and (2) the new Government com-
bination with Standard Oil in Sumatra, at Djambi,
where hitherto the Royal Dutch in conjunction with
the Netherlands Government had the sole rights.
So far as Europe is concerned, almost the entire
production of Galicia, Roumania, Germany and the
smaller oil countries is controlled by associated
interests in which British, French, Dutch and Ameri-
can capital is employed, and marketing in Europe
is a matter of arrangement between them —as it is,
in fact, all the world over.


Make your choice a B.SA
and you will have a motor bicycle which is a sound engineering proposition,
British made throughout, the product of a factory whose goods have been
pre-eminent for their reliability, skilled workmanship and high quality for
more than half a century. Moreover, your choice will be confirmed by the
world-wide army of satisfied B.S.A. riders.
Motor Bicycles
Have proved their reliability and quality again and again in Competitions and Reliability Trials in
every part of the world. In Czecho-Slovakia ten B.S.A.’s were entered in the third 1000-km. Annual
Reliability Trial and ten finished, losing no marks and winning ten Gold Medals, the Team Prize
and the B.S.A. Silver Cup; a B.S.A. won the 1926 Austrian T.T. (350-c.c. class); in Japan a
B.S.A. secured first prize in the 30-miles Final Championship; and from South Africa comes news
that B.S.A.’s were first and third in the Cape Town-Bredasdorp Reliability Trial, over a course of
212 miles. Add to these 12 special Silver Cups won in various English Reliability Trials since
January, the famous B.S.A. 60 ascents of Bwlch-y-Groes, and the numerous successes secured on
B.S.A.’s in Australia—an unparalleled record. When buying your new machine be guided by such
evidence of consistent reliability and choose a B.S.A,
Prices from
£57/10/-
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p . Model de Luxe (Colonial >
Easy
Payment
Terms
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- fw/iyi y bros. motor cycles
PTY mt LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS.-mortlock bros.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -sa/w king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
The Sign
of Quality
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


ft
m
c2i
CN
in
■A
■
// «
Unequalled in Percentage of
Fine Steel Used
Generous loads carried without strain —in many lands
- —through thousands of miles—through years.
Flour-carrying in Ecuador, mail-carrying in Australia,
tobacco-carrying in Brazil, burden-carrying everywhere—-
Graham Brothers Trucks have the stamina that only tough
and costly Chrome Vanadium Steel can give.
In fact, no other truck, irrespective of price, equals Graham
Brothers sturdy product in the percentage of Chrome
Vanadium Steel used. Even the axles, for example, are
Chrome Vanadium, also every leaf of the springs, both fore
and aft.
Honest steel for sturdy service!
I- Chassis ... ... ... £350
II- Chassis £435
11-Ton Chassis (Long Wheel Base).. .. £490
GRAHAM BROTHERS
Detroit. U.S.A.
A Division of- Dodos- Brotmsrs
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Way mouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd. 3
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd
199 St. George’s terrace,
Perth.
•*
Graham Brothers
h
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
12/8/’26.


World’s Most Powerful Car
of its size and weight
11
> . «
mi
m m
i r i ISlflfl W4Ws¥Wi
>j -j
> £§ ' J t-t v v p
1 5
■ ! '.
>xSx>>- ?B®3
S/j
> f
'yxP
*^SSSSK
3? <;■
si ,-z
tTf
&
*fd y \y
Y/n -a-« s/'V J
ss£*z:
r's
*4 iior
k.|
>7S
S'. !
ft
C 6&.
‘^-=7
vwm«
»»*
Ir/
s</''
KB-732A
Studebaker Standard Six Folding Top Phaeton 395
ONLY cars costing upward of £ 100 more
than the Standard Six Phaeton can rival
it in performance. According to the rating of
the Royal Automobile Club, it is the most power-
ful car of its size and weight in the world.
Vibrationless performance
Studebaker completely machines all surfaces of
the crankshaft in this car, just as carefully as it
does those of the Big Six. This is a costly prac-
tice which only a few manufacturers of much
higher priced cars follow, but it reduces engine
vibration almost to the vanishing point, con-
tributes to the riding comfort and prolongs the
life of the engine.
The long life of Studebaker cars is proven by
the nearly 800 Studebakers that are still in active
service, each of which has traveled more than
100,000 miles. This remarkable list, with each
case fully authenticated, is growing rapidly.
Quality in every detail
Use of the best materials, the finest workman-
ship and correct design in every detail makes
such a record possible. Fine quality, charac-
teristic of Studebaker, is constantly maintained.
For instance, hidden in the chassis are steels of
special toughness, for which Studebaker pays a
premium. You may never know they are there,
but added thousands of miles of trouble-free
service prove their worth and prove the superi-
ority of Studebaker.
Full-size balloon tyres and long resilient
springs with deep, wide seat cushions give unsur-
passed ease of riding.
Completely equipped
Equipment is unusually complete and includes:
automatic spark control; safety lighting switch
on steering wheel; petrol gauge on the dash;
automatic windscreen cleaner; rear-view mirror;
cowl ventilator; stop light; and a splendid
coincidental lock to ignition and steering wheel
controlled by the key that operates the spare-
tyre lock.
Before you buy any car, see this Studebaker
Folding Top Phaeton on the famous Standard
Six Chassis. Come for a ride and discover its
merits for yourself.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS. LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PPvOPRIETARY, LTD, Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 Street, Christchurch-, New Zealand.
STUDEBAKER
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS


1)
<!
Shave In Comfort With
Cuticura Shaving Stick
This delicately medicated anti-
septic Shaving Stick produces a
creamy lasting lather enabling ten-
der-faced men to shave without any
irritation, even twice daily. It leaves
the skin smooth and fresh and
makes shaving a pleasure. Cuticura
Talcum is an ideal after-shaving
powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., 'Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
V
i
Mirror Morals
ONE saddle might almost be a
reflection of anot' er to judge
by the resemblance in shape
and finish.
Yet the leather alone is sufficient
to make a great difference in price
—but also fortunately in durability.
Moral: Specify a saddle whose
name is a guarantee of thorough-
ness. Through and through quality
BROOKS B 10.
a
n
ED
SADDLES
R. V. Bristol & Co. (Pty.),
Ltd.,
Fenchureh Buildings,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO., E st. 18 53,
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Children
enjoy
fgh
it makes them
Well and strona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
J
Some things get better of themselves —rupture
gets worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while you don’t know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DEN YER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Holds More Ink
\ « v
o
m
<l2O
w~, „>.
S*£f3Mt,y,fal
Make Onoto your Pen —It is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Lcnghurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
|pSi^!
&
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/« (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
<?
&Amx
<The
“TRAIL”
58/6
POST FREE
cx
\i7
Here’s a ‘Whopping Wide Leaf SKat for you
fellows. Leaf is ~4V2
slightly curled with a faint dip fore and aft.
Has a high well ventillated cro'tfn. Won’t sag
and hang around the face. Will stand up to any
weather. Pure Fur Felt. Fav?n shade, mail to-day!
5IZES
Pike Brothers
LIMITED
In Queen Street, ‘Brisbane
MAIL TO DESK “5.8.”
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Motley.
Hand me that cap and bells, and Motley's
cloak.
It keeps me warm. Pour out the good
red wine.
I will drink, an ye please, from finest gold,
A king’s cup, worthy of this mood of
mine!
Velvets without and wine within —-who's
cold?
A sentimental ballad? Nay, my lords.
I have done with such folly, feel no urge
To these thin minor notes that lovers pipe;
I would be dumb upon the loftiest dirge—-
Give me the fruit of jesting when ’tis ripe!
I stomach no green apples any more;
Man must be weak to risk untimely
things—
Love for a woman he can never hold,
Dreams of pale orchards and of mounting
wings.
Give me the well-spiced wine in cups of
gold !
Food I can cut with knife and bite in
mouth,
No half-blown bud upon a distant tree,
No fragile harebell of a summer’s youth;
Pile up the platter—l dine heartily.
That which I feel and taste alone has truth !
When I have jested with my noble peers,
I, who no more stay sober, lest I think,
Will rollick home to bed, a pleasant mist
Of wine befogging me. Lips are for
drink;
It helps them to forget that once they kist.
What is remembrance for but to be drowned?
I never felt more merry than to-night!
Bring out the dice, and wager that I win.
Set the rush taper to another light;
To waste an hour of laughters were a sin !
(And all the while in my heart’s secret cell
Crouches the little dream condemned to
die,
And beats with silver hands upon my
brain—
Would all the earth’s red wine confuse
that cry?
The gayest jest speak louder than her pain?
O God! The small veined breasts, the
haunted eyes!
Motley hides skulls, the hot wine turns
to ice.)
I bade ye, fools, to bring another light!
Pour out more wine, and loose the click-
ing dice!
I never was more merry than to-night!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
White Nights.
A weary thing to do —
To count the long night through
The hours, the hours that tread
With slow, unvaried beat,
With heart-heard, fateful feet
Past my unrestful bed.
The nights are long of late —
Night after night I wait
And wide-eyed dream of you.
Dreams that no solace lend
Such as the sleep gods send,
Since even before their end
I know they are not true.
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
Makers of History.
Lo, these are weavers! Down through the
ages
Ever the web of their weaving is wrought.
Trace now the pattern through history’s
pages,
How it is blent with rich fibre of thought!
Songs of the singer and wisdom of sages,
Greatness of great men to gild it were
brought.
This was the toil of the stron n ' men, the
straight men,
These threads enriched with .deep blue of
their truth;
These red with blood of the martyrs, the
great men
Dead yet unconquered, though slain with-
out ruth,
’Broidered with gold of the glories that wait
men
Whose manhood endures through the test-
flame of youth.
Here where ’tis shaped in most exquisite
fashion,
Here where the colors most brightly un-
fold,
Here was it stained with dark blotches of
passion,
Cleansed by the tears wrung from suffer-
ing untold,
Red was it dyed while the swords that still
clash on,
In medley of vengeance, sought guerdon
of gold.
Now must we take up the threads of their
leaving;
They have wrought nobly who held them
so long.
What may our part be, our part in the weav-
ing?
Fibres of fancy and fragments of song
Wait to be gathered in hands of achieving,
Woven in fabric both lovely and strong.
Many the history-makers who wrought us
This web of achievement, their record of
fame;
Many the lessons their labor has taught us.
Yet, of so many, few left us a name :
Knowing the impress of progress they
brought us
A high hope to keep us from failure and
shame.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


-i
m
mm
i. i
■HU
w m
■
m
m
i ■
»k\
1
H
■
s
V k
M
ill
... \
■
H
1
a
n


THE PETROL TAX.
CAPTAIN BRUCE: “Who said o ll was a good thing for troubled waters!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED - ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £ 1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; fi
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed lo the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
■refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
■publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tuo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ’when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C- Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
-1 Iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
VJ Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.I/.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” J/11/-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2J F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Sun,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Comer 6th
Avenue and l/'ilnd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China,
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. Si. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 15-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :■ — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
2%£j%tzZ&£&7l.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 12, 1926.
BRUCE AND A GUN THAT CAN’T
BE LOADED.
The Prime Minister declared in the House
of Reps, last week that “the whole of the
agitation” against his Government’s roads
scheme was “coming from oil companies
which are trying once more to put their
grip upon this country.” One account says
that he “spoke with great warmth,” and in
his great warmth he over-stated the case,
for the roads scheme is opposed by people
who have no use for and are in no way influ-
enced by the oil companies. Many good Aus-
tralians are against it because they object
to the Commonwealth meddling in State
matters and levying revenue duties for other
than national purposes when there is so
much national work to be done, especially
in the domains of defence and the Northern
Territory; because the thing is in conflict
with the principle, laid down by the Trea-
surer in his Budget speech, that “the autho-
rity which expends money shall have the
responsibility for raising it,” and will delay
for at least 10 years that separation of
Federal and State finance on which the
gentleman says he has set his heart; and
because there would be a poor chance of the
Commonwealth getting the worth of its
money in States where the day-labor system
obtains and the Government needs votes.
Calming down a bit, the Prime Minister said
that opposition to the proposed additional
petrol tax of 2d. a gallon had been worked
up by two companies, one controlled by Dutch
and the other by American interests, and
that a Freetrade organisation had been sup-
plied with the wherewithal for advertise-
ments calling upon “farmers, motorists and
everyone to rally round and save the coun-
try.” _ These companies were, lie declared,
exploiting Australia for excessive contribu-
tions to the bloated dividends paid by Standard
Oil and the Royal Dutch group, and the Gov-
ernment of the exploited country was now
made a target for impudent political threats.
In spite of these threats, the Government
was going on with its new petrol tax, and if
the companies passed it on there would be a
fight.
* * * *
This defiant attitude is popular even in
quarters where the roads scheme is con-
demned. Unfortunately the Commonwealth
is not well equipped for a fight. There are
no oilfields in Australia or its territories
(though £350,000 of Commonwealth money
has been spent in looking for one in Papua),
and the supply of substitutes for petrol is
small. The Prime Minister has bright hopes
of Commonwealth Oil Refineries, but to
employ that enterprise for offensive warfare
would necessitate heavy additions to an
outlay which is already considerable, and
the plan of campaign might still fail. The
C.O.R. was established under an Act of
1920, the Commonwealth contributing
£250,001 and securing a controlling interest,
and the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. subscribing
£249,999. An increase of capital was decided
upon in 1924, and the Auditor-General re-
ported last year that the Commonwealth’s
investment then amounted to £375,001, of
which all but £31,250 had been borrowed.
Another £25,000 was voted in 1925-26, and
an additional £50,000 figures in this year’s
accounts, both items being charged up to
loans. So far the undertaking has declared
no dividends, but the Prime Minister says
it has turned the corner and is “to-day pay-
ing its way.” He also states that, although
the C.O.R. loses 5 p.c. of its imports of
crude oil, which loss practically wipes, out
the existing duty of a penny per gallon, and
although it has to pay Australian rates of
wages (“the British Imperial employs coolie
labor”) and dispose of its by-products in the
Commonwealth, which isn’t much of a market
as yet, “it can sell petrol to-day at 2d. a gallon
less than these companies charge.” Un-
happily the turnover is so limited that only
a small proportion of petrol buyers can take
advantage of this reduction. Moreover, the
C.O.R. can’t force small competitors out of
business by juggling with prices, nor can it
distribute petrol-pumps at cut rates, tie the
garage proprietors up with agreements to
sell its spirit only, and then slug them and
the public with a sudden increase. These
proceeding's are alleged against the foreign
companies by the head of the Government.
On the face of it, if he is correctly informed,
they amount to acts in restraint of trade.
But acts in restraint of trade, though costly
offences elsewhere, can be committed with
impunity in the Commonwealth, and whether
the perpetrator is a trust or combine, a
foreign or local corporation, doesn’t matter.
The Federal Parliament once passed a law
making any party to an agreement in re-
straint of foreign or inter-State trade liable
to a fine of £5OO a day. Enforcement was
attempted in the case of the Coal Vend, but
it failed so completely when subjected to the
High Court test that the experiment was not
repeated, nor was any legislative effort made
to revive the obviously dead.
This brings up the question of the Com-
monwealth’s powers, or lack of powers. Wise
legislation, resolutely administered, would
be the Government’s most useful weapon
against concerns which resort to trust
methods and charge outrageous prices, but,
owing to the tragic restrictions imposed by
Section 51 of the Constitution, that weapon
is beyond its reach. It cannot pass effective
legislation to restrain trusts and combines
from plundering the public. It cannot pass
any enforceable law for the regulation and
control of companies, most of which operate
throughout the Commonwealth —cannot even
say, so the High Court has ruled, that a
new and possibly fraudulent company must
have “a memorandum and articles of asso-
ciation, so many shares subscribed and so
much capital paid up.” Companies employ
a large proportion of the 300,000 wage- and
salary-earners working under Federal Arbi-
tration awards. The Commonwealth cannot
safeguard such workers against companies
which go bung and rob them; cannot guar-
antee these 300,000 men the payment of their
wages in money; cannot establish wages
boards, though they and their employers
might prefer that mode of settling differ-
ences. Nor can its Arbitration Court deal
with matters other than “industrial dis-
putes extending beyond the limits of any
one State,” or make a common rule. Which
means, among other things, that a union seek-
ing an Arbitration award has to serve pro-
cesses on perhaps 10,000 employers, each of
whom, if he likes, can go into court and
argue his case personally (and thus bring the
whole business to a standstill) ; it means, too,
that the award, when delivered, is not binding-
on employers who were not joined in the pro-
ceedings or who started in business after-
wards. And the Commonwealth has no
power to pass a proper trade-union law, such
as would place unionists on the same footing,
as regards control of funds and property
and exemption from plundering “levies,” as
members of friendly societies. Though it
is supposed to run the Postal Department,
it has no power to interfere—unless re-
quested by the State Government—when the
mails are held up, as they were by trium-
phant mobs in Queensland last year. It has
likewise no power to protect food supplies
and transport services should a dissatisfied
minority set out to starve the country into
submission, as was attempted in Britain this
year. Without these powers the national
authority has no arms against unscrupulous
combinations of capital and labor. It will,
however, have all these nowers. as it should
have, if the people vote Yes to both questions
at the referendum on September 4.
WHERE ALL WORK IS LIABLE TO
CEASE ANY DAY.
The latest chapter in the Book of Failure
was published the other day in a comprehen-
sive but condensed sort of way—so con-
densed, in fact, that some of the dailies
shoved it into their news summaries among
the other scraps, and left it there. It read
like this:—
News from Darwin states that all local enterprise
has ceased, and unemployment is increasing. Build-
ing work on the North-South railway has stopped, and
the cattle and railway-material boats are hung up.
Of course, enterprise is always liable to re-
sume—in a more sluggish way than before
if additional sluggishness is possible, after
much delay, considerable loss and some more
“concessions” to the gang (largely foreign
and due for deportation) which runs Aus-
tralia's coastal affairs from Maryborough
round to Wyndham and frequently in other
parts as well. After which the agreement,
whatever its terms may be, will be torn up,
and enterprise will cease again, pending more
negotiation with the crooked element in
charge. Though the Commonwealth’s weed-
grown garden of over half a million square
miles has many possibilities, its record
under the present management has been
mostly one of the cessation of enterprise.
The place ceased to be mentioned as a wheat-
producer after 1912. It is now considered
not worth mentioning in the Federal re-
turns as a producer of butter, cheese or pig-
meat. It was last spoken of as a producer
of silver and lead in 1920. Though it is
the least-scratched section of the continent
it has almost gone out of the gold, copper
and tin industries. It had something of a
past in the. matter of sheep, horses and hogs,
but there is very little present. No statis-
tical person alludes to the Territory’s manu-
factures now, not even to the extent of say-
ing that there are none. Their absence is
taken for granted. Savings-bank deposits
are about two-fifths of what they were a few
years ago, and population moves in the same
direction. Water supply is a trouble in
places and at times, through worn-out pump-
ing apparatus at the bores, which are few
and far between, gives up the obsolete
ghost. The latest available shipping return
alleged that, in a whole year, “38 vessels of
613 tons net were entered as coastwise.” It
was very few tons per vessel, but presumably
it was the same little tub turning up per-
sistently like the ghost of a doubtful three-
penny.
* * * *
The signal for work-stoppage this time was
the arrival of the Bruce-Page Government’s
argosy loaded with railway-construction
material. The appearance of any ship with
cargo of any value at any far-northern port
is now sufficient reason for the oiling and
overhauling of the hold-up apparatus, just
as the sight of a new missionary in the dis-
tance might create commotion in a cannibal
village. For the skipper the approach raises
three simple questions :
Who are the brigands at present in control?
What will they charge?
When will they let us get away again?
That is how the private trader fares. But
the advent of a Government ship, or more
than one, loaded with material for starting
work would naturally tend to a gathering of
the Narks in extra force and fury, an un-
usually enthusiastic stoppage and the formu-
lating of extra large demands as the price
for the removal of the ban. There is an
atmosphere of the incomprehensible about the
policy of sending huge quantities of weighty
goods at huge expense half round Australia,
to be landed at a port where the costs are
enormous and the insurrection permanent,
that they may be humped 200 miles by train
to the place where construction on the South-
North track left off, instead of resuming at the
southern end, using the Government’s own
railway to bring up material, and leaving
the ship out of the business. On this matter
it is as difficult to extract an explanation of
its attitude from the Bruce-Page Ministry
as it is to find Premier Lang in a good
temper. Possibly it is afraid to do the sane
thing lest it should seem like yielding to
pressure. It may have drifted into the atti-
tude of Mrs. Malaprop’s friend, “as head-
strong as an allegory on the banks of the
Nile,” and be emulating the uncommunicative
reptile in question.
* * * »
It is indicative of the bogged soul of Aus-
tralia that a corporal’s guard of malcontents,
hardly large enough to make a public meet-
ing, a proportion of them not even Aus-
tralian citizens and a proportion not really
white people, should make a chronic hold-up
of about 4 per cent, of the area of the
British Empire. Somehow there seem to be
impalpable but insuperable difficulties in the
way when it is proposed to do anything large
and useful and new or original in Australia.
There is no lack of things which are merely
large. The public debt is spacious enough.
So are the all-absorbent State capitals, and
the deficits, including those on the railways
and the Commonwealth Shipping Line. There
is nothing scanty about the returned sol-
diers’ settlement fiasco, or the legislative
halls at Canberra. Things which are new
or rare or original are also not lacking. The
policy of Closed Ports is in a category by
itself; also the industrial situation gener-
ally. The Australian has the capacity for
achievement of a sort. But when it is a
simple pioneering matter like the develop-
ment of the Territory which is involved —
something which isn’t strictly political or
connected with immediate votes —it is the
custom to strike an attitude of helplessness
and astonishment, and go about helplessly
and foggily crying out for a solution. The
Territory is no problem in the accepted sense
of the term, but just a bit of earth, to be
treated as earth usually is. The real mystery
about the place is how the devil it became a
mystery.
A HINT FROM THE YELLOW SEA.
A FEW hours out of Vladivostock the Trans-
Siberian train on its way to Europe meets
Chinese territory at Suifenho. There is an-
other line which, by making a wide detour
around the Manchurian frontier, remains in
Russian territory, but it adds hundreds of
miles to the journey and is little used. The
through train passes over the border and
makes straight for Manchouli, a thousand
miles away. Nevertheless there is no sign,
in the surrounding country or the appear-
ance of the railway stations, that the owner-
ship has changed. Russian soldiers mount
guard over the engine and Russian points-
men step out from the wooden blockhouses
to salute the train. There is Russian dirt,
disorder and ikons in the station waiting-
rooms, and the little plots of cultivated land
that flash incessantly by like milestones in the
green desolation of the untouched hills have
been cleared by Russian hands. At Harbin
another line, also Russian owned, branches
off and meets a third coming up from Dairen
on the Yellow Sea. It runs all the way
through Chinese territory: yet the traveller
following it will be handed over by the Rus-
sians into Japanese hands and will find along
the route Russian settlement replaced by all
the familiar features of Japanese life, in-
cluding opulent European-style hotels, Shinto
temples and geishas. There is much in all
this to make the observant voyager inquire
further, especially if he be a White Aus-
tralian.
A large number of well-intentioned people
rely on the world’s idealism to serve as Aus-
tralia’s main line of defence. The diplomatico-
military struggle at present proceeding in
Manchuria, where the pawns are Chinese
soldiers and Manchu peasants and the chief
players are Russia, America and Japan,
provides an interesting object-lesson in this
regard. With an area of 363,700 square
miles of virgin forest and savannah, served
by some of the finest rivers in the world;
with its population of 20 million people, who
scarcely occupy a quarter of its surface; its
enormous present production of soya-bean oil
and its potential untapped resources in gold,
coal, iron and timber, the great Chinese pro-
vince has points of resemblance to Australia
and remains the fattest prize offering to im-
perialists to-day. It was recognised to be
worth a regiment or two as long ago as
1680, when the Russian steam-roller met it
on an eastern march. China was then in
occupation, the Manchu, although once a
warlike person whose rulers had conquered
China, having mislaid his gun. The Chinese
owners had likewise laid theirs aside owing
to a belief having taken root that the entire
world had submitted to their domination.
Just as many Australian idealists exalt the
union secretary, so the Chinaman exalted
the defenceless scholar and at the sight of
a soldier became amused. The Russian de-
stroyed this pleasant dream by re-appearing
on his frontier again in 1858 and. while
protesting the friendliest regard, seizing a
section of his territory about as large as
New South Wales. His next action was to
build the railway across Manchuria which
the Manchurian had omitted to build him-
self, another circumstance that some day
may be paralleled in Australia. Japan re-
garded the Russian railway as a menace to
herself, and, although she was on friendly
terms with China, she invaded the remnants
of Manchuria to prevent it falling into Rus-
sian hands, just as some Power friendly to
Australia might enter the Northern Terri-.
tory on the pretext that its emptiness might
prove a temptation to some enemy. Having
driven back the Russian, the Mikado 7 in
the interests of his host, remained upon the
premises and proceeded to supply the back-
ward province with more of the railways it
should have built itself.
America next appeared upon the scene.
Although he has practised the old, soil-grab-
bing imperialism in a small way in the
Philippines, Uncle Sam expressed abhorrence
of the thing, as he knew a better way. The
better way was economic imperialism, which
consists in advancing money to an unde-
veloped country on the security of its natural
resources, and enforcing payment of the
interest, if necessary, by diplomatic pressure,
to which the largest navy in the world gives
point. As the interest is paid by the pur-
chase of American manufactures, it was a
method at which Japan was hopelessly out-
classed, so she slammed the Manchurian’s
door in the newcomer’s face. The Great War
and the Russian Revolution brought a series
of kaleidoscopic changes to the country that
had neglected its defence, including civil war
between the Whites and Reds, a joint Brit-
ish, American and Japanese invasion, and
the return of the Red Bear stronger than
before. At present the land that relied on
international goodwill is being fought over
by Chinese armies, one of its capitals has
been occupied by Japanese troops, the other
is a centre of Bolshevik propaganda for
Further Asia, and most of its natural re-
sources have been mortgaged to foreign in-
terests, Russia holding a lien over some of
its forests, Uncle Sam having dubious rights
of supplying wireless stations and other utili-
ties, and Japan having over a large portion
of it all the status of a sovereign Power, in-
cluding the running of its railways. The last
concession is of a quality to make an Aus-
tralian Railways Commissioner lick his
hungry lips. In 1923 the 700-odd miles of
track owned by the South Manchuria Rail-
way Co., which, besides running trains, owns
schools, hotels, coal-mines, iron foundries,
gasworks, hospitals, shipping lines and farms,
earned for its imperial Japanese masters over
92 million gold yen. and spent less than 36
millions. As a veiled weapon for the ex-
ploitation on monopolistic lines of somebody
else’s garden, the concern stands unequalled
in history.
The next chapter in this epic will probably
be a war, in which the principal philan-
thropists will fight each other for the sole
right of exercising their benevolent energies
on the Manchurian. That industrious and
frugal peasant is not credited generally with
patriotism, yet love of his own untidy hearth
doubtless burns as brightly in his breast as
in that of any other people. His tragic story
is apt to fill the altruist with despair of
human nature, yet it is difficult to affix the
blame. The advance of Russia, whose annual
increase before the war was two millions, has
been as natural and unconscious as the
spread of wild dogs into nor’-western N. S.
Wales. The invasion of Asia by Japan,
where the yearly surplus increases by over
700,000 yearly, has been as inevitable as the
appearance of the rabbit inside a neglected
fence in Mildura. America’s intrusion is
merely the ordinary habit of an expanding
business. In fact, the fault seems to lie
with the Manchurian himself; and the history
of his country might be taught with great
advantage in Australian schools.
FEN G-SHUL


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coming of Cobham.
Australia is continually being discovered,
but most of the credit goes to James Cook. At
least 20 Dutch commanders had the same
bpportunities, and had them earlier, but they
weren’t as systematic as Cook, and his-
tory passes them over without any fuss. It
looks as though, when the history of the con-
quest of the air comes to be written, Cob-
iiam will figure as the Cook of the Australian
end of the campaign. He is a plagiarist, of
course, since the trail has been blazed by the
Smith brothers, who earned great glory, and
by Parer and Mclntosh, who faced bigger
odds for very small reward. But Cobham is
more than an adventurer or even an explorer.
He comes as the single spy who heralds whole
battalions. When it is necessary to find out
whether a regular aeroplane service is practic-
able between London and any outpost of
Empire, the best way to find out, so London
believes, is to send Cobham). Cobham is safe
and Cobham is sound. He has a wife and
child at home, and if he is sent out to Cape-
town or Canberra or Calgary, or any other
desolate and perilous spot, he can be depended
upon to do his darnedest, not only to get
there, but to get back. And when he gets
back he is able to give a sensible estimate
of the difficulties of the course he has travelled
and the best way of meeting them. He takes
risks—tremendous risks —but not avoidable
risks. The men who follow him on the Lon-
don-Melbourne route when it is established —
and established it will be before long, if for no
other reasons than those connected -with Im-
perial defence—will have an infinitely safer
time. For one thing they will be specialists
in regard to their own particular section or
relay, and they will fly craft specially de-
signed for the purposes of that section. Cob-
ham’s journey, when all is said, has not
taken very much less time than is consumed
by a mail steamer, but the greater part of
the delays have been occasioned by the fact
that one man had to fly the whole distance,
and in one machine. A service scheduled to
occupy a fortnight is not now outside the
bounds of reasonable expectation. For the
carriage of mails, probably, there is a com-
mercial avenue for such a service to-day. Pas-
sengers, for some years, it may be expected,
will be confined to those who are more
than usually daring. Statistics show that it
is as safe to ride in an aeroplane as in a
taxi-cab, but a taxi-cab doesn’t usually fall
two miles when it does smash, and it looks
Safer. Railways and Steamboats were tabooed
By nervous folk fdr long years after they
started on their travels. No'w everybody
has got used to them, and it may Be, the
same with aircraft. It is not the least
part of the mission of the eminently efficient
and business-like Mr. Cobiiam to convince
us that the air isn’t as dangerous as some
other things—homicidal Arabs, for instance.
♦
If the Bruce-Page Government Knows
of a Better ’Ole.
Dear Bulletin, —On July 29 The Bul-
letin discoursed on the need to prohibit the
importation of superfluous goods in order
to give the national ledger a chance to right
itself. At the beginning of August another
year’s trade figures came to light, to show
that the situation had grown worse, and
that the need to stop the influx of a number
of things which Australia consistently fails
to pay for except with borrowed money is a
trifle more intense. For the year to June,
1925, this country was, on an estimate which
was as close as such things can be,
£22,000,000 to £25,000,000 short in its ex-
ports of the amount required to pay for
imports and to meet the interest on outside
liabilities. For the year to June, 1926, it
was apparently £30,000,000 to £33,000,000
short. A slump of 17| millions in the value
of wheat sent abroad grievously damaged the
income and the reduction in imports wasn’t
sufficient to meet the case. The frantic ups
and downs of wheat, as the seasons come and
go* make it an unreliable asset with which
to meet foreign liabilities which come regu-
larly and don’t go. When the complete
financial figures emerge, including fiKed lia-
bility, which is acknowledged, and casual
overdraft, which is harder to locate, it is
always found that the shortage has crawled
into the public debt somehow, and in con-
sequence there is more interest payable to
make the next shortage bigger. Australia is
faced by the alternatives of working more
and working more intelligently or luxuriating
less—in fact, it probably wants both remedies
and a good deal of each. The alternative
is a financial breakdown of which no one
can foretell the results, but an insurrection-
ary upheaval of the worst elements of society
may be among them. There is no reliance io
be placed on the idea of dragging more sur-
plus products out of the soil as a steady thing
unless Australia can be provided with a new
climate, and there are no spare climates in
the market. No financial devices can put
back in the ground the gold that has been
taken out of it. Bonuses can’t produce oil
if oil isn’t there. No tariff is in sight which
seems able to increase local manufactures
and reduce the influx of foreign ones to a
point which means solvency. There are too
many revolutionary and anti-Australian in-
fluences at work, all aiming to squash indus-
try and prevent production. So there is a
strong case for the prohibition of superfluous
imports. These may be defined as goods that
the community can go short of till local
industry, either promoted by local people or
by enterprising folk from abroad, meets the
demand, and also goods that it can go short
of permanently, if it is necessary to do so,
by leading a simpler life and one more suited
to the state of the finances. On the list of
imports that we can do witli much less of
these few items might be placed without hesi-
tation, the amounts representing what was
spent on each item according to the last
available year’s figures:—
Motor vehicles and parts .. .. £14,997,239
Whisky 1,491,345
Brandv, rum, wine and minor drunks 68^.046
Jewellery .. •• •• 735,543
Cigarettes .. • • • • • • 203,209
Railway vehicles .. • • . . Urce-tnin
Pianos and parts .. •• •• 1,176,533
Talking machines .. • • • • 680,726
The idea is that Australia should be content
with its own wines and spirits, and play on
its own piano, and buy the natural native
conversational cockatoo in place of the
foreign artificial one, and be satisfied with
fewer gauds and gems, and make the old
buzz waggon serve for a while. Sad to say
even these savings (about 20 millions) would
be insufficient to close the gap between Aus-
tralia’s earnings, which are plain, and its
tastes and spendings, which are fancy. But
preliminary figures for 1925-26 indicate that
the bills for foreign whisky, motors, etc., are
still growing, and the larger they are the
more saving is possible. Then it should be
feasible to dig up more prohibitable items.
Agricultural machinery and some of the
more costly varieties of draper’s flufE are pos-
sibilities. If the Bkuce-Page Ministry, or
any other Ministry, knows any way (apart
from the crazed loan policy, which isn’t a
way but a swindle) of filling the financial
gulf save by stopping a mass of imports, it
is overdue to give some inkling of its idea.
But if it has no better ’ole to indicate it had
best try a Superfluous Imports Prohibition
campaign.—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
In Lingerland.
When an important-looking Australian, re-
turned from Great Britain, is cast up on the
wharf at Premantle he is invariably asked
for his opinion of affairs in the country we
borrow from, and if he can make himself
heard over the roar of the strike he responds.
Generally he proves to be a pessimistic pil-
grim, and one Howard Middleton, back
after two years, was unusually so. This was
the gist of his tale: —
For experience he had worked on benches alongside
British workmen who were ruining industry by go-
slow methods. They were on piecework, and only
worked sufficiently to earn about £3 10s. per week,
lest the employers, seeing them -working faster and
earning more, might reduce the rate for piecework.
He had seen men Working on rush jobs during the
night go ahd sleep for a couple of hours, in case
they made too much and gave the employers an
idea of their real capacity; Because of this fact
British electrical engineering products Were a high
price, and there were instances of municipalities,
morally bound to support industry within their
boundaries, being forced to accept tenders from
Swiss and other Continental firms.
It is a curious situation when a man makes
himself poor and miserable lest his employer
should find out how happy he can be and
make him unhappy. It seems like suspicion
which has taken to drink. If this frame of
mind becomes incurable and spreads to the
defence forces, the end of Britain may be
prophesied in a speculative way. It will
come through the army and navy putting
up a go-slow scrap, partly lest the enemy
can discover how well “they can fight, and
partly lest their employers, the nation, should
find it out also and do with a smaller army
and
too far, an enemy of the sort that seizes
opportunities may afrdSt the army and navy.
The story implies that even piecework and
the opportunity of earning improved Wages
is not sufficient stimulus in a very bad case.
Nor it would appear are profit-sharing devices
where the sharing is the voluntary act of
the employer, and may be abolished at his
pleasure. The only hopeful remedy for so
much suspicion lies in forming big enter-
prises into companies, and giving the em-
ployees facilities and encouragement to be-
come shareholders. Then there arises the
feeling that sluggishness is their own loss,
that they are to an extent their own bosses
find also the bosses of the boss, and that
it is more profitable to shout a grievance at
the shareholders’ meeting' than at a Labor
Council meeting. To judge by the latest
figures, which are not so late fis might
be desired, the British situation certainly
doesn’t improve. One reason is that too
much devotion to the battered idol of Free-
trade calls on the Briton to be a poorly-
paid worker and face a needless amount of
competition. Another is that he insists on
making himself a poorly-paid worker by
being a worker of small production. So
J. Bull depends more and more on imported
foreign goods, and is less able to export
enough goods of his own make to pay for
them. These have been the figures from the
year when the Irish Free State, became a
separate institution :
Surplus Imports Surplus Exports.
of Merchandise. of Gold.
1923 .. £210,224,638 £13,447,700
1924 . . 336,502,164 13,627,943
1925 . . 395,360,790 8,165,367
The surplus imports of merchandise show
that an alarming amount of work and wages
is being sacrificed for the benefit of
foreigners, for a great deal of the goods
bought abroad are the sort that J. Bull is
quite capable of making for himself. The
surplus exports of gold imply that the coin
reserve is moving out of the country. And
the fact that the workless paupers of England
and Wales alone have been over 1,205,000
for a number of years explains what becomes
of the Qritisli people who should be making
the things for Britain that foreigners make
instead. All these figures deal with the time
before the Coal Deluge; before Britain ceased
to export coal and began to import it instead ;
and before the strike added an extra million
to the workless multitude. Among the vari-
ous merits and demerits of the case, it js
certain that go-slow was an element in
the coal complication. When production got
down below three-quarters of a ton per miner
per day, any serious drop below war prices
made trouble inevitable.
- -
France and the Franc.
In life there are emergencies so terrifying
that we say “Lord, let me out of this fix
and you can smite me anywhere else where
you may think I need smiting.” When we
say that as a child we mean it. When we
say it as an adult we have a comforting
feeling, born of past immunities, that He’s a
good fellow and it will all be well. France
and Germany got into that frame of mind
a few years ago. France is the most
adult nation in Europe, with the possible
exception of her ancient enemy Germany.
They have both convinced themselves that
standards of honor, art or ethics are only
comparatively accurate measures, after all,
and thev bridge the gap between the ideal
and the real with a gossamy structure that
is intended to satisfy outsiders only. In
Germany they call it sentiment and in
France they call it beauty, and the two
things mean very much the same. In Ger-
many, when the mark took a plunge
into the depths sampled by the Austrian
krone, the good Lord of finance relieved
from their troubles many rich German gentle-
men wiio had made a study of currency.
What those gentlemen did they did quite
innocent of national blame, since their
country had been licked and they were
merely spoiling the Egyptians—and the com-
mon people of their own race. And they
had not been brought up to worry about
common people. France, where there are
more investors to the square mile than in any
other territory on the globe, took a very
intelligent interest in the foreign exchauce
market. (The foreign exchange market, like
every other market, is a place where one
buys and sells things. People who wanted
to buy things rrom France first bought francs,
so that they could pay for them. People
who wanted to import wool, etc., into France
sold francs, in order to buy £ sterling to
pay for the wool, etc.) And all the time the
Government of France, obsessed with the
idea that it had won a war, and that
its enemy would have to pay the
costs of that war, went on spending
money just as if that enemy had been
paying the war costs. When the time
came that the market was glutted with
francs and buyers were scarce—the penalty
for spending more francs than were earned
—the Government sought relief, not from
the Bank of France, the semi-State organi-
sation upon which it relied in order to
finance its rebuilding of ruined castles, but
from an enterprising gentleman in Wall-
street, J. P. Morgan, Junior, who loaned
a hundred million dollars, lifted the franc
from 100 to 70 to the £, and, if he wasn’t
quite crazy, made enough to cover his risk
and a bit over. That was a very heartening
experience for any Government worried
about finance, and it encouraged this Govern-
ment to go on doing wrong. In the last 12
months it has increased its indebtedness to
the Bank of France from 25,000,000,000
francs to 36,000,000,000 francs; and every-
body who cares to read the financial papers
knows how much gold the Bank of France
has to back up its hugely inflated note
issue. Nobody now has very much confi-
dence in the purchasing power of the notes
—least of all the French themselves —and
a recent quotation put the money at
about a tenth of its face value. The moral
is that Ministers must paste inside their hats
the sound old adage that government depends
on finance —-unless one is brave enough to
face repudiation, and that means thencefor-
ward relying entirely on the taxes for a
while. The French have now brought back
Poincare to cure their financial malady. He
may do it, though almost above all others
he caused it by insisting, not that Germany
must pay, which was excusable, but that
Germany would pay, which was foolish.
An Old Tale Retold.
The familiar yarn, reminiscent of the spider
making overtures to the fly, appeared among
recent London cables:—
Mr. James Lumsden, a veteran Yorkshire journalist
who has settled in Victoria, has written a newspaper
article in which he emphasises the astounding possi-
bilities of irrigation in Australia provided that
adequate labor were obtainable.... Australia has
greater potentialities for wealth and prosperity than
any European country.
Then followed some of the regulation remarks
about Labor control and a pleasure-loving
people, finishing with the inevitable moral:
Australians under-value the primary industries aid
are focussing too much attention on the development
of secondary industry.
Australia really knows a little about irriga-
tion (the enumeration of its irrigation under-
takings fills 11 pages of the “Official Year
Book”), though it is short of the wherewithal
to irrigate with. It certainly knows more
than any old gentleman from the drenched
regions of England is likely to be aware of.
In spite of this, or because of this, it has
no use for the charmer who tells it that
there is a fortune in growing vegetation for
British ships to carry to the British market
—in being a ryot or fellah or moujik, in fact
—and having British manufactures shipped
here by British ships in return. Practically
every British visitor relates that tale, some-
times before he has got his luggage through
the Customs. We don’t believe it, and in
most cases we don’t believe the British
person believes it either. Some of these
plausible folk advise nigger labor, and some
advise irrigation, but they are altogether too
unanimous in warning this country that if it
ceases to be dependent on the outside (that
is to say the British) manufacturer it is
on the wrong road. A similar lugubrious
warning was hove by similar prophets at
Yankees and Germans when they set up
tariffs and got their factory fires alight, and
they hive been glad ever since that they took
no notice.
Open Caucus and Other Proposals.
“Sol. M.”: The humorless car-buying
majority at Sydney Town Hall lately served
notice on the S. M. Herald that unless it
took a more kindly view of their doings its
representative would be shut out of the
people’s premises; and if the majority pur-
sues its course to a logical conclusion, it
may light a bigger fire than it expects, and
start a train of events which will ultimately
bolt down an incline and bump into some
standing institutions. In other words, it
may bring about a revolt against the grow-
ing policy of secret diplomacy and hole-and-
corner legislation. The right of the press
to be present may be made a genuine right.
Besides having a right to attend Parliamen-
tary and municipal debates, it would, under
an improved system, find the door open to
committee meetings, both Parliamentary and
municipal, to political conferences and con-
ventions and to caucus gatherings. The
government of the country has passed in
great measure to these shaded assemblages,
and the country can’t learn how and why
it is governed unless their debates are re-
ported. If a caucus didn’t debate, but just
passed cut-and-dried resolutions as is often
done in Parliament, it would be evidence that
there had. been a secret and illegal caucus in
advance, and inquiry should be made as in
the case of a secret still. The wearing of a
conspicuous uniform by aldermen might be
advisable, so that their comings and goings
might be more obvious to their constituents.
Some of them seem to come and go a good
deal. I don’t insist on this, but I think an
alderman in a red and blue rig-out with gold
facings and a billycock hat, all paid for out
of the rates, would brighten up the landscape.
Meetings of the Executive Council would still
have to be private, I suppose, for Ministers,
whether in uniform or not, are the reposi-
tories of foreign secrets, but the rest of the
murk and gloom is mostly superfluous and
entirely suspicious.
♦— ——
The English Sunday.
Golf-courses and tennis-courts are crowded
on Sunday; so in London and other English
towns are vaudeville theatres and picture-
halls, where much the usual programmes are
given under the hypocritical guise of “sacred
performances.” Now a movement is afoot
amongst the theatrical people and others in-
terested in the theatre for a right to hold
frankly secular performances without the
hypocrisy; and the readiness of the leading
papers to publish views and articles in favor
of the open theatre shows they sense
that the movement is a popular one. Sey-
mour Hicks puts the case from a frankly
commercial standpoint: he complains that
“on Sunday, when there are most customers
about, the theatres are compelled to shut
up shop.” Others, however, blend a plea for
the public good with the demand for con-
sideration of their own commercial interests.
Robert Courtneidge’s say upon the subject
conveys a threat to the opposition :—-
Let us all go to church in the morning. Let us
play games in the afternoon. Let us fill the theatres,
cinemas and concert halls in the evening. Let us
cut out all the cant and humbug and start afresh.
We are lining up for a new gold rush. The nevv
Sabbath lies ahead of us. Let Ihe bishops stake out
their claim. They can have Sunday morning—if
they are quick.
Only one of the proponents of the theatrical
side, dramatist St. John Ervine, has con-
sidered the question of a holiday for the
people employed in connection with the stage,
w’hich is, of course, made a strong point by
the opponents, who declare that the one-day-
a-week liberty of 30,000 people is threatened.
Ervine suggests two performances on
Sunday and no performance on Monday;
with the modern development of industrial
organisations there would certainly be no
difficulty in providing the theatre people
with a free day once a week. Even the
church people cannot claim that the taber-
nacles are any less empty through keeping the
higher forms of theatrical art out of busi-
ness whilst the picture-shows boom; so the
theatrical case for the public good boils
down to this —-that performances in the
theatres will offer the people better employ-
ment for their Sunday nights than many of
them have at present. What is of most
interest to us here is the remarkable change
in the outlook of a vast section of the Eng-
lish people, hardly admitted before the war,
now naked and unashamed.
♦-
•Scottish Home Rulers
Five very sudden Scottish Labor members
have introduced into the British House of
Commons a bill for the dissolution of the
Union of Queen Anne’s time ai d the re-
establishment of a Scottish Parliai. ..it. Four
of them come from the vicinity of the very
Irish and rather Communist city of Glasgow.
The new Legislature is to consist of one
Chamber, like its long-deceased predecessor,
but where the old concern was all peers
and Upper House the new one is to be all
Commons aud Lower Apartment. The idea
is evidently to make a permanent and
“advanced” Labor Government possible in
the Ancient Kingdom. In Scotland the
Opposition already holds half the seats, and
in Wales it holds three-quarters, but the
solid Conservative majorities from England
and Northern Ireland make Bolshing and
Communing difficult so long as the Union
lasts. It is proposed that Scottish members
shall retire from the Parliament at West-
minster as the Irish Free Staters did, and
on that proposition any Scottish separation
movement appears doomed to dead-certain
failure. Caledonia stern and wild has done
very well at Westminster. Its sons were
a little slow in getting off the mark, but
when the Earl of Bute took the Prime Min-
istership in 1762, which was 55 years after
the combination of the Parliaments, they
made a start. Bute was declared unfit for
his job by English opponents as being “a
Scotsman, a personal friend of the King, and
an honest man.” In 1852, which was 145
years after the Union, the men from the
brose country really began to arrive, under
Lord Aberdeen, and since 3868 they have
been pretty steadily in office. Gladstone held
the Prime Ministership four times, and Bal-
four. Campbell-Bannerman, Bonar Law
(who was Scottish by descent though born in
Canada) and Ramsay Macdonald came
after. As for minor portfolios, the Scots took
them wholesale. The Irish members lost
very little when they shook the dust of Lon-
don off their hoof-gear, for they never fitted
into the picture, but the Scots are differently
placed. They are not likely to abandon their
seats in two Houses, and all the profits and
prospects attached, in order to scramble for
the scanty chances afforded by a small State
and a single Chamber, which Chamber, the
Separationists hope, would Bolsh violently.
Anyhow, it is advisable to wait a while
longer and see how the Irish Free State
pans out. The I.F.S. hasn’t accumulated
many statistics since it set up on its own,
but it shows a staggering surplus of imports
over the exports which are supposed to pay
for them. About 90 per cent, of what it
sells goes to Britain or Northern Ireland,
for though it buys largely from other coun-
tries they don’t respond much. In 1924 the
agile Yankee sold Patrick £3,459,203 worth,
and only bought to the value of £217,510.
The area under cultivation was less in 1924
than in 1922. and more than half of what is
called cultivation is really grass. The I.F.S.
sends away raw wool and buys its clothes
mostly abroad. It is piling up a debt. It
maintains, for an area resembling that of
Tasmania, a Governor-General at £IO,OOO
a year, a High Commissioner in London, a
Minister Plenipotentiary in the United
States, and it has an array of High Courts,
Supreme Courts. Appeal Courts, Criminal
Courts, Circuit Courts and District Courts
which is almost imperial. No doubt a Scot-
tish Parliament would take more care of
the siller; still, as far as it has gone, the
example isn’t encouraging.
Mad-dog Imperialism and the Color War.
Dear Bulletin. —Among things that make
life in this vale of sneers worth living are
bits of unconscious self-revelation, such aa


"ML
Itlltrffuui
III —IL_II —l L LL L II li i| I
jIUULILLL L IL !L_ !L_l
|l! —II —II —IL LL C ILILIL.I
|'l —II —II —I.L LL L II |l || j
hfghfg
Paid-up Capital, £l/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
EA RL Y S UMMER IN S YDNE V
Enchanting things to do and see on every hand—sight-seeing, social
engagements, surfing. But do not miss the pleasure of a stay at “The
Australia.” It is the hotel pre-eminent, of unchallenged excellence in
cuisine, service and appointments.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Room, with Breakfast, from 14/6; Luncheon or Dinner from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
if yon to ui-.jo f' coming, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated 20-page booklet.
“Sol. Malaprop’s” sortie on me (B. 29/7/’26)
for suggesting that the person who took a
shot at Cobham’s hydroplane may have done
so in a fit of reminiscence produced by pre-
vious experience with bomb-dropping fliers.
Recently in these pages “Sol. M.” (“Damned
Niggers”) suggested the bombing of Angora
as a method of settling the Turkish problem.
He now registers moral indignation because
I pointed out that an approximation to his
system had been in operation in one corner
of the Empire; and he finds me a maudlin
sentimentalist for having done so. I thought
until “Sol. M.” disabused me that it was
common knowledge that bombing aeroplanes,
being cheap, were extensively used to spread
peace in Mesopotamia until some maudlin
sentimentalists in England objected; where-
upon the Cabinet announced early in 1924
that the whole question of the use of aero-
planes would be reconsidered. The Mesopo-
tamian Air Force is still the largest in the
Empire outside the British Isles, and the
military forces are by comparison trifling.
No aerial bomb capable of distinguishing be-
tween civilians and combatants, or even be-
tween the sexes, having yet been devised,
the wandering Arab’s distrust of flying-
machines seems logical to me. I am unable
to share “Sol. M.’s” unsophisticated notions
about the color war. My impression of that
conflict is that it has always been, and still
is, less a righteous defensive war, fought by
a united band of white supermen, than a
barbarous and frequently mercenary
scramble, in which the white nation most
actively engaged usually gets stabbed in the
back by its fellow Caucasians. Amongst the
evidence for this view may be cited the cir-
cumstance that the present British Govern-
ment has just been caught by maudlin sen-
timentalists selling 100,009 rifles and 100
million cartridges to Turkey. Mesopotamia
may be an exception to the above rule about
the color war, but I have my doubts. My
notion is that the Arabs fought alongside
the British (it was an Arab force which
turned the Turkish eastern flank in the final
shove of 1918) because the Allies had pro-
mised them their independence—which they
didn’t get, largely because Britain and France
forgot about it in the scramble for conces-
sions, Britain wanting Iraq because it had
oil and was on an important air-route, and
France wanting Syria possibly as another
recruiting-ground of black troops in her
European wars. Asia Minor, in short, pre-
sents the customary spectacle of rival Euro-
pean imperialisms covertly at war, with
Britain adding to her perplexities with a long
and vulnerable frontier which will eventually
land her (and us) into war with Turkey.
What the British Empire stands most in
need of is not more disgruntled Asiatic sub-
jects, but more Asiatic friends. With 100
million Moslem subjects within her fold, her
handling of the rest of the Islamic world
has to be delicate indeed. Luckily the mad-
dog imperialist is in a large minority. He
only becomes dangerous when the national
coinmonsense has temporarily abdicated. I
have a maudlin feeling that the “Sol. M.’s”
of Australia are likewise in a large minority,
and that imperialism when it shows mad-
dog symptoms will never find a willing Com-
monwealth attached to its fleeting tail. —
Yours, Feng-Siiui.
*
The Stupid Roads Scheme.
Though only three State Governments, re-
presenting less than one-fourth of the popu-
lation, have formally approved of the Com-
monwealth’s butting into the road business
for the sake of the easy money promised, the
Bruce-Pages are going on with their gran-
diose scheme. In doing so they are tying
themselves up in all sorts of knots, and it
is certain that the High Court will be asked
to pronounce on the constitutionality of the
proposals as “revised” last week. Cocksure
that N. S. Wales, Victoria and South Aus.
w'ould come in, the Government hastily an-
nounced a new lot of customs duties on
motor spirit, chassis, tyres and tubes, de-
signed to bring in £1,500,000 or £1,600,000
in the first year—another 2d. a gallon on
petrol, £983,000; another 2| p.c. on chassis
and parts, £270,000; an extra 6d. a lb. on
tyres and tubes, £260,000; an additional 15
p.c. on solid tyres and smaller sizes, £48,900.
The proceeds of these duties, together with
£400,000 or £500,000 (£2,000,000 alto-
gether ) from general revenue, were to
be distributed among the six States
“on the basis of three-fifths popula-
tion and two-fifths area,” and the offence
was to be repeated annually for 10 years.
During those 10 years £5,520,000 was to be
paid to N. S. Wales, £3,600,000 to Vic-
toria, £3,840,000 to Westralia, £3,760,000
to Queensland, £2,280,000 to South Aus. and
£1,000,000 to Tasmania. A change came
over the spirit of the Administration’s dream
when the N. S. Wales and South Aus. Gov-
ernments definitely withdrew and the Vic.
Allancocks, who had been agreeable in the
first place, got cold feet. Thereupon the
Bruce-Pages decided, not to abandon their
silly project, as they should, but to drop the
new duties on chassis and tyres; the extra
2d. a gallon on petrol (less a rebate for buyers
who don’t use the roads) is to be kept on
for distribution among Queensland, West-
ralia and the Speck. Challenged as to the
lawfulness of imposing a Commonwealth tax
for the benefit of three particular States,
they point triumphantly to Section 96 of the
Constitution :
During a period of 10 years after the establishment
of the Commonwealth, and thereafter till the Parlia-
ment otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant
financial assistance to any State on such terms and
conditions as the Parliament th'nks fit.
But there is another section (99) which says:
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regu-
lation of trade, commerce or revenue, give preference
to one State or any part thereof over another State
or any part thereof.
And eminent lawyers reported that the
whole scheme was unconstitutional before it
was even proposed to limit it to three States.
If the Government hasn’t lost its head com-
pletely, it will tear up its mad plan for
multiplying the expenditure of a country
which is already spending far more than it
can afford, and address itself to tasks like
the taking over of State debts. There would
be some sense in that.
♦-
“Greasy” : There is a great outcry from
interested parties about the proposal of the
Federal Government to increase the tax on
imported petrol, motor spirit, etc., by 2d.
per gallon, the revenue to be used for" road
work. Instead of imposing an extra
twopence per gallon, we should ascertain the
cost of production of the article in the
IN UTOPIA.
“So glad to hear your husband’s got a job at last, Mrs. Kelly.”
"Bless you, yes! It’s such a comfort to me to know he’ll be drawing ’is strike-pay
regular now."
country of origin, actual landed cost here
and handling charges in this country, allow
a reasonable margin of profit, and then fix
what should be a reasonable price per gallon
for the article (it should be very little over
Is.). Then we should impose an import duty
of Id. per gallon for every Id. per gallon
the article was sold above the fixed price.
Motor-spirit is sold retail in the U.S.A. and
Honolulu at well under Is. per gallon. As
a rule the. retail price here is about 2s. per
Bowser and 2s. 6d. by tin. The American
gallon is slightly smaller than the Imperial
gallon, but this circumstance, with freight
and duty, etc., does not explain a difference
of well over 100 p.c. It would be interest-
ing to know the annual rake-off made from
the Commonwealth by the two big com-
panies which practically monopolise the dis-
tribution here. The representative of one of
the cos. a few days since stated that the
increased tax would have to be passed on
to the consumer. Let this and the other co.
come out into the open and state the case
for passing it on. It would also be interest-
ing to know why a large section of the local
press is opposing the tax. Are even the so-
called Protectionist newspapers afraid that
the motor adveitisements will be withdrawn
in the event of an unsuitable attitude being
adopted? Revenue derived as set out above
would not only provide for roads, but supply
a large amount for the investigation of local
ground showing signs of oil-bearing strata,
also the production of motor-spirit from other
local sources.
»
Referendum day is the people’s day, and
any attempt to turn it into a parties’ day
ought to be resisted by every democrat.
People group themselves into parties on gen-
eral principles; at a general election they
vote for Labor or Nationalist not because
they approve of every single thing in the
Labor or National platform, but because
their views tend in one direction or the
other. The referendum is the safety-valve;
it gives the individual citizen a chance to
register his individual opinion on a specific
question. That is the essence of democratic
government—the right of the majority to
rule. And any man or any party which
tries to rob the individual citizen of that
right isn’t a democrat —he (or it) is the
worst enemy of democracy. We may think
Bavin and Arthur Robinson are in the
w T rong boat when they advise people to vote
No-no, but they have a citizen’s right to
give that advice, no matter what the majo-
rity of their party thinks. And in just the
same way every member of the Labor party
has a right—and should insist upon it —to
speak and vote exactly as his personal judg-
ment dictates.
♦
A recent effort to spread the cloak of obli-
vion over the Sydney Town Hall scandals
wasn’t even up to N. S. Wales Premier
Lang’s usual low standard. The position is
that boodling and corruption on the part of
somebody or somebodies on or adjacent to
the municipal premises has become a matter
of such intense suspicion that it roars in
the street and makes offensive remarks on
the housetop. Being invited to demand a
Royal Commission, so that it might clear
itself of any nasty aspersions, the dominant
party declared, by a party vote and a party
majority, that it didn’t want to be cleared —
in that way, anyhow. At this crisis the
Lang Government produced a bill for the
creation of a Greater Sydney, and this
appeared in the press:—
Mr. Lang said yesterday that he desired to see
the bill placed on the Statute Book in the forth-
coming session. The creation of a Greater Sydney
would do away with any demand for a Royal Com-
. mission to inquire into the past administration of
the City Council, for if the bill became law the new
Council would be elected to control, not merely the
city of Sydney, but a very large area indeed, and
it would include land from Petersham to the sea.
: lii other words, there being so much more
room for stealing by the same or similar
men in the future, there is no need to inquire
into the definitely and publicly alleged steals
of the past.
♦
The Markets and Migration Department is
busy on the production of a 9000 ft. film,
depicting the history of Australia, from the
landing of Captain Cook to the meeting of
the Commonwealth Parliament at Canberra.
The department hasn’t divulged how it in-
tends to handle the convict business, but it
isn’t likely to consult Marcus Clarke’s
account, at present much under discussion.
It should suffice all honest Australians and
forestall criticism if it handles the subject
in the spirit of Jose’s comment in his admir-
able Australian history:—
Marcus Clarke... .managed to create a false im-
pression about Australia; for few readers take the
trouble to remember that these two great prison.-.
[Norfolk Island and Port Arthur] were conducted
under British law by British officials, were isolated
from their surroundings, and had scarcely more to do
with Australian life than if they had been situated
on Dartmoor and at Portland.
*
“Buttinski” :“Blac Magpie” (8.29/7/’26)
is on safe ground in his statement that the
average size and weight of Aussie kids is
greater than those of kids in Britain, but I
doubt if the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) or
any other particular locality can claim credit
for developing the “finest physical strain in the
world.” I’ve been running the tape over the
Australian nipper for many years (less the
war period), and, generally speaking, they
break even in as far-separated places as Vic-
toria and Tasmania. Given the food and
exercise it doesn’t seem to matter a continen-
tal to the Aussie lad where he lives; he’ll
grow as big as his dad, at least, and if the
latter happens to be a fairly late arrival will
outstrip him in every direction.
4
At the Health Conference in Melbourne Dr.
Argyle quoted some arresting figures regard-
ing maternity cases treated in the Melbourne
Women’s Hospital. Out of 1762 cases last
year, preliminary advice and treatment had
been secured in 909 instances at the pre-natal
clinics; result, no deaths. But there were
11 deaths amongst the 853 women w T lio had
not troubled to consult the clinics. People
are so hostile to change in these matters
that even medical politicians like Argyle
and Howse shrink from proposing the intro-
duction of motherhood regulations, which, to
be effective, must involve penalties, but
Argyle’s figures plainly show the benefit
that would result from compulsory registra-
tion and treatment of all expectant mothers.
*
Harold Cohen : “Sol. M.’s” remarks on
the Institute of Pacific Relations (B.
22/7/’26) call for a word in reply. I hope
my past war-service saves me from the sneer
that I “wouldn’t go to war in any case,” but
I believe in “meeting to prevent war.” The
"well-meaning obscurities” who founded the
Institute included, amongst others, the Chan-
cellor of Maoriland University (MacMil-
lan Brown), Mr. Gregory (Yale Univer-
sity), Lord Radstock, Mr. Wilbur (presi-
dent Stanford University). Takayauagi
(Law Professor at Tokio University), Au-
youug, Director of the Chinese Bureau of
Economics, and members of the staffs of both
Sydney and Melbourne Universities. These
people believe that frank, unofficial discus-
sion may iron out some of the Pacific ques-
tions which threaten international trouble.
They may be wrong, but, even so, no harm
will be done. On the other hand, if they are
right, “Sol. M.” and a lot of people who
sneer and criticise will benefit along with
the rest of us.
*
The not-very-Pan-Asiatic Congress, now
meeting at Nagasaki, early struck the rock
of disagreement when the Chinese delegates
demanded that, among the iniquitous treaties
which should be abrogated, Japan’s 21 de-
mands on China should be included. These
were made in 1915 and represented Dai
Nippon’s attempt to profit by the European
disturbance in order to get a comfortable
hold on Chinese raw material and the
machinery of government. After the Euro-
pean combatants had settled their argument
and returned to the Asiatic scene, Japan re-
linquished some of her gains, but certain
mining privileges and an extended lease of
the South Manchuria railway remained as
thorns in the side of China’s divided majesty.
Japan isn’t in the least likely to consider
returning these to China. She is too busy
fortifying them against Russian attack.
NOTICE UNDER COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any articles or paragraphs on these pages that
require a signature, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and
James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility. The address of Tom Glover, who
drew the cartoon on page 9, is 154 Flinders-street,
Melbourne.


mim
s'
!e
/
b x
o
//
fils
are no better lamps for your car than CONDOR
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS. They throw a powerful, brilliant
light they ire designed to resist vibration and jolts and are
economical in first cost and maintenance.
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street
16 Chesser Street
Sydney
Adelaide
493 Collins Street Melbourne
Exton House, Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street
Wellington, N.Z
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Matthew Charlton was howled at in Syd-
ney on Saturday by a bogus “All-Australian
Congress of Trades Unions.” The “All-
Australians,” so called because they wero
led by Oily Willis, Emil Yoigt, Jock Garden
and Chapman, of the Railwaymen’s Union,
“instructed every unionist and every
member of the Australian Labor party to
vote No on both questions at the referen-
dum,” after which they decided
to attend the Pan-Pacific trades-union conference
at Canton next year ; to appeal to all workers of the
Pacific pointing out the need for unification of forces
against international capitalism and war preparation;
and to accept the invitation of the All-Russian Coun-
cil of Trades Unions to send as far as possible official
trades-union delegates to Soviet Russia.
A reply from Charlton to the effect that the
All-Australians could go to Canton, and on
to Moscow, and then to Topliet for all he
cared would be wildly cheered by scores of
thousands of Australian unionists who are
tired of being dictated to by jumped-up new-
ehums.
An “All-Australia Labor Congress” in
Sydney last week-end “instructed every trade-
unionist and every member of the Australian
Labor party” to vote No-no on September 4.
Who are these people that they “instruct”
citizens how to vote on a referendum? The
purpose of a referendum is to ascertain the
opinions of the citizens without regard for
party considerations. If party intrudes the
referendum is a farce, for the vote then does
not ascertain what the opinion of the people
is on the specific question submitted to them.
The individual members of the congress have
a perfect right to argue with trades unionists
and other citizens and even to advise them;
but for anybody to “instruct” them is not
only an impertinence but an assault upon
an instrument of democratic government.
The S. Aus. Labor party has lost its
leader, John Gunn having made up his mind
to join Bruce’s Migration Commission, along
with H. W. Gepp, of the Electrolytic- Zinc
Co., and C. S. Nathan, of Charles Atkins,
Ltd., Perth. Gunn’s appointment is for five
years at £2500 p.a.; Gepp, who will be chair-
man, is to get £5OOO p.a. for seven years;
Nathan suggests an allowance of £lOOO for
a year, whereupon the title will presumably
come along. Gunn has been a successful
Labor Premier, and his party will have a
job to replace him. Especially as Chief Sec-
retary Jelley, another Minister without an
enemy in or out of Parliament, says he is
not going to stand for re-election.
N.S.W. Minister for Lands Loughlin met
his constituents at Cowra the other day. He
“made a long defence of the Workers’ Com-
pensation Act,” according to the newspaper
report, “and explained the main provisions.”
And then: —
He admitted that the Act was an intricate one, and
just at present he was not quite certain whether
share-farmers should be insured or not.
The State pays fellows like Loughlin £l5OO
a year for not knowing what is in their own
Acts even after these have been five weeks
in force.
By the casting vote of Speaker Bowser
the Allancocks were saved from defeat in
Vic. Assembly last week. Farthing moved
an amendment on Snowball’s no-confidence
amendment so that the House might reject
the Federal-States roads agreement without
endangering the Ministry. But Angus,
Everard and Dunstan deserted the Minis-
terial ranks, and, as Billson and Allison were
away sick, the division showed 31 on each
side. Naturally Bowser, a Cocky, voted
with his leader. Allan had the House ad-
journed for several hours to enable the Minis-
try to consider its position; he came back
saying that an inch was as good as a mile
and he’d hold on. The Libs, want a Seats
Redistribution Bill before facing the elec-
tors. And guided by the experience of N. S.
Wales, where George Fuller left things to
chance, the Allancocks are quite right.
Perhaps it is because “politics is a dirty
game,” as was said by a N.S.W. Labor par-
tisan in explaining the purchase of Kay’s
seat, that the Queensland Labor party is
raising members’ salaries £250 p.a. There
is a sound union principle that workers
engaged in a noxious trade should be paid
special rates.
A super-optimist was revealed when a
Reform alderman requested Sydney City
Council to have some of its most odoriferous
activities referred to a Royal Commission.
One of his allegations was that £15,000 had
been asked as “commission” for getting a big
contract “put through,” and there were
others almost as interesting. Of course, the
motion was hurled out. Bill Sikes isn’t in
the habit of going round demanding an in-
crease in the Police force.
The ideas which the N.S.W. Government
develop for being good to some people with
other people’s money grow alarming. It
was decided lately that “the workers” are
PARTNERS.
“In Victoria charitable gilts are not exempt from income-tax assessment."
THE INCOME-TAX GATHERER : “Spare a copper, hind sir, for me and my cobber.”
often paying rents “out of proportion to their
earnings,” which in these days of go slow
was not only probable but inevitable. Where-
fore it is proposed to build Government shan-
ties on a vast scale with other people’s money,
and sell them on a long-instalment plan
which has frills attached. If a buyer earns
£4 16s. 2d. per week or less, it is suggested
that he shall not be asked for a deposit,
but only for the subsequent instalments. The
more solvent a purchaser is the less credit
he will get, and a man with £lOOO a year
will be called on to pay 25 per cent, of the
price. Premier Lang is in the estate busi-
ness, and doubtless he urges his wealthy
clients to put their private fortunes into
building schemes like this.
A secession society has been inaugurated
in Westralia. Premier Collier hasn’t com-
mitted himself, but he has moved the
Assembly to demand a “Constitutional session
of the Federal Parliament” and a referendum
before any change is made in the arrangement
whereby the States receive 255. per head
per annum from the central authority. (In
1918 Westralia contrived to get 38s. 9d. per
head, while Queensland had to do with
245. 6d. and S. Australia with 245. 7d., and
the same discrepancy in a greater or less
degree has been habitual.) That disastrous
financier, ex-Premier Jimmy Mitchell, how-
ever, is in the secesh movement for all he is
worth, and his tale of how Westralia lias
been robbed reads like the looting of old
Rome. Still the victim’s purely State revenue
last year was £23 os. 4d. per inhabitant (the
record for the States), while in the last year
before Federation it managed with £l6 16s.
3d. and paid the loss on its Post Office and
other services out of that, so it looks as if all
the shocking leak isn’t on the Federal pre-
mises.
The project for building a line by breach
of faith from Darwin through West Queens-
land to Sydney, which is further removed
from Darwin than Brisbane, Melbourne or
Adelaide, has been written up with energy
of late, as a counterblast to the proposed
resumption of work in Central Australia.
The reason now assigned is not that there
is better country to serve that way but that
the Queensland route would traverse poor
country, subject to severe droughts, and that
when one of these happens along trains would
be useful for carrying sheep at low rates.
Prime Minister Bruce, having been thus in-
formed of the real character of the proposed
deviation, had better concentrate on his own
proper business. That is to join his par-
ticular Empty North by the shortest path
with the nearest big city, and try to make
another big city on liis splendid northern
harbor where the airships land on their way
from Europe and Asia.
The strike of the A.W.U. sugar-cane
workers who refused to handle the crops of
Italian-owned farms at Mackay (Q.) came
to an end last week. The Board of Trade,
despatched in hot haste by State Premier
McCormack to scotch the trouble, used argu-
ments more or less appropriate to the occa-
sion, and the malcontents backed down un-
conditionally. It seems that word was sent
round that if this trouble wasn’t settled it
would give Bruce a tremendous argument
for the “Yes” side in the Referendum cam-
paign ; and party loyalty did the rest.
The Bruce Ministry has made a start at
getting together a delegation of employers
and employees to visit the U.S. and discover
why Uncle has surplus exports and money to
lend while Australia has surplus imports
and incessant borrowing. But no one sug-
gests how to get the workmen delegates a
hearing when they come back. Supposing
the verdict is that piecework and a partner-
ship in the business pays better than day
labor and a pai’tnership in the trades union?
The employers could say. that sort of thing.
If the employees said it they might find
themselves outside the union door and in-
dustrially excommunicated for life. Unless
it is assured that they can say what they
think on their return, why send them away
to learn thoughts?
With Chief Sec. Guy as Acting-Premier
and Chairman Woods as Deputy-Speaker,
Tas. Parliament opened, sat for three days,
passed six months’ supply, expressed sym-
pathy with the motor-smashed Premier Lyons
and Speaker O’Keefe—Opposition-leader
McPhee moving: the motion, by the way—-
swore in a new member, passed, a couple of
small bills, including one legalising marriage
between a man and his deceased wife’s
brother’s (or sister’s) daughter and between
a woman and her deceased husband’s
brother’s (or sister’s) son, and adjourned
till August 10, when it met for a session
about as long as this sentence to dis-
cuss the Commonwealth roads policy and a
wood-pulp mill for the Huon district. Then
it adjourned until the Treasurer’s leg mends
—about October.
The Bruce-Page Government, which is roll-
ing in paper money, has decided to spend
£900,000 of it during the next five years in
bounties on seed cotton and cotton yarn. On
seed cotton £120.000 p.a. will be paid, the
bounties ranging from fd. to lid. per lb. accord-
ing to quality ; and the yarn manufacturers will
get from Jd. to Is. per lb. provided they use
50 p.c. of Australian-grown cotton —or less
if they can satisfy Parliament that a lower
percentage is justified. The Tariff Board
reports that “cotton-growing is in a some-
what precarious position owing to the in-
stability of the market, the high cost of
production” and other factors, notably the
appointment of two Labor politicians to the
Queensland Board of Arbitration. Obvi-
ously tlie Commonwealth Government can’t
fold its arms and let the industry perish,
especially as the Australian output of yarn is
steadily increasing, but it should try to get
some of tlxe seed raised in North Westralia
and its own territory. Labor might be more
reasonable in those parts.
Queensland still carries its tail high. Prom
1914-15 to 1924-25 the increase in Australian
taxation (State and Federal) per capita was
163 per cent. Queensland’s rise in the same
period was 232.8 per cent. Its burden of
taxation for 1924-25 was £4,104,121, as
against £954.457 in 1914-15, or a per capita
jump from £1 Bs. 2d. to £4 15s. 3d. The
privilege of being run by strike committees
and union organisers is a pretty expensive
one.
The most important local-option poll in
the Shivery Isles is that which is taken t.o
decide whether Bellamy's shall continue to
purvey alcohol or not. Each Parliament has
to take a vote on the question, and the ballot
being virtually secret, the license is never
in danger. Three years ago the verdict went
in favor of the Demon Rum by 74 to 41.
This year the Cursed Drink is retained by
84 to 29. Yet there are probably not above
a dozen members in the two Houses who
would care to air anti-prohibition views on
the hustings—the women’s vote is believed to
be about 90 per cent, anti-liquor, and it’s no
use looking for trouble.
The Hun begins to demand back his lost
colonies in a way that is intended to imply
that he will stand no nonsense. He threatens,
if they are not forthcoming, to stay out of
the League of Nations and give the Allies
the cold shoulder and the frozen eye. It is
expected that he will presently insist on the
return of his lost battles. Meanwhile Russian
Minister Chicherin has informed the Polish
ambassador that, he believes the is a
liar when he says that Poland doesn’t in-
tend to steal Lithuania, and there are reports
of a Soviet army gathering to steal first in
self-defence. A peace conference, said to be
epoch-making, lately sat on a Pacific isle to
arrange for the abolition of war, but man
still seems no better.
About the most habitual old remark on
earth is to the effect that somebody proposes
to eliminate the middleman, and the N.S.W.
Government has made it again. The idea
isn’t new. The State used to go out in its
own trawler to catch its own fish, that it
might retail them in its own shops, and
Sydney never would have had such dear
fish only that losses were charged to the
taxpayer. The Government’s middlemen
were too numerous, incompetent and expen-
sive, and the fact that they were public
employees made them no better. The British
co-operative societies, one of which had a
capital of over £23,000,000 in 1921, have
eliminated hosts of middlemen, but they
aren’t run by political parasites. Incident-
ally, Premier Lang is a middleman. No one
middles more than the estate-agent.
[For any paragraphs on this page that require a
signature under the Electoral Law, J. E. Webb, 214
George-street, Sydney, and M. G. Skipper, 154
Flinders-street, Melbourne, accept the responsibility.]
THOU SHALT NOT BE HANGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Collier Government of W.A. is the only
Labor Government in Australia weak enough to
allow a sentence of death to be carried to its ghastly
and indefensible conclusion.” —Sydney Worker.
A thing to look askance upon —to give him air to
dance upon,
The man who kills his fellow-man for hate or fear
or gain!
’Tis sadly reprehensible; in fact, ’tis indefensible.
The view is scarce a modern fad; ’twas doubtless
held by Cain.
Think of the impropriety—nay, more, the rank
impiety—
Of those who shepherd gallows-ward a scared and
trembling wretch!
Can he reform —the rue of it—or make a better do
of it
Withdrawn from evil courses, not by kindness but
by Ketch?
From out his cell to drag a man at dawn of day! To
scrag a man!
Such hideous barbarity reflects on all mankind.
A spell of New Penology (including- the Doxology)
Would clearly put him in a more repentant frame
of mind.
Thou Shalt Not Slay! No lawfulness can mitigate
the awfulness,
No cold judicial forms redeem this taking life
away—
Not even his who viciously, maliciously, capriciously
Defies the law of God and man that says “Thou
shalt not slayl”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SvONEfyJ
H.
s
q;
22
1 '
Wasted Energy.
Transmitting power with a slipping belt is
like trying to fill a sieve with water. Equip
your plant with belts that grip and last.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
“will never shirk the hardest work.”
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Iry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Phllp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard -Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
)■ 1 ' '
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney
Dividends To
June, Profits. (10 p.c.) Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. £261,804 £200,000 £61,804 £1,914,538
1917.. 284,556 200,000 84,566 1,999,094
1918.. 298,149 200,000 98,149 2,097,243
1919.. 301,571 200,000 101,571 2,198,814
1920.. 348,602 245,154 103,448 2,302,262
1921.. 392,923 250,000 142,923 2,445,185
1922.. 397,885 296,649 101,236 2,546,421
1023.. 422,068 300,000 122.068 2,665,489
1924.. 451,567 330,170 121,397 2,789,886
1925.. 480,261 349,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Sellers are asking £26 2s. Od. for the £l2
10s. shares (they carry a contingent liability
in the event of a wind-up), and there was a
sale last week at that figure. There has
been an upward tendency since February,
1925, when a parcel changed hands at £22.
The market lias been expectant, and rumors
have ranged from absorptions to par issues
of fat proportions. Time has proved the
rumors false, but a new crop springs up as
the old one dies. Reserves of £3,055,296
certainly make fertile ground for anticipa-
tions, and the fact that the only bonus issues
in the bank’s long career belong to the dim
past—the last was in 1853 —encourages some
holders to hope that the time is ripe. The
10 p.c. would be a poor return to
the investor if there was nothing else in
view; and the question of interest is What
are the prospects?
The fact that there have been no bonus
issues for 70 years suggests that bonus issues
are not favored by this institution. Condi-
tions have certainly changed within the
past few years, and dividends in excess of 10
p.c. are no longer advisable. But neither
are bonus issues where banks are concerned.
The nasty and generally misleading term
“stock watering” is commonly applied to
such issues; and that isn’t a good term
to have applied to the capital of any con-
cern which depends for its prosperity upon
keeping its credit absolutely unspotted.
Hitherto, therefore, something in the shape
of a compromise has been adopted, and the
shareholder has got what really amounts
to a bonus in the shape of frequent issues of
new capital at par, said capital forthwith
carrying the 10 p.c. dividend. It may be that
this bank will vary its long-established policy
of abstaining from straight-out bonus issues;
but the Wild Cat will be surprised if it does.
Remains, then, the question whether the bank
can do with more capital. This table shows
the movements hitherto :
1834 .. £30,000 1907 .. £1,250,000
1849 . . 90,000 1908 . . 1,500,000
1853 .. 200,000 1912 .. 1,750,000
1859 . . 320.000 1914 . . 2,000,000
1864 . . 400,000 1920 . . 2,500,000
1874 . . 500,000 1921 . . 3,000,000
1881 . . 600,000 1924 . . 3,500,000
1893 .. 1,000,000 1925 .. 3,500,000
And now look at some other figures:—
1890. 1915. 1926.
Capital .. .. £600,000 £2,000,000 £3,500,000
Capital and re-
serves combined 1,411,960 3,852,734 6,555,296
Total liabilities . . 11,205,375 25,774,099 40,368,933
Advances .. . . 9,440,046 14,236,405 25,844,831
Liquid assets . . 2,990,789 14,890,785 20,311,893
This shows that the bank now holds £6 3s.
2d. of the public’s money for every £1 of
its own funds. It could hold more without
taking undue risk; that is to say, there is
no present visible need for more capital.
The bank lias frequently had £7 of the pub-
lic’s money for every £1 of its own. But
needs are not always the deciding factor.
Available surplus profits count for a great
deal. What may be worth noting is that the
visible surplus, after paying the dividend, is
at present less in proportion to capital than
it has generally been just prior to an issue
of capital. In 1914 34 p.c. of the disclosed
profit was reserved; in 1919 just on 34 p.c.;
in 1920, 30 p.c.; in 1923, just on 30 p.c.; in
the past year the visible amount laid by was
28 p.c. On that comparison an early issue
at par would not seem probable except for
the fact that the proportion visibly reserved
has been steadily declining. This suggests
that either more of the profit is being put
into inner reserves nowadays, or the par
issue of capital has a limit. It probably hasn’t
been reached yet; but there is a limit.
This comparison of liquid assets discloses
the expansion of the past decade from an-
other point of view :
1910. 1920.
Coin, bullion, Australian
notes, etc £0,937,802 £7,695,243
Money at short call .. .. 773,035 3,435,000
Short-dated British Treasury bills 1,000,009
Public securities .. .. 3,624,500 3,875,156
Bills receivable .. .. 1,920,026 3,941,174
Notes and bills of other banks 105,484 465,319
Put into more easily-handled groups, the
figures have moved like this:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1924. 1920.
Notes .. .. £21,804 £8,903 £8,230
Bills . . . . 1,113,851 1,246,139 1,821,498
Deposits .. 22,278,511 33,594,177 38,539,205
Liquid assets.. £12,770,'278 £17,354,799 £20,311,893
Advances . . 13,962,748 22,978,636 25,844,831
Premises, etc... 568,263 955,000 942,505
The most significant thing there is the “prem-
ises, etc.,” item. It means that the whole of
the money spent on the head-office, with its
fine safe-deposit, etc., during the past two
years has been provided by undisclosed
profits; and how much of this has been cur-
rent profit it is impossible to say. This has
an important bearing on the prospects for
the issue of new capital. It may be taken
for granted that the directors will issue as
much capital as they think they can safely
pay 10 p.c. upon; and if large amounts of
current and recent profit have gone into
premises, they will certainly be able com-
fortably to pay 10 p.c. on more capital if
the present profits are approximately main-
tained. Incidentally, the meeting was the
first to be held in the new premises, and
Chairman George Judah Cohen had less to
say than was said to him; he was congratu-
lated on his 40 years of service on the board,
25 years in the chair.
The £20,057,040 of the public’s money not
represented by liquids is covered by advances
with a book value of £25,844,831 and
premises written down to £942,505. And
there is, in addition, whatever is hidden, and
the millions of capital for which share-
holders are liable. No creditor will lose
any sleep thinking over those figures.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co.:—
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Nov., £ £ £ £
1916.. 186,208 Ilf p.e. = 52,500 133,708 786,877
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 636,877
1917.. 211,858 10 p.c. = 60,000 151,858 788,735
1918.. 202,211 12J „ „ 75,000 127,211 915,946
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 765,946
1919.. 186,171 Ilf p.c. = 87,500 98,671 864,617
May,
1920.. 112,590 13f „ „ 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921.. 271,803 13J „ ~100,000 171,803 1,099,010
1922.. 52,592 13J „ ~ 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £160,000 . . 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 12J p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~ 118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £160,000 .. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125,000 83,617 1,139,267
The gift distribution took place early in the
year. A call of 2s. was made on each of
the 1,500,000 shares and the requisite sum
was obtained by lifting £125,000 from general
reserves, £15,000 from investment fluctuation
and contingency account and £lO,OOO from
provision for taxation. That made 14s. paid
on the £1 shares, and was the fourth capi-
talisation within the past decade. Little
wonder the shares are closely held and high
prices are asked —the latest sale was at
415., which means that the buyer was con-
tent to accept an immediate return of 4 p.c.
p.a. in the expectation of better things later.
The high price is further helped by the
steady flow of N. S. Wales money for invest-
ment in Maoriland, whose politics are differ-
ent.
It was a fairly good year, better than
most, although the profit was £34,714 lighter
than in 1925. Premium income was up to
the average of the past five years and, all
things considered, the co. did fairly well to
record losses only £30,000 in excess of the
previous term. The co.’s loss rate has been
consistently high, and with a generally un-
favorable experience last year a rise of more
than 3.3 p.c. in the claims ratio would have
caused no surprise. Expenses moved up a
trifle, taking one-third of the amount rer
ceived in premiums. Here are details of
underwriting since ’95 :
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.e. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 2P.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27 9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 2C 2
1906. . 565,149 | J 085,695 i 129 ’ 361 m - 9 22 9
1910.. 605,509 391,321 "" 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1918. . 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
1921. . 1,275,230 768,469 344,253 60.3 27.0
1924.. 1,026,045 608,214 848,973 59.2 34.0
1925. . 1,072.761 003,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1926. . 1.066,012 633,973 355,380 59.5 33.3
•General. fSan Francisco disaster.
An extensive business generally gathers
heavy claims when the world’s underwriting
experience takes a turn for the worse; on
the other hand much business comes in
cheaply. As each 1 p.c. rise in the expense
rate means £lO,OOO, it is not likely that the
management will ease its vigilance over out-
go ; so far as losses are concerned, of course,
it can do no more than maintain a careful
scrutiny of risks.
Wisdom and moderation in its youth en-
abled the co. to accumulate strength which
has made its later progress easy. In 1912
paid capital was £300,000; the three-quarters
of a million added since then represents
bonus issues. The undivided profit has thus
been kept in the business, and the earnings
from last (year paid all but
£7700 of the handsome div. Assets are of
excellent quality: of the total of £2,697,483
at May 31, £1,969,886 vyus in cash or public
securities. Here is a comparison of balance-
sheet figures:— i
1914. 1924. 1926.
Paid capital .. .. £450,000 £900,000 £1,050,000
Liabilities .. .. 252,929 434,919 425,716
Public securities .. 521,979 1,648,135 1,758,594
Mortgages .. .. 195,409 18,717 34,717
Shares, etc 395 478 670
Freeholds . . .. 349,457 382,599 412,522
Agency balances and
cash.. .. .. 240,249 452,310 490,980
Of the liabilities £220,082 were appropria-
tions for unascertained losses, and £205,634
were jsundry creditors and unearned pre-
miums, and it is not unlikely that something
was hidden in each item. Certainly the
£20,000 held as provision for taxation may
be looked upon as true profit, although it
has not been so counted in reserves of the
introductory table. These consist of :
Reserve fund .. .. .. .. £475,000'
Reserve for unexpired risks.. .. 533,000
Investment fluctuation and contingencies 9,284
P.‘ and L. balance .. .. .. 3 21,983
The amount set apart to cover unexpired
risks was £106,596 greater than the 40 p.c.
usually looked upon as adequate, while total
funds (£2,189,267) were more than twice
the amount of the net premium income for
the period. And that also is beyond usual.
Discerning policy-holders will be well satis-
fied with the strength disclosed, and, if more
is wanted, there is £450,000 callable on the
1,500,000 shares. Shareholders can see
335. 7d. for every £ of their holdings—after
allowing 40 p.c. as sufficient protection for
unexpired risks.
Further progress was disclosed by the
co.’s trustee business. The uninformative
statement published—income and expendi-
ture are not set out —showed £4,538,170 of
trusts in hand compared with £3,988,614 in
1925 —an increase of no less than £549,556.
T * * * *
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd., general mer-
chants and agents, of Rockhampton (Q.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£t £>£/£/ £>
1916.. 38,834 10 p.c.= 20,000 4,222 14,612 104,940
1917. . 37,694 124 „ „ 25,000 4,110 8,584 113,524
1918.. 50,305 124 „ ~25,000 2,929 22,376 135,900
Transferred to capital, £50,000 . . 85,900
1919.. 30,100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4,446 654 86,554
1920.. 60,964 124 „ ~31,250 5,484 24,230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10" „ ~ 25,000 2,340 16,857 127,641
1922.. 39,628 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,907 11,721 139,362
1923.. 46,418 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,855 18,563 157,925
1924.. 47,386 124,. ~ 31,250 4,007 12,129 170,054
1925.. 54,235 124 „ ~ 31,250 3,622 19,363 189,417
1926. . 54,181 124 „ ~ 31,250 3,732 19,199 208,616
In parts of Queensland a drought isn't recog-
nised in its youth. It is only after most of
(lie regular watering times have passed that
the residents awaken to the fact that the
Dry villain,has come in to play his old part.
Last year month followed month and most
of Queensland was without a decent down-
pour. Just wdien in many districts the last
tank was down to the last ring, and the
cockies were thinking about the things they
would do next time, rain came. November
saved whole stretches of the State, and later
downpours gave promise of a splendid winter.
The Central-West was the unfortunate area.
Those who acted early and got their flocks
away to more favored parts have been con-
gratulating themselves. Hand-feeding has
been going on for months where run-owners
have had the financial strength to stand the
strain; in other cases the sheep have been
left to die. “The loss of millions of sheep
will have a serious effect upon the prosperity
of .Central Queensland,” chairman Rudd de-
clares gloomily, “and the loss bymerchants will
be felt for many years or until the properties
are again restocked and good seasons return.”
Experience has proved the amazing recupera-
tive capacity of Australia, and although the
immediate effect is serious, it is evened out
over a number of years. Certainly there
was no hint of the unhappy event in the
profit disclosed by this co. for the 12 months,
the amount being only a few pounds less than
that shown for the phenomenally prosperous
1924-25, with its wool, sugar, maize, wheat
and butter records.
The co. has a good history. It passed
through the post-war slump without notice-
able ill-effect: shareholders got 10 p.c. divs.
and £28,578 was added to reserves in the two
lean years. Judged on its record, then,
the management is hardly likely to have
neglected any provision when balance-sheet
figures were written in on May 31. Cer-
tainly, there would be no excuse if full pro-
vision was not made, for the co. is in a
strong position; paid capital is a quarter-
million, £145.000 of it representing gift
issues. Despite that largesse, visible re-
serves at May 31 amounted to £208.616; and
there is an insurance fund of £18,730 which
is not included in the figures of the intro-
ductory table. Balance-sheet movements last
year were unimportant:—
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities ..£137,738 £91,507 £97,141 £97,971
Stocks.. .. 211,318 246,404 261,198 255,266
Book debts . . 149,448 134,169 132,294 164,467
Cash .. .. 33,517 27,535 37,728 42,478
F reholds and
investments 140,558 140,734 142,718 131,855
Trade creditors were covered by cash, book
debts and stock totalling £462,211. The only
other entry in the assets column is “Proper-
ties, A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd., shares, War Loan,
etc., £131,855”; possibly the greater part of
that is gilt-edged—in 1919 75 p.c. was in
Commonwealth stock. The item was £10,863
lighter than at the previous balance; that
year’s report intimated that the Sydney
warehouse —now completed—was to be paid
for out of war loan which matured in
December.
The future has been painted in heavy
greys, but shareholders will doubtless bear
up when they think of the past. Mount
Morgan is only a shadow of what it was,
and last year had its serious district drought;
yet disclosed profits show the effect of
neither. Which striking anomaly suggests
strength that is decidedly comforting to
shareholders.
* * * *
Hetton Bellbird Collieries, Ltd.
(N.S.W.)
, Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1921. .£58.970 £283 124 p.c. =£49,494 £9193 £9.193
1922.. 52,169 193 124 „ ~ 49,656 2320 11.513
1923.. 39,633 169 9 „ ~35,780 3684 15,197
Premiums on new shares, £1521 .. 16,718
1924.. 4,903 Nil Nil 4903 21.621
Loss.
1925.. 4.038 339 22 p.c. = 11,189 6,056
Profit.
1926.. 35,951 168 8 „ ~ 35,805 6,033
The co. was well on the way to a complete
recovery when the engine-drivers forced a
stoppage which tied up everything for 10J
weeks, all of it within the period covered by
the latest accounts. Even at that the im-
provement amounted to £40,000 and the out-
look was such that the Board did not hesi-
tate to declare a dividend that took a few
pounds more than was earned in the period.
The co. is now clear of all the troubles which
followed the disastrous explosion in No. 1
tunnel on September 1, 1923, and with the
plant reconditioned and new rolling stock
and hauling gear, industrial troubles are the
only sprag that is likely to stop the wheels.
There is a reminder of the 1923 misfortune
in the balance-sheet item: “Reconstruction
account, £7ooo”—down £2OOO. (The amount
is not accounted an asset in the introduc-
tory table.) The board considers that each
year’s profits should bear portion of the
loss until it is wiped out. Actually last
year’s improvement was better than sug-
gested by the profit. The co. reduced its
overdraft by £15,387, clipped £3062 off its
debenture debt and reduced its other liabili-
ties by £8032. Not that the financial posi-
tion was other than solid even in 1925; more
or less liquid assets were well in excess of
all outside debt. Here is a comparison:—
1922. 1925. 1926.
Debentures .. .. £30,625 £21,437 £18,375
Overdraft . . .. 6,345 24,563 9,176
Sundry creditors .. 36,552 21,919 13,887
Property and plant .. 383,594 425,587 431,502
Stores 18,997 7,899 6,946
Stocks 2,107 3,200 4,085
Book debts . . . . 59,177 44,734 15,285
Public securities,
deposits and cash . . 41,117 48,731 52,289
Shares in other cos. .. 9,933 9,933 9,933
Capital is a substantial £449,964, of which
£2400 is 7 p.c. pref.; and that lot calls for
hefty earnings, if the hand-out is to be decent.
Bellbird coal is of such quality as to win a
market so long as markets are offering, but
stoppages are a serious consideration with
a heavy capital to feed. The management
is bending its efforts towards increasing the
daily output, and if it succeeds the outlook
will be brighter. The market was unim-
pressed by the accounts and the dividend.
Shares were worth 245. when the mine was
re-opened after the fire, and they are worth
only the same to-day ex div.
The Australia Hotel Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :
, Dividends. ~
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 22,502 1980 124 p.c. = 12,500 659 44,487
Co. reconstructed. Goodwill included
at £25,000 ; £75,000 of bonus capital
issued. Nominal
Reserves.
1916.. 12.140 1980 6? p.c. = 10,000 48,098
1917.. 13,934 1980 68 „ „ 10,000 13,354 36,693
1918.. 21,426 1980 8J „ ~ 12,500 1,712 41,932
1919.. 20.290 1980 10 „ „ 15,000 45,242
1920.. 35,014 1980 122 „ „ 22,500 55,776
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 30,776
1921.. 32.990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922.. 28.954 1980 10 „ „ 25,173 38.587
1923.. 36.825 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 48.059
1924.. 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 58.192
1925.. 43.678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,517
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1926.. 54,253 1980 10 p.c. = 38,488 117,362
Early in the term the co.’s principal asset
was revalued, and the property increased in
the books by £108,352 to £485,000. Follow-


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
•The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"
helps you to find out
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Commercial Laboratories: Before purchasing- labora-
tory equipment, write to Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney, or Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd., Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane, who will furnish detailed par-
ticulars about the most suitable types of chemical
and scientific apparatus, chemicals, reagents, etc.
These firms can supply all the instruments needed
for any laboratory. They are especially well equipped
to meet the requirements of sugar and mining
companies. The fact that they carry unusually
large stocks eliminates the risk of delay in obtain-
ing supplies.—Advt. [2
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos Covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it
is used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [3
Progressive engineers all over Australia place their
entire confidence in Pioneer Wood Pipe, which delivers
a constant, full flow under all climatic and geo-
graphical conditions. It is absolutely immune from
frost and electrolysis, while its clean, smooth bore
affords no foothold for tubercles or fungus, and
cannot corrode nor rust. Its simplicity of con-
struction greatly promotes rapid and economic instal-
lation, and it is cheaper to buy than metal piping.
Our free, interesting and informative booklet of
comparative data will be forwarded on request to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
Paients.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p.; Parkes, 310b.h.p. ; Dubbo,
540b.h.p.; Armidale, 270b.h.p.; Penrith, 220b.h.p.;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p.; Winton (Q.), 100b.h.p.; Bris-
bane Water and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which ia included the world-renowned “Chloe.'''
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
The "Explosives” House.
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK.
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
ing on that operation a bonus of 6s. 3d. was
paid on ordinaries and absorbed in paying
up 12s. 6d. per shhre on new ords. issued in
the proportion of one to two held; the
balance of 7s. 6d. was got in in cash. Capi-
tal of £415,741 at June 30 was made up as
follows:
Old Pref. capital .. .. •• £33,000
Old Ordinary capital . . .. . • 253,733
New ordinaries bonus . . .. . •
New ordinaries paid in cash.. .. 47,574
Employees’ shares paid .. . • 2,142
Of these employees’ shares 8570 were issued
of £1 each; they are paid in cash to ss. The
co. pays a bonus every year for special ser-
vices. The 10 p.c. div. called for £13,115
more than previously, but payment was a
simple matter: £13,785 was added to re-
serves. Indeed, a glance at the next com-
parison indicates that the board was pro-
bably more cautious even than usual when
it arrived at the profit for the 12 months: —
1913. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Stock .. .. £7,812 £23,544 £11,421 £12,121
Book debts .. 3,179 5,358 5,949 6,611
Cash, etc. .. 598 4,070 2,370 3,409
Liquid assets . . £11,589 £32,972 £19,740 £22,141
Liabilities .. 32,151 36,782 113,987 46,114
Excess liabilities £20,562 £3,810 £94,247 £23,973
Property and equip-
ment . . . . 167,365 287,904 444,173 502,524
Excess liabilities were thus reduced by
£70,274, and the new capital got in,
as shown above, was only £49,716.
Further, though “the equipment and
organisation of the different departments
has been brought up to date,” the machinery
and equipment are in at unaltered figures
and the property at the value accepted at
the beginning of the term. This suggests
that, besides paying out considerable sums
for improvements, the cash position was very
substantially improved. Keen management
has brought the Australia to its present posi-
tion, and the market, confident in the 10
p.c., vainly seeks sellers at 30s. The future
certainly could be seriously affected. Com-
petition—not yet visible certainly—might do
it; and the uncertainty of the licensing posi-
tion is always a harassment. During the
year the people interested have once more
considered the question of buying the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Club next door, on the
Martin-place corner; but the structural
alterations would practically involve demoli-
tion, so once more nothing has come of the
scheme.
* * * *
Flagstone, Emmaville (N.S.W.), started
to crush ore with its 10-head mill last week.
Only one shift is running ; but no time is to be
lost in getting a second and then a third in.
With a rockbreaker such as the co. has,
three battery shifts should put through 2000
tons a month with ease; and if the large
ore bodies exposed stand up to 3 p.c. oxide,
that would mean 60 tons a month, a revenue
at present tin prices of above £lO,OOO, and
holders of the 12,000 shares would be on to
something out of the ordinary in tin-reefing.
* * * *
Improved prospects at Vegetable Creek,
Ardlcthan (N.S.W.), resulted in 275 tons
giving 4{- tons tin concentrates for the last
fortnight; and the monthly clean-up on July
21 showed a profit of 10s. 2d. a ton from
643 tons milled. The battery is only run-
ning two shifts, due to “shortage of fire-
wood.” The spur off the west pipe enlarges
as it is followed up the rise, and carries
good ore. No. 6 formation is improving, too.
* * * *
Minerals Separation, an offshoot of Min-
erals Separation and De Bavay’s Processes
(Aus.), Ltd., returns to the div. list after
seven years’ absence, and hands out 10 p.c.
consequent on £24,908 net profit for 1925
against £6826 for 1924. One of the co.’s
numerous activities is connected with coal
cleaning and briquetting, but it has had a
cold time with this line in Britain, while
doing well with its Spanish branch which
specialises in treatment of complex ores. Its
African interests include the 1000-tons-a-
-day plant of the Bwana McKubwa Copper
Co., just completed for use of its metals
reduction processes. Prospecting by the
Rhodesia field staff has resulted in “im-
portant discoveries” of copper, lead and zinc.
* * * * »
“Brown Coal Crank” in reply:—
Something of definite value might have been added
to the controversy if “Hasn’t Been” (B. 5/8/’26)
had given the figures of the logs of the drilling done
at Yailourn before the big scheme was launched.
Were these statistics shown to John Monash when he
took charge after the mischief was done at Yailourn?
Monash is undeservedly getting far too much of the
blame for this Yailourn mess, which has resulted
because contracts were let and machinery bought
before the quality of the coal had been thoroughly
tested and proved. It is another illustration of the
old gold-mining error of erecting the battery before
opening up the reef properly. Facing page 24 of
Geological Survey Bulletin No. 45 of 1922, “Brown
Coals of Victoria,” by H. Herman, the present
manager of the Yailourn briquetting plant, are records
of 244 tests of Morwell and Altona brown coal by
high-temperature distillation. In the proximate
analyses of the coal the water contents ranged for
Morwell from 9 p.c. to 43.35 p.c. and for Altona
from 11.85 p.c. to 35 p.c. water. Nowhere in these
complete tables is there any mention of any moistures
from 50 p.c. to 66 p.c. said to be present in the
Yailourn coal mined. Why was the moisture content,
and therefore the true calorific value, of the coal out
of the boreholes not discovered and fixed at that
time? “Hasn’t Been” airily dismisses the Americans’
brown-coal industry by saying they neither mine it
nor know anything about it practically. The U.S.
Geological Survey estimates that there are upwards of
150,000 sq. miles of lignite in North and South
Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Texas. And
years ago I saw briquettes being made in three places
in California. It is a pity an Australian mining
engineer was not engaged to report upon Yailourn
in preference to an electrical expert who did not
profess to know the value of brown coal as a fuel.
The foundation of the Yailourn enterprise is brown
coal, and if that is not proved to be “fundamentally
sound” the scheme must fail. “Hasn’t Been” should
not have made the mistake of resurrecting the names
of W. H. Croker and Bewick, Moreing and Co. in
order to cast a slur on the value of the Altona brown-
coal mine. Crolcer’s mining advisers made the
mistake of sinking the first shaft right through the
brown-coal seam and 14ft. of impervious clay which
underlies the coal, and let sub-artesian water into the
shaft. In those bygone days the Altona mine, with
an output of 60 tons a day, trucked screened coal at a
cost of 4s. Id. a ton from the working level of 350 ft.
The surface water in the shaft was never more than
4000 gallons per hour. The workings are practically
dry, and the coal possesses a higher calorific value
than that at Yailourn.
* * # *
Federation Tin (Tas.) seems to have
found money in London. The manager re-
ports that a co. to handle the proposition
has been formed and the board appointed.
Capital is to be £200,000 in £1 shares,_ and
the Australian co., as present owner, is to
receive as consideration 60,000 fully-paids
and £16,000 cash. This represents about 97
shares in the new co. for every 100 held in
the old, as well as 3s. 6d. per share cash.
The Australian shareholders will have repre-
sentation on the board.
* * * *
Accounts of Kalgoorlie Electric Power and
Lighting Corp. for 1925 show a profit of
£22,135. Including the amount brought for-
ward and deducting interest on 6 p.c. deben-
ture stock and allowance for depreciation,
there remains £2752. Of this £2500 is ear-
marked for a 5 p.c. div. on ordinary shares
and the remaining £252 is carried forward.
The 1924 profit was £18,504. Holders of
debenture stock got 6 p.c. that year, but
ordinary shareholders received nothing.
* # * *
Westralia is wondering if it can get a
“handsome bonus on copper” if it doesn’t
pull it oft on gold. At present copper min-
ing there is almost at a standstill, but with
a bonus to offset a low market and high
cost of smelting, there would be a big
revival, it is declared, and good profits if
not fortunes would be made. The idea is,
of course, farcical. Bonuses are all right
if they lead to a permanent industry. When
they lead merely to a hole in the ground
they are absurd. This is so obvious that
no Government would dare pay them; and
it is plain cruelty to string men on by
telling them anything else.
* • « *
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) has been favor-
ably reported on by J. S. Allen, a mining
man of good repute. Allen reckons there
are 4000 tons of ore available of a gross
value of £lO,OOO. He thinks the mine can
be turned to profitable account; but unless
operations are carried on more efficiently
than they used to be, shareholders are not
likely to benefit. In the past the co.’s per-
formances have been very poor.
* * * *
Someone in London claims to have raised
a little capital to look for diamonds at
Nullagine (W.A.). In the early days of
the Pilbarra diggings two prospectors took
several diamonds found in the surface alluvial
at Nullagine to England, while two others
found a stone weighing nearly three carats
which they sold for £9O. Besides this, it is
well known that small diamonds were found
in the mortar boxes of batteries while
crushing Nullagine conglomerates, and that
other stones were obtained from claims which
for a time were worked in a desultory way.
# * * *
After whooping loudly for a thumping Com-
monwealth bonus to revive the sickly gold-
mining industry, the Westralian State Gov-
ernment has staggered the unfortunate mine-
owners by increasing the insurance rate
under the Workers’ Compensation Act, in
some cases from £2 16s. 9d. to £7 7s. p.c.,
which means £lB 7s. per head per annum.
This additional burden is declared to be
the final straw so far as several shows are
concerned.
* * * *
Great Victoria, working the biggest lode
(Wiluna perhaps excepted) in W.A., made
about £4OO per month profit for 12 months,
but has now fallen upon lean days. The
co. tried to balance the falling grade of the
Great Victoria lode by carting ore from
other deposits three miles away, but the
grade of this stuff has since fallen also. Re-
sult is the co. can now just about make ends
meet. With all costs rising, not more than
a couple of mines in W.A. can survive a
reduction in grade.
Queensland Tin, Koorboora and Gurrum-
bak (N.Q.), reports 12i tons concentrates
from one shift during May, June and July;
tonnages unspecified. Fred Brown, however,
announces that a second shift will be operat-
ing before the end of this month, and that
crushing stuff will be drawn from improved
ore bodies.
* » * *
Queensland Antimony contribs. did not
touch bottom till sales at Is. 6d. stirred sup-
porters. Jensen has returned to Brisbane,
leaving Moule in charge at Northcote. The
new policy is to mark time until the smelt-
ing plant is completed about four months
hence. Apparently the board came to the
conclusion that it was sheer waste to con-
tinue breaking out ore for shipping when a
wait of a few months meant treatment on
the spot. The 60,000 contribs. still have only
the initial shilling called up, but the co. is
now collecting the second 2s. on the 20,000
issued in May. Jensen ? s actual working
experience has been quite satisfactory. Of
course, he is an optimist and a bit on the
emotional side ; and, though it was, warned
often enough, the market didn’t allow for
that. But good management should produce
good profits; present market conditions are
all in the co.’s favor.
A Government drill on the Howard section
of Burrum (Q.) has located a new coalfield
where an old one has pretty well been worked
out. A seam between 3ft. and 4ft. thick
has been located of good steaming and cok-
ing quality, much to the satisfaction of
Howard, which had lately seen coal-mining
disappear towards Burgowan and Torbanlea.
Hopeful spirits reckon there is £3,000,000
worth of mineral already proved in the new
seam. One satisfactory item is that this
seam goes down. There has never previously
been a 3ft. section of workable quality which
went below 600 ft., as this one does, on any
of the Maryborough-Burrum coalfields.
* * * *
Kangaroo Hills granite (N.Q.) carries
plenty of tin, but mostly so disseminated that
only one show in about 200 develops into a
decent mine. As a result of the present high
price of the metal, prospectors are doing well
and a number of claims are on good dirt;
an odd one or two may grow into something
bigger. The Canary, a former disappoint-
ment, is being worked, and at present a shoot
6in. thick is nearly solid tinstone. But the
Try Again looks better with a shoot 30ft.
long and from 1 to 3 feet wide of 15 p.c. ore
—the end hasn’t been located yet. Baxter’s
shaft has struck Ift. of 20 p.c. dirt and is
worth following. The Shrimp may also come
again.
* * * *
A site for a bore for a town water-supply
for Isa was selected on the east side of the
Leichhardt, a mile south of the township.
At 96ft. a good flow was struck, and the
bore has been cased ready for the pump.
The Queensland Government is sending a
diamond drill to the Cloncurry district to
test the coal-seam discovered some years
ago on Cabbage Tree Creek, 11 miles n.-w.
of Ivoolamara. A well in this district struck
a 2ft. seam of fair quality, and as coal in
Cloncurry is worth btween £3 and £4 a ton
almost anything could be worked there. Cor-
bould was interested in the Cabbage Tree
find, and advocated testing with a view to
cheaper supplies for Elliott and Isa.
When Malim Nawar South dredge begins
operations at the end of this month, some-
thing more will be known about deep dredg-
ing. This machine is said to be the most
modern in the Federated Malay States. It
incorporates the fruits of Malcolm Newman’s
experience, and was built under the super-
vision of George Watson, late of Chas.
Ruwolt’s, who was responsible for the design
of the Asam, South Taiping, Ronpibon, Ulu
Yam and many other dredges from Ruwolt’s
yards. Tom Duffy, of Emmaville, is manag-
ing director of the company. Duffy is con-
sidered the authority on pumps, and both he
and Watson are products of Newport (Vic.)
workshops. Eric Boyd, 8.E., son of Adam
Boyd, of Mount Morgan, is the manager, so
there should be no lack of technical and
engineering skill. Their job will be to dig
80 feet below water level. This is already
being successfully done by John Gordon, a
Maorilander, at Tronoh Mines, F.M.S. His
enterprise, though, is on a smaller scale than
is to be attempted at Malim Nawar South.
There, buckets of 12 cubic feet capacity will
be used, giving a theoretical output of 200,000
cubic yards monthly. Given a 60 per cent,
efficiency, this means 150,000 cubic yards
per 600-hour month. The dimensions of the
new dredge are: Length, 158 ft.., width 46ft.,
depth 91ft; approximate weight, 1400 tons.
About 40 feet of barren overburden will have
to be taken off before the tin-bearing allu-
vium is reached. This is mostly unbottomed
at 80ft., the maximum digging depth of the
dredge. Success at Malim Nawar South will
revolutionise dredging practice in Malaya. If
the dredge attains the objective, ground
worth one-third of a pound, with tin at
£l7O London, will be highly payable. The
credit will be due to the vision of Newman
and his staff, together with the courageous
use of Australian capital.
Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) was in exul-
tant mood in June concerning its 500-acre
option in Perak, a dozen scout bores by its
field staff showing 18oz. in 46ft. of wash.
Check-boring by A. C. S. McLeod, however,
told a different tale. His 73 bores over
320 acres averaged only soz. to a depth of
50ft. On a selected area of 112 acres, Mc-
Leod ran 31 holes to an average depth of
56ft., but while eight holes gave 19oz. values,
tli ■ other 23 were worth only 40z., which
brought the average down to Tioz. The
limestone bottom was very uneven, varying
from lift, to 90ft., and naturally the best
values gravitated to the deep spots, where
it lies irrecoverable between hummocks. An-
other 38 acres bored by Blaikie on the same
option were pronounced valueless, so, on
these candid expressions of its experts.
Kuala decided to abandon the option. Some
engineers are not so open as McLeod, and
limestone hummocks not charted may anchor
some of the new plants in course of erection
in that region. Abandonment of this option
does not mean that Kuala is hard up for
ground, its present 800 acres containing at
least 220 acres not yet tested. This fact
prompts the query why the co. is rushing
about testing areas elsewhere.


CLOSED
BY URDER
CIVIL IZATJGJN
..., 1,, o <5
SLY GROG.
“Europe drank armaments until she got delirium tremens in 1914. She is secretly drinking them now.”—Mr. Lloyd George In an address at the Christian Endeavor
World Convention.
“A British firm has sold Turkey 100,000 rifles and 100,000,000 rounds of ammunition purchased from the British Government.” — Cable.


State Express methods
of manufacture improve
the flavour of perfect leaf-
20
5*16
CIGARETTES
Made in London by Ardach Tobacco Company. Lid
fg
hfg
hfg
h
SOCIETU
"and it's
prinled with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.”: Is this a record? It happened
in the Melbourne hospital from which I have
just emerged. A five-months baby arrived,
weight 1-Jlb. Attention was concentrated on
saving the mother, but one nurse took the
too-young Australian, wrapped it in cotton-
wool and fed it hourly from a dropper. After-
WONDERFUL WORKMANSHIP.
Here, demnution, man! That suit you sold me last week-[?]s soon
as I buttoned it up, the coat split right across the back.”
“THAT does not surprise me, sir. Our buttons are always sewn
on in a most impeccable manner.”
wards, to the delight of the doctors, the in-
fant became the hobby of the institution. It
left for home the other day, a healthy baby
seven months old and weighing 101 b.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: Can you beat this for a
family mixup? In our suburb lives a woman
who for a time resided with and was known
as the wife of Blank. They had two child-
ren. She and Blank quarrelled, and he left
her. A month later she was duly married to
a pal of her former “husband,” and the happy
pair settled down in the old home. Two
children were born. Then Blank turned up
again, and was taken in as a boarder. J-lie
two men go off to work together and are
quite friendly. The two pairs of youngsters
each acknowledge their own particular dad,
and their mother collects the w r ages of both
men, allows them pocket-money and fares,
and bosses both with entire impartiality.
“Pons” : The “breath” test for drunkenness
(B. 5/8/’26) is finished so far as London
police-surgeons are concerned, a good reason
being that one snifter empurples the breath
as much as 20. But the percentage of alcohol
in a suspect’s blood and other elements can
easily be found by certain quantitative tests.
The throwing off of alcohol is very slow, so that
a consumer of stimulants may still be con-
victed of having made too good a job of it
even after he has slept off the more immediate
effects of his jag. # #
“Hamer”: “Blind Freddy” (B. 5/8/26)
is not alone in his ability to tell color by
the feel of it. A buyer for one of the big
Sydney firms relies in such matters on Ins
sense of toucn rather than his eyesight,
which is not always to be depended on under
artificial light. He was once called upon
to give a second opinion about a cloth ol
one of those vague shades which sometimes
puzzle the most expert. He said promptly,
after feeling it, that it was purple and not the
blue he had first been inclined to say it was
on the evidence of his eyes alone ; and purple
it was. .
* * * *
“Lex” : Brennan, J., made a fuss at Mary-
borough (Q.) Circuit Court a few days ago
because a juryman owned up that he had
been all but stone-deaf for seven years. His
explanation that he had got the hang ot the
cases on which he sat as a juryman by
“reading the papers” did little to assuage
the judicial wrath. Yet the authorities in
more than one State periodically complain
that there are too many jurymen able to
catch the slightest whisper if it is m the
right note. It’s dashed hard to satisfy
everyone.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Something distinctly
original in confidence tricks was recently
sprung on the pas-
sengers of a mail-
train travelling be-
tween Brisbane
and Townsville
(Q.). A young-
couple boarded the
train at Bunda-
berg, and shortly
afterwards the man
inquired if anyone
in the carriage had
a telegraph form.
He went on to con-
fess to sympathetic
listeners, while the
young lady blushed
confirmation, that
they had been mar-
ried that morning
and were on their
honeymoon trip to
the Barron Falls.
Unfortunately he
had left his wallet,
containing not only
his money, but the
railway tickets as
well, in the taxi
that brought them
to the train. He
explained that lie
was going to tele-
graph from Rock-
hampton to have
the money sent to
him at Mackay.
“You don’t suppose
the conductor will
put us off the
train?” he anxious-
ly inquired. Then
a nother thought
struck him. “What
will we do about
something to eat?
>—we haven’t a
penny!” That set-
tled it; one after
another expressed
willingness to lend
the young man
money until he got
to Mackay. Then
he could repay
them. The bride-
groom accepted
£lO and expressed
his undying thanks. At Rockhampton the
young couple left the train to despatch the
telegram, and that was the last the passen-
gers saw of them.
“Mars” : Was there ever a time when the
Digger was silent in the face of what he
thought was a wrong done to a cobber? To-
wards the end of 19171 was in the convalescent
camp at Monte Video, Weymouth (Eng.).
One afternoon we were formed up in hollow
square to hear some court-martial verdicts
read. The first prisoner to be paraded was
a one-armed Digger—a mere slip of a boy
hardly out of liis teens. He had been found
guilty of stealing Government stores —to
wit, one loaf of bread. When the Adjutant
read out the sentence imposed by the Court,
viz., 42 days’ imprisonment, hoots and yells
from every part of the parade drowned
HISTORY REPEATED.
“Molly got a fine lot of wedding presents, didn't she?”
“Yes, she always does."
further proceedings. Authority, of course,
persisted; whereupon followed a grand count-
out by more than 1200 disabled Diggers.
What happened to the prisoner I don’t know ;
I was one of about 300 who were moved to
Verne Citadel, near Portland, next day.
* * * *
“Bio”: Henry Ford is strong on “voca-
tional selection” ; by examination it is pos-
sible, he thinks, to sort out individuals, so
that square pegs shall go in square billets.
I suppose it can’t be arranged for youngsters
to choose their parents; but as the next
best thing marriages should certainly be
arranged with a like preface, all the expense,
bother and uncertainty of eourtings being
thus avoided. Desiring to marry, you would
go to the office and be examined and card-
indexed ; then would follow a search of the
index for a suitable partner. Result: Uni-
versal home, sweet home, and many estim-
able gentlemen now employed as Divorce
Court Judges available for bootmaking and
growing cabbages.
* * * *
“C.P.” : A new wire-netting fence is being
erected along the front boundary of my little
academy, and whenever I see the Govern-
ment contractor at work I think of our
honor board where the names of former
scholars stand prominently before the youn-
ger generation to call them to deeds of ser-
vice. I think, too, of the patriotic efforts
of the scholars of 1914-18, who raised for
relief purposes in money alone some £BO-odd,
and I can’t help remembering my predeces-
sor, an old man of German parentage, being
watched through field-glasses by a detective
hidden in a clump of bushes on a near-by.
hill to discover whether he disobeyed the
order to have the Union Jack saluted every
Monday morning. Those were the times
when perfervid patriots and flag-flappers
shouted: “No more German goods; we’ll
trade no more with Germany.” The fencer
unrolled a fresh coil of wire the other morn-
ing, and found the tag “Made in Germany”
unobtrusively fastened thereto.
“Griffith Moses” sees trouble ahead: —
The remarkable and widespread series of violent
storms which have taken place, added to those which
are going to take place, makes me more and more
convinced that people are fooling with the atmosphere
from sordid motives. The extraction of nitrogen from
the air, its conversion to a solid form and its sale
as a fertiliser are the sort of doings which appeal to
the commercial mind. They not only involve risk
of the destruction of the human race, but are bound
to reduce the value of nitrate shares. The atmosphere
is 80 per cent, nitrogen, and if too much of this is
extracted mankind will live and move in a shallow
layer of thick oxygenated material like overproof
cream. There being insufficient bulk of air left to
hold up the regulation amount of moisture, great
falls of rain may be expected accompanied by atmo-
spheric disturbances. As a matter of fact, these
events are already happening. A great deal of the
extra water that falls will stay down, being unable
to get up for want of a sufficiency of anything to
hang on to under the changed conditions. In an
atmosphere of artificial exhilaration, animals (likewise
vegetables) will mature in infancy, attain an abnormal
size, live at a terrific pace, and die of old age in
their youth. Men and women will be wildly cheerful
and take a bright view of everything. In conse-
quence shares, except shares in nitrate companies,
will be quoted at impossible prices. Oxygen in a
pure, or comparatively pure, state being a great aid
to combustion, the whole surface of affairs and the
entire apparatus of civilisation will go off in a
sudden blaze if the destructive course of events is
carried far enough. The cataclysm may be survived
by some people who chance to be under water in
diving suits when it happens and who come up to find
everything burned, and by some who are at a gieat
elevation where there isn’t enough atmosphere to
burn, and who will look down and see their world
blow up or blow out. 'ffrcrc may be some singed
survivors, both men and lower animals, even at the
bottom levels, but they will doubtless be lunatics and
short-lived. These ideas can’t be new, for the destruc-
tion of the world by fire has been foretold times out
of number and this way is so obvious. But even if
the globe must burn, there is no reason why man
should be an ass and set it on fire. It isn’t insured
in any reliable office.
* * * *
“Kerys”: An interesting little sidelight
on the Great War in Maoriland waters has
just been “released” by the M.L. Minister ot
Defence, F. J. Rolleston, who, after a long
term of official silence, has become communi-
cative over the minefields laid by the German
raider Wolf. In 1916 this enterprising mys-
tery ship invaded M.L. waters, and left two
fields, one in the north of 35 mines and the
other round Cook Strait of 25 death-dealers.
The southern field claimed the Port Kembla
and Kerrima; up north the Wimmera went
down with heavy loss of life; later three in-
vestigating Maoris and their horses went
skyward while probing a stranded mine on
the west coast. Local vessels hurriedly con-
verted into mine-sweepers located 20 more
mines, and the Admiralty sent along three,
ships, the Marguerite, Geranium and Mallow,,
to help, but these vessels failed to collect
any. Regarding such mines as have never
been located the M.L. Government merely
hopes for the best.
* * * *
“Brass Rail”: Melbourne’s most historic
pub site, at the corner of Collins and Market
streets, is in for another change of name
and occupant. The Union Club is coming
down and the Hotel Cecil is to take its place.
Before the Union Club it was the Shak-
speare, and the Shakspeare, under the name
of Fawkner’s, was Melbourne’s first grog-
gery. Fawkner was the interloper from
Tasmania whom Batman found squatting on
the claim of half a million acres which the
first-comer had pegged out. Luckily for
Batman, Fawkner was a born townsman,
took naturally to pub keeping and left his
rival to his pastoral amusements. The city’s
first newspaper, the Melbourne Advertiser,
was published from Fawkner’s pub in March,
1838. In the first issue appeared the fol-
lowing advt: —
Mental and Bodily refreshment unequalled in this
quarter of the globe. Lodgers allowed the use of the
Library Gratis.
There are seven English and five Colonial weekly
papers, and seven monthly and three Quarterly
Reviews from Britain.
How many present-day hotels in Melbourne
provide a counter-lunch like that?
(Continued on page 19.)
ON MY TWENTY-FOURTH BIRTHDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life has been fruitless and leaden to me
Since the calendar said I was twenty-three,
And I haven’t done half of the things I swore
Would be finished for good at twenty-four.
E.g., my love married another man,
And if I was made to the proper plan
I’d be dying of grief, but I’m hanged if I can!
I was going (and this was my firm belief)
To take a pull and turn over a leaf;
T intended to squander my money no more
When I came to my manhood at twenty-four—
I fancy I thought overmuch, you see,
Of the most remarkable things I’d be.
It: looked so easy—at twenty-three!
And here I am truly in man’s estate,
AVith naught to look back at, and far from great;
It wasn’t a story of women and wine,
Yet the failure was certain; the blame is mine.
But care is fickle and hopes will thrive,
And I’ll thank my stars that I’m still alive
AVhen the calendar tells me I’m twenty-five!
(And so on, and so on, as birthdays arrive.)
N.s.w.
GILBERT MANT.


“LEAVE ME ALONE! I DON’T WANT TO BE WASHED!”
“In spite of direct charges of corruption regarding tenders and contracts, the Labor majority in the Sydney City Council refuses to entertain a suggestion for an inquiry by a Royal Commission.”


vs.
%
¥
%
">w
to
%
FROM SIRE TO SON
Many things are handed down from one generation to the next—ideas, habits, creeds, tastes.
Many men pay tribute to the wisdom of their forefathers when ordering whisky. They insist
getting Mountain Dew—a custom unfailingly followed for the last hundred years.
Young’s
MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Loco” : The use of spades as frying-pans
doubtless began in Governor Phillip’s time
(B. 29/7/’26), and I question if it has ever
ceased. In 1888, when I first climbed on
to a locomotive footplate, there were a num-
ber of young Irishmen just out from the
Ould Dart in the service. They regularly
cooked their bit of steak or chop on the fire-
man’s shovel in the firebox, and the practice
survives to this day. Such a breakfast, with
a billy of tea, boiled in the furnace (a couple
of wooden matches, minus heads, floating
on the water to keep it from getting smoked),
tastes good enough for the high gods.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: The young wife of a
South Aus. squatter took her six-year-old
daughter to the Adelaide Zoo. On their
way they passed an old horse being forcibly
led'to the same spot. Something about the
animal attracted the squatteress’s attention,
and she told the child that it reminded her
of her old pet Tommy-boy that she used to
ride when she was a little girl, As they
passed, the lady for reasons unaccountable
to her called “Tommy-boy!” The response
was immediate, and the next moment the
condemned prad was struggling to approach
his old mistress. The lady gave the old
fellow some of the sweets bought for the
monkeys ; he took them in his lips as gently
as he had done 20 years earlier. Instead of
furnishing a meal for the lions he was
sent in a horse-box by rail to a station
where his last days will be spent in comfort.
HE’D MET THEM, TOO.
“America — isn’t that the place where they make motor-cars?”
“Gee, sonny, I guess they make a few other things besides auto-
mobiles."
“Yes, I know. I’ve ridden in some of them.”
“Leamington”: “Oxmead” couples Gipsy
Smith and Billy Sunday as revivalists (B.
29/7/’26), but to compare Smith in his
most liassionate mood with Sunday is liken-
ing a candle to an oxy-welding plant. The
ex-baseball-player’s methods of soul-saving
are all his own. I have heard him scream
for about 10 minutes (the Gipsy merely
talks) ; seen him wildly jumping around the
stage and hurling himself over the chairs;
heard him with a fierce yell announce the
entry of Satan through the hall-door. A
decanter went flying to a stage corner, and
chairs were hurled about, presumably to put
the wind up the Foul Fiend ; finally William
made a leap over what was left of the furni-
THE GOVERNING FACTOR.
JEAN : “Don’t you think she looks a sight in that frock?”
JOAN : “I might if I cared twopence about the man.”
ture and crashed on to the floor among the
audience. Darting in and out of the crowd
he would shake a fist in a face and scream
“Has Satan got you?” then scramble into
the next row, and maybe demand the same
thing of an elderly spinster who, probably
thinking of other things, would just as
loudly shriek her denial. And so on until
he had reached the rear, whence a frightful
yell swept through the hall, “Satan is
jugged!”
“M.G.S.”: . Fur-
ther evidence accu-
mulates that Mel-
bourne pushes are
falling from an-
cient standards of
ruthless valor.
After the latest
scrap, in which the
police intervened
and made several
arrests, one parti-
cipant called round
at the police-
station for his hat.
Incidents like this
give hope that one
remedy suggested
is nearer the mark
than appears at
first sight. It is
that if more public
gardens and play-
ing spaces were
available in those
areas where the
pushes most do
aggravate, the
gangs would dis-
appear. It sounds
an unromantic
panacea; but the
sort of desperado
who accepts arrest
in order to recover
his imitation Stet-
son would probably
be content to wheel
the baby about the
park on Saturday
afternoons, if there was a park to wheel it in.
* * * *
“Shed Hand”: When I joined a goods-shed
gang of loaders there was a gnarled old
stower whose hook had lifted the lid of many
a case. One day during an idle half-hour
we were discussing the “Safety First” that
had just been introduced as a “slogan” on
the railways, when the old warrior butted
in. “Yairs,” he said, “safety’s abserlutely
the first thing to be considered. You should
always make sure that nobody can come on
you before you nail back the lid.”
* * * *
“Plancus”: The smashing-up of a Bris-
bane Government office by an infuriated
female armed with
a nulla-nulla is a
reminder that Bris-
bane has had many
queer spectres
haunting the cold
official corridors in
the Treasury
Buildings. There
was the Pole with
his ever-increasing
bill of millions for
discovering Gympie
goldfield, and others
of both sexes and
diverse colors.
Most interesting,
perhaps, was the
withered and faded
dame who called
periodically on im-
portant senior offi-
cials and Ministers
of long standing,
until they knew her
well. She had been
a dashing beauty of
the long ago, and
unless the indivi-
dual on whom she
called had a back
door to his office he
had to see her
sooner or later.
Sometimes he sent
his subscription
out by the messen-
ger, but even then
the Light of Other
Days would often
insist on a personal
interview —and see
that she got it.
Th e subscription,
by the way, was
for a book of
memoirs of early
Queensland which
she had written,
but had not pub-
lished “yet.” I
often wonder if
the memoirs ever
existed; though
they were well and truly searched for when
she died, nothing came to light Existent or
not, the old lady must have found them a
best-seller.
'* * *
“Centurion”: A quaint note was struck by
Samuel Wong, leader of the Chinese Nation-
alist party in Sydney—no connection with
Bruce, Bavin and co., by the way. In the
course of an appeal for the better treatment
of Chinese sailors and other workers, he
mentioned that they took strong exception
to being addressed as “boy.”
The term has been used in
addressing servants ever
since the white man sat
down on the China coast, one
reason being the European’s
difficulty in distinguishing
Chinese names, and another
the etiquette which, in many
circumstances, forbids the
direct use of a person’s name
when addressing him. The
officer of a coolie-manned ship
must have some words ap-
plicable to his crew in
general. For the same reason
the generic army address of
“lad” or “lads” has become
customary where it is impos-
sible to address every indivi-
dual by his name. Conf., as
the dictionaries say, the out-
back “mate,” the Trades
Hall “brother” or “com-
rade,” and the Poverty
Point “laddie.” Even Bards-
ley, according to the cables,
when his men were slow in
filing out of the pavilion the
Other day, flung a peremp-
tory “Come along, fellows!”
over his shoulder.
* * *
“Frank R.” : A bareheaded
man rushed up to a police-
man in a N.Q. township one
evening recently with the
tale of a burglar whom he
had seen forcing his way into
a tailor’s shop during the
absence of the proprietor.
Two constables took the
trail immediately. Stealth-
ily they entered the front
door, but before they had advanced many
paces a door was heard to slam in an
adjoining room. Cautiously one of the Johns
opened another door, and saw opposite him
the dim outlined figure of a man. Instantly
he raised his revolver and the figure did the
same. The polieeman fired two shots .and
yelled lustily to his comrade, “I got him.
Before the words were out of his mouth
there was a crash of falling glass. He
had fired two shots into his own reflection
in a tailor’s mirror.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: I have a profound respect
for other people’s traditions. I never
approach within less than 100 feet of the Susu-
hunan of Surakarta, Java, even on Wednes-
days; and when the Sultan of Brunei enter-
tains me, I do my best to smoke the 18in. of
native tobacco wrapped in palm-leaf which
the occasion demands. So I have only scorn
for the American Protestant who refused
to kneel at a general Pontifical audience in
Rome, thus precipitating a decree forbidding
further general audiences to Protestants. I
cqljed on the present Pope’s predecessor in
1920, and was politely received. Exactly
what was required of a guest of the Vatican
was explained to me beforehand by the Aus-
tralian bishop who introduced me. The
person who accepts another’s hospitality and
does not conform to his host’s ideas of eti-
quette isn’t so much a hero as a bounder.
* * * *
“Pivot”: Some hoary old pubs have just
been de-licensed in Geelong. The Royal Mail
is 70 years old, and was conducted for many
years by the late Oliver Welsh, whose
oldest daughter was the first white
girl born in Geelong. The Gardens,
formerly Wheeler’s, is nearly as venerable,
and was very popular with the sports of
the ’seventies. Alexander, Blondin’s Aus-
tralian imitator, when he came that way,
walked across a rope stretched over Malop-
street from the top storey of Wheeler’s. One
day an inhabitant tried to do the same thing
and might have succeeded if he hadn’t slipped
half-way and broken his neck.
* * * *
“Flaming Youth”: Wattle Day in Sydney
brought out, with quantities of the golden
blossom, several people who are prepared to
tell loyal wattle-followers to their teeth that
they are supporters of an upstart and a
fraud. One of the Antis is C. W. Peck, who,
with his sling of criticism, steps out annually
to his encounter with the Wattle League
Goliath. His contention is that the wattle
is not essentially Australian, and was foisted
upon this country after it became a Com-
monwealth, winning to the rightful place
of the waratah by influences that were
mainly South Australian. Further, he darkly
hints that the yellow bloom is an assassin
which should not, for hygienic reasons, be
allowed in any citizen’s room or buttonhole.
Another rebel is Professor Lawson, principal
of the University of Sydney’s School of
Botany, who declares that the wattle has no
right to the throne; he holds that the gum-
tree blossom is the legitimate monarch.
FOR, EXAMPLE.
MRS. SIMP: “Yes, aren't they lucky! But, then, some
people always do seem to profit by the mistakes
of others.”
MR. S. : “Too true, too true! I remember the parson got
three guineas for marrying me.”
Some day, when two quiet citizens are found
Ivins side by side, one with his head flattened
out by a garden spade and the other pierced
by a pair of garden shears, the public will
realise how bitterly flower-lovers can feel
upon such subjects.
THE SOU’-EASTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind took charge of Brisbane town ;
It scurried here and there
Till witches reefed their broomsticks, down
The grey cloud-muffled air,
To bring the beaten river’s lips
A dreary tale of drifting ships.
The palm-tree fronds were ripped apart,
The honeysuckle vine
Swayed o’er a shattered rose’s heart
And sighed “Will you be mine?’’
The rose replied with failing breath,
“To-day I am the bride of Death!’’
The wind took charge of Brisbane town,
The fine hair of the rain
Swished round the tall trunks moist and brown
Till it was clipped again
By the gold scissors of the sun
Along whose blades the rainbows run.
The wind took charge of Brisbane town;
It raised the flurried dust
(’Twas waste of time to fret and frown,
For bear it all we must) ;
With cloud and light and rain it played,
Such strange mosaic it had made.
The draggled feathers of the gale
Washed in pale pools of blue,
One cloud was as a froth-white sail
And one of tawny hue;
For, with his pictures hung too high,
The wind was artist of the sky.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER
fgh
fg
The TOPNOTCH'ScotcIt
'S*yWllEfif Man // •■I 'if ... . .
})fL
l
FOX’S
IMPROVED
PUTTEES
F.I.P.
New Non-fray Spiral (patented).
19/6 per pair.
Obtainable from
W. Chorley
S Co. Ltd.,
Tailors and
Breschesmakers,
313
George
Street,
Sydney.
hfg
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLCSE BRAND
“X.N.0.”: Australia will find the Duke
of York a very different person from Edward
I*. With less showy qualities, Prince Albert,
as he was called when I tried to teach him
signals in the Collingwood, gives an impres-
sion of greater solidity. As a youngster
he was very shy and nervous, but that was
largely attributable to a duodenal ulcer,
first wrongly made the subject of an opera-
tion for appendicitis. The removal of the
real cause of the trouble made a new youth
of Prince Albert, but he didn’t go to sea
again. A much treasured memento in his
possession is the fuse-cap of the first shell
fired from the foremost 12-inch turret of
H.M.S. Collingwood at Jutland. He was
second-in-command of the turret, the Colling-
wood being the ship that gave the Seidlitz
her quietus.
COULDN’T SLEEP FOR THE SILENCE.
FATHER (to loving couple below): “Louise,
hasn’t that young man gone yet?”
LOUISE : “No, father; are we disturbing
you?”
FATHER: “Yes, that profound silence is
damned irritating!”
Having archbished in Sydney in the R.O.
interests since 1901, Dr. Kelly is due for a
silver jubilee on August 15. He is 77.
Of the £1,436,709 left by H. V. McKay,
of _ the Sunshine Harvester works, about
£350,000 will be collected by Page and Pea-
cock in estate and probate duty. The Com-
monwealth share will be £210,000 and the
Vic. share £140,000. The bulk of the pro-
perty, all personal, goes to near relatives—
widow, children, brothers, nephews and nieces
—but he set aside shares in his business
sufficient to produce £lO,OOO a year to be
applied towards out-back development and
for charitable or welfare schemes associated
with the McKay works.
It has been announced officially that the
new Federal Arbitration Court trinity—
Dethridge, Lukin and Beeby—will be styled
“Judge,” and will be entitled to wear horse-
hair and bands, and to be y’r Honored. Jack
Murray, a former Vic. Premier, used to wax
extremely scornful about the “disguises”
Judges, Speakers, Town Clerks, Mayors and
others have to wear, but it was left to Judge
Williams, of Vic. County Court, to make
the dryest protest on record. “The overhead
charges in this industry are undoubtedly
high,” said ’s Honor when he got the bill
for his wig.
A born organiser was Alfred Von Doussa,
just dead at Ambleside, in the Adelaide hills,
at 78. He was clerk of the local district
council for 55 years, and M.L.C. from 1901
to 1921. He had much to do with rifle-
sliooting, and held one district “kingship”
(as the local championship is called in those
parts) a dozen times, in face of keen com-
petition from the city. But his best-known
work was for the Onkaparinga Racing Club,
of which he was secretary for close on half
a century, working the Easter Monday
steeplechase fixture up from a mere picnic
gathering to the big thing it is.
Fenelon Mott, the new Surveyor-General
of Vic., had a go at contract surveying before
joining the staff of the Lands Department
37 years ago. One of a family of 10 boys
and four girls, he revolted against going
THE RECONSTITUTED COMMONWEALTH ARBITRATION COURT .
Judge Beeby.
Chief Judge Dethridge.
Judge Lukin.
into his dad’s printing chapel or reporters’
room. Dad was partner with Rippon in the
Hamilton Vic. Spectator. Subsequently he
sold out to Rippon, and became manager for
Gordon and Gotch. Several of the new
S.-G.’s brothers took to the Inky Way. One
runs a paper at Albury and another is at
Nortlicote
/T 7.„ , , , . ~ ~ .
Hamilton (Vic.) has lost old Abraham
Treed, aged 80. Built by A. Greed and Son
was to be seen on the sides of• four- and six-
noise waggons from one end of Western Vic-
tdia to the other. But times have changed,
and Ins works were being converted into a
motor-garage and repair shops even as the
funeral passed. About 40 motor-ears, headed
by a motor-liearse, followed Old Abe to
the cemetery; half a dozen liorse-drawn con-
veyances trailed in the rear. It was a
pathetic reminder that the fine old man had
outlived ins time.
A man who fought death in the Vic. bush
fires of Black Sunday and won against big
odds was fatally burned the other morning
while lighting liis kitchen fire. Certainly
le was doing it with the help of a bottle of
t was Jofin Sutherland, of the
War bur ton snwrmlls.
A roving but useful life ended in a hospital
at Penang (Malay States) when William
Bethune passed out at 59. He started at
Chain of Ponds (S.A.), worked at Broken
Hill, was in early at Coolgardie, and in Kal-
goorlie days came to the top. As mining
expert for various English concerns he
latterly made a home in Sydney, and did much
travelling, in spite of great trouble with his
eyes.
W. B. Propsting succeeds Tetley Gant
(who succeeded William Doderv) as Presi-
dent of the Speck’s Leg. Council, Gant being
very ill and not seeking re-election. Thus
one lawyer follows another in the .job, which
is not very arduous but highly honorable
and worth £5OO a year. The new man in
the beautifully-carved chair has been in
Tasmanian politics for 27 years pretty con-
tinuously, and has been Premier, Attorney-
General, Minister of Education, Railways,
etc., during at least half that period. lie is
a youngster as presidents go in Tas.; his
nearest birthday is his 65th. Though a
native of Hobart, he is partly South Aus.,
having put in some years in the Wheat
State’s Education Department before taking
up Costs in his home village.
Everybody who is anybody in Sale (Vic.)
mustered at the Town Hall the other day
when Cullinan, the Mayor, issued a ukase
to the burgesses to meet Harry Allan, Vic.
Under-Sec. for Lands, who had blown in.
Allan spent the morning of life in Sale, and
as cricketer, footballer, local land-office clerk,
and hon. sec. to 14 organisations was ex-
tremely well known. Going to the city he
had a long climb to the head of his depart-
ment. Sale showed that it was proud of his
success.
An Australian with a remarkable flying re-
cord is F. E. Sandford, just arrived from
the Cold Land with designs for establishing
an aeroplane factory in this country, which
he thinks grows the world’s best wood for
the purpose. Sandford built an aeroplane
in Australia as long ago as 1912, and in
1913 made one of the first mechanical birds
to breast the winds of Maoriland.
Queen’s, Adelaide’s biggest private school
for boys, has been bought by Edward Stokes,
from the estate of the late head, Jacomb
Hood. Stokes started at St. Peter’s, took an
Oxford degree and had a lot of experience
as inspector of schools in India, but for the
last three years has been back at “Saints”
in charge of the prep. He is 46.
A man who had not much use for money,
though he liked to be near it and knew how
to make it, was J. K. Gardiner, messenger
of the National Bank in Adelaide. Old
Sandy was a Scot who came to Australia
from service in the Indian Army, and always
seemed, quite satisfied with his billet. He
put all his savings into suburban land, and
now that he has passed out at 74, leaving
no w 7 ill, the Public Trustee values the estate
at about £25,000. So far there are no
claimants —he had no known relations in
Australia.
Israel Zangwill will be chiefly remembered
by his books and plays, but his Jewish
Colonisation Organisation established groups
of Jews from Russia and Poland in Africa
and South America, and at one time he
negotiated for land in Australia. When he
resigned from the Colonisation Organisation
it wound up. In defiance of Jewish tradition
he married a non-Jewess, the daughter of
Professor Ayrton—the lady’s mother was a
Jewess, born Marks, and was (at least until
recently) the only woman member of the
Institute of Electrical Engineers—but that
did not cut him off from the congregation of
the Chosen. From Christian publishers
Zangwill collected enormous fees; but he did
an amazing amount of writing and lecturing
for Jewish causes for which he never re-
ceived a penny.
Dead at 50, William Von Bibra, one of
the Speck’s most versatile and keenest busi-
ness men, and one of the most generous in
his benefactions. His latest holding in the
Midlands of Tasmania, Beaufront, with
Syndal and Kendon, forms a property hardly
excelled in value anywhere. In every sale-
yard in the State “Wig” Von Bibra will be
missed, as buyer and as seller. He leaves
a widow and two stripling sons.
If Parliament adopts the scale of rises
proposed for senior Vic. public officers, Pitt,
Under-Treasurer, and Norris, Auditor-General,
will have £250 added to the £1250 each
now draws. Formerly an out-back clerk of
courts, Pitt was discovered by the late M. A.
Minogue when he was permanent head of
the Treasury. Norris began in the Post
Office, went on to the Treasury at £4 a week,
and was nearly chucking his job in 1908.
Even if he draws £l5OO a year for 10 years
the State will still owe him a lot.
The pride of the Tualiiwi Maori pa, near
Christchurch, paddled her canoe across the
dark water the other day at the reputed age
of 102. She was Mata Ripeka Horomoana,
cliieftainess of the Ngatihwirapa tribe. She
remembered the building of the first house
in Christchurch, and sold kumaras to the
first pakeha settlers. When the Duke of
Edinburgh visited Maoriland decades ago
she was presented. King George, when
DODGING THE NEXT RISE.
EXASPERATED WAITER “Orright, sir;
orrig[?]! You’ll get served in time.”
EXASPERATED GUEST : “I know all about
that. But I want to get through before
the price of food goes up again.”
he came south as Duke of York, found her
going strong, and Edward P. gave her a
handshake when he risked a visit to the
Shaky Isles five years ago. The old chief-
tainess was baptised by Bishop Selwyn, and
remained a good churchwoman.
Sheila Macdonald, author of “Sally in
Rhodesia,” of which good words were said
on a recent Red Page, is a daughter of
Scobie Mackenzie, a politician who stuck
thorns into Dick Seddon’s side years ago.
A ready wit had Scobie, and he could always
get a laugh out of the House. Sheila, born
and reared on a Central Otago sheeprun,
married Walter Macdonald, son of the rector
of the Otago Boys’ High School, and lived
in Rhodesia with him from 1907 to 1912.
He died two years ago, and she now lives
in England.
G. Jauneey, Associate-Professor of Phy-
sics at Washington (U.S.A.) University,
is one of the old boys of Adelaide ’Varsity
who have come back for the jubilee. Gradu-
ating with first-class honors in physics in
1910, ho then joined Professor Bragg at
Leeds Uni. and did research work on X-rays.
Then followed a position at Toronto, which
was the stepping-stone to Washington.
Osmonde Esmond, who was not allowed to
land in Australia in 1921 because of his
political views, is coming to the Common
wealth as one of the two representatives of
Dail Eireann with the British Dominions
Parliamentary party. His dad, Baronet
T. G., was. one of the Home Rule propaganda
delegates who came here 38 years ago. He
was then a good-looking bachelor, and it w r as
not only pathriots from the Ould Sod who
took an interest in him.
South Aus. has developed the rare type
of testator, a landsman who insists on being
buried at sea. Dr. Frank Mathwin was a
Lancashire man who had some years as a
ship’s surgeon before settling in Australia.
He practised first at Nathalia (Vic.), but
since 1905 had been in S.A. His funeral,
out from Port Broughton, was an impres-
sive affair, conducted by an Anglican clergy-
man, with Masonic support, and with a
fleet of wreaths floating on the waves.
H. S. Edgar, who is . running the show in
Norfolk Island while Leane is on leave or
till a new Administrator is appointed, was
formerly a Vic. postal inspector. He went
to the island for health reasons and took a
great fancy to it. He is a brother of W. H.
Edgar, Chairman of Committees of Vic.
Dreary House and ex-Minister for Public
Works. Another brother, now 7 dead, was
a sort of Methodist archbishop in Melbourne,
and “Patience” Edgar, a humane and tact-
ful governor of Pentridge, was another.
“Old Nib” : The Ministerial party in Vic.
Assembly could do with more young men. Most
of the Ministers are over 50, and too many are
over 60. Stan Argyle, a possible Premier,
is verging on threescore. Eggleston is still
young enough but not popular enough to
climb much higher. Peacock is reaching the
stage when the most he can hope for is to
be a steadying force. Baird has shot his
bolt, and can hardly expect to come again.
For Farthing there is still a chance, but
Greenwood has made no headway in nine
years. The energetic Groves, who has a
knack of getting things done, and as Whip
keeps his ear to the ground, is too useful to
be neglected by any Liberal or Compo-
Cabinet Premier. Labor is much better off
for Cabinet-making material.
TAUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After 67 jurors had been challenged on behalf
of eight defendants in a case at Darlinghurst sessions,
an adjournment was granted. Counsel suggested that
the Judge could ‘pray a tales,’ viz., empower the
sheriff to commandeer sufficient men in the street to
make up a jury; but his Honor said that such a
thing hadn’t been done for 30 years and he was
reluctant to re-introduce the practice.”
The man who walked the streets of yore
Encountered certain dangers
To which pedestrians in more
Enlightened times are strangers.
The tiresome tug who bites your lug
The day may still embitter;
Not everyone can dodge the dun
Or circumvent the writter;
Still, as of yore, there lurks the bore,
No matter where your trail is;
But nowadays no sheriff taps
The shoulder-bones of passing chaps
With the decree “You come with me,
The Judge has prayed a tales.”
’Tis hard along the streets to lob
At all in certain sectors;
To force your passage through a mob
Of charity collectors
Will often try your courage high ;
And oh! there’s no escaping
Those swinging wights on dizzy heights,
With crowds around them gaping.
But still, my lad, mayhap your dad
Had reason more to wail his
Accursed luck when one would pluck
His sleeve with “Come along, my buck,
You’re just the sort we want at court—
The Judge has prayed a tales.”
Well, if more trials their paths beset
Some might have had their uses,
Aid this especial stunt, I’ll bet,
Provided good excuses
For fellows whose pet vice was booze
And, who, conventions scorning,
To pull their freight for home would wait
Till early in the morning.
Their doors they’d reach before the screech
Of imps with milk or dailies.
“Was (hie) detained at Darlinghurst;
The blanky sheriff saw me first;
They kep’ me late to serve the State—
The Judgehadprayedatales. ’ ’
X.S.W.
IFORD.


BLACK
WHITE
W
Mmmm
*
'Mi*M *
PMMrf'-'v Map
w
m a
■
■mm.
,
jl
:„ ' '
M
: J. f
¥ i
ME
Mm
pmtKSm
■ 19
; '
-
v '
A
:
-
-
.-
"4GE 4/VD QUALITY.
n
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO.. LTD.. 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALI JEWELLERS
You Do Not Buy Diamonds Every Day—
Make Sure of their Quality.
Diamonds in any form, not only give pride and delight at the
time, but also have an everlasting value, a definite intrinsic worth.
It follows that the intending purchaser should compare values
more carefully than in any other merchandise. Fairfax and
Roberts have had over eighty years’ experience, and will be
glad to assist you in making your purchase absolutely satisfac-
tory, for their wide cash buying powers enable them to offer
splendid values.
The rings illustrated are. fine examples of the modern trend
in high-grade jewellery.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES'—CASH ONLY.
Diamonds set in
platinum in 18ct.
gold ring,
£l5/15 1-
Diamonds set in
platinum in 18et.
gold ring, £25.
Diamonds set in
platinum in 18ct.
gold ring, £3O.
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
h
Uoi far «h* Tradem**! Apr** EvaryvW*.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pin Street, Sydney
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-KINSEED OIL
“Coot” : Among tlie rules posted up in the
passengers’ quarters of the old ship by which my
people came to Australia in the ’fifties was: “No
Congreye matches, to be used in the berths or on
the lower deck.” What were “Congreve” matches,
and why?
* * * *
“Lily-Beale”: There are a good many
bullockies who treat their string like perfect gentle-
men. Bob Flood, of Walgett (N.S.W.), has a team
of 26 bullocks that will get where most teams won’t.
He has never been heard to swear at any of them,
although in conversation he can paint the atmosphere
as well as any other bullocky. Bob is perhaps the
only bullock-driver who never carries a whip; yet
he seldom, if ever, has to speak to his team louder
than in an ordinary tone. His team is the envy cf
carriers within a hundred miles of the town.
**. * *
“Lee Oke” : Recent mention of the collec-
tion of ironmongery found in the innards of a
slaughtered cow reminds me of a blue-Andalusian
rooster I once helped to prepare for the pot. His
little lot consisted of seven trouser- and shirt-buttons,
a couple of marbles, three brass chair-nails, a 2 2-cal.
cartridge-ease, a farthing, two blue beads and numer-
ous pieces of broken glass and sharp gravel. I
enumerated the list to a sceptical friend, and his
comment was: “Struth! We lorst our ’urricane-
lamp lately; we’ll have to watch our chickens.”
* * * *
“Mephisto”: W. A. Russell, of Dalby
(Q.), has just bought 10,000 full-woolled sheep from
Listowel Downs, west of Blackall, and has entered
into a contract with a man who' is prepared to shift
them to the owner’s good feed country at Nardoo,
Cunnamulla. The ordinary stock routes are so
bare that hardly a hoof would get through that
way; and if they went by rail, via Rockhampton,
Brisbane and Toowoomba, by the time they had
travelled the 1406 miles there wouldn’t be many
alive. But Russell has a scheme. Two motor-
trucks have been built, their bodies 25ft. long and
capable of holding 350 sheep. In these the woollies
will be moved the 180 miles of road, the drivers
working in shifts, the trip taking ten hours each
way. It is hoped all the big mob will thus be
dumped on the grass in a fortnight.
* * * *
“Valimanbag”: Of course you won’t be-
lieve this ; still, here
goes. Echo, an abo.
employed as horse-
breaker on a far
N.Q. cattle-station,
had most uncanny
tracking powers. Once
while out shooting
’roos I lost my way,
and, as I failed to
put in an appearance
at the homestead,
Echo was sent to
find me. After cross-
ing a dozen or so
miles of rocky and
hilly country he was
successful. I asked
him: “How r you
catchum trail all
time?” He led me
back the way I came,
telling me in detail
everything I had
done. “You bin sit
down here—tired.
Lookum up this one
pheller bloodwood for
sugar-bag. Strikum
match here. Sit
down longa this one
stringybark. You bin
takum off boot. Here
you bin kickum toe
longa plurry rock,”
pointing to a rock I
had abused with
much vigor a few
hours before. “My
word, Echo, that’s
true,” I said. “Right
foot, Boss.” Dumb-
founded, I asked,
“How you tell ?” “I
smellum rock. Feet
belonga you smell different, Boss.”
* * * *
“Panhandle Pete” (Malay States) : I
have not seen myall-wood pipes (B. 4/2/’26), but
have come across the myrtle-wood article. Back
home we were up among the hills putting in a new
road when one morning Clancy, a local selector,
blew in at the camp. After doing a round of tea,
toast and Test matches, he produced his pipe, and,
as usual, was out of baccy. Johnny, a camp-hand,
handed him the plug, and then spotted his pipe.
“Good St. Pathrick!” says Johnny, “phwat’s that ?”
“Aw,” says Clancy, “I lost me old ’un, so I made this
here from a bit of myrtle-root. It smokes a bit
warm, but it’s all right if ye stop before the wood
catches.”
“Bad Australian”: That zebu blood gives
immunity from tick(B. 8/7/’26)is true. Before its in-
troduction into Brazil, Paraguay and northern Argen-
tina the weedy native cattle were as miserable as
bandicoots and so worried by the garrapata (tick)
that fat beef was practically unknown even on the
best pasturage. The cross of the zebu with the
small native cattle produced a light beast but a
good doer. In the districts where the imported short-
horn and Hereford blood has been crossed similarly
ANOTHER PROMISING INDUSTRY.
’ERB : “It says here that enough poison can b e extracted from a cigar t' kill a rabbit .”
’ARRY : “ Gripes, that sounds promisin’, Erb. If th’ cookies only catches to the idea, a
bloke might get a job teachin ’ th’ rabbits t’ smoke.”
the results have been eminently satisfactory. These
crossbreds are not affected by the tick. They thrive
even on the rank sub-tropical grasses and kill out
at good average weights. The crossing of the zebu
with the Shorthorn, Hereford and Devon is now past
the experimental stage, and has been thoroughly
tested under conditions practically the same as those
existing in the coastal districts of Queensland.
“Ibn el Issar”: I am interested in the introduction
of the zebu bullock to Australia, not so much on
account of its immunity from tick as from admiration
for the little fellow’s remarkable trotting qualities,
which have made him a favorite means of locomotion
in some parts of India. Zebus would be a great
addition to our trotting courses, where they would
provide a sensation, since they have the reputation
of being triers all the time. The painful spectacle,
so common at the horse-trots, of seeing his fancy
finish well back, with widely distended jaws, would
be spared the distracted punter, for the zebu
trotter is driven by word-of-mouth only, and stewards
could hardly be deaf as well as blind.
“Rix”: The fencing-hand was marking
time at the roadside shanty, and the presence of some
farmers led to his opening out on the subject of
cocky methods. “A lot of blarsted misers,” he
vociferated, “as won’t spend a bean on a decent
fencer, but crawls arter every kind of cheap con-
trivance. I ’eard of one cocky who used to plug fat
grubs—fattened free, mind yer—into ’is posts, ter
get ’em bored out be ther woodpeckers. An’ I knoo
another who planted murphies along ’is fence line
so as ’e could pop ’is posts in th’ ’oles left be th’
wombats.”
* * * *
“AdeL” : She was young, about 15, pretty
in her native style, and all the bucks of the locality
—it was in the Gulf country—were sweet on her.
Then Sandy came on the scene, and at sight of his
curled red hair and long whiskers Bess fell madly
in love. Thick were the curses, and many the veiled
threats to kill the interloper who had so easily won
the prettiest lubra of the country round; but to
spear him would have been a sacrilege, for Sandy
had a red head like their very much feared god.
Something had to be done, though; so one evening
a group of niggers surrounded the idol and she was
forcibly driven some miles into the thick scrub. A
small mound of horizontally laid sticks in the centre
of a patch of dense jungle marks the resting-place of
the unfortunate charmer.
* * * *
“Atherton”: In North Queensland the abo.
kids play for hours at “cats’ cradle,” and it 's
certain that no white man introduced the game io
them. There are ball games, too—a hank of fibre
and feathers sewn around with emu skin makes their
ball. Also there is a sort of tipcat and rough
spinning-tops, which suggest that the kids of the
whole world are brothers and sisters under their
skins. A picturesque pastime of the abos. is the spin-
ning disc. About a foot in diameter, it is at times
laboriously carved from a block of wood, sometimes
modelled in stiff clay strengthened with grass and
feathers. When in a good humor the tribal artist
decorates it with circles of colored ochre so that, as
it spins in the sunlight, it resembles a ball of rain-
bows. The bucks roll it from the top of a gently-
sloping hill. Piccaninnies and older piccaninnies
line the hillside. The disc quickly gathers momen-
tum and runs the gauntlet of many spears. Loud is
the shout and big the chest of the thrower whose
weapon pierces the wheel.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: If “Ajax” (B. 8/7/’26) will
visit Melbourne and take a stroll along the lanes
off Little Lon. and Little Bourke where the Chink
cabinet-makers are entrenched he will hear them
any day of the week bar Sunday whistling at their
toil. And a Sabbath visit to the Little Bourke mis-
sion would convince him that John caln sing as
well as he whistles.
* * * *
“J.D.C.”: When the Indian hawker was
plentiful in western N.S.W. he generally began on
foot, and took some time to reach the affluence of
a horse and cart. He carried a pack on his head
and a bundle slung over one shoulder. I was riding
with a blackboy on a dusty back track when Jacky
pointed to footmarks on the road and said “Hawker.”
I asked how he knew, and he pointed out that one
bootmark was directly in front and in line with the
other —“Carry pack longa head makeum walk
straight.” I have since noticed the peculiarity
SHE HAD A JOB TO SUIT.
“Oh, you can’t do a lit of gardening for the
money because you’ve got a SPLITTIN'
headache, have you? Well, you’ll find
the axe and the wuodheap waiting for
you round the bach.”
amongst the Burmese, Tamils and other Asiatics
addicted to carrying weights on the head. Some
whites “toe in” naturally, and they invariably make
a better attempt at head-balancing than those who
walk in the usual manner. Whites spread the load
across both shoulders, and the weight must be sup-
ported from both sides; the Asiatic centres his, and
his feet naturally move in line.
(Continued on page 24.)
ON SURRY HILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back in the land of dust and drought,
Long leagues beyond the Castlereagh,
Ere Ted and I and Jim set out
To Sydney for a holiday,
We’d, heed Dad’s solemn, sober words
(His farewell warning to us three) :
“Fight shy o’ Sydney’s magsmen birds
And thimbleriggers with the pea !
“And, Bill, as you’re the eldest, keep
Both Ted and Jim always with you,
Because,” said Dad, with meaning deep,
“I won’t be there to see yous through;
Go ’cross to Manly and the Zoo—
Go anywhere, at your sweet wills;
But, on your lives, I caution you,
Keep wide o’ them there Surry Hills 1”
And we three followed Dad’s advice
Each season as the years went round—
We’d side-step sharps with loaded dice,
And land back home all safe and sound;
And even after Time had called
Old Dad down ’neath the daffodils,
Our Sydney visits never palled,
Yet we kept wide of Surry Hills.
For Surry Hills, those days, to me
Was ten Gehennas rolled in one,
Where Death smote swift and suddenly
Bv means of sandbag, knife and gun—
Where Horror hovered in the air,
And grim assassins’ leaden pills
Sped, screaming shrilly, everywhere
By night and day in Surry Hills 1
Ted reigns to-day on Dad’s old farm
And tells his boys all Dad told him;
And Jim (who never met with harm
In Sydney)—typhoid finished Jim ;
Whilst I, grown tired of regions vast,
And pioneers’ rewards and ills,
Made room for “poms” and came, at last,
To live—and toil —in Surry Hills.
THE IRON IN THE PATH.
“Ah, my brother, far beyond these walls there are treasures laid
up for the worst of sinners.”
“I know, Mister; but I can’t get hold of anything to cut them
blinkin’ bars with.”
In Surry Hills! The only spot
On earth that I’d been taught to dread;
Yet one’s illusions fade a lot
When fifty years have swept, one’s head;
And now, too old again to roam
Or share the Bushland’s joys and thrills,
I’ve settled down and made my home
Right in the heart of Surry Hills!
And, day or night, I safely thread
Its streets and drabbest alleyways,
With ne’er a qualm of fear or dread
That filled my heart in far-off days;
For I have learned unconsciously
That close acquaintanceship instils
A confidence ne’er bred in me—
A love for dear old Surry Hills.
And though its swarming thousands hive
In flat and terrace gaunt and grey,
They’re much the same as folk that live
In towns beyond the Castlereagh.
They’re rich or poor, and “high” or “low”
All prone to human faults and ills;
They’re saints and sinners—heroes, too,
And heroines—in Surry Hills!
N.S.W.
WILLIAM COYNE.
“Bill Bowyaug”: Tell “Zanthus” (B.
17/6/’26) that the farmer who expects to make
money out of the lychee-nut will have to plant the
vegetable in his youth, or the crop will only pay
dividends in his old age. The tree bears its first
crop when it has been in the ground 25 years.
“Zanthus” is right when he states that the Chinese
will buy the nuts at 2s. a lb. ; in fact, Major A.
Pott, a Bowen (N.Q.) farmer, has no difficulty in
selling his lychee crop to local Chinese at 2s. 6d. a. lb.


\\ ' \
li:
r
c/
n
V
<!rL _ W
bf'W h
*m v (
\\ x^.v'“ i\ 'Vh
U
<6ii
X)
7Z<,
Li
j
1 i
V
/s
V
✓
✓
/
V
/
>
;
✓
/
i
✓
/
*/
M
\ -i
T \ \JA VX
\ \
j**r\ \
Jfe
n''
Uncommonly designed —Uncommonly good
pond’s Mm fjoso
NEW TONES, new color-combinations in Men’s
Silk Half-Hose —more interesting than any that
have hitherto been shown. They combine the art colorings hitherto
exclusive to woollens with the crisp, attractive texture of silk. Bearing
the Bond’s label they carry a definite guarantee of satisfactory service, a
reality endorsed by the keenest judges of hosiery —the countless women
who have shown a decided preference for Bond’s Hosiery over all
other makes.
Sold, with pride in their Australian origin, by all good
mercers who foresee in the development of Australian
4/6
PER PAIR
Manufactures ever-increas-
ing prosperity for the com-
munity in general, their
customers —and themselves
in particular.
5/6
PER PAIR
Made in Australia by
Manufacturers of Bond’s
HALF - HOSE
GEO. A. BOND £r CO. LED. All States, New Zealand 6" South Africa.
Hosiery, Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.


You’ll Soon Feel the Benefit of Rabbit Destruction
CYANOGAS
with
(Calcium Cyanide)
FUMO
BRAND
Cyanogas is the modern, scientific method of rabbit
destruction on a large scale. It is absolutely safe,
sure and speedy, and, properly applied according to
directions, very economical.
The best method of application is to blow into burrows
with the Pumo Dust Blower. The Cyanogas gives off
deadly fumes for 24 hours, penetrating to every crevice
and corner, and killing every rabbit in
the warren.
Mr. G. C. Davis, Dampon, Scone,
writes : —“Re Calcium Cyanide Dust.
We did great work last season with it
in thinning out the rabbits. Where
they were very thick last season there
is hardly a rabbit to be seen now.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South 1-Vales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Lesso & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarf© & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
fgh
>
4
EDGEWORTH
™ cvTDi uir.u ruiDP
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
& TOBACCO M
Australian Agents; R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Colub” : “ J.D.C.” is right that fish are
not susceptible to pain in the way that most animals
are (B. 15/7/’26). Their nervous system,
such as it is, is quite different from that of most
other creatures. Yet fish are not altogether un-
equipped with sensory powers; such senses as smell
and hearing are developed in them to a fairly high
degree. It seems as if they also possess other sensory
powers absent in warm-blooded animals. Many
reptiles, closely related to the fish family, are
also lacking, either wholly or to a degree, in the
ability to feel pain; this ia especially true of some
species of snakes.
“E.S.S.” : Binghi had his poets, too, and
if the race had been properly treated and edu-
cated we might have had some real Australian litera-
ture. The aboriginal poet made songs for corro-
borees, and had a good sense of humor. One song
or. the Clarence related to a local settler’s father, an
aged man whom the blacks had noticed splitting
timber. The old fellow accompanied the blow of
his maul with a prolonged grunt. In the first part
of the song, which was part of a pantomime, the
singer’s arms swung to and fro in imitation of the
working of a crosscut-saw. In the second part they
bent and swung their arms downwards, terminating
the action with a loud concerted “whuh.” That
AEEN OF HIS JOB.
COCKY : “ 'Ere, where you off to with that stick?”
NEWCHUM (who has been up for two hours ): “I’m just goin’
round to wake up the fowls.”
was the fall of the splitter’s maul, accentuated by
the splitter’s grunt. In the final part they hopped
around on one foot, holding the other in their hands,
and finally limped away, singing a distressful chant.
That was where the old fellow dropped a wedge on
his corn.
* * * *
“Silex” : Residing at the old Clarke home-
stead at Sunbury (Vic.) is a Rupertswood scientist
who has succeeded in rearing a large colony of the
platypus family whose ancestors were transferred
from Jackson’s Creek. With the congenial surround-
ings provided by an isolated lake there seems to be
no reason why the thus-protected animals should
not be saved from extinction.
“The Rumpus”: What centipedes live on
has always been a mystery to me. As a youngster
I, in common with other bush kid-naturalists, be-
lieved the creatures consumed soft bark or fungus,
but recently I changed my view. Gently lifting
the half-rotted bark from a whitc-gum stump, 1
disturbed a spidery flame-colored ’pede in a nursery
of baby white-ants, with a space well cleared round
his business end. 1 held a post-mortem that amply
satisfied me as to his white-ant diet.
* #• * *
“Up North” ; Knowledge of the heating
properties of our bush woods comes in handy in the
Far North. When you’re sharpening drills and picks
or fashioning horseshoes, poor wood or charcoal
means a lot of unnecessary labor and loss of time. On
the Coast the plentiful mangrove gives off a splendid
heat. Inland the best of all is the box-like apple-
gum, whose heat will coax iron to a white heat in
a few minutes.
* * *
“H. Hardupp”: “Cuchu-
lain” (B. 22/7/’26) remarks a
very ordinary natural phenome-
non in the rabbit with teeth
grown into curling tusks. The
teeth of rabbits, like those of a
number of similar animals, are
designed to compensate for the
continual wear and tear they
suffer, but if one tooth through
some accident gets out of plumb
with the other molars, it con-
tinues growing without the cheek
nature intended. In the Sydney
Museum there are exhibited a
number of rabbit-skulls showing
a tusk-like development, some in
both jaws. In at least a few of
these cases, Brer Rabbit must have
found it very difficult to eat his
dinner.
“F.R.” : How is this for an appetite? A
young. Banana-eater backed himself to swallow 36
eggs in 36 minutes. He had finished 28 and was
preparing to canter home when the challenger
announced himself satisfied and paid over. In an-
other test he undertook to eat a tin of boot-polish.
It glided down and a second lot followed. To sweeten
up his palate the freak topped up with four ice-
creams. These feats were, however, eclipsed by a
Gulargambone (N.S.W.) resident the other night
when he won a bet by sucking 36 eggs and followed
them up with 14 hot pies, all, including the walk
to the pieshop, in 40 minutes.
* * * *
“Chloe”; An epic tale of horsemanship
equalling that of the “Man
from Snowy River” is kept
green in the annals of
Warwick (Q.). The Gam-
mie brothers, owners of
North Taiga i station, im-
ported in 1854 the
thoroughbred stallion Con-
servative. He was a wicked
as well as a spirited
animal, and managing to
escape to the ranges
penetrated into the deep
valley of Thane’s Creek.
There he quickly attracted
a mob of wild horses,
former escapees, and defied
all attempts at recapture.
On several occasions he
even charged fiercely his
would-be capturers. He
was at that time the most
expensive imported horse
in Australia, and a big
reward was offered to the
man who succeeded in
bringing him in. R. C.
Haly, a prominent squatter
and breeder of horses,
gave the services of his
crack rider, a Mexican
ranchman, who failed. A
young Queenslander, still
living, Rory McLeod, then
set out on a horse given
him by George Leslie, of
Canning Downs, and after
daring riding and a good
deal of cajolery was able
to actually get a halter on
the runaway and bring
him home in triumph.
The country through which
he rode was quite as rough
and dangerous as that
described in Banjo Pater-
son’s poem.
“Anaf”: Bees swarm in queer places. At
Boggabri (N.S.AV.) a mob arrived on the outskirts
of the town and hovered round in search of a spot
on which to alight. Near by and under a tree a
shearer was sleeping off the effect of too many long
beers. The bees proceeded to congregate on his
chest and he did not awake until the swarming
was practically completed. Then, with a yell, he
sprang to his feet and ran, clawing furiously, and
kept on the go till he dropped exhausted. Some
friends then came to his rescue and freed him from
his encumbrance. The strangest part of the happening
was that he received only three or four stings, and
those on the hands and wrists.
THE MATTER WID CASEY.
“Well, Oi don’t trust Casey.”
“And why for?”
“Haven’t you notiched that he’s wan av those min that niver Inks
you in the face till yure back’s turned?”
“Verri” : The paper-nautilus, or argonaut,
mentioned by “Jesmond,” travels as far as Maori-
land. I have seen them at Hokiahga, where they
ride ashore on the long, slow combers that wash up
on the flat beaches, and deposit their delicate freight
safely at high-water mark. But the. most prolific
unlading was at the Little Barrier, the bird sanc-
tuary near Auckland. After a terrific gale dozens
of the fragile shells were found on the rocky shore,
an astonishing number of them being in perfect
condition, though how they survived the buffeting
was a mystery.
* * * *
“Herodot” : Some queer dodges have been
worked to get stolen gold out of mines. One of
the queerest was pulled off by an old Cousin Jack
at Kalgoorlie. In his youth one eye had been in-
jured by an explosion, and a glass substitute filled
the socket. A cavity at the back of this furnished
him with a hiding-place for the pilfered gold. He
took only small pieces, and was able to get away
with six or seven pounds’ worth every week. In
the aggregate, over his whole employment, he him-
self hinted that he carried away several thousand
pounds’ worth without arousing .suspicion. Finally
he retired and bought a pub. '
* * ...» *
“Seraph” : Why can’t Australia turn her
locusts to some account ? They make a dish much
appreciated when served hot from the frying-pan by
the natives in Africa and Arabia. Arabs believe
that when locusts die out the earth will perish.
They say that God made locusts from the scraps of clay
left over when man was created, and obviously it
was Allah’s intention that such scraps should serve
him as food. In the Sahara locusts are made into
cakes and are considered a great delicacy. In
Holland oil is being extracted from them. It is
invaluable for aeroplane engines because it remains
liquid at a very low temperature. In Johannesburg
they are turned into manure by a special fertiliser
factory, A recent order from Europe for this product
totalled 100 tons. A flight of locusts which re-
cently passed over the Red Sea covered an area of
2000 sq. miles. It must have weighed hundreds of
thousands of tons, so that the supply seems to be
fairly well in sight.
* * * #
“Mt. Monger”: Abo. correspondents have
protested against the poisoning of ’possums for
their skins. Perhaps the practice will be its own
undoing. I have poisoned a good many dingoes, and,
as their skins make good fur wraps, have never lost
an opportunity to put the young and well-coated
ones to saleable use; but experience has shown me
that skins thus won are very unsatisfactory, as almost
immediately the fur or hair starts to fall out, which
is not the case where the original wearers were
shot or trapped. On comparing notes with other
bushmen I found their experience to be the same,
although some assert the trouble can be obviated
by pegging out the skins with the fleshy side to
the floor. That, however, I find is not ,a success.
* * * *
“Hi”; Out on the Barwon (N.S.W.) 100
head of our ewes were missed. An abo. specked
their tracks, and we followed them into rough coun-
try. Dingo-pads mixed with the sheep-tracks showed
that the dogs had cut out the jumbucks from the
main mob, and worked them into the wild. Break-
ing through brushwood, we found the sheep huddled
together at the base of a precipitous washaway.
The survivors were stricken with . terror. A score
were dead, and as many dragged their entrails.
Hemmed against the washaway, with the pirates
snapping at their flanks, there had been no escape.
Tracks showed that four dingoes only had engineered
the massacre. It was a scene of ruthless carnage,
since one sheep would have been sufficient to feed
the marauders.
* * * *
“Really”: Our Oldest Inhabitant, who
enjoys the reputation of being a great weather-
prophet, has been pumped time after time and in
vain for his infallible “signs.” I did him a good
turn recently, and he has let me into his secret.
This is it. When you want to know what the
weather is going to be, go outside and search for
the smallest cloud you can see. Watch it closely,
and 'if it decreases and finally disappears, there will
be fine weather. On the other hand, if it increases,
take your overcoat and umbrella if you are going
far, for rain is close at hand. I wonder why Mares
and the rest of them go to all the trouble of getting
wires, and drawing isobars, and consulting baro-
meters and all that?
* * * *
“Merlin” : I am convinced that the noc-
turnal shrieks which periodically startle people in
this country and lead to stories about
ghosts are mostly the work of owls.
I remember an odd experience at an
Adelaide maternity hospital a few
years ago. The night nurses were
badly scared and the whole staff
awakened by two unearthly shrieks,
wonderfully human, that seemed to
come from an upper ward. They
scoured the place and investigated
every patient, but nothing unusual
was found. Two of us, who knew
something of the strig-idae family
and their ways, hit on the real ex-
planation, but it was not accepted
until the next night when the shrieks
were repeated ; this time the bird was
seen in a garden opposite. Owls are
rare at Adelaide, and this one must
have come down from the hills. But
we had some very nervy night nurses
for a while.
* * #
“AdeL.”: “Do bats eat mosquitoes?” A
Northern species certainly does. Our camp, on the
bank of a reedy stream, used to be infested by the
pests until a year ago, when a little bat took resi-
dence in our tent. In the daytime it dwelt on the
ridge-pole, but at night flew in and out waging a
constant war upon the buzzers with such complete
success that we long ago discarded our nets. Now
that the pests have disappeared from the camp our
little friend has to go a long way up and down the
stream in search of its meals —so much afield, in-
deed, that we are afraid it will take up an abode
somewhere else where its favorite tucker is more
plentiful. That bushman’s friend, the cheery willy-
wagtail, and two or three other species of the
Ahiscicapidae family are also great destroyers of'
mosquitoes.
* * * *
“Namoi” : A bushman will invariably trust
to his horse if he is uncertain of the road at night. A
cousin of mine was travelling through mountainous
country one stormy, pitch-dark evening on a prad that
was a touchy brute at best. However, he felt sure
of the track, and was meandering along, the horse
snorting and shying at every flash of lightning.
Suddenly it stopped dead, refusing to budge an inch,
despite all persuasion. “Well, I got off him at
FORCE OF HABIT.
PROSECUTOR : “If you are innocent, why
were you clearing away when the con-
stable caught you?”
ACCUSED : “You see, that's my job. I’m a
waiter.”
last,'’ said cousin Bill, “not knowing what the devil
to do. Just then a sheet of lightning lit up the
landscape. I went cold all over. We were bal-
ancing on the edge of a precipice.” “What did you
say, Bill?” I inquired, Bill’s comments usually
being worth listening to. “I never said a thing,
I gave one look and ran like the Devil the other
way.”
THE OLD HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, little grey home, be still, be still;
We come no more, though you beckon till
The stars dip in the sea.
Ah, little grey home, we’ve done with you —
See you the red house flaunting new
Beside the coral-tree!
Oh little grey home beneath the hill,
With the swinging door and broken sill,
You are hurting my heart.
Are there wee grey ghosts beside the way,
Who fret and sorrow, and will not stay,
That you wring your hands apart?
Oh hush, little home o’ mine, don’t cry 1
When the silken shadows of night are nigh,
Just once shall come my feet,
Berry-brown feet through the swinging door,
Eager, bare feet on the broken floor—
At home, at home! Ah sweet!
Now, little grey home, be still, be still,
Or laughter glad on a gold note spill,
Nor wring your hands apart.
For see by the gently swinging door,
Where the sun glints by on a broken floor,
I’m leaving you my heart!
N.S.W.
C. McEWEN.


=HisivfajesVTK£K^:^;
8q
vv
v^ T <ILERX.DUBLIN -
■
Sty
Ky
r
! -s'l
John Jameson’s
4.
Whiskey
Noted for its Age and Maturity
“J. J ”
If you consider that the
Whiskey you are drinking
is not as good as in
pre-war days, just try
JOHN JAMESON, the
Whiskey that is not only
the same as it was in
1914 but the same as it
has always been for the
past 146 years.
JOHN JAMESON S SON
LTD.,
BOW STREET DISTILLERY,
DUBLIN.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD. . . Melbourne, Victoria
TOOTH & CO., LTD. ..i Sydney, N.S.W.
PERKINS & CO., LTD Brisbane, Q’land
MILNE & CO . Perth, W.A.
MILNE & CO Adelaide, S.A.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fg
TottM.
'
George V
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
IQSI
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
chumpmss.
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD. *
Australasian Agren ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m ft
m
The Hotel
For Reservations ring 8W1361.
°&e
W^ntuiorthCafe
The name stands For Perfection
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A superb Dinner from 7.30 p.m. served with Continental finish,
Supper from 8.30, 12/6 —an after-theatre specialty.
Complete Cabaret, including Miss Marie Crowther
premiere danseuse, Mile. Koslova, Ivan Gorski and the
Famous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast of
entertainment —at no extra cost.
AFTERNOON TEAS—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION,
from S.SO daily.
Order all wines before 6 p.m.
The Cafe
hfg
The een/ne of Queens/anc/s
c//s/inguts/>eG/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
Motel
RDTCn
BRISBANE
_ Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running-
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
h
AWOMANS
LETTER
SAY-
kayser
GLOVES
On Friday the Red Cross standard floated
—for the last time, so they say—over a col-
lecting offensive in Sydney streets. In Martin-
place the usual avenues of gay booths drew
the midday crowds. His Ex. popped along
when the throng was at its height to fling
a benediction on chocolate wheel, white-
capped helpers, Jack Cannot and all. Jack
was doing literally a roaring trade most of
the day, and Renee Kelly, Dot Brunton and
May Beattie auctioned dolls in a manner that
proved they had never heard that little girls
should be seen and not heard. There was one
sound the city hardly heard —the rattle of
the collection-box. But chaffering took its
place, and at the end of the day nearly £9OOO
had been counted towards the £25,000 which
the Red Cross needs to carry on its peace-
time activities for a year. The next big
hold-up in this cause will be the Artists’ Ball
next Monday night.
Lawson Balfour’s Spanish Girl was the
star of the opening of the Royal Art Society’s
show. She sat wrapped in leopard-skin and
sphinx-like while her gentle creator moved
among the crowd offering unobtrusive con-
gratulations to painters of the other 191
pictures accepted by the committee. Artist
Syd Long, too, was among the hundreds who
listened (more or less) to the speeches, and
president of the Society of Artists Syd Smith
did a. thoughtful mooch along the walls. The
exhibition drew an outsize gathering to the
Education Gallery on Saturday, Dattilo
Rubbo’s portrait of Dr. Fiaschi being one of
the popular anchorages of the afternoon.
Came the Herrick Knowles couple and Eliza-
beth Carey, whose self portrait in apple-green
taffetas caught the eye and the imagination.
There were the George Taylors, she very
Gainsboroughish as to plumed hat and black
moire frock. Charlie Bryant brought his
musical sister, and Dr. Fox, who is Sydney’s
expert in glazes and pottery, got his thrill
when, apart from the crowd, he was shown
the first piece of porcelain made in Australia.
Sitting in the civic vault on Saturday
night while arum-lilies, lilies of the valley
and laurel wreaths were being fed to Chalia-
pin, the thought came that of all song-birds
the basso is the freest. Unlike the tenor he
is not supposed to be a troubadour of
romance, nor need his weight cause him loss
or sleep. He can be patriarchal, as witness
the three healthy daughters in greens and
blues and ruby-reds drinking in papa Chalia-
pin s notes and diamond sleeve-links, and he
can travel openly with a pet cook. The
tenor is expected to be ethereal, and the
baritone respectable; the basso is allowed
to be a devil of a fellow—buccaneering on
the seven seas, a familiar of Old Nick, or at
his mildest liob-nobbing with Simon the
Cellarer.
Fifty Mariners of England, Navy League
cadets, stood to attention while the Vice-
regals made the dangerous crossing from
7i n \c' olu ' t - K 0 ballroom at the Wentworth
the other night. They were on their wav
to grace the annual wind-raiser of the Navy
League, which in its five years has supplied
ol hearts of oak to the Navy, and has 400
1T i 01 ’? 111 ball was the swell affair
ot the week. It flooded the ballroom, and
burst in a swirling foam of chiffons, dia-
monds and even more diamante into Palm
ln°ri r pf” d gallery. The Viking, his Lady
and Eiaine -were supported by the Chief
Justme Street couple. Lady de Chair was
all silver and blue, served with pearls and
diamonds, while Elaine looked her best in a
green and gold binding. Olive Kelso King,
very beaded, m blue and white, sold flag
badges and hostessed a large party, in which
were Captain Geoffrey Hughes and his wife
and the Naval Commander Quicks, she, who
had proved a capable secretary, mingling
ljlues and red roses. Commodore
Hyde, too, was among the mighty, and
Beal ?’ was the mail behind the
nijit s guns, looked upon his work and found
it good. Graceful Peggy Dawes was one of
V° yS ’-i, and treas «rer Doreen
Higgins ot the Silken-smooth hair, sub-
Fvon° n t d e P r ale^ gol< i, georgettes vith bronze.
vm poet Le Gay Brereton brought his wife
to this party, and warriors by sea and bv
land sat meekly at every table huynbly
signals 6 ” Wme waiter responded to their
Knight Hugh Denison’s lady, soon to take
her lord and her taste for high-crowned mil-
linery to the U.S.A., sustained two parties
last week. One surged about her when she
nad, so to speak, her foot on her native
heath—the landing °f the Royal Colonial
institute. Here amid the murmur of wattle
and garden stocks she gave welcome to a
great crush. F'oremost in it was State Com-
mandant Bruche’s wife; and another old
friend of the Institute who turned up look-
lng better than new was Mrs. W. A. Holman.
• j s Stripes fluttered a pennant
m the departing lady’s honor later in the
week when Consul Lawton’s wife did the
honors at the Rose Bay Golf Club.
Flowering peach and red roses decked the
Ambassadors last Friday when the members
of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club rallied to
their standard of cerise and blue. Sir Dud-
ley de Chair, the club’s commodore made
an early appearance, with daughter Elaine
to bear lnrn company. She, in cherry-pinks,
was garnished by a posy of the same hue
h . ai jded over by Mrs. Wilson, wife of the
clubs vice-commodore. Club treasurer
Buchanan and his lady were also among the
welcomers, who later sat in the vice-regal
reserve with its beautiful standards of cream
roses. A note must be made of the raiment
worn by the vice-commodore’s lady. It was
of ivory-satin meshed with gold lace, and
gained lightness from a filmy mist of plum-
bago-blue that trailed from the shoulder.
1 retty Pearl Appleton was in a swirl of
lilac lace, Mrs. Don Taylor upheld Kirribilli
in primrose georgettes and silver lace, and
from the same water suburb Mrs. Andreas
and daughter Marjorie brought rich gar-
ments.
One of the most distinctive things about
the Bachelors’ Ball at Ivillara was the design
tor both invitations and programmes. These
were the work of architect Cyril Ruwald,
and showed two beaus, Dickensian and
modern by the shape of their hats,
looking down with amusement on the
silhouettes of two dancers engaged in
a gavotte on a tiny stage. This conceit is
flanked by braziers burning apparently
with Hymeneal fires, and, underneath, the
warning: “You can be a married man many
times, but a bachelor only once.” The
decorations struck a novel note. The walls
of the Ivillara Memorial Hall were set about
with white pagodas linked with trails of
pmk roses and white laurel leaves. On the
committee was a long list of bachelors—so
long that a suburb with such pretty girls
as Killara might well blush with shame.
If you had been walking out Blackfriars
way three years ago, you might have seen,
any Monday morning, 200 kiddies invading
the hay and corn merchant’s near the Chil-
dren’s Practice. School. Here the kindly man
placed each child on his scales, while, stand-
ing by, the lady in the May Moore picture—•
Kay Stevens
—m ad e en-
tries in lier
notebook.
From such be-
ginnings did
Dr. Harvey
Sutton build
up his stand-
ard of mea-
surements for
A u s t r alian
children.
Blackfriars is
really the
training-
ground for
young teach-
ers, and the
study of mal-
nutrition
started four
years ago by
Miss M. Simp-
son (now In-
spector of Schools) and Miss Stevens has
already been carried by their disciples into
infant schools all over the continent. Hun-
dreds of Australian kiddies also now play the
health game daily. Its rules are simple
enough—to drink lots of water, to sleep with
the window open, to have baths, to eat fruit.
From the entries on the health charts a great
fund of knowledge is being garnered. The
latest idea at Blackfriars is a solarium,
fashioned on Dr. Rollier’s famous sun
centres in Switzerland. Screens and gay
beach umbrellas and a sheltered schoolyard
are the equipment necessary. Every day
that the sun shines the youngsters take then-
little mats and chairs into the open and do
their work. Sitting at their tables,
to which the debonair red and yellow um-
brellas are fastened, the kiddies suggest a
school of budding tennis stars, for each is
equipped with a Helen Wills eye-shade.
Big Major Selby, of the Staff Corps,
Victoria Barracks, and his little lady are
packing up for India. The tall Westralian
was wounded at Gallipoli, but has been
going strong ever since. A keen soldier, and
still in the early prime of life, he left a
brilliant post-war record of two years at
Quetta Staff College, where he caught the
coveted P.S.C. (it spells Passed Staff Col-
lege) to return to Australia. Now the Indian
Government has offered him a glittering staff
instructor’s job for four years at a salary
which makes anything offering in these parts
look like a pile of coppers. The Common-
wealth has given him its blessing in the
form of leave for that time. Hence the
exodus this month to Quetta. It is the first
time an appointment on the famous Indian
Staff College has ever been offered outside
the British Army, and a modest and popu-
lar Aussie blushes to find himself talked
about from the London War Office.
A divorce-court sequel has shown a love
affair to have been at the bottom of the dis-
appearance of Australian-born Admiral Sir
Guy Gaunt from his place in the British
Parliament and his usual haunts, about
which the cables fussed until he was dis-
covered to be cruising on a yacht in the
Pacific. The highest principles of the
triangle story were maintained in the affair:
the husband was informed by the lover, who
had known his wife before her marriage, that
he had discovered himself becoming too fond
of the lady, and was therefore going to clear
out; but the lady apparently declined to be
left. She was the wife of a chemist who
has earned a title through his researches.
The gallant Admiral is 57, and married, 22
years ago, the daughter of Sir Thomas
Wardle.
The idea that last week’s programme at
the Con. had anything to do with alarm-
clocks must at once be dissipated. The
“Sleepers, Awake!” number was a Bach
cantata, and “The Time Spirit” was Ban-
tock’s poem for choir and orchestra. Mrs.
Goossens-Viceroy, Molyneux Phillips and
Leslie MacCallum were the soloists in the
Bach work; in the second both choir and
orchestra rose to the occasion, losing no-
thing of the effect of that “wind that sweeps
through the forest of humanity” from the
fact that a bitter westerly raged without.
The Brahms Concerto in B flat, with Henry
Penn on the piano-stool, called forth varying
expressions during its three-quarters of an
hour’s existence —and a mere person couldn’t
help wondering what the effect would have
been if the “Sleepers, Awake!” had thun-
dered forth immediately after this endurance
test.
Those dignified haunts of elderly scientists
and historians, the Mitchell Library and the
Museum, have quite sparkled up these last
few weeks. Lads and lasses who looked en-
terprising enough to try the effect of the
glad eye even on the mummies have been
flocking to their doors. No longer is novelist
Jack Abbott the most enthusiastic digger in
the Mitchell Library. Since the Artists’
Ball has called upon their talents for the
abo. carvings on the totem poles and the
Australian flora and fauna that will sport
between them at the Town Hall on the 16th,
the art students of the Tech, have been prac-
tically nesting under the eaves. A city of
the future, according to American architect
Corbett’s forecast, with the buildings sloping
backwards from the street to enable the
light to filter through, will arise over the
organ under the town-planning of John
Moore.
Virtue is not always its own and only
reward; for keeping her hair on one pretty
Sydney girl was awarded £25 last week.
She is Phyllis Gibbs, of Coogee, and she won
the Evening News Unshingled Girls’ Com-
petition out of 2000 entries.
Josephine Marks, who has surely been on
more committees working for charitable ends
than any other woman in Sydney, is to be
given a citizens’ testimonial. To-day
(Thursday), at three, in the Mayoress’s
rooms at the Town Hall, a preliminary meet-
ing will be held to discuss what form the
tribute shall take.
In one week Goulburu has been bereft of
three of its best-known figures. First, quite
suddenly, went one who was known inti-
mately as “Penny Post” Pursehouse owing to
his life-long connection with the paper of
that name. The second, very unexpectedly,
from influenza, was solicitor “Nat” Moriarty
--a son of an old Lands Department identity.
And the third was Adam Singer, who fol-
lowed Colonel Rutledge as Country party
member for Goulburn. A tragic coincidence
over Mi*. Moriarty’s death is that his wife
was lying dangerously ill with ’flu a few
rooms away from him in the private hospital
when his case (considered at first as very
much lighter) took its fatal turn.
Ursula Cobham, of Bald Hills Bathurst
has promised to let Alan Malcolm, of Allan-
dale, Bathurst, be the pilot in her flight into
matrimony before the year’s end.
Ann Jamieson, who, with her mother,
Mrs. Sidney Jamieson, comes back to Sydney
in October, will be quite in the boom during
the Royal visit. Family friends tell with
bated breath of visits to the York house-
hold, the entree, of course, being through the
Stuart blood which flowed in the veins of
mother’s parents—the early/Bathurst settlers.
The new horror of the official lunch or
dinner is the broadcaster, who sits in the
middle of the throng and between courses
sends forth to a listless world details of the
progress of events. His earliest effort is a
description of the notable guests and the
decorations, he has not yet got down to
broadcasting the courses. But some day you
will, if you like, learn that “the last course
was filet mignon Bernaise; we are now be-
ing served with spatchcock; and I will let
you know more when I have finished my
share.” Some weird items of “news” are fed
to humanity these days.
Monte Luke’s camera has caught Mrs.
Edwards-Byrne, pioneer woman J.P., at a
moment when
she was men-
tally hearing
Mr. Lang tell
the 300 lady
J’s.P. of this
State that
they could go
up on to the
Bench if they
wanted to. At
present wit-
nessing docu-
ments is their
chief job, and
this is felt by
these women
to be a slight
on the capa-
city of the
sex. In Tas-
man i a and
South Austra-
lia the women
justices are
important people; in Tas. they sit on the
Bench in the Children's Court; and in South
Aus. they hear cases tried under the Mar-
ried Women’s Property Act and matters con-
cerning the adoption of children. While
she presided over the annual conference of
the sisterhood last week, you could almost
hear Mrs. Edwards-Byrne champing the
bit as Mrs. Goode (S.A.) and Mrs. Tynan
(Tas.) unfolded the work that came to their
hands. For Victoria, which is still deprived
of the lady J.P., the conference had hearty
sympathy, and expressed it by voice and
hand. For the rest there was a very nice
photograph taken of the platform massed
with delegates on the opening day, even the
belated secretary and the agenda paper
managing to be in time for the operator’s
soothing “Now, ladies, please!”
Miss Brisbane prepares to hold a Show: —
In anticipation of Show Week, which endures from
the 9th to the 14th, people have been swarming into
the city. This year the show grounds are to be
electrically lit, and open to the public in the evenings,
a return to pre-war conditions. There are amateur
shows all over the town, and Hanna’s Diggers have
dug themselves in at the Theatre Royal.
The Naval and Military Ball was the kick-off of
the festivities, and was the first of its kind since
1914. A rainbow canopy decorated the Trocadero,
emanating a hopeful suggestion that the storm had
passed, while Jap lanterns gave a flavor of inter-
nationalism. Clusters of rifles and bayonets and a
projectile from the Australia were in the entrance
hall. Every alcove had a lantern with colors of a
unit; the British coat of arms was blazoned over the
vice-regal alcove, the orchestra was protected by
machine-guns, and there was a torpedo on a flag-
draped stand in the centre of the hall. Naval and
military airs were played, and uniform was worn.
Three buds were presented. White georgette was
worn by Hazel Lowe; Winny Cox had silver sequins
and crystal on her frock, a silver rose on her - shoulder,
and a pretty posy of buds; and Dulcie Warry
chose white crepe de Chine.
The Repertory staged Shaw’s “Candida,” its most
ambitious effort so far. The men’s parts were par-
ticularly well done. Alan Devercux played the poet,
and Eaton scored as Candida’s reverend husband.
Leo Guyatt made the most of his few lines, and the
public applauded Mrs. Stokes in the name part,
while George Webster’s red waistcoat was as bright
as his acting. Good houses, too, for an amateur show,
though the queue wasn’t as long as that leading to
the Gilbert and Sullivan operas this week, when the
police had to be called in to regulate the traffic
in front of Paling’s.
David Bloom took Olga Phillips for keeps, and
the Synagogue celebrated it with white and pink
rosebuds. The bride was in silver brocade with
Brussels lace. Lorna Duddle and Vol. Johnson, in
apricot, ’maided. Mrs. Mark Harris sang, and the
wedding breakfast was held at her home, where Mrs.
Phillips hostessed in fawn mariette and gold. Sydney
will be the future home.
Another wedding this week was Pearl Laliey’s to
Rev. Alfred Gardner (Vic.). She is the only
daughter of the T. G. Laheys, Clayfield. Iceland
poppies and an arch of palms decorated the West
End Methodist Church. The bride was in ivory over
satin, with Limerick-lace panels and Court train.
Rose-point Belgiaii lace mounted the tulle veil.
Mimosa-colored mariette frocked the ’maids, Lilian
Inglis Smith and Gladys Gardner; and Margaret
Lahey and Nancy Lane (in yellow and silver) carried
silver baskets of Toowoomba violets. Bowls of
roses dressed up the reception rooms at Bayview,
where Mrs. Lahey received in black velvet georgette
over silver.
The Yeronga Tennis Club was more awe-inspiring
than ever this year with the decorations for the Dark
Night dance in the South Brisbane City Hall. Black,
emerald and orange streamers led to square-shaped
lanterns on which gruesome witches’ cats arched
furious spines. Skeletons and owls and flapping bats
watched over the varied fancy frockings. lan Mcßain
designed the decorations.


— ,
HAR.DY BJLOS LTD.
JEWELLERS ___
PEARL NECKLETS
■
B
HI
B
B
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in perfect
taste for every occasion, a Pearl
Necklet is a woman’s most prized
possession, no other Jewels giving
such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often pur-
chased, and, on Birthdays and other
Anniversaries, extra Pearls added
until a large and valuable string is
obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought, only on
the most favorable terms, and offer
the best value and largest selection
in Australasia.
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £5OOO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Hardy’s Catalogue will be sent Post Free, to any address, on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
H ARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
9&7/ouse aP Exclusive Sewcll&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-U8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
a
TJJonth/i
ZjCz /
i
HARRINGTONS
IMPERIA SUPER-8
The Latest and Most Efficient of SUPER-HETERODYNE RECEIVERS.
Specially designed to receive ALL Interstate fm any location) without
interference. The set is also capable of receiving Farmer s Station U C).
SIMPLE TO OPERATE —A CHILD COULD WORK 11.
CUT THIS OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Please send me Post Free Special Colored Booklet entitled The Wireless
Wonder of the Day”; also Illustrated Booklet of Radio Sets.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
PRICE, including ALL Accessories, Loud Speaker, Battery Charger, etc., £135
GUARANTEE. —The Set is Manufactured and GUARANTEED IN EVERY RESPECT BY
u®
Radio and Photo.
Warehouses,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Established SI years.
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.: 42 WIIIU Street.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: UP Queen Street.
fgh
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity —Dining 660, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.80. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 8.30 to 6.80, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight,
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
Swallow, Ariells
Plum Puddings
f d
*5
Z 5
v
7907
have a deliciousness all their
own —a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
thatter
The Occidental.
Collins st. Melbourne
P[?][?]
MISSES MONKLDOYLE
Phones Contral 1533,11609
All roads seemed to lead to Caulfield on
Saturday for tlie first day of tli'e Steeple-
chase meeting, and all parts of the
were well carpeted with patrons. The air
was icy, though the sun shone, and furs
came out from among the mothball*-in regh-
ments and platoons. (The vice-regal pair had;
another engagement. Mayor Brunton brought
with him Wallace Bruce, his brother of the
fur and chain from Adelaide; and with his
lady, whose lacquer-red hat blended witj|
the 1 trimming of her natural kashtG&aj£, wits
Adelaide’s mayoress,*-: in a russyt-colored
tailor-made costume topped By a brown velvet
hat. Accompanying them wei'o Gwen Bruce
and Joyce Homburg, yteG. from South Aus.
In the committee-box?%|Se Mrs; .Ja*6fS Grice,
Mrs, T. A. Tabart, Mrs. H. _S. K. Ward
(whose corduroy velvet coat of myrtle-green
was worn with a black velvet hat) and Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald (her fawn suede collar and
cuffs on a navy-blue suit were topped by a
tall felt hat of mottled coloring in grey and
tan). Mrs. Pitt Ritters wte in black; Leg.
Council President Clarke's la% : was in fawn,
and Harry Gi-llett’s wife had a burgundy
coat above a mole velvet gown
A glimpse at the harvest of a modiste who
lias, just returned froni the other side with
to-morrow’s fashions shows that at eventide
the shingled sex will be expected to go on
glittering and gleaming. Big beads seem to
have done their dash, and tiny ones of cry-
stal, gold, silver or other metallic hues are
strewn in intricate designs upon ninon or
georgette straight-lines. For day wear dur-
ing these late-winter and early-spring days
therb are the cape frocks, almost two gar-
ments in one, for the new capes are pretty
well full length, and many are fashioned to
a Waistcoat effect, with the complete full
gowfi beneath. One of the prettiest cover-
ings of this nature shown this Chatterer was
of chocolate tone, flecked in white with the
new material known as Frisca. The dress
proper had a full front of beige georgette
with slight embroidery in tones that blended
with the fabric of cape and frock. Raiment
of light-weight materials, such as georgette,
had, plentiful narrow pleatings, and a perfect
dreajm of a frock in amber hue had border-
in gs of heavy gold lace, scattered with Wee
colored satin flowers in applique at the hem
line and round tire full sleeves.
The ball of the Old Girls of the P.L.C.
was the gate into society for a drove of two
and twenty wliite-and-silver-clad maidens
each of whom received a pink posy of remem-
brance from the committee. St Kilda
Townr Hall flaunted the blue, gold and black
colors of the seminary, and a wristlet of
black with adornment of wattle and corn-
flowei's was the distinguishing badge of those
who had charge of the jazz. Mrs. J. T. W.
Kenny (Old Girls’ president), who gave
greeting to the debs., wore gold lace scattered
with jewelled designs over a fuchsia back-
ground. Doris Moore, the secretary, glimmer-
ing in gold lame and lace; and Mrs. J. 11.
Mi rams, who wields the secretarial pen for
their club, had a black beaded gown. The
president of the club. Mrs. Alex. Adeny,
whose daughter Phyllis was amongst the
buds, chose a dainty frock of biscuit-colored
georgette softened with lace and decorated
with trails of pastel blossoms.
Last week’s meeting at Moonee Valley
Racecourse for the Children’s Hospital
Appeal didn’t get the support that was ex-
pected from the sort of folk who can best
afford to help such causes. It was the
cheaper parts of the course that held the
crow r d. There was nothing new to be seen
in;gowns, ensemble suits and coats and skirts
being again the rule. The executive of the
Children’s Hospital was well represented,
headed by the president, Mrs. Lauchie Mac-
kinnon, whose long brown coat was fur-
trimmed and topped by a nigger hat with
colored plumage. The chairman of the
M.V.R.C., Alister Clark, and A. V. Hiskens,
the secretary, were helpfully on hand. Mrs.
Norman Falkiner, who had grey fur upon
her long black coat, was accompanied by her
daughter Nancy, who was a study in dregs-of-
wine, suit and hat. Mrs. Rogers Thomson,
smartly tailored, had her daughter Kathleen
with her, the pretty little lass wearing an
ensemble frock of the shade of the new shoots
of spring.
The Princess Theatre was occupied the
other afternoon by the Old Girls of several
select seminaries, who put on a show to
help the Children’s Hospital. One of them put
pn “Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary,” and others
sent representatives to sell flowers, cakes,
sweets, programmes and smokes. The stage
setting was good, and there “were many
pretty frocks. Outstanding was the per-
formance of Eric J. Owen as the worried
business director of a temperamental actress,
promisingly played by Kathleen E. Howell.
Jean Robertson secured some of the laughs
as Miss Mimms, a Girl Guider; and Dorothy
Wise was nicely suited in the part of Sheila
Considine. Many pretty posies and nosegays
rewarded the entertainers, and Miss M. M.
Guthrie, on behalf of the hospital committee,
spoke words, of praise and thanks to Hugh
J. Ward, who lent the theatre, and to every-
body else implicated. Mrs. Eric Guttcridge
\va-s president of the committee.
Nellie Bramley’s first appearance here in
musical comedy, at the Palace on Saturday
night, had the approval of' a crowded house,
and “Our Liz” found herself at the final
curtain trying to balance a double-decker
pink-and-white cake and a vanload of flowers.
j£he leading lady’s most attractive frock is
of white,, sparkling with diamente, against
which she waves a huge fan of white and
ora n gfM ipped f eat her s. Fannie Benstead, as
J;has the most finery, an
alluring dressi)eing delphinium blue with a
glitter of beads. The tale about her ermine
cloak is that;,;she bought it from one who
was a lady-m-waiting of the Russian Court.
The tall and dignified Mildred Cottell wears
an evening-dress of hyacinth hue, fur
bordered and scattered with silver. In the
second act, the scene of which is laid in a
■Monte- Carlo hotel with a glimpse of the
.Mediterranean, ladies of the ballet Hi:
around the blue-and-gold tables and chair:
scantily garbed in pink and gold. First-
nighters included the Percy Berrys, the C. J.
Aherns, Ashton Jarry, General Monash and
Mrs. McAdam.
To produce and present a French play in
the original form, and make a workmanlike
job of, it—that was the feat accomplished
by the French Club of the Uni. on Thursday
at the Melba Hpll. The only flaw in the
evening was that the radiators remained
cold, and the air was chilly. The fare pro-
vided was Rostand’s tliree-act comedy “Les
Romanesques,” Costumed to suit the day
when male attire was of satin and brocade
and curled wigs set off the manly brow, the
stage pictures were charming. Flora Bren-
nan, the pretty niece of legal-light Anna,
was the maid Sylvette, and S. Paterson
Grounds played Sylvette’s young man Per-
civet, and likewise admirably produced the
piece; but Norman Keen, as the youth’s
father, plucked the largest nosegay of
laurels. Edmund Ransom was stage-man-
ager, and Fred Liebentritt led the orchestra
with his fiddle.
Melbourne is to have another first per-
formance in Australia of a Gustave Holst
work. Clive Carey of Adelaide will pro-
duce the one-act opera “Savitri” on Sep-
tember 30 at the Playhouse; he directed a
presentation of it in London, where he sang
the chief role. Elsy Treweek has been
enlisted for the principal soprano part,
with Bernard Heinze as conductor. The fairy
godmother in the background is Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, who hopes that the British Music
Society’s funds will benefit through the enter-
prise. Lately the society has been given a
valuable musical library by Sidney Cole,
A.R.C.M., a song-writer whose works are
.much liked.
Here is Mrs. Gwen Barringer, an Adel-
aide painter whose work is well liked in Mel-
bourne, too.
An exhibition
of her can-
vases is to be
opened on
Tuesday, the
17th, at the
Sed o n Gal-
leries for a
fortnight.
After that the
lady packs
her brushes
an d palette
for two years’
study abroad,
leaving for
Europe and
America early-
next month.
She was a
pupil of the
late Henry R.
Gill, and after-
wards worked
with Hans Heysen, being the only member of
her sex to be admitted to professional asso-
ciation with the great master of sunlit land-
scape. A Vandyck camera pictures the lady,
whose show will be opened by Arthur Robin-
son’s lady.
The Free Kindergarten Union, brooding
over 27 free gartens in which play 2000
kinder aged from two to six, looks forward
gleefully to a big rattle in its money-box
as a result of a benefit matinee Frank Tait
is to give at His Majesty’s on September 30.
Society met to talk about it the other day
at Glyn, the home of the Edward Millers.
Lady Somers was moved to the chair and tea-
cups circulated assiduously, after it had been
divulged by Mrs. T. a’Beckett, the president,
that it takes about £13,000 a year to keep
these schools running.
The old Malvernians had a hop at Caul-
field Town Hall last week when the college
red and blue were twined with crimson roses.
A past headmaster, Charles McLean, was
treated as a guest of honor, and his daughter
Dora, who accompanied him, received a
posy of pansies. A committee of mere men
ran the affair, but they had a lot of feminine
support.
A red carpet was spread over the grey
approach to the kirk in Collins-street on
August 4, and many lights twinkled on a
bride as purely white as an early snowdrop.
She was Marjorie, younger daughter of the
late L. A. Fairbairn and of Mrs. Fairbairn,
of Essendon, and her bridegroom was George
Hudson, of Kilmore. White satin formed
the bridal gown, with floating panels trimmed
with cream velvet roses and foliage applique.
A transparent train of georgette hemmed
with satin showed a similar design at the
corner. The two attendants, Nancy Watt
and Thelma Royle, in almond-green taffetas
scalloped at intervals, and inset with purple
velvet pansies to match the close-fitting little
hats, looked like delicate orchids amidst a
forest of palms.
The name most familiar in connection
with repertory in Melbourne is Helton
Daniell, for
its owner was
associated with
the original
co. formed by
Gregan Mc-
Mahon, and is
still the lead-
ing light. Rem-
brandt pi c-
tures here the
enthusiast,
who has pro-
duced several
successes, in-
cluding, re-
cently, John
D r inkwater’s
"Abraham Lin-
co 1 n,” i n
which he ap-
peared in the
n a m e - r6le.
Th e Reper-
tory Theatre
Society first made its mark with a short
season of “Dear Brutus,” which created so
much interest that the players were invited
to open the Athenaeum Theatre with the
piece! Helton Daniell was the artist and
Ceridwen Kelly, now a professional, was the
drearfi-child of the fantasy. On October 8
and 9 the society will plunge into Sliak-
speare, “Twelfth Night” being staged to
help the rebuilding of the memorial theatre
at Stratford-on-Avon. Mr. Daniell will
direct the production, which is being pro-
duced by Irene Webb, formerly with Allan
Wilkie.
The University Symphony Orchestra had
its last flutter of the season at the Audi-
torium on Friday. Lady Somers’s fair
shingle appeared above a black velvet cape
which had silken roses in petunia tones
fronting the collar; her frock was of black
lace and georgette. Captain Malcolm
attended the Governor, and within the Y.R.
reserve were Dr. James Barrett and his
lady and the Herbert Brookes couple.
Mary Loader’s wedding with Frank Brett
—both' of South Yarra —dispensed with most
of the frills and furbelows. The bride wore
a frock of ficelle lace, mounted on pink,
topped- by a wide brimmed liat of the same
shade, touched with peach. There were no
’maids.
The George Swinburnes’ daughter Edith
married Clifford Illingworth, medical super-
intendent of the West London Hospital, at
St. Paul’s, Elammersmith, from the home of
her aunt Mrs. H. Forbes, who afterwards
held a reception at the Hammersmith Towm
Hall. Amid a crowd with a strong Aus-
tralian leavening were Dr. Moran, of this
city, and Dr. Morris and Dr. Howard, from
Adelaide.
The Firm’s engagement of Thursa Rogers,
formerly of the Pavlova company, and her
partner, Robert Lascelles, is announced.
There will be a big welcome for the Maori-
lander and her companion when they make
their re-appearance at His Majesty’s on
Saturday night in “Tell Me More.” Since
returning from Adelaide Thursa has been
seeking suitable music and getting stage
finery.
The Business Ball, organised by 25 com-
mercial firms, which last year resulted in
£5OO being handed to the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital, is heralded once again. August 31 is
the date fixed, and this year the Children’s
Hospital will benefit. The Governor and
Lady Somers have promised to be on hand.
At the Assembly Hail, on September 0,
Gertrude Hutton, the singer, an! Rene-
Morrissy. the pianist, propose to give a sort
of good-bye recital. The mezzo-contralto, who
is well known as a teacher and soloist at the
Australian Church, is packing her trunks to
try her luck in the United States; and Rene
is due to marry at the end of the year
Edward Shelley, of Geelong—he’s a nephew
of Mrs. Trefle, of Sydney.
The staff at Queen Victoria Hospital parts
regretfully with two popular residents, Dr.
/Enone Bowman and Dr. Ann Macleod, who
are off to London to gather in more diplomas.
All sorts of farewell parties are being
arranged.
A promising artistic career was brought to
too early an end when Edith McAaam died
in Switzerland, where she was enjoying a
holiday. A daughter of the late Dr. Ken-
neth McAdam, of Oamaru (M.L.), her
mother was one of the McGill family, of
Berwick, in this State.
Raymond Carey, who was so successful
in the tenor part of Mona Mcßurney’s opera,
“The Dalmatian,” has joined the Firm to
play the lead in “Wildflower,” which is now
setting out on its travels again with a second
company. A well-known singer who was
much impressed with Mr. Carey’s perform-
ance in the Australian-made opera took a
member of the Firm to hear it, with the
result that an engagement was offered and
accepted. Frances Duret, who sings leading
soprano roles in grand opera in Italy, is a
cousin of the new theatrical artist, who is
a pupil of A. C. Bartleman.
Appropriate midwinter fare was put on
by the Oriana Madrigal Society, which, led
by conductor W. C. Frazier, regaled a shiver-
ing audience at the Auditorium with the
Frost Scene from Purcell’s “King Arthur”
and a Christmas Carols Fantasia, by
Vaughan Williams, so English that one
thought of deep snow. Then there were old
English madrigals and folk-songs of a sort
not necessarily associated with chilblains,
and the temperature rose appreciably. Solo-
ists included Clive Carey, of Adelaide, who
lias had a breathless time here. Margot Mac-
gibbon, the maiden who nailed down her
L.A.B. ticket with top marks for fiddle and
piano, played Handel’s violin Sonata in E
and other classics, whereat a large audience
which included the Governor and Lady
Somers beat its hands together violently.
The Clive Baillieus’ only daughter, June
who lately returned from Paris wearing a
charmingly old-fashioned air and two long
plaits, is to make her social bow on Caulfield
Cup Eve at an extra-special dance, for which
uncle W. L. Baillieu has lent Merrylands.
You still discover the dear old Victorian type
of “maiden lady” now and then. Miss
Mary Ashton, who died at Williamstown
the other day, bequeathed £5O to a friend for
the care of two cats.
Sister Adelaide’s little budget:—
The joy of meeting a fellow countryman broke
through Pavlova’s rule of “no outings,” and she
supped with the Krakowskys after her Saturday-night
show—all slim black satin and lace with pearls
about her neck and at her ears. With her came her
husband, and Novikoff and his wife, Pianowski and
Lueien Wurmser; and bidden to meet them were the
Wallace Bruces and their daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Myers, Mrs. Harry Gilbert and her sister,
Dr. Mocatta and Dr. Gerald Hayward. Madame
Krakowsky, in rose velvet and silver, had her
daughter, in Russian dress, to help her with hostess
ing, and for souvenir for Pavlova there was a silver
boomerang.
Percy Grainger endorses all that Schlinsky had
to say of Eileen Joyce, the Westralian girl pianist.
Given the right tuition in the right environment,
he sees no reason why she should not be the woman
virtuoso of her day. The West is now raising £lOOO
to set her on her way.
The week-end saw the opening of the Marino Gel?
Links, spread along the coast southwards over one
of the beauty spots of the Gulf. Dr. M. E. Gooik
was the prime mover in the scheme and is president
of a club that starts off with a membership of 280.
Glenelg, the pioneer of golfing here, but bereft of
its links years ago, is to have new links, too, and
the Mount Osmond course is taking shape. Adelaide
hounds took their run by Marino on Saturday, and
checked at the new links for a refresher.
There has been dancing at the Palais for the
Kindergarten Union, which is having its 21st
birthday; the promoters were a hardworking com-
mittee headed by Mrs. Lavington Bonython. Lady
Bridges, with Captain Brooke, came in time
to see the fairy doll dance of some of Miss Nora
Stewart’s pupils and to cut the vast birthday cake
from which they had climbed for their dancing.
Students of the School of Arts and Crafts had their
ball at the Glenelg Palais on the same evening, with
cherry blossom and wistaria and irises to make a
Japanese setting. The Barker free kindergarten at
North Adelaide—their family’s offering to the memory
of the late John Barker and his son —was opened
by Mrs. Nutter Thomas on Monday.
Bridge at Mrs. John Gordon’s, Medindie, raised
a useful cheque for the Walkerville Branch of the
School for Mothers. A committee of a dozen backed
her in running the frivol, and tables were snapped
up quickly.
Pavlova said her good-bye from a flower-filled
stage, called Wurmser to share the frantic applause,
listened to a packed audience assuring her she wa •
a “jolly good fellow,” and left us with assurance that
to be truly happy one must be always making other
-people happy, too. Her own “Autumn Leaves” is
one of the most perfect memories of a perfect pro-
gramme. It took local theatregoers a day or two
to wake up to her magic, but when they did it was
to some purpose.


A. SAUNDERS’
SELECTED WEDDING GIFTS.
STAINLESS
KNIVES.
Xylonite Handles, Table or
Dessert size, in Oak Cose,
20/-
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
8.251.
m
8.248.
SPOONS AND
FORKS
CANTEEN.
Half-dozen each Tea, Dessert
and Table Spoons; Half-dozen
each Table and Dessert Forks.
Silverplated, Al Quality, £B.
Silverplated, A Quality—
£6/10/-
Silverplated, B Quality—
£B/2/6
Silverplated, C Quality—
£s/15/-
Complete in Case.
CARVING
SET
OF THREE PIECES.
Finest Sheffield Steel,
grained Xylonite ng/
Handles in Case, ■
Others:
35/-, 50/-, 60/-
STAINLESS STEEL,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-
fg
K. 252.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
K-3
m
u
i
■ :
HU "
m
i
*
m
ft
3
Dining Saloon, R.M.S. “Orarna,” 20,000 tons.
1927 IN EUROPE
Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
If the Crop is Heavy, or Down and Tangled, or Weed Infested
Take No Risks. Have Ready on the Farm a —
In addition to being badly lodged, this crop was infested with tall thistles.
The Sunshine Header Harvester recovered 10 bags per acre from it.
Sunshine
Header
Harvester
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Burnie.


-
u
M
Slfc
M
wm.
¥.s
I
o
Jl
- >s%4
;■ i
Wm
■ ■
gHBBI
U.
'isF'
r i
■ •
ts&f-
-»V*l
BRfirlDOn
tennis
jHome
at
>/ the Cater Cidhlies
CcJlo
an
■ , ;
I
uoei^fyroucjV
out Interstate
and .Victorian
©mrnament
j£ctvX92s.
v„. .'
\ \ •%
o
V
•** i
MM
mm
7^£
•~‘i • <•
■
; V*Aj
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C° L TD AH States &New Zealand
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA
c/Jn Interesting series of Sketches illustrating the evolution of ffawn 'Jennis which took its present firm in
1873 will be produced by the Barnet Glass Rubber Ce Copies of enlarged Sketches on art papers
are available on application to the Head Office, 289" 299 Swanston Street cAJelboume ~


fir-®
M
/
W
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
11111111
Howlers'-
Are biased in tavour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a daily pleasure.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
55.1179. J. KITCH.N & SONS PIY. LTD
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s “Specialwhisky
Sale Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney,
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
mut.u
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Despite Roisel’s good finish at Moonee
Valley, most Melbourne punters declined to believe
that he could win the Australian Hurdle for the
third time (he was successful in 1921 and 1924)
with list. l!b. on his back. They had to admit
their mistake when less than three miles of the long
journey bad been traversed, for the great old Blank-
ly It—Cooyeanna gelding caught the pacemaker,
Wooipack, half a mile from home, and thenceforward
there was nothing else in it. Coming right awa.v,
the veteran won, pulling up, by 10 lengths from the
country performer, Mowatnba (10 to 1), with Spring
Mist (25 to 1) two lengths away and the weary
Wooipack, who had made all the running till Roisel
caught him, fourth. Arrova and Scourie fell. The
favorite, Clan Robert, overreached himself at a
jump and came in with a groggy pin. It was
really a slashing performance on Roisel’s part, and
the crowd suitably recognised it. Owned by R. T.
Paterson, he is trained by G. Murrell and was ridden
by W. Murrell. He went out at 12 to 1, and
covered 3 miles 3 furlongs and 128 yards in 6min.
301 sec. The advertised distance was 3-j miles and
20 yards, but the race was started from the wrong
furlong post, as the club had to acknowledge on
Monday, after denying it on Saturday.
Another veteran came to light in the Malakoff
Stakes, nine furlongs; Englefield (20 to 1), who is
proving a rare bargain to Horrie Leek, led practi-
cally all the way and beat, among others, Smoke
Bomb (5 to 2), Textile (6 to 1), All Sunshine
and David Garrick, who came home really well, the
time being lmin. 54-jsee. Minterne was a hot
favorite for the Steeplechasers’ Flat, but it was
not a day for favorites ; the Trafalgar—Giggles geld-
ing, Hysteria (20 to 1), ridden by Roisel’s jockey,
got a good lead early and just lasted long enough
to defeat Epergne (8 to 1), with Minterne third.
Grimaldi, 2 to 1 for the Moondah Steeple, fell at the
first fence, and Ironclad (7 to 1) led throughout,
finishing 15 lengths in front of Roekante (5 to 2) ;
Major Blake (14 to 1) was four lengths further
back. Wordsworth (3 to 1), who was half a point
longer than Idle Time in the second division of the
Mornington Welter, was the only short-priced horse
to lighten the losses of the typical Caulfield crowd.
As Roisel (list. 131 b.) is evidently as good as
he was in 1924, he cannot be denied a wonderful
chance of making turf history by winning the
Australian Steeple (and thus the double) for the
second time. He had list. 91b. two years ago, when
he beat Wooloo (lOst. 31b.) and Pal'bi (list. 31b.),
and it is doubtful if there is a Palbi in Saturday’s
field. Epergne (lOst. 51b.) finished well in the
’Chasers’ Flat, and Namera (lOst.) is a sticker, but
Roisel looks like doing it again. If he does, it is
to be hoped that his party will retire him to the
paddock for the rest of his days.
*,* * *
The Jones-McCarten combination made its
presence felt again at Canterbury Park (N.S.W.)
on Saturday. Young Lochinvar (Gay Lad—Arch
Lassie) added the Flying Handicap to his list
of successes, Defy, a youngster from Newcastle,
being the only one to make a race of it with the
slick Maoriland three-year-old, who was a 7 to 4
favorite; MeCarten had an even easier ride on
Reonui (7 to 2) in a division of the Park Stakes,
deonui is a three-year-old gelding by Saxby—Sopra.
There was good public as. well as stable support for
the horses from beyond the Tasman, but punters
were wide of the mark in most of the other races,
especially the Canterbury Handicap, 11 furlongs,
in which Quankop (15 to 1) led Hinchinbrook (not
quite ready) and Lady Lizzie home after making
all the running. He is a ragged-looking four-year-
old gelding by Quantock—Lady Santoi, both im-
ported, but is a pretty good stayer.
* * * *
A man with a good horse can win a lot
of money in Australia these times, when the A.J.O.
and the V.R.C. are distributing more than £250,000
p.a. for meetings at Randwick and Flemington alone.
Robert Miller (Windbag, Boaster, Chatterbox and
Kanooka) collected £27,185 last year, Ben Chaffey
(Manfred and Whittier) following with £26.408.
These amounts dwarf a record previously held by
Ernest Lee Steere, owner of Eurythmic. The progeny
of imported Valais earned £57,368 during the year
—another entry in the record-book. Australian-bred
sires get few chances nowadays, but Woorak was
represented by 38 winners, whose owners raked in
£21,205.
* * • *
Racing in South Australia is not overdone,
and £3534 (for the metropolitan district meetings)
was enough to put C. L. Gardiner top of the list
of winning owners. The St. Spasa mare Lemina
won most of it for him. R. A. Miles was the only
other to touch £3OOO, but the three Rasheeds
divided £6OOO. Far down the list this year are
well-known names such as the Bowmans, Kidman,
H. P. McLachlan and W. B. Carr; and the Hawkers
and both Bennetts have dropped out altogether.
Reid was well ahead among trainers, and Medhurst
among jockeys; and of winning sires, St. Anton,
Pistol and St. Spasa, in that order, stood right
out from the rest.
In the first round of the Waterloo Cup at
Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) six weeks ago, Terminus, the
ultimate winner, was hard pressed by Progress Chief,
a Forbes nomination; it was by inches only that he
gained the opening point. In a trial at Forbes,
Chieftain Lad beat the dog that so nearly halted
Terminus’s Waterloo march, but unfortunately for
the syndicate that sent Chieftain Lad to Rooty Hill
last week to win the Champion Cup, Sydney knew
all about the good thing. With four courses ahead,
3 to l was the best price available. The com-
missioner took £9O to £3O, and was haggling for
more when a long day’s coursing was suddenly
started. The Forbes flier downed a recent winner
in such one-sided fashion that he immediately short-
ened to 6 to 4 outright. Smiling Chief, this year’s
Dewar Cup winner, was outpaced—his first defeat.
In the final, The Turf was simply smothered. But
the Forbes crowd returned with barely a tenth of
the amount they had calculated on winning.
Hundreds hud to remain outside the New-
castle Stadium when Billy Edwards (list. 51b.)
further demonstrated that he is well above the
ordinary by trouncing the clever and dangerous
Merv Williams (list. 6flb.). Edwards made the
body his principal target, and, after knocking the
more experienced man down repeatedly, had him
so limp in the ninth round that the referee inter-
vened. The promising lad generously waived his
right to a forfeit of £2O, Williams being over-
weight. He ought to be matched with Monson,
Uren and other 'white middleweights before tackling
the dark meat.
Joe Esler, son of Tom Esler, “the Kaffir,” who
used to fight with extraordinary courage at the old
Golden Gate, Brickfield Hill, made his first Saturday-
night appearance at the Sydney Stadium while
Edwards was punching pieces off Williams. Esler
was opposed to Filipino Joe Gonzalves, and each
made desperate efforts to slam the other into Slumber-
land, often when the target wasn’t within range.
Esler varied the monotony by occasionally belting
the other Joe in forbidden territory. The last low
punch landed in the 17th round, but the referee
didn’t see it, and the Filipino was counted out while
he writhed in agony. Esler weighed Bst. lOJlb.;
Gonzalves Bst. 131 b.
Wrestling matches of the kind provided
by Ted Thye (12st. 71b.) and Sam Clapham (12st.
131 b.) will keep the mat game popular in Mel-
bourne. The pair put on a show that thrilled the
crowd, and got so absorbed in it during the third
round that, when the referee attempted to drag
them from between the ropes and back to mid-ring,
they tossed him on one side. Bridges sternly com-
manded them to stop mauling one another until both
cooled down. Samuel applied headloeks from all
positions, and Ted began to stagger about like an
embellisher of underclothing ads. at an “artists’ ”
ball. But in the fifth bout, while his head was
being squeezed under Sam’s mighty arm, the foxy
SYD SHERRIN, amateur featherweight
champion of other years, and manufac-
turer of Australian footballs.
Yank reached down, grabbed an English leg, threw
himself backward, and gained a pinfall, Sam landing-
on head and shoulders. Thye suffered many head-
locks in the three following rounds; but managed
to keep his shoulders clear and get the decision.
* * * *
South Australia thinks it lias a coming
long-distance amateur champion in Keith Henschke,
who will be seen against first-flighters from other
States in Brisbane. Henschke’s first big event was
a three-mile during an interval of the football
carnival programme; before a vast crowd that had
been carelessly watching- the runners trot round
the Adelaide Oval, he unwound an electrifying last
lap that brought him home in 15min. 22sec., easily
a local record. He has since won the five-miles
cross-country—and heavy, muddy country it was on
the day—with equal ease in 30min. 22sec. He
is not yet 21.
Collins and Hendry re-appeared in the Aus-
tralian team for the Warwickshire match, a curious
feature of which was that every batsman on either
side scored double figures except Taylor and Mailey,
who each fell short of it by a single run. In all
19 wickets fell for 827, an average of over 45 per
man, yet only Ponsford (144) topped the century
and the county’s highest scorer was Parsons (80).
That the visitors should have made heaps of runs (464)
after winning the toss is natural enough, but War-
wickshire must have surprised itself by its vigorous
response, for the shire is very low down in the
tables ; indeed, it had not won a match at the end
of June. Ponsford and Woodfull made an excellent
start, and 117 was on the board before the latter
went for 51. Ponsford’s “gross” was compiled in
his best style; other contributors to the big total
were Hendry (52 n. 0.), Collins (44), Macartney
(35) and Ellis (30). Quaife, the veteran slow
bowler and sometime international—die is 55 —took
four wickets. The county looked like going cheaply
enough when 3 wickets were down for 58, but, beside
Parsons, Smith (39), Santall (38), Fiddian-Green
(49 n. 0.) and Hewetson (37 n. 0.) came to the rescue,
and the tally was 363 for 9 wickets at the end of
the second day. Rain prevented any play on the
third. Gregory took the first three Warwickshire
wickets cheaply, and re-awakened hopes that he may
yet prove a thorn in England’s side at the Oval,
but his final analysis was 4 for 80. Mailey captured
5 for 132.
From Birmingham to Cheltenham, with its
memories of “W.G.’s” waving beard and unwavering
resource, is an easy journey. Gloucestershire has no
Graces or Jessops nowadays, but Parker takes more
•wickets than any other county bowler, and Dipper,
who also played against us in a 1921 Test, is one
of the most prolific of run-getters. Last year the
county had a more valuable asset than either in
Hammond, a young professional whose all-round
brilliancy looked certain to secure him a place in
any representative side, but an injury sustained in
the West Indian tour has kept him out of the field
altogether this season. Batting first, the county cut
a poor figure, the whole side being dismissed in
under two hours for 144, mostly by Giimmett, who
took 7 wickets for 67. Lyon (35), Sinfield (28 n. 0.)
and Dipper (22) were the least unsuccessful. Collins
tried a new opening pair in Ryder and Taylor. When
a batsman is out of luck and out of heart, like
Taylor, and has failed to get going for weeks, it is
a desperate expedient to take him from his usual
place and put him in first, but it was successful in
the University player’s ease; his 95 suggests a long-
hoped-for return to form now the tour is three-quarters
through. Andrews, who has also been a disappoint-
ment of late, likewise improved his record (and his
chances of playing next Saturday) with a vigorous
62. Ryder’s contribution was 36.
Nobody else did much towards the total of 287.
Goddard and Wedel took three wickets apiece; Parker
was the least successful bowler, which suggests a
wicket where even higher scoring might have been
looked for. However, 287 left the county with a deal
of leeway to make up. It could manage no more than
178 (Dipper 42, Robinson 32, Lyon 26), Grimmett
and Mailey taking four wickets apiece and Gregory
the other two. In Australia’s second innings Taylor
failed to sustain his brief reputation as an opening
batsman, being dismissed l.b.w. without scoring, but
Ryder and Macartney soon hit off the necessary 39.
If Hendry is considered fit enough to play in the last
Test, it would hardly surprise to see one of the slow
bowlers left out. In that case the two men to stand
down will have to come from Collins, Ryder, Taylor
and Andrews. It will be hard to exclude the last two,
but the first two may find it harder to consent to
their ow'n exclusion.
It might have been thought that the English selec-
tors would be content to let well alone for
the final Test; if they have had no victory to
hearten them, their choices have at least scored 1353
runs for 21 wickets in the four resultless games
against the Australians' 1401 for 35. But the
changes announced in the personnel of the team
indicate a determination to strengthen the bowling,
after duly weighing recent form. Carr, Kilner and
Strudwick, who have been in all the first four Tests,
go out; so do Tyldesley and Root, who played in
the fourth game. In their place Chapman, who was
dropped in the last match, returns —this time as
captain; Larwood and Geary, both of whom played
in the second Test, also return; the new men are
Rhodes and Brown, the Hampshire wicketkeeper, who
displaced Strudwick when England was up against
it in 1921. In Brown’s case the batting will cer-
tainly be strengthened, too, although it may be at
a cost; in the other cases it may be argued either
that it doesn’t need strengthening or that it won’t
be weakened, Carr having done very little against
Australian bowling to sustain his reputation. Lar-
wood is perhaps the only really fast bowler of class
in England, and is therefore reckoned indispensable
in what may be a long-drawn-out contest on a hard
wicket. The surprise is Rhodes, whose whole career
in Test cricket is a lesson in adaptability as well as
endurance. He was first played in 1899, solely for
his bowling; after a dozen years he had developed
into such a fine batsman that he used to open the
innings with Hobbs; now, in his 49th year, he re-
appears, after five years’ absence from Tests, once
more mainly as a bowler and on the strength of his
recent successes for Yorkshire in that department.
“Shrewsbury”: The unending argument as to
whether bowlers have deteriorated, or batsmen im-
proved, has received a refreshing interruption from
J. W. Trumble, brother of Hughie and a member of
the 1886 Australian XI. Trumble is convincing when
he says the whole question of huge scores and long-
drawn-out innings rests not with the quality of
bowler or batsman, but with the nature of the wicket.
The wicket of 30 years ago was the natural one,
closely mowed and well rolled, of course, but with
a grassed surface. This has been changed to a
strip of bare, glazed earth, built up with limey
earths and liquid dressings till it is more like
cement than earth —it is not turf at all. The differ-
ence between old and new is as much as that between
a billiard table in its ordinary condition and one
with the cloth which gave it life removed. Trumble’s
remedy is a return to real turf —a sane and practical
solution of a wearisome difficulty.
“S.T.S.”: Now, what induced Andrews to throw up
the ball so hastily, after a catch in the third Test,
that the umpire ruled he had not held it long enough
to constitute a catch at all? In the old days, it
was etiquette instantly to hurl it straight up,' with
a twisty flick, and naturally it would now and then
escape, as it did at Manchester, and provoke this
doubt. But one thought that this bit of display had
died out, together with the long catches that always
filled in the time till the next batsman came in—
unless George Gififen wanted to juggle the ball
behind his back, or W. G. Grace to roll it along the
pitch in the manner of a bowling-green. A. H.
Jarvis, -when keeping wicket, loved to return the
nail to the bowler instantly with another over-hand
flick. Cricket is very colorless -o-day. I can just
® r Pooley having great fun with country
AAll s by dashing out as if for an impossible run
and instantly dashing back again, just as point or
mid-wicket shied at the stumps—and probably to
tne boundary for an overthrow. He may easily
mive learned the trick from the “clown cricketers,”
who made a good thing of going about England
playing a very fair game in fancy costumes and in
a humorous spirit. Briggs and Coningham, a few
years later, brought in quite a lot of comic relief,
but latterly nobody but Parkin seems to venture on it.
After a fortnight’s rest Melbourne’s
League ’bailers resumed their bogging-in on Saturday,
the struggles of seven pegs to squeeze themselves into
tour holes adding to the general interest. Carlton,
level with Melbourne for third place, met the Red
Legs on the M. C. Ground and waded in regardless
ot consequences to the other chaps. Melbourne had
more speed, more system and marked better, and at
the end owned 90 points to Carlton’s 58. Thirty
thousand odd passed the turnstiles. Another big
crowd attended the Essendon ground, where the local
team met Colli tig wood and strove valiantly to hold
its place, but the Magpies were too good—69 to
46. The defeat leaves ’Don level with South
Melbourne and Richmond for fifth place, and, as each
team has yet to meet the leaders, a lot of players
will learn a few things before they are much older.
South held its place by smashing Footscray, 107 to
4S; Richmond did likewise by scoring 92 points
to Fitzroy’s 77 ; and Geelong improved its percentage
by raking in 90 points to St. Hilda’s 38, a feat
which so distressed some players' and barrackers that
a lively brawl staged itself on the ground when the
final bell rang. Hawthorn and North Melbourne
provided the only draw of the season: 70 points each ;
it was likewise the only match in which North hasn’t
been licked.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: The modern craze for
organisation in sport has its drawbacks. For ex-
ample, the Balmain (N.S.W.) Junior Rugby League
had to sit in judgment on an infant who admitted
having altered the date on his birth certificate in
order that he might play with a club in the “C”
grade competition, for which an age, as well as a
weight, limit is im-
posed. The ingenious
urchin was passed out
till the end of 1928, by
which time he may be
old enough to realise
the nature of his ex-
periment. Much the
same sort of trickery
goes on before the
official weighing at the
start of the season.
Aspirants fatten up or
starve themselves,
according as they desire
to play in a higher and
heavier grade or vice
versa.
L. PALFREY-
MAN, skipper of
the Randwick team,
now leading for
the Sydney Rugby
Union premiership.
Iu the finest club game of the Rugby
League season, the premiers, South Sydney, just got
home from Western Suburbs, 15 to 12. West was
leading, 12—10, just before time, when a splendid
bit of work by Blair, South’s veteran five-eighth, put
Wearing over for a try ar.d goal. McMillan, an
cx-State custodian, was in great fettle as full-back
for Western Suburbs. University again slipped, going
down rather tamely to North Sydney, 14 to 5;
the Northern baeks, curiously enough, showed marked
superiority on the day. St. George once more met
defeat, Newtowr. downing the Ulawarra men by 25
to 9; while Glebe and Eastern Suburbs drew a hard
game, 5—5, at Wentworth Oval. The feature of
the Union competition was North Sydney’s well-
earned win from Glebe-Balmain, 14 to 9. North
Sydney is a team of youngsters, and has come on
finely of late. Randwick, now leading for the
premiership, had by no means its own way with
the hefty Western Suburbs side, winning after a fast
game by 6 to 3; Crossman scored a spectacular try.
Soccer interests were chiefly in the Queensland v.
N.S.W. game at Brisbane, -where the Northerners
beat a strong N.S.W. side by 5 goals to 4, this
being Queensland’s first win against N.S.W. at
Brisbane. Gladesville knocked Cessnock out of the
Gardiner Cup by 2 goals to 1, and Granville’s 3—2
win from Canterbury was the event of the Metropoli-
tan competition. Under Aussie rules, Eastern Suburbs
headed Newtown by 76 points (10 —16) to 43 (5 —
13), and looks fairly certain of the minor premiership.
* * * *
Shrewsbury”: Suzanne Reiiglen’s change-
over to the professional side of lawn tennis was no
great surprise. The temperamental damsel had been
very near the dividing line for some time, what
with fees for films, special articles in the newspapers,
“retainers” from ball- and racquet-makers, and a
dozen other side-lines. She is reputed a wealthy
woman, all the money having come out of tennis
Exhibition tennis for cash payments has been soundly
organised in the States, and is now a recognised
institution. Whereas the only pros, in the game a
few years ago were scattered coaches and instructors,
hundreds now make a good living out of it, indoors in
winter and on the grass in summer. The Yankee
promoter who signed Suzanne up for £20,090 will
have a few grey hairs by the time he is through
with it, but the cash aspect should lose him no
sleep.
* * * *
The Indian Army hockey team had a
great reception in the few hours it could spare to
Adelaide. It was given a match on the Oval. Hockey,
though lately revived again, is in the main left to
girls in S.A., the men having always been strong
on the sister game, lacrosse ; and the horrible total
was 14 goals to nil.
THE SWIMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.l
“Miss Gertrude Ederle, the 18-year-old American
girl who swam the English Channel in the record
time of 14 hours 34 minutes, told an interviewer
that she had never been in love, but added, ‘I guess
I’ll fall for someone now I’ve swum the Channel.’ ”
— Cable.
The Channel fell to her. The flowing tide
Was with her and she battled through the ebb;
Her name is on the scroll of Fame beside
Those of the ever-niemorable Webb,
Toth, Tiraboschi, Burgess, Sullivan—
The first of all of them who wasn’t a man.
Not like Lord Ullin’s girl—though just as staunch—
Her heels unto an angry sire were shown.
Approvingly Dad viewed them from a launch
And played brisk airs upon the gramophone
To hearten up the swimmer, as was meet,
Having a pot of money on the feat.
The Channel fell to her. But ’twasn't romance
(Else had I left the theme to poets) sent
Her diving in at 7 a.m. from France
To clamber out at 9 p.m. in Kent.
No lover bent to clasp her, dripping wet—
In point of fact she hasn’t got one yet.
The Channel fell to her. She holds it thrall
From Dover to Ostend and Havre to Hove.
And in the course of nature she will fall
To some as yet unmapped, uncharted cove;
So she predicts, still glowing from her swim—
Or, in her native argot, fall for him.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


-
, x ■
COBHAMS
FLIGHT
When filling up from the kerb-
side pump , look for the yellow
disc reading “ Guaranteed Pure
Shell Motor Spirit ” —your pro-
tection against inferior brands.
The map indicates the points in
Australia where Mr. Alan Cobham will
stop to re-fuel his machine with Shell
Spirit, supplies of which are already in
position for his use.
It is significant that Cobham’s famous
contemporary, the Marchese de Pinedo,
who used Shell Spirit throughout his
34,000 miles’ flight last year, has again
chosen Shell for a 60,000 miles’ flight
round the world via South America
and across the South Pacific Ocean
to New Zealand and Australia.
Follow the example of these experts
and fill up with
\ , . _ .
'
BATAVEA
IRABAYA
HIM A
ATAMBOEA
DARWIN
/CASTL?
WATERS
BRUNETTE
CLONCURRY
LONCREACH
[LEE
CHAR
80 UP.
PERTH
<HAY
MELBOURNE
ADiLAID
1 hough inferior motor
spirits co£t less per gallon,
Shell coists less per mile.
The British Imperial Oil Company Limited
Throughout Australia
SI 82
(
/ V
VO
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE RAPID EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and conciselj' all the prin-
ciples of drawing in the simplest and most, effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his
work.
It Teaches You to Draw—
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr-. Weston’s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
m.
wm
X
/
\
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
35
0!
1
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fair Hair
AM AM I
SHAMPOOS
Instead of a soapy
shampoo odour, Amami
leaves a perfume, like
flowers, in the hair. You
can buy your Amami
at any Chemist's, Hair-
dresser’s or big Stores.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
I
To L.et.
TO LET, Burraneer Bay, Oronulla, Gent.’s
waterfront brick residence, grounds 2
acres, with garage, boatshed, etc., for short
or long term, a good opportunity for country
residents to visit seaside, beautiful restful
position, extensive views. Moderate terms for
suitable tenant.
Apply owners —
J. WILSON & CO.,
Tramway Arcade, Rockdale.
TO LET. —DULWICH HILL. Superior
I Self-contained FLAT, situated in a most
select locality, handy to Shops, Train and
Trams. Containing three large rooms, kit-
chen, bathroom with heater, gas stove, electric
light and all modern conveniences. Rent
only 37/6 per week. W. J. LAW, Real
Estate Agent, Tram Terminus, Dulwich Hill.
'Phone: Pet. 503.
THE INKY WAY.
The Commercial Travellers of Australia
announce, as a feature of the 22nd issue
of their annual, Austkalia To-day, their
16th Children’s Portraits Competition, for
which entries close on September IS.
“Riom” : Add the Dandenong Advertises
(Vic.) to the list of Australian newspapers that
have been conducted by three generations of
one family. Jas. Walter Swords, after serv-
ing his time with the Port Phillip Gazette,
established the Portland Guardian in 1842
and then in 1874 founded the Dandenong
Advertiser, which he passed on to his sons.
The present editor, a grandson, is also Jas.
Walter Swords, a Digger and a good fellow.
“Two Seas”: “Wang” is right; the bush
is the place for meeting Bulletin contri-
butors. The last one who spent a few weeks
with us didn’t claim to be merely one or two;
he modestly wrote “practically all the
Aboriginalities under various pen-names.”
Local storekeepers and publicans wouldn’t
have minded if he supplied the whole of
the Red Page too if he had only been able
to write a cheque that wasn’t valueless.
“Erson” : More than 50 years in the one
composing-room was the record of David
Lumsden, otherwise “Little Lummy,” who
passed out at Christchurch (M.L.) the other
day. “Lummy” was a Scotsman who went
to Maoriland when a kid, and served his
time as a comp, in the Southland Times.
He went to the Lyttelton Times in Christ-
church in 1872, and stayed there until the
end. In his spare time he was a zealous
member of school committees.
“Coot” : Cambridge Buildings, in Collius-
street, owned but never occupied by the Argus
(B. 29/7/’26), was originally the home of the
Daily Telegraph, which died unmourned
in the ’eighties. The place was sub-
sequently occupied by the Llerald before
that paper went to the Fliuders-street build-
ing where The Bulletin’s Melbourne office
now is. On the summit of Cambridge Build-
ings is a draped female figure blowing a
trumpet, which people used to say very well
represented the Daily Telegraph.
“W.E.F.”: A Melbourne freelance sub-
mitted a 750-word sketch to a local weekly.
The editor cut it down to a five-inch para-
graph and notified the accountant to pay the
writer 10s. The freelance reckoned the remu-
neration inadequate, and made complaint to
the editor personally, but the latter, with a
Napoleonic gesture, ordered a printer’s devil
to rescue the copy from the comps, and
handing it to a typiste instructed her to
re-type the sketch in its original form. This
done, he handed it back, and asked for the
return of the ten bob. It was a thoroughly
disgusted contributor who left the office,
but the laugh was on his side a couple of
months later when the same sketch won a
£25 short-story competition in a Sydney
monthly.
“N.Q.”: My experience with Bulletin
cheques has been less expensive than “Mars's"
(B. 29/7/’26) ; but it has been lively. The
first time any storekeeper receives such a
document he is apt to spend half an hour
exclaiming over it. Then he proceeds to
hand over the goods. The storekeeper in the
district I at present pervade is more deeply
smitten than any up to date. I teudered one of
the cheques the other day, plus a coin for
the exchange. “You don’t have to pay the
exchange this time,” he said ; “I’ve got two
more of .your Bulletin cheques here, and
the one exchange will cover the lot. I've
kept these others here in the drawer for two
or three months: they’re good to show
tomers when they come in for a yarn.” I
wonder if “Hop” ever drew anything else
quite so popular.
“Jewash”: Thomas Shakespeare, M.L.C.,
has pegged out the first newspaper claim at
the Federal Capital, where the Canberra
Times will make its appearance next month.
“The Father of the Country Press” has had
a long experience among country newspapers.
He established the Condobolin Lachlandeh
at the age of 21. In those hectic days he was
always being threatened with libel actions,
but survived them all. Later he established
the Grafton Argus (now defunct), and sub-
sequently became general manager of the
Country Press Co.-op. Co. of Australia, a posi-
tion which he still holds. In the production ot
the Canberra Times his four sons will be
engaged, Arthur (until recently shipping re-
porter of the S.M.H.) as editor, John as
manager, William as Sydney representative,
and Clarrie on the literary staff. William
and John recently relinquished control of the
Hawkesbury Herald at Richmond (N.S.W.).
“G.N.1.”: Maoriland has more newspapers
per head than any other country in the
world, and many of them are run very
economically. Inangahua, a small township
on the wet West Coast, boasts of two dailies.
The entire staff of one of them consists or
a lady who is, in turn, reporter, editor,
compositor, reader, stonehand and machinist.
And when the papers come hot from the
nress, she turns to and delivers them herself.
Few Australasian dailies have _ seen more
stirring times than the Grey River Argus,
also of Westland. It started in a tent m
1863, when the West Coast was in the gold
boom, and has survived fire and flood once
it carried on in spite- of having sft. of water
in the machine-room well. And once a former
employee did a quick-step with the total
savings, and was never heard of again, a
few 7 years ago the journal was taken oyer
by the Labor party, and nowadays it is the
only Labor daily in Maoriland.
“Dalba” : Peter Jefferson Wallace was 88
last month; and, although he has eased ott
for the past 18 years, he can still turn J
bright paragraph or hit off a set of tppica
verses. The veteran was born in the Sbom-
ba veil district (N.S.W.), but most of My
boyhood was spent at North Sydney, wlier
he is living now. He served his time wi
Henry Parkes on the old Empire, and v;
afterwards shipping reporter on the 8. »•
Herald. He gave this up to go m for su
veying, but even while on that work he pub-
lished the Boomerang, which enjoyed a cir-
culation among his fellow-craftsmen. Column
back to North Sydney he established the nrs
newspaper on the northern side ot the harDoi,
and then gave Manly its first paper, tm
Signal ; the Willoughby Advocate followed
Still later he gave Moss Vrle, Kangaroo
Valley and Dapto papers—these three ary
still going. “P. Jeff” brought Ins family uP
to the newspaper business, and two sons a
daughter Rena are still in it.


Hydro Extractors and Improved
Drying Apparatus for Every Industry
«•
mm
THE need for thoroughly up-to-date
machines in Laundries, Dry-cleaning
Works, Manufacturing Chemical Works,
Sugar Mills, Textile Mills, Meat-
preserving Wor k s, Wool - scouring
Works, and many other industries is felt
more and more as competition demands
lower production costs and more careful
and efficient handling of material.
To meet this demand we can supply
Improved Drying Apparatus embodying
the latest and most efficient designs.
HYDRO EXTRACTORS,
DRYING TUMBLERS,
CABINET DRY- ROOMS,
and DRYING APPARATUS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
Write to us To-day for Catalogue, Price List and Full Information.
PARKE LACY HARDIE LTD
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Newcomen Street, Newcastle,
By anointment
Greatest Artists,
August Records
Now on Sale
12in. Double-sided, Red Label, 10/6.
TH. I. OHALIAPINE (Bass) and
FLORENCE AUSTRAL (Soprano)
Accomp. by the SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
AND CHORDS.
(Conducted by ALBERT COATES.)
DBB99—The “Church Scene” (“Faust”). (Sung in
French.)
Seigneur, daignes permettre! (First Part).
Quand du Seigneur le jour luira (Second
Part).
lOin. Double-sided Red Label, 7/6.
JEANNE GORDON (Contralto)
(with orchestral accompaniment).
DA.733 —Voyons aue j’essaie (Card Song). .. Bizet
(“Carmen.”) (Sung in French.)
Pres des remparts de Seville ...... Bizet
(Seguidille.) (“Carmen.”) (Sung in French.)
12in. Double-sided Black Label, 8/-
SIR HARRY LAUDER (Humorous)
(with orchestral accompaniment).
D.lo64—Love Makes the World a Merry-go-round.
H. Lauder.
I’m Looking' for a Bonnie Lass to Love Me.
H. Lauder.
I2in. Double-sided Plum Label, 6/-
JIERBERT DAWSON (Organ).
C. 1238 —Suite Gothique (Introduction) . . Boellmann
Suite Gothique (Priere a. Notre Dame).
Boellmann.
10‘n. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
LIAM WALSH (Irish Pipes).
8.2157 —(a) The Mountain Lark —Reel. Traditional
(b) Dan McCarthy’s Fancy—Reel.
(a) The Clift's of Molier .... Traditional
(b) Saddle the Pony.
PETER DAWSON (Bass-Baritone).
(with orchestral accompaniment).
8.2255 —The Temple Bells (“Four Indian Love
Lyrics”) Amy Woodforde-Finden
Less Than the Dust. Amy Woodforde-Finden
8.2256 —Kashmiri Love Song. Amy Woodforde-Finden
Till I Wake Amy Woodforde-Finden
DE GRQOT A NO the PICCADILLY
ORCHESTRA.
B 2259 —Liebe des Himmtis ( Heavenly Love).
(“Paganini.”) Franz Lehar
Lied und Tarantella (Romance and Taran-
tellp). (“Paganini.”) Franz Lehar
( THE SAVOY HAVANA BAND
(at the Savoy Hotel, London).
~ 007 „ J Valencia —One Step Jose Padilla
THE SAVOY ORPHEANS.
I (at the Savoy Hotel, London).
V “The Student Prince”—Waltz . . Romberg
JOin. Double-sided Red Label, 7/6.
FRIEDA HEMPEL (Soprano).
(with pianoforte accompaniment).
DA.634 —The Night Wind Farley
Wohin, Op. 25, No. 2 (Sung in German).
Schubert.
lOin. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
RAMON NEWTON (Baritone)
(with pianoforte and saxophone accom.).
8.2234 —When You and I Were Seventeen. C. Rosoff
Wondering M. Leslie
“His
Master’s
Voice”
SYDNEY COLTHAM (Tenor)
(with pianoforte accompaniment).
B. —The Little Green Balcony E. Coates
When I’m Home Again D. Woods
12in. Double-sided Black Label, 8/-
MABCBLLE MEYER (pianoforte).
D.lo63—Ragtime Stravinsky
Navarra Albeniz
10:n. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
FRANE CRU3IIT (Humorous).
EA.22—Sonya.
Old Uncle Bill.
12in. Double-sided Plum Label, <>/-
THE BAND OF H. M. ROYAL AIR FORCE
(Conducted by Flight-Lieut. J. Amers).
C. 1244—Gondolier and Nightingale, Op. 49. Langey
In a Chinese Temple Garden. .. lietelbey
10'n. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
ARTHUR PRYOR’S BAND.
EA.26 —The Whistler and His Dog Pryor
The Warblers’ Serenade Perry
12in. Double-sided Plum Label. 6/-
THE BAND OF 11. M. ROYAL AIR FORCE
(Conducted by Flight-Lieut. J. Amers).
C. —First Heart Throbs R. Eilenberg
Vanity Fair—Comedy Overture. Percy
Fletcher, arr F. Winterbottom
lOiu. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
RIO GRANDE TANGO BAND
(At the Piccadilly Hotel, London).
B. 2181—Capricho—Tango Jose Senttis
Tango Sentimental Manuel Joves
SAVOY TANGO ORCHESTRA
(At the Savoy Hotel, London).
D. —Vibraciones —Tango Francisco Ariotto
Ingratitude—Tango .... Francisco Ariotto
12in. Double-sided Black Label, 87-
royal ALBERT HALL ORCHESTRA
(Conducted by SIR LANDON RONALD).
D. 1062 —Carnival Overture, Op. 92 Dvorak
10in. Double-sided Black Label, 5/6
TUDOR DAVIES (Tenor).
(With Orchestral Accompaniment Conducted
by MALCOLM SARGENT.)
E. 401 —Oh, Loveliness Beyond Compare .. Mozart
(“The Magic Flute.”)
Oh, Voice of Magic Melody Mozart
(“The Magic Flute.”)
Copy of August Supplement and complete
list of Records with name of nearest dealer
sent on request-
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Bis Master's Voice:"
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone "
Regd. Trade-mark
Finest Recording.
m
By ai>ifointtru>ni
Here are items culled from the August Supplement.
They offer a feast of delight to all music-lovers and
emphasise the supremacy of “His Master’s Voice”
Records.
DE RESZKE SINGERS (Male Quartet).
(Erwyn Mutch, Hardesty Johnson, Floyd
Townsley, Sigurd Nelson.)
E.4o2—(a) Wild Goose Shanty (Unaccompanied).
Arr. R. R. Terry.
(b) Blow the Man Down (with Piano).
Arr. R. R. Terry.
(a) Johnny Comes Down to Hilo (Unac.).
Arr. R. R. Terry.
(b) Let the Bullgine Run (with piano).
Arr. R. R. Terry.
lOin. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
NEff DANCE RECORDS
all in popular demand.
ROGER KAHN AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
E.A.l9—Bam, Bam, Bammy Shore —Fox Trot.
ART LANDRY AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
Five-foot-two, Eyes of Blue —Fox Trot.
J. SHILKRET’S ORCHESTRA.
EA.33—Roll ’Em Girls —Fox Trot.
COON SANDERS’ ORCHESTRA.
Flamin’ Mamie —Fox Trot.
BERGER’S CORONADO ORCHESTRA.
EA.34 —Beside a Silvery Stream—Fox Trot.
Good-night—Fox Trot.
WAKING’S PENNSYLVANIANS.
EA.34—Thanks for the Buggy Ride —Fox Trot,
I’ve Got Some Lovin’ to Do—Fox Trot.
J. SIIILKRET’S ORCHESTRA.
EA.38 —In Your Green Hat —Fox Trot.
I Want Someone to Cheer Me Up.—Fox Trot.
THE TROUBADOURS.
EA.40 —When I Dream of the Last AValtz —Waltz.
DON BISTOR’S ORCHESTRA.
Are You Sorry?—Fox Trot.
SAVOY ORPIIEANS.
(At the Savoy Hotel, London.)
8.2251 —In a Little Bungalow—Fox Trot.
Finney and Gibbons.
Waiting—Fox Trot A. Lange
JACK HYLTON AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
B.226s—Ukelele Lullaby—Fox Trot. WiUiams-Morelle
Nobody’s Business —Fox Trot. Gaskill and
Milne
SAVOY ORPHEANS.
(At the Savoy Hotel, London.)
8.2267 —Sad—Fox Trot Kenton
SAVOY HAVANA BAND.
(At the Savoy Hotel, London.)
Every Step Towards Killarnev —Waltz.
Tolchard Evans
His Masters Voice


Qualify Cuakdtke chmumd
Qualiti/ the Saua
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
m
fr
W
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose M? rie ”
Criterion “The Mask and the Face
Royal “What Every Woman Knows”
Palace “The Climax”
Grand Opera House The Best People
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell . AIi2 _ More ”
Royal “White Cargo,
Princess • • • • 0 A1 ?ies Irish Rose
K ing > s “The Sentimental Bloke
Athen.eum “A Night in Honolulu
Tivoli Vaudeville
g 1J0U , Vaudeville
M a tpst'ic Moving Pictures
Host’s . .7.7.7. Moving Pictures
♦
It is not the fault of the American author
and playwright if the world fails to get a
high disdain of the Best People of America.
Jerome Iv. Jerome declared that the writer s
trade was to expose his sores and so collect
alms from the passer-by; a section of Ameri-
can writers expose the sores of their coun-
try and make a jest of them to win themselves
fees and royalties. The Bronson Lenox
family may not be in the Four Hundred, but
they are somewhere within the Four Thou-
sand —incidentally, one thanks Heaven that
the Best People have a numerical limit.
Bronson himself works as a lawyer to aug-
ment the dollars which, humanly speaking,
cheapen his family; his wife regards her
whole duty in life to be the spoiling of her
children, and, with her brother George Graf-
ton, an affluent idler, she gains satisfaction
from the reflection that they are, and always
will be, the Best People. The family com-
placency suffers when the spoilt daughter,
after running through a series of engage-
ments with fortune-hunting nonentities, finds
a genuine attachment for her mother’s chauf-
feur, Henry, which shows itself first when
she induces him to take her to secret sup-
pers at a night restaurant —but for the solid
qualities of the young man the escapade
might have had a very different conclusion —
and the spoilt son finds the one thing in life
really worth while in an unsophisticated
chorus-girl. The Best People are amazed
to discover that it is themselves who are
regarded as undesirables by the potential con-
nections of their children; and, ultimately,
Bronson Lenox thankfully accepts the
romances to which his family objects in the
belief that they may change his son and
daughter into a decent man and woman.
* * * *
There is an atmosphere of cheapness about
“The Best People,” which was opened in
the American language at the Sydney Grand
Opera House on Saturday night, the cheap-
ness induced partly by the feeling that
the useless animals who for the main part
make up the story do not deserve serious
consideration as human beings. The play
has crudities apart from the characters; but,
as a compensation, there is a certain smart-
ness of dialogue and a crispness of action.
The smartness includes the pert insolence
of the spoilt daughter towards her parents,
the sort of stuff that will help the play to a
quite undeserved popularity. The only
visible reason for bringing a nearly full com-
pany from America to play it seems to be
the necessity for a sauce of American speech
to make the thing digestible. The players
themselves are merely moderately good, with
the advantage of being selected to fit their
parts. Harold Salter, as a somewhat tired,
long-suffering American pop who keeps a
grain of commonsense at the back of his
complaisance in the spoiling of his offspring,
is the best; and J. B. Bowe did well, with-
out exaggerating the foppishness of Lord
Rockmere, the lover whom Marion Ben ox
(Helen Audiffred) discards for her chauffeur—
the latter played with due solidity by Robert
Adams. Richard Ehlers, as Bertie Lenox,
was the characterless young cub who, on the
inspiration of a genuine love affair, wants
to be something better. His was a tolerable
performance. Of the others, Florence Roberts
was well in character as Mrs. Lenox, and
Marian Lord, although some of her lines
were difficult to follow, was entertaining as
a chorus-girl who, without morals and with-
out definitely lacking them, is prepared to
regard as a friend any man who will buy her
a dinner.
$ $ * #
Strong, sure and with a smiling opulence
of manner, Chaliapin of the dramatic hands
and the expressive features flashed a thous-
and facets of his vivid self before a dazzled
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday. With no
accompaniment at all, or with the noble
one of flutes, horns and violins, the
basso’s voice should be served. So impres-
sive is the medium in its power and richness
of tone that a piano even when played with
a touch sure as that of Rabinowitsh is inad-
equate. The owner of the voice that half
the world recalls when it hears of the River
Volga is pre-eminently an actor. Drama and
comedy are conveyed through tones, multi-
colored in their gradations, with equal under-
standing. Religious fervor, too, glows
through its deeps, as was manifest in Rim-
tky-Korsakoff’s “The Prophet” which opened
Saturday night’s concert. Followed Boro-
din’s “Prince Igor,” a spirited and glormus
to-do about very little; and the haunting
beauty of “In Questa Tomba” and Mas-
senet’s “Elegie” brought fresh dew to the
parched mind. “The Government Clerk,”
very dull in the translation but full of chuck-
ling fun when Chaliapin sings it, caught the
audience in a ticklish spot, and the dweller
in flats was thankful that no such lungful
forsaken-in-love was taking it out of the
bathroom above. That inventory of the fair
and frail compiled by Don Giovanni and set
to music by Mozart was sung with an air
at once naive and convincing. Mention, too,
must be made of the supreme pathos of “The
Two Grenadiers,” the rounded sweetness of
Flegier’s “Horn,” and the terrific effect of the
final pianissimo of the “Volga Boat Song.”
Hilda Sutton, a Sydney violinist, with a very
sweet tone, was also on the bill. There was
a second concert on Tuesday; and the third
and fourth are billed for this and Saturday
evenings.
On Saturday night in Sydney there will be
two changes in the menu: at the Royal the
Boucicault company will tell “What Every
Woman Knows,” while Renee Kelly is intro-
ducing “The Mask and the Face” at the
Criterion. The season of “The Climax” lias
been extended until next Thursday, on which
night Dot Brunton’s friends will farewell her
at the Palace. “The Sport of Kings” comes
to that theatre two days later —21st. On
that night also “Mercenary Mary” makes a
start at the St. James; the long run of
“No, No, Nanette” finishes on the previous
night, after having made a little fortune for
the Fuller management. “Rose Marie” has
celebrated its centenary at Her Majesty’s,
and on present indications may rival the
“Nanette” record. The popularity of “Rose
Marie” and “The Last of Mrs. Cheney,”
which has run 10 weeks, has already caused
a reshuffle of Williamson arrangements.
Sydney Tivoli’s only programme addition
this week is a nimble chap who calls himself
Francois because he isn’t French, and does
some extraordinary balancing work on a ball —
including coming down stairs on it, and play-
ing seesaw. Ventriloquist Coram continues to
be the most pleasing feature, although Hilda
Nelson’s songs and Cahill and Brooke, with
their concert turn, also draw and deserve
applause. Some of the other intrusions are as
entertaining as a funeral on a wet Sunday.
There is excellent parody as well as
madcap foolery in the present instalment of
“Midnight Frolics” at Fullers’ (Sydney).
Everything is parodied; even the one serious
item on the programme, “Sing, Belgians,
Sing,” doesn’t escape a humorous dig later
on. “The Toy Shop” and “The Music Store”
arc essentially frolicsome conceits; the wire-
less obsession, the motor-bicycle _ craze and
the increasing skimpiness of feminine dress
all provide subjects for skits.
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Frankie Heath, comedienne.
“Through Africa and South America with
the Prince of Wales” is a travel-film
which must interest even the most rabid re-
publican, who surely can’t help feeling grate-
ful to the Prince for producing these large
and picturesque gatherings of niggers and
semi-niggers. The photography, except in
queer odd patches, is good. A very Yankee
picture, limited to cabarets and the Ameri-
can language, supports this film at the Syd-
ney Lyceum. “Bright Lights” is a foolish,
garish production which adumbrates the
apparently accepted Hollywood doctrine that
men and women can’t be chums without pro-
miscuous embraces. A heart-tearing screen
version of “East Lynne,” which calls for
whole phials of glycerine teardrops, is
bracketed at Hoyt’s De Luxe with “The
Runaway”—not at all a pleasant picture,
although it climbs out of the mud of its start
to an atmosphere "which is more wholesome.
The idea that film stars are made in rich
men’s bedrooms may have a basis of truth,
but is not an attractive theme, and one
wonders whether it does the picture business
any good.
“THE BEST PEOPLE,”
AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Bronson Lenox (Harold Salter) and Bertie
his wild son (Richard) Ehlers).
The R.A.S. has a show: —
The hanging committee of the Royal Art Society
has done its work well this year; 192 pictures are
shown out of 700 submitted, and they are of a
quality which leaves no impression anywhere that
hanging’s too good for the culprit.
The way Sydney Long pervades the exhibition
is one of its most striking features. He dominates
the landscape section, showing a certainty of what
he wants, and getting it with a touch which usually
gives a stir to the imagination. A view of George’s
River and the simply wrought “The Top of the
Ridge” are amongst those with greatest appeal;
only one of his numerous pictures, “Lavender Bay,”
is poor—for one thing, it doesn’t look like Lavender
Bay. The Gallery trustees have purchased T. Fried-
ensen’s “An Elizabethan Farm, Kent,” a strongly-
painted composition which will represent the artist
well; there may be more doubt about the other
Gallery purchase, Lawson Balfour’s “A Spanish Girl.”
The subject is good and the treatment lively; a
clever bit of work of a somewhat meretricious quality
with a weakness in the painting of one of the hands
which is surprising. Dattilo Rubbo’s portrait of
Dr. Fiaschi, although rather too granitey, shows more
solid workmanship.
In the portrait section J. S. Watkins (“Major A.
Arnott”), Joseph Wolinski and W. A. Bowring
(“The Winged Hat”) have good work, but one of
Watkins’s portrait studies is made grotesque in
an effort to score an illusion of movement. Lister
Lister is at his best in “The River,” but there is
tameness in his work —an apparently deliberate tame-
ness, as of one who declines to be aggressive. G.
Lyall Trindall has tackled with some success and
much ambition the nudes which were once the
obsession of artists but have almost ceased to be
exploited; James R. Jackson has a charming “A
Western Pastureland,” and Charles Bryant has tackled
a difficult subject quite admirably in “Lighting-up
Time, Circular Quay.” Erik Langker, although
still somewhat defiant in his use of colors, has
robust work in a show where there are few experi-
ments and most of the painting is on the safe side.
From the ruck of other contributions, D. G. Reid’s
“A Mountain Road,” some work in water-color by
M. J. McNally, and a picture of a fishing party by
W. J. Dowman earn notice.
* * sk
Gruner has a show of his own:—
Greens, blues and ambitious prices are the marked
features of the show of Elioth Gruner at the Mac-
quarie Galleries; and his methods have made him
such a vogue that he can get the prices apparently
for pictures sometimes very badly drawn and not
quite finished. Yet Gruner, when his ihood is at
its best, is worthy of high esteem. The National
Gallery trustees have thought well enough of his
“Man and Mountains” to give 150 guineas for it.
There is a certain magnificence # in the conception
and treatment, with the defiant bluff standing out
against the purply blue and smoky distance, But
in such finicky little things as “The Little Farm”
(No. 2) there is work which might most usefully
illustrate an ambitious land-agent’s advertisement.
His style, nevertheless, lifts the work on nearly
every occasion, in spite of obvious faults —his sea,
for instance, frequently fails to look like sea,
although the little waves in “The Beach” are ex-
quisitely treated. Seme stills supply an idea of
the artist’s fine sense of blending colors, although
one of the most ambitious of these, “Roses” (No.
19) —the artist wants 150 guineas for it—has a
lopsided cup sitting on a table which it would be
an insult to accuse any furniture-maker of pro-
ducing. It is a show no art lover should miss, all
the same.
There is at Melbourne Palace a “farcical
musical comedy” which, in some particulars,
puts all other musical comedies of the cur-
rent financial year in the shade. “Our Liz'
is the recipient of the above laudation, which
has been made only after profound heart-
searchings and a week-end spent in medita-
tion. In the typical American speedy and
polish “Our Liz” is notably deficient. Where
she excels is in manipulating the humanities
instead of telephones, and in having com-
edians who are sound character actors in-
stead of backfiring merchants of other
people’s gags. A galaxy of English talent
made the thing, and a galaxy mainly of Aus-
tralians makes it breathe. Nellie Bramley,
Walter Cornock, Elsa Brull and Arthur
llemsley are responsible for the engaging
Cockney humor, and, if there is better any-
where about, this Showman is prepared to
take a long tram-ride to hear it. There is
nothing original in the plot. The usual blue-
blooded youth is ordered by the customary
titled father to wed in accordance with his
station, and elects to get off several stops
lower down; but whereas the conventional
musical-comedy would have made his maid-
of-all-work a morganatic daughter of the Earl
of Dorking, in the current foolishness she
remains a maid-of-all-work to the end. And
whereas the conventional musical-comedy
would portray the matter before scenery
irrelevantly gorgeous, this unusual specimen
does it in the sordid environment of a room
in the Old Kent-road, with china dogs,
Japanese firescreen, red flannel tablecloth,
horsehair sofa and muslin curtains, all com-
plete. That much of the splendor ordinarily
poured out on such productions is unneces-
sary was shown by the laughter that en-
veloped this shabbily-upholstered act, where
Nellie Bramley, as Liz, and Walter Cornock,
as her brother, instruct the family in the
etiquette of a fashionable afternoon-tea.
After the second curtain the piece resumes
business as usual in an ornate caravanserai
for millionaires at Monte Carlo, in order to
enable Fannie Benstead to sing badly, Kelso
Henderson and Nell Malmgren to dance
athletically and an attenuated chorus to dis-
turb the dust of the cabaret carpet.
Tondeleyo will commence poisoning her
white man at Melbourne Royal on Saturday,
the numbers desiring to witness the interest-
ing crime having outgrown the accommoda-
tion at the King’s. A new Sentimental
Bloke in Fred MacDonald and a fresh
Ginger Mick in Bert Bailey will commence
to mooch at the latter playhouse on the
same date, when Dulcie Cherry, whose last
appearance was with Allan Wilkspeare, will
cliyack the mob as Doreen. The knock-off
whistle will blow at the Royal to-morrow
night for “Give and Take.” At His
Majesty’s the caslibox is singing “Tell Me
More,” and large crowds at the Princess are
being warned nightly that the biological con-
sequence of grafting “Abie’s Irish Rose” on
sound Hebrew stock is invariably twins.
# * * Sti
Picture-frames have been improved on, but
not Rubens, and chisels arc harder, but
Praxiteles remains unsurpassed. Also much
music has been scored since Beethoven dipped
bis pen into his heart’s blood and scribbled
his Fifth Symphony; but that proud chal-
lenge to a wowser world retains its place
as the Marseillaise of youth, love and gaiety
marching on the citadels of puritanical hate.
As interpreted on Friday by Bernard Heinze
and his Melbourne University Symphonists,
it was in spots less of a marching song than
a parade round the class-room; but the
second movement was sufficiently exhilarat-
ing, and the scherzo of the third, the love-
liest lyric ever penned, was rendered with
some vim. The performance premised much
pleasure for music-lovers in the coming year,
when Ludwig will have been a century dumb,
and when Melbourne conductors have warned
us to expect a perfect spate of the masters
compositions. The rest of the programme
helped to complete one of the richest repasts
this troupe has spread, and included four
sea pictures by Frank Bridges; the venerable
Hattenbacli extracting from his ’cello, in a
somewhat flaccid mood, the melody of one ot
his own concertos, a cheery work; a very
vigorous singing of Briinhilde]s battle-cry, by
Elsie Davies, and a repetition of Cesar
Franck’s tone poem, “Le Chasseur maudit,
which contains less thought than uproar.
Some of the Australian talent which has
been driven from the legitimate stage by the
alien influx is at Melbourne Tivoli, where
Brian Lawrence is melodiously helping the
Monks of St. Bernard to find wanderers in
the snow. Musically, the turn is excellent,
but as an exhibition of first aid it is deplor-
able. Another Australian is Athol Tier, a
comedian gifted with genuine originality and
universal joints. Of the importations, this
Showman has respect for the Monroe
Brothers, two humorous and astounding
bounders, but finds little good to say ot
Frankie Heath, the official star, who has
an irritating restlessness as well as atmo-
spherics in the voice. But quite a lot ot
people don’t mind.
(Continued on pnga 36.)


INSTANT ENGINE
“PICKUP” IN
CITY TRAFFIC
is absolutely essential but such a
performance is only possible when
your battery is reliable. A
WESTINGHOUSE BATTERY
First Cost Moderate-
Upkeep Low:
always keeps you
out of embarras-
sing positions, be-
cause its wonderful
power is there
when you need it
most.
For dependable power
insist on a WESTING-
HOUSE BATTERY
for your car.
WESTINGHOUSE
8 BATTE RIE S 8
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Wm. Hudd & Co„ 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : Anderson & Co., Durham Street, Auckland District.
Alfred Atkinson, Whangarei, North Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Ltd., Blair Street. Wellington.
Freeman & Toon, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch
Lawrence & James, Stone’s Building, Dunedin.
We st cl ox
REDUCED PRICES
Sleep-Meter
Baby Ben
17 /6
76
m
America
%
Big Ben
Luminous
25
/-
Pocket Ben
%
An alarm clock’s duty
/CALLING you on time in the morning is but
the first job of a good alarm clock. After
performing that duty satisfactorily it should stand
by all day and tell you the correct time.
If your clock is a Westclox, you may be sure
that it will, for all Westclox are well made and care-
fully tested. They are noted for the good time
they keep and the long service they render.
Big Ben 17/6; Baby Ben 17/6; Sleep-Meter 10/6;
America, 8/6; Blue Bird, 9j6; Pocket Ben, 8/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 16/-; Glo-Ben, 12/6;
Big Ben Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 25/-;
Black Bird Luminous, 13/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
®y APPOINTMENT T®
g.M. THE KINO
REDUCED PRICE of the famous
19160 h p
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
SSL,. >:
ICH 1 DIEN
BY APPOINTMENT TO
f1.8.H. THE PRINCE OF WALE®
Makes it the
BEST VALUE
being offered to-day
The choice of H.M. the King, H.R.H. the Prince
of Wales, and many other well-known celebrities.
The 19.60-h.p. Crossley now sells in Australia at the same price as in England.
Bear this important fact in mind, and remember that a similar
model in every respect won the World s Record for Reliability,
by running 25,000 miles under the official observation of the
R.A.C. with only 3\ minutes road stop. The petrol consumption
for the whole 25,000 miles averaged 25.9 miles per gallon, 3000
miles per gallon of oil, and the original five tyres and tubes
completed the whole 25,000 miles.
Another 19.60-h.p. Crossley was the first British car to run from
Adelaide to Darwin and back, after having previously run 30,000
miles.
The lines are extremely beautiful, and the car has easily won
every beauty competition in which it was entered in England
and on the Continent.
No other car in the world has won such a wonderful reputation
for performance and appearance.
No other car in the world is owned by more people notable in
the world’s affairs.
It can indubitably be termed “The Aristocrat of Motor-cars.’’
Note the extraordinarily low selling prices and call for a
demonstration.
19.60-h.p. Five-seater Tourer, English Coachwork
19.60-h.p. Seven-seater Tourer, English Coachwork
19.60-h.p. Limousine Saloon • *
In Australia In England
£785 £785
£BlO £BlO
£1395
CROSSLEY MOTORS (Aust.l, Ltd
87 William Street, Sydney.


MARTELLS
BRANDY
h
fgh
c IWe Essence of
Hospitality 3
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality*
From the Cognac District
of France only.
SHIRTS
are guaratileedb
b give satisfaction
“They Fit”
fg
.Made In Australia
The versatile Jim Gerald is this week
blithering through “The Troubles of Hector”
and packing Melbourne Bijou in the process.
At the Melbourne Athenaeum this week
Kaai’s Hawaiian Troubadours, armed with
steel-wire guitars and taro-patch fiddles, are
reproducing the slow, hot beat of passionate
hearts, the bubble of beer into a jug and the
death chant of flies cut off by a piece of tangle-
foot in all the ardor of their splendid youth.
The Hawaiians, it seems, only learnt the
banjo in 1817, having previously extracted
melody from seasliells and by beating skulls,
and it takes over a century to put more into
a nation’s music than the broody melancholy
inspired by the sight of a brown girl in a
few tufts of shivery-grass between the palms.
The banjo, even when its marriage to the
harp produces a lot of little ukuleles, is a
limited instrument, best heard across a wide
expanse of ocean ; but the people under in-
spection are certainly masters and mistresses
of their island art, and some of their effects
are alluring. The stout and merry Queenie
is the gravity remover of the tribe, and Nape
is its Chaliapin.
$ $ $
Elsa Stralia’s powerful voice is once
more spreading the marmalade of song upon
the rounds of celluloid at Melbourne Majes-
tic, the results of thus varying the dumb
show having gratified the management. Chief
among the pictures' is the risible “His
Majesty Bunker Bean,” a clerk who thinks
he is an avatar of the late Emperor N.
Bonaparte. Hoyt’s screen is trying to re-
strain the excitable Jack Holt within its
borders in a thrilling shooting contest called
“The Enchanted Hill,” by Peter B. Kyne,
in which American cockies use aeroplanes to
make visits on their neighbors. A feature of
this confection is the stereoscopic effect
obtained by a new method of photography.
Rivulets of tears have commenced to flow
at the Auditorium, where “Stella Dallas,” a
heart throb previously diagnosed in these
pages, has started on a long season with an
orchestra of 50.
•s" *•' H*
The advancement of the drama and the
cause of charity are walking hand in hand
with the Melbourne Theatre Association’s
policy of staging new plays performed by
professionals at matinees. Ernest Denny’s
comedy, “Vanity,” will be the offering at the
Palace to-morrow afternoon, and in it John
Cairns, an English actor, will make his first
genuflection here.
** * *
Conductor Mansley Greer, being in the
grip of ’flu, had to hand over his baton to
G. E. Wilson for the Vic. Liedertafol’s 105tli
concert. Judging by sundry dissonances,
several of the choristers were also affected,
the disturbance being particularly apparent
in Hegar’s “Phantom Host.” About the best
offering was the unaccompanied “Lovely
Night” of Chwatal. Elgar’s “As Torrents
in Summer,” bracketed with this, should be
better suited to a mixed choir. Stanford’s
“Cavalier Songs,” with Alexander Raff as
soloist, needed more gusto. “Marching
Along” was the best of the three. A group
of sea siongs was given with more appro-
priate spirit. Elsy Treweek sang very plea-
santly some modern English songs, an aria
from “The Prodigal Son” and Abt’s juicily
sentimental “Still Is the Night.” Alexander
Raff’s fine voice was suited to most of his
offerings, and Raymond Lambert, a young
Belgian pianist who is making himself known
to listeners-in, gleaned double encores, albeit
in some numbers he showed a tendency to
hurry the tempo.
Two starters in the Trial Stakes:—
He would be a reckless punter who, on the form
displayed by Mabel Pye and Stephanie Taylor in
their show of oils and water-colors at Melbourne
Athenaeum, would lay his critical fiver either way. A
rudimentary sense of color is evident in the latter
lady, while the other struggles womanfully with the
mysteries of form. They get the better of her in
the portraits, but are partly mastered in her stills.
“Scaramouche,” at Adelaide Wondergraph,
is a striking picture of the French Revolu-
tion with most of the horrors in the back-
ground. There are interesting glimpses of
Danton and Napoleon and others destined
for fame; and at the end Lewis Stone is
really moving when he takes his sword and
goes down the great staircase to face the
mob while his family gets away to safety.
The jolly white stallion Silver King is at
West’s; also a remarkable “Compromise,” in
which the gentle heroine well and truly
uses a riding-whip on a little cat who has
been asking for it all through. More horse
at the Pav, with Tom Mix thrown in; and
at the York, Lewis Stone again, as titular
hero this time, and Thomas Meighan in
Ireland as an American co. sees it. Pav-
lova. social pet and unrivalled dancer, had a
tremendous send-off; and at the Royal, Mary
surnamed Mercenary has just starred her
Fair-and-Warmer work.
Poverty
Point
IT’S A HARD LIFE.
DAUBE R: “Five hundred wouldn't buy that picture.”
CRITIC : “I don't blame them”
“Flaming Youth”: The public is now
assured that “there is to be nothing objec-
tionable” about “For the Term of His
Natural Life,” as filmed; “all the objec-
tionable features are to be left out.” If this
means that we are not to have a close-up of
Gabbett gnawing the shin-bone of a fellow-
escapee I’m not going to see the dashed thing.
“Hamfat” : Josie Melville doesn’t get her
first British job in London itself, but she
has fallen into a part that she knows, as
the lead in “Kid Boots.” The show is to
open at Manchester, and will visit other
provincial centres.
“Curtain Raiser”: The brightest gem in
the string of distractions E. J. Tait lately
contracted for in Europe was a grand-opera
season for 1927. Brother Nevin Tait is now
in the Mecca of Fascismo engaging voices, and
I hope he won’t engage too many ; there should
be room for more Australians than participated
in the 1924 season. Moscovitch, who did
well here with “The Outsider,” and exceed-
ing ill with “The Merchant,” is en route
with a London co. He will open in Sep-
tember with “The Fake,” a recent scratch
from the pen of Frederick Lonsdale. To
complete the circle of invasion, an American
co. has left ’Frisco with “Is Zat So?” a
comedy which hit London where it keeps
its laughs.
“Hasen”: Repeated assertions that “White
Cargo” isn’t close to the knuckle have appa-
rently failed to convince Mr. and Mrs. Mel-
bourne that it is. At all events, the happy
consummation (for the box-office) of fulmina-
tion, denouncement and threats from the
pulpit, the press and the police has not been
reached. Leon Gordon has now played an-
other card from the old pack—the sugges-
tion of a free matinee for clergymen. But
even this doesn’t always answer. There is
an ancient tale of a manager who gave such
a matinfie. Later a friend found him on the
point of destroying himself. The clerical
audience had voted on his show and pro-
nounced it thoroughly clean.
“L.H.P.”: Ella Carrington was fated to
play melodrama most of her life, but she
was capable of better things. I remember
her in 1886, when she and her husband,
Charlie Taylor, were supporting American
tragedian W. E. Sheridan in a round of clas-
sical works at the Princess Theatre, Dunedin
(M.L.) ; Ella was an excellent Nerissa in
“The Merchant of Venice.” Sheridan opened
the season with “King Lear,” in which he
was fine, and another of his productions was
Massinger’s “A New Way to Pay Old Debts.”
Charlie Berkeley, subsequently the Firm’s
M.L. representative for many years, and
lately retired, was a member of the co.
“Bill Bowyang”: Ned Travers, a clever
acrobat 30 years back, when he was a mem-
ber of Bert Willison’s circus, plans a return
to the vaudeville stage. During the past
15 years Travers has been prospecting on
the roof of Queensland, chiefly in the Cape
York country, and he has lately been
training half a dozen young Batavia River
aborigines in acrobatic work. This act is
ver" clever, and the dusky children are work-
ing up a feature in which miniature boomer-
angs circle over the heads of the audience
and return to the throwers on the stage.
“Caul-boy” : The taboo on Australian actors
threatens to extend to Australian scene-
painters. “Tell Me More,” the new musi-
comedy in Melbourne, goes forward mainly
in front of scenery by the Harkers, of Lon-
don. It is nothing very special, either.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : W. J. Turner, son of
Walter J. Turner, who used to be largely
in the Australian public eye when his con-
certs at the Melbourne Exhibition had a
boom, has just published “Orpheus, or the
Music of the Future,” which has been given
considerable attention. Mr. Turner is the
music critic of the New Statesman. It
was under his father’s direction that Lalla
Miranda and Ada Crossley were launched as
promising vocalists. The former he took in
hand when she was 15.
“Yarra Ben”: In place of brainy little
Lorna Helms, now on her way to England,
Vera Spaull takes up the part of the sten-
ographer in “Give and Take.” Vera has
had a lot of experience since she and Gertie
Cremer played Myltyl and Tyltyl respectively
in Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird.” She will do
well as a grown-up, given the opportunities.
“Wigs” : Dulcie Cherry, one of Allan Wilkie’s
disbanded Shakspearean crowd, has been en-
gaged by Bert Bailey for a part in a some-
what different class of show —Doreen in the
revival of Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke,”
at Melbourne King’s. Bailey himself is the
new Ginger Mick, in which role Tal Ordell
made good in the first production.
“Alwyn”: Sydney Tivoli has had more
names than any other Australian playhouse.
Originally the Scandinavian Hall, it was
known to later generations as St. James Hall,
Sullivan’s Athletic Hall, the Victoria, the
Academy of Music and the Garrick. The
final change to Tivoli was made in 1893.
“A.G.M.” (London) : “Engaged” is the
title of a new farcical comedy by William
Hurlbut produced at the Globe and dealing
with the wildly improbable doings of a young
lady (Margaret Bannerman) who has a hus-
band, three ex-husbands and a fiance whose
sustained devotion leads to very complicated
situations. The young Canadian actress had
very able support from Nina Boucicault, who
played a light-headed mother. Another trifle
is the musical piece at the Strand, “Hearts
and Diamonds,” in which Louise Edwina,
formerly of Covent Garden, plays lead and
Lupino Lane is the diverting comedian. Fol-
lowing Madame Edwina’s somersault, there
is a still greater surprise, for Emmy Dcstinn,
the incomparable operatic star who not long
ago would not even consider a concert con-
tract, has agreed to appear at the Coliseum
in a mixed programme!
“Lud” : Oscar Asche, it transpires, really
did tell his creditors in England that “I
always carried £2OOO in cash in my pocket.”
Oscar’s was a banking corporation, it seems.
“Ancient Prompter”: It is quite true
(alas !) that “London Pride” “frosted immedi-
ately” when staged in Melbourne —it was
never tried anywhere afterwards. But “Peter
Pan” (B. 5/8/’26) should not make Gladys
Unger bear the whole blame. The lady
adapted the piece from a story by Neil Lyons,
who helped her with the dramatisation. It
was the story that did not appeal to Aus-
tralians.
“Feng-Sliui”: “Emer” (P.P. 5/8/’26)
misses the purport of my “intolerant sneer”
at “White Cargo.” I wasn’t concerned with
the Leon Gordon dramaturgy, which is sound
in spots ; I was concerned with the popular
belief, fostered by managerial puffs, that the
piece is a “realistic drama of the tropics.”
It isn’t. It is a fantasy of the Cockney
imagination.
“Caul Boy”: Talking of “language” on
the stage reminds me that two Australian
actresses owe their elevation in London to
an unpremeditated curse. They were doing
the “smalls” in one of those English pro-
vinces where the audience shows its warmest
approval by spitting soft “sissas” through
their teeth. This variant of the British
handclap greeted the best efforts of the
couple through a long and dreary evening,
until the elder girl’s endurance suddenly
snapped. She turned on the bucolics with
“Do something, for the Lord’s sake, you
adjectival Huns!” It was during the war,
too. When Sir Thomas Beecham heard the
story he said, “Here is a lady of personality,”
and he put the two on at the Alhambra.
“Flaming Youth” : Tal Ordell is now on
the picture-production path; he is interested
in the formation of a film-making co. with
a capital—if it can be got—of £lOO,OOO.
Ordell considers that a technical staff cannot
yet be found in Australia, although there are
Australians who have taken to the business
in America, so he plans to secure one from
that country. But writers, actors and all
the rest will be good Australians.
“Kayeff”: The most piebald boycott I’ve
met occurred at Banaba (Ocean Island),
where the white picture-show was declared
“black” by Chinese mechanics and coolies
owing to a squabble with an Ellice Island
police-boy. The latter had refused to admit
Chinese accompanied by Gilbertese women;
so the Chinks picketed the pitcher-house, and
sent all their countrymen right-about. They
were pretty thorough, too, for they built a
theatre, imported silks and costumes from
China, and put on three shows a week.
Refreshment-stalls sprang up, and the pro-
prietors did a brisk business with the Kanaka
laborers, thus dealing another knock to the
: cinema-man. The Kanakas couldn’t make
out what the plays were about, but as the
comedian was identifiable by a large colored
, patch on his clothes, they had a fair idea
: of when to laugh. What was more import-
ant, admission was free,
i “M.F.T.”: Evidently others shared my
: opinion that the performer was the Worst
Comedian for Ages. Out of the awful
1 silence that fell where polite applause was
expected came a voice saying, “Bill, ’e’s the
sort of funeral w’ere the ’earse ’orses drop
: dead.” “Garn, ’e’s not a funeral,” replied
, Bill. “You can drunk at a funeral.”
FAREWELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Melba said her farewell at Covent Garden was the
most wonderful night of her life. She said, ‘I have
retired but. .. .1 cannot give up singing altogether.’ ”
Dame, it is done! A soft, disturbing knell,
The tapestry of twilight peace that stains,
Comes' to our ears your final, fond farewell;
That “saddest word” is said; now nought, remains
To clothe the quiet evening of our days
With beauty, save remembrance of the spell
That once you flung about us to amaze
And hold us thrilled and willing slaves, to tell
Of wine of magic poured from Music’s cup
By 0ne.... But, wait! What’s this? Can’t give it
up?
Then is it done? Like some too harsh alarm,
That shrills its horror on the hateful night
And rapes us from the soft, enfolding arm
Of mistress sleep, soul-sick with panic fright,
And then is silent for a blessed space;
But, when taut nerves may know the utmost harm,
Clamors again; and thus with little grace
Is still, is shrill —so, by your pardon, ma’am,
Appears this message to my fearful eye:
Set at “Repeating” is that last good-bye!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


h\
U/
im i
wM
m
/'A
*. A
A>
i
snrn
SB
Wfll
27
-a
1
K 23
u
16
■f"
©
the World's greatest Sceptic said:
“There’s no such animal!”
THE World’s Greatest Sceptic, visiting the Zoo, gazed
for half an hour at a giraffe browsing in the tree-
tops, and then declared incredulously—“ There’s no such
animal!’’
On a par with him is the sceptic who looks at Old Court
Whisky, notes the fact that it must be 100 per cent. Pure
Malt Whisky by Commonwealth regulation, notes the
number of years it must be matured in wood, and then
says, in face of all these facts, “Australia can t make
good whisky.’’
He pays for his scepticism with several extra pence per
nobbier and a bad head the next day—if the imported
whisky he insists upon contains a big percentage of
foreign spirit, as it might under existing conditions.
Come out of the ranks of sceptics and join the loyal
Australians, who know a good whisky when they taste it.
ts Old Court” costs you pence
less per nobbier and shillings
less per bottle.
♦
TheW)rlds Purest
6>
rti
EsalT
u• • ®
vVrp
iK’a
|r anS jJuPwjlii
DISTILLED j. 6C'TTi_£'| V.Hjjs
FEDERAL PiSTlLtJEßipffi'9l
Ml , F.'-JH N. F »•••••! «
e
TK
A
ii'il
mu


Cut this out to keep for reference.
JELLY
foods
PURE
We have been asking you to try REX-PYE hot.
Now try this
REX-PYE
RECIPE
It makes a delicious dish.
INGREDIENTS.
One lib. tin REX-PYE, one onion, one carrot, one turnip,
one cooking apple, two tomatoes, sprig of parsley,
sprinkling of tapioca, salt to taste, one cup stock (if
not available use one cup water with spoonful of beef
extract).
METHOD.
Slice the onion, cut carrot and turnip into dice, cut
apple and tomatoes into fairly large pieces, chop parsley
finely, add tapioca and one cup water—simmer until
all is thoroughly cooked.
Cut the contents of the tin of REX-PYE into
pieces one inch square; add also the cup of stock.
When all is hot pour into a pie dish and cover top with
a thin layer of pastry. Place in a quick oven and
serve piping hot.
REX-PYE is the finest Meat in the world.
Packed in lib. and Üb. solderless cans.
rrr)
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


Legal Notice.
TO THE WIFE OF CHARLES NOEI
LEWIS (some 30 years ago of Sydney
New South Wales), and his brother FRANL
HENDERSON LEWIS, formerly of London
England, but later of Perth, Western Aus
tralia, or their issue, or all persons claiming
hy, through or under her, him or them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 22nd
day of July, 1926, by a Judge of the Suprenn
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of December, 1926, your
claim to the estate of Charles Noel Lewis,
deceased, who died at Wellington on the 28tli
day of November, 1913, intestate, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 24th day of July
1926.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
MARY JANE BLOOMFIELD, deceased.
Efforts are being made by the Executor
to trace the whereabouts of deceased’s eldest
daughter, Alice Maud Cook, widow of James
Cook, of Queensland, and her two children
Beattie Cook and William Cook. Informa-
tion should be sent to Messrs Sly and
Bussell. 369 George Street, Sydney, Solicitors
to the Estate.
Amusement*.
pALACE THEATRE, MEIBOCBNE
Lessee .. Hugh J. Ward Theatres, Ltd.
Direction Wilfred Cotton
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OUR LIZ.
THE MERRIEST MUSICAL SHOW IN TOWN.
Plan at Glen’s.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pound*
are lost annually in Wild Cat com
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smalles'
Investor as for the Largest. In fact
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/
per single copy; 22/6 per annum
BUY YOUR LINEN DIRECT FROM
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
THE House of Robinson & Cleaver has been making
fine linen for 55 years in Belfast—the home of Irish
Linen—and sending it to satisfied customers all over the
world. The beautifully illustrated catalogue offered below
shows you how you save by buying linen direct from this
famous old House. Send for your copy now.
FREE!
This large beautifully
illustrated Catalogue
VCo SoJL .of fine Irish
Linens, together with
samples, will be sent
you free and post free.
Table, Bed and Household Linen
Our Damask Table Lir.en is well known for its good
quality, beauty of design and lovely white satin
finish. We stock it in all grades. Table Cloths
2 yards square from 11/3 each with Napkins to
match 22 x 22 ins. 12 6 per doz. and so on up to
qu dities used by Royalty.
Prices of all kinds of Linen goods are considerably
down ; for instance, we have good wearing Linen
Sheets for single beds 2x3 yards at 33/9 per pair,
Linen Pillow Cases 20 x 30 ins from 2/11 each.
LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS
We offer only perfect goods, such as Ladies' Linen
Handkerchiefs, made of good quality pure Linen
hemstitched, measuring about 12 ins square. Ex
ceptional value from 4/9 per doz. In Men's sizes
fiom 8 3 per doz. Ladies' Linen Initial handker-
chiefs about 11 ins, square from 5/6 per doz Ladies’
Embroidered Linen handserchie s f oms/3 per doz.
Any monogram can be embroidered by hand at
short notice.
THE DELIVERY OF ALL GOODS IS
GUARANTEED. ORDERS OF OVE < £lO
CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS lOST
TO DESTINA I lON, OR BY STEAMER
TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRE'AND
The Home of
Irish Linen
There’s an RCA
RADIOTRON
for every purpose
av
MS®
For dry battery sets
Radiotrons UX-199,'WD-11, WX-12
for detection and amplification.
Power Radiotron UX-120 for the
last audio stage for added power —
greater volume—clearer tone.
For storage battery sets
Radiotron UX-200, for the detector
socket.
Radiotron UX-201-A for the radio
frequency sockets and the first audio
stage.
Radiotron UX-112 or Radiotron
UX-171 for the last audio stage.
For your own protection always look
for the RCA mark on the base and in-
side the glass of every valve you buy.
If your dealer does not handle Radiotrons,
communicate with:
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Branch Office at 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Australian General Electric Company.
Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Distributors in Australia for the
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
RCA Rad iotro n
o
aero
/
rAN ADA —that wonderland teeming with
romance and adventure—opens unknown
beauties to those who would escape from the
hustle and bustle of life in a crowded city.
The glories, splendour and majesty of the Canadian
Rockies form an effective background for the shining
lakes and other beauty spots that lie at their feet and
far away from all the worries and cares you can rest for
awhile in a cosy, jolly bungalow camp —or in a luxuri-
ous hotel.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
system of transportation is the most up-to-date and modern
railway system in the world. The equipment is designed for
the greatest comfort, while the service of all employees is
unequalled.
Plan ahead —book your accommodation for trains, hotels and steam-
ships prior to your departure. Through tickets to England and the
Continent of Europe are obtainable in connection with the Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver, and the Canadian Pacific
Steamship services across the Atlantic. The New Quadruple-screw
Motor Ship "Aorangi’ (23,000 tons displacement) in connection with
the favorite s.s. "Niagara” afford an unrivalled service to and from
Vancouver, B.C.
For full information apply, any office of the Union S.S Co . of .V 7. any
Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, liepresentative, Canadian Pacific HaiLwai
Co., Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
Amalgamated Cash Orders
LIMITED
(To be registered under the Companies Act 1899, New South Wales.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £500,000
Divided into 350,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, and 150,000 Cumulative 10
per cent. Preference Shares of £1 each.
150,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each are now offered
for public subscription, payable 2/- per share on application, 2/- per
share on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than 1/- per
share at intervals of not less than one month. These shares are
preferential as to Capital as well as Dividends.
250,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are also offered for public subscription,
payable 2/- per share on application, 2/- per share on allotment, and
the balance in calls of not more than 1/- per share at intervals of not
less than one month.
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are to be held under option to the Pro-
moters in terms of agreement, mentioned in the body of the prospectus,
and if the option is exercised the full face value of the shares w 11 be
paid to the Company in cash.
500,000
DIRECTORS:
A. Faulkner Waters, Esq. (late Managing Director W. T. Waters and Co., Ltd.), Albyn
Road, Strathfield.
William Beaumont Small, Esq., F.C.P.A. (Public Accountant), 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
W. J. Proud, Esq. (Managing Director Proud’s, Ltd.), corner Pitt and King Streets,
Sydney.
BANKERS:
The Bank of Australasia, Martin Place, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Minter, Simpson and Co., Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. Starkey and Starkey, Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE (pro tern.):
E. N. Austin, A.C.P.A., c/o Messrs. W. B. Small and Co., Accountants and Auditors,
3 Spring Street, Sydney.
BROKER:
J. T. Walton, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS:
The objects for which this Company is incorporated are set out very fully in the
Memorandum of Association, but, in brief, one of its principal objects will be dealing in
what are generally known as “Cash Orders,” and, in furtherance of this object, the
acquisition of similar companies or firms already operating (negotiations to achieve this
latter object are already in train), and the establishment of Branches or Agencies in
the Cities, Suburbs and Country Towns of New South Wales and other States of the
Commonwealth.
CONTRACTS:
There is only one contract affecting this Prospectus, and that dated the 9th day of
August, 1926, made between John Thomas Walton of the one part, and Percival John
Evennett, as Trustee, on behalf of the Company, of the second part. This contract may
be inspected at the registered office of the Company.
REGISTRATION OF THE COMPANY.
The Company's Solicitors have received instructions to proceed with the registration
of the Company with as little delay as possible, and it is anticipated that the registration
will be effected on or about the 18th August, 1926.
For Prospectus and full particulars apply to
J. T. WALTON, 4 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITSFv RUBBER
Amusements.
VI) K E V’S CIII E E TIIEA T K E S
J. O. WH-UAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE MASK AND THE FACE.
ROYAL:
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
PALACE: THE CLIMAX.
PULLERS’ TIIEA T U E, SVI)N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
TIIE WORLD’S REST VAUDEX ILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
pICKAIt I) S’ TI V O 1.1 THHAT It E S.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CE LEBRITY VA UDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
E J. CARROLL says
all
THE BEST PEOPLE
are doing “it”
at
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WHITE CARGO.
pU IN CESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees Baile3 r and Grant
Direction E. J. Carroll
COMMENCING SATURDAY, AUGUST 14.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
By C. J. DENNIS.
With Bert Bailey as GINGER MICK.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
II EN/E U M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
IvAAI’S HAWAIIAN TROUBADOURS
IN
A NIGHT IN HONOLULU.
Plans at Allan’s.
jy EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices Plan Cen. 3251.
V.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Second week of the world-famous soprano
MADAME ELSA STB ALIA.
In Gems from the Operas.
The Picture Programme includes,
CLAIRE WINDSOR in
SOULS FOR SABLES.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 77&0.
U O V T ’ s I) E LUXE THEATRE.
■■ MELBOURNE
JACK HOLT in Peter B. Kyne’s
THE ENCHANTED HILL.
ALSO
MORGANSON’S FINISH,
From the story by Jack London.
Prices as usual.
Legal Notice.
CTATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF
° KIN.
Re FRANK LYSAGHT, late of Adavale, in
the State of Queensland, deceased,
Invalid Pensioner.
Notice is hereby given that all persons,
claiming to be next of kin of the above-
named Frank Lysaght, late of Adavale, in
the State of Queensland, deceased, who died
on or about the twenty-fourth day of Sep-
tember, 1925, a.d., at Milo station, via Ada-
vale, in the said State, are hereby required
to forward proof of their relationship to
the Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before
the eighth day of November, 1926. And that
after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to. dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this thirtieth day of July, 1926.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitc to the. Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
i I»f8
i •
Ulissing Friends.
CSTATE HANNAH DICKINSON, of
Gosfortli, England. Will daughter
Ethel May Dickinson, please communicate
with Public Trustee, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
missing Friends.
JF LAURA ELLEN BOYD, daughter of the late
Theophilus Henry Bolger, will communicate with
the undersigned, she will hear of something to her
advantage.
WEAVER & ALLWORTH, Solicitors,
Australasia Chambers, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
COMPANY LIMITED
85 Queen Street, Melbourne*
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Hon. DONALD MACKINNON, Chairman. IVOR EVANS, Esq.
SIR EDWARD MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., Iv.C., Vice-Chairman. J. J. FALCONER, Esq.
ALBERT S. AUSTIN, Esq., M.B.E. Hon. J. G. LATHAM, C.M.G., K.C., M.P.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS:
For Presentation to the Seventy-first Ordinary General Meeting- of Shareholders, to be held on
Thursday, the 12th day of August, 1926.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Seventy-first Report.
The accompanying Balance Sheet shows a net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last of £14,273
7s. 10d., from which the interim dividend of 7 per cent., paid in February last, amounting to £5250,
has to be deducted, leaving a balance of £9023 7s. 10d., which it is proposed to apply as follows: —
To further Dividend of 7 per cent. . . . . . . . . . . . . £5250 0 0
To Bonus of 2 per cent. . . .. . ■ . . • ■ • • • • . . 1500 0 0
To writing off balance of cost of additional strong-room. . . . .. 837 3 6
To writing 10 per cent, off office furniture account.. .. .. .. 82 0 0
To balance .. .. •• •• •• •• .. .. 1354 4 4
£9023 7 10
By older of the Board,
C. T. MARTIN, Acting Manager.
COMPANIES ACT 1915.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1926.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised capital,
200,000 shares .of
£2/10/- each . , £500,000 0 0
Less unissued . . 125,000 0 0
£375,000 0 0
Less uncalled . . 300,000 0 0
Capital paid up -in-money- . . .. £75,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .., . . . . 22,000 0 0
Profit and Loss account .. .. 14,639 6 6
£111,639 6 6
Overdrawn trust accounts with
bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective trusts —see contra £49,039 18 8
ASSETS.
Guarantee fund held by the Treasurer
of Victoria
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment stock,
£17,270, at cost. . £17,103 15 0
Victorian Government
4 per cent, stock,
£llOO, at cost . . 869 0 0
Melb. and Metrop.
Board of Works 31
per cent, stock,
£30,400, at cost 28,773 10 0
Melb. and Metrop.
Board of Works 54
per cent, stock,
£lOOO, at cost.. 1,000 0 0
Real estate (company’s premises), at
cost
Cash in hand and at bankers
Sundry debtors for commissions, etc.
(after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Fixtures, fittings and office furniture
(after providing for depreciation)
£lO,OOO 0 0
£47,746 5 0
15,962 9 4
1,743 19 6
35,369 4 11
817 7 9
£111,639 6 6
Moneys advanced to trust estates, for
which assets of the trusts are held
by the company —see contra .. £49,039 18 S
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for the Year Ended 30th June, 1926.
To directors’ and auditors’ fees,
salaries, advertising, stationery,
office and other expenses .. £21,218 4 0
Federal and State income taxes
for year .. .. ... .. 2,052 12 4
Bonus to staff . . .. . . 1,542 0 0
Balance, net profit for year,
carried down .. .'. .. 14,273 7 10
£39,086 ' 4 2
1926. —-Ist February.
To interim dividend of 7 per
cent . . . . . . . . £5,200 , 0 0
1926. —30th June.
To balance .. .. .. ~ 14,639 0 6
£19,889 6 0
By commission, rents, interest on
investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies .. .. .. .£39,086 4 2
£39,086 4
1925.—30th June.
By balance .. .. .. .. £21,843 18
Less further divi-
dend of 7 pei’
cent. .. ..£5,250 0 0
Writing off part
cost of addi-
tional strong-
room .. . . 900 0 0
Writing 10 per
cent, off office
furni t u r e '
account .• 78 0 0
Transfer to reserve
fund . . . . 10,000 0 0
_ . 16,228 0
2
8
0
1926. —30th June.
By. net profit for year, as above. .
£5,615 18 8
14,273 7 10
£19,889 6 6
CERTIFICATE BY DIRECTORS.
We, Edward Fancourt Mitchell and Ivor Evans, being directors of The Equity Trustees,
and Agency Company Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above balance sheet
and is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the company’s affairs.
Executors
is correct
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1926
E. F. MITCHELL 1
IVOR EVANS f
Directors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We report that in our opinion the accompanying balance sheet is properly drawn up
true and correct view: of the state of the company’s affairs, according to the best of our
the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the company. We have
information and explanations we have required.
, and exhibits a
information and
obtained all the
Melbourne, 26th July, 1926.
F. L. SMYTH, F.C.P.A. 1
W. F. COLES, A.C.P.A. J
Auditors.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accompany.
W. Sinclair: Old arguments, and you don't
put them in any new way. .. .Rose C.: Not quite
enough meat... .D.F.: Bush symphony has merit but
ends on a cracked note... .K.R.M.P.: “Morning” is
mentally misty and “Rain Song” has got moisture
in the carburetter. .. .N.W.L.: Share your indignation
but can’t spare you space.... Flagvvagger: You
needn’t get a typewriter out of consideration for
sub-editors; your fist is a pure j0y.... Luke S.:
But it won’t do others any harm to find out what
you know. By the way, you express it very well,
.... Fervicax: Thanks, no doubt you’re right; just
retiring chief of the ’Asia, C. J. Henderson, is the
tenth to hold either that or a corresponding office.
....Eileen B.: That is not verse nor anything like
it... .G.W.: Not much of a legend and particularly
badly t01d.... J.A.K.; A dreary narration... .E.W.
(Woy Woy) : Makes a very pale story.... Frank M.:
Too trifling.... Graeme C. McD.: It isn’t verse; it’s
awful.... H.L.: “The Way” is long, its prospect’s
cold, its theme is so infernal 01d....W.8.: Un-
convincing.... Edith H.: Valencia’s legs can’t dance
in this cabaret.... Stan M.: How can the sky back-
ground itself?. . . . Mary. E. E.: Why all the “Thou”-
ing and “Thy”-ing?. .. .Patky: “Where the yellow
moon is shining, ’tis there I want to die.” Well,
you leave it pretty vague.... Myall: In 20 lines
you use the whole of the jobbing poet’s stock-in-
trade from “skies of azure blue” down to “wattle
g01d”... .L.P.S.: Struck the rocks in the last few lines.
.... J.D.: Your “Day” is most uneventful. ...D.lt.L.:
Dentist yarn would make a par.... .F.S.S.;
Uneven.... Epicure: Fed up... . J.1.R.: “Ashes”
have not one glowing ember. .. .A.R.C.: Horse
verse nearly found a stable; it’s gallop-
ing back. .. .Wesley N.: “The Kiss” gives us
no thrill... .J.J.C.: Amusing but unsuitable....
L.R.8.: “After Rain” is muddy... .J.S.G.: Horse
is a non-starter... .Alan I.: Not up, but good for
your age. We’ll hear from you later, no doubt....
0.L.G.: “The stony tomb will weep” is an amazing
prognostication. .. .Art M.: Your verse would add
gloom to an undertaker’s funeral. .. .G.M.T.: “This
story is true in every detail.” But alas! it isn’t
a story... .S.R.S.: You infringe another bard’s copy-
right in talking of the flag that “flies inflexible as
Fate”.... .P.R.0.: Doesn’t strike u5....M.G. (Ben-
digo): Nowhere near. . . .L.M.M.: The palm and its
seller don’t make g00d....K.D. (Newmarket): The
rhymes are rocky.... Arthur O.: It leaves us rather
cold. . . .Hare H.: Very poor. . . .8.8. G.: Not up by
a long -way....R.W. (Hamilton): “Short” and
“taught” don’t rhyme in this paper. .. .H.J.W.: It
is pretty horrible... .E.L. (Ferguson): Pleasant, but
has not substance enough... .A.D.M.: Both miss....
A. : The verse is too much out of shape....
Robert H.: Paul and Elijah make poor reading....
Tomb: Not enough there. .. .Anthony: Rambling
articles of that sort are no use to u5....5.W.
(Singapore) : Both yarns lack an essential something
in color and interest. .. .481: Not lively enough....
J.H.L.: Poor stuff. .. .D. 8.0.: Full of commonplaces.
... .D.P.M.: All have some quality, yet all miss....
F. J.: Fails.... Gladys M.: Too crude for The B.
. ...P.M.S.: Not bad; not good—not anything....
Ronamil: Party politicians may consider themselves
duly cussed.... E. 0.: Too didactic... .E.W.: “King
Billy” misses. .. .Jim G.: “The Hatter” is an in-
ventory carelessly chucked into rhyme... .E.M.E.:
You might resubmit after attending .to, the clumsy
phrases... .R.C. : Spoilt by minor weaknesses....
B. : Can’t quite make out what you mean; perhaps
you only mean to make lines that sound nice....
Tom E.: “Ride” loses itself in a bush of words....
G. : Crude. .. .P.0.R.: It’s an earnest plea, all
right:—.
Stay thy hand, relentless flower-gatherer ;
Do not pluck yon tender flower,
Lest you pick it out loots and all,
And destroy its beauty’s power.
Oh, I do implore you, stay!
Lest our bushland loveliness cease;
Turn your back and go your way.
Now you will do it, won’t you, please?
... .G.E.8.: Poem about girl who wept so much over
her lover’s grave that it produced the finest flowers
in the cemetery would have been taken for a joke
only you’re so deadly earnest. .. .T.A.G.: The story
is simply murder. So is the way it's written....
F.0.E.: “The rich undertaker had a valet.” The
valet of the Shadow of Death, no doubt... .S.A.G.:
Before going halfway we saw why the teller of your
yarn had been hailed with joy by the men around
the camp fire. They wanted him to talk them to
sleep... .G.T. (Melb.) : Man who bored a hole through
his enemy with a red-hot poker is not convincing.
... .W.ILK.: Weeping over deserted scenes of child-
hood, always in some country place, is overdone....
5.0. L.: You handicap yourself by writing that is
hard to read... .D.E.G.: Your story finished abruptly
at the third of three (3) corpses. Why baulk at
half a dozen ?... .M.G.: Very near.... Allonville:
Nine “I’s” in the first hundred words ' The I’s of youth,
perhaps... .J.S.G.: “The Bush Carpenter” makes rough
verse. .. .Z.V.W.: Not bad, but you put no fresh
glory into your “Sunset”.... Lochiel: Might do
elsewhere... .J.H.L.: Merely a stale joke cut into
verse lengths. .. .A.C.E.: The manner of telling
leaves it an unthrilling episode... .Baldie: Value
of stories filled with “!” is always open
to “?”... .A.A.L.: At the back of your
picturesque sonnet the mechanic fixings the
scene is too plainly visible... .W.L.S.: You make
your editor send out for some beer, but forgot
to mention that he borrowed the money from the
office boy... .R.G.H.: You can’t have double syllable
rhymes in some stanzas and single in others. Toss
up to decide what you want and keep to it....
A.A.A.: Leads nowhere.... Fred li.: False rhymes
and other weaknesses ; and “Bush Fires” is a rather
dull description. . . .A.M.8.8.: Not enough interest
in story of Bill’s calf-love. .. . J.R.L.: “Fighting
Parson” got no grip upon us. Limerick verses
valueless. .. .J.S.D.: Verses written on Spring should
be free of jolts.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.: First attempts should be reserved for the
family gallery. .. .H.F.P.: You’ve got an obsession
—triangles J.R.S.: More self-confidence wanted:
seek a bolder stroke. .. .E.M.C.: Don’t scratch....
N. 8.8.: Shout it a trim-up R. J.S.: No market fop
tree-climbing cows this week W.A.11.: The burning-
words bandied by Short and Long have been handed
down the ages. .. .E.T.: Forget what you have learned
and start again A.P.: We’re not addicted to the
comic-strip habit G.H.S.E.: Lower half of angler
has mysteriously vanished L.S.": A fourth-year
student should be turning out better work... .M.W.T.:
Your ingenious line does not compensate for the
lack of variety.


hfg
h
fgh
fg
The grids that form the framework of
Willard Battery Plates are cast from pure
lead with just the right amount of anti-
mony added to give them strength and
stiffness. The retaining bars slope inward,
locking the active material firmly in place.
Willard Battery Plates are hand-cast.
that's
Qua!
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND,
asm
n
OHIO, U. S. A.


Roof W ith
Nbrollfd
CORRUGATED
ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEET
The Ideal Roofing for
Industrial Worlcs.
Bust Proof
Acid Proof
Sea Air Proof
Fire Betardant
Non-conductive
Cool in Summer
!Oliminates
condensation
Unaffected by
smoke and steam
The First Cost is
the Last Cost.
Write for Free Catalogue.
JAMES HARDIE & COY., LTD.
SYDNEY: Cr. York and Wynyard Sts.
BRISBANE: A.M.P. Buildings, Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
“An archer is known
By his aim, not by his arrows.”
The same judgment applies with
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
AT THE YARDS LT “
In selling stock the firm consistently hit the mark in
securing top returns for owners. That is why Winch-
combe Carson’s sheep and cattle business prospers.
TRUCK TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Homebush Yards, Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane. ' 3
Is there illness
in the house?
If so, send to-day for a copy of
Benger’s Booklet, post free. This will
help you with the problem of giving
the patient a change of food.
Among the contents are recipes for
the preparation, with Benger’s Food,
of dainty dishes which relieve the
monotony of plain milk diet, so trying
to invalids.
Benger’s Booklet is so full of
interest that even if you have no
invalid in the house you should send
for a copy and keep it safely. A new
edition has just been published.
Benger’s Food is not only very
highly nutritious, but gives relief from
the distress and nervous debility
caused from overworked or disordered
digestion.
hfg
Food
To obtain the Booklet
write name and address
plainly on a post card
and send to-day to
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd, 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
rf any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castiereagh Street, SYDNEY.
h
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
1—
9
HU,
B
Mi
&
PH
2s
if
iiiflfMi
= *lts
If-'sl I c ’1
©l5
Mi
Mi
m
BH
As Shakespeare says: “That is
the Question"
Eucalyptus Oil may be pungent or
extra strong, or may carry excessive
Kucnlyptol, but Is it a potent remedy
for human Ills? Experts say: “No,
more harmful than helpful.”
Bosisto’s "Parrot” Brand Eucalyptus
Is a Potent OH—ln other words, cura-
tive and healing; truly medicinal, and
a powerful germicide.
As an embrocation, the genuine
BOSISTO’S promotes that delightful
feeling of suppleness beloved by the
athlete; and how refreshing after
strenuous exercise!
Put Potency before Pungency by asking for
Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil
The “PARROT” Brand
Sold Everywhere - 1/3 per Bottle
The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH. NO SOAP.
r
Mr. LESLIE HENSON the famous
actor, writes:—“l use ‘Shavex’ every
time I shave, and think it is the quick-
est, cleanest and most delightful pre-
paration ever invented for shaving."
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years man has
been scrubbing his face with soaps full of Soda and
has never reasoned that under such treatment the skin
must suffer? Nothing is more ugly than a face that
looks raw. Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with Soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method where
no bush and soaps full of soda are needed. Shavex is a
skin food. One can shave in half the time, and you
will get a smoother and closer shave than you have ever
had, and shaving will become a pleasure instead of a tor-
ture. Your skin will look and feel like satin, and your
face under this treatment will look twice as young. No
after lotions are required when using
SHAVEX
1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian
Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(Australia) Ltd., (Dept. 4* ). Eagle
& Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney. Zeekol Mnfg. Co., London, Eng.
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of 3d. tamp.
THE MARK OF /
A GOOD RAZOR
Ask any man you know who uses a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn’t think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!”
THE
PLU
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Wowan”: The people who run State
enterprises in Queensland don’t give them
half a chance. Take a case. One department
is trying to justify its existence by delivering
per motor-lorry and two men a class of
goods most needed in prickly-pear-infested
country. Recently I came across the lorry
in a railway town lying idle because the
chauffeur had the toothache and had gone-
to Rockhampton to see a dentist. The “man-
ager” was not allowed to drive, and had to
moon about till the sufferer was convalescent.
His only satisfaction was that he would have
his screw’ paid. The same week two travel-
lers for a big life office passed through per
car, one of them a doctor. They both were
able to drive, and one of the conditions of
their job was that they had to be prepared
to do so. That’s the difference between in-
telligent Private Enterprise and the Queens-
land brand of the State sort.
* * * #
“Max” : Postal franking-machines, such as
the P.M.G. intends to supply to business
houses, were tried in Maoriland 18 or 20
years ago, and discarded. They resembled
small cash registers without keys. Letters
were pushed under an opening at the bottom
of the machine, and a handle turned for a
penny marking. Telegrams and receipts
were also branded, as there is no separate
duty stamp in M.L. Post-office officials called
about once a month, read the machine and
collected a cheque for the amount due. Our
big office discarded the thing because we
found w r e couldn’t limit its use to purely
business franking, although it was locked
when the office closed: all hands in the place,
from office-boy upwards, were suspected of
turning the handle on the family letters.
Another objection was that a letter which
had been through the machine bore the un-
interesting appearance of a circular; but we
should probably have got used to that.
* * * *
“Gregor”: The Australian dye industry,
after a struggle of about 10 years, looks like
petering out. When the war cut off sup-
plies of German-made dyes, a number of
enterprising manufacturers seized the oppor-
tunity to enter the field, and if their earlier
products were only mediocre, it was not long
before they were turning out first-rate stuff.
But they never received the support they de-
served, and the few that struggled on were
hard hit when German dyes began to come
in again and the old lie that only Germans
can make good dye-stuffs was revived. The
country has thus let slip the chance of estab-
lishing a national industry which would be
worth millions to it. In America the initial
products of chemical manufacturers who
seized the same war-time opportunity were
worse than those of Australia, but they per-
severed under the shelter of an almost pro-
hibitive tariff, and to-day are producing high-
quality dyestuffs to the value of something
like 10 millions a year.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: A tip for bush racing-club
committees. A cable retrieved from one of
Melbourne’s defunct tram lines has super-
seded the archaic flags in defining the
running track at Campbell’s Creek (Vic.)
racecourse. Hardwood posts are the sup-
ports.
* * * »
“Up Top” : The other day in Brisbane, to
advertise a new picture, a down-and-out was
hired? to laugh all day through a megaphone
while the auto drove through the streets.
Ever and anon Queen-street would echo to a
burst of mirth which made the populace gaze
questioningly around. Sounds easy enough,
laughing for a crust. But just try it for
hours on end. And I suspect this performer
was only laughing because his belly howled.
The hideousness of it!
* * * *
“Crosshead”: South Aus. Commissioner
Webb’s new mountain-type locos, which are
to haul 500-ton loads over the steep grades
of the Adelaide hills, are the largest south
of the line. Turning the scale at 218 tons
wdien fully dressed, they are yet simple to
operate; mechanical firing apparatus re-
places the old-style shovel with a perspiring
man at the end of it. Some scaremongering
“tramcar engineers” asserted that they were
too heavy for the 801 b. rails, and one 611 b.
rail certainly broke, but examination revealed
that it w r as portion of a curved siding, and
had done previous duty elsewhere. Further,
the supporting sleepers were obviously un-
even. and any loco might have done the
mischief. A little rail-spreading due to
stiffness of the leading bogey has been cor-
rected by lifting and re-macliining the hearing
surfaces.
* * * *
“Borom”: Every post-office in the Com-
mon w’ea Ith of more than one storey has a
small slot cut in the ceiling over the part
where the letters are sorted. The object is
to enable a watch to be kept on the sorters
when there is reason to suspect that thefts
of mail matter are taking place. But since
every man and boy in the service is aware of
the slot and its purpose, it is years since a
thief has been caught that way. At the
G.P.0., Sydney, and other capital cities, the
sorters can be watched from a gallery. Only
inspectors are permitted to enter these gal-
leries, which are supplied with peepholes
here and there commanding the entire room.
As it is impossible to tell when there is an
eye glued to any of these, it is probable that
most thefts of letters at the G.P.O.’s take
place outside the sorting-rooms.
* * * •
“Shed Hand”: The carriers of casked
liquors in the early days had the advantage
over the modern operator, who is mostly a
wharf- or railway-man, working among in-
stead of far from the madding crowd. Never-
theless the game is still carried on with a
fair amount of success. The most popular
plan in a crowded goods-shed where up-
wards of 50 men are working is to camou-
flage the cask among furniture, bore two
small holes with a gimlet and let the liquor
run straight into billycans while work is
proceeding. The operator is always hang-
ing about with the two little plugs in his
mouth, ready to shut down. Plugged and
cut level and dusted with an old cement
bag to finish off, the cask will defy the
cleverest examiner two hours after the fraud
has been worked.


£|Fp
tICP'^ 4 *
irifißV
&
mu
n
n
I
jj
i
PUS
Ihu.
=v/
Nil
/&.
\
I
1
\
/#1
£b
fc
iiL y
i-
fli
i
'///.
iimo""a
Al) A»c
r
tu
ym
!*H
SPAN
NX
I OF BATTERYjtIF
iv/*,
7 !
4
Can best be proved by the experience of
the user. It is the testimony of hundreds
of thousands of users that justifies
the name.
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY
THERE IS A TYPE FOR EVERY CAR.
Australian Distributors:
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.)»
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


Rivals the beauty of
the Scarlet Tonager
VUMMHv
Pi m
5-»3
1
y7oios\i
barker |
Over-size
‘Duofold,
35/-
It Whets a
Man’s
Appetite
for Writing
And Gives Him the
Speed and Character in
Penmanship that Lead to
Higher Earnings
The ‘Pen with the ‘Point Guaranteed
for 25 years if not misused
WE do not mean that the
Parker Duofold will
put a man in a high position,
although it helps him to get
there. But the same keen in-
stinct that makes men suc-
cessful, prompts them to pay
35/- for this unfailing classic
with Over-size Ink Capacity
when they could buy faulty
pens for half the money. Sold
by Stationers, Booksellers,
Jewellers and Departmental
Stores where pens are
stocked. Step to the nearest
and choose your point.
Agents
SLADE, ALLAN « CO..
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
Duofol
v rrraw tcm' a -»r -v
WITH LUCKY CURVE FEED' - AND 25 YEAR POINT
fgfg
Duofold Jr. *5/-
Intermediate size
Lady Duofold 555/-
With ring for chatelaine
RUPTURE ,
A FREE T^IAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Inis appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from ine
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men. women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
.Northern Rivers, _N. S. Wales,_ also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties tor the transaction of all general banking* business.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
BRING HAPPINESS.
Chamberlain's Tablets quickly remove
the poisonous accumulations of con-
stipation and their beneficial effect
is felt throughout the entire system.
They do much towards promoting
health, happiness and success in life.
There 9 s a Smile in every TabletJ 9
. A&e
h
Tetffl
Ju/m&d
|^y
ytAßil,
brows'
These illustrations are but the broadest
indication of the gradations to be found
in “ Swan ” points. Every nib is hand
ground and finished and the variety of
points' is almost unlimited. Any and every
steel pen can be matched.
Every “Swan” Pen is guaranteed to
give satisfaction to the user; if the first
choice does not do this, it may be exchanged
until it does.
SWAN
99
rOUNTPENS
fgh
Self-filling “Swans” from 17/6.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd.,
Swan House, 133-35 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Phipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street. Sydney.
fg
At least one bright omen has smiled
through the fog which clouds the referendum
campaign. Earle Page went to the Vic.
township of Yea and got a very encouraging-
reception.
“H.1.M.” : This is one of the things that
might have been better put. One big firm
calls its sale a “Fair,” and last week one
of its advts. read: “Our usual guinea line- —
Fair price seventeen and six.”
“Hamer”: The alluring title, “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” stands out from the wall of
a pawnbrokery in one of the dingiest portions
of comprehensively dingy Harris-street,
Ultimo (Sydney). The picture conjured of
a kind-hearted Uncle Tom presiding over the
pledge department must remove the last ves-
tige of diffidence from the people who “want
a few bob till payday.”
“Jimmy Possum”: “Hard stuff” is made
in small quantities from Bananaland fruit.
One modest still is in the West Moreton
district, where there is no trouble in getting
rid of anything drinkable with a kick in it.
The product is distributed as wine at a
couple of shillings a bottle. The other still
is on the North Coast, “orange wine” being
the specialty. The “juice” would pass for
whisky, both in color and taste, and it has
the punch of an army mule.
“C.M.” : Records of Sam Marsden in the
possession of J. A. Ferguson, Sydney’s
authority on such things, differ from Car-
dinal Moran’s account (B. 22/7/’2O). Sam
was a Yorkshire farmer’s son who was
taken in hand by the Elland Society, which
helped likely candidates for the Anglican
ministry. He was at Magdalen College,
Oxford, for over two years, and was
ordained priest, and it was Wilberforce, the
slave emancipator who recommended him
for Botany Bay.
Lindon Buddulph, of Carcoar (N.S.W.),
has presented the Mitchell Library with an
interesting relic, a copper breastplate bear-
ing the inscription, “Presented to Nemmit,
1825, Chief of the Sutton Forest Tribe.”
This plate is believed to be the first decora-
tion conferred on Black Brother by the
Colonial Office. From its appearance, the
recipient must have worn it regularly and
not reserved it for ceremonial occasions.
Nemmit is said to have been about 37 when
the gaud came his way during Governor
Brisbane’s term of office. This places his
birth at about the time of the arrival of
the First Fleet.
“Harold Hardupp”: Melbourne will lose
its oldest pub with the passing at the end
of the year of the Apollo Inn at the corner
of Russell-street and Flinders-lane; Deben-
ham’s have bought the freehold, and a tali
building will go up on the valuable corner.
The inn, unchanged from the low-storeyed
building originally erected in 1841, had a
charm of its own; the old open fireplace was
one of its features. Pressmen who wanted
to escape from the eyes of newspaper over-
lords which might detect them in Flinders-
street pubs fraternised there, and, of course,
it had its Flinders-lane clientele.
“Topee”: Watching a billposter operating
the other day reminded me of another for-
gotten industry. My father, a provincial
theatrical manager in England, was wont
to complain bitterly of the expense of con-
tinually renewing our “standing” posters.
The explanation was that the bills when
dry enough were torn down by street-
arabs, who sold them to marine-store dealers
at Id. per bag. These merchants baled the
scraps and consigned them to the North-
ampton boot-factories, where they were
packed between soles as a substitute for
leather in the cheaper lines of boots.
“Topee”: Little Nelson Illingworth, the
sculptor whom Sydney buried a few weeks
ago, had developed amazingly muscular hands
by working in his clay—especially by work-
ing it up for use. One evening we were at
Circular Quay, and as he was replacing a
wallet from which he had taken a newspaper-
clipping to show me, a passing “dip” made a
snatch at it. Nelson grabbed him by the
wrist and turned his hand back; the next
moment the unhappy fingersmith was on his
knees howling for mercy. As a crowd was
beginning to collect I begged the sinner off,
and the sculptor, having extracted an encore
yell by an additional squeeze, complied, re-
marking, “I don’t think he’ll find that hand
of much professional use for the next month
or two !”
Felix Edmundovitcli Dsersliinsky is dead
now and probably giving the Devil a great
deal of trouble with the spelling of his
name. He was the chief torturing and
hanging judge of Soviet Russia, and kept
the Communist State alive by the death of
people who showed signs of not wanting to
commune. Presumably he had capable
subordinates, for 1-1 million executions, with
which his court is credited, would be a lot
for one homicide to attend to personally.
Foreigners got little chance to do Dsershin-
sky’s biography, but it showed the consistency
of bis character that no one who knew him
said any good of him. There are rumors
that he died of poison put into the water
with which he moistened his lips during a
speech threatening fire and brimstone for
all comrades who didn’t com. just in his
way.
“J.’s Ass” : The barque Guy C. Goss, the
finest example of the shipbuilder’s craft
that has been seen in M.L. waters for many
a year—she was built in Maine (U.S.) 40
years ago—seems to have finished her sea
career when she was knocked down the other
day at Auckland for £3BO. The times have
been even harder on her crew. As soon as
she was well clear of Vancouver with her tim-
ber cargo and freight money paid in advance,
the owners stopped all payments to~the de-
pendants of the crew, forwarded no letter of
credit to Auckland, and finally, when cables
began to get going on her arrival, disappeared
with their profits altogether. After much liti-
gation the M.L. Supreme Court held that, as
the freight had been paid in advance, the
crew had no lien over the cargo; all they
could claim against was the ship. Out of
this the poor beggars got nothing; costs
mopped up the whole £3BO. Anchored out
in the harbor awaiting her end, she started
to drag her anchor in a recent blow, and,
though she was insured, the Old Man spent
£3 of the scanty sum he had earned in un-
loading her to get a tug to lay fresh anchors
for him. The temptation to let her go on
the rocks must have been strong, but he
couldn’t do it. Yet it might have been the
better end.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87981 - 12. Rridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Models. Passenger Vessels connect with Train
ot Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.-15 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE;
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-elass Steamer, Second Rail—£3/3/6
the north coast steam
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
lounst Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., I.td.
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Thos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAPAN. —Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Mara, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
INDIA and CEYLON. Leaving
Sydney per s.s. Mooltan 15th
December; 45 days in Romantic
India and Ceylon.. Fare, £348.
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application
TITOS. COOK & SON, dial]is House, Sydney’.
Banking, Ihiblic Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £2 685 303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16’789,’590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E.. Chairman •
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson• HR
Lysaght 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.’j Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector lor N.S.W.: W. G Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). h
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
Oil Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business’.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428 000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000 000
Annual Income nearly £9,000^000
The Society tiansacts I.very ass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
hay from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
j<na ail particulars posted on application
10 Tiie Manager.
Shipping:, «&c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. AUG. 12, for San Francisco.
MAGARA 18,600 ~ ~ AUG. 26, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,000 „ „ SEPT. 0, for San Francisco.
MORANGI . 22,000 „ „ SEPT. 23, for Vancouver.
"Quadruple Screw .Motor Inner.
l< ‘»st and splen-
didlj- equipped
steamers usin”
oil fuel.
•Spacious Decks,
U 11 i' i v a I 1 e d
Cuisine.
m
Th e Scenic
Houtes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
tickets
TO THE UNITED KIKOUOM INTEKCHANOEAIiKE IOIi RETUKN
lU OTHER TINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
VNJON STEAM SHIP CO.,
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
S')' '
hfg
h
fg
BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Stearns!
To
LTD,,
ip Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
china
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East)
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses stLlf« “
miti’flcer ,0 ‘" C “' *“”• etc ' L “'"“
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd Au<>ust iqo«
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins Verandah pf £• *
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday island, Torra f Strait’
Darwin, etc. <ut »
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY?’
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . . 10,048 tons, August 16
tEuripides . . .15,000 ~ September 27
.. . 18,500 ~ October 23
*Nestor 14,547 ~ October 25
fThemistocles 11,500 „ November 22
tSuevic. .. . • 12,500 ~ November 30
*First class only. tFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address’
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS EOIt
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co Tt«i
l'itzroy Estates, Etd. ’’
Eastern & Australian Steamshii) Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O S N
Queensland of Steamers. Scottish ‘ Sh'ire ' Line
of New Zealand. Ltd. Hain' Line.' ’Huddart Parke?'
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine) Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen. *
BANK
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
O F
NEW SOUTH
Established 1813,
ij-
Directors ;
WALES.
£6,000,000
- - 4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M D
Robert W. Gillespie ' ‘
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Generd Manage; OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand Fiii p nm „ ..J‘V
Agents and Correspondents throughout -the world. * IIJ1 * 1 apua and London.
Cab.e remittances made to, and di-afts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT Foreign rju, „ ,
and coir : cted. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.' ° lsllls negotiated
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
I'OJt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddarl Pa riser
iVlagnifioant
Fast Passenger
Steanishins
SI KAMI!,Its TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
SJKAMEItS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDQAKT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
i'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
JLUIIS.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON,
lei. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succed —
hfg
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sel!.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Beitisii Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wfld Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday or
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


'A
L
l
i
9
X
r
/
Wj,
r
v
*
si
sse
"flow Made
in England
X
s'
£
A BIGGER AND BETTER MODEL
AT A LOWER PRICE
“THE WORLD’S ECONOMY CAR”
with a unique record of Achievement.
h
CITROEN AGENTS:
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co,
185-89 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
45 3 Ann Street, Brisbane.
& Motor Supplies, Ltd.,
Brits nnia Buildings, Featherston and
Johnstc'n Streets, Wellington, Nsw Zealan
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castler/agh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ALL MEN AGREE THAT
”3 'K&'xcmcL
Shoving Sotxp
g7i iii/ujula/i Slic/i IS THE BEST
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this
time which will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same oils and essences which have made
Rexona famous the world oyer, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus
makes a Shaving Stick which is a soap and lotion combined. It makes for
comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin against wind and bad
weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially
treated so as to produce a thick, creamy lather, which will soften the beard and
improve the skin at the same time. It is delicately perfumed and medicated on
the same principles as Rexona, and not only produces a lasting lather, but
purifies and leaves the skin in perfect condition. Being an antiseptic Medicated
Soap, it has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may have
the misfortune to get, and if troubled with pimples or blotches
of any kind, will daily tend to remove them.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the New Triangular
Stick, is sold in pure aluminium
containers at 1/6.
ts
\
In
Pure
tt/uminium
Container /&
Jne Cake. fS/&£l
icAind
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
ii tfie ACaMn. -foi tfuix (yuxiitu
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes and
Mailed to You the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated with
reproductions of our Crt—foctionery in colors.
tkliieA
162-166 PITT Street
6 Cr George £, King Sts
In the Gulf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f MHE wind has gone to sleep to-night,
I And all the gulf is full
Of eerie mists that heave and fall
In masses' white as wool.
In ways unseen, ’neath leaf and frond,
Deep-sunken waters croon,
While fitfully on trunk and cliff
Dim gleams the midnight moon.
All, all around, half seen, half veiled,
Across the stirless air
Rock-faces, grim and scarred and bleak,
Steadfast and sullen stare.
Shy creatures, shadow-like and swift,
Awaking from their sleep
O’er creek-side flats and moss-grown logs
And timbered ridges leap.
Though day-time voices rise no more,
By sleep and gloom made dumb,
Now nigh, and now from distant spurs,
Night sounds, mist-muted, come.
Up hill, down hill, the night seems full
Of watchful ears and eyes;
Yon moans a mopoke lonesomely,
And yon a curlew cries.
Sly feline things through grove and glade
Move softly to and iro,
While howling down a distant ridge
Wild dogs a-liunting go.
Red-jawed, white-fanged, the wild dogs speed
’Neath hidden moon and star;
Gaunt shapes, hot-foot behind their prey,
They send their call afar.
Ere dawn makes rosy-red the east,
And men awake and move
From door and gate, and hearth and home,
Red shall their hunting prove.
Dew falls, thick drops of shaken dew,
And leaves begin to stir,
As stealthily upon the scene
There comes a wanderer.
Before him, mass on heaving mass,
The fleecy mist takes flight,
Till round the cliffs there seems to run
A wash of eerie light.
Deep down, high up, he brooms the gulf
Till clear and white as noon
It lies with rocks and trees agleam
Beneath the midnight moon.
Then, having cleansed the air and filled
The scene with silver-shine,
With fingers deft he makes a harp
Of oak and gum and pine.
He plays: they sing, leaf, limb and tress,
Till, in the chill moon-glow,
The walled-in deep begins to thrill
With music sweet and low.
Afar, anear, leaf-music fills
The moonlit depths profound—
Leaf-music wherein streamlets weave
A silken under-sound.
He plays—plays on —that wanderer,
Till gum and pine and oak
With swaying limbs and tresses seem
Like wildly dancing folk.
Thus, thus he plays upon his harp
With fingers skilled and strong,
Till all the midnight gleams and rings
With magic dance and song.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Speaking by the Card.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A T Quartpot the A.L.P. branch was
/-% strong in numbers and weak in meet-
ings. All these men struggling into
prosperity or travelling far afield for it were
political enough to pay membership dues
regularly, and vote even at the cost of riding
fifty miles to a polling-booth ; but not for the
meetings or organisation. Ninety per cent,
of the Quartpot branch were silent members,
and almost all of them were absent members
—working out on the tin drifts or the orch-
ards, or shearing in distant sheds, or travel-
ling on distant stock-routes behind cattle
whose pace made long, long thoughts for
drovers. They left meetings and organisa-
tion to the energetic and the single-hearted of
the townsmen and to the self-seekers and the
pursuers of limelight—or, at least, to one
so shameless that he made the others in-
visible. It was Cleghorn’s Uncle, the town
bellman.
Denny Deneen, as president, had endorsed
Uncle’s candidature for membership; for, as
Denny said, Uncle’s half-crown of dues was
as good as anybody’s. For the three years
of his membership Uncle had been thwarted
and oppressed whenever he raised his foolish
voice to address local democracy on the for-
ward politics of “Hingland” ; Denny put him
back in his place so often that, at last Uncle
seemed to have lost enough of his immodesty
to be ranked as a human being. But only
in Denny Deneen’s mind was Uncle cured.
His vanity and his love of the spotlight were
not dead, but merely sleeping; really gaining
a strength because of their repression—
Uncle being as Galen said of the saffron,
that growetli the better the more it be
trodden upon.
Uncle waited long for his chance—as a
cat waits silently for days before a hole in
a flooring-board, and at last catches a mouse.
Opportunity came at the end of a sequence
of impossibilities. Denny, departing for a
month to N. S. Wales, told the secretary
of the league—Denny’s own hotel manager
—of the ever-existent danger of Uncle in
possession of power. “Keep Uncle tlirodden
on is yure hope and anchor,” said Denny.
“Let him blow off his froth if theres a
meetin’, an’ ye’ll be best advised not to have
a meetin’ until I kem back. T’ree beers a
day he has, an’ no more, because four beers
will make him a beggar dhrivin’ a shix-
shylinder car. Give him no credit — twill
make him saucy; an’ Uncle saucy is all the
plagues of Egypt an’ the divils of Ulsther.
That’s for Uncle. Now for ye, Bill Putti-
foot. Ye know your job of butchering. Kill
the down-the-river cattle first, an’ give
Bringalily power for the printin’ mashin’.
Bringalily, keep your corperative marketin’
goin’, and make the Argusht a power ag’in
c’mission-agints. Micky, don’t do a line uv
your rephorter-man’s job till you’ve done the
pigs and the chooks and the little red cow
an’ the jobs fur Mishtress Deneen. An’ I’ll
be wit’ you in a mont’. An’, hey! You,
Uncle! Take mane advantage uv me absence
an’ whin I come back I’ll bate you wit’ your
own bell.”
So south went Denny, and, under the
faithful eyes of his men, his enterprises-
orchard, tin dredges, hotel, butcher’s shop,
store, newspaper and transport service-
acted as faithful attorneys, and used his
power as if he were physically present. In-
deed, being good men, they worked the better
because of their new responsibilities. Bringa-
lily divided himself between his editorship
and his slow-growing orchard, the latter
visited more as an incident in the daily call
on Milly Cleghorn, the Rose of Darling
Downs, which included a staccato conversa-
tion with her brother Jimmy—Jimmy and
Milly had become mostly silent because
laughter and conversation take time. After
these staccato conversations Bringalily said
“So long, Jim,” and rode back to Quartpot,
and Milly looked after him and returned to
work when the bush had swallowed her lover;
and Jimmy resumed labor in the rows, his
head a little lower than youth should carry it.
Micky, dividing himself between the jobs
of a household and gossip for the paper,
suddenly found a third call for his energies,
as did Bringalily and Puttifoot. The man-
ager of Deneen’s hotel fractured a leg and
left duty for hospital. He was also secretary
of the Quartpot Branch of the Australian
Labor Party, and his fractured leg made
Uncle’s opportunity.
This was helped by Bringalily’s absence
for a day, and when a telegram arrived from
Party Headquarters advising early selection
of a candidate, because a sudden election
had become probable, Uncle happened to be
at the telegraph office. Solely in the inte-
rests of the Movement, and to satisfy his
own curiosity, Uncle opened the telegram.
Then he sought Puttifoot and explained the
position.
“Sekiterry in ’orsepiddle,” said Uncle, “an’
ere’s the Perlitical Exekertif wirin’ selec’
a canderdate. In interest er movement it
mus’ be done quick. We mus’ ’ave a meetin’
t’-night.”
“Bringalily will be back in a day or so.”
“Day or so ain’t now. We mus’ do it
now.”
“Where’ll y’ get a meeting?”
“Me an’ you an’ the bloke in the drapery
an’ the boots at the pub, and Jim drivin’
the dray, an’ Tom the dredger.”
“Tom’s drunk.”
“That don’t matter —five’s a quorum ; rule
’undred an’ twenty-two.”
With the telegi*am impressing the import-
ance of speed, Puttifoot offered no more
objection; and the meeting was hurriedly
got together by Uncle, who did all the
talking, subject only to the laughing scorn
of Micky.
“Here’s the wire,” said Uncle, taking the
chair as holder of the telegram. “I move
nominashins be called for. You second that,
Tom.”
“Shecond,” said Tom the dredger, and
relapsed into dozing.
“Carried,” said Uncle in great haste.
“Sekiterry’s sick. I’ll be actin’-sekittery.”
“I s’pose that’s all right,” said Puttifoot.
“Bet your - life it’s all right,” said Micky,
who could see only the humor of it. “If
it isn’t right Mr. Deneen will scarify Uncle
when he comes back.”
“Moved, seconded, carried,” declared
Uncle. “An’ I’ll call for nominashins quick
an’ lively.”
The self-conscious and retiring draper
spoke for the first time.
“You’ll have to elect a returning-officer.”
“I cud do that, too,” said Uncle. “Actin’-
sekiterry don’t take much time. Moved,
seconded and carried. Need’ll’ call for a
show uv ’ands. Meetin’s closed.”
The meeting did close; but it was uneasy.
It was more uneasy next day when a talk
with Bringalily made the position less comic
than Micky would have it.
“Whatever’s wrong Mr. Deneen will fix
when he comes back,” said Micky. “An’
Uncle will get it in the neck.”
“Why did you let it be done, Micky?”
“Well, Bill Puttifoot and the draper and
the other chaps didn’t like to get up an’
make a show of themselves.”
“That’s it. Our Australian chaps don’t
like to make a show of themselves, an’
they sit back an’ let the Pommies run things.
But you’re not one of the shy ones, Micky:
why didn’t you stop it?”
“Not me! Don’t you think I want to see
Uncle get it where the turkey gets it at
Christmas? Have a heart! Let’s have a
bit of fun.”
“All right, if it doesn’t go too far. It
might turn out to be sport to the boys and
death to the frogs.”
“Uncle’s the only frog here,” said Micky,
closing the argument; “and who cares what
happens to Uncle?”
* * * *
Nothing happened to Uncle for three
weeks; but Uncle made a great many things
happen. As actin’-sekiterry and returnin’-
ossifer lie had telegraphed all the townships
in the electorate, naming a day for the clos-
ing of nominations rigidly within the period
prescribed by the rules. For, despite all his
wild and headlong impudence, he was careful
to stay within the law and to speak only by
the card lest equivocation should undo him.
But while respecting the letter of the law he
outraged its spirit—destroyed it, in fact: and
this done he proceeded to destroy the letter
thereof in safety.
(Continued on next page.)


» / \
7>
Y
/
M
N
,
fgfg
/(HIGHS
VfflDSl
TAKE PEPS NOW!
All sufferers from Coughs,
Colds. Sore Throats or deep-
seated Chest Trouble should
know that it is no longer necess-
ary to swallow liquid cough
mixtures into the stomach. This is now an
obsolete method. The new Peps tablets
provide you with a powerful natural medi-
I J 1
cine which is actually breathed straight into throat,
chest and lungs
You simply strip a Peps of its silver jacket and dissolve the
tablet on your tongue. The medicinal fumes then given off, mix
with the breath and percolate through the throat and bronchial
tubes into the deepest and smallest air-cells in the lungs.
A MEDICINE YOU BREATHE !
This demulcent Peps medicine reaches inner parts op the chest.
It ends germ trouble in the throat and air-tubes, and relieves and
heals the swollen, inflamed, mucus membrane. Coughing is
promptly allayed; hard stringy phlegm loosened and expelled,
breathing becomes easy.
There is no other remedy so pleasant, so or so efficacious
as Peps for dangers and weaknesses threatening the throat,
chest and lungs at this season.
Take Peps to secure freedom from coughs, colds, sore throat,
bronchitis, etc. Don’t venture out day or night without the protection
of Peps. Always dissolve one in your mouth at the very pirst sign of
throat irritation or chest discomfort. Lastly -be sure you get PEPS.
//6 and 3I- of all chemists and store*.
Keep the Chest Healthy & Strong.
a
f|;
3
Burns
& Scalds
v
n
Scalp \'
Tkoubcb
C T Why you need
tomßuK
in the house/
1. Because poisonous germs are always ready to
swarm into any fissure or break in the skin.
2. Because Zam-Buk with its superior healing,
soothing and antiseptic properties expels disease
germs, takes “the fire” out of a wound, allays
irritation and inflammation and grows new skin.
3. Because Zam-Buk with its herbal origin and its
notable freedom from lardy fats and insoluable
mineral drugs has opened up a new era in
skin-healing.
4. Because Zam-Buk is a “surgery in a two inch
box.” Use it tor cuts, burns, and other injuries
as well as for skin and scalp disease. “ l<ub it
in ” for sprains, rheumatism, etc.
5. And finally, because the regular use of
Zam-Buk means better skin health for your
family all the year round.
ZAM-BUK ilb and 3/6 box. All chemists and s.'oret.
Zam-Buk biedicinal Soap //- per tablet.
Never Be Wifhour ZAM-BUK
Nominations came in from Sugarloaf and
Applegate and Peach Valley and me yuarm s
—ten nominations in all. Puttifoot had sug-
gested that the term should be extended so
as to secure nomination for Denny Deneen ,
but Uncle, feeling quite safe within a 'week
of closing, said with the air traditionally
ascribed to the most noble Roman of Romes
most incorruptible age, that “as returnin-
ossifer he wouldn’t wait for nobody, not
even the King of Hingland.”
“He’s not qualified for the plebiscite,” said
Bringalily, and Puttifoot asked: —
“Why don’t you nominate, Bringalily?”
The man who waited for the Rose of
Darling Downs shook his head: “No fear,
Bill. If I won, I couldn’t afford to run.
A week later Bringalily knew that lie had
never had a chance of winning. T ncD an-
nounced the closing of nominations. An
what’s the date of the plebiscite?” asked
Micky, in his capacity of reporter. Uncle
waved his hand as one who thereby disposes
of all troubles, immediate and future. ’ 1 here
ain’t a goin’ ter be no plebiskite. Ten aoml "
nations, and nine uv ’em’s been declared
informal. The one I’ve lef’ in is the winner.
“An’ whose nomination is that?”
“Mine,” said Uncle proudly. “Mine!”
“Yours! Gor’s strath—-Yours! Oh my!
When Mr. Deneen comes marching home,
Uncle —when Mr. Deneen comes home.”
“’E can’t do nothin’,” said Uncle. “Rule
’undred ’n’ twenty-five to ’undred V thirty-
eight. ’E can’t do nothin’.”
“P’raps not within the rules, Uncle. But
Mr. Deneen makes rules of his own—same as
you do, Uncle. Only stronger.”
“’E can’t do nothing” repeated Uncle,
valiantly. I’m inside the law.”
He said that many times during the suc-
ceeding seven days, answering all objections
loudly and comforting himself with his own
noise. But he trembled at the thought ot
Denny Deneen’s return —trembled the more
because Headquarters, which had received Jus
decisions against his nine opponents and Ins
recommendation of himself, was ominously
silent.
And then Denny Deneen came back a
smiling Denny ready to assure his henchmen
that they were all good and faithful ser-
vants, and that he was proud of them.
His smile faded and his eyes hardened
as he heard the story of the plebiscite ; ot
Uncle As acting-secretary, candidate, return-
ing-officer and disqualifier of all opponents.
“Shall I send for him?” asked Bringalily.
“Ye will not —except as bellman to an-
nounce a meeting of the Quartport Branch
of the A.L.P. at two o’clock this Sathurday
afthernoon. Tell him to ring.”
Micky took the message to Uncle, who
demurred, for the protection of dignity. lin
actin’-sekiterry, an’ returnin’-ossifer, an
scrlected cande.rdate. It ’d demean me-
ringin’ ther bell fur tlier meetin’.
“Frightened? If you don’t come he’ll
come after you.”
“I ain’t frightened,” said Uncle, and
accompanied Micky, because he was not
frightened, and also perhaps because the
threat of Deneen coming after him seemed
more frightful than a voluntary interview.
Denny looked down at the wliite-wliiskered
little egotist, and forgot his annoyance in
the desire to laugh. He smothered that de-
sire, and said with assutned sternness: —
“Get your belfry and announce the A.L.P.
meetin’ at two o’clock.”
“But I’m actin’-sekiterry.”
“You were.”
“An’ returnin’-ossifer.”
“So you were.”
“ An’ Qploptofl pail ——-
“Say the worrd and I’ll kick you so harrd
that your pants will be your hat.”
“I ain’t a-goin’. ”
“You’re a-goin’ and you’re a-ringing or
you’re the bellman of this town no more.
An’ whin you’re not the bellman anny more
you’re a vagrant, an’ the sargint will vag
you, an’ bring you before me; an’ divil your
chance uv gettin’ out uv that lockup until all
the cells have had free coats uv whitewash.”
“O Lor’!” groaned Uncle.
“An’ the sargint’s chook-liouses white-
washed, too! Get you to your bell, me
bad actor of a secretary, and me returnin’-
officer that will be returned to the place
whince ye kem. Go an’ ring the bell, watch-
man ! Ring, ring, ring, me selected candi-
date and unselected mimber uv Parleymint.”
Muttering “O Lor’! O Lor’!” Uncle made
his way down the main street of Qrrartpot
speaking his piece in tones as subdued as he
difced make them.
“This afternoon at two —Deneen s Hall!
Meetin’ of Ha Hel Pea, Roll up! Roll up!”
And up the street he rolled, his little head
filled with the thoughts that made him
afraid.; his little heart, bursting with rage
and spite because Ease and Empire had
fallen from him on the return of this terrible
man who did not speak by the card, and
who fought under rules of his own drafting.
Knowing that he had lost all, Uncle tried
to preserve the shreds of dignity by absenting
himself fi-om the meeting: but Deneen was
determined that the ablication should be
public. He sent Micky to ask, and Brin-
galily to persuade—-with the sergeant in the
background. Even at the distance the ser-
geant’s uniform looked like coercion, and
Uncle went to the meeting. There he saw
the real secretary with liis new crutches
beside him; and uncle knew that his posi-
tion as “actin’-sekiterry” had departed.
“The secretary will read the mynyutes,”
said President Denny, and the secretary did,
disclosing the infidelity of Uncle and all its
humor.
“Well! Well!” said Denny. “Would
you lishten to it? Here’s an illaygal meetin’.
I”
“We had a quorum,” interrupted Uncle,
who still had a little impudence left in him.
“Y’ had a quorum, did ye? Wit’ Bringa-
lily away, an’ me away, an’ the secretary
wit’ a bruk leg?”
“Rule ’undred ’n’ twenty-five.”
“I’ll give you rule ten, wit’ me two fishts
uv five fingers each. Rules!”
“Speakin’ be the card —there’s the law.”
“Shpeakin’ be the card! An’ Tom me
dredger man so full he couldn’t see a card
—nor a whole pack of ’em. An’ you opened
the telegram—an’ says you—-‘l’ll be king.’
Poor things is kings, but ye libel them. And
these poor lads around you didn’t like to
call you down, on your ignorance, an’ your
impudence, an’ your love uv maneness, an
your gineral sense uv indacency.”
“Y’ mus’ go be the rules.”
“An’ rules ye’ll have —a bellyful uv rules
I’ll give ye. I move ’twas no meetin’ an’ the
mynyutes be purified of your illaygal trans-
liactions. I move that.”
“I second,” said Bill Puttifoot, blushing
at the conclusion of his' longest speech in
public.
“An’ all say ‘Aye’; an’ the.‘Ayes’ have it!
An’ now, Uncle, you were never actin’-shec-
retary, nor were you returnin’-officer, nor
slielected candidate, an’ there was never any
nominations till now, an’ never a plebischope
till this mynyute. We’ll call nominations
now.”
Uncle dared to sneer: “I s’pose you’ll
be a canderdate?”
“I s’pose I won’t, Uncle, the Bad Bell-
man ! Nor me nor any Pommy. Why!
Who should represint Hostralia but Hostlira-
lian min? I’m no candidate, Uncle, the Bad
Bellman, even if it’s only to be an example
to foolish min. like yoursilf. Uncle, we’ll go
be the rules, so that your shplendid sinse uv
justice will not be hurted, Uncle; an’ we’ll
take nominations from annybody qualified—-
Billy the Bull, or Paddy the Ram, or Claud
the Fraud. But I know where the votes
will go, and ‘where’ is to Bringalily, the man
who can talk the Hosthralian language, an’
make the Hosthralian law; an’ that you
can’t do, Uncle, from Buck’n’am Pallis an’
Windshor Casthle, me poor confused mind
an’ white whiskers. I’ll be returnin’-officer
an’ I’ll kiss the rule-book if you like it—an’
conduct a fair plebischope, wit’ all my par-
tiality and all me fri’nds, too, workin’ for
Bringalily Bill.”
“He treated me fair crool,” said Uncle to
Micky that night, as he stopped on his bell-
rounds for a moment of bitterness. “But if
I can’t be returnin’-ossifer I’ll be canderdate
jus’ the same.”
“Be cripes,” said Micky, “if I were you
I wouldn’t. Mister Deneen was talking to
the sergeant after tea. And he asked the
sergeant if three coats of whitewash would
be enough in the chook-houses and the cells.”
“O Lor’! O Lor’!” commented Uncle.
“There’s no justus. He don’t go be the
rules.”
.As he left Micky, Uncle, in abdicating the
higher ambitions, thus continued his parable;
“Tier-night! Ter-night! At Deneen’s ’all,
Mary Pickfood in pitchers. Mary Pickfood,
the Ilangel of the Screen.”
And the new plebiscite began to recondi-
tion under the rules as interpreted by Denny
Deneen.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Carpets.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SPOKE of magic carpets and I thought
Of caravans that took the early morn
And toiled along the winding
mountain roads
Past silver olive-lands and shadowy corn.
I thought of all their dim, ricli-gleaming
loads,
Their tinselled stuffs and carpets finelj
wrought
In colors soft as Summer’s fairest blooms—
Rare weaves that knew the cunning arts
of man
From famed Bokhara and from Ispahan
And ancient rugs from still Sidoniai
looms.
How long ago since those dark weavers
wove
Sheer loveliness in gold and silver
threads —
Artists of sunny Bagdad weaving dreams
Of life and love with rainbow-colored
shreds!
Such things they wove —the round moon's
splintered beams,
A bulbul singing in some sacred grove,
Rose-marble terraces pale through the
dusk,
The songs of Tartar girls playing at ball,
The cricket’s cheep by some white-plastered
wall,
Hot scents of coffee, fresh with fragrant
musk!
I saw them hung in twisted lane and street,
Glowing in shadow like an opened rose
Fading beneath some fiery Syrian sun,
Or in old Sardis by a garden-close,
Where once the hurtling chariots had spun
And lances topped the roofs like bladed
wheat.
I saw them hung with gold and amber-
drops,
Watched over by some wind-tanned Phry-
gian face,
Where, deep within the murmurous market-
place,
Pale merchants prowled among their
perfumed shops.
Or, moving out from crumbling river-piles,
I saw them down the sulky Tigris go
From Bagdad, glimpsed them corded bale
on bale,
Rocking beside a warm, blue Persian flow.
I watched Phoenician traders hoisting sail
Beside the low Mediterranean isles,
Trailing their weaves along the halcyon
sea
With purple dyes and nards and rich bro-
cade,
Goblets of thin-wrought silver, beads of jade,
Chaldean charms and cold, hard ebony.
How long since those dark traders cried
their wares,
Since the artificers made fair some floor
For little silk-soft feet ? Oh drab to-day!
Here in this ugly, modern, crowded store
Are set for all to see in rude array
Dull Kidderminster rolls, cheap Brussels
squares,
Crude colors ’neath a salesman’s careless
hand!
Yet for a breath the time and place are
fled;
My heart has flown afar. I walk instead
Some glowing little street of Samarkand!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


h
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
queens land Agents—HOLSllsS & CHUKCH Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Fentlierston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
South Australian Aarents: Messrs] ELDER, SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
THE ATCO
retpou
WOWEB
nf iroonino- tF® i Wl *i ma k e a strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
fPTITII - p Vi„„ o r^ er , la £ ge areas . tur /, *•«., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
n „ l. ’ a d bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
paik committees, hotelkeepers, etc. '
I,o+l, witll a 2|-h.p engine, which develops more than sufficient power
o pi opel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
lor guiding purposes.
pnnot!!!!' ll —cost of an "ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
„ f iiwi' ls rem arkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season's prices. Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
&
•s
/:
m
L_Ji
UCE
ffosi ffoJArooASays -
“Excellent with every
dish —cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
A Knife
is a friend for life!
A SK your dealer
to show you
the many styles of
.Remington Knives,
one for every
purpose and every
purse.
No. R 3843
General Utility Knife,
two blades, corkscrew,
bottle opener, screw-
driver, tin opener and
reamer.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc?
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet,
WJI
4/
frMm
05
F 11
fgh
WHY
Do women need
medicine more than men •
«y-
-:: /
* j
They're more highly
strung
Nerves more delicate
Bodily functions more
complicated
BEECHAM'S PILLS
Greatest Help
To Women
Tried, proved, trusted
Banish Biliousness
Relieve Indigestion
Remove Gonstipation
Clear Complexion"
Promote Health
Beauty comes from
Health*
fg
Sold in boxes
1/- and 2/6.
SS7
M
mm
kz
-
aiomuoiw
next Picnic
The perfectly planned picnic
must always include merry
song and joyous dance. Take the
companionable little Decca with
you. It is ready at any moment
to increase the happiness of your
outings.
It is the soul of simplicity—handy
—compact and portable. Yet
nothing has been sacrificed in the
way of musical quality, for its
loud, clear tone is sweet and
mellow, and the equal of far more
expensive cabinet models.
©ECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
The Dccca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices from £4 10s. to
£l2.
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
r'ommonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St„ Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Rundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queen
St., Brisbane.
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad*
rant, Launceston. £
c
i?sS=Kaj
e *-oseo
pen
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m,
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares : All-day, 2/6: Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 Unas).
Afternoon Tea on Board,
at 3 p.m. Steamer from Fort Macquarie.
Adults, 1/6. Children, fid.
Sydney Ferriei, Ltd.


19
*
...
AM-*
nr?
&
J>l
&
S£
II
V?
y
jf
/
/
~ jm
“ of uffington
°White'W6rse at
*Uffi ngton, Iberkshire.
This fambus land-
ma r k between
Did cot and Swin-
don marks the
approximate site of
the battle of Ash-
down , fought in
A.D. 871, in which
tjie Christian
Saxons , led by
Alfred the Great
and his brother
Ethelred, routed
the Danes . T radi-
tion says that
A If red, to celebrate
the victory, caused
his army to carve
the White Horse
the day after the
battle.
Series No. 1.
in the estimation
of the connoisseur
with a reputation
as ineffaceable as
the White Horse at
on
hfghfg
White horse
"s'cotchWmSKY
White Horse Distillers ltd., Glasgow & London
THE LARGEST INDEPENDENT WHISKY (FIRM IN SCOTLAND
