

sdf
Y The best
CHRISTMAS
surprise
KODAK
Kodaks and Brownies are the best gifts of all.
They give happiness at the time and preserve
happiness for the future.
Kodaks and Brownies are the sort of present
everyone likes—put them at the head of your
Christmas shopping list.
Box Brownies make splendid presents for boys
and girls—prices from 10/6.
No, 1 Kodak Junior is a compact and dependable
picture-maker. For photographs 2\ x 3\ in.—
price 63 6. Other Kodaks from 25/-, as illus-
trated below. Ask for catalogue.
ks
£
j
'V v X«*
sdf
Model B Hawk-
eye makes pic-
tures 2M x
3M inches.
Price 10/6.
sd
The New Model
B Vest Pocket
Kodak makes
pictures 1% x
2% inches.
Price 25/-
Of all Kodak Dealers, and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
**The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
liuthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, ToAvnsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.--No. 2439,
Thursday, November 11, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


nr HE New library Catalogue
* is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
l-VSAGHT/
o
&
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
i§
I
& m
1
*
“De Reszke
—of course
At Twenty for One-and-Six
“De Reszke—of course”
Today it’s easy enough to make up your mind
on one subject. Your choice of a Virginia cigarette
naturally falls on De Reszke, now that you can
get the new De Reszke Virginias at 10 for ninepence.
You know what the name De Reszke stands for.
You know that, if any De Reszke cigarette were
not the very best in its class, the “ goodwill ” value
of the name —at present beyond compute —would
be endangered. So why should you smoke any-
thing less good ?
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “DE C RES~KEY.”)
Vir ginias
Twenty for One-and-Six
In lO’s, 20's, 50’s and 100’s
DR 12
MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.i
J-
xm\
Sh
-
M
7
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
«* * * •
rig
m
<**
&
KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
Idealism
There are two ways of approaching human
history and neither is wholly wrong. One
way is to regard it as a stupendous and
strangely complex attempt to secure the
maximum of material comfort and security,
the other is to see it as an adventure in
idealism. The former emphasises the physi-
cal aspect of life, the latter the spiritual.
But, as a matter of fact, it is impossible
to dissociate the two. They are intertwined
most incongruously in every phase of exist-
ence. It has been claimed that physical
comfort and security come first, that spirit-
ual life is-, but the efflorescence and not the
roots nor yet the branches of the tree. This
is plausible but quite erroneous, for what
we have even of material comfort we owe
in large part to scientific investigators, to
inventors, to liberty-lovers, to philosophers,
to architects and artists and musicians. These
were idealists, and oddly unconscious for
the most part of personal physical require-
ments.
But, apart from such great ones, whether
our adoration is expended on the perfect
pugilist, the perfect home, the perfect motor-
car or the perfect social system, we are
most of us either idolists or idealists. The
fact that we never meet with perfection
individually, that the whole race’s experience
has been a long series of disillusionmeuts,
never appals us. This would seem to
argue that in the human species at least
idealism is an instinct ineradicable. Reason
has ever been bewildered by the incompre-
hensibility of the instincts. Idealism it
finds particularly perplexing. Unlike other
instincts, idealism is selfless and incapable
of complete gratification.
The latest theory is that the pioneers of
progress and prophets of beauty have drawn
their often surprising strength from the
gregarious instinct. But this seems unten-
able. Society has displayed a greater dis-
position to outlaw the innovator than to
uphold him. The only way society has
invigorated the reformer has been by intensi-
fying his individuality through opposition.
What actually has sustained the pioneer, in
the past at least, has been his innate ideal-
ism, assisted to some extent by an inflamed
egoism. To-day an extension of individual
freedom has made society more capable of
tolerating the innovator. Whether it is more
capable also of recognising progress is quite
another matter. In social and aesthetic
affairs, idealism is not found in isolated in-
tensity, suffering misery and martyrdom, so
frequently as formerly; it is now rather
diffused through the social organism. It
has taken the place of religion to the extent
that, whereas we are no longer swayed by
the thunderings of Jehovah, we yet cannot
escape the innate desire to do better and
be better. The truly religious character
to-day is the introspective idealist, and he
in the moral sense is at once actor, critic
and creator. Setting a watch on personal
motives, he frequently forgets that subcon-
scious pride presents these motives to him
in more admirable form than they would
have partaken but for the conscious critic.
The motives go to and fro, acutely aware
of the idealist that sits beyond the foot-
lights. But in the end the miming motives
begin to live the part which at first they
only played. The braggart actor merges
into the idealistic critic, and thus a moral
or religious character is created. As may be
noted, the dual r6le of animal and angel
imposes endless insincerities, and, moreover,
involves considerable self-deception. Not
only hypocrisy, but also much tragedy and
comedy, may be traced to the passion for
perfectibility. The gulf between soaring
aspiration and shabby achievement distresses
and amuses us in turn ; we feel we are sub-
lime and behold in a flash we are ridicu-
lous ; we laugh, and tears tremble in our
laughter. We encounter incongruity in every
issue. This, however, is not wholly due to
an inherent hopelessness in the human status.
It is due in part to errors in environment
that can be conceivably rectified. Obviously
life cannot permit us to achieve our ideals—
that would be spiritual satiation and death
—but at least we may approach more nearly
to them.
Were it possible to believe—-as some
people most miraculously do believe —that
the ideal and the actual very closely corres-
pond, it would not be hard to be happy. In
this connection it may be noted that a sense
of humor cannot be associated with happi-
ness under the moral and social circum-
stances that prevail in our world at present.
Laughter is largely the result of sudden
relief from subconscious stress. We laugh
when the disparity between the ape and
angel is suddenly revealed, simply because
this recognition momentarily relieves the
intensity of the subconscious spiritual war-
fare which exists between the two. Again
we laugh at mothers-in-law and maniacs
because cruelty, suppressed by humanitarian
decrees, here finds relief, and at lewdness
because hypocrisy has left the sex instinct
in a state of dangerous suppression. Actu-
ally, the real humorist laughs very little,
though he smiles a lot. (This may seem a
lengthy interlude on humor, but humor is
of utmost importance to idealism—it saves
the idealist’s sanity.)
Idolatry has been oddly intertwined with
idealism throughout our whole history. We
have worshipped crosses and flags and statues
and ceremonies and symbols of all kinds.
Beginning with the worship of sticks and
stones we shall end by endeavoring to em-
body eternal good and eternal beauty in our
social systems. This is the Alpha and Omega
of idealism. It may be that even now we
approach a little nearer to that which, if
not God, is at least the only god we can
visualise. It may be that there is a gleam
of gold in the stupidity, savagery and suffer-
ing which darkly envelop us. It may be
that our restless seeking and boundless dis-
satisfaction have a purpose other than the
destruction of the species. It may be that
the things we have wrought, the pictures
we have painted, the words we have written,
and the dreams we have dreamt are not
all doomed to pass away.
T.JASPER.
Cunninghame Graham
There are some literary figures that seem
doomed to be overlooked in their own gener-
ation because they cannot easily be put into
categories. Cunninghame Graham is one of
those. A highly individual writer, occupied
almost entirely with imaginative fiction, he
has written neither novels nor short stories of
the ordinary type; all his impressions of life
have been moulded into a form of his own,
something between an essay and a conte,
that has given him freedom to express his
romantic experiences and his ironic philoso-
phy. It is hard to decide whether to class
his work as fiction at all. Almost all of it
has a strong autobiographical flavor, and,
though that could be said of most important
writers, they generally manage to conceal
the source of their material by their objec-
tive treatment of it. In Cunninghame
Graham’s work the author cannot be for-
gotten for a moment. Every phrase has his
particular accent, and whether he is writing
of Scottish crofters or South American
gauchos, what he chiefly manages to interest
us in is himself.
A queer bird among authors, keeping, in
spite of his democratic opinions, something
of the attitude of a gentleman condescending
to literature! In considering his work it is
necessary to take into account his ancestry
and the figure he cuts in the world. Born
a Stuart, he is still regarded by some people
as the rightful heir to the throne of Eng-
land, and if looks were the badge of royalty,
no one would deny him the throne and
sceptre. An aura of aristocratic dignity sur-
rounds him, even when he is speaking to
a mob in Trafalgar-square. But the royalty
associated with his figure is of a kind older
than modern dynasties. It is that of the
traditional early monarchs who struck kingly
attitudes among their barons and melted
into geniality in the presence of the common
people. Cunninghame Graham has an in-
tense dislike of the modern bourgeois world,
and his sense of race and lineage is never
more apparent than when he is riding along
Rotten-row of a morning, sitting easily in
his Mexican saddle, while the lords of in-
dustry and finance trot past red-faced and
panting on their stout cobs. He might be a
Spanish hidalgo come to life again, looking
with aloof, contemptuous eyes at the people
who have succeeded to the old traditions.
This sort of attitude is implicit in every
line he writes. Early in his career he entered
the House of Commons, but when some
matter of free speech arose and the gag was
rnplied to him, he damned the Speaker to
bis face and strode out, never to enter the
doors of that imperial building again. The
Latin world inevitably attracted him, and he
went to South America, becoming imagina-
tively absorbed, like W. H. Hudson, in the
life of the pampas. In such books as “The
Ipane,” he gets the atmosphere of this world
as it was before English and German capital
had poured into it and cattle-growing had
become a commercialised industry-. He
thoroughly understands the gaucho, with his
love of horses, his quick, fierce passions, and
his mixed legacy of Indian and Spanish tra-
ditions. Riding after cattle, with an occa-
sional lapse into family feuds or guerilla
fighting, seems to him a life more worthy
of full-bodied men that that of modern sub-
urbia. Tie is drawn to whatever is wild, pic-
turesque and eloquent in the Latin-American
civilisation, and even its peonage and tyranny
never outrage his feelings like the squalor
of his own Glasgow. I remember talking
to him once about old Terrazas, a notorious
land-baron of Chihuahua, who owned half
the state and ruled it with a rod of iron,
making laws to suit himself and putting a
heavy yoke on the necks of the peons and
small landholders. He persisted that the
old tyrant, whom he had known well, was
not really a bad sort of man, that he was
infinitely more human and attractive in his
vices than some of the dreary shipbuilders
and brewers of his own native land, who
never felt a warm, generous emotion even
when endowing a church or a library.
But it is when he is writing of horses
that Cunninghame Graham shows most
understanding and sympathy. Men may
appear to him rather thwarted or degenerate
beings, but his imagination kindles at the
sight of a good horse. There is one sketch
of his that tells of a journey through the
back-country of a small republic that had
been devastated by civil war. After a day’s
ride through a soundless forest, in which
the clearings are overgrown, the stock
slaughtered, and even the birds and animals
silenced, he comes to a little house inhabited
by an old man. The hermit is friendly, but
a little suspicious, and they talk in a de-
jected way on the verandah about the state
of the country and the ruin caused by war.
Suddenly a violent neighing interrupts them.
The old man’s horse has come upon the
strange one, the first brother-horse it has
seen for years. It is not a matter of sex;
it is a matter of pure kinship. The trans-
ports of those two horses in meeting, their
racings over the grassy paddock, their word-
less delight, are steeped in an atmosphere of
sheer poetry. No scene in the whole world
of fiction is more moving. The secrets of
loneliness and comradeship are penetrated
more surely in this sketch of the two horses
than if the writer was dealing with men.
There are countless other horses in his
tales, some proud beasts of blood, and others
obscure hacks like the poor brute that is
pictured dying in a side street, starved,
harness-galled, castrated, to give the neces-
sary ironic touch to some scene of Christmas
festivity. The necessary ironic touch? Yes,
it is just that inevitable irony that robs
Cunninghame Grahands work of its full
flavor of richness. It is so constant that it
is apt to look mechanical, and even a little
weak; for irony, as everyone knows, is a
cloak that sentimentality often puts on to
(Continued on page 3.)


JL
You Pay Less Always for Shooters’ and Anglers’ Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
YT7B4.
YT7B4. — South Bend Bass-Oreno is a
wobbler type of bait. Body is 3iin. long.
Price
2fin. long. Price
YTI7S.
YTl7s.— Stevens’ Single-shot “Junior” Rifle, Take
down, .22 Short, hong and Long Rifle, 20in. Barrel.
Weight, 2flb. Price
19/-
YT6I.
YT6I. — I. Hollis and Sons’ 12-G. Top lrever
D.8.8.L. Gun, treble-bolted action on the erossbolt prin-
ciple, steel barrels, left choke bore, good steel rebounding bar
locks, well-grown walnut-heart stock, half pistol grip, snap
fore-end fastener, engine-turned rib; proved for nitro oil
powders. Price IJL
As above, 12-G., 32in. barrels. Price £ll/15/-
IDEAL N-4
YT436.
YT436.— ldeal Re-loading Set, .25/20, .32, .38,
.44 W.O.F. Price, per set
30 -
IDEAL DIPPER
FOR aULLET METAL-
YT349.
YT349. —The Ideal Dipper is
sable in casting bullets. No spill-
ing of metal. Price
indispen-
-56
YT446.
Y7446.— Alfred Williams’
Knife, length s£in.
Price
Sheath
1/3
YT442.
YT442.— Hunting Knife, 4in. blade, not
stainless. With leather sheath.
Price
6/6
YT436—
sin 7/6
6in 8/-
7in 9/■
YTII7.
YTll7.— VVebley-Scott’s 12-G. D.8.8.L. Hammer-
less Gun 30in. special steel barrels, chambered 2|in., flat
engine-turned raised rib, box lock action, top lever, tieble bite,
crossbolt, selected walnut half-pistol hand stock, neat OOA
scroll and border engraving, nitro proved. Price,
YT723.
YT723. Blue Ribbon
Bait Casting Line, made
of high-quality plaited silk.
50 vds. 100 yds.
No. 4 .. 8/- 16/-
No. 5 .. 7/- 147-
No. 6.. 6/3 12/6
YTI73.
VTl73.— Savage “Sporter” Repeating Bolt-
action Rifle.
.22. .25/20. .32 Cal.
Model 1923 A. 19238. 1923 C.
Price.. £4/12/6 £6/10/- £6/10/-
fdf
YT22I.
YT22I-— Young America Revolver, .22 calibre, 7-shot, 4*in. /r>
barrel; weight, BJoz. Blue or nickel finish. Price •
.32 calibre, Model 1905, 24in. barrel, 5-shot; weight lloz. Price .... 25/-
“Captain Cuttle” Watches
Obtainable Only at Anthony Horderns’.
Price
40/-
&
SBS
By Reg'. Post.
3d. extra.
The high-
class .
Jewelled
Lever
Movement
is fitted
with Bre-
quet Hair
Spring
and Com-
pensation
balance.
Men on
the Land
will appre-
I ciate its
excellent
I qualities.
Duplicate
parts
always in
stock.
Gent.’s Hunting “Captain Cuttle” as /
illustrated. Silver-plated. Price *V\9/
Demi-hunting. Price . . . 42/
The Temprex Lever
“KING OF TIME.”
It is a
Jewelled
Lever Move-
ment, in a
neat, nickel-
plated open-
face case.
Ideal for City
or
Country
wear.
/
TEHPREX LEVER
HONY HORDERN &SONS U*
*
m
m
60
ft
30
Repairs can
be effected at
moderate
charges, and
in a mini-
mum of time.
Duplicate
jjarts are
always
in
stock.
The Temprex Watch, Which is guaranteed by
Anthony Horderns’, was chosen as the result of a world’s
search for a reliable timekeeper at a reasonable 4 /
price. Price .. . • lO' “
ďf
YTI4I.
YTI4I. — Winchester S.S. Rifle, Model 1902,
to take .22 short, long or extra long cartridges; round
barrel, 18in. long; weight about 31b. QC/
Price "
With elevating sight. Price 40/-
21in long, elevating sight. Weight about 41b. Price .. . 45/-
YT7BI.
YT7Bl.— Wright’s Focal Pat-
tern Flies, Silver D.octor, Jungle
Cock, Moonbah, Ti Tree, Jindabyne,
Oooma, Bredo, Bugong, Yarrango-
billy, Orange Wasp, Jock Scott,
Bumble Bee, Turnut.
Price, doz
3 -
767
Wizard Wriggler —an excellent
spinner for trout and perch ; luminous
with gold spots, for night q /£»
fishing; li, 1J in. Price O
Post your
Orders.
Satisfaction
is Guaranteed,
sdf
55/-
YT4O.
YT4O. — Harrington and
Richardson’s Single-
barrelled Gun, 12-C., top
lever, automatic ejector, full
choke. Weight about 61b. Price
As above, 410-G. Weight about 41b.
Price 55/-
Harrington and Richardson’s
Heavy Breech Single Barrel
Gun, 32in. finely-bored special steel barrel,
reinforced breech; half pistol grip stock. Weij
about 7llb. Price
full choke,
65/-
YT433
YT43B.— Stainless Sheath Knife, made of
Firth, Stirling Stainless Steel; leather
sheath; sin. Price
4/6
YT439. — “Bowie” Hunting Knife,
blade, stag handle and hand guard ; leather
sheath. Price
heavy
66
YT43B.
YT437. — “Green River” Sheath r% /g%
Knife. Price *</
YT437.
YT67.
YT67.— 12-G. “Bayard,” black steel barrels, with Pieper
patent solid breech, left choke, drop forged action, top lever sys-
tem with treble grip top bolt. Improved rebounding double spring
locks, Deeley and Edge fore-end, checkered grip and fore-end, case-
hardened and blued mountings; horn heel plate, engine-turned
rib. “Genuine Pieper Breech Warranted’’ engraved r* rm /-\r\ '
on breech, with scroll and game engraving. Price, oC // 1 m
YT764. — Devon
trout and perch.
Length
Prices. . .
YT764.
Baits —an excellent spinner for
1, If. 14, If. 2, 24 in.
2/3 2/6 2/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limifed.
BRICKFIELD Hll .1 SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440


ESSEX COACH
£325
iHiitfiiiaa
'■AVs
New Models with Finer Chassis
Reception of this new model Essex has been instantaneous, overwhelming all
past Essex triumphs in interest, enthusiasm and sales.
The chassis reveals the development and refinement resulting from years
of production and experience in building more than 900,000 motors on
the famous and exclusive Super-Six principle. Greater power and
increased economy have been obtained.
No car of any size or at any
cost excels its easy - riding quali-
ties.
t
Essex is the outstanding value in light
six-cylinder cars.
ESSEX PHAETON £255
(Prices slightly higher in some States.)
“A 30-Minute Ride Will Win You”
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth-
(162)


STRENGTH
m
There’s downright strength and upright quality in
double-grip, double-duty-doing PARIS. They’ll
hold your socks and your friendship, too: that’s a
real test of strength. Count the moment well spent
when you ask for PARIS.
P/IRIS GARTERS
Manufactured in Australia by
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., Ltd., 50 York Street, Sydney
shield itself against the wind. And Cun-
ninghame Graham has no need of it. His
work is essentially robust, a man’s work,
with the potter’s thumb of a highly original
artist on every page.
VANER PALMER.
Aldous Huxley
Aldous Huxley, who recently has thrown
a new assortment of his poems into a slim
volume, Selected Poems (Basil Blackwell),
is a very clever young man, and at the same
time an exemplar of the reason why very
clever young men so seldom become cleverer
old men. The mind of a great artist never
reaches its greatest possible development;
until the hour of dearli it is continually
expanding. But Aldous Huxley, whatever
his age may be, is still young; and already,
with his unobtrusive complacency in his
modernity and his quest of small originali-
ties, there is the guarantee that his vision
of the universe has gone as far as it will
ever go. Very clever young men early
assume the mantle of exceeding cleverness
simply because they have the talent for
doing one thing, or perhaps two or three,
with mechanical facility—and that sort of
taler.t, beyond a certain point, is quite '.un-
susceptible of any ’nearer approacli to per-
fo' ion.
Nevertheless Huxley’s work is peculiarly
interesting, for it is more truly representa-
tive of the mean of modern poetry than that
of any of his contemporaries. He stands
amongst neither the high nor the low. He
is simply a “prominent poet.” And the influ-
ence of “prominent poets” is greater with
their own generation, in their ponderous
aggregate, than that of its poetical giants—
owever quickly that influence may wilt in
the light of the future. So Huxley’s chief
claim to fame is this: that he is truly the
Man of the Age, that in him all the vices
and virtues of modern poetry find embodi-
ment. He is the heir of the ages—to his
ruin. And at the same time he is trying
to _ renounce that birthright, desperately
striving to be original. He would sell his
soul so that he might exchange the old lamps
for new—• and lie can’t do it. Also, just
because of this striving to be different,
Huxley is not quite sincere; you feel that
lie must carry a looking-glass about with
him and sometimes you seem to hear muffled
exclamations: “An inimitable effect that!
How clever ! How ingenious!”
The present volume is a kind of battle-
ground between the adhesive influence of the
old ages and the strong trend of modernity.
The principal manifestation of the first force
is in what Matthew Arnold (who flung the
phrase at Tennyson) would have called the
“distilled” quality of his poetry. Huxley
has read widely and attentively amongst the
old poets, and his mind has acted as a filter,
taking a subtle essence from here, a delicate
sentiment from there. Distilled in thought,
in word, in rhythm, Huxley’s poetry is truly
a rare and precious perfume; but a little
cloying, outlandish and so sickly sweet. Thus
a certain peculiarity of mood in the follow-
ing lines from the “Song of Poplars” derives
direct from Shelley :
Springing in dark and rusty flame.
Seek you aught that hath a name?
But Shelley could never have been guilty of
“dark and rusty flame.” And whence came
the dazzling luminosity of these lines if not
from the marble-loving Hellene:—
Oh, the imperishable things
r lnat hands and lips as well as words
Shall speak ! Oh, movement of white wings!
Oh, wheeling galaxies of birds!
And here is Byron, unexpectedly jumped out
of a “Church in Italy”; languid, perhaps,
with unwonted clumsiness of touch, but still
Byron:—
... . where the pilgrim hobbles
Past a score or so of neat reposories,
V- here you stop and breathe and tell your rosaries
To the' shrined terra-cotta mannikins
That expound with the liveliest quirks and grins
Known texts of Scripture.
In spite of these peccadilloes the modern
flavor is nevertheless strong, often rank, in
Huxley’s work. As before noted, his poems
are full of contrariety and a desire to be
strikingly different from everybody else,
which, according to someone, is a sign of
tlie_ decadence of romanticism, just as the
desire to be strikingly like someone else is
the decadence of classicism. The result is
a rich crop of incongruous images and un-
natural metaphors, deliberate affectation and
strangeness in the choice of words, frequent
pages of uninspired madness. When Hux-
ley speaks of the “slow, blue rumor of the
hill,” just what does the man mean? It
is true that a hill can be “slow” and “blue.”
but what remotest affinity has it with
“rumor”? Frequently his verse jolts into
the ruts of strange and fantastic words, such
as “unpassioned” and “iynx.” Again, ho
says that there was “no moon with its tar-
nish stain. ’ Blasphemy! Let him be moon-
struck on the next moonlit night!
In this era of change, literature and art.
those most conservative of earthly things,
which 30 years ago did not differ essentially
from the art and literature of Homer’s day. are
at last beginning to follow the universal trend
There is now a cry: “We have changed all
other things : we have motor-cars and aero-
planes and X-rays; we know the secrets of
chemistry. Then is art so unmalleablc that
we cannot change it too?” The greatest
literary sin that an author, prancing before
his super-sophisticated audience, can commit
m this age is to fail in originality; he must
neither repeat nor derive from the old turns.
(Judged by their own ideals, Huxley and
most of his contemporaries are damned on
that score alone.) So we have cubist artists,
tree-verse poets, jazz musicians, having for-
gotten that, just because this is an age of
democracy and emancipation, it is there-
fore unfavorable to the production of the
greatest literature. We have little leisure,
and such leisure as we have bears the stains
of toil; we are too tired to grope in the
obscure places that the torch of a great man’s
mind lights up. We crave some soft opiate
a Wodehouse novel, “Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes,” that will soothe us, will not raise
up doubts and searchings, but transform the
realities of life to our own tired, earth-bound
ideals. But, under the systems of colossal
cruelty which have now passed away, a cer-
tain few had leisure because their fellows
were slaves, or lived as slaves. The mob was
inarticulate and the artist took no thought
of it; he wrought his works for the leisured
and cultivated. And if the man was great,
his greatness was not then considered a
crime; he was not then labelled “high-
falutin’ highbrow” or “impractical aesthete.”
Striving after the unfound, then, as with
all the other modern poets, is Huxley’s ruin
and his greatness. His work is dominated,
made interesting, sometimes made great, by
that one quality of shackled aspiration. Be-
cause of that his poetry sometimes becomes
a mad anthem of change, a wild, pregnant
music.
LIONEL LUXTON.
Among the Anthropophagi
How many are the travellers who, passing
comfortably to-day over the Cape-to-Cairo
railway, cap visualise the shroud of mystery
and barbarity worn by the equatorial region
no more than 40 years ago? Such a vision
is permitted in the life-liistory of Prosper
Augouard, known as the Bishop of the
Anthropophagi.
Augouard, who was the son of a Poitiers
artisan, after completing his period of mili-
tary service in a Zouave regiment at Rennes
r" 1872 passed through the seminary at Seez.
In 1577 he went as a missionary to Gabon,
on the Guinea Coast. This was at the time
when Savorgnan de Brazza and Stanley were
penetrating the mysterious tracts of the
Upper Congo. At Gabon and Bandana, on
the Congo, he served his apprenticeship.
Slavery reigned around Bandana, and the
missionary had his first experiences with the
*' man-tigers. In 11 months they had
assassinated and eaten 2!) members of his
native entourage.
( I» 1881 Augouard started for Stanley
Pool, 400 mill's up the Congo, without arms
or an armed escort, and only with native
carriers. lie met Stanley there. The
explorer reproached him for his foolhardiness
in going unprotected. Shortly afterwards he
established his principal mission, St. Joseph
do Binzolo, a few miles down the Congo from
Stanley Pool in the very heart of the anthro-
pophagi. Here, surrounded by forests where
vengeances and rites were daily accompanied
by human slaughter, fields were reclaimed
from the virgin forest, and a little later we
read of the establishment around the mission
buildings of kitchen gardens, fruit-trees,
herds of pigs and goats, a few sheep, and
nocks of ducks and fowls. The personal
correspondence of Augouard, lately published,
gives many piquant and disgusting glimpses
of lus daily round. He met the chief Makoko,
who had the reputation of commandeering the
toes of his victims as the most dainty and
succulent portions. Absolutely revolting is
his first visit to Ibaka. chief of the Baianzis,
whom he found digesting one of his own
children, born the previous day. But to the
tribes of the Oubanglii River lie awards the
palm. These cannibals without shame would
oiler a human arm or thigh for 10 sous.
After eight years in this centre he returned
to Prance in ill-health. In 1890 the Pope
made the Oubanglii a special apostolic
vicanat, of which Augouard was named
bishop. When he returned in 1892 he found
the Africans were menacing the advance-
posts of civilisation. In his own region the
explorer Crampel was killed on the Upper
Oubanglii, and Bieutenant de Poumayrae,
with 10 native soldiers and 20 porters
garnished the pots of the Oubanghis’.
I 1 arther up the Congo a Belgian caravan
was annihilated, and the cannibals, with a
slow refinement of cruelty, cut off, roasted
and ate the two arms of the leader before
giving him his coup de grace. All the while
Augouard carried the cross and the tricolor
farther and farther, facing the perils of wild
animals and humans, rescuing the sick and
abandoned, and purchasing women and child-
ren from slavery at the price of a few yards
of cloth per head. Whereas before’ the
twentieth century opened, the navigation of
the Oubanghi was excessively dangerous
because of the ferocity of the riverside tribes,
who sought always a good fricassee of
human flesh, by 1909 all danger had disap-
peared, and no alarms then broke the mono-
tony of the voyage.
In 1915 Pope Benedict made him arch-
bishop, and in his vicariat he was then
assisted by 60 priests, 13 Sisters of Mercy
and 107 native teachers who instructed 6500
children in 82 different schools. This was
the work he could look upon when in 1919
lie returned, broken in health, to seek repose
in France. The task had been gigantic, but
it had produced a giant. In carrying the
banner of Christianity and civilisation to
some of the darkest spots of Africa he had
acquired for France a territory three times
greater than its own. All this is but an
apergu of the material gathered together by
Baron Jehan de Witte in Monseigneur
Augouard and of his private correspondence
published under the title of Trentc-six Annees
au Congo. The life of labor, courage and
charity ended on October 3, 1921, at Paris.
It is a story worthy of at least one book in’
Bnglish.
J.H.REID.
An Australian Accent?
One hates to contradict a padre, but. as
an Australian University man, I cannot allow
some of .Tames Green’s remarks about our
accent(R.P. 14/10/’26) to pass unchallenged.
My fob. that of physical-training instructor
m the Australian Military Forces, has
brought me into daily contact with hundreds
of schoolboys, State and 11011-State, in every
PaH of every State excepting South Aus-
tralia. and I have never noticed the mispro-
nunciations he refers to, except in the case
of new arrivals.
If we as a people are addicted to adding
the r sound to words like “law,” why is it
that The Bulletin so frequently has to strafe
contributors for using the “morn-dawn”
rhyme? The Bulletin’s strictures are not
on account of the r sound being inserted into
the word “dawn-,” but because it has been
elided from “morn.” Nor is the “kikes”
and “gripes” accent characteristic of the
educated Sydneyite, though every itinerant
globe-trotter, from J. A. Froude down to
Foster Fraser, has gibed us to that effect
Such eockneyisms may occur, and no doubt
do occur, but they are no more general in
Sydney than they are in London.
Mr. Green may make the obvious retort
that my own hearing is defective; but I can
assure him that I have had a long and
thorough musical training, and that my sense
of sound is at least as acute as his own.
During the war it was noticeable that
there was very little difference between the
speech of the educated Australian and the
educated Londoner, or the educated man of
any other part of the Empire. Differences
of pronunciation, such as our tendency to
shorten the a sound in certain words' and
the Englishman’s broadening it, and his ten-
dency to drop ft/s and final g’s existed, and
of course there were different idioms; but
no other differences were perceptible. This
would seem to indicate an absence of accent.
After all, assuming accent exists, can it be
regarded “merely as a mark of decadence”?
Is it not rather the result of climate and
geographical isolation, and does it not indi-
cate, rather, virility and individuality?
PIP TOK.
Novels Worth Reading
Ths list lias been compiled by a commit-
tee nominated by the Associated Booksellers
of Australia and Maoriland. It is issued to
serve as a guide to new fiction of outstanding
merit.
Kooks of Literary Merit— The Green Lacquer
Pavilion, by Helen Beauclerk; The Silver Spoon, by
John Galsworthy; Comedians, by Louis Couperos;
The Silver Stallion, by James B. Cabell; Saviours of
Society, by Stephen McKenna.
Kooks for Popular Reading.—'The High Adventure,
by Jeffrey Farnol; The Proper Place, by 0. Douglass;’
The Key Above the Door, by Maurice Walsh; Little
Mrs. Mannington, by Cecil Roberts; The Black
Hunter, by James Oliver Cimvood; Bellarion, by
Rafael Sabatini; The Dancing Floor, by John Buchan;
Yesterday’s Harvest, by Margaret Pedler; Andrew
Boconnoc’s Will, by Joseph Hocking; Stories Near
and Far, by W. J. Locke; Half a Sovereign, bv lan
Hay; Mantrap, by Sinclair Lewis.
Can Australians Write?
From Rhos-on-Sea, N. Wales:—
Dear Bulletin,— The old familiar Red Page
reached me to-day (22/9/’26). I note a Mr. F. D.
Davison says he thinks Australians cannot write. /
think Mr. F. D. Davison has very little to think with.
— Y ours faithfully, A. G. Hales, author of 40 pub-
lished novels.
A Satchel of Books
_ Billy the Kid, by Walter Noble Burns (Geoffrey
Bles). “Billy the Kid was the south-west’s most
famous desperado and its last great outlaw. He
died when he was 21 years old, and was credited
with having killed 21 men.” In any decently gov-
erned country “the Kid” would have been clapped
into prison years before he reached the halo that
he seems now to wear.
Simmonds, by Oswald Kendall (Nelson). Simmonds
of the schooner Lucy Anne, under the tutlelage of
her old skipper, saw adventurous times in the northern
seas and faced storms and perils. Captured for
otter hunting within Russian waters, he was put
to work in the saltmines. Escaping by killing his
guard, he once more had the freedom of the sea.
A remarkable man was Simmonds, and the stow
of his wild life absorbs the reader.
The Patriot Novelist of Poland, by Monica M.
Gardner (Dent). Henry Sienkiewicz is familiar to
English readers as the author of “Quo Vadis ” but
comparatively little else of his work has reached
them. He was not quite 17 when the insurrection
of 1863 broke out, and ended in a disaster which
influenced him profoundly. He is not an author to
be skipped. He paints on a large canvas and
with a more than pre-Raphaelite love of _ detail.
Tlie author’s object in this volume is to give her
readers some idea of the finest novels and short,
stories of the man’s busy life of burning patriotism.
The Silver Spoon, by John Galsworthy (Heine-
mann). One more volume of “The Forsyte Saga.”
If the “Saga” means anything-, Allan Monkhouse
said, “it means that the day of the unproductive
collector of riches cannot last. The Forsytes were
great people in their day and honest men by their
lights. As an historical pageant they are impressive,
but they must yield or change.” For those who
still look for a purpose as well as a picture in a
novel these words convey it fairly. In “The Silver
Spoon” we see the edifice of the social system built
up in the Victorian days in process of further dis-
integration. Michael Mont, having withdrawn from
publishing to enter politics, put the position
poignantly in his reflections as he watched and mused
over his infant son born with the silver spoon in
his mouth. Were he and Fleur fit to bring him up?
“With veneration killed, and self-denial ‘off,’ with
atavism buried, sentiment derided, and the future
in the air. hardly a wonder that modernity should
be a dance of gnats, taking itself damned seriously.”
The picture of social unrest, with liberty degenerating
into license, is drawn with the half-cynical, half-
pathetic attitude to life adopted by Mr. Galsworthy.
In the midst of the hurly-burly stands Soames
Forsyte, a bewildered link between the past and
present. The dramatic interest centres in a trial
scene. A fine piece of work, but, taken all round,
not equal to its predecessor, “The White Monkey.”
Transatlantic Travellers, by Charles T. Spedding
(Fisher Unwin). The author, for many years purser
of the Saxonia and subsequently of the Aquitania,
has brought together a body of interesting yarns and
reminiscences of prizefighters and bishops, movie
stars and millionaires. “Elijah” Dowie made a
voyage with the author in a particularly severe
•winter. “As all sailors know, when a violent gale
is abating, invariably the weather becomes squallv.
Dowie, spotting this, announced that he was going
to still the storm.” His followers gathered round
him in the saloon, where he prayed for faith, “really
waiting for a good hard squall, which any old salt
could sense, without going on deck, by the heeling of
the ship.” It came, and Elijah, followed by" his
disciples, made for the deck and assembled forward
under the bridge. “To see this old patriarch, his
flowing white beard bent to the shrieking wind, was
an impressive sight, the bright winter moon adding
to its weirdness.” Then they all knelt and the
prophet at the elemental moment, with the wind at
the point of exhaustion, rose, and stretching out his
hands to the heavens, cried in a loud voice, “Peace!
Be still.” As the wind rapidly died away the
disciples went into ecstasies of joy. Then Elijah
got them down to the saloon before the next squall
came. When they woke in the morning it was to
find lovely weather. Dowie made 37 new converts—
subscribers to Zion City—that night.
“San Martino”: Some remarks by “Veronal” about
Marcus Clarke (R.l\ 28/10/’26) induce me to men-
tion that his principal work was first described as
“For the Term of His Natural Life,” and the title
was afterwards shortened —not the other way about,
it appeared as a serial in the early ’seventies, not
the late ’eighties, and came out as a book in 1874.
It had been to a great extent re-written—by Clarke
or someone else. The erratic Marcus wrote only a
small part of “Long Odds,” which was hardly worth
writing anyhow. Australia owes a larger debt of
ingratitude to Clarke than to most men. This
Englishman’s nasty story about how official English
brutes treated unofficial English brutes in Australia
is still passing- round the world as a picture of Aus-
tralian life. Australians arc so fond of quoting it
as a masterpiece that it is sometimes mistaken for
a picture of present-day life. I don’t think anybody
will ever publish “a collection of Clarke’s -works.”


Perfectly matured, full-cream Cheese
pure produce of our country.
Kex Luncheon Cheese looks delicious and is delicious.
Place a little qn the tip cf your tongue —what do you
think of that for piquancy, richness and fullness of
flavour 1 It is perfect cheese, always of the same
choice quality, and economical because you eat every
morsel. Spread it like butter, on bread or biscuits;
make sandwiches with it; u e it for savouries —there
is no one who will not enjoy its creamy deliciousness.
1 )
i
i
?s
m
,i
k
mill,
VJ
J
J
How often ordinary cheese is too new and
green, or too old and strong ! That is why it
gives you indigestion. It is a matter of luck
whether your grocer sends you a piece to your
liking. Scientists tell you that cheese has its
highest food value when fully matured; for it
is rich in vitamines, and all the elements likely
to upset digestion are eliminated. Rex Luncheon
Cheese IS ALWAYS MATURED TO
PERFECTION—that is the secret of its delight-
ful flavour and perfect wholesomeness. That
is why, too, it is an aid to d gestion Then use
a little with every meal as an indispensable part
of your diet.
Rex Luncheon Cheese
is packed in dainty opal
porcelain jars and 4oz.
decorated tins. House-
wives will find many
uses for the empty clean-
looking white jars with
screw tops.
df
df
sdf
sdf
Luncheon Cheese
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Baeon.


<§
A
V
'ts
S 3
cer-'i
trtt
Bookkeeping Simplicity
Posting ledgers and statements with a Burroughs
Automatic Bookkeeping IVT achine is so simple and easy
that the operator need only be qualified to read the posting
medium correctly, depress a few keys and touch an oper-
ating bar. The machine does the rest—adding the debits,
directly subtracting the credits, computing and printing
the balance on the ledger and the statement at the same time.
This simplicity brings many advantages. It means that
you have a proved daily balance on each account; that
you can get the credit standing of any customer at a
moment’s notice; that your ledgers and statements are
always neatly printed; that sickness and holidays do not
interfere with the appearance of your accounts nor the
routine of your officej thnt your statements ure mniled.
promptly; that trial balances are obtained quickly.
We have prepared a booklet describing many of the
applications of Burroughs Automatic Bookkeeping Ma-
chines and shall be pleased to forward a copy to any
business man interested. Just write or phone to our nearest
office. You will not be placed under any obligation.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LIMITED
Burroughs
Machines
Add, Subtract
Multiply
and Divide
Burroughs
Machines
are priced
as low as
£5O
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
4034
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - ROCKHAMPTON - BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
A~mTI N G - BOOKKEEPING - CALCULATING AND DUPLEX MACHINES


-rfU Ls K
S/,
J i
OKr,
Extra wide doors, com-
fortable seats. Front
seats have a double-fold
giving easy access to
rear seats of the sedan.
Proclaimed—
a leader in Light Cars
2 EARS ahead of all competitors, John N. Willys has given the
world a new-type modern car. In every quarter of the globe
the Overland Whippet is acclaimed as the car for which the
motoring public has long been waiting. It has taken three years of
engineering research in Europe and United States to produce this car.
Here are a few of the remarkable facts about
this new-type light car
The Whippet has a low appearing, modern-type body with height
and length in true symmetrical proportion—more inside room than
any other light motor car. Exterior beautifully finished in Duo tone
Duco.
Four-wheel brakes assure utmost safety—the Whippet stops in 51
feet from a speed of 40 miles an hour.
It has a speed well over 55 miles an hour and an acceleration of 5
30 miles in 13 seconds.
It has power that enables you to take hills in high
gear that seemed impossible before. Its economy is
amazing. 35 miles to the Imperial gallon of petrol
is ordinary for this car.
See this new* type cox
No manufacturer has ever built a car like the Whip-
pet before. No other manufacturer can produce its
like without equally patient years of careful engine-
ering research. In fairness to yourself see it before
you buy any other. Prove to yourself by driving the
Whippet that no other light car is comparable to it.
to
rr
35
Miles Per
Imperial
Gallon
OVERLAND
X
Whippet
The world’s new-type light
car
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT.
W I
LLYS. OVERLAND • FINE
MOTOR
CARS


That One Pimple
May Become Many
%
m
Prevent More by
Using Cuticura
Soap regularly and Cuticura Oint-
ment when necessary. The Soap
cleanses the clogged, irritated pores,
the Ointment soothes and heals.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
mSF™ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
fior/oet ftoncif'
per/Sci
0&
d
The favourite of
everyone who has
once used it.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agent:
J. MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. 166 SYDNEY.
wi m
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
1,8 GOUROCK
ROPE WORK T mn
EXPORT CO. LIU.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Children
enjoy
ďf
it makes them
Well and strona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write u» and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use.. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:—
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [1
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
r
r-'
m
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FOR WOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PRICES FREE
GIOBE TIMBER *SS?
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S. A.
J
a
9
u
The Purity of
AMAMI
SHAMPOOS
is GUARANTEED by the
LONDON INSTITUTE of
HYGIENE.
Amami is the beauty shampoo in
almost universal use. Its purity
and efficacy are guaranteed by no
less an authority than the British
Institute of Hygiene. Blending 47
ingredients, and including the
special Lemon Juice Rinsing
Powder, Amami is the perfect
tonic-treatment for your hair.
r Jrictayi\uj/it£&
GmamnifMf
You can buy Amami at any Chemist’s,
Hairdresser’s or big Store. No. 1 for Dark
Hair, No. 5 for Fair Hair. 9d. each, com-
plete with Lemon Rinsing Powder.
TH E
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
fee
L POST FREE ,
THE P
m
FAIRBANKS SCALES
sdf
Fairbanks Motor
Truck Scale
THE peculiar conditions
surrounding motor truck
weighing demand a
special scale construction.
From 70% to 95% of the load
is carried on the rear axle,
consequently the weight is
not evenly distributed on the
four scale bearings. The
Fairbanks Motor Truck Scale
is designed to withstand the
pounding and jarring of
heavily loaded motor trucks
and to weigh them with con-
tinuous accuracy.
Representative for Australia:
R. W. WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE FAIRBANKS C0.,416 Broome St., New York, U.S.A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Impotence.
Ah yes, you can avert your eyes to scorn ;
Or edge your stinging words with bitter
hate;
Cast me away like some curst reprobate,
Or rend afresh the heart you’ve bruised and
torn.
Gold gem of matchless hardness that you are,
Whose austere worth scorns even to be kind,
Against pure friendship lock your stone-
walled mind,
And guard your heart with poisoned scimitar.
Ah, dear proud soul, one thing you cannot
do —
Kill the deep passion I endure for you.
N.s.w.
P.E.S.
Anti-climax.
The weary city's eyes are shut;
Each spire and roof-line high
Is an immortal cameo cut
Upon the dawning sky.
No sound, no stir, save dews that run
Or, pausing, swell and fall;
And then the blatant, staring sun
Comes up to spoil it all!
The sun that starts work’s noisy mill
And worry’s harsh demand
Comes like a tradesman with a bill
To ruin fairyland.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
Old Pioneer.
Under flowering branches shedding
Fragrance round a humble dwelling,
When we sprawl with limbs outspreading,
Goodwin’s tales are mirth-impelling.
Age and wisdom both possess him,
Yet his soul with joy is smitten;
And the smoke-wreaths that caress him
Veil the lines which Time has written.
Goodwin’s eyes : have seen the magic
Wrought of flower and tree and fountain
Far from currents swift and tragic;
Sunlight kindling sea and mountain.
Kindly eyes of understanding,
Oft-times have they scanned the distance
Under cloudless skies commanding
Leagues that flaunted dark resistance.
Still he wakes to hear enthralling
Notes proclaiming sunlight leaping,
Magpie songs and thrushes calling,
Chats aflight and swallows cheeping,
Sunset hues and moonlight streaming,
Love and passion he remembers,
Sitting by the campfire dreaming,
Smoking by the glowing embers.
Chance has dealt him lashes stinging,
Destiny has served him sadness;
Yet his kindly heart is singing,
And his eyes are filled with gladness—■
Lit with welcome for the drover,
For the spendthrift filled with pity;
And he cheers the homeless rover
Outcast from the distant city.
Tracks of travel, fields of battle,
Cast a spell when hearts are heeding
Tales he tells of maddened cattle,
Stockwhips cracking, horsemen speeding.
Tales of gold and heatwaves dancing
Over wildernesses burning;
High expectancy advancing;
Bitter weariness returning.
Listless youths by mirth forsaken,
Pausing for a space to listen,
Linger till their hearts awaken
And their faces glow and glisten
Under fragrant branches sweeping,
When the sage a tale is telling,
While the campfire sparks are leaping
By the door of Goodwin’s dwelling.
N.S.W.
GERARSY.
October Moon.
Who is it comes to the midnight moor
When October has opened her blossom door?
Jewels of Spring were richly shed:
Hovea’s violet, ground-pea’s red
In trailed festoons through the capeweed’s
gold,
Purple of lilies with points sixfold,
Rose of the sea-pink, flaxbuds blue,
And green of the fuchsia dripping through
Whose bells like drops of still cave-water
Might hang in the ear of Glaucus’s daughter.
Now all wild colors are softly gone,
For midnight silvers a garden wan.
And the cuckoo lone in the moonlight pale?
Climbs his wistful chromatic scale.
With the smell of the tea-tree’s sprinkled
snow
Into my room the bird-cries blow.
Catching his breath in the joy of pain
He tells me over and over again
Someone is near! Ah, grief and pride
And love too bright to be denied!
Swooning sweet are his notes and true
As Heaven’s stars captured in beads’ of dew,
Quivering, throbbing, scintillating
While the whole night is waiting, waiting!
Borne on his wide unwearied wings
He nears my window, and, passing, sings.
I leave the pillows and cross the floor
To stretch my arms to the flowery moor.
Shimmer of tea-tree is everywhere
1 dke the grey of frost in the gentle air;
But the wedding-bush has a warmer white,
Each creamy cluster alive, alight
As a fair girl’s breast...in the Long-ago...
My heart beats thickly, I murmur low:
“Who is it comes to that fluted tune
Under October’s ivory moon?”
One who died on a night like this
Answered me with a light, cold kiss.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


sdf
m ..
■
i
■
mm
“V- .
J
& ' ■:<■;•■ HI Hi 1
F>
IP: ->>:I; ; -V :
»:«P ' AKA
m
► 4L \
A
/ \
»y»
■ 1
p
■
/ ✓
Jmk // r 'i
PPP".'PP .*• y > ’ ;■ /
Ks. ■•. " 11l .
y
mm
: ?!ill
Ml®
* ;
..P
111
1
■
»*
:
mm
lllSil
‘ PPs
■■lll
■
m
* - *t * .
I • rfa
*?.i~
Weslc^ 1
■
; *"" iIH
3
~^
. • . ;
< ig
_ ' * ~|
.' ’ A r ’
. *
•P ,
•/ pip
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
/Z?\


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2439.
November 11, 1926.
“DID I HEAR THAT GONG AGAIN?"
“At the conferenee a speaker said that pro hibitionists must be prepared to eliminate all traffic in liquor in Australia, even if it meant bloodshed-


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
.Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
THItMS TO SUBSCRIBER#
(In Advance only).
Posted to anv address in' Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, A 1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing tvith Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that _it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e ., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —it nil be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
U. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and IV. Daw-
son and Sons, . Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E . ( .; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, lid Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” flf-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 5b Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Iff,l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., IGI hast
Eric Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency. B.E. Corner 6th
Avenue unci l\2nd Street , New ) ovlz City; Ilotahng s
News Agency, 203 West fist Street. New York City.
Washington ': Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News C0.,~70f Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Eoypt.— Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kono. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. .
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Pui.— A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: foe. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional foz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: foz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1926.
THE TRUTH ABOUT “MIGRATION.”
Before the overseas Parliamentarians
quitted Melbourne on the homeward track,
which will take them through South Aus.
and Westralia, they had a “migration” con-
ference in the chamber of the House of Reps,
with members of the Commonwealth and Vic.
Parliaments. The thing was arranged for the
special benefit of the British members, who
have talked “migration” on every possible
occasion, while heroically restraining them-
selves from asking point-blank, “How many
of oui' people can you take, and what do
you propose to do for them/” But the dis-
cussion was not very enlightening. Pearce
began it by saying (as his parrot might)
that “population could, must and should be
increased,” and that “if sufficient cheap capi-
tal was made available for development the
problem would settle itself.” A British
Labor member followed with the profoundly
original statement that Australia was. “a
magnificent country with vast potentiali-
ties and possibilities,” and suggested that its
rulers should get into communication with
"millions of people in Great Britain” who,
though deficient in capital, “love the land
for the land’s sake/’ Scullin, Labor
M.H.R., took up the parable, and declared
that “for more than 25 years the Labor
party had been agitating to make the coun-
try fit to absorb millions of our kith and
kin from Britain.” Nobody was so churlish
as to laugh, but when the orator went on to
assert that he could "show you thousands of
acres which run sheep, and which could be
used for the growing of potatoes and onions,”
State Labor-leader Hogan, who knows what
it is to grow potatoes and sell them in a
glutted market, smiled bleakly. Presently
Hogan pointed out that it was "useless to
put men on the land if the crops won't, pay
the cost of production.” A Westralian Free-
trader said that Protection was driving
people off the land, a Vic. Labor M.L.A. that
the land was locked in his State, a N. S.
Wales M.11.R. that it was locked in his,
and Arthur Henderson, M.P., that migra-
tion might be “stimulated” if “the locked land
was unlocked.”
* * * *
It was reserved for the Marquis of Salis-
bury to wind up the debate. In doing so he
suggested, with great politeness, that though
immensely interesting it had made the posi-
tion no clearer. From what he had heard,
the State Governments had no migration
policy in common nor were they in agree-
ment with the Commonwealth Government;
all seemed to be in favor of the principle, but
differed as to how it was to be carried our.
In short, “We find in Australia great un-
certainty on all the questions connected with
migration.” uncertainty there is, but much
of it is unavoidable. Australia is willing to
help the Old Man out of liis difficulties, to
the best of its ability, but it has to consider
that in doing so it might increase its own
difficulties, which are considerable. The
Great War cost it 60,000 of its best citizens
and 400 millions sterling, and left it with an
interest and pensions burden of 30 millions
p.a. It has to find this dO millions out of its
own resources —it has no tribute-paying de-
pendencies or overseas investments like its
parent’s. It is a borrowing, not a lending,
country; and its State Governments have
borrowed so recklessly for “reproductive
works” which have failed to reproduct that
they are all hard up. In effect, Australia is
not in a position to spend money like water
on immigration, and it has no great love for
State-aided immigration anyway. Like the
U.S.A. and Canada it has learned that the
best immigrants are those who immigrate at
their own expense and “chance it,” instead
of leaning on the Government. For that
kind of immigrant, who generally makes good,
there has always been room, and always will
be. British workers who have jobs to come
to are also welcome, especially if they bring
wives and children. And the number of such
workers could be increased by scores of
thousands if British manufacturers who are
falling behind in the race with their Ameri-
can and European competitors availed them-
selves of the opportunities obtainable here.
Legions of men now on the dole could be
profitably employed in Australia turning out
machines and machinery, apparel and tex-
tiles, rubber and leather goods, lamp- and
glassware and tools of trade, which are now
mostly supplied by our bad customer, the
U.S.A. There are also openings for great
numbers of fishermen, especially in North
Australia, where there are perhaps the rich-
est unworked grounds in the world ; and if
the right people took hold of the film indus-
try they might make it another Hollywood,
without the sickening vulgarity and smut. To
all these classes of employers and employees
Australia offers a great and growing market
secured by a Protective tariff. The Pro-
tection will be forthcoming whether Nation-
alists or Laborites are in office; the remnant
of Freetraders don’t count.
But no large body of British unemployed
can be accommodated on the land. There
are prospects on the land for young sheep-
men who can find at least £lO,OOO, after
serving their time as jackeroos, for experi-
enced agriculturists with £2OOO or £3OOO
and for the far from common farm laborers
of the thrifty and ambitious kind; but for
town-bred immigrants without capital there
are none. If the delegates carry home a
different impression it will be a pity. Instead
of lending a credulous car to loan-mongering
politicians who talk bunkum about “unlock-
ing the land,” let them consider the soldier-
settlement scheme. That was an experiment
which promised well on paper and in the
speeches of the politicians who fathered it,
but the general result has been failure on
a large scale. Thousands of disillusioned
Diggers left the land long ago, thousands
more wish they had never seen it, and the
community is resigned to the fact that it
will have to find interest on at least twenty
millions of deadweight debt. In one branch
of the business, moreover, a serious over-
production problem has been created. In the
light of that experience, what possible chance
is there for newchums without capital, even
if they “love the land for its own sake”? Of
course if Father Bull is still persuaded that
masses of his unemployed .can be transformed
into prosperous Australian farmers he is
welcome to have a shot at it. Australia
will put no obstacle in his way. It may
even furnish the land free if the enterprise
is confined to the Northern Territory or
North Queensland or North Westralia. But
it will not furnish the money. The Old Man
will have to back his opinion—if it is his
opinion—with his own funds.
THE MANUFACTURE OF AN
ARTIFICIAL PEASANTRY.
Learning nothing except how to spend more
money and get less results, and forgetting
nothing except its good manners, the N.S.W.
Government is sketching out still another
scheme for closer settlement. Broad outlines
are already available, and details are being
swiftly filled in. The plan is not likely to
present any of the prominent features of a
previous project by the same party—buying
estates wholesale on long credit, that is, and
selling them at a profit for cash or on short
terms —because the reception of that idea on
the London money market was a Polar freeze.
But in most respects it will be true to type.
The root idea is to force land which grows
wool for export to grow wheat for export
instead. The extirpation of wool is a sacred
craze with a N.S. W. Labor Ministry, just
as the extirpation of heresy used to be with
an inquisitor. No suspicion seems to enter
the minds of the city-bred Langs and McTier-
na.ns that their qualifications for the promo-
tion of wheat-farming and of whale-fishing
may be much on a par, with, possibly, an
advantage on the side of whaling, for the
sea doesn’t require to be “resumed” at great
expense, and the whale comes up many times
a day, while the wheat comes up only once
a year.
Three definite steps are involved. The
first is to devise an individual (a large
quantity of him) who will be a colorable
imitation of the medium class of European
peasant. Having secured him, the next proceed-
ing is to deposit him a long distance (such a
distance as the English, French or Italian
small farmer never dreams of) from the only
city and seaport where there is an outlet
for further quantities of agricultural pro-
duce. That is because no land cheap enough
for peasant settlement is available nearer
the city. The artificial peasant is next pre-
sented with a mortgage which would cause
even a superior European individual of his
class to collapse from shock, for city-made,
benevolent, patronising settlement is a costly
business. Then he is told that the final step
rests entirely with him. He is to be pros-
perous far above the average peasant, to
keep up a high standard of Australian intelli-
gence and Australian living, and to be a
credit to those who dug him from obscurity
and put him out in the remoteness and gave
him the bill to pay. As a set-off to liis draw-
backs, his produce is certainly carried to the
remote seaport at less than the cost of
carriage; but this aid doesn’t alter the fact
that the average haul of wheat in N.S.W.
is nearly 208 miles, and it costs a lot, even
with the discount. And now it is reckoned
that a big increase will have to be made in
the charge to pay for the 44-liour week.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Loughlin, while
foreshadowing his new activity, said the Ma
State had settled 7000 men in rural pursuits
in the past 20 years at a cost of £14,000,000,
or £2OOO apiece. Adding to these the men
who settled themselves, there should be a fine
show, yet in the last 10 years (it isn’t neces-
sary to go back 20) the number of agricul-
tural workers actually diminished by 19,078.
Loughlin said that when he made a fresh
start lie expected it would cost £3OOO to
bring about the settlement of each new pea-
sant and family (followed by his disappear-
ance, taking other peasants and families with
him), and lie thought of planting 1000
(£3,000,000 worth) annually. At the same
time mention was made of another proposed
writing down of settlers’ debts, meaning
thereby that the settlers would cease to owe
the money, but the whole community would
go on owing it. Between Federal'.writings-
off, and State writings-off, and the difficulty
in collecting wliat isn't written off, the issue
becomes confused. In Victoria, where the
farms were smaller and the prices larger, the
position is worse. Land bought at boom
prices which the settlement scheme helped
materially to create has slumped, and in
places the slump is 50 per cent, or more.
The soldier settlers are divided, with some
exceptions of course, between those who have
disappeared in debt and those who stay on in
debt. Against £22,000,000 invested there are
over £4,000,000 of debt which seems to be
bad, and an unlimited prospect of more bad-
ness. And Victorian rural workers of all
sorts were estimated as 15,659 less in 1925
than in 1920.
* * * *
Unduly large estates are an evil, but small
deserted ones are no great improvement, it
is difficult to find a reason, apart from the
craze to handle larae sums of money, why a
class of men in cities can’t rest unless they
are urging their fellow creatures to grow
wheat in the vicinity of some dispiriting and
perhaps elderly townlet where there are no
industries at which a farmer or his sons
can find occasional employment as a side-
line, where there is no prospect of better-
ment and where the pub is ordinary. And
not only do the figures re the occupations
of the people almost raise a doubt whether
closer settlement and the cutting up of big
estates, in the expensive way that N. S.
Wales and Victoria do these things, may not:
actually reduce the population on the land,
but another question intrudes. It is always
assumed that an area under sheep is to some
extent waste as compared with one under
cultivation, but so far as concerns Australia’s
wheat crop the assumption calls for inquiry.
The local Statistician estimates that the
N. S. Wales wheat-farmer with 250 acres,
who took a crop off his land every year,
made a net average of 18s. 9d. per acre per
annum during the past decade. Leaving out
the year of the guaranteed high price, the
net average for nine years is put down at
10s. Bd. per acre per annum. How
much less the jumbuck would yield net
is a matter for speculation. In four
of the nine years he couldn’t have avoided
yielding more. When this animal first
started his career in N. S. Wales he had a
fleece which weighed 1 jib. or l|lb. It has
been improved up to over 71b., and there
is no evidence that the beast isn’t capable
of doing more. lie may grow a hundred-
weight of wool one of these days. In addi-
tion he has a carcase. At the end of 1924
N. S. Wales was carrying one sheep to about
4] acres, including vast areas quite unfit for
wheat. The ease is certainly not one in
which minor politicians, flushed with debt
and inflated with the exuberance of past
failures, should interfere too recklessly.
A THEORY OF SUGAR,
During the middle portion of the nineteenth
century there was a general feeling that the
excessive use of sugar was a sign of deca-
dence, and that the world, with its jams,
sweet dishes and sweet drinks, was losing
the old robust strength of the age of beef
and beer. It was about the time of the big
South African disturbance that a definite
change took place in public opinion. Then
the word of science that sugar was a muscu-
lar stimulant, and that a ration of jam might
win a battle, seemed to set all the lolly-
factories of the world working overtime; and
to-day the confectioner’s shop is the most
prominent feature of every city suburb,
Whether the results are good or not only
time and the dentist can tell; but the sugar-
fed armies in the Great War seemed to
have lost nothing in either stamina or valor.
A rough survey of history makes the fact
pretty clear that ancient civilisations owed
a good deal to sweetness. Athens had a hive
of bee-farmers on Mount Hymettus, right at
its side-door and only three miles distant
from the Areopagus. Milk and honey were
the chief lure of the Hebrews when they
planned their descent upon Palestine; and
honey has always an important place in the
ancient romances that have filtered through
the Egypt of the Pharaohs and Arab and
Saracen lands down to our own nursery
tales. Virgil has given us a fair idea of
the importance of bee-culture in Roman
times; and the Ireland of far-back memory
W as humming with hives from end to end.
it is during the German expansion, which
we call the Middle Ages, that sweetness
seems to largely disappear. The old civilisa-
tions, shattered and finally destroyed by the
armed savages who excelled in nothing but
hattle, could not maintain any of the gentler
or more pleasing arts of life. Often, as in
districts of Ireland, agriculture wholly dis-
appeared and the people lived on meat and
fish. Honey did not wholly vanish from the
board, but as a regular necessity of life it
W as natural that it should go when bread
itself had disappeared. Most countries of
Europe were in a state of war, or pending
war, for many centuries. In the smoke and
destruction which marked the trail of armies
there was no place for the bee-farmer. An-
other force which did much to prevent the
return of sweetness in days of comparative
peace was the asceticism which the Church
encouraged. All pleasant things were more
or less sinful, and sweetmeats of any kind
W ere scarcely to be tolerated when peniten-
tial sufferings filled the intervals between
prayer and work. Yet the best of the monas-
teries did something to restore honey to the
menu; and in well-fed countries like Eng-
]ai)(j the bees were again humming loudly
in T udor Sugar from the cane began
to a pp ear about the same period; and it is
recorded among the enormities of Anna of
s axon y, wife of William the Silent, that
s i ie o f't en secretly consumed two pounds of
t i ie SW eet stuff in a day.
How far the qualities of races may be
dependent on the food they eat and the soil
011 which that food is grown has often been
discussed, but without reaching much in the
W ay of result. Certainly Greece and Pales-
tine—the two chief sources of inspiration of
the modern world—were fed for ages on
the product of limestone country; yet central
Britain on its bed of clay looks just as
wholesome as Sussex on its hills of chalk,
15ut sugar might be another matter. It is
just possible that the lollysliop stands for
something quite as important as the big
engineering works or the wheat silo. If it
can' be shown that the Goths, Franks,
Vandals, Lombards, Saxons, Burgundians and
the rest of the German tribes failed to fall
into line with the civilisations they con-
quered as rapidly as other savage conquerors
of no greater intellectual endowments, some-
thing in the way of explanation is required
which has not hitherto been forthcoming.
If the lack of sugar is the explanation, man-
kind is a simpler problem than we formerly
thought, and salvation by jam might not be
the worst idea put forward,
P.O.M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trade within the Empire.
These are some of the headings' for a sug-
gested speech by Mr. Bruce on “Trade
within the Empire." put categorically for
the sake of clearness, and with due consider-
ation for the fact that Australia, in addition
to being part of the Empire, is a very import-
ant white section of it and has interests of
its own to consider: —
It is a good thing to keep trade inside the Empire
as much as possible, but always with consideration
for the fact that that institution is, by an immense
majority, colored, and that a white man outside may
be better than a nigger inside.
Australia is under an obligation to do all the
selling it can while cultivating meanness, even to
the point of hog-meanness and base ingratitude,
as a buyer. Unless it can sell abroad some
£30,000,00(1 per annum more than it buys abroad,
which it utterly fails to do, it is liable to go bank-
rupt some day, like Turkey or Mexico, over its
interest bill. If one country has £7 10s. per
inhabitant per annum coming in from foreign services
and investments, and another has £4 10s. per
inhabitant going out as interest on foreign debts,
the difference is close on 225. per week for a
family of five. If the first community thinks it can
afford the silly luxury of Freetrade it has a perfect
right to be that or any other kind of ass with
its own money. The second one can’t afford the
luxury, having no private income of its own to be
an ass with.
In addition to having this matter explained to
them, any British statesmen who talk tr> Australian
statesmen about the duty of buying from Father
Bum, might well he told to go away and discourse
to the right parties. Regarded as a purchaser of
Bunn goods, the Commonwealth, with less than
0 000,000 population in 1925, wasn’t much behind
Armistice Day.
Two minutes —while the city holds its
breath;
Hushed in a pulsing silence quick with
pride .
And tender thought of those who gave their
best
To the great nation for whose sake they
died!
Two minutes —while the thronging feet are
still.
And quiet broods, with sheltering, out-
spread wing:
And heads are .bowed, and there are healing
tears
For hearts that quiver with remembering.
So much we give them who gave all for us —
A pause in life: a grief that knows no
shame.
Two minutes’ silence —and a throb of pain
At thought of some well-loved and honored
name!
VICTORIA.
GETRUDE HART.


India (319,000,000) and the U.S.A. (112,000,000),
and only a chronic ingrate could complain at that.
It might be mentioned in a supplementary way
that the Commonwealth gives its Ma Country a
large preference on almost everything, including
articles that it can make itself, thereby injuring its
own industries in the cause of Imperial patriotism.
In return the Ma Country gives a modest preference
on some goods which it doesn’t produce and never
expects to, and which it would import in any case
and always intends to. It is easy to explain that
it is driven to this course by its Freetrade principles,
and Australia can only reply that it is sorry for
the principles, and trusts they are only a temporary
insanity.
A further aspect of the matter is that the Common-
wealth, despite its foreign debts and interest bills,
is quite willing to buy as much as it has been
buying from the Old Man in London, and even to
buy more, and dash the consequences. That is . to
say, it is willing to transfer any amount of what
foreign trade remains after Australia’s debts are
provided for to the Old Man if he will only recover
his old punch and supply the goods better. But
United States products in particular seem to climb
over even a high British preference in a remarkable
fashion. This has been ascribed to the fact that the
Yankee artisan cultivates with intensity the habit
of being a shareholder, part manager and friend of
the business doing piecework inside the factory, while
the British one, like the Australian, prefers to be
a wage slave paid at a flat rate, and to wear a
hostile strike-making attitude outside. This reduces
production and increases the number and variety of
orders whereof J. Bull can’t guarantee delivery at
any fixed time. If the Old Man could reduce the un-
employed dole and cut off the big strikes, his affairs
might get on a better footing. Meanwhile he lives
in hopes that sufficient U.S. citizens may shoot each
other to diminish competition. It is the only hope
he has about the U.S.
A remark may be made in conclusion that last
Christmas it was hardly possible to boil or scrape
the “Made in England” label off a child’s toy without
finding “Made in Germany” underneath. That sort
of treatment doesn’t improve our opinion of the
Old Man, and may ultimately involve the abolition
of Christmas ; as a time of fraud rather than rejoicing.
4
Should There Be Prizes for Perjury?
Every now and then a Supreme Court Judge
or a magistrate is heard weai’ily remarking
that the crime of perjury is far too prevalent.
But seldom indeed is it that an attempt is
made to bring anyone to book, even when the
false swearing is almost as patent as it is
impudent. For this Ci’own Law Depart-
ments, not Judges, are mainly answerable.
Their inaction with regard to one species of
perjury is due to an unwritten law. In
divorce cases the right of anyone to lie till
he is black in the face in defence of a
woman’s reputation has long been conceded
by public opinion, though not by the crim-
inal code. There is not the remotest chance
of prosecution, and possibly never will be.
This may be ci'editable to our innate chivalry,
but it tends so surely to destroy the sanctity
of an oath in other court cases that it is
questionable whether it wouldn’t be better
for the law to lay it down in black and white
that perjury in divorce cases is not even a
misdemeanor, much less a grave crime. For
the elusive “unwritten law” idea has a
mischievous habit of spreading. Some,
possibly most, Crown Law Departments lay
themselves open to the charge of treating
perjury as mildly when it is committed to
save a man’s life as when its object is to pro-
tect a woman’s honor. They wink at it. In the
recent W.A. murder case one of the men who
have since been hanged submitted an alibi
which, had it been credited, would most cer-
tainly have secured his acquittal. Not only
did he swear that he was nowhere near the
scene of tlie murder when the murder was
committed, but he brought several other
people to swear that they had seen and
spoken to him going about his ordinary
business on the day specified. The jury by
their verdict—the Judge by his sentence —the
W.A. Cabinet by permitting the law to take
its course- —all marked that alibi in their
opinion as a “frame-up,” and those who
helped build it as having invited, or, rather,
challenged, prosecution for perjury. Before
Coulter and Treffene were hanged, several
more things occurred to emphasise the
correctness of that view. Coulter himself,
it must be admitted, stuck to his story to
the last, and to that extent stood by his
witnesses; but his co-murderer Treffene
went back on it, under the shadow of the
gallows, and practically denounced all the
evidence given for the alibi as a tissue of
lies. And Treffene’ s son at about the same
time bluntly admitted to a newspaper that
he had “told lies in court” to bolster up
Coulter’s version in the belief that lie could
only save his father by saving Coulter.
Nobody is likely to judge too harshly a lad
placed in such a terrible position, but what of
the others? They might, of course, be able
to prove that they were honestly mistaken,
not wilfully mendacious, in the evidence they
gave at the trial, but it is supremely unlikely
they will be asked to do even that. Yet
this is precisely one of the reasons why
perjury increases. It must needs grow harder
and harder to impress witnesses with the
enormity of the offence in ordinary cases
when they are invited to regard it as rather
commendable than otherwise when a woman’s
good name is involved, and as merely to be
expected when a man’s life is at stake.
*
Who Fears to Speak of Ninety-three?
The Customs revenue for the first quarter
of the financial year has boomed beyond all
expectation, which shows once more that no
Treasurer can tell in advance what foolish-
ness the Australian may do in the way of
buying foreign goods, nor when lie may do
it. At this time in 1925 he was importing
at the rate of £137,009,000 per annum, and
the amount of duty collected was large. Now
he is importing at the rate of £166 000.000
per annum, and the amount of duty collected
is naturally larger. Therefore the Freetrade
crank demands that duties shall be reduced,
so that- less money will be taken from the
people and importing will be still further
encouraged. At the same time the Freetrade
liar says that our iniquitous tariff is “pro-
hibitive,” which means that we don’t import
anything. But an even more astonishing
circumstance than the inrush of imports is
the great lack of exports to pay for them
and provide the £7,000,000 per quarter of
interest on outside debt. This is the situa-
tion :
Dealings in Merchandise.
July-Sept., July-Sept.
1925. 1926.
Imports £31,255,197 £41,432,081
Exports 27,372,715 21,064,953
Shortage of Exports .. £6,882,482 £20,367,128
The shortage of exports to pay with was
reduced somewhat by shipping away over 74
million sovereigns, but they were not pro-
duced inside the three months (at least the
half-million might be, but the seven millions
certainly were not), and that mode of part-
payment can’t be kept up, else the country’s
coin resei'ves will vanish like a bubble of
gas. So far, however, there is paper money
with which to pay local bills, and the neces-
sary gold money with which to eke out the
payment of foreign bills has so far been
borrowed successfully, but with increasing
difficulty. The situation presents, on a much
larger scale, many of the features that pre-
ceded the crash of 1890-93. Then also im-
ports took to exceeding exports in a reckless
fashion. It was a period of big loans (big
for those days, but nothing like the present
size) and much spending on public works,
though they were far better-paying works
than are built now. Then also wages were high
(for the period) and strikes fairly vigorous,
in 1890 and 1892 especially, though the
insane policy of job-control hadn’t reached
its present perfection. The aggregate
revenue of the six States took to being behind
expenditure, that is to say it was yards
behind where it is now furlongs. England,
where the money came from, struck troubles
of its own, but nothing so bad as those it
has to-day. It began to be uneasy, but less
so than at present. In 1890 an official esti-
mate was published showing that Austra-
lia’s private wealth per head of population
was unprecedented, and so far in excess of
liabilities that, when compared with the
solidity of the situation, the Rock of Gibral-
tar was soup. It was about 26 years before
the paper estimate of wealth per head
climbed to that dizzy eminence again. Then
a little trouble arose over the renewal of
a bill. It wasn’t a Government bill, though
at that time the failure, or partial failure,
of new Government loan issues began to be
an irritant. But the banks held some
millions of British money on fixed deposit,
and the Briton took to withdrawing when
due, instead of renewing, and the banks
tried to realise on a pile of paper values
which were pretty good when not wanted
but very poor when badly wanted. Then
the downfall gave Australia all the bad
advertisement it didn’t want. If another
disaster comes to pass, the details will be
different; but then no two accidents are
wholly alike.
4
A Child-Endowment Experiment.
A half-baked system of child endowment has
been practised in the Commonwealth Public
Service ever since the Basic Wage Commis-
sion appointed by the F'ederal Government
about five years ago (1) decided that the
workers were entitled to a living wage that
on examination was found to be economically
impossible, and (2) recommended child
endowment. The Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice remains in patches the poorest wage-
payer in Australia, the rates for minor
officials being considerably under the basic
wage in all the States; but the endowment
for wives and children helps out the pay of
married officers, and the cost is taxed on the.
wages of all the adult officers. The figures of
the working of the scheme are interesting.
The endowment, which applies only to men
receiving less than £5OO per annum, cost
£217,483 during 1924-25; and this cost was
recovered by deduction from 18,512 adult
male officers of £ll 3s. 7d. p.a. each —about
4s. 3id. per week. When an attempt was
made the other day to have the system
applied to officers receiving over £5O0 —these
at present suffer the deductions without re-
ceiving any benefit—it was stated that an
additional cost of £12,792 would be involved,
and the contributions would have to be lifted
to £l2 Bs. 9d. per annum—4s. 9£d. per week.
If the doubtful course of departing from
the principle that a man should be paid for
his work rather than his circumstances is
followed, the extra sixpence seems a small
price to pay for fair play. A married officer
with a family of four or five children may
be very much worse off on £5OO p.a. than
one who is married but has no children
would be on £3OO, or than an unmarried
man would be on £250. The Public Service
Board opposed the application on the ground
that it would be unfair to make the lower-
grade officers pay to endow the men with big
salaries; but seeing that the application was
made by an association representative of the
unmanned and lower-paid contributors, who
would be in a majority in its ranks and
appear to have considered the request a fair
one, that looks more like an excuse than an
argument.
4
Blue Ruin in the West.
The Westralian Town and Country League,
which is mostly Mann, the Foreign-trade
M.H.R., had its annual outbreak in the Perth
Town Hall recently. Heart-rending accounts
of the wretchedness caused by the Tariff
were given by speakers who looked as if they
had never been better off in their lives, and
Lathlain, M.L.C., a rich draper, said the
country would go to pot “unless those
wolves on the other side are checked.” The
meeting concluded with the usual passionate
demand for “a Tariff for revenue only.” Ex-
cluding Government and municipal undertak-
ings, Westralia possesses sawmills, flourmills,
woollen-mills (one at least), bonemills, tan-
neries, woolscouring works and fellmongeries'.
soap-, glass-, brick-, pottery-, tile-, lime- and
slate-works, engineering works and foundries,
bi'eweries, wineries and factories engaged in
the production of bacon and ham, butter, bis-
cuits, confectionery, jams, pickles, sauces,
malt, aerated waters, cigars, cigarettes, fur-
niture, boots and shoes, clothing, fertilisers
and certain chemicals. Practically all these
enterprises enjoy substantial Protection.
Were the Protection withdrawn, the Swan
Brewery, Millar’s and makers of bricks
and the like would no doubt carry on, but in
most cases “a tariff for revenue only” would
be a sentence of death. The Town and
Country Leaguers did not discuss this phase
of the subject. Neither did they give chapter
and verse for their melancholy account of the
Westralian situation. Yet a quotable official
brochure called “Westralian Activities” was
available, having been “issued under autho-
rity of the Premier” a few days before they
met. This publication states that wheat har-
vest prospects are so good thxvt a yield of
“between 271 and 30 million bushels” is ex-
pected. In 1920-21, when the Greene tariff
arrived, the output was not quite 12J million
bushels, though per acre it was above the
average for 10 years. It is also mentioned that
1663 farmers, “many of whom were almost
in a state of bankruptcy,” have wiped out
their indebtedness to the State Industries
Assistance Board; in fact, “the position of
1.A.8. clients has so much improved during
the last two or three yeai-s” when the
infernal Tariff was doing its worst —“that the
board carried on last year with only £10,754
new capital from loan.” And the demand for
land is such that agricultural and pastoral
areas totalling 6,403,000 acres were applied
for in the first quarter of the 1926 financial
year, as compared with 4,394,204 acres in
the corresponding period of 1925. As regards
the sheep industry, “the country be-
tween Kalgoorlie and the East Mur-
chison is being transformed from a scat-
tered cattle run into well-improved sheep
stations,” and scores of thousands of
high-class ewes are being railed across the
Transcontinental line from Yic. and S.A.
Indeed, the transformation is being effected
for the most part by “wolves from the
other side.” There is also a reference to the
jAoskins firm having taken an option
over portion of the Yampi Sound iron-ore
country, “a development which might mean
very much to the northern portion of the
State,” and which is traceable in a measure
to the brutal fiscal systemand there have
been cabled reports of a nor’-west concern
which intends going into the cliilled-meat
business (tariff, 3d. a pound) on a scale
that will warrant the purchase of its own
oil-driven fleet. It is no mean record for a
country which is being Ruined by the Tariff,
and it will be added to when two silly
prejudices are overcome—the Freetrade-
fostered prejudice against Westralian goods,
of which manufacturers complain bittei-ly,
and the upion-official prejudice against piece-
work. The McKay implement people want
to establish a factory on a piecework basis
in the West, but union-officialdom objects,
If the Labor Government stood up to the
anti-pieceworkers as firmly as it stood up to
the pacifists who tried to intimidate it into
reprieving the murderers of the two gold-
fields detectives, it could get that factory
for its State; and others would follow.
>
“The Serum-monger’s Trade.”
Dear Bulletin, —When asked by, “L.C.M.”
(B. 28/10/’2G) whether diphtheria has not
become a preventable disease, certainly, I
answer—by sanitation, but not through
bacteriology. Says the report of the
Metropolitan Asylums Board (Eng.) for
1924-25: “The fact remains that, for rea-
sons not altogether clear, diphtheria appears
to be strengthening its forces and gathering
power, unchecked by science.” Says George
Syme (presidential address at the Medical
Congress in Melbourne, 1923) : “While the
case mortality has been reduced, the inci-
dence is higher than ever, so that the actxxal
death-rate has greatly increased.” The
“simple skin-test” has by no means the effects
“L.C.M.” attributes to it, as is proved by
its prohibition in its birthplace, Austria, and
its rejection in London as a test for school
children, a rejection due to evidence gathered
in New York. “L.C.M.” is mistaken in sup-
posing that cleanliness is dependent upon any
belief in the germ-theory of disease. On the
contrary, that belief is apt to induce care-
lessness and contempt for the environment.
For many years the high incidence of dipth-
theria in Mildura has been causing concern,
and the chairman of the Health Commission,
being quite of “L.C.M.’s” opinions, assures
us that “this appears to be due entirely to
the fact that it has become established there
and retained by a number of carriers, and it
is hoped that these carriers will be discov-
ered.” But some more news comes from
Mildura. It appears that for many years
the water supply has not been faultless. The
Health Commission has been aware of this,
but has ignored the water supply and placed
its trust in “discovery of carriers.” When
diphtheria is less prevalent at Mildura shall
we ever hear about the purified water? No;
we shall be told that the improvement in
health is due to the “simple skin test.” Nor
is “L.C.M.” historically correct when he
credits the germ-theory and Lister with the
introduction of cleanliness in hospitals,
though I am aware that he is in the ruling
fashion. Lister was a convert to asepsis,
not a pioneer in it. Tait, whose name,
though ignored in Australia, ranks very
highly, and who has not yet been surpassed
as an abdominal surgeon, put the situation,
at the time (1882) thus: “I may say with-
out egotism that my surgical practice is now
one of the largest in the world. I have
entirely dispensed with the use of carbolic-
acid or any other such substance, greatly to
the benefit of my patients. Medical visitors
come from all parts of the globe to see how
it is done, and they go away satisfied that
the days of Listerism are numbered.”
When it begins to dawn on the mind of the
British public that all these diseases (zymo-
tics) both for man and animals are absolutely
preventable by the simple means of securing
fresh air, pure water and abundant light,
they will be banished. That bacteriology is
a pseudo-science is proven by its history,
not by our opinions. Koch’s postulates
were accepted as its final test. How has
the germ-theory come through that test? It
has failed on every point. The same geimxs
ai-e in the healthy and the sick: of course
they are, because they are a necessary part
of all, whether sick or well. The “specific”
germ is turned at will into another germ.
The “virulent” germ sent for laboratory test-
ing turns noil-virulent on its way, and viru-
lent again afterwards. Put into the blood,
it sometimes stays there, sometimes does not.
Put into the unhappy animals, it refuses to
convey the disease attributed to it, and its
filthy accompaniments give general blood-
poisoning instead. The results of all this
have been pretty well described by F. Wood
Jones, the then (17/7/’26) Professor of
Anatomy at Adelaide University. He says:
“There is a tendency in modern medicine to
rely so far upon the abundant tests that may
be applied that it is by no means impos-
sible for the medical student, equipped with
all the great advantages that the most
advanced modern teaching provides him, to
fail to know if he is dealing with a sick man
or a well one, until the full ritual of certain
tests has been conducted. ... In truth it is
not unlikely that a man might die to-day
before his highly-trained medical attendant
has become aware of the fact that he was
ill.” (Med. Journal of Aus.). —Yours, etc.,
Helena MacDougall, hon. sec. Melbourne
branch of the British Union for Abolition
of Vivisection.
4
Lizzie to the Rescue.
Calamitous as the drought in Central Queens-
land has been, it has had its compensations,
and has taught some useful lessons. The
official estimate of sheep lost is 5,000,000,
while cattle figures are probably worse in
proportion. Yet, though the pastoralists of
the dried-out areas have received a bad set-
back, and many of the smaller men have had
to take the count, the fight showed that arti-
ficial feeding of large flocks over wide areas,
once regarded as impossible, is now both
practicable and profitable. In the first
place, the much greater value of sheep
allowed a larger margin of expenditure fox-
keeping them alive than was the case in
droughts of the past. The great develop-
ment of sub-artesian wells in the Central- and
North-West was another incentive to spend
money on feed. The increase in Queensland
agricultural areas was another factor, while
the completion of the coastal railway from
North to South also did wonders in linking
up the stricken inland country with the
fodder-growing belts. But it was the motor
vehicle more than anything else that saved
the day for the sheep. These picked up the
feed, mostly maize, at the rail, and, running
out through the paddocks, scattered the
grain broadcast among the flocks. By no
other means could the stuff have been
“served” literally to the sheep’s mouth, over
such great areas, and in the short time avail-
able, if any good was to be done. It was,
naturally, here that the big man with cash
or credit had the advantage over the small
holder with not too much of either. Mean-
while the State outside the pastoral indus-
try had a good time. Farmers had no reason
to worry about mai-kets, and the rush to
feed the Western jumbucks opened a hundred
avenues of employment. Even the pastoral-
ist may have his reward for a plucky fight, if
good seasons set in for a term now, as they
pi-obably will.
♦
No Meetings at Men;male.
In addition to Randwick, Warwick Farm,
Roseliill, Canterbury, Moorefield, Kensing-
ton, Rosebery, Ascot and Victoria Park,
Sydney rejoices in a number of racecourses
which are called “metropolitan” because they
are not more than 40 miles from the city.
These, cater for horses ranging in calibre
from fourth- to fortieth-rate, and are run
purely as licensed gambling agencies, as
their starvation pi-ize-lists show. There is
one at Menangle, on the main Southern line.
The “club,” a proprietary one, was no better
or woi-se than most of its contemporaries.
It ran an average of 12 meetings a year,
and its course was a favorite resort of the
professional punter, its rustic inconveniences
for communication with the city making it
popular with the “heads” for working
starting-price “jokes.” A dreadful shock
came one day. The course was officially
linked up with a branch line. This put
Menangle outside the 40-mile circle. Its
license as a metropolitan course was in
consequence cancelled, its glory departed, and
the hare couched on its cold hearthstone.
Still, the club lias not lost hope. Politicians
are active in its interest, and Chief Secre-
tary Lazzarini was asked by a recent
deputation to renew the “ metropolitan ”
license, taking the old route as the proper
definition of the 40-mile range. Lazzarini,
always affable, said he would do what he
could, adding that, for his own part, he was
“entirely in sympathy with the movement.”
But the case for renewing the license rests
solely oji the ground that it will benefit
people who batten on the gambling craze.
The club could be re-constituted as a country
body and, as such, give the Menangle popula-
tion as much racing as it can stand. Sydney
dogs not need it on a metropolitan basis;
il has a plethora of proprietary clubs and
racecourses already. Should Lazzarini’s
“sympathy with the movement” be trans-
lated into action, Premier Lang will perhaps
impose a veto, as he did in the case of the
bookmaker who was to be made an M.L.C.
It is one of Lang’s good points that he
hasn’t surrcndex-ed to the betting mania
which has bitten so many Labor politicians,
and doesn't crawl to the gambling clement.
4
Wanted —Australian-made Aeroplanes.
Charles Dickens, who had a genius fox-
seizing on something that everybody knew
and telling them about it before they had
time to discover that they knew it, enunci-
ated one large fat human fact when he made
Micawber deliver his piece about income
and expenditure. The moral is that debtors
are slaves and creditors are masters, and
helps to explain why Stanley Melbourne
Bruce, as soon as he finds himself in Lon-
don, gives the British motor manufacturer
a playful tap on the wrist and tells him
what Australia needs in the matter of petrol
waggons. But Mr. Bruce luckily doesn’t
know everything, and doesn’t tell all he does
know. An intimate knowledge of what
is needed by Australia won’t be the only
commercial asset of an Australian motor
industry. There will be a tariff wall to pro-
tect the bantling, and possibly, if the Tariff
Board thinks there ought to be, a subsidy.
If The Bulletin had its way there would
be a subsidy so big that the business of mak-
ing internal combustion motors and the four-
wheeled framework that carries them about
would become quite popular. And that
opinion is not prompted entirely by a desire
to establish one more manufacturing indus-
try. This world of ours is a place in which
the one thing that is to be expected and
dreaded is the thing that isn’t expected and
therefore can’t be dreaded. August 4, 1914,
surprised even those who worked for it. The
moral, of course, as any Yankee go-getter in


The Federal Mutual
(^[!3 , iJQD£\k
Insurance Company of Australia* Limited*
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE* Manager and Secretary.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORM AX M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Coimoiwealtb lank of Australia.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
the game could say, is that insurance
pays, and that one shouldn’t trust any-
one, or (getting from the individual
to the national) any foreign nation, too
much. When one owes money there is always
a temptation to go to the cheapest market;
and when one wants territory there is always
a temptation to go to the most poorly
defended. Australia, to defend itself, needs
aircraft. Above all. it needs aeroplanes. It
needs—supposing that a puissant enemy
were to develop out of a blue sky to-morrow
—about six times as many aeroplanes as it
has got, and about six times as many as it
could find men to man, if men had to be
found. The men who Hew for Australia in
France don’t bombard Government depart-
ments begging and pleading for a chance to
keep their hand in so that they may serve
their country in an emergency. They have
their livings to earn. But if this country
had a motor industry going— not a half-pie
thing that could turn out a few launch
engines, or build a leather-cushioned coach,
but something that had mastered every
operation in the business, and that had
received intelligent inducement to learn how
to make the engines that propel aeroplanes
—and if that industry was so organised that
it could turn over to aircraft-making when-
ever circumstances seemed to make such a
course wise, then we should all sleep more
comfortably in our beds. Otherwise there
are two dangers that threaten. One is that
we shall get into the habit of regarding
aerial defence as a ritual, more or less
meaningless. The other is that we shall buy
our ’planes from the nations most likely to
disturb our peace—because they can make
that sort of thing so very much more cheaply
than we can. To allow a potential enemy
to plan one’s defences is merely suicidal. The
Australian Aero Club, which has discovered
that Germany is making aeroplanes more
cheaply than any other nation -at present
m the business, is afraid that the lure may
be too much for this country. No Govern-
ment js likely to buy German ’planes, as
such; but some of our English friends are
not above putting a Union Jack trade-mark
on the things—they have done it since the
war with more than one product of alien
European labor. And, as commercial aviation
has a hard row to hoe in this country, it can’t
be expected to be oblivious to commercial
considerations. The safe course is to keep
the industries that are essential to defence
in our own hands.
+
Melbourne’s Starved University.
Mendicancy is apt to become a habit, and
even to be regarded as a virtue. In China
the beggars are organised in a union, and the
Chief Bummer lias a place in official proces-
s' 11 ?- In Australia he may be a Cabinet
Minister. At any rate, Dr. Abgyle, Vic.’s
Chief Secretary and Minister of Health, sees
nothing derogatory to this country’s sovereign
dignity in sending a mission, composed of
himself and others, to U.S.A. to beg from the
Rockefeller Foundation. This enormously
wealthy corporation has done and is doing
much valuable, work in the international
contest with disease; Australia is, in parti-
cular, grateful for jts campaign against
hookworm in Queensland, and from its
laboratories in tropical regions this country
will eventually derive much benefit. But
the purpose for which Dr. Akgyle
is about to touch the institution is
quite different. The proposed object of
philanthropy is Melbourne University. Most
civilised communities regard universities as
indispensable possessions, and are usually
prepared to pay for them. The Government
of which Dr. Akgyle is a Minister regards its
university as an expensive luxury. One of
the most important functions of a university
should be original research, but so starved
is Melbourne’s academy that very little
research work is done. One member of the
medical school complained the other day that
he was short of materials, of seating jiccoin-
modation for his students and of lecturers
to talk to them. An expert of high attain-
ments was being paid £2OO per annum when
he could make many times that sum in
Private practice. The University Council
received an offer of an X-ray equipment free,
and, instead of being able to accept promptly,
had to tell the donor to wait while it con-
sidered whether it could afford to maintain
the gift. This being the condition of the
institution, it is not surprising that, when
the Rockefeller Foundation received an unoffi-
cial hint some months ago that largesse would
not be out of place, its inspector reported
that the University’s research facilities were
“poor, almost non-existent,” and that until
we based our measures on some co-operative
plan “it would be so much waste money to
help.” A plan of co-operation is alleged to
have been evolved, yet the University remains
as starved as ever—so starved that, accord-
ing to one of its own spokesmen, it can’t
even buy the books it needs.
*
Motor-cars and Crime.
A deputation in vain search of a strong
man waited recently on Chief Secretary
Argyle, of Victoria’s Allancocktail Gov-
ernment, and failed to find any powerful
gentleman on the premises. The deputation,
which represented 65 local-government bodies,
demanded protection against the savages of
Melbourne, especially on Sundays and holi-
days. These barbarous tribes, it said, issued
from their city fastnesses largely in motor-
cars, levelled fences, trampled down crops,
brought dogs with them and set these faithful
animals in pursuit of cattle and sheep, let
off guns promiscuously, with a special delight
in shooting tanks and watching the water
squirt out, and used language which set
wooden fences on fire. They often brought
their families with them, and one deputa-
tionist, who lived on the Prince’s Highway,
spoke of the ill-feeling which arose when he
found 200 Eight-hour holiday-makers, largely
children, on his grazing area, disturbing 500
ewes. A specific complaint was that any
scoundrel may carry a gun in Victoria, to
which the Chief Sec. replied that he had
twice tried to get a Gun License Bill through
Parliament and had been treated with the
scorn which is the Ministry’s daily portion.
Another complaint was that trespassing on
a farm is not a crime in the Allancocktail
State, so there is little use in sending for the
police, even if there were police. An offence
sets in only when the intruders are ordered
to leave and refuse in their own uncouth
way, and the risk of approaching near enough
to that class and quantity of intruder to
say something at which he will assuredly
take offence almost amounts to suicide. The
Chier Sec. expressed his willingness to make
trespass on a farm a prohibited act provided
he was allowed to do so, but spoke feelingly
about the probable uselessness of the measure
if passed. He had, it seemed, got 130 new
police, and lie had hopes, but not very strong
ones, of a few more in the future. Unfortu-
nately the Government to which he belongs
has no future, only a miserable past and a
shocking present. The moral of it all seems
to be that the motor-car, regarded as a cause
or crime, or a means to crime, beats strong
drink hollow. It offers chances to the poten-
tial offender who might otherwise remain
potential; and the number of potential
THE HATTER.
“Wan a lift, mate?”
“Garn, open per own Hanky gates.”
offenders is evidently much larger than was
imagined. And it has so increased the
mobility of the criminal that he is equal to
several criminals of the old days—possibly
five. That is quite apart from the crime of
stealing the car without employing it as a
means to further crime after it has been
stolen. In this respect the vehicle is in a
category quite apart from drink, the act of
stealing liquor for the sake of rushing round
with it for a few hours and then throwing
it over a precipice being unknown. The
situation is illustrated by the position in the
United States, which is very much more
criminal with unlimited motor-cars and Pro-
hibition than it wars with few cars and legal
grog. In the matter of the farmers of Vic-
toria and the savages of Melbourne a remedy
would doubtless lie in a great strengthen-
ing of the law, a greater strengthening
of the administration of the law, and a
raising of the police force to a size which
is contrary to all Australian precedent. An-
other idea would be for Victoria to secede
from Melbourne, making that place and its
environs a City State by compulsion. Then
Victoria would have its separate police, and
it could also raise a militia under Clause
144 of the Constitution. With some simple,
necessary by-laws, and these forces to sup-
port them, it could picket Melbourne and
allow no motor-cars to come out on Satur-
day afternoons, Sundays and holidays if
they persisted in misbehaving themselves.
This would do something in a small experi-
mental way to reduce the evils complained
of. and to stop them crying on the housetops
with suen a vociferous din.
The Sheep Surplus In N. S. Wales.
Dear Bulletin, — As a people we are reluc-
tant to make provision for impending trouble,
but isn’t it about time something was done
over the sheep surplus in N. S. Wales? There
are more sheep in the State than there have
been for very many years; actually, the
country that is running sheep is more
crowded than it has ever been. This is due
to the fact that dingoes and closer settlement
have reduced the jumbuck areas. Close
settlers have chased the pastoralist out of
the more fertile regions, and dingoes have
chased the sheep out of large tracts of West-
ern lands. So the surplus is really more
formidable than it would seem at first sight.
And it is going to be hard to shift, too. For
various reasons, amongst which must be in-
cluded shipping strikes and industrial condi-
tions generally, the meat-export trade is not
the brisk business it used to be. On account
of a shortage in Queensland, pastoral-
ists of that State may take some of our
surplus, but they will probably prefer to
breed up. Local requirements will absorb
a few more, but, comparatively speaking,
very few indeed. So, lacking an outlet for
the surplus stock, it is evident that a nasty
situation is looming over the pastoral hori-
zon. If the summer is dry there will be
starving stock in N. S. Wales by the autumn.
Rut if the season holds good, what then?
Why, simply that next summer will find us
with a still more thumping surplus. Only
a continuous flush of feed can sustain a
large surplus of sheep, and in the end an
average dry season (and most average sea-
sons are dry) will be turned into a disastrous
drought by sheer overstocking. What, then,
should be done to relieve the situation? Two
courses suggest themselves: increasing the
carrying capacity of the land and limiting
production. 1 confess Ido not sec much hope
in either; and I wish somebody would sug-
gest a better.—Yours, etc., T. Jasper.
*
Westralian politicians demand much sym-
pathy, as well as material help, on the plea
that the development of their 364,000 square
miles is a great burden. All the same, Piiil
Collier’s Ministry has definitely refused to
let the Commonwealth take over the mill-
stone. This presumably means that it feels
quite capable of managing its North, and in
the circumstances it should be told that the
kind of relief offered is the only kind avail-
able. In other words, the offer to take over
the North with all its liabilities should
remain open, but all cash doles should shut
off. Westralia is toiling hard and expen-
sively at land-settlement in the wheat-
growing South, and as its financial troubles
multiply it will have even less to spend
on its tropical area than in the past.
A record of 114 miles of railway isn’t much
for 364.000 square miles. The Common-
wealth has a very poor settlement record,
but it seems at last in the mood to do some-
thing, and it can find the money. Points
which the Collier Cabinet has probably
missed are that no one proposed that
tropical Westralia should go out of the
country if surrendered, or out of the Austra-
lian political family, or even that Westralia
should wholly lose control over it. The 11
Westralian Federal members would, in fact,
get a direct control over the North-West
which they don’t possess now.
Dear Bulletin, —So much lias been said
about the low railway charges for carrying
wheat, compared with those for carrying
wool, that even some wool people begin to
think they are badly treated. The difference
isn’t really so absurd as it seems on the
surface. In fact, it isn’t absurd at all.
Although a wheat-grower principally, I am
also a producer of wool. Quite early in my
experience I discovered that the tare of the
waggon in which I loaded my wheat was
about equal to the weight of wheat that I
was able to put into that vehicle. That is
to say, the locomotive that hauled 10 tons
of wheat had also to haul 10 tons of rolling
stock. But owing to the bulky nature of
wool I was not able to stow any more than
about one-tliird of the waggon’s weight-
carrying capacity of that commodity. Con-
sequently, for every 10 tons of wool the loco,
hauled it was compelled to haul thirty tons
of rolling stock. Further, the train that
picked up the wheat was able to get a full
load every time it dropped into the siding,
whereas the train that shifted the wool had
to fuss about at a dozen or more sidings
before it was fully loaded ; which meant that
in order to finish up at its destination with
a full load it had to start on its journey
with practically no load at all. Which
explains the high charge for wool and the
low charge for wheat. Precisely for the
same reasons I pay three times as much for
carrying my hay as I do for carrying my
wheat and about 10 times as much per ton
for carrying my few hundredweight of
groceries.—Yours etc., Geo. M.
♦
The N.S.W. Government proposes tackling
the commendable work of making the hospi-
tals solvent and adequate, but it seems to
be going about the job in a very unpractical
way. One proposal is to raise money by
a lottery game of the Queensland Golden
Casket type. Even apart from the lesson
taught by Queensland’s experience, it is
obvious that the most demoralising casket
wouldn’t fill so big a bill. If the hospital
deduction is 10 per cent, it is insufficient,
and if it is 50 per cent, people are apt to
leave off casking. Another idea, said to be
much favored, is to collect a weekly contribu-
tion from “employers and employees,” and
for the State to subsidise it on a pound-for-
pound basis. It would be a costly business
to collect the contributions, and the employee
would naturally ask for more pay to make
up for the petty robbery. The position at a
not very recent date was that the State paid
£SIO,(MX) a year, patients paid £156,000, and
£500,000 was unreliable and inadequate
cadge. The cadge can hardly be cut out, for
to do so would deprive some people of their
only harmless amusement. If it was left,
and the Treasury provided anything up to
another £500,000 per annum, it should be
possible to improve the whole service and
to get and keep it out of debt. There is
plenty of revenue for the purpose. But
revenue is little good to a Lang Government.
The more income it has, the deader broke
it is.
♦
“Don’t Drop Litter” is being preached all
over Victoria by the Melbourne State Head
Teachers’ Association, with IV. Stewart as
organiser-in-chief, and director Tate cheering
tilings on. During November A.N.A.
branches, municipal councils, newspapers,
schools and public bodies generally have
undertaken to join the pedagogues in incul-
cating general habits of tidiness and proper
care of public parks and buildings. The
movement comes none too soon, for empty
jam-tins, broken bottles, torn paper and
scraps of food disfigure every public park
until removed by some paid official; and rail-
way carriages are soiled and public buildings
disfigured by match-striking. If an anti-dirt
conscience can be evoked it will be a real
benefit to the State and the movement will
doubtless spread over Australia. No place
needs it more than Sydney, where the sagging
of the civic conscience has been very rapid
these last half-dozen years.
During the last 12 months there has been
much talk as to whether this generation of
Australians can write fiction. The Bul-
letin will offer its Christmas number on
December 11 as an answer to the challenge.
And the rather extraordinary thing about it
is that, while a dozen of the old writers
figure, there are eight or ten who are either
quite unknown or almost so. As usual, the
verse-writers are astonishingly numerous ;
included are several good hits of humor. As
readers of the paper’s Aboriginalities pages
will have noticed, quite a new crop of bush
humorists in verse has sprung up lately.
Booking over the thing dispassionately, it
seems an amazing sixpennorth—two dozen
specially-selected short stories; as much
reading matter as the average seven-and-
sixpenny novel offers ; and the verse and 50
or so black-and-white drawings thrown in.


* I ''he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 D
Army Oub
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
/*
m
ri
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
POLITICAL POINTS
The Commonwealth Treasurer is in the
market with a 5J p.c. cash and conversion
loan. Holders of 4| and 5 p.c. inscribed
stocks and bonds maturing on December 15,
1927, may convert as from December 15,
1926; £6,000,000 is asked for, but the Trea-
surer will take as much more as he can get.
(He will have to provide for £89,990,388
falling due next year, £77,230,645 of it in
Australia.) The interest is free of State
income-tax. Which is yet another reason
why income-taxation should be wholly and
solely a Commonwealth matter instead of
being abandoned to the States.
One-third of the N.S.W. financial year
expired on November 1, and a pile of revenue
and loan money has been spent, and Trea-
surer Lang is still wriggling on the edge
of a precipice over his estimates of what is
to be paid away yfesterday. His policy has
put everything on too big a scale, and the
figures are being cut down, four months too
late, with a blunt axe and a cheap and
chippy chopper. In particular the railways
want seven millions of loan funds, and are
reduced to five. The Commissioners would
probably be content with sevenpence if they
could take a rest from the construction and
subsequent working of political dead-end
lines about which they have no voice, especi-
ally as the few-hour week and general casual-
ness have put the cost of construction up
out of sight.
The great State-wide stop-work meeting
of Queensland unionists did not take place.
Summoned by the Brisbane Trades and
Labor Council with the idea of scaring the
Labor Ministers into raising the basic wage
10s. a week, which they had refused to do,
the meeting was so obviously destined to
be a dud that the T. and L. C. called it off.
In the process Premier McCormack learned,
or should have learned, that unionists enjoy
the spectacle of a Labor Government talking
straight to the arrogant Reds, and don’t
really expect it to concede their own claims
when it thinks they are wrong, much less
crawl all the time. It is a discovery which
may have momentous consequences if fol-
lowed up.
Things being financially bad, the Queens-
land Premier has foreshadowed a scheme for
the “taxation of gifts.” One of his reasons,
he said, was that “too much wealth passing
from father to son was harmful to the
spiritual well-being of the recipient.” About
the same time Opposition-leader Moore’s
room at Parliament House was thoroughly
ransacked one afternoon and all his papers
overhauled, a proceeding which has taken
place before; but whether anything detri-
mental to his spiritual well-being rewarded
the burglar is unknown. It being the Gov-
ernment’s busy week, it passed a bill by
which every railway employee who leaves
off to attend a stop-work meeting is to be
fined £1 and the value of the lost time. So
war is declared.
Yic. revenue for the first four months of
the financial year was £431,000 in excess
of the amount received for the same period
of 1925-26. More was expected, and as
there is small chance of getting £343,000 (or
343,000 pence) from McShortodds, as esti-
mated by Peacock in his Budget, he will
have to economise or wait for something to
turn up. The odds are on the latter, it
is so much easier.
Communism looks as if its conquering days
were over. If Mussolini hadn’t interposed
it might have annexed Italy, and with its
new resources it might have recovered
Hungary. Then, with a little luck, it might
have completed a Bolshie zone extending
from Vladivostoek to Sicily. Lately one
of its leaders said that its hopes of a world
revolution now rested on the British coal
strike and the Cantonese insurrection. But
the coal strike isn’t developing along revolu-
tionary lines, and t'*e pirates from the
tropical corner of China are beginning to
fare badly in the colder provinces. In
Queensland a Premier has arisen who talks
to the strike-making element as it hasn’t
been talked to since 1915, and the W.A.
Government has developed a lack of that
generous sympathy with crime which marked
the Fremantle rioting days.
THE PATRIOTS.
“It is estimated that over two million pounds passed through the hands of bookmakers during the
Melbourne Cup Carnival.”
FIRST PUNTER: “So we've lost again!”
SECOND DITTO : “Never mind, old son. Remember the great public service we're
rendering by improving the breed of the nation's horses!”
Last railway report showed that the aver-
age freight on the N.S.W. lines was 10s. 9d.
per ton per 100 miles, but the rate on
manures was 3s. 5d., on grain and flour
ss. 2d., and on hay and chaff 6s. 4d. The
cost of the 44-hour week makes these skimpy
rates more inadequate than ever, and the
Commissioners therefore asked for a pretty
general increase. But that’s where the poli-
tician comes in. Railway rates, the Labor
caucus says quite frankly, must be made a
matter of vote-catching. Yet the same caucus
was quite horrified the other day at a mere
suggestion of bribery and corruption.
On a recent day at Sydney Quarter
Sessions the usual batch of prisoners was
called up for sentence. They numbered .11;
eight were laborers, and five of the laborers
were aged 26 or under. Dead-end occupations
are a dead failure in the making of good
citizens. The importer, who competes hard
with almost every kind of skilled artisan,
unfortunately doesn’t bring pick-and-shovei
work here, so the laborer is an absurdly
high percentage of the population. It would
be a blessed change to see some of the big-
holes which are wanted for the perpetual
disfigurement of Sydney’s streets arriving-
in ships and labelled “Made in Germany.”
Woman in Victoria, through the new
Women’s Qualification Bill, now stands free
of all her shackles except her ineligibility
to serve on juries and the necessity for
cooking the old man’s eggs and bacon. She
can even attain to the position of Lord
Mayor, though no alternative title for her
husband has yet been devised. Presumably
he will be known as Lord Mayor’s consort,
and will open the crfeches and the obstetrical
hospitals while she is passing round the
champagne and cigars at mayoral receptions
to visiting pugilists.
The distressed roars of the N.S.W. Premier
almost rouse sympathy for the damaged lion
of Auburn. Lie holds now that the Upper
House is a place of privilege, vested inter-
ests, crusted Tories and octogenarians. See-
ing that he created so much of it so recently
the fossils must have aged very fast, and
there is something grotesque about vested
interest that doesn’t get a penny for being
vested. But why doesn’t Lang establish the
principle of the Referendum? Labor mem-
bers couldn’t vote against that, for it is on
the programme, and no democrat among the
fossils would dare to. Then he could
appeal to the country on the Council aboli-
tion question, and win a decisive victory, and
sweep his enemies before him, and slay them
till the going down of the sun.
N.S.W. Lang’s remarks about the blighted
Toryism of the British Ministry imply
that McTiernan’s appeal to it to interfere
in the State’s affairs failed even more badly
than was supposed. Still the young man
can hardly have been subjected to personal
violence.
Conflicting Arbitration awards are respon-
sible for S.A.’s latest strike. The casual
timber stackers at Port Adelaide, who belong
to the Timber Workers’ Union, are paid
2s. 6d. an hour under a Federal Arbitra-
tion award which goes back three years. For
admittedly similar work the waterside work-
ers get 3s. 3d. an hour. The timber workers
applied to the reconstituted Arbitration
Court for the extra 9d., which was refused.
So the casuals downed tools, and supplies
i have been held up, and a stoppage in the
Adelaide building trade is threatened. It is
! a pity a good industrial record should be
stained because of the Courts’ inconsistency.
Last year S.A. had only 11 work stoppages
involving 1118 people, whereas N. S. Wales
had 430 involving 123,202.
,T. L. Murphy, who had another go at a
Fair Rents Court Bill in the Vic. Assem-
bly last week, has held the Port Melbourne
seat for years. In the days of his boyhood
Murphy saw families in the Ould Sod turned
out on the roadside from the little farm-
houses in which they had lived for years,
and he has no love for landlords. Frank
Anstey had very much the same experience,
only liis was in England; and neither of
them can always remember that Australia
of 1926 isn’t England or Ireland of the
’seventies and ’eighties. Certainly there are
too many wretched hovels down Port Mel-
bourne way, and the rents are too high ; but
Murphy will have to pick his steps carefully
or he will merely put his friends still further
at the mercy of the rackrenters.
President Coolidge announces another cut
in the American income-tax, and is making
it retroactive; according to size, from 10
p.c. to 12 p.c. of the tax paid in 1925 and
1926 is to be refunded. This, though with-
out precedent, is not to be wondered at, for
High Protection, piecework, mass production
and a patriotic preference in the matter of
purchases have done great things for
America, as they would for Australia if we
gave them a thorough trial. But what is
really remarkable is that Coolidge with-
held the good news till after the Congres-
sional elections, at which his party antici-
pated a rough passage—and got it. If the
head of a Government did the like in the
Commonwealth, where buying votes in the
mass has been reduced to a science, the poli-
ticians would have doubts about his sanity.
Adelaide trams, owned by a municipal
trust, are in trouble, too; their year ended
on July 31 with a deficit of £162,000. ’Buses,
of course, are blamed; but what is really
the matter is that Australia, having got into
the habit of borrowing for everything, and
hating to provide a sinking fund for repay-
ment, got also into the habit of assuming
that every public work was permanent as
well as productive. It is no use blaming
the politician. He is merely what the people
have encouraged him to be.
Piddington, K.C., who garrulously pre-
sides over the N.S.W. Industrial Commis-
sion, lias given an unconscious description
of that institution which closely resembles
popular opinion of it. The identity of a
figure in some estimates was called in ques-
tion. “Good ole ‘Piddo’ ” brightly remarked
that it was “like our present position—a
note of interrogation turned upside down.”
Trotsky, now or lately on trial before a
Bolshevik conference, put in a remarkable
defence. He said that, while compulsory unity
was the right thing in war time, Russia had
now reached a stage when an Opposition
should be allowed to exist and to criticise.
In a troubled period the right of Fuller, as
Premier, to hang Lang and McTiernan and
Dooley was admitted, but under normal condi-
tions Trotsky thought they should be
permitted to speak occasionally —as an
Opposition, of course, never as a Ministry.
The reply of Boss Stalin was to the general
effect that the Central Committee had no
time for such soft-headed nonsense.
There is talk of an inquiry, which will
naturally do lots of good, into the reasons
why the Richmond-Kurrajong (N.S.W.) rail-
way extension cost £120,000 for the seven
miles, instead of the estimated £45,000. It
would be better to find out why the job was
started at all —if it wasn’t merely to provide
languid work for a number of voters where
they could get home to Sydney for week-ends.
The Blacktown-Richmond line, to which this
is an addition, is 62 years old, and doesn't
pay working expenses, let alone interest.
There are a little over 16 miles of it, and it
lost £20,146 last year. It has shown the
capacity to lose' twice as much as the Moree-
Inverell railway (96 miles long), yet the
Inverell people can’t get their extension to
the main line at Glen Innes by any means
short of secession.
“Wealsman” (Tas.) : The visiting Parlia-
mentarians who seem most impressed with
the size and quality of Australia are the
S’Africans. Their attitude is mostly one of
astonishment; and some of them have not
hesitated to publicly voice the opinion that
the average Australian utterly fails to realise
the value of his heritage. “Absence of a
color problem ; homogeneity of race and lan-
guage ; no redwater, bot-fly or similar pests;
a mostly temperate climate; the best sheep
flocks on earth; wheat lands in thousands of
acres that normally return 30 to 40 bushels
an acre for a donation of 901 b. of super-
phosphate ; magnificent forests of the most
durable and beautiful timber in the
world; splendid rivers and inexhaustible
lakes of fresh water for power and irriga-
tion ; and scenery unsurpassed—truly,” de-
clared the chief spokesman of the Afrikanders
at a welcome in my town, “you Australanders
are justified in referring to your country as
‘God’s own.’ You arc lucky devils!”
A WARNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Our primary products are dependent upon people
of other countries, whose products the Protectionist
would exclude in order that he may prey upon the
Australian people.” —Perth Sunday Times.
We’ve lived through anxious days before, we’ve
lived through nights of dread,
When black despair and misery accompanied us to
bed,
But never knew such hopelessness as fills our hearts
to-day—
The wily, smooth Protectionist has marked us for
his prey!
How base is the Protectionist! He won’t respect
the creed
That Cobden gave the waiting world—he tries with
word and deed
To shatter and destroy our faith, to spoil and dis-
affeet,
To take from us our humbleness and make us
stand erect.
And we who have but one desire, to take our lowly
wage
And go our servile way beneath the Old World’s
patronage,
Are sick and sad -when we behold each pitfall and
each snare
He sets for us, and so we cry “Oh fellow-serfs,
beware!”
Not in ourselves our trust we place, for thereby
we offend
The folk who live across the sea, upon whom we
depend.
For independence is a state to which we don't
aspire
While foreign sweat-shops sell us cheap whatever
we desire.
Oh wicked, base Protectionist, we’re tumbled to
your game....
And here we voice a fervent prayer that others do
the same.
Go, leave us our servility! Great Cobden, guard
us all!
Let no one make us stand erect; we are but fit
to crawl.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


"As a visiting Empire politician I am delighted to
meet a thinking Australian, pondering no doubt over the
problem of the Empty Spaces?
'Or, if not that, then the big question of Migration?
"Or, .maybe, the equally vital matter of the Yellow Peril?
But no—such concentration can only arise from con-
templation of the borrowing policy and the burden of
the National Debt?
‘‘Or is it the inadequate Defence Policy that wrinkles your”
“Struth, Mister, a bloke ought to dong yer—buttin' in while a bloke s tryin*
to remember the jockey’s colors on the wmnin’ orse I dreamt larst night!’*
NOT UNDERSTOOD.


AUSTRALIAS
JUDGMENT
ACCEPTED IN
ENGLAND/
' e \
mW V
stste(xpress
333
CIGARETTES
sdf
20(16
ARDATH TOBACCO
CO • -LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Samuel Surething”: After re-touching
her nose and adjusting her jazz-garters she
produced a cigarette-case and, having
selected one, looked politely around the com-
partment. An elderly female with a
militant manner and masculine attire caught
her eye. “Have a fag?” she asked, proffer-
ing the case. “I’d rather —I’d rather be
guilty of breaking the seventh command-
ment!” barked the other viciously. “Who
wouldn’t?” returned the flapper complacently.
“But, meantime, have one?”
HIS REMEDY.
LANDLADY ( agitatedly) : “Oh dear, I've just discovered a rat in
the pantry! Whatever shall I do?”
BOABDER ( hungrily ): “Shut th ’ door, Mrs. Scrimpy, and let it
starve t’ death.”
“Teller”: Ever hear of a bank honoring
a cheque although the signature was known
to have been forged? Such a case occurred
at a Victorian country branch. The forger
was the wife ot a wealthy client whose
paper had never been dishonored. The
cheque in question was drawn for £3O, and
negotiated by a Melbourne draper. Com-
parison with several specimens of the wife’s
handwriting on hand at the branch made us
sure that she was the offender. But we
honored the cheque, and our action was con-
firmed later by the husband, who gave us
his own cheque in discharge. At his request,
however, we informed the culprit that we
would place any further forgeries in the
hands of the police.
“Towkay”: The periodical digging up of
the bones of dead Chinese for shipment home
took place a few days ago at Rookwood
(Sydney) cemetery. There was the usual feast-
ing and fireworks, and the ceremonial counting,
washing and wrapping-up of each individual
bone. The Health Department insists that
a John must be 10 years in earth before
lie returns to Ins own place, and by that
time —at Rookwood, anyway—the bones take
some reassembling. Once sorted and labelled,
they are packed, and travel to China in the
same holds as other produce of the Australian
soil.
“Stellsby": Oh, yes, Ah Sin can whistle
all right (R. 28/10/’2G). In Singapore I
once engaged a Chinese rickshaw coolie, pv-
mising him extra
pay if lie put his
best foot forward.
When I gave him
two dollars (iClii-
nese) for his sprint
he whistled his
surprise. On an-
other occasion I
was over-generous
to a sampan Chink.
He also whistled
his thanks. And
Little Bourke-
street Chinamen
whistle. Yesterday
I verified the
fact in an inter-
view with a friend
who has had exten-
sive business deal-
ings with Lil Lon
and Lil Buk for
the last 35 years.
He asked a full-
blooded Chinese
who came into his
office to whistle for
me. A small boy
walking through a cemetery at night couldn’t
have piped with more spirit.
* * * *
“Ginger”: A cocky in the Victorian moun-
tain regions recently celebrated the arrival
of the 20th member of the family, and he
did so right royally, though the party had
to be delayed some days till the child’s name
had been decided on. After many suitable
names had been rejected, a brain-wave came
to the cocky, and baby was christened Wel-
come. In responding to the toast of “The
Father,” the old chap said that the child
was rightly called, but he was darned if he
knew what names they were going to dig
up for future arrivals.
* * * *
“Uramao” : A Maorilander who has just
returned from a
leisurely jaunt
through the Sudan,
Egypt, Palestine,
Syria and Trans-
jordania brings the
news that the
Druse, insurrection
in Syria had its
origin in a cat, and
that a rigorous
censorship by the
F rencli prevents
the truth reaching
the outside world.
The Governor of
Damascus had a
favorite cat which
went missing. He
accused the Druses
of stealing it, and
took six sheiks as
hostages, threaten-
ing to cut off their
beards if pussy
was not returned
in 24 hours. The
threat was carried
into effect. The
Druses made com-
plaint to General
Sarrail, and denied
taking the Gover-
nor’s cat, but Sar-
rail stood by the
Governor; then the
Druses went on the
warpath, and Sar-
rail was removed and a new Governor
appointed.
“Crojack”: Just about the time an
Italian mob, dispensing with a trial, was
knifing a youngster whom it thought had
fired at Mussolini, a little bit of Sydney was
watching a well-known sea-captain hand out
punishment to a man whom he suspected of
trying to abduct the mariner’s daughter
while he was on his last voyage. Discover-
ing the place where the offender worked, he
went there with a new riding-whip. At
first the man’s fellow-workers tried to hide
him, but the skipper found him, and before
he could be overpowered dealt the other
some terrific slashes. It happened in a
business place in the heart of the city,, but
no police aid was called, and the furious
father stalked away with his whip and the
cheering remarx, over his shoulder, that the
WHAT MORE COULD A MAN DO?
WIFE: “You think nothing of me and the children.”
HUBBY: “ Rubbish! Don't I always get tight on your birthday?”
other could thank his lucky stars he wasn’t
burly enough to be man-handled.
“Crojack”: Natives of New Guinea and
such places get queer views of the religion
of the white man. Recently a native who
had started on a missionary education re-
turned to Rabaul. A few days later lie was
found in the centre of a gaping audience of
150 natives, trying to sell them seats in
Heaven. This was his speech: “Now all
you boys, you savee along me. Behind me
stop-along mission, me learnem plenty talkee-
talk along up on top [Heaven]. Now all
boys he like go looken this feller place and
looken this feller sing-sing, up along top, he
can catchem one-feller seat along this-feller
place. Seats he close-to he one-feller pound;
close-to he ten-feller mark. Boy stand up
along place, he five-feller mark. All boy
catchem seat along this place!” Almost to
a native, they bought seats in Heaven.
* * * *
“C.N.”: Many were the tales told about
the proficiency shown by Charlie Ryan, the
A.l.F.’s Gutzer King, in
trapping leadswingers; but
I know of one case in which
a Digger got the laugh of
the late General. Ushered
into the room where the
board was sitting, a Digger
who had lost his right arm
stood quietly before the
table while Ryan, with head
down, was closely perusing
the papers of the previous
case. Without raising his
eyes, Ryan said, “What’s
wrong with you?” “Got a
bad headache, sir,” came the
mild reply. Looking up
quickly, Ryan saw the joke
and enjoyed it.
“Harold Hardupp”:
Eleven “Midgets” is hardly
a record load for a Sydney
taxi (B. 4/11/’26). I have
it on my son's authority that
his cricket team, having an
engagement on the Rush-
cutters Bay Oval, took a
taxi there from Bondi Junc-
tion ; and they got another
back at night. It was simply
a taxi, too—for the 11, the
scorer and the umpire. I
tried to get that boy to
explain how it was done;
his reply conveyed that it was a thing any
boys’ cricket team could do.
* * * *
“Mars” : Yes, French ideas of modesty were
occasionally a trifle upsetting (B. 28/10/’26).
We had just arrived back in Steenwerck after
a spell in the line, and, as usual, our first
thoughts were of a good wash. After draw-
ing several blanks. I struck a family which
professed readiness to provide me with a hot
bath for “un franc.” Joyfully I stripped,
and was soon enjoying the feel of comfort-
ably warm water, when, without the slight-
est warning, the lady of the house appeared
in the room. “Would monsieur like the
back washed?” Vainly endeavoring to get
beneath the few inches of water in which 1
was sitting, I managed to stammer “No.”
But madame was conscious of no breach of
the proprieties; there was no trace of em-
barrassment in the "Bon chance, monsieur,”
she gave me on my departure.
* * * *
“Moe”: New Guinea has had its examples
of bush surgery (B. 28/10/’26), one
of the best of them having occurred
on the border between the Dutch and
the then German territories. Two Aus-
tralians were recruiting there, when one
of them managed to get a poisoned wound
in the leg, with the result that septicaemia
set in. It was obvious that amputation of
the limb was the only thing that would
save the sufferer’s life', and his mate set
about the job. The only instruments he pos-
sessed were a razor and a clasp-knife with
saw attachment, and with these he removed
the limb just above the knee. There was
not even any rum for use as a local anaes-
thetic, and when the pain became too severe
the patient bit on a rifle-bullet. Yet he
recovered in a surprisingly short time, and
is still alive.
“Tauwarra”: Doesn’t take long for the
primitive native to catch up to civilisation.
I was watching a crowd of Port Moresby
nigs, unpacking a recently-imported sulky.
“You savee this fella?” I asked the boss-boy.
“My word!” lie replied brightly. “This fella
he motor-car b’long horse.” And the other
day the Ilanuabada native electrician was
in some doubt as to which was the live
wire and which the neutral. “You put’m
hand ’long this fella,” he ordered his offsider
at a venture. The youth obeyed, and nothing
happened. “Tha’s right, my boy,” grunted
the boss approvingly. Then, in a burst of
confidence: “S’pose you touch’m this ’nother
fella —my cripes, close up you drop down
dead!”
“Duanrats”: This was one of the stories
told of the late “Plevna” Ryan. “And what
are your most persistent symptoms?” lie
asked of a Digger whose case was before him
for final review. “Spots,” said the malin-
gerer-—“big spots, black ones that come and
go.” “Ah,” said Ryan, “those are transports
to and from Australia. But you are not on
one of them.”
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: Repat’s attitude towards the
Diggers, which once became mean under terror
of the rapidly grown cost, has developed
benevolence during the last few years; yet
the R.S.L. Congress in Melbourne found k
necessary to assert as a matter of equity
that, where an ex-soldier's disability is
regarded as having had a pre-war origin, more
consideration should be given to the extend
of the aggravation caused by the war. Tie
classic case is that of a man who suffered
from corns. The tendency to corns win-
admitted at enlistment, but as it had nevei
DETERMINED TO CRIPPLE THE POOR GIRL.
“Darling, I throw myself at your feet!”
“After treading on them all night! How remorseless you
are, Freddy!”
given the recruit any extraordinary incon-
venience the medical officers passed him as
tit. Hard military boots and route-marching
brought out the weakness, and the man
developed corns so badly that he was unable
to stand. After three terms in hospital his
case was given up, and he was returned
to Australia. Here, though his corns per-
sistently recurred, so that his old job was
out of the question, and for weeks at a time
he could not use his feet, he was refused a
pension because he had been subject to corns
prior to enlistment! Certainly in this case a
“compassionate pension” was secured; but
that was only after a long fight.
BALLADE OF A GOD ASTRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Paganism is in our day associated with motor-
cars.” —Chairman of the Christian Endeavor Conven-
tion.
There is no whisper in woodland dell,
Where once the reeded pipes were sin-ill ;
No half-glimpsed visions now to tell
Of lissom nymphs that trembling, thrill
To guess the old god’s amorous will,
Tiptoe for flight yet fain to stay ;
Now shaded groves are lone and still—
Pan’s in his motor-car to-day.
No dryad now to own the spell
That once he wove with artless skill ;
The woodland maids are fled pell-mell
To join each knowing Jess and Jill,
And taste in city troughs the swill
That draws them to a sordid fray;
Bcmired but guzzling, now they bill
Pan in his motor-car to-day.
I know but little of Heaven or Hell,
Of grace to live or leave to grill,
Of where the true or the false gods dwell;
But this I know: each wooded hill
And haunted vale their poesy spill
Upon their habitants, fact or fay—
No glamors clothe, nor ever will,
Pan in his motor-car to-day.
Envoy.
Old goat-foot, there’s a singing rill
That laughs upon its pebbled way,
Perhaps at the dull thoughts that All
Pan in Jais motor-car to-day!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


sdf
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
dsf
o /£?Viv!
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
Say WHEN Man!!
■m.
I
“W.T.W.” : A smartly-dressed young lady-
teacher in a Mallee (Vic.) school was dis-
tressed by the consistently untidy appear-
ance of three of her charges, a brother and
two sisters, and penned a mild remonstrance
to the mother on the subject. She got this
in return next morning:—
Dear Miss ,
You leave my kids alone. I’ll dress them as I
think proper. You got a of a cheek talking
about my kids not wearing enough when you go
round all day with no sleeves and showing what you
got under your skirt.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: “Carisbrook, .Tun.,” slipped
when he mentioned “marines from H.M.A.S.
Encounter” figuring in the mutiny at Dar-
win in 1919 (B. 21/10/’2G). Australian
ships don’t carry marines. Take the rum-
issue, the sea-soldier is exclusively an R.N.
institution.
* * * *
“Blanc”: I recall some worse incidents
than panics when learners were receiving
instruction on the subject of bombs. At
Codford (Wilts) “live-practice” ground,
where the real things were placed for the
first time in the hands of men about to go
to France, there was constant excitement.
Men who had done splendidly with “dum-
mies” would often tremble or turn pale when
given their first “lives,” and do suicidally
foolish things with them after drawing the
pin. “I can’t throw it; I can’t!” one quav-
ered as he let the lever fly from the bomb
and shoved it back into my hand. Another
lobbed the hissing thing on the sandbags
a foot in front of him, and had to be dragged
out into the next bay. A third was respon-
sible for a ghastly tragedy. He bowled round-
arm, and didn’t let the missile go soon enough,
INSEPARABLES.
“Haven't I seen your face
somewhere ?”
“Very lilcely—it goes about with me a good deal.”
tlie result being that he lobbed it in the wait-
ing bay among a dozen whose turns were
next They didn’t sro next, for five were
killed and seven badly wounded. After this
episode round-arm bowling of bombs was
forbidden throughout the British Army, over-
arm being insisted on, until the small “eggs”
came into use. Men were allowed to jerk.
throw or push these as they pleased.
“Nakhoda”: To be in fashion, Goa, the
last fragment of the Portuguese Empire in
India, which supplies the P. and O. line
with its stewards, staged a revolution the
other day. Three officers of
the garrison rose simultane-
ously and ousted the Gover-
nor-General amidst the dis-
creet applause of all the
potential stewards. The re-
volution flourished quietly
until a cable arrived from
Lisbon ordering the Gover-
nor-General to release him-
self from prison, dismiss the
rebels and reinstate himself.
Waving deprecating hands,
the revolutionaries protested
at the violence of the mes-
sage, and voluntarily ten-
dered their resignations. The
Governor-General staggered
out of gaol, handed his port-
folio over to the Attorney-
General, and retired into
private life, badly shaken in
the nerves. Then, with a
general exchange of con-
gratulations, the country
settled down to the new
regime. I have often won-
dered what a Goanese stew-
ard would do if I refused
him a tip. I think now he
would assassinate me by
week-end telegram.
* * *
“Fink Tape”: The Black
Horse Hotel at Richmond
(N.S.W.), the oldest licensed
house in Australia, is serv-
ing its last pints of beer;
the century-odd-old license is
being transferred, to an up-
to-date place at Kurrajong
Heights garnished with all
the etceteras of a modern
guest-house. The name of
Henry Parkes is one of a
long list of lioneymooners
preserved in the Black Horse
register. The license was
granted in 1819 to Paul
Randall, and the Sly family
ran the place for half a cen-
tury. The very last sensa-
tion it afforded was the
shooting of the outlaw La Court there at
the beginning of the year.
* * * *
“Scebee” : Is Toorak doomed? The man-
sions of the Landales and the A. H. Sargoods
have been sold and are to be pulled down to
make way for villas. Carlton and East Mel-
bourne were deserted in turn by the Some-
bodies, and were given over to boarding-
houses. Now that the car and the good road
reconcile people wdio want exclusiveness to
distances up to seven miles from the city, it
would not be surprising to see Toorak left to
the near-swells. One drawback of the
furtlier-out is sewerage, but that can be sur-
mounted nowadays. If the Salv’army bought
a stately home right in the midst of things at
Toorakia for some of its admirable reclama-
tion work it would just about complete the
exodus of the veribest.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The pluck of these young Aus-
tralians! Eight-
year-old Edgar
Bailey, of Sale
(Vic.), assiduous
wearer of a happy
grin, was riding a
bike bare - footed
when his big toe
was dragged off by
the chain. Sympa-
thising onlookers
hurried him into a
car and headed for
the hospital. “Hurt
much?” asked a
man. “Stings a
bit,” said the mite
with the old smile
pitifully crinkling
his face, “but I can
stand it.” Next
day a six-foot sur-
geon passed his
cot, and found the
patient for the first
time in his life
almost glum.
“Worrying?” lie in-
quire d. “Bit.”
owned up the suf-
f e r e r. Then:
“Doctor, will I be
able to kick a foot-
ball good?” “Why, of course —tiptop!”
And lie watched the kid’s habitual grin
return.
“Percy Pawnticket” : Bondi has seen some
queer rows in its time; but a four-flat build-
ing furnished something novel recently.
Having got wind that No. 1 flat;, with which
it was at variance, was giving a party, No. 2
flat decided to follow suit; and No. 4,
annoyed at receiving no invitation to either
of these festive gatherings, decided to have a
celebration of its own on the same night.
THE NOISE HIS CREDIT MADE.
HARD-UP WOOER : '‘And now I must really go-I regulate
my life so that it runs just like clockwork, y'know.”
UNINPRESSED CHORUS-SAIDEN : "Yes, I know — tick, tick.”
The three shivoos seem to have generated a
mutual hostility, helped out by insulting
allusions in song and anecdote, which culmin-
ated in a rush upstairs by the toasters at No.
1—the ground-floor crowd —and a sort of
triangular battle in the upper regions in
which all the parties became mixed. The
fact of various combatants being thrown or
falling downstairs dragged the occupants of
No. 3 out of their neutrality; they could
hardly be blamed for seeking to eject strug-
gling couples who had burst into their
premises, and thus the whole four corners
became embroiled. The police sorted out the
disturbance; but before quiet was restored
there was a liberal cargo for the ambulances
which were hurried to the scene.
“E.D.”: Going into the line for the first
time with new recruits was liable to be a
nerve-racking experience. My
clium and I each went up in
charge of a platoon. He
had to take position in a
front-line “trench”- —ah open,
shattered ditch—and I had
to stow my chaps into some
rabbit burrows scraped from
a railway embankment. My
lot were still objecting to
being squeezed three at a
time into a rat-hole when a
shower of shrapnel fell right
amongst us, and soon after-
wards a 5.0 shattered the top
of the embankment and two
men were killed and three
wounded. That did the trick
quick enough! My mate
and I met a few days later
in a Bapaume field-hospital,
and compared notes about
getting the men under cover
that night. “Mine wouldn’t
go,” he assured me, “till I
threatened to shoot. And
when I went right along to
see that all was 0.K., dash
me if I didn’t catch two men
still on the top! One came
from N.S.W. and the other
from Vic.; and they were in
a lurid argument as to which
city had the better tram ser-
vice—Sydney or Melbourne !”
“Hamer” : A wealthy Sydneyite was pass-
ing a suburban park one night when his
car lights flashed suddenly on a scene in the
trees which made him come to a quick stop
and dash into the shadows. He saw a man
attaching his neck to a tree by a rope, and
was just in time to stop him kicking
away the kerosene-tin on which he had
mounted. In the argument that followed
the rich man told of the time when he had
been without a decent meal for a week, ad
was unfit even to look for a job his *
were all gaping holes, his clothes in ra *? s ’ f
having pawned his razor, lie was uiiehav n,
but he had got through, and climbed to
affluence. “Who are you, anyway •! de-
manded the suicidal person morosely, and
the rich man told him. “It s no .
me,” said the pessimist; ‘ I never could bri „
myself to rob people.” The rescuer tells
the story against himself with gusto, a
adds that the would-be suicide is now in
his employment. “He robs me a blt ’ 0
course —that’s only to be expected ol a
man who boasts about his honesty, Croesus
concludes, “but lie hasn’t got enterprise
enough to rob me of much.”
“Feng-Shui”: The latest news of the dino-
saurs that aviator Cobham found on Komodo,
Dutch East Indies, is that two have been
secured by an American expedition, and are
now in New York. They are described as
lizard-like creatures Bft. long, weighing
2001 b., heavily armored and horrible to look
at. They run faster than a man, have short,
stubby legs, and one leaped on the back of
a horse and mortally injured it. A photo
of the beasts, however, reveals typical moni-
tor lizards, though possibly excessively sav-
age and powerful ones. If they belong to
anew species, it is hard to understand why
they have remained unknown so long. The
natives are always ready to feed white men
with stories of fantastic monsters in the
hinterland, and there are always white men
A NEW ONE FOR HER.
BEDSIDE FRIEND (writing a letter for malaria victim) :
“Shall I begin ‘My dear wife’?”
PATIENT: “Yes — that’ll amuse her.”
ready to track the rumor down. Once in
Borneo we sent the brother of Cherry Ivear-
ton, the well-known English naturalist, after
a prehistoric mammal that had left immense
footprints in a cave a week’s journey inland.
Descendants of domesticated Indian ele-
phants imported by dead and gone Borneo
sultans were the authors of the spoor, and
Kearton nearly lost the number of his mess
in proving that the story was khabar angin
—wind news.
A RONDEAU OF CALEDONIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A thrift campaign has been opened at Aberdeen.
It was started by strangers, but 41 preachers took
up the text yesterday. They pointed out that drinking
was an expensive hobby. It is part of a local-option
campaign.”— Cable.
In Aberdeen the pawky Scot
Is much addicted to a spot,
And there, from Spring to Winter’s snows,
Ta Ferintosh in volume flows.
They take it neat, and cold or hot—
Kentucky shouts as like as not —
Though no chiel ever minds a jot
If someone, “fairly on his toes,”
Chooses to stand an all-round tot
In Aberdeen.
Yet the fair prospect bears its blot;
A hideous Prohibition plot
The overflowing pubs to close
Has paled with dread the ruddiest nose,
Though it has Buckley’s chance, Cod wot,
In Aberdeen.
N.S.W.
J.B.H.
THE LAST WORD.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“The management of a cafe in Geelong stipulates
that the uniforms of waitresses mustcome to within
at least two inches of their ankles.”
Hail to the bright, immortal band,
More glorious than gods,
Of those who nobly make a stand
Against o’erwhelining odds!
The brave Horatius who could
The Tuscan army check ;
The boy who undefeated stood
Upon the burning deck.
The Spartans on their mountain steep ;
And now, to swell the throng,
Come these heroic hearts who keep
A cafe in Geelong.
Two inches from the ankles! Folk
Who read the new decree
Will say: “A misprint or a joke;
They must have meant the knee.”
But no, like Canute on the strand
Unflinching they decide
To take a bold, determined stand
And order back the tide.
Then ask the autocrats of style
If this be right or wrong;
You’ll notice that they merely smile
And murmur just “Geelong!”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
d
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
, t
K
1
The leading features of our C.1v.8. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
tH eo rf 10 ® b
Low initial cost.
Robustness.
High starting torque.
High efficiency.
Quick starting.
Lower starting current.
Reduced slip.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY, SECURITY.
It is your Duty to appoint an Experienced Executor.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency Company,
Limited.
Its 48 years’ experience in administering Estates of every description is ample
assurance that the Company can manage yours to the best advantage.
Trust Funds administered EXCEED FORTY-ONE MILLIONS.
JAS. BORROWMAN, CHAS. R. SMIBERT,
General Manager. Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Call or Write for Booklet.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Farmer and Cos., Ltd., who run one of
Sydney’s big deparment stores : —
, Dividends \
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
1916. . £40,161 £12,000 124p.c.= £25,000 £108,662
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1917.. 43,940 12,000 602 30,000 110,000
1918.. 49,590 12,000 7,590 30,000 110,000
1919.. 54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,0U<>
Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 10,000
124 p.c.
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32,500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570, 33,816 61,393
Reserve for , war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 .. .. 111,935
1922.. 78,304 12,000 19,570 33,816 124,853
Premiums on new shares, £2250 127,103
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36.292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 140,428
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 162,507
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28,000 39,721 181,199
This house has been selling silks and satins
and cottons ever since Sydney was quite a
youngster; and though for many years it
was on the conservative side and rather
scorned new methods, with the arrival of the
new century the present co. took off its coat
and gradually remodelled itself, while pre-
serving all that was best of the old policy.
The last dozen years have seen extraordi-
nary changes. In 1914, the last pre-war
year, capital was still only £400,000, but pro-
fit was £48,453, or over 12 p.c. To-day
capital is £1,000,000 and last year’s profit
was £98,413, or 9f p.c. Meantime there has
been a very great increase in the value of the
old freehold; if that was written up and
capital watered to correspond, the return
would look a good deal less. Times have,
however, changed, and the thing aimed at
nowadays is a large turnover on the much
smaller margin of profit which keen com-
petition has produced—to the advantage, of
course, of the buyer. And in this case there
are other things to be considered, as the next
comparison shows:—
1914. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . £400,000 £994,415 £994,415 £1,000,000
Liabilities . . 204,740 129,792 162,628 160,433
Fx-eeholds and
plant . . 431,778 627,950 627,471 695,573
Leaseholds. . 14,356 1,700 11,600 1,500
Stock . . 174,659 467,002 365,775 366,917
Book debts.. 37,470 101,718 101,308 109,575
Cash and in-
vestments 56,048 91,708 240,849 , 188,067
Not only have cash and investments been
piled up in order to pay for the building
programme now well in hand, but a consider-
able amount of the £695,573 in freeholds and
plant is unproductive. Twelve months hence
the co. will be enjoying the benefits of its
bold purchase of the George-Market streets
corner some years ago and of the buildings
which are climbing up on it to the permitted
limit; and then, given fair trading con-
ditions, there should be a substantial lift
in profits.
Capital is now in 200,000 6 p.c. first
prefs., 400,000 7 p.c. second prefs. and the
400,000 ords. Visible reserves are not im-
pressive support, but, as before remarked,
everything is not on view. At the close of
the accounts there was £114,404 in public
securities and £58,784 in cash. Liabilities
were very light considering the co.’s turn-
over. Stocks were in at £366,917, a figure
which suggests that whoever added up the
sheets had a large capacity for making two
and two equal three. Incidentally, at the
1920 balance creditor items totalled £390.436
and £545,096 was in stocks. The directors
record “another successful year in wireless
broadcasting,” and while this new develop-
ment has been a handy subsidiary money-
spinner it has had a large publicity value
also.
For the £200,000 in Ist prefs. there is a
visible backing of £5 18s. for every £l. After
providing for them, there is £2 18s. left for
every £1 of the £400,000 of 2nd prefs. After
providing for them, again, there is £1 9s.
visible for every £1 of the £400,000 ordinary
capital. But how much more the property
is worth than the books show this paper
wouldn’t care to guess. For the last 10
years Sydney city property has been increas-
ing in value at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.; and
so far as the accounts show there has never
during the lifetime of the present co. been a
re-valuation and writing up of its freehold
asset. In view of the fact that, notwith-
standing the large amount of capital that
was practically unproductive last year, a
15 p.c. div. could certainly have been paid on
ordinaries, it looks as if the 10 p.c. is a
pretty safe thing. The market evidently
thinks so too, and even has expectations of
something better ; it seeks these shares at 335.
3d., which shows a return of 6 p.c. The
Ist prefs. (6 p.c.) are worth 19s. 9d. ; the
2nd prefs. (7 p.c.) 21s. 3d., which shows a
return of £6 11s. 9d. p.c.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd., softgoods re-
tailers, of Melbourne, who, to escape double-
taxation, shifted their headquarters from
London to the Commonwealth in 1919. In
the following table goodwill (£60,741) has
not been regarded as an asset: —
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves,
Julv, £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 42,659 lO p.c.=18,274 ]
Preliminary exes., etc-, written } 10,972 4,830
off. £13,413, j
1920. .102.626 10,780 10 p.0.=18,5211
Preliminary exes, written off} 72,086 76,916
£1239. J
Reserves capitalised, £63,613 .. 13,303
1921.. 71,447 10.500 121 p.c.=31,804 29,143 42,446
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 „ „ 38,165 18,747 61,193
1923.. 73,318 10,500 15 „ „ 38,165 24,653 85,846
Hidden reserves disclosed .. 24,149109,995
Reserves capitalised, £69,608 . . 40,387
1924.. 74,548 10,500 15 p.c.=48,230 15.854 56,241
1925.. 59,583 10,500124,, „ 40,505 8,578 64,819
1926.. 63,117 10,500 12* „ „ 40,505 12,112 76,931
Improvement was expected, for the previous
year’s figures had been influenced by exten-
sive rebuilding. The directors’ report for
this year a larger turnover and a bigger
profit, though the amount disclosed is not
so much greater. It may be that exes, are
higher (they probably are) ; or perhaps the
management put a little extra into an inside
pocket—it has done that kind of thing be-
fore. However, the public is interested
chiefly in the prefs., and their demands
called for only a small portion of total earn-
ings. Their security, too, is good, net tan-
gibles, after final allocations, amounting to
£550,972, equal to £3 13s. sd. per share.
The co. has moved along steadily since it
became Australian :—-
1918. 1921. 1925. 1926.
£ £ £ £
Orel, capital .. 182,738 254,433 324,041 324,041
Pref. capital . . Nil 150,000 150,000 150,000
Debentures .. 131,625
Other liabilities . . 151,824 172,199 232,842 245,939
Premises, etc. . . 145,709 165,109 280,144 291,404
Plant, ete. . . 26,492 34,234 78,376 80,734
Book debts .. 81,457.105,415 103,399 90,003
Stock .. .. 202,201 279,151 321,199 338,638
Cash .. .. 20,174' 56,876 25,000 34.48 S
Managing-director Felix Lloyd visited
Europe during the year, and the results are
expressed in a substantial increase in “ship-
ments in transit”—£73,l2B compared with
£37,148. These represent “most suitable
novelties and goods for the ensuing season.”
Ords. have had a rich time, but the tasty
gift-issues have not affected the prefs.’ secu-
rity, except perhaps to this small extent,
that they have contributed to larger pay-
ments in the shape of dividends, and thus
reduced the lay by. Still, the backing is
very substantial.
The old-established co., with a fine good-
will, should be equal to any competition
going, and the position of its stores
couldn’t be better. There are, of course,
unceasing whispers that the co.’s big
new neighbor, Myers, is about to swal-
low it, premises and all; but if the
enterprising newcomer gets the meal he will
certainly have to pay a very big price for it.
That he should have settled himself next
door won’t necessarily do Buckley and Nunn
any harm; in fact, more potential customers
will certainly come into the neighborhood
than ever before, and after that it’s all.
a question of salesmanship. The scrip is
naturally popular, then, whenever it appears
on the market. The “Wild Cat.” hasn’t
noted a sale of the ords. for a long time, ana
the last sale of the prefs. was at 235.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Cos., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
i Dividends >,
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. Off. serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 39,607 9,000 8 p.c. = 16,000 4,873 93,989
1917.. 45,271 9,000 10 „ ~20.000 4,148 106,112
1918.. 49,787 9,000 10 „ ~20.000 4,233 122,666
Reserves capitalised, £87,500 . . 35,166
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 74 p.c. 10 p.c.
1919.. 54.193 9.000 3,281 20,000 4,771 52,307
£60.000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business. . 112,307
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes 109,281
84 p.c. 74 p.c. 124 p.c.
1920.. 78,174 12.750 6,562 251000 4,861 138,282
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1921.. 58.820 9.000 11,431 20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.. 50.060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144,404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,485 152,673
1924.. 69,976 10,723 13,125 22.861 4,982 170,958
1925 . 70,496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4,980 186,349
1926.. 67.826 12,000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198,924
In May last Marcus. Clark (Victoria), Ltd.,
bought the old-established business of Craig,
Williamson Pty., Ltd., of Melbourne. To
finance the purchase the buyers increased
their capital from £200,000 to £600,000 and
subsequently 120,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
253,000 ords. were issued. Shareholders of
Craig, Williamson took up 50,000 ordinaries,
153,000 were subscribed for by Marcus
Clark and Cos., Ltd., of Sydney, while 50,000
were offered to the public. Although the
big move was made by the Vic. company,
Marcus Clark of Sydney and its share-
holders came into the matter in two ways:
(a) pref. divs. in the Vic. co. have been
guaranteed by the big brother in Sydney till
May, 1925, and (b) capital has been in-
creased chiefly to finance the purchase of
the 153,000 ords. The increase amounts to
£200,000, and consists of 100,000 6 p.c. prefs.
and 100,000 ords., taken at par by existing
shareholders in equal proportions of prefs.
and ords. —four each for every 25 shares
held. By this increase paid capital in the
Sydney co. is carried to £825,000. This
movement, however, lies beyond the latest
accounts. At July 31, capital was un-
changed at £625,000 in 200,000 6 p.c. prefs.,
175,000 71 p.c. prefs. and 250,000 ords. After
these had received their customary divs.
(ords. have had 10 j).c. for the past six
years) and £5126 had been written off,
£12,575 was added to reserves, bringing the
latter to £198,924. That was healthy sup-
port to capital, but when the new money is
all in, reserves will look less robust.
The new prefs. (6 p.c.) and ords. (on 10 p.c.
basis) will call for £16,000. To earn it there
is the £153,000 in ,Craig, Williamson ; there
is the increased trading expected from the
greater space in the new Sydney building;
and an unimportant increase may be obtained
from the co.’s Sydney subsidiary, Bon
Marche. Thus far the co. has more than held
its own in the fierce competition in Sydney,
helped by its big t.-p. connection; and
though Craig, Williamson is in the midst
of a similar condition in Melbourne, there
are possibilities of big profits in that direc-
tion for so experienced a management.
Balance-sheet figures are substantial, and are
largely governed by the time-payment feature
of the business :
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Mortgages . . £70,000 £51,500 £64,500 £162,000
Other debts . . 213,710 210,553 311,662 256,402
Stock . . . . 228,475 228,385 253,010 253,443
Book debts .. 304,735 445,621 510,843 497,634
Freeholds . . 123,189 170,069 206,095 263,679
Leaseholds .. 68,738 57,377 59,490 57,196
Plant, etc. ‘ .. 22,860 19,948 23,907 26,970
Shares in other cos. 120,493 149,310 149,354 157,713
Cash, etc. . . 19,533 11,994 9,874 10,753
Book debts (mostly t.-p.) look top-heavy,
but the co. has charted this sea so well that
it is not likely to bump any shoals. Stocks
were practically unaltered over the 12
months; the chief move was the increase of
£97,500 in mortgages, and in that can be seen
the influence of the building activity.
At July 31 stocks and cash alone more
than covered all floating debt. Prefs. also
were well secured, net tangible assets
amounting to £823,924, equal to £4 2s. 4d.
for the 200,000 first prefs., and, allowing
them bare cover, £3 11s. 3d. for each of
the 175,000 second prefs. The market values
the first prefs. at 20s. 3d., the 74 per cents,
at 215., and the ords. at 28s. 9d., with the
new contribs. (10s. paid) at 18s.
* * * *
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane),
general storekeepers, are expanding. In
January the Civil Service Stores were taken
over —-Brisbane’s experience of co-operative-
trading ventures has been very discouraging
—as was the business of Margaret Halstein.
Building alterations and additions have
proved to be necessary, and new fronts and
a subway to connect the co.’s two blocks
are being made. To help pay for it 17,375
ordinary shares are being offered to share-
holders at par. Net profit for the year, after
providing £3363 for depreciation, was £22,417.
Ords. received 8 p.c. There were 232,625
ords. issued at July 26, and as there are
50,000 prefs. (7 p.c. cum.) capital will be
£300,000 when all payments are in. Cur-
rent repairs and maintenance are charged
against revenue, but the purchase of the
new businesses and the co.’s constructional
programme added £26.694 to the property
item for the 12 months. In the previous
year £16.122 was added. Additions to plant
and fixtures amounted to £10,114, compared
with £833. Fixed assets were in at a net
£189,958. To check the items two special
valuations were obtained, in each case the
figure being well in excess of the book
values. Sales for the year were affected by
reduced mail orders from the dry patch in
the Central-West of the State. The co.
holds a controlling interest in Stuparts, Ltd.,
of Maryborough. This business was reorgan-
ised during the year, and extensive altera-
tions made. A small profit has since been
shown, and although there is no div. from
that source the outlook is considered hopeful.
At July 26 liabilities totalled £127.392,
trade creditors accounting for £49,869. More
or less liquid items easily covered all outside
debt, stocks being in at £160,182, and book
debts £65.128. A year or two ago the co.’s
policy was set out as being one of 8 p.c.
divs., and there is nothing visible to justify
anticipations of anything immediately better.
The co. is pushing out hard, and may make
larger profits; but the fact that so large a
proportion of the capital is in city property
won’t help to win a high return. The market
values the ords. at about 21s. 9d. and is
prepared to give about as much for the
well-secured prefs.
The Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Vote
Divs. to Ch. Bonus to
June., Surplus. 10 p.c. of M. Insurers. Reserves.
1910 .. £12,824 £2025 £llO9 £2,438 £22,431
1917 .. 27,887 3000 1752 13,397 32,169
1918 .. 27,920 3000 2238 16,475 38,370
1919 .. 29,220 3237 3040 15,557 45,762
1920 .. 40,683 3920 3546 18,835 60,144
1921 .. 55,640 4382 5415 24,099 81,888
1922 . . 55,502 4382 5977 26,681 100,350
Taxes refunded . . • • £2103 102,4:>3
1923 .. 52.486 4382 7840 24,102 118,615
1924 .. 56,345 4382 8451 27,425 134,702
1925 . . 63,941 4382 8873 28,865 156,522
1926 .. 53,831 4382 8737 27,213 } 169 520
Staff Fund, £SOO \ ’
Two years ago the Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures bought the last of the shares
held by individual holders. That transaction
completed the first stage of an operation
begun 10 years earlier, when southern manu-
facturers decided to handle their own insur-
ance ; and, inasmuch as their Chamber was
the rallying-point, it was given an option
over all the shares, and money has been
voted out of profits to pay for them. The
plan has thus far worked to anticipations.
The parent body has been given a big home
in the' heart of the city, and it apparently
proposes to do things on an even larger scale,
for additional frontage has been bought and
a building reserve is creeping up. Continued
loyalty will enable the co. to do good things
for Australian industry. Thus far the sup-
port has been' reflected in these figures :
Net Ross Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915.. £31,907 £6,027 £3,400 18.9 p.c. 10.6 p.c.
1917.. 43,182 14,497 3,444 33.6 „ 8.0 „
1918.. 55,011 21.310 6,603 38.8 „ 12.0 „
1919.. 69,053 34,921 7,593 50.6 „ 11.0 „
1920.. 86,468 43,283 9,044 50.0 ~ 10.4 „
1921.. 110,262 50,544 11,214 45.8 „ 10.1 „
1922.. 114,431 54,940 14,181 48.0 „ 12.4 „
1923.. 110,594 55,883 15,762 50.5 „ 14.2 „
1924.. 120,884 63,989 14,013 52.9 „ 11.6 „
1925.. 124,666 69,841 15,818 48.0 „ 12.6 „
1926.. 120,274 65,466 17,276 54.4 „ 14.3 „
The office shared “to some extent” in the
generally unfavorable underwriting experi-
ence of last year; among other things,
the disastrous bush fires kicked up the Toss
ratio. Still, claims were not out of the
way, all tilings considered, and low premium
rates make the percentage look higher. Exes,
touched their highest point. The remarkably
modest figure still shown would not be pos-
sible, of course, were it not that most of the
business comes into the office without drag-
ging. But as many a management has found
it harder to keep a tight hold on exes, when
conditions are easy than when every penny
counts, even in this office the axe should be
kept sharp. Funds are invested thus:
Public securities and cash, £167,161;
premises, etc., £99,664; sundry debtors, etc.,
£26,996. Liabilities totalled £75,599. Allow-
ances to policy-holders were on the usual
liberal scale, ranging to 30 p.c. on workers’
compensation premiums in Victoria and
South Australia.
* * * *
Coal, Oil (N.Z.), Ltd., has a nominal capi-
tal of £750,000 in £1 shares of which 300,000
are offered for public subscription; 100,000
placed under option at par to subscribers of
the first 100,000 shares; 100,000 at ss. pre-
mium to subscribers of the second 100,000:
100,000 at 10s. premium to subscribers of
the third 100,000; 90,000 fully-paids to ven-
dors ; 60,000 in reserve. 11. N. Gooch is
named as vendor of the Waipatiki Oil Wells,
Ltd., and A. A. Wilson and J. Humphries
and partners of the coal. Nothing is said in
the prospectus of what accompanies the
90,000 fully-paids, but in answer to a query
the office informs the Wild Cat that £51,000
in cash also goes to vendors—-£21,000 for the
coal leases, £30,000 for Waipatiki Oil assets.
The coal leases are the subject of a highly-
favorable report by H. L. Stead, but it is
not made clear how much of the area can
be mined by open-cut and how much by long-
wall or pillar and bord. His estimate of
eouipment for a production of 500 tons per
day is £50.000. He declares that coal can
be put on board ship “within the vicinity of
9s. 6d. per ton,” and that the scheme should
return “within the vicinity of 100 p.c.” There
are no check reports. Waipatiki Oil is con-
cerned with an area on the East Coast.
Although “early sensational and gratifying
results” are spoken of by the prospectus, all
the vendor appears to give in return for his
66,000 fully-paids and £30,000 cash are a
favorable structure, drilling plant, hole
drilled to 3500 ft. (stopped “just as the oil-
pool was on the point of being tapped”),
three gaseous petroleum wells producing
19,200 c. ft. gas per day, options, residences.
This is referred to as “not a mere specula-
tion. but a sound petroleum enterprise fully
justifying further development.” Profits of
£58,000 from the gas are spoken of. The
(Continued on vage 1!).)


"The State starts o>fi=. in the usual. wa/
But BingiHl, M.L.A,arrwes,
/KOVOCATINR V/ombart for
He sweeps* the polus
The upper House
'5 A.BOUSHSO ,
Tamm an y
k CREEPS iH
Citizens decuine To vsork overtime under ant conditions
A no THe DEl£CiA,tioK To SECURE A. L.OAr4 FOR REPROOUCTINE
NNORk.*» HAVING* FAU-6D,
METERS return Tt> NORMAu
BINGHI’S NEW STATE.
“A scheme for furthering the welfare of aborigines in Australia by giving them control of a model State is contained in a petition to the Federal Parliament. The
originator of the movement and its hon. secretary is Col. J. G. Genders, ot Adelaide.


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for November.
An invaluable guide—Companies’
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat”
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
There is nothing more, important to a water-supply
system than the efficiency and permanency of its
pipe lines, and the right perspective on the question
of pipe selection must of necessity be taken from
the point of 20, 30 and 40 years after its installation.
Pioneer Wood Pipe actually increases in efficiency,
and is of practically indestructible life. Immune
from tuberculation, rusts and corrosion, it consistently
maintains healthful water purity, while its light-
ness and simple construction make it the most
economical conduit to freight, transport and instal.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Boad, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt,
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent;
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * * •
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
I'HE IN VEST3IENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. OAK VAN,
Managing Director.
d
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift
Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops. Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY’ SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL
COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
prospectus says that “liquid petroleum is the
main objective.” The coal appears to be a
proposition well worth investigation. Em-
it is joined, without discernible reason, with
a scheme that is merely a gamble; a scheme,
moreover, in which the vendor s considera-
tion seems to be unduly heavy.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is asking for a mini-
mum of £6,000,000 at par, interest 5| p.c.
free of State but subject to Federal taxa-
tion, redeemable 1933, ’3B or ’43. Holders
of the 1927 44 and 5 p.c. war loans may con-
vert ; and they are doing it in large quan-
tities. The interest is equal to the market
standard, and the exemption from State
taxes is valuable and certainly will be still
more valuable; so the Government should
have no difficulty in filling the list by the
closing date, December 20.
* * * *
“ Mining Engineer ” replies to Gould
McDougall (B. 28/10/’26)
The difficulty in discussing the question with this
correspondent is that he is evidently a theorist who
works on prospectus estimates, etc. He admits that
a mild boom has developed and that prices of many
Malayan tin shares are too high. I contend that
the boom is more than “mild” and that prices ol
most of the shares are ridiculously high. Tin shares
are an excellent investment if bought on a reason-
able basis such as I outlined (B. 14/10/’26). Since
I wrote that, the metal has dropped and shares are
falling, but there is plenty of margin yet before
they are down to my idea of values. Visible tin
stocks at the end of September were 769 tons
higher than at the end of August, and at the end
of October were yet another 584 tons higher. This,
at a time when strong American buying generally
comes in, does not look too healthy. And £250
per ton is above the average for the past 10 years
and it is doubtful whether the average for the coming-
-10 years will be higher. It is with this point in
mind that buyers should operate.
Gould McDougall agrees with me on Kamunting,
but says I misrepresent the position very badly on
Ivundang. Looking over his figures I notice we only
differ on the estimated recovery, and this is where
the man who works on prospectus estimates, etc.,
generally crashes. He takes the “nominal” as the
“actual” capacity of a dredge. Ivundang dredge has
a nominal capacity of 120,000 yards per month,
and any experienced man knows that a dredge
with this nominal capacity will do well if it averages
90,000 yards per month year in and year out. On
this basis Mr. MeDougall’s estimate of 40 tons is
reduced to 30 tons, and I stand by what I said in
my last par. ; that, on this recovery, the co. would
only earn sufficient to pay 20 per cent, dividend (4s.
per year), whereas, in order to return a buyer (at
395.) his capital plus 10 per cent, interest, it would
need to pay 35 per cent, per annum. I repeat that
anyone buying these shares at over 255. is taking a
risk.
He also takes me to task over Takuapa. My last
par. was written with the August return of 63 tons
in my mind and before the September return was
published. September (38 tons) and October (30
tons) have since been published with the announce-
ment that “during the period the dredge worked
through poor patch,” thereby bearing out my con-
tention that the co. would have leaner times.
The main weakness in latter-day flotations has
been the high capitalisations. It is hardly
reasonable to expect one dredge, working in average
ground, to pay satisfactory dividends on 250,000
£1 shares. How much worse is the position of a
buyer of these shares at about £ 2 ?
Another case of indiscriminate buying is Selayang
(140,000 shares), selling at 305., a market valuation
of £210,000. It is estimated by Newman to con-
tain 24,000,000 yards of ,81b. to ,91b. ground, although
F. W. Payne and Son, London, calculated about half
the area at .6lb. and the balance .451 b. This
property contains only medium values on a lime-
stone bottom. The limestone pinnacles are visible,
so there is no question of the values being “well
above the limestone bottom.” Whether the dredge
is going to recover the tin remains to be seen, but
I feel sure that buyers at this price will be dis-
illusioned when it commences.
No one reading my remarks about the old hands
boring the Kinta Valley could reasonably conclude
that I meant the whole of the Valley. With regard
to the Alluvial Tin’s properties there, I am prepared
to await results, but I think that buyers at present
prices are “discounting the future.”
Malim Nawar South was down to 68ft. at end of
September, so should have been on bottom during
October, but only recovered 13 tons. It is to be
hoped that recoveries will improve when the dredge
has fully opened out.
So far, Malim Nawar has been a disappointment.
October output was only 14 tons, and if “the pom-
return is due to the dredge having encountered a
patch of cement gravel and is of no significance,”
then all I can say is that that patch of cement
gravel must be fairly persistent, as the outputs have
only averaged about 10 tons in the last six months.
Newman’s “prospectus estimate?’ of Malim Nawar
gives 22,000,000 yards, an average depth of 50ft.
of ,821 b. ground of a “friable nature, easily worked”
(patches of cement gravel not mentioned), and he
expressed the opinion that the dredging returns
would exceed the boring results. He advised a
dredge with a nominal capacity of 120,000 yards
to recover 42 tons per month, and estimated costs
at 3id. per yard. Now for the results. The dredge
has been working nearly 12 months, but taking
the figures for the last six months it has averaged
about 50,000 yards per month (highest month
80,000 yards), average recoveries about 10 tons
(highest month 15 tons) and the average value right
through the period was about .41b. per yard, witli
costs at least double his estimate.
It remains to be seen how the other Kinta Valley
properties and also Ivundang and Selayang stand up
to Mr. Newman’s estimates.
* * * *
From Courtenay Martin, g.m. of Belford
Dome; —
A. E. Broue apparently would have the public
of Australia believe that F. G. Clapp had reported
adversely upon the Belford Dome area. Chester W.
Wasliburne, who thought some Belford Dome areas
good enough to take up, spent six months in field
work over Belford and district. Did Clapp, on
paper investigations, annul Washburne’s opinion,
formed after a half-year spent on the ground? On
the contrary, on the advice of “the best talent he
could employ throughout the world” A. E. Broun
and his associates, under the style of Oil and Gas
Investigations, Ltd., tried to acquire those holdings,
and, failing in these efforts, they did the next
best thing by making application for a large area —
on which they consider the spending of £50,000
will be sufficient for preliminary work —in close
proximity to Belford Dome.
In his reference to my company’s coal holdings
and a 25 p.c. permanent charge, Mr. Broue seems
to be confusing the terms on which Belford Dome,
Ltd., acquired these holdings with the offer made
by him and his associates for the same holdings,
after we had got them.
The B.H.P. Cos. put down a diamond drill bore
near Belford during 1923 in the course of extensive
prospecting of coal measures throughout the State.
The bore, unfortunately for them, was located on
a down-faulted block at the northern margin of the
dome structure. Precise information is not avail-
able for the reason that the B. 11. P. has never made
public the results of its coal prospecting operations
at Belford or elsewhere. As to why that company
did not proceed with the development of the area,
I might state that early in 1922 applications for
titles under the, Mining Act were made on behalf
of the Hunter River Oil Syndicate over Belford Dome
and granted in part. However, a flaw in the Mining
Act was discovered, and this had to be amended.
The land in question was not available for entry
under the Amended Mining Act until March 24,
1925, and on that date application was duly made
for the area by the Hunter River Cos., and subse-
quently granted by the Mining Warden. Later,
many other applications were made for the area,
among them being one by Mr. Broue. Contrary
to his statement, his application was not abandoned,
but was dismissed by the Department of Mines.
I then undertook that I would not interfere with
the areas adjacent to my co.’s holdings if Mr.
Broue and his associates would refrain from inter-
fering with us. These are matters of record in the
department. Mr. Broue’s statement that he does
“not own one inch of leases on that structure” is
perfectly true; what is more, he never at any time
has had mining rights over any portion of Belford
Dome. Neither was the B. H. P. Cos. able to secure
an area there of suitable acreage and location to
comprise a colliery holding.
As to combined undertakings for oil, gas and
coal over the same area, why be loath to the owning
and working of both minerals from the same area
by one company ? The co.’s oil and gas experts
are not expected to interfere in the business of
coal mining.
* * * *
Nuggets are not often found in Westralia
nowadays, consequently one of lOloz. un-
earthed' at St. Ives caused a little excite-
ment among local diggers. Several other
lumps of gold have been found on the field
during the past few years, but none as large
as this one.
* * * *
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) is making an
effort to get its Yalgoo mine into something
like order, and now that a cyanide plant is
working there is a chance of gold produc-
tion paying all exes., with perhaps a little
over.
* * * *
After considerable cash outlay on plant,
Brilliant Cos. (W.A.) is in a position to start
mainshaft sinking. The co. deserves to strike
something, for it has battled for years with
its own and Mines Department capital. Any
development, however, will have to be pretty
good to provide for repayment of money
expended by the co. to date on machinery
and sinking. #
Westralia is eagerly awaiting the flota-
tion of the Glenelg Hills gold find. The first
crushing, though too small to determine the
real value of the discovery, was good, and
holders of surrounding claims and the areas
pegged beyond are already demanding higher
prices for what they believe, or want buyers
to believe, they have got. Until some develop-
ment has been done, however, investors who
take a share in these blocks are putting
their money on a very long shot.
New Long Tunnel’s low level adit is in
1521 ft.. but the expected run of stone is some-
where else. Henry Hartrick has a dyke
formation which isn’t classy enough to be
identified as the long lost. It came m at
1456 ft., and as it shows associated stringers
of quartz should be driven on. The old Long
Tunnel dyke had needle pyrites. So has this,
but Hartrick wants to push on to beyond
1700 ft. to see if he can hit anything there. If
not the retreat to 1456 ft. will be sounded
and a few pounds spent in work there. It’s
good prospecting, and a real gamble, but so
was the original Long Tunnel adit which
put Pearson and Cos. on to a million.
* * * *
South Comet Lead-Zinc, Dundas (Tas.),
is making a gallant effort to win an esti-
mated profit of 15s. a ton on reserves of
£70,000 tons. The co. had to erect its own
power plant; this and a flotation plant will
cost £6OOO to complete, so capital has been
increased from 10s. to 15s. on 70,000 shares.
If Tommy Palmer and his directors can do
what they promise, the Dundas district will
owe them a lot.
* * * *
Premier McCormack, faced with the neces-
sity of reducing expenditure, has decided that
Cliillagoe State Smelters must shut down.
The total debt to the Treasury is close to a
million —£961,000. Mining for base metals
in a big area of North Queensland may
now be considered a story told. The fos-
sikers, scratchers and gongers will, of course,
have their numbers added to —for a while,
at any rate.
* * * *
Development and assay figures combined
are very impressive for the Rio Grande and
Black Rock lodes at Mt. Isa (Q.) on recent
work. The north drive, sft. wide, on the
Grande has averaged for the last 20ft. 35
p.c. lead and 290 z. silver over the full width.
This is on the borderland of oxidised ore
at a depth of 150 ft. A diamond drill has
started 50ft. west of the Lawlor shaft with
the hope of cutting the lode at 450 ft. and
giving a test of the primary sulphides. On
the strength of the old Isa Prop.’s bore on
the Black Star there is very little doubt
that values will improve below water-level.
On the Black Rock the 300-ft. north drive
is getting even better. It has now reached
a point 70ft. north of the last crosscut,
which proved a true thickness of 23ft. of ore
worth 26 p.c. lead and 21oz. silver; the
drive has averaged 36.5 p.c. lead and 34 oz.
silver for a distance of 25ft. over Oft. wide.
A couple of holes put in the walls of the
drive indicate similar values for 9ft. at least.
The theory that the shoot is pitching north
in depth seems to be confirmed by the latest
figures, which have added 7 p.c. lead and 4oz.
silver to the average assays over a length
of 223 ft. The crop of the Black Star is
being proved north of the Davidson shaft by
surface costeens. One of these, 500 yards
north of the shaft, proved a width of 145 ft.,
averaging 8.6 p.c. lead. With all this work
proving immense bodies of low-grade to rich
ore —certainly many millions of tons —the
man in the street is beginning to ask why
the co. doesn’t make some pronouncement
as to its plans for production and treatment.
Even if the concentration of the low-grade
carbonate ores is a temporary stumbling-
block, why are mining operations on the
large reserves of high-grade and clean lead-
zinc sulphides delayed?
* * * *
There should be a Christmas-box for share-
holders in Ravenswood Gold Mines, as 105
tons cleaned up last week gave 4710 z. of
smelted gold and 36 tons of sludge and con-
centrates valued at £I6OO. This represents
the tidy value of £2B per ton. About 80 tons
of probably the same grade is still in the
paddock. This is all coming from the Duke
footwall, below No. 5, and though it may
not run far, it is very sweet while it lasts
and looks good for several further crushings.
Although going for some years now, the co.
has not yet paid a dividend. It was on the
verge a year ago, but hard times came along
when the shoot was cut off by a fault.
* * , * *
Taranaki Oil is better off than a year
ago. Then it had £68,000 cash and little
experience. Now it has £97,000 cash and
lots of experience. It has floated off 154,750
new 20s. shares in the meantime and drilled
three dry holes. Arthur Moline has, however,
mapped structures for further drilling. The
deepest hole was the Tarata, which at 5010 ft.
struck the “papa” bed. Moturoa bore was
stopped at 4360 ft. That ended work at
Taranaki —at least for to-day. North of Gis-
borne No. 1 dip into the Mangaoporo “struc-
ture” was the co.’s third commercial blank;
the sands there yielded traces of thin paraffin
oil. No. 4 derrick is to be planted on an
anticline near Port Tokomaru, also in the
County of Waiapu, on the North Island.
There at 1500 ft. igneous conglomerate is to
be picked up as a covering to lower-region
cretaceous sands. If these are drilled
through there will be another 2000 ft. of
boring, unless a gusher spurts. Tarata bore
cost £28,754, and the Moturoa bore £21,305.
To find out what the Mangaoporo bore soaked
up in funds the accounts of the Waiapu pup
co. would have to be tabled, and that isn’t
done. It is said by the Taranaki board that
the boring is being done for it; also that
the Taranaki holds a preponderating interest
not only in the pup, but in the Gisborne and
Waitani subsidiaries. But it would be nice
to know how much the third bore needed,
and what is A. H. P. Moline’s estimate for
the No. 4 drillhole. Also what is the full
register of the three pups ; what consideration
was given for the blocks they represent; has
each of them a board, secretary and other
etceteras; what is the cost of running them?
Of the future: “According to the nature of
the industry, no prophecy can be offered,
but your directors are unanimous in believ-
ing that the wider experience and more
detailed knowledge obtained (concerning the
co.'s properties) justify a continuance of
tlieir confidence in the outlook.”
Isaac Boadle, an old Victorian mining-
man, bored the Hand Yai area in Southern
Siam, and his advice was dead against it.
He reported that it had been worked out
SO years ago, and that no decent dredging
area could bo obtained in that part. Only
about 25 acres of virgin ground remained,
averaging about a pound for 6ft. depth up-
stream and 30ft. at the down-stream end.
Boadle also pronounced the place waterless
in the dry season. Another prospector who
tried the area for the co. reported 511 acres
worth a pound and upwards. The discrep-
ancy, it was explained, was due to, a false
bottom ; on being pierced, another rich layer
of wash-dirt was found below Boadle’s
depths. The ex-Victorian, however, denies
this in toto. Bruce and McGregor, the'Tai-
piug secretaries, announced in September
that the 180,000 20s. shares had been five
times oversubscribed, the directors being A. J.
King, T. J. McGregor and Lim Chin Guan.
The vendor co., Malay Siamese, got 55,000
fully-paids, 95,000 contribs. were publicly
subscribed, and 20,000 held in reserve. Of
the dredgeable area the prospectus states
that 138 bores to 26ft. averaged 1.271 b. to
the yard, the deepest hole being 60ft., and
the best gave 12.211 b. to the yard; but for
averaging purposes nothing above 41b. to
the yard was included. Estimates give 68
tons of tin oxide a month from a 120,000-
yards dredge. On a basis of 22,000,000 yards
the life of the property is estimated at 15
years, and holders are told they should
receive 33 p.c. p.a. on their £IBO,OOO of
capital with tin at £2OO, and 47 p.c. witli
tin at £270. There is certainly a big con-
flict between the two reports. Boadle has
to his credit that he was among the first
to puncture the Badak bubble of 1920, when
Melbourne went stark mad for a month.
Malay-Siamese has secured the services of H.
V. Seale, late general manager of Junction
North at Broken Hill, goes to “the
East” as superintending mining engineer.
His first job will be to put Phin Soon on the
right track as to plant requirements. After-
wards, presumably, he will ascertain who's
right about Haad Yai.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all b2d-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Two choice dia-
monds in hexagonal
platinum setting,
with diamond
shoulders,
£32/10/-
SUPERB DIAMONDS
in Settings
Worthy of Their Beauty.
Wonderful diamonds
set with four emer-
alds at corners in
all-platinum ring,
£6O.
Two fine diamonds,
with small dia-
monds at sides, set
in platinum in
18ct. gold ring,
£27/10/-
Three splcr.did dia-
monds in hexagonal
platinum setting,
with diamond
shoulders, £3O.
Magnificent dia-
mond set in plati-
num, with small
diamonds at sides,
in 18ct. gold ring,
Three lovely dia-
monds in octagonal
platinum setting,
with diamond
shoulders,
££7/10/-
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
mwmw
"s/ // ft it fat n ' /• A
xavau-uHAa
'/M/hUmm h 11 nliU
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
Look for th* Trademarkt Agent* Enii^na
Write for Illustrated Catalogue*
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Justice Higgins’s admiration for Iligin-
l.itliam lias increased rather than diminish-
ed in the 34 years since the Vie. Chief Justice
passed over. It is not surprising, there-
fore. that he should attend the Melb. Trades
Hall the other night to witness the presenta-
tion of a portrait of Vic.’s Great Commoner
VISITOR : “I suppose most of pour parish-
ioners (live according to their means."
PASTOR: “ I’m afraid not —most of them give
according to their meanness.”
to the Trades Council. In 1890. when the
big maritime strike was on. Chief Justice
Higinbotham contributed £5O to the strike
funds because the employers refused to meet
the strike representatives in conference,
and promised £lO a week till the conference
w T as held or the trouble ended. The bad old
employer-—and he could be bad —has never
forgiven Higinbotham, but the warm-hearted
action stands out like a landmark in indus-
trial history.
Dead at 74, in Melbourne, Edward North-
cote, general manager of the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co., and a thorough straightgoer. He
was a relative of a former Governor-General
of this country, and his wife was a daughter
of a captain in the Honorable East India
Company; but he will be chiefly remembered
in shipping circles for his astute perception
of the fact that the shipowner who doesn’t
own his own collieries and burn his own
coal is apt to have spells of helplessness in
these days.
“Die Mihi” : Henry Jones, Hobart’s jam
king, didn’t take long to make up his mind.
Some years ago I organised a daily mail
service by aeroplane, Port Melbourne to
Burnie (Tas.). Jones heard what I had to
say, took 1000 shares, accepted a director-
ship and promised that his company’s
branches would act as agents for the mail
enterprise. Time occupied, 15 minutes. Pre-
mier Lee, of the Sleepy Isle, took two months
to say No, and the Chambers of Commerce
of Hobart and Launceston still haven’t
divulged what they decided to do about my
project.
A type of trades union that wasn’t con-
templated when the movement first began is
the Limbless Soldiers and Sailors’ Associa-
tion, which has been meeting federally in
Melbourne. There are over 4000 members.
One hundred lost two limbs and six lost
three. President G. Martin Farrow has lost
both legs, and its secretary, Byers, is short of
one. The association runs its own employ-
ment bureau, which, unlike the R.S.S.L.,
enjoys no subsidy from the Government.
One of the early products of the Moore
Theological College was Charles Chester
Dunstan, who got liis first charge in the then
enormous Dubbo parish, and has handled a
crook for 50 years. Grey-liaired but still
vigorous, he now minds a flock by the roar-
ing surf —at St. Matthew’s, Bondi.
Phil Treffene, whose illicit gold dealings
led him to the scaffold on a recent Monday
morning, was one of Westralia’s champion
cyclists 30 years ago. His most famous
victory was over “Plugger Bill” Martin at
Kalgoorlie. The crowd carried him shoulder-
high around the town, and he was the hero
of the goldfiems for many a day thereafter.
For the 21st time in succession, Snow-
ball, M.L.A., of Brighton (Vic.), was elected
Grandmaster of the L.O.L. tin l other night.
There was a banquet afterwards, but there
was not much pep in the toasting—even the
Royal Colonial Institute couldn’t have shown
more dignified restraint. Alex. Peacock went
to Brighton that evening to hold the fort
for Snowball at a tech, school display—
you sec, Snowball is half of the Ministry's
majority at present.
Robert Lowe Hall, the 25-year-old Queens-
land Rhodes scholar who has just been
appointed a lecturer in political economy at
Oxford, comes of a brainy family. His father
was dux of the Sandringham School (Eng.),
and was handed a medal by King Ned in
that potentate’s princely days ; and his mother
was a Shakspearean student of deep erudi-
tion. The young man is named after a
famous old member of the family, the
brilliant Lord Sherbrooke, who as Bobby
Lowe was a gent, one in Sydney ages ago.
A long-distance over-ocean flight that
doesn’t seem to be getting very much adver-
tisement is that of Group-Captain Williams,
of the Australian Air Force, who made the
hop from Australia to Fiji lately. The way
lay over a part of the Pacific not noticeably
less stormy than the Tasman, just to the
south, and the flight was a pioneer one.
Although the monsoons were in full swing
when Williams arrived at Tulagi, he pro-
posed to fly back, but the Air Board’s per-
mission will be required for that, and prob-
ably won’t be, granted. If an Englishman or
a Yankee or a Japanese had done the thing
a loud song would have been made about it.
It’s likely that some crackers were let off
in China on November 9, the anniversary of
the shelling of the Emden. There lives in
the Celestial land, on the bounty of the
British Government, a Chinese who was one
of the heroes of the occasion. He was a cook
on Cocos Island when the Emden arrived
there, intending to put the signalling appa-
ratus out of commission, and he was the first
man to fall into the hands of the landing
party which descended upon the sleeping
community. The wily Chow, compelled to
take the invaders to the wireless station, led
them a long way round, and managed to send
a warning ahead. As a result the radio had
crackled out the news to H.M.A.S. Sydney
before the Germans silenced it.
A Victorian Hebrew colonist of 75 years’
standing who passed out the other day at
90 left four daughters, all of whom married
Christians. In fact, one daughter married
two Christians.
The death of G. F. Heath at 91 closes
a career that opened romantically. As a
young man Heath came to Australia on a
sailing vessel which took four months on the
voyage. During that four months the young
man met, wooed and married the girl who
was afterwards his partner for over 60 years
—she died a couple of years ago. The
couple on their arrival in Sydney made their
way north and established their home at
Bullahdelah, where the old man has just
died. They had 10 children, and their
living descendants in the third and fourth
generations number 104.
Leslie Fischer and Noel Tracy Collins,
the two Victorians who fell to native spears
while gold-seeking in New Britain, were
both ex-A.I.F. men, both were employed on
expropriated plantations, and both were only
sons. Collins spent most of his life fighting
or chasing law-breakers. He served in the
Boer dispute and afterwards in the S’Afri-
can constabulary, was a mounted constable
in the N.T., and saw out three years of the
Greatest War.
“Obadiah Ren”: S. Aus. Premier Lionel
Hill will have another ex-footballer in his
team at the coming elections. Beas. Kearney
has been selected for the East Torrens fight.,
and, as he played for Norwood, his football
wili help him there. Kearney’s experience
extends from a blacksmith’s shop to the
practice of law, and from running at coun-
try meetings to the secretaryship of the Adel-
aide Repertory Club. He will probably win
the third East Torrens seat for Labor.
Who are the oldest living Australian-born
twins? A first claim is put in by John and
Thomas Mahoney, of North Melbourne and
Fitzroy. They were born near Preston
(Vic.) in 1846.
HAROLD
FIB HER,
president
of the
South
Australian
Cricket
Association.
Sydney’s best-known auctioneer, tne
loquacious Jimmy Lawson, had been a sick
man for the last couple of years; the death
of his parents six months ago (they died
within a few r hours of each other) struck
him badly and hastened his own end, aged
06. The father had established the business.
The last of the original batch of Vincen-
tian Fathers imported by Cardinal Moran
half a century ago was John Hagarty,
who reported at the Gate the other day. A
noted orator, he fought the Devil up and
down Australasia. Double pneumonia ended
the scrap at 71.
Dr. Benjafield, who will be missed by ex-
Diggers who still frequent Sydney Repat.,
was responsible for some smart work with
the Clan MacGillivray at the Landing. With
“Benjy” in command, the Clan was a troop-
ship on the way from Mudros to Gallipoli.
By the time there were wounded for atten-
tion it was converted, with all the fitments,
into a hospital ship, ready to receive them.
After the war Benjafield took charge of the
medical services of Sydney Repat., and it
wasn’t long before Diggers with a grievance
reckoned that a personal interview with
“Benjy” was the best way of getting rid of it.
“Max” : As to the. validity of the Stapley
baronetcy (B. 28/10/’26), disuse of a
title does not render it void. Provided mar-
riage and birth certificates are in order and
are available, a dormant title is easily re-
sumed. But Debrett’s statement that the
Stapley claim is “unsubstantiated” is worth
notice in view of the many spurious resump-
tions of baronetcies during the latter part
of the eighteenth century.
When Mrs. Maybanke Anderson shortly
goes to Europe the Ma State will lose a
woman who has done much for its social and
political movements. It was as Mrs. Wol-
stenholme that she attended a meeting at
Mrs. George Montefiore’s home to establish
the Womanhood Suffrage League. Rose
Scott, Miss Windeyer and the Golding sisters
(one of them now is Mrs. Kate Dwyer)
were her accomplices. But the chief work
of Mrs. Anderson, who came to Sydney
years ago with her brother Norman Selfe,
the engineer, was the formation of the Kin-
dergarten Union. She was also one of the
founders of the Women's Literary Society,
which survives to-day as the Women’s Club.
“0.P.H.” : As the overseas Parliamentarians
and our own talked migration in Melbourne
last week I found the people more interesting
than the speeches. The correct manner of
Salisbury, the leader of the visitors, who
occupied the Prime Minister’s customary
place on the front Ministerial bench, was a
lesson to our impulsive Cains and Everards.
He was attentive without overstraining him-
self, and said what he had to convey without
undue emphasis. On his right was Hen-
derson, who looked as prosperous as he
is. His association with Labor is as much
an accident of birth as Salisbury’ s Conser-
vatism. The contrast between Salisbury and
Henderson was as striking as between
Murray Smith and Trenwith, who used to
have seats on those green benches before
Federation, when the Vie. Assembly legis-
lated there. Earle Page, who was on Salis-
bury’s left, probably suggested to the Marquis
the type of junior lord of the Treasury he
meets in London. To us old hands it seemed
odd to find little Doctor Maloney, M.H.R
for Melbourne, cheek-by-jowl with Frank
Clarke, the president of Vic. Plush House,
on the front Opposition bench. Behind
them was a nest of State Laborites; but
Jimmy McLachlan, Independent M.L.A. for
Gippsland N., wearing a bush overcoat, kept
to his familiar Opposition corner. To see
a woman member (Mrs. Jollie) was a new
experience for one familiar with these
benches for nearly 40 years.
Things have a habit of happening to
Alec Peacock at Cup-time. He helped to
put out the Gillies-Deakin crowd in the
first week of November, 1890, and as a re-
ward was included in Munro’s Ministry.
Two years later the Sliiels Ministry, of which
he was a member, was so weakened in
November that it collapsed in the following
January. Ilis party had a set-back in
November, 1899, a triumph a year later,
and a bad toss just before the Cup was
run in 1902. He got out in time to avert
falling with the Bent Ministry at the end
of 1903. In November, 1915, he had to
reconstruct and prop up his rickety Min-
istry, and two years further on made way
in November for Bowser. Cup Night, 1920,
witnessed Lawson offering him the portfolio
he had withheld nearly three years before,
and in. November two years ago the Coali-
tion came into being.
Probably the most unsophisticated M.L.A.
the N.S.W. Parliament has possessed was
.T. B. Mercer, of Rozelle. He regarded the
use of strong drink as the only important
sin, firmly believing that all others could
bo avoided by men who got to bed by 9 p.m.
On the principle that late hours were not
respectable, he fought hard against night
sittings, and on the rare occasions when
party necessities kept him late in the House
he was a worried man. After one of these
late sessions the Rozelle rep. was walking
towards the. tram with a colleague when he
received greeting from a. lady. He hurried
on, embarrassed. “I hope you don’t think
I know the young lady,” he explained. “She
called me ‘dear.’ so apparently she thinks
she knows me ; but I assure you I have not
seen her before in my life !”
A man who deserves the libation of a drop
of petrol from every motorist is Ben Cox,
known to road-users in every Australian
capital. He has travelled this continent on
road-construction work for 30 years, and
was a founder of the Good Roads Propaganda
B. F. COX.
Association, which used to curse govern-
mental and roads-board apathy until it was
merged in the National Roads Association.
Cox is managing-director of the Australian
Reinforced Concrete Co.j which has a factory
using only Australian ’materials near the
Sunshine Works, Victoria.
CHINAMAN’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Governor of Shantung, Chang Chung Chang,
recently executed three Chinese editors because they
had commented in their papers on his conduct.”
The Strong Man crouched in his thorn-stuffed chair;
Baddeley, Willis and Garden were there,
And the Labor Daily's editor too,
With a budget of plots, all bright and new,
Revealing how myrmidons of Bavin
In Labor’s ranks were ready to ravin.
Yet vainly they jested their lord to please,
Who sat there gloomy and ill at ease,
The while lie muttered “Oh, strike me pink,
The Fates are kind to me, I don’t think !
it’s just my luck to be .T. T. Lang,
When, lumrae, I’d like to be Chang Chung Chang.”
“In his fair realm by the eastern seas,
None query his prompt activities ;
No Opposition, with furtive guile,
Can queer Iris pitches, or cramp his style,
lie can tax and spend with a right good will,
And make fat jobs for his pals to fill,
With no back chat from his creditors,
And a fair free hand with the editors.
Oh, for an hour to his place to win,
And put the axe to The Bulletin,
While higher than Haman the Herald I’d hang,
If I could but cease to be J. T. Lang
And take on the mantle of Chang Chung Chang.”
n.s.w,
CENTURION.


iH
s
ill
I
m
Judicious Use of Time!
Your future is conditional on your present efforts and foresight. The problem of financial independence
largely depends on the judicious acceptance of opportunities—as they come.
Those who have carefully studied the development of industrial enterprises realise that Australia is
rapidly replacing importations by her own manufactures.
The high-tide of industrial prosperity is with us. Taken at the flood it will lead on to fortune, for rapid
expansion is evident in almost every secondary industry that is in the hands of capable administration.
Prompt Action Necessary to
Secure Shares at par
Davys Proprietary Limited—the founders of the Sewing-cotton
and Linen-thread industry in Australia—is a typical example of
this new Australian development. To cope with its expansion it
seeks additional capital and to-day offers to investors a remarkable
opportunity to come in on the ground floor in an enterprise with
amazing possibilities. Making threads is a national key industry
—vital to scores of manufacturers. In England, the great Cotton
Kings have amassed enormous fortunes, as the wants of the world
were supplied by their ever-expanding mills. Eight members of
the Coats family have left estates of a total value of £19,252,000.
These astounding figures indicate the wealth possibilities in the
thread-making field.
Davys Proprietary Limited ARE THE PROPRIETORS OF THE
ONLY SEWING-COTTON AND LINEN-THREAD MILL IN
AUSTRALIA. It is tangible evidence of the rapid development
of thread-making in the Commonwealth. Any prospective investor
can visit the mill and see for himself its continuous activity.
The business is flourishing—so progressive that more capital is
needed to provide additional plant and money to handle the
business that knocks at the door. Skilled operatives are working
steadily under efficient management. The plant represents the
last word in English mechanical equipment. Dyeing, bleaching and
mercerising plants permit the quick production of every kind of
sewing cotton and thread, which are raw materials for scores of
factories.
DAVYS PROPRIETARY LIMITED
CAPITAL - - £,250,000
The pioneers of the Sewing-cotton and Linen-thread Industry in Australia,
Offer 100,000 £1 Shares at par,
Payable 5/- on application, 5/- on allotment and the balance in four calls of 2/6
each per share at intervals of not less than one month between each call.
DIRECTORS:
HUBERT JOHN DAVYS (Chairman and Managing
Director), 26-30 Clarence Street, Sydney, the
founder of this great industry in Australia.
HERBERT ETCHELLS (Managing Director), 26-30
Clarence Street, Sydney (formerly Joint Manag-
ing Director, The British Thread Mills, Ltd.,
Leicester, England), who is supervising the manu-
facturing operations.
JOHN MATTHEW HANLON (General Manager),
26-30 Clarence Street, Sydney. (Formerly Director
Kemsley & Company Proprietary, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Christchurch, New Zealand.)
CLIFTON WHATMUFF (Textile Expert), 26-30
Clarence Street, Sydney. (Late of Bradford, Eng.)
MAJOR THOMAS FREDERICK BROWN, D. 5.0.,
V.D., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P., D.P.H. (Lon-
don), Burvvood, N.S.W.
CHARLES SHELLEY McINTYRE (Flour Miller),
Hamilton and Coonabarabran, N.S.W.
FRANCIS EGERTON BRYANT, 14 Kareela Road,
Cremorne, Sydney. (Formerly Manager Union Bank
of Australia, Ltd., • Sydney.)
WILLIAM THOMAS SANSOM BRUTON (Manufac-
turer) (Bruton and Wheeler), 307 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
A 19 PER CENT. RETURN WITH
PERFECT SAFETY!
To-day there is an active demand for five times the
capacity of the mill. Adequate protection has been
granted by the Tariff Board, and the quality of the
product is beyond question. Scores of the biggest manu-
facturers are regular customers, and the mill is under
contract to supply State and Federal departments. These
contracts are valued at thousands of pounds annually.
Seldom in the history of industrial development have
investors been offered shares under more favorable con-
ditions. The investment is gilt-edged. Leading financial
experts, after investigation, have stated that profits should
be at least 19%. Original shares should show a big
cumulative value.
To-day the balance of the shares under offer may be
purchased at par. Remember this is additional capital
for expansion. £lOO,OOO was subscribed privately, and
the second £lOO,OOO quota is rapidly being reached.
No investment could be safer. Few offer such hope of con-
tinuous and handsome dividends. Seldom has an established
company possessed such glowing prospects of rapid expan-
sion. All these claims are open for verification by any in-
dependent investigator who wishes to satisfy himself of the
character of this investment.
Financial Experts
commend this
sound investment.
SYDNEY BULLETIN—
.... As the chief object of the new capital is to
increase output, results are expected to exceed the
19 per cent. Dividends of “not less than 10 per
cent.” are spoken of. Imports of the lines manu-
factured are said to approximate £750,000, and
the new tariff affords adequate protection; in any
case, the Company is reported to have agreements
with the British combine which safeguard its local
market. The quality of the goods produced is highly
reported on by users, and, as the market is large and
growing, the proposition is worth investigating....
THE SUN (.Sydney) —
The Company is engaged in a commendable enter-
prise. Its chief difficulty has been to keep pace with
a rapidlv and continually increasing demand for
AUSTRALIAN-MADE SEWING COTTONS AND
THREADS. The limit of capacity in manufacture
has been closely approached by the Company, and
portion of its plant is now regularly running the
round of the clock.
The new capital is needed to provide further
equipment; to enable the Company to carry increased
stocks of finished products and of raw material, and
to provide working capital.... It is the intention of
Davys Proprietary Limited to apply for listing on
the Stock Exchange.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY.
The prospectus and historic illustrated booklet of the mill will give you
the full history of this key industry. Before applying you are invited to
write for copies. This places you under no obligation. Personal
inquiries at the office of the Company will also receive courteous and
full attention. Make judicious use of the short time available. The
closing date is near. Act immediately!
The Factory: Elizabeth Street, Waterloo.
City Office: Geelong House, 26*30 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CUT OUT, FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY.
The Secretary, DAVYS PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Box 2928 NN (G.P.0., SYDNEY).
Dear Sir,
Kindly forward me by return mail, post free and without any obligation on
my part, copy of your Company's full Prospectus, together with the illustrated
historic Booklet and financial criticisms.
Signed
Address
B. 11/11/’26.
tfl
■H
m
mm
m


Che equitable Cife
flssce.
Oo
Of
Australasia Ctcl
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.; VICTORIA:
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
The Rabbit Pest
i
fit
ill
KIM
»
This is the Fumo
Dust Blower.
A 51b. tin of Cyanogas costs only 8/-, but
it will be sufficient to determine the life of
hundreds of rabbits and effectually clear
many warrens. Nothing can compare with
it for swiftness, sureness or economy.
CYANOGAS
Quite safe to use. Thousands are
using it daily all over Australia.
Write for convincing proof — free.
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. ..A, Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND .. .. Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
This is JACK WIENEKE
who makes the Genuine Wieneke saddles which
are famous all over Australia and recognised
to be the Rolls Royce of saddles. They last
sdf
for years.
Mick Egan, Esq., River-
view, Q., has had his stock
saddle since 1894, and it
is still going well.
He would not part
with it at any
price.
The Genuine Wie-
neke is much better
than other saddles
because honest work
means long life.
Send for my new
saddle book, beautifully
illustrated, post free.
Jack Wieneke,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bad Australian”: The camp was com-
menting on a yarn of how a waggon and
team of horses had gone over a side cutting
on Big Jack Mountain—the skeletons of the
horses were still to be seen hanging in the
branches of the big gums below the road.
“Nuthin’ outer th’ common in that,” said old
Bill, the Dog Stiffener. "I'm joggin’ along
an’ outer-th’-way mountin’ road lightin’ up
fer a smoke w’en a blarsted goanner wot’s
sunnin’ ’imself in the middle er tli’ track
gets rattled at bein’ woke up so sudden, an’
not seein’ ’is ’oiler tree, an’ no saplin’ bein’
andy, ’e rushes up the tli’ near foreleg o' me
prad. The prad gives a most a’miglity side
jump clear orf tli' -side euttin’, an’ we drops
about 60 foot perpendickler right inter th’
fork of a big w’ite gum, an’ me not quite
done lightin’ me pipe. Tli’ fork is erbout
90 foot frum th’ ground an’ th' six-foot
trunk er tli’ tree is as smooth as a gun-
bar’l, so our clianst looks er pretty rotten
one. A coupler days later tli’ prad throws a
seven, an' I’m livin’ on the carkiss w’ile it
larsts.” Here the rouseabout cut in with,
“An' wot in ’ell didya do w’en the meat gev
out?” “Wot did I do, yeh ’ammer-’eaded
coot? W’y, I done tli’ same as any other
bloke would ha’ done. I blanky well died
o’ starvation.”
“Trevdee” : It’s no wonder the new Pommy
storekeeper knit his brows when the hatter
included in his supply order: “2 tins of
cocky's delight and a bottle of Malice
marmalade.” How was lie to know that
treacle and tomato sauce were indicated?
“Astern”: Is it possible to telepath to a
horse the fear felt by liis rider? Recently for
the benefit of a newclium we related with
all its gruesome details the episode of our
haunted tree. This tree marked the scene
of an old-time hold-up, wherein a man was
shot. Tradition has it that nightly his ghost
walks the place. One night Chum rode down
for the mail and when about 15 yards from
tbe tree his horse stopped and, the rider avers,
shook like a leaf. The newcomer said he saw
nothing. Did the horse see something not
visible to human eyes, or was it possible that
Chum transmitted his fears to his steed?
* * * *
“Bill’s Cobber” : Scamp, a foxie, was owned
by Bill, a hefty young blacksmith, and used
to follow his master to work and return
home with him after visiting the pub at the
corner. Bill often played jokes
on Scamp by hiding in odd
corners and generally trying
to mix up his geography.
When the war broke out Bill
took a laughing farewell of his
four-legged mate, remarking
at the time, “You won’t find
me so easily for a while, old
boy.” The dog never had an-
other chance to locate him;
five bullets in less than five
seconds ripped his life out.
But every day at home Scamp
took up the usual run to the
blacksmith’s at the accus-
tomed time, searched the place
through, and returned via the
pub. This routine went on
patiently for over 18 months,
when Scamp seemed to realise
its hopelessness. He made one
final effort and sniffed everv
known haunt of Bill. The
quest brought him at last to
Bill’s bedroom, undisturbed
for sentimental reasons. Scamp
nosed every corner and article
in it, then jumped on the bed.
Blankets and sheets were
jerked off, and a frenzied fox-
terrier began tearing open the
mattress, whining all the time
with perplexity. But the
search yielded no Bill, and
Scamp, heart-broken, sat down
and howled a requiem for his
lost owner. Never again did
he take up the rounds.
ang : Fertile sile, yer torkin’ erbout?”
remarked old Bill, placing his half-emptied
pot on the bar. “Yeh can have yer Riverina
an North Queenslan’, but give me South
Gippslan fer fertileness. I wus camped
down there one year, euttin’ ferns fer a
cocky. I wus away out in th’ scrub be
meself, me on’y companion bein’ a big half-
bred collie dog. Punch, I called him. He
had th thickest coat of hair I ever seen
on a dorg; you’d almost think he wus a
sheep. I used ter groom him on a Sunday
fer a while, but had ter give it up. It took
too long, pullin’ th’ burrs an’ seeds outer it,
I didn’t have time t’ wash me clo’es. Punch
didn’t seem ter mind much, though; he’d
roll over an’ over in th’ dirt an’ sorter ease
himself that way. Then he’d give himself
a shake an’ th’ dust would fly outer him in
clouds. It had been dry fer weeks, but
one Sunday afternoon, jest gettin’ on dark,
a thunderstorm come up. Punch wus rollin’
about in th’ dirt, enjyin’ himself, when the
first big drops started. Then a loud bang
of thunder bust jest overhead an’ a flash of
lightnin’ came what fairly sizzled. Punch
let out a yelp an’ got fer his life away
inter th’ scrub. I yelled t’ him t’ come back,
but he had th’ wind up prop'ly an’ kep’
goin’. It rained in torrents nearly all night,
but cleared up before mornin’, an’ th’ sun
come out bright an’ warm. I wus pokin’
about, gettin’ me breakfas’, an’ wond’ring
what had become of Punch, when I hears a
NO GOOD THINKING.
BOSS: “Can't you think of anything better to do than loaf?”
JACKY: “No, Boss. Nobody can.”
strangled sorter noise behind me. I looks
around, an’ blime! I nearly drops with
fright, luovin’ i wards me was somethin’ I
took ter be a bush. It wus jist crawlin’
along. Little twigs with bright-green leaves
on ’em stuck out all over it, an’ in between
was grass three inches long. It came right
up t’ me an’ stopped, an’ a queer noise
come from it. I pulled at one of th' twigs
an’ it come out with a lotter hair tangled
’round th’ roots. Strike me lucky, it wus
ole Punch! Th' seeds an’ burrs had ger-
imated durin’ th’ night an’ took root in
tli dirt in his coat.”
* * # *
“Fitz”: Will any Councillor tell me what
is the largest death-adder found in Aus-
tralia? A. E. Wallis, of Wingha, N.S.W.
North Coast, the other day killed one on the
Gillogly brothers’ run at Marlee. It was
within a fraction ot 2ft. Gin. long and a fine
specimen.
* * * *
“ J.H.R.”: The peculiar disease attacking
stock in the Moree district (B. 14/10/’2G)
is due to the black aphis. When the trefoil
starts to dry the aphides rise in black clouds,
and, being attracted by anything white,
swarm on to the
newly-shorn sheep,
white cattle, white
patches on horses,
and even on to
human being s.
Their countless
bites cause sup-
puration, and blow-
flies do the rest.
Wool, hair and
cuticle fall off.
Sheep badly
affected lose most
of their hide, and
many die. Dipping
is the quickest
remedy. All sheep
iii our district were
dipped with satis-
factory results.
Black sheep and
dark-hued animals
on the same pas-
tures were un-
affected. I have
had recent experi-
ence in eombating
the pest. Lamp-
black and ordinary
washing - blue
painted on sheep
and white-skinned
stock were effec-
five, not because they prevented irrita-
tion by the sun’s rays, but because
they offered a non-attractive surface to the
aphides. The plague has now moved from
here, and was past Coonamble when last
heard of, and going strong.
* * * *
“Potash”: There is still a dash of the
old adventure in the South Seas. The other
day the skipper of the French trader St.
Joseph, a hooker familiar to Sydney, came
ashore with the following yarn. To recruit
a crew he called at Malicola, a remote island
in the New Hebrides. There he put ashore
in a lifeboat, accompanied by his wife and
a couple of Kanakas. As they set foot on
the beach a horde of niggers detached them-
selves from the scrub, and, armed with
ancient firearms, rushed upon the party.
One chap stopped and levelled his piece at
Madame, but a slick Kanaka bashed him,
held up the mob, and gave time for the party
to make an undignified retreat. The cap-
tain and his officers returned to the shore
after a while and found the residents in
the midst of a huge feed, with long-pig d la
carte. Three bokolos had already been
eaten, and more were hanging up ready for
the pot.
“AdoL.”: The lung-fish, of the Burnett
and Mary rivers (Q.), thought to be the
only survivor in Australia of a widely dis-
tributed family of fishes abundant in the
Palaeozoic and Mesozoic ages, lias a close
ally inhabiting deep pools in some of the
Gulf rivers. I do not refer to the barra-
mundi, sometimes called ceratodus by bush-
men, but to a species very much akin to
the lung-fish proper. Beside the Queensland
variety, only four are known to be living at
the present day, but it is believed none of
these are found in Australia. If so, what
can the species in the deep pools in the
Gulf country be?
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: The abo. word “yarra” (B.
7/10/’26) signified a gum-tree among the
tribes on the Upper Murray River. In cer-
tain parts of Vic., S.A. and N.S.W. abo.
words containing “yar” mean water or creek.
The Yarra was named by John Helder
Wedge, who in 1835 surveyed the land pur-
chased by Batman from the Port Phillip
natives. In Alexander Sutherland’s “Vic-
toria and its Metropolis” it is stated : “What
the neighboring tribes themselves called it
i the Yarra ] has not been ascertained.”
Since then it has been pretty well deter-
THE THIRD THAT MAKES A CROWD.
“Do you carry any spares, sir?”
“Only my mother-in-law.”
mined that the name was Birrarang. Wedge
himself is said to have believed that Yarra
or, as he spelt it, “Yarrow,” meant a water-
fall.
* * # *
“P.A.Q.”: The death recently of an old
Maniapoto chief brought to light one who
clung firmly to the To Whiti objection to
banks. A land sale through the Maori Land
Board some two years ago brought the old
chap between £3OOO and £4OOO. This amount
he had hoarded in money in a belt worn round
his body from the time of the sale till his
death. Fortunately the fact was known only
to his near relatives, or he might have died
earlier.
HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Royal Institute of British Architects opened
on October 19 an exhibition illustrative of archi-
tecture in the Dominions. There are special sections
for Australia and Maoriland.”
While British Architects discuss,
And seeds of culture proudly sow,
1 see beyond their learned fuss
A house I knew long, long ago.
No trace of it to-day you’ll find,
And that is well; it would have wrecked
For evermore, the peace of mind
Of every British Architect.
’Twas in the ancient days when flats
And kitchenettes were quite unknown;
Ere bonnets gave their place to hats,
And ankles were but seldom shown ;
Ere came the paltry pride that crabs
And sends the thoughts of men askew,
Dad felled the trees, and split the slabs,
And set the posts up straight and true.
He did not work by rule of thumb,
Such method enterprise destroys;
He took some small advice from mum,
And some assistance from the boys.
He knew the job he had to do
And steadfastly he went his way,
Not knowing of, and unknown to,
The pundits of the R.I.A.
NO FORCE REQUIRED.
JACKY: “What you gib ’im, Boss?”
BUSH VET: “Whisky.”
JACKY: “By cripe, Boss, you wouldn't have to hold me!”
Though he had moments of despair
When difficulties seemed to swell
The load too large for him to bear,
He had his victories as well.
For when on winter nights the blaze
Sent out to us its generous heat,
There was no need of learned praise
To make his recompense complete.
And we —beneath that roof we grew,
And gave no thought to its design,
Through all the years we never knew
It lacked a dignity of line.
And in the days that swiftly came,
How ever far we chanced to roam,
To us it ever was the same,
A place we simply knew as home.
The world each day more learned grows,
Fresh triumphs man each day achieves,
And he grows wiser, I suppose,
With all the knowledge he receives.
So it may be the modern lad
Who ponders o’er his weighty tome
Could build a better house than Dad,
But who could build a better home?
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


L
J
iifilli
Mpi
, >
*§, Sj®* >. <! %
m % *
mmm
msm
. Wmm
m
mm
w*
m
Start of the Melbourne Cup, 1926
ONE THIRD
Of the Huge Crowd of CARS at the
MELBOURNE CUP
Were Fitted With
DUNLOP TYRES
This Statement is not guesswork, but an unassailable fact—based on the result of a systematic check taken of
the tyres fitted to the cars assembled in the various parking areas at Flemington on Cup Day.
Why is the “ DUNLOP ” SO POPULAR ?
When one finds that out of 26 different makes of Tyres in a huge aggregation of cars that
ONE MAKE OF TYRE EASILY DOMINATES THE SITUATION, AND STANDS RIGHT
AWAY BY ITSELF—THERE MUST BE STRONG REASONS FOR SUCH SUPREMACY.
Here is the Reason!
Dunlop Tyres are specially made to withstand hard driving on Australian roads —embodying the quality and
strength to ensure many thousands of miles of trouble-free motoring. They are dependable and economical, and
give such satisfaction to their users that “Dunlop” is today easily the most popular tyre among Motorists.
NEED MORE BE SAID
Except that they are listed at a price that ensures maximum economy.
Your Garage can supply in Cords and Balloons in Popular Sizes.
Don’t Fail to Specify “DUNLOP” and thus ensure Satisfaction
We shall be pleased to mail you our Latest Tyre List
DUNLOP RUBBER Co. of Australasia Ltd.
ALL STATES (Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry). and NEW ZEALAND.
m I
l 1 :
[Wantalffl'
Finish of the Melbourne Cup, 1926


M ARTE LL'S
For- Every 0
Occasion
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
From the Cognac District
of France only.
sdf
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING /&
TOBACCO Mr
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“HOME, JOHN!”
GAOLER: “Hello, Pinch; back again!”
PINCH : “Yes, once more—any letters fer me?”
“Soda” : Another curse has come to blight
the lives of N.S.W. sheep farmers. It is the
“stagger” or “shiver” weed, technically
Stachys arvensis , a native of Europe and
Western Asia. The symptoms of poisoning
are similar to those of the well-known sheep
poisons “marshmallow” and “stagger-
nettle,” with the additional shivering. In
many cases, if sufferers are driven, sudden
death results. The weed at present is spread
most widely in the districts of Maitland,
Cumberland and Berrima. It is characteris-
tic of it that it will not grow elsewhere than
on land that has been cultivated, so that as
yet outlying areas where feeding is done on
virgin country are unaffected. It is an annual
plant, six inches to a foot in height, with
oval leaves, wrinkled at the margins and
oppositely placed on the stem. The stem is
square, the flowers group in circles about it,
one circle immediately above each pair of
leaves. The plant is a rapid grower and pro-
duces abundant, succulent herbage, calculated
to entice any hungry jumbuck from the old-
fashioned and healthy diet. Its seeds, green
or ripe, cause all the trouble, and it is when
the foliage presents its most tempting aspect
that they begin to develop. Not until full
growth is attained and the leaves begin to
wither do the seed fall; then the plant be-
comes harmless. Experiments with sheep of
all breeds and ages show that 90 per cent,
are susceptible to its ravages. Lambs at
the teat will contract the trouble from the
mother. Four or five days on the weed will
do the damage, although the symptoms will
only manifest themselves when the animals
are exercised. Treatment is simple. If at
the first indications of staggers the sheep
are removed quietly from the infected area to
a paddock where feed is plentiful and pure,
and there allowed to rest, within two weeks
they will be back to form.
* * * *
“Cato”: If “C. Coral” (B. 21/10/’26)
wants information about ambergris, let him
consult Herman Melville’s classic, “Moby
Dick.” Melville describes it as the cause or
effect of dyspepsia in the whale. It looks like
ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
cheese. You might easily dent it with your
thumb. It is soft and waxy, and is largely
used in perfumery, in pastilles, precious
candles, hair-powders and pomatum. The
Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it
to Mecca for the same purpose that frankin-
cense is carried to St. Peter’s in Rome. Some
wine merchants drop a few grains into claret
to flavor it.
“Pick” : Supposed specimens of ambergris
are frequently submitted to experts, who are
only able to give a definite opinion after
chemical analysis. Real ambergris varies in
color from turkey-umber through all the
shades of brown to light cream. It has the
appearance, consistency and somewhat the
odor of rancid kitchen fat, but is earthy
rather than greasy to the feel. Recently a
2oz. piece of clay-like stuff hacked from a big
lump found on a N.S.W. South Coast beach
was certified by the curator of the Sydney
Technological Museum to be pure ambergris.
The discoverer hurried back to secure the
remainder, only to find that the sea had re-
claimed its treasure.
“Galenicus” : I had some experience witli
ambergris years ago. When fresh the smell
is the outstanding factor, and it is not a per-
fume by ally means. When found dry, it has
somewhat the appearance of a root weathered
by the sea, but more friable, grey in color,
and gives off a strong musky smell masked
by the tang of the sea. The drier it gets the
stronger this odor becomes. If you find a
likely lump make your inquiries cautiously.
If it is ambergris, and big enough—say, over
a quarter of a pound—send it to England
through the bank for sale there. If the news
leaks out, down will flop the market price.
“Harvib” : All the sap hasn’t left the corn-
stalk yet. Cliff Clayton, this season, at
TJlumbie, Walgett (N.S.W.), took the jackets
from 1200 jumbucks in a week. The tallies
were 216, 187, 223, 233, 230 and 111; work-
ing time the second day was shortened by a
westerly dust-storm.
CALLING VP THE RESERVES.
CHOIRMASTER : “Now, then, we’re nearly up to them double-f'8. Fill your bellows, booays,
an’ — NOW. —let ’er go!”
“Spadger”: The other day I watched a
pair of laughing-jocks constructing their
summer residence. This is wliite-gum coun-
try, and natural hollow spouts are rare.
They sat together on a branch of a tree tluft
had lost a limb in a windstorm. The place
where the limb had been was rotten and
probably concealed a hollow. A tremendous
duet of laughing commenced the business.
Then Mr. Jock flew at the rotten face, pecked,
and came back to the branch. Mrs. Jock
followed suit and so on alternately. I counted
86 pecks before half-time was called, and
another concert begun. There is now a
comfortable hollow in the tree, and the lady
sits on her eggs while Jock perches on a
willow-tree overhanging the dam, waiting
for frogs, which he takes back for her
luncheon.
* * * *
“Gordelphus” : I was once on a Murchison
(W.A.) station which ran more blowflies to
the sheep than any other station in Aus-
tralia. We had a Pommy jackeroo with us
who disliked them so much he spent all his
spare time cutting chunks out of his rugs
and woollen garments. lie became a vegeta-
rian, too, and could never understand the cal-
lous indifference of us Aussies to the off-
spring of the blowfly. When he heard the
owner was going to join the lamb-tailing
camp lie expected some sympathy, because
the owner was a “head” who spent six months
of the year down south. But when he saw
the boss scoffing cold mutton off a tin plate
with the rest of us his eyes nearly fell out.
After a few’ days he said to me, “Why does
Mr. always take his glasses off when
he eats his meals?” “Oh,” I told him, “he
always does that when the blowflies are bad.
He’s very shortsighted and says he can enjoy
his scran better w’hen he doesn’t wear his
giglamps.” That settled Algy. Soon after-
wards he went east to see if he could find
any civilised Aussies there.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: A Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.) orchardist w r as clearing out a
gutter with a long-handled shovel when a
brown snake suddenly darted out of some
grass in front of him. He hit at it with
the shovel and cut its head and about 2in.
of its neck clean off. The angle at which
the blow was struck caused the severed por-
tion to fly back towards the orchardist. His
shirt was open from the neck, and the head
lodged inside it. He was bitten twice,
though not badly, before he could free him-'
self. Although treated practically at once,
it was some days before lie fully recovered.
“Finn” : Re the fox-terrier (B. 7/10/’26)
that was said to have recognised his mas-
ter’s picture. A dog may think his mirror
reflection another dog, but I doubt if any
of his kind can be deceived by life on a
canvas. I have seen the test made over
and over again with foxies and spaniels.
Also a large life-like painting of a rabbit
did not evoke one stump-tail tremor, nor
one yelp of delight. Instead, the dogs turned
aside from what they seemed to regard with
indifference.
“Herodot”: A farmer in the Kyogle dis-
trict (N.S.W.), driving home late at night
in his Lizzie, was surprised recently to find,
while between Kyogle and Cawongla, that
several big dingoes were on either side of
him, keeping pace easily with the car. At
first he thought they had been attracted
merely by the car lights, but in a little while
they evidenced such ferocity that he became
alarmed and crowded on more speed. By
that time several other dingoes had appeared,
one of them, according to the farmer, being
bigger than a mastiff. As he drove on they
galloped alongside, leaving little doubt as
to their intentions being hostile. The car
gradually beat them, but it was some time
before they gave up the chase and vanished
into the bush. Around Cawongla and Kyogle
there have been stories of a dingo pack,
and in some places people will not venture
out after dark for fear of meeting the warri-
gals in some lonely spot. Evidently the
brutes were desperately hungry when the car
and its occupant attracted their notice.
“M.R.”: Is such a thing as clairvoyance
in animals possible? A lady who lived in
the country in S. Australia was one after-
noon driving a quiet old horse along the
road to the nearest township. It was a
beautiful day, and, as she drove, her thoughts
dwelt on the happy time her son and daugh-
ter would be having at a picnic they were
attending on the banks of a river. Sud-
denly the horse began to plunge and rear,
and when she had succeeded in partially
quietening him he stood with quivering
limbs and a frightened look in his eyes.
She reached the township soon after 4
p.m. wondering what had caused the horse's
fright, as there was no wind and nothing
moving on the road. In the evening news
was brought to her that both her son and
daughter had been drowned in the river,
their boat having capsized. The young man’s
watch had stopped at a quarter to four—the
time at which she had trouble with the
horse.
THE WALLED CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘lf people in Canberra want to drink beer, let
them indulge their craving out of sight of the
Federal capital,’ said Elliot Johnson, M.11.1L, at the
State prohibition conference.”
It was the working of a dream
That had its way of me
And whirled me swift adown life’s stream
T<' nineteen-fifty-three.
I saw great palaces and domes,
And gardens fair and wide,
And street on street of seemly homes
That spoke of civic pride.
I saw, as I had seen lang syne,
A noble city gate
That bore, as then, a strange design
Perdurable as Fate ;
And I recalled how I had curst,
Away back many a year,
Its piercing cry; “Abandon thirst,
All ye who enter here! ”
And how this edict then had set
On liquid hopes a blight:
“Bring nothing that is long and wet
And frothing to my sight.”
And so was never booth nor bar
Its glories to deface ;
Its water-waggon, to a star
Longhitched, ne’er fell from grace.
One thing alone I marked as strange
In that remembered scene—
It was a mighty mountain range
Where mountains ne’er had been.
In place of hills, soft-bosomed, small,
This harsh sierra rose
And ringed the city like a wall
From every wind that blows.
Mo spiring tree upon it grew,
Nor any shrub, not one;
Abrupt and bare against the blue,
It glittered in the sun.
“What mountains these,” I begged to know,
A-towering over all ?
Their like, some twenty years ago,
I cannot now recall.”
Instant a vision on me burst
Of many a Smith and Brown
From year to year forbid a thirst
Within Canberra Town.
And straight I knew, or e’er it came,
The answer that -I had—
“ What? That there range! You want its name?
That’s Bottle Mountains, lad!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Dependability and Service
in
Guns and Rifles
sd
from
Simmons
A good Gun and a good friend—there is a great! similitude between them.
When the big moment comes, a man knows that his Gun, if a good one, is like h»
friend—dependable, trustworthy and entirely to be relied upon to give all the service in
his power. . ,
Mick Simmons’ stocks, which embrace the leading English, American and Contmental
makers of firearms, are the most extensive in the Southern Hemisphere; and the large turn-
over enables them to offer Guns and Rifles at prices that challenge comparison.
<§>
ick
No. 5.
Stevens’ “Favourite” Rifle, 22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. or
W.R.F., round 24in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech
block, take-down action, open front and sporting rear as*/
sights; weight, 4flb 46' *
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
t*.— aa
No. 25.
Browning Automatic Rifle, Model 24, made in two styles, to
handle 22 short or long rifle cartridges; walnut stock, pistol
grip, 19iin. barrel; length over all, 36in.; bead front and screw
rear sight, fitted with safety bolt, barrel may be dis-
mounted by unscrewing, quarter turn; weight, 4 2 1 b... 75/*
(Carriage Paid.)
America’s Latest 6-Valve Receiver—and
undoubtedly the finest proposition in the
Radio World to-day.
m
The
"Eclipse
Super-Six
Here is the most exclusive, the most powerful and selective
of all Wireless Sets, the Super 6-Valve, within reach of the man
of moderate means.
At the unequalled price of £lBjl 8,-
In beautifully-finished cabinet without
accessories.
Or complete with highest-grade „, -
Speaker and first-q uality accessories £37/10/-
The “Eclipse Super-Six” can also be supplied
complete with cheaper-q uality accesso- on
ries at the astounding price of ........ £3O
CASH OR TERMS.
To those who are desirous of possessing a Set embodying
only the most advanced attainments in Radio, the “Eclipse” can
be bought with the absolute assurance that it will give the finest
possible results in Broadcast Receiving.
Write our Wireless Expert for further particulars.
No. 16.
Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 -gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar locks, pistol grip, neatly
engraved, superior finish; weight about 71b X 4/ /'O
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 25.
B.S.A. D.B. Hammerless Shot Gun, 1 2-gauge, 30in. barrels, both
choke, nitro proof, fluid compressed steel barrels,
automatic safety pistol grip; weight about 6|lb.. . . Xl4/5/‘
(Carriage Paid.)
For Your Boy—
A “Daisy” Air Rifle
Dependable in every way, and guaran-
teed to give lasting service, the “Daisy” repre-
sents the highest standard of quality in Air
Rifles.
No. 2 “Daisy” 350-Shot Repeater, nickel-
plated, lever action, walnut stock;
shoots 8.8. shot only . . . 10/6
7P
;
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 3/2.)
No. 4 “Daisy” 1000-Shot Repeater; nickel-plated, lever
action, walnut stock; shoots 8.8. shot only
(Postage: N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
18/6
fs
worthy of the skill of the
greatest Tennis Champion.
The
“Masterstroke”
Racket
A product of fine craftsmanship, con-
structed of the best obtainable in
materials, this racket is perfect in weight,
shape and balance. The superlative qualities of this splendid
Racket having been quickly recognised, it is being used by some
of the leading and most prominent Tennis Players in 7\£*
New South Wales • *
(Carriage Paid.)
OUR SPECIAL SHOOTING AND TENNIS CATALOGUES FREE ON REQUEST.
r td
mm
m
THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


m
r.
Pour POWER
into your Tractor
EVERY drop of Cross
Kerosene is a potential
power unit, ready to develop
maximum horse power in
your tractor.
Cross Kerosene not only develops
more power because of natural
qualities contained in the crude
petroleum from which it has its origin,
but also because it is a cleaner en-
gine fuel than most kerosenes. This
largely prevents loss of power
from carbon-clogged cylinders.
Because of its greater cleanliness,
Cross Kerosene also provides com-
plete combustion—thus reducing
dilution of the crankcase oil to a
minimum.
TRACTOR LUBRICATION
An oil specially blended to meet the
exacting lubricating needs of tractors is
SHELL TRACTOR OIL “B”
It not only protects all working parts,
but also possesses remarkable resist-
ance to crankcase dilution.
Sold by Storekeepers Everywhere
m
3*
Power
KEROSENE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL C?L T 0
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA Z NEW ZEALAND
CK24
JjARgY BRpTHER^Eip.
“PYREX” GLASS DISHES
in Silverplated Frames.
»©3E
BA 8555 (At Right).
Hardy’s Silver-plate Round
Tart Dish, with “Pyrex”
Glass lining. Diameter, Sc-
inches. 40/-
BA 5556 (At Left).
“Pvrex" Glass Round Casserole
Dish, in pierced Silver-plated
frame. Diameter, 8 inches;
capacity 2 pints. 03/-
niiiiniiimiiiiDlllMP
■■■■m
m
BA 8557 (At Right).
“Pyrex” Glass Round Pudding Bowl, attrac-
tive Silver-plated frame. Diameter, C
inches; capacity, If pints. 63/-
BA 8553 (At Left).
“Pyrex” Glass Round Casserole
Dish, in pierced Silver-plated
frame. Diameter, 7 inches;
capacity, 1$ pints. 48/-
jfrxtfcjfrX*
XtMiXtXtX'
SmSfll
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
S& 7/ouse oP&sclu&A)cVewcUjey
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
II
111
2 9
TWO
VOLUMES.
Price
16/- Posted.
A New and Complete
Guide containing hun-
dreds of quick methods
for performing work in
Carpentry, Joinery and
General Woodwork, writ-
ten in a simple, every-
day style that does not
bewilder the working
man, illustrated with
hundreds of diagrams
which are especially made
so that anyone can follow
them without difficulty. These two volumes show the most modern and practical
methods known in the Arts of CARPENTRY AND JOINERY.
BOOKS FOR BUILDERS.
MODERN PRACTICAL CARPENTRY, by Ellis 36/- Postage 1/6
MODERN JOINERY, PRACTICAL. A very comprehensive
treatise on Practice of Joiner’s Work by Hand and
Machine. By Ellis 54/- „ 1/9
COMPLETE WOODWORKER. By Jones 12/- „ -/10
AUDEL’S CARPENTERS AND BUILDERS’ GUIDE, in
4 vols Set 30/- „ 1/-
MISSION FURNITURE. How to Make. 3 vols. .. Each 3/- „ -/4
PRACTICAL CABINET MAKER AND FURNITURE
DESIGNER. Hodgson 10/- „ -/6
COMMON-SENSE HAND-RAILING. Hodgson 7/6 „ -/6
STEEL SQUARE. Practical Treatise. Hodgson. 2 vols. Set 15/- „ -/10
WOODWORKING MACHINERY. M. P. Bale 13/6 „ -/S
WOODWORKING MACHINERY FOR SMALL SHOPS.
Ball 4/9 „ -/3
PRACTICAL CABINET-MAKING. Phillips 6/6 „ -/6
PRACTICAL CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. Greenhalgh 8/- „ -/6
PRINCIPLES OF CARPENTRY. Hurst 10/- „ -/4
FURNITURE MAKING. By Jones 12/- „ -/10
HOME CARPENTRY AND CABINET-MAKING. Lewis. . 4/9 „ -/4
TIMBER, ITS STRENGTH, SEASONING AND GRAD-
ING. H. S. Betts W- „ 1/-
WOOD. THE PRESERVATION OF. Wallis Taylor .. 13/6 „ -/9
TIMBERS AND THEIR USES. W. Winn. For all those
connected with the use of timber 12/6 „ 1/-
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ECONOMIC WOODS OF
U.S.A. Bv S. J. Record 16/6 „ -/6
LIGHT AND HEAVY TIMBER FRAMING MADE EASY.
Over 450 illustrations and diagrams 10/- „ -/6
Add exchange to Interstate and Country cheques.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
ToH.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
ChaiteHsieA
&mtmm
Austral, sian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
GiaiieslleidsiecK
Reims
"*«»
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
df
df
@e
Wentworth Cafe
The name stands for Perfection
The Social Rendezvous of the Southern Hemisphere.
The Hotel
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/- per day, or Bed and Breakfast from 15/-
per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en suite with private sitting-
room. Air-cooled in summer, steam-heated in winter.
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
The Cafe
S'
T/hp cen/pp of Qufvns/crnc/s
cJ/s/rngu/sfec/ Soc/o/ Life.
Wcrnoiß
~‘'otd
BRISBANE
df
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 578 0—10 Lines.
AWOMANS
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Canberra is at home; and to this city-to-be
of five bills as to Rome on its seven all
roads seem to lead. A daily stream of
callers from every corner of Australia and
Maoriland drops in to pay its respects.
Many of its visitors come from countries
overseas, and in the hotel lounge which is
Canberra’s reception-room the twang of the
Yankee and the Canuck, the machine-gun
bursts of the French, and the ostentations of
Oxford stand out against the comfortable
background of Australian drawl.
Crossing the Canberra lounge in one
evening this Letter saw poetess Dorothea
Mackellar and her mother; the Hugh Adam
couple, of Melbourne llekald ; flying-man
Colonel Brinsmead, whose aeroplane was
resting that night on a field near Duntroon ;
Canon Snodgrass and his lady, just back
from Europe and two years’ burrowing in
the buried cities of Tunis and Algeria; Dr.
Duflield, brother of composer Kenneth, in
charge of the Observatory on Mount Stromlo.
Besides being a scientist of such moment
that he is but little known in his own
country, Dr. Duflield is the owner of a speak-
ing voice so beautiful that it might be stir-
ring the pulse of the theatre public the world
over. Not far from him sac his assistant, a
brother of violinist Daisy Kennedy, who
has packed into his young life the world-
war and a trip with Mawson to the South
Pole. All these observatory people, inci-
dentally, are keen on music, so Mrs. Duflield
has formed an orchestra; but, alas for great-
ness, the doctor is relegated to the double-
bass.
Architects, engineers and Commission
nabobs are everywhere, and once a small
company of spick-and-span young officers
from Duntroon passed on their way to the
ballroom. Here are well-dressed young wives
of officialdom trying to look bored and only
succeeding in looking husband-conscious
not to be wondered at in a community where
one is pointed out, not in the city way as
a woman of charm or of intellect or even
as a vampire, but as the wife of the chief-
engineer, the assistant-surveyor or the
deputy sub-assistant architect.
Funnily enough, in spite of the battalions
of workmen about, Canberra does not seem
a great marriage market; yet if the local
Phyllis does not gather her carpenter or
bricklayer while she may, what is she to do
when the last nail has been driven and red
tape has the place in its webV Perhaps
it is the flies or the fuel-stoves that keep her
from the great surrender.
Chief of the ruling classes—-which here
means the Commission circle—is that young
Mr. Butters who first made a name for him-
self in Tasmania, where he grew an astonish-
ing crop of electrical currents at the Great
Lakes. His office 'is to the left of the vesti-
bule clock that snaps its teeth into the last
second of every minute as though it had a
grudge against time, and he ornaments the
job with suave manners, a microscopic eye and
a pretty taste in blue shirts. Behind another
door along the same passage sits Mr. Water-
man, his deputy, a wedding of optimism and
philosophy. Others of the pointed-out are
Colonel Owen and Colonel Goodwin; the
Commission’s secretary, Mr. Daly, a man
full of erudition and system, and, when last
seen, of liay-fever; and publicity-officer John
Mildenhall, who in one week handled master
builders, church dignitaries, artists, journal-
ists, Premiers, the English-Speaking Union,
the Y.A.L., and that mysteriously-moving
body the Federal Capital League, and
retained his smile.
Into the picture must come Yarralumla,
the old Campbell homestead, the G.-G.’s resi-
dence-to-be and the resting-place of the Royal
Yorks before the opening of Parliament. It
is an old-world place, of white stone and
green shingles. It has a spreading deodar
inside its gates, and its hawthorn is famous,
but it appears woefully small for the calls
that are to be made upon it. One of the
treasures on its walls will be a picture
brought by Victor Mann from England of
the King and Queen driving in an open car-
riage to Ascot.
Lady Cecil, the wife of Sir Evelyn, who
with her daughter Margaret lias been touring
Australia in the interests of the British
woman settler, made the big ripple in the
stilly pool of Sydney last week. The earnest
visitor proved a speaker, not of ornate charm,
but of sincerity and quiet humor. Emo-
tional capacity, too, was hinted at now and
again, as when she told of the newly-arrived
English family who showed her with great
delight three primroses blooming in their
garden—a touch of the Devon they were still
homesick for. Lady Cecil’s great plea was
for toleration. The girls who come here are
not ignorant, only bewildered by Australian
ways and conditions. Give them a chance,
she pleaded; they are able and willing to
learn. “Australian women,” the lady added
reflectively, “are very efficient.” As this
speaker voiced in full, almost masculine tones
the problem of the newly-arrived homesick
girls, one listener felt a little bit ashamed
of that mental superiority with which she
had dismissed the new arrival with the all-
embracing shrug and the word “Pommy!”
The Victoria League, of which the titled
visitor lias been a member since its beginning
25 years ago, lunched her at Farmer’s on
Thursday in a setting of flannel-flowers, poin-
settias and delphiniums, and the women’s
Migration Council packed St. James’s Hall in
Pliillip-street to hear her on Friday.
The sudden death of two old friends
gloomed Victor Mann’s quest of Art in
Europe. They were Agent-General Timothy
Coglilan, who died soon after Mr. Mann’s
arrival in London, and Surgeon Charles
Ryan, who made the trip back with him as
far as Adelaide and collapsed into the arms
of the bathroom steward as the liner drew
alongside the wharf. He had said the night
before that he would leave the sea at Adel-
aide and travel by land to Melbourne. And
he did, but without seeing any of the country
for which he had been longing half the seas
over. The same boat brought back Timothy
Coghlan’s widow. Mr. Mann’s headquarters
were in Australia House, and he claims he
had the cosiest room and the prettiest typist
the vault-like pile contains —till Attorney-
General McTiernan arrived, when that
ascetic-looking young man collared both.
However, the race was to the stayer, for
when the Law left Art came to its own again.
The Langham, the Four Arts and the Chel-
sea Art Clubs were Mr. Mann’s playing-
grounds, and here he talked nightly to Dick-
see, Munnings, Orpen, Augustus John and
E. V. Lucas, the last delighted to meet a
man from Australia who had read all his
works. Bess Norris, Gladys Owen, Florence
Mofflin and Hilda Rix Nicholas were Austra-
lian women painters he met. Former N.S.W.
Governor Gerald Strickland introduced him
to the political world and the two drank tea
on the Terrace of the House of Commons
with the daughter, now married, whom Syd-
ney remembers as pretty Mary Strickland.
The funniest sight he saw was a hurrying
procession of R.A.’s, some of them very
shabby, but all busily brushing tlieir silk
hats in preparation for an unexpected Sun-
day morning visit to the Academy by the
King and Queen. But, as far as the general
public is concerned, the really important part
of his mission to Europe w T as the finding of
a French sculptor to carry out the design of
an illuminated fountain for which The
Bulletin’s old chief, J. F. Archibald, left
£20,000. Dicksee approved of a sculptor
named Sicart, and Mr. Mann went to Paris
to interview him. The sculptor offered to
show him the work from his hands set about
Paris, but before half the marbles and
bronzes had been examined the Australian
cried “Hold!” and, again, “Garcon!” So
Sicart arrives next year and the fountain
will be duly erected, probably in Hyde Park.
A stretcher for which ambulance fares
are already blessing her throughout Queens-
land is the in-
vention of
Sister E.
Kenny, whom
the New’ Talma
Studio has
pictured for
us alongside.
The stretcher,
w h i c h was
displayed and
explained a t
the last annual
meeting of the
Red Cross, is
rigid without
being hard. It
is resilient, and
so constructed
that both heat
an d ventila-
tion are sup-
plied to the
sufferer.
Already the
Queensland Ambulance Brigade has adopted
it. Sister Kenny was on hospital transport
work for three years during the w’ar. Belgium,
too, in the early days of the struggle knew’
her, and for her care of many of his children
Cardinal Mercier WTote his thanks to her.
It is now 15 months since the first meeting
for the Rose Scott memorial w’as called.
Friends and old associates of that pioneer in
women’s movements, prominent among them
Margaret Windeyer and Mrs. Aronson, then
met at the Feminist Club, and a memorial in
bronze or marble was decided on. For some
vague reason, probably connected with Miss
Preston Stanley being in the chair, the ladies
decided to shelve the matter till “after the
elections” ; and the question has never since
been taken off that shelf, even for an airing.
This is a pity, because the idea was to make
the memorial a women’s offering to a woman
by a woman, for the commission was to have
been given to a woman sculptor. And good-
ness knows it is time a piece of bronze or
marble by a sister of the chisel graced
one of Sydney’s beauty-spots.
A dainty Queensland girl in white satin
stepped up the aisle of St. James’s in King-
street on Tuesday afternoon. She was Cyn-
thia, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Bootli-
Clarkson, of Brisbane. Over her fair head
floated an ancient Brussels-lace veil, worn
by her great-great-grandmother in the long
ago. The happy man w T as Captain Shirley
Goodwin, of the Staff Corps headquarters,
Victoria Barracks. Dad is Lieut.-Colonel
Goodwin, of Canberra. Bridcsmaiden Mary
Lee Garde, who came from Toowoomba for
the cake-cutting, was escorted by Captain
Crellin (Melb.) as best man. Little Jean
Caiman, of Roseville, was tiny maid-in-
waiting on the bride’s shimmering train.
The girl in this May Moore picture is
Joyce Frew, talented musician, and heroine
too. For with-
out th e gift
of sight sh e
lias not only
obtained her
L. A. B. f o r
both piano and
violin, but
plucked both
honors in this
year’s exam-
inations, thus
establishing
an Australian
record, at least
within th(>
recollection of
her teachers,
Gordon Lavers
an d llenry
Staell. At six
the indomit-
able girl had
mastered th e
Braille system.
Then she became a pupil of the Woollahra
public school, and there, helped by sym-
pathetic teachers and her typewriter, she
kept well abreast of the seeing and passed
every examination appropriate to the year.
St. Alban’s Church, at Lindfield, shrined
a pretty wedding last week when Edith
Ruwald linked with Eric Callaghan, of the
next-door suburb of Chatswood. The bride,
in a swirl of brocaded moires, was supported
by two ’maids in a froth of lilac. Later the
Soldiers’ Memorial Hall at Killara was
crowded at the instigation of the bride’s
father and mother with family friends and
congratulations.
“A.A.H.” holds forth on women’s clubs:—
What a strange idea of a club is the average
woman’s! Her club is not a place for peace and
comfort, but for uplift and philanthropy. The
members all preach at one another or raid the
world for outsiders to come to preach at them. They
spend the rest of the time collecting for various
missions and causes. A club should be a refuge
from that sort of thing, as well as a refuge from
domesticity. The home has its merits, but a club
should be a spot where one forgets them for a nice
change—-where one, if so disposed, may escape from
one’s fellow-creatures. 1 am all for helping the
destitute, for having my mind enlarged and my
morals improved—but not at my club, it has, in
my belief, a distinctly different purpose. It should
be primarily a retreat where one may relax, where
one may indulge a little in the fleshpots. The food
at most women’s clubs is atrocious and meagre. One
enters their portals with a sinking of the heart,
feeling like a brand to be snatched from the burning
and a money-box to be broken open. Running a
club is one of the few things men do better than
women. Theirs do not exist to mortify the flesh
and uplift the soul. My temerarious suggestion is
that a women’s club should be run on the same lines.
Let it be a haven where no one can be improved or
collected from or offered rice pudding. Have rules,
of course, but have them in the interest of members’
corhfort and happiness, not; for purposes of restric-
tion and repression.
The Esperance Bay snuggled up to the
Quay on Friday night, probably glad of its
sheltered berth, for there was an edge like
ice on the wind. But once aboard the lugger
the sense of cold vanished, for flowers and
flags and electrics lent the semblance of
warmth if they did not give its reality. The
ship was dressed for the Y.A.L. dance to
the visiting British schoolboys. But whether
really for the delectation of the lads or of
the hostesses who are entertaining them is
a pretty point. The boys, it is whispered,
are not keen on frilly parties. One of them,
given an option on a recent day, said he’d
prefer the Zoo. However, there they were on
Friday night, all about the decks and pass-
ageways of the Commonwealth liner, rosy-
cheeked and clear-eyed, squiring their Aus-
tralian girl-cousins and aunts by adoption.
The big brother of the Y.A.L., Mr. Marie,
organised the affair, and the principal guests
were Captain Woolley, V.C., and Dr. Rod-
gers, who are in charge of the forty young
thieves who have stolen Sydney’s interest
and affection. G. H. Kneen, general
manager of the line: H. B. Larkin, chairman
of the Commonwealth Shipping Board; and
Captain McKenzie and his offsiders were
other big effects in a night of fun. The
supper was served to a floral accompaniment
of waratahs, boronia and flannel-flowers.
Ruby Rich, a popular leader of the
Feminist Club, is in mourning for her
mother, who died last week. Of late Mrs.
Louis Rich and her daughter had shared a
flat at the Astor, in Macquarie-street, but
for years the family was dug-in at Potts
Point. Besides Ruby, a daughter Vera and
three sons, two of them doctors and another
a head of Bebarfald’s, Ltd., are sharing the
family sorrow.
Milne’s provincial absurdity, “Ariadne, or
Business First,” was the medium through
which the Vagabonds lured comfortable
cheques for three of their pet charities last
week. The play revolves around the attrac-
tive wife of a Manchester business man who
determines to teach him the wisdom of some-
times placing her before money-making, and
it is done in the usual topsy-turvy Milne
style. Val. Cohen, who is all vivacity and
featherweight movement, dressed the subtle
Midlands lady in varying tones of red
throughout the three acts, and is to be speci-
ally commended not only for her work but
also for a cardinal and navy jumper suit in
which she appeared willow-slim. Ruby Cox-
head and Clive Coppard between them car-
ried a clever curtain-raiser to a dashing and
unexpected finale. And now the Clerical
Women War Workers, the Mosman Roy
Scouts and the Rose Hall petrol-cans are
being replenished where they felt a sinking
feeling.
Miss Brisbane hears wedding-bells:—
Bells pealed merrily last week when Eugene
Thomas Finn up and married Kathleen McDonnell
in the beautiful chapel at All Hallows, which was
decorated in pink and white blossomry. The bride
wore ivory satin with Brussels lace, a Brussels lace
veil, and sprays of orange blosom, and she carried
a bouquet of lilies and a satin horseshoe. Alma
McDonnell, Angela Cheetham, and Mary and Kitty
Finn, in eau-de-nil, ’maided; and Gfendalougli,
dressed up in white lilies, shasta daisies, roses and
gold horseshoes, saw the feasting.
At St. John’s Cathedral, Thomas Halcro Southerden,
of Strathfield, Sydney, took charge of Edna Victoria
Southerden—-for once in a way a bride changed her
state but not her name. The lady wore cream satin,
tulle and orange blossoms, and her bouquet was of
white carnations and pink orchids. Bessie, the bride’s
sister, and Audrey, the bridegroom’s, ’maided in
Alice-blue taffetas, with poke bonnets of tulle edged
with pink and blue bebe roses. They carried tulle
muffs covered with Dorothy Perkins roses and blue
delphiniums. .Pink roses, arum-lilies, and lark-
spurs did up Parkhill, blundah, for the party.
Charles Mills, son of the J. 0. Millses, married
Mifawny Prosser in the chapel of St. John’s
Cathedral. AVhite flowers adorned the building, and
the bride was in white satin. Her tulle veil was
outlined in orange blossom, and she cai'ried roses
and carnations. Miriam Prosser, in daffodil, Sadie
Mills, in pink, and Torie Mills, in apple-green,
’maided, all wearing silver turbans and carrying
posies.
The Past Pupils’ Literary and Dramatic. Society
gave a benefit in All Hallows Concert Room for the
Mater Children’s Hospital. Captain Plant was in
attendance on the Lieut.-Governor and Mrs. Lennon,
who were met by Rev. Mother Patrick.
The male population of Brisbane, having been
adjured to cast off some of its outer garments, will
do so in battalions this summer. On the 15th,
3000 good men and true have sworn to fling aside
the unnecessary coat and discard it through the dog-
days. Editor Reading, of the Teleoraph, set the ball
rolling with a crusade of articles and letters on
Dress Reform. Another thing that is worrying us is
the need of a crematorium. Meetings are being
held to argue whether we should bury or burn.
The owl that watcheth by night, the black cat
that prowleth, the candle-lit pumpkin and the witch
astride her broom-stick decked the chaste walls
of the Women's Club foi Hallowe’en night. Masks
and orange caps hid the faces of the guests, who
gathered round a board decorated with scarlet lilies
and covered with good things to eat. A witch’s
cauldron burned on the stage, and there were “apple
bobbing’’ and “cat and bat’’ competitions, and a
procession of ghosts, led by a valiant Devil. The
president, Mrs. Wedd, received, and there was a
big roll up of members and friends.
The Brisbane Caledonians had their “dookin’ for
apples” and other Hallowe’en pranks at the club
that evening, and the hall was not large enough for
all the Macs who gathered to eat the bannock and
oat-cake and watch the auld country dances.
The Albion “Thousand” was run in beautiful
weather and the green lawns backgrounded many gay
gowns. Mrs. F. Glynn Connolly (her husband’s
horse, Black Spear, won the race) wore ivory and
cyclamen and a black hat. Mrs. E. T. Bell was in
amber, and Mrs. Cecil Palmer in Brussels lace, over
cream. Others there were the J. Cadell Garricks,
Mrs. S. F. Macdonald (in cafe au lait crepe de
Chine), Mrs. J. E. Stewart in burnt rose with a
black hat, and Eileen Morgan in cinnamon.


Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations .
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
'Phone 8W6329.
sdf
«2 SB
Any previous visitors to Melbourne—if thev have
stayed at “Scott’s” —will point out that “Scott’s” is
THE best place at which YOU can stay.
sdf
The reasons that this is so are
because not only is “Scott’s”
Melbourne’s Most Centrally Situated
and Convenient Hotel
but it affords a service to its natrons that gives real satisfaction.
Ready and willing attention to your every need, sumptuous com-
fort of rooms and furnishings (including hot- and cold-water
service and direct and intercommunicating telephones in all bed-
rooms), and courtesy of an efficient staff at all times.
Inclusive Day Tariff or Bed and Breakfast Bate
Write for Tariff Card.
SCOTT’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams “Scott’s” Melbourne.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
RUfIEORAMA
7- Rested 7e films la ga.
J'jome Ebcreations
388 George St, Sydney
(opp. Beard
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800fir [?]
Buckley e- Nunn, [?]
[?]
Dust-storms, a freezing wind, hail, rain
and just a leaven of sunshine played their
part in Oaks day at Flemington. Women
who backed Fur Coat for a first place in the
Dressing Stakes knew at an early stage that,
though unoriginal, they had found a winner.
A fall of hail at lunch-time, followed by
heavy rain, made the paving round the
stands very slushy, and the lawns got
squidgy, so the afternoon was about as horrid,
meteorologically speaking, as it could be. Both
the Crown pens were tenanted, and the usual
crowd was told it could have a bite of lun-
cheon in the vice-regal suites. Lady Stone-
haven covered a dark green gown with a
black coat and kolinsky fur, topped by a
black felt hat. A Russian sable stole and
kasha cloth ensemble suit of Oriental red
hue, with the same toned felt hat, were the
choice of the State Governor’s lady. Mar-
garet O’Grady had grey fur upon a wine-
colored coat, her millinery being black. Mrs.
Pitt Rivers, who became an actress again on
Saturday night, was a lady in black. In
the shelter-shed beneath the elms many host-
esses poured out tea for a horde of guests.
Among the entertainers were Rear-Admiral
Napier’s wife and Ella Guthrie. The Hunter
Patterson couple and Mrs. A. V. Kewney,
wife of the secretary of the Y.R.C., also ex-
tended hospitality at the midday meal. Frank
Clarke’s lady shone like a blink of azure
in a stormy sky in her saxe-blue suit, which
was topped by a nattier straw hat. Mrs.
Harry Whiting enveloped herself in a mink
coat with beige crinoline millinery. The
South Australian contingent numbered the
Moulden dame, Mrs. L. L. Hill, the H. 11.
McLachlan couple, and Mrs. H. White witli
her sister Miss Scott. Local society pillars
who put in an appearance included a phalanx
of Fairbairns, the Lionel Grimwades, the
Alec Russells and Mrs. Robert Landale.
Though there was a chill in the air on
Saturday, there was sunshine, and some of
the frills and furbelows that would have
brightened the earlier part of Cup Week had
it not been for the horrid conduct of the
weather, burst at last into view at Fleming-
ton. The V.R.C. rejoiced over still another
record attendance —the fourth for this meet-
ing—and as favorites mostly showed a dis-
position to behave as such, many racegoers
went home smiling.
A full tally of Excellencies saw the first
race, the ladies of the party (all save Mar-
garet O’Grady) in the apparel of winter.
The G.-G.’s lady wore a tailored suit of
cocoa-toned frisca cloth with edgings of
brown braid, topped by a purple liat, and
the Vic. Governor’s consort had a jumper
suit of navy blue, furs and a large hat of
coral-pink hue banded with velvet. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers chose a small straw hat of stone
shade, worn with a maroon jersey costume.
A shady brown crin. shadowed Miss
O’Grady’s sand-colored crepe de Chine and
georgette robe. Pianist Backhaus was
initiated into Australia’s most important
business by the German Consul and his wife.
Her black turnout had a dash of lemon
velvet, and Mrs. Backhaus was in a navy
coat and skirt with a black hat supporting
sable ospreys.
The beige and fawn shades of last summer
are cropping out again in diaphanous
materials and lace, and mushroom-pink was
favored at Flemington on Saturday by more
than one. Mrs. Henry Rosenthal, lately
back from Europe, had a frock of this shade,
the skirt of which was all narrow flat
flounces. The dress was topped by - a cape
of georgette, with a bunchy satin collar and
a bordering of sable, and hat and liose were
in unison. A new trimming seen on some of
the long coats and skirts is a variation of
petal flouncing and ruching, made to face
outwards like a row of knife-blades. Some
black toilettes adorned in this fashion, with
edgings of white, looked remarkably effective.
The cape, of course, is a much-abused attach-
ment. It requires cutting with extreme care;
and some of the examples seen on the lawn
inspired prayers for the speedy death of
the fashion. Parasols displayed the hues of
the rainbow and the blooms of spring. One,
all violets, with a bordering of green leaves,
was particularly covetable. These brollies
figured in every size from big cartwheel
affairs down to a Japanese miniature that
looked not much bigger than a flower. Mrs.
Stuart Murray and Mrs. Sam McCaugliey
spread the cloth under the elms at four
o’clock for half a thousand friends.
All the southern seas were represented at
the syncopation and gyration which cheered
up the sober precincts of Federal Govern-
ment House on Oaks eve. It was a damn-the-
expense affair, with hot-house plants in the
ballroom and azaleas and rhododendrons
planted lavishly in the drawing-rooms.
Golden baskets of pink carnations and roses
arrested the eye, even when one’s prosaic
mind and eagle orb were fixed on such lower
things as fizz and food. There was an edge
to the breeze, and the fires that crackled in
the grates in the dressing-rooms and sitting-
out corners were very cheering. The ball-
room was a whirl of uniforms (the services
will never give up their frills and millinery
so long as there’s a woman within coo-ee),
of glistening little frocks, feather fans of
many hues, twinkling bandeaux, and shoulder
posies of flowers that looked too pretty to
be true. Lady Stonehaven’s brilliant blue
draperies, upon which silver bugle tabs
clustered like leaves, had a sprinkling of
diamonds and pearls, and diamonds sparkled
on her bandeau of blue. Lady Somers was
there with her husband. Her apparel planted
a pang of envy in hearts that had long been
superior to such weaknesses. It was a lovely
shade of pink embroidered with moons or
cheeses or something round and green that
rose from a base of pink sequins and pale-
blue glitter. Pink tube fluttered beneath
the decorative garments, and her diamond
tiara rested upon pink and blue tulle. A
plumed green fan fitted snugly into the
picture. The O’Grady’s Margaret wore
cactus-red with scintillating embroidery that
was equally sanguinary. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
waved a green feather fan for which she had
provided a background of gold and black
brocade. Mrs. Davidson danced in gold lace
and lame.
At a carefully-chosen pause in the pro-
ceedings ten most beautifully-groomed fillies
lined up at the vice-regal barrier, dropped
their curtsies, and took their places in the
social race. Among them were Russell
Gabb’s daughter Marie, who wore the white
georgette with pearl appendages that clothed
her when George and Mary Windsor looked
her over; Elina Watt, daughter of Willie;
and the twin chicks of J. G. McLaren, who
broods over the Home and Territories De-
partment. Alison Reid, who was in the
daintiest of white taffeta frocks; Phyllis
Watson, of Perricoota station ; Iris Waring:
and Elaine Linton, in soft pink apparel
sprinkled with dewdrops, were the Harbor
City’s buds.
After ten years’ residence in the Female
Prison, Coburg, Sarah Nicholas, who
lias just hand-
ed in her re-
signation a s
Governor of
that side of
the gaol, is
sorry to leave
it. She is a
■South Austra-
lian and began
her career as a
probationer in
the Wangaratta
Hospital, later
taking up pri-
vate nursing.
Next she was
head of the
Welfare De-
partment, and
later her in-
terests were
centred in the
Infant Life
D e p artment.
On the resignation of the late Mrs. Hender-
son she stepped into the tremendously
responsible position at Coburg. The gaol
takes all the female long-term prisoners of
Victoria, yet the number of inmates has
fallen as low as 30, and has not within Miss
Nicholas’s experience reached a hundred.
Laundry work and sewing are the tasks im-
posed, and the inmates have many friends
and would-be helpers. Lady Stradbroke was
one who visited the institution frequently
and took a great interest in the prisoners.
Miss Nicholas, by the way, is a sister of the
aspro-maker.
Pat Lempriere, whose apparel set the pace
for the younger set, had a frock of white
taffeta scattered with embroidered floral
wreaths and hemmed witli tulle—moulded
on early-Victorian lines. Margaret Osborne
(N.S.W.) was a very close second with
crystal and green tracery upon white satin.
The Moulden dame (S.A.) was a gleam
of silver lace and pearls; and Mrs. Hill,
wife of the S.A. Premier, had a
blue frock with rose trails in crystal.
Mrs. H. J. Manson, consort of Maori-
land’s Trade Commissioner, was in black,
and her daughter Myrtle was in pink
taffeta. From the Apple Isle came Mrs.
Geoffrey Chapman, in a gown of lime-green
grosgrain silk with square-cut corsage, and
Mrs. Lyons, whose midnight-blue beaded
apparel had a deep flounce of paillettes that
clanged like stage armor. Among Sydney-
siders were Tom Hughes’s lady, with mauve
feather fan blending in with a robe of Orien-
tal brocade; Mrs. Waring, with diamente
sparking up a lavender-toned frock; the
good-looking Mrs. Mylins, a study in black
and pink; Rosemary Osborne, sporting
beaded illumination on heliotrope; Mrs. Pat
Osborne, in something cloud-like, of mole
shade; and Jean Ross Nott, a glow of
c-herry-red chiffon velvet. Mrs. James Hors-
burgli, off to Darwin shortly to help her
husband, its new official chief, brightened
black chantilly lace with gold. Mrs. George
Blackwood, one of Melbourne’s handsomest
matrons, was a study in cornflower-blue geor-
gette ; and Mrs. Charlie Lyon carried green
feathers against a gown of white crystal, and
looked charming. Mayoress Brunton’s laven-
der lace frock had interludes of silver and
a dash of cerise velvet. The well-cut shingle
of Mrs. Norman Falkiner appeared above
black satin with a very little sparkling
adornment.
A Bananalander who returns from a Euro-
pean polishing with the intention of settling
down in Mel-
bourne is Sadie
Irwin, a young
pianist wh o
has won many
laurels. S h e
got her ground-
ing in music
at the convent
in Warwick,
and then passed
on to C. 11.
Allen, under
whose tuition
she won a
Trinity Col-
lege travelling
seholarshi p.
Arrived in
London, she
was put under
the guidance
of Charlton
Keith, a pupil
of Freedman.
She took singing as her second subject
under Helen Trust, a famous artist in her
day. An extension of her scholarship and
the Grosvenor Gooch prize were rewards of
Miss Irwin’s talent and diligence. She now
proposes to embark on a teaching career.
If the Dickinson-Monteath camera is a wit-
ness of truth, her pupils ought to find her
both cheerful and good-tempered.
Visitors summoned to the Government
House garden party on Friday had to run
a gauntlet of policemen who looked at every
ticket as if it might prove to be the clue
in a murder mystery. The wetness of the
weather made the ceremony an in-door in-
stead of an out-door promenade, and the ball-
room, dining-room and drawing-rooms were
used to house the throng. As the Stone-
havens and the Somerses gripped hands with
the citizens who had survived the ordeal at
the gate, the carpet around the dais accumu-
lated a covering of invitation-cards, like
leaves in Callombrosa or the tote area after
the defeat of the favorite. Lady Stonehaven
received in an ensemble costume of fawn
tone, with deeper-lined embroidery. A deep
rose ribbon banded her pinkish hat. Her
Ex. of Victoria was tailored in natural kasha
with cheer in embroidery of gold and pink,
and a bois-de-rose hat. The guests dressed,
for the most part, as one would expect them
to on a cold, showery day.
The welcome-home lunching by the E.-S.U.
of James Elder, lately Australia’s Commis-
sioner in U.S.A., and his wife was a sotto
voce affair, president Donald Mackinnon
announcing as soon as he got the chance
that everybody had better eat very quietly
because the remarks of the ex-Commissioner
and others were going to be broadcasted.
Then there were speeches by the guest, who
gave his wife a good word; by General
Brooke; by Senator Samut, of Malta; and
by Jack Barr, a Maoriland legislator, and
the Indian Parliamentary delegate. Miss
Chisholm, who has been giving the cookery
colleges of the States a look over, was among
the honored, and Archgaiters Lees, the
Harold Clapp couple, Marie Mackinnon, the
Housewives’ president (Mrs. Glencross) and
Hazel Campbell (Q.), who accompanied Mrs.
J. 11. Hewison, picked a bone with one an-
other.
A first night with no final curtain-calls,
no speeches, no flowers, no nothing, not even
the musical prayer for George, was enjoyed
by the crowded house that saw the Barrie
play, “Mary Rose,” at the King’s on Satur-
day night. It is some time since Melbourne
women could enjoy a good cry at a play, and
the new production fills a long-felt want.
Mary Jerrold wears the bustle and stiff silk
covering of 40 years ago with charm, and
Angela Baddeley as Mary Rose is equally
at home in the frocks worn by the flapper,
though they weren’t supposed to flap very
much in those days. The cold night brought
out a rare collection of white bear coats with
a stray ermine or so to diversify the brave
array of embroidered shawls.
One of the memorable private parties of
Cup Week was held at Logan House, the
Toorak home of the Leslie Stuarts. The
ballroom was tigged out in pink and mauve
rhododendrons, and there were billows ot
flowers in all corners. The hostess woie
black crepe madrilene and lace; her daugh-
ters Nanette and Lavender were in sott puiK
gowns with embroidery of silver, ihe party
launched Beth, daughter of the I rank
Stuarts, on her social career, the maiden s
attire being filmy ivory lace, mainly m tiny
frills. Her mother cheered a black goxv n
with silver and rose trimming. Among the
guests were Margaret O'Grady, daughter ot
Tassie’s vice-regent, who wore a white trocK,
and Margaret Cecil, offspring of the Parlia-
mentary delegate, whose apparel ot biacK
was brightened with flame georgette attach-
ments and gold tracery.
Shelley, Debussy and Chopin were pressed
into service to entertain the guests, of the
Jimmy Dyers at Ivinnoull one evening last
week. Beneath the soft glow of mauve-
shaded lights, Carrie Haase, wearing a flow-
ing gown designed by Rlamire Young it was
of white with pointed bodice and touches ot
gold—spoke in full melodious tones many
verses of the rebellious poet. Norman Wilks,
who is here as examiner for the R.A.M.,
exercised his velvety touch on Debussy and
Chopin. The hostess carried a bunch ot
crimson roses against a Blamire Young frock
of iris blue draped in Grecian mode, falling
to a lengthy train and revealing soft pink
lace beneath. Water-lilies and red roses
gladdened the supper table.
The University gave greeting to pianist
Backhaus on the evening of his arrival hero.
Prof. Bernard Ileinze led the talkers, and
was corroborated by Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Professor Scott and Dr. Felix Meyer. A pre-
sentation posy of red roses cheered the, black
taffeta frock of Mrs. Backhaus. Some music
was provided by the Corn's star performers,
and then there was coffee and a bit to eat
in the club house.
The first Backhaus concert at the Audi-
torium drew a large and awed audience. The
pianist, who has the rare gift of doing the
most difficult things as if they were child-
ishly easy, came very near to hypnotising
his hearers. All the promising pianists of
tbe city were there, with some social middle-
weights. Mrs. Pitt llivers accompanied
Mary Campbell, of the Albert-street Con.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Miss Cecilia Walsh,
was one of the Cup Week visitors. She
motored over. Our climate didn’t tempt her
and her sister to stay after Cup Day.
Philanthropists who are not above having
a good time are reminded that on Monday
night the Otranto will be the scene of a
hop and some bridge in aid of the Mel-
bourne and Alfred hospitals.
Almost all that Australia knows of con-
temporary American art is obtained from
the cinema and the, covers of the best-sellers,
and it isn’t impressed. But all this will be
remedied if certain N’York galleries carry
out their plan to hold an exhibition in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and possibly other Aus-
tralian cities. Our National Gallery trus-
tees are also considering a proposal to
exchange specimens of the best of both
countries.
Sister Adelaide’s useful week: —
The official programme set a lively pace for the
overseas Parliamentary delegates. From a train
running late (Lord Salisbury, who came by ’plane,
was an hour later) they dashed to the Town Hall
for a civic reception, and barely had the last echoes
of the speeches died away than they were under
way for a State luncheon. There was a garden-party
at Carminow —the Bonython home at Mt. Loft} - —in
the afternoon and a reception at Parliament House in
the evening. On Friday they escaped to the Murray,
and the couple of days that a few of them had in
town after that were filled 10-deep with engagements.
Except for the garden party, speeches were the chief
items at most of the first day’s entertainments,
reinforced at the Parliamentary reception by the
shrill “Song of Australia” and films of the Oakbank
steeplechase and aboriginals in a state of nature.
The Bonythons and their guests had luck in a
Heaven-sent day, crisply cool, with floating cloud-banks
to fling blue and purple shadows over the hills, and
the whole place washed clean by rain overnight.
The delegation, by the way, includes Brig.-General
Ingham Brooke, father of the Captain Brooke who is
the Governor’s A.D.C., and who goes back to rejoin
his regiment, the King’s Own Yorkshire Light
Infantry, at the end of the month.
For the rest, we’ve done little but speed departing
voyagers or welcome those come home. Percy Grainger
is here again, at the moment domiciled with his
belongings at Kensington.
The Floating Palais has refurbished itself and
opened for the alleged summer—it’s still freezing
cold o’ nights.
Ethel Wellwood, a niece of the late Field-Marshal
Roberts, has been married in Adelaide. Her mother,
“Bob’s” sister, resided in S. Aus. for many years,
and the bride’s brother, who lives in S. Aus., went
through the S’African War, the British end of which
was managed by his uncle.
A sort of mental derangement, of the same class
as that which led to the horse-maiming of a few
years back, is causing us anxiety. Ornamental
trees in various suburbs have been bored and plugged
by unknown hands, the holes being filled with some
poison that gradually kills.


■ ,
wm
Diamond e Sapphire Wrish Wahch £57/10/-
Diamond eSapphire Wrish Wahch £2OO
Diamond Seh Wrish Wahch £35
Bracelet Watches in Platinum or Gold, plain or set with
choicest Gems, represent a very important feature of the
firm’s present selection of Gift Jewellery. These are to be
had in many chaste and exclusive designs, with Moire
Silk Bands, or flexible Diamond-set Bracelets.
These Watches are made by the finest makers in the world, and their
appearance is indicative of unparalleled quality. Every watch is.
however, thoroughly tested before leaving the establishment, and the
f irm guarantees their exceptional time-keeping qualities and perfect
reliability. A discount of five per cent, will be allowed on all
cash purchases.
WfMLEDKU M NON 0 6 €0
344=34(8 COLONS ST MEUMUDSNE
a <~
n
a
n
L Jill
Note the diamond-
pointed pen—an ex-
travagance of the
early eighteen hunm
dredu
7 his gentleman
seems more dazzled
by his diamond-
pointed pen than by
any inspiration from
the muse. In the early
eighteen hundreds
such bejewelled pens
were the vogue-
looks being more
sought than useful-
ness.
Nowadays — recog-
nizing that the first
requisites of writing
are balance and
smoothness of adtion
~we use IVahl Pens.
Their points are iri-
dium tipped. Their
beauty, durability,
ink capacity and easy
fiow make them
favourites ,
WAHL PEAT
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Sole Wholesale Distributors fof
Australia
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd,
Rem ington House, LiverpooJ Street. Sydney.
A. SAUNDERS’
diamond engagement
and WEDDING RINGS
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
Specially Selected Diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Two-
j Diamonds, Octagon.
*ape platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
so*
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold,
£5O, £6O, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, set
Platinum, IBct.
Gold Ring, £25,
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum
set, 18ct. Gold
Ri»S. £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Five-Diamonds,
set Platinum
18ct. Gold King,
£l5.
Larger Dia-
monds. £2O,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three.
Diamonds, set
Platinum 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ All-
Platinum, Dia-
mond-set Wedding-
Ring, £25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O, £4O, £5O.
A, Saunders’ 15ci.
Gold Wedding-
Ring, 25/-
,XBct. Gold, 30/-
I Wider, £2.
SENT
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia.
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £l5.
£. Saunders’ Pour-
Diamonds, set
Platinum, ISct.
Gold Ring, £25,
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O. £lO.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, All
Platinum Ring,
£95.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Cross-
over Ring, set
Platinum, lBet.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, All Platinum
Ring, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£3O, £4O,
WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK,
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED
PASSAGES
1841 165 BRANCHES.
Book by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, In Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O, $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britam.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Special Low-rate Tours From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE h STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP « CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
LI QUEUR
' , vz/DL
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT'S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Backers suffered no great harm during the
first three days of the Flemington round —wonderfully
successful, as far as the V.R.C. is concerned—-and
with four races going to favorites on the last day
they finished the meeting with a little left for the
gas-bill. Pantheon (11 to 8 on) had only three
opponents in the C. B. Fisher Plate, 12 furlongs.
Making all his own running, the English horse beat
Spearfelt (3 to 1) comfortably by a length, Amounts
(3 to 1) by another three-quarters of a length, and
Spearer (50 to 1) by an additional five lengths, m
2min 36scc. The slow pace did not suit Speai relt,
who left the course a bit groggy (he is troubled with
a split hoof, which required a lot of attention before
the Cup), whereas it\ enabled Amounis to put in a
fast finish arid raise Expectations that he will yet
succeed over a distance. After the race people were
saying everywhere that if Pike had not made so
much use of Pantheon in the Cup Spearfelt would
never have won. It may be contended with at least
equal force that if Pantheon had been ridden by
the stable jockey, and ridden as he was in the
Metropolitan, he would have bothered fepeartelt no
more than he did Star Stranger.
The Batman Stakes, for three-year-olds, was a
good betting race; Raron, who had run so well in
the Moonee Valley Cup, was favorite at 5 to 2,
while Epilogue was at 3 to 1, Thracian (who had
been coughing in his box) at 7 to 2, Henare at
6 to 1, Cairacross and King Val at 12 to 1. King
Val showed pace which an experienced trainer would
turn to good account; the N.S.W. colt led into the
straight, where Epilogue cut him down. Epilogue
looked like winning till he was tackled by Raron,
who, going a bit faster at the crisis, won by
half a length from the son of Comedy King, who
was two lengths ahead of the restaurateur’s. colt.
Raron, who is a horse with a future he is by
Valais out of Poyferre, a sister to Poitrel —was
ridden by “Tich” Wilson, and galloped the mile
in lmin. 38^ec.
The Banker, who had finished fifth in the Mel-
bourne Cup, was a 9-to-4 favorite for the V.R.C.
Handicap, 11 furlongs, Our Prince being next in
demand at 5 to 1. Tookarby and Naos were at 6to
1, Paroodus at 8 to 1, Master Vibrator and
Piastoon at 10 to 1, and Valbee at 12 to 1. Piastoon
—a pretty good horse who has been asked to do
too much these last few months —set a solid pace and
remained in front for a mile and a half, but
Tookarby, who had been running second, took charge
at the distance. Presently The Banker joined him,
and in a great finish the favorite prevailed by half
a neck, with Valbee (unlucky in running) a close
third and Master Vibrator fourth; the time was
2min. 59|sec. MeCarten rode The Banker, who
enabled Otway Falkiner to show a good profit on
the meeting. Naos, who was really the unlucky
horse in the Cup—he ran from last to second in
six furlongs, and was travelling faster than Spear-
felt at the finish, heading him a couple of strides
beyond the post—never showed up. His Cup effort
evidently knocked him out.
Ernest Clarke’s Cyklon—Trey colt, Trivalve (6 to
4), who had run third to The Wensum in the Byron
Moore Stakes on Oaks Day, finished gamely for
Lewis in the Flemington Stakes, and just defeated
Eutouche (20 to 1), a gelding by the late Eurythmie.
The Victoria Steeplechase, which is really not worth
its place on the programme, went to Gereldery
(7 to 2), who was sired by Carbine’s son, George
Frederick; and Eridanus (12 to 1) came to the
rescue of McShortodds in the Final Handicap. Gothic
was all the rage for this race, it being 6 to 4 the
English horse, 7 to 1 bar one, but the favorite was
never dangerous, Eridanus winning nicely by a
length and a half from Bard of Avon (8 to 1), with
Ouragan(l2 to 1) a length away third and Cyden
fourth. Eridanus, who is by King John —Starglow,
is now trained by P. McGrath for G. L. Scott and
was ridden by Duncan ; his time, 2min. 4sec., equalled
Pilliewinkie’s Flemington record for 10 furlongs.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: Wireless has
spoiled the game of the enterprising person who used
to get early information of the finish of a race from
an accomplice in a telegraph-office and back the
winner with an unwary bookmaker. It is hard to
believe, but there have been kerbstone bookies
in St. GeorgeVterrace, Perth, who didn’t know the
difference in statutory time between the Westralian
capital and the effete East, and 1 was acquainted
with one young man who profited by their ignorance.
This year probably 500,000 people learned the result
of the Cup simultaneously with the 125,000 actually
looking on at Flemington. Suburban shops installed
loud speakers, and there was a phenomenal sale of
portable sets for the convenience of picnickers.
“Tuart”: One of the radio men at Flemington
named Rampion, instead of Spearfelt, as the Cup
horse that was coming with a conquering run, and
it is alleged that some country bookmakers paid out
on the strength of the slip. This 1 don’t believe, as
the judge’s placings were given a few seconds after-
wards ; anyway,' as both horses are browns and
raced in magpie colors, it was a pardonable mistake.
The radio man did a lot better than “Early Bird,”
of the Sunday Sockdologeii, when that persistent
punter “called” the Perth Cup one year tor the
lads in the press-room, the morning-paper
man who usually did the job being ill.' “Early Bird”
was satisfactory up to a point. “Good start,” he
shouted: “Peashooter goes to the front from Bal-
lerina, Headlight, Spinach and Dinkum 0i1.... At
the mile Ballerina is out two lengths from Starboard,
with Pompadour, Flapper and Smith Dorrien follow-
ing, Peashooter dropping back and Flying Fish
last.... Into the straight it’s Smith Dorrien, Cow-
cowing, Deadlight, Grass Widow” —and here “Early
Bird” took the world into his confidence with crash-
ing results to the “call.” “I got two quid on Stolen
Gold,” he yelled, “and I can’t sight him. Yes,
here he is, coming on the outside like an electric-
train. Stolen Gold wins! Stolen Gold, you beauty!
Stolen —no, he’s licked ! I’ve done my two quid!
Damanblast the lot of ’em!”
* * * *
The lltli-liour scratching of Amounis
reduced the Williamstown Cup field to 13. A split
heel was the cause —it is nothing serious, but
to start Valicare’s conqueror in the circumstances
would have been risky, and ungrateful withal. Royal
Charter was always favorite, closing at 7 to 2, but
Raron (5 to 1), Star d’Or and Tookarby (6 to 1),
The Banker (8 to 1), Bard of Avon and Bunkie (10
to 1), Valamita (12 to 1) and Beedos (14 to 1)
were all well backed. Scanlon took Bard of Avon
to the front straightway, and there he stayed. The
1925 Metropolitan winner led into the straight from
Valamita, Star d’Or and Royal Charter, and, fight-
HIS REASON.
DRIVER: “Do you think a woman should get
her husband's salary?”
FEUEFER: “Certainly not.”
DRIVER: “Same here, hut what's your reason
for saying so?”
FLUGEER: “The wife gets mine every week.”
ing it out with bulldog courage, he lasted long
enough to beat the fast-finishing Star d’Or by
half a head; Royal Charter was three-quarters of
a length behind Sol Green’s horse, and Valamita a
close fourth. Valamita did extremely well con-
sidering the fearful amount of racing he has been
subjected to by the gentleman who owns, and
persists in training, him. Royal Charter also ran
creditably under his substantial weight, but Raron
shaped badly. It took Bard of Avon 2min. 35-Jsec.
to get to the end of the 12 furlongs, but Scanlon’s
clever tactics were responsible for that. When in
Sydney, the Urnev —Belle of Avon gelding was
prepared by Joe Tomlinson; he is now trained by
E. J. Riley.
Vastly improving on an exhibition in com-
pany of the same calibre at Moorefield, where he was
nearer last than first, Gleam Boy (The Scribe —
Gleamer) won the 10-furlong handicap at Rosehill on
Saturday. The improvement was anticipated by
bookmakers and backers alike (7 to 2 was the closing
price), and, taking charge in the straight, the
gleaming one came right away from that unlucky
Queensland animal The Cause and little Cesarion
Chip (due for his annual presently) over the final
furlong. There was no inquiry. The other races
were in favor of McShortodds, the third, fourth
and fifth very much so. John “Baron,” whose colors
are seldom to the fore nowadays, was represented by
two winners, Crystallised Glass (8 to 1) and Bunting
Wallace (6 to 1). The pair are trained at Warwick
Farm by I. H. Andrews, the latest of John’s numer-
ous steed-eoachers.
NOT LOST NOR GONE BEFORE.
'ARRY: “I teas just (jointer put a 'undred
on Eroic f' th’ Cup w’en i woke up.”
’AIRY JOE: “Well, don’ go crook — y’ve saved
y’r ’undred.”
Kitty Paddington (Paddington—> Kitty
Rouble) struggled home a neck in front of Direct
Action in the Q.T.C. Deiby, with the grey Chryso.
whom many Queenslanders regarded as unbeatable
(they laid a shade of odds on him), four lengths off
third. Kitty was second favorite at 7 to 2, and
the 12 furlongs were left behind in 2min, 33fsec.
The gigantic Cheviotdale (Shepherd King—Miss
Muriel) downed old Admetus at w.f.a. in the Spring
Stakes, nine furlongs, and in doing so made heaps
of friends for the Queensland Cup, in which he has
but 7st. 51b. among a poor lot. The ex-Sydneysider
Innaway (Linaere —Faraway) had a neck to spare
from Mick Ryan’s Dightena after the mile of the
Brisbane Handicap had been cast astern in lrnin.
40sec., and landed a fair stake for Don Mclnnes.
For the same owner Bernesk, also well known at
Randwick, cantered in with the Tattenham Handicap,
which generally throws some light on the Cup.
Mick Ryan had a starter in nearly everything, and
as usual he wheeled in truckloads of sheep to
support them. Only' in one race, the Hopeful
Stakes, was his green livery carried to victory, and
in that he had to take evens about Natural Pride,
by imported Orby’s Pride out of imported Tregony.
Bernesk will probably go to the post favorite for
the Cup, and, being honest, will be hard to beat.
Cheviotdale met the Bernard mare in a 10-furlong
handicap at Ascot on 131 b. worse terms than they
will meet in the Cup, and finished only an eyelash
in arrears, after giving her a five lengths’ start in
the straight. S'till he is a big fellow', clumsy in
a field, and apt to lose heart when things are not
going to his liking.
* * * *
“Gordelplius”: It happened at a country
race meeting—it couldn’t have happened at Robbery'
Park or any place like that. After the first race
a hard-faced little follower of the sport of mugs
dashed up to me with a roll of notes. “Hold these
for me, Dig.,” he panted; “I’ll be back later.”
And before I could say anything he had shoved the
notes into my reluctant hands and disappeared into
the crowd. There were fivers as well as ones in the
fistful; but I bundled them into a pocket w'ithout
counting them, and kept my paw in the pocket.
Race after race went by, and he did not return.
I thought possibly' he was being chased about the
countryside by infuriated punters; but just before
the last race he arrived and I gave him his property,
very glad to get rid of it. “You were running a
risk, trusting a stranger with all this money,, weren’t
you ?” I asked. Of course, I w r as . expecting him
to say I had a trusty dial or something to that
effect. “I wasn’t runnin’ no risk,” said the little
man, as he headed rapidly for the nearest exit. “I
picked yuh for a mug soon as I seen yuh.”
* * * *
“Sunny” Jim Williams, who fought
Billy Edwards at middle weight, scaled 12st. 2Jib.
when he met George Thompson (12st. 31b.), Billy’s
stable-mate, at the Sydney Stadium; he put on
111 b. less a few ounces in a fortnight. Thompson,
who was a Digger, has received very little encourage-
ment from the Stadium people—had he been given
half as many' dates as the once-ordinary Tunney and
Gibbons have had in America he would be a lot better
than he is—and he was further disadvantaged by
the fact that Williams would not stand up and
fight. In trying to get close enough to smother
the coon’s swings, George was pulled and swung and
hauled and twisted round the ring like a wench
at a navvies’ ball. Struggling to free himself in
the third round, the white was banged on the brow
by' the hard black head, and thenceforward blood
trickled into his left eye. In the eighth round a
similar collision cut and filled the right eye, and
to add to George’s troubles in this session. Williams
resorted to the brutal and illegal “rabbiter.” The
white man’s case was now hopeless, but he kept
going gamely till the end of the seventeenth, when
he told the third man he could not continue. He
deserves another chance under a stricter referee.
The sufferings of the early martyrs were
recalled by what Mike Yokel and Sam Clapham
(each 12st. 101 b.) bore with fortitude at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. Eacli climbed into
the ling with bitter memories of what the other had
inflicted on him at their first meeting, and
resorted with enthusiasm to the punishing
holds of the science, toeholds, splits and
arm-bars being employed by Mike, and head-locks
and face-bars of extreme violence by Sam. They
gave and took the mauling without a murmur, but
occasionally referee Bridges felt constrained to
remind them that their exhibition was being witnessed
by Christians from Colling wood with beer-bottles in
their pockets, not by Roman tarts in the Coliseum.
There were no falls, and the decision was a draw,
but this Page thought Mike the speedier and more
skilful worker.
* * * *
The Maoriland footballers in England con-
tinue to show patchy form. Last week the Union
Maoris, after going under to Devonshire by the
staggering margin of 20 to nil, easily walloped die
powerful Cardiff club, 18 to 8. The League
Maorilanders beat Salford, a Manchester club, bj
18 to 10, and were then defeated by Huddersfield,
12 to 10. Apart from the side’s loss of seven
players, “on strike,” the League tourists have
failed to impress; northern critics are already
styling the tour a washout.
“Swing th’ Boot”: That strike of M.L. footballers
(B. 4/11/’26) reminds me of one that occurred
in Maoriland itself. Two forwards from a country
club were added to the strength of a touring team
on the say-so of their officials. Tried in early games,
they turned out duds, though big and hefty enough,
and- were dropped from subsequent matches, much
to their disgust. Came the final foray at Inver-
cargill. The side being by this time full of crocks
the two malcontents were selected. They refused
to play, and when one of the selector’s went to
argue they told him off. He was a huge and aggres-
sive person, one of the toughest forwards of his
time. When he had finished, both the “conchies”
had joined the other casualties, but not through
football injuries.
* * * *
On a Saturday in August a young Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) footballer was killed while playing
against Glen limes. On the way back from the
funeral somebody suggested that the widow and
child could do with a little practical sympathy.
Organising began there and then, and last week
the Armidale Mayor handed the lady the keys of a
fully-equipped cottage. Some gave cash, some bricks,
timber and so on, and some just labor. The job was
finished with £3O still in the exchequer.
* * * *
Wilfrid Flowers, whose death in England
is reported, was a professional bowler in that golden
age of English cricket, the eighteen-eighties, when
tV. G. Grace, Shrewsbury, Shaw and other immortals
were in their prime. A product of Notts, a famous
nursery of professional cricketers, Flowers was a
protege of Shaw, and, like him, a right-hand medium-
paced bowler of deadly accuracy, and a more than
useful bat. He came to Australia with Shaw and
Shrewsbury’s professional teams in 1884-85 and
18S6-87 ; his 14 wickets in Tests cost an average of
21.14 runs, and his batting average was 18.4, with
56 for his brightest knock.
* * * *
“Salix” : It is anomalous that Australians,
keenest of cricketers, have for years been content
to import all the implements of the game. Many
thousands of expensive bats are sold in this country
every year, yet no one here seems to have attempted
to cut into the lucrative trade by starting bat-making
or: a large scale, or investigating the possibilities of
Australian timbers for bats or wickets. The Aus-
tralian cricket ball has definitely arrived, and the
recent importation of 50 “slips” of the cricket-
bat willow by the Commonwealth Government —they
are to be planted out at Canberra —may mark the
beginning of bat-making in this country. There will
be a long wait, for a tree must be 20 years old
before being felled, and must be pollarded annually ;
then the “billets,” split and not sawn, have to
season four years more. It might be a quicker job,
after all, to ferret out some Australian wood having
the necessary qualities.
* * * *
Among the cricketers told by the S. Aus.
selectors to practise for the first inter-State match
are a couple of young fast bowlers, Halcombe and
Barker. Scott will probably be preferred to both;
still, he hasn’t been particularly deadly so far. A
possible rival to Parry with the wicket-keeper’s
gloves is a youthful Hack, son of the batsman who
used to go in first for S.A. but has latterly lived in
Sydney.
* * * *
The N.S.W.C.A.’s Country Week, which
in the past brought many a country cricketer out
of his obscurity, will begin in Sydney on November
22. If any champion bowler like C. T. B. Turner,
Tom McKibbin or Bill Howell is blushing unseen
in the backblocks, he may count on being taken up
by the State selectors —that is, if he happens to be
included in one of the visiting district teams:
West, Far West, Riverina, South, Northern, New-
castle, North Coast and Far North. After the
inter-district tourney, Combined Country -will field
first and second teams against two Metropolitan
elevens.
* * * *
“Wang”: The Melbourne Gun Club, which
recently staged a £5OOO pigeon-destroying contest
at Tottenham, was domiciled for many years at
Brighton. When it shifted to Tottenham, the buildings
and fencing on the Brighton ground were demolished
and carted away, the land being turned over to an
enterprising- individual who paid a few pounds for a
short lease. He ploughed up a section and put
the earth through a sort of puddling machine. In
a few weeks the area under cultivation had yielded
metal which returned a fat profit on his outlay. In
some spots he dredged through almost solid masses
of lead shot, inches deep. Then he left the locality,
and the balance of his lease, to the ghosts of myriads
of pigeons, starlings and sparrows, slaughtered
there in the name of sport.
* * * *
The Australian Swimming Union has at
length made up its mind to invite a team of Japanese
swimmers to show here this season. Takaishi, a
sprinter, and Takahiro Saito, a distance performer,
will leave Japan for the Commonwealth on November
17, and will swim in all the States. Both cleaned
up the best in Hawaii recently, so their class should
be quite good enough for the best we have here—
unless Charlton returns to the game, which is un-
likely.
NO ENCUSRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Syd Smith, manager of the returning Australian
team of cricketers, interviewed at Auckland, l
frankly that the better team won the Ashes. Coiim.,
the captain, concurred.”
We whacked the shires, beyond demur,
Australia’s fame to heighten,
From Cardiff up to Manchester
And down from Leeds to Brighton.
From south to north our way we felt,
And hardly were extended ;
We’d scalps in stacks upon our belt
Before the tour was ended.
We held our own from cast to we: t
In ordinary clashes ;
But in the one completed Test
We had to give old England best,
And hence we lost the Ashes.
Straight!
We’re back without the Ashes!
The counties we could always tan
Without exploits Homeric ;
From Beersheba, as twere, to Dan,
From Cheltenham to Berwick.
The ’Varsities we made our meat;
’Gainst North and South we battled,
And never felt like getting beat
Or seriously rattled.
For all, save England’s choicest pick,
We’d clouts to spare and bashes.
But Hobbs and Sutcliffe turned the trick,
They were a tiny bit too slick,
And so we lost the Ashes.
’Struth !
They beat us for the Ashes!
Had that momentous Oval game
Been won, there’s no gainsaying
We had returned with sheaves of Fame
In hand and bands a-playing.
Still, if the board you fail to sweep,
The next best thing to winning
Is not on Luck the blame to heap,
But take your physic grinning.
We lost, with none too much to spare,
AVe came no minor smashes
Like Armstrong’s lot. Just once we were
Mopped up, but then they beat us fair,
And so we lost the Ashes.
Square !
AVe’ve left behind the Ashes!
N.S.W.
T.THE R.


O SS. \\
eg , .
mi;:
*~l J { Z i
O g i I ;
*§?»* i.*
«*«# | * ' • : : . i . - *
' Hr i *3 3 5 ! : ? r I •• • : : i
* § || ? q | I.Lf : J
sc
S'" ■ 4
l?~21
IP S *uW.vv\Y<
v*
IA
C^>3
Q. % \ \ \ \ \ *s ‘ \ * '
*£l Ss l ! -'‘
•ao ®- -^i-*
U 1
e
m
W. I V
. -
■'3
/S 3
i»5
A'*
s,s
>\
• t;
'
* w>
ss
&
v»
3
.S’"®..
MBDm Ik V
M/M
£2/7/7///
///
//
*c
0 S
v-
i r
a 1
L?
•>-:
\
• |
I
< /
.. ■•
S t
* X


m*?
CREPE-
SOLED
BOOTS
and
SHOES,
Walk in Comfort.
Crepe Rubber-Soled Boots and
Shoes are wonder wearing and
just the thing for country roads
and tramping over grass.
Write for Illus-
trated List of
Ladies' and
Qent.’s Crepe-
soled Footwear.
jf
88113.
88118. —GENT.’ S BLACK BOOTS,
"ood quality, leather lined, wide nt,
stout crepe rubber soles, 38/6.
Post !/■
B9I2O.—TAN WORKING BOOT,
same style as above, in strong elk
leather, stout crepe soles, 36/6.
Post 1/-
89115. —
CREPE - SOLED
RIDING BOOTS,
black or tan, 35/-
Post 1/-
With Leather Soles,
Tan 22/6
Black 19/6
Post 1/-
sdf
89115,
Walther# Stevenson, Ltd
395 George Street, Sydney.
GBD
S 3
K 3
0
/^K
hob eW
W"p
GOOD fortune will not always come a man’s way ; but
any smoker may be lucky if he will. A GBD will
prove a winner every time, and the cne to back con-
sistently is the new Silver-mounted GBD at 12/6. To dis-
tinguish it from the Standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears a
small GBD disc inlaid in the mouthpiece. The real point of
difference, however, in addition to the flush silver mount, lies
in the specially selected grains ; year by year fewer of them are
available. Ask your tobacconist to show you a few, and
convince yourself of the beauty of the briar.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are
invited to Box 765,
G.P.0., Sydney.
sdfsd
Shape No.
2/4387
fsdfsd
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
fsdf
No. 1369.
Service
The significance of Service is
more than the sale of a bearing. Not only
have SKF developed better types of Ball
and Roller Bearings through scientific re-
search, but they have further established a
laboratory and engineering organisation to
study the manufacturers’ bearing problems,
and to insure through their Consulting Sales
Service a full measure of performance from
SKF Bearings and their components. Manu-
facturers and users are invited to avail them-
selves of this freely-offered co-operation.
sdf
The SK.F Ball Bearing' Co., Ltd
Melbourne 595 Bourke Street
Sydney 45 Kin § Street
Representatives in all States.
THE INKY WAY.
W. A. Smith, the new president of the
N.S.W. Country Press Association, is a
native of Bega, and began as a printer s
apprentice. Later he was mainly instru-
mental. in an amalgamation of three local
sheets, and is now editor and chairman ot
directors of the Bega District News.
Melbourne Sun-Pictorial was rude to
the Age the other morning about its circula-
tion, and published figures to show that the
Sun-Pictorial is the most widely-read
morning sheet in the State. The figure was
121,690. The Age replied with its auditor s
assurance that its net circulation is higher
than that. The Argus, of course, main-
tained silence; and the Morning I’ost isn t
joining in the controversy. It is satisfied to
point proudly to the fact that it is still alive.
Faded out silently last Thursday for some
mysterious reason, Brisbane’s (Q.) oldest
evening paper, the Observer, which had run a
more or less chequered career under the aus-
pices of the Courier for more than 40 years.
With it went the meritorious little Satur-
day Observer, a paper that a little money
an.l enterprise would have turned into a
real money-getter. Labor troubles ot sorts
are believed to be the cause of the sudden
and unsung disappearance; it could not have
been lack of cash. Among recent Observer
contributors of note were two old Bulletin
writers, J. A. Philp and E. N. MacCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot”), and that fine veteran,
Major-General Spencer-Browne, now com-
mercial editor of the Courier.
“Avon”: This year’s president of the
Empire Press Union, an organisation which
seems to have been formed to induce rich
newspaper proprietors to travel, is Robert
Bell, of Christchurch(M.L.), who was born m
Fyfe 63years ago. Bell for years and years was
manager of tne Timaru Herald, and he was
a middle-aged man when opportunity knocked
at his door with a chance of buying tin 1
Ashburton Guardian from old William
Jukes Steward. His second big call to
action arrived when the Lyttelton Times,
of Christchurch, got a bit seedy. He bought
in, became a director, and was elected to
coax the journal—the oldest daily in the
Shivery Isles back into prosperous paths.
He believes journalists ought to be trained
in universities, and has founded a scholar-
slup with that end in view ; but so far the
scheme hasn’t produced many recruits for
the newswriting game.
“lan C.” : After 35 years’ hard work Billy
Admans, deputy-chief of Federal Hansard
staff, looks as fresh as a daisy. I remember
him first as the man who got scoops for
the late-lamented Melbourne Evening Stan-
dard regarding prisoners’ high jinks at Pent-
ridge. Then he became the Standard s
Sydney correspondent, doing about £lO worth
of work a week for a modest screw of about
£4. Promoted sub-ed., he was doing fine
when the amalgamation with the Herald
came. He went over to the Herald and
took Sam Winter’s breath away by turning
out five columns a day of a sensational will
or divorco case. The Age collared hini by
offering an additional pound a week. Then
George Turner in 1901 stole him from the
Age for Federal Hansard. A good-natured,
capable, fine fellow, he deserves all the
success he has won. His daughter Alma is
a med., and he is mighty proud of her.
“G.T.”: The Bulletin cartoon of which
I shall always retain the most vivid remem-
brance was one published in September or
October, 1915, just after Bulgaria had
entered the war. It was entitled the l ied
Piper”; the leading figure was Kaiser
Wilhelm blowing a pipe, and among a collec-
tion of decrepit individuals in his train were
the Emperor of Austria, the Sultan ot
Turkey and Ferdinand of Bulgaria. Two
days after the evacuation of Anzac I was the
unwilling guest of the German general 1 on
Sanders, whose headquarters were in the
heart of the Gallipoli Peninsula. My inter-
view with the great man having concluded,
I was handed over to a young staff officer.
Conversation was difficult, and I welcomed
the intrusion of an orderly who appeared
to be immensely amused at something m a
paper which he held in his hand. Plus, to
my amazement, proved to be The Bulletin.
Coming up to the staff officer, the orderly
gleefully directed his attention to the carica-
ture. Meantime I experienced mixed feel-
ings ; it was a pleasure to see the familiar
sheet again, but I was doubtful whether the
picture that had amused the private would
tickle the officer. It did, however, and the
latter allowed me to share the joke with
him, naming each of the monarchs for my
benefit and only adopting a slightly shocked
expression as he mentioned the Sultan.
“J.E.L.”: Marcus Clarke’s “Ilis Natural
Life” first appeared as a serial in the Aus-
tralian Journal, published by Cl arson,
Massina and Co., opening on March 1, 1816.
For £lOO Clarke agreed to write the story
in 12 monthly sections, and proceeded to
Tasmania, there to gather data from tlic
criminal records of the colony. At first lit
kept sufficient written for two monthly issues
and then enough for one month, but gradually
the output dwindled to almost nil. In fact, tin
publishers of the Australian Journal were
once reduced to the expedient of swelling
the month’s contribution by printing in pice
type instead of brevier. On another occasior
there was nothing forthcoming, and the
Journal had perforce to go to press witl:
an apology to its readers. Finally Clarke
had to he locked in a room to get the needec
copy The author, writing to his publishers
explained that, being “overwhelmed witl
work, and so unwell,” he could not supply
them with the month’s copy. This was
awkward, he admitted, and he supposed tha
“some good-natured friend or other will say
I have over-plum-puddinged or hot-whiskiec
myself in honor of the so-called festiu
season; but I can’t help it.” At las
Massina’s patience became exhausted, and t(
have done with him he presented the authoi
with the MS. of the story. Clarke wen-
right away to George Robertson and sole
it to him for £35. The book, entitled “Hi;
Natural Life,” differing a good deal fron
the original version, was published bv Geo
Robertson in 1874.


Spend your leisure on a B.S.A.
1
r
\ wwTi
SI
h
cw
(
m
r.M
llto
*c>
GS
VjLri
WJ
/ / a/'
i.-:
jM^
There is no better method of spending your leisure than on a motor cycle, on the open
road, setting your own speed, resting when and where you please, and unhampered by the
inconvenience attending other means of transit.
To get the utmost from your holiday see that your mount is a B.S.A.—unequalled foi
economy, comfort and reliability. For short trips, for week-end jaunts or for long
holiday tours the B.S.A. will prove the best.
You will find a machine just to suit your requirements in the comprehensive B.S.A,
range: 13 models in six engine capacities. Two models, 4.93-h.p. de luxe and 9.86-h.p,
Colonial, are specially designed for Australian roads.
Motor Bicycles
PRICES FROM £57/101-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD , LTD.,
284- Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA- FINLAY BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne ,
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD .
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AU S.-mortlock bros.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —sim king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
The Sign
of Quality
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


gnas
mm
m
m
\
SMB®
P
aas
:'v‘
‘
P&'V*
%/&£ ’ - life** *
*
3** m ik
ggllft
H® •,- m gi
: : ;
'
Wmmik
oAt the Sign of the “White Horses
White Horse Whisky doesn't change-wherever
you buy it, wherever you try it, you will find
it’s just the same grand old Whisky, made
according to the original recipe of 1746*
Every drop of water used in White Horse is
Scottish, and it's just that little “ tang ” of the
heather which gives White Horse its individuality
and character. When you hear that old
familiar substitution cry, “ Oh, Sir, this is just
as good,” don’t believe it or listen to it.
Insist on White Horse Whisky. It’s the best
in the world and is made by the largest
INDEPENDENT Whisky Firm in Scotland
from the original recipe of 1746-
WHITE house
"sLtchWHISKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


sdf
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new “Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boon to every
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and telephone at your elbow....you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-room. .. .or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Room and Breakfast only, from 13/6 per
day; Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/-
per week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Fake
P alack “Is Zat So?”
Roy ai. “Abie's Irish Rose”
St. James “Betty Lee”
Fuller’s Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Katja”
Royal “Brown Sugar”
King's “Mary Rose”
Athenaeum “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
New Olympia Wirths’ Circus
In “Mary Rose,” which Dion Boucicault
is placing before Melbourne audiences at.
the King’s, Barrie set out with a butterfly-
net and snared an antelope. Out of a fairy
story as familiar to Oriental folk-lorists as
to Scottish weirds, he has made two acts
of thoroughly engaging beauty, dramatic in-
terest, sentimental charm and satisfying
actuality. The tale is of the beautiful young
bride who is spirited from her husband’s
bed and board by the “little folk” and re-
turned after 25 years, as young and beauti-
ful as ever, but with a mind blank as to
the passage of the intervening seasons. In-
stead of dressing this theme in the conven-
tional trappings of stage mystery and magic,
the playwright has stated it in plausible
terms of common earthly life. The girl is
a roguish Georgian miss; her parents are
a prosaic pair who are more interested in
the new invention of the telephone than in
gnomes and fairies; her husband is a lieu-
tenant in the Royal Navy, who rises to high
rank in the Great War; her baby runs away
to Australia in her absence, and comes back
with the A.I.F. to win the war. The scenes
are laid in an English country house and
on an island in a Highland loch. So far,
so good ; in fact, much more than good. Up
to 10.30 the dramatist pursues his quarry
with all his well-known craftiness and grace;
by 10.35 he has it fairly in his grasp; at a
quarter to eleven it has smashed his net and
is chasing the protesting hunter fiercely
round the stage. In other words, Barrie
could not think of a better way of disposing
of his heroine than to bury her in the vil-
lage churchyard and make her ghost, con-
ventionally gangrened by a green spotlight
from the dome, engage in a colloquial chit-
chat while seated on the Digger’s khaki
knee. This Showman has no objections to
stage ghosts as long as they observe the
laws and are paid the union wage ; but lie
felt on Saturday night that Mary Rose de-
served a better fate.
* * * *
Except for this brutal injustice to a charm-
ing creature, the play is an absorbing and
captivating one. Needless to say, under
Boucicault’s direction, everybody concerned
was thoroughly at home even in the realm
of the supernatural. As Mary Rose and as
the same lady’s unhappy wraith, Angela
Baddeley proved herself a brilliant and en-
ticing exponent of the tender muse that
hovers between laughter and tears. She had
for husband Brian Aherne, whose curiously-
angular style and art do not so much flow
as arrive in disconcerting but effective jerks.
The same gentleman served as her Digger
son. For parents she had the slightly prosy
Hubert Harben and the always interesting
Mary Jerrold. Mary Hinton, Frederick
Culley and Norman Macowan completed a
rhythmic band.
If a musicomedy star stripped as reck-
lessly as Beethoven did in his Sonata Appas-
sionata, the moral censors would break blood-
vessels and the lady herself would catch a
cold. That is the advantage of music. A
highly respectable mixed audience like that
which thronged Melbourne Auditorium can
sit through an interpretation like that of
Backhaus with tumultuous feelings but per-
fectly sedate consciences. If the same lan-
guage were used in a poem, a picture, a
movie scenario or a novel the perpetrator
would be promptly haled before a beak.
Dudwig dedicated his pagan chant to the
Count Franz von Brunswick, but with both
eyes on the Count’s beauteous sister. Backhaus
bestowed perhaps a shade too much atten-
tion on the dedicatory passages and too little
on the outcries of the composer’s human
heart. Nevertheless, his rendering stirred
the soul, and his technique left all super-
latives panting hopelessly in the rear. At a
pianistic exhibition or a juggling show, this
commentator has only a limited capacity for
wonder, and it was already exhausted by
the time the performer got to the stupen-
dous fireworks of Paganini’s variations on
a Brahms theme. The dreamy Schumann
panel and the five descriptions of different
sorts of weather by Chopin were likewise
brilliantly handled. But perhaps the choice
morsel of the evening was the scherzo from
Mendelssohn’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
There was more of the miraculous in that
extraordinary performance than in an album
full of spook photographs by Conan Doyle.
Surveying a stage completely beset by slap-
stick gagsters, this Page will say good-bye
to Harry Green at Melbourne Athenaeum
to-morrow night not without regret. Although
by no means a great actor, Green does at
least obtain his effects by persuasive brush-
strokes in keeping with the character he is
meant to represent. On Saturday patrons
of this theatre will “Meet the Wife” and
the company previously heard in “The Best
People.” Renee Kelly continues to shock
her mother-in-law and delight her audiences
at the Royal; and at the Palace “What Hap-
pened to Jones” is being widely recognised,
despite the Yankee witticisms which F'rank
Neil has added. There is scarcely a moment
when the clink of silver is not heard at His
Majesty’s, where Marie Burke is “Katja”
for the evening. Wirths’ Circus continues
to be the greatest show on earth. And if a
circus had been discovered on Mars the other
day Wirths’ would still be the greatest.
V V »!» v
The pantomimes draw nigh, and the Pul-
lers have this year transplanted the entire
wardrobe and properties of the London pro-
duction of “Puss in Boots” for their Christ-
mas attraction. A real old-time transforma-
tion scene is to be one of the star turns.
* * *
There is a rustle of change at Melbourne
Tivoli, where a moderately strong troupe
of mixed vaudevillains has been collected to
fill the gap shortly to be left by Henry
Santrey and his jazzicians. Henry’s music
has attracted crowded houses, but his humor
lias been better received than it deserves.
Like his country, it is not so much dry as
soft.
A pretty little girl in pink looking like
a Japanese peach blossom agitated by a
gentle breeze is a feature at Melbourne
Bijou, and it is a shame she lias to twist
her graceful body through a ring. Kenny
and Lear use giant voices to produce dwarf-
ish humor, Rebe Kesslova is a distressing
violinist, and Robert Roberts only paves
the way to the real business of the evening,
which is Jim Gerald as a Russian admiral
such as never was on land or sea.
Nervous season-ticket holders had better
stay away from Melbourne Majestic, where
a maniac is driving “The Overland Limited”
across a broken bridge and innocent people
are being smashed to pieces in the cause of
public entertainment. Gloria Swanson is
succumbing to a variety of disorderly temp-
tations as “The Untamed Lady” at Hoyt’s,
which is also exhibiting, in “Grass,”- a
genuine film masterpiece of dramatic atmo-
sphere and art.
❖ : i : * *
Definite Art: —
When A. H. Fullwood starts painting Heaven,
that metropolis will cease to be the cloudy abstrac-
tion the writer of Revelation left it. The angels
■will nest in blue-gums of an easily recognisable
variety, and Saint Henry Lawson will shoulder his
matilda along macadamised roads all leading to a
“A BIE'S IRISH
ROSE,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Marty Ford as Isaac
Cohen and Jack
Trainer as Solomon Levy.
pub where the nectar is branded Reach’s. Also the
cows of the celestial pastures will all be Jerseys.
In the meantime, being in no immediate hurry, the
veteran Australian artist continues to depict this
continent in his solid, pictorial and altogether
charming manner. A show of his little pictures,
some quite gem-like, is on view at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne.
* * * ❖
Frank Hurley’s new picture, “The Hound
of the Deep,” is a good Australian film, but
though it is dinkum it disappoints. A play
set in Thursday Island, dealing with pearl-
fishers and the dangers of the deep, has great
interest for Australians; but it should be
more exciting and original than this one. The
best parts of the picture are the under-water
scenes, showing divers at their work, the
beauty of fishes in their element, and the
strange vegetable life of the ocean floor; but
these attractions are subordinated to a hack-
neyed plot and a made-to-order drama, pro-
vided by the ancient stage device of a pre-
posterous will. Excitement is provided by
the picture of a diver under water with his
leg gripped by a giant clam, and the villain’s
attempt to murder the hero by cutting the
air-pipe when he is below. The ending, how-
“BROWN SUGAR;" AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Ex-chorus-girl Lady Sloan annoys Lady Hon-
oria Nesbitt by calling her “Piano Legs ”
(Renee Kelly and Dorothy Fane).
ever, provides an unexpected piece of comedy.
The principals of the company were brought
to Thursday Island from England ; but one
Thursday Island “stray,” picked up on the
beach, provides a minor character study more
convincing than the stereotyped work of the
principals. The “hound” is well played by
Jameson Thomas; the hero is Eric Bransby
Williams, manly enough ; and Lillian Doug-
las makes a nice heroine. The film was
shown in Sydney on Saturday.
* >:-■ .'f *
“Betty Lee,” alleged to be a very bright visi-
tor, is to make her bow at Sydney St. James’s
on Saturday; her stay this visit cannot be
long, for at Christmas time the Fuller com-
panies will be flung into the throes of panto-
mime—Madge White and Elsie Prince are
to divide the honors, one in Melbourne, the
other in Sydney. At the Palace, Saturday
also sees the Sydney start of “Is Zat So?”
“Rose Marie” commences its 25th week on
that evening; the attendances at Her
Majesty’s are still of the sort that delight
the heart of managements. Maurice Mosco-
vitcli continues “The Fake” at the Criterion ;
“Abie’s Irish Rose” fills the Royal with
laughter; and “Spangles” keeps the dust
from settling on the seats at the Grand
Opera House.
Jerry and co. are building a fabric of
humor which keeps the Tivoli’s Sydney audi-
ences in ripples. The three comedy mer-
chants say nothing, but they fall about as
humorously as State politicians. It is all
perfect pantomime; there must be something
wrong with the kid, young or old, who is
not amused by it. Other notable arrivals are
Zoe Delphine and co.: two of the performers
are discovered sitting at a supper-table bal-
anced on a tight wire, whereon they do
remarkable deeds later. The act makes an
advance on other tiglit-wire stunts, and its
sumptuous staging is unusual, also.
Lee White and Clay Smith, due to go to
S’Africa, cancelled their Melbourne season in
order to stage an application to the N.S.W.
Registrar in Bankruptcy for a certificate of
discharge. The Registrar proved kind. With
the burden of the old debts rolled away, the
entertaining pair will leave at the end
of next week; and on Thursday (Nov. IS)
the Tivoli is staging a midnight show for the
Lee White farewell. The opportunity seems
to be regarded as an excellent chance to try
again a Continental innovation which mana-
gers are apparently eager to introduce.
“The Mountain Maid” is Moon and
Morris’s medium for a new instalment of
merriment at Fullers’ New Theatre (Syd-
ney) ; it might just as easily be “The Billa-
bong Beauty” or, for that matter, “The Pig-
yard Pixie” ; but the Moon humor keeps up
its standard. And Apdale’s circus, with the
baboon, Mutt, as its star, is a large enter-
tainment in itself.
The Phonofilm, heard and seen at the
Prince Edward, Sydney, on Saturday, is a
remarkable invention; but it will have to
take the plum out of its mouth before it is
a success. A man appears on the screen and
begins to talk. It is not a case of mechanical
synchronisation; the voice heard is actually
produced by an attachment to the celluloid
film, printed parallel with the picture film.
At the present stage of the invention the
voice is muffled; and if it is ever to
please Australia the talking man on the
screen will have to speak English.
* *
“Is Zat So?” has been at Adelaide Royal,
where Claude Saunders, who started his
acting in Adelaide and is enormously im-
proved, got a specially warm welcome. West's
pictures have opened a big new stage, capable
of anything, and are making first use of it
for an elaborate prologue to “The Volga
Boatmen.” At Wondergraph, “Ranson’s
Folly,” which was a fine book, makes an even
finer picture, especially in the fire scene.
** * *
Two Adelaide shows :—■
The one-woman exhibition of Miss Beatrice Chettle,
at the Society of Arts Gallery, has daintiness for
its chief note. The lady has been only three
years in Australia, but has caught the atmosphere
well, wisely avoiding its more glaring aspects. The
Adelaide Art Gallery bought a small water-color
of the University front. A whole wall of gardens
and such things, each “kindly lent by Mrs. So-
and-So,” shows that the artist has found a safe
method of appeal.
A collection of etchings at the Dunster Gallery
contains a wide range. Syd bong and Stanley
Anderson show power. Eric Scott has some clear-
cut bits of France. Britton puts sound workmanship
into every line. Fullwood has a curiously old-
fashioned touch; Millward Grey brings in the
unusual with human figures, and Crisp with an
engaging kangaroo on guard. Also there are good
trees everywhere; the foliage of Robins is notable,
and so is that of Herbert Gallop, with the odd
trick of making branch-ends flatten out like peacock
feathers. A sound show, that appeals more to the
connoisseur than to the casual sight-seer.
“Flaming Youth” : How many remember
Garnet Walch now? In his day there war
no complaint that the Australian play-
wright did not get a chance on the local
stage: for years Garnet was represented
almost continually by a comedy, a burlesque
or a pantomime—all the pantos, were home-
grown then. Besides a “Bobbery Under
Arms,” which still lives on the bills of some
touring companies, he wrote “His Evil Star,”
“Humble Pie,” “Perfidious Albion,” “Proof
Positive” and a host of others; and some
of his “Christmas annuals” —“Head Over
Heels,” “On the Cards,” “A Little Tin
Plate,” “With the Compliments of the
Season” and “Larrikin Jack” —might be
revived with profit.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : A most uproarious
welcome was given to the Blackbirds, the
colored dancers and revue artists who have
had such a sustained success at the Ambas-
sadors in Paris. Florence Mills, the chief
star, gave a wonderful party in the French
capital a few days ago on her husband’s
birthday, and by way of farewell to their
friends by the Seine. A number of distin-
guished artists and exclusive social person-
ages accepted the hospitality of the lithe,
young dancer. There had been many busi-
ness difficulties to surmount before the co.
got on the London stage, the last being over
their magpie costumes. Anyway, London
sprang at them; and their singing and more
especially their dancing have set the town
talking. Anton Dolin, the young Irishman
who enthralled London as the star of the
famous Russian ballet, pays the Blackbirds
a great compliment. “It just wants to make
one begin at the beginning,” he said. “Some
of their steps are absolutely unbelievable.”
“The Stage Cat”: “Joseph’s” par re
G. and S. artists who have afterwards
appeared in Australia tempts me to men-
tion a case “in reverse;” In the original
cast of “The Sorcerer,” really the first of
the G. and S. cycle of operas, the soprano
role was sung by Alice May, who was
described on the programme as “the Austra-
lian Nightingale.” That successful first
night at the Opera Comique dwells in my 7
memory because of the first appearance on
any stage of the original George Grossmith,
jun., who played John Wellington Wells.
“Modestine”: Gisborne, long one of the
best of M'aoriland show-towns, has fallen
on evil days. No show that has visited it
in recent years has paid expenses; and a
smart revue co. showed lately to seven per-
sons, including three pressmen. After the
opening number the curtain came down with
the almost forgotten dud, sickening thud.
Gisborne’s isolation has been blamed for the
theatrical slump, but actually there is a
twice-daily service from Napier, the rail-
head. Blame must rather be laid on the
pitchers and a long succession of dud com-
panies.


300-YARD BEAM.
FOR
THE
IDEAL TORCH
ALL USES.
THE NEW WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boating or
fishing. Nickel Case, 3-J-inch lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price 217-
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH.
Fibre case, well finished. Olin. long. Neat
and compact. Price 157-
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, long.
Fibre case. Strong and serviceable. Price, 8/6
All Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably strong.
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell, 2/6
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-cell, 1 /})
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries, 6d.
SPORTS CENTRE.
318 Little Collins St.. Melbourne.
You’ll like
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For tkeir exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort I
©
©
They Fz'c”
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
When
XMAS
Comes!
The Best Gift
for Lady
or Gentleman
c
V
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun.”
Poverty
Point
“C. Ockney”: As Renee Kelly is anxious
to appear as Peter Pan, the Williamson
directors are thinking of reproducing tlie old
piece. It is a long time since it was first
done here with Titteil Brune, though a
short revival with another American actress,
Kathlene Macdonell, in the title-role has
been given since. Neither presentation made
any great stir; but a new Peter may make
all the difference. The piece is being staged
again in London at Christmas—its 22nd
consecutive season.
NOT ONE BYTE.
“To think that l spent the whole of the even-
ing telling him about his awful reputa-
tion for making love to girls!”
“And what did he do?”
“Sat there like a fool and denied it!”
“Old ’Un”: The ancient Du Maurier
romance “Trilby” is to follow “The Fake”
at Sydney Criterion, with Moscovitch as
Svengali—one of his pet parts. Last time
it was done here Nellie Stewart was in the
title-r6le, and Gaston Mervale was Svengali.
It was never a good play; and nowadays
Little Billie’s love affair with the heroine
seems to smack of the nursery. But the
old piece lias afforded plenty of opportuni-
ties for leading mummers. Tree was the
first Svengali in the English cast, H. V.
Esmond (the dramatist) Billie, and Doro-
thea Baird (Mrs. 11. B. Irving) Trilby.
“Nero”: Don’t you believe “Goldilocks’s”
yarn (B. 28/10/’26) that Dorothy Cum-
ining never had a chance in anything but
the chorus before she went to America. I
don’t think she was ever in the chorus.
When I first saw the really superb girl
she was playing the part of Beauty with
Hilda Spong in the Firm’s “Everywoman.”
Later on in the tour she played the juvenile
lead in “Passers-by,” and she also played
in “Alias Jimmy Valentine” and, I think,
“Camille.” Soon afterwards she went to
America, and she was not there long before
Cyril Maude made her leading lady for his
Australian tour. With Maude she played
the lead in “Grumpy,” and also Lady
Teazle in “The School for Scandal,” and,
for such an inexperienced actress, she made
a wonderfully good showing. In the cast
of “Everywoman” was another Australian
girl who has made a world-wide success in
pictures, Enid Bennett, now Mrs. Fred
Niblo. She played Modesty.
“ Jeune Premier”: Bert Bailey's cheery
little partner, Julius Grant, just back from
overseas, has brought a bunch of American
plays to be produced under his management.
He is careful to mention that, although the
pieces are from the U.S.A., they are not so
typical as to require American casts. No
players have yet been engaged from abroad ;
and the intention is to “engage as much Aus-
tralian talent as is practicable.” Tidings
of great comfort and joy !
“Two Seas”: I can assure “Hamfat” (B.
28/10/’26) that I know of one occasion
when the audience didn’t get his money back.
In the early ’nineties a touring company,
consisting of a inonologuist and his pianistj
struck the village of Bingara (N.S.W.).
Monologuing as an entertainment was not
popular there, which, added to the fact that
when the doors of the hall opened it was
raining in torrents, accounted for only one
man going inside. He was a Chow, and
probably only blew in to get out of the wet.
However, after waiting in vain for someone
to keep the Chow company, the monologuing
gent, mounted the stage, while the pianist left
the door for the piano, and struck a few bars
of “Pinafore” as an overture. Then the gent,
on the stage sang “Two Little Girls in Blue,”
went off, and hastily lowered the curtain.
The pianist rose and started to put out the
lights. “Whaffor?” inquired the audience.
“Finished ; no more,” explained the pianist.
“Oh Cli!” mbaned the Chow, as lie shuffled
out into the storm with his hands thrust into
his wide sleeves, a picture of misery.
“Caul Boy”: When you see the singer
whose voice you have heard only over the
wireless, it is like being confronted by the
bull whom you have only met previously in
Bovril bottles. Raymond Ellis is to give
Melbourne listeners-in that demonstration of
his corporeal existence on November 17,
when he will confine his great baritone
within the walls of the Auditorium. Ellis
was of the cast of “The Magic Flute,” the
first opera to be broadcasted in England.
“Lud”: Australia’s own Oscar’s full name,
as disclosed at the recent public examination
of his affairs in London, is John Stanger
Ileiss Oscar Asche. From “Chu-Chin-Cliow”
he received during the play’s five years’ run
£BO a week as actor and royalties as author
amounting to £lOO,OOO.
“Yarra Ben”: A common object of the
St. Kilda (Vic.) foreshore for nearly 20
years will disappear when the wooden build-
ing known as Pierrotland is demolished. It
was the first open-air theatre on St. Kilda
beach, and enjoyed great popularity when
Will and Rob Thomas ran their “English
Pierrot” entertainments there. With the
passing of the two original proprietors its
luck waned. Several people tried similar
shows at the old stand ; but the competition
of the dance-halls at the adjacent Carlyon’s,
Wattle Path and the Palais proved too
strong, and now Pierrotland falls into the
hands of the liquidator. A well-conducted
and refined singing and dancing programme
proves much too sedate for the jazz-mad
frequenters of the beach nowadays.
“Caul Boy” : Melbourne can soon have a
Little Theatre, too, if it wants one. The
Taits have told the Repertory executive that
they are prepared to supply a theatre, club
and rehearsal rooms, costumes, and Gregan
McMahon as producer if the society will
find enough subscriptions. But perhaps it
had better find out first how the plan has
really worked in Sydney. Darned badly,
many sincere Repertorians think.
“Schnorrer”: The mixture of ham and
kosher in the last act of “Abie’s Irish Rose”
is a weird impossibility; but there is a
quaint lack of knowledge of the require-
ments of the Jewish law even amongst those
who try to be faithful. At a luncheon a
Jewish actress—who subsequently confined
herself to fish, salads and sweets —was talk-
ing about a great entertainment offered to
her company elsewhere. “Unfortunately,
the food not being kosher, I nearly starved,”
she added. She happened at the time to be
eating oysters; all shellfish are trefah—the
same as pork. Not long ago the London
Jewish Chronicle remarked anent a Pales-
tine publication, that “it is bad taste, to
say the least, for a Jewish religious journal
to publish advertisements of such things as
oysters, and veal and ham pasties.” Inci-
dentally, a couple of years ago an enter-
prising Sydney firm took a full page in a
local Jewish journal to advertise Christmas
presents!
“Stranded”: John Kirby has scored
heavier than ever. He is linked with Laddie
Cliff (in Australia about 1906) in the
comedy work of “Tiptoes,” and the Daily
Mirror declares that the pair give more
laughter in ten minutes than can be got in
a whole night’s performance anywhere else
in London.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : As a compliment
to Thomas Hardy, a special matinee of “The
Mayor of Casterbridge,” adapted from John
Drinkwater’s novel, was given at the Pavilion
Theatre, Weymouth, on September 20. Mr.
and Mrs. Drinkwater (Daisy Kennedy)
occupied a box with Hardy and his wife;
and between the acts Daisy Kennedy, at
Hardy’s request, played a couple of old Eng-
lish folksongs as violin solos. The theatre
HE FELT FT MOST.
“I suppose your landlady was annoyed when you told
her you couldn't pay her your rent.”
“Oh no; it teas I who teas put out.”
nrnwderi • n„ri
was crowded and when the grand old man
0 f letters entered, the whole audience rose
li^-d
gratitude to the Banies Theatre co. which
had travelled so far for liis pleasure.
-
IDg experience in Los Angeles when playing
)V th t Marjorie Bennett in “Getting Gertie’s
Garter, a farce which had offended the
authorities. After the matinee she heard the
newsboys yelling, “Theatrical sensation!
Allstralian actres , ses arrested!” Opening a
p ape r, she saw her photograph gracing an
official Promise that if the company attempted
another performance a police-van would
supply a fitting finale. However, a small
fine P er head sufficed, and the management
TVn vi it
‘ „
, BR H - = In the old days, when theatre-
d ; )o . rs , were °Pf. n to almost anybody who
claimed connection with any sort of news-
P a Per, Jim Hazlitt was standing one night
by Her Majesty s ticket-box. A brisk
chap hove in sight and with one
cu«tp uuve m si & ul, anu witu one
ejaculation, Jim, old sport! and a hearty
j shoulder passed inside “Who
? Id P passed msiue. nno
ls that fellow? A pal of yours?” asked a
f } d « H { tersel re pii e d
-VCt do “ e he write for?” lie was asked:
“jr ol . p asses ;»» snapped Jim.
“A.G.M.” (London) : Frederick Ranalow
has made a hit in an unaccustomed part-
that of a volatile Frenchman Count
Armand—m Just a Kiss’ at the Shaftes-
bury. A capable French scholar, he has
?f SfS Sto
the leading London dailies a campaign has
starte( j f or t j K , withdrawal of smoking rights
f rom t j le j ew theatres where it is allowed
and at res taurants. Ostentatious smoking
ig no i onger cons idered evidence of smartness.
“Hamfat” i Tal Ordell, travelling Sydney in
a motor-car which looks as if his film co. was
a £500,000 venture, is filling in time with
picture work in connection with a newspaper
competition; and that occupation has brought
him into contact with at least one interesting
character. He is now a prosperous and
highly respectable taxi-owner, but he claims
that, in a former day, he was the champion
garrotter of Australia. If recommendations
were wanted he was prepared to refer Ordell
to the gaols he has inhabited and his criminal
records. The ex-garrotter’s idea was that
it might be useful to the film-boss to have
a man w T ho could stage a garrotting scene
according to the highest standards. His
anxiety to shine on the screen roused Ordell’s
curiosity. “Well,” said the taxi-man, ‘T
was working W.A. one time, and a chap we
knew as ‘The Rabbit’ useter go through the
blokes we garrotted. The other day I saw
a film, and blime, ‘The Rabbit’ was in it! If
‘The Rabbit’ can show on a picture, by
cripes, I can!” In the cause of real art
Ordell hopes by-and-bye to be able to utilise
the services of the expert.
“John’s Wood" (Lond.): Excitement
marked the opening of the Gilbert and
Sullivan season at the Prince’s, when “The
Mikado” was revived with scenery and
dresses designed by Charles Ricketts, A.R.A.,
who set the play and the performers in
seventeenth-century Japan. Some critics
considered the new costumes too realistic
for the airy nature of the
fantasy, but all were agreed
as to the great beauty of the
designs. A more daring de-
parture was the alteration
of Gilbert's lines by the in-
troduction of fatuous refer-
ences to prominent politi-
cians. Lady Gilbert was
among the audience; so was
Jessie Bond, who played
Pitti-sing in the original pro-
duction. Elsie Griffin as
Yum Yum was exquisitely
served by Ricketts’s dress
designs. Fancourt’s concep-
tion of the Mikado as being
in a state of chronic ferocity
is entirely at variance with
the original production under
Gilbert’s close supervision.
The potentate of that occa-
sion veiled almost all his
fierceness under a guise of
fascinating blandness.
“M.G.S.”: Truth is stran-
ger than fiction. The Bul-
letin last Christmas printed
a story in which I made a
barbarous court in Central
Africa listen-in to 3LO, Mel-
bourne’s broadcasting sta-
tion, and in consequence I
was assailed for inventing a
technical impossibility. Yet.
already 2LO, of London, has
written to 3LO to say that
it lias picked up the strains
of a quartette prefaced by
the Australian station's
usual call. Within a year
or two .we shall be listening almost as a
regular thing to London and Continental
concerts.
“Bisley” : Sydney’s Poverty Point is likely
to have another shift. Jimmy White has
closed his office, and the vaudevillains are
drifting to the corner of Bathurst and
George streets, a stone’s-throw from Percy
Lodge’s office in the Crystal Palace. As
Percy is a “big noise” in the vaudeville
circuit bookings to-day, it is only natural
that the artists stick to the source of supply.
“Norwood” : Apropos the recent Bulletin
discussion as to whether a man who jumped
over a high cliff wasn’t dead from heart-
failure before he reached the bottom, I
remember that 50 years ago there was a
troupe of five trapezists, the Midget Hanlons
—afterwards the Hanlon Voltas. They per-
formed for years at the Crystal Palace,
London. As the finale to their act Little
Billie would be hauled up through a door
in the roof to a height of 80ft. from the net.
Billie would dive through the air, and when
within 20ft. of the net would turn forward
and with a heavy crash would fall on his
shoulderblades into the net. On the rebound
he would gracefully light on his feet on the
carpet. He was willing to dive 100 ft., or
more, if the Palace authorities would let him.
“C. Ockney”: The sole survivor of the
co. which supported the beauteous Marie
de Grey in Australia (B. 28/10/’26) is
Morton Selten. One of the best light com-
edians of his time, the veteran is now play-
ing a “character old-man” part in “Merely
Molly,” an all-Britisli musical comedy at
London Adelphi, with that prime favorite
Evelyn Laye in the lead. Three other play-
ers who have visited Australia are in the
east: Herbert Ross, George Ide and Polly
Emery.
“Hamfat” : It was in the days when the
atmosphere of the theatre was less commer-
cial than it is now. An indignant creditor
of mine called on my manager to complain
of my disregard for my debts. “It’s not as
if he wasn’t in regular employment,” the
creditor gurgled passionately. “I’ve tried
in every way to get my money from him and
failed. You’ll agree that for him to owe
money like this is disgraceful.” “Oh. I don’t
know,” said the entrepreneur suavely; “we
don’t worry much about money on the stage.
I believe I owe him a good deal myself!”
EXIT ROMEO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After many years they meet again... . She sees
an elderly family man, coarsened by his success.
.... He lias developed a stomach.... The idyll is
over.”
Comes a lover slim and straight ;
Dazzled maiden, well does she know
If he’s modelled on the late
Much-lamented Valentino.
She’s a “goner” ! He’s ideal,
Pictured in her dreams; but never
Dreamed she he could e’er be real!
If he speaks, she’s his for ever!
But the giddy Romeo,
Not content one maid to capture,
May in search of others go
Who, in turn, will gaze in rapture
On his slimness and his “style”—
Which his tailor much assisted—
Satisfied if he but smile,
Round his little finger twisted.
Years pass, and the gallant swain
Loses hair and more flesh carries;
And an ordinary, plain
Spinster middle-aged he marries.
He anon his first love meets;
Mute she stands like any dummy;
And the old glad, mad heartbeats
Adiposity defeats;
For she can’t forgive his tummy!
victoria.
EARDLEY TURNER.


fas
u
!v
\
ft
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave—the
razor, strop and blade in
leatherette-covered case. .
Of all dealers.
3/6
%%
m
m
wmm
kD
'A
m
V
mb
m
Ever
Felt
Velvet?
He can’t pass that mirror without marvelling. Fifty
perfect shaves and the self-same blade still as keen as
ever on its job. The secret? No secret; it’s the
“Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor, the razor that
strops its own blade without removal from the frame.
Ask your dealer to show you how it works.
BRITISH
MADE.
66
VALET
99
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TO USE THIS SOAP
•THE FACE AND RUBW™
ih hShaving Stick.
)R KUP A LATHER ON W
USING PLENTY /
her
- ! n when
■ '*HOV£O
Jill
<b
n
m
sK
/r y,lw
1
Brighten to-morrow s shave
—by using Williams Shaving Stick
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick gives a rich, thick lather
that bulks large on the face. Its wetness penetrates the
oil film on the beard so that almost instant softening takes
place. Its mild quality leaves the skin, at the end of the
shave, feeling wonderfully softened and soothed.
You will see a decided improvement the first time you shave
with Williams. It is made by shaving-soap specialists. No
wonder it gives a better shave. Buy a stick to-day.
Williams sticks are unusually long lasting and therefore
economical. Men who prefer shaving cream, be sure to
ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
The “ ATRITOR”
Coal Pulverizing Machine
m
''' . ■
S49*
One of the latest
and most efficient
self - contained
units, having the
great advantage of
requiring no auxil-
iary plant what-
ever, except the
means for rotating
its spindle and the
provision of a sup-
ply of raw coal to
its hopper.
The Atritor dries, granulates, pulverises and aerates the coal at
one process.
Manufactured by Alfred Herbert, Ltd., Coventry, for whom we
act as Sole Agents in Australia.
Alfred Herbert
(Austo), Ltd.
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegrams: LATHE.


sdf
mr
n
1 POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tuber Obtainable Everywhere .
®9i4
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVEX” is a production of modem civilisation whereby men can
shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda. With
“Shavex” you can shave in half the time and get a perfect and
smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin like satin and keeps
one young, and no after lotion is required. “Shavex ’ is a skin food.
It makes shaving a pleasure instead of a torture. Safety Razor Blades
last twice as long, and no hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts
3 months. At all chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOMI
and SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd. (Dept. 4), Eagle & Globe Buildings,
379 Kent Street, Sydney. Manufactured by The ZeeKol Manufacturing
Co., London, England.
A
Large tube, 1/9;
larger tube
(double quan-
tity), 2/6.
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp.
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NOVKLLO,
writes: —“It is a great pleasure to be able to say sincerely
that ‘Shavex’ is a really splendid invention. I am so often
asked to recommend preparations and tan so seldom do so,
but in this case my appreciation of your ‘Shavex’ is
genuine. I shall always use it.”
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION WANTED.
DAVID LONG, dead or alive, 83
unmarried, fair complexion, stout
sft. 9in. high, followed mining.
Looked for by nephew, Edward
Grange Yale, Douglas, Cork, Ireland.
years,
build,
Long,
Public Notice.
QEORGE A. BOND & CO., LTD., are paying their
14th quarterly dividend at the rate of 10 p.e.
on their Second Preference Shares.
The books of the Company will be closed from
the loth to the 17th November inclusive.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
m:y.
f
w>
g W . #• -V:
••••••
Wm
qD
uOj.
a<iox
!
‘>j y
mi
m\f
THAT is one of the beauties of a
“ SWAN >s —it is something you
may depend on as sure to please.
And not merely for a moment or for a
day but for well-nigh a lifetime.
Remember that the * 4 SWAN ” has
a great reputation for finish and
durability, As a house is built brick
by brick, so has the fame of “ SWAN”
been built pen by pen-—each adding
to an imperishable name.
9
"Swan'” Self-filling Fountpcns 17 /6 upwards
“Swan” and “Blackbird” Pens and “Swan” Ink
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Head Office: MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
133 & 135, Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Factory: Swan Works, London, N.W.
Manufacturers' Agents and Repair Sc: vice Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181, Clarence Street. SYDNEY.


A CORRECTIVE.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a corrective
for constipation and its attendant ills.
They produce regular, natural action
of the bowels, thus freeing the
blood from impurities caus.ed by con-
stipation. Chamberlain’s Tablets are
easy to take and pleasant in effect.
There*s a Smile in every Tablet.**
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIKST CLASS)
Tariff from 16 - to 18/- per Day.
sdf
Matured bn
Nature ana
cushioned
hand.
With an infinite skill and patience
—born of more than 60 years of
"knowing how ” —the makers of the
famous “ 888 ” Pipes fashion each
individual pipe with almost rever-
ential care
For are not these wonder pipes made
from old—oh ! so very old- truyere
root ? And it would be unseemly
for man to do aught but add first-
class craftsmanship to that which
nature has produced and matured
so graciously
BBB'Pipes
The Pipes without Blemish B London Made
Ask your favourite Tobacconist to shozv
you the full range of “BBB” Pipe’-.
Manufactured by
ADOLFT-I FRANKAU & CO. LTD., London, England
Amusements.
0 YDNB Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: THE FAKE.
PALACE: IS ZAT SO?
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction. ... Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
THEATRE ROYAL:
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: BETTY LEE.
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CEIjEBHITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
J C. WILLIA M SON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KATJA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
BROWN SUGAR.
KING’S THEATRE:
MARY ROSE.
ATHEN ZE U M THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13,
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|Y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALASIAN FILMS, LIMITED, present
Another Australian Picture, their Second Picture,
TALL TIMBERS.
Wonderful scenes in the North Coast timber country.
Box Plan at Allan's and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 k 7700.
IMEW BTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
GLORIA SWANSON in
THE UNTAMED LADY.
ALSO
GRASS.
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Prices as usual.
THE NEW OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE,
WIRTHS’ PARK.
WIRTHS’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS.
“The Greatest Show' on Earth.”
New Acts specially engaged by Mr. Geo. Wirtli on
his recent tour of the world.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing Friends.
DE ESTATE OF HENRY JOHN CORK,
Deceased.
HENRY J. CORK, father of the above-
named, is requested to communicate with
the Public Trustee, 67 Castlereagh Street,
U4H
111
m
m
-3-
i!SS>
Ski
‘ri-
al :
f
T 1 *
t
3»*a»
7HEREVER man lives electricity
Wis his willing servant. It brings
comfort and convenience to his home,
lightens his labor and makes rapid
transportation and communication
easy.
WHEREVER man lives, the
International General Electric
Co. serves him through convenient,
local representation.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,’
Buenos Aires, Rosario de Santa Fe,
Tucuman.
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd.', Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZlL—General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERICA International
General Electric Company Inc., New
Orleans, La., U. S. A.
CHILE —International Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaiso; Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquique.
CHINA —Andersen, Meyer & Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA—Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar-
ranquilla, Bogota, Medellin.
CUBA—General Electric Company of
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java.
ECUADOR—Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT—British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
International General Electric Co.,
Tnc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France.
HOLLAND—Mijnssen & Co., Amster-
dam.
INDlA—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN —international General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka..
MEXlCO.—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey.
Tampico, Veracruz, El Paso, Texas:
HEW ZEALAND—National Electrical &
Engineering Co., Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU—W. R. Grace & Co., Lima.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—lnternational General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dade de Con'strucoes Electricas,
Lda., Lisbon.
SOUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
eral Electric Co., Ltd., Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES Sociedad
Iberica de Construcciones Electricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao.
S W I T Z E R L A N D—Trolliet Freres,
Geneva.
URUGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A. f
Montevideo.
VENEZUELA Wesselhoeft & Poor,
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Society
d’Electricite et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edison Co.,
Shanghai.
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagme Francaise Thomson-Houston.
Paris.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd.,
Rugby, England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagnia
Generate di Elettricita, Milan.
JAPAN—Shibaura Engineering Works.
Tokyo; Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd.. Ka-
Kanagawa-Ken.
The Tools of Today
The day of the isolated craftsman is done. Today is
the reign of mass industry. The tools of today are those
which scientific development has made indispensable.
It is no longer by individual effort but by the cunning
use of modern tools that the many wondrous examples
of skilled craftsmanship are developed. Of these mod-
ern tools, those operated by electricity are the most
numerous and useful.
For this reason, you will find, in every corner of the
world, electrically driven tools, large and small, of
diversified types and uses, quietly, but effectively, serv-
ing humanity and industry. Close by you, electric tools
are doing their work faithfully and satisfactorily.
Whether you are in search of an electric soldering iron
or a giant electric crane, no matter how small the tool
or how great the equipment, you may require, our local
representatives are in a position to serve you.
K
Int.-9-26
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., INC., SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, U. 9. Air


This ENAMEL is easy to apply.
It is largely used for Motor-cars, Yachts, Hospi-
tals and all interior and exterior house decoration.
R
I
P
O
L
I
N
P
R
O
T
E
C
T
S
fJpOLIN
JrkvKx
R
I
P
O
L
l
N
B
E
A
U
T
I
F
I
E
S
Procurable practically everywhere.
AVrite or ’phone for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
L. A. CORMACK
(FACTORY REP.),
4 Underwood St. (oft’ 35 Pitt St.),
SYDNEY. Telephone 83284.
$
tr
■in
I — t-'
When, by weight of years, diges-
tive powers become enfeeoled, and
the vital elements are not absorbed
from ordinary food, Benger’s is an
abundant and agreeable source of
nutrition.
No Food is so acceptable and so
entirely suitable in old age as
Benger’s,nor so complete in strength-
giving and sustaining nourishment.
A Doctor writes
“I have much pleasure in testifying to
the value of your Food in the diet of old
ao-e, and in dyspepsia and convalescence.
1 could not do without it in my practice.
sd
fsd
is always made with fresh new milk,
which it enriches and converts into
a nutritious food cream.
Dainty "Recipes for light dishes in
Benger’s Food Booklet. Post free fn-m-
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd., 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
HUNGER'S POOD. Ltd.. MANCHESTER. England
i 0r,2
Tenders.
TT OR the purpose of winding up a partner-
-1 ship, tenders are invited, and will be
received at the office of the undersigned
until February 1, 1927, for the Purchase
of THE VALUABLE DEVELOPMENT.
PROPERTY KNOWN AS THE LEAD-
VILLE MINES, including
The Mount Stewart Mine,
The Grosvenor Mine,
The Extended Mine.
The property consists of one hundred and
ten acres, comprised in two Amalgamated
Mineral Leases under the Mining Act of
1906 (not subject to royalties).
Development work consists of two thou-
sand five hundred (2500) feet of shafts, nine
thousand three hundred (9300) feet rises,
winzes, drives and crosscuts. In all twenty
120) prospecting shafts have been sunk, each
disclosing ore bodies. Nine mineral lodes
opened up, the chief metals being
Galena-Silver
Lead Carhonates-Silver
Copper
Zinc Sulphides .
High-grade Sulphide of Iron (Pyrites),
carrying silver and gold.
NO TRANSPORT DIFFICULTIES
RAILWAY STATION ADJOINS TIIE
PROPERTY. Distance from Sydney, two
hundred and forty (240) miles. The assets
for sale include the plant and machinery
in and about the mine, an inventory whereof
may be inspected at the office of the under-
signed. , . ,
All tenders must be made on the special
form of tender and subject to the conditions
set out therein and must be accompanied by
a deposit of two and one-half per centum
(24%) of the amount tendered. Such forms
ans full particulars will be supplied to any
bona fide applicant by the undersigned.
Leases arc available for inspection by
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. r D bogan , F.1.C.A.,
Bogan and Collard, Public Accountants.
88 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M
LTD'
Write
to
Desk B.
Chailis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
The Martin Ditcher
Gives the best crop because it ditches,
cleans and sweetens the land. Does the
work of 100 men. Costs little and does
a lot.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street,
Brisbane^
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
S.B.
I'C
iiW'.
i
LAUNDRENA
STARCH
The Dainty Woman’s Favourite
FOR EVERY FABRIC
STOUT OR FRAIL
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO. LTD.
Sydney
Host Holbrook Says -
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
dike an old wine.”
-
&
vim
o
\
» %
NTOOKS
SAUCE
#
n
m
m
2**
fsd
Clothe yourself in air when you
go to bed. AERTEX wonder weave
provides thousands of tiny air cells
which insulate the body against out-
side temperatures . . . they keep you
cool yet safeguard you from chills.
CLOT*/
»T«3
#3
m.
AERTCX
:«:<
K?
tONDOJJ
:«S
E»
This label on all Garments
See THIS LABEL ON
all garments.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and } or in case
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
who supply Wholesale Trade only
&6i
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. 10
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. ivill be retuine
unless stamps accompany.
Old Pink: The Bulletin lias never asked
any member of its staff what his religion was, o'
whether he had one; but its Editor, if he had to
put himself down as something, would describe him-
self as a Congregationalist, and of its four directors
two would line up with the C. of E., one with e
Nonconformists and the fourth with ? lleK
Doubters Rawhie: Misses by yards.... Nauticus:
Would make a capital 12-line par Rob p - = (~' c
“West” a bit more elbow-grease Phil O. »•:
Yes, but what about the employer ? If the
workman with a big family should be entitled
to more wages than one with no family, oughtu t
the employer with a big family be entit ec
to similar consideration ?. .. . Len C. M.: A good
subject, but not well handled L.: The yarn of
tne crows and the golf-balls is too much of a chest-
nut Harold C.: “Solicitors” is badly t01d....D.
Roverty: Your hand is too heavy for such a subject.
... .Roy Stone: Failed by a point or two. -. .Shirley:
“Dreamer” by even less.... Reg: No, that won’t do.
But tell us simply and plainly what you want, an-
we’ll help you, because there plainly is something
wrong R.E.M.: Glad to consider anything of that
sort. . . .S.R.P.: Sorry to hear that your story made
your friends laugh. It made us sad Clem lb:
“The Letter” is not worth a stamp.... J.L.D.: Hei
cheeks with roses carpeted, through which her
fancy’s footsteps trod” is the sort of extravagance
that spoils any verse T.P.J.: You are not the
first to mistake salacity for candor Beryl T.: You
went drunk on “Spots” P.0.G.: Verse about the
dead lady will earn nothing to pay the funeral exes.
. ...J.R.L.: Still on the same jog-trot, and getting
nowhere! J.R.M.: Made a burnt sacrifice to the
angry gods of poesy.... G.M.L.: Written like a
vaudeville masterpiece, and with just as much thought.
P.O.: Touch not light enough J.G.: Spoilt
by little phrases weary with overwork Steve G.:
Evidently you are an observer: —-
Her white breasts through her clothing shone,
And wobbled as she walked along,
And thoughts romantic might be weaved
Of how her shapely stomach heaved.
A.X.H.: It’s too tedious in its digressions
A.E.W.: “The Editor’s Complaint,” as far as >our
verses are concerned, was indigestion. ... I.X.M ..
Yes, there’s improvement; but the expression is a bit
raw. .. .C.R.M.: It would take a lot of trouble to
blow the froth off your beer verse, and probably
there wouldn’t be any beer left... .H.E.: Hopping
back 8.0. N.: Your story is a long funeral, witn
the corpse at the end instead of in front C.A.L.:
Sixteen lines for a sonnet are two, too much....
T.8.M.: lie published par., cut it out and forward
to accountant. Re verse about your mother’s
corpse, cut it out. .. .Carl: He loved another woman;
she loved another man ; so, in spite of the Divon e
Court’s open door, he killed her. So unnecessary.
. ...S.M.A.: “Archichokus” is, no doubt, the Latin
name:—
Canst thou not, when thou admirest the crocus,
See beauty, too, within the useful archu hokus t
Or glorving in the handsome rose sedate, oh
Perceive" there’s like beauty in the potato?
Cissie M.: Why kill off a perfectly good hus-
band to enable a neurotic woman to marry a postur
ing waster?....C.W.J.: The whole story is that the
first cheque was the one received by Pharaoh on tin
Bank of the Red Sea, crossed by Moses, Aaron and
Co. You take 2000 words to merely introduce
it i. .. .p.R.G.: It may be fact, but it’s very solemn.
. ...C.R.L.: Heavy as a bride’s first pudding....
Stan P.: “Alchemy” won’t rhyme with “necromancy”
in The Bulletin. .. .Gip. W. V.: ‘“How did Sloan
know he was married?’ questioned Todd.” By the
marriage lines on his forehead, perhaps L.R.1.:
“God gave to me this gift of song.” The Deity gets
blamed for far too much 5.0. M.: Warble on,
cheerful one! But we are overstocked m graves
and dead mothers are at a discount, the cold, co (
stone is a drug on the market, and there is no rea:
demand for the bones of your beloved G.b.1.: An
epic played on a tin whistle. .. .E.F.1.: It was a
sturdy patriotism that caused you to rhyme Eng-
lish” with “British”....R.G.W.: It started bravely
and then finished abruptly Ray W. R.: Your hero
does nothing in 5000 words. Doesn’t even marry
the heroine; she marries him J.R.L : You use
your material very badly... .F.S.S.: It’s hard travel-
ling on those laborious lines. .. .V.S.W.: The wai
finished in 1918.... J.R.L.: Get rid of the delusio ,
that “duke” rhymes with “cook” A.S.H.: Should
be told more tefsely. . . .Y.M.V.: Your “Wife s Past
is more than we can bare... .C.M.L.: Reminds us
of an elephant playing a mandolin J.D Inc
only obvious reason why the beauty spot should hi.
my heart with care” is that you wanted a rhyme for
air . A-J-W.: We got dreadfully tired of Sid
Prot: Is it comedy, tragedy or mere madness?....
Emel: The perfidious bloom withered Sylvia D.:
Seems a dull little village Ethel G. S.: The im-
pression that your rough sea-captain was a nice old
maid rather spoilt it... .P.L.M.: Why be hectic
about it? It’s a taste of sin in youth that has lecon-
ciled many a dear old person to a staid, religious
life PRG ■ A frightful amount of washing-up
for a small meal. . . .R. 8.: If you;ve got knowledge
that blackbirding is going on give us an article
about it; story seems too unreal.... Pat: Draw us
a flagon of your “Booze”: —
Let us lilt loud the praises of booze,
Which none but the noblest refuse;
It is meat, drink, in one, to so many,
And harm does to few, if any.
It helps the poor man through life
In the midst of much storm, stress and strife ,
’Tis esteemed by all save the wowsers,
And weak women who want to wear trousers.
.C.A.L.: The story ties itself into a knot....
Cann S.: “My friends think me a little bit of a
o-enius.” Yes; only a genius could coax “suspense”
to rhyme with “meals.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COBH KSPON DENTS.
W.A.H.: So the “lightweight champion” is a
butcher now. He was in the wood and coal line
when we saw him last. . . .M. 11.: Such nightmare.'
alwavs follow the Melbourne Cup W.11.W.: Lop-
sided figures in a topsy-turvy setting. .. .J.L.C.: A
disproportioned pencil scrawl. . . .P.C.: Me don’t prut
colored drawings. If we did, we couldn’t take
vours Getoora: Bold and bad like the Barons of
old Basco: The diplomatic counter-jumper and
the astute customer are a lugubrious couple...
j N K • Afraid the tribulations of a staff cartoonist
wTll never be yours... .J.H.F.: Slatternly penman-
ship and commonplace jesting G.H.: Injudicious
use of Chinese white is one of your failings T.S.:
The onlv satisfactory thing about your sketch was
your sheaf of instructions to the process engraver.


S' \ \\)
TjfßiS
y
sr
r
*
cj
Plentiful Hot Water—the
first rule of domestic
economy.
Rustless Boilers
supplied for soft-
water districts.
For Winter Radiators can be
attached for room warming.
HOT WATER
Cheap and Flowing
to All Points
Day or Night. There is no domestic conveni-
ence so much appreciated or so necessary. In
the past the cost was the deterrent. Now
Domestic
BOILERS
Hot water
maintain a constant supply of hot water to
baths and sinks and wherever wanted, at an
almost nominal upkeep per week in proportion
to the benefits obtained. Eventually they save
more than they cost.
50 Gallons with 91b. of coke.
A Hot Bath for a Penny.
Write or call for particulars.
324-330
PITT ST.
SYDNEY
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
a
%
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Your drawing-room is incomplete
without a Paling Piano or Player Piano!
Choose your Piano or Player Piano from Paling’s famous
stock. Their instruments look the best, sound the best, wear the
best, and are indeed the finest procurable on the market to-day.
Paling’s sell on Easy Terms to suit your convenience.
Your present Piano taken in part payment for a new
instrument.
Catalogues Free. Please write for one.
A Piano or a Player Piano is a necessity for every modern
drawing-room. Without one of these instruments a room
appears incomplete, ill-furnished, and lacking the inviting
attractive appearance that characterises all finely-furnished
apartments.
A Piano or a Player Piano is the “one thing needful” to
make your drawing-room a paradise of pleasure. These noble
instruments, by their mere presence, convey a definite impres-
sion of culture and refinement, and also materially assist in
raising the standard of life in the home by stimulating a keener
interest in musical art. They also ensure superb entertainment
for your family and visiting guests.
Picture your own drawing-room containing one of
Paling’s beautiful Grand Pianos or Player Pianos. How
effectively would either instrument blend with the rest of your
furnishings.
“Quality Our Keynote
Since 1853.”
338 GEORGE STREET : : 206-210 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.


m
mm
A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice—
SEND THE WOOL TO
WINGHCOIVIBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
BRITISH MADE
VSMKr
QUALITY PENCIL
ire
3
BLACKLEAD - I7GRADATIOMS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
A ROYAL
SMOKE*
Alt Good
Hotels and
ohacconists,
6d.
each.
fdf
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigrar Factory.
Commonwealth 5i per cent.
Cash and Conversion Loan.
Applications will be received between Monday,
Ist November, and Monday, 20th December, 1926
Interest: 5 4 per cent. Price of issue: Par.
Loan to be repaid in 1933, 1938 or 1943, at the
option of the subscriber.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS. Amount asked for: £6,000,000.
The Loan is being raised by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the
Governments of Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and
iasmania, and the Federal Capital Commission. The proceeds of the Loan will
be used by the States and the Federal Capital Commission for public works.
Applications for the Loan, also the deposits and instalments of the Loan,
may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank, or at any Money Order Post
Ofnce, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Cash subscribed may be paid in full or by instalments.
Interest at s:} per cent, per annum, calculated from date of lodgment of the
money to the 15th February, 1927. will be paid on the 15th February, 1927. There-
after interest will be paid half-yearly on 15th August and 15th February.
Conversion Privileges.
Holders of Commonwealth 4-1 and 5 per cent. Inscribed Stock and Treasury
Bonds maturing on 15th December, 1927, may convert their holdings, or any part
thereof, in multiples of £lO, into an equal amount of 5} p.c. Stock or Bonds
of this new Loan, whether they make cash subscriptions to this Loan or not.
Persons who so convert their 41 or 5 per cent. 1927 holdings will be paid
on the 15th December, 1926, the usual half-yearly interest at those rates, which
is due on that date, and two months’ interest at the rate of 5| per cent, per
annum on the 15th February, 1927.
After the 15th February, 1927. the Commonwealth will pay interest at the
rate of 5J per cent, per annum half-yearly on the 15th August and the 15th
February.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth taxation, but will be FBEE OF
STATE INCOME TAX.
The Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO, £lOOO. Stock will be
inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Act of the several States.
The Stock and Bonds of this issue will be accepted at par, with due allow-
ance for interest accrued since the last interest payment, in satisfaction of
amounts due to the Commonwealth for Probate and Succession Duty.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury.
Motherhood
Wkile Students of La-tf,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Mothers are learning {heir
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
After all, experience is {he
best teacher, and that’s why
thousands of Mothers who
haT?e reared large families so
strongly recommend
df
sdf
sdf
KRUSE’S .
FliiidMD® 8
diis faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal both for Mursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
KRUSE’S FLUID Magnesia is particularly valuable
during die tr?ft.g period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
For Family use the large bottles at 2/9 each are more
economical. KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages.
made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
What Insurance Do You Carry?'
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pan, Cesspit, Filth, Smell,
Blowflies and Danger. Place Your Suburban, Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to Nearest Address for Free Booklet describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your Name
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
sd
Price Complete
from £BO up.
SYDNEY: Hoskins Buildings, 8 Spring Sireet. MEI,BOUKNE: 187 a Flinders Fane.
BRISBANE: Queen Street. ADELAIDE: Bennett’s Buildings, Currie Street.
PERTH: Economic Chambers, William Street. [S.B.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“F. Act” : Go oil the land. Not on your
life! The railway will do us. Three hun-
dred lads applied, and 107 were allowed, to sit
for examination to fill 12 jobs at locomotive-
engine-cleaning in the Wide Bay district of
the Bananaland railways.
* * * *
“Tickets”: Vic. Railway Commissioner
Clapp is determined not to let time hang
heavily on stationmasters’ hands. The “Bul-
letin Board” at suburban stations exhibits
some new tribute to his activities every week.
Each month the s.rq. has to interview store-
keepers and point out the advantages of
rail transport over road ; also he must fur-
nish another comprehensive monthly report
to head office on the subject. The very latest
stunt is carrying the war into the camp of
another Government department. A state-
ment showing the different rates for parcels
charged by the Postal and Railway depart-
ments has been sent to all stations, with
instructions to the s.m. to explain fully to
all tradesmen the advantages they will get
by patronising Clapp. If the Postal Depart-
ment takes up the glove and adopts similar
methods life will have a new zest added to it.
“Coot” : An interesting list of casual Aus-
tralians is published annually by the Com-
monwealth Bank. It contains the names of
depositors who have apparently forgotten they
possess a bank balance. The most recent
list is headed by Ah Foo, who five years ago
deposited £252 in the Brisbane branch and
has never operated on the account. There
are 1600 names, and many deposits are over
£lOO. Under the terms of the Commonwealth
Bank Act, any deposit which is not operated
on for five yeai's is transferred to an un-
claimed deposits fund, where it lies without
interest for 10 years, after which the money
passes to the bank.
“Clerk”: Vic. Railway Commissioner
Clapp is concentrating on the trifles which
are supposed to make for perfection in the
running of “show-window” trains —his are
the Overland (Adelaide express) and the
Sydney Limited. His latest innovation (it
has been in vogue on the transcontinental
caravan for years) is the provision of large
paper bags for the protection of lady
travellei's’ headgear. The conductor has
instructions to issue these on request. The
American long-distance train traveller isn’t
satisfied merely with protecting her hat.
though. She wears a dust-coat, too. And
“And ye tell me the insurance mon has not
been aroond yet? Ah, weel, I think I’ll
just lie doon beside ye.”
so docs lier man. And a pair of loose gloves.
But, then, gloves are worn far more for pro-
tective purposes in America than they are
in Australia—or Britain. The American
road-worker, for instance, commonly wears
gloves; so does any man who is handling
heavy iron or stone. Further, his boss en-
courages him to do it.
* * * *
“Stavanger Bill”: Two rival Norwegian
whaling fleets will be at work in the Boss
Sea this year. The Ross Sea is a dependency
of Maoriland, haying been made so in 1923
when the late Captain C. A. Larsen’s whal-
ing co. approached the British Government
for the sole right to fish there. Prior to
that it was nobody’s and nobody wanted it.
The shrewd old Norseman reasoned that the
only way to keep intruders out —once he
showed that here was the world’s last great
whaling ground—was to get this area under
the protection of the British flag, and seeing
that he was willing to pay a fairly heavy
royalty to the M.L. Government, the British
Government didn’t mind. But since then
the situation has altered. Another co., of
Larvig, has discovered that, lease or no lease,
it has a perfect right to go whaling in the
Ross Sea so long as it stays three miles
away from the coasts, and it has sent a
17,000-ton mothership, the H. T. Nielsen-
Alonso, and four oil-fired whalers to make a
start. The Nielsen-Alonso is equipped with
a giant slipway and cranes aft, so that she
can hoist the 100-ton blue-whales bodily
aboard, and therefore will not have to work
in a land-locked base. Besides, the pack-
ice generally extends for over three miles
out from the coast of Victoria Land, where
the whales mostly congregate, and King
Edward VII. Land is always practically in-
accessible. The other shore of the Ross
Sea, the Great Ice Barrier, is merely a
great wall of moving ice, and therefore can
scarcely be considered a coast at all. The
new co. will pay nothing in royalties. As
the original co. is sending two factory ships
and 10 whalers to the Ross Sea this year,
the whales look to be in for a bad time.
Captain H. Gjertsen, of the Norwegian
Navy, who was a member of Amundsen’s
South Pole expedition, commands the Nielsen-
Alonso, which should be showing up at
Hobart any day now.


Republic Success
is Earned
THE faith of skilled engineers in
their production, the know-
ledge they have built into
Republic are bringing their own
reward in ever increasing popularity.
Success for Republic has come, and it
has come to stay. The reason is in its
astonishing performance.
fsdf
sdf
Republic excellence
endorsed everywhere
Satisfied owners in every part of Australia
acclaim Republic as the one truck that most
satisfactorily meets every demand placed
upon it. Smooth power, bridge-strong frame —every
single detail of Republic construction makes for
dependability, efficiency and economy. Can you
possibly be satisfied with less than Republic alone
offers?
There’s a REPUBLIC Truck
for every haulage need
Your nearest agent will explain
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co M Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd,,
60 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.


A GOOD GUN IS A GOOD FRIEND.
Earn the cost of a gun shooting rabbits for the
fur trade.
Agents for the following famous makes: —
HOLLOWAYS. —The Rolls Rovce of Guns. Built
by prize experts, who know how to make a Gun that
kills at a longer distance than any other make.
That’s why Prize-winners use them.
From £l3/10/- to £lOO.
FOX’S D.B. WONDERFUL HAMMERLESS GUNS.
They hit harder and shoot further than any American
Gun ever built — £13, with a lifetime guarantee.
BULLDOG D.B. HAMMERLESS. —A great field
Gun. Throws a remarkable pattern and kills cleanly.
Beautifully balanced; fits the shoulder; perfect
workmanship, £8 / 10 /-
Others from £5. A week's free trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents for a
catalog.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Rivals the beauty of
the Scarlet Tanagei
''"mtu
TOli
--First Aid
to Education
Every Student needs
this unfailing Writer
fojrj
Parker Over-size
Duofold 35/-
Duofold Jr. or Lady
Duo fold 25/-
DO not hamper your edu-
cation —do not encum-
ber your mind —by using
an unruly fountain pen.
In school work, as in bus-
iness and personal corre-
spondence, you need a pen
that holds a large supply of
ink —that has free-swing-
ing balance, fits the hand,
and glides over paper like a
polished jewel. And one that
you can rely on to write on
the instant —without previ-
ous notice.
These characteristics dis-
tinguish the Parker Duofold
from every other pen in the
world —the Black-tipped
Lacquer-red Classic with
Point guaranteed, if not mis-
used, for 25 years’ wear.
Choose your point, Extra-
fine, Fine, Medium, Broad,
Stub and Oblique—in any
one of these three sizes;
Parker Over-size Duofold,
35/-, Duofold Jr., 25/-, and
slender Lady Duofold, 25/-.
Sold by Stationers, Booksellers,
Jewellers and Departmental Stores
where pens are stocked
Agents
SLADE, ALLAN 8 COMPANY
Broughton House, ißi Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
fnr t.lin nriirinal. .
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors-—A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Halt, Esq.,
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 04 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the iullest tacili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business. ,
‘9ZAWM
lioudon Officer
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association LTD*.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUS'T 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“AURORA” CIGARETTE CASES
Latest from Stewart Dawson’s
PRICES OF “AURORA” CIGARETTF
CASES: 37/6, 52/6, 63/-
FLAT MATCHBOXES TO MATCH.
To hold tear-off matches, similar designs
to “Aurora” Cigarette Cases. Price, 16/6
CALL AND INSPECT, OR ORDER
BY MAIL.
Write for New Catalogue.
“Aurora” is a substitute for 18-ct. Gold, to which
it is equal in beauty and finish.
“Aurora” is the same color throughout, and will
retain its finish and lustre with the attention
usually given to Gold.
“Aurora” is a very hard alloy, and will wear even
better than Gold.
No article is genuine unless stamped with the name
“AURORA.”
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.), X.TI).
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
Two Sydney
Establishments
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
sodium~hypochlorite.
MANUFACTURED BY
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
“Who is H. Boully ?” everyone asked at
the Yardea (S.A.) station sale when the
owner of the name had outbid competitors
and bought three lots for something over
£70,000. It is only a few years ago that
Elder, Smith and Co. sent Boully to Port
Augusta to take charge of its branch. While
there, J. D. McTaggart, a nor’-eastern squat-
ter, offered him a partnership. It was a good
move for both, and when they parted Boully
stood firmly on his feet, and has been climb-
ing higher ever since.
Adelaide Uni. has had many chairs to fill
of late. Wood Jones, Jolly and Darnley
Naylor join the exodus this year. Arts has
been the heaviest loser. Henderson, Mitchell,
Heaton and Naylor have gone since 1922.
Heaton and Naylor were popular idols; about
half the committees in Adelaide will have a
vacancy when Naylor leaves for England.
Heaton had a light touch in even the heaviest
portions of his dismal science. To sit under
Mitchell (who retains his Vice-Chancellor-
ship) was a unique experience, but Hendex’-
son seems to have left his mark most deeply.
He hides himself away nowadays.
Sydney’s latest potential millionairess is
Mrs. Hatch, wife of a police sergeant, who
has put in a claim for £3,000,000 of
£37,000,000 piled up by»an Irish immigrant
who had luck in Chicago. The millionaire,
who died nearly 60 years ago, left his money
to the wife of his brother Cornelius O’Rourke,
who settled in Queanbeyan (N.S.W.), but it
is only recently that relatives of tbe lady
heard of the will. To establish their claim
they have to produce the marriage certificate
of Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius O’Rourke, and
Mrs. Hatch’s son is off to Ireland to look at
parish registers.
Fame is fleeting. Lately an old Sydney
Grammar School boy wrote to a newspaper
about a school matter, and referred to an-
other correspondent on the same question
as “one R. A. Thompson,” whom he said he
did not know. Thompson, now Congregational
parson at Epping, was one of the brightest
students Grammar ever turned out. He
dazzled his masters with his brilliancy, took
every prize and scholarship offering, and
was reckoned to be on his way to be Prime
Minister (if Federation came) or the Great
Australian Writer. Aixd then he quietly
held out his hand for a shepherd’s crook, and
has been content to serve a little flock ever
since.
George Morrison, ex-Vic. Public Service
Commissioner, who is in his 69th year, has
renewed his youth by taking on the job ot
sec. and general manager of the Frankston
Golf Club. The club has the finest links
within a radius of 20 miles of Melbourne,
and has spent £50,000 on improvements.
The club-house has 'between 40 and 50
bedrooms and palatial trimmings. In his
time Morrison has played many parts—clerk
of court, P.M., coroner, permanent head of
the Chief Sec.’s Department, and Service
Commissioner, and it will be no trouble to
him to run a swell debenture-buttressed golf
club, particulaidy as he thinks the world
must have been the dullest of places till
golf was invented.
“Nikko”: Just retired from business at
Whangarei (M.L.), F. W. Reed, chemist,
after 38 years of handing out drugs to the
community. One of his favorite stories con-
cerns a resourceful youth who was de-
spatched to the township in the dead of
night with strict instructions to bring the
only doctor there back with him. The boy
arrived about 2 a.m., and as he had no idea
of the locality of the doctor’s residence, he
rode round the streets shouting, “A sick man
wants the doctor.” Most people heard the
cry, including the doctor, who at first thought
some convivial youth was singing himself
home. A second later he realised that the
call was for him, and rushed out in answer.
“Ex-Skin-collector”: Though trapping was
officialy permitted for but two months, no
less than 2,288,820 ’possum-skins were mar-
keted in Bananaland this season. This
stupendous slaughter, however, represents
only about two-thirds of the unfortunate
creatures done to death, as for every two
pelts collected at least one baby ’possum
lost its life. But the two million-odd pelts
were certainly never secured in the space
of two months. As soon as it was known —
about two months ahead —-that there was
to be an open season, hundreds of “scalpers”
hopped in straight away, and squawkers
were still being strangled and shot weeks
after the season closed. The slaughter
swelled the State’s uncertain Treasury by
£25,552, which represents 5 p.c. royalty on
gross values of the skins marketed.
“Mako”: An interesting old Maoriland
house about to come under the auctioneer’s
hammer is St. Mary’s Vicarage in Auckland,
where Hugh Walpole was born in 1884. It
is a picturesque gabled place, built about 60
years ago, and there are still residents round
Parnell who remember Hugh, a small bi-own-
eyed boy, and his sister Dorothy. From
Auckland the Walpole family went to New
York, where Hugh’s father, the present
Bishop of Edinburgh, had accepted an
appointment in a theological college, and
thence they moved on to London. The
reproach used to be levelled at Maoriland
that she had produced no writers of merit,
but with Sheila Macdonald, Katherine Mans-
field and Hugh Walpole now well up in the
list, the Dominion is beginning to feel that
somebody has arrived. The trouble is they
have to leave home to do it.
In the course of 37 years many changes
have been made in the location of Minis-
ters’ rooms at Vic. State Government build-
ings, but the same offices have been retained
for the Chief Secretary, Lands Minister and
Minister for Education. The Chief Sec.’s
office, on the first floor of the old Spring-
street Treasury, has known a long line of
notables, among them Berry, J. M. Grant,
Alfred Deakin, George Langridge, Allan
McLean, J. B. Patterson, Peacock, Jack
Murray and Stan Argyle. The Lands Minis-
ter’s office, on the first floor of the central
structure facing Treasury Gardens, calls up
memories of J. L. Dow, Bob Best, Lawson
(then an ardent young administrator), Tav-
erner and Oman. There is only one name
intimately associated with the Education
Minister's room. Peacock began there in
3602, and has held the portfolio eight times.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
79ai - i‘j Ihidge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Models. Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office-
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co., Ltd.
Ban-king, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685 303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: feir Mark Siieldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yaiiwood; Duncan Carson- H R
Lysaoht, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D • Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairiiatrn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agent? throughout Australia. Tasmania and' New
7(aland, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and IVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875 000
Ordinary Shares 3’750[000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business'.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also. Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C."
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
tlie world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed—
s '
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices •' 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
•' AORANGI . . 22,000 tons disp. NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ DEC. 2, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ DEC. 16, for Vancouver.
MAKER A .. . 13,000 „ „ DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
*Ne\v Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
:■ . :
; / I
NMw
jkr- r r
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER EINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney,
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Britain:
S.S. "MONTORO" (5000 tons).
Sails Nov. 16 and Dec. 28.
MATARAM (3500 tons),
ooiomon islands. Sails Nov> 13 and Dec _ 22>
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TX+.
m |
sd
fsdfsd
fsd
f
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN"
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1813.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. 'General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street EC’
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States. New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and 'London!
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
£3,500,000 0
3,000,000 0
3,500,000 0
Birectors:
£10,000,000 0 0
4EORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Devutv
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND ; lion. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: P V
TVT n l/Mi CnTiAiifil fn a H nr> T \\' AT A A D r t TTi /~v t-s
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.— lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
| Sydney Agents.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
btd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street.
ilcJ I wraith,
MeEacharn, Ltd.,
*5l Pitt Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
Huddart Parker,
Ltd.
10 Bridge Street.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
CANBERRA
BOMBALA. ..
(Bris. only)
KANOWNA.
Sat.,
Nov. 13.
Sat.,
Nov. 20.
Sat.,
Nov. 27.
Wed.,
Nov. 10.
Wed.,
Nov. 17.
Wed.,
Nov. 24.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Ivembla Big.
Margaret St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
V.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridtre Street.
*Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Mlagnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I’or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDIIAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker",
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (jd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Ofliccs, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 859 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
"THE CREEL”
At Thredbo River.
A RETREAT FOR
TROUT FISHERMEN.
100 Miles of Stocked
Trout Streams.
Rail to Cooma—
Motor to the Door.
Electric Light.
Tariff: 14/- day.
£4/4/- week.
Rail Concession Certificates
and Full Information at—
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


A
Fine Steel Explains
the Car’s
LONG LIFE!
This fact should be remembered by everyo*
who now owns or expects to buy a car.
In the percentage of costly Chrome Vanadium
steel used, Dodge Brothers Motor Car out-ranks
every other car in the world, regardless of price.
Chrome Vanadium is the ideal motor-car steel.
Its remarkable toughness and strength is only one
important reason why more than 90 per cent,
of the 1,750,000 motor cars Dodge Brothers
have built are still in service.
DaDBEBRaTheRsjNi; Detroit
Waymouth Motor Co.. Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and lownsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
11/11/’26.


a*
mmi
#
so^
mm
m
■
REXONA
SOAP
It's Medic? ed!
1/-
Surfing Time is Rexona
Time!
rnmnnnn °( ou^ oor sports a clip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s day is indeed
win' differ B r lo Kunl,un, t» blistered hands and scarlet face are painful realities,
pit' e h dls ? ress ‘""1 disfigurement ,10m sunburn when it can easily lie avoided bv
the Loimi u^ WhGn a VO u h , a . ve y°'V shOWRI ai 'd then applying a little Rexona Ointment,
tne cooling, soothing and healing balm? ’
If you want to make doubly sure of avoiding sunburn, apply Rexona Ointment to the
swtswmfcfwr «* r--
ssz: s te & tsss °£\j
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the Rapid Healer, in its
dainty pot, should stand on the toilet table of all
who indulge in outdoor sports.
Be Pretty! Be Dainty!
Be Attractive! Be a Rexona Girl!
MISS FRANCES NEWTON, a dainty
liexona Girl, of Ilambleton Street, Middle
Park, Vie., and winner of “The Prettiest Girl
in Da.iceland” Competition in Melbourne,
writes: “Rexona Soap is unsurpassed for
keeping the hair soft and glossy and the
skin lovely.”
sdf
Chocolates
‘ 1 do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed'to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
Omaal f-itiii-cl
162-166 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
&. King Streets,
Sydney.
Send for Catalogue must, a.eur
with reproductions of our Con-
fer+f nery in colors.
w
m
' j
The Cupboard' Door.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
three of us sat down to feast,
I To drink and eat, and drink again—
■*" How rich the brown ale from the
cask!
How sweet the red wine in the flask!
And ne’er a blessing did we ask,
For we, all three, were godless men.
The board was set with bread and meat,
And fruit and flowers, and candles tall;
We ate from plates of rare design,
And drank from goblets quaint and fine,
What time the hearth with red fireshine
Lit up a cupboard in the wall.
We cared not what that cupboard held,
What odds and ends within it lay,
For we had passed the weakling stage,
And, moulded by our class and age,
Had taught our hearts and wills to cage
And crush the ghosts of yesterday.
Made fleshly by the wine we drank,
We gave our thoughts to greed and lust,
And scoffed with scalding scorn (forsooth!)
At all the foolish dreams of youth—
At faith and friendship, love and truth,
And Virtue starving for a crust.
We gloried in the god Success,
We toasted him with brimming cup;
For more was he than life and. death,
And he was as our body’s breath;
And we had set our hearts beneath
His glorious feet to lift him up.
What cared we for the puling past—-
For this or that, which fools call bad?
Though men might whisper, women mourn—
A fig for them, their tears, their scorn !
Are sheep not fashioned to be shorn?
Had we not shorn them, others had.
The fireshine lit the frescoed walls,
Whereon were wizened moon and star
And shapes begot of faery lore;
And, as we watched it sink and soar,
It seemed to us the cupboard door
Had opened somewhat —stood ajar!
Said one: “This wine is water-weak.
Give me red burgundy to start
My pulse and set my blood aglow!”
Another said: “The fire burns low!”
And I! I felt the chill of snow
Creep in and close around my heart.
And then we drank, and drank again,
Till, fierce with wine—that generous friend
Of faltering heart and failing limb—
What time the fire burned low and dim,
With taunting word and purpose grim
We toasted what the hour should send.
Our goblets crashed upon the board,
The red wine dripping to the floor;
Tee-fingers found and froze our blood,
And cold as stone and mute as wood,
White-lipped and all aghast we stood,
Our gaze upon the cupboard door!
The door stood wide, and from within
With silent swiftness, like a ghost,
A thing of threefold aspect came;
For in its eyes of sin and shame,
And lust, and greed, and passion flame,
Each saw the deed he dreaded most.
The spilt wine dripped upon the floor,
A red log, scattering embers, broke,
And soul and body seemed to freeze;
Old times, old sins, old memories
Game back to torture and to tease,
As, killing warmth and joy, it spoke.
11 said : “F'or you—and you—and you,
There is no peace beneath the sky;
Nor wine nor wealth can bring you bliss,
Remembering this —and this —and this —
'fhe theft, the lie, the Judas kiss;
For these, and more than these, am I!”
The spilt wine dripped upon the floor,
The hearth a dying glimmer cast,
A pallid light the candles shed
On wilted flower and broken bread,
And each man saw the Risen Dead.
As mute and still we faced the Past.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN .
The Water-rat’s Clients.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE motor-boat championship had
ceased to be a sporting event in the
eyes of the aquatic fraternity. It
had degenerated into a duel between Sol
Hyman, broker, and Colin McConeh, mer-
chant. These modern gladiators employed
as their principal weapons cheque-books,
roguery, monkey-cunning and that mysteri-
ous force called “inside information.” Their
incentive was kudos, dirty spite and pub-
licity—especially publicity.
The veteran competitors of former years
found that limited purses, even though
coupled with unlimited enthusiasm, were no
match for endless bank-accounts backed by
methods unrestrained by any sense of sport-
ing ethics. They who had always raced for
the thrill and the fun of the thing stood
back aghast before the expenditure that the
newcomers lavished on plans, expert oversea
opinion, freak hulls and engines carrying the
mighty power of a locomotive in the compass
of a cabin-trunk.
The ordinary entrants for the approach-
ing season’s events lay in various boatslieds
about the water-front. Under the tolerant
eye of their respective caretakers you or I
might stroll in, and, leaning over the coam-
ings, push the little springy things on top
of the motor just to see them bounce snap-
pily back, or, taking hold of the propeller,
rotate it decorously and pass knowing re-
marks about the pitch and blade area. Not
so with the precious arks of committee-
member Hyman and Commodore McConch.
As far as the waterside world knew, both
craft were far from complete though the
season was near at hand. It would seem
that the respective owners and builders
awaited some sinister move from the rival
camp before pushing their own productions
out into the light of day. The embryonic
speed tigers were taking form in special
lofts in the yards of their respective build-
ers ; and no sultan guarded his favorites from
the covetous gaze of the outer world more
jealously than did the partisans of the new
boats.
Spudge Pickley, the Water-rat, had re-
ceived the office that if he presented himself
at the residence of Rex Homer on Monday
evening he would hear something to his
advantage. Homer was the builder of
Hyman’s potential champion.
Spudge, on being ushered into a small
back room in Homer’s bungalow on the fol-
lowing Monday night, omitted to mention
to Homer and Hyman that a cobber awaited
him. To be precise, the cobber waited at
the back gate in the lane; was of the gender
feminine; and was, when not acting as
cobber on business, Spudge’s “steady shiela.”
Homer, acting as spokesman for his
patron, and knowing the impatient nature
of the Rat, had come quickly to the point.
“All you’ve got to do, Spudge,” he sum-
marised, “is to hop into the loft, and you’ll
find the blue prints of the McConch boar
tied together and stuffed in behind the locker
near the boat’s bows. I have found that
they always keep ’em there. The door is
kept locked, but there is an old belt-guard,
out of use now, running up through the
floor like a chute. There’s a loose sort of
cover or trapdoor over that which you can
push aside.”
“I know, I know,” the Rat cut in im-
patiently. “Ain’t I worked there and know
every creaky board in the rotten place? Sure
the prints is where you say?”
“Yes, sure. Now, listen. Spudge. You’ve
got to get to work as early as possible to
give us a chance to take tracings off the
blue-prints and allow you time to return
them the same night:, so that no one will
be any the wiser, see?”
“Ho! So I'm to come the double in one
night?”
Spudge struck an attitude which indicated
that he sincerely hoped he had not bitten
off more than he could chew; that it was a
bigger, riskier job than he had bargained for.
“And what reimbursement can a gent,
ixpect?” he asked with elaborate urbanity.
“Mr. Hyman has been very generous in
suggesting £ls—a very handsome reward for
one evening’s work with little risk.”
Mr. Spudge Pickley impaled Hyman on
a javelin glance from his piercing black
eyes, but addressed his reply to Homer.
“Little risk? Rats! ’E’s got to be a
hell of a lot more generous before ’e gets
me to take the risk twice in one night of
being caught breakin’ and enterin’. My
terms is forty quid and ten of ’em now —
on account.”
* * * *
The fact that Spudge and his cobber,
Dickie, lay biding their time in the lantana
outside the high fence of Watty Foden’s
ship- and yacht-building yard on the night
following the interview at Homer’s bunga-
low would indicate that Hyman, the broker,
had met his match in a financial bargain
for once, at least; for the Water-rat never
came down on his stipulated price on a job.
Dickie was attired as a man ; a cap pulled
well over her eyes effectively disguised her
face. Spudge, with the aid of a pocket-
torch, consulted a wristlet watch.
“Now, Dick, ole girl, time to buzz off.
Y'ou take the bottle of beer round to the
main gate and kid yer blotto. Let ole
Sconey, the watchman, know yer there.
When lie shows up be friendly—you know,
kind of friendly drunk. Say yer can’t git
the cap orf the bottle—’e’ll damn soon git
it orf and drink it, too; let ’im drink till
’e’s blind. If ’e says, ‘Why don’t you ’ave
one?’ you must kid to; but whatever yer
do, spill yer whack and don’t touch any of
it becos it’s loaded fer elephants.”
“Goodo! Trust me! But, Spudge, be
careful you ain’t caught. One conviction
against you and you’re done for life.”
The voices of Dickie and old Sconey in
mild altercation on the far side of the yard
was the signal for Spudge to act. lie moved
quickly through the patches of lantana,
nearly trampling on and considerably scar-
ing an amorous couple in his advance. He
cursed them softly, but concluded that they
would be far too much concerned with their
own affairs to wonder at his own nocturnal
activities. A minute later found him wading
through wastes of shavings and sawdust
redolent of pine, red cedar and blue gum.
The brief space of time in which he found
himself clear of the yard with the blue-
prints under his arm surprised Spudge him-
self. So engrossed was Dickie in her task
of reducing old Sconey to a heap of snoring
indifference that Spudge had to give the
whistle thrice before she joined him.
Events moved briskly after the Water-
rat’s arrival at Homer’s bungalow with the
blue-prints of the McGonch boat. Homer
and Hyman almost dashed into the waiting
Dickie as they hurried into Hyman’s car,
parked in the lane. Spudge, though hard
on their heels, moved in leisurely fashion
and joined the girl as the car flung off.
“We’ll go for a stretch round the point
till they come back,” he suggested.
“How long will they be?”
“Oh, less than an hour.”
“What is it they’ve got to do?”
“They was goin’ to take orf the lines of
McConch’s boat by tracin’ ’em. That would
’ve taken best part of the night, so I says
take the blue-prints up to Barker, the
photographer, and ’e’ll photograph the damn
things by artificial light in no time. Then
I says: ‘Soon as you’re sure the plates is
all i*ight ’and me back the blueys, and let
me get my job finished.’ ”
“Gawd, Spudge, you’re quick out of the
barrier, boy ! Fancy you thinkin’ of that! I
never knew you knew anything about takin’
photos and all that.”
Hyman was pleased with the evening's
work when he returned to Homer’s bungalow
and the blue-prints were handed to Spudge
for restoration to their rightful lodging—so
pleased that he paid over the balance of
Spudge’s “cut” with something almost
approaching a good grace.
With old Sconey’s clarion snores as a
guarantee of security and working ore:-
ground so lately traversed, Spudge rounded
(Continued on next page.)


‘€very picture
Uei/s a St° r hT
tsrs
Q
////'
li
Sr*
VIIIUIU*
Help Your Kidneys!
Avoid that wearying backache!
T F THE KIDNEYS are weak, excess uric acid over-
* loads the blood. Pains begin to strike across the
small of the back, and rheumatic twinges, headaches,
dizziness and urinary troubles quickly follow. Don’t
neglect these warnings! You should strengthen the
kidneys NOW. There is danger of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, gravel or stone. Let Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help you. Doan’s Pills will relieve
your kidney troubles, as surely as earlier treatment would have prevented them.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 749 Harris
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect
in the small of my back. For three solid months I was unable
to work, and was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the loins and kidneys, and my secretions became
unnatural and irregular. I consulted a doctor, who recom-
mended Turkish baths; but, though I got a little ease, I could
not work. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and obtained
wonderful relief; in fact, so much so that I can now do heavy
work. I am fully convinced that Doan’s Backache Kdiney
Pills are a true Kidney remedy, and I never fail to recommend
them among my friends.”
Twenty years later Mr. Carroll says:—“l am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and by taking them now and again I keep
in splendid health.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. M. Whitbread, sen., “Amherst,” Napoleon Street,
Mascot, Sydney, says:—“For years I suffered terribly from
backache and kidney trouble, and was at times so ill that I had
to lie up for days. My back ached terribly, and I was almost
crippled with the ailment, every movement making the pain
worse. My ankles and legs swelled considerably, and I knew
this was a sign of dropsy. I also had trouble with the secre-
tions, was subject to dizziness, and felt tired and languid. I
was really far from well, and having seen Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills advertised at different times, it at last occurred to
me to try this remedy. I got some, and it proved a blessing,
giving quick relief, and gradually effected a perfect cure. I feel
splendid now, and have only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to
thank for my wonderful recovery.”
Two years later Mrs. Whitbread says:—“My cure has
proved a permanent one, no sign of kidney trouble having
returned since Doan’s Pills cured me over two years ago.”
sdfsdfdfdf
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
. Sydney.
off the night’s work with despatch. As the
pair turned their unhurried steps from the
silent shipyard they squeezed each other’s
arms and chuckled happily. Dickie turned
a gaze brimming with admiration to her man.
“What I can’t get over,” she murmured
rapturously, “is you thin kin of photographin’
those plans and savin’ all that time and w r ork
of drawin’ them. We’d ha’ bin messin’ round
that rotten yard till daybreak and per’aps
gettin’ caught. You’re a little wonder!”
Spudge shrugged uneasily. He might be
the Water-rat, but he could not sail under
false colors with Dickie.
“Look, Dickie, it wasn’t my idea in the
first place.”
“But you”-
“No; listen, Kid. The other crowd worked
that oracle.”
“What other crowd?”
“Oh, I forgot to tell you. It was when
you was on that trip to your sister in the
country. McConch’s crowd got photos of the
plans of Hyman’s boat, though, mind you,
Hyman and Homer and their push don’t
know it. Them doin’ it give me the idea.”
“But ’ow did you know about it, and ’ow
did they get the plans?”
Spudge came to an abrupt halt. For the
first time in his life he appeared fully to
realise that the other sex never really can
rise to the rapid intuitive conclusions of the
superior male.
“Oh, Dick,” he whispered hoarsely, “don’t
he silly!”
R.S.ADAMS.
Walking to Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H INKLE and I were broke, or nearly
so.
“There’s a formula for getting
work in Brisbane,” I told him. “You wait
outside the newspaper machine-room till the
edition comes off the press, then you grab
a paper and read the ‘Wanteds’ as you run.
When you arrive you find someone has
already got the job. That chap had sens;
enough to wear a pair of sandshoes.”
“Huh!” said Hinkle. “I was standing in
Adelaide-street' this morning when a cove
steps up and taps me on the arm. ‘You’d
better find a job,’ lie says. ‘Too many of
you chaps with too much time on your
hands.’ He was a plain-clothes man.”
And that’s how the idea started of a
walking-tour to look for work. It’s an idea
that appeals to all manner of men under
a variety of circumstances, but mostly to
those who have never tried it.
Hinkle had it cut and dried. “We’ll clear
out of here and make for Toowoomba ; then
west to Charleville. Everybody says there’s
tons of work in the West.”
I fell. “The Golden West,” I said, “where
men are men, shaping destiny by the might
of their strong right arms!”
We sold some of our effects, and bought
blankets and straps and a billy of about
two gallons’ capacity. At daybreak next
morning we shook the inhospitable dust of
Brisbane, metaphorically, from onr feet.
On North Quay, Hinkle said: "No sense
in walking when you can ride”; and we
threw our bundles aboard an Ipswich-road
tram.
The conductor grinned when he saw our
swags and billy—especially the billy. “How
far’s the next waterhole?” he asked.
Hinkle merely asked for the tickets.
“I oughter make ya walk,” grinned the
conductor. “Scabbing on the Bagmen’s
Union !”
We walked on from the terminus, Hinkle
frowning at the grinning passers-by. “Can’t
see what they got to laugh at,” he growled.
He couldn’t see his swag. It contained half
a hundredweight of wearing apparel.
Presently a motor-truck, piled high with
merchandise, overtook us. The driver slowed
up. “How far you goin’!” he yelled.
“Charleville,” optimistically replied I. “Gi’e
you a lift to Toowoomba, but you’ll have to
walk uphill. She’s loaded.”
Toowoomba must be situated on the crest
of a series of long rises, for we spent most
of the day sweltering along in the wake of
the laboring truck.
“When we get home,” Hinkle said, “we
can tell the folks we walked from Brisbane
to Toowoomba in a day.”
In Toowoomba we learned that there are
no swagmen in Queensland now. Other
people address them as travellers, and the
fraternity call themselves bagmen.
“Now for the great adventure!” said
Hinkle, and inquired of a policeman the road
to Charleville.
We passed the new Bulimba brewery.
“That’s a nice smell,” I said. Hinkle was
more practical. “I’ll go and ask if they need
any hands,” lie said. After a while he came
back. “Do I belong to the X.Y.Z.U. or some-
thing?” he asked disgustedly. “But I stung
them for a pot of beer.”
So I went in and asked for work.
Considerably refreshed, we went our way.
“It’s about two hours to sunset,” said
Hinkle. “We can do about 10 miles, and
then make our first camp under the star-
spangled canopy of Heaven.”
It had rained on the Downs; and after
about a hundred yards I stopped to knock
a vertical acre of thick black mud off each
boot. Hinkle likewise. A little more of
this, and Hinkle said : “I suppose we’ve come
about five miles now. What say we camp?”
“Good-oh!” I agreed, not looking at Too-
woomba, which was about a mile down the
road.
As I made up the fire an apparition ap-
peared on the track from Dalby.
“Here comes ’Orace,” said Hinkle. He
was the original of many Bulletin draw-
ings, fly-corks and all complete.
When he was about 20 yards away he
bellowed out: “Got the makin’s on ye?” This
we were to learn is the recognised prelimi-
nary to conversation on the track. The
stronger your lungs the more chance you
have of husbanding your supply of tobacco.
Some artists use their hands as a mega-
phone.
’Orace arrived, and, having seated him-
self laboriously, demanded: “Where ya
makin’ to?”
“Charleville. Have you come that far?”
’Grace looked at me reproachfully. “Adel-
aide,” he replied. “T'roo Broken ’lll, Wil-
cannia, Bourke, Barringun, Gunnamulla an'
down the line.”
“Any work further up ?”
“Well, none as I cared much about. Took
a contract up the line a bit, clearin’ brigalow
scrub fer a German cocky. First day the
blankard says ter me: “Have you got a
watch?’ ‘No,’ says I. So he set the clock
back a nour on me. I left.”
Meanwhile ’Orace was transferring half
the tobacco from my tin to his pocket, after
which he made a cigarette from my half, arid
handed back the tin with a sigh.
“Where are you making for?” asked
Hinkle.
“Well, ’bout this time o’ year I usually
goes inter hospital in Toowoomba fer a
mont’ or so. I got gallstones pretty bad.
Had ’em fifteen year, an’ they never seems
ter get any better. But I’m thinkin’ o’ goin’
on ter Noocastle this trip. '
1 hat s a long lead, I ventured.
“Well, I hear tiler’s a lot o’ unemployed
down there, an' a man might’s well be among
em, said Grace. .
Kre lie left us Grace proved invaluable.
He snorted at our billy but showed us how
f^win' 1 1 »P P n U 1 f confection fried
n fat which In called puftalooners, thus
saving us many future heartburnings. He
said our billy was big enough to bathe in, and
compared it with his own, which removed
him from any temptation in that respect.
As we rolled in our blankets Hinkle got
his first taste of the joys of sleeping under
Heaven’s canopy. Something that bit like a
dog and stung worse than a Portugee man-o’-
war seized him by the nape of the neck. It
turned out to be an infinitesimal green-liead
ant, which is everything the bush people call
it
‘Next day we arrived in Dalby in a Ford
truck. The body of the truck was empty
save for Hinkle and me. The driver was in
a hurry; and pretty soon we wore as anxious
as he was to see our destination. That road
consisted entirely of potholes a foot deep.
At the instigation of the departed ’Orace
we applied at the police-station for Govern-
ment rations; and each received from the
jovial sergeant a pink slip entitling us to
draw upon the storekeeper for 41b. flour or
bread, 41b. meat, 13oz. sugar and Goz. tea.
The storekeeper later exchanged the slips
for a tin of jam, a piece of cheese, a tin of
tobacco, bully-beef, etc.
Hindle asked the sergeant if there was any
work around Dalby.
“There’s a woodpile and an axe outside,”
suggested the sergeant, but Hinkle was
already thinking of something else.
Looking for camp sites takes up more of
the bagman’s time than looking for work,
We settled at a railway water-tank, and were
about to compose ourselves for the night
when a stranger loomed up and mulcted us
of an ounce of tobacco. He said he had come
there to “jump .the rattler” up the line. The
idea intrigued us; and we decided to be in
on the adventure.
“1 suppose it means 14 days if we're
caught,” said Hinkle.
The stranger was contemptuous. “Gram!
This ain’t Noo Sou V\ ales. S long as yeh
don t bob yer head up an give lip the
stationmastdrs an’ the guard, yer orright. So
we scrambled aboard tbe first goods that
pulled up to water, and burrowed, palpitat-
big. under a sticky tarpaulin,
Soft snores blended with the panting of
the distant engine. When w r e had an oppor-
tunity to take stock we discovered that there
were five bagmen already in the truck. Tilt-
old stagers had even unrolled and undressed,
which, being interpreted, means they had
spread their blankets and taken their boots
off.
At dawn the train pulled into Yuelba and
erupted bagmen from everywhere. I counted
fourteen. Some made for the scrub; but
others who knew the game as it is played
j n t he West drew a ration of boiling-water
f rom the engine to make tea. We camped in
tbe pr ickly-pear, and later outside the hotel
a cow cocky offered us work. He put it
this way: “Me an’ me son has got a contrack
cartin’ fer the Main Roads Board, an’ the
m i ssus »n nee d help on the farm. I’ll give
yeb 255. a week.”
We had tried the Main Roads Board our-
j for a job . The wages on the road
| were ab out fl a dayf so we declined
the coc k y ’ s kind offer—not that we were
roa jK, wor th more, but we’ve got the claims
, Vmmnnitv to consider
a . , ' , ~, , ~
. Y°us Mokes don t want work, he sa
irrelevantly. .' . .. , ,
. Next we met a commercial traveller look-
f°r a gate-opener, an< * S°t a “ft to
Mitchell.. . . tt- n „„
d kls ls achievement, said Hinkle, as we
cam P on tk e bank of the dry river,
We stand now upon the threshold of the
Far M est > and tins will e a tain S to speak
of m time to come—-how instead of repining
in adversity we fearlessly undertook the
hazard of launching forth into an unknown
country, enduring the blistering heat and the
more blistering pests, such as flies, ants,
P ear > black soil and bindy-eye, than which
there are no worse; shaping destiny to our
ends, demanding of Life our due.
Delivered of this he turned his attention
t° the sausages and the mosquitoes, finally
concentrating on the mosquitoes,
There was no work in Mitchell; but, as
always, we were glowingly assured of the
scarcity of labor further un the line. So that
night we lurked m the shunting yards, and
next morning at dawn we were in Charle-
ville, that lovely red and green oasis in
tlie setting of bare and sun-scorched plains.
A. veritable oasis it is to the weary traveller,
its wide streets lined with cool, green cedar-
trees—and pubs. A veritable bagmens
Mecca! As to that, the number of bagmen
camped on the sandhills and the Warrego
totalled more than the legitimate population
of the town. Some had been there for weeks,
I have never given Hinkle credit for much
sense; but when he heard this he said, They
tell me the best place to jump the rattler is
a t the stockyards. Let’s find the stockyards,
ALIDIN.


ass
hum*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
<;ueenslnnd Agent* —HOLMES * CIIOTtCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—l)3-107 Fratlier«t«n Street. Wellington.
Victorian OKire—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Aftents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH « CO.. LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Slates, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Bo h are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
A GENTS' FOR' AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth...... L. M. Cullen & Co.
M
V
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD.. Willesden Lane , London, ENGLAND.
Remington.
AUTOLOADING SHOTGUN
Reloads itself as it fires
3 SHOTS without reloading! Each time the
gun is fired, the smooth automatic action
ejects the empty case, feeds a fresh cartridge
into the chamber and cocks the hammer. Can’t
be equalled for rapid shooting and hard hitting.
SBuilt to last a lifetime .
Model IX
12 gauge only
sdf
F 2
Order from
your dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
df
-ter
f
m
A Pill is
Edst) to take
Hdodg to use
Place on the tongue
Take a little water - It’s gone!
What could be simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECHAM’S PILES are
A wonderful medicine
ameb hum-
4at <£ mutC w
j&eecfanC*
There is not a
better plug for
FORDS
than the
in ssm jgr& mm
□ m Em
Model A.F. made specially for Fords
Its Lodge steatite insulator is abso-
lutely impervious to oil or moisture
right through. Steel parts are zinc-
coated to prevent plug rusting into
cylinder.
It is readily detachable for cleaning.
Sparking points are pure nickel.
Lodge plyiK are made in
diff rent models to
all makes of engines, and
art obtainable from lead-
ing accessory dealers,
and stores.
LODGE PLUGS
LTD.,
RUGBY,
ENGLAND.
A.F.
(Sin. Taper)
i-or Fords
/
Packed in
Sealed
Sox.
sd
fs
m&m
• ’
spit
<ss
SATISFIED users are proofs
i of quality. Over 70% of
the leading boat-builders of
the world regard Kermath Marine
Engines as standard equipment.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos —impulse coupling.
3 to
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St..
North Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
* Detroit) Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addreaai—rKEßMATH
A
9
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
I are* Al.l-day 'i (i: Half-day I 6 Children. 1/- and fid
.Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EViRY SUNDAY 3 P No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, fid.
Tels.: 80276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


AbdullA
New Virginia
V/
7
k
m'
V.
mm
m
sN
No
dfsdf
75
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
10 for 11-25
25 for 2/6
Bo the Makers of
THE CELEBRATED AND EXQUISITE
ABDULLA TURKISH AND EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
Awarded for Excellence
10 GRAND PRIX, 21 GOLD MEDALS, 3 DIPLOMAS OF HONOR.
DALGETY AND COMPANY LTD.,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
