

9(us
n
P 5?
*!*
r
11
t
l
Complete
. Attachments
Let Electricity Do the Work.
FREE DEMONSTRATIONS IN YOUR OWN HOME ARRANGED.
Purchase by the Easy Monthly Payment Plan.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL
{Australian General
B
T-H
ELECTRIC
Electric Company Ltd
Mazda House, Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Also at 53 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Corner Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane, Q’land.
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
25-27 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Oliver & Oliver Pty„ Ltd.. Hobart & Launceston, Tas.
Atkins (W.A.). Ltd.. 894 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2424.
Thursday, July 29, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaper.


'THE New Library Catalogue for 1920
1 is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BUT LOOK HERE, OLD MAN!’
‘lt’s all very well for old Jenkyn to keep
calling these Kensitas ‘as good as
really good cigarettes can be,’ but what
does it mean exactly? ’
* Better ask him —1 didn’t say it! I only
know that I like them, better than the
rest. That’s why I smoke them . . .’
‘A pure fad, my boy! ’
‘Call it what you like, old son! But
they’re a fine cool smoke —anyway. I
smoked a packet of ten last night, and
my throat’s fit and fresh this morning.
And, fad or no fad, the taste of them
is heaps the best I’ve ever struck.
And I suppose that’s what Jenkyn
means —only he’s not so long-winded
about it!’
‘Got one on you?’
Ni-
Mil
10 KENS IT A S COST 9d.
CLUB SIZE, 10 FOR 1/-
20 FOR i/6
25 FOR 2/6
Ś
IAI find
a
m
%
%
■
n
m
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a. PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets: —
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and Jin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/8
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNE'
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
Slip
JUJ
%r*
HOST POWtRFUL
Mt M«o Gfc*m\ao
, mho urmeFTtc h*®"* c
C.HUDSON;
&4u3
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small. doses ot
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itchidg
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 ; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Why Authors Leave Home
The Australian author is mostly too busy
getting on with the job to scratch at every
flea. The Red rage sermon of F. D. Davi-
son, however, is so astonishingly unhelpful
that one’s fingers go instinctively to work.
Mr. Davison informs us cheerfully that the
chief trouble with Australian writers is
inability to write. Just as cheerfully, and
with a great deal more truth, the Australian
writer retorts that the chief trouble with
Mr. Davison is inability to find just values
and draw just comparisons. It matters
nothing that in this he is in a majority. It
■is axiomatic that space may expand indefi-
nitely.
Various reasons for the migrative tenden-
cies of Australian authors have been ad-
vanced in other recent Red Page articles.
In brief, these are poor prices,, imported
literature and insufficient media; so I judge
short stories are in the minds of most
of the critics. All these things have
a definite bearing upon the matter.
But beyond all doubt the greatest stumb-
ling-block confronting the local author is
the lack of understanding and the with-
holding of sympathv and encouragement on
the part of his public. This belittling of
one’s own is admittedly a characteristic of
civilised human nature. America, early in
her literary history, was wise enough to
legislate for the protection -of her writers.
By law she enforced loyalty from the
reader, and by law she sponsored the growth
of the writer. The writing world was, and
is, her market. But she has seen to it that,
so far as is humanly nossible, she herself
provides no market for the writing world
unless it be under her own auspices. In
Britain the author is under the wing of the
Society of Authors, a body which is jeal-
ously watchful over its flock; and the flock
is, in turn, upheld and stimulated by brilliant
national literary tradition.
Not so the Australian. He is few—
lamentably few —fin numbers. He is practi-
cally without precedent. He writes against
a world market. And he is mostly a spare-
time writer at that- for he needs look else-
where for an excuse to prolong existence.
He finds discouragement on every side, and
his shrift would be short but for that tiny
leaven of the very few who see in his strug-
gling efforts the germ of a literature to
come which shall definitely give voice to
Australian sentiment. I do assert that the
majority of Australian authors ai*e laboring
towards that national goal. So much for
the writer. And what of his work? “The
Australian reader who is even moderately
discriminating,” says Mr. Davison, “is com-
pelled to go beyond Australian writers to
find a readable tale.” If this means any-
thing at all, it means that not one readable
tale has been found, in Mr. Davison’s judg-
ment, to the credit of —let me meet him
fairly here —Australians now writing. I
find this statement extraordinary. And I
can only wonder at the standards which per-
mit it. The chaff may be out of all pro-
portion to the grain (I admit that it is),
but grain there is, sufficient for the baking
of a literary meal that need not be ashamed
to range itself alongside the year’s collected
short stories of Britain and America.
Which brings me to a definition. The
Australian story of the name is, generally
speaking, truer to type than all others. It
is what it. claims to be —a short story. Its
compass is from one to five thousand words;
not, as in Britain and America, from five
to any thousand number of words at all.
The art which confines its expression to the
Australian limit is infinitely more difficult.
It is also essentially Australian. It has
succeeded and is succeeding. Eventually, I
believe, its form will come to be recognised
as having the cameo quality of the art it
affects.
BERNARD CRONIN.
The argument seems to be drifting a bit
from the original point. Permit me to get
it back again. My intention was not to
praise or condemn the literary merit of the
output of the Australian writer. What I
endeavored to show was that under existing
conditions the local writer—fictiouist, poet,
essayist, sketch writer, any of the craft-
had little opportunity of getting a fair pub-
lic hearing on his native heath, and because
of that he packed his wares and tried them
on the European or American market. For
his non-hearing I laid most of the blame at
the door of the writer himself. Undoubt-
edly he is largely to blame for his own
neglect. The modern salesman advertises
his wares and keeps them constantly before
his potential customers. The Australian
writer has not yet realised that he too has to
become a salesman if he wishes to succeed.
My remedy for local neglect is organisation
of the men and women producing the local
article. With such organisation the Aus-
tralian writer can endeavor to convince the
local public that the Australian literary
product is -worth a trial, the same as Aus-
tralian jam or any other product. He can
at the same time endeavor to convince the
authorities that the Australian writer is as
worthy of protection as the Australian jam
manufacturer. And if a tariff can convince
the local consumer of the economic necessity
for purchasing the local jam product, why
should it not convince the public of the
same necessity regarding fiction? My simile
might seem crude to Hilary Lofting and
F. D. Davison, who compare the mass of
Australian literary production with the one
or two good things that they sift from the
enormous quantity of rubbish turned out
from the American and English publishing-
houses, but it is nevertheless the only one
that fits the present position of the Aus-
tralian writer.
A word to F. D. Davison, who wails that the
Australian cannot write. Has he or she ever
been given a chance of showing what lie or
she can do in Australia? Is a cash payment
of £BO for the full copyright of a full-length
novel going to show the best in a writer?
It certainly is not. All it does is to drive the
best of our writers to other countries
where, even though they still are Austra-
lians, the world’s best publishers consider
ri.pt they can -"-rife. .Tack McLaren, Roy
Bridges, A. G. Hales. Harrison Owen, Dale
Collins, Jim Walsh, J. F. Dwyer, are only
a few of the men who have given up the
chase in Australia and given the lie to
F. D. Davison and others who say Aus-
tralians can’t write. There are many men
and women in Australia who are as able
as many of the reputed great writers of the
world to-day. It is because we have so
many F. D. Davisons in Australia that they
have never been given the opportunity to
prove their worth—-except they leave home.
CHAS. E. SAYERS.
The Other American
Edward W. Bok lias a fair claim to speak
to and on behalf of his fellow businessmen in
the U.S.A. In 1920, upon the 50th anni-
versary of his arrival in the States, he
published a biography which in less than six
years passed through 50 editions in his
adopted country, Great Britain and Europe.
In “The Americanisation of Edward Bok”
he told the story of how a lad of foreign,
birth and tongue had climbed to the editor-
ship and part-ownership of one of the most
widely-circulated journals in the world. It
was a very human story told without reserve
and with some of the pardonable pride of
the self-made man. The writer claimed that
it showed what was possible to the average
man with pluck, industry and high integrity
in the land of the dollar. The book was the
swan-song of his money-making life. After
that he devoted himself to social service.
It occurred to Bok whilst yet in hale
middle life that some day the same question
might be asked concerning him as the son
of a friend had put: “Yes, I know that
father made a lot of money and built up a
big business. But what else did he do?”
In Dollars Only (Angus and Robertson)
he expresses the opinion, and brings much
evidence to support it. that the American
business man is undergoing a change of atti-
tude towards his dollars. For many years
they have been his master. They have domi-
nated his life, his home and his outlook.
He is beginning to wonder if slavery to such
a master befits the dignity of an upstanding,
liberty-loving man. Is it quite worth while?
“The business man who lives only in the
present, and whose heart and soul are moved by
nothing but material gains, is gradually but
surely passing away. The activities of the
Great War did much in this respect; the
movements towards the upward life since
the war- are doing even more.” The dollar-
slaver is beginning to realise that there is a
distinction, other than the legal one, between
possession and ownership. “Possession,” as
Bok puts it, “is sending down-town, as one
woman is said to have done, for three yards
of good books in brown bindings to match the
furniture. Ownership is saying with Kyosai
‘My library is a friend of a thousand years.’
Possession is material; ownership is
spiritual. A man may possess millions and
yet own nothing.”
This fact he declares is becoming more
and more realised by the men whose lives
have hitherto been cribbed and cabined with-
in the confines of the money-making
machine. They have seen their accumula-
tions of wealth spent by their families in
ostentatious and vulgar entertainment, have
seen their sons lapse into the ranks of the
rotters and their daughters become parasites
on the gilded branches of the dollar-tree.
They are beginning to ask if the purchasing
power of the dollar so far as things of worth
are concerned has not declined to its lowest
point. Says Bok :
A perceptible result of this realisation is that it
is to-day true of the United States as it is true
of no other land that the practical men of affairs are
reaching out beyond the glass doors of their offices
and money exchanges, and are not only approving
the great movements toward the finer things in life,
but such movements are actually in their hands and
supported by them. Millions of dollars’ worth of
the great paintings of the world are each year being
brought from the Old World to our shores, and the
private galleries of America arc beginning to take
their place beside those of any nation as repositories
of the most valuable paintings in the world. Art
museums, undreamed of in their magnificence and
size, are springing up all oyer the country, some
erected by municipal funds and others by private
benefactions.... Business men everywhere are insist-
ing that their cities shall support adequate libraries.
Ho points out further that unexampled pro-
gress in music is to-day being made in
America, where “it is universally conceded
the finest opera in the world is to be heard,”
and this progress is due to the generosity of
men in business. Large as the public
patronage of opera is. the receipts are in-
sufficient to pay the bills; and the deficits
are almost wholly met by a small group of
practical business men “who stand quietly,
and for the most part unknown, behind these
ventures, willingly meeting the annual dif-
ference between the income and the necessary
expense.” That this is not merely providing
pleasure for their wives and children is evi-
denced by the fact that the attendances
at the symphony orchestral concerts pro-
moted in every large or considerable centre
of the States show an average of nearly 50
per cent, of men.
But the writer claims that, whilst munifi-
cent giving to public objects may go some
way to discount the materialism of dollar-
making, it does not go all the way. He
demands personal service. The claims of
conscience cannot be met by drawing a
cheque:—
The trouble with the average business man is that
he gives all his waking hours to his business and its
problems. He has no time with his family ; no
time to interest himself in the business of citizenship.
He knows only one thing—business. What is the
result? When the time comes that he might retire
he cannot do it; he has built up for himself no
outside interest. He has no inner resources. He is
afraid to retire, because he would not know what
to do, which is very much like the maid who, being
uiged to use more System in her work and get
through, so that she might have some time to her-
. self, answered: “What’s the vise? When work’s
done there ain’t anything else to do.”
Admittedly a man’s first duty is to be a
good provider for liis family in his life-
time and to see that it is safely provided
for in the event of his incapacity or death.
That done a duty still remains: “What has
he done for others?” The only fulfilment
of the second great duty imposed on the rich
man is the giving of personal service to his
(Continued on page 3.)


m
'ace
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
Continues on Its Money - saving Way
Bargain Opportunities
in Furniture
i ft
will at tract immediate atten-
tion. ’Tis an offering that
will impress every tlirift-
seeker, tor seldom does an
opportunity arise to purchase
for so little money such high-
grade Furniture.
Three-piece Stuff-over Suite, com-
prising a 6ft. din. Settee, with three
loose cushions. The two Easy Chairs
also have loose, cushions. Durably
upholstered in tapestry. Usual Price,
Reduced to .... £32/10-
English Folding Card Table, with
strong green holland top. Usual
Price, 23/6. /
Reduced to .... -
Jacobean Sideboard, one only, and
a genuine bargain. Handsomely
finished. oft. wide. "Usual Price,
Reduced to .... £l4/10-
Mission Sideboard, 6ft. wide, has a
capacious well top and leadliglit doors
to cupboards. Two only. Usual
Price, £lO/10/- £IC /1 A /
Reduced to .... XAO IU
Cleverly Constructed Oak Bedroom
Suite, made from specially selected
woods. Has a sft. Wardrobe with
two-thirds hanging sip ace . one-third
sliding trays arid a full-size bevelled
mirror. On both doors is a carved
swag" decoration. The Dressing .Table
is 3ft. Gin. wide and has a spacious
landscape mirror as well as three
drawers. The pedestal cupboard
matches in every detail. This splendid
value Suite displays a fumed, waxed
finish in an attractive color. Note
the saving of £5. Usual Price,
£32/10/- X? 97/1 A/
Reduced to .... X.X* • / Il>
(Furniture First Floor.)
Corset Economies
Must interest every woman.
Prices, always low, are further
reduced, creating Bargains that
no shopper can afford to over-
look.
“Hordernia” Corsets, in Pink-striped
Cotton Brocade; all elastic top, long skirt,
(irmly boned; three sets of suspenders.
Sizes" 22 to 28 in. Usual Price, 1 ft/f*
12/6. Reduced to A\J/0
“Hordernia” Corsets, suitable for the
stout, figure; low bust, with elastic insert
and graduated shoulder; long reinforced
skirt; two sets of suspenders. Sizes 26
to 30 in. Usual Price, 32/6. -a Q/c
Reduced to IO
Izod’s Corsets, in strong quality cloth ;
low bust, double skirt, two sets of sus-
penders. Sizes 26 to 36 in. -a *2/£?
Usual Price, 16/6. Reduced to Id/O
Berlei Brassieres, of Blush Cotton Bro-
cade, having reinforced front, elastic at
waist, back fastening, featuring longer
line. Sizes 38 to 44 in. Usual
Price, 7/6. Reduced to. .. .
Sizes 46 to 48 4 u. Usual Price.
8/6. Reduced to
(Corsets —Third Floor.)
UNDERVEST BARGAINS.
Women’s Ribbed Cotton Vests, made
with comfortable-fitting V-shaped neck,
tubular finished. Usual Price. I/O
1/44. Reduced to . *
Women’s Fleecy Cotton Vests, with
Y-shaped neck and broad shoulder straps.
Women's size. Usual Price. 2/3. 1/Q
Reduced to 1 7
(Undervests—Third Floor.)
0/9
7/6
Save on Topcoat Materials
Tweed Checks, 54in. wide. Usual
Price, 8/11 yd. £•/
Reduced to O
11
Checks and Crossover Stripes,
54in. wide. Usual Price, e/11
9/11 yd. Reduced to . . O' U
Granite Mixtures,
Usual Price, 10/11
Reduced to
54in. wide.
8/11
Knop and Crossover Effects,
54in. wide. Usual Price, a/ii
11/6. Reduced to ... . 0/11
Assorted Checks,
Usual Price, 12/11
Reduced to
54in. wide.
'lO/1 1
Knitted Effects, 54in. wide. Usual
Price, 15/6 yd. 1 o p
Reduced to 10/0
Cloth Block Checks, ~A in. wide.
Usual Price, 16/11 yd. i 4/1 -i
Reduced to 1 1
Plain Velour, in Fawn, Navy,
Mole, 54in. wide. Usual Price,
9/11 yd. C/1 1
Reduced to O' 1 1
Plain Blanket Cloth, in Brown,
Navy, Grey, Nigger. Usual Price,
7/11 yd. c/1 I
Reduced to O' 1 1
Jacquard Velour, two-tone effects,
r>4in. wide. Usual Price, c/1 1
9/11 yd. Reduced to . . 0/11
Jacquard Striped Velour, 54in.
wide. Usual Price, 12/6 a/i •§
yd. Reduced to u' 1 I
(Dress Material-—First Floor.)
Furnishing Drapery at Bargain Prices
Heavyweight Block Printed
Cretonne, exceptionally strong
wearing quality in novel and
original designs on effective Fawn
and Black grounds. 50 inches wide.
Usually 6/9., /s*
Reduced to, yd O O
Reversible Cretonne, 50 inches
wide. Striped and floral designs
that are most effective for curtains
and hangings. Usually 1/6; cy /q.
Reduced to, yd &
Shadowette, 50 inches wide.
Effective patterns are shown on
serviceable Fawn and Grey grounds.
Dependable w earing we av e.
Usually, 3/3. *y *>
Reduced to, yd O
Cretonnes, 31 inches wide. Splen-
did range to select from: various
colorings and designs on light and
da k grounds.
Usually 1/4 1/8
Reduced to . . 1/- 1/3
Shadow Tissues, unequalled for
wear. Quality Ml inches wide.
Designs include many original
effects that will harmonise with
any furnishing scheme.
Usually 4/6 3/3
Reduced to . . 2/9 2/6
Sateen, in floral designs; Light
and Dark grounds; vivid colorings
—for curtains, hangings, cushions,
etc. ■ Usually 1/6. ■» /*y
Reduced to, yd. * *<
Heavyweight Mercerised Poplin,
excellent quality, with bright, lus-
trous finish. Colors include Rose.
Blue. Brown. Putty. Cream and
Stone. Width, 50 inches, a /**
Usually 5/3. Reduced to, yd. tt O
Moire Striped Curtain Fabric,
heavy quality that can be depended
upon to give service. Colors, too,
are dependable-—R ed, Gre e n,
Brown and Cream. Usually A/ ■% 1
7/11. Reduced to, yd. 11
Worth-while Footwear Bargains
Women’s Patent Vamp Semi-Ankle Strap Shoes, with
black silk brocade backs, pump sob's, full Lotus
heels. Sizes 2 to 7. Usual Price, 42/- pair.
Reduced to ' O
Women’s Black Suede Court Shoes, plain Vamp, pump
soles, full Louis heels. All sizes. Usual Price. IC/
•25/-. pair. Reduced to XO -
Women’s Grey Suede Oxford Shoes, with toe caps,
welted soles, covered Sports and Cuban hels, extended last.
Sizes 2,3, 4 and 7 only. Usual Price. 37/6 pair. ni /
Reduced to “ '
Harkness Tan Calf Court Shoes, finished with Champagne
lutckle and half Louis heels: pump soles. Sizes 2 /£*
to 7. Usual Price, 32/6. Reduced to 4°' °
Women’s Nigger Glace Semi-Ankle Strap Shoes, with
pump soles; features the popular Junior Louis heels, qa /r*
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual Price, 35/- pair. Reduced to O
(Footwear- —Second Floor.)
Save on Tiny Tots’ Needs
Infants’ Matinee Jackets, of soft, cosy Velva Cloth, in
shades of Cream, Sky or Shell: finished with turn-down
collar, edged lace. Usual Price, 2/6. 1/11
Reduced to . . • 1/11
Infants’ Rubber Tidy Bibs, with sleeves; kef-ps baby
clean; in Cream or Shell finished with contract -i jn
pipings. Usual Price, 1/11. Reduced to I/O
Infants’ English Towelling Squares, finished with Picot
edge ; ready for use ; excellent wearing quality, size 10/11
22 x 22. Usual Price, 12/6. Reduced to, doz. . IU/ 1 1
Infants’ English All-Wool Fancy Shawls; soft and
warm; take advantage of these reductions. Usual txty/n
Price, 30/-, 32/6. Reduced to "
( Baby Linen —'Second Floor.)
Bargains in Men’s
Wear
BARGAINS IN SUITS.
Men’s Sac Suits, smartly fashioned in
Dark Grey All-Wool Tweed. Coat has
a two-button front, single or double-
breasted lapel, outside breast pocket, no
vent. Trousers have side or cross and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms. CA/
Usual Price, 55/- Reduced to Ov “
SAVE ON TROUSERS.
Men’s Strong Trousers, designed with
side or cross and hip pockets, plain
bottoms. In Striped Cotton Tweeds.
Usual Price, 32/6. in/c
Reduced to .............. . 11/' D
In Fawn Cotton Gabardine. 11 /Q
Usual Price, 18/6. Reduced to 11/1/
In Dark Brown and Grey Tweeds.
Usual Price, 15/-. 1 O ICt
Reduced to 1 u
FLANNEL UNDERSHIRTS.
Men’s Flannel Undershirts, in Natural
and Dark Grey. Usual Price, n
7/6. Reduced to D
Men’s All-Wool “Doctor” Flannel
Undershirts, in Silver Grey, Natural and
Cream. Usual Price, 3.2/6. -| 1 /£*
Reduced to 11/D
Men’s Double-breasted Flannels, to
button on shoulder. In Cream and
Natural. Usual Price, 8/6. Q//?
Reduced to O D
FOOTWEAR FOR LESS.
Men’s Black Calf Elastic-side Riding
Boots, light weight, screwed IC/
soles. Reduced to, pair .... lO 7 -
Men’s Box Hide Cossacks, loose
tongues, standard screwed soli's, -i n/n
Reduced to, pair 1" */
Men’s Tan Kip Cossacks, military
pattern, stout screwed soles. tC/Q
Reduced to, pair 10 *7
Boys’ and Youths’
Suits and Overcoats
The Durham Suit. —Coat lias patch
pockets, plain or belted back. No vent.
Plain knickers.
In Fancy Tweed, neat designs. Sizes
7 to 32. Usual Price, 26/-
Reduced to ZIO/ D
In Rough Navy Serge. Sizes 5 to 32.
Usual Price, 29/6. or /
Reduced to -
Boys’ and Youths’ Overcoats.
The Trench. —Raglan shoulders, belt all
round. In Navy or Fawn Gabardine,
lined check. Sizes oto 8. 19/
Usual Price, 47/6. Reduced to “
Sizes 4to 6. Usual Price, 52/6. ATL !
Reduced to ttO 7 "
Sizes 7 to 9. Usual Price, 60/-
Reduced to D2*/ O
Sizes 10 to 12. Usual Price, 65/- gw //%
Reduced to O 1 7 O
Sizes 13 to 21. Usual Price, 305/- qj- /
Reduced to */D / -
(Men's and Boys' Clothing—
Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


World’s Greatest Buy
HUDSON COACH
£499
C
X
Only Hudson Can
HUDSON BROUGHAM,
£565
HUDSON 7-Pass. SEDAN,
£625
Everywhere the Hudson Coach is
called the ‘ ‘World’s Greatest
Buy.” That is not alone because
of its selling cost, to-day the lowest
in all time*
The value in chassis quality,
smooth performance and long-
lasting reliability that hundreds
of thousands of Super-Sixes daily
prove, is not excelled by the
costliest cars built. And also in
the utility of a distinctive body
type that provides every closed-
car comfort without the extra
premium you pay for such advan-
tages in other closed cars.
Based on the output of other
“Sixes” Hudson quality would
have to be priced considerably
higher. Only Hudson, with the
worlds largest production of 6-
cylinder cars, can build this quality
at this price.
In everything that counts —per-
formance, riding ease, smooth-
ness and reliability—higher price
can buy no more. There can be
no better proof that Hudson is
the “World’s Greatest Value”
than what owners say for it, and
that its sales leadership continues
year after year, the outstanding
success of motordom.
HUDSON 7-Pass. PHAETON,
£4BO
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street. Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.


m
a
m
iCJ
«£ -
m
:
84/- SPORTS COATS
now for 60/-
Very High Grade English Tweeds; new
designs and colors. Superbly Tailored; Four
Patch Pockets and Half Belt and Pleats at back.
These are usually 84/-. Sale Price, 60/-
And Less 2/- in the £ for Cash at
DAVID JONES’ SALE
fellow men, and no man can do this, iul >
and adequately, and remain in business, rie
therefore urges his fellow American business
men to embody that principle by hxing 01
themselves a retiring age at the earliest pos-
sible opportunity in their business lives ana
devoting the remaining years to public ana
social services. The brains that made their
businesses are the brains that social, ethical
and aesthetic movements need at every turn.
It is claimed by the writer of this earnest
appeal that the force of what he advocates
has already been felt in the States, and evei y
year an increasing number of successful
business men are making an effort to -lose
down their dollar-marked period and trans-
form their abilities into a hobby ot service
to their fellow men.
T. B. C.
Women and the Novel
It has often been suggested that there is
something feminine about the. nature of the
novel. When it was first established as a
literary form, women took to it like ducks
to water, and they have been making it
their special province ever since. Early in
the nineteenth century Jane Austen ami
Charlotte Bronte had already won distinc-
tion, and ranked higher in the world of the
novel than any women did in any other form
of literature. As poets, dramatists, critics
and short-story writers women have usually
left all the high peaks to men,, and are still
content to do so: but it seems likely that
there will come a day when out of every
four good novels three will be written by
women. , .
They have already reached the stage when
they can swamp the works of men by. sheer
force of numbers. Most of the books, asked
for at lending-libraries are written by
women, and the explanation is not that the
bulk of the patrons are feminine. It can
hardly be said that women have a special
hankering to see the world through the eyes
of their own sex.. .They; would Sooner have
a man’s vision if it were focused on the
things that interest them, but it very rarely
is unless the man is a literary haberdasher.
And meanwhile novels by writers of their
own sex are pouring in. Women have a
gift for loose, flowing narrative that finds
ample scope in the novel. Most of them
have a story they want to tell, and the least
sophisticated of them have an eye for detail
and a capacity for noting subtle differentia-
tions of character that the average male-
writer lias to achieve with conscious effort.
Writing a novel seems as easy to almost any
literate woman as making a dress.
This outflow of novels has no importance,
though, except as a commercial business.
What does matter is that so many women
are writing well. The limitation of even the
best, of the earlier women-writers was that
their world, no matter how intense it may
have been, was narrow. Jane Austen never
strayed beyond certain very fixed conven-
tions. Charlotte Bronte had depth without
breadth. In recent years, however, the world
has become* a wider one for women, and the
result is apparent in the greater robustness
of their work. I doubt if any of the. younger
school of novelists is more worthy of notice
limn Willa Gather, in America, and Virginia
Woolf and Margaret Kennedy, in England.
Willa Catlier, indeed, has carried the Ameri-
can novel to quite a high plane. In One
of Ours” and "My Antonia” she gives pic-
tures of the life of her country that- are
more penetrating than Sinclair Lewis’s, more
balanced than those of Sherwood Anderson.
She can treat Nature without making it sen-
timental, a rare feat in an American novel-
ist, and she lias the underlying humor that
gives q work of art proportion. The Mid-
West of realistic fiction is usually a dreary
expanse, filled with “dirt” farmers, rustic
humorists of the Uncle Eb and Aunt Martha
kind, and provincial Babbitts who rattle up
endless Main-streets in tlieir Ford cars.
Willa Cather’s vision of it shows that beauty
and character can sprout e.ven in that meagre
soil. .
Virginia Woolf is a more analytical writer,
but her work has considerable substance.
In “The Voyage Out” she took material that
Ilenry James might have played with, yet,
instead of making her characters bloodless
ghosts, she filled them with the breath of
life and forced them to live fully in their
five senses. It is Margaret Kennedy, though,
who most definitely illustrates the mastery
that women have recently gained over the
novel. How often in fiction have we come
across that difficult character, the man of
genius! What uneasy tremors pass, down
our spine when we see him appear, with his
velveteen jacket, his soulfulness and his in-
curable air of being out of touch with the
world, no matter how seriously lie takes
himself ! Of all men the artist is the hardest
to render in literary terms, for
bis character is part of his accomplishment,
and the latter has to be taken for granted;
but in “The Constant. Nympli” Margaret
Kennedy creates people of genius who are
alive from the first moment they open their
mouths. The book deals with the menage
of Sanger, an expatriated English composer,
living in the Tyrol, and the fugitive, irregular
lives of the group are presented with a vital-
ity and humor that are almost beyond praise.
Sanger, the gross, talented libertine, whose
amours have been the despair of his three
wives—how easy it would have been to have
made him either a pagan superman or a
stereotyped figure of farce! Lewis Dodd,
the young bohemian friend of Sanger's, who
is also a musician and is led into a marriage
with a middle-class English girl—what
opportunities there are for sentimentality in
describing his masterpieces and liis relations
with his wife! In every situation of the
story temptations towards a sickly, romantic
treatment lie thickly strewn, but Margaret
Kennedy avoids them with a faintly ironic
smile. For her the creative fire in her people
is not a dream-liglit on the horizon or a
cheery glow on the domestic hearth, but a
wayward, incalculable flame; and there is
a robust humor in the way she shows the
ravages it is likely to cause in a tame, ordered
world.
“The Constant Nymph’ marks an epoch
in woman’s treatment of the novel. Tts
values of sex. social distinction and life gen-
erally are what might be termed masculine,
though they are really the values of a long
tradition of major literature. In bringing
them so naturally into the novel, Margaret
Kennedy has broken down one of those subtle
barriers that always seemed to hamper her
fellow-women in art. After “The Constant
Nymph” there is really no reason why we
should talk about “women’s novels with
condescension.
VANCE PALMER.
Lawrence’s Latest
An American journalist wlio visited the
Lawrences on their mountainous range m
New Mexico said “D. H. Lawrence lives on
top of the world.” From this observatory
The Plumed Serpent (Martin Seeker) is sent
out as his most important work. Verbose
and vague, unconventional and realistic, at
times grotesque, always graphic, the novel is
intellectually virile, full of raw life.
It is of little use going to The Plumed
Serpent” to enjoy its story: you must
approach it as you might the gates of a
Gethsemane. You keep company, with the
damned; at best you beat your wits against
the bars of the eternal and insoluble pro-
blems of life arid death. The genius of the
book is gorgeous. One has to take periodical
shelter from its stinging storms, ere dancing
the whirlwind of its ravishing fury drunken
with recklessness. It is like pacing a pro-
phet spending himself in a race for space
in which to tell it all—a prophet letting him-
self go in a gibbering transcription of the
subtleties and mysteries of Ego and Cosmos,
the tiny and the leviathan both under sar-
donic scrutiny, and about it all a Rosicru-
eian efflorescence. The many-sided book is
a blistering anathema of Church and State
and of institutionalised thought. .
Crowded with a familiar dark and illusive
philosophy, it is an unfoldment of secret
and intimate things, physical and psycholo-
gical ; but it is also a nakedly plain picture
of an elemental -Mexico. No thesis written
deliberately to explain this enigmatic land
could succeed nearly. as . well in pre-
senting decadence and despotism trium-
phantly suffocating themselves. It is a study
of people—nobles and peons—-customs, ten-
dencies and revolutionism. In Mexico • m
the end practically all men go under.” One
wonders how. they let Lawrence live there;
after his explosive epithets—“mongrel men of
a mongrel city” ; “shady people.” And here ?
one of many flashlights in characterisation:
Superficially, Mexico might be all right.... Until
you were alone with it. And then the undertone,
was like the low, angry', snarling purring of some:
jaguar spotted with night. There >yas a ponderous.-
down-pressing weight upon the spirit; the great
folds of the dragon of the Aztecs, the dragon of the
Toltees winding around one and weighing down the
soul. And on the bright sunshine was a dark
steam of an angry, impotent briiod, and the flowers
seemed to have their roots in. spilt blood., the
spirit of the place was cruel, down-dragging, de-
•structive.
It'is to this country that Kara of, Ireland
comes —Kate twice married, aged 40. fight-
ing in the Lawrence way for freedom;- Mainly
the story is of the setting-up of a new' wor-
ship of Quetzalcoatl (the Plumed Serpent)
by a visionary seeking his country’s regen-
eration along with power for himself by
the release of 'a new energy. The religion
is compounded of mysticism and insurrec-
tion. Quetzalcoatl and Lis priests are- as
bloody as they are Buddhistic: as helpless in.
a woman’s arms as they are mighty in valor.
Don Ramon Carrasco, the Spanish Mexican
who ultimately declares himself Quetzalcoatl.
is as terroristic as he is mystical. His
abettor, Don Cipriano Viedma, an Indian
general of division, is all warrior—sensual,
superstitious, cynical. Lawrence’s power to
give anything' symbolic significance and to
flood the atmosphere with, the uncanny is
shown in brilliant pages. There are miracles of
word-weaving in this whirlpool of language
which is also often crude and commonplace.
Kate gets tangled up in the god-making,
and is ritualised into the priestess Malintzi
as wife of Cipriano. In an illuminative
moment she ends a tempest of feeling,
stifling:—
For Heaven’s sake, let me out of this and back
to simple human people, t loathe the very sound
of Quetzalcciatl and Huitzilopochtli.
But she stays at the game. Submits. • The
Lawrence tradition required conquest from
her. It is not the only surprise in the new
Lawrence. Tremendous things are said on
Liberty, Vanity, Bull-fights, Poverty. Soul
and Socialism (thoroughly repudiated with
powerful scorn). Of the challenge of the
colored races to the rest there-are passages
of piercing pain. Take these glimpses as
typical of the author’s strength of synopsis.
Of Europe:—
All politics, or jazzing, or slushy mysticism or
sordid spiritualism. The magic had gone. The
younger generation, so smart and interesting, but
so without any mystery, any background.
Of America: —
The mental-spiritual life of white people suddenly
flourishes like a great weed let loose in virgin soil.
Probably it will as quickly wither.
Of the Irish :
Let them find themselves again, and their own
universe, and their own gods. Let them substantiate
their own mysteries. The Irish have been so wordy
about their far-off heroes and green days of the
heroic gods.
Possibly more parabolic and paradoxical
than anything D. 11. Lawrence has done
before, “The Plumed Serpent” is an aggra-
vation of the mannerisms and messages flung
provocatively around in “Kangaroo.” “The
Boy in the Bush” and (especially) St.
Mawr.” Lawrence has moved far from
earlier novelising: he is to-day moffe the
Man with a Mission, a Tqrquemada flagellat-
ing the world for its sins.
R. S. ROSS.
The Commonwealth’s Cranium
Dr. Morris Miller, of Tas. University and
.director of the State Psychological Clinic,
has just issued a useful monograph, Brain
Capacity and Intelligence (Australasian
Association of Psychology and Philosophy).
In 80 pages he gives the result of brain
measurements carried out during the. past
year among schoolboys (State and private)
of Tasmania. Something like 4000 measure-,
ments were taken and classified according
to the methods followed by Professors Berry
and Porteous in Victoria, and by other recog-
nised compilers of cephalic indices. The
resultant tables show that there is a grati-
fying absence in Australia (at least, as be-
tween Victoria and Tasmania) of those re-
gional differences of brain capacity which
exist in Italy and other European countries.
and even in Scotland between the north-
east and south-west. The Tasmanian school-
boys measure up almost precisely the same
as the Victorian, and there is fairly good
evidence for the assumption that the child-
ren of all the States of the Commonwealth
are homogeneous in that respect.
One of the most interesting sections is
devoted to an investigation of brain measure-
ments in relation to mental levels. The Tas.
schoolboys were divided into two groups,
2606 normal pupils and 488 retardates, and
carefully classified according to age, etc.
The backward boys were found to be much
smaller in brain capacity than the normals.
A further comparison of primary-school, nor-
mals and retardates with the boys of the
technical and high schools showed that
“brain growth bears a positive correspond-
ence with mental growth and pedagogiacal
attainment,” from which the obvious con-
clusion is drawn that "the • State is justi-
fied in making provision for the higher train-
ing of children with better-endowed brains,
both in scholastic and in the more complex
manual or vocational instruction.”
Another intriguing comparison deals with
the cubic capacity of brain at “normal,
“borderline” and “defective” levels of mental
development. The measurements cover A2O
individuals—444 boys and 176 men (the
latter prisoners in Hobart Gaol) referred
during the past three years to the psycho-
logical clinic. Of the 176 men 73 had been
psychologically classed as normal, 44 defec-
tive and 59 on the borderline. In the final
analysis of the brain measurements the de-
fectives were . smallest headed; the border-
liners were not quite so pin-lieaded as the
defectives, though considerably smaller than
the normals; and the smallest-headed among
the 73 normals was a sexual pervert “de-
tained during the Governor’s pleasure.” One
of the investigator’s conclusions is that small-
beadedness is of far' more diagnostic signi-
ficance than 1 arge-li eadedness. Professors
Berry and Porteous rather stressed the
“social standing” of the youngsters of
the Victorian private schools as sufficiently
accounting for their higher cubic capacity
as compared with State schoolboys “drawn
from a different social grade.” Dr. Morris
Miller will have none of this, for “the Tas-
manian State High-school boys compare
more than favorably with both the Tas-
manian and Victorian private-school boys of
the same age.” And “the original differences
in economic and physical endowments (and
not merely the social standing as such)
“account to a great, extent for these differ-
ences in the means -of the massed groups of
private- and State-school boys. These differ-
ences may even raise serious question as to
the retarding effects of under- and mal-nour-
isliment as well as of inadequate stimulation
of brain-growth during the early infancy of
children from poorly-equipped homes
Here we have the physical basis for what
we conventionally call ‘good breeding,’ and
here we have justification for the educational
service of baby clinics, habit clinics and simi-
lar institutions for the physical and mental
development of children of pre-school age. The
children of the poor suffer more from under-
stimulation or inadequate exercise of brain
than the children of the wealthy.
Dr. Miller suggests that in oidei
vide larger numbers of subjects tor crania
£Measurement (consequently greater compara-
tive accuracy) the military authorities should
be asked to co-operate by providing faci
ties for anthropometric observation of tram^
ees who may have left school bet r' -
advent of the psychologist with bis kind y
callipers. Having succeeded in
yearly norm of brain-growth of normal boys
for comparison with the sub-normals an
feeble-minded, the Speck s painstaking psy-
chologist very naturally desires to exploit
his discovery over the widest possible held.
Educationists throughout the Commonwealth
will watch his explorations with interest.
This is the fourth of the Monograph Series
published by the Australasian Association oi
Psychology and Philosophy, Sydney Unive -
"sitv The first was Professor Francis Andei-
son's “Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, the
second was Professor Lovell s Dreams, and
the third was Morris Millers Basis ot 1 lee-
dom : a Study of Kant’s Theory’-the thesis,
by the way, that won him his Latl.D.
W. A. WOODS.
Recent Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated book-
sellers of Australia and Maonland: .
Books of Literary Merit— Mape, by Andre M.ourois;
The Portrait of Man with Red Hair, by Hugh Mat-
pole • The Hounds of Spring, by Sylvia Thompson;
Precious Bane, by Mary Webb; The Oldest God. by
Stephen McKenna.
Books for Popular Reading. —The Reluctant
Impostor, by Muriel Hine; Mr. Ramosi, by Valentine
Williams; Mr. Allen, by A. Yachell and Arch.
Williams ; The Perennial Bachelor, by Anne Parrisli;
The Heart of a Goof, by P. G. Wodehouse; Fairy
..Gold, by„i;.omp.tQn. .Mitekenzie ; Ships That Pass in
the Night Clubs, by Gurney Slade; The Love Rack,
by Cecil Roberts ; They Had to See Paris, by Homer
Croy.
A Satchel of Books
The Chronicles of Clovis, by, “Saki” (John Lane).
A neat and handy reprint of a further instalment of
the short stories contributed to the press by 11. H.
Munro. He shows his brightest side in ot the
tales included.
The Black Scorpion, by Alastair Shannon (Geoffrey
Bles). The finding of Ronald Lorimer, Chief Secre-
tary to the Madras Government, murdered in his
bed with a black scorpion stencilled on his left
cheek, disturbed the lethargy the police had shown
with regard to “the Black Scorpion terrorists,
Calthorpe, of the C.1.D., traces the mysterious murder
to London, where Scotland Yard takes a hand and
the criminal is landed. A gallop from start to finish,
with Justice winning bv a neck.
The Fire of Spring, by Edward Noble (Heine
maun). “ ‘Where my lord goes,’ she smiled, her
cheek against his cheek, ‘I go, too.’ ’’ Effie Masseu-
sliaw was a leading protagonist in the crusade of the
militant suffragettes in 1910-14. Then came the
call to war, and out of the garment of sacrifice
emerged her romance of love. A book giving an
interesting resume of the “vote for women” move-
ment that was submerged in the greater issue. _ Its
prolixity weakens its dramatic action, but it >s
worth reading, especially if one has mastered the
art of judicious skipping.


FOR
WIRELESS
Exide Batteries are made in
types suitable for all wireless
purposes. Low-tension and high-
tension batteries to any voltage and in
numerous capacities. They give that
steady current and constant voltage you have
been trying to obtain. Freedom from noises
is the result
Australian Distributors:
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.,
Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street,
Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Stmth Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


88
£jßk-
mm
hm f
I
TRIM and
POWERFUL
A trim, vigorous giant—this new Republic
chassis. Every line and unit speaks powerful
“going” on any road. Engine power is
greater, axles are heavier, springs are longer
but more sturdy, and the deep, bridge-strong
frame is impervious to shock and weight.
Down to the very shacklebolts there is stamina
which spells six, eight and ten years of
economical truck performance. . Long after
first cost is written off Republic extra mileage
keeps piling up.
So the cost of truck operation trends down-
ward wherever Republic trucks enter. The
strictest kind of truck-fleet auditing writes
the greatest endorsement of Republic haulage.
Republic transportation always pays its way,
in saving time, maintenance and fuel, aside
from favorable first cost!
Republic record could be based on nothing but
the millions of miles and the millions of tons
which have tested Republic trucks in every
conceivable way. Judicious truck-users buy
on the strength of these records.
REPUBLIC
More trucks in use than any other
exclusive manufacturer
REPUBLIC AGENTS:—
NEW SOUTH WALES: Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd., 177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., 114-122 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q’land), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: George Mason and Rasch, Ltd., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Gilberts, Ltd., 896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd., Taranaki and Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A.CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.


BAR
1
IS
a
Superior to all contingencies the
Studebaker completes its wonderful
trip without mishap.
makes
historq
<7
m
m
1
i
At Taylor’s Crossing* Bore.
Crossing* the Diamentiiia.
(This teas said to be impossible.)' jl[
I'm®
The Studebaker beside a vast anthill
Fording a Creek.
The lure of adventure enthralls us all! How general is
the desire in Australians to explore those far-flung out-
posts where a few settlers dwell amidst the silence of
the trackless desert—to penetrate still farther into the
unknown and discover what the very heart of Australia
is really like!
Now that feat has been accomplished, not with the hard-
ships which encompassed the early explorers, but with
all the luxurious comfort which Studebaker ensures.
Captain E. D. A. Bagot and twelve passengers
have completed the first trip of a regular
Studebaker service between Adelaide and Darwin.
Only Studebaker, the car built for strength and service,
could make this undertaking possible.
All along the route, whenever in touch with the telegraph,
Captain E. D. A. Bagot reported “All well,” and now that
the initial journey is finished he has nothing but the
highest praise for the endurance and utter reliability of
the two Big Six Seven-seater Studebaker Cars which he
utilises.
The Studebaker is the car which stays out of the
workshop.
It is built to a quality standard in every detail, although
offered at prices which only one-profit production could
justify.
Does not this epic accomplishment of the Studebaker
suggest that it is the car which will give YOU continuous
good service?
Inspect the many models in our Showrooms to-day.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER 8R05.,. 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.


$
*
P'S
Children Quickly Learn
To Rely On Cuticura
To soothe and heal the rashes
and skin irritations of childhood.
Daily use of Cuticura Soap, assist-
ed by Cuticura Ointment, will keep
the skin and scalp clean and healthy
and prevent simple irritations from
becoming serious.
Soap Is.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W. ,r
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you in troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under ail conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
5 104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BRITISH WADE
VENlfr
QUALITY PENCIL
I
NOW £) EACH
SOtOIY ALLSTATIOHERS.
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
Ŝ
Some things get better of themselves —rupture
gets worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while you don't know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DEN YER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
21
W:
A
Vmtftoget
For Invalids, Mothers,
Children and Others. I
mforcfc
Groats
Obtainable from all chemists and grocers.
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE Be CO. LTD., SYDNEY
a
i
I
|.ii
Hi b>l i;
*vS» *
ffiubtteU
he Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
.Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
' 1/- Post Free. I
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS
CLUB REIL CIGAR
FOR
FACTORY
Hov youn<^
villyou be
. _ at
Mother looks as
y ° Un Vau^r!
D-B. Allens
■M
M
U
“Why, she looks as young and charming as her daughter.” How
often have you heard these words spoken about women who have retained
their girlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up around
them! Have you ever stopped to think what the real secret of their
youth is? The turning-point of youth to early middle-age comes when a
little silvery grey-creeps in amongst that crowning glory of women—their
hair. No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure its easy
girlish form, the hair appearance is the mirror of the age.
Stop for a moment and think of the really smart women that you
know; they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs, the unmistakable symbol
of advancing years, to creep in and spoil their beauty.
Grey hair can never be fashionable—it is the first sign of old age. A
man may be as old as he feels—but a woman is as 'old as her hair.
Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the confidence of women
for 25 years—it is perfectly harmless, easy to apply, immediate in action,
and, above all, undetectable. Carefully carry out the instructions and let
it restore your hair to its natural shade. Grey hairs will vanish like magic
and youth will walk in at your door.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A War Poet.
He took the blood of men and wrote their
fame, . .
And now they start and murmur m their
“He took the blood of men and wrote his
name
For Time to keep.”
N.s.w.
CECIL MANN.
Adventure.
We met Adventure among the hills.
She lured and led from that secluded place
To countries far and other skies,
By sea and mountain pass. The song that
lies
Within the blue and crystal airs of space
Was in her voice, the melody that fills
The woods at dawn when first the errant
breeze
Bears murmured music from the singing seas.
Night fell around us. Black against the
moon
Towards the east we saw a ship with sail
And rigging strange. Wide-eyed and cold
of cheek
We sought the entrance to the hidden creek.
Fearing each moment that the wind would
fail
Before we reached the nalmy still lagoon.
At last we heard the surging surf before,
And steered the laden sloop towards the
shore.
The jungle undergrowth was thick. The air
Was hot and oversweet with scent of
flowers.
The silence of the temple breathed a threat,
And unseen eyes seemed watching us, but
yet,
Determined that the treasure should be
ours,
We sought the golden idol hidden there.
We felt the lure of old forbidden things.
And found the jewelled god of ancient kings.
We crouched beside the dark oak panelling,
Remembering each softly-spoken word.
We heard the whispered names, the perfect
plan,
The hour, the work assigned to every man.
We lay and listened; neither spoke nor
stirred.
And then, aglow since we had served the
king,
We crept in silence through the darkness till
We breathed free air and stood upon the hill.
Another world, unknown, uncharted seas
And alien peoples, ancient lores and faiths
Of other ages, pulsing life, and death
Perchance where danger lurks with chilly
breath,
Brave deeds, bright dreams, achievements,
and the wraiths
Of joys yet hoped for—these, and rpore than
these
Await the happy ones Adventure wills
To meet and call among the windy hills.
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
Song for Sydney.
When the Spring comes into Sydney I shall
hear across the sea
The wind on a lone island sigh among the
palms like rain,
And all the surge of endless waves on the
far reefs again
Will echo through my dream-waves that
break unceasingly.
When the Spring comes into Sydney,. when
the jacarandas are
Turned lilac-trees of faery, and the
camphor-laurels grow
Golden in the dawnings where a thousand
gardens glow
Lovely to the water, I shall be from Sydney
far.
When the Spring comes into Sydney, though
my rich hibiscus blaze
Passionate and scarlet in the gliding after-
noon,
And my frangipanni blossoms are as silver
as the moon.
My thoughts will home to Sydney in the
sweet September days.
When the Spring comes into Sydney, though
the sea-road runs apart,
Out between the lordly Heads, and o’er
the cloudy rim,
I watch the blue land lessen and the linger-
ing light grow dim.
Still, oh my laughing city, I shall hold you
in my heart!
N.s.w.
A. SMITH.
Sunset.
The gorgeous litter passes from the sight
And blazonings of amaranth and gold
Incarnadined the trailing clouds enfold
Till palest flushes are dissolved in night.
No silver trumpets blow
Crescendo notes or low;
But in that blue vault deep
• The God of Day must sleep.
To-morrow’s lord in majesty will wield
His jewelled sceptre o'er his kingdom seen ;
But, like that beautiful and soulless Queen,
His hours are numbered and he too must
yield
To laws immutable.
Stern and inscrutable
And in the ether deep
Of cobalt azure sleep.
“To-morrow is within the womb.” you say,
“As yet unborn”; but with To-morrow’s
sun
The diamonds on a rose-leaf dew has spun
Exulting sing “To-morrow is To-day!”
though no trumpet blo.v
Clear silver notes and low,
Brilliant from Orient skies,
The God of Day will rise!
QUEENSLAND.
E. COUNGEAU.


c
: i 8
i
H
«)•* \
<u.
jg
■
■ a
su
■
' ii ms
Sa
|«c
~>S
;
Ss
m
a
M- 3r -5
•;.r f
2 i
. 1
mm
.
W&%mg^9W?tWs
■
n
Sllll
■
>l-
--
i^«g
® • •---. wm-'
f, 'i
WsmmiKmmmm
.-J
: ...
■H
11
'*
ps
:• 1! ”^
S an i
m
jpjpp:
m
.
H
n
*
■
x « <?S
m
4


THE HOUSE THAT BRUCE BUILT.
“In the struggle to find reasons why Labor should vote against the Bruce Ministry’s referendum proposals, though they were formerly made by Labor Govern-
ments, it has been discovered, that at a house which is being built for Mr. Bruce at Frankston the workmen do not knock off for lunch till 1 o’clock, which is most irregular.
It is proposed to declare the job ‘black.’”
MISS AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY: “Oh, Policeman, ring this bell for me—I am very sick.”
CONSTABLE BARNES: “You lock crook, Miss. But don’t go to that sinister man. You just wait here, and somebody else might take his place some day
and attend to you if you’re not dead.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for THE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd-, at the Office of the
C'o., 211 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
1.1 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months , Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. lid.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
nil Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ’’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and- not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
31)00 words. are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or .Newspaper Clippings. All communications
n ill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed, When MS r . is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. Tiie Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Tondon is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
'near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
Ihe bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
.1 Iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
10 Farringdon Street, London, E.CJi.; and W. flaw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London. E.C.’,. ; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; i( The British
Australian and New Zealander,’’ Jjli-Tt Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and. Son,
< apetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley, and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., iJjl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Comer 6th
Avenue and find Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 101, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The. New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Ely ft. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R, B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Pafua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. t Wardour
Sheet (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.I\.
U.S.A. —./. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
JUoz., Id. United Kingdom: !,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional l/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., Ujd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'S/QidZeZwi.
THURSDAY, JULY, 29, 1926.
WHICH SIDE SHOULD AUSTRALIA
TAKE?
Alstralia has seen nothing more humorous
in the way of politics than the spectacle of
Conservatives joining with Communists to
defeat the proposed Constitutional amend-
ments. The association of Arthur Robin-
son, the Melbourne Tory, and Jock Garden,
the Moscow Pet, has made the whole nation
grin, and the manifestoes issued from the
allied camps are almost as funny, although
they are meant to be terrifying. The cry
of one crowd of extremists is that the powers
sought would enable a Labor Government to
socialise industry, distribution, exchange and
all the rest of it. The Federal Arbitration
Judges, it is suggested, could be dismissed
by the fierce Charlton or someone equally
truculent and their court converted into the
Supreme Economic Council of Labor
theory and Bolshevik practice. The fact is
that this could be done under the present
powers. If Charlton were in office now
there would be nothing to stop him sending
Messrs. Dethridge, Lukin and Beeby about
their business, and installing Messrs. Garden
Howie and Walsii in their stead. That
is to say, there would be no Constitutional
obstacle in the way. But Australia would
know how 7 to deal with him if he tried it on.
The other band attributes equally malignant
motives to the Prime Minister. “If the
amendments are carried,” it shouts, “he will
undermiiie Parliamentary institutions, fine
and imprison Labor leaders, tie up or con-
fiscate union funds, close down all Labor
journals, bring about industrial conscription
and the rule of bogus unions, hamstring,
hobble and break up every Labor organisa-
tion in Australia.” The answer is that
Bi*uce could do most of these frightful things
under the existing Constitution. Being an
average decent and fairly democratic Aus-
tralian, he doesn’t want to do them. In
any case,. he knows that he and politics
would part company very quickly if he made
the attempt.
# # *• #
The Tory section of the weird alliance
can at least claim to be consistent. It has
fought every attempt to enlarge the Com-
mpnwealth’s area of usefulness lest it dim-
inish the petty majesty of the States. It
takes a morbid delight in seeing the national
authority ineffectual where it could be most
serviceable —unable to legislate on industrial
matters except “conciliation and arbitration
for the prevention and settlement of indus-
trial disputes extending beyond the limits of
any one State,” a fatal restriction; unable
to control trusts and combines; unable to
pass a uniform company law; unable to pass
any company law that would be worth a
row of pins. The Tories are faithful to their
poor provincialism in their fashion. But
their Labor allies add inconsistency to their
other sins. Their attitude is in conflict with
the most important plank of their platform,
which says that the Commonwealth should
have unlimited powers and : the States such
powers as the Commonw’ealth may prescribe.
Times out of number these Laborites have
inveighed against the state of things which
compels every federated union seeking an
arbitration award to serve processes on thou-
sands of employers; which has obliged them
to squander hundreds of thousands of pounds
in abortive High Court proceedings; which
has rendered it impossible for the Common-
w’ealth Parliament to regulate companies, the
employers of a large proportion of Austra-
lian unionists, or to legislate for the preven-
tion of overcharging; w’hich has made the
Anti-Trust Act “the deadest of all our dead
law’s.” Yet the effort to obtain a grant of
pow’et* without which these matters cannot
possibly be put right they describe as “the
most dastardly attempt that has ever been
made upon the liberties of the trade unions
of Australia” ! They include in this hysteri-
cal condemnation the very corporations
amendment that their own Andrew Fisher
referred to the people in 1911 and 1913. And
all because a Nationalist-Cocky Government
is in office in the Commonwealth! There
has rarely been a more outrageous sacrifice
of principle to party.
* * * *
The experience of 25 years has shown that
the Commonwealth is weak where it should
be strong, bond where it should be free.
Whether it will remain weak or grow strong
will be determined, as far as this generation
is concerned, on September 4. On one side
are reasonable men of all the political parties,
unionists w’eary of the class-war madness,
employers equally anxious for industrial
peace on fair terms, and nationalists gener-
ally. On the other are Tory extremists and
Labor extremists, Foreignitraders and Mos-
cow 7 pilgrims and provincialists. There is
not much doubt which side Australia w’ill
take.
THE PROHIBITION OF SUPERFLUOUS
IMPORTS.
In the course of the Federal financial
debate the same brick was thrown at Trea-
surer Page by such widely-different persons
as Deputy-Labor-leader Scullin and dis-
gruntled Nationalist Willie Watt. Simul-
taneously the S. M. Herald took up the
parable, in what was for it an unusually
definite fashion. None of them was dis-
tinctly helpful, but there was no lack of
parable. What all parties said may be sum-
marised as follows: —
Australia (Federal aud State) requires to export
each year a great deal more (Scullin said
£32,000,000 more) than it imports in order that
there may be enough to its credit abroad to meet
the interest on its foreign debt. It doesn’t matter
whether the surplus is exported by Governments or
by private individuals, and it., may take the form of
sovereigns or sheepskins without making any differ-
ence, provided there is sufficient market for sheep-
skins.
Nowadays it never exports enough or nearly
enough, so it borrows money abroad (its paper
money being valueless abroad) to fill the gap.
Sometimes it borrows some of the interest. Some-
times it borrows all the interest. Sometimes it
borrows not only the whole interest, but a big sum
in addition to pay for imported things.
To make the constant new loans look respectable
enough to be passed on to unsuspecting people with
a trifle to invest, they are nominally for “works.”
But the country couldn’t build enough genuine re-
productive works to absorb the loans Without, to
a great extent, denuding the market of labor. It
couldn’t operate the ever-accumulating works when
they were built without making almost everybody
a civil servant. In addition, it couldn’t cover the
loss on all these works without increasing the taxes
manifold, and there would be few save civil servants
to tax. So the list of works consists more and
more of ordinary everyday expenses which are
included to fill up.
* * * *
There is still time (at least, there seems
to be, but the matter is of no certainty)
to put Australia’s house in order. The pro-
cess would simply consist in paying, with
its own money and its own goods, the whole
bill for imports and the whole bill for in-
terest due abroad, and slowly reducing the
external debt, at least to the point where
it would be represented by reproductive assets.
This may seem a hard proposition, yet it
might, before very long, lead to a state of
healthy activity by providing more employ-
ment. But if there is a compulsory stop-
page while the house is in its present dis-
order the position will be akin to that of the
individual who has cooked the accounts suc-
cessfully through a number of audits, and
met inevitable exposure at last. The result
of a large, wild revelation is uncertain. In-
dependent communities which are numerous
and well armed, and possibly inaccessible to
boot, can stop payment with comparative im-
punity. A small nation, ill-armed and with
all its important towns on the coast, invites
“pressure,” which might take the form of a
demand for the surrender of railways, or
Customs receipts, or both. Tlje application
of “pressure” would be all the more likely
if the financial breakage led to a movement
which brought the worst elements of society
to the top—if they weren’t there already.
* * * *
Treasurer Page’s critics were not a help-
ful papty. They said that there should be a
sufficient surplus of exports, but they didn’t
say how he should attain it, nor how they
would try to attain it themselves if given
the chance. The stereotyped proposition that
the monstrous gap may be filled by increased
production of raw materials, and especially
by putting “settlers” on farmlets with im-
possible debts for company, may be turned
down without hesitation. The export of
“primary” products was less by quantity in
1922- than in 1913, and less again in
1923- Put on the basis of 1913 pripes,
the values for the three years were
£72,833,454, £70,146,692 and £64,106,932. It
tnight he possible, by some, herculean and
long-continued effort, to increase the out-
ward trade in these precarious goods more or
less ; but there is no time for a long-continued
effort with doubtful results for years to come.
A sufficient reduction of imports is much
more feasible than a sufficient increase of
exports. But, unfortunately, whenever Pro-
tection gives some new industry a footing, a
fierce effort is made, by people whom Scux-
L(N, M.H.R., knows well, to undo the good
work by demands for shorter hours and re-
duced output. In addition, Australia is in-
fested by a crowd (mostly imported and with
a Red objective) who declare that they seek
to destroy all industry in the cause of the
Revolution. Very many of Scullin’s poli-
tical friends, though perhaps not Scullin
himself, are in this criminal movement, while
Still calling themselves Laborites, and the
patient Prime Minister makes no serious
effort to deport a few hundred of the worst
objectionables.
* * # *
The situation is in a category by itself,
and by reason of pow r ardice and inefficiency
ordinary remedies have failed. A new 7 treat-
ment is required. As good a way as any
might be to search the importation list for
costly items which a luxurious and lazy but
impoverished community could dispense with,
and prohibit them absolutely. It is quite
possible to balance the national accounts and
stave off national disaster by doing without
things, and there wmuld be no need to do
without them long if Australia can only
learn the lesson that 48 hours’ good work
per week is not too much; indeed, in view of
all the back debts and future liabilities, pos-
sibly not enough.
THE CAUSE OF CANCER?
Since the mortality from cancer is rising so
rapidly that, while now one person in every
ten of us is destined to die of the scourge,
in 50 years’ time it will be at least one in
five unless the rise is checked, it is time we
took frequent thought as to the cause. F'or
many years theories have been advanced and
experiments conducted along the lines of
heredity, infection and dietetics. Each in
turn has been under suspicion, but none
has been adjudged guilty. Every year,
though, we add a little to our store of know-
ledge, negative, it is true, much of it. One
knows, for instance, that one does not in-
herit cancer any more than one inherits tuber-
culosis ; bqt one can inherit a tendency to
either. This fact is of importance, as the
subsequent remarks will attempt to demon-
strate.
No infectious organism or germ has ever
been isolated which is capable of reproducing
cancer in the human. Dietetic faddists* have
periodically banned everything, from beef-
steaks to peanut-brittle, have run the con-
demnatory gamut of all form of sustenance,
animal or vegetable, oblivious, apparently, of
the fact that neither carnivorous Laplanders
nor vegetarian South Sea Islanders can boast
a disease-incidence of one in ten. Jusjt as
many other maladies can claim a particular
avocation for their etiology—from rock-
chopper’s phthisis to housemaid’s knee —so
cancer can claim to be the peculiar menace
of modern civilisation." Each epoch of civil-
isation carries its pathological “old man
of the sea.” Syphilis was* extraordinarily
prevalent during the latter half of the
fifteenth century; tuberculosis the fashion-
able disease of succeeding ones. This, our
twentieth, is likely to be known to posterity
as the cancer century. The point then to
be ascertained is what distinguishes this
century from its predecessors. In what re-
spects do humans to-day differ from their
ancestors?
The answer is not to be found in physique
or morals. In physique they compare favor-
ably with their progenitors, while morals
have always been a matter of custom, as the
word implies. It is in their mentality that
the chief distinction lies. But what has men-
tality to do with cancer? That is what we
have to find out. It is justifiable in our
present straits to speculate on anything
which may give an inkling as to even a
conducing cause of this “crab” which never
dies.
Psycho-analysts, scientific and empirical,
from Freud and Coue to Mart Baker G.
Eddy, have been busy trying to find the miss-
ing link between mind and matter. Others
more spiritually-minded have sought the
light in darkened rooms from disembodied
shades that have “crossed over” and seem
loath to communicate with their materialis-
tic relicts on subjects other than the most
trivial. No spook has told Sir Oliver
IjODge, Conan Dotle or even those stout
female mediums who figure as the victims of
police interference the cause *of cancer.
Nevertheless certain effects of the mind on
physical functionings are familiar to most
of us. We know that emotional shock can
accelerate or even stop the heart-beat; that
one can be paralysed with fear, which, too,
can bleach the hair in a few hours; that
shellshock has deprived men of the functions
of sight, speech and hearing; that excite-
ment can dry the mouth or make one sw'eat
at every pore, and interfere with even more
delicate yet essential physical functions. And
last, but not least, that worry can produce
indigestion. If, then, worry—usyally only
a temporary state of mind —can produce dis-
order, is it illogical to suggest that a chronic
worry, an incessant nerve-jarring, might pro-
duce disease? Australia’s most brilliant
anatomist, the late John Hunter, was on the
threshold of proving this latter conten-
tion. He held that organic disease of the
digestive tract, gastric or duodenal ulcer—
both often proved precursors of cancer —was
due to derangement of the sympathetic—
mark the word—nervous system. He was the
telephone linesman who found something
wrong with the wires, but he did not live
long enough to investigate the switchboard
or batteries.
Is there anything wrong with the mental
equipment of this century which might pos-
sibly be a cause of cancer? We know that
acute worry can so jostle the brain-cells as
to make a man put a pistol to his head and
disintegrate them “while temporarily insane.”
But what do we know of the effects of
chronic worry, insidious and persistent, even
voluntary worry, on the brain-cells and sym-
pathetic nervous system? Nothing except
that those who have had least of it don't get
cancer. Now, there is only one sort of
genuinely chronic worry. That is financial
worry. All other sorts are comparatively
temporary and cured or ended by accommo-
dation, distraction or death. People do not die
of a “broken heart.” By “financial worry,”
it must be understood, is not meant poverty.
Cancer is not solely a poor man’s disease.
Very many poor men do not worry a jot
about money, the want or the loss of it. But
many safely rich men do. It is the mental
quality of fear of not making enough money
—or more money—or of losing what one has
got, that, I suggest, is the peculiarly preva-
lent twentieth-century worry. In no other
age has there been such an army of poten-
tial profiteers. Untold legions in all classes
of the community are worrying about money
—not about the wherewithal to live, but
about money per se. Laborers strike or go-
slow not for their bread and butter, but for
more money. Employers band together, not
to prevent their businesses from going bank-
rupt, but for more money. We are all money-
anxious. It would be safe to say that 00
per cent, of all meetings of Parliamentarians,
shire and municipal councillors, and mem-
bers of all other coteries, factions and juntas
sitting to-night are haggling about some
monetary advantage or disadvantage to some-
body. This is the commercial age, the in-
dustrial age, the mechanical age; it is also
the money and the cancer age. From
the flapper to the farmer we are all, or
almost all —say one in ten at the minimum
—money-worried. Farmers whose fathers or
grandfathers brought in their carts a few
calves or cabbages to town for disposal on
market-day think or try to think in thou-
sands of pounds as they rush about in their
motor-cars and worry about gigantic mort-
gages or an extra penny a bushel on wheat.
Gone is the day of Farmer Giles or Hayseed
—this is the age of cars, credit and cancer,
all peculiarly and perilously prevalent in
rural districts.
It would be interesting- to make a chart
of the cancer incidence in all races and
nations from the most .commercially-minded
to those that barter shells or dogs’ teeth for
a roll of red cloth. But that must be left to
the statisticians. Posterity may yet decide
that cancer was a twentieth-century disease
akin to cowpox inasmuch as it was due to
the worship of the Golden Calf. Early
Christians believed that “whom the Lord
loveth He ehasteneth,” and future genera-
tions may find that Mammon followed suit,
by visiting malignant disease on his devotees.
S. N. R.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney Regarded as a Federal Capital.
In the course of a recent financial debate
much mention was made of Canberra and
of its cost, its climate, its present inaccessi-
bility and the prospective high price of living
there. McGrath, a Laborite from Ballarat,
said with bitterness that lie believed Australia
would abandon Canberra even now if it
could by any means get a fresh deal. He
left the matter at that, being an unenter-
prising and noil-constructive member, but he
might have gone further. An alteration of
the Constitution is quite feasible, especially
if the proposal to turn Canberra into a sana-
torium was accompanied by attractive sug-
gestions for an alternative capital. Sydney
wouldn’t bo a bad sort of spot if N. S. Wales
was prepared to surrender it, and perhaps
500 or 600 or 700 square miles of territory
to make a Federal province. The scheme
would work no other way, for two Govern-
ments in one city would result in a frenzy
of divided authority. The Federal area,
with its population of a million or so, would
rank as a State in the sense that it would
supply its quota of Representatives and
Senators to Parliament, but the Federal
authority would be also its State Parliament,
its State Government, and all its mayors and
corporations rolled into one. It would have
to exercise its municipal powers through
many trusted officers, and do its own Town
Hall swindles, if swindles are necessary.
With the Federal Government, Parliament
and Treasury on the spot, Sydney would
have a brilliant chance to develop into the
City Beautiful —perhaps too beautiful for
the peace of mind of rival cities. Then the
N. S. Wales which remained (about 309.000
square miles until further subdivisions
take place) might find a congenial metropolis
at Glen Innes or some such place, and with
a Government on the spot Earle Page’s
favorite scheme for the development of the
northern rivers and ports would proceed
apace. It may be taken for granted that
all the tough old parochial elements of the
community would be aghast at the idea of
“surrendering Sydney,” but when the matter
is considered, the same people would live and
work and trade there as at present, and the
same landlords would own it, or most of
it, and the real gain should he more than
the imaginary loss through some outside
regions being started on the long-delayed
process of development. Some other city,
such as Brisbane, might answer equally as
a substitute for Canberra, but with Sydney’s
voting power and general attitude of superi-
ority no other would be in the running. If
George Reid had been a man of vision the


Ma State metropolis might, on these lines,
nave started its career as a continental capi-
tal over 20 years ago, but vision was want-
ing, despite the historic eyeglass.
- ♦
France.
inorf AIN prophets have selected
IJoO as the year when the Third French Re-
public is to go the way of its two shattered pre-
decessors and the old Bourbons are to come
back. They won't mind if the event happens
earlier, but 1930 looks a tidy date, as it will
complete a century of exclusion starting from
Charles X. The family had three fair chances
of regaining the throne—in 1848, 1870 and
187 b, but the boss Bourbon of those days
was a holy soul, who was incapable of catch-
ing a throne even if it was thrown at him.
Possibly the present representative will prove
equally incapable. The causes of the anti-
cipated downfall of existing institutions are
the depreciation of the paper franc, rotten
finance in general (the same trouble which
brought about the collapse of the monarchy
in 1792), a combination of extravagance
with mean economy, and the apparent im-
possibility of creating, from a Lower House
of at least 11 parties and a Senate of at
least six, a Government which lasts long-
enough to do anything but resign. The
Frenchman, especially the one on the land,
has. a species of mad-dog objection to taxes.
Out of deference to this sentiment the amount
collected per head, even in the recent years of
fair prosperity, was less than half that col-
lected in Great Britain, and much less than
in the U.S., Canada, Australia or Maori-
land. Little, if any, interest was paid on the
Republic’s foreign debts, though some
“arrangements” have been made and lOU's
signed, so there is not much to be saved by a
stoppage in that direction. Other liabilities
have been met to a great extent by the print-
ing of paper money “secured on the entire
public and private assets of the country.”
This -was the kind of finance which noisy
Australian Labor-Communists preached dur-
ing the war, being firmly convinced that it
was a fresh discovery and their own patent.
V> hen the bottom fell out of French paper-
money values the whole scheme of things
began to wobble on its basis. Nothing
appeals more definitely to an excitable race
than to start for home with a sackful of
wages, and find on arrival that their pur-
chasing power has diminished 50 per cent,
since leaving the factory. If the other 50
per cent, vanishes in the night, that so aggra-
vates the situation that it hardly seems worth
while going back to work in the morning.
It was once the fashion to consider repub-
lics as institutions which were meritorious
in their own right—that is to say, one of
them might be as bad as the monarchy next
door, or even worse, yet the fact of it being
some sort of republic, in name at least, made
up. But now Russia, Turkey, China and
Portugal have republicanised and brought dis-
repute on the honored name, and Mexico and
France are disappointing. Some people even
wonder if republicanism is so productive of
great men as has been supposed. George
Washington, for instance, was born and
brought up under a monarchical regime, and
he remains the national hero because the
United States has raised no favorite son of
his size since. Even Abraham Lincoln
wasn’t nearly his equal. If the French Re-
public goes into the discard there may be
only a moderate quantity of sentiment spilled
at the funeral, provided something reason-
ably sane, stable, solvent and stodgy takes
its place.
Maoriland Has Bubble Figures, Too.
The Maoriland. financial year ended on
March 31, and this time it was the job
of Downie Stewart, who has been at
the Treasury for only a few weeks, to explain
how the money went. He produces a nomi-
nal surplus of £1,500,000, but doesn’t rejoice
over it to any unseemly extent, which is wise.
During the year imports exceeded exports by
four and a third millions, and the Customs
House profited to the extent of over £BOO,OOO
compared with the previous year. Stamp
and death duties, always more or less of a
gamble, were up £120,000, and Von Hin-
denberg sent along a cheque for £190,000
that was hardly expected. The net increase
in debt for the year was 11 millions, and
debt services bit into the public purse for an
additional half-million. The Post Office has
been doing a more profitable trade, and shows
an increase of revenue of £370,000, but the
railways accounts have been put on an en-
tirely new basis, and comparisons are not
encouraged. The only tangible fact about
railways in the Budget is that over a third
of a million has been appropriated to make
up losses on “isolated sections and branch
lines.” In future the railway lines of the
Dominion are to be divided into two cate-
gories—those that pay and those that don’t.
The profits of those that pay will redound to
the credit of the department, and the losses
of those that don’t pay will be debited to the
politicians who had a hand in their construc-
tion. Most of these men are dead and can’t
kick. Stewart reveals that he expects a
slump in Customs revenue during the cur-
rent year—he has had nearly four months
in which to make the suspicion a certainty
—and uses the fact as a basis for a declara-
tion that nobody need expect reductions in
taxation, and that there is a mighty slim
chance of a surplus next year. As usual
in late years a few humble posies are laid
on the bare altar of economy, and there is
a suggestion that when the “large under-
takings now in hand in respect of railways
and hydro-electric power” are completed there
should be a tapering off of public works ex-
penditure. But expenditure of all sorts goes
on increasing more rapidly than either the
population or the national earning capacity
—primary production showed an actual de-
crease last year, and the new Finance Min-
ister, talking about £94,500,090 of loan money
that falls due in the next seven years,deplores
that it will have to be renewed at higher
rates of interest.
*
Overstocking Queensland.
Under-Secretary for .ands Melville, after
going through portion of Queensland's
bereft hinterland, delivered himself of the
time-worn, age-old charge of overstocking.
Of course there is overstocking. But what
should be impressed upon the Government
is the part itself plays in creating the evil.
There are, in the main, two classes of men
who overstock. One is the inexperienced
idiot to whom the Government’s open-door
policy gives control of the land; the other
the poor devil who has to pile on sheep
against the dictates of his experience and
eommonsense in order to wring sustenance
from what the Government is pleased to
consider a living area. The first class is in
the minority. Usually they learn to mend
their ways after a season or two; and if
they don’t, Queensland has a habit of break-
ing fools swiftly and efficaciously. Come,
then, to the second- -the men who have to
ruin their country knowingly and with their
eyes open, but are helpless to prevent them-
selves. The Government idea of a living
area is from 6000 to 12,000 acres, depending
on the class of country. There is a certain
amount of country in Queensland which win
stand a sheep to three acres most of the
year—in rare Instances all the year. Bor
the rest it runs from four or five to six
acres for anything good enough to be classed
as sheep country, with a handy working
average of about five. Six thousand acres
of the good stuff gives a carrying capacity
of 1500. sheep with a margin of safety -
2000 without. Similarly tbe other areas,
each according to its kind. Now, there isn’t
award wages in less than 2000 sheep hun-
dreds of miles front markets and at rentals
up to 6d. an acre. Therefore the selector
must pack on 2000 at least—more if he
wants to rise above the basic wage—in season
and out of season. He knows that he can
no more work all his country at full capa-
city all the time and “get away with it” than
the storekeeper can carry stocks sufficient
for the day only and “get away” with that.
He knows that the grass can’t seed as it
should when it is carrying a full load of
sheep—in other Words, that it is necessary,
once in a while, to pull everything out of
each paddock in turn and let it seed a full
crop. Sheep eat a lot of prospective seed,
and trample more, and it is essential to
let every possible blade grow to seeding
every now and then to make up the defici-
ency. Queensland country—particularly the
red soil —is multiform in its covering. It
grows many grasses, some good, some rub-
bish. Keep sheep on it all the time, and
they eat the good feed, leave the rubbish.
The feed seeds about 10 p.c., the rubbish 100
p.c. It doesn’t take the rubbish long to mono-
polise the paddock at that rate. Of course—
and this is the root of the damage—there is
the flood or “drooping” season (generally
about one in ten), when the feed grows so
fast that one can’t put enough sheep on
to keep it down. Then the selectors make
big cheques, and the Government reduces
its estimate of a living area. The idea
behind it all is to keep the _ selector from
becoming a squatter —and voting the wrong
ticket. As it turns out,, the result is usually
the opposite. If a man has 20,000 acres,
and knows his business, he will use 15,000
at a time and spell 5000—and breed sheep.
If he has 10,000 acres, and has to use every
foot of it all the year round, he deals in
dry stock. He knows better than to run
ewes and lambs when a dry spell of a month
or so finds him without reserves. Dry stock
can hang on, or he can unload them. Prob-
ably he makes more money dealing—makes
the living he otherwise couldn’t. But Aus-
tralia wants breeders, not dealers; and the
only way to get them is to allow the stock-
man a reasonable scope of country, and
thereby a reasonable margin for safety.
♦
The Migration Business.
Parliament did not go into raptures over
the Development and Migration Bill, under
which a commission is to be set up to re-
port on proposals for the expenditure of the
£34,000,000 migration loans, and to “con-
sider matters in relation to the development
of the resources of the Commonwealth.” and
so on. Some hon. members suggested that
the country had more than enough commis-
sions already. Others questioned the capa-
city of the States signing the agreement (and
they have all signed it, except N. S. Wales)
to take one “migrant” for every £75 advanced
and provide one new farm for every £1000;
nor did they show any elation when told that
“the Westralian Government says it has
6000 farms available” (the exuberant Pearce
supplied this information), or that Victoria
has a great scheme for putting “migrants”
on abandoned areas in the Beech Forest.
And the agreement between the Common-
wealth and British Governments was quoted
without enthusiasm. Just as if no crimes
had been committed in the names of “de-
velopment” and “settlement,” the document
drags in and returns to those fraudulent old
words. The Commonwealth Government
is to arrange with the States for “suitable
areas of land to be made available for de-
velopment and settlement” and “for such
public works to be carried out as will tend
to promote development and increase oppor-
tunities for settlement” ; and “developmental
railways” are mentioned, also “advances to
settlers, including persons settling or in pro-
cess of settlement” ; and there is a final re-
ference to “the settlement of persons on
farms.” It is also provided that funds may
be furnished for “any other undertaking,”
nature unspecified. This clause, which was
apparently added as an afterthought, repre-
sents Australia’s one chance of getting any
benefit from the scheme. If the commission
takes the orthodox political view of “settle-
ment,” “development” and “public works,”
nothing can save the Commonwealth from a
repetition of the soldier-settlement disaster.
But if it reports against all mad proposals
for shoving novices without capital on un-
tried or abandoned land and gives a liberal
and business-like interpretation to the words
“any other undertaking,” it will avert much
harm and may do some good. Senator
Kingsmill usefully suggested that the com-
mission might be asked to go into the ques-
tion of introducing Scottish fishermen into
an industry which, as he says, offers “an
enormous field for improvement.” Having
administered the Fisheries Department in his
own State and been interested in the subject
throughout his public career, the Westralian
Senator can speak with some authority, and
he states emphatically that the fishing in-
dustry “calls aloud for encouragement”;
that “our methods are years, generations,
behind the times”; that not only is there a
great market for edible fish, the price of
which is “abnormal.” but we have “immense
numbers of non-edible fish, which could be
used for the manufacture of fertilisers,
leather and oils, all of which commodities
are urgently needed here.” He might also
have pointed out that Australia’s imports
of fish run to £1,500,000 p.a.. and that its
finest fishing grounds—which are far better
than those of the S’Africau Union, from
which came £70,000 worth of fish in 1924-25
• —are in the North, which needs population
most. Says the N.T. Inspector of Fisheries:
Our northern waters teem with snapper, barra-
mundi, barracouta, kingfish, rock cod, salmon, white-
fish and other species. Close inshore there are
numberless sea mullet, a fine fleshy fish that runs up
to 21 or S lb. in weight. At the mouths of rivers
at certain times of the year prawns and other succu-
lent food attract shoals of fish.
If Australia must buy population—though
if affairs were wisely ordered it wouldn’t be
necessary—there is no better material than
Scottish fishermen, nor any better place to
put them, for their purposes and ours, than
the Commonwealth’s own Northern Terri-
tory. True, the Territory is far from Aus-
tralia’s present large centres of population.
But the waters from which we draw our
annual million and a half pounds’ worth of
fish are much farther.
♦ “
Crime and the Color War.
“Sol. Malaprop” : During a partially happy
childhood I became aware in England of a
muddy, maudlin and missionary cult which
held that in every dispute, or even
when there was no dispute, the white
man was utterly wrong and the colored
one wholly right, To any suggestion
that Ham might be a little lower than
the angels the usual reply was “Look
at Uncle Tom.” At the time the Southern
U.S. slave romance, written by a Far-North-
ern preacher’s wife, ranked next to the
Bible in square-toed circles. Many of these
people developed the further view that the
British Empire is wrong in all dealings—
with colored men or white men, including
Irishmen, Welshmen, East Indiamen and
mentally deficient men. A sort of side-
line was, and is, the conviction that the
criminal is always right as against the
peaceful and useful citizen. All these vari-
eties of sentiment can be traced in “Feng-
Siiui’s” article “Cobham and the Color
War” (B. 15/7/’26). He attributes the
shooting of air-mechanic Elliott firstly to
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., to the alleged
vaporings of Winston Churchill about
what British aeroplanes would do to colored
folk who annoyed Anglo-Persian Oil inter-
ests, and to the vicious remarks to the
same effect made by bloodthirsty British
savages in “London club armchairs.” In which
connection I would remark: —
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co., as its nan'.e implies,
operates principally in Persia. Such oil as has
been found in Mesopotamia is mostly in the Mosul
region far to the north, and the show is owned by
the Turkish Petroleum Co.
British oil people didn’t go slaying promiscuously
in these parts between 1902, which was about the
date when these interests commenced, and 1916 be-
cause the Turks wouldn’t let them, and did all the
slaying themselves. The Turk didn’t wholly let go
till 1923.
The Arab was a homicidal marauder in the time
of Moses, when he called himself an Amalekite.
After the_time of Mohammed he set out to be a dis-
turber' in three continents. lie never required any
nation of shopkeepers to teach him the art of lying
in wait.
If he has a justifiable objection to the aeroplane,
he may hav.e got it from the Turks, when they and
the British were scrapping in the Euphrates Valley,
and the British liberated the land In those days
the Arab looted both parties as occasion served.
“Feng-Shui” doesn’t give the name and address
of any Mesopotamian village that was bombed and
wiped out by Winston Churchill or his friends,
nor does he name and locate one old man blown by
them to smithereens in the sordid interests of Anglo-
Persian Oil, nor give the date of the dread event.
He specifies neither the women, the children nor the
village industries which were destroyed; and I am
ready to bet a trifle that he can’t identify his
alleged London club nor the imaginary bloodthirsty
gentlemen within. He merely goes on the general
principle that the native was happy and prosperous
under the kindly Turk, and then the ferocious Briton
arrived and spoiled all.
As to the coming “Color War,” predicted by
“a score of European and some American
writers,” by “obscure little Malay day-sheets
published in Sumatra,” and by “Feng-
Shui” himself, my opinion is that it was
on when a stupendous Asiatic army got
almost in sight of Paris (a.d. 451) ;
when a mixed Asiatic and African army,
arriving through Spain, was shunted with
difficulty out of France in 732 after 12 years’
fighting; when the Tartars came into Russia
early in the twelfth century, and on many
other occasions. Doubtless it wffll happen
again. The remedy doesn’t lie in dis-
armament and maudlin sentiment.
The Job of Hi *h Court Judge.
Hitherto the Judges of the High Court of
Australia have been without pension rights,
and recently the Bruce Government intro-
duced a measure to bring them into line in
this respect with tho judiciaries in the
States. The bill met with some criticism, in
the course of which it was suggested that
if the members of the High Court wer; 1o
be given pensions, especially half-salary after
15 years’ service, as was proposed, an
attempt should be made to secure their re-
tirement at the age of 70 years. The critics
were, however, faced by the difficulty that
the Judges held office for life, subject only
to misbehavior, and any variation of this
principle would necessitate an amendment of
the Constitution, for which, of course, the
people’s consent has to be obtained. An
ingenious scheme was hit upon in committee
of the House of Reps.: at the instance of
Duncan-Hugiies (S.A.), who acted for the
absent Manning (N.S.W.), it was agreed
that the pension should be reduced by one-
tenth for each year that a Judge remained in
office after reaching the age of 70 years. The
amendment was cut out in the Senate on
the ground that it was an effort to alter the
life tenure of the Judges, and therefore a
violation of the Act of Settlement, 1700.
The voting was 21 to 8 against the
amendment, the three Ministers voting witli
the majority, and the House agreed to let
the thing drop. So the position will still
be that the High Court .of Australia, our
supreme fount of legal wisdom, may have
veterans lingering on the Bench, preferring
the higher salary of office to the lower one
of pension, till tlie over-ripe age of 80 years
or until death, whilst the judicial offices of
the States are filled by more alert men not
exceeding the limit.
Where Killing Is No Murder.
Queensland is the place for your murder.
As a witness said consolingly to . the accused
in a recent case: “They don’t hang in
Queensland now, so you have no need to
worry.” Owing to the attitude of juries,
convictions are hard to obtain; and when
obtained they usually have a recommenda-
tion to mercy added, even in the most atroci-
ous cases. The standard penalty is three
years’ imprisonment. When Judges of a
stern type (the newer, younger men) im-
pose more, they see their sentences reduced
by the Court of Criminal Appeal, and still
further reduced by compassionate politicians.
In a recent case at Townsville, a man came
upon his wife talking to another man. He
promptly shot the second man dead, and
then, picking up an iron bar, started to kill
his wife. He had half-finished the job when
the murdered man’s mother appeared on the
scene; she, too, was promptly laid out with
the iron bar, and then the killer went in
search of her husband in order to round off
the affair neatly. Tried for the murder of
the man, he was acquitted, in the face of con-
clusive evidence. Justice Douglas told the
jury what he thought about them; and, re-
fusing to grant bail on the two charges of
attempted murder, on the . ground that the
prisoner might do away with the witnesses,
he ordered a. change of venue to Charters
Towers. Here the prisoner found another
sympathetic jury, who decided, that the
prisoner’s murderous attack on his wife was
merely common assault. Justice Douglas,
in handing out the maximum penalty for this
class of offence (a paltry 12 months’ hard
labor), told the prisoner he was “the lucki-
est man in Queensland.” The Judge added
that he was satisfied that the prisoner had
wilfully shot the other man, and had
then tried to kill the two women in order
to get rid of the witnesses. The Crown
dropped the second charge of attempted mur-
der, possibly fearing’that the next jury might
direct that the prisoner be given the con-
tents of the poor-box. What’s to be done
about it —whether indeed anything at all
can be done —is doubtful. Our very stupid
system of lumping all murders into one
class, so far as juries are concerned, is
largely to blame. Thousands of jurors,
though believing that a prisoner deserved
some punishment, have refused to fiiul him
guilty and make him liable to death; indeed,
in most if not all Australian States the
Judge has no option—he must at least record
sentence of death when a jury has said
guilty. If juries were entitled to say guilty
of murder in the first, second or third
degree, punishment of death being reserved
for prisoners found guilty in the first degree,
there would be fewer miscarriages of justice.
♦
Selling Australian-made Goods.
“Cleveland” : Three salesmen the other day
in as many shops tried to sell me a foreign-
made hammer-handle. All of the shops
stocked the Australian make; but the foreign
handle was produced as a matter of course,
and the other brought to light only on re-
quest and with a sort of veiled apology for
its existence. Protection of Australian-made
goods can be effective only when the pro-
tected goods reach the public; present condi-
tions are that it is nobody’s special business
to sell Australian stuff, while it frequently
pays the retailer better to work off foreign
articles. The common argument is that the
Australian product must stand the test of
fair competition, which is perfectly sound
but fair competition presupposes that the
goods arc given equal chances of sale, and
actually the Australian article is much too
often handicapped. I am afraid the “Aus-
tralia-first” sentiment is mostly on the buy-
ers’ side of the counter. Behind the counter
the most to hope for is that, generally speak-
ing, the sentiment is not hostile to Austra-
lian goods, whereas it should be 100 per
cent, favorable. Millions of pounds’ worth
of foreign goods thus pass across Australian
counters; and thus also hundreds of
thousands of pounds’ worth of local advertis-
ing is defeated at the post. The time seems
due for suggesting all-Australian distributing
houses, where good Australians could send
their children without danger of foreign
goods being put off on them. Such of the
public as wanted foreign-made goods would
still have their choice in the matter; but. the
most important point is that Australian-
made goods would their stand on their merits.
They would be put before the public in the
best form for inspiring confidence, and not
thrust into the background to be pulled
out apologetically on demand. Australia
produces most of the things that are required
for man’s welfare and comfort; but a very
large proportion of the community know no-
thing about them, and are disloyal to their
own interests without knowing it.
Insurance Policies.
“ J’s. Ass.”: Insurance companies that write
accident policies are exercised over a recent
judgment of the Supreme Court at Auckland
(M.L.). A workman filled in the usual pro-
posal-form for a cover against accident and
received the policy in due course. He
noticed that there was pi’inting in the inside,
but it being very small type and a mass
of it he didn’t bother to read it. Subsequently,
as a result of an injury in his work, he got
hernia and claimed against the co. It re-
fused to pay, pointing out that the policy
stated that the co. was not liable for “her-
nia however caused.” In the lawsuit that
followed, the Court held that, as no exemp-
tions were mentioned in the proposal fonn,
and as the plaintiff was not informed of the
exemptions (which consisted of 30 lines of
the smallest type) when the policy was
handed him —and had he read the policy he
would hardly have understood what hernia
was —the co. would have to pay. Now the
various companies are wondering whether
they will have to alter their proposal-forms.
Meantime, an appeal is pending. When the
list of exemptions was read out, ’s Honor
remarked that it reminded him of a policy
he was consulted on by a manager when he
was at the Bar. In reply to a question as
to whether the co. was liable for any acci-
dent the manager blandly replied. “Well, if
we are, it’s an oversight on our part.


m
Book now for the Spring Meeting.
Sydney for
a real holiday.
You will wonder why you stayed away so lons
lr °™l B °“TU IB A t U p C, .' y ’ and 80 satisfying an
/ Ihe Australia expresses luxu y. com-
lort, convenience and service in a particularly
.ssz whki - »■
T ' k *“ Bhic Add™..,
Single Room, with Breakfast, from |4/6
THE
Australia
V
T |e /4ustralia
Capital paid-up, £4?2,T00.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth,
SYDNEY.
W KARTELLS
BRANDY
For Over Two Hundred Years
a household word in sickness
and health*
kartell’s for Age and Quality
From the Cognac District
of France only .
m
■JM-
&
It was recently mentioned in the Senate that
•an Australian company is importing a
United States “producer” and staff to film
“For the Term of His Natural Life,” and
the Bruce Cabinet was invited to put its
foot down. The book in question was writ-
ten by an Englishman, or English boy, to
explain how British convicts were knocked
about here by British functionaries as bad
as themselves. It is no more Australian
than Charles Reade’s picture of the Eng-
lish gaol where Robinson, his pet convict,
was knocked about before coming here. All
parties concerned being dead, the subject
should be dropped. When the American
colonies were both convict and slave the
system was different. British prisoners were
sold to local planters, many being of Ameri-
can birth, and maltreated by Private Enter-
prise. The Yankees, however, never made
an American literary feature of these hap-
penings. The Bruce Government, being in-
vited to do something, replied, as is its
nature, that it had no power to do any-
thing, save, perhaps, that it might prohibit
the film being exported to discredit this
country abroad. The film will probably get
away even if export is prohibited. It is a
pity the Cabinet doesn’t scratch around more
energetically in search of the necessary
power.
4
Tasmania has so few Federal votes and so
little prospect, because of its skimpy dimen-
sions, that it will ever have more, that poli-
ticians regard common civility as superflu-
ous in its case. Wherefore Willie Watt
described it as a “sluggard State,” and said
that its statue “should represent a figure
holding out its hand for a tip.” Queensland
has got a fixed price (almost three times
the world’s price) for its sugar and a sub-
stantial cotton bonus, and the meat export
bonus was mostly for its benefit. It is also
getting some railway construction assistance,
and is asking for more. Westralia got a
separate tariff, a Federal railway and a very
solid annual grant. It has been asking for
another railway. Also it put in an applica-
tion for more grants, and it got a hearing
while Tasmania was still waiting for one. The
most notable result of Federation in Tas-
mania has been disastrous periods of almost
complete isolation and the permanent loss of
many of its old shipping facilities by reason
of the Navigation Act. For some reason, or
perhaps for no reason, the Federal Quarterly
Statistics are much given to including in
Federal outgoings “Special Payment to Tas-
mania, £85,000,” though special payments to
Westralia are not put in the same conspicu-
ous fashion. Both the big gold State and
the small apple one have received more than
the regulation 255. per inhabitant per annum
from the Commonwealth for a long while,
and the official figures are available to
June, 1924: —
Commonwealth Subsidies to States.
Year to June, Westralia. Tasmania.
1914 . . £2 0 0 £1 13 6
1915 . . 1 17 7 1 13 6
1916 . . 116 7 1 13 6
1917 .. 1 16 11 1 13 7
1918 .. 1 18 9 1 13 6
1919 .. 1 15 6 1 13 4
1920 .. 1144 1 12 10
1921 .. 1 14 2 1 14 1
1922 .. 1 13 1 1 12 6
1923 . . 1 12 4 1 12 7
1924 .. 113 1 1 12 7
There may be argument as to which of the
pair held out the most persistent hand for
a tip, but there is none, unless the Federal
figures are wrong, as to which had the big-
gest tip put in the hand.
As the resultof a collision between their motor-
car and a slowing-down goods-train at a level
crossing at Perth, on the Tasmanian North-
South railway, Premier Lyons and Speaker
O’Keefe are in a Launceston hospital with
a fractured leg and many lacerations apiece.
Two other occupants of the car, officials of
the Hydro-Electric Department, one of whom
was at the steering-wheel, collected numer-
ous bruises. The Bulletin offers sympathy
and congratulations—the latter on the fact
that any of the quartette escaped sudden
death. Premier Lyons was on his way to
the North-West Coast, to spend two or three
days finalising hydro-electric contracts with
certain municipal bodies thereabout, before
settling down to the preparation of the
Treasurer’s financial statement for the year.
Parliament met this week, but in the circum-
stances will probably do nothing except pass
temporary supply and adjourn until the dis-
abled chief emerges from his plaster-of-paris.
Speaker O’Keefe, who is much older than
the Premier, will probably take longer to
mend, but his job can be carried on by
deputy. There is no deputy-Treasurer to
fill the chief’s place, and none in sight. Any
prolonged absence of Lyons would be a mis-
fortune at this juncture, and might easily
push the Government to the very brink of
calamity. >
"Stellsby” : A dock at Fishermen’s Bend
(a Siberian area lying between Port
Melbourne and the mouth of the Yarra)
was envisaged by John Coode, the
engineer who altered the course of the
Lower Yarra 40 years ago. The dock,
however, will be ruled out indefinitely when
the State Savings Bank home-building “gar-
den suburb” scheme for the benefit of “the
workers,” already blessed by the Allan cock
Government, takes shape. At best, the pro-
ject can only end in the creation of an un-
wanted slum-area, inasmuch as the class of
citizen willing to make his home on the flat,
smellful Bend will not have been bitten by
the “garden-suburb” bug. The “garden-
suburb” enthusiasts of Melbourne prefer to
live in a more salubrious neighborhood than
Greater Port Melbourne. The workers’
homes settlement might be in 50 other places,
all better; John Coode’s dock, locked by
Hobson’s Bay at one end and by the Yarra
at the other, can never be anywhere else.
*
The A.I.F. canteens were a money-making
concern ; albeit levied upon substantially for
sporting equipment and other sundries for
the different units, a profit of £758,460 was
left when the war finished. It was decided
to split the big surplus up amongst incapa-
citated Diggers and their dependants, and
the big job has just been finished; at the end
of June less than £6OOO remained. Speaking
generally, the beneficiaries were limited to
war widows and Diggers with a 50 p.c. in-
capacity or more; but a wide discretion was
exercised. Inevitably there were hardships
attached to refusals, and on the other hand
grants were made to the unworthy; but from
the astonishingly few complaints it has re-
ceived, The Bulletin assumes that the job
of distribution has been very well done, and
the dependants of 49,302 deceased and dis-
abled soldiers have benefited.
CONDITIONALLY.
HOSPITAL CHAPLAIN : “We came into a world of sin, so we must be born again. You
would like to be born again, wouldn't you?”
UNREGENERATE PATIENT (after street accident): “Yes, boss, I'm willin’—if there ain’t
no motor-cars there."
The Labor-Dutch Nationalist Pact in South
Africa is cracking up. The trouble is the
increasing insistence by the Nationalists on
secession from the Empire. A strong hint
of this came recently from George Hat,
the Englishman who, with the backing of
the State Railway Workshops, beat the
great Jannie Smuts for West Pretoria at
the last elections. He showed that the
Nationalists, including their leader Hertzog,
had repeatedly broken the compact to let
Secession drop during the life of this Par-
liament, and had thus ruined the greatly-
desired chance of Rhodesia’s entry to the
Union. Whatever it may be in Australia
nowadays, Labor in S’Africa is strongly
Imperial, because it has to live cheek-by-jowl
with a covertly hostile and ultra-conservative
alien race, and has a sound idea of what is
likely to be its portion without the protec-
tion of John Bull.
♦
A log embodying provision for sickness and
accident compensation, recently served by
the Australian Entrepreneurs’ Association
on the Theatrical Employees’ Union,
has been scornfully rejected by the
union, and a compulsory conference, lead-
ing to a reference to the Federal Arbi-
tration Court, is the next step. The com-
pensation '• provisions are based on those in
the Victorian Act. If matters remain as they
are, companies crossing, say, from Victoria
to N. S. Wales at once become entitled to
the dubious benefits set out in the measure
recently thrust on N. S. Wales, and employ-
ers will have to make complicated readjust-
ments. No more striking argument could be
advanced for Federal control of industrial
matters.
When the Union liner Aorangi arrived in
Sydney last week, those of her passengers
who claimed to be of the bulldog breed had
a lot to say about the reception given at
Honolulu to the Hun cruiser Hamburg.
Whereas H.M.S. Diomede, calling in there
lately, _ got nothing but the conventional
courtesies, the remnant of the German navy
was accorded an uproarious welcome, which
included everything at Honolulu’s disposal,
from banquets to bootleg whisky. A cynical
person might suggest that the American out-
post felt well inclined to the beaten foe
who had given Uncle Sam the chance to
win a world war; but doubtless the strong
German influence, arising out of the long-
established German-American hold on
Hawaii’s sugar and shipping interests, was
the underlying reason. One wonders, all the
same, what the huge Japanese population
of Hawaii thought of it all.
♦
“Ibn El Issar” : News from India of late
has been much more cheering to those who
believe in the British Raj than it was in the
day of Ghandi and a policy of assassina-
tion. The inertia of the vast mass of India’s
population, which lives in comparative con-
tent under British rule, has blunted the edge
of the agitationist’s axe, and the self-determi-
nation claims of Bengal’s semi-intelligentsia.
Of late, we have bpen getting evidence that
the mast dangerous threat against British
control, the alleged alliance between Mos-
lem and Hindu, Aas been blown to frag-
ments. A lasting (alliance between two such
fanatic faiths as that of the camel-driver
of Mecca and the confederation of a thou-
sand gods which fs loosely called Brahmin-
ism has always been impossible. Again,
caste and warring faith observances part the
two at every turn. Yet there were not want-
ing people who predicted the downfall of
British rule in Incjla before the alliance of
the Moslem —as at ien as the Briton—and
the follower of Braiim in all his permu-
tations. All over I|ndia, the old clash between
the two has been renewed with murderous
accompaniments, ajnd with the Kafir white,
of alien blood and Unspeakable habits, accord-
ing to the notions, of both adversaries, inter-
posing to keep the peace. The Briton seems
as soundly seated as ever in India.
«
Maoriland has decided that the unpleasant
work of rounding up the defaulting husband
and tussling with him for arrears of main-
tenance is to be a Government obligation.
The unprofitable method of putting the
erring one into gaol and maintaining the
wife and family during his incarceration is
to be abandoned; under the Destitute
Persons Amendment Act, officers who have
already liad some experience in the work
will be empowered to act on their own
initiative and shepherd the absent-minded
spouse. This will relieve the timid or
tender-hearted wife of the unpleasantness of
arguing with hubby herself, or reporting him
for arrears. It is a modification of a German
scheme, and Germany used to boast that it
had no trouble with defaulting husbands.
*
“Basra” : “Henry Horsecollar’s” descrip-
tion of Mesopotamia (B. 15/7/’26) fills me
with admiration for his knowledge of ancient
history; he is on less secure ground when
he infers that General Townshend was com-
pelled to haul down his flag at Kut because
of the comparatively large number of Indian
troops under his command, and that Maude
succeeded where Townshend had failed, be-
cause his army was a lighter hue. Actually,
the relative numbers of British and Indian
troops remained fairly constant from 1914
to 1918. There was only one entirely white
division, the 13th, and it was there before
the fall of Kut. It should be remembered,
too, that Townshend’s army had won every
engagement that it fought up to a certain
point, and came within an ace of reaching
Bagdad. Everyone who served in Mesopo-
tamia knows that the responsibility for the
disaster at Kut did. not rest with the fight-
ing troops. If Indians are well led they will
fight well. During the campaign several acts
of singular devotion and gallantry on the
part of Indian troops came under my per-
sonal notice, and the list of Y.C.’s won in
Mesopotamia shows that native troops gained
a large number of the coveted decorations.
*
It was inevitable, with France in a state of
disruption, that the ancient corpse of Mon-
archism should again attempt to climb out
of its sarcophagus. It has done so half a
dozen times since the establishment of the
First Republic, but sooner or later has been
conducted back to the tomb. The trouble
has always been that the corpse is a twin,
and each, Bourbon and Orleans, has hated
the other worse than either has hated the
Republic. Leon Daudet, who claims to
head a vast Orleanist organisation, gives as
his objective the re-establishment of the king-
dom, the Papal supremacy and the French
nobility. If he could only show his country-
men how to re-establish the franc he might
be allowed all these things for the asking.
«
An important move will be made in a few
weeks when the Sydney and Melbourne ae>'o
clubs will be in a position to instruct mem-
bers in the art of flying. Little enthusiasm
that way has been shown by Young Aus-
tralia, largely because the chance of owning
a machine was so remote. Now that the
Civil Aviation Department has made light
machines available, this drawback is no more,
and the clubs expect to be able to turn on!
50 qualified pilots annually. The next step
should be to rope into an auxiliary arm of
the permanent Air Force all the private
fliers, whether they have the machines and
the enthusiasm, or only the enthusiasm.
♦
“M.G.S.”: There was a mysterious 7s. 6d.
described as “personal expenses” in my
infant’s school account, and on inquiry I
learned that it included the admission-fee to
numerous picture-shows. Apparently, when-
ever. the astute manager of our suburban
movie-sewer has a film he considers “educa-
tional,” he mentions the matter to the schools
in the neighborhood and the kids are dragged
away to it. This may be very entertaining
to the teachers who accompany the expedi-
tion, and who get a respite from the deadly
business of drilling pothooks into recalci-
trant skulls; but what of the effect on the
children? While the child of 20 years ago
spent the winter evenings reading Thack-
eray and Dickens, the modern, infant puts
“Thanks for the Buggy Ride” on the family
gramophone and sits down to read the comic
supplement.
♦
“C.Q.”: A spectacle that amuses all Austra-
lian visitors to London is that of a resident
of Grosvenor-square or any of the other gar-
den spots emerging from his lodging-house,
opening the sacred pleasaunce with a key and
locking.himself in to read his morning paper
amongst the birds. The latest to challenge
this wonderful survival of ancient privilege
is Dr. Saleeby, the author of numerous sane
books on health and happy living. London,
under its pall of smoke, is so short of sun-
light that animals in the Zoo have to be
kept healthy with ultra-violet rays; yet
many of these London “squares” are denied
to the. people. But there are cave-men intel-
lects in Australia, too. The other day there
was opposition to a motion to permit sun-
bathing for children on Port Phillip beaches:
this talk about sunshine being conducive to
health was “Yankee humbug,” one learned
councillor declared.
[lf under the Electoral Law it is necessary to sign
any of the foregoing articles, S. H. Prior, J. E.
Webb and James Edmond, of 214 George-street,
Sydney, accept the responsibility. Geoffrey Litch-
field, who drew the front cartoon, can be served
with writs, etc., at the same address.]


CONDOR
53 r J
For good cheer and
lasting economy al-
ways ask for CON-
DOR LAMPS. The
concentrated spiral
filament of the mill-
type adds extra-ordin-
ary long service to
their brilliancy.
w The little lamp
with the big light ”
CONDOR LAMPS
(Australasia) Ltd.
143-5 York Street - Sydney
493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chess r Street, Adelaide
FxtonHse., Queen St , Bris.
King’s Chambers, Willis St.
Wellington, N.Z.
POLITIAL
POINTS
In these days the talk in the Federal lob-
bies is mostly about what will happen “when
we get to Canberra.” It is safe to say that
not one member in a dozen, judged by pres-
ent talk, will stay there a day more than
he has to. Queensland members have already
decided that a winter session will be out of
the question. The year’s work will probably
be divided into two parts-—(1) April and
May; (2) September to November.
In a poor attempt to defend 'the new taxes
on motor chassis, tyres and petrol, etc., the
Priminister said they were “revenue duties
imposed for a special purpose”— i.e., road
expenditure by the States. Protective duties
to stimulate the production of Australian
motor vehicles and motor spirit would have
the support of all Protectionists, but revenue
duties imposed by a Federal Government
which says it doesn’t want the proceeds, but
will give them to the States, pronounce then-
own condemnation, especially as the Govern-
ment had previously announced that it aims
at a complete separation of Federal and
State finance. The immediate result is a
Constitutional row between the Bruce-Pages
and the S.A. Gunn Government, which never
wanted to come into the slapdash road
scheme and refuses to give up its petrol tax.
Bruce and Paragraph are endangering their
referendum proposals by meddling in matters
which don’t concern them.
With an unexpected rise of temperature,
the spring madness set in early. The mem-
bers of the Coachmakers’ Union employed on
the N.S.W. railways ask for a 40-hour week
and about 25 per cent, increase of wages,
with quite a herd of allowances and enough
conditions to make management practically
impossible. For painters a 36-hour week
is suggested. The Mount Morgan mine (Q.)
is making heavy losses, and the demand for
a number of new concessions suggests that
the end is in sight. The men who lately held
up the N.S.W. coal industry threaten to
hold it up again, having gone to the Coal
Tribunal and being dissatisfied with the re-
sult. Work on the Sydney Harbor bridge
has stopped by reason of another strike
against an award. The printing trade at
Broken Hill lately gave notice that the
papers were to stop publication indefinitely.
Premier Lang says that pro-
gress is to be found on every hand,” and
that N.S.W. throbs with vitality. His con-
temporary at Brisbane is too _ depressed to
say what Queensland throbs with.
Mussolini has struck a new idea, and a
bright one. His country is anxiously watch-
ing France, because it, too. has been pour-
ing out paper-money, and there is no honest
way of salvation but hard economy—buying
nothing abroad that can be. done without
and hanging on to every possible bit of gold.
It is the foreign debt that always causes
trouble —the debt that can be paid only with
gold or goods that can be changed into gold.
Now the rich tourist takes gold out of the
country, though he may not know it. He
can stay at home and pay his pub bills with
home-printed notes; once he crosses his own
borders the home-printed notes are value-
less. So Muss, has forbidden foreign
touring; the rich Italian must for a wliile
stay at home and conserve gold, atld so help
to save his own country.
. A deficit of £375,000 .is reported by Vie,
Treasurer Peacock. The failwdys were
responsible for £200,000 and general revenue
for the rest. Peacock blames Federal arbi-
tration awards and the poor wheat harvest
for the railway shortage, and reminded Par-
liament that it had refused him the money
he asked last session to avert a debit bal-
ance in general revenue. It is proposed to
raise railway rates to stop the drift down
that end, but it is doubtful if Parliament
will grant any additional taxation. If there
is any honesty left, that can only mean hard
economy.
THE SPIRIT WAS WILLIN’.
"Our mob’s talkin’ strike. Wot about you cornin’ out, tool”
“I would in a minute if I ’ad a job.”
Owing to the N.S.W. Workers’ Compen-
sation Act and other unforeseen contingen-
cies the seaplane carrier that was to have
been built in Australia for £BOO,OOO is now
estimated to cost £1,300,000. This indicates
what a picnic the Bruce-Pages would have
let the country in for had they given the
contracts for the two 10,000-ton cruisers to
the Cockatoo Dockyard. Warships will have
to be built in Australia, but building them
at Cockatoo is too expensive a luxury. Yards
could be established in ports which are re-
mote from Moscow pilgrims, pacifists and
dirt-job politicians and the idiosyncrasies
of the Langs and Badlys. Albany and
Hobart, for example.
Premier Lang told a Sydney interviewer
the other day that, under his regime, N. b.
Wales was “throbbing with vitality. bo
does a boil throb with vitality, for that
matter, and for much the same reason.
Loans are Australia’s "great natural re-
source,” but few countries can work them on
the Australian scale, which is about £5 per
inhabitant per annum. In the case of Italy,
it would mean borrowing £200,000,000 a
year, and no one wants to lend Pilate’s
descendants one tenth of that. So there has
been a tendency there to print paper money
till it became waste-paper money, and now,
along with France and Belgium, Italy is up
against the realities of life, as Australia
will also be in time. For a start, as France,
Belgium and Italy have to import wheat,
and as that involves an outflow of money, a
return to “war bread” is promised. The
thing that Australia hasn’t realised yet, and
probably won’t till it is too late, is that in
effect there isn’t any difference between float-
ing loans and printing notes except that the
people who are left with the loans are likeiy
to be much nastier about it.
Both Houses of Parliament got behind the
Vic. Cabinet in protesting against the aboli-
tion of the per capita grants. The Govern-
ment could only muster a majority of four
against a no-confidence challenge, and it had
a mere two votes to the good when it moved
to eject Pollard for defying the chair, but
the stoppage of payments to which the Gov-
ernment has no right whatever was regarded
as a Calamity. So party barriers were
thrown down and the authors of the Calam-
ity were denounced by all hands.
It transpires that the Commonwealth Cus-
toms Department has refunded £.62,000 col-
lected on locomotives bought by S.A. from
the Armstrong, Whitworth Co. Obviously
the Queensland Government knew of this
when it lately ordered 25 locomotives from
the same co., and it will doubtless urge that,
to obviate tedious negotiations for a refund,
the duties should not be imposed at all.
Minister Pratten once said that Governments
nnd local bodies importing goods that could
be made in Australia would get no more
consideration from him than private import-
ers, but his administration is sometimes of
the quality of the reed that is shaken by
the wind.
Maoriland’s June-quarter banking averages
disclose that the trading community is in
debt to the banks for the first time, in a
June quarter, since 1922, the penalty for
too-lieavy importations last year. Compared
with last June current-account balances are
down by nearly three millions, and advances
have increased by four and three-quarter
millions. The balance of advances over de-
posits is under half a million, and the banks
aren’t running any risk yet, but an era
of determined selling and restricted import-
ing will undoubtedly be imposed on the tra-
ders until things get better. A falling off in
farm-production in the last 12 months,
coupled with lower prices for such truck
abroad, is part of the story.
The Westralian Labor Government has
ordered the hanging of a ruffian who killed
a bank clerk in a Perth railway carriage for
the victim’s bag of money, and tried to kill
another. An American writer, quoting sta-
tistics for 1922-23, said that Westralia was
unique among frontier States in having the
lowest murder rate in the world, but during
the last 12 months or so half a dozen useful
Jarrahland citizens have been done to death,
the case of the goldfields detectives being the
latest and worst. These killings coincided
with an impression that there would be no
executions while Labor was in office, which
impression will now be scotched. As a
matter of fact, there were three hangings
during the time of Scaddan’s Labor Govern-
ment, to which three of the present Minis-
ters belonged.
The other day Dr. Streseman, German
Foreign Minister, was interviewed by Syd-
ney Sun. He was overflowing with goodwill,
and the cat was right at the bottom of
the bag; economic or other relations would
be greatly improved “if Australia and a
number of other countries could reconsider
the position regarding the return of German
property sequestrated during the war. ’ And
the time may come when Australia will have
a Government willing to give the poor ole
burglar back his swag, tools and union ticket.
More, if this country desired to surrender
the mandates, Britain would find a difficulty
in refusing to allow it. The question of
Australian settlers in the returned terri-
tories would not affect the issue either, as
far as the Huns’ sympathisers were con-
cerned. The settlers have no votes, aud most
of them were once “five-bob-a-day murderers,”
anyway.
A great natural resource was re-re-re-
discovered in Sydney Telegraph last week
—kerosene shale. It seems that N.S.W.
alone has enough to supply all Australia
with motor fuel for 300 years. It is dread-
fully rich too —its richness was mentioned
by Timothy Coghlan 33 years ago, and it
was ancient history then. Overcapitalisa-
tion and poor methods are blamed for the
repeated failures, and Prime Minister Bruce
has been urged to rush in with loans or
share capital. If he can diagnose the causes
of past failures and see his way to avoid
them, he might do worse, though there is
always doubt concerning abounding wealth
which refuses to bound without a subsidy.
The Vic. Government found a great natural
resource in brown coal, and rushed in with
£8,000,000. Now it has discovered that the
deposit is 65 per cent, moisture, and move
fit to be boiled than burned. Hopes are,
however, still entertained that the right
method of burning water may be discovered.
The pathetic tale is told again about an
agriculturist somewhere outside Albury who
sent three cases of tomatoes to_ Sydney for
a net return of 2d. The middleman is
blamed ; but the middleman is merely one ot
the bad symptoms of a disease. Oases, cart-
age, commission and the ridiculous 401 miles
of railage are fixed charges, and the balance
is so precarious that a very small wobble
in prices makes all the difference between a
moderate profit and 2d. If Albury was the
manufacturing city it should be, the victim
could have taken his tomatoes there loose
and sold them under his own supervision.
Ex-President Poincare has been called
back to office as Prime Minister of France
in a desperate effort to save the nation from
the gravest financial crisis. The franc
(nominal value lOd.) had fallen below Id. in
exchange value: —
They’ve shouted “Vive La France!” for centuries,
And France still lives, celestial decrees
Or whatsoever else it has to thank.
But in the present pass one might suggest
A very much more pertinent request,
Whether to statesmen or to gods addressed,
Would be just “Vive le franc!”
Brisbane’s Water Board threatens to do
something desperate if the Commonwealth
Government does not pay its water and
sewerage rates immediately or sooner. Close
on £4OOO is alleged to be owing, and the
debt has been accumulating for 2| years.
Bepeated appeals for the i*oney have been
made without result; now the president of
the board threatens to “f|re in a writ,”
but other members favor .something more
punitive—the suggestions llange from cut-
ting off the water-supply or Commonwealth
properties to putting in bailiffs. Somebody’s
corns certainly ought to be xvell trodden on.
[For paragraphs requiring a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, .1. E. Webb and James
Edmond, of 214 George street, Sydney, are respon-
sible.]
TO-MORROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
: ‘The warlike equipment of all the fighting services
in Australia is entirely inadequate. You can go to
War, of course, using bows and arrows, but you
would not come back. Australia’s present position
is alarmingly like that.”— Major-General McCay.
I saw a fair and fruitful earth
That laughed up to the laughing skies
And, in an ecstasy of birth,
Gave of its bounty, spendthrift-wise,
To splendid men and maids whose eyes,
Uplifted to the glory near,
Shone with the level, thrilled surmise
Of those who find their mating dear;
And, comforted yet strangely stirred,
A happy chanting there I heard:
We are the fortune-befriended,
Blest of the earth and the sun,
Lapped in a peace never-ended,
Unthinking of hurts that have mended,
Unmindful that ever we tended
A horse and a sword and a gun!
I saw a bronzed, deep-chested race,
On street and farm and glowing shore,
That stood erect and dared to face
The worst a mad world held in store;
I dreamed its hardy visage bore
The stamp of a far destiny
That stretched, enthralling, ever more
To heights no mortal eye could see;
And as it labored, swift and strong,
I heard its blithely-burdened song:
We are the heirs to the ages!
We are the sons of the surij
Mighty of works and of xvage's
Despite our political sages;
Wealthy, whatever your gauge is —-
Though lacking a sword and a gun t
I saw a seared and ravished land
Where horror stalked, and savage might
That went with mailed and bloody hand;
But paused to lust oh its red flight
From coast to coast; and towns alight;
Like lurid pyres of the staring dead,
Blazed wide their message to the night—
That here a vanquished race was sped;
And through the din, forlorn and faint,
I seemed to hear a wailing plaint:
We are the children of sorrow,
Broken, dismayed and undone,
Waiting the wrath of the morrow,
The pitiless dawn of the morrow —
We always intended to-morrow
To purchase a sword and a gun!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


o\QNEf>
rt
s 2
4 8tlSHlO‘ %
Wasted Energy.
Transmitting power with a slipping belt is
like trying to fill a sieve with water. Equip
your plant with belts that grip and last
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
“will never shirk the hardest work.”
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (Q. SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hney, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
W EST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd..
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards A
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
* Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell RcL, Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia: —
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profits. Ordinaries.* Off. serves.
1916. . £129,526 Nil £45,000 £9,408
1917.. 134,693 Nil 50,000 9,407
National Bank of Tasmania purchased.
1918.. 145,773 Nil 60,000 10,486
1919.. 167,268 Nil 80,000 13,060
1920.. 197,892 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659.. ( 1?w ,
1921.. 237,772 15 p.c. =£11,014 251,659 )
Premiums on new shares, £134,275..) , 0 9flQ
1922.. 228,080 15 p.c. = 37,773 211,001 ) 4Z »‘ SUJ
Premiums on new shares, £14,934..)
1923.. 234,418 15 p.c. = 52,081 10,000 ) i44, ' OD
Premiums on new shares, £158,051..) ... „ r ,
1924.. 264,542 15 p.c. = 57,732 10,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. ) „ „ K „ n
1925.. 300,536 15 p.c. = 87,102 10,000 ) 767,0i1)
Premiums on new shares, £204,917..). ...
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 ) 1,U0D,14i
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
New capital to the amount of £204,917 was
got in during the year and reserves benefited
by an equal sum from premiums. It has
been rather a brilliant recovery in its latest
stages, and the business has been built up so
strongly that there should be little doubt as
to the future. A glance at the table shows
how definite has been the expansion in the
past six years; the long drought was broken
for ordinaries in 1921 when they received a
15 p.c. div.—the first since the crash of 29
years earlier. Prefs. had received their 4
p.c. (3 p.c. in the earlier years)—a poor
return in the later years of dear money. In
1920 prefs.. agreed to the issue of new ordi-
naries in return for the right to participate
in such issues. The new shares have carried
premiums of 100 p.c., and although the first
two lots received were absorbed in the final
writing off of old losses, subsequent sums
have assisted the bank to build up reserves
which now amount to £1,066,141. In all
£852,712 has been received in premiums;
£462,660 was written off in 1921 and 1922 —
visible reserves at June 30, 1922, were a
meagre £42,2o9—and the surplus profits dis-
closed in the period have been substantial.
Tt took a long time to wipe out the past, but
. the Commercial appears to have been as
thorough in its cleaning up as it was in its
crash.
These figures show how vigorous has been
the co.’s recent progress :
Gross Profits.* Salariesv Other Charges.
1915 .. £293,972 £133,310 £51,268
1918 . . 352,477 154,399 52,304
1919 ... 405,071 170,558 64,245
1920 .. 481,757 202,479 76,387
1921 .. 607,261 278,831 90,658
1922 .. 648.062 317,581 102,400
1923 .. 676,210 336,076 105.715
1924 .. 762,325 368,157 129,626
1925 .. 854,836 405,044 149,256
1926 .. 909,463 440,601 148,155
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
Profits are thus moving faster than exes.
Last year, after writing £20,000 off the
book value of premises, £93,654 was avail-
able for reserves —almost 30 p.c. of the
year’s profits. Attention to reserves is
necessary, of course, for paid capital of
£3,065,722 needs good support if divs. on
present ordinary canital (and future addi-
tions) are to be maintained at 15 p.c. (the
100 p.c. premiums on all new issues makes
it 74 p.c. to most shareholders). At June
30 capital was in this form: —
211,735 4 p.c. prefs. of £lO each .. £2,117,350
1,793,399 10s. ordinaries fully-paid . . 896,700
3,280 10s. ords. paid to 7s. 6d. . . 1,230
200,216 10s. ords. paid to ss. .. .. 50,054
3,105 10s. ords. paid to 2s. 6d. .. 388
In all £51.628 is outstanding on the ords.
Given, anything like the same rate of pro-
gress in the near future further capital issues
seem certain. Gross profits shown have more
than doubled in the past eight years; ex-
pansion really has been greater than the fig-
ures indicate, for gross profit is shown less
taxes, which have been much heavier in
the later years of the table. Expenditure
appears to be well under control, and it is
reasonable to assume that the management
has taken advantage of the recent prosperity
to put something extra aside to protect its
risks.
Balance-sheet figures have bolted since
1919:
Liabilities.
1919. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. .. £71,517 £96,920 £104,087
Bills, etc... .. 377,909 1,190,527 1,318,567
Free deposits . . 6,669,835 9,674,032 10,323,065
Fixed deposits . . 5,385,396 9,992,766 10,292,496
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,997,750 9,786,659 9,380,302
Advances .. . . 9,733,568 14,273,166 16,206,754
Premises . . . . 499,095 612,300 689,060
Deposits at the 1914 balance totalled
£7,168,788; at June 30 last, £20.615.561.
The relation of the bank’s own funds to out-
side liabilities was stronger, £5 6s. Bd. being
held for each £1 of its own. In 1925 it was
£5 15s. 6d. and in 1923 £6 18s. The co.’s
lending connection widened by almost two
millions, a sign that the bank has no lack
of avenues for the use of available funds;
and the management still has a fair margin
before.it reaches the safety limit: at June
30, 2.6 p.c. more than the customary amount
was held liquid. To secure the liabilities
not represented by liquids (£12,657,913) there
were advances protected by reserves (in-
cluded with bills payable, .etc., in the balance-
sheet) amounting to £16,206,754 and pre-
mises written down to £654,015. And that
is quite satisfactory.
Depositors can see comforting strength, and
shareholders may be reasonably sure of the
15 p.c. divs. plus whatever the future may
hold in the way of new issues.
* * * #
The Queensland National Bank:—
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919.. £108,346 10 p.c. = £53,144 £55,202 £278,760
1920.. 104,673 10 ~ ~ 77,274 27,399 306,.65
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922.. 126.819 124 „ „ 99,952 26,867 368,827
1923.. 159,350 12j „ „ 100,000 •) , Q
Written off Premises ..£lO,OOO ) 49,3d0 418,1/7
Premiums on new shares . . 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186,388 12£p.c.= 137,880 | „ 0 KnQ ,
Written off Premises .. £lO,OOO ) 38,508 604,197
Premiums on new shares .. 12,488 616,685
1925.. 196,946 10 p.c. = 125,181 I r>o 0 - A
Written off premises, £12,500 ( 9,205 675,900
1926. . 207,176 10 p.c. = 148,977 | 45 goo 79 l 649
Written off premises, £12,500 j 45,099 <-1,649
Drought persists over much of the northern
State, but there is no suggestion of it in
the profit claimed for the 12 months to June
30. The Q.N. has a more difficult task than
most Australian banks when it comes to
figuring out the year’s net income. For, of
course, a bank’s net income is a matter
purely of estimation. Under quite ordinary
banking, conditions, what may be a perfectly
good risk at the time it is put on the books
may be withered to a shadow by a dry year.
Queensland gets its long months of fierce
heat and its rainless winters; if the mon-
soon storms then fail to sweep down from the
north, dryness becomes almost immediately a
drought. It is at such times that banks and
pastoral finance houses turn up their advances
and glance at what they have allowed for
contingencies. In the case of the Q.N.. its
risks are, with unimportant exceptions, con-
fined to Queensland, although it has branches
on the Richmond and Tweed, and' in Sydney
and Melbourne ; hence its greater interest in
the weather chart. The present dry spell is,
fortunately, not general throughout the
State; some districts report excellent condi-
tions and prospects, and it may be taken as
certain that the management allowed for
much more gloom than was visible when it
wrote in that record profit on June 30. There
is no “safer” banker in Australia than g.-m.
Daymen, nor is there any bank in Australia
which has gone through a longer course of
preparation for just such a contingency as
this.
During the term the £46,449 outstanding
on the 60,000 new shares issued in March,
1925, was received, so that the full
£1,500,000 of capital was in use for most of
the year, and £23.796 more had to be dis-
tributed. Net profits disclosed were well in
excess of requirements, £45,699 being sent
to reserves. These at June 30 were equal to
almost half paid capital.' There is addi-
tional comfort, for shareholders and cus-
tomers alike in the bank’s possession of
£3,091,669 of interminable inscribed deposit
stock, bearing the low interest-rate of 31
p.c.—harsh reminder of the days in the
’nineties when the Q.N. tottered on the brink.
Net profit only is disclosed by the accounts,
the one provision shown being £l2 500 writ-
ten off premises. But, as before suggested,
the management is not likely to have over-
looked any contingencies.
Balance-sheet figures showed continued
healthy progress:—
Liabilities.
1922. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Interminable £ £ £ £
stock .. 3,091,609 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Bills, etc... 350,078 487,656 401,757 542 493
Deposits .. 6,898,730 7,729,732 7,920,653 8,566;481
Assets.
Liquid assets 4,056,621 4,103,058 4,123,402 4,335 196
Advances . . 6,994,272 8,451,967 8,904,589 9,591.065
Premises .. 500,411 565,640 551,397 533,531
Deposits expanded last year by £645 828
advances by £686,476. The liquid strength
was maintained; 47 p.c. of the total amount
owing to outsiders was within reach. Lia-
bilities to the public totalled £9,108,974.
Counting the interminable stock as perma-
nent capital, the bank’s own funds, after final
appropriations, amounted to £5,313,318, so
that the Q.N. was holding only £1 14s ’ 3d
of outside money for each £1 of its own.’ In
ordinary circumstances that would mean
poor earnings; but the cheap interminable
stock is a great help, and, besides the solid
visible reserves, valuable help is given by
the internal reserves which were built up
during the years when the foundations were
being laid anew. Advances are in the books
at £9.591,005, and the bank can expand there
without peril. Premises were in at £533,531,
which doesn’t over-state the value. Inci-
dentally, of that amount £189,000 was de-
clared to be revenue-producing. The Q.N.
is interested in Millaquin Sugar and Q.N.
Pastoral; the former has paid 12 p.c., 8 p.c.
and 12 p.c. in the past three terms, and may
be looked upon as a minimum 8 p.c. proposi-
tion ; the latter has paid its prefs. since 1920,
but hasn’t had much to spare beyond that.
It is safe to say, though, that these stocks
stand in the bank’s books at something a
good deal short of par. The Q.N.’s standing
in its own rich State is enviably high, and
its figures have been heavily gilded by the
heavy borrowings of the local Government
as well as by the very liberal treatment of
the sugar industry. But it seems impossible
that the present financial and industrial
policy of the State can long continue; and
when the day of reckoning comes much will
depend, so far as the Q.N. is concerned, upon
the internal provision it has made, and no
doubt is still making.
* * * *
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Added Assur-
,, _ . to ancc
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Fun Is.
1916. £12,039 £lB2l £5379 £4,839 £19,359
1917.. 13,021 1031 6756 6,234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6.195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31.393
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
1921.. 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,473 2299 8382 ) Q 709 7n , Q9
Transferred to reserve fund, £lOOO ) 9, /J 2 /O.oJ-
-1923.. 26.045 5002 9173 11,870 82,462
1924.. 31.704 3736 8070 19,898 102,360
1925.. 27,495 6511 9892 ) Q nQ9
Transferred to reserve fund, £2OOO ) y .OJ3 111,403
1926.. 33,101 5783 11,581 15,737 127,189
* Including divs.: 1912-18, 4 p.c.; 1919, 5 p.c.;
1920, 6 p.c.; 1921-23, 7 p.c. ; 1924-26, 8 p.c.
“Under the new Workers’ Compensation
Act,” chairman Dovey- said at the annual
meeting, “a licensed office is obliged to
accept a share of any risk offered and is not
permitted to use its judgment as to whether
the risk is desirable or not.” The thought
of ' having to accept a risk without first
placing it beneath the microscope was
horrifying to a management which has
always looked at every penny twice and
every risk thrice; and it didn’t observe that
the Act does not mention the figure at which
the re-insurance shall be taken. So it did
not join the N.S.W: cos. that took licenses
under the new measure. Yet the Assurance
and Thrift mixes speculative enterprise with
its ultra-conservatism. On the one hand it
purchases land for sale by subdivision; on
the other it bases its calculations of policy
liabilities on 3-J p.c. interest-earning:—the
standard of the great offices. Its surplus
clear above all policy requirements has
steadily increased, but only in the past three
years have shareholders been given 8 p.c.
divs. The low ratio of claims indicates the
quality of the business written, and expendi-
ture is kept down hard. Last year the rate
(excluding divs.) was 29.6 p.c., and that
was a fraction higher than the preceding
year. The fact that the co. changed quarters
added something to outgo; during the year
the old upstairs offices in George-street were
deserted, and the co. moved into its own
premises in Dalley-street. Also the increased
business added something to costs. It is ah
achievement that the management kept the
expense rate as near stationary as it did,
for the extravagant struggle for business by
very young offices —the A. and T. is 16 years
old —still continues. Moreover, last year’s writ-
ings—total sum assured was £102,700, yield-
ing £4247 —were well in excess of those for
1925 and almost 50 p. c. greater than the
1924 figures. Interest, divs. and rents in-
creased from £7740 to £8682, and £3386 was
shown as profit on investments, as against
£693 for the previous year. The co. has
carefully selected its investments and the
almost regular disclosure of profit from real-
isation is a solid help to earnings. Last
year the return on mean funds was actually
10.1 p.c.; or, taking the last two terms (pro-
fit on investments for 1924-5 was small),
the average was 9 p.c. p.a. Almost every-
thing. of course, depends on management;
and in that matter this little office lias been
singularly fortunate. Not the least bit of
good fortune was that managing-director
Dovey is also an actuary of the old school.
Bonuses to policy-holders are forthcoming
after each triennial investigation, and that
keeps up renewals.
The co. does a little fire and accident busi-
ness. Its experience for the term was very
favorable: premium income, £4341; claims,
£752; exes., £2455. In addition to the
branch funds there are reserves of £7136.
Assets at March 31 were a mixed lot; mort-
gages, £58.205 ; freehold property, £37,024 ;
loans, £37.338; shares in public cos.,
£22.202; Government securities and cash,
£8038: other assets. £5699. The edges are
not gilded; the office wouldn’t earn what
it does if they were.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
1916. . £31,614 9 p.o. = £27,000 £4,614 £82,325
1917.. 29,842 9 „ „ 27,000 2.842 85,167
1918.. 29,845 9 „ „ 27,000 2.845 88.012
1919.. 50,920 9 „ „ 27,675 23.245 111,257
1920.. 52,430 10 „ ~ 35,664 16,766 128,023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 25,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923.. 51.469 10 „ „ 39.471 11.998 167,524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ „ 39,471 5,027 172,551
1925.. 42,047 10 „ „ 39,471 2,576 175,127
1926.. 42,181 10 „ „ 39,471 2,710 177,837
N. S. Wales coastal shipping cos. are facing
a rough time. Chief cause is the new
Workers’ Compensation Act, with the 44-
Hour Act as an extra. An immediate effect
of the Compensation Act is the burdening
of the cos. with a heavy increase in pre-
miums ; it is estimated that they will have
to pay £70,000 a year to cover themselves. As
if that were not enough the cos. have to face
the reduction in freight that will result from
the operation of the same influences in the
coastal districts. Many sawmills have closed,
the imposition of the heavy load under the
Compensation Act being the last straw on
an industry greatly weakened by competition
from cheap imports. Much of the freight
carried in the coasters consists of timber,
and the blow to that traffic will be felt seri-
ously. On top of it all is the increase in
running costs and repair charges—again due
chiefly to the same factors. To meet the
situation freight rates have gone up about
10 p.c., with some lines 15 p.c.; the new
tariff becomes operative as from August 1.
The unfavorable influences lie beyond the
accounts now available: profits of £42,181
were almost the same as those of the pre-
ceding term. After the usual 10 p.c. £2710
was visibly available for reserves. Profits
cannot bear much reduction without jeopar-
dising the 10 p.c. divs.; even that rate has
been enjoyed by shareholders for only six
and a half years. Indeed there never has
been much in it for shareholders: no bonus
issues and only moderate divs. rising by slow
stages to the present level. Of later years
the co. has not been in a position to pass on
its increased costs, for the competition of the
State railways has added to its difficulties.
With the Clarence bridged, the northern
stretch of line brought into condition, and
the gap between the N. S. Wales and Queens-
land systems linked up, the competition will
become still keener. One thing which has
helped has been the substantial reserves;
these now amount to £177,837. There is a
div. equalisation reserve of £32 500 and an
insurance and repairs fund, £140,589. The
latter is included in the figures of the intro-
ductory table, because when vessels have
been lost full cover has been drawn from
marine underwriters (“Your ships are fully
covered by insurance,” says the report each
year) ; and when the co. had to make exten-
sive repairs to comply with the new pro-
visions of the Navigation Act no sum was
visibly extracted (“Your ships are in good
order,” says the report each year). In the
past the assurance and repairs account was
added to yearly, the average from 1919 to
1924 being over £lO,OOO. For the past two
terms the fund has been unaltered. The
amount is substantial, but the lack of addi-
tions suggests the harder conditions which
now confront the management.
The usual number of changes in the fleet
is reported : the Brundah and Dorrigo were
sold; negotiations are pending for the sale
of the Poonbar; the Uralla, a new boat, was
placed in commission ; the Arakoon has been
launched and should arrive in November;
and the board is considering the purchase of
a 1000-ton Diesel-engined cargo-carrier. Bal-
ance-sheet movements were: —
1099 1Q94. IQ9K IQ9fi
Liabilities . . £44,177 £33,818 £49,86*2 £40,802
Ships .. . . 250,101 364,015 391,258 393,689’
Freeholds, etc. , . 30.313 28,912 33,761 36,487
Liquid .. .. 333,739 227,891 214,419 202,913
The financial position was very comfortable,
the cash holding alone being well in .excess
of the outside debt. Commonwealth Loans,
cash and book debts amounted to £152,819,
with £17,059 in stocks and stores and £33,034
in share holdings (unspecified). The out-
J°ok_ is uncertain —partly because all such
services are in the nature of public utilities
—but the market puts its faith in the man-
agement to maintain the 10 p.c. divs. and
is prepared to buy at 31s.
* * * *
. Co-operative Breweries of Tasmania. Ltd.,
is being floated with a capital of £200,000
in £1 shares, divided into 50.000 8 p.c. non-
cum. prefs. participating with ordinaries to
12 p.c.; 89,880 ordinaries, 10s. only to be
called up at present; 10,120 ords. paid to
10s. to be issued to the promoters; 50,000
in reserve. Of vendors’ shares 500 go to
each member of a promoting syndicate and
40 each to three others; of the 23 persons
15 are hotelkeepers, and one is a hop-grower.
The promoters seem to have done their work
thoroughly, the present issue is underwritten,
and generally it seems that the co. will start
off with an assured market and a good claim
to its title. Of the capital sought (£94,940)


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Chemical and Scientific Apparatus: The most im-
proved types of laboratory equipment are obtainable
from Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney,
and Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. These firms carry large stocks and are par-
ticularly well equipped to meet the needs of sugar
and mining companies. Before ordering equipment,
write to them for information about the most suitable
kinds of instruments, etc., if unable to call at either
of the addresses. Pure chemicals, reagents, glass-
ware and scientific apparatus for all purposes are
available also.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally' correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne.
Brisbane. Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The cost of installing Pioneer Wood Pipe is much
less than that of metal pipe, being so much lighter,
more easily handled and assembled, with a smooth
interior bore, which will not rust, corrode or provide
foothold for organic growths—it proves an eminently
economical and efficient conduit. It is adaptable to
any class of country, and its life is practically end-
less when kept fully saturated. The capacity never
lessens, and it is unaffected by electrolysis or frost.
There are also many other advantages attendant on
its use which are fully set forth in an interesting
illustrated book of information. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Pafknts. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
« * * *
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p.; Parkes, 310b.h.p.; Dubbo,
540b.h.p. ; Armidale, 270b.h.p. ; Penrith, 220b.h.p.;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p. ; Winton (Q.), 100b.h.p.; Bris-
bane Water and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.-—Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1S88), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift;
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
FOR THE SAKE OF YOUR DEPENDENTS.
The proper management ancl distribution of your estate are of vital
importance to your dependents. For this work, which demands both
security and experience,
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
offers definite advantages over a private executor.
The Company cannot die, disappear or travel, and its whole capital
and assets—over one million pounds—are legally liable for the protec-
tion of clients’ interests. It has had over 3R years’ experience in
managing estates.
Arrange an interview, or write for Booklet.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
O. E. FRIEND.
DIRECTORS;
F, N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOTK.
THUS. BUCIiLAND.
J. \V. BARNES, Manager.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Explosives” House.
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK.
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight,
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
£9500 will go in part payment on an optioned
freehold (the balance is at 65 p.c.), £40,000
for plant, with approximately £24,000 avail-
able for working capital. Very large profits
are looked for, and divs. of 15 p.c. to 20 p.c.
on ords. and 12 p.c. on prefs. are mentioned
—they are the estimates of H. Newman
lieid, after allowing for “every reasonable
contingency and very substantial reserves.”
The interest of the hotel-keepers is the pro-
mising feature. The Tasmanian Tied Houses
Act forbids the tying-up of licensed premises,
and the promoters count on 80 p.c. of the
hotels as potential customers. If the co.
can win anything like that volume of busi-
ness prospects are very bright.
* * * *
Another revival is threatened at Yalwal,
near Nowra (N.S.W.), where the fine gold
is to be cyanided instead of being lost over
the plates of a battery. Alan Davis is
handling a co. in 150,000 2s. shares, of which
50,000 are vendors. It has been registered
as Wilkinson’s Amalgamated. The Golden
Crown, which had a go there two years ago,
crushed and cyanided 1500 tons of the
quartzite and slate formation for 365. a ton,
but in the process expended £6OOO of capital,
£5OO from a prospecting vote, and exhausted
an £lBOO guarantee by two of the directors.
Adits, shafts below them, a tunnel and
drives have been the mining methods hither-
to. W. B. Wilkinson, a well-known tailings and
cyanide expert, holder of the present option,
reports 600 tons of dump stuff from the
tunnel, assaying 7Tdwt., and on the adjoin-
ing lease from two spots far apart 30 tons
at grass assay an ounce. A shaft to 30ft.
and a drive disclose 15ft. in width of quartz-
ite formation with no walls. Ten tons
treated gave Wilkinson 7s. 9d. over the
plates and 17s. from cyanide per ton. An-
other Yalwal slumberer awaking is the Home-
ward Bound, owned in 1914 by a party of
German Australians. Johann Heinrich, one
of the old directors, is now in command, and
is installing a tube-mill plant.
* * * *
Chairman Gordon Lyon has extended the
life of Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) for
another two years ; and it should be a pros-
perous 24 months. Last week 32340 z. were
dredged in 121 hours, being 16oz. better than
the 126 hours’ run of the preceding week.
Lyon assesses recoveries at- 8.3 d. a yd. and
outgo at 5.3 d., a clear profit of 3d. a yd.
Admittedly the ground is patchy, but very
rich pockets are expected to offset the lean
spots. The plant lost a month after the
April balance owing to an accident which
damaged the ladder-lifting gear of the dredge.
The co. has its eye on various options, in the
hope that a suitable landing ground may be
located within two years. A tin show looked
good on the surface, but punctured on check
boring. Curry Bros.’ gold reef at Drake, in
Northern N. S. Wales, is being overhauled.
The field has had several outbreaks, but has
never been tackled by so well organised a
concern as the Adelong Estates.
* * * *
F. L. McFadzean, chairman of Lucknow
Pups (N.S.W.), believes in always driving
another foot. In a circular breaking the
tidings about the 10th call of 3d. he says :
Not to see right through the effort to win rich
ore would be giving someore else the brneft ' f
money, time and patience expended to win gold-
bearing positions, where alone rich discoveries may
be expected, and the big reward which would fohow
such discoveries. That has ojten happened in yold-
mining, and applies particularly to the Pups mine
at this stage.
Manager Lawry is quoted as sanguine that
“joint” conditions should yield rich ore, and
is emphatic that they never failed in the
past. The July call should carry work to
the general meeting, and if rich ore is not
struck by then shareholders will be
asked to turn their thumbs one way or the
other. One thing they can be sure of: they
will find incurable optimists so long as
they’ve got a bob left.
“Brown Coal Crank”: In 1891 I had
shares in the Gippsland brown coal co. which
made 3000 tons of briquettes and sold them
in Melbourne at £1 a ton. The mine was
at Yallourn, near Morwell, and was well
managed for several years by John TV.
Corbett, a colliery manager from Lancashire.
Our bank broke, our factory caught fire and
Victoria’s first briquette industry perished.
The coal came from the old open cut, and the
only drawback was a thick overburden, hard
to shift and costly to stack. The .briquettes
were made without any binder and equalled
any manufactured by the Zeitz Briquette Co.,
then the biggest in Germany. I was told by
the Zeitz people that they turned out
briquettes at 7s. a ton and sold them
throughout Germany at from 10s. to 20s.
That was 35 years ago. Then we brought a
leading London electrical engineer to report
on the water and overburden problems of Yal-
lourn. He said the river Latrobe was seep-
ing into the field and ought to be kept out
by a levee —at a cost of a million pounds
perhaps! So we abandoned our enterprise.
If the Government’s engineers had properly
bored the present workings they would have
discovered the Latrobe River percolating
through the coal, and either dammed it back
or damned the scheme. The analyses of coal
taken 30 years ago from the old workings
gave from 40 to 45 p.c. moisture. To-day
the river has turned the vast Yallourn de-
posit into an emulsion 65 p.c. water. It
might actually pay to mine brown coal at
Altona containing 30 to 35 p.c. moisture and
rail it to Yallourn. Five bores at Yarraville,
Newport, Altona, Laverton and Werribee
proved a bed of brown coal 13$ miles long by
an unknown width. The seam is sft. bin..
25ft., 74ft., 142 ft. and 33ft. thick. An. old
Mines Department analysis of coal dried
at 100 degrees centigrade taken from the
Altona brown-coal mine gave 30 p.c.
water and 5 p.c. ash, while one from
the Laverton borehole showed 35 p.c.
water and 3.5 p.c ash. The Altona mine is
practically dry. a basalt roof and a brown
coal floor keeping out surface and sea water.
Dry Altona coal developed in a calorimeter
72.6 p.c. of the heating value of average Mait-
land (N.S.W.) black coal. C. A. Merz urged
the building of the central power-station at
Yarraville because it would be near the river
and the sea if N.o.W. black coal were used,
near the railways for Vic. black and brown
coals, with ample water, plenty of room, and
an especially suitable site for using Altona
and Laverton coal. It is not too late to
mine for coal On the Government land near
Laverton. If they can’t dry the water out
of the Yallourn coal without, carbonising it
they should try to squeeze it out; if not
successful the Yallourn outfit should be
abandoned. #
W. F. Lee., of Mt. Mica, has been on splen-
did patches, but the commercial side of the
proposition hasn’t, kept pace with him.
Marketed abroad ip crude book form, the pro-
duct has been Unable to strive off 3d. calls, and
shareholders’ grouch increases. The co. was
advised to ship the mica . in “bpok” form.
It is now advised that it is not marketable
thus except at a poor Qfice, and the over-
seas buyers have cabled that they will for-
ward samples showing hcrw the product
should be handled. No further consignment
will be shipped until these samples are re *
ceived. and arrangements will be made to
have the five tons at present in Adelaide cut
to suit the Australian market. In the last
two tons sent from the mine were some books
22 x 14 inches: minimum, 6x6 inches.
* * * . *
Jimble Bar Syndicate, gambling at Syl-
vania (W.A.), has given the bears a choice
morsel. Half shares had been quoted as
high as £3B 10s.: 24 hours later, on Best-
wick’s condemnatory wires, the scrip fetched
Is. Without bears to sell to, holders would
have got nothing.
•* * * *
The gloom which has hung so long oyer
Mount Morgan’s prospects is deepening in-
stead of lifting with the recommencement of
work in the Open .Cut. The co.’s employees
have been working under a consolidated
wages award made in 1922, with a £4 ss.
minimum (basic) wage for a 44-hour week.
The unions concerned are preparing to finally
cook the goose which has been laying golden
eggs for them for so long. The cancellation
of the 1922 award is asked for, and wage
increases which, w r ith those voluntarily
granted, will put 44 per cent, on the 1922
award rates. Naturally the directors take
a serious view of things. Income from pro-
duction has been used up as earned in keep-
ing the mine going, and £377,000 has gone
the same way from reserves. A few weeks
ago The Bulletin hinted that some of those
in control -would not be averse to making
an end of a bad business and taking refuge
in a realisation 'of assets. The present
trouble looks like starting a definite move in
this direction.
* * ■ * # ,
The State arsenic-mine at Jibbenbar, near
Stanthorpe (Q.), has closed down again,
values being far below the cost of produc-
tion and likely to remain there. Best
white Cornish arsenic was recently quoted
at £l4 per ton, whereas less than two years
ago Uncle Sam was buying Queensland grey
arsenic far £45 a ton to eradicate the boll-
weevil in cotton. When other methods of
dealing with the pest came into use the
Queensland arsenic market slumped badly.
Even the poison used in the campaign
against prickly-pear is no longer obtained
from home supplies.
* * * *
A few months ago specimens of coarse, free
gold found near Bunker's Hill, Ravenswood
(N.Q.), created sufficient interest in Towns-
ville to give birth to several syndicates for
chasing the yellow metal. Three leases were
taken up around the discovery, and two
shafts sunk 20ft. The country rock locked
promising, but the “blows” sunk on have
been rather hungry-looking, and the best
ore that geologist Reid could get out
of them was worth 9dwt. The geologist
thinks there is no warrant for the belief that
the formation corresponds to that of Gvmpie
gold-bearing belt, and the discovery doesn’t
look as if it will add much to Queensland’s
gold figures.
# * * *
Queensland gold yield for June was a
mere 9060 z. fine, compared with 52190 z. for
June, 1925. For the six months the figure
was 45170 z. as against 24,8730 z. for the
first half of last year. Morgan’s stoppage
accounts for most of the decrease. It looks
as though the year’s crop will be worth less
than £40,000. The average from 1001 to
1010 was £2,341,239 p.a., and for 10 years
before that £2,395,936. #
Chillagoe (N.Q.) smelters closed down a
fortnight ago, and possibly the shutters are
up for good as far as smelting State ore is
concerned. Minister Jones has closed down
the old Girofla, which supplied most of the
feed; the grade is too low to justify continu-
ance. The Lady Jang may throw more men
out. A miners’ deputation from Mungana
found the Minister obdurate. It is estimated
that it would cost £20,000 to sink another
shaft to test the deeper ground round the
Girofla, and owing to financial stringency
the scheme is off. The State has, however,
taken over the Redcap, near Mungana, and
it seems to have considerable promise at
shallow depth. Present expectations are that
the smelters will re-open seasonally for cus-
toms smelting, plus a small tonnage of State
ore. „
• * * *
There has been nothing in local
ments in the past fortnight to account for
the rise in Mt» Isa scrip. The fine lode in
the Rio Grande crosscut was passed through
three weeks ago and extra squads put on
the Isa railway about the 'same time. It is
probable that the inspiration comes from
London, where W. Ij. Corbould is interview-
ing prospective debenture-holders on Mt. Isa’s
enormous ore reserves and matters connected
with the railway guarantee.
« * * *
Ravenswood Gold Mines (Q,), which was
having a good run over a year ago and
earned much kudos for the way it paid olf
liabilities and a Government subsidy, has
hit a hard road again—without any divi-
dends meanwhile. Following a promising
shoot down, the manager lost it in the No. b
(bottom) level when the first 6d. was almost
in shareholders’ pockets. Geologist Reid
has been called in to diagnose the disease,
and another subsidy is being applied for to
search for the lost shoot. The rich ore is
not yet wholly worked out, for a crushing
last 'month of 24 tons returned 2240 z. and
another 60oz. should go on to that at
least from the six tons of concentrates and
slimes obtained. This is only just sufficient
to keep the wolf from the door, and the
brute is not getting any, less hungry.
* * * *
Difficult as it is to raise interest in Roma
(Q.) in oil nowadays there was a slight
simmer when word went forth that Lander
Bore No. 3 had passed the 2000 ft. mark last
week and was approaching Milsom’s famous
oil sand —those of good memory will recall
there was none better in the famous Sante
Fe field. Apart from this, however, the bore
is probably by now just reaching the zone
from 2200 ft. to 2600 ft. in which apparently
authentic traces of oil were found in the
Strata in No. 1 bore; and if the casing has
been well and truly set and all subterranean
water hermetically sealed off, the bore should
provide a test as to whether these showings
are of commercial moment. Oil-geologist L.
C. Ball, who has a flair for detail, is at pre-
sent on the site watching operations on be-
half of the State Government. The market,
too, has pulsed slightly as the supreme
moment draws near. If there is any success
we may have to survive a recrudescence of
the glorious oil boom of two years ago.
* « » #
New Guinea Oil. Vailala River, Gulf of
Papua, had a set-back from 18s. to 13s. when
manager Moore wirelessed that he had had
some trouble in overcoming gas pressure, and
that easing to 1115 ft. had to be withdrawn
to 900 ft. in consequence. The oil test is
delayed—for three weeks, it is said —in con-
sequence.
* * * *
The new alluvial tinfield near Puket. in
West Siam, looks like an important find.
Austral Malay and Burma Malay have re-
ported large quantities of rich ground, though
the former mentions limestone bedrock. The
outstanding difference between the new field
and the old Malayan ones — e.p., Taiping and
Ipoli—is in price being paid or, at least,
demanded for country. As usual the land-
owners are Chinese towkays. but whereas
such were usually content with £lO to £2O
per acm at Taiping, they are demanding
up to £2OO at Puket. A 600-acre concession
looks like costing, for the land alone, about
three to four times as much as it cost to
buy and equip a property at Taiping 10 or
12 years ago. It seems as if Australian
brains and capital will in this case add con-
siderably to the list of wealthy towkays.
Surface rights are also a troublesome feature
of land deals in Siam, and there are others.
* * * *
When Jay Gould was asked for a recipe
for wealth, he said any young man would
die rich who invested his money in real
estate near rising cities. The Sydney idea
to-day is that the same end may be reached
by securing an option over tin land in the
F.M.S. or Burma and Siam. Alan Davis
and James Hilton have subscribed to the
belief, and Len Smith has secured 277 acres
for them in the Ivampar and Kinta Valley
dis-trict, Perak. Three lines of bores gave
1440 z. to the yd. over an average depth of
60ft. in dredging ground, adjoining the Allu-
vial Tin Co.’s East Yukon and South Mel-
bourne options. An additional adjoining
area of 150 acres has been taken on a boring
option. The parent co. has been named the
Sydney-Malaya, and has floated a boring co.
named Twyford Malaya in 10,000 20s. shares,
of which 8000 contribs. pay 2s. down and
are subject to shilling calls. Joe Millican,
Chas. Todman and Alan Davis are on the
directorate. Check boring will be supervised
by Malcolm Newman, if he is available.
* * * #
J. H. Curie recently announced that unless
15s. a ton ore can be made profitable the pre-
sent generation will see the end of things on
the Rand. Central Rand has been measured
up on the present basis of mining costs, and
much of the ore is being left behind. Unless
costs can be cut to make that ore payable
the life of the Rand will be shortened by
years, and £100,000,000 lost to the country.
The mines, with the taxation they provide,
are still entitled to regard themselves as the
backbone of South Africa, but the Govern-
ment and others vitally interested are con-
tent to drift. “In 15 years or so,” concludes
Curie, “goaded by the logic of facts,
costs will come down with a rush, and there
will be renewed activity in the outlying parts
of the Banket Basin ; but by that time the
Witwatersrand itself will have passed into a
state beyond repair.”


'* Im so slap, we 6idnV
e>PlN<3 EUTAe>ETH <t
A HOME FROM hqmS
" I wonder if Baldwin envies me ! u
A RUDE Avx^KENiNq
THE HOUSE,
in perfect Unison '
'AhO NO doubt INCVUtyiNGj THE toOE,
NMlt.l. BE EASER TO MAKS THE f?oyAl_ .QUESTS COMFORTABLE-?
WHEN THE DUKE GETS TO CANBERRA.
"Owing to the limited accommodation at ‘the Bush capital,’ Parliament will rise on the first day of sitting, and special arrangements will be made for the disposal of
the Royal visitors and members of Parliament and others immediately After the festivities.”


It’s the State Express
methods of manufacture
that perfect-
2(W 6
STP (XPRESS
CIGARETTES
Made in London by Ardah Tobacco Company, Ltd
m
m
a ■
mm-
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Murchison": The queerest accident 1
know of happened when a man without a
tooth in his head bit his tongue almost in
two. It happened at Day Dawn (W.A.)
about 15 years ago. “Scotty” Grant was
repairing a pump which was rigged on a
staging in a water shaft, when a portion
of .the rock came away, releasing the timbers,
HAS ITS DISADVANTAGES.
“These bachelor quarters arc no good! It must be heavenly to see
a bright light waiting for you when you reach home.”
“Not if it's three o'clock in the morning, my boy, it isn't!”
and hurled Scotty, his pump, pipes and
paraphernalia in a jumbled heap into the
water about 20ft. below. Luckily, Scotty’s
mate was at the windlass on the surface, and
lost no time in scrambling down and rescuing
the man. During the latter’s fall he struck
his chin on a projecting timber with such
violence that his tongue was pinched between
his toothless jaws and almost severed. He
was rushed to Cue hospital, where with
Hielan’ fortitude he submitted to the. inser-
tion of the stitches necessary to join the
lacerated pieces together, an anaesthetic being
out of the question. It must have been a
terribly painful operation, but Scotty soon
mended, and it was not long before the mem-
ber in question was wagging again as merrily
as ever.
* * * *
“Flagwagger” : How’s this for the long
arm? In pre-war days a vaudeville show
Avas housed in the old Gaiety Theatre, Mel-
bourne ; half of each Friday’s programme
was occupied by amateurs competing for a
gold medal, the winner selected by the audi-
ence. On one of these occasions a friend of
mine entered the lists as a conjurer. He was
having no great success with his well-
rehearsed tricks', and a hilarious member ot
the audience (there was no early closing in
those days) signified his disapproval of the
turn by hurling a large and juicy meat-pie
at the defenceless artist with such an accu-
rate aim that it effectually cured my friend
of vaudeville ambitions. I lost track of him
until we met in London in 1917, and learned
he had joined up with the First Contingent
—naturally war had no terrors for a man
who had been game to face a Gaiety audi-
ence. We went to a restaurant, and sat
next a Digger who monopolised the conver-
sation with stirring tales of his mad and
merry doings in pre-war days in Melbourne.
All went well until he gleefully narrated the
occasion when he threw a pie at an amateur
conjurer. A moment later he himself was
picking bits of steak and kidney out of his
eyes and hair. The fight which followed was
a willing one while it lasted; and I shall
always regret that I had to separate the
combatants to enable us to dash away from
the military police, whose services had been
requisitioned by an unsporting restaurant-
proprietor.
* * * *
“Centurion”: One accomplishment of
Sheila Chisholm’s father-in-law, the Earl of
Rosslyn, not enumerated in the paragraph
about her divorce (B. 22/7/’26) was his
invention of an infallible system of winning
at rouge et noir. He got a syndicate to back
him, and went to “Monte” to knock M. Blanc
into the blue Mediterranean. Alas! it was
Rosslyn that took the knock while the syn
dicate went blue. But his predecessor was
the brightest boy of the family—beau, wit
and rip, yet a favorite with straitlaced Vic-
toria the Good. She insisted on his, being
appointed Lord Commissioner of the Church
of Scotland, and all his acquaintances held
their sides and rocked. His chief job was
superintending the Annual Assembly of the
Scottish Churches in Edinburgh, and enter-
taining the delegates for a week at Holy-
rood. He proved a vast success with all and
sundry—only forgot himself once, when, sit-
ting late after dinner, he found himself tell-
ing a purple story to the Moderator erf the
Presbyterians, who was at his right. His
attempt to apologise was checked. “Dinna
fash v’rsel’, ma Loard Commeesioner;
whiles Ah feel a wee bit lasceevious masel’.
* * * *
“Akran”: In the bitterly cold weather at
Bazentin-le-Grand, on the Somme, it took
two braziers to warm each hut, and the Dig-
ger who lingered too long over his stew
nearly always missed a seat.t On such occa-
sions'the padre was anything but a welcome
visitor, for, being
bulky, he took up
a lot of room. One
night a resourceful
diner managed to
place a round
stone in the brazier
unobserved, and re-
turned to his scran.
Presently he asked
casually, “A ny-
one hear anything
fizz?” No one had,
but all looked in
the brazier. The
padre’s eye sighted
the gibber first. He
took one leap baek-
war d, upsetting
a bench covered
with dixies,
and hurled him-
self through the
door. There were
several collisions
and more damage
in the stampede
that followed.
We all shivered
outside for a few
moments; then a
reassuring voice
came from within,
“It’s all right. It
wasn’t loaded. I’ve
pitched it out.” The humorist had the cosiest
seat that night.
-X- * * *
“Beauford” : A consignment. of beer re-
cently arrived at the Wonthaggi (Vic.) rail-
way station to the order of a local publican,
and some thirsty souls purloined the largest
barrel. The Law was promptly set in
motion, and, acting on a supposed clue, the
officer in charge supplied his staff of three
constables with shovels and instructed them
to make an assault on the garden of a local
resident. The soil was turned over and over
iD search of incriminating evidence, but all
efforts failed to locate it. The suspect was
far from being aggrieved; as fast as the
forced labor turned over the soil he planted
it with cabbages. Other residents are now
seeking to incriminate themselves in the hope
that their gardens will be treated likewise.
* * * *
“Bigbine”: The British Army regulations
were draconian in their penalties for minor
offences as well as serious ones. During
my term of service in an Imperial regiment,
a sergeant was court-martialled for “drunk
on parade” in Egypt. Prior to the parade
for the reading of the verdict, the Q.M.S.
removed the chevrons from the culprit's
tunic and stitched them on again at each
corner with a single thread. The battalion
was formed up in hollow square with the
sergeant under escort in the
centre the Adjutant read the
verdict, “Reduced to the rank
of private,” etc., etc.; the
Regimental S.M. then ripped
off the stripes and threw
them on the ground. This
man had served for 27 years.
He lost his long-service and
all other extra pay. And all
for one drunk!
GIVING THE POOR MAN A CHANCE.
FORWARD FANNY : “You had something to say to me—what was it de-e-ear?”
BASHFUL BOB (who has learned it by heart): “ There's not a man yearns for a mother -
in-law as much as I do since I met you.”
“E.C.”: I too have seen “Rabarak’s” cold-
storage corpses in the crypt of St. Michan’s,
Dublin (B. 15/7/’26). Some decay has
taken place in the case of bodies which were
exhumed from the adjoining cemetery before
being placed here, and also as the result of
dowers heaped on the coffins of two of the
patriots of ’9B; but it is limited to those in-
stances. The atmosphere is absolutely dry
and free from microbes. Spiders are the only
live inhabitants; in some places their webs
drape from roof to door, especially in vaults
where the “last of the line” was deposited
generations ago. One explanation of the
preserving qualities of the crypt is that there
is some subterranean ventilation; but this
is almost as fantastic as “Rabarak’s" theory.
All that is certain is that corpses of various
ages are so well preserved that nails, lips, eye-
lids and ears are in an almost natural state.
Incidentally, the church contains the organ
on which Handel composed the “Messiah.”
* * * tf
“X2X”: No need to go to- Dublin for
burial-places with preservative qualities (B.
15/7/’26). At Wollongong (N.S.W.) there
is an old and long-disused cemetery right on
the edge of the beach. Most of the tomb-
stones have fallen dat, and few of the in-
scriptions are decipherable. When several
of these graves were opened a few years ago
during the course of some constructional work
the bodies were as fresh-looking as though
they had been there only a few hours instead
of 70 years. Since then another grave has
been opened, and the same phenonemon was
seen, although the coffin had long since fallen
to pieces. The soil is very sandy, and pre-
sumably contains a large proportion of
natural preservatives. But it’s nothing to
give cheers about. From the hygienic view-
point it would be better if the corpses dis-
integrated and became absorbed in the sur-
rounding soil.
* * * *
“ J.E.”: The dnding of a lucky name for
a king is a matter of importance. In Great
Britain those who manage such things would
shy at the idea of a Harold 111. or Stephen
11. or Richard IV. It would seem like adopt-
ing into the family three previous monarchs
who climbed on the throne without satisfac-
tory title and didn’t redeem the situation by
founding a dynasty. John, like Charles, has
been a generally ill-omened moniker. In
France the first John was too young for his
job, especially in the early fourteenth cen-
tury. He was a posthumous son, so he was
born reigning, and after he had waved the
sceptre for four days he passed away. John
11., the man of Poitiers, was Disaster incar-
nate. So a French John 111., whoever he may
be, will begin with, a handicap. The Hebrews
avoided unlucky names to a great extent
by the richness of their vocabulary. Jhe be-
ginnings of their one important royal line
are given in Genesis. The founder, Father-
of-a-Multitudc, married Princess, and their
son Laughter took Noose for a wife, bhe
roped him in. They had a pair ot sons,
Hairy, who was of small account, and Sup-
planter. The latter built the family edifice.
His first two wives, Languid and Ewe, were
sisters, being the daughters of White, who
didn’t live up to his name, and the other
tAVO Avere Bashfulness and Dropping. By
them all he had a dozen sons, Beliold-a-Son,
Hearkening, Joined, Praised, Judge, Wrest-
ling, Troop. Happy, There-is-Hire, Elevation,
He-Shall-Add and Fortunate; also one
daughter, Vindicated. Tavo grandsons who
were reckoned in at the division of Canaan
were Fruitful and One-Who-Causes-to-
Forget. The Hebrews were not driven to
the absurd plan of numbering their kings as
if they Avere houses in a terrace.
“Stellsby”: The dog that limped into the
Orange (N.S.W.) ambulance station with
an injured leg (B. 15/4/’26) had its compeer
in a sagacious collie that invaded the casu-
alty-room at the Alfred Hospital (Melb.)
at 'midnight a few months ago and sought
WHERE THE PLASTER WAS WEEDED.
“Oh, don’t talk about a divorce —we must
see if we can’t patch up your relations.”
“It isn’t my relations that leant patching
up. It’s my wife’s —and THEY got no
more’n they deserved.”
surgical aid for a fractured leg. The doc-
tors took the animal in hand, and Towzer
showed his gratitude decisively—he wanted
to stay at the hospital for keeps. The quacks
were willing but their luck (and the pati-
ent’s) was out. After a short period of
convalescence the dog was located by its oid
boss and taken home.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE LEPRECHAUN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He is the fairies’ cobbler.” — Irish fairy tale.
The Leprechaun he cobbles things
Beneath the silver moon,
And while he works he trolls a song
That might be half a croon;
He is the licensed Jester Eli
Who jokes between the dances;
He makes the little people laugh,
He splits them with his fancies.
One time he found a vein of gold,
The' rainbow was his guide ;
He digged it out and cuddled it
As if it were his bride;
And when the reel was whirling- round
With joke and joyous clamor.
He pelted folk with grain o’ gold
And beat them with his hammer.
The Leprechaun he lived afar,
Long, long before ’twas thy day;
He passed, they say, like some gay star
Long, long before ’twas my day;
But sometimes near the grassy ring,
When moonlight gilds the highways,
You’ll hear a merry laugh ring- out
And peal it down the by-ways.
Cod bless the merry Leprechaun
And send him back to cheer us;
’Twould help us in this Iron Age
To dream he jested near us;
And if he’d only mend our shoes
And bring us back to laughter
We’d be his debtors evermore
And love him ever after.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY..


THE GAMBLE OF LIFE.
“Opening the first All-Australian Health Conference, Commonwealth Minister for Health Neville Howse quoted statistics showing that infant mortality in Australia
was unduly high, and that 70,000 people would die of cancer within the next ten years if the present death-rate continues.”
INFANT-MORTALITY GERM: "Toss you for your life, sonny. And if you win, old Ring Cancer will stack the cards against you—unless one of these
others gets you first.”


YOU, I, ALU OF US!
We each have our likes and dislikes —our fancies, fads and foibles. We are pleased when an
authoritative opinion matches our own. Too, that the judges awarded the special gold
medal at the R. A. S. Show for Orlando Wines.
What we’ve been saying, all along, is that these wines are surprisingly good. Yes, you, I,
all of us.
GRAMP’S
ORLANDO WINES
PORT - - SHERRY - - MUSCAT - - CLARET - - HOCK - - FRONTIGNAC - - etc.
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD. 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Jim Carew”: I know where a flogging-
triangle is kept as a family heirloom. The
owner is a wealthy but eccentric middle-west
N.S.W. station-owner wdiose grandfather
arrived here “with a log on his toe.” He
(the grandfather) had a good deal of the
“old Adam” knocked out of him at the
triangles, and when he at length secured his
ticket he had one of them installed on his
own place. He never used it, although he
had several assigned servants, but kept it as
a grim reminder.
“Black Magpie”: Statistics compiled by
the N.S.W. Education Department confirm
“Cartot’s” observations (B. 15/7/’26) ;
children in the North Coast district are
taller and heavier for their ages than child-
ren in any other part of the State, albeit
the general average is much higher than it
is in Britain. We are developing one of
the finest physical strains in the world in
this favored locality. I myself have seen, in
one of these Northern districts, a boy of 14
who was 6ft. 4in. and broad in proportion,
and his parents were not unusually tall.
It may be simply the abundant sunshine and
good living conditions; it’s hard to say.
Except for those children who come from
abjectly poor homes, or who are overworked
on dairy-farms, most North Coast adolescents
are exceptionally fine specimens.
* * * *
“Barina”; Three months hence the wis-
taria will be in full blossom at Vaucluse
House, Sydney. When Captain Brown Hayes
built his historic home., in the early part
of last century, he obtained some barrels of
soil from Ireland —-to keep the snakes away.
In it he planted the Portuguese vine glycina,
which was brought from Lisbon. For many
years this vine continued to be planted by
residents around Sydney, and was always
known as “glyciny.” I remember it at my
old home at the Glebe Point in the ’fifties,
and at Vaucluse in the ’sixties. Somewhere
about 1870 a friend told me he had got a
new creeper, just introduced from the United
PUTTING IT UP TO MOTHER.
“Mummy, dear, I hope you are good, too.”
“Well, dear, I try to be.”
“'Cos it would, be awful if I went to Heaven and was
known as the little girl whose mother was in the
other place.”
States, it having been “discovered” in Por-
tugal by a General Wistar, who had taken
it back to America, propagated it and called
it after himself—wistaria. The creeper
proved to be our old friend “glyciny” ; but
the nurserymen, anxious to push sales, adver-
tised it under its new denomination, and
little by little the old and proper name has
been forgotten—sacrificed to a Yankee’s con-
ceit. Glycina is still the name given in Cali-
fornia to the vine whose lovely pale-blue
racines have garlanded the adobe walls of
the Spanish mission-houses for 200 years past.
* * * . *
“Oxmead”: If I were a revivalist and an
impassioned preacher like Gipsy Smith or
Billy Sunday, I would head for where the
Celtic element is strongest, for that is where
there is most chance of sweeping sinners
off their feet. All history shows it. John
Wesley converted more people in Cornwall
than any other English county, and only
a quarter of a century ago a young preacher
named Evan Roberts set Wales aflame with
liis open-air ad-
dresses, dragging
hardened transgres-
sors to the penitent
form, and making
women faint by
thousands. Even
in post-war times
the only sensational
success of evangel-
ists has been in
Scotland, where
hundreds of con-
verts not only
swore off the
national drink, but
burned their pipes
in their fierce en-
thusiasm. The Celt
likes his religion
hot and strong and
highly spiced, and
his spiritual food
well - devilled ; he
responds far more
readily to burning
words and shrieked
emotionalism than
the phlegmatic
Anglo-Saxon, who
largely out-num-
bers him in most
parts of the Brit-
ish Empire. I am
not sure where the
Celtic element is
strongest in the
Comm onwealth;
probably in the col-
liery districts of
N.S.W. now that
gold - mining has
fallen on such poor
days—Ballarat and
Bendigo and even
Ivalgoorlie would
have been promis-
ing corners of the
vineyard once with
their Cousin Jack
infusion, and
Moonta in its hey-
day perhaps the
best of all. Gipsy
Smith 4s probably something of a Celt him-
self, though the talents of his mysterious
race have hitherto hardly run in the direc-
tion of hot gospelling.
* * * *
“J.A.W.”: The Napoleonic relic in the
Auckland Museum referred to by “Verri”
(B. 10/6/’26) is a sheet of slate affixed to
a wooden slab, on the four corners of which
and a miniature hat of the
Emperor. The slab says in
letters of bronze that on it
rested the mortal remains of
the Emperor from December
9to 15, 1840. The relic was
presented to Auckland a few
years ago by a farmer in the
Thames district, H. John-
stone; .inquiries set afoot in
Paris by the French Consul
in M.L., Paul Serre, revealed
that the slab bore the “ashes
of that restless man” up the
Seine, after the frigate La
Belle Poule had returned
from St. Helena with them.
It has never been satisfac-
torily disclosed how the relic
came into the possession of
farmer Johnstone. As re-
gards the death-mask of the
Emperor in the Auckland
Museum, “Verri” says there
are “only three in exist-
ence.” That may be so,
but I have my doubts. The
original matrix is in the
Hotel des Invalides; it was
moulded from the face of the
Emperor by his doctor,
Antominarch. The remains
of the great man must have
had a peculiar fascination
for his attendants. St. Denis
in his “Memoir” tells us that
he and the Abbe Vignali “took away small
pieces of Napoleon’s corpse during the
autopsy” !
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: Victorian listen-
ers have been calling one another Ananias
half across the State. One will accuse 3LO
of every crime known to the wireless deca-
logue, including fading, distortion and dead
silence. Another in the same district reports
perfect reception, and rudely recommends
the complainant to overhaul his connections.
The cause of the difference seems to be the
now familiar circumstance that wireless
waves sing a duet and the duo are not always
in step, especially at night. When a station
broadcasts it sends out two waves. One
travels horizontally, and the other charges
off into space. In the daytime the upward
wandering one is lost in infinity. At night-
time it is refracted back to earth, and there
will always be a spot where the refracted
wave laps the same ether as the earth-travel-
ling ray. If the two are in phase; the re-
MOST PROMISING.
DAD: “My dear girl, I don’t know about it. Has he given you
any encouragement?”
DOT : “Well, Dad, last night, he asked if you and ma were pleasant
people to live with.”
sultant impulse will be exceptionally strong,
but if they are out of step they will tend to
Cancel one another and produce one of those
dumb spots which have so baffled radio engi-
neers. So far no means of overcoming this
disability has been found. If Dingo Flat is
radio-dumb, it had better cease investing its
savings in super-heterodynes until further
notice.
* * * *
“Nomis” : I can support the view of the
contributor who says that it’s the best boys
who run away from home. My own kid of
eight, being trounced by the housekeeper,
gathered up his bankbook, drew the seven
and six standing to his credit, and took train
to a tony distant suburb, where he “put up”
at the best hotel. Late that night he was
brought home dead-broke, but bilious from
a high life on chocolates. Now at 11 he
is at the top of a class of 50, and will work
at his lessons the clock round. But my
queerest experience was with Jack, an
apprentice of ours. lie ran away, and .to
please liis mother I took out a warrant for
his arrest. Three years later he turned up
one day in policeman’s uniform, and begged
me to cancel the warrant. He has since
shown his grit by doing some big things in
the Force.
“Angus O’Cohen” : Trust Eve to feminise
the ether. A Dunedin (M.L.) wireless en-
thusiast listening in the other night was
startled to overhear the query: “Have you
had your hair cut?” Switching over for the
answer, he discovered that it was morsed in the
affirmative, from the Cold Country, and that
lie was listening in to a London and an Otago
flapper comparing notes. Exchanges were
stopped by England being called to breakfast
and Otago to dinner, but not before an
appointment had been booked for a wireless
tete-a-tete on stockings.
“A.8.W.” : Did ever a change in a people’s
ways take place so quickly? The other after-
noon a coach and pair with a top-liatted
coachman on the box drawn up at the kerb
in Elizabeth-street (Melb.) created so much
interest that a self-conscious Jeames beck-
oned a policeman to keep the gaping mob on
the move. Personally, it was the first turn-
out of the kind I had seen since my return
to Australia from the Old Dart seven years
ago. #
“Blanc”: Sharing a fencing contract on
the Lower Lachlan with my friend Bill
Burns, I entered an objection to his using
our spades as frying-pans. He seemed proud
of the idea, claiming it as an original one
of his own, and I conceded him that much
inventiveness until I came across a despatch
dated 18/11/1791, from Gov. Phillip to
Under-Secretary Nepean. The former wrote :
“Two or three hundred iron frying-pans will
be a saving of spades.” So Bill’s “original”
notion must have been a chronic habit among
our First Fleeters.
“Centurion” : An interesting light was cast
on some American social conditions by a
youthful speaker at the annual “Fathers’
Dinner” of the Sydney Y.M.C.A. This young
man, who is touring the world with dad,
explained that his mission w T as to spread
the gospel of the Hi Yi Club, of which he is
a member. The institution had been founded
to wipe out smoking and drinking in Ameri-
can schools, and had already made a success-
ful start at what was admittedly a stiff task.
Here is yet another instance of this coun-
try’s incapacity to rise to heights of Ameri-
can idealism. Though we are not blessed
with the bulwark of prohibition, but wallow’
in the trough of the liquor trade, neither
State nor Private Enterprise has lifted a
finger to stay the bacchanalian and _fu nu-
gatory orgies of the G.P.S. —or kinder-
gartens, either, for that matter.
“Ancient Mariner”: Again and again I
have seen it claimed in print that the Edina,
of Melbourne, launched in 1854, is the oldest
steamboat afloat. She isn’t; the Glengarry,
of Glasgow, an iron paddle-boat, dates from
1844; and another paddle-boat, the Premier,
of Weymouth, was built on the Clyde in
1846. As both these ancients still figure in
HIT IT FIRST SHOT.
“Of course, there's an art in hissing.”
“Yes, I suppose there is—art thou willing?”
Lloyds Register, the presumption is that they
are regarded by their owners as capable
of earning their keep. Among windjammers
remaining in active seiwice, the oldest is pro-
bably the Spanish Nuestra Senor del Mar,
launched in 1824.
THREE GREEN DIAMONDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three green diamonds flying up the street,
Three green diamonds glamorous and fleet!
Threepeneeworth of magic and the kindness of fate
And three green diamonds took me to Kitty’s gate.
The red cross of Leichhardt may he lovely to some;
By the green square of Coogee to pretty spots you
come;
Other trams with other signs may please not a few,
But they cannot shake my heart as the green
diamonds do.
Gone are those years, but still the wonder stays,
Giving some color to dull working days;
The others are but trams —I give them not a
glance—
But the three green diamonds are the blazon of
Romance.
N.S.W.
R. G. HENDERSON.
PROCESSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The banners of the morning float
Their splendors in the eastern sky;
There seems a triumph in the note
With which a glad World hails the day
When sun-gleams, pleasant to the eye,
Are driving .all the mists away.
Where are those veils of winter now
That sheeted all the world in gloom,
Until the frown upon its brow
Made every morn a sombre thing
And left within the heart no room
For happiness or carolling?
The sunlight dancing on my wall
Awakes me to this gladder day.
There sounds a murmur over all
As when relieving troops march down,
With joyous steps and banners gay,
Into a late beleaguered town.
Can you not hear that cheerful din
As, whilst the glooms that held us fly,
The joyous hosts come trooping. in,
A wave with laughter as its crest?
Their banners flaunt before the sky—
Their drums are beating in my breast!
N.S.W.
HAMHR.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luie.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
5b
m
SMB
>6.
B&&S
8606
“Top Hole”—
is an expression with a wealth of mean-
ing, and yet, more than anything else,
it means SATISFACTION.
The'
jfofefhmttaot
Spring Street, Melbourne,
assures real satisfaction for all guests, for in its
combination of convenient location, quiet sur-
roundings, sumptuous comfort and par excellence
cuisine it affords unrivalled service.
The “Windsor” is indeed Melbourne’s most select
hotel.
It is always advisable to book your accommodation
early.
Minimum Tariff from 22/G
(inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 15/-
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
D
FOX’S
IMPROVED
PUTTEES
F.I.P.
New Non-fray Spiral (patented)
19/6 per pair.
Obtainable from
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
Tailors and
Breechesmakers,
313
George
Street,
Sydney.
Đ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Hugh Macrossan, lifted to the Queensland
Supreme Court Bench, vice Lukin, trans-
lated to the Federal Arbitration Court, is an
emphatic contradiction of the theory that
brainy sons are not begot by brainy fathers.
His father, John Macrossan, was one of the
great figures of Queensland’s middle period
in politics, and though he never wore the
Labor tag was the herald of the new democ-
racy in Queensland. Of sterling character,
“Honest John” left his children little but
his good name, and what his son, the new
Judge, has achieved is due to his own efforts,
helped a little perhaps by a well-loved
father’s memory. He is a brilliant advocate
—one of the most brilliant in Australia.
A Women’s Political Association has been
formed in Auckland with Ellen Melville
as president.
Miss Melville, a
hamster, fought
Auckland at the
election last No-
vember as a Re-
former. On her
running she was
entitled to Govern-
ment support at
the subsequent
Eden by - election,
but no Maoriland
party has ever been
keen on women
candidates, so she
wasn’t chosen.
The new associa-
tion may make a
difference.
T. S. O’HAL-
LORAN, K.G.,
chairman of
the South Austra-
lian Football
League, in succes-
sion to Senator
A. J. McLachlan.
Some August birthdays
Dr. Jos. Verco (S.A.), 75, on first; Edward Miller
(Vic.), 78, Dr. R. Humphrey Marten (S.A.), 66, and
Canon Charlton (Syd.), 66, on 3rd; John Newlands
(Pres. Federal Senate), 62, on 4th; J. F. Bailey
(Director Adel. Botanic Gardens), 60, on sth;
Justice Isaacs (High Court), 71, and E. A. Southee
(Principal of Hawkesbury Coll.), 36, on 6th; poet
E. J. Brady, 57, and Lennon Raw's (Melb.), 48, on
7th; Earl Page, 46, ex-Federal Minister A. Poynton,
73, E. T. Fisk (Wireless), 40, and Paris Nesbit,
K.C., 74, on Bth; Chief Justice Street (N.S.W.),
63, on 9th; P. E. Deane (Prime Minister’s Dept.),
36, on 10th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Tennyson, 74, on 11th;
ex.-S. Aus. Gov. Kintore, 74, ex-N.S.W. Gov. Chelms-
ford, 58, and Frank Fox (Morning Post), 52, on
12th; Prof. G. Elliot Smith, F.R.S., 55, on 15th;
Prof. Rennie, 74, on 19th; S. Aus. Gov. Tom Bridges,
65, and ex-Fed. Minister Foster, 70, on 20th; poet
Ogilvie, 57, ex-Federal member D. J. O’Keefe (Tas.),
64, on 21st; Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.), 57, on 22nd;
Dr. J. A. Cockburn (formerly S. Aus. Premier), 76,
on 23rd; Major-Gen. Hobbs, 62, and Walter Rosen-
hain, F.R.S. (formerly of Melb.), 51, on 24th; ex-Fed.
Minister Paddy Glynn, K.C., 71, on 25th; Prof. T.
R. Gyle, F.R.S. (Melb.), 66, Prof. W. A. Osborne
(Melb.}, 63, and Rev. Geo. Rowe (Bris.), 68, on
26th; C. Gavan Duffy (formerly Clerk of Fed.
Senate), 71, and Prof. S. Angus (St. Andrew’s,
Syd.), 45, on 27th; ex-High Commissioner Andy
Fisher, 64, and Brig.-Gen. Cannan, 44, on 29th;
N.S.W. Gov. Admiral de Chair, 62, and Principal
Ronald Macintyre (N.S.W.), 63, on 30th; Chas. R.
Long, M.A. (Vic. educationist), 66, on 31st.
Vic. Government was fortunate in being
able to secure the services of Owen Dixon,
K.C., for a little over five months as an
Acting-Judge of the Supreme Court. In the
last seven years at the Bar he has left be-
hind all his rivals. He appeared twice be-
fore the Privy Council in London. He is
40, and has made it clerar that he will return
to practice after the December-January vaca-
tion. Cussen, who is consolidating the
statutes, will then return to duty. He is just
on 67, and Irvine is 68, and there is no sug-
gestion that either of these should make way
for a younger man.
Some old hands interested in land-dummy-
ing in N. S. Wales had memories of the
great Mercadool case revived last week by
the death of William Freeman. As Land
Board chairman he had to deal with that
matter, and, as subsequent appeals showed,
he did his part well. He was uprightness
personified, and to that w r ere added courage
and a sound knowledge of the land laws. The
strain nearly killed him; but he recovered
to enjoy nearly 20 years in retirement, exer-
cising his hobby of planting trees and design-
ing gardens.
Charles J. Henderson, superintendent of
the Bank of Australasia, will retire in
October after 55 years’ service in every grade
from “pigboy” upwards. He is the fifth
chief of the bank, his predecessors having
been I). C. Macarthur, Edward Parkes (who
was killed in the Windsor railway accident),
John Sawers and C. A. Cowper. G. D.
Healy, now Melbourne manager, succeeds
to the big billet after 34 years’ training.
Henderson’s retirement leaves Chambers, of
the Union, the doyen of Australian bankers;
and he doesn’t know how to grow old.
Three years ago Dr. Louis Couppe, who
had spent 36 years in Rabaul in pursuit of
the soul of Black Brother, was forced to call
it a day. When Pius XI. heard that the
tally of black converts was 2600 he made
Couppe Titular-Archbishop of Hierapolis.
But he didn’t wear the honor long; he
slipped away at the training college of the
order, Douglas Park (N.S.W.), at 76.
Lukin, J., who goes from the Queensland
Bench to the Federal Arbitration Court, is
one of that Queensland family of which the
late Gresley Lukin, for years editor of Bris-
bane Courier, was the best known. Very
like Dickens’s portrait of Mr. Justice Stare-
leigh in “Pickwick,” the short, thick-set
lawyer proved himself one of the best of a
Bar which turned out many great pleaders.
Beginning in the civil service, he was called
in 1890, and the Bench received him in 1910.
He was Ihe popular pick for C.J. when Mc-
Cawley died last year, but absence in Eng-
land spoilt that chance.
Outliving all his contemporaries, William
Gardiner Sprigg. former sec. of Melbourne
Tramway and Omnibus Co., died at East
Melbourne the other day at 94. The genera-
tion that knew him and his Dundreary whis-
kers has forgotten him, but he was asso-
ciated with Chief Railway Commissioner
Clapp’s dad, F. 8., for 40 years in running
horse ’buses and cable trams, and for half
a century was as well known in the city as
the Town Hall clock. Arriving in Australia
71 years ago, he first tried liis luck in Syd-
ney, and two years later crossed to Mel-
bourne. Beginning as an importer, he passed
on to accountancy, auditing, ’bus and tram-
way running, company directorships and the
like. He was a Baptist stalwart.
A sigh of regret was heaved by Victoria
last week at the death of Pietro Baracchi,
its former astronomer and weather prophet.
Before Hunt came on the scene Baracchi
was the oracle, and he was pretty accurate
in his forecasts. He probably regarded
weather as the potboiler part of his work.
It was astronomy that fascinated him, and
he had a deep grudge against the “common-
sense” that did not permit State purse-
minders to spend larger sums on astronomical
observation and record. Fifty years ago he
came to Melbourne with Catani (who be-
came Chief Engineer for Public Works) and
Checci (Water Commission Engineer), and
the State eagerly snapped up the three.
Baracchi’s homeland did not forget him, even
after he became a good Australian, and he
was proud of his decoration of Knight Com-
mander of the Crown of Italy, and sported
his insignia proudly on great occasions. He
was 75, and had drawn a pension for 10
years.
Harry Hoyle early acquired a martyr’s
crown and a seat in Parliament. At the age
of 22 he was an engineer iu the N.S.W. rail-
way shops, and delegate to the Labor Coun-
cil. The Commissioners marked their objec-
tion to his activity by giving him the sack,
thus creating a wave of resentment which
carried Hoyle into Parliament at the election
that saw the arrival of the Labor party.
He was not elected as a Laborite, however,
but as a Protectionist, in association with
W. F. Schey, two Laborites, W. H. Sharp
and McGowen, being their colleagues in Par-
liament as representatives for Redfern.
Later, when he lost his place in the House,
he took to journalism—he was with the
Freeman’s Journal for years—and de-
A VERY NARROW ESCAPE.
“That was a fine sermon on the hoarding up
of riches, Sandy.”
“Aye, a maist movin’ sairmon. I was
thankfu ’ I had hut a wee thruppence
in ma pocket.”
veloped Labor sympathies which took him
into Parliament again in 1910, when he un-
expectedly defeated the benevolent Dr. James
Graham in Surry Hills. Later Hoyle be-
came Minister of the railways from which
he had been sacked two decades previously.
But he soon fell out of politics again, and
died a few days ago.
For the first time in Tas., if not in the
Empire, a man who started as a Parliamen-
tary messenger has become Clerk of the
House. Henry McPherson has just been
appointed to the job after 30 years’ steady
climbing.
Though in most respects poles asunder Dr.
Mackellar and Hugh D. Mclntosh, who sat
in the Ma State’s Upper House together for
several years, were fast friends. And thereby
hangs a tale. While the luckless souls
on the Dandenong were battling for their
lives on the night of September 10, 1870,
a stout-hearted little Australian mother and
Mackellar, then quite a young doctor, were
putting up a fight too. He lost liis hat in
the gale but saved the life of his patient
and that too of an infant —later, Hugh. D.,
M.L.C.
Reginald Ernest Horsley, who died last
week at 63, pioneered the rush of Australian
medical students to practise in England,
where he w r ent after passing through Sydney
Grammar (he was born in Sydney) and Mel-
bourne Uni. He had a distinguished pro-
fessional career, but left it when only 40,
and has since travelled and written about
his travels, mostly in stories of adventure.
Amongst other things he wrote “The
Romance of New Zealand” for “The Romance
of Empire” series.
Probably the most satisfied person at the
“launching” of the Coogee ocean pier on
Saturday was Algernon Metcalfe, who sees
his castle in Spain taking tangible form after
17 years of dreaming. Metcalfe had heard
the fame of the Sydney beaches, and, before
he came to Australia in 1909, he spent 18
months making inquiries into pier-construc-
tion in England. In 1910 he made the first
proposal for a pleasure pier at Coogee; and
he is a director of the present co., which
will have the main promenade ready for
public use by Christmas, although the pier-
head, with theatre and dance-hall, will not
be open for another 12 months. The first
proposal to build a pier of the sort was made
at Manly in 1898, but it was only a nebu-
lous scheme and received no support worth
mentioning.
Chief Commissioner Clapp is now issuing
gold stripes to long-service Vic. railwaymen.
A broad gold chevron indicates 10 years’ ser-
vice and a narrow one five years’. The first
official to be decorated is hall-officer Lowther,
who spends his time directing inquiries at
head office and coldly correcting those who
arc so ignorant as to call him “hall-porter.”
Having been on the job 45 years, he sports
one narrow and four broad stripes.
Ridden his last buckjumper, Jim Hickmott,
one of the famous Burrendong riders of half
a century ago; he died at Orange. Hick-
mott belonged to the days of the Duffields
and Jimmy MeLachlan—the man who was
never thrown. Born on the Hawkesbury 80
years ago, he was a typical “Oxbro” Corn-
stalk, and he died in the saddle.
One of the world s leading authorities
on timber chemistry is Margaret O’Dwyer,
a Sydney girl. She graduated at the Harbor
* ity s University six years ago, when she
added B.Sc. to her name, and has since been
engaged in research work in England and
Scotland. London University made her a
Doctor of Philosophy lately. She earns a
crust in the forestry branch of the British
Industrial Research Department, assisting
Sir James Irvine.
Dr. Waller Rosenhain is a scion of Mel-
bourne Jewry who has just added another
cubit to his stature as a metallurgical chem-
ist. He has perfected in London a new
alloy which is expected to revolutionise
aeroplane-building, for struts and stays of it
can be welded instead of riveted, and it is
as light as paper, strong as iron, elastic and
durable. It is known as electrolytic bery-
thium. Its inventor is brother-in-law of
General Monash, and superintendent of
metallurgy in Britain’s National Physical
Laboratory, whither he went from Melbourne
Uni.
Brisbane wigs sighed with relief when
Hugh D. Macrossan, after many refusals,
finally accepted a Judgeship. The cutting
up of his practice will mean some pickings
for other barristers. How much Macrossan
earned at the Bar is only known to himself
and the Taxation Department, but it was
at least double the £2OOO p.a. of a Judge, and
for a couple of years was about treble. He is
young, too, and there was no hope of relief
through old-age and weariness.
The big hospital (for Chinese) in Shanghai
has received a legacy of about £350,000 from
the estate of Henry Lester, an Englishman
who settled there 60 years ago and bought
land for a song. The interest of this item
to Australia is that the medical superinten-
dent of the hospital is Cecil Davenport, mem-
ber of an old S. Aus. family, Adelaide-trained,
but for many years past a medical missionary
in Asia.
Richard Mackay, the historian of Early
Gippsland, has pegged Out his last claim, at
92. He mined in Bendigo, Ballarat, Mount
Alexander (Castlemaine), on the Loddon, at
Mclvor and at Rushwortli during the
famous rushes of 1851 to 1860. Finally
he settled at Woods Point as a mine manager,
and was in touch with the mines at Wal-
halla, Gaffney’s, Matlock and Jericho; he
regarded the Toombon as the best of the
abandoned mines of that great district.
William Chan-
dos W all, who
served Mudgee
and Rylstone
(N.S.W.) in five
Parliaments, com-
mencing in ’B6,
passed out the
other day, aged 78,
in the old-men’s
home at Lidcombe.
In his day Wall
ranked as one of
the foremost land-
and mining-men of
the Assembly; he
had got some prac-
tical experience on
the goldfields at
Gnlgong in the
early ’seventies.
Parliament seems
to_ have unfitted
him for other
things, and since
his defeat by J. C.
L. Fitzpatrick in
’96 he has had very
thin porridge.
The newly-
arrived Rear-
Admiral NAPIER.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : D. E. Alves, whose
name has been prominent in Congress discus-
sions at Washington lately, is the Duncan
Alves who cut a figure in Melbourne a score
of years ago when his sister Mabel was
admired as tlio prettiest girl in South Yarra.
Alves, now a very rich man and one of the
most generous hosts in London, is chairman
of the co. which owns the Panama mineral
concessions that are said to be a menace to
the canal and adjacent American ports. He
is associated with the Monds, Barnatos,
Baileys and other millionaires in various
ventures, and lias a fine residence in Hert-
ford-street, Park-lane. Some years ago lie
married a Montreal girl, and their entertain-
ments are always marked by lavish but effec-
tive expenditure. He is of Portuguese de-
scent; the original name was Alvez.
DREAM RIDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
As by lone ways and far
And storm-set paths I ride,
Steady as sun or star
I feel you at my side.
I hear your voice sometimes,
Sometimes I see your face;
Your jingling bridle chimes
To charm a gloomy place.
When I would tighten rein
Because of danger near,
I hear, in sweet disdain,
Your laughter, mocking fear.
And sternly then I ride
And" neither pause nor stay,
For though you would not chide,
You love the fearless way.
Dream rider, let your hand
Check lightly on your rein.
You’re riding in a land,
Where I’ll not ride again.
But whether in life’s schemes
You travel far or bide,
For ever in my dreams
At my right hand you ride.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


fm
%
j.i
*V»>3
'¥
1
i
vs
111
S
xMTf
f«l
i
if
i
•Ml*
P*
3T
i
HI, I,
Hft
'iV'ilttlliLiA HIM
a
Where Reliability and Efficiency are
Essential, engineers specify
TUDOR BATTERIES.
x
zr
wrpp
(pf tgUgifl flif
K
is
l. .:
■ |
me ra
lludoy ACCUMULATORS
The Tudor Accumulator Co., Ltd. (London), Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Largest
Battery in the
Commonwealth
The inset photograph shows portion of a
TUDOR BATTERY consisting of 300
cells, having a capacity of 9597 ampere
hours at the three-hour discharge rate,
recently installed at the Castlereagh
Street Sub-station of the Sydney Munici-
pal Council. This is one of three large
Tudor Batteries now operating on the
Sydney Municipal Council System.
COUNTRY HOUSE and FARM LIGHT-
ING BATTERIES as made by the Tudor
Accumulator Co., Ltd., are designed and
built upon exactly the same engineer-
ing principles as the largest and most
important batteries for public supply
undertakings.
TUDOR BATTERIES are sup-
plied exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburtou, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson,
Ltd., Adelaide.
Messrs. AV. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dan gar, Gedye, Ltd.,
Sydney.
For each of the above plants a
Special exclusive type of TUDOR
BATTERY is supplied, specially
designed to meet the individual re-
quirements of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.


MAGNIFICENT DIAMONDS
IN PERFECT SETTINGS.
Pine Diamonds
with four emeralds
set at the corners
in all platinum
ring, £6O.
Wonderful centre
diamond with
smaller diamonds
surrounding it,
in all platinum
ring, £ll5.
Three fine dia-
monds in hex-
agonal platinum
settings, with
smaller diamonds
at sides, £3O.
Two beautiful dia-
monds in octagonal
platinum setting
with small dia-
monds at sides,
£3l/10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
LTD.,
RABBIT DESTRUCTION SAFE, SURE AND SPEEDY
with CYANOGAS (Calcium Cyanide)
Trapping is slow and uncertain, poison baits are danger-
ous—only with Cyanogas can you wipe out. the rabbit
pest safely, surely, quickly and economically. Blow a
little Cyanogas into a burrow with the Fumo Dust
Blower, fill up the other openings, which are indicated
by a cloud of dust —and not a rabbit can escape the
deadly fumes which the Cyanogas gives off for twenty-four
hours. Deadly to rabbits —safe and
harmless to the worker.
Mr. H. McKay, Isle of Pines, Boree
Creek writes:—
“I find the Fumigator and Dust one
of the best ideas I have used for de-
stroying rabbits.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Lesrsfo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Searfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
FUMO
BRAND
Ď
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
A NEW TRIAL.
WIFE : “You’re kinder to dumb animals than you are to me.”
HUSBAND: “Try being dumb and see how it works.”
“Jimmy Possum”: Someone recently asked
whether anyone knew anything about the virtues
of the lantana leaf. I never knew that the dis-
agreeably rough-to-the-touch leaves possessed any.
Cattle-breeders blame the teetb-edged leaves for
causing a disease among stock known as “pink-eye,”
from the eyeball taking on a pinkish tinge. The
malady is regarded as serious; but it is only where
the animals have daily access to the shrubs that
this trouble occurs. Though the leaves are rough
and raspy, stock eat them readily, particularly
cattle.
* * # *
“Morob”: Although the leaves of many
Australian plants are possessed of valuable medicinal
properties (B. 8/7/’26), care should be taken of
the manner in which they are applied, because of the
frequent risk of infection by various pathogenic
organisms found on them. Some leaves are teeming
with the organisms which are amongst the causes of
pus-formation. I have known of a case in which a
cold poultice made of these and applied to a patch
of irritant skin had the effect of bringing about
a continuous state of ulceration, very difficult to get
rid of. In most instances it is a sufficient safe-
guard to make the poultice a hot one by boiling the
leaves, for a few minutes before putting them on.
This seldom impairs their medicinal qualities.
* * * *
“Pick”: The seeds of our indigenous trees
preserve their germinating power for long periods,
and apparently choose their own time for growth.
On the border of the Bibbenluke Closer Settlement
(N.S.W.) an area was long used as the home stock-
paddock. No gum seedling Had appeared there since
it was cleared of scrub in last mid-century. In
1914 part of the paddock was wire-netted off for
an orchard. Almost immediately numerous young
trees started to thrust up their heads and threatened
to reconvert the space into primitive wilderness.
They were rooted out with vigor, but each season
since then others have harried the orchardist and
kept his mattock going. He will be grateful if
the Council will tell him a remedy.
* * * *
“C.C.” : Can any Abo. tell me where the
cuttlefish hails from? I have seen thousands of
these so-called fish washed up on various beaches, but
have never seen any flesh adhering to the shells. I
have asked a number of fishermen if they have
ever seen a fish proper attached, and have always
received a negative answer. One fisherman, who
claimed to be an authority on sea-life, told me that
the shell known as cuttlefish was merely the solidified
colored matter issued by the squidfish when in fear
of being attacked. Is this correct ?
* * * *
“Cuchulain” : A mob of bullocks recently
travelling by the Gunnedah-Sydney stock route from
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) to Victoria met trouble at
Hannah’s Bridge. Fourteen or fifteen pegged out
there and others showed every intention of follow-
ing suit. The general opinion was that they died
from the prussic acid stored in the thistles which
grow freely along the way. The drover, however,
does not think it to be the cause. It is said that
the thistles frequently turn black after severe frosts
and are supposed to contain poison at that time.
Can any Abo. tell of a similar thing happening in
his country ?
* * * *
“Rex Imp”: At a sports meeting held
some weeks back in a
Victorian up-country
town, the local Joimop
prohibited the sell-
ing of beer on
the ground. This cut-
ting_ off of the main
beverage round there
set the boys thinking.
One bright citizen got
a brain wave. Riding
over to a mate he said,
“Jack, .have you still
got that cat of yours ?
You know, that woolly
bloke with only one
ear and two crooked
legs?” “Yes; what do
you want him for?”
“I’ll tell you later.
Put him in the old
bird-cage and bring
him over to the
ground.” Next day the
main side attraction of
the sports was a hes-
sian enclosure with the
notice “Ninepence ad-
mission to see the
freak cat.” There was
such a constant stream
of people going in to
have a look at the cat
that Johnop took a
walk in too. It wasn't
poor old Felix lying
asleep in one corner
that interested him so
much as a barrel cf
beer and a glass in the
other. Of course he ob-
jected vehemently, but
the boys told him that
if he didn’t think the
cat w 7 as worth nine-
pence to look at, he
could help himself to
a beer free and go
home. He is still study-
ing the Licensing Act.
Larrapinta” ; Re foreign bodies embedded
in timber (B. 10/6/’26). A couple of years ago I
was trying to find an Aussie timber that would
stand up to the hard usage my son gives to the
heads of his golf clubs (I failed to find it, by the
way). Among those I tried was red mulga. A
friend of mine brought me a lump of this timber
from the Macdonnell Ranges, and I started to break it
up on the small circular-saw I use for cutting out
frames for beehives. Suddenly the saw sent out a
shower of sparks, with a noise that plainly showed
I had hit something harder than mulga. I cut off
the piece, and split it open, to find the small blade
of a pair of shears embedded in the wood. This
would not be wonderful if it was the wood of some
fruit-tree, but who on earth uses pruning-shears
on mulga up in Central Australia ? My friend could
throw no light on the matter—he had cut the tree
alongside the track, miles from any habitation.
“Bad Australian”: It would be interesting
to know where “Bilbo” (B. 8/7/’26) got his infor-
mation about the log hut on Mt. Cobbler and its
reputed occupants. It certainly was not built or
used by the Kellys. I was in the country between
the sources of the King, Rose and Dandongadale
about 30 years ago, prospecting in sun mer and
GETTING READY FOR THE FLARE UP.
“Papa, can I go out to play?”
“No, my son; you hurry upstairs and practise your fire-escape drill
with your little sister Rebecca.”
kangaroo-shooting in winter. There was no log hut
on the plateau at that time, nor did I see any indi-
cations that there had been one. If there ever was
a hut there it must have been built since, and, pre-
sumably, by an exiled Eskimo. During two winters,
I camped at different points around the Cobbler,
about 1500 ft. lower than the summit, and even there
it was. desperately cold and heavy snow fell fre-
quently. The plateau is very sparsely timbered
compared with the surrounding country, but carries
excellent summer grass. The alleged impregnability
of the place is moonshine, as I had no difficulty in
getting my horses there from the head waters of
the King and the Rose beyond having to cut through
a few chains of hop scrub, and the ascent from the
Dandongadale side was just a cakewalk for the
animals.
* * * *
“ J.D.C.”: What constitutes a forequarter
of mutton? Out back a sheep is cut in two behind
the last rib, then split down the backbone into four
quarters. In Sydney butchers’ shops I have often seen
price tickets in the windows stating forequarters
were for sale at so much per pound, but on appli-
cation have invariably been offered a “quarter” with
all the rib-chops cut out, and consisting of shoulder,
neck, brisket and a bit of flap. I have been in the
sheep game all my life, but have never seen or
heard of a “fore” of this type being shipped over-
seas. The butcher’s advt. is a catch, and he should
be compelled to sell what he advertises and not
merely a part of it. One hind and one fore make a
half sheep, but Sydney butchers make it nearly
three-quarters.
# * #
“W.J.T.”: “Sylvester’s” pigs reminds me
(B. 24/6/’26) of a novel way of exterminating
marauding porkers. During the construction of the
East-West railway some pigs belonging to a cocky
on the edge of the Nullarbor Plain continually
raided the navvies’ camp. The owner was warned,
but neglected to pen them. One Sunday morning
they ambled along, and the navvies threw them
potatoes in which a hole had been gouged and a
cap and detonator inserted. A few crunches and
the pig became immune to headaches.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Bill R” (B. 24/6/’26) asks
how far a dog can fall without injury. Eight or
ten feet. Bill mentions a greyhound which allegedly
survived a 300 ft. drop over a precipice. To fall
300 ft. would take 4|sec., and, owing to the ever-
accelerating rate which is a law' of falling bodies,
the tyke would be proceeding at the rate of 150 ft.
per second (i.e., 100 miles per hour) immediately
prior to alighting. Now consider this. Striking-
force equals mass (weight) multiplied by the rate
of fall in feet. Such dogs weigh at least 701 b. ;
and 70 x 150 gives 10,500 foot-pounds. Therefore
Fido landed with an emphasis of approximately 44
tons. The effect would be the same as if a 4-)-
ton block of cement were dropped on him from
a height of one foot. Even Bill’s terrier wouldn’t
live to bark about that.
“Gouger” : Iu the fantastic jumble of the
Palmer and Mitchell ranges (N.Q.) there are herds
of wild horses. In good seasons I’ve shot an occasional
fat young colt and salted him down for beef. The
steak was deliciously juicy, with a flavor of venison.
Sun-dried as biltong, the fat, young stuff is excellent
when compared with dry and ancient corned-beef.
A mob of these out-
laws, when flying
across the mountain
skyline, makes a
beautiful sight, especi-
ally when behind them
on the mountain tops
the sun hangs like a
copper disc. Their
proudly arched necks,
flying manes and tails
of chestnut, black and
silver grey, their wild
surroundings and arro-
gant freedom make a
picture that would gal-
lop an artist’s heart
with delight. Many
blood horses and rac-
ing mares from far-
out stations have
eloped to the brumby
herds, and their pro-
geny are occasionally
superb beasts. Sandal-
wood-getters and oros-
pectors greet them
•with a bullet, ■ for
an amorous stallion
will coax away half the
mares of a pack-team
in a night. I’ve
watched a ramping stal-
lion in broad daylight
come thundering down
a precipitous spur and
dash into a long team
of laden horses. Order
disappeared instantly,
rearing horses, circling
mares, lashing hoofs,
screams and neighs
were followed by a wild
dash into the bush of
berserk animals. Loss
of some of the team,
the crippling of others,
a three days’ rounding
up and collecting of
strewn eases and goods
over miles of forest
had then to be faced
—all because a fiery-eyed stallion imagined he was
lord of the bush.
* * * *
“Lily-Beale” : Jemalong station, 20 miles
down the river from Forbes (N.S.W.), will always
be associated with the pioneering work of irriga-
tion and fodder conservation on the Lachlan. At the
Forbes show in 1922 Mr. Gatenby declared that
with 200 acres on the Lachlan, 15,000 sheep could
be brought through any drought. He offered to prove
his statement that 75 sheep could be hand-fed to
the acre of green lucerne. Under the supervision of
the late Mr. A. Dunnicliff, an experiment on those
lines was conducted by the Government. In this test
221 acres of growing lucerne were set aside, such area
to sustain 1687 sheep at the rate of 75 to the acre.
The sheep, some scarcely able to walk, were placed
in a paddock which drought had denuded of every
vestige of feed. The lucerne was cut and carried to
them twice daily. At the end 'of three months
it was found that the jumbueks had gained an average
of 31b. in weight.
AN ILL-CHOSEN EXAMPLE.
POLITIOAL CHEMIST ( discussing price of im-
ported 'medicines): “Take strychnine,
for instance”
STOUT CUSTOMER ( hurriedly ): “Thanks
vewy much, but I don’t weally think I
need any!”
“Akran”: You could smell the gum-leaves
as the tall country chap made his way to the city
barber’s shop. A jovial sort of person vva,s the
artist who placed himself behind the chair, ready for
action. “What kind of a cut would you like,” he
asked-—-“a town or country one?” at the same time
winking to his mate at the next chair, “Oh, I’m
not pertickeler,” replied Cocky. “Give me one about
twenty-five miles out.”
(Continued on page 24.)
HORSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A horse may be young and good-tempei’ed,
No vice in his eye can you see,
But before you decide that you’ll ride him
Examine him well at the knee;
You may pass over scratches and bruises
And old blistered spavin or gall,
But beware if his forelegs are blemished,
Or his knees bear the mark of a fall.
You may cure one that’s known as a kicker,
Or one that is nervous and shies;
And kindness oft conquers a rebel, .
Kink-tailed and with white in the eyes;
Good shoes will help one that is limping,
And one that’s flat-footed and slips;
But keep wide of the horse that is clumsy,
The sloven that stumbles and trips.
He will flounder where ground is uneven,
And go down on his knees at a mound,
And you’re sure of a fall at a burrow
Where timber lies thick on the ground.
Some struggle and kick as they’re falling,
Though their chance of recovery is small;
It’s wise to ride loose in the saddle
And look out for his feet as you fall.
There are some in their stride over-reaching,
Striking shoe upon shoe as they trot,
And others have faults without number,
But the tripper’s the worst of the lot.
Some strike and bite at or kick you,
Yet patience may overcome all;
But you can’t cure a horse that’s a tripper,
The failures that blunder and fall.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


■.kU;
.» Vj / < • It-’.-.
• I v '. '•', i-'-J VvU Hv
i >v :(>
C 4
S*
< A
r\
m
m
<Si
vw
If//
mi
m
Ht
vfr V
&
1
//A
tvm
2*
*«
m
m
*%
V
tm
vm
m
N\\
■>*
E&i?/
8£
'0
Oft!
ft
W?
Wa
;>y
SR
i
*•>?
\w
g£l»
m
S
sSRj
Aa
Wi
msMi
m
mm
as?
*vC3*
S§&
K
*€
ft/lA#*
«l
m
m
'V:
m
x
m
m
m.
vm
m
m
Wh
m
s*
sacs?
»
mm
IrS
r*
r/
m
ot\
m?
mjlLj
i
wttt***\l
A ' i ir r?s
i
SOS
1
€
eueam
from
m
VA
m
f>X>.
>»<*
U*
ttZZi
urn
I
AH
<i
>w
»f
r?s\
&
S 3»;
mlim-,1
tiw
HUM;
fX
ovT’
/////;
mm'.
% ■
Vwlln’MW
liil
§*
n
sn’.’ :
r ig
u: • u
41
s\\ \
L;u
\\v
ox' v
i?
iW;
\u\r,
•i#
m
Sl';
(«<
ft
a day(perhaps more
™.v' -
R
1.-M
% I*
V ’{<■ ■> » ',’•■ .i
IS
If your <sreanv Separator is x bad skimmer If
I Ns
S-l
■
■
«
ft
H 8
; •
f4§T
Hir
M ■
l^oaujActucai
>
NEW
CREAM SEPARATOR
£9,000,000
Is Paid Annually by Britain for Australian Butter!
Australian Farmers Pay the FOREIGNER
£170,000
for Cream Separators, and only
£9OOO
for British Separators!
LET US REVERSE THESE FIGURES
The “NEW LISTER” is of the very latest design, with every latest improvement
and 100 per cent. British, and the Foreigners are attempting to block its increasing
sales, knowing that Listers are making
THE FINEST SEPARATOR ON THE MARKET.
It is UP TO THE AUSTRALIAN FARMERS to support the people who buy
their butter and keep this £170,000 in the Empire.
WRITE FOR THE LATEST LISTER LOWER PRICES.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street, BRISBANE, Q’land.
Greenslade Milking Machine Co
Pty., Ltd.,
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne, YIC.
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.,
Bank Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street, PERTH, W.A.
Leviii & Co., Ltd.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
R. A. LISTER &e? LIP
DURSLEY-VJL
E MCI AND.
♦ ♦♦


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
vi
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 750,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Tvvo Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M3G66.
“M.U.8." : “Pick,” replying to my appeal
for a scientific statement on the subject of maternal
marks appearing in infants, supplies a fresh selec-
tion of unsubstantiated tales even more wonderful
[ban those That have gone before? (B. 27/5/’26). I
offer him another example culled from a Yankee
paper by Dr. Monas Fishbein, editor of the Journal
of the Americal Medical Association: “A young
French woman, testifying in an alleged bigamy case
here to-day-, said that, a montli before the birth of
her child, her husband gave her a black eye. The
baby was born with a black eye.” The great autho-
rity adds that there is no scientific basis for any
of the stories of pre-natal impressions upon the
mother affecting - the child.
*** * #
“Jimpey” : Working among lantana is , a
murderous game. The sharp, recurved barbs on the
stems and branches of the shrub lacerate the arms
and hands frightfully, unless protectors are worn.
But no matter how careful the worker, it is prac-
tically impossible to prevent struck-at or cut-off
blanches coming in contact with the face and neck.
Bleeding arms and hands are the usual thing among
lantana workers, and cases of blood poisoning are
common. If nothing worse happens, the irritation
set up by the lacerations drives perspiring toilers
half frantic, and the smarting itch keeps them awake
and swearing half the night. There appears to be
no remedy either.
A SUGGESTED CHANGE OF VENU.
“Deep down in our hearts we feel for those unfortunates who sleep
unfed in our parks.”
“What about feelin ’ in your pocket for a change, Mister?”
“Karaji”: After weeks wandering along
the west coast of South America, from sun-soaked
Tia Juanu, in northern Mexico, to the chilly fogs of
Juan de Fuca Straits, I have seen only two news-
paper paragraphs wherein Australia was mentioned.
The first was an ad.: “For Sale, Rabbits. Belgians,
New Zealand Reds, Australians (50 pairs) with
pedigrees. Guaranteed fast breeders.” In the hope
that the Australian unpatriotic enough to export
our best breeds of rabbits may be discovered, I have
sent the ad. to our Agricultural Department. The
other ad. announced that “Tom Mix” had posed
before the machine in a new play clad in the skin
of an Australian jaguar. This ferocious animal is
known to exist in the scrubs of Woolloomooloo and
Collingwood, but this is the first intimation that
one was ever shot or captured.
“Echap”: Does Jerry Connolly, whom
‘Werrimee” hails as the boss drover, employ a camp
of vegetarians (B. 8/7/’26) ? Droving camps of my
acquaintance ate on an average one beast a week—
or as much of it as they could carry. It may be a
fine achievement to deliver 1220 head of cattle out
of 1224 after a trip of 1900 miles hnd account for
the four missing as drowned, but where did the
drovers’ tucker come from?
THE PRACTICAL AUTHOR.
“You say you are an author?”
“Yes, lady; I wrote ‘ Twenty Ways of Making a Living’.”
“And yet you are begging?”
“Yes, lady. I am now collecting the money for a second edition.”
“Black Tracker”': There was recently har-
vested in the sou’-eastern corner of South Aus. an
old German who was a most sober and successful
farmer until the day he buried his wife. On that
occasion he developed a thirst that completely changed
him, and earned for him the nickname of “Dursty
Carl.” The most extraordinary part about this thirst
was that it had to be encouraged. In front of the
local hotel was a store kept by another German.
A line stocked by him was salt herrings in barrels.
On his thirsty day Carl would be w-aiting for the
store to open. Then he would make a bee-line for
the barrel. Presently there was a bellow, “Now
I was haf one durst,” and he would make for the
hotel, two pintpots would be waiting for him, and
he would get to work and keep going till the
spring-cart called for him. It might be two or
three months before the next craving asserted itself.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: Yes, we Australians
take all sorts of care in choosing our stud bulls.
When old Christy got
fired of timber get-
ting he selected a block
of land and went in for
cattle raising in a small
way. When I called on
him, the cows were in
calf the third time, and
the weaners were
careering all over the
paddock. A noisy, non-
descript but very ener-
getic-looking yearling
bull that was tailing up
the legrope-breakers
and challenging all and
sundry took my atten-
tion. “Wha.t- are you go>-
ing to do with that
fellow-?” I quizzed.
“Going to leave him
for a bull ?” Christy
said that was his in-
tention. “Do you think
he’ll make a good
un?” I grinned. The.
old boy became quite
enthusiastic. “B y
cripes, yes I” he as-
sured me. “Vy he
makes alretty as large
a noise as his farder.”
“Johnar” : The manager of a cattle-station
in the north of South Aus. tells this dingo story.
A drover who came to lift a mob brought three
dogs with him, one a pure-bred dingo. He said that
it was the most intelligent dog he had ever owned.
He then gave an exhibition of its cleverness. It
walked on its hind legs,, on its forelegs, sat up
in several positions and performed a variety of
tricks. When the man went to dinner ■he left the
dogs with his horse. Just as he was rising from
his meal there was the report of a gunshot, followed
shortly afterwards by one of the employees dragging
a freshly-killed dingo behind him. “Caught the
brute in the fowl-run,” he said, “with over a,dozen
dead ’uns round him.” The drover walked out with-
out speaking, but there were tears in his eyes.
“Jesmond”: Some time ago when gather-
ing pumpkins down the paddock I found rabbits had
eaten through the skin of the biggest one. As it
was no good to me I left it there. Yesterday I had
a look at it, and found the bunnies had cleaned it
out completely and converted it into a comfortable
hutch. A doe and seven kittens were at home when
I called.
“Spike”: Oh the upper reaches of the
Scpik River, in proximity to the border of Dutch New
Guinea, a unique system of birth-control prevails. The
aged males are mated to youthful virgins, whilst
antique Marys find refuge in the arms of red-blooded
bucks. Naturally piccaninnies is these parts are
not numerous.
* * * *
“Lignum” ■ The ghastly night cries re-
ferred to by “Doric” (B. 8/7/’26) recall an experi-
ence of my own. In the big-flood year —’ninety—l
was on the Narran. No mail had come through for
six weeks, and then late one night a coo-ee sounded
across the river. Thinking the mailman had arrived,
I boated across to his usual flood pitch, only to hear
the call come from the townside. I pulled back and
then saw the caller, a bird, in size and flight like
our night-jars, fly from a dead tree.
A few minutes later from up-stream
there sounded the shrieks of a woman
so piercing that' the little town was
aroused and scared. My bird-yarn
was scoffed at, although it was agreed
that the flooded state of the country
from which the cries came cut out
the probability of human origin.
These §ries and scares -were later re-
ported from other parts of the dis-
trict, and - then they- ceased. Years
later a large electric-lit n.-e. town
had a similar visit and fright. Still
later, in a lonely New England dis-
trict, a prospector was awakened by
a woman’s screams, and rushed across
to a married-man’s camp to find all
absent. He saw the shrieker fly from
an adjacent tree.
“Karuji”: The phenomenon of the
apparently-screaming woman in the
-Koetong ranges has its parallel in
other parts of Australia. These
frightful shrieks do not proceed, how-
ever, from any ghostly creature, but
from one of Australia’s largest noc-
turnal birds of prey, the powerful
owl, W’hich frequents the hilly coun-
try of eastern Australia. Rare as the
bird itself is, the discovery of its nest
is still rarer, and one of the greatest
prizes an Australian bird-man can
find is a clutch of its eggs.
“Wilga”: Australia is a land of contra-
dictions. One shudders with repugnance at sight of
a cocktailed scorpion; yet she is a kind mother.
The snakes we hate and fear, some of which lay eggs,
coil over them lovingly, and patiently hatch out
their young ophidians. The lazy cuckoo hangs round
where her offspring is waited on, sounding an alarm
should enemies appear. The odious blue and yellow
centipede makes a home that is only rivalled for
comfort by that of the mole cricket—a horrible
little creature that sings charmingly. Lastly, the
hairy “wantagong,” our largest spider, cuts out all
romance for the sake of her offspring—-surely to be
eaten by her husband did she not eat him first. This
awful-looking creature, whose abdomen is as large
as a plum, mates only once in several years, but
nevertheless she goes on reproducing her kind by- the
cupful. No Stopesian limitations for her! Until
instinct tells her that her next clutch will be
unfruitful it is not w-ise for the somewhat less
dreadful-loking males to approach her. More than
one are captivated by her charms when at last she
does unbend, and do combat for her. She quietly
watches the fight to the death, but does not always
accept the victor.
* * * *
“J.’s Ass”: I enter a swede crop as the
most risky to grow. Recently on my patch of
Maoriland we sowed swedes, mixing the seed with
the manure in the -paddock and drilling straight
away. In one paddock the seed sown in the morning
came up a bonser crop; while that sown in the
afternoon of the same day, with the same seed and
under exactly the same conditions, failed to come
up at all. I have known similar incidents with this
root. Any explanations?
**■'##
“Naklioda”: A newcomer to Melbourne
who saw the gentle koala for the first time the
other day said “Why, that’s a wombat.” She
explained that skins similar to the koala’s are sold
extensively in America and Europe as wombat. The
incident shows how unscrupulous traders are dodging
(he regulations aimed at preserving the remnants of
this country’s fauna. Another victim of these gentry
is the very rare platypus. Thirteen skins were found
lately on a wharf at Melbourne. They had been
smuggled over from Tasmania.
* * * *
"Mepkisto”: It is popularly thought that:
when a bee flies from flower to flower it sips indis-
criminately. As a matter of fact, it collects from
one species only of flower during the day. The
advantage to the flower is that pollination is almost
certain, and there is no waste on other species,
* * * *
“Delos”: In various places in N. S. Wales,
and more particularly in the mangrove swamps that,
fringe the estuaries of tidal waters, are to be found
trees from which the abos. have cut shields. At
Port Macquarie there are, or were, hundreds of trees
marked in this way. Successive generations of blacks
must have cut shields from the same forest and in
seme eases even from the same trees. The sears
are of varying ages, and iti many cases one tree
shows healed sears that have evidently been made al
different times. Other trees were sometimes used,
but the grey mangrove seems to be particularly
suitable for the purpose. The abos. obtained their
shields by cutting around the desired shape with a
tomahawk, and then driving stone wedges into the
groove, which was made about three inches deep,
until the shield was forced off in a clean-cut sheet.
The stone rvedges have been found buried under
silt at the base of the marked trees.
* * * #
“E. J.H.”: Tlic fact that there are parts'
of the world where anopheline mosquitoes abound and
where malaria is also present but does not spread
—is, in fact, on the decrease —has given rise to dis-
cussion amongst scientists for years past. A con-
vincing explanation is not easy to find, none of those
put forward having stood the test of scientific exami-
nation. An Italian observer, Alessandrini, has lately
suggested an explanation which, whether it prove to
FOR THOSE IN PERIL ON THE SEA.
FIRST COASTAL PASSENGER: “Are you talcing any pre-
cautions against sea-sickness?”
SECOND DITTO : “Y-yes, thanks; the steward’s gone to
fetch one.”
be correct or not, is of interest. He finds that in
certain districts under intense rice cultivation malaria
decreases rapidly, although anophelines continue to
abound and thrive. In these places, he says, he lias
found that they are bigger and more robust than
elsewhere, and draws the conclusion that these bigger
and stronger insects are themselves immune to in-
vasion by the malarial parasite. All the same, 1
wouldn’t care to chance many bites in a Javanese
rice district.
PIXY-LED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My -office, where from nine till five
I, work to keep myself alive,
Is dark and dreary, and my wall
Is hemmed between twin buildings, tall.
Does Pan still walk beneath the trees,
Piping his vernal melodies?
A yard or tw'o across the way
A tenement shuts out the day,
And far above, remote and high,
Is seen a strip of smoke-dimmed sky.
Do woodland nymphs unweave their spells,
In twilit woods and sparkling dells?
Life seems compounded of “per cents,’'
Of income-tax and weekly rents,
Reminders of an IOU,
Of T.P. and instalments due.
Have gum-trees still their gift of speech ?
Do magpies sing in oak and beech ?
Day follows day so dull and slow,
This life a hundred years ago
Was just the same. My heart and brain
Are yearning for the bush again.
I wonder does the surge still press
Along the shores of Lyonesse?
I wonder if the Fates that are
Will hie me bushwards near or far,
And where the flowers are blossoming,
i’ll hear the bush birds nest and .sing?
’Tis then my thoughts are Pixy-led.
But all my old-time mates are dead.
N.S.W.
STAN McLEOD.


• IN
o
««
In every State rapidly-growing demand furnishes
unquestionable evidence of the capacity of FIAT
MODEL 509 to meet Australia’s most exacting conditions
—Record sales prove that it represents value unequalled
in its price class.
mm
55
m
m
> \
it
V)
7
4/
::
//
'it
%
y
%
7
/
7
v
\
u i
\
VI
7
I hi
AvJS'^fc'-
©
509
4-CYLINDER
4§
Standard Equipment
includes—
Balloon Tyres,
Front-Wheel Brakes,
l
Magneto Ignition.
prices
1 fl'OHb
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PTY, LTD Melbourne, Vic*
GARRATTS, LTD Sydney, N.S.W*
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD Adelaide, S.A.
ARTHUR ANDERSON, LTD. . . Perth, W.A.
FIAT SALES AGENCY Brisbane, Q’land
ROBERT NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD., Sub-Agent for Tas.


CTnde**
/Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
TbH.NL
Kind
Georgia V
1
SHAMPACIII
a »ariesHeidsiß»
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD. *
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney. ;
The Hotel
WentworthCafe
The name stands for Perfection
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A superb Dinner from 7.30 p.m. served with Continental finish, 217-
Supper from 8.30, 12/6 —an after-theatre specialty.
Complete Cabaret, including Miss Marie Crowther,
premiere danseuse, Mile. Ko6lova, Ivan Gorski and the
Famous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast of
entertainment —at no extra ooet.
AFTERNOON TEAM—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION,
from I.M 4mUg.
Order all wines before 6 p.tn.
For Reservations ring 8W1361.
The Cate
mm
Amff) 7he cenfne of Queens/onc/&
d/$//nguisf>ec/ Soc/o / Life.
entwtß
BRISBANE
Magrnificent Ball-
_ room, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the dis-
I posal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe- —double and
single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, and
every modern convenience for
the comfort of guests.
rce.it CRAMS 8. CABI£S~I£NMONS ~BfVSBAh/S
e&>hoi«>£ cfA' t. S‘7QO /o l/nes.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
After many years the Lyceum Club has a
home of its own—at 114 Hunter-street, just
around the corner from Macquarie-street.
There is a flat roof to which a gleaming arm
of Port Jackson beckons roguishly or lan-
guidly, according as the year is at the spring
or in the mellow sensuousness of late autumn.
The floors are polished, the windows chintz-
hung, aud last week at the house-warming
some colorful pictures and art-pieces were
flashed before the eye—the gifts of members
whose heart or credit balance was large
enough to do something extra by way of
celebration. There was quite an air of
ceremonial about this opening day, and Rose
Soley (Rose de Boheme), the founder of the
Lyceum, was the idql of the hour. Very tiny
and frail, she stood behind the high basket
of glowing roses her disciples had handed
her, in the heart of it a sonnet in her honor
by Mary Gilmore. After the able presiden-
tial address the poetess took up the theme,
and spoke of days when writing Sydney was
too young to more than dream of a Lyceum—
the days when she, herself a girl, found in-
spiration and encouragement in the home of
Rose Soley, then a young matron and leader
of one of Sydney’s most literary sets.
Loyalists in Sydney are flying a cockade
in their bonnets over the visit of the Duke
and Duchess of York. It is even said that
Mr. Lang, not to be outdone by Tom Henley,
is being measured for a set of kilts as a deli-
cate compliment to the lady of Glamis. (This
is pronounced Glahms, the inhabitants of
the foggy districts being subject to adenoids
from birth.) That the Princess Elizabeth
Mill not accompany her royal parents is a
fearful blow to the Girl Guides, as they had
arranged an elaborate plan of relays to
attend to the Princess’s wardrobe, bed, board
and bath. One of the dailies, speaking last
week of the modesty and simplicity of the
Duchess, quotes that before her marriage she
often escorted tourists over the ancestral
pile she called her home, and never embar-
rassed them by declaring her identity. This
is thought by the Brownies to be the origin
of the Girl Guido movement. In a liner
or a battle-cruiser, the two are due in Aus-
tralia next May, and the Duke will declare
Canberra duly licensed to dispense law, even
if it cannot produce order. After which, pre-
sumably, he will open up his bags and pre-
sent the honors sent out by George Rex.
Priminister Bruce may be created Baron
Spatspeckless, while Mr. Lang may be known
thereafter as the Galvanised-Iron Duke.
The Dante Alighieri Society and the mem-
bers of the Modern Languages Association
turned up in great force at the Ambassadors
one night last week. The affair was a sac-
rifieial banquet to the glory of the president
of the Dante Alighierese, chicken and spa-
gnetti taking the place of the smokin £ ox
that would express the same sentiments in
Maori Dr. Fiaschi—soldier and physician,
than whom a more romance-hung figure there
is none in Sydney—is, of course, the presi-
dent, and the applause was the just meed of
his medical jubilee in Australia. Modesty
draped him almost to extinction as compli-
ment after compliment was poured in his
ear. Near him sat his popular lady, very
proud in black chiffons flashing with rhine-
stones. The Italian and Belgian Consuls:
Lisa Stralia, like a Valkyrie in black and
silver; the learned Waterhouse couple; that
good barracker for the literature of her own
country, Alice Reid; the Government, in the
person of Mr. Lazzarini; and the 8.M.A.,
embodied in Dr. Millard, were among the
notables present. Mayoress Cecilia Walsh
too, came to the party, and three good wine-
growing names were round the board as well
as on it —Seppelt. Fallon and Westphal. A
portrait of himself by Dattilo Rubbo was a
gift to the doctor from the society in Sydney
accompanied by a book of signatures beauti-
ful with Hardy Wilson illuminations. The
Roman end expressed its congratulations in
a gold medal.
When Tom Roberts talks of Coogee of 30
years ago it is with a shake of the head for
wild beauties that have vanished. In 30
years time Elioth Grunor will be shaking his
head over the simplicity of to-day that will
have been swallowed up in the sophistication
or a fashionable, entertainment-providing pier
lor the pier with its theatre, ballroom and
cam had to come to Australian beaches as
one of the accessories of our being grown-up
lhe popular watering-places of England the
Continent and the States have them. So on
Saturday Coogee fastened up the collar of
its topcoat with its shark-tooth brooch,
tangled itself up in the banners of the Navy
.League s Cadets and went to the blessing of
the foundation pile of its Pacific Pier. It
will be the first of its family in Australia, and
he company responsible for it crosses its
heart and swears it-will?not lay a stain on
Coogees reputation as a surfing beach.
Earlier in the century two ladies whose
names were ever foremost in good works
were Mrs. Henry Ritchie and Mrs. Goodlet,
then the wife of the Colonel. Both ladies are
now being mourned. Of Mrs. Ritchie’s three
sons, one is Dr. Ritchie, of Macquarie-street,
the second boy was killed at Gallipoli, and
Henry, the youngest, is at Bega, where the
family interests are still centred. Three
daughters—(l) the wife of Dr. Sharp, of
Macquarie-street; (2) Mrs. Leigh Atkinson,
ot Bendigo; and (3) Mrs. Hugh Massie, of
Sydney—are left sorrowing. Mrs. Goodlet,
who w r as a native of Singleton, was interested
in many things, but foreign missions, the
Institution for the Deaf, Dumb and Blind,
ftiul tile Home for Consumptives <it Thirlmere
were among the first in her regard.
Surgeon Bill Mac Kay was one of the
centres of attraction at the Lewisham Ball
the other night. Custom apparently does not
stale the infinite variety of his tongue or his
charm. With him was his old ally Theo
Marks, both in the party hostessed by Mrs.
tommy Marks, the president of the dance.
I ucfisia chiffons to which the night air was
tempered by a cloak of black panne enveloped
this lady. Rose and silver brocades assisted
the fair-tressed Mrs. Daly in her secretarial
job, and her labors were shared by Marv
Hannan and Mrs. V. .T. McPhee, the latter iii
ivory romaines wTiereon red roses sported
gracefully. There were hundreds of dancers at
this annual profession of faith in the great
hospital; and the medical brotherhood was
so largely represented that one girl said it
took an iron will to save her from putting
out her tongue and thrusting out her wrist
every time a. soothing voice murmured “Care
to dance this?”
Even if its cotton crop hasn’t yet come up
to that of the Tennessee in which good old
Jeff and Uncle Tom’s cabin were located,
Australia runs Uncle Sam’s southern State
a close second in the matter of colonels.
Nearly a score of them stepped out in mili-
tary trappings at the 2nd Division’s Ball the
other night at the Paddington Town Hall. It
was the Divvy’s third annual dance, and
in addition to a regular pasha’s garden of
pmk roses and palms that bloomed for the
general good, possies in the hall had been
picked out by various brigades in their own
particular colors. But the ferny gunyah
of the 9th Brigade, in which were displayed
the trophies won by the brigades in mimic
warfare, was the point to which the soldier
and his wife drifted. Later in the evening
there was a presentation ceremony, when
General Paton dispensed the trophies with a
benign air, Colonel Morris (55th) receiving
the accolade for Divisional Efficiency. Gen-
eral Paton and his lady were the official
receivers of the evening, she in black geor-
gettes, heady with silver grapes.. Knight
Charles Rosenthal and his lady, the Gen-
eral Herrings and the Colonel Bruggy couple
were others in the highly decorated confec-
tion.
Whenever Sydney philanthropists are
listed in the heavenly archives, the recording
angel plucks a
fresh quill
when he comes
to the name of
Walker. The
lady in the
picture is
Eadith, the
latter-day head
of the family,
and her gener-
osity is worthy
of the tradi-
tions that have
made the name
blessed. Her
work and gen-
erosity in the
Red Cross
movement need
no stressing;
and to the big
drive for funds
that will agi-
tate Sydney
next month the resources of Yaralla (the
lady’s home) are directed. One of the orga-
nisers of the Artists’ Ball (half of its
takings go to the Red Cross) is Mrs. Ecorge
Walker, wife of one of the twin nephews of
Miss Eadith. This function, for which 4000
tickets are being sold and a series of de
luxe boxes auctioned, threatens to make
Sydney Town Hall for a while the gayest,
maddest place under the Southern Cross.
Dot Brunton, her eyes like sapphires
above the horizon-blue of her coat, was the
guest of honor of the Tuesday Committee
at Burdekin House last week. Australia’s
cleverest comedy actress is too clever to
take herself too seriously, so there were no
leading-lady airs about her. She even man-
aged to look genuinely astonished over the
inevitable posy, and dimpled joyously over
the hyacinths and violets that made its
sweetness. These afternoon parties are held
in the drawing-room of the old Macquarie-
street home, and the conspirators in the
programme slip quietly on and off the small
stage at the top of the room. Last week’s
bill was ai-ranged by Lily Laing, and was
attractive and evenly balanced. Mrs. Scriv-
ener, old-time Premier Lyne’s lady and Mrs.
Laing were the afternoon’s hostesses, and
pretty Sybil Shirley, a beginning movie
star, played opposite Dorothy at the head
table.
From the first night that he dined in hall
the charm of Oxford enveloped Henry Brose,
South Aus.
Rhodes scholar
of 1913. One
suspects, the
place being
Oxford, that
it was a deli-
cate courtesy
that gave the
shy Austra-
1i a n student
of philosophy
a seat imme-
diately oppo-
site the por-
trait of that
father of phi-
losophy, John
Locke. Any-
way, he took
the benign
jaze as a bene-
diction, an d
gradually liis
own eyes swept
in the 300-odd other pairs in the dining-hall
of Christ College—the professors and dons
at the high table. When he got up from
among the crowd that first night, he did not
dream that the night before he would leave
to return to Australia he would be pushing
his chair out quite casually from the high
table which he now looked upon with such
awe.
At the time he entered Oxford Brose was
still undecided whether to make philosophy
or music his life-study. He and Topsy
Doneau (she was back in Australia as Daisy
Kennedy’s accompanist) were the most pro-
mising manipulators in their day of the
Bechstein and Steinway in Adelaide. But
philosophy held sway till the war sur-
prised the young man from Adelaide in the
middle of a German tour. For five years in
Ruhleben he continued his work, and on his
return to Oxford physics had him in thrall.
It is as lecturer in physics that he has been
lent by Oxford to Sydney Uni., and it is as
Assistant-Professor of Physics (he will be
in charge of the research work) that he goes
back to Nottingham University College. lie
has 14 translations and four original scien-
tific works to his credit. His “Theory of
Relativity” has run into six editions, which
of course makes it a best-seller m scientific
literature. 'May Moore made the accompany-
ing little picture of him.
Dr. Brose’s friend Einstein is a musician,
too; the simple and very kindly man stirred
scientific America almost to despair by giving
violin recitals (“because I have no money
to give”) for the poor Jewish children of
New York. The priceless MS. of his
“Theory” he gave away to, a friend who had
remarked that it was an interesting docu-
ment ; at the same time Einstein naively in-
quired if his friend would not prefer a nice,
clearly-typed copy.
Of the lawns and privet hedges of Oxford,
of the high doors with their gleaming brasses
through which men great in literature and
learning step meekly enough, unfurling their
umbrellas under lachrymose skies, the South
Australian never tires of telling. World
names among these citizens of Oxford that
are very dear to him are Masefield, Gilbert
Murray (whose wife, a great lady, treats her
domestic staff as equals) and Bridges, the
poet-laureate, who has in his favor at least
that he is too comatose to send ringing
through the world another “May Queen.”
The John Irvine Hunter Memorial Fund
will be the richer for the Medical Society’s
dance at the Wentworth last week. This, an
annual affair, was more than usually crowded,
and owed a good deal of its healthy con-
dition to careful handling by the organisers.
Dr. Cecil Purser, the first secretary of the
society, was a guest of note; another was
Dr. Millard, President of the B.M.A.
Before Mrs. Beatrice McDonald finishes
counting the shekels from last Monday’s
gala with Nanette, the net proceeds should
be something like £lOOO. The night was
the Fuller-Ward firm’s bit towards the Red
Cross. Mrs. McDonald not only arranged
the Pageant of the Nations that heralded the
vice-regal arrival, and finished the night
with a striking stage tableau, but sirened
the stony- as well as the soft-hearted into
signing cheques: £4OO for boxes alone was
in hand before curtain-rise.
Pretty Eileen Ferry of the sparkling
soprano, who, after her appearance as the
Page in “The Marriage of Figaro,” very
nearly was launched on a stage career,
entered into an undertaking for the term of
her natural life at Aberdeen last week.
The Anglican Church in the town of the
shuddersome train-smash blessed the vows.
Harold Neely, a forequarter, so to speak,
of the local Meat Preserving Company,
undertook to provide the dryad in pink geor-
gettes with daily bread, and she in turn
undertook to crumb the cutlets according to
the dictates of his palate. Meantime honey-
moon ices are being consumed in Sydney.
A real French knot was embroidered in
the records of St. Patrick’s when the beloved
Father Piquet blessed the vows between
Marie Antoinette Lamerand and Maurice
Playoust—-son of the late well-known and
popular George Playoust. woolbroker. Marie,
whose father is also well known to Sydney
woolbuyers, clothed her act in ivory chiffons
rich with chenille embroideries. Her train
of silver lilmed by a cloud of tulle was con-
voyed up the aisle by sister Marguerite
and Marie Polin. They carried a reminder
of the days when Royalty went bravely in
France in the Marie Antoinette fichus of
silver lace about the shoulders of their
powder-blue taffetas. Silver crinoline hats
and old-fashioned French posies were other
details of charm. The wedding, which was
performed during a nuptial mass, was fol-
lowed by a luncheon at the Ambassadors,
where the mothers of bride and ’groom, in
rich black raiment, snatched a ray or two
of the spotlight.
The wife of ex-Premier Holman, shingled,
slimmer, brown-clad and a decade younger-
looking, was the magnet that drew a hundred
women or more to a tea-drinking in the Aus-
tralia. An atmosphere saturated with pink
radiations from the masses of carnations
seeped through the somewhat austere
drawing-room, and the friendly cup circu-
lated to the accompaniment of curving
smiles. Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh’s priceless
sable coat, made with the new silk velvet bell
to the sleeve, caught every eye. The good
looks of Mrs. Arthur McNiven also shone
above the clouds of femininity. Mrs. Fred
Flowers was leader of the hostesses, of whom
there was a dazzling array.
Miss Brisbane’s week: —
The matinee for Allan Wilkie’s benefit was held
in the Theatre Royal, a negro Charleston opening
the show, footed by the Snapshots ballet, by way of
leading up to a Shakspearean programme. Two hefty
gallants in G. W. Whatmore and T. Hollies played
respectively Cassius (who had no lean and hungry
look!) and Brutus. Another excerpt from the
tragedies was the sleep-walking scene from “Macbeth,”
Barbara Sisley impersonating the lady who cannot
“out the damned spot.” The gem in the comedy
sketches was arranged by Rhoda Felgate, who took
the part of Beatrice in Barrie’s “Rosalind,” Richard
Maegregor acting the swain, and Jean Trundle,
Dame Quiekley. There was music, too, and over
£lOO was realised.
The Lyceum Club is moving into new rooms in
Rothwell’s Chambers. Mrs. H. Jury and Elsie Clay-
ton were feted by the club at a tea party, in a setting
of pale pink blossormy. Jean White-Ha ney did the
welcoming and handed pink sweet-peas to Mrs. Jury
and violets to Miss Clayton. The president was in
electric blue, covered by a fur coat; Mrs. Jury wore
navy blue inarocain, and Miss Clayton black, with
touches .of blue and rose and an Ottoman silk coat.
Pavlova finished her season with an overflowing
house. Indeed this has been the state of the theatre
fdr the last week. The dancer received some beauti-
ful flowers, and many recalls. Many people boast
of not having missed one programme during the
season. Now w<} are making ready for the Gilbert
and Sullivan operas, which open on Slst.
Mrs. E. C. Campbell has poured the pre-wedding
cup for Clover Thompson, amid a mass of pink
flowers. And, of course, there was mah jongg.
At the University there has been a fete to aid
the Uni. Women’s Hockey Club, Mrs. A. J. Thynne
doing the opening ceremony in navy, with an Ottoman
silk coat. Violets and mignonette were handed to
her by the captain of the team, Alma Dent.
Alice Behrens, who is here with an eye to the
Girl Guides, had tea poured for her at the Women’s
Club, when Mrs. E. H. Macartney held out the hand
of greeting.
St. John’s Cathedral saw the marriage of Irene
Butler Wood,, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. F. G.
Butler Wood, Dornoch-terrace, and Dr. C. D. Gillies,
only son of the J. D. Gillieses, Hill End. Bishop
Le Fanu tied, the knot. The bride was in ivoiy mari-
ette. Merna Gillies, in mauve, with pink ostrich
feathers, and! Grace Whittaker (Cremorne, Sydney), in
shell-pink arid silver, ’maided. R. Campbell bestmanned,
and Dr. G., Bolton was groomsman. Mrs. Butler
Wood, in grey, hostessed the feasting at Finney’s
Roof Gardop.
All the Spates are represented by delegates to the
Council of Women. Mrs. D. A. Skene, the president
of the Federal Council, is amongst them; and Sydney
barrister Sybil Morrison, in a pretty coral-hued frock,
has atfriVed by train.
Brisbane has been brightened by the arrival of
51 yellow taxj-cabs, and another 51 are promised
for September. Local companies have burst into the
color scheme with white and blue taxis, and Brisbane
will soon become as polychromatic as Sydney or
Melltourne.


—— _ __
AR.DY BFLOS LTD.
J EWELLER.S
Men’s Wristlet Watches
of Silver and Gold.
m
8A7204.
Man’s Wrist Watch, fitted with high-grade Swiss Lever movement.
Mounted on leather strap. Silver, £3/5/-; 9ct. Gold, £7.
2* 5 l"
Of
8A7202.
Smart new shape Man’s Wrist Watch, fitted with high-grade
Swiss movement. Mounted on broad leather strap.
Silver- £8; 9ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
Hardy’s Watches are specially selected from
the leading English, Swiss and American
makers, and are guaranteed to be thoroughly
reliable timekeepers.
A selection will be sent to any address at the
Company’s risk and expense.
Five per cent. Discount allowed for Cash.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
£/&7/buse oP&colusivcJewellery
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
&
RMNliSiiSjjftSfta
1
This Winter
a Radio!
Let it Rain, Let it Blow,
Let Other Folk Shiver—
You Can Listen in to
2 B.L. Sydney; 2 F.C. Sydney.
3 L.O. Melbourne; 3 A.R. Melbourne.
4 Q.G. Brisbane; 5 C.L. Adelaide.
any evening by your own fireside, and
enjoy a wonderful variety of Music and
Entertainment on a
HARRINGTONS
“POPULAR” RADIO SET.
FROM
<£s
DEPOSIT.
Ask for Illustrated
Booklet of Radio Sets.
It’s Post Free.
NO EXTRAS TO BUY.
Sets installed in your home complete by an
expert.
Complete with ALL accessories, including “Thorola” Speaker and carrying: our 12-months’
GUARANTEE.
Đ
Radio and Photo. Warehouses.
386 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 37 YEARS.
Also at Katoomba, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington. N.Z., Auckland, N.Z.
D
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


n
m
M- ■ }B S ,<zi' I
mm
Z/
Shallow* Ariel ft
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b. f 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
O’
m
! ,
o st £ c k
niiiiiiuftnTmffl
f.
asie
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY
Preserves the Leather and imparts a
brilliant and lasting shine to distinctive
footwear. In Black, Light Brown,
Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
Price 6 d. per tin. Obtainable everywhere •
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume.
P[?] [?]
MISS[?] MONK & DOVLE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
Pavlova’s charity matinee at His Majesty’s
was, above all, the occasion for an impres-
sive meeting between the dancer and her
giant countryman, Chaliapin. Pavlova and
her company gave their performance between
trains, so to speak, as their stay in the city
covered only about five hours, the scenery
and costumes being unpacked and labelled
hgain in a couple of hours less, which must
be something like a record for such an
elaborately-dressed show. The huge house,
while awaiting the late arrival of the pro-
perties, extended warm welcome to the con-
ductor, who appeared as solo pianist; also
to George Brooke, who was called in to carol
a stave or two. Chaliapin and his family
rolled up in full force to see the triumph of
■their fellow-countrywoman. The big fellow,
Sail smiles, sat with his four-year-old daughter
and Madame, and amid the tumultuous wel-
come given to these stars the “Miss Australia”
(Beryl Mills) of a Sydney newspaper com-
petition passed quite unnoticed into the next
box. The star turn of a gorgeous programme
was the meeting on the stage of the two
Russian artists, Chaliapin coming from the
box to welcome, with Russian embrace and
a greeting in very slowly-delivered English,
the lady, who gracefully tilted herself on tip-
toe, threw her arms round his neck and im-
planted a kiss upon his rugged cheek. He
had said: “I kees your hond, and am so
pleased to meet you in this far-off kontry.”
Tlie burly Novikoff received a salutation
also from the great singer.
The annual corroboree of the Victoria
League, at the Windsor, was held amid gum
leaves and Iceland poppies. His Ex. was in
the chair, and Lady Somers, who has just
been elected president, sat among the officers.
The summing-up of the year’s work by the
secretary, Miss F. E. Spowers, revealed a
membership of 1500 and much good work
in connection with the Bush Library, 5G78
books being despatched to out-back districts,
where, by this means, so they say, some
children were enabled to set eyes on picture-
books for the first time —some of these
stories about the darkness of the Backblocks
clo take a lot of swallowing. His Ex. said
his first meeting with the Victoria League
was at a tea-drinking, hostessed by Lady
Jersey in London, on the eve of his depar-
ture for these shores. Lady Somers, who
had sapphire-blue velvet millinery above a
black suit, gave thanks for her election as
president; Priminister Bruce, without a
pause for breath, talked for 10 minutes about
the. Empire; Rear-Admiral Cresswell and
his dear lady had something—kind, of course
—to say, and the Maudsley and Mitchell
dames also had speaking parts. The brew
was poured in the dining-room. With the
Priminister came Mrs. Stan, a dash of
Chinese blue lighting up a black costume
and hat.
On Saturday afternoon the sun was seen
only occasionally between showers of rain
and hail; but hardy sports went to Moonee
Valley races just the same, and some of
them were glad they did. The first appear-
ance of the Governor and Lady Somers at
the picturesque suburban course brought a
few of the elect in their train. Chairman
Alister Clark and the committee invited the
vice-regal party to pick a bit with them at
luncheon, at tables which displayed ithc
famous Clark roses in all their glory. Many
punters, looking for omens, put their faith
in and money on the imported gee-gee the
Governor for the first race —and lost. Dress-
ing was again of the depth-of-winter order
—topcoats and furs. Lady Somers covered
her brown tweed suit with a black leather
raincoat, collared with green, and topped by
a nigger-brown felt hat. Mrs. Davidson had
furs with her tailor-made of navy cloth with
stripe of white, her hat being felt, of beige
tone. Mayoress Brunton’s small petunia hat
was worn with a burgundy costume with
additions of fur.
The fame of Chaliapin waxes, and his
season has expanded to twice its originally
planned dimensions. The audiences are be-
ginning to recognise some of the basso’s
favorite items, too, and the most incredible
lie of the week is about the man who knew
the “Volga Boat Song” and didn’t tell his
neighbor its name. In the front rows on
Saturday wras that once-famous member of
a family of singers, Mrs. Palmer, and else-
where were a trio of Chaliapin maidens, two
in pretty green frocks and the other in tur-
quoise blue. A beautiful visitor in the stalls
attracted attention; her prematurely grey
hair was bound in a bandeau of glistening
white with a fluffy bit of white feather in
front; a wrap-over coat of white satin and
swansdown gave a regular snow-queen
effect. Hilda Sutton, with her fiddle, smiled
upon the audience in a straight-lined frock
of mauve georgette that dangled two rows
of silver fringe headed with bead embroidery.
St. Kilda Yacht Club Ball on Thursday
night was a golden-jubilee affair, for it was
50 years ago that the first commodore’s flag
was run up. The decorators’ art turned the
ballroom of the Town Hall into the deck of
a fully-rigged ship. From the gallery and
walls dangled lifebuoys, anchors and other
nautical objects draped in the club’s red
and white. Commodore C. Marshall was
accompanied by his wife, who scintillated in
a black robe; Mayor Cummings brought his
pretty fair-haired daughter Alison, whose
filmy draperies were of petunia hue. Captain
Bracegirdle was there with his mate, who
wore a froth of delphinium-blue and cosmos
mauve. Rear-Admiral Napier gave the
Navy’s blessing.
Lady Somers, in a frock of geranium-pink
georgette with seams outlined with gold, was
dined by about a hundred members of the
Lyceum Club at headquarters. Official tables
reflected in their polished surfaces table-
mats of primrose hue with napkins of the
same tone, blending with Iceland poppies in
yellow bowls. The vice-regal guest found at
her place, beside the usual floral offering, a
copy of “The Little Black Princess,” with
a plaque depicting “Spring,” presented by
sculptor Margaret Baskerville. Lady Somers
pleaded nervousness before such a gathering
of the cultured, but her few words of thanks
were very apt.
The wattle-decked reception-room of the
Lyceum Club was crowded with old college
chums on Saturday afternoon when Freda
Bage. M.Se., a foundation member, was fed
on tea and cakes and kind wishes before
going to Geneva as a delegate to the League
of Nations. The president, Mrs. J. G.
Latham, who proffered a big bunch of vio-
lets, and Mrs. Allen, who was last year's
delegate to Geneva, said words of farewell.
Miss Bage, who is principal of the Women’s
College of Bananaland’s University, takes
with her a gold Southern Cross brooch
pointed with black opals; on Saturday it
hung from the ribbons of a posy sent by Mrs.
Thomas Baker.
For the purposes of the M.L.C.’s dance,
St. Iyilda Town Hall was Bolshevised, with
red lights and streamers everywhere. About
a dozen debs., in white and silver, and GBO
other’s, joined in. Secretaries Laura Foun-
tain and Agnes Murray appeared in frocks
of two tones of blue, ringing the changes
with posies of pink blossoms and red
carnations respectively. Mrs. W. L. Russell
(club president) brightened up her black
draperies with gold lace, and Olive Dodd
(hon. sec.) displayed gleaming diamente on
blue georgette of various shadings.
When Allan Wilkie’s stage properties went
up in smoke at Geelong the other day, there
was a very
d i s appointed
amateur act-
ress in Mel-
bourne. Lafay-
ette pictures
her here. She
is Irene Webb,
daughter of
the Collins-
street doctor.
Her sorrow is
that she had
been engaged
to play Rosa-
lind in “As
You Like It,”
and was to
have started
the very week
the conflagra-
tion scattered
a 11 Wilkie’s
pla n s. The
lass has a de-
cided flair for the stage, and has served an
apprenticeship with the Repertory Theatre
Society. She showed talent as a producer,
too, when she staged one of the old morality
plays, and a lot of ingenuity in evolving
elaborate costumes out of such unpromising
material as can be found around the average
house. No one guessed that one particularly
magnificent outfit included someone’s pyjama
coat, part of a bedspread and an old bath-
gown.
The hostesses at the Austral Salon’s latest
afternoon were Mrs. James Angus, whose
musquash-fur coat almost covered a jumper
suit in tones of blue and silver, and Mrs.
Kroef, in caped frock of delf-blue, with mil-
linery in tune. Mrs. George Haines sang
to her own accompaniment; Isobel Gang-
lands, recovered after her accident, brought
her fiddle; and there was merit in a couple
of performances by George Finlay, the blind
pianist.
An opportunity for a beautiful strike was
missed by the men on St. Paul’s Cathedral
when Archbishop Lees took a trowel into
a hand that had never signed a union card
and smeared mortar on the first stone of the
central spire. The ceremony was part of
the celebration of the first anniversary of the
launching of the appeal for the completion
of the cathedral; within the year subs, to the
extent of over £44,000 of the £50,000 asked
for have rolled in. They made a week of it.
with services and sacred concerts, and
developed one or two really clever money-
raisers. For instance, having given extra-
ordinarily well, church people were invited
to give a little more by way of a thank-offer-
ing for having been able to give so much.
These absent-minded eyes belong to artist
John Rowell, who looks like that when dis-
covering beau-
ties not visa
ble to you
and me. Tin
instinct for
picture - mak
in g is so
strong in him
that he would
have devel
oped a tech-
nique with
reindeer bones
and a flint if
born in the
Stone Age.
He did some-
thing equally
determined as
a child when
he improvised
a painting sur-
face with cre-
tonne and got
together a set
of colors from sources that would have made
Winsor aud Newton shudder. Then he
discovered the. Melbourne National Gallery
and divided his waking hours between that
fount of inspiration and the great outdoors,
where he found the subjects in which his
heart delighted. Nowadays he is master of
painting at the Ballarat Art School, and has
a high artistic reputation as a faithful inter-
preter of the moods of the Australian land-
scape—his “against the light” studies have
been particularly successful. He married
Eugenie Durram, a Melbourne portrait-
painter of credit and renown. The finishing
touches are now being placed upon the ex-
hibits for a show of his to be held in August.
Spencer Shier made the photo for us.
Though the commanding residence of the
Y.MjC.A. across Princes Bridge has been
tenanted for some time, it waited for a chris-
tening until the other day, when the new
Governor was invited along to give it his
blessing. C. F. Crosby (Melbourne branch
president) greeted his Ex. and Lady Somers,
and Mayor Brunton, who was accompanied
by his lady, spoke about the many virtues of
Y. Emma.
The sudden death in London of Mrs. Ida
Maney Lake will come as a shock to many.
Early this year she drank a farewell cup of
tea with her friends before departing for a
tour abroad, being joined later by her father,
Philip Gell, whose financial interests are
considerable. She was a crack golfer, and
carried off many laurels on the links; and
in her youth she had a place in a J.C.W.
chorus for a while. She was related to the
McCaughey and Jack Fisken families.
A cable from France announces the arrival
of another little Meldrumite into our troubled
art world. He is David Michael Orr Cola-
han, son of artist Colin Colahan. No doubt
there will be a family duel over the child’s
artistic future. Will he follow his father
to the easel or his mother (she was the
very charming Vi Lester) to the piano? The
family is due here in November, when Colin
exhibits at the Fine Art Society’s Gallery.
It will be as interesting as any show of the
year.
A British-born singer who can sing in four
foreign languages as well as in decently-
enunciated English, and can create the natu-
ral atmosphere with each tongue, is rather
a rarity, but Clive Carey, the baritone who
trains the voice at the Elder Con. (Adelaide),
fills the. specification. He showed his paces
at a recital at the Dyer home at Toorak last
week, and an audience of hand-picked art-
and-music-lovers sat up and wondered. Lyrics
of Scarlatti and Strozzi, and the “Star
Vicino,” by Rosa, represented Italy; there
was a French group ; songs of Hugo Wolf and
Richard Strauss gave Germany a look in;
and Spanish folk-songs by Manuel do Falla
rounded off the foreign section. English
offerings included C. V. Stanford’s “Mon-
key’s Carol” and Elizabeth Poston’s “Bell-
man’s Song.” Maude Puddy was the ideal
accompanist.
There was a repeat performance at the
Assembly Hall on Ifriday night of a Bach
programme given at Mrs. jimmy Dyer’s
recently. On each occasion when an even-
ing has been devoted entirely to the Great
Master, understudies have had to be pressed
hurriedly into the service. On this occasion
Professor Bernard Hcinze was a victim of
cold, and Sutton Crow took up the conduc-
tor’s baton ; violinists Helen Hammerton and
Edouard Lambert, the lately-arrived Belgian
musician, divided the solo work. The ill
wind on this occasion blew kindly, for Mr.
Lambert is a fine fiddler. He has been hav-
ing a poor spin here, and this was his chance,
Given but a few hours to work up the violin
concerto in E Major, and hampered by a not
impeccable accompaniment of strings, he
came through with flying colors, the slow
movement being beautifully played. Annie
Caddell’s light soprano voice is another of
the pleasant remembrances of the concert,
The most successful criminal or idiot Mel-
bourne Jms ever owned is still at large. He
(or she) is the person who in the past
months has fired no less than 32 hedges
at St. Kilda. One owner valued Ins arbor-
eal fence, whose beautiful perfection made
it renowned throughout the State, at £5OO.
One theory the police have been working
on is that the incendiary is an amateur
gardener maddened into crime by jealousy
of his neighbors’ exploits in raising hedges,
All they have actually discovered is that he
- s a young man who rides a bicycle,
A gathering of music-lovers at Kiunoull
011 a recent evening celebrated the birthday
of the hostess, Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, and listened
to a recital by baritone Clive Carey, of Adel-
aide. Mrs. Dyer wore covering of the faint-
est pink, radiating lines of steel beads from
a low-waisted band of blossoms in natural
tones of glistening embroidery. Guests sat
in the soft glow or pink- and purple-shaded
utmps. Maude ruddy, the Elder Con
servatorium’s star pianist, played accompani-
ments. The drawing-room staged an impos-
uig array of flowers sent by way of birth-
lay-greetings, and Blamire Young did two
.llustrations for the souvenir programme,
Mrs. R. W. E. Wilmot summoned many
folk to the Oriental to sample a farewell pot
of tea in honor of her daughter Jean, who
goes to the U.S.A. to marry George Bemis,
of Boston. The lass, who received loads of
good wishes, wore a georgette frock of cinna-
mon hue, with a gold-trimmed brown velvet
hat. She is travelling by the Aorangi with
her uncle and aunt, the E. R. Russells, and
takes Ruth Barnier, a former school-mate,
fo be bridesmaid
over 40(J brid g e players put in an after-
noon at St. Kilda Town Hall last week to
help the Children’s Hospital Building Fund.
Th £ Mayoress, Mrs. Cummings, and Mrs.
j jj jjewison, were mainly responsible,
Sister Adelaide’s jottings:—
Tea, with Mrs. Aldridge as hostess and press-
womcn as the guests > and a P ersonal conducting of
Glee Club rehearsal were further items of Percy
Grai , s stay here . The Bridges were at his final
concert, and the audience refused to go home till
seven numbers had been added to the programme.
South Australians in the Royal Enclosure at Ascot
included tho Ageut . General Prices, Angas Parsons,
Dudley Turners and Walter Duncans—the last due
to leave England in a week or so. The Angas Parsons
were among the half-dozen Australians who were
presented by the High Commissioner at the Royal
garden-party.
This State has made a vow to subscribe £ 500 to
the Wilkie fund, and already the Register fund is
well on the way towards the mark. So far the
money has come in practically spontaneously, with-
out much urging. The mayoral Mrs. Bruce has now
called a meeting to give the appeal a fillip and has
briefed Archie Strong to state the ease for Wilkie,
The engagement is announced of Grace, youngest
of the E, A. Allnutts, to Hewgill, son of the R. H.
Hamiltons, of Walkerville.
The Lindsa y exhibition is a nice commentary on
the results that may foUow moral censorship. When
the Society of Arts banned some , of hl , s p , ic * urea two
years ag0 > and he proraptly w J thdr , ew the lot and ran
bls own sh ° w at Pree a ces > the shop filled to ovei-
aad overflow threatened to block the
ra f c of J ung Wflham-street. This time with no-
body “ akl " g a J uss about morality, people tnckled
into the shovv by ° nes and twos > f ° rderly as a
parish meeting. But the ones and twos bought:
by noon every wate r-eolor had gone, and by the time
tea was due even some of the etchings were sold out.
The ath °? R ; ?' Ja “ mb Y°°\'TV nSJn
gap m the ranks of the old schoolmasters. A Devon-
shire man, he came to Australia from England 30
or ' an was for a time teaching in
vietoria y The g ’ he came over to join j. H . Lindon
, and on Lindon>s death became prop rietor.
and keith Smith were at school there,
™ , , ~ „ ,
T> ?! ere was . dancl k S f the bo r ;e Hall and the
Pabll3 “ Fnday-the former bedecked m the black
, a ” d ycll ?l w aad go ! d of the f lio '^ ing Club , ,
. all red a « d "’ blte [ or Prince Alfred Old
ool legians. At the Palais, too, weie interludes o
exhlbltl °n dancing by Nora Stewart s pupils, afid
staUs for sweets ' flowers and balloons, run by
auxiliary committees. For the oarsmen, J. H. Gosse,
oharl es Morgan and L. T. Grummet did the honors,
wit]l , a committee of a dozen or so to back them,
and the show went with the swing that usually
Characterises man-run entertainments,
There were wholesale congratulations for Miss
Gordon on h er annexation of the State Golf Cham-
P lonshi P- Sh e has been club champion (she is
a Illcnlber of tbe Kcyal Adelaide), and won the Aus-
tralian Women’s Championship here three years ago,
but in state contests she’d not previously got higher
tb an runner-up. Mrs. W. F. Gardiner gave her a
close run » wit h on ly one stroke to spare.
David James, another of our Broken Billionaires,
bas said his last “So long.” He settled down as a
sort of Squire of Kapunda, and won an Australian
Cup and some other big races.


A. SAUNDERS’
ACCEPTABLE WEDDING PRESENTS.
SPECIAL VALUE
\«ss as
mmm
. Saunders’ Silverplated 3-Cup Egg
rame and Spoons, English China
Cups and base, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Silverplated Entree Dish, 307-
Others, 55/-, 70/-, 75/-, 80/-, 90/-
m
w
A. Saunders’ Silverplated Teapot, daintily
engraved, 21/-
Other 3, 15/B.' 18/8. 20/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-
KMi
A. Saunders’ Silverplated Cake Basket, hand-pierced, 20/«
Others, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/- to 90/-
ALL MAIL ORDERS receive our Special
Attention and Prompt Despatch,
A. Saunders’ Silver-
plated Hot Water Jug,
plain design, 15/-
Others, 20/-, 80/-,
35/-, 45/-, 50/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —JeAveller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
/ V ">
Vrs)
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE RAPID EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, fi'ee sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day ?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to 'apidiy reahse
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and COll< ;isel} th ? p
ciples of drawing in the simplest and most effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised, all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the help u
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his
work.
It Teaches You to Draw—
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr. Weston s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
II
V.
■
r «“#>.
-
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited
SIXTIETH REPORT, TO JUNE 30, 1926.
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the General Meeting to be
held at Noon on TUZSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1926.
The Board of Directors submit their Sixtieth Report to Shareholders of
Bank, together with the Balance Sheet, for the year ending June 30, 1926, duly certified
by the Auditors, showing:—
r oAii, iqor .. .. .. £38,933 11
200,924 7
Net Profits for the past year
Interim Dividend at 10 per cent, for half year July to December, 1925
Preference Shares in n
Ordinary Shares .. .. . • • • • • • • 53,062 10 0
£73,900 10 0
3,000 0 0
To Officers’ Provident Fund
£239,857 18 9
76,900 10 0
Balance .. .. • • £162,957 8 9
The Directors recommend that the remaining Profits for the year be apportioned as follows
To Dividend on Preference Shares at 10 per cent, per annum, for halt
at 10 per cent, per annum, for half
£20,838 0 0
53,062 10 0
year ending 30th June, 1926
To Dividend on Ordinary Shares
year ending 30th June, 1926
£73,900 10 0
To Reserve Fund (making it £850,000) is q
To Balance to be carried forward .. ..
£162,957 8 9
The retiring Directors are Sir Edward Miller and Mr. A. T. Creswick, who are
eligible for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly.
To elect Two Auditors and fix remuneration for ensuing twelve months. Messrs.
P. J. W. Dauby, F.C.P.A., and Wm. A. Mewton, F.C.P.A., the retiring Auditors, have
given the necessary notice, and offer themselves for re-election.
During the year branches of the Bank have been opened at Temple Court, Collins
Street, Melbourne (Western Branch), and Hopetoun, and the Elmhurst agency converted
into brancb bag been ope ned at Patcliewollock, and the agency
at Spring Yale converted into a receiving office attached to Oakleigli branch.
The Dividend will be payable in Melbourne on and after the 4th August, and at
the branches and in London on receipt of advices. . „ . ..
The transfer books of the Company will be closed from July 21 to August d, botn
days inclusive. w . , T . CLARKE, Chairman.
PHILIP CH. de CRESPIGNY, General Manager.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited,
Melbourne, 15th July, 1926.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED,
at June 30, 1926
(Including London Branch at May 22, 1926).
Du. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Paid Up, viz:—
41,676 Prefer-
ence Shares
of £lO each,
full paid up
in cash .. £416,760 0 0
212,250 Ordi-
nary Shares
of £lO each,
paid up to
£5 .. .. 1,061,250 0 0
£1,478,010 0 0
~ Reserve Fund 800,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss 162,957 8 9
. „ Notes in Circulation
~ Bills in Cumulation
~ Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
~ Other Deposits and Interest
Accrued —
(Including rebate on Bills dis-
counted) not bearing interest
(Including Officers’ Guarantee
and Provident Funds, bearing
interest
~ Balances due to other banks ..
~ Contingent Liabilities as per
contra ..
2,440,967 8 9
6,275 10 0
593,276 9 3
98,649 13 5
597,460 18 2
4,369,643 10 8
7,175,097 13 4
477,476 18 8
970,693 0 7
£16,729,541 2 10
ASSETS.
Ck.
By Coin, Bullion,
Austral ian
Notes and Cash
at Bankers ..
~ Money at short
call and Trea-
sury Bills in
London
~ Common wealth
of Australia
War Loan
Stock and De-
bentures, Vic-
toria Govern-
ment Stock and
Debentures and
Municipal De-
bentures
„ Bills and Re-
mittances i n
transitu and
Bills Receiv-
able in London
~ Notes and Bills
of other Banks
„ Balances due
from other
Banks
~ Stamps
£2,525,680 0 7
658,292 7 2
1,538,979 16 8
700,476 6 2
202,741 6 4
58,790 8 2
6,667 12 2
„ Real Estate, consisting of Bank
premises
Bills Discounted and other Ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts..
„ Liabilities of Customers and
ethers in respect of Contingent
Liabilities, as per contra
£5,689,627 17 3
441,875 5 2
9,627,344 19 10
970,693 0 7
£16,729,541 2 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To current expenses—head office
and 108 branches and 15 sub-
branches . . . . . .
Balance .. .. ..
£ 232,614 4 2
162,957 8 9
£895,571 12 11
By balance brought forward from
30th June, 1925.. .. ..£155,444 0 9
Gross profit for the year ending
30th June, 1926, alter deducting-
all interest paid or due to
customers, and rebating bills
current, and providing for
taxes and bad and doubtful debts 433,538 11 2
£588,982 11 11
Less dividend paid
for half year end-
ing 30lth June, 1925 £66 510 9 0
Less interim dividend
for half year July
to December, 1925 73,900 10 0
Less amount trans-
ferred to officers’
provident fund .. 3,000 0 0
Less amount trans-
ferred to reserve
fund ' .. .. 50,000
0
0
RESERVE FUND.
To balance carried forward .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
£BOO,OOO 0 0
By balance brought forward from
30th June, 1925 £750,000 0 0
Transferred from profit' and loss .. 50,000 0 0
£BOO,OOO 0 0
I PHILIP CHAMPION DE CRESPIGNY, General Manager of the Bank of Victoria, Limited, do
solemnly and sincerely declare: — , , , . . .
That the Resei’ve Fund ( £800,000) and accumulated profits (£162,957 Bs. 9d.) are used m
tlic business
That the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is to the best of my knowledge
and belief true in every'particular. , , , .
The names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are directors of the company at the date
hereof are: — . „ ,
WILLIAM JOHN TURNER CLARKE, of Toorak, Grazier.
LIONEL FINDON MILLER, of Melbourne, Barrister.
The Honorable Sir EDWARD MILLER, of Toorak, Banker.
HENRY ELLIS ROWE, of Domain Road, South Yftrra, Gentleman.
ALEXANDER THOMSON CRESWICK, Melbourne, Grazier.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. PHILIP CH. DE CRESPIGNY.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of' Victoria, this loth July, one thousand nine hundred and
twenty-six.
Before me —H. A. A. EMBLING, J.P.
Melbourne, loth July, 1926.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED—
LADIES and GENTLEMEN.—We beg to report that we have audited the accounts of The Bank of
Victoria Limited for the year ended 30th June, 1926, including the London office figures as at 22nd
May, 1926, and that in our opinion the balance-sheet and accounts have been properly drawn up, and
exhibit a true and correct view of the State of the bank’s affairs according to the best of our informa-
tion and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the bank. The returns from the
branches have been accepted on the signatures of the respective managers and accountants. We have
received every assistance from the officers of the bank, and they have supplied us with all the infor-
niatinn and exnlanations reauired bv us in the course of the audit.
P. J. W. DANBY, F.C.P.A. )
WM. A. MEWTON, F.C.P.A. f
Auditors.
We WILLIAM JOHN TURNER CLARKE, LIONEL FINDON MILLER, EDWARD MILLER, HENRY
ELLIS ROWE, and ALEXANDER THOMSON CRESWICK, being directors of THE BANK OF VICTORIA,
LIMITED, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above balance-sheet is true and correct, and is drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 15th day of July, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six.
W. J. T. CLARKE
L. F. MILLER
EDWARD MILLER
R. E. ROWE
ALEX. T. CRESWICK
Directors.


King’s Air Cup
(CIRCUIT OF BRITAIN)
Again a Triumph for
WAKEFIELD
Regd.
0
MOTOR OIL
The winning ’plane was a D.H. Moth piloted by Captain Broad and entered by
Sir Charles Wakefield. All starters were on the famous British-owned lubricant.
On every occasion the King’s Air Cup has been won by a “Castrolubrieated” machine.
Cobham Carries on
Like the other Pioneers of the
World’s Air Routes, Alcoek,
Hawker, Commander of R3l,
Rhyneveld, Ross Smith, Parer,
Mclntosh, d’Oisy, Amundsen,
Pinedo, Franco and d’Alda, and
others, he chooses the British-
owned lubricant for his England-
to-Australia Flight, which he
himself has named the “Wake-
field Flight.”
Captain Cobham has already
proved the value of “CASTROL”
in liis great journey last year
from England to Burma and
back, and this year from Eng-
land to Capetown and back.
4000 MILES AT 72.7 M.P.H.
and Many Other World Records by Miss Cordery
Driving a “Castrolubricated” Invicta Car on
the Montlherv Track, last week, this brilliant
woman driver gave a'further demonstration of
the fact that the finest lubricant will get the
highest efficiency out of the motor-car engine.
The essential qualities in “Castrol”
which help to achieve the greatest
motoring successes on the racing
track are just as necessary to enable
the touring car engine to make good
in business or pleasure runs.
Obtainable from leading garages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd
The All-British Firm )
Head Office for Australasia:
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Keen Shooters
always take a care in the choice of the brand of
cartridge they use, knowing how important quality and
scientific loading really are. Invariably you will find
that the keenest shooters will only use British Brand
Cartridges loaded with British-made powders.
ELEY & KYNOCH
Cartridges
Are All-British
Results are what count with the shooter, and in a word
results” describe the extreme popularity of all
Nobel-made Cartridges.
Obtainable at
All Gunsmiths & Dealers
Send for our
interesting Brochure
entitled "Modern
Cartridge Making. ”
POSTED FREE
on request.
Wholesale Only:
AMMUNITION (NOBEL)
PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: L. H. Labone,
17 Resolution Street,
Lyall Bay, Wellington.
m
I
:
Ď
You always
know—
*
BATTERY
a
a car with a
Westinghouse
Battery. Just the
slightest press-
ure of the foot—
and there's an
answering purr
from the engine.
In hail, rain or sun-
shine, you can rely
on the dependable
Westinghouse giving instant
ignition.
The very name of Westinghouse is
a guarantee of public service and
safety. When you next renew —be
sure and ask for a Westinghouse
Battery.
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTE RIE S B
(Vf
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd & Co„ 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
Canterbury etc., Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
m
For Everyone with Writing of
any consequence to do!
All the conveniences of a modern typewriter are embodied in
the Underwood Portable in a compact, portable form. It
weighs only 9f lb. cased for carrying. It can be packed into a
drawer or suitcase with the greatest ease. No fussy adjust-
ments are necessary before it is ready to write; just a click
of the latch removes the cover and the machine can be used
instantly. Underwood speed, accuracy, simplicity and dura-
bility are all combined in this wonderful little portable, making
it a worthy product of the world’s greatest typewriter factory.
Complete details and illustrations are
contained in our new booklet—free on
request. The Coupon will bring you a
copy by return. Mail it now!
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd., G.P.O. Box 1556 E
Please send me a copy of your new NAME
Booklet “A-5” by return. No obliga- ADDRESS
tion, of course.
(Bulletin 2.)


n
a
UK
mil'
I
Si
i
i
Ti©.KMmW&
D
Look for the Trademark I Agenta Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH'S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
W estern Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP & CO.. LTD.. Perth and Geral.lton
Harvey’s “Special whisky
S >l 2 Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
AUSTRALASIAN
Pigeon
Championship
1925
WAS WON WITH A
W.W. GREENER
“EMPIRE” GRADE
GUN
Wholesale Representatives—
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY. LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Beaufovd was one of the attractions at
Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) on Saturday. Down to run
in the Horsley Handicap, six furlongs, the old
fellow behaved as friskily as a two-year-old in his
attendant’s hands, and a bookmaker who offered
4 to 1 was nearly knocked off his box, the price
tinning to 7 to 4. But the light of other days had
the misfortune to be badly kicked at the post,
and after he had been beaten into fifth place it was
announced that he would not run again. The race
proved easy for that good mare Tulluiah (6 to 1),
who was followed home by Bersur—a brother to
Duet—and Chateau Tanunda. The July Handicap,
10 furlongs, looked so open and there was so little
money about —the punter can’t go on losing for
ever—that the bagmen had to stretch the odds to
7 to 1 the field. And then they got out of it,
for Lucy Thrice (14 to 1) won as she liked from
imported Star Rocket, who galloped more kindly
for an apprentice than for Xoohey, and Whizbro.
Lucy is only a rat of a thing, and she looked hungrier
than ever on Saturday, but the race was hers a
long way from home. Atholdorus and Gulgong, who
were among the well-backed horses, will probably
do better in a less crowded field —there were 19
starters. The comparatively-neglected Australian
.stallion Golden Hop was represented by two vvinners
—Goldfinder (6 to 1) in the Farm Stakes and Gold-
beater (7 to 1) in the Leumeah Handicap. Strong-
bow, who has wintered well, put in a strong nrasa
in Goldbeater’s race, and the gallop encouraged those
who have backed the sturdy chestnut for the Metro-
politan, in which he has 7st. 91b.
* * * *
The punting brigade has had a thin time
lately in Melbourne and results on Saturday at
Moonee Valley did not alter matters to any extent.
The Governor (4 to 1), whom Sydney knows too well,
disappointed again in the Banya Hurdle; Trusty Vale
(14 to 1), who had. been beaten at Geelong, won
easily from Nobility (10 to 1) and Fred Brown
(20 to 1). Bankers did better in the Brunswick
Steeple, for Master Mariner (3 to 1), well ridden
by Trounson, landed the money by half a length,
after a great finish with Ralglass (7 to 1). The
winner is owned and trained by Claude Grice and
is a brother to Claude’s more celebrated Fleet-
stone. He has 9st. 71b. in the Australian Steeple—
71b. less than he carried at the Valley. Betting
was wide on the Nonga Handicap, 9) furlongs, but
at the crisis nothing had a chance with the Kings-
burgh—Toronto Lass mare Lady Kingsburgh (7 to
1), who was two lengths in front of the disappoint-
ing Victorian King (4 to 1) when the judge s box
was reached, with Altimeter (5 to 1) a head away.
The daughter of tile 1914 Melbourne Cup winner is
trained by J. Truskiett for R. T. Lane, and’ both
deserved the change ‘of fortune. Buckwheat did not
quite fulfil the hopes of those who brought him to
Australia, but he sired a champion pony in Cornflower
(10 to 1), who carried 9st. 71b. to easy victory in
the mile Welteq, although the track was heavy.
Duncan was abosjrd the little mare, who is a wonder
for her inches.
“Hanen”: I used to hold that, next to two-year-
olds, jumpers ran more consistently than any other
class of horse ; but before the sustained assault of
this winter in Melbourne I am weakening rapidly.
Recently a sporting scribe pointed out that, when
Gunnedah “also ran” in the Leamington Hurd’e at
Caulfield, he was the sixteenth successive Hurdle
favorite to fail. And of that 16, only three have
been placed. The most reasonable and, I think,
the true explanation seems to lie in a more-than-
usual mediocrity in the whole of this season’s
jumping vintage. Of this 1 am fairly convinced.
It helps one to understand how Arroya, just previ-
ously downed easily in two Trial Hurdles, could
comfortably lick the apparently strong Leamington
Hurdle fieid ; also, how a mare, beaten emphatically
in a down-the-line Brush Steeple by a moderate
’chaser (as was Sparkling Moselle by Fortasse) could
go on to win a Grand National Hurdle a fortnight
later. As a “whispering" friend of mine once put
it, “In a field o’ goats, any goat c’n win.”
* * * *
“Louden” : Joe is one of those game but
unfortunate cross-country jockeys who get plenty of
riding o’ mornings—and many fails—but few
mounts in races. 1 was speaking to Joe after he
had dismounted from a half-schooled ’chaser of the
tearaway type when the owner of the prad came up.
“He’s a bit green yet, Joe,” said the owner, “but
if you'll ride him in the steeple Saturday I’ll give
you twenty quid. Are you on?” “My oathl”
replied Joseph fervently. “I'd ride a ruddy crocodile
over fences for twenty quid.”
* * * *
“Bris.”: Two days after the publication of
that par. (B. 8/7/’26) on the relative merits of
Lilyveil s best Queensland sons, Lilyland and No
Step, No Step won the principal race at Ascot.
A week later, Lilyland, carrying top weight (9st.
91b.), romped away with a first division at Albion
Park. The Q.T.C. handieapper now reckons he is
2st. the better of the pair.
* * * *
“Sparks”: An electric battery applied to
a racehorse operates through a finely-wound shocking-
coil, an apparatus -which transforms a modest initial
voltage into a high-voltage smash. Actually the
unfortunate iprad is struck by lightning. A tiring
horse so treated will—for a few strides at any rate—
reproduce his top. Its use at 'the right instant would
reverse a neck defeat. But rthe horse pays for it
afterwards; in fact, there e%u.ld be nothing more
cruel than this electric scourge.
A speedy greyhound is seldom a close
worker behind the hare. The flyers commonly “drive”
at the quarry and -when they miss, which is mostly,
cqnsidefably overshoot the mark. But Grit Hazel,
winner of the Ladies’. Bracelet at the Liverpool
(N.S.W.) club’s meefmg last week, is a lucky
combination ’of speed : and cleverness. His passage
through the - stake necessitated five courses, and in
each of them a whip-lash burst of speed nearing the
hare left his. opponents lengths astern. Like so many
recent winners on metropolitan enclosures, Grit
Hazel hails front the country. He; opened up at
16’s and his owner, Hayes of Dapto, took £2OO
to £l3 about his chance.
“DEAR OLD PALS; JOLLY OLD PALS.”
BIDDY: “Is this a competition. match, Georgia?”
GEORGIE: “ No, kid —just a friendly game.”
“Shrewsbury”: People who sav coursing is cruel
but are nevertheless willing that every dog should
have his day out will hear with approval of Lan-
cashire’s latest Saturday afternoon ‘•‘sport.” A
dummy Jiare ia run round a circular track by elec-
tricity, and is pursued in heats by real greyhounds.
What happens when the leading dog gets a mouthful
Of synthetic hare is not specified in the description
to hand, though a shock of some sort seems likely.
Somehow I don’t think the game will prove a
winner. Jorrocks has put it on record that “of all
daft beasts a greyhound’s the daftest,” but it is
doubtful if one would sprint a second time to grab
a mouthful of wires and wool.
» * * *
Billy Edwards, of Newcastle, made his
Saturdav-night debut at the Rusheutter Bay Stadium
(he had shown once on a Wednesday night, but
retired hurt) last Saturday and made a splendid
impression by knocking out the tough American-
Hebrew, Izzy Tanner, in the sixth round. While
not a Les Darcy, Edwards is a fine fighter, pretty
clever, and vfith a tremendous punch in either hand.
He showed that he was a game receiver as well
as a liberal giver by the way he stood to it under
Tanner's heavy battery and always came back with
a good bit over fair Billy’s punches to
the bodv were very solia, and it was a left to the
mark that sat Izzy down in the fourth round.
A smashing right-cross put Tanner's shutters up
on the right window in the fifth-—a' terrific slogging
session—and in the sixth Edwards, definitely taking
control, dimmed Tanner twice. Rising after thc-
count of fivbj the game Jew rushed his man, but
Edwards met him with tremendous hooks, jabs and
swings, and put him to the canvas for the full
count, amid a scene of the wildest excitement. The
betting wa3 6 to 4 on the youngster, and the weights
were: Edwards, list. Ulb., Tanner, list. 2Hb.
Edwards should now prove* an immense attraction for
Stadiums, Ltd.
“Simon”: Edwards’s mother attends her boy’s
fights to cheer him on. She recounts with pride that
Billy never neglects work for pleasure. The night
he beat Alf Stewart he had barely time to change
before taking up his shift job as electrician. He
caught the 11 p.m. Newcastle boat home on Saturday
after disposing of Tanner, and was in dungarees again
by 7.30 next morning. William is the eldest of
eight.
* * * *
Despite three previous encounters, none of
which was very thrilling. Billy Grime (9st.) and
Ignacio Fernandez (Bst. T;|lb.) drew a great crowd
to Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. Ignacio
carried the fight to the heavier lad from the jump,
and fierce rallies in the early rounds had the
spectators on their toes. For a time the Filipino
stored with left body punches, but as the contest
proceeded the champion’s swaying and headwork
caused the brown man to miss frequently, while
Billy’s own blows were rarely wasted. The back-
seaters noisily disapproved of the decision in favor
of Grime, and Ignacio himself thought he had won
by a mile, but the verdict was correct. It was the
Filipino’s last fight in Australia, so it was alleged.
The same announcement was made about Jamito a
year or two before Jammy returned to the jungle;
and then he found his way back to the Common-
wealth.
* * * *
The Indian Army players gave Sydney its
first taste of high-class hockey when they over-ran
a N.S.W. team at the Cricket Ground, to win by
13 goals to 2. A successful tour of Maoriland had
made the combination of the visitors well nigh
perfect, while their uncanny dexterity in stick-work
and ball-control was a delight to witness. The
side includes four British officers, but the native
players held the attention of the Barge crowd, especi-
ally Dhian Chand, a wiry little Phnjabi, whose work
at centre forward had N.S.W. guessing while he
piled up seven goals. Another heavy scorer was
Captain Bellchamber, of the K.G.O. Sikhs. The
outstanding feature of the winners' play was the
perfect timing of their hitting, which got great
pace on the ball. They made much use of a push
stroke that sent the ball slipping over the turf
like a rifle bullet. The Ma Staters stuck to their
uphill job well; in hitting and ball-control they
were clumsy by comparison with their conquerors, but
Floekart did well in goal, and Hogg, Craig and
Gray were always at it.
* * * *
With Collins and Hendry still unavailable,
Australia pulled up.her socks for the Fourth Test
at Manchester. Taylor, after his long spell of bat-
ting ineffectiveness, was dropped for Ponsford;
otherwise the team was the same which took the
field at Lords. The step evoked some adverse criti-
cism from Australian correspondents at the cricket
front, directed not at POnsford’s inclusion but at
Taylor’s dxit. It was contended, with some justice,
that Andrews or Ryder, both of whom have been
disappointing of late, should have been stood down
befqre one of the surest and speediest of fields who
may find his true batting form at any moment. There
were .three changes in the English side. Ernest
Tyldfesley, whose batting has been a feature of the
season in- county cricket—he has scored seven cen-
turies in succession—replaced Chapman. The sub-
stitution of a sound plodder for a dashing hitter
looks a dubious policy if games are to be won, but
apparently some one had to go and Chapman’s field-
ing is said to have lost soifte of its brilliancy. Root
reappeared, and Stevens, who scored a century for
Middlesex against the visitors early in the tour and
ranks as a useful change bowler, was promoted to
international honors; Macaulay and Geary wept out.
The bowling gained something in variety, but if
battkig prospects Were improved at all it was only
in stolidness.
Carr lost the toss and Bardsley took Wood full with
him to the wickets, but the crowd that packed Old
Ttadford on Saturday saw only seven minutes’ plsfy
and 10 balls bowled. Then the rain came down in
earnest. Before resumption on Monday the English
captain was down with tonsilitis and the selectors
had perforce to make a Hobson’s choice of Hobbs as
leader. Though precedent and cricket etiquette were
shattered thereby, the only; amateur in the team
was a novice in Tests. The wicket was true, but it
was not Bardsley’s day. He went with the score at
29, after a shaky opening, lifting a poor ball from
Stevens into Tyldesley’s safe hands at square leg.
Then Woodfull and Macartney once more-proved their
quality irr time of trial by adding 192 for the second
wicket. Idle latter supplied the sparkle and the
former the steadiness ; if he keeps his fcrmi he may
well be Australia’s opening. batsman for many a
year to come. Three figures went up in 120 -minutes
and the second century iii 210 minutes. Macartney
went at 221. bowled by Root for 105. It was his
third sucr,essife|i;century in Test matches, a record
only previously Obtained by Sutcliffe with Gilligan’s
side, and included 14 fours. Woodfull scored his 117
much more sed°trly, but his second three-figure
achievement in Test cricket was every bit as valu-
able.
The second-wicket stand put Australia on velvet
before tea-time on Mondav. but the subsequent dis-
play was mediocre. Neither Andrews nor Ryder
reached double figures, and Richardson failed alto-
gether for once. With 23 from Ponsford and 34
from Gregory the total stood at 322 for 8 wickets
at the close of play on Monday. Root dismissed
four batsmen and Stevens three; the other wicket
fell to Kilner. Tate, the only English bonier whose
place in the side has been assured from the start
after the reputation he established in Australia, has
been singularly unsuccessful so far. Even before
it was certain that the match would result in an-
other draw, a quite unexpected argument began as
to whether the last of the series is to be played out
regardless of time or limited to five days. Certainly
almost everybody in Australia thought the rubber
had to be decided by the final game if the others
were inconclusive, but Syd. Smith, the manager, says
that a five-days’ limit was always implied. It is
an amazing thing that this eleventh-hour favoring
of a time limit, however liberal it be, should come
from the Australian camp.
Manager Smith, it is clear, is much more of a
potential storm centre and source of friction than
a man in his position should be. Some of his
comments on English selectors’ tactics, whether dis-
torted or not, have been tactless and superfluous.
But that is nothing to the storm now raging about
him on this side, where he has not only lost his
position as Gordon’s delegate to the N.S.W. Cricket
Association, but his seat on the Australian Board oi:
Control. By grace of the Junior Union he is still
on the Association, but when that body named its
delegates to the Board of Control Smith was not
among them. The man has done capital work for
Australian cricket on the administrative side, but
apparently among those who have been most closely
associated with him he has awakened a feeling of
hostility that entirely outweighs the appreciation.
The exclusion of lielleway from the Australian team
has obviously something to do with it, although
whether Smith can be rightly saddled with any of
the responsibility for that gross blunder is another
question.
“Matahari”: R. A. Oxlade, W. C. Bull and Tom
Howard are the N.S.W.C.A.’s delegates to the new
Board of Control. The Association has a credit
balance of £28,850 —something to whoop about.
It ought to spend some of it in encouraging country
cricket and trying to dig up another Bill Howell
and Tom McKibbin. With Gregory a spent force,
Everett infirm, Scott in S. Aus. and Mailey booked
for retirement, N. S. Wales will need a new lot of
bowlers and the country is the place to look for
them. There is nothing startling on the metropolitan
landscape, that is certain.
* « * *
Adelaide cricketers have been “approached”
by the Cricket Council of M.L. for a tour, to last
from mid-January to the end of March, the idea
being that the team should cross from Sydney after
its match against N.S.W. The invitation names
the two Richardsons, Grimmett, Scott and Pritchard
as expected; and Rymill, Gun, Alexander and
Schneider (last season’s migrant from Victoria) look
equally certain for the tour —if they can find the time.
* # * *
“Coot”: Three thousand optimists are
patiently waiting to be admitted to membership of
the Melbourne Cricket Club. During the last six
years only one new town member has been added
to the elect. The club has decided to pull down the
present members’ pavilion, which accommodates only
750 —it was erected 40 years ago—and put up a
structure with accommodation for 3000. When this
is completed new members will be admitted. A new
public stand with seats for about 10,000 is in course
of erection; it is expected to be completed in time
for the football finals.
* * * *
The Rugby League games in Sydney last
Saturday supplied some reversals of form. When
Glebe and South Sydney reached half-time with
the scores 5 all, it looked as if the in-and-out
Reds were going to repeat their first-round victory
over the premiers. South found itself in the
second half, however; playing with rare dash and
combination, it piled up points and won by 29
to 5. Eastern Suburbs beat University, 31 —12,
to the students’ pained surprise; the ex-Union full-
back, Toby, at centre, did much to bring about
the unexpected -win. North Sydney stoushed St.
George by 9 to 5, and inconsistent Balmain had to
take the knock from Newtown, which scored 8 to 3.
'The Union competition saw Glebe-Balmain well
beaten, 22—12, by Randwiek, for which Bowers
was in rare form; University,'minus Ross and Fin-
lay, the representative back and forward, made hacks
of Manly, 32—10; and Western Suburbs won, 17 —
13, from Y.M.C.A. in a game notable for the acci-
dental knoeking-out of the referee. Granville, the
champion metropolitan Soccer team, was kicked out
of the Gardiner Cup competition by Adamstown,
9 goals to 2. Truiv a fearful walloping.
* * « •
Weakness in the goal-kicking department
was responsible for the defeat of the Westralian
League footballers who played S. Aus. in Adelaide
recently. The defect was remedied when the Jarrah-
landers met Victoria’s best (or first) XVIII at
Perth on Saturday, and at the end of the third
quarter the home team had 9 goals 5 behinds to
the visitors’ 4 gofils 11 behinds. In the last
quarter Vie. made a great attempt to pull the match
out of the fire, but the Westralians ran out winners
by 3 points—®9 to 60.
Vic.’s second XVIII spread itself over N.S.W. and
the playing area on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
The Light Blhes never had a hope. They were game,
but they had neither pace, nor marking skill, nor
accuracy in kicking, nor system. And the last
counted' for most and is what they need most. At
the end Vic. owned 128 points; Ma, 48. Of the
visitors, Leak, Richardson, Davies and McKoy were
most in the pictui-e, but their individual brilliance
•was mere wasted effort against the Dark Blues’
system.
• • * *
The amateur golf championship of South
Aus., at Seaton, was overshadowed by the fact that
the open championship of Australia is due there
almost immediately. The Nettlefolds, father and
son, from Tasmania, were the only visitors compet-
ing. Both qualified for the final eight, Legh Winser
(as usual), 149, and L. Nettlefold, 150, being well
ahead of the rest. In the knock-out matches, the
latter beat his father and also Dr. Nott, ultimately
meeting Winser, who had beaten Forbes in the
semi-final. Had the Tasmanian’s putting been equal
to his driving, he would have returned to the Speck
with the title; as it was, the steadier Winser won
3 up and 1 to play. The ladies’ championship went
to Miss Lil Gordon, Australian champion three years
back. The weather was bad, and the play erratic;
but a splendid 80 (which neither she nor anybody
else could approach in the other two rounds) brought
her home with a gross 266 to the 266 of Mrs
W. F. Gardiner.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A team of French boxers was accorded a civic
reception at the Sydney Town Hall on Monday. One
of the speakers was Justice Minister McKell.”
Puzzled Ratepayer:
“Who are these like stars appearing? Why the
frequent bursts of cheering,
Pop of corks and pleasant clink of glasses, too?”
Enthusiastic Alderman :
“Visitors of mark and talent from our war-time
Ally gallant
Whom our city pays the honor that is due.”
Puzzled Ratepayer:
“Leading lights in art or science? Towering literary
giants
Who disclaim their fame with deprecating shrugs?
Generals to whom we proffer what we might to
Foeh or Jo tire V ’
Enthusiastic Alderman :
“Stop yer kiddin’! Can’t you see the blokes are
pugs?”
Puzzled Ratepayer:
“Bunch of bruisers?”
Enthusiastic Alderman :
“Reg’lar bevy. There’s a middle and a heavy,
And a tried and trusty welter, and a light,
And a neat and nirfible feather. _ Take the sluggers
all together
Their equivalent in wildcats they could fight."
Puzzled Ratepayer (dryly):
“And that slightly listed nose is warrant for it, one
supposes,
Not to specify the cauliflowered lugs?"
Enthusiastic Alderman :
“Sure. They come diplomas wearing that attest their
deeds of daring,
Always carry their credentials, dinkum pugs.
“Hear MeGuinness with emotion welcome them from
’cross the ocean
To cement the ties of friendship with their blood.
Hear McKell acclaiin the glory to be won in combat
gory
By the wattlesnoozer landing with a thud
And the punch that jars the kidney. Don’t they
make you proud o’ Sydney ?
Genuine merit to her breast she always hugs.”
Puzzled Ratepayer:
“Giving high achievement credit is her forte?”
Enthusiastic Alderman :
“Too right, you’ve said it.
Raise the rafters with a tiger for the pugs!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Westclox
REDUCED PRICES
Biack Bird
13
K?
C.lo-Bcn
® sSS® ffl2p!®a\'» 4rt
Big Ben
Luminous
Jack o Lantern
16/.
Baby Ben
Luminous
They glow the time
WHEN you Wake up at night and wonder what
time it is, there is a big satisfaction in
being able to glance at a clock and see.
To enable you to do this, the numerals and
hands on the Westclox pictured above are coated
with a thick radium-luminous compound that glows
in the dark and shows the time even on the darkest
night.
This feature more titan makes up for the
extra cost.
Westclox Big Ben, 17'/6; Baby Ben, 17/6; Sleep-
Meter, 10 6; America, 8 6; Blue Bird, 9 6; Pocket
Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 16/-; Big
Ben Luminous, 25 -; Baby Ben Luminous, 25/-;
Glo-Ben, 12 6; Black Bird Luminous, 13/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
!sr\
AM AM I
SHAMPOOS
Instead of a soapy
shampoo odour, Amami
leaves a perfume, like
flowers, in the hair. You
can buy your Amami
at any Chemist’s, Hair-
dresser’s or big Stores.
No.I for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fair Hair
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
Đ
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
It .you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
A. GENTS: GUYATT & CO., Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
D
Shell Red Can
Until the appearance of the Shell Red Can,
motorists desiring to carry an emergency
supply of motor spirit had to purchase a
4-gallon tin at packed price. Now, however,
the Shell Red Can enables the carrying of a
2*gallon reserve of Pure Shell at BULK PRICE.
Get the Shell Red Can to-day !
ML
rs
&
ivti
sr \
( I
iig
Have it when
you need it !
5158
THE INKY WAY.
Mrs. Simpson (“YVeeroona”), whose rare
but graphic factory and other sketches have
given joy to Bulletin readers for a good
many years past, is having the best of them
put into a little book to be published by
E. A. Yidler.
111-health that threatened worse things
drove F. M. Cntlaek out of a S. M. Herald
leader-writer's chair last year to take up the
practice of law at Renmark (S.A.). But
the new life will not hold him if the present
improvement in his health lasts—an improve-
ment which looks like a complete recovery.
“Cosmo”: Goulburn Evening Penny
Post is another of the very few Australian
newspaper offices with which three genera-
tions of one family have been connected:
and they still own it. The late Thomas
Daniel, founder of the dynasty, came from
England to join John Fairfax, and worked
for a time in the S. M. Herald office.
E. J. Brady is following up his “Australia,
Unlimited,” which was chiefly interested in
the wealth that could be cut or, coaxed out
of Australian soil, with a book that will
deal with the development of the continent’s
manufactures. It isn’t going to be “statis-
tics and stodge” ; Brady can see romance in
most things, and he has no difficulty in find-
ing it in the birth and growth of most Aus-
tralian factories.
Ada Cambridge, although not an Austra-
lian writer —she was born in England, and
did not come to Australia until after her
marriage with the Rev. George Cross, and
her literary creations were never acclimatised
—turned out in this country a tremendous
mass of work which English publishing firms
and magazines accepted readily. Actually
she was better known in her heyday as a
magazine contributor than as a novelist,
although she was responsible for a shelf full
of books; she also produced four books of
verse which have been forgotten. Most Aus-
tralians who saw her name in their imported
books and journals had no idea that she
was a local inhabitant; but she has lived
in Victoria since 1870, and it was in Mel-
bourne she has just: died, aged 82.
“Estate Agent”: After passing through
T don't know how many hands, The Bulle-
tin of March 11 reached me only to-day
( July 23) ; and now is it too late to set
“Ancient Laudboomer” right in one par-
ticular? He says “the sale of the old Argus
office in Collins-street will pay for the new
one in Elizabeth-street, and leave a bit over
for the Argus pension fund.” No. 197 Col-
lins-street, which the Argus lately vacated,
was never owned by the Argus proprietors.
Next to No. 197 are large premises known
as Cambridge Buildings. The Argus people
owned these. Before the war they refused
to renew leases, as they intended to build
on that site. A young architect looked over
England and America to get hints, but the
war came, and Cambridge Buildings still
stand. I believe the present owners are
the Taits and George Tallis —these were the
premises the Argus people sold some time
last year.
“Mars”: My remuneration for occasional
paragraphs contributed to The Bulletin
had previously consisted of postal notes;
recently, however, the publication of five
pars, published in quick succession brought
me a cheque for £1 4s. I handed it over
the bar of a well-known Adelaide hotel in
payment for a round of drinks. The bar-
maid, not having seen a Bully cheque
before, was dubious, and passed it into the
boss. In no time he returned with the
cheque, which was soon the centre of interest.
Everybody in the bar had to handle it, with
the ultimate result that I found myself
shouting for all hands and the boss. The
end of it was that I received back 2s. 6d.
in change, and Bung said he would have
the cheque framed and hung in the bar.
I hope all future payments are made by
postal note. If they aren’t, I know where
A LIVE LANGUAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Counsel said he did not know what it meant; but,
then, lie learned a new' word nearly every time he
came to Fitzroy.”
The languages we stewed in youth, the classic tomes
we read
(Oft-times in cribs, to tell the truth) were usually
dead.
Hebraic words the prophets used, and phrases almost
God’s
Are only heard in terms confused when bookies call
the odds.
The many vowelied Greek, I trow, has suffered some
eclipse,
Euripides contents him now with odes to fish and
chips.
No Latin roots will ever thrive among the hoi polloi:
A lingo has to be alive to satisfy Fitzroy.
Some praise the piquant Latin speech, Italian, Span-
ish, French.
And guttural Teuton tongues can each admirers still
entrench.
We know that Swiss is obsolete and Russian hard to
learn,
And Gaelic sounds so indiscreet, to English we return.
Hiit where’s the best of English heard, in accent, tone
and stress ?
Some claim in Dublin it’s interred, and some in Inver-
ness.
No matter what professors say ; for verbal power and
joy
The livest 1 English heard to-day is spoken in Fitzroy.
Kids lisp it at their mother's knee, then seek the foot-
ball ground
To learn the polished repartee skilled linguists hurl
around.
The purple passage is their pride, “le mot juste"
their desire,
And idioms diversified young scholars soon acquire.
Now lords of language after dark their tales of love
do tell,
With eloquence intense and stark to charm each
demoiselle.
To hear our noble English tongue, whose beauties
never cloy,
Philologists should go among the pushes of Fitzroy.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


a
i
■
N
m
VA'N/
• i'
R
/■-^i
%j! •
!Ll
sir 1
V-r
BEALE-AMPICO
tyhe c Perfecb
The Beale Piano
The Beale Piano has reached the zenith of
its fame. After establishing a remarkable re-
putation in the land of its production it has
advanced to a world-renown.
Her Majesty the Queen, pleased with its
tone and impressed by its workmanship has
bought the Beale for Buckingham Palace.
The New South Wales Conservatorium of
Music possess nineteen Beale instruments.
Leading Educational institutions use it for
the training of their students. The Presby-
terian Ladies’ College owns twenty-three.
In thirty years over 60,000 Beale instru-
ments have been sold.
Beale Pianos gained every award at the
Franco-British Exhibition in 1908, and
they’re even better to-day.
Every important concert pianist in Australia
has spoken in the highest and most enthusi-
astic terms of the Beale Piano,
It is eminently fitted by reason of great
depth and richness of tone to meet the exact-
ing demands of the concert platform. Be-
cause of its mellowness and elegance it is
the ideal instrument for the drawing-room.
The BeaU’Ampico
The Beale Piano combines with the Ampico
in the achievement of an almost-despaired-
of success in the re-enactment of great piano
performances. The Ampico, lacking the
powerful yet subtle co-operation of the Beale,
would be precluded from the achievement
of its remarkable results.
But in association with the celebrated Beale,
the Ampico is granted a medium of expres-
sion commensurate with its own powers. It
moves from triumph to triumph in preserv-
ing for perpetual repetition the finest efforts
of the greatest artists. Such performance is
that of a master always at his best—of him,
himself, in very essence and presence.
As"unto the bow the cord is”; as the haft is
to the blade, so is the Beale to the Ampico
and the Ampico to the Beale the Perfect
Partnership.
Exchange your Piano
Any piano that you now own will entitle
you to an allowance in buying a Beale-
Ampico. Convenient terms can be arranged.
Descriptive literature post free on request.
The Ampico
The Ampico is not a Player-Piano. It was
developed for those who are unsatisfied by
player-pianos.
The Ampico is capable of the one great
thing exact and perfect reproduction
in technic and volume —of the playing
of the world’s greatest pianists. So perfect
is its achievement that only a special word
—re-enactment —has been found adequate
to describe its performance.
The Ampico re-enacts with an amazing
fidelity all that mastery of interpretation—
from crashing chord to shadowy pianissimo
—that distinguishes great music from mere
sound.
Hear the Ampico
—for without hearing it you cannot appreci-
ate the marvel of its performance. The
Ampico - now in association with the Beale
Piano—may be heard at our George Street
Showrooms, Sydney, or any of the Branch
addresses as below. An inexhaustible store
of melody is yours to command with a Beale-
Ampico in the home the most modern
selection beside the musical treasures of
generations.
BEALE & COMPANY
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
LI MLITBD
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
B RAN CHE S : New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore. Newcastle, Goulbum. a Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Ad/dade. Western Australia: Thomson s Ltd. Perth, and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
D


m
m
In pure ribbed watermarked paper
'Army Club'
lO for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 for 3/9.
’ The flajos 1 *
CAVANDERS LTP
LONDON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Royal “Quality Street”
Palace “The Climax”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Royal “Gjve and Take”
Princess “Abie’s Dish Rose”
King’s “White Cargo”
Atiienasum “The Best People
Auditorium Chaliapin
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou . '■•••- Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
*
The art of Chaliapin is still drawing Mel-
bourne crowds to the Auditorium, and his
seventh concert on Saturday night found
the usual long caterpillar waiting to crawl
into the unreserved parts of the house.
Though our variable climate caused the
basso some hoarseness and coughing in the
beginning of the evening, he soon sang him-
self into fine voice, and the numbers that
he has made features of previous programmes
were splendidly rendered. Evidently the
star was in sombre mood,, for his first offer-
ings were of autumn, of leaves that mur-
mured sadly, of gloomy thoughts (Massenet’s
“Elegie”) and of winds that moaned. The
culmination was the beautiful Beethoven
“In Questa Tomba,” another of his songs
that the gramophone has brought to millions
of us. More cheerful themes came in an
aria from “The Barber,” “The Horn,” the
“komik” Government Clerk, of course “The
Volga Boat Song” and other favorites. The
exquisite way in which Chaliapin sustains
a note is bewildering; he can invest it with
more gradations of tone color than another
artist will get in a whole phrase. Persistent
demands for more at the close of the concert
resulted in the singer giving his favorite
little Russian folk-song, for which there is
no manuscript. Accompanist Rabinowitsh
could not be persuaded to tackle it, so, with
“Excuse playing,” the mighty singer sat
down to the piano and did the job himself—
without lowering his pianist’s colors. Violin-
ist Hilda Sutton played some pleasant pieces
pleasantly; Max Rabinowitsh contributed
Levitzki’s Waltz, and, to retain the atmo-
sphere, added a composition of his own in
two old Vienna waltzes. Chaliapin will be
at the Auditorium to-night (Thursday) and
again on Saturday.
* * * Hi
When Pavlova’s charity matinffe at
Melbourne was announced for 2.30 on
Friday, the Firm reckoned without the Rail-
way Department. That hour found Pav.
and a packed house waiting for the scenery
and clothes which were held up in a much-
delayed second division of the Sidney
express. Phil Finkelstein put the case to
the throng and an SO.S was sent to the
Tivoli for Cahill and Brooke to help fill in
the waiting period. It was not till nearly
four o’clock that the crimson velvet rose on
a garden scene with the star and her com-
pany ready to do their darnedest. The pro-
gramme was mostly a potpourri of items
that had proved most popular here, but
“Autumn Leaves,” the “Blue Danube
Waltz” and the final erotic “Bacchanal”
were seen for the first time. The hurried
performance will stand among the most
exciting of the little genius’s Melbourne
appearances.
*# * *
Melbourne loses “The Best People” on
Thursday, when the show transfers to Syd-
ney after 14 weeks in the South. “The
Hawaiians,” with the incomparable Queenia,
will begin a return season at the Athemeum
on August 7. With the close of the Gilbert
and Sullivan season, “Tell Me More” goes
over to His Majesty’s on Saturday. The
Royal stage will then be occupied by Harry
Green and Roy Rene for a fortnight’s return
of “Give and Take.” The King’s will be
occupied on August 14 by “The Sentimental
Bloke,” with Fred Macdonald in the lead,
Dulcie Cherry as Doreen and Bert Bailey in
the role of Ginger Mick. “White Cargo”
will be dumped into the Royal until Tonde-
leyo ceases to allure.
** * *
Further acquaintance with “Tell Me
More,” at Melbourne Royal, reveals more
clearly that a lot of the hilarious success of
the show is won by Dorothy Lena, who
romps through much nonsense with George
Gee. A hit of the piece is “Have You
Heard?” an interlude furnished by Gus
Bluett and George Gee, presumably intro-
duced to fill in between changes of scenery,
but a stayer. As with most of these comedies
there is in the music much that has been
mourned before, but it’s a bright show. At
His Majesty’s, whither the piece wanders
on Saturday, there are likely to be larger
audiences still.
* # sji
“Abie’s Irish Rose” still blooms at the
Princess (Melb.), and yields oodles of attar
to the Ward-Fuller treasury.
Magician Cliefalo rings down the curtain
on his mysteries at the Palate (Melb.) on
Saturday. Palermo, his partner in magic,
and the quaint Irving Midgets al?o say fare-
well. That fine little dancer Phyllis du
Barry, who was lately the attraction of the
cabaret at a smart dance resort of Sydney,
was added to the bill for its last fortnight.
sjc *
The orchestra that supported the mid-
winter concert of Melbourne Uni. Con. stu-
dents at the Auditorium gave soloists who
played movements of concertos a pretty
rough spin. Ilermia Barton, whose offering
was the violin concerto of Bach, was a
sufferer ; likewise pianist Lillian Finster and
the Brahms .Concerto in D Minor. Victor
Stephensen gave a good performance of the
last section of the Schumann Concerto in
A Minor, his brilliant achievement actually
carrying the body of instrumentalists along
with him. Morfyn Jones gathered some
honors for her nimble Chopin Scherzo in B
Minor, and Leo Chase and his fiddle seemed
on good terms. Of the songbirds Roma
Driver, caught this Showman’s ear with a
promising contralto in the chrysalis stage.
* * * s]:
J. Beresford Fowler’s Little Art co. made
quite good in Bernard Shaw’s “Major Bar-
bara,” which had a one-night’s presentation
last week at the Melbourne Playhouse. Clever
Ruby May, who had the leading role of the
Salvation Army officer, landed more laurels;
she. had a trustworthy helper in Mostyn
Wright as Andrew Undershaft, the maker
of armaments. Claude Thomas was fitted
with an agreeable part, and Beresford Fowler
(Bill Walker) was also in the picture. The
piece would stand repetition.
* * *
Frankie Heath is this week’s star at Mel-
bourne Tivoli. She is a pretty American,
who gleaned armfuls of wattle at her first
appearance, and made good with clean, humor-
ous numbers; on Monday she had to go on
singing until she was voiceless. Capital fun
and dancing are provided by first-appearers
from London, Christo and Strand; also Ben
Osborne and Nellie Perryer. with their Ford.
Cahill and Brooke are still going strong,
and Niobe splashes cheerfully in her tank.
# # *
Melbourne Bijou Theatre patrons a,re pre-
paring to give joyous welcome to Jim Gerald
and his revue company. Meantime the head-
lines include Enrico Palmetto, a Danish
tenor wfio uncorks opera, and Claude Dam-
pier ; and the “Only Me Knows Why” com-
petition is among other diverting turns.
* 5f5 # *
The Majestic (Melb. ) this week has humor-
ous film-fare in “RecUiot Tires,” which fea-
tures popular Monty Blue and Patsy Ruth
Miller. Matheson Lang is the star of the
accompanying all-British drama, “White
Slippers ” which has all the superior virtues
of its kind. A recent sweep in the film-world
brought Hoyt’s in with the Associated
Theatres. A fascinating burlesque upon the
Wild West as seen by scenario writers is
the draw at Hoyt’s De Luxe this week; and
Peter B. Kyne’s “Rustling for Cupid,” with
Anita Stewart and George O’Brien as leads,
is also on the programme.
“TELL ME MORE” AT MELBOURNE
MAJESTY’S.
Gus Bluett, as Billy, goes to the Three
Arts Ball.
A Melbourne lady in sombre mood: —
Clarice Beckett's show at the Athenaeum Gallery
consists of about 60 canvases. The voting artist
still follow's closely in the footsteps of her teacher,
Max Meldruni, but most of her w'ork is a long way
ahead of that hung at a former exhibition." This
time she shows mainly sombre landscapes, with some
flower studies. Grey skies, fogs, wet days, autumn
and the twilights of dawn and sunset appeal most
to her, and there is no stark sunlight in her pictures.
Yet she gets Australia on to her canvases very
effectively in such efforts as “Blue Sea, Rickett’s
Point,” and “A Wet Evening, Beachn'oad.” Sales
on opening day were heartening, and the show will
see the month out.
sfc s>; sis
After running gaily for four months at
the St. James, Nanette is warning her
friends that she is not a fixture. Her Maj-
esty’s, however, is not likely to part with
the elegant “Rose Marie” for some time to
come. After to-morrow “Quality Street”
will have but two weeks at the Royal;
“What Every Woman Knows” is to be tokl
at that address oh August 14. The Dot
and Post co.’s stay at the Palace is limited
to a similar season; and, having been col-
lared for the King’s, Melbourne, “The Senti-
mental Bloke” will not appear at the Pitt-
street address for some time to come. An-
other alteration of arrangements will dis-
“QUALITY STREET,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Mary Jerrold as Susan Throssel, and Brian
Ahern as Valentine Brown.
placfe “Our Liz” from the G.O.H. earlier
than was expected. “The Best People” will
open there on Saturday week (August 7>.
The Carrolls announce it as “the jolliest,
merriest, snappiest play of the day”; but
it is a pity no best people could have been
found in Australia to supply the goods.
*$ # *
Pavlova’s dash into Sydney Majesty’s for
a matinee last Thursday—the performance
filled in the time between the arrival of the
Brisbane and the departure of the Mel-
bourne express—gathered in £l2OO for the
cause she has in her heart. The cash goes
to the “Save the Children Fund” for sufferers
in or from Russia.
** * *
The Sydney Philharmonic played a trump
when it billed “Aida” as its attraction last
week. The colossal work of Verdi’s old age
never fails to attract lovers of the massed
effect. Neither chorus nor orchestra can
claim that the composer treated it as a Cin-
derella. Into both he wove as many colors
and effects as the loving father of Joseph
wove into the coat of the child of his old
age. The Philharmonic production was one
of the finest in the society’s later annals.
Under Joseph Bradley’s direction the orches-
tra rustled into delicate effects or swept to
tremendous climaxes. Sometimes the instru-
ments were a bit too exuberant for the solo-
ists, and once or twice proved overwhelming
for soprano Helena Stewart. For this singer,
however, the performance was in the nature
of a triumph. She sang without the score,
and gave to her rendering a vivid sympathy
and dramatic expression rarely heard in con-
cert renderings of opera. Her voice, too, has
purity of tone and a rich quality. The
Amonasro (Alfred Cunningham) was more
convincing than the Radames (Lance 'Jef-
free), who sang like a meditative philosopher
rather than an inspired soldier-lover. Alice
Prowse, as the unlucky-in-love Amneris. in-
vested her Princess role with subdued
haughtiness and a pleasing contralto, Oliver
King as Ramphis wrapped an obvious inter-
pretation in a good voice, and Russell Rix
suggested more the wraith than the living
presence of an Egyptian king.
sj: * *
The management’s idea that the dark cloud
which has settled on Sydney Ti. oli will show
a fine silver lining seems well justified. The
engagement of the Southern Plantation
Revue Co. is one of this year’s big bookings,
aii/i* as far as the co. has gone, it supports the
judgment of Harry Muller, who now looks
for new acts in America. All but two of
this large bunch of cullud folk have feet
that can dazzle an audience; and they all
have, besides, from good to passable voices;
two have something extra. .Toe Sheftel,
soprano Minta Cato and “Ukulele Bob” Wil-
liams are the stars—the last a breezy com-
edian and versatile musician. With Lee
White and Clay Smith, Decima and Eddie
McLean, and the humorous Monroes, the
programme is exceptionally strong.
❖ ❖ v
Half a year at Fuller’s Theatre has so
established Jim Gerald’s Sydney popularity
that the announcement of his farewell made
it difficult to find spare seats during the
last week. Had James been a world-famous
star instead of merely a popular broad
comedian he could hardly have expected any-
thing better than the send-off given him on
Friday night. The somewhat chaotic pro-
ceedings finished up with a portentous stage
ceremony, in which Bon Fuller, looking
like a theatrical Csesar, signed a treaty with
Gerald for a 10-years’ engagement; and the
excited audience babbled into the street with
the sensation of having witnessed one of the
Great Events of History. After those hectic
proceedings, even the slick “Midnight Fro-
lics,” which appeared on Saturday, seemed
rather tame.
** * *
A quiet week in Adelaide, but with Pav-
lova on the doorstep; Percy Grainger finish-
ing his concert season, greatly patronised,
and all too short; Harry Green and Roy
Rene at the Royal in “Give and Take,” an
American absurdity, sometimes farcical, but
carried off by humorous dialogue (largely
Jewish) and brisk acting. At Wondergraph
“Scaramouche,” cloak and sword, revolution
and romance. At West’s Gloria Swanson in
a story with a moral; at the York a Pony
Express of America’s Wild West, with Betty
Compson. Also George Wallace is landing
a merry team at the Majestic, and the Prince
of Wales (Bill Anderson) has a good old
“Voices of London,” brought to some extent
up to date.
** * *
An orgy of Art Shows: —
The Sydney Art Salon, Fullers’ Buildings, has a
mixed show of Australian and Continental etchings
and paintings, into which, as a make-weight, are
thrown a very small Rembrandt drawing, “The
Beggars,” and an ancient landscape by A. A. Wilson:
One is less impressed by these than may be intended.
Some large plates by the Dutch artists Brandenburg
and D. Harting show work that is even more stolid
than solid, although the quality of the water in
seme of Harting’s 10 pictures is good. The work
of Australians, marked by imagination and freedom
of treatment, shows out well against these more pon-
derous works, although Norman Lindsay’s two, ‘‘Moon-
shine” and “The Bride,” are in a manner which he
has largely abandoned. Lionel of the same family
has three agreeable contributions; one can feel the
wind moving in Sydney Long’s graceful “Tree
Stuffy”; a group of trees are decoratively used in
Ellis St. John’s “Roadniakcrs’ Camp”; and G. H.
Basket and J. H. Dowd take the eye amongst the
numerous others. Of the 11 items in color, Henry
Fidler’s vigorous horses in “On the Quay” are
most impressive ; W. A. Bowring gets an intrigu-
ing intentness in the poise of “The Bachelor,” who
is forced to do his own mending; and there is quality
in the “Burnham” wood scene of Noble Barlow.
Much surprisingly good work, considering that it
is given only as a students’ show, is in the exhibi-
tion of the pupils of the Sydney Art School at the
Queen Victoria Buildings; some of it does not need
the “considering.” Altogether there are 200 pictures,
and the landscape (No. 159) by Frank Cox, the
study of a girl in red (No. 126) by Herbert Bad-
ham, and work by D. Crossman (No. 149 especially),
H. Ironside (No. 138), D. R. Dundas and W. Dobell,
are most attractive. The water-color section is domi-
nated by R. Fizelle; but this artist is rather a
graduate than a student. A good feature of the
show is the obvious endeavor to reach individuality,
even if it does lead to some grotesqueries. A selec-
tion committee of the students decided upon the
pictures to be hung, and they did their work very
well.
The modern flapper, with her lack of drapery, is
no use to Thea Proctor. Having fiffly decided that
the days of crinolines, flowing veils and haberdashery
which the wind can catch and swirl are the best
from the decorative point of view, she makes full
use of them in her painting on silk for fans or
mere decoration. The painter has an appealing sense
of color harmonies —a sense which revels where
golden peacocks and Bft. women are permissible;
how dainty the finished article can be is shown
in the silk fan, “The Return.” But the methods
do not work well in plain water-colors, although
some measure of success is achieved in the picture
of a red-headed girl lying in the shade of a tree in
a lush meadow, which represents “Australian Spring' 1
(No. 28). The drawings which help out the show
are slight but faithful, “Hera in a Crinoline” (No.
36) and “Portrait” being well poised; and there
is vitality in a charcoal study, “Dancer” (No. 50).
A delight in vivid color and contrasts secured
mainly by morning or evening sun is the main fea-
ture of Vida Lahey’s exhibition at the Macquarie
Galleries; but the spirit of adventure leads her away
occasionally. In “Roses” (No. 20), for instance,
there are pale petals in surroundings that make a
picture delightful in simplicity. “Early Spring” is
the most ambitious of the canvases, sharing pride
of place with a large girl at a tea-table, in which
the fuchsias are the most satisfying thing on the
bill. “The Quay, Evening” (No. 3), shows the glow
of passing light on the masts of a mass of small
vessels whose hulls are in cold shadow, and it is
effective; but it is amongst the smaller works —“Al
Fresco” (No. 4) and “A Gusty Day” (No. 7) for
instance— the artist gets her best effects.
(Continued on page 36.)


Miss Australia’s” Racket
The
“Masterstroke.”
As the finest example of an Australian-made Tennis Racket, a
“Masterstroke” was deemed a fitting and worthy gift to Miss Australia,
who is a keen and enthusiastic Tennis Player. Miss Mills will use this
Racket right throughout her great American tour. Thoroughly
dependable, beautifully balanced, gracefully shaped, a product
of expert craftsmen, the “Masterstroke” is truly the perfect Racket
77|6
*"i
m
The Britannic Improved Racket.
Unusual strength is the outstanding feature of this Racket.
Strung with dependable Gut, with shoulders bound with
tape and gut, and throat reinforced with greenhide.
Perfectly shaped and balanced and beautifully
finished, it is a Racket that stands in the front .
rank 55j m
The Lightning Improved Racket.
The ideal Racket for the average Player. Perfectly
balanced and of high-grade Ash, with concave throat
and shoulders reinforced with gut. Strung with
dependable English gut, it is capable of lasting
50-
service
The Hay market Selected Racket.
A Racket that is worthy of the skill of the greatest Tennis
Champion. Made of specially-selected English Ash,
bevelled frame, shoulders bound with gut, and throat
reinforced with greenhide. Without doubt it is the most
reasonably-priced high-grade Racket on the
market to-day . . 45 ”
The Haymarket Racket.
The perfect Racket for the Schoolboy or Schoolgirl.
Beautifully finished and dependable in every ,
way, it is value supreme at . oOj"
The Lee Monogram Racket.
Universally acknowledged as the world’s finest Tennis
Racket. In two qualities.
STANDARD MODEL 75/-
DE LUXE MODEL 85-
TENNIS BALLS.
AYRES' FAMOUS "UNION” STITCHLESS HARDCOURT BALLS.—A Special Hardcourt Ball. ... 2j4 each; 27/“
(We Pay Carriage.)
doz.
m
cx
a
m :
“Will Corry”
Autograph Golf Clubs.
Manufactured from specifications supplied by Mr. Will Corry, Professional Golf Champion of N.S.W.,
and fitted with A-Grade Hickory Shafts, with specially-prepared grips. Each Club is individually tested
and inspected by Mr. Corry and carries our guarantee. These Clubs have been quickly recognised by
some of the leading and most experienced Players in Australia as representing the highest standard
in the intricate art of Club-making.
BRASSIES, DRIVERS AND SPOONS ... . .
IRONS
IRONS, Extra Superior Quality
25'-
186
20/-
“JACK WHITE” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers 25/-
Irons 20/-
“JAMES BRAID” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers 25/-
Irons 20/ -
“WALTER HAGEN” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers 32/6
GIBSON'S STAR MAXWELL IRONS 17/6
MANCHO MAXWELL IRONS .
ANDERSENS’ STAINLESS & RUSTLESS CLUBS
BROWN CANVAS GOLF BAG.
Leather Fittings throughout
9/Zl
m /0Z
9/91
FAWN CANVAS GOLF BAG.
Superior Leather Fittings, cane supports, very light and
strong. Suitable Bag for Lady or Gentleman.
4\ inch .
5 inch
18/6
21/-
(We Pay Carriage.)
Free Practice
FOR GOLFERS
At the Golf Nets on our Roof Sports Ground.
ALL CLUBS AND BALLS SUPPLIED.
Golfers! Make the most of this unique offer as often as you please.
Golf Tuition
Strictly Private Lessons are given by Mr. Will Corry,
Professional Golf Champion of N.S.W., on our Roof
Sports Ground. The Fees are reasonable.
CRICKET CLUBS.
We liave just opened new stocks of Cricketing Materials for next Season’s play : and an invitation is extended to Club Secretaries and Cricketers
to inspect this display, which outrivals anything of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
o
id
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY. SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


*9
fer
©
m
texts
VELVET
snAVING STICK
S
Motorists * —
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Đ
StyWfJEfi Manll
-^7!
I
The TOP NOTCH ScotcM
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Buralarv, Five Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
What may be classed as patter in pictures
is introduced in the Potash and Perlmutter
film, “Partners Again,” at the Sydney
Lyceum. It is amusing enough; but the
other half of the programme, “The Happy
Ending,” is one of the productions that will
be stored in the memory when most films
are forgotten. This is an English adaptation
of lan Hay’s play; and, after the garish in-
teriors which delight the American producer,
the quiet elegance and comfort of a normal
English establishment in Berkshire, as well
as the other scenic surroundings, are very
restful. Fay Compton is the star, and
slightly too much is made of her; it leads
to a padding-out of the story, though this
feature is nowhere as glaring as in most
American pictures. History takes a knock-
out from comedy in “Hands Up” at Hoyt’s.
Both President Lincoln and Robert E. Lee,
commander of the Southern forces, send emis-
saries west to secure gold for their Civil War
coffers from a reported El Dorado ; and then
Raymond Griffith takes charge and turns
the intrigues for the gold between the rival
messengers into hilarious humor. “The
Other Woman’s Story” helps to fill up the
programme.
** * *
Its own audacious wit and wisdom, with
good acting by the Repertory people, carried
Shaw’s “Getting Married” through two
crowded evenings in Adelaide. He has
assembled, in a single family, a happily-
married bishop, a younger cleric to
whom marriage seems almost wicked,
a confirmed spinster (with persistent
admirer), a young couple about to wed
but frightened by what they read of the
perils, and a tired, middle-aged man with a
young wife whose ideals are admittedly
polygamous. Nobody but Shaw would have
made a play out of setting all these down to
a table to draft a model contract to replace
the present slipshod matrimonial system.
When they realise that they cannot agree on
any single clause, the author’s point is made
and the play is over; but unfortunately it
doesn’t stop. The silly last act introduces an
irrelevant coal-dealer’s wife (who is also
mayoress and clairvoyant) and the unwilling
fascination by her of a young aristocrat.
Still, it gave Ivy Stacey the chance to show
how she could grip an audience that had
manifestly been thinking of going home.
Among the men chief honors went to Basil
Harford as the eminently reasonable bishop
—mouthpiece of G,B.S. rather than of any
church —Frank Part as the tired husband,
and Charles Langley as a talkative lover.
$ %
From an Adelaide critic: —
Adelaide came to the Norman Lindsay show at
the Dunster Gallery with open purse. Within an
hour of the opening every picture was sold, and the
etchings were booked several deep—especially the
hard-faced pirate crew entitled “Panama.” In
different mood there is real humor in “The Audience”
of one imp or faun and numerous rabbits to a
solo dance on a hillside by night. The water-
colors are glorious, especially where the artist deals
with galleons. One of these pieces is the gem of
the show, with a glow of color worthy of Turner.
** * *
“A.G.M.’s” art-note from London: —
Australia is not largely represented in this year’s
Royal Academy. George Coates’s fine portrait of the
late Mrs. Gordon HaU is well hung, and James
■Quinn’s picture of Lady Coghlan is equally fortunate.
There is a landscape of great excellence, “An
Australian River,” by A. Henry Fullwood. Mrs.
Maud O’Reilly’s exhibit is a life-like laughing-jackass
in earthenware. The late Derwent Wood is repre-
sented by two sculptures—a half-size bronze statue
of “David,” and a head, the “Old Prize-fighter”—-
and for the first time by a picture, a Welsh land-
scape, which shows him to have been no less gifted
with the brush than the chisel. There is a
characteristic portrait bust of Sydney’s old favorite,
Sir Edward Wallington. John Soutcfs picture “The
Breakdown,” which showed a nigger sitting on a
fallen statue of “Minerva” and playing a saxophone
to which a nude white girl is dancing a jazz, has
been replaced by a portrait of Lady Diana Duff
Cooper by the late J. J. Shannon. Many artists do
not agree with the protest which the Colonial
Secretary voiced in getting Souter’s work removed.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Aubrey Mather, who
toured Australia with Gertrude Elliott, has
been playing a clergyman in the successful
comedy, “The Rescue Party,” by Phyllis
Morris, at the Comedy. Few could have
larger qualifications of a sort for the job, for
Mather has three uncles who are bishops—
Sheffield, Sydney and Antigua. Two others
are canons, his only brother is Archdeacon
of Grahamstown (S. Africa), his father was
Prebendary of Wells and he himself was edu-
cated for the Church. The comedy is the
first effort of Miss Morris, who went straight
on to the stage from Cheltenham College.
There are many fine touches of humor and
satire in it, and Miss Morris’s next play will
be eagerly awaited. Marie Nev was in the
cast.
Poverty
Point
"WHERE ARE YOU THINKING OF TAKING ME, DEARIET"
“Nero”: Gregan McMahon’s next pro-
duction at the Sydney Repertory Theatre
will, I hope, be “Six Australian Actors in
Search of a Job,” by a new author, Goto-
billyho.
“Caul Boy”: The wash-up of the G. and
S. season in Melbourne leaves patriots and
lovers of the beautiful and true both elated
and a trifle sad. Support for the venture
was forthcoming in considerable measure,
notwithstanding competition from several
exceptionally big draws and certain initial
mistakes which don’t matter now. The be-
lated resurrection of the veteran Slapoffski
as conductor repaired one bad error, and the
season ended on a high, glad and enthusiastic
note. Conspicuous in the crowds were youth-
ful shingled heads, showing that the Gilbert
humor isn’t as incomprehensible now as
some critics assert. Special praise goes to
Slapoffski and wonderful Minnie Everett.
That indefatigable lady was ballet-mistress,
producer and ring-master to the chorus for
each of the eight operas, which ran altogether
15 weeks. She had less than seven days in
which to massage each production into con-
dition, and it is a marvel that the result
wasn’t more than a mere gymnastic feat.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Gladys Moncrieff had
a high compliment paid her in the first week
in June, when Daly’s Theatre asked her to
take up the leading rOle in “Yvonne,” which
bad been rather indifferently received. The
cast, which is hardly up to the Daly stand-
ard, has been severely handicapped by a very
feeble libretto. Gladys went to see the show,
and in very spirited but courteous terms let
the directors know that she could not walk
into a failure with her eyes wide open. The
artiste she was asked to replace is a promi-
nent London star. Miss Moncrieff and her
husband, whose spats are as correct as those
of Prime Minister Bruce, have taken a flat
in the exclusive quarter of Cavendish-square.
Gene Gerrard, the Irish comedian, has been
put into the cast to give it a lift; but in
the Australian girl’s opinion, even with Ger-
ard to back her up there was little prospect
nf CIIPPPCfQ
“Wigs”’: “Voice Off” (B. 22/7/’26)
voices the sentiments of a good many
people when he suggests that Allan.
Wilkie is himself to blame for the wave of
sympathy occasioned by his recent losses
“dissolving in spray.” When the actor an-
nounced that the Williamsons had offered to
lend him scenery and costumes with which
to carry on, but that it was imperative that
he should take a trip to England in quest
of suitable props., the public naturally asked
“Whaffor?” For, after all, Wilkie’s pro-
ductions were far from elaborate, though
they were none the less interesting on that
account. Some of the best Shakspearean
presentations I have witnessed were given
without any scenery at all.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Maggie Dickinson and
her husband, Syd Culver, have made a
great success on the new programme at the
Alhambra, with their “Whirl of Terpsi-
chore.” Madge Elliott, another Australian
dancer, has also been very lucky, and in the
present version of the Midnight Follies at
the Hotel Metropole she gets more applause
than any one else on the bill.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : The beauty of
Florence Austral’s voice and the fine quality
of her singing were not marred by the vast-
ness of the Crystal Palace, where she was
the principal soprano of the Handel Festi-
val just concluded. Of course an artist can't
get in these immense spaces the intimate
effects necessary for complete characterisa-
tion, but for the crowd the voice is the thing,
and she scored accordingly. At the same fes-
tival Horace Stevens sang with great sin-
cerity and beauty of tone, and was able to
delight the press and the public with every-
thing he did. The noise from the amusement
park and the clatter of cups in the tea-rooms
were too much for the lungs of some singers,
but the two Australians triumphed over all
distractions.
“Strict Veg.” : Melbourne’s unco guid are
making a fuss about the bad language in
“White Cargo.” No such howl was raised
against “Aren’t We All?” where the renowned
cuss is dragged incongruously in to give a
flourish to a lame conclusion. The “White
Cargo” crowd, if there were such a crowd,
would use precisely the language Leon Gor-
don puts in their mouths. I haven’t much
time for Gordon as a playwright, but as
a blaster he has my endorsement.
“Old Man”: After having been idle in
Berry’s Bay (Sydney) for five years the
hulk of the five-masted schooner Inca has
been sold to Australasian Films, Ltd. The
vessel will be used in filming the moving-
picture version of “For the Term of His
Natural Life.” She will represent a convict-
ship of 100 years ago:—
Here a sheer hulk lies the schooner Inca,
Her sailing days done, a life well spent;
Kept afloat by a feeling of sentiment—
Nobody had the heart to sink her.
But there’s one more job for the good old Inca
That her country large in the world may bulk,
She’ll be seen on the screen as a convict hulk.
Perhaps it would have been best to sink her!
“Caul Boy”; Dreary persons who cannot
leave their politics at home when they go
to a show have discovered that Chaliapin
does not close his entertainments with “God
Save.” The melody would be a shattering
anti-climax to a Chaliapin concert, but some-
thing will have to be done to soothe the
ravaged breast. A compromise might be
arrived at by installing a music-box charged
with the National Anthem in the vestibule.
Then those who need this stimulus to their
loyalty could turn the handle and stand
around until they had heard enough.
“Curtain Raiser”: The scenery of the
Speck will be asked to be on its best behavior
when the filming of “For the Term of Ills
Natural Life” (B. 22/7/’26) is begun a
month or so hence. Not all the Australian
characters are to be impersonated by Ameri-
cans, for Jessica Harcourt will have a part,
and Arthur Tauchert is one of several home-
grown actors engaged. But so as not to
break audiences too abruptly from their
ancient idols, Eva Novak and other Holly-
wooers are being ferried across the Pacific.
If pretty Jessica films well, she won’t be a
minor luminary long.
“Strict Veg.” : Something vast in suburban
theatres is to go up in St. Hilda (Vie*)*
on the site of the Palais, burned down a few
months since. It is to cost £lOO,OOO and
■Will seat 3000. Some Australians will prob-
ably be found amongst the orchestra; other-
wise the shrine or fane is expected to be
entirely devoted to the worship of American
pictures.
“Laborer”; Canberra had its first radio
concert on July 17, when the ’Berra Phil-
harmonic Society, with Ernest A. Mowle con-
ducting and Sydney singers Mabel Batchelor
and Ernest Archer assisting, made melody
for a nation’s listeners-in. Although Primin-
ister Bruce’s policy speech was sent over a
longer land line —namely, 600 miles music
and singing, which have greater frequencies,
had never before been transmitted 200 miles
to Sydney, thence to be broadcasted by 2FC.
It was the first concert to be given in the
first hall built locally by community effort.
The material was supplied by the Commis-
sion and the labor by residents, and all
seats were booked up a fortnight before.
“Groper”: Perth concert artists go from
one good performance to another. Their
latest production is “The Orchid,” which
they are doing for a fortnight, with Beatrice
Hunt as Lady Violet Anstruther. These
amateurs contrive to show that Gaiety
melanges of 20 years agone still have a kick
in them as well as useful royalty pickings
for the Firm.
“Hamfat” : George Parker “produced” the
etceteras associated with “The Vanishing
Race” picture—he was lent by J.C.W., Ltd.,
for that task. The stout George, who may
frequently be met in theatre vestibules
looking (quite deceptively) as if he never
Worked, is the Firm’s great standby where
production is concerned in all enterprises
except musical comedy, in which Highland
reigns supreme. In Melbourne last year
there were three Parker-produced run-
ning simultaneously at the Royal, the King’s
and the Athenaeum. Pauline Frederick
brought a producer with her from America*
but after a bit of argument it was Parker’s
name that went down on the programme;
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : When Lorha
Pounds was in Australia and a section of
the public seemed unable to rise to fall
appreciation of her talent, Hugh Ward
attributed it to the subtlety of her comedy.
In London, where she recently crowded a
marriage, a sensational burglary at her home
and a few other startling incidents into
one week, she is more popular than ever.
Her husband, Hugh Slinn, who was an
officer on the P. and O. steamer which
brought her back to England, is a trim, good-
looking young man of the type Aus-
tralian girl-travellers seem unable to resist.
“P.A.Q.” : There is a charming Hollywood
touch in a pitcher adapted from the novel
“The Splendid Outcast.” In the yarn there
are two Yank soldiers, twins; one deserts,
and to save the family name the other takes
his place in the line. But a close-up of a
Yank deserting wouldn’t have been good for
the box-office, so the perdoocer made the
twin soldiers Frenchmen!
THE PROVISO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Geelong. —ln town, Honey. Wondering if you
are still living.”— Akgus agony col.
I’ve spent eighteenpence on an agonised ad.,
Which I hope that my Honey sets eyes on,
To say I’m in town, feeling weary and sad,
Nearly driven to drinking cold p’ison;
For the question I’m asking myself day and night—
And a parcel of worry it’s giving—
Is this, Honey dear, gone long from my . sight;
I wonder if you are still living?
I’m in town, Honey dear, and it’s winter; alone'
I pace the cold streets pinched and solemn;
And the depths of my feelings I hope 1 have shown
By the lines in the “Agony column”;
Oh, Honey, my Honey, words failed ihe when I
Wrote the ad., but I don’t grudge the money;
For you’ll know what it means. To my side you
will fly—
If you’re living, still living, my Honey!
VICTOBIA.
E. T.


/
/ v /"
c <-*.
/
V
' '■ ’'jfVV'-^
PLAYER
V/
/
,('/!'i
J/i 1 i!Ulsi:'''l\ /
II "0" WJ
jCvt
uV
PIANO
ki
»•
o
A
'/JL^L
J//%
witfi i(<s exquisite uone 1?
_ wiCC s<? a constant <source of
deCijfit (o you cT ijour
'jrien*
-
xa
dSmmr
4,
r
The superlatively beautiful tone of the “Wurlitzer” Player-Piano has won the enthusiastic praise of music-lovers the world over.
Since tone is invariably the deciding factor in guiding our choice of a musical instrument—it will be seen how necessary it is for
it to be not only beautiful—but lasting.
For this reason
—perfect tone,
it is essential that tone be built on a faultless foundation—and in the “Wurlitzer”
lasting throughout the years—ensured by faultless Wurlitzer construction.
Player-Piano you have just that
The “Wurlitzer’ Player-Piano is made by the Rudolf Wurlitzer M’fg Co of New York-bmUers of the famous orchestral organs
installed in the “Prince Edward” Theatre, Sydney; the “Capitol,” Melbourne; the “Winter Garden ” Theatre, Brisbane; the
“Arcadia,” Chatswood.
The only satisfactory way to judge the “Wurlitzer” is to hear it—to play it yourself, to have its many superiorities explained. Any
of the music stores below will be glad to demonstrate.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
COHEX’S PI AX' O DEPOT,
97 George Street West, Sydney.
THE VOXAPHONE CO.,
86 King Street, Sydney.
THE WURLITZER SAEON,
Victoria Avenue, Chatswood.
THE AUSTRAEEAN STORES,
Yass.
VICTORIA:
MYERS EMPORIUM, LTD.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
MUSGROVES, LTD.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
A. E. HAKROLD,
125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representatives
PARKER, BEAU (Sl CO.,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,


,'BV APPOINTMENT TO-
B.M. THE KING
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
Let a British Car reflect
your Pride of Ownership
BV APPOINTMENT TO
B.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
Better Crossleys and more of them
Enthusiastic acceptance of the Crossley all over the Commonwealth is due to the fact that
the Crossley is an All-British car designed and built to suit road and climatic conditions in
Australia.
Increased demand for the Crossley has resulted in an improved Crossley, until now it has
reached that point of efficiency for which designers of other cars are striving—a top-gear car
which retains its economy of petrol consumption, giving at least 30 miles to the gallon.
All this has meant not only better Crossleys, and higher-quality Crossleys, but also cheaper
Crossleys. Now, the
15/30-h.p Improved
D
Top -gear Car
is reduced to
£399
making it undoubtedly the best possible value on the Australian market.
Due to the tremendous buying of the Crossley all over the Commonwealth, both stocks and
shipments due to arrive are being rapidly sold. The Crossley works in England has increased
its output to meet the Empire-wide call for more cars; but orders booked here will be filled
strictly in rotation.
It is wise, therefore, to place your order now. There can be no need to hesitate about your
choice, when you remember that a Crossley can be bought in Australia at the same price at
which it is sold in England. And it is the only car emanating from any country which can
make that claim.
Any lingering doubts of Crossley performance will be dispelled
by a demonstration. Allow us to demonstrate at your convenience.
Catalogues posted to any address on request.
19/60-H.P. MODEL.
The car which has held the World’s Record for Reliability since 1922 now sells in Australia
at the same price as at Home.
New Price. Factory Price. Old Price.
5-seater Tourer ... ~T „ £785 £785 £905
7-seater Tourer r . T „ »», r «» £BlO £BlO £930
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.), LTD.,
87 William Street, Sydney.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD.,
173 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS,
King Street, Perth.


Publications.
IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN
“ THE MENTALIST ”
(Australia’s Psychological Magazine),
Send for FREE Sample Copy to
The Editor,
Box 1142, G.P.0., Brisbane.
Missing- Friends.
JOHN, son of the late
WILLIAM CONNELLY, of Melton
and Lilydale, Victoria, please communicate
at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DOUGH.—If the children of WILLIAM
ROUGH, formerly of Balaklava, South
Australia (son of John Rough, Miner), com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
CO., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, they will
hear of something to their advantage.
s'
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cun.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Ready in a moment
(mays hade
D
in the home
it is so hand/
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Hauraki Flax Growers and
Hemp Producers, Ltd.
Capital £lOO,OOO in 100,000 £1
shares, payable 2/6 per share on
application, 1/6 per share on allot-
ment, ]/- per share per month.
Read the following independent opinions:
“Bulletin,” “Wild Cat” 22/4/’26: —
“Expert opinion is favorable both as to
the land and prospects.... The people inter-
ested are sound men, and the proposition is
worth investigation.”
‘ ‘lnvestment Digest’ ’:—
“The promoter has compiled a very infor-
mative prospectus which is certainly interest-
ing reading. The proposition appears to have
merits.”
“N.Z. Truth” by “Fiat Lux”:—
“The prospectus is of intense interest from
cover to cover and gives evidence of careful
and patient preparation. It cannot fail to
create _ interest and inspire confidence in
the minds of the investing public regarding
the prospective value of an investment in the
Company’s shares.”
Directors:—
ROBERT BURNS, Chairman (Managing
Director .John Barns & Co., Ltd.) ; THOS.
P. POUNTNEY (Managing Director Carr,
Pountney & Co., Ltd.) : M. P. RICH-
MOND, Solicitor (Buddie, Richmond &
Buddie) ; GEO. HUTCHINSON, Public
Accountant, all of Auckland; S. A.
LONQUET (Managing Director A. S.
Paterson & Co., Ltd.), Wellington ; ALEX.
HANNAY (Managing Director Manson
& Barr), Palmerston North; GEO.
CRAW, Flax-miller, Palmerston North
(General Manager).
X.S.W. Agents, Messrs E. L. Rees & Co.,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney.
This investment is expected to average 20
per cent, for first 10 years and 50 per cent,
thereafter. Investment is free of Income
Tax. Full particulars and prospectus obtain-
able from Messrs. E. L. REES & CO. Appli-
cation for shares can also be made through
Bank of N.Z., all branches, or direct to
organising Broker, F. J. Y. WILSON, 36
National Bank Chambers, Fort Street, Auck-
land, N.Z.
THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.
Grand Annual Exhibition
NINE DAYS.
Thursday, 16th, to Saturday, 25th
September, 1926.
Comprehensive Display of Stock, Agri-
cultural Produce and Industrial Exhibits.
Liberal Programme of Prizes amounting
to over £BOOO (including Champion
Prizes of Australia).
Competitive Entries (except contests)
Close at noon, Saturday, 14th Aug.
Contest Entries Close at noon,
Saturday, 28th August.
Member’s Subscription, covering Badge
and Two Ladies’ Tickets and General
Privileges, £l/10/- per annum.
Life' Member’s Subscription, £l5/15/-.
Extra Ladies’ Tickets. 10/6 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC.,
ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHWIEGER,
NEW ADDRESS: Secretary.
Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
o
\
m
PANADA—that wonderland teeming with
romance and adventure —opens unknown
beauties to those who would escape from the
hustle and bustle of life in a crowded city.
The glories, splendour and majesty of the Canadian
Rockies form an effective background for the shining
lakes and other beauty spots that lie at their feet —and
far away from all the worries and cares you can rest for
awhile in a cosy, jolly bungalow camp —or in a luxuri-
ous hotel.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
system of transportation is the most up-to-date and modern
railway system in the world. The equipment is designed for
the greatest comfort, while the service of all employees is
unequalled.
Plan ahead —book your accommodation for trains, hotels and stearti-
ships prior to your departure. Through tickets to England and the
Continent of Europe are obtainable in connection with the Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver, and the Canadian Pacific
Steamship services across the Atlantic. The New Quadruple-screw
Motor Ship "Aorangi’ (23,000 tons displacement) in connection With
the favorite s.s. "Niagara” afford an unrivalled service to and from
Vancouver, B.C.
For full information apply. any office of the Union S.S Co . of N.Z.. any
Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Representative, Canadian Pacific Railway
Co., Union House, U 7 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
Jhe
Ď
BOSCH
SPARKING PLUGS
are manufactured from the finest
materials obtainable, and long experi-
ence in all spheres of work has proven
them
THE WORLD’S BEST PLUG
You cannot make a mistake if you
specify BOSCH,
Standard sizes 5|- each.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Eld,
256-258 Eatrobe Street.
Sydney,.........Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etu ,
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide........ Duncan & Co., 101 Pirie Street.
Brisbane. Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiese.v, Murray Street.
Hobart..,,. D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand...... J. J. Niv.en & Co., J.td., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Com
er
aiiaigbisag*;
II
WNER.Y
iw* w ” Cata lu& ~~ n
u »
Vou «« 6 'le about
to "Co^ slraf d Jtecuo^
IU , Its si* . ue rs, 1 O \\ a neo\is
P ,fSdmfts and I'fnavne aw
u is beau
1 . .. wins
in< J Frame Bui\dmS|. d Vo uv free,
iieet? fptoducts. for a cops
address on ttos ($.
S\D^
S©^
01B “
/tftwDTi zSSm***
*.OV
•Iso * l
V^4s
sgasefe
■'iv
4*2
&S


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
' »' -
BFBTjSH
MADE
Persection
PIISK RUBBER
Books on the Old Country
Its Topography, History and Antiquities.
An enormous stock of second-hand books at very
low prices.
We hold over 1,250,000 new and
second-hand volumes on every con-
ceivable subject.
Twenty-one departmental catalogues issued.
New English Books are always supplied
at English Published Pi*ices plus actual
postage only.
Write for Catalogue 93a, mentioning definite
requirements and interests.
FOYLES, THE BOOKSELLER,
121-125 Charing Cross Road,
London, England.
Amusements.
0 V ONE Y’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
KOYAL: QUALITY STREET.
PALACE: THE CLIMAX.
pi; LI,EIt S’ THEAT It E, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S REST VAUREMLLE.
Plans at Theatre.
I C K A It I» S’ TIVO I, I T H EA 'f It E S
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAU DEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GIVE AND TAKE.
pitINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
INC’S THEATRE, M E L B O U It N E.
LEON GORDON and HELEN STRANSKY in
WHITE CARGO.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee . E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
The Merriest Play of the Day,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Three Acts of Jovous Comedv interpreted by an
Entirely NEW AMERICAN COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s.
EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Dailv. 2.30 and 8.
OPENING SATURDAY NEXT,
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y|AJiCS'iTC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE RICH and HUNTLY GORDON in
THE WIFE WHO WASN’T WANTED.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre, ’Phone 7076 & 7790,
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE
MELBOURNE.
RICHARD DIX in
WOMAN HANDLED.
ALSO
GEORGE O’BRIEN and ANITA STEWART In
Peter B. Kyne’s
RUSTLING FOR CUPID.
Prices as usual.
A
r I> I T O R T U M, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
CHALIAPIN.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidsntSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1025 £2,428 000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £OO,OOO 000
Annual Income nearly £9,000]000
The Society transacts Every <llass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W, APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL HANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; VV. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq,; D. .W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. HR I SHANK
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivqrs, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
institutions, covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE MYSTERY OF MARSUPIAL BIRTH
Discussed in
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
By ELLIS LE G. TROUGHTON.
THE WELLINGTON CAVES AND FOSSIL FINDS by Dr. Charles Anderson
DISCOLORATION OF HARBOR WATERS. A Reason Whv by F. A. McNeill &A. A. Livingstone
TAMBOURINE MOUNTAIN. Its Fauna Described by A. Musgrave
SOME FAMILIAR BUTTERFLIES. An Interesting Article by T. G. Campbell
THE WUNDERLICH ABORIGINAL GROUP. Illustrated and Described.
VOLUME 11, PART 11, NOW READY.
The Museum Magazine performs an important Service in the Diffusion of Science.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION 4/4 posted. Single Copy, One Shilling. From all Booksellers and the Museum.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FHJST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
GIVE IT DAILY.
A daily dose of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy during the raw, wintry
weather will keep the children free
from colds, coughs and croup. The fre-
quent use of this medicine keeps the
bronchial tubes in a healthy condition.
Contains Nothing Injurious .
Đ
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVpX” is a production of modern civilisation whereby men
can shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda.
With “Shavex” you can shave in half the time and get a
perfect and smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin
like satin and keeps one young, and no after lotion is required.
"Shavex” is a skin food. It makes shaving a pleasure instead
of a torture. Safety Razor blades last twice as long and no
hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(Dept 4 )» Eagle .& Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Manufacturing Co., London, Eng.
(Australia) Ltd.
Manufactured by
\
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp-
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NO-
VELLO, writes:—“lt is a great pleasure to be able
to say sincerely that ‘Shavex’ is a really splendid
invention. I am so often asked to recommend pre-
parations, and can so seldom do so, but in this case
my appreciation of your ‘Shavex' is genuine. I shall
always use it.”
D
Ď
Đ
WRITE FOR GENERAL CATALOGUE
m
\
2
A Strong Work Shirt
TKe “STRONGHOLD”
Made of a tough hard wearing Shirting. Cut
big and roomy for work comfort. Has tWo
large Breast Pockets With Flaps
to Button. Wears and Washes
well. Patterns : Plain Blue, Blue
With Black or White Stripe, White
with Black Stripes. All Sizes
10/6
3 for 30/-
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street, SBnsbane^>
MAIL TO DESK “5.8.”
Answers to Correspondents.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stariimcd.
Name and address must apptar on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Wanchai: We can’t undertake to return
the MS. of unused pars. Keep a copy, and if the
stuff is not paid for or used within a month, offer
it elsewhere.... Willach: For one month from date
we’ve sworn off yarns with a corpse in the last
line.... A.R.H.: If we had the space, .there’s nobody
we’d rather give it to than your old cocky cobber.
....Leslie V.R.: Hardly unusual enough. But let’s
hear again... .G.L.M.: Don’t want the verse; but
may we keep the enclosure?... .D.J.H.: Not very
attractive... . D.P.M.; “Timely Aid” ditto. It's a
poor example, you quote Emer; Only the manner
made the other passable; and you haven't got it.
. ...R.G.H.: Another got in ' first.... Cleve: But
statistics and immigration literature are very differ-
ent things... .K.J.: “Grapes” has points, but doesn’t
sufficiently explain itself W.J.8.: Just fails
N.T.D.: Go on. You’re only in the primer class
yet; but you'll get somewhere by and bye.
J.P.G,: Sorry; they fail... .YV.D.: Not yet have
our blind politicians declared the dahlia a national
flbwer for the convenience of patriotic poets in need
of a rhyme R.D.J?.: “Through vacant silences un-
known” was a bright beginning, anyway. Verse
spoilt by similar misty phrases... .1.D.C.: “Lament”
is a mere howl in the void... . A.M.S.: The slippering
of the sulky wife might be read with joy by many
husbands if told more brightly.... L.A.: Too much,
bark and too little bite in the dog story... .E.W.:
The story that is ’. only a dream is becoming a
nightmare... . .A.J.8.; Afraid it can't fit in here.
. ...J.M.V.: Unsuitably. .. .L.W.G.: Just missed....
Ripponlea :■ The domestic piece is full of feeling:—
When th’ Blizzarci, th’ miz’rahle drizzle,
Of Winter incites me to grizzle,
Or with hail the atmosphere’s riven
As I bestride to the house’ that I live in,
Staggering stoically front-doorward,
To my home life do I look forward.
My ecstasy knows of no hobble,
As mine baby doth wobble and gobble;
Or for a jo.kc, I pretend I’m a stoker
And invoke th’ Snioke with the poker,
And gloat o’er each antic romantic
In th’ Classics until, I’m. near frantic.
. ...T.G.S.: You’ll have to do better than that....
T.G.A.: The beating heart can’t throb in these
pages... .5.0. R.: In idealising the moneyed lordling
you merely grease the fatted prig... .P.P.M.: Selec-
tion of verse-form is a primary essential. You
make your bird trill in heavy lines suitable for an
epic—or a dirge.... Alsace: The Post Office does some
queer things. You sent us a “thrilling story,” and
all we received was a dull sermon... .S.T.S.: Six hun-
dred words to describe, down to the last eyelash, a hero
who does nothing but talk! T.R.M.: Submit
again—if ever we publish a hymn-book *on Sankey
and Moody lines.... Sol G.: All you do is to marry
your bad-tempered hero to your sulky heroine.
Serve them both right... .G.A.8.; If you really
think “Nothing now can kill our love,” don’t risk
reading thosy verses to her.... Garfield M.: Rather
interested in the acrobatic heart which “bounds
blythely out to Bondi” and “leaps the. soaring
clouds above.” Better see a doctor M.P. (South
Yarra): A poor thing to use for a tale.,. .Wemanv.
“Peter” is tired... . F.H.8.: The verse falls short;
the sketch ploughs old ground... .E.J.G.: The work-
manship doesn't quite carry the “crop”... .W. 8.5.:
The first repeats a commonplace; the second does
the same with trimmings of bad verse A.H.
(Warwick) : Misses... .Sally: Blank verse is governed
by the strictest laws of all. Yours becomes lawless
at the second line N.A. (Dunwich): The verse
is weak and in poor shape... .Auchen: Yes, yes!
The sun rises and sets, but the fact hardly needs
to be stated in wooden verse... .F.E.R.: If you
did not tag out your lines with commonplaces for
the sake of the rhyme you might make something
of it—. Joan N.: Even sweet fifteen ought to get an
occasional fresh idea Ella M.: “Window” sketch
isn’t in our line E.J.S.: Doesn’t convince
T.R.S.: Doesn’t read true... .G.R.P.: Verses start-
ing “Tramp, tramp,” and running to 120 lines,
too much like a dull route march.... Sol M.: The
blood was still dripping from your gory MSS.
when we reposted it Pat C. L.: “A weight was
on my soul.” Some crime, no doubt. Perhaps
you’ve written “poetry” before.... Red Sin:
“Anguish intense as vortexed Hell.” Sounds im-
pressive, but what does it mean?... .P.A.T.: Your
“hung’ring soul” reads more like an empty stomach.
Campbell S.: What you put into that verse was
not devil, but drivel. . . .Ghanas: Your pirate might
be all right only for his resemblance to an escaped
curate who has drunk a weak shandy T.J.
(Gordon) : It falls far short of making a story
R.S.: Bad verse is not improved by the fact that
certain letters 1 ,in the rugged rubbish will spell
out a name F.G.M.: Not bad of its kind, but wc
don’t care for it.... Gerald H.: A long dragging-out
of a yarn that could have been better told in
20 lines... .G.A.8.: The story is poor and thin and
you take a long time to tell it... .F.S.H.: Well
told, but the ending is very thin L.G. (Arma-
dale): Pleasing, but frail B.W, (Kensington):
The article is not exciting N.L.D.: We can’t find
the • “wild imagination.” It Is fair verse of a
commonplace sort... .Edwin W.: You make nothing
of your chances. .. .0.11. L.: The father and daughter
hive very little about them to interest anybody; and
It was surely not necessary to tell the tale in that
roundabout way.... 5.: If fact, it might have been
worth a par.; if fiction, it is poor stuff.... V.H.
(Manly) : The most remarkable verse we have seen
for an hour or two: —
Death has claimed another Soldier
Close to Gallipoli’s shores,
Where his comrades in arms
Died fighting for a cause.
Go write his name in history
I’ letters of Beaten Gold;
Let his find a prominent place
On every British Honor Roll.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.A.H.: Punch harder if you want to ring the
be 11... .K.K.: It was among those that slipped....
N.E.F.: What’s wanted is more quality and less
quantity M.H.: Perspective has had one drink
too many... .E.T.: Do not let pun-making tempt you.
... .M.P.: If the shaky outlines are merely due to
the cold, buy a radiator and stop shivering....
P.E.: The dude whose wife is a dream is himself a
nightmare... .G. 8.: In kindergarten circles such a
sketch would earn its author a spell behind the
blackboard A.L.T.: No chance of the postal people
handling an urgent telegram inviting you to join
the staff... ,W.V.J.: The footballer who was parted
from his pants has been suspended for life A.C.:
If one drawing is well done and another hopeless,
it generally means that : one was copied. -


iTT
Incoming raw materials for Wil-
lard Batteries are sampled before
they are even removed from
freight cars—and nothing is taken
into the factory until Willard
chemists have placed their stamp
of approval upon it*
that's
Quality
p
0m
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
1 b rol i T&
■r:
gen
By building your new borne with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROIiITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with "T'IIiRO-
EITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROI.ITE” is fire* re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write lor Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Building's,Wellington,N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
Jjuu/ yeWi fifoirl
\AAXtn,
Season after season the value in that advice holds
its strength. Year by year the firm’s success in selling
the clip adds further laurels to their reputation as
salesmen.
Address Letters:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Benger’s for
backward children.
Parents who have a child
growing too rapidly, or
weakly, or not thriving, can
be sure that extra nutrition
of a particular kind is re-
quired. A cupful of Benger’s
Food between meals and at
bed-time provides just what
is wanted.
D
Food
is always made with fresh new milk.
It enriches and converts the milk
into a delicious food cream, very
easy to digest
The Benger’s Food Booklet, contains
many useful valuable hints to mothers
with backward children, post free, from
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNET.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England
rf any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— *
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
mm.
SPa!
the
vtadb
Sattehv
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
i /
iis-
roia: TV !
m
i VU)V|j "
n.
y* IHFUJ
v*
Co-i
SOSISTOS
PftdQOT BKILMO
EUCALYPTUS
OIL
BEST FOR
MEiimVSM-
INFLUENZA-
CQUGHS—
COLDS ETC.
M
&
IF
G
m
«CCISTCRCD
VVEWARE of the so-called
J*/ “Extra Strong” Oils!
Strychnine, medically pre-
scribed, can be very beneficial,
but take It “Extra Strong,”
and—obituary.
There Is no room In a bottle
of Parrot Brand Eucalyptus
Oil for the rank, pungent
elements that are merely irri-
tants, and which have no
curative value. BOSISTO’S
Oil is truly medicinal, so pure
and refined that mothers may
with confidence use it on their
little ones.
Surely it is worthy of the
price: viz., 1/3 per bottle. Tlw
few coppers saved by accept-
ing a substitute won't com-
pensate you.
Sold
Everywhere
PARROT BRAND EUCALYPTUS OIL
IS DISTILLED AND BOTTLED AT THE LABORATORIES OF
J. BOSISTO & CO. PROP. LTD., Richmond, Vic.
ir Australasia
Bennett & Wood, Ltd
284 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
by fitting your
car with a
yiim
DRY CHARGED
IN mud, sand, clay—Weed Tyre Chains grip and
hold. They transmit every turn of the motor
into actual mileage. They minimize the danger of
skidding, of costly accidents and annoying delays.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
Ď
831
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Murrumbeena”: Any Australian insur-
ance manager who may favor prohibition
should take a note of this. At an outbreak
of fire in the bar of the Hallam Hotel, on
the Prince’s Highway, beyond Dandenong
(Vic.), the heat exploded the beer bottles
and the liquor extinguished the blaze.
* * * •
“Elsinore’’: Launceston (Tas.) is about
to institute a historical association. Some
good Australian organisations have had their
birth in the city by the Tamar, among
them the Union Bank of Australia and
the Bank of Australasia. The place teems
with historical associations, and presents a
field ripe for the sickle of research. At one
time shipbuilding had a great vogue on the
Tamar, and the ‘largest sailing-ship ever
built in Australia, the Philip Oakden, had
her keel laid at Blackwall Reach.
* * * *
“Angus O’Cohen” : Maoriland’s morals are
•being undermined, so the churches say, by
an epidemic of big art unions. Several
£5000 gambles have been decided already to
raise funds for impecunious sports bodies,
and several more are listed. Promoters
caught the Government napping, for when, in
response to the cries of the unco guid, lot-
teries for more than £500 were prohibited, it
was found that promises made to about a
dozen would have to be kept. So Maoriland
lias enough £5000 lotteries to keep her punt-
ing for another year before she is forced
back to her clandestine Tasmanian love.
* * * *
“Borom” : A company is being formed in
England to turn the Northern Queensland
shark to commercial account, the scourge of
our bathing beaches being expected to yield
all sorts of useful products, from fine grades
of leather to manures. But apart from the
question of whether sharks are sufficiently
abundant in these waters for the purpose,
they belong to a diversity of varieties, some
almost useless for commercial exploitation.
A lot is hoped from the exportation of fins
to China, where they are believed to com-
mand a high price. But on Thursday Island
a Chinese merchant told me that most of the
sea-scavengers in those latitudes belonged
to varieties which were no good at all for
soup.
“Greg.” : Queensland’s sugar crop is going
to show a big falling off this year. Excep-
tionally dry conditions at Christmas, the
lightness of the January rains and the almost
entire absence of any in February checked
the cane far more than was realised. Every
district has much the same tale to tell; the
crops are strong and healthy, but show much
less growth than usual, and the difference be-
tween three and six feet of cane on the stools
tells at the weighbridge. South Johnstone,
Hambledon and Mulgrave have already pub-
lished a revised estimate, knocking off about
1 20,000 tons in each case, and other centres
are likely to follow suit. Speaking conser-
vatively this year’s crop will fall 200,000
tons below last season’s.
“Cartot”: One reason why the opium-
runners of Cairns and Northern Australia
generally are able to ply their trade with
immunity (B. 8/7/’26) is that the Customs
and police are without any sea-patrol. In
the South nearly all the stuff comes ashore
from steamers in port, but in the North most
of the smuggling is done while the ships are
some distance at sea, the opium being
dropped over the side and picked up by
launches. There is probably not another
country in the world which leaves unguarded
so much of its coasts. Beyond Cairns and
Cooktown there are stretches of hundreds of
miles without a living being on them. And
it is in these parts that the opium-smugglers
operate freely with their fast launches. A
service of speedy craft capable of staying at
soa for days would not be long in checking
the evil.
tt t *
“Leamington”: The suggestion that the
vision of one of the drivers in the recent
railway smash at Caulfield (Yic.) had been
affected by the action of mist on the glass of
his cabin had hardly been voiced when the
same explanation—this time rain was blamed
—was offered for the collision between two
crowded electric trams at Carlton. It has
long been a problem how to prevent glass
from getting into this condition, and an
Austrian scientist claims to have solved it
by giving his attention to the material itself.
The result is a glass whose transparency re-
mains unaffected in all weathers, and it will
also bend amazingly without breaking. Its
success seems assured by the fact that its
manufacture is about to start in England.
Even those whose experience is confined
to the man-eating motor-car will realise what
a boon it will be to present-day transporta-
tion.
* * * *
“Spike”: The oversea demand for Aus-
tralian hardwoods is limited almost solely to
ironbark, although there ai-e other classes
of hardwoods —notably grey gum and moun-
tain ash —equally durable and much
cheaper. Also they are likely to give just
as much satisfaction to the purchasers, as
an Australian timber company discovered a
quarter of a century ago. The firm tendered
for a large oversea order for ironbark piles
and girders, required in the erection of a
breakwater. The tender was accepted, but
the firm presently found to its dismay that
sufficient supplies of the specified timber
were unprocurable in the limited time stipu-
lated. A harassed managing director, faced
with the possibility of an action for breach
of contract, decided to risk a “ring in,” and
shipment after shipment of grey gum left
Australian shores. Described as ironbark
it was subjected to a rigorous inspection be-
fore being accepted by the consignees. A few
months ago the timber man, when on a holi-
day voyage, was cordially invited to inspect
the breakwater, and heard the timbers de-
scribed as “a particularly fine sample of
ironbark—every stick as sound as when first
immersed.”


FIRST-AID for the SKIN
HO
u Cannot Afford
o Be Without —
Bilk
am
NO matter how careful a mother may be in preparing
the meals or in house cleaning, she cannot avoid
Cuts, Burns and Scalds. Children, likewise, seem to
have a special weakness for knocking their limbs and
faces, and for catching any prevalent skin or scalp
disease from their playmates.
Whether for Eczema, Abscesses, Ulcers, Piles, Bad
Legs, Boils, Poisoned Wounds or Children’s Ringworm,
Zam-Buk is the ideal “Home Doctor,” being safe, sure
and swift in its soothing, healing and antiseptic action.
A unique substance prepared from valuable herbal
oils and extracts, Zam-Buk contains no lard or other
animal fat, nor any poisonous mineral drug. In a
natural way Zam-Buk takes the “fire” and smarting pain
out of a wound or sore, and it kills and expels disease and
poison germs. Having thoroughly cleansed a sore and
got rid of all corruption and germs,
Zam-Buk then heals it by growing
healthy new skin.
There’s nothing “just as good’’
as Zam-Buk, because it is totally different to
the host of common salves and ointments often
palmed off on the unwary. Zam-Buk healing
is permanent healing, for it performs its work
in a new way. You can easily prove this for
yourself.
SEND FOR A FREE SAMPLE!
Simply post your request with name and
address to Box 16278.8. G.P.0., Sydney, and
a trial sample will be sent free and post paid
if you mention “The Bulletin.”
Wash with ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL SOAP; it is
more than a mei'e toilet soap. Used in conjunction with
its ally, Zam-Buk balm, it is invaluable for ensuring that
perfect cleanliness so necessary for dispelling skin dis-
orders and healing sores and injuries.
Đ
a Scalds J
TO.
A
l&r®
i
rci*
Children s
m
/ r J
ss#,
Shaving
Soreness
I :\
l\ 'h
/#J
Scal r
Trouble
% Bad Legs
- A
&
Never Be Wiltiour A Box Of ZAM-BUK In Your Home/
3
;
if*
IS
m
■
-
m
Peapes * “ Corella ” Standard Size
Virginian Cigarettes
Do not affect the throat.
1/6 Packet of 20. '3/9, 50 ;
7/6, 100; 70/- per 1000.
Peapes’ Tailoring at
Six and Seven Guineas
FOR the last sixty years, Peapes have been
known all over Australia as a House of fine
tailoring, utilising fine materials in a fine way
to achieve a fine appearance.
Here they instance tu>o of their present many excellent
values :
“Warrigal” All Wool Austral-
ian Tweeds, woven especially
for Peapes —of the finest Aust-
ralian Wool. Many original
shades and weaves in Greys and
Fawns, plain or stripe effects,
many with the fashionable inter-
woven touch of colour.
Sac Suit to Measure
SIX GUINEAS
British All Wool Worsteds. An
unusually smart selection of
plain and stripe effects and
all the most popular shades.
In weights suitable for present
or spring wear. Qualities that
last, and colours that do not
fade.
Sac Suit to Measure
SEVEN GUINEAS
Patterns and simple self-measurement form to any address promptly on request.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
Qeorge Street (Opposite Hunter Street), Sydney


By Appointment to
Ď
H.M King George F.
ties
WEST
NSitpS
r 'icm*-
NEST
. iNtsflC'S • §l?>J
ki*-s ►
NESTt.eS
NESTLSS
MSJH3
Mirus
use
NESTLES -|«£ST(.I
MESTIrt 5
NESTLES
wm
NESTLES iSeSrHSrWBS^
NESTLES
-j *% • ... | wtia
NEsrtES
(*(( lilt)
J
rffim i
18S1
ANGLO-SWISS CO OENSED MILK C
Ycars of Trouble-free Service
Built into Every Leylaad
There are some products so superlatively good that they are without
question accepted as the standard of their class. Leyland lorries
occupy this place in the field of motor transportation. They are,
and always have been, built up to the highest British standard of
quality in every detail.
Of course, there are other lorries whose first cost is lower, but there
are none lower operating costs —throughout a long life of
useful service.
Labor costs to-day are the biggest factor in motor transportation;
the lorry that can do more work with less attention and costly delays
due to repairs is the one which costs least over a period of years.
Among large users of Leylands will be found firms whose names are
household words throughout the world. Their endorsement of
Leylands—often after an experience of many years with motor
transportation—is the strongest guarantee of Leyland quality.
The illustration shows a 5-ton Leyland Lorry, one of a large fleet
owned by the Nestle and Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co
(Aust.), Ltd.
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2-Ton, £720; 3-Ton, £850; 4-Ton, £1075; 5-Ton, £llB5.
jevlandMot
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
- SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
MELBOURNE DEPOT & SERVICE STATION 270 City Road, South Melbourne
BRISBANE DEPOT Grey street, South Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS Campbell & Worthington, Ltd., Adelaide
TASMANIAN AGENTS Heathorn & Co., Ltd., Hobart
When this century was very young Deth-
ridge, the new chief Judge of the Federal
Arbitration Court, was often junior to
Purves. Once the witness Purves was hand-
ling made an admission that he had been
helping to paint the town red, and that it
had cost him a tenner. After stooping over
and pretending to listen to Dethridge, Purves
said impishly, “My learned young friend
here says that three or four quid would
have been ample to pay for such a night
out.” Dethridge really wasn’t one of the
gay dogs, but he couldn’t turn on his senior.
“T.P.”: Seventy years ago Port Albert
(Vic.) met to discuss ways and means to
perpetuate the memory of Angus McMillan,
the discoverer of Gippsland—and there the
matter ended until quite recently. Now
there is a movement to establish a lookout, with
memorial tablet, on Tom’s Gap, the mountain-
top from which McMillan first saw r the rich
country of South Gippsland and the waters
of Port Albert. A leading worker is Mrs.
Whitelaw, a schoolteacher at Myrtlebank.
near Sale. Her pupils lovingly care for the
great Scotchman’s grave, and annually the
lady arranges a pilgrimage thither.
Since Von Haast went to his reward, the
birds, beasts and fishes, not to mention the
reptiles and insects, of Maoriland, have had
no student more devoted than Jimmy Drum-
mond, nor better equipped to chronicle their
little ways. A journalist by profession,
Drummond has written many books dealing
with his hobby, and been accorded fellow-
ships by the -Linnean and Zoological societies
of England. His latest effort is a brochure
on the mpa, and it is at last being mildly
suggested*' by his fellow-townsmen —he lives
in Christchurch —that this and other books
of his ought to be used in the schools.
“Akran”: Speaking of camouflaged obser-
vation posts, our battalion found itself on the
Strazeele front when the Hun had come to
a full-stop after his big push. In front of
our outpost we could see a derelict-looking
drain-pipe. No one took much notice of it
until one morning a big stray porker came
round the side of it. The lads opened fire
on the game and a couple of lumps of lead
plonked the pipe. The next hit caused it to
wobble. Then we received a shock. The
drain-pipe did a shimmy-shake and made a
bee-line for the Hun’s trench, the mob being
too dumbfounded at the phenomenon to try
a running shot. Two nights after, in a
raid, we saw the dummy. It was made of
tin and had doubtless held an observer the
whole time we had occupied the outpost.
George Prendergast sometimes forgets that
he has dropped the Labor-Opposition leader-
ship in Vic. Assembly, and he elbowed his suc-
cessor, Hogan, aside the other night when he
thought Attorney-General Eggleston was get-
ting too hoity-toity. Before he had finished
there was a willing triangular duel, the
being one of the parties. But
“Prendy” was still nimble enough to extri-
cate himself without withdrawing anything.
So that it would not be necessary for him
to remove his treasures —pottery, bric-a-
brac, cartoons and the rest which adorned
his office when Opposition leader—he has
been allotted a vacant room all to himself
at Parliament House, and the courtesy will
be continued when the State Legislature goes
back to its old home in Spring-street next
year.
“Oxmead” : France’s immurement of Abdul
Krim, the Riff, in Reunion, a pleasant-look-
ing island to the south-west of Mauritius,
recalls that it was in the latter more crowded
speck of land, when it was theirs, that the
French held our Matthew Flinders as a
prisoner-of-war for many a weary year.
There is no record, as far as I know, of
Reunion having been used as a natural peni-
tentiary for a beaten enemy before, but Krim
will probably find the climate better than
that of Madagascar or New Caledonia. An
interesting list might be made of the islands
where nations have segregated persons whom
they have occasion to regard permanently or
temporarily as moral lepers. St. Helena would
of course head the list, though it was a bit
of a come-down from Napoleon to Zulu chiefs
and “Black” Cronje. Arabi Pashi was
forced to spend his declining years in Ceylon,
where a number of Boer prisoners were later
to take the spicy breezes. It seems almost
a pity that Britain wasn’t given the job of
planting W. Holienzollern on some lonely
spot well off tbe world’s highway. What a
godsend such a. captive would have been to
Tristan da Cunha, for instance, where there
is only about one mail a year and (vide
“Whitaker”) “the inhabitants number 127 and
are said to bo very long-lived.” Even Nor-
folk Island might have been glad to have
Wilhelm as an additional attraction for tour-
ists, and his entourage and gaolers as paying
boarders.
“W.P.D.”: If something can be done to
counteract the tendency to over-production
of Australian fruits by introducing new vari-
eties it will be all to the good. At present
in Queensland, attention is being turned to
the avocado, also known as the alligator
pear—a native of Central America which
thrives in North Queensland near the coast,
and does well around Brisbane; there should
be no difficulty either in growing it near
Sydney. The tree, which is grown from
worked cuttings, is not difficult to raise
where soil and climate are suitable, and
bears at about five years old. The thin-
skinned varieties are, in Queensland, subject
to attack from fruit-fly, but the thick-skinned
hold their own against the pest. The value
of the avocado consists in the pleasant, nutty
flavor of the pulp surrounding the single
seed. An analysis of 68 varieties in the
U.S.A. shows an average of 20.6 of fat, and
it CQntains easily digested proteins. It may
bo used as a fruit in the ordinary sense, or
as a vegetable, and is equally palatable eaten
with salt or sugar. It adds a delightful
flavor to salad-dressing, and can be used for
sandwiches or cooked. It has been long a
breakfast dish on the liners betv-een Sydney
and Vancouver and San Francisco. Grape-
fruit was introduced to Australians in the
same way; and now there are thousands of
young grape-fruit trees around Sydney. This
fruit (probably because it is picked too soon
as a rule.) isn’t as good as that of Florida,
but is better than most of the Californian.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra-—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87981 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
fit Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday. 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Raii-
■£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FDNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Ascanius . . 10,048 tons, August 16
f Euripides . . 15,000 „ September 27
.. . 18,500 ~ October 28
♦Nestor 14,547 ~ October 25
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ November 22
jSuevic. .. . • 12,500 ~ November 30
♦First class only. fFirst and Third class.
J“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sand’ ..on, Ltd.),
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. J
Joint
Agents
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2 634 560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925.. £15,’395.’937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson • H R
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875^000
Ordinary Shares 3,750^000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,’37S
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
- fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
"NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fltzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire" Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. Sail
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Hmldart Parker,’
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel’
htmrne Agents for Messagevies Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bciven.
Shipping:. Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 tons disp. JULY 29, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ AUG. 12, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 ~ „ AUG. 26, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,000 ~ „ SEPT. 9, for San Francisco.
"Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usin"
oil fuel.
•Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
PSSwwPf. v •*%!, vv&m
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada. United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM 1N T K lUIIAN t, EAISI.E IOIt KETUKN
IS\ OTII KK KINKS.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION F AKES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
(Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3a to 3 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
M
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
m
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East)
FAMOUS 'TEMPLES. NATIVE BAZAARS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Establiwlie«l IUI3,
gi-
S&t&SP
Directors;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
C,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIBECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
B 10—A favourite with
light roadster users.
Send Jot a Catalogue.
SADDLES
R. V*. BRISTOL & CO. (PTY.), LTD.,
Fenchurch Buildings, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd.,
Criterion Works. Birmingham. England.
Whatever the style
You affect for your wheeling,
There’s a saddle to suit
Made to give easy wheeling.
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Maokay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parkei Li££
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship 3
SIhAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
fi om Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
1 arncuiars to be obtained on application
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
ana vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD .
BARRABOOL .
BALLARAT ..
BARADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
808 DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Thos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAPAN.—Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
INDIA and CEYLON. Leaving
Sydney per s.s. Mooltan 15th
December; 45 days in Romantic
India and Ceylon.. Fare, £348.
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
TIIOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected on ail classes ot
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks oa Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Matmpw
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy: 22/6 per annum


Austrian T.T.
won on a
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V
More trophies added to the long list of successes gained on B.S.A. Motor Bicycles !
Mr. A. Strohmeyer, on a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Super-Sports Motor Bicycle, won
the Austrian T.T., 350c.c. Class, incidentally beating last year’s record.
In the third Czecho-Slovakian 1000 km. Reliability Trial, 10 B.S.A.’s were entered, losing
no marks and securing 10 Gold Medals. B.S.A.’s also won the Team Prize and the B.S.A.
Silver Cup.
Add to these the Silver Bowl presented by Russia to B.S.A. for success in the Russian
Reliability Trials held last August, 12 special Silver Cups won in various English competi-
tions since January, and the famous 60 ascents of Bwlch-y-Groes on a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
O.H.V. and you have an unequalled record of success.
B.S.A. machines have been equally successful in Australia—at Perth, Mr. R. Duke, on a
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. machine, won the 3 Miles Solo Championship of Western Australia,
Unlimited Class; a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. made fastest time of the day at the Warragul
Hill Climb; and Mr. A. H. Noad, on a B.S.A. 2.49-h.p., has secured 37 FIRSTS in Speed
Events from September, 1925, to April, 1926.
Such a record proves that the B.S.A. Motor Bicycle, with its unrivalled reputation for
reliability and value, is the machine for YOU. There are thirteen models from which to
choose, in six engine capacities.
PRICES from
£57/101-
B.S.A. 3,49-h.p . O.H.V. Super-Sports Model.
Easy-payment
Terms
if desired.
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy-payment Terms.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
SOUTH AUS.— J. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
VICTORIA- FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
WEST A\JS.-mortlock brqs.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -sa/w king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Lead the way on a BSA


“My Motto is
‘Rexona.’ ”
—Miss Dorothy
Brunton,
so*
yfi.
Wa
8
a >yy.
Uei'SPVVZj
. mm
m?mm
.fA
MP
&
i
Wll.llr%?&M
m
§H
sx?
s$
JX3
w-Sa»
Ull^JMlltlf'.l
w JtimiN'rr
Girls! Imagine your Complexion
Clear, Rosy and Velvety.
When your complexion worries you and you feel that your skin is unattractive, instead
of fresh and smooth, look to the soap you are using. Many soaps are more harmful to the -
skin than actual neglect, for they contain alkali, which makes the skin harsh and dry.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is a specially-prepared skin soap, free from alkali, and
contains just the right amount of the gentle, healing medication of Rexona, the Rapid
Healing Ointment, which
is so widely used in the
treatment of skin and
scalp troubles.
Rexona Soap relieves the
clogged pores and tendency
to redness, cleans away the
blotches and oiliness, and
brings back that natural
beauty to the skin which is
the heritage of every girl.
Rexona Soap makes the
best shampoo for the hair.
It cleanses the scalp from
dandruff, and leaves the
hair rich and glossy.
Rexona Soap—
It’s Medicated!
£
Wk
3
///.
m,
>/
TO' l -**
K»OOSfc« y
MSfS
"A
E.A'-*
poR' F,t ’
v/m
1/-
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
tXiVIAt
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney ,
and Cr. George 6* King Sts.
1111
.V
?5»
\st£
■
V*W"' >
’ O,
MMSI
‘ W,hat a lovely
Gift! ”
Bound for California.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~jr\LOW, toys, blew for Californial
Gold, gold, gold across the seal
I J Along the rolling Sacramento
Fortune waits for you and me.
Heave your anchors from the slime.
Where their rusty flukes have lain;
Set the good ship’s bells to chime —■
All the wprld is young again!
Set your feet upon the ways
Of adventuring afar;
Let the lone trail’s virgin blaze
Be once more your guiding star.
Once again the world is wide ;
Oh, the best lands are the last!
Luck is calling and the tide
Westward set is flowing fast.
Blow, boys, for California!
Gold, gold, gold beyond the sea!
Along the banks of Sacramento
Fortune waits for you and me.
What is that old ship ahead,
Straining hard and heavily?
Who is lie with noble head
On her rolling deck we see?
Who is he with gesture tine
Pointing firmly to the west?
’Tis Columbus, messmates mine.
On his grand, immortal ipiesi.
He the channel opened wide
With compelling hands of old;
Turned a treasure-hunting tide
To the Western lands of gold.
Blow, boys, blow for California!
Gold, gold, gold beyond the sea!
Along the Spanish Sacramento
Fortunes wait for you and me.
From the ports of Europe, great
Sea commanders of the past
(Some who won and some whose fate
Brought them broken home at last),
Sailing westward, left a name
On the fading scroll of years.
From the shores of Europe came
Noble men and buccaneers ;
From their castles or their stews
To a newer world they went —
Sworded captains, scowling crews,
At the urge of old intent.
Blow, boys, blow for California!
Gold, gold, gold across the sea!
The gold that glitters in the sunset
Called to them and you and me.
Down the plains of Mexico,
In the forests of Brazil,
Of their great deeds, high or low,
Rings a daring echo still.
Round the stormy Horn ’twas flung,
On to Chile and Peru,
In each roaring chanty sung
By a westbound clipper's crew.
Shades of Cortez and his band,"
And Pizarro lean and tall,
May have heard its echo and
Stirred in answer to the call:
Blow, boys, blow for California!
Gold, gold, gold across the sea!
On the banks of Sacramento
Fortune waits for you and me.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Rum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EED SANDY stood on Barrenjoey
Head and scanned the horizon
through a telescope. South, east, and
north, the circling disc of dark blue sea
stretched outwards to a paler blue sky.
lightly flecked with summer clouds and
brilliant with the sunlight of a December
afternoon. Lion Island, massive and rugged,
reared its rocky crest in the mouth of
Broken Bay against the northern shore that
runs outwards to Cape Three Points, and
down towards Port Jackson the long succes-
sion of white beaches and sandstone pro-
montories stretched to the edge of the
world. The vast plain of tranquil ocean
was empty of any sign of human life —as
empty as it had been when Captain Cook
sailed across it in the Endeavour forty-six
years before. Save for the wheeling sea-
birds, there was no sign of any sort of life
in all the wide panorama of sky and sea and
coastline round which the big man with the
flaming red beard slowly swept his anxious
vision.
Lowering the glass with an impatient
shrug of his massive shoulders, he turned to
the thin, baldheaded man who sat smoking
on a rock in the shadow of a bottle-brush
tree, a yard or two behind him, his battered
cabbage-tree hat lying on the grass between
his feet. “Dom it, mon,” he said with an air
of disgust, “I’m feared yon Peter Dimple’s
no’ a man o’ his wor-rd. What way is’t he’s
no' shown a sign o’ himsel’ afore now?”
The other removed the pipe from his thin
lips and spat on the ground. “How many
days is he overdue now, Sandy?” he asked,
in a curiously gentle voice that was almost
womanish in the quality of its tone.
“This is Satterd'y—an’ he should ha’ bin
off th’ Bay a We’nsd’y at daybreak. Ah
doot something’ll ha’ gone wrong at Por-rt
Stephens—or else lie’s met wi’ some mishap
at sea, on th’ run down. Yet th’ weather’s
bin fine, an’ th’ nor’-easter steady—what
could ha’ happened? ’Tis not like tli’ English
Channel—wi’ them dom preventive cutters
a-cruisin’ up an’ down, day-in-day-oot, or
a-lyin’ in wait for honest cargo-runners be-
hint every point an’ headland. ’Tis a week
an’ more since th’ Pondicherry came into
Por-rt Jackson, an’ a good ten days, accordin’
to Cap’n Blunt, since he landed th’ rum at
Por-rt i tephens. Peter should ha’ been here
easy by We’nsd’y. For why not?” .
“Well, well—-Peter Dimple’s a good man,”
replied his companion. “Something he didn
reckon on’s delayed him. He 11 come anj
time. Like enough, he’s out there now, ovei
th’ skyline, only waiting for dark to run n>
here. Mebbe lie’s seen some Gover ment craft
a-dodgin’ about off th’ Coal River, or p raps
the blackfellers have given him some trouble
up above. They’re a wild lot about lort
Stephens, I’ve heard tell. But I’ve no tear
for Peter. He knows what’s to be done,
whatever turns up. We’ll see his lights
to-night, I make no manner o’ doubt.
After a short silence he went on. . J-is
a fine scheme, Sandy—an' th’ wonder is it s
not been tried before. Th’ money that s m
it! An’ safe an’ easy, too. Th’ Pondicherry
lands two hundred kegs o’ Bengal rum,
quiet an’ secure, at Port Stephens, passing
by Sydney well out o’ sight o’ the look-out
at South Head, an’ cornin’ back th same
way, and sails in from th’ south’ard at da.\
dawn. Nothin’ suspicious about that. Peter
picks the grog up, an’ runs it down here.
Some we land on th’ beach below, an th
rest goes up th’ river to Mollison s at Oattai
Creek. We’ve already sold th’ Sydney lot
at good prices, and we can sell th’ rest,
about tli’ Green Hills—or Windsor, as they
call it now—at our own convenience. No
more risk than eatin’ y’r dinner. An’ noth-
ing to stop us a-doin’ it again—an again
after that, as long’s we like, every time Bill
Blunt comes to Noo South Wales. Bless
my soul, ’tis easy money, an’ our fortunes
will be made, in a year or two, better than
they could ha’ been made in a whole lifetime
on th’ English coast. Lord, it does a man
good to think he was lagged!” ,
The big man grunted his disapproval or
this latter sentiment as he turned his back
on the sea, and began to walk across the
fiat-topped headland. .
“Aye,” he snarled, “a fine, braw thing
it is to be lagged—nae doot about it. Tli
gay times a body lias ! Seven year o’ pleas-
urin’ I had in th’ iron-gang at Castle Ilill,
an’ twice me back’s been tickled wi’ th cat
till I fair laughed wi’ joy. Ye’ve not had
half o’ th’ fun oot o’ your laggin’, Jamesy,
hae ye noo? Not half.” He cursed bitterly.
“’Tis Sandy McDougal would go to th’ gal-
lus cheerful if he had yon pot-bellied, sour-
faced Judge that sent him to this God-for-r-
-saken settlement, here on Barrenjoey, for
juist five minutes. Come awa doon wi’ ye,
.Tamesy Hartigan, an’ cease such blethenn .
We can do nae guid up here. Mebbe Peter 11
tur-rn up th’ night —lookin’ out for lum 11
no hurry him. We’ll get aboard th’ ketch,
an’ hae a bite o’ food. Come awa doon
an’ don’t be a fule.”
If Red Sandy had been shipped to the
Plantations in Virginia a century earlier,
there can be little doubt that Ills resentment
against involuntary exile would soon have
sent him buccaneering, and that the Spanish
Main would have had a very notable addi-
tion to its honor roll of pirates. But these
far South Seas gave little scope, in 1810,
for profitable piracy, so he was become a sort
of marine bushranger, distiller of awful
alcohol made from maize or peaches, horse
and cattle stealer from the farms along the
Upper Hawkesbury, smuggler whenever such
opportunities as the present offered them-
selves, harbprer .pU runaway convicts, and
fierce and turbulent outlaw with -a price upon
his head. From Broken Bay to Freeman s
Reach was his hunting ground, ana his
ketch, the Peggy, hidden in the Macdonald
River generally, his movable headquarters.
James Hartigan was his first lieutenant, and
supplied the strategic brain his hazardous
enterprises needed for their fulfilment. Both
men knew well that the timber was already
cut upon which they would one day hang.
In the meantime, they took such defiant toll
of society as lay within their power.
They clambered down the rocks and went
aboard the Peggy, tying at anchor near where
the long sandy spii runs into Barrenjoey at
the entrance to Pittwater. .
Hardly had they reached the beach before
the white sail of a ship’s boat might have
been seen from the 1 headland beating round
Long Reef, and up the coast from the
southward, against- the gentle nor’-easter.
By sunset it was off the entrance to the
river, and as dusk settled down, it ran. in
past Barrenjoey, across the mouth of Pitt-
water, and disappeared behind the next
point without having been noticed from the
Pegsry. After dark the two watchers clam-
bered to their post again on the hilltop, and
were rewarded for their vigil, at length, by
sighting the three vertical lights on the
foremast of Mr. Petar Dimple’s lugger coming
in from the north. At ten o’clock, that was.
and by eleven two small vessels lay side
by side in the little corner below the high
bluff.
* * * *
Round in American Bay—it had not. yet
received its name—Mr. Gregory Wicks.
R.N., First Lieutenant of H.M.S. Emu, held
counsel with Mr. Acting-Deputy-Assistant-
Commissary-General Pilkington, who had
accompanied him on this expedition designed
to vindicate the law as it was administered
in New South Wales by Major-General
Macquarie, C.B. Mr. Pilkington’s part was
to take over, on behalf of the Stores, the
large consignment of rum which the treacher-
ous second officer of the Pondicherry, being
out of temper with Captain William Blunt,
had informed tine authorities .was about to
be landed in Broken Bay with the object
of defrauding the revenue. After Mr. Wicks
had captured it, he was to remain in charge
of it until it could be transported to Sydney,
assisted bv an armed detachment of H.M.
46th Regiment, which was marching from
headquarters overland, under the command
of Ensign Patrick Calder. In the opinion
these three; young officers .of the. Navy,
the Array and the Civil Administration, no
happier choice could have been made of.
leaders for this responsible undertaking. .
But Governor Macquarie had liis mis-
givings, and so had Colonel Molle. A
risky combination.” his Excellency had
observed to Mir. Secretary Campbell very
risky. Why have these three young scape-
graces been sdiected? I don’t quite like it,
my dear Camitbell. But I suppose we must
hope for the bast.” _ ~
“’Tis a fact. I believe, vonr Excellency.
Mr. Campbell had explained, “that it (mnldn.t
be helper!. You will remember Mr. M lcks s
capture of the American brig, the Lovely
Jezebel, in the same place, some time ago!
on next page.)


By appointment
CHAUAPINE —The Greatest Living Bass
This world-famous Russian vocalist is now delighting Australian audiences with his
beautiful and flexible voice. Like all the world’s great musical artists he makes records
exclusively for
By abbnintm+Ht
lOin Double-sided Red Label, 7/6.
(Sung in Russian unless otherwise stated.)
DA.lol—Ave, Signor (Prologo—“Alefistofele”). (In
Italian.) Boito.
Vi ravviso, o luog i ameni (“Sonnambulo”).
(In Italian.) Bellini.
DA.62l—Down the Petersky (Russian Folk Song).
Air. C'haliapine.
Dubinushka (Song of the Haulers). (With
-chorus,)
DA. 100 —In the Town of Kazan (Varlaam's Song—
“ Boris Godounov”). Moussorgsky.
Song of Galitsky (“Prince Igor.”) Borodin.
DA.555 —Madainina— -Parts 1 and 2. (“Don Gio-
vanni.”) (In Italian.) Mozart.
DA.ss4 —Veau d’or, Le (“Faust”). (In French.)
Gounod.
Vous qui faites l’endonnie. (In French.)
Gounod.
12in. Double-sided Red Label, 10/6.
DB.IO7 —Cahimiia c un vcnticello, La (“Barbiere di
Siviglia”). (In Italian.) Rossini.
In qucsta toimba, oscura (Key of A Flat
Major). (In Italian.) Beethoven.
DB.IO0 —Death of Boris (“Boris Godounov”).
Moussorgsky.
Farewell to Boris (“Boris Godounov”).
Moussorgsky.
Greatest
Artists.
“His
Master’s
Voice”
Finest
Recording.
His remarkable voice is reproduced in all its enormous power and quality of
tone. The beautiful clarity and atmosphere of the recording will delight you
with its richness. Ask your dealer to demonstrate these wonderful records
on the New* "His Master’s Voice” Instruments—a combination constituting
a triumph in recording technique.
Choose now from these wonderful records.
12in. Double-sided Red Label, 10/6 (Continued).
DB.lol—How the King Went to War (Key of A Major) T. Koenemann
Still is the Forest (“Songs and Dances of Death”) Moussorgsky
DB.7r>7—Last Voyage, The (Op. 17, No. 2) E. Alnaes
Nightingale Tschaikowsk.v
DB.IO2 —Midnight Review (Key‘of F Minor) Glinka
Two Grenadiers, The (Key of G Minor) Schumann
D 8.10- —Oh, Could I but Express in Song (Key of ■ O Sharp Minor) L. Malashkin
They Won’t Let Masha Walk bv the* Brook (Unacc.) Russian Folk Song
DB.IO3 —Song of the Flea (Key of B Flat Minor) Moussorgsky
Song of the Viking Guest (“Sadko”). (Key of D Minor) Rimsky-Korsakov
DB.lOS—Now Let Us Depart Strokin
Arise, Red Sun Russian Folk Song
DB.4o3—Vieni la mia vendetta Donizetti
Infelice! e tuo credevi Verdi
DB.6ll—On the Airy Ocean Rubinstein
Do Not Weep, Child Rubinstein
DB.GI7 —The Birches Little Russian Song
Laknio, a Shadow Dims Tour Glances Delibes
( When the Book Shall Be Unsealed Gounod
~,, (;1 o J CHALIAPIN E-MARI E MICHAILO VA.
| It was High Time (II etait temps!) Gounod
[ CHALIAPIN E.
DB.C20 —Night A Folk Song of Little Russia
Dubinoushka Russian Folk Song
DB.622—The Tempest Rages ...1 Sokoloff
Not a Little Autumn Rain Russian Folk Song
Duet by Chaliapine and Florence Austral.
TO BE RELEASED TO-MORROW. .
DB.S99 —Church Scene, The (“Faust”). Seigneur, diagnes permettre.
Church Scene, The (“Faust”). Quand du Seigneur le jour luira. (Sung in
French.) (Gounod.) Chaliapine and Florence Austral, acc. Sym. Orch. and Chorus.
Ask for H.M.V. August Supplement contain-
ing complete list of Chaliapine Records.
Complete Catalogue of Instruments and Records with the name of nearest
dealer will be sent on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Bis Master’s Voice”
liegd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone?*
Regd. Trade-mark.
Model 511
Cabinet
Grand.
This is one of the new “His Master’s
Voice” Instruments, with new-type Inter-
nal Horn, new-type Amplifying Tone Arm
with ball-bearing socket, and “His Mas-
ter’s Voice” No. 4 Soundbox, which is
entirely new in design.
£7O
Oak
Mahogany . . . . £7B
Naturally, Captain Fletcher has sent him
in charge of the boat from the Emu. It
happened that young Pilkington Avas the only
officer available in -the Commissariat Depart-
ment. But as to MV. Calder, I think that
he must have stolen a march on tin* Adjutant
of the regiment—the Colonel Avould net-er
have sent him, I’m sure. lloAvever, Ave will
see, and, as your Excellency obsairves, we
can only hope for the best.”
So, at the foot of the Avaterfall in the
pretty bay. Messrs. Wicks and Pilkington,
sitting beside a fire at a little distance from
that round which the seamen and marines
Avere eating their rations, discussed their
supper and their plan of campaign. Mean-
while Mr. Calder. having started from
Sydney the day before Avith a sergeant, two
corporals, a drummer and thirty men. was
approaching from the south, along the spit
that joins Barrenjoey to the mainland.
“At two o'clock. Brummell. old boy, we’ll
paddle round and call upon this Mister Mc-
Dougal.” Mr. Wicks Avas saying. “Patsy
Wight to be close at hand then, with his
felloAA-'s spread out across the neck. That's
Avhat we've arranged. Of course, if this
Peter Dimple—pretty name he's got, eh? —
hasn't arrived, wo'll simply have to collar
Red Sandy, and lie loav in wait for him.
We ought to be able to round up the whole
lot of ’em, Avith any luck. By Jove, if we
make a good fist of this business, it ought
to make Macquarie a bit more civil. Damme,
Avhat a lot of rum! Two hundred kegs, that,
second mate of the Pondicherry said. What’ll
your lot do with it when you've got it?”
"The Commithawy-Gen'wal tbweatenth to
dethtwoy it—to pour it out into the harbor;
but. ath I put it to him, what about the
little innothent fish? But avc have to get it
firtht, haven’t we? Do you think thith fellow
McDougal will wethitht?"
“Red Sandy resist ! Do I think the sun
aa* ill rise to-morrow? By heavens, he’ll resist
sure enough— Ave'll have had as pretty a little
set-to by daybreak as you’re ever likely to
see, my Brummell. He’s a fighter. I saw
him once—ra big hairy, gingery Scot, all
muscle and bone and Aillainy. But we’ll get
him. I’ve twelve men—includin’ you an’
me—an’ Patsy's got thirty an’ more of his
leathernecks Avith him. They’ll hardly have
more than fifteen or so between ’em in the
Peggy and in Peter Dimple’s lugger. ’Twill
be a good fight, I promise ye; but Ave're
bound to get ’em.”
Mr. Pilkington stretched himself and
yawned. “Ah, well—l hope tho. And now
how about an hour or two of Avepothe. my
dear Panthy? A little thlumber Avill do
none of nth any harm—we’ll be hAA-ight an’
fwesh for the fway.”
“Right you are, me hearty. Hinchey!”
Mr. Wicks called to the corporal of marines.
“Post a sentry and let the men get a little
sleep. We’ll shove off from here gt tAvo
o’clock. And, eoxsAvain. you’re to serve out
a double issue of grog before Ave start. See
the gun's loaded with grape before you turn
in.”
Presently the tall hills and dark trees and
glittering stars looked down on a sleeping
camp, and the two fires at the edge of the,
little beach sank into beds of red coals, in
whose dim light the thin waterfall splashing
down the cliff sparkled against the blackness
of the background.
’Fowards half-past two the boat from
11.M.5. Emu silently and slowly approached
the high, dark mass of Barrenjoey. It Avas a
still, windless morning, and no breath of un-
stirred the leaves of the dense forests that
covered the rugged hills on the western side
of Pittwater. The oars had been muffled in
the rowlocks, and only the faint splash of
their gentle dipping in the phosphorescent
waters sounded musically in the quiet dark-
ness. Their eddies and the wake astern glit-
tered and flashed with a million little spark-
ling lamps. Ashore, in the deep shadow of
the high bluff, a single light burned dimly,
but the two little craft were shrouded in
darkness and slumber.
“I’m going to land you over there, Brum—
beloAv the huts—with two of the marines,”
Mi’. Wicks whispered to his conypanion. “See
if you can creep up unobserved and set fire
to 'em. ’Twiil give us light to see what we’re
about. When I see your light ashore, as you
start the blaze, I’m going to run close in to
the Peggy, fire the carronade we’ve got in
the bows into her hull and then board her.
The gun will act as a signal to Patsy, and
let him know ’tjs time to close in. I don’t
think the business shop Id take long. They’re
evidently taking things quietly, an’ not look-
in' for a surprise like this. You can join up
with Patsy’s mob when you've lit up the two
huts. They're wood an’ bark, and ought
to burn readily. There's two big bundles
of tow soaked in tar the marines will carry,
so you oughtn’t to have any trouble startin’
the blaze. Got your flint an’ steel?”
“Yeth, Panthy,” Mr. Pilkington whis-
pered back. “I’ll light you a pAvoper bon-
fire.”
“Well, take care Patsy’s fellows don’t pot
you by mistake. He’ll be looking out for
you. but you'll Avant to make sure an’ let
'em know who you are.”
Stealthily the boat crept into the beach,
a hundred yards below the ketch and the
lugger, and when her keel touched the sands
Mr. Pilkington and the two marines slid
over the gunwale into the water and dis-
appeared shoreward. From the other side
of the sandhills the loav, muffled boom of the
surf on the ocean beach was regular and
constant.
“I’ll give you tAveuty minutes,” whispered
Mr. Wicks as his companion lowered him-
self into the shallow water.
“Wight you are, my Panthy—good luck to
you!" replied Mr. Pilkington as he wrung
his hand.
Very gently the boat was backed out again,
and with infinite caution, and in careful
silence, slowly approached the two little
A'essels that were lashed together in the
corner of the bay.
From his position in the sandhills, his men
stretched in a line across the isthmus, a
quarter of a mile beloAv where Mr. Pilking-
ton landed, Ensign Calder waited impatiently
for the beginning of the action, the sergeant
at his side.
“D’ye think they’re anywhere about,
TAvemloAV ?” he asked of the n.c.o. in a low
tone. "Damme if I can hear or see any-
thing of ’em. The sailors, I mean.”
“They’re a-comin’ very quiet, sir, if they
be anyw’erdS out yonder. Me ears is crack-
in’ a-list’ning for ’em. Not a sound. But
they're surely close by now, sir.”
“Well, when the gun’s fired, \A r e’ll move
forward. We mustn’t let any of ’em slip
through if we can help it. But it’s Mc-
Dougal we want most. The Provost-Mar-
shal’s a-dying to meet him.”
"Aye, sir, an’ he’ll not be long for this
world, once he does, I reckon.”
The minutes seemed like hours to the im-
patient subaltern. He walked up and down
with his hands in his pockets, staring into
the blackness ahead, the great bay on his left
lying still and silent, and reflecting the stars
in its placid mirror between the sandy spit
and the wooded ranges opposite.
"Look, sir!” whispered Sergeant Tweuff-
low, pointing towards the foot of the bluff.
He grabbed Mr. Calder by the elbow.
A flicker of fire had shot up into the dark-
ness. Then with a reverberating roar the
flash of the carronade in the bows of the
boat split the black gloom below Barrenjoey,
lighting up for a brief instant the hulls and
spars of the smugglers’ little ships. In a
few seconds the echo crashed back from the
hills across the bay. There was the sound
of a pistol-shot from the huts, and then an-
other and another. The flames of Mr. Pil-
kington’s bonfire lit up the cliffs and the trees
overhanging them. Cheqrs and yells and
curses came from the ketch and the lugger,
where the leaping light from the shore
showed sailors and marines clambering over
their low sides. Mr. Wicks stood up in
the sternsheets of the white boat, the flash of
his naked sword gleaming in the firelight, as
he urged his men onto the Peggy. Presently
they could see him climb out of the boat, and
the din of combat grew loud and strong.
There were splashes in the water.
Mr. Calder blew his whistle, and from left
and right of him dimly-seen human shapes
rose from the sand and coarse grass that
overgrew the low dunes, and began to hurry-
forward towards the blazing huts.
Suddenly a man came running towards
him, and Mr. Calder lifted his pistol and
fired. An aggrieved voice hailed him.
“Dammitall, Patthy, you’ve wuined my hat.
Pleathe don’t be thuch an ath!”
For ten minutes the noise of battle broke
the stillness of early morning, and echoed
and roared back from the steep landward
side of Barrenjoey. Then, almost as sud-
denly as it had begun, it died away,
and only the sound of hailing and answering
voices between the shore and the ships echoed
through the night. The two wooden huts,
blazing merrily, lit up the scene, and caused
the red coats of the soldiers who formed a
cordon round them to stand out. vividly crim-
son, against the darkness behind.
Mr. Wicks came ashore with his captives.
In the bottom of the boat Red Sandy lay
dead with a pistol-ball in his brain. A
marine had had his skull smashed- in with a
belaying-pin. and was dying beside him, and
a seaman with a bloody rag about his head
was being supported on a seat by one of his
mates. These were the only casualties.
When, dawn came the three friends stood
by the smouldering ruins of the huts in con-
versation. Surrounded by soldiers, with
bayonets fixed, a group of smugglers stood
sullenly on the beach, and near them lay on
its back the great body of Sandy McDougal.
His lieutenant, somehow, had succeeded in
escaping.
“A vewy pwetty little affair," commented
Mr. Pilkington. “The outcome of good
gen'walsliip, my dear fcllowth. Allow mo
to compliment you both. You are cwedith
to your wethpective thervithetb.”
Mr. (’alder growled at him. “Oh, shut
up, Brum! I and my men are half-starved.
We ate the last of our rations yesterday at
noon. I say, isn’t all this rum in your
charge?”
“Yes, 'tix Brum's responsibility now,” in-
terposed Mr. Wicks. “I suppose you’ll leave
it in the lugger, Brum, and take it round to
Sydney in her, won’t you?”
“Oh yeth, of courthe—why not?”
"Book here, then,” said Mr. Calder, “what
about gettin’ a keg ashore, and servin’ out
a good stiff tot all round? Or two kegs? My
men could do with some. So could. I. Send
the boat off for them, Pansy."
Mr. Pilkington raised his hand. “No, no;
the wum mutht not be bwoaelied. ’Tith the
fiwoperty of hith Majethty, whom I have the
honor to wepwethent atli an offither of the
tliivil ethablithment. ’Twould be quite
iwegular to dwink any of it. I mutht forbid
any thuch thing.”
"Oh, damn it, Brummell,'’ expostulated Mr.
Calder, "look at my men. They’re clean done
up. You can spare one keg out of a couple
o’ hundred. An’ one for Pansy’s lot. Come
on now. We deserve it. We’ve not done
so badly for you.”
Mr. Pilkington helped himself to a pinch
of snuff and appeared to be considering a
knotty problem.
“Damn my eyes. Brum, you’re too mean
to live!” grumbled Mr. Wicks.
“Well, well,” said Mr. Pilkington pre-
sently. “ ’Tith hardly eowect, you know
—but I thuppothe a thertain latitude
may be obtherved in time of war.
Vewy well, Panthy. Them! off' and
get two kegth. But I mutht athk you both
to put in wecwithithionth in pwoper form,
and to thign voucherth. We cannot toler-
wate thlackneth in the Commithawiate.”
In a quarter of an hour the two kegs stood
upon the beach, soldiers and seamen throng-
ing eagerly about them, with messtins and
pannikins ready in their hands.
“Pway, lend me your muthket,” Mr. Pil-
kington requested of a soldier. The man
handed it to him. Pie knocked in the head
of one of the little casks Avith the butt of
the piece.
“A pannikin, pleathe!”
One was passed to him. Pie stood it on
the sand and held the keg oyer it.
“My God!” he gasped. “What a pity we
can’t let Red Thandy know of thith. Cap-
tain Blunt hath thold him two hundwed kegth
of thuper-ecthellent Bengal— water /”
“Oh, li- —1!” cursed Mr. Calder.
“Damme!" said Mr. Wicks.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


Ik M
I
if jif. 4L/ ,*sk
I * K nB
Mi-M
; , ''. '£j^J
l|r 1
■Tj'*«£?'.•*
I
I
‘TV
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOL.MES * CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDEK, SMITH S CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily arid completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a ,fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season’s prices. Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
Ď
The Standard All British Fountain
THE
SELF-FILLING.
CANNOT LEAK.
You can regulate the flow of ink
to suit your handwriting.
When you have finished writing,
a twist with the finger and thumb
seals the reservoir so that the
ink CANNOT escape until you
yourself release it.
Obtainable everywhere.
©NOT© INK—Best for all Pens.
Remington.
Model 12
.22 Calibre
Repeating Rifle
5 6 7 8H8 7 6 5
HERE’S a little gun that gives big
results. Can’t be beaten for
small game when used with hol-
low point cartridges. The .22 long-rifle
cartridge is effective as far as 200 yards.
Takes 15 short, 12 long or 10 long-rifle cart-
ridges without adjustment. Light and easily
taken apart, it always finds a place in the pack.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686E Melbourne, Viet.
V.A .
B
WISE REASONS
Pill
■for taking:
chain’s
s.
THE RELIABLE MEDICINE
Easy to swallow
Handy to use
NOTHING BETTER
If you suffer from
Disordered liver
Sick headaches
Biliousness
Indigestion
Constipation
In Beecham’s Pills
You’ll find relief
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
Đ
Sold in boxes
1/- and 2/6.
Send to Robinson & Cleaver for
your HOUSEHOLD LINENS
ROBINSON & CLEAVER of Belfast, noted for
their Irish Linen, will be pleased to send
the readers of this paper their new Illustrated
Catalogue No. 334 of Household Linens. Com-
pare their prices and quality and you will find it more
satisfactory to buy direct from the manufacturers.
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double
damask by the yard. Any length
cut. A very fine heavy make which
will give good dependable wear.
4* inches wide per yard 6/n
54 ;■ .. 8 ( 6
72 „ «/3
SHEETING BY THE YARD
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
8o ~ ~ U/6
LINEN FACE TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all
linen huck towelling. By the
yard. Will give endless wear.
17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 i/ 8
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing.
Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 5/3
54 66
ice list
IRISHLINEN
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
I Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
v . ...
i WRITE FOR
! OUR CATA-
j LOGUE WITH
j SAM PLE S
I POST FREE
sWe guarantee
j delivery of all
i goodsandcarry
■ out yourorders
; intelligently
i and promptly.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER Ltd
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND
ff
£
a
no
\
s
ROOKS
UCE
J/ost ffolhrooASat/s -'
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper —Ah ! What a
delightful bouquet; what
(an appetising zest."
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 pan.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 &ren, , ' t r.d Mac ‘ I,,arie
Tel?.: 156276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


D
Say
N
□
wmmc
a
a
mm
Because that
name protects
you against any
inferior spirit
Don’t take risks, specify
“Johnnie Walker” and you’ll
get the Whisky that is perfectly
matured, uniform in quality,
and of a distinctive palate-
persuading flavour. Every
bottle of “Johnnie Walker” is
guaranteed,
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
m
fsmm
mm
i
a s
M
ii
Born 1820 -
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
