

m
m
Big
m
.
m,
m
m
m
«§§§
an
m
%
m
■
■
m
i
-
.■
Hi
HI
x-
.
RH
■
mm
mm
mmm
•• ■■
is
i •:
S'
SKI
I
:
m
n
m
■< ■
; V-
-'
X ;
wm
m
m
Cl C ARS
LIKE
TJIE WORD OF A GENTLEMAN
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2438.
Thursday, November 4, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transrnis sion by Post as a Newspaper


THE New Library Catalogue for 192(5
is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
42S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
i
You too must try the new
De Reszke Virginias
ten for ninepence
When you can get De Reszke cigarettes at ten for
ninepence, why should you smoke anything less
good ? Ask for De Reszke Virginias at your
tobacconist’s to-day—before he’s sold out.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; otherwise the
"goodwill” value of the name—-at present beyond
compute —would be endangered. That is your
guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias will •
always preserve their present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced " DE RES-KEY ”)
Virginias
Twenty for One-and-Six
In lO’s, 20’s, 50’s and 100’s
D.R.5
J. MILLHOFF Si CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.i.
"De Reszke
—-of course”
GOOD V
THE
PLlf
A*k any man you know who OK. a PLUM—
a*k hum if he doean’t think it the beat
Razor he hai ever used. Hear him
ftMwer, “Why, rather!”
ď
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
nON POI3OMOUI IWDtR
THEGREfIT INSECT DQTKMRr
UUS
Hies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Wosguiloa
»|-
(?5r VS? -r?
tijz£:
%
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, p
The Red Page
Drama and Filma
The tenth Muse has at last arrived! iho
filma, known colloquially as the picture-show,
has been adopted into the family of the arts.
The drama has had a long innings; and
naturally it looks askance at this interloper
that broke into the world so rudely, so crudely
and so lustily. But the Topsy of the filma
rapidly “growed up,” and uow is ousting her
elder sisters from their owu homes. r ih«
drama naturally resented the arrival of the
new intruder ; and the dramatic'critics poured
scorn upon its shingled head. Here, how-
ever, was anew art that demanded a
new school of critics; and the old dra-
matic critics have been forced to take this
incursion into their domains with a rapidly-
growing seriousness. Ev6n the S. M.
Herald has come over to the revolutionaries ;
every Monday there ■ appears now a serious
criticism of the current picture-shows. To
most of the other dailies the filma is still a
matter of perfunctory notice. Yet it cannot
be pooh-poohed any longer. That it has
swept triumphantly around the globe, speak-
ing a universal language, that behind it are
millions of money, and that for one theatre
(Jevoted to the drama iii any large city there
are a dozen picture-theatres —-these are
portents that must have crossed the minds
of the professional stage critics. The thing
is here; and we must sit up and take notice.
Suppose that the filma had appeared earlier
in history than the drama. -• Suppose that for
centuries we had been looking on at picture-
shows, while the drama was as yet unborn.
Suppose that some Shakspearc had then dis-
covered the art of the stage, and had pre-
sented it to the world. A ll audience accus-
tomed to the filma would have been amazed
and amused by the poor pretences of the
stage-setting. Instead of the vast open
spaces, the sense of reality, the motion of the
waves, the trees rustling in .the wind, floating
clouds, hurrying storms, rushing water, gently
ruffled lakes and purling streams and the
tumult of crowds—things that such an aqdi-
ence would take as a matter of course —
instead of these natural stage settings the
audience would find nothing but crudities.
The scene would be shut in, framed with
obvious painted wooden wings, with a painted
backcloth that conveyed no illusion of dis-
tance. Only once or twice would that scene
be changed. Never would a breeze rustle
through a garden, and the attempts to stage
a rainfall or a snowstorm would be pal-
pably absurd.
It has been with these inconsistencies that
hitherto the greatest drama has had to play.
The wonder is that the drama has so long
survived. The truth is that the filma is here
to challenge those surviving falsities of the
drama.
“But,” says the dramatic critic, “the filma
is»uot art. It may be entertaining, exciting,
amusing, thrilling, but it isn’t art. People
take to the pictures as they take to drink—
to pass the time away. Like a certain pill, it
makes them feel brighter. The filma is not
for the classes, hut for the masses. But Art,
my dear hoy, is the thing; and you will
admit that there is precious little art, except
the art of, photography, in the filma.”
There is art, and great art, in the picture-
show. On the mere technical side the beauty
of the photography is amazing; and the
growing addition of natural color in the film
is removing the monotony of monochrome.
But this is a minor matter compared with
the increasing art of the picture play itself.
True, the art is 'photographic; but there
are to be seen iu any photographic exhibition
just as much art as there is to be found in-
exhibitions of engravings, etchings and other
serious work in monochrome. No one would
be foolish enough to decry an artistic etch-
ing or photograph.
That the art of the filma is amazingly good
is obvious. The filma captures for its pre-
sentation all tlie beauties of Nature; the
wonder of the world isf its subject. There are
moving pictures of streams and landscapes
and the sea that convey an impression of
space not: to be caught by any .scenic
artist. The* camera can go anywhere and
capture anything, and capture it artistically.
Even the worst picture-show provides this
artistic background; the camera artists are
more artistic than many of the producers.
But liow crude even a dramatic production
can be made, solely because of the materials
that must be used on the stage, is startlingly
evident by the recent exquisite production of
“Mary Rose.” Dion Boucicault. a producer
of the highest rank and of world-wide fame,
has in this play to present the mystic island
“that likes to be visited.” In the other scenes
lie makes artistic touches in tone with the
ethereal beauty of the play; but the island
beat him. The faked rowan-tree, the painted
water, the crude cave with its gauzes for
the disappearance scene, and the imitation
boat that runs on rollers, are obviously
stagey. The materials that lie had at his
disposal were too poor for him.
Imagine, however, how the mystic isle
would be pictured in a film of that strange
play! There would be beauty and reality,
artistically composed, to present a real High-
land island, seen perhaps in a ghostly grey
vision with figures of a dream.
This example of the -artistic superiority of
the filma' has been deliberately chosen to
emphasise the contrast. The whole play
lends itself to the screen, with its ghosts and
its eeriness.
It may be asked, however, whether there
are any filmatic masterpieces, short as the
time has been for the new medium. Here
are a few that are memorable: Stevenson’s
“The Bottle Imp,” one of the earliest: “Dr.
.Tekyll and Mr. Hyde”; “The Sea Beast.”
an epic of the sea as great as the book it-
self-—“Moby Dick”: “Feet of Clay,” that
gigantic theme of life after death, with its
stern moral and its amazing imagery;
“Broken Blossoms”; “Salvation Hunters,”
with its huge dredge that like a vast pendu-
lum swings across the lives of these human
castaways, and the immobility of these un-
fortunates of Fate.
Is it- to be supposed that * if William
Shakspeare were alive to-day he would look
to the crude stage for the presents-
tion of his plays? No, the film’s the thing!
Imagine the wonder and loveliness of “The
Tempest” produced by a filmatic artist; the
fairies, the ghosts, the armies in battle; the
close-ups -of the fighting deliberately intro-
duced “on another part of the battlefield”;
the charm of “Romeo and Juliet” set in
mediaeval Italy, and “Hamlet.” Some day
some great producer, probably a German, will
give us that.
A. H. A.
The Author and His Homeland
The controversy about the Australian
author and his homeland, spiritual and phy-
sical, drags its slow length along. Occa-
sionally a spark appears to illumine the
case. It was a spark, for instance, when
someone admitted that a late magazine had
extended itself in its search for “an Aus-
tralian Wodehouse.” The writer of the,
article explained how, to that end, stories
had been with no success.
In such way are authentic writers encour-
aged to produce their best work! An analogy
would be found if we, imagined a French
group of editors, 30 years ago, saying, “We
must, above all, look for a French Tenny-
son.” Then one Paul Verlaine sends in a
group of wayward yet vividly-sensitive
lyrics. The editors write back inviting him
to use the Tennysoniaii foot-rule, and to-
avoid themes not treated by the English
Tennyson. Result, either Verlaine brings
no more goods to market, or lie despairingly
brings .Something like an imitation of Tenny-
son written by someone between “Bellerive”'
and a Balm. We cannot produce an “Aus-
tralian Wodehouse” or an “Australian Hall
Caine” or what you will. Incidentally, if
Wodehouse himself has been acclaimed as
an “English O. Henry”: it is small credit
to him: as if one should congratulate a
chemist on using another man’s prescription
as his own !
People either want an interpretation of
Australian life, or they do not. Most of
them, of course, don’t know what they want
until they see it in existence. Who yearned
for “Plain Tales from the Hills” before that
book appeared? For the development of an
Australian literature, one does not hope for
editors with inspired and “forward-looking
thoughts,” able to elicit powers from people
who otherwise hardly knew how to handle
a peu. That quality of insight and fore-
sight is too rare to expect, though it must
have been part of the make-up of J. Jf.
Archibald. Archibald has goue; all one
needs from his successors is that at least
they shall uot measure new manuscripts by
the “Australian Wodehouse!’ foot-rule nor
expect every manuscript, as it comes -into
the office, to read like something shamelessly
stolen from an overseas magazine. It is a
simple but easily-forgotten truth that all
genuinely new w r ork has something repellent
in it. It may have a charm in its novelty,
but it has also the effect of making the
reader say, at first glance, “But why must
he he so odd?” As if new material could
ever be adequately handled by the use of
ready-made forms!
The material in Australia is new, almost
untouched. As D. 11. Lawrence said, our
amazing and lovely landscape has as yet no
word written over it. A few writers are
honestly endeavorifig to find that word, or,
rather, the words, which will need to be full
of humor, irony, tragedy and variety. The
idiom' of a Wodehouse would hardly be
adequate for any of these aspects. We need
to find our own.
NETTIE PALMER.
Our Uncommon Tongue
The literary partnership of the Fowler
brothers that began in 1003 with their
translation of Lucian, and to which we are
further indebted for “The King’s English,”
“The Concise Oxford Dictionary” and “The
Pocket Oxford Dictionary,” bears its last
fruit in A Dictionary of Modern English
Usage (the Oxford Press; Angus and
Robertson). Fourteen years went to its
making.
If one were optimistic enough to look for
some immediate result in an undertaking
of this sort, the most immediately desirable
result would be that the “popular” journal-
ist might at least pause to consider the
errors of his ways. That is, perhaps, too
much to expect. The speed of revolving
life in these days is inimical to pause; but
some day, perhaps, the elder brethren of the
English-Speaking Union will establish a
Society for the Prevention of Crhelty to
Our Common Tongue, and their members
will go out into the highways and the by-
ways to preach the simple doctrine that is
compressed into the 742 pages of this volume
of amazing, industry.
Take up your morning paper, and whether
its back page be adorned with pictures of
brazen women or advertisements for the un-
employed, you will see (more probably than
not in the leader) several offences in.sup-
port of one or more of the following fallacies :
(1,) That a devil’s advocate, or advocatus diaboli,
is a tempter or the like. - ,
(2) That a percentage is a small part.
(3) That a leading question is a searching one.
(4) That Cui bono means. “What is the good (or
use) ?”
(5) That One touch of nature makes the whole
ivorld kin means the same as A fellow-feeling makes
up wondrous kind.
(6) That polity is a scholarly word for policy.
(7) That More honored in the breach than in the
observance means more often broken than kept.
(8) That ilk means clan or the like.
(9) That arithmetical and geometrical progression
mean fast and very fast progress.
(10) That the comity of nations means the
members of a sort of league.
(11) That any order of words that avoids a split
infinitive is better than any that involves it.
(12) That proportion is a sonorous improvement
on part.
(13) That substitute is an improvement on replace
in the sense of “take the place of.”
(Continued on page S.)


Jl
w aae
Attractive by Reason of Style and Price!
Tailored Riding Suits of Distinction
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
op
zzisa
6mfl
V
OSS
J
to
fflflV
You can depend on the service these Riding
Suits will give you. You can depend on the
material that went to fashion them, the work-
manship put into them, and the details of
finish that make them worthy of your choice.
D 4127. —Fawn Cotton Gabardine is used
to fashion this well-fitting- Divided
Riding Skirt; buttoned at front, patch
pockets on side. Finished with narrow
belt.
D6373.— This Smartly-tailored Riding
Suit is of Fawn All-wool Gabardine. The
Coat is semi-fitting, and has step collar,
two slit pockets; lined throughout with
Jap Silk. The Breeches button on hip,
and lace at leg. Size. S.W.. /*j /
W. and O.S. Price 3,////-
In Fawn Cotton Gabardine. Price, 657-
In Navy All-w’ool Ser*ge. Price, £6/6/-
In Heavyweight Assam Silk. Price, 95/-
1)7419. —Becoming Riding Suit, in
Navy All-wool Serge, showing belted Coat,
step collar and patch pockets; lined Jap
Silk throughout. Well-cut Breeches,
buttoned on hip and lacing at leg.
Sizes, S.W., W, O.S. £5/15/6
In Fawn All-wool Gabardine.
Price £7/10/-
In Cotton Gabardine.
Price . . . . 63/-
In Heavyweight Assam Silk.
Price 89/8
D 5122. —Riding Breeches, in Fawn
Cotton Gabardine, lacing at leg, buttoned
on hip ; finished narrow belt.
Sizes .. S.W., W., O.S. O.S.
Prices. . . . 25/6 27/6
In All-wool Navy Serge, lined with sateen.
Prices. . . . 39/11 43/6
In All-wool Fawn Gabardine.
Prices. . . . 43/6 47/6
To All-wool Fawn Gabardine, with lining.
Prices.... 49/11 53/6
POSTAGE PAID
on Riding Suits,
Gloves and Boots in
N.S.W., and to the
nearest Interstate
Port.
(Fashion Salon —Third Floor.)
RIDING GLOVES.
Most serviceable are these Tan Leather
Riding Gauntlet Gloves, with strap and
dome at wrist; stiff cuffs.
Surprisingly low priced at, pair, 1 /'v
(Gloves —First Floor.)
RIDING BOOTS
Wellington Calf Riding Boots, in
Black or Tan, perfect fitting, lightweight
sewn soles. Also lace style, in PA/
Tan Calf. Sizes 3to 7. Price, dw ; ' “
(Footwear—Second Floor.)
Accessories
of Quality
and Worth.
SADDLES.
Ladies’ Astride Saddles,
hogskin seat and pads,
full skirt, Victoria facings,
London color;
plated tree. Price £5
“The Hordernia” Astride
Saddles, hogskin seat and
pads, kip flaps and skirt,
Victoria facings, London
color; half panel, plated
tree.
Price £7/10/-
BRIDLES. BREASTPLATES.
Pelham Bridles, solid
nickel buckles, inlaid fore-
head band, lined nose-
band; fin. head, fin. and
fin. reins.
Price 21/-
Breastplates and Martin-
gales, solid nickel buckles.
Sizes. . . fin. fin.
Prices. . 10/- 11/6
BITS.
Bradoon Bridle Bits—
Prices. . 3/6 4/9
Pelham Bridle Bits—
Prices. . 4/- 8/-
RIDING WHIPS.
Riding Whips, kangaroo-
covered, black and
tan, 16 plait. Price 10/-
Riding Whips, steel lined
and threaded.
Prices . . 6/9, 7/6, 10/6
LEGGINGS.
Strap Puttee Leggings.
Prices . . 12/-, 17/6 pair
Spring Front Leggings.
Prices . . 12/9, 17/6 pair
(Ground Floor —Pitt Street.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi-ted.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440,


0f ten wonder wkai the
Vintners bm)
One Half so precious
as the Goods
they soil
Otnai* Isia^arn
•' '
$<
i Buimo.i£ dutm yo we
s


THE
M AN’S SHOP
V
m.
1
Art. Silk Lined Suits
for 0/2 gns-
Art. Silk is the cool lining for Summer—and then, it lasts
the suit out —ask the man who wears one. Choose your
material from over eighty patterns. Suits meticulously
tailored to order and correct in every detail. 6| g.ns.
A small charge of 7/6 is made for
hand finishing the edges if desired
DAVID JONES’
(14) That protagonist is an improvement on
champion or leader.
(15) That an exception strengthens a rule.
(16) That good writers do not end a sentence
with a preposition.
(17) That Frankenstein was a monster.
The compilers of this dictionary divide
the English-speaking world into five kinds:
(1) Those who neither know nor care what a split
infinitive is.
(2) Those who do not know, but care very much.
(3) Those who know and condemn.
(4) Those who know and approve.
(5) Those who know and distinguish.
In the first division are the vast majority.
In the second are the folk who would just
as soon be caught eating with their knives
as splitting their infinitives. Their aversion
arises from the fact that a tame acceptance
of the misinterpreted opinions of others is
more weighty with them than any instinc-
tive appreciation of good taste. Their very
distortions do far more damage to their
literary reputations than any actual lapse
could do. In the third division we have the
fanatics. They are less easily identifiable.
They generally display dexterity, but where
this is lacking they reveal themselves as
non-split diehards. As an example of the
fifth division the following, taken from a
newspaper of high repute, may serve: “It
will be found possible to considerably im-
prove the present wages of the miners with-
out jeopardising the interests of capital.”
Here it may be assumed that that infinitive
was intentionally split, so that it might
shriek to Heaven for. vengeance. In the fifth
division we have those who maintain that
a split infinitive, however undesirable in it Self,
is preferable to real ambiguity or to patent
artificiality.
A sentence ending with a preposition is,
by general consent, an inelegant one. Dry-
den, it seems, went through all his prefaces
contriving away the final prepositions that
he had been guilty of in his first editions.
Ruskin almost reversed this procedure. All
our great writers have allowed themselves
to end a sentence or clause with a preposi-
tion. Our mentors offer here the following
advice:—
Follow no arbitrary rule, but remember that there
are often two or more possible arrangements between
which a choice should be consciously made; if the
abnormal, or at least unorthodox, final preposition
that has naturally presented itself sounds comfortable,
keep it ; if it does not sound comfortable still keep
it if it has compensating vigor, or when, among
awkward possibilities, it is the least awkward.
Certain learned newspapers, wishing to
astound us with the extent of their know-
ledge, are prone to didacticism. There is
no reason why we should change to “Khalif”
when we can get along perfectly well with
“Caliph,” or "Khalifat” instead of “Cali-
phate.” In the absence of any unity it is
better to preserve the name that our fathers
used before us. •
One can only regret that the death of Mr.
F. O. Fowler in 101 S, from tuberculosis con-
tracted during his war service, lias ended
this partnership. The present volume con-
tains none of his actual writing, but was de-
signed in consultation with him.
GERALD DILLON.
The Green International
lii 1800 Europe was just beginning to feel
the first throes of the industrial revolution.
The country dominated the towns. They
were its markets, not, as a century later
they became, its masters. “In England and
Wales, for example,” says Lothrop Stod-
dard in Social Classes in Post-War Europe
(Scribner: Robertson and Mullens), “where
four-fifths of the population are now towns-
folk, five-sixths of the population lived in
the country.” Such independence as there
was lay with the country. It grew its own
food, made its own clothes and constructed
such crude appliances for agriculture as it
needed. True, the town might furnish some
articles of secondary use and of luxury, but
for all the essentials of life the country lived
within itself. A century passed, and the
whole position was changed. The infant of
the industrial revolution had reached the
proportions of a Colossus. The spread of
machine industry had transformed Europe,
which poured its wares over the earth, and
drew thence food and raw materials. At
the close of the nineteenth century the
towns, expanded into great cities densely
packed with workers whose direct interests
were foreign to the soil, had become masters
of the situation. The harvests of their
native lands no longer sufficed to supply
them with food. The population had in-
creased beyond all local capacity for its
maintenance.
Britain is the classic example of the
urbanising process in the Western world.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century
it was practically a self-fed, self-contained
nation, with five-sixths of its population on
the land, one-sixth only finding a home with-
in the towns. “By 1914 these conditions
were completely reversed. In England and
Wales nearly four-fifths, and in Scotland
three-fourths, of the total population lived
under urban conditions.” In little over a
century the nation, from being a self-sup-
porting unit, had become a vast industrial
workshop and trading mart, dependent for
its daily bread upon imported foodstuffs. The
same movement had been in progress on the
Continent. The prosperity, indeed the very
life, of the communities depended no longer
on the products of the local soil, but upon
their urban industries. “The only impor-
tant European State which succeeded in
maintaining a balance between town and
country was France, where in 1914 slightly
more than half the population still lived in
the country and kept her practically a self-
feeding nation.”
Such was the position when in 1914 Ger-
many precipitated the Great War upon the
world. With it marched a momentous change.
Almost in a night city industry became
impotent. Articles of trade that could not
be traded were valueless. They no longer
had an exchange value for food unless in an
almost inappreciable degree. Foreign mar-
kets were closed, the highways of the seas
were imperilled. Once more the natural
mother of mankind, the soil, had to be
called on. “The balance of power had
shifted overnight, and the countryside again
held the whip hand. The townsman went
hungry; the peasant kept hale and hearty
from the produce of his acres, and sold his
surplus at unheard-of prices that brought
him record prosperity. As in olden days
the town was dependent on the country.”
With the close of the war came a period
of revolutionary unrest, the spawn of Bol-
shevism. In Russia the revolution, begun
by the city proletariat, was backed by the
peasantry, with the latter’s one objective,
the land, before it. But once possessed of
the coveted acres the peasant lost all enthu-
siasm for revolution. He wanted to settle
down upon his scrap of land and enjoy it
for his own profit. Communistic yearnings
were not for him., He realised that he held
the winning card, that his were the goods.
The man with the hoe was once again king,
a ruler over the empty stomachs of the town.
Now came the hungry town proletarian proposing
that this land should be socialised —for the prole-
tarians’ benefit. AVhat was this but a new foi-m of
urban predominance—a predominance no less hateful
to the peasant because exercised by factory workers
instead of by aristocrats and bourgeois, as in former
days ?
Throughout Europe, then, we find the
man on the land holding fast to his bit of
property, vital property, prepared to sacri-
fice his life for it—an individualist to the
core. Instinctively he ranged himself against
the forces of red revolution. Even where
the revolutionists obtained control of the
Central Government, as in the short-lived
Hungarian Communist Republic, the pea-
sants refused to be converted to Commu-
nism. An attempt by the . revolutionary
Government to socialise the land by break-
ing it up into communal sections roused the
peasantry into a furious resistance that
swept the Communist Republic out of exist-
ence. “Where proletarian revolutions were
unsuccessfully attempted the peasantry
always took a prominent part in their sup-
pression. In Finland the town proletariat,
with the assistance of Soviet Russia, put
through a Bolshevik revolution. Instantly
the peasantry coalesced with the persecuted
upper- and middle-classes, and the resulting
White Army overthrew the momentary dic-
tatorship of the proletariat. In Germany
the peasants everywhere fought Commu-
nism.”
The working classes of Europe have their
third or Red International, the upper- and
middle-classes their so-called “White” Inter-
national, and now the peasants have grouped
into an organisation of their own. “the
Green International,” whose symbol is the
four-leaved clover. “In Eastern Europe,
where it arose,” Stoddard says, “it is very
much a power to be reckoned with.” It is
“less than five years old,” yet its members
reach several millions. It is closely knit
together, and knows how to use its political
power. “Already,” says the author of this
most interesting book —“already it has given
one Prime Minister to Czechoslovakia, and
another to Poland, while in nearly every
cast European country its influence is in-
creasing by leaps and bounds.”
If the author had been a little better
acquainted with Australia and Maoriland,
still laboratories for social experiment, he,
of course, would have found a Farmers’ party
in existence much more than five years; he
would have found, too, a Country-party
member the Acting-Prime Minister of a con-
tinent, and at least one Farmers’ party
member the Premier of a State of the Com-
monwealth. But though in Europe the
party may “know how to use its political
power,” one would not like to swear to the
same thing in Australia, despite the party's
greater age.
T.B.C.
Readable Classics
Ethel Anderson (R.P. 23/9/’26) has strin-
gent ideas on the decline in general popu-
larity of the “classics.” She also raises
the Question of the reason for this decline.
The present is an age of rush and hurry and
work and wireless and short cuts. The
cinema is a short cut to both books and
the stage, and wireless is a short cut to many
things. Both are poor second-bests, but
they express the needs of the age.
Nevertheless, a larger number of people
than Miss Anderson perhaps imagines read
and enjoy the classics: but they read only
those authors who cater for busy people.
The long mornings of the nineteenth century
are no more. Contrast a “morning” scene
from one of Jane Austin’s or Miss Yonge’.s
novels with one in the present day. Then
Mamma sat in the morning-room with her
embroidery-frame, Fanny and Lucy were
engaged in sketching or copying music until
one or two of the young gentlemen from the
neighboring Hall arrived, when improving
conversation was indulged in or Mr. Cowper’s
lines to a hare were read and canvassed.
Nowadays, Mamma is in the kitchen cooking
the hare, the neighboring young gentlemen
are boundary-riding, trapping the rabbit or
building sheepyards, and Fanny and Lucy
are on their knees polishing floors. The
decline in general popularity of the classics
probably set in when it ceased to be infra dig.
to work for one’s living. Our intellects
(Fanny and Lucy always had intellects;
now we have only an intellect) are keener
at the beginning of the day, and it is then
that we should attack Milton, Spenser and
Sidney; later on, when the work is done,
and the quickness of the intellect slightly
blunted by manual toil, we cannot rise to
their heights, and have to content ourselves
with Shakspeare, Marlowe, Chaucer and Sir
Thomas Malory.
The reason for our preference is not diffi-
cult to discover. “Paradise Lost” is a great
poem (I read most of it once when in bed
with a synovitis knee, but the knee recovered
too soon, and I have never felt clear-headed
enough since to tackle the end), but it is
not human. Its conception is too much
above our everyday existence to be easy
reading. To enjoy it we have to release our
mind from its mundane surroundings, and
arise and descend with angels and the Prince
of Darkness. “The Faerie Queene” and ■
“Arcadia” are even more difficult subjects;
they are over-elaborated, artificial, and come
very close to the metaphysical, and personi-
fied virtues and vices are boring. (Still, I
once felt entirely in sympathy with Spenser.
I lay under a wattle-tree in full bloom in the
springtime, the sky was blue and the grass
green—it isn’t always green—and fat little
tomtits, known as yellow-rumped tits,
hopped and twittered through the wattle
branches; there I read the first two books
of “The Faerie Queene,” and then it grew
darkish, and I had to go home and get tea.)
Shakspeare and the rest are rollicking per-
sons, and full-blooded. They tell of men
and women and little habits and practices
which are the same always. They write of
human nature which never changes, though
its surroundings become so much more com-
plicated. We may not know Tamburlaine
as well as we do Falstaff, but our spirits
can rise with Marlowe on his great waves
of blank verse till we are ready to bid
Apollo, Cynthia and the ceaseless lamps
That gently looked upon this loathsome earth
Shine downwards now no more, but deck the heavens
To entertain divine Zenocrate.
All these human authors who are more in-
terested in the matter than the manner are
easily read. They can be read as I have
read them, when separating the milk and
churning the cream. Interruptions (when
the butter comes) do not spoil the interest;
they are eager to tell, their tale and we to
listen ; and, though we hurried, work-ridden
people do not get all there is to get out of
them, we get a great deal. Malory’s knight
who rides at a great wallop after his questing
beast is flesh and blood; Spenser’s gentil
knighte a-prickeing on (lie plaine, but a
fancy. We know that he will turn out to be
a Red Crosse knighte, an amalgamation of
virtues which were never housed in the body
of sinful man, while the other is Sir Pala-
mides, the Saracen (which, being interpreted,
means non-baptised), who follows his quest-
ing beast when he forgets for a white his
pagan love for La Beale Isond and his
jealousy of Sir Tristram. As to Sir Philip
Sidney, even in the sixteenth century Cer-
vantes’s simple old Don found a deplorable
absence of that Arcadian simplicity that his
reading had led him to look for. In Dante,
too, the humanity at war with the sublime
is triumphant in the “Inferno,” about equal
in the “Purgatorio,” and—how many people
who thoroughly enjoy those first two books
have even read the “Paradiso”? It is the
same with the Greek dramatists. Euripides
and Sophocles are very human; even the
former’s frequent dcus ex machina has all
our faults and frailties. But iEschylus is a
different proposition; lie is up in the air
above Olympus, amongst spiritual and meta-
physical gods, and his mortals are all Titans
in their mentality.
I think that, until successive orgies of
wireless discoveries have rendered reading
a lost art, the classics will be read and loved
by a goodly number of ordinary people, and
that scholars will continue to burn incense
of midnight oil at the shrine of the more
sublime masters whose works they can appre-
ciate by the superior clarity of their intel-
lects.
ISABEL HASSALL.
A Satchel of Books
Nif/Jbt of Peril, by Horace Bleackley (John Lane).
“The tall Koroskoff thrust aside the garrulous Steven
and fixed a pair of glowing eyes upon Bertram. He
was face to face with one of the most dangerous
crooks in Europe.” The author has written many
works dealing with periods of history and is equally
skilled in the hot stuff of sensational fiction. This
novel provides thrills at the rate of thirteen to the
d° ze n.
Epigrams and Aphorisms, by Frank Gray (Cecil
Palmer). “The first Labor man who can decline an
invitation to dine with a duke will lose the respect
Of the workers.” This is a sample of the wit con-
tained in the volume. Spontaneity is the soul of the
epigram, and Mr. Gray’s collection shows too-evident
marks of the factory.
The Maplethorpe Tangle, by Elliot Bailey (Geoffrey
Bles). It all begins with an aeroplane dropping a sack
containing the dead body of Sir Francis Maplethorpe
into a calm and peaceful lake fringed by willows.
There begins the tangle whose unravelling will call
for many matches to re-light the pipe gone out in
the engrossment of an exciting story.
The Adventurous Elves, by May Lillian Paten (E.
A. Vidler). The author is one of the little band of
writers who are endeavoring to create an Australian
fairyland for our children. The adventures of Chit,
Chat and Chut in the bush, where they meet all the
birds and creatures familiar to child dwellers in
our continent, make up a charming little book, whose
attractiveness is added to by Christian Yandell’s
decorative illustrations.
Willobie His Avisa, 1594, by G. B. Harrison (John
Lane). The original of the text is in the British
Museum; and this reprint is in facsimile. This
curious book provides an interesting problem of
Elizabethan literature; and the critics note that
Shakspeare’s “Lucrece” was first printed in the
year of the publication of “Willobie His Avisa.”
It is, however, darkly hinted by the critics that the
book is not what it pretends to be. It tells the
story of an innkeeper’s wife, beautiful, witty and of
an unassailable chastity—a virtue apparently rare
amongst hostesses of that time. Among her rejected
suitors were noblemen; but who Willobie was is a
subject for conjecture. Clues in the work are few,
and perhaps intentionally disguised. If the “W.S.”
is Shakspeare, Avisa may be one of the keys of the
mystery of the Sonnets; but the Dark Lady was
dark, and Avisa wasn’t. Among Avisa’s suitors there
was one whose initials were W.S. The book was
well known ; it went into six editions before 1635,
though the verse is mediocre. G. B. Harrison tells
all that apparently can be told about the mystery.
General Strikes and Road Transport, by George
Glasgow (Geoffrey Bles). In May of the present
year the British Government had to deal with one
of the mast critical situations that had ever been pre-
sented in the nation’s history. It was face to face
with an attempt to paralyse the vital services of the
community by a so-called General Strike. For such
an emergency the authorities were not unprepared.
“Even before the end of the war,” says Mr. Lloyd
George in a foreword to this book, “preparations
were being made by my Cabinet to meet any indus-
trial crisis which would involve interference with
the transport and food supplies of the country. After
the Armistice a very complete organisation was
created by the Ministry of Food, at niv desire, for
that purpose.” The kernel of the problem of keeping
the people fed and maintaining the essential services
for production and distribution was road transport.
The whole question had bee’n thought out. . “Not
only had the country been divided up into divisions,
the duties of civil commissioners, food and road
commissioners and of haulage committees reduced
to a practical routine, but the chief executive officials
had met, had co-ordinated and decentralised their
functions, anticipated emergencies and perfected plans
to such a point that when the strike came there was
hardly a single hitch of organisation anywhere.”
On the third day of the strike this vast new machine
of transport began to function, and by the end of
the first week of the strike there was a regular and
orderly system of road transport throughout the
country equal to the physical needs of the population.
The author in this book for the first time makes
public all the technical details of this comprehensive
scheme which, having once successfully functioned, in
a few days broke the back of the General Strike
that was to have brought the community to the
heel of autocratic Labor.


%
\>
s
'•l
Sis
m
*
t*
S|
it"
'h
Mi;;!iiimi!iuiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiSßi(imißiiifiiviii;^<«
One Car
is also a
Comfort - Car
Citroen
Agents s
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders St., Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
185-189 Tulteney Street,
Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin St., Melb.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
45 3 Ann Street, Brisbane.
Gormack & Pettigrew,
Invercargill and Gore, N.Z.
Citroen Motors, Ltd.,
205 Stuart Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
Ideal Combination
of important features
makes Citroen
doubly popular
IT’S something to be enthusiastic about, this association of
comfort with economy in the Citroen! For here’s
a car so easy to maintain and so pleasant to ride in that you’ll
be singing its praises everywhere you go —and you can go
everywhere in the Citroen!
See the new British-built Citroen TO-DAY!
/
D
rv
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS s
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


7r
£
£
V*
m
r
w
r
a
/
$
r, r
1
&
m
Cleans Where Dust and
Dirt Collect Most!
WITH the complete set of attach-
ments there is no necessity to
take down and shake curtains, climb
up and dust mouldings, beat your
mattresses, and end the day in a state
of exhaustion. - first among
cleaners —with attachments, enables
yoti to effectively clean curtains,
picture rails, book shelves, walls, etc.
6Premier is light and power-
Jelecttuc cleaned
ful, it moves swiftly over
mgs, cleans every atom of
dirt from surfaces and from
depths—sucks it right up. It cleans CLEAN.
’Phone your nearest office for a free demonstra-
tion in your own home, or call when convenient
at any of our Showrooms. This will not place
you under any obligation.
Price: £lO 0 0 Cash.
£lO 14 0 Terms.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL
(Australian General
'Tr
B
T-H
ELECTRIC
Electric Company Ltd
Cr. Goulburn Street and Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
27 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane, Q land.
53 King Street, Newcastle.
AGENTS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
Oliver and Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, las.


Ac
r
Q
n
o
0.
/
0
0
/I
0
a
*
1
0
►
\
<\
ax
>
o
7
A
\
r
k-
V
f:
r.
*
4
* rv
«
©
OODYEAR fidelity
to tested design
and to quality mate-
rial has contributed
mightily to the balloon
tyre’s unalloyed
success.
3
BALLOON TYRES
Made with SUPERTWIST


Cuticura Preparations
For All The Family
For generations Cuticura Soap
and Ointment have afforded the
purest, sweetest and most satisfac-
tory method of promoting and
maintaining a healthy condition of
skin and scalp. Tender-faced men
find the freely-lathering Cuticura
Shaving Stick a necessity. Cuticura
Talcum is an ideal powder, cooling
and refreshing.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
HMDs' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Vt-
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fairnair
AMAMI
Shampoos
The only shampoo with the
special Lemon Juice Rinsing
Powder which ensures the
thorough rinsing essential to a
perfect shampoo.
All the big Stores,
Hairdressers and
Chemists are
Selling Amami.
<f>
fd
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
' : POR IRISH NEXT-OP-KIN.
\TIIOMAS GIBNEY.
Present Address of Thomas Gibney,
brother of Patrick Gibney of Roehfortbridge,
Westmeath, Ireland, deceased.
Thomas Gibney went fo Australia about 40 years
ago and was last heard of near Brisbane. He or
his next-of-kin are requested to communicate with
DOWNES & CO., Solicitors, Mullingar, Ireland.
FOSSETT. —Inquiries are being made for
the present whereabouts of CHARLES
WILLIAM FOSSETT. formerly of Gun-
bower, Australia, Farmer, to his advantage.
Will any person having information please
communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Auckland, New Zealand.
Davies, william richard, who
left Canada for Australia in May, 1922,
and worked around Wagin and Lake Grace,
Western Australia, and who was last heard
of in Melbourne in August, 1923, when he
proposed going to Queensland for a health
trip, is sought by his brother. Any infor-
mation concerning him would be greatly
appreciated. G. L. Davies, R.R., No. 1,
Rapid City, Manitoba, Canada.
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
ďf
Some things get better of themselves—rupture
gets worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss. 4
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while you don't- know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A CHILD’S COLD,
It is easy for a child to contract 'a
cold, but it is just as easy for you
to check it with Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. This preparation will put
an end to a cough or cold in much
less time than you thought possible.
It is the mother’s favourite everywhere.
Contains Nothing Injurious,
4
\7PA
if
(S
Cm*' 1
D
ft
<aho
S*&JWy,f<
Holds More Ink
Make Onoto your Pen—lt is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH. NO SOAP.
d
ďf
d
ď
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years man has
been scrubbing his face' with soaps full of Soda and
has never reasoned that under such treatment the skin
must suffer? Nothing is more ugly than a face that
looks raw. Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with Soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method where
no bush and soaps full of soda are needed. Shavex is a
skin food. One can shave in half the time, and you
will get a smoother and closer shave than you have ever
had, and shaving will become a pleasure instead of a tor-
ture. Your skin will look and feel like satin, and your
face under this treatment will look twice as young. No
after lotions are required when using
SHAVEX
Mr. LESLIE HENSON the famous
actor, writes:—“l use 'Shavex’ every
time I shave, and think it is the quick-
est, cleanest and most delightful pre-
paration ever invented for shaving.”
1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian
Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(Australia) Ltd., (Dept. 4 ), Eagle
& Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney. Zeekol Mnfg. Co., London, Eng.
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of 3d. tamp.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
f
I
'* /, i n it
Ml
sa
1
at
SI
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post tree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By Candle-light.
Coquetting with the dark, the gay
White candles in the little room
Flickered and flamed, said yea and nay,
And wavered in the twilit gloom.
And Color came and kissed'your face
And lips and eyes, and Shadow came
And touched your hair, and for a space
Color and Shadow of candle-flame
Merged into one ; and then I knew
A thing that oft had troubled me—-
Your eyes were neither grey nor blue,
But green as shadowed depths of sea ;
And browner than a brown bird's wing
At nightfall was your hair, and red
As cherries ripe for gathering
Your lips that smiled and no word said.
That hour is gone; and you, perchance,
Have long ago forgotten how
The brave, bright splendor of Romance,
Purple and gold, bedecked it. Now
As then am I; and this I know:
If ever in the years to be
I have great need of you I’ll go
To that small room ; and Memory
Will wave her magic wand and set
You at my side again, and touch
My heart to joy since I’ll forget
At once the fear that Time might smutch
Your glory burnished by the light
Of candles tall that softly trace
Against the glowing gloom the white
Blurred beauty of your lovely face.
N.S.W.
B.L.
To a Friend.
We two, silence enwrapped, lie side by side
Watching the upward movement of the tide
And the white horses as they proudly ride.
No word between us falls, and yet I know
Your thoughts are mine, for I can see them go
Across your eyes and round the lips below.
We two alone, not loverly, and yet
In the same lines of faith and longing set,
Knowing for each no faintest first regret.
No need to tell you all the endless chain
Of hopes abortive and ambitions vain ;
You understand, and speech were only
pain....
O Friend of Mine (for I have found you
dear),
Is it not worth the sorrows of a year
To lie together in the sunshine here?....
Your, fingers move in mine. Strangely I
know
That, surety as these first faint breezes blow,
We will arise, without a word, and go.
TASMANIA.
VER HOLTHAM.
Parramatta.
Within a solitude sun-flecked and green
The river winds between high, sloping
shores
Where ancient oaks and branching syca-
mores
Cast their dark shadow on the water’s sheen.
So softly sings the river, running slow
Under the cedars strung with yellow seeds,
Scarce stirring the brown-crested water-
reeds
That dance sedately when the soft winds
blow.
Where curven bridges span their shining way
The waters wind by street and sylvan lane,
The bordering willows like a fine, straight
rain
Veiling the emerald slopes in films of grey.
Here is tranquillity wherein to dream,
Watching the sunlight on a distant spire,
The gleam of gum-crests lit with radiant
fire,
Mirrored within the ripples of the stream.
No wild-bird calls, no footfall rifts the spell,
The red sun westers and the faint stars
gleam;
From quiet groves beyond the darkened
stream
There comes the pealing of a vesper bell.
Yet long ago, in this green solitude,
The Empire-builders walked, with hope
elate,
Seer stood with sage beside the opening
gate,
With dream of mighty nationhood imbued,
Looking towards the far, encircling sea,
Where, hid by forest from their eager gaze,
The dawning city, in an azure haze,
Woke, prescient of her noble destiny.
Her voice is on the wind that blows to-night,
Her myriad lights englow the darkening
skies....
Serene beneath the stars this lone vale lies,
Silent but for a night-bird’s whispering flight.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
The Scornful Tributer.
What shall appease the vengeful Lord of All
Who since Creation’s dawn hath taken toll
Of all rank myriads on the human roll,
By war and plague and earthquakes that
appal ?
Not that brave Son who on His name did
call.
Lost to the world and under Hell’s control,
Sightless with pain and retching up his soul.
Nor Mary’s pangs that morning in the stall.
Still forward press, O Heav’n-beleagured
Man,
Foredoomed, condemned and excommunicate !
Your Saviour and yourself in one shall meet
Heading the lost in one long caravan
To bear Hell’s heart, torn out. through the
gold gate
And cast it raw and red at God’s proud feet.
maokiland.
DARIUS.


9
m
m
\
:
m
mm
m
mm .
HE .
m
■
■■l
■
..
■
■ -
.
*
ft
#


THe Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2438.
November 4, 1926.
OLD GHOSTS AT A MODERN FEAST.
“The renort of the NSW Pubric Accounts Committee discloses that during last year the Lang Government paid away £4,698,295 without Parliamentary authority.”
“In 1899 on account of a payment of £300 to reimburse J. C. Neild for expenses incurred in Europe, the Reid Government was turned out of office, not because the
payment was not considered justified, but because it was made before Parliamentary authority had been obtained.”
GHOST OF JAWBONE NEILD (talking to the ghost of George Reid): “Five millions in the petty cash box! They
certainly do things differently in these days!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1/S. ; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the. copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The _ Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Lomlon is
1,. St. C. (iromlo na. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
"The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
7!) Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.; and W. Daw-
son and' Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.li.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1,6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1,1.1,-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Joliannesburg; Dawson and. Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
lihodesia News Agency,’ Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, Neiv York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News C0.,'701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World Neivs Stand,
51,11, South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6V6 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. — Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.— R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-7 9 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: !,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
2%£lßzilZe&7l.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1926.
THE NATIONALIST WORM TURNS.
The Bruce-Page Government came in for
some scolding in Adelaide. It was an
unusual experience; to criticise a “National”
Government at a conference of the National
Federation has long been regarded as
one of those things which Simply Aren’t
Done. In conference assembled the Fed-
eration generally contents itself with
saying that it stands for Throne and
Empire,'being a prop of one and a hulwark
of the other, that it is “out to fight social-
ism,” and that it is in favor of State-aided
immigration, “a national scheme of unem-
ployment insurance,” Government assistance
to producers, more Government railways and
similar devices calculated to drive socialism
into the last ditch. Having placed these sen-
timents on record, the delegates disperse,
satisfied that the nation is safe for another
twelvemonth, especially as it has a
Prime Minister who, bar the spats,
is such a credit to his tailor. This
has been the programme year after
year, but a little vinegar was mixed with the
oil at Adelaide. In his presidential address
Vic. Senator Plain chided the Government
for having rushed the referendum proposals
on an uninstructed electorate, and for not
having “taken cognisance of the opinions
and machinery” of the Nat.-Fed. He pointed
out that the Government had the Federation
on its side only in N. S. Wales, where the
proposals were carried; it had only itself
to blame for the non-co-operation of branches
in the States where it was heavily defeated.
It was certainly stupid of Bruce to decide
on the referendum without consulting the
party organisation and enlisting its aj.d
during the confused three weeks’ campaign,
and his tactics warranted much more spirited
language than Plain saw fit to employ.
* * * *
A rebuke that the Government will feel
more was administered to it in respect of its
£20,000,000 roads scheme. Duncan, the
N. S. Wales Senator, was put up to move
a resolution in favor of that insensate
arrangement. Marr, Hon. Minister in the
House of Reps., seconded. But the motion
aroused so much antagonism that Duncan,
fearing defeat, asked permission to with-
draw it, and withdrawn it was. One of
the S. Aus. delegates described the roads
scheme as an intrusion on the domain of the
States, and the charge is unanswerable. His
State, which is standing out of the mad
business, is defendant in a High Court
action, the Commonwealth Government being
plaintiff, which . will decide whether it
can constitutionally impose a petrol tax to
finance a roads policy of its own. The same
Court will presently have to determine
whether the Commonwealth can distribute
the proceeds of its petrol tax among the
three States which have gone into the
roads scheme—Westralia, Queensland and
Tasmania. In addition to these costly legal
proceedings—the taxpayer will lose, whoever
wins—the idiotic roads scheme has involved
the Bruce-Pages in a struggle with the oil
companies. The Commonwealth petrol tax,
which is mostly for revenue that isn’t needed,
though the Government claims to be Protec-
tionist, was brought in with the airy assur-
ance that the oil companies would pay it,
since they “wouldn’t dare to pass it on.” Of
course they have passed it on, with the imme-
diate result that motorists have been paying
2s. Bd. a gallon retail for petrol in one State
and 2s. 6d. a gallon in another. These com-
panies have no sympathisers outside their
shareholders and officers, but no amount of
querulous railing on the part of Common-
wealth Ministers will bring the price down.
Nor will C.O.R. competition worry the com-
panies unless the Commonwealth lays out
millions, and it may not be effective even
then. Another very rotten feature of the
roads scheme is that it will postpone for at
least 10 years that separation of Federal and
State finance which the Commonwealth
Treasurer has proclaimed to be the desire of
his heart, while it will encourage vote-
catcliing State Governments to squander
easily-got money in a field where there is
too much squandering already, as every Aus-
tralian who goes about with his eyes open
can testify. Road construction and main-
tenance, except in the Federal territories, is
the States’ job, not the Commonwealth’s. But
the present Commonwealth Government has a
perfect genius for messing round the other
fellows’ job and neglecting its own.
* * * *
It is a pity that the delegates opposed to
the roads scheme did not insist on Duncan’s
motion being put to the vote. Conference
would have done Australia a service by con-
demning the thing root and branch. The
Government has lost friends wholesale since
the Reds won the election for it last year,
and a hostile resolution from the Nat.-Fed.
quarter would not have been ignored. It is
also a pity that the worm did not turn to
the extent of voting down the idea of spend-
ing £20,000,000 on houses, which is almost as
silly as the roads scheme. Instead, it regis-
tered approval of the housing tomfoolery, no
doubt because it is “out to fight socialism.”
The State Governments are in the
housing business already, and a glori-
ous mess some of them have made of
it. While conference was getting ready the
S.A. Auditor-General reported a loss of £97
a dwelling on the Gunn-Hill .Government’s
Thousand Homes. And the Ma State delegates
could have held forth on the N.S.W. Housing
Board’s weakness for running up unsaleable
shacks ; the Auditor-General mentions that the
net losses to June 30, 1925, were £54,289.
The Commonwealth’s own ' record is even
worse. It tried its hand at building homes
for soldiers, hundreds of which, according
to the occupants, were worse than the horrors
of war; the latest estimate of the money
thrown away was two millions. And the
Nat.-Fed. while “out to fight socialism,”
urges an extension of the Government
meddling which has had such disastrous
results! Conference went on to declare
itself in favor of “an adjustment of the
finances of Commonwealth and States with
a view to the realignment of spheres
of taxation.” A separation should certainly
be effected between the overlapping taxation
and financial systems, and with the 255. p.h.
of surplus revenue to negotiate with—the
Commonwealth has been unnecesarily return-
ing it to the States since 1920 —Treasurer
Page could bring it about. At the same time
he could take over a big body of the States’
debts, with a view to their extinction, and
tackle the loan plague by forcing the States
to borrow through the Commonwealth and
establish tliief-proof sinking funds; in fact,
lie has it in liis power to make his own
terms. But it is out of the question to
“adjust the finances” and realign spheres
of taxation while a Treasurer who ought to
be concentrating on the all-important debt
problem is fooling round with £40,000,000
roads and housing schemes; so the delegates
might just as well have saved their breath.
THE EUROPEAN IN ASIA.
There is always with us a muddy sentiment
concerning the wrongs which the white man
has done to his Asiatic brother, and the
robberies he has perpetrated at Siiem’s
expense, and the reparation that is due.
A civil war in China or a scuffle
on a Turkish border intensifies the feel-
ing. it being always assumed that the
malign influence of Western Europe is
at the root of the trouble, and it takes on an
acute form when some small body of bust-
ling Hindus demands Parliamentary govern-
ment and tries to burn a mosque. There is
a further impression that Europe is not
sufficiently grateful to Shem for rocking the
cradle of civilisation. Certainly Europe
called in on Asia many times, which was a
reasonable thing to do, for the Lord didn’t
make the earth in watertight compartments,
and travel improves the mind. On the other
hand, Asia called in on Europe many times.
But the general, though not invariable, ten-
dency of the European was to make Asia
better and richer than he found it, whereas
the general tendency of the Asiatic was to
make Europe a great deal worse—more igno-
rant, dirtier and more ruinous. And it now
seems very likely that it was Europe and
not Shem that invented civilisation, for that
of Crete appears to date back further than
the visible beginnings of Egypt, or India, or
China, or Japan, which last comes into the
field some 3060 years after Crete. The Phil-
istines, originally the “People of the Sea,”
were almost certainly immigrants from
Europe, and they brought with them a much
higher culture than that of the backward
Israelites. The chief constructive efforts of
the latter were the original Temple, a small
cathedral built by foreign skill; the paltry
second Temple; and the massive third
Temple, constructed when Greeks and
Romans had brought art into a previously
primitive land. They compiled one city—
Samaria.
* * * *
Europeans entered Asia Minor far back
in b.c., and founded States, afterwards tem-
porarily annexed by the Persians, and built
cities, including Troy, which is dead, and
Smyrna, which survives. Alexander, who
broke the intruding Persians, destroyed one
or two cities, but founded more. His Mace-
donian successors continued the work, and
Antioch, where Christianity was christened,
was merely one of 16 famous cities created
by one European sovereign who scattered his
works from the Mediterranean to the
Euphrates. In later times Calcutta and
Bombay were European creatiQns. The new
Delhi will be one, and Jeypore, a
rare native capital which doesn’t look
native, was planned by a European. Euro-
peans made Shanghai “the Paris of the
East” ; it was formerly only a big aboriginal
town, full of all the drawbacks which Asia
is capable of. The new era began some 80
years ago, when the Chinese Government,
anxious to find Customs officials who
wouldn’t steal all the takings, requested
Britain and two other white Powers to
appoint European chiefs to manage things,
and thus laid the foundations of a beneficent
influence which spread. The European also
left a big architectural footprint in Siberia;
and it is a side-line of thought that, though
Christianity was born in Asia, it was born
under a European Government, and it appa-
rently moved its ecclesiastical headquarters
to Europe very early.
* * * *
It can certainly be said to the credit of
the aggregate Asiatic that he was respon-
sible for some remarkable architectural per-
formances, chiefly in the way of palaces,
tombs and religious edifices. This is the
case even though five out of the seven won-
ders of the ancient world were European
work. The Taj Mahal, built at Agra, is a
tomb, and may be the most beautiful struc-
ture on earth. But even that may be the
work of Italian genius; it was built at a
time when Italian building capacity ranked
high, and when the versatile Italian genius
wandered far. It was certainly the Euro-
pean who furnished his allegedly oppressed
brother with railways, telegraphs, telephones,
steamboats, industrial machinery, improved
roads and harbors and drains and water-
works, electric light and power, mining
plant, and a multitude of conveniences which
lie showed not the least sign of devising for
himself till the world was worn out. The
garment of Progress which Japan wears was
bought practically whole in the white man’s
shop. It has an aspect of permanence and
fits well, but as regards continental Asia
there is a strong suspicion that if the white
man departs the light will go out and the
drain fall in. In the course of these doings
the “invader” no doubt enriched himself,
but he enriched Siiem also. Some of the
earlier British adventurers in India may have
been rapacious, but compared with Asiatic
adventurers of the Jenghiz Khan and Nadir
Shah type, they were a saintly lot, and are
now doubtless blowing trumpets in a Better
Sphere.
* * * *
It is a common and rather maudlin theory
that when the white man, or at least the
British white man, intruded he “stole the
country from the natives,” and that any-
body of the Gandiii variety is a patriot who
“wants his country back.” In reality “steal-
ing the country” was never practised by
white men (bar Russians) in Asia, as it was
by the Normans in England, or by the Irish
when they practically extirpated the previous
inhabitants of what became Gaelic Scotland,
or even, in a mild form, by the present
dominant race in Australia. They may have
given an improved foreign government to
people who were often accustomed to be ruled
by unimproved foreigners, but the amount of
freehold they stole or acquired was never of
any consequence. On the other hand, when
the Asiatic paid visits to Europe, it decidedly
wasn’t for Europe’s good. The Huns stayed
around Eastern, Central and Western
Europe for about 90 years, and were in great
nopes of taking Paris when their luck gave
out. They were ignorant, destructive and
butcherly ruffians. The Mongols and their
kith and kin, who conquered and looted and
slew from the Pacific to Poland, stayed in
Europe as a ruling race for much longer than
the Huns, and intermarriage with them hasn’t
improved the peoples of Eastern Europe. The
Turks came from the highlands of Central
Asia to make a wreck of ages-old Greek and
Roman culture and learning between the
Mediterranean and the Euphrates, and then
proceeded into Europe, where they have been
busy for half a millennium breaking up the
cradle of civilisation for firewood. They were
wonderful makers of ruins in their palmy
days, and reduced cities like Athens and
Corinth to filthy hamlets without an effort.
As a sign that the Ottoman is incurable, the
Young Turk triumvirate of Enver, Talaat
and Kemat. decided to hinder the disintegra-
tion of any more Turkey by the extirpation
of the Christian inhabitants. Ihe number
of Armenians alone who were killed off up
to 1916 was estimated by German and lurk-
ish authorities at 1,056,550, and about
340,000 more were missing. The most decent
visitors of the lot were the Moors, but they
had acquired a great deal of Greek and
Roman information before they began their
really big crescentade, and have lost most
of it since.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let Us Unanimously "lnstal Up-to-date
Machinery.”
Day after day the Federal Arbitration Court
sits like a tlirce-lieaded image of Patience,
listening to advocates who sing to it in a
monotonous pitch the same old monotonous
tale. Its tenor is that the Australian manu-
facturer is a back-number and a rudimentary
ass, and if he did things properly he could
cut four or any other number of hours off
the working week, and pay, as at present,
about double the highest European wage and
still get more work done and make more
money. The dreary talkers don’t say how,
except in the most general terms, and they
don’t know how. Still, when discoursing to
legal lights who are no more manufacturing
experts than themselves, they possibly carry
weight. One of them, Mundy by name,
dismissed the engineering problem in these
few ill-chosen words :
A reduction in hours would not mean a correspond-
ing reduction in production, because it would be
an incentive to introduce methods which wfcre
lacking at the present time. There were too many
small engineering shops in Australia, and that was
why employers could not compete with oversea
manutacturers. A 44-hour week might cripple small
establishments, but if the small-shop man would
instal up-to-date machinery he would be able to
concede the 44 hours tot his men.
It makes the bored reader wonder whether
there are not too many small dry chatter-
boxes in Australia, and whether, supposing
some of them were crippled, it might lead
the others to instal more up-to-date argu-
ment. The men who supply Australia’s
statistics state that last year there were
in the Commonwealth 2600 “metals and
machinery” factories, which is one to each
1144 square miles. The 2600 works are
divided into 14 categories, because, whatever
an amateur noise-maker may think, it isn’t
convenient to make sewing-machines in
premises used for ore-reduction. The 1347
places classed under the sub-heading of
“Engineering, Iron Works and Foundries”
represent about one to 2200 square miles.
To consolidate, say, three small shows into
one big one, as any wiseacre would naturally
recommend, might in some cases make it
too many hundred miles between shops. If
the “small-shop man” has sometimes failed
to “instal up-to-date machinery,” as alleged,
it may be for the same reason that prevents
a small advocate installing himself on the
High Court Bench. The small solicitor,
barrister, shopkeeper, union secretary, estate
agent, farmer or householder—and even the
small town and the small mind and the small
dwarf—may be just as much to blame for
lack of size as the small manufacturer. A
simple test may be made of the tale that there
shouldn’t, except through ignorance and
incapacity, be any reduction of output or
increase of cost when men and machinery
are worked, say, four hours less per week.
Railway working is one of the great industries
of the country. In N.S.W. the working hours
for men only (not of both men and trains)
have been reduced from 48 to 44, and a
gigantic increase of working charges and of
deficit —in other words, a great diminution
of net revenue—has been the result. They
shouldn’t have been the result. Either the
management should have made good the
difference by running the trains faster (in
other words, by a corresponding increase in
the production of speed), or, if that was im-
possible, the Lang Government should have
done wliat the private manufacturer is so
glibly bidden to do —it should have got rid
of its antiquated engines, cars and trucks and
“installed” up-to-date trains instead ; also im-
proved stations and tunnels. If all the
political brains of the State know not how
to do that much for an undertaking which
borrows capital promiscuously, and which
isn’t exposed to oversea competition, then
there is no sense in bullying the casual
factory-owner because he can’t invariably
solve an exactly similar problem.
—
A Superfluous Australian Commissioner.
Hopes are entertained, but not entertained
very hard, that some recent remarks made
by James Elder, ex-Commissioner for Aus-
tralia in the United States, may lead Federal
Ministers to decide that commishing over
there is a silly and demoralising job. Hav-
ing arrived at that conclusion, they may
give it up. The fact that the Irish Free
State maintains a “Minister Plenipotentiary”
at Washington (the name of the gossoon is
Smiddy) is no justification, but rather a
warning. The grotesque and tawdry magni-
ficence with which the embarrassed I.F.S.
does things is notorious as well as ridiculous,
and the commercial reward that ensues in
this case is ridiculous also. Ireland, with
its tremendous potentate in the U.S. to push
business, sold Jonathan, by latest accounts,
a little over £200,000 worth of goods in a
year, and Jonathan, without any expensive
potentate in Dublin, sold Patrick about 3-1
million pounds’ worth in return. Patrick
paid the difference, in part, at least, by
borrowing. Australia’s experience is much
the same. Its Commissioner is given baked
beans in lordly halls, and after-dinner
speeches arc poured over him like tomato-
sauce. He reports with fervor that our ill-
appreciated neighbor is yearning to trade with
us, and to make our better acquaintance,
and that he can hardly sleep for thinking
o bout us. Then our ill-appreciated neighbor
tilts the balance of trade a little more
violently, as is shown by the fact that he
sold us 34 millions’ worth in 1!)24 against
24 millions’ worth in 1923, and bought from
us only seven millions’ worth in 1924 as com-
pared with nine millions’ worth in 1923,
being thus 12 million pounds less friendly
in the latter year than in the previous one.
Having done this sort of thing our ill-appre-
ciated neighbor generally reduces his immi-
gration quota, so that only 108£ Australians


can enter the lI.S. per annum instead of
HOI; becomes more cranky than before
about passports; insists that the passenger
from here who wants to cross the U.S.
en route to somewhere else shall _ deposit
more dollars as security that he won t infest
the Washingtonian land for more than a
brief period under pain of death ; and grows
more careless about refunding the dollars.
The amazing idea with which James Elder
came back was that Australia should borrow
in the U.S., so that Uncle might defend this
place in time of need to protect his mort-
gage. Apart from the helplessness of such
a proceeding Uncle is not tin* man to rush
into a thousand-million-pound war to protect
a hundred-million-pound lOTJ, even in the
unlikely cast' of him lending us £100,000,000.
He might instead ask the prospective and
hypothetical conqueror of Australia if he
would assume the debt, make Uncle a pre-
ferred creditor, and perhaps throw in some
trade privileges. Being assured on these
points, G. Washington might give the con-
queror his moral support, and say that he
was rather glad than otherwise to have an-
other name on. the back of the bill. Viewing
all the considerations, it is hereby moved and
seconded and carried that the Australian Com-
missionership in the U.S.A. be abolished.
Safety-valves and Other Appliances.
The bogey of free speech serves many pur-
poses, a fact that was illustrated by the
cabled outburst of A. J. Cook, secretary of
the British Miners’ Federation and general
misconductor of the coal strike, lie was
scheduled to deliver his 81,526 th address on
the familiar topic, but the police intimated
to him that, after nearly six months of them,
his meetings were off. The noise-maker struck
the attitude of Simon Tappertit defying the
lightning, and said that the suppression of
his verbosity would do more to bring about
the revolution than anything else could pos-
sibly do. This represents the favorite and
plausible line of argument that absolute free-
dom of the worst sort of speech is a “safety-
valve,” and that if the valve is tied down
there will bo a terrible blow-up. Put shortly,
the assertion is that, if some individuals want
to incite the community to revolution,
murder, arson and robbery, they should be
allowed to collect crowds in all manner of
public places and incite for all they are
worth. If they are permitted to thus incite,
the community, they say, won’t think of
committing revolution, murder, arson and
robbery, because the safety-valve is open;
but if they are prevented from urging it to
crime, it will do all manner of crimes.
Further developments of this logic show that
the real friend of the police, when a street
crisis looks imminent, is the individual who
calls on the crowd to get at them with sticks,
beer-bottles and paving-stones. He is the
safety-valve; and steam having been harm-
lessly let off by his forethought, everybody
becomes safe. If nobody had shouted blood-
thirsty advice intermingled with profanity,
the “cops” would, it is clear, have been
attacked by an overwhelming force and
obliterated. Pursuing this line of thought,
the Bolshevik conspirator warns law-abiding
people that they should, for their own safety
and in their own best interests, let him con-
spire and Bolsh without interference. In
reality there is no natural demand, in a self-
governing country like Australia, or even in
England, for revolutionary oratory except
among the revolutionary orators themselves ;
but they create a demand and then supply
it. If they can create sufficient demand and
meet it with sufficient supply, the revolution
and the wreck of civilisation may be looked
for. Therefore everybody who advocates and
teaches and incites to breakage of the law,
by revolution, burglary, brutal assault on
unprotected females or otherwise, should be
silenced, whether he professes to be a safety-
valve, or an incinerator, or even a septic-
tank. The only place where silence is fairly
well assured is gaol. The imposition of small
fines is not only useless, but it is selling the
crown of martyrdom at so low a rate as to
constitute the loathsome offence of dumping.
If the revolution is inevitable, as the typical
A. J. Cook declares, and if his arrest will
do more than anything else to hasten it on,
as he also declares, it is best for a Govern-
ment to make the quickest preparations it
can, and then find ways and means to cap-
ture all the loudest conspirators, and have
the trouble over. In other words, instead of
having the safety-valve always open and the
air full of steam and fizzing noises, it is a
good idea to rake the fire from underneath
the boiler and let the apparatus cool.
♦
Sydney’s Slow-motion Workei*s.
In Sydney, where men are engaged all the
year round in tearing up the roads and put-
ting them down again—sometimes they are
a lot rougher when they are laid down than
when they were torn up—the re-laying of
wood-block pavements has long been a favor-
ite pastime. Visitors who have watched
this . interesting process have generally
formed a first impression that a slow-
motion picture was being filmed, and have
looked around for the man with a megaphone
and the other who churns the handle. Closer
study convinces the onlooker that the air of
repose pervading the scene is habitual —part
of the technique of the craft, as it were —
and a tribute to the magnificent spirit of
civic patriotism that animates every manual
worker when Labor rules at the Town Hall.
The pity of it is that this interesting indus-
trial spectacle must soon be banished, since
some mean-soul underling has taken the
trouble to prove that wood-blocking nowadays
costs more than even Sydney can affoi-d. But
if, as a result, it is decided to replace wood
pavements by concrete, the difficulty of in-
creased cost will still arise. Under Labor
administration the cost of laying concrete-
road surfaces in the city has risen to 2Ss.
a square yard, whereas the same class of
work is being done in a neighboring borough
that isn’t Labor-controlled for from 12s. fid.
to 13s. fid. a yard. The city labor costs com-
pare no better with those of contractors
and outside municipalities when it comes
to a simple matter of shifting dirt. When the
Sydney Municipal Council's men were set to
work removing spoil from Hyde Park to Moore
Park it was found at the end of a week that
the work was costing 1371 per cent, more
than a contractor would have done it for.
One of the Council’s officers remarked that
this was a bit thick, or words to that effect,
and said that he hoped the comrades would
put a bit more beef into it. But at the
end of another week the tally w T as no better,
and the job was given to a contractor. The
Labor Daily, commenting on these facts,
says in an indignant tone of voice:—
The idea that the men should bear the brunt of
adverse criticism is generally accepted as most
unfair, even absurd. The fact that this excessive
cost has been seized upon by the opponents of day
labor as a general argument against it, of course
will not hold water, nor will it serve as a means of
insinuation that City Council employees deliberately
go 510 w.... Aldermen are determined to seek out
the reason, even though it may involve departmental
officers.
Possibly it will be proved that departmental
officers move among the men, exhorting them
to moderate their zeal, and sometimes play-
fully hiding their picks and shovels or tick-
ling the toilers with feathers. But even that
won’t get anywhere near the root of the
matter. The Labor aldermen who, under the
instructions of a caucus of trade-union
officials, run Sydney, are responsible for
both officers and men and for the methods
of work employed. If any one of them holds
it as an article of faith that a man ought to
do a fair day’s work for a fair day's wage,
it seems about time he should speak up on
the subject. Otherwise people may come
to the conclusion that the objective of Labor
is to get as much wages as possible for as
little work as possible. This is a perfectly
logical opposite to the objective of the tra-
ditional Bloated Capitalist, who wants as
much work as possible for as little wages as
possible; blit it has the defect that it can’t
be used successfully for any length of time
as a principle of government.
*
Helping the Farmer.
The good, serious folk of the Shivery Isles
are perturbed about the fact that the supply
of casual manual workers is sometimes in
excess of the demand, and they have been
calling upon their wise men to find out
why this is thus and invent a remedy.
The wise men —if professors of political
economy may be called that—have discovered
that there is unemployment in the towns be-
cause the country can’t find work for all the
unskilled laborers available. They point
out that the proportion of the Dominion’s
population devoted to farming pursuits
tends continually to decrease. It was 11.6
per cent, in 1923 and only 10.8 per cent, last
year. The reason for this, they say, is that
farm products have to be sold in the world’s
markets at a price to compete with the pro-
ducts of all countries—including countries
where the standard of living is very low,
judged by civilised standards. The farmer’s
costs of production are conditioned largely
by the price he has to pay for things and ser-
vices in the towns, and in the towns, owing
to the protection of industries by tariffs and
of wages by the arbitration courts, prices are
higher than they would be if there w:ere no
protection of industries and wages. The
economists, seeing the position like that,
advise that the only way of giving the farmer
a bigger profit, thus encouraging him to do
some more farming, is to reduce wages or
tariff protection (or both) in the towns, or
to increase efficiency and production in both
town and country. The second alternative
is one that nobody, save, possibly, the
amateur sovieteers, can quarrel with. As
the Americans have shown the world, the
only reliable road to higher real wages is
by way of increasing the production of each
worker. But the Maoriland professors seem
to have lost sight of the most important
point their investigation has brought to light
—the point that, so long as foreign trade
in raw materials is the be-all and end-all
of a country, its standard of living must
always be in danger of attacks from out-
side. That Maoriland, like Australia, has
hitherto escaped the worst effects of a
pauperised Europe’s competition in the food-
stuff market is due mostly to the fact that
both countries live on borrowed money. The
provision of a domestic market for one’s
farm-stuff —a market in which the farmer
gets the advantage of being right on the spot
—seems to be the best way to help the
farmer, and the way in which —as even the
slow trend of Maoriland’s population figures
shows —he eventually is going to be helped.
And the only way to provide that domestic
market and to get over loan dipsomania is
to curtail the importing habit and develop
local industries.
«
The N.S.W. Meat Business.
The conference of consumers and producers
recently convened at Bathurst by N. S.
Wales Minister for Agriculture Dun x was
not long in coming the anticipated thud. The
conference consisted of numerous carefully
selected metropolitan union officials, certain
elected producers’ representatives from coun-
try branches of the A.L.P., and a few nomi-
nees of the recognised agricultural and pas-
toral organisations of the State. These last
made the best of the situation, and one of
them, R. B. Suttor, of Bathurst, was
elected chairman of the sheep, cattle and
wool committee, which was to devise means
of getting the producer more for his pro-
duct while the consumer paid less. The sug-
gestion being that the elimination of the
middleman would bring this happy consum-
mation to pass, J. P. Osborne, a member
of the Meat Board —the body that is adorned
by Kay —put it to Suttor that stockowners
ought to consign direct to Ilomebush Abat-
toirs, and let the Meat Board show what it
could do. Suttor himself decided to give it
a spin by consigning 90 sheep direct to the
board. Later he received the returns. These
showed a total of £ll6 16s. lOd. received
for S 9 sheep—one died on the rail. Deduct-
ing £4 19s. 9d., cost of receiving, killing and
marketing carcases in Sydney, the net return
was £ll2 Is. lid., as far as the board xvas
concerned. Suttor, however, was critical
of the transaction. In the first place, he
could have done better by selling the live
sheep in Bathurst to a middleman before
putting them on the trucks. Then he had
to wait 12 days for his money, whereas the
Flemington middleman’s cheque would have
come to hand the day after the sale. The
board's charges for receiving, killing and
disposal were twice those of Suttor’s usual
agent. The carcases, averaging 51f1b., sold
at per lb., the retailer thus paying
10s. 6d. for the sheep. Though it was of
the utmost importance to the institution of
the meat millennium, the board could offer
no account of the price the retailer’s clients
paid for the ten-and-sixpenny carcase when
cut up. The skins of the 89 sheep brought
14s. each, but the board gave no individual
weights or prices, as a middleman would
do. This was important, for Suttor sent
down four classes of sheep, with skins of
varying value. The board evidently lumped
the lot off en hloc to a skin-dealer —a middle-
man, of course—instead of selling each skin
on its weight, and supplying particulars of
the price brought by the different classes —-
particulars which would be of great value
in making future consignments. Suttor's
conclusion is that the board will prove much
more expensive to the producer than the
middlemen have, been. The board cut out
two alleged parasites, the Flemington agent
and the carcase butcher. Yet Suttor reckons
he lost 2s. per head on his consignment by
putting it through the board. His story is a
scathing exposure, and might well serve as
a common epitaph for the Bathurst confer-
ence and the Meat Board together.
+
Too Much White-collar Education.
“Country Bed.” : While talking to an ex-
perienced junior-technical teacher the other
day, he surprised me by complaining that
the junior technical schools of Victoria were
not getting the type of boy they should. As
a rule, the boys of supernormal intelligence
are sent to the high schools, while boys of
normal and sub-normal intelligence are sent
to the junior technical schools. The ideal
of parents seems to bo that if Johnny or
Tommy is not smart, then he will go natu-
rally to learn a trade, as it doesn’t take so
much brains to become a good tradesman
as it does to become a bank clerk. Of
course, it’s a false ideal; yet, when one con-
siders the historical trend of educational
ideals, it is only natural that it should be
held. Just as the dour Scots of old pinched
and scraped to send at least one boy of the
family to college and into the ministry, so
Australian artisans—yes, and even Austra-
lian laborers —deny themselves in order that
their smart boys (and average boys, too,
sometimes) should go on to the high schools
to be equipped for some profession or call-
ing other than a trade. We are all prone
to think that the other fellow’s job is better
than our own ; and, as parents, we are apt
to consider it our duty to see that our sons
occupy better positions (as we imagine
them) than their parents. In this way has
the nation progressed; but now it will go
backward unless we expose the present fal-
sity of the ideal, for Australia will prosper
only so far as its industries prosper,
and parents must be induced to see that they
are lowering the standard of Australian in-
dustry by making a fetich of high-school
education and a Cinderella of technical'edu-
cation. This can be done by emulating the
vocational-education system practised by
some of the advanced States in U.S.A., as
set out by Mr. Benjamin N. Fryer (B.
21/10/’26). We need not scrap our high
schools or junior technical schools. All
that is necessary is that the first two years
of the course (from 12 to 14) in each type
of school should follow the same lines—the
high school adopting some elementary trade
courses other than the present sloyd work,
and the junior technical schools dropping
some of the trade courses and instituting
more academical subjects. In this way it
would be easier to draft out the boys at 14
into whatever type of school and calling each
is fitted for. Moreover, instead of having the
present marked differentiation between the
tradesman and the professional stressed as
it is to-day (the two distinct types of schools
is but a stressing of this fact), the boys,
having been educated together for a time,
might be led to see that there should be no
such dividing line : one is just as useful to
the nation as the other.
♦
The Way of the Importer.
A year ago a duty was imposed on sewing-
cottons and sewing-threads. It was deemed
both by the applicants and the Tariff Board
sufficient to protect the local company which
had been formed to manufacture those lines.
But Big Interests overseas were affected, and
Big Interests put on liob-nailed boots. It
was known for 12 months beforehand that
the duty would go up. and imports were in-
creased, so that in Sydney alone, a year
after the duty was imposed, the importers
had something like 23 floors of city space
filled with stocks. Not content with that
kindly attention the importers went after
orders at prices below those ruling before
the tariff came into operation. Here are a
few specific facts and figures:—
Sewing-cotton used in the boot trade (spools
9600 yards), U.S.A. product: Pre-tariff price, 13s.
per spool; since duty imposed, offered at 11s. per
spool. Australian product, 13s. 4d.
An English sewing-cotton for hats (10,000 yards) :
Pre-tariff, :is. lOd. to 6s. 6d.; post-tariff, 4s. 74d.
to 4s. lOd. Australian product, present price, ss.
2d. to ss. lid. (The same product is selling in
England at 6s. net —at least Is. 2d. above the price
at which it is being sold in Australia.)
Another instance is the smaller reels (loz. and
20z.) which, regardless of the extra cost added by
the duty, one of the principal importers is quoting
(all counts) at 20 p.c. below the Australian mill’s
prices, despite the fact that the local prices are
well under the pre-tariff rates of the imported goods.
When making its application before the
Tariff Board the local eo.—British Thread
Mills (A/sia), Ltd. —stressed the fact that
it sought no duty on sewing-cotton for domes-
tic use. No duty w T as imposed. Whereupon
an alert branch of the Scottish Thread Com-
bine put up its factory threads in reels of
household size. The local company can turn
out. the small reels quite as easily as the large
if the Protection is extended. It prefers
however, to build up on the factory lengths
—running to six miles to the reel —for the
business available in that field alone is worth
£750,000 per annum—within the local mill's
ambition, although beyond its present capa-
city. It may be that a zealous Customs De-
partment can smooth. out some of these
troubles. The local company is producing
with a modern plant a high-quality product
equal to the best imported. On the basis of
pre-tariff prices of the imported article a fair
profit can be shown. If the overseas manu-
facturers can conform to the Customs regula-
tions and still sell at below local rates, then
the Tariff Board lias not succeeded in its
intentions, and a case for further Protection
calls for consideration. Cotton-growing,
-spinning and -weaving are in their infancy
in Australia and the thread-makers depend
on overseas mills for raw materials. But
the market offering in Australia is sufficient
to carry the complete process once the im-
porter has been discouraged, and the thread-
making industry placed on its feet.
The Australian Home.
“M.G.S.”: As one who has to live his life
in suburbs, I am concerned about the Fed-
erated Master Builders who have just been
meeting in Brisbane. They control my life,
or the amount of beauty I can get out of
life, far more than is popularly imagined;
also, the lives of the rest of the community.
They build about. 90 p.c. of our homes with-
out reference to an architect. The architects
are concentrating more and more on busi-
ness premises and the movie seraglios, and
the builders have the cheap suburban villas
almost entirely to themselves. What they
know and think about art, beauty, archi-
tecture and aesthetics is, therefore, of im-
portance. At present every builder is a law
unto himself. How seldom lie is guided by
the laws of aesthetic beauty, which are also
the laws of cheapness and commonsense, a
glance around any suburb will show to the
observer. In Melbourne, for instance, there
is at present raging a pillar or column
epidemic. It supplanted a plague of dragons.
The dragon plague was due to somebody
discovering the charm and novelty of a terra-
cotta serpent on the rooftree of a suburban
bungalow. Factories began to turn out
dragons, cranes, eagles and other exotic
fauna, and builders slapped them on their
roofs until some suburbs now look like col-
lections of pagan temples. The pillar epi-
demic threatens to be even more disastrous.
It consists of putting large brick, concrete
or boulder supports robust enough to hold
up an aqueduct on to the fronts of four:
roomed workmen’s wooden cottages to sus-
tain a verandah eyelid that could be kept
from falling down with a couple of three-
inch posts. There are usually enough bricks
and mortar in these piers and in the accom-
panying and equally unnecessary front fence
to add an extra room to the house, and the
money expended on the' lamentable display
would serve for an adequate verandah, a
utility most of this type of dwelling con-
spicuously lack. In his pathetic eagerness
to please, the builder is thus providing a
home with the front elevation of a pantheon
and back premises too small to swing a cat in.
He seldom provides a verandah wide enough
to spread a deck-chair and in other direc-
tions his exploits are open to criticism. It
is here I feel that the architects might rush
in to the community’s assistance and with-
out detriment to their pockets. As I said
before, probably less than 10 p.c. of sub-
urban homes are built under the direction of
the architects, so that it would not damage
their business at all if they sat in consulta-
tion and evolved a variety of suitable, sound
and congruous designs for small men’s homes
and offered them to the trade at a small fee,
The builders might reciprocate by forming
night-schools and paying architect professors
to explain exactly why, when function is pro-
perly married to form, the offspring are in-
variably harmony, utility and economy.
Thereafter a builder’s diploma might be an
earnest that his houses would be beautiful,
as well as soundly built. I understand that
a first tentative step has been made in this
direction by the architects of N. S. Wales,
but Melbourne is also urgently in need of
succor, and the last time I saw Perth and
Adelaide they were in sore straits. As for
Darwin, Townsville and like tropical Arca-
dias, their plight is parlous.
A Government Gamble in Cement.
Cement works will be for sale cheap in
N. S. Wales before many years are out if
the Lang Government has its way. The
Government requires a lot of Portland
cement for the loan jobs on which it is em-
ploying crowds of its friends, and it is
pained to think that it isn’t employing an-
other crowd in making the cement. Ball,
Fuller’s Minister of Works, entered into
an arrangement with a new concern for a
three years’ supply of cement at £2 17s. 6d.
a ton delivered at the plant, and £3 15s. 6d.
a ton railed to Sydney. There is an addi
tion of 6d. a bag for bags not returned, and
the cost of the increased wages and reduced
hours granted by the Government to its
friends is also tacked on by virtue of a
rise-and-fall clause. Flannery, Ball’s
successor, told the Leg. Assembly on October
13 that the Government would have to pay
“about” £4 4s. a ton for its Sydney require-
ments. This presumably means that the
44-liour week and the efforts of wage-raising
tribunals have put 7s. or Ss. a ton on to the
contract price; but the Minister was rather
hazy on the subject when tackled. Ho
wasn’t even certain whether deliveries under
the contract had actually begun or would
begin “shortly.” Cloudy also were his obser-
vations as to how much loan money would
be needed to “establish and equip Govern-
ment cement works at Carlos Gap”; “about
£350,000,” he thought. But the gentleman
was quite positive that the said works, under
his personal direction (he has had no experi-
ence, but that doesn’t matter), could supply
the article at £3 16s. a ton. delivered at
Sydney, and show a profit. “That price,”
he said grandly, “includes interest, depre-
ciation and profit” (unspecified) ; in fact,
“all the costs which State undertakings have
to pay”—of course, they never pay local
rates nor allow anything for taxes, Federal
or State. “The whole of the State under-
takings,” the enthusiastic Flannery went
on, “are paying very well to-day” (the rail-
ways, for instance, which lost £530,671 last
year, and the tramways, which ate up
£273,400), “and I can see no reason why
State cement works should not pay.” This
paper can see plenty of reasons. For one
thing, cement-making is a rather hazardous
business, the history of which is strewn with
wrecks because the cement did not live up
to “experts’ ” anticipations. If private
people are willing to take the risk it is their
own concern entirely, but a Government lias
no right to gamble with public funds. Again,
in addition to the two well-established


ďf
If* (M
O KJ W
o w
I'Ll tit till
LILILIL LL L
LILILIL LL L
LILILIL LL C
LILILIL LL L
LIL-
LIL.
LIL
LIL
LILILIL
U
LILIL
■ a
■—•
Oeeem&e'i/
Paid-up Capital, £ 1/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
December —a wonderful month in Sydney—and even
more so at ' The Australia.
This great Hotel is replete with all those niceties of
accommodation and enjoyment that make for a perfect
holiday. Telegraph your reservations.
Telegraph, Wireless and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Illustrated booklet free on request.
cement cos., two have recently started in
N. S. Wales, and two more are on the
stocks (the Labor Daily says of one that
it is “raising £400,000 in London to estab-
lish works with an output of 150,000 tons
p.a.”), so if the Government chips in there
is an obvious danger of over-production.
Further, loan money is scarce and dear, the
recent N. S. Wales flotation having been a
failure; the State had a deficit of mil-
lion last year, and things are shaping worse
this year; it is already overburdened with
Government employees (there are 53,420 on
the railways and tramways, and 21,000 in
the white-collar departments, while Mr.
Badly claims to have made 50,000 pick-and-
shovel appointments) ; and the failure of a
flock of Queensland State enterprises, be-
cause “we couldn’t get the requisite amount
of social service from the employees,” has
just been confessed by Labor-Premier Mc-
Cormack. A Government which, in these
circumstances, proposes to stake £350,000
(which means £500,000, at least) on a
cement-making gamble ought to be examined
by a brain specialist.
♦
Sydney’s Attitude to Tammany.
Bryce, in his monumental work on the
Republic over the water, notes that the
Americans, like the Scots and the Jews,
enjoy a joke against themselves, and gives
a curious illustration. “When William M.
Tweed was ruling and robbing New York,
and had sat on the bench men who were
openly prostituting justice, the citizens
found the situation so amusing that they
almost forgot to be angry.” Perhaps it is
for a similar reason that the pranks of the
gang now ruling municipal Sydney are
tolerated by those who furnish the revenues
squandered and looted by Tammany, and
who know that the reputation of their city
is sinking lower and lower. The thing may
be called a joke, and it is against the rate-
payers, but they seem to find it diverting;
certainly they show no sign of anger. At
the head of the gang is a gentleman who con-
fided to the last Labor Conference that he
would “steal a chicken or commit murder
for the sake of the movement.” Nobody be-
lieves he would commit murder, and the
chickens in his neighborhood are safe enough,
but such remarks are remembered. Another
leading light is an alderman who, according
to a Royal Commission, offered to get a
municipal job done for “four fifties,” one
for himself, it was suggested, and three for
friends. This worthy would have become
Lud Mayor himself but for the unhappy
accident of the Royal Commissioner’s re-
port ; he was, however, compensated by being
returned without a contest, and sent into
the Leg. Assembly as M.L.A. for Sydney,
whose senior member he now is. Another
ornament of the party distinguished himself
by championing an expensive deal in Italian
motor-cars, contrary to a British preference
resolution; passionately avowing that he had
a friend in the motor-car business, he asked,
in effect, what an alderman was for if not
to help his friends. The methods of the gang
have all the familiar Tammany features.
An orgy of borrowing; a mounting deficit;
jobs by the thousand for aldermen’s nomi-
nees, no other qualification being required;
inflation of wages and reduction of hours
(the army engaged on the Bunnerong power-
house works less than 36 hours a week, and
is motored to and from the job gratis) ;
enrolment of all beneficiaries as voters:
general slackness; unanswered inquiries as
to how aldermen get their living; contracts
and land deals that smell to Heaven. Pro-
fessing a consuming desire to help first Aus-
tralian and then British industry, the gang
distributes lavish favors among foreigners.
At one moment it decides to purchase a coal-
mine, on the ground that it lias an unfalter-
ing faith in municipal socialism; at the
next it hastens to turn an immensely valu-
able municipal building over to a mysterious
syndicate on the ground that it could only
be run competently by Private Enterprise,
Yet the ratepayers suffer all its audacities
in silence. They haven’t even registered a
mild protest at a public meeting. Maybe
they are amused, like the New Yorkers in
Boss Tweed’s day. It would be a lot better
for their ow 7 n interests and the fair fame of
their city if they were dashed angry. There
are times when a people does well to be
dashed angry.
♦_
A New Religion.
“T. Jasper” : That trade-unions are neces-
sary in Australia to safeguard the toiler from
the rapacity of his employer may be granted.
That employers’ unions to safeguard the boss
from the rapacity of his toiler are essential
may also be granted, human nature being
much the same at Surry Hills as at Potts
Point. But the difference between the atti-
tudes of employer and employee towards
their respective unions is extraordinary.
With the former the thing is a convenience,
like a bath-heater or a lawn-mower; with the
latter it is a religion. That this is so is
due largely to the propaganda efforts of
adventurers in the industrial arena, who have
aimed at power through speculations in
human fanaticism. In some ways they may
be likened to the Arab adventurer Mahomet.
The heaven they offer is a sensual heaven,
but their success has been remarkable. Em-
ployers rarely vent vindictiveness against
their traitors in an industrial battle, but woe
to the heretics amongst the horny-handed!
They are ostracised socially, and continually
harassed in their efforts to obtain a liveli-
hood. But it is not fear alone that accounts
for the “movement’s” solidity. There is also
faith, a faith that is pathetic in its inten-
sity. Utopia is to be achieved if the indi-
vidual will only be submissive to the orders
of the high priests. Fear and faith are the
two outstanding qualities in all religious
sentiment, and that is why to understand
trade-unionism in its most, potent form it
is necessary to regard it as a religion. No-
thing less will suffice to explain the stupidity
and servility which men normally intelligent
and independent frequently manifest when
faced witii union authority or assertion. This
stupidity and servility has been sanctified,
has become by a strange metamorphosis
virtuous rather than vicious. In much the
same manner, and for much the same pur-
pose, the Christian churches lauded humility
and faith. These attributes are undoubtedly
the most suitable to the exorcise of
tyrannical powers, and that is the aim of
UNSWERVING PROBITY.
FRANKIE: “Yesterday Danny and me found a purse with four and sixpence in it,”
MINISTER: “I hope you were honest about it.”
FRANKIE : “Oh, yes; we had half each”
industrial high priests to-day just as it was
the aim of priests in ages past, And union
leaders generally contrive to show a few
thorn-marks about their persons.
It is the obvious ambition of the N.S.W,
Government to go one worse than the
Queensland Government did in its wildest
days, and before the northern State showed
symptoms of returning intelligence. Premier
Lang boasted that his workmen’s compensa-
tion scheme promised more lavish benefits
than the one that was hatched at Brisbane,
and it certainly did, especially before the
Court began to interpret the incoherent publi-
cation and tone it down. Now there is news
of a N.S.W. housing project which is also
to beat the band; and as the latest Rare
Rents legislation has made housing even more
of a problem than before, there is room far
something of the kind. Hitherto about the
most reckless idea has been to advance up
to 90 per cent, of the cost of the domicile,
which is a huge risk at the current price of
domiciles; but the Lang-Willis combine has
a plan for advancing the entire 100 per cent,
to “persons of approved character.” This
probably means “approved political charac-
ter,” that being the only kind of character
which seems to matter, and, if so, it looks
line a case of lending other people’s money
without security to buy .the support of a
very dubious lot. If tbe buildings cost the
usual Government price, and tenants have to
be treated with forbearance till the election
is over, an occupant may easily run up a pile
of arrears before selling the interior wood-
work and fittings and taking his unobtrusive
departure. In fact, he may leave behind him
only £5O worth of security for each £lOO of
liability. As it is proposed to play these
larks with the funds of the Savings Bank
depositors, the loss may be left to accumulate
indefinitely till a non-Labor Government pays
it off, probably with a loan, or till the diffi-
culties of the bank compel action.
4
“N.G.”: Queensland’s Stock Department
heads periodically make the announcement
that they have definitely decided on an in-
tensive campaign against the cattle tick, the
main features of the offensive to consist of
mapping the tick-infested areas into districts,
quarantining each in order, and by constant
compulsory dipping thoroughly cleansing
each subdivision. This method is said to
have given good results in Texas, Florida and
elsewhere. Practical stockmen who have
gone through all the trouble incidental to
the first visitation of the pest and have now
bred herds immune to tick-fever, are mostly
up in arms against the proposal. The ex-
termination of Ixodes hovis, like the abo-
lition of sin. is a great ideal, but equally im-
possible. The departmental scheme will be
costly, and vexatious restrictions on the move-
ments of stock from the quarantined areas
will disorganise business. But the great
objection to the proposals lies in the cer-
tainty that herds in the isolation wards will
soon lose their treasured immunity, and when
the inevitable sporadic incursion of ticks
appears among them, carried perhaps on a
marsupial, the mortality will be serious.
Natural immunity is derived by reason of the
fact that, though probably 90 per cent, of
all calves born in a tick-infested area con-
tract fever in a mild form, fatalities in young
stock are rare. The recovered calf is then
immune, which quality he would lose in per-
haps 12 or 18 months were it not for the
fact that a few ticks on his body from time
to time provide the growing beast with
natural inoculation. Keep your calf quite
free from tick or any form of inoculation
until he reaches the adult stage, and the first
tick carrying the fever protoplasm that comes
along signs his death warrant. Graziers
generally, by fairly regular dipping, keep
their stock from becoming unduly infested,
and they are loath to sacrifice an immunity
from redwater —-acquired by years of loss
and expense—for the more or less problemati-
cal advantages likely to accrue as a result
of the department’s proposed course.
“Ex-Digger” : Anybody who has any sort of
inside knowledge of the big city warehouses
knows that the coming Christmas is going to
be a sort of Ex-enemy Countries Carnival.
The warehouses are stacked with cheap goods
produced mainly in the countries which a
decade ago were being fought by the men
for whose benefit the warehouse owners sub-
scribed money liberally to the patriotic funds.
They have ceased to be enemies, of course,
in tiie national sense; but in the trade sense
they have to be regarded as potential mur-
derers of our own industries. A great deal
of money and the time of the men was spent
when the war finished in training ex-soldiers
to the toy and similar industries; but the
soldiers’ toy industry is practically drowned
in the flood of importations. One Australian
warehouse makes almost a habit, if it sees
something new presented by local makers, of
giving small sample orders and sending the
samples to Germany or elsewhere for quota-
tions ; invariably a price is quoted which
enables the warehouseman, even with freight
and duty to pay, to undersell the people wdiose
ideas have been stolen ; the European manu-
facturers appear to be prepared to go to any
length to secure the trade. The Tariff Board
in its last year's report dealt with the impos-
sibility of properly safeguarding. Australian
industry with its present powers; it suggested
as a solution something like the “flexible”
tariff adopted in America, by which the Minis-
ter for Trade and Customs could, on the recom-
mendation of the Tariff Board, immediately
raise the tariff wall high enough to check
any flood of importation which threatened
to submerge an Australian industry. The
“flexible” tariff was used only a few months
ago in the U.S.A. to impose countervailing
duties on iron and steel products from Ger-
many, which had formed a huge trust, aided
by export bounties, to raid the markets of
the world. If Bruce had remained in Aus-
tralia to give the Tariff Board what it wanted
he would have done more good for the Com-
monwealth than he is likely to do at the
Imperial Conference; certainly a handier
tariff system is required as soon as possible to
enable Australian industry to hold its own in
the frenzied trade war which is now raging.
“Tite Listening Insect”: The R.A.A.F. at
Point Cook (Vic.) has been putting in some
useful work not generally considered in its
line. About a year ago amateur wireless
enthusiasts of the Air Force were cheered
by their success in keeping within earshot
of the McMillan Arctic expedition. They
next tried chatting to their colleagues at the
Richmond aerodrome (N.S.W.). After that
they sent a wave or two to the signal branch
of the Air Ministry in Britain. That de-
partment stifled its surprise and agreed to
go further with the business. Using a wave
length between 25 and 60 metres, the Point
Cook people soon established communication
on such a stable basis that it began to trans-
mit official business. It now works two
shifts in the 24 hours, sending and receiving
all its own traffic, instead of paying the cable
companies to do it. On learning this the
experts of the Age rushed in with large
headlines asking the reason for cables and
the expensive beam wireless station, and why
everybody shouldn’t have his own wireless
station. The excited paper might have asked
why everybody doesn’t print his own news-
paper. The amount of traffic handled by
the Point Cook station is trifling in com-
parison with the daily total of Australia’s
communications, and delay isn’t of much
consequence.
“Wanchai” : Ever since the wreck of the
Federal in 1901, East Gippslanders and
mariners have been trying to impress on
the Ports and Harbors Department the
necessity of establishing direct communica-
tion between Cape Everard Lighthouse and
the settlement at Cann River. Twenty-five
years have passed since the light-keeper at
the Cape awoke one morning to find that a
vessel which he had seen the evening before,
dismasted and drifting, had been wrecked
upon the rocks. He walked to Cann River,
30 miles distant, to procure assistance, but
the best Cann River could do was to send a
man on horseback to report the news to a
mounted constable stationed at Orbost—a
further 50 miles. The dispatch of a relief
party from Orbost to the Cape occupied a
further tw T o days, and by the time the scene
was reached the castaways were beyond help.
The bodies, mutilated and partly devoured
by wild dogs, were well above high water-
mark, which showed that the sailors had
gained the shore but had subsequently died
from exposure. Had there been a line link-
ing the Cape with Cann River all those
lives might have been saved. Yet the bitter
lesson has been wasted on the department
concerned; the position is the same now as it
was then. The cost of a telephone line
would not be very great; the wire, for the
most part of its length, could be stretched
from tree to tree. Only a few months ago
a trawler was wrecked on Beware Reef
(three miles from the Light), and the ship-
wrecked officers and crew had to face the
hardship of a walk to Cann River. A simi-
lar disaster, or another as bad as that of
1901, could easily occur at any time.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs, WM. NORTHAM (Chairman), T. W. RAPLEY (Managing Director), ALEX. KING, P. R. HIGGINS, and Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobsurt. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. .
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GljlO. PEACOCK, A.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAP LEY, Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The newspapers are filling up with an-
other acrimonious argument between Com-
monwealth Treasurer Page and fhe oil com-
panies. Petrol-users have no patience with
either the stupid Government which has
smitten them with the £20,000,000 roads
folly or the cold-blooded concerns which exact
such vast profits from this country ; but one
of the oil gentry has made a statement which
should be amplified. It is to the effect that
“the British Imperial Co. draws considerable
supplies of petroleum from a British territory
not so far from Australia —Sarawak.” If
that is so, why should petrol be 2s. Bd.
a gallon retail in Perth when it is Is. 6d.
a gallon in London?
The Allancocks (Vic.) are still holding
on. After the two defeats in one week the
Cocky section of the Cabinet favored a dis-
solution ; the Lib. section advocated continu-
ance or a stopgap Liberal Cabinet under
Oman or Argyle. Peacock, sitting tight,
managed to bring the Cocky Ministers round
to his way of thinking, and then secured
sufficient promises of support from the
rather unmanageable Libs., including Snow-
ball and Everard.
Until the report of the Assembly Seats
Commission is ready, the Allancocks (Vic.)
will play for safety. Despite alleged guaran-
tees of support, it is not disposed to take
chances with the Snowballs, Everards and
Carlisles. The new electoral maps for 26
metropolitan and 39 country seats may be
ready on November 10; Gilder, Molloy and
Peverill, the boundaries commissioners, have
done their job promptly, and the litho. men
in the Lands are now hard at work. The
new arrangement will extinguish country
pocket-boroughs, but not to the detriment of
Hogan or Peacock; will wipe out one Bal-
larat and one Bendigo seat; and will create
a new constituentcy in the Mildura district
by lopping territory off Swan Hill. Green-
wood’s Boroondara will be cut into three
electorates, and it is problematical whether
he can win any one of them.
Unless everyone goes on strike in the
meantime, Saturday will see the great stop-
work demonstration organised by Queens-
land Trades and Labor Council as a protest
against the Government’s refusal to raise
the basic wage. If all goes as arranged,
every union in the State will cease work
and solemnly procesh in protest; and as
every sixth Queenslander, man, woman and
child, is a unionist, it is hoped the asinine
proceedings will be impressive enough to
loosen the Treasury purse-strings. Even so,
they can’t put cash in the empty bag, and
that is the crux of the trouble.
The Queensland Opposition, quoting from
a Bulletin article, has revived the charge
that Labor polled a minority of votes at the
general election and owed its majority of
14 members to the masterly distribution of
seats. Mullan, the Minister of Justice, in-
dignantly replied that “Labor represents 85
p.e. of the area of Queensland and the
Opposition a mere 15 p.e.” About the same
time, Hogan, the Vic. Labor-leader, was
thundering against the Allan Government’s
redistribution scheme because it makes area
the main consideration and not electors.
The Auditor-General having made up his
figures, it proves that Queensland’s railway
deficit for the year to June, 1926, was
£1,792,754, so it is the record for the State
as well as the record for all the States.
Sensation-mongers who love a sporting event
were afraid it might just miss. At the same
time the £1,581,060 and the £1,580,207 short-
-ages of 1921 and 1922 weren’t far be-
hind, and these were good seasons. Banana-
land’s lines are divided into 87 sections, and
THE EXCEPTION THAT DISPROVES THE RULE.
“The Melbourne Branch of the Seamen’s Union has threatened to deal drastically with members who
embark on job control tactics on their own account.”
ONE OF THE HOT HEADS: “Lemme get the gun; I want to pot a coupler shipowners!"
UNION BOSS: “No, Cyril, calm yourself; gun-play is now absolutely forbidden —except
when carried unanimously.”
60 of them pay no interest and don’t cover
working expenses. Perhaps some day the
whole 87 will contrive to lose all the tak-
ings, and then everything will be symmet-
rical.
Minister Badly boasts that “the N.S.W.
Labor Government has found work for about
50,000 men.” He didn’t enlarge on the
“work,” but a country M.L.A. reports that
road jobs in his electorate are crowded with
languorous city-dwellers who “go for a holi-
day,” and the just-completed line from Rich-
mond to Kurrajong has cost almost three
times more than the estimate ; also the Muni-
cipal Record objects to the Main Roads
Board being made “a haven for Sydney’s
unemployed,” adding that the practice will
send up costs “at least 50 p.e.” It is a
queer situation, and if London stopped
supplying the Unskilled Labor Government
with loans, almighty would be the crash.
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission, of
which the good Piddington is the head and
front, has decided to fix a basic wage for the
whole State —hitherto there have been sec-
tional determinations which have differed
widely. Also, the Labor Government has in-
troduced a measure which will admit of the
Commissioner fixing prices; “as he deals
with wages,” Mr. Badly explained, “he
should deal with prices, and I propose to
give him that right.” The gentleman who is
to exercise “that right” has spent the greater
part of a long life browsing on law-books and
statistics. He is a man of strong opinions
(his enemies call them prejudices) and hasty
judgments, as witness his assertion, which
was ridiculed by rival sociologists, that the
Australians were “a dying race.” For the
moment the Lang crowd is light-heartedly
deferring to his superior knowledge, but be-
fore long it will wish it had never heard his
name.
Though Tasmania has no Country party
in politics nowadays—the attempt made a
couple of years ago to set up a Cocky section
failed to find efficient leadership—the primary
producers have managed to secure the sym-
pathy of the Labor Government in their
troubles. The apple-growers, who struck a
disastrous London market for the 2,000,000
cases exported last season, are to be helped
to the extent of £50,000, half of it loaned to
the State by the Commonwealth Government
interest free for five years. It sounds
generous; but if the orchardists will co-
operate with the new Director of Agriculture
in his efforts to supersede antediluvian
methods (mostly municipal) of controlling
fruit pests, it is reckoned that the money
will be saved in tin* cost of administration
in a very few years. It is just about time
tliat the Tasmanian small-liolders realised
the need of scrapping half the 50 little
municipal bodies, each with its own expen-
sive and not very efficient staff of inspectors,
etc., which have encumbered the isle since
Vandemonian days.
The N.S.W. farmer is about to get it in
the neck again. He is already paying just
on twice as much for the cartage of his wheat
as he did a few years ago, and it seems
certain that a rise of |d. or Id. per bushel
will be announced by the railways this
month. This will make the average cost
of bringing the wheat to the seaboard about
one-eighth of the total market prieq. And
of course there is no way out of the difficulty.
Forty-four hour weeks and the like have
piled up costs of construction and operation,
and if the extra money is not paid in freights
it will have to be paid in taxes —sooner or
later. Cocky’s woe is that he can’t pass on
any of his extra burdens.
The customary liar who is allowed space
in S. M. Herald to preach about how the
villainous Protectionists shut out all foreign
goods (Australia admitted £151,445,000
worth of them in the past year) found a new
name for God last Saturday. He called the
Almighty “the Great Freetrader.” Meaning,
apparently, that the pilgrim won’t be asked
what he has in his bundle at the gates of
Paradise. If that is so one wonders what
the parsons are for.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Bavin tried to
catch the Government napping with an
urgency motion based on Attorney-General
McTicrnan’s clam-like silence about his
“mission” to London. But there were no
races that day, also live Nationalists were
absent (one, the ex-Laborite Bagnall, had
given Lord Mayor Stokes, M.L.A., a pair
so that lie could go to the Cup), and Bavin
lost by four votes. Wednesday afternoon is
the proper time for urgency or no-confidence
motions. Parliament then clashes with “the
ponies,” and some legislators wouldn’t miss
“the ponies” for anything.
The High Court has ruled that the Aus-
tralian Government’s Shipping Board ex-
ceeded its powers in arranging to manu-
facture six turbo-alternators for the Sydney
City Council .at Cockatoo Island, Sydney;
so Tammany will have to get its turbo-alter-
nators elsewhere. If Bruce and Page were
the anti-socialists they claim to be, they
would have intervened before the matter
reached the High Court. In no circum-
stances should Government undertakings
which pay no taxes and pass their losses
on to the public be allowed to take contracts
to the detriment of the Australian manu-
facturer, who finds foreign competition tough
enough without that.
The Vic. branch of the Seamen’s Union
has undertaken to do something with mem-
bers who hold up ships; but the same thing
has been promised, sworn to and guaranteed
many times, and it is always 100 to 1 that
the executive will do nothing lest it should
be suspected of sympathising with the capi-
talist. “When any dispute arises in regard
to victimisation” the executive is to “enter
into negotiations with the shipowners with
a view to settlement.” It will never appa-
rently tell the complainants that their case
is bogus, and that there is nothing to nego-
tiate about.
.Tob control has been having a canter at
Adelaide, too. It was alleged that a cook
on the Wookata spoke disparagingly to a
fireman, and the crew refused to let the
vessel go to sea if the luckless food-ruiner
wasn’t victimised. The Cooks’ Union said
it wouldn’t go to sea if he was. Naturally
it didn’t go to sea. There was no quarrel
with the owners; but that is neither here
nor there. If they can’t get in the way
often enough to make sufficient stoppages,
then some other party must be thrown in
the way.
Some of the remarks which are being pub-
lished in England about Australian borrow-
ing are highly disconcerting. The air is
full of suggestions, and somebody is plainly
afraid that, however sincerely Australia may
promise not to default, not even when “Jock”
Garden is Prime Minister, it is approaching
a time when the situation may take charge
of itself —may bolt, in fact. One recent
unpleasant comparison was that the foreign
debt of Japan (war debt included) is only
about £14,000,000 more than the foreign
(purely peace) debt of N.S.W. alone, and
Japan has about 50 per cent, more mileage
of State railway than N.S.W. owns to show
for the money.
Cable from London :—
Arthur Rickard, in a letter to the press, replying
to critics of Australian finance, says: “They overlook
the fact that a new country requires large expendi-
ture on development work. It cannot be said that
Australia has reached anywhere near a point where
her interest burdens too closely approximate her
taxation. Investors must think and act imperially.”
All the same, Australia had better decide, as
a precautionary measure, to do some extra
work or some extra plain living, so that its
surplus of exports may meet its foreign lia-
bilities. There is always a chance that the
British investor may not be thinking im-
perially (perhaps for want of the money
to be imperial with) some day when the
payment to J. Bull of the half-year’s interest
in gold depends on borrowing some more
gold from J. Bull. Australian loans have
failed before. If Australia’s knighted land
salesman has been correctly reported there
are discrepancies in his cheery narrative.
For instance, the States’ revenue from taxa-
tion in 1924-25 (later figures are not in yet)
was £21,670,037, while the interest on State
debts (all supposed to be “developmental”)
was £27,407,782, so that particular interest
burden more than “approximated” to taxa-
tion. In the same year the total revenue
from Federal and State taxation was
£74,505,727, and the interest bill ate up
£50,358,620. That doesn’t “approximate” so
badly, but it approximates a great deal more
than it should.
THE DUMB ENVOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tho Attorney-General [Mr. McTiernan] went to
London to try and induce the Secretary for the
Dominions to instruct the Governor that he must
accept the advice of his Ministers in all cases what-
soever. Since he returned in September we have
not been able to obtain from him a single statement
as to the result of his mission; the only possible
conclusion is that the Government received a severe
rebuff.”-— Opposition-leader Bavin in • the JV.S.IF.
Assembly.
Many a month you were away.
Now you’re back
Why of courtesy display
Such a lack
To the land that had to pay
For your festive jaunt and gay?
Haven't you a word to say,
Tongue-tied Mac?
Why so cross and touchy? Why?
And so sad?
Did you get the icy eye,
Not the glad,
From the chaps in places high
And receive from Amory
Greeting curt and chill good-bye?
Eh, my lad?
Speak, Aloysius! All, I swear,
Can’t be well
When you jib at laying bare
What befell.
Straight, did Downing-street declare
That it wasn’t its affair
Helping Lang coerce De Chair?
Won’t you tell?
Take a lungful, I beseech,
And confute
The conclusions men must reach
If you’re mute.
There’s a silence that can screech
Louder than the loudest speech ;
There’s a dumbness can impeach.
Spill it! Shoot!
Were you told across the sea
It was sheer
Impudence or idiocy
Going from here
With so pitiful a plea?
Did you come away, McT.,
From the Presence with a flea
In your ear?
Is it shame, or is it pique
Sharp and sore,
Makes you keep this silence bleak,
Mac. asthoro?
Did they deem your mission cheek ?
Somebody is bound to squeak
Soon or late. Come, were you—speak !■—
Shown the door ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


VVtONS
20 forl'6
SWE(XPRgSS
353
CIGARETTES
were sold upon their
introduction
to English
Smokers.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Gordelphus”: I remember a boarding-
house in one of the larger Westralian mining
towns where no one ever stopped unless he
was a stranger—or too drunk to get any
further. It was mismanaged by a sharp-
tongued, slow-limbed old woman. Her shanty
was dirty, the meals were awful, and the
cracks and crannies harbored a multitude
of vermin. On the one occasion when I had
the misfortune to spend a night there most
of it was employed in hunting the aforesaid
small game with the aid of a spluttering
HER REAL WORRY.
CLERGYMAN (condoling with widow): “Well, Mrs. Liaison, you
mustn’t worry too much. Of course, it will he some time
before you fully realise what you’ve lost, but”
WIDOW (breaking in) : “I won’t realise nothin’, sir, and that's
the trouble. He wasn’t insured.”
candle. In the morning I had a nice little
pile of victims stacked as circumstantial evi-
dence alongside my bunk. Bright and early
I tackled my landlady, who was making tea
out of the water the spuds had been boiled
in overnight. “Bugs?” she said. “There
ain't no bugs in this house.” I led her to
the pile of victims, and waited for her apolo-
gies. “They’re bugs, aren’t they?” I asked
her when she had examined them. “Bugs,”
she replied, “of course them's bugs; and I
like your cheek in bringing them to a
respectable house like this." I paid her and
fled.
* * *
“Oran”: The lady teacher who included
“Porter Is." among her itemised expenses
(B. 21/10/'2ti) was not the first to mystify
an Education Department. Some years ago
a member of the Auckland (M.L.) Educa-
tion Board put in an account containing an
item, “Sarah, 155.” The puzzled account-
ants requested details, which arrived a week
later in the form of “Sarah, two nights, 155.”
As the claimant was an elderly, side-whis-
kered gentleman of wowserish proclivities
and an elder in his local church, the appa-
rently frank confession left the board’s staff
speechless. Enlightenment came next board
day. when cautious questioning of the old
bird revealed that Sarah was a well-known
hotelkeeper in his territory.
“S.N.R.”: Most big drapers’ shops could
tell stories of lady customers who obtain
goods on appro., wear them to some func-
tion and then return them as unsuitable.
And it's not an exclusively feminine weak-
ness, either. I know of a clergyman who
quite recently obtained an expensive black
overcoat on similar terms the day before a
church dedication, graced by numerous high
clerical dignitaries. A couple of days later
the coat was returned to the metropolitan
mercery. Of course, I cannot swear he wore
it at the function; I only know that when
we were checking the returns we found a
Book of Common Prayer in one of the
pockets.
* * * *
“The Aforesaid”: Pity the poor pedestrian
no longer. A co. has been formed in Maori-
land to protect him. “To proclaim and up-
hold the pedestrian’s right to the road” is
the company's avowed object, and the safe-
guarding of elderly, deaf, blind and crippled
people will be a feature of the enterprise.
The main attraction, however, is the provi-
sion of counsel to fight members’ accident
claims. Apart from the difficulty of mixing
philanthropy and business the company may
find a scarcity of raw material. There
seems to be a better opening for a Time-
payment Purchasers’ Salvage Corps. Or
soon will be.
* * * *
“The Hound”: Something entirely, new in
circus stunts was staged in Wirths’ big ring
at 2 a.m. the other
Sunday, when M'el-
bourne police
raided a two-up
school composed
mainly of circus
employees. The 30-
odd students scat-
ter e d into the
shadows, and their
pursuers indulged
in some unre-
hearsed acrobatics
an d spectacular
tumbling over guy-
ropes and against
tent-poles. T h e
row alarmed the
sleeping menagerie,
and the chase was
enlivened by the
trumpeting of ele-
phants and the
roaring of lions
and tigers. Some
of the John Hops
blundered into a
row of elephants
tethered by the
wall. One nar-
rowly escaped
being sandwiched,
and another was
lifted by the coat
and shaken reprov-
ingly and dropped
to the ground.
Both these johns
became convinced
at this stage that
there weren’t anv
“headers” hiding
near the elephants.
All but 11 of the
pursued escape, the
majority scrambling
through trapdoors
or crawling under
cages. One cap-
tive was very un-
fort una t e. He
looked like getting
away, when he was
unexpectedly kicked
with great severity
in his flight and his rear by a frightened
pony.
* * * *
“Nakhoda": On the 12th anniversary of
the destruction of her namesake by H.M.A.S.
Sydney, a new Emden is being sent on a
world-tour by the German Admiralty. If
she visits Cocos she will find few memen-
toes of Von Muller’s sudden call. The last
time, I saw North Keeling there was only a
fragment of the old Emden’s superstructure
showing. The cables that his landing-party
cut are buzzing as busily as ever, and there
are more of them. But there are other ports
where Von Muller is remembered with frank
admiration for his daring and decency. There
is Penang, in the Malacca Straits, which he
could have wrecked when lie steamed clean
through its crowded harbor on October 28.
1914, but where he sank only a Russian
cruiser and a French destroyer. And there
REPEATED BY REQUEST.
BIRDI: “I’m celebrating my twenty-third
birthday to-morrow.”
MARTHA : “Oh, how sweet of those that were
there the first time to encore it!”
is Diego Garcia, the small dot between
Fremantle and Aden where Orient liners
once coaled. Although the war had been
going, for two months, the British residents
of Diego Garcia showered coal, provisions
and civic receptions on their visitor. Five
days later H.M.S. Hampshire hurried in with
first news of the European conflict.
“Dilpo” : The owner of the' ranch where I
wheel the wild and wayward ox has two
young hopefuls at school in the metropolis.
A few days ago he received a letter which
for brevity takes some beating:—
Dear Dad, —SOS. L.s.d. P.D.Q. Both O.K.
Dad handed the epistle to the manager, say-
ing.: “Better send them a fiver. Tell them I
don’t want that kind of message T. 8.0.”
* * * -*
“Mako”: Talking of taxi freights. One
wet night in Darlinghurst, when the Midgets
were in Sydney, I saw a man hail a Yellow
Cab. Into the not too commodious vehicle
there piled 11 of the tiny people, probably
the largest number of grown-ups any taxi
has ever attempted to transport.
“C.Q.”: The optimism of some people!
Noojee, one of the timber-tract towns in
Vic. that were practically wiped out in the
fires of last, summer, has been almost com-
pletely rebuilt—largely with the relief money
provided by the general public. And bracken
and undergrowth have been permitted to
come right up to the fences of many of the
rebuilt houses!
* * * *
“Alwyn”: In addition to its connection
with the early Australian stage, the Royal
Hotel (B. 21/10/26), in George-street, now
being demolished, was an interesting link
with the colony’s early civic government.
It was there that Sydney’s first municipal
councillors assembled on November 18, 1842,
and there they continued to meet until 1843.
“Nikko’’: Cabled that the authorities of
a Salisbury (Eng.) church were staggered
on finding a thousand-pound note in the
offertory bag. I remember once creating a
somewhat similar sensation. It was in the
days before Bennett, the popular Maori
preacher of the little Anglican Church at
Rotorua (M.L.) had made his edifice the
Sunday attraction for tourists, and I was
the only pakeha present. Midway in the
Maori service Hone arose with dignity, and,
escorted by Henare, solemnly carried round
the plate. When it reached me it contained
seven ha’pennies and a thruppence, and
something moved me to augment the con-
tents by a half-crown. In his excitement
Hone nearly dropped the plate, but the coin
was retrieved by Henare, who examined it
with minute care on both sides. Then he
subjected me to an even closer scrutiny.
My calm demeanor apparently convinced the
collectors that the gift was not an oversight
on my part, and their attitude changed to
suspicion. Conveying the plate to the front
seat they set it down, and both in turn cere-
moniously bit the half-crown. Then, hand-
ing it up to the second-in-command, they
awaited his judgment. It seemed favorable,
and as I escaped during the singing of the
last hymn both Hone and Henare rushed to
the church door and farewelled me with
bland smiles and much hand-waving.
“H.K.” : The bygone N.S.W. Cabinet Min-
ister whose tangled matrimonial affairs per-
turbed his colleagues (B. 28/10/’26) was not
a lone exception. There was another portfolio-
holder the coupling of whose name with a
somewhat notorious old-time variety actress
was held to be bringing discredit on the Gov-
ernment. Ultimately his resignation was
requested ; and he asked for 24 hours to arrive
at a decision. At the expiration of the time
he called upon the Premier, and thrust a
loosely-folded document in his leader’s hands.
The latter accepted what he naturally took
for a resignation with undisguised relief.
“I knew you would look at this unfortunate
matter in the right light, Blank, old man.”
he added. “Read it!” snapped the other.
The document was a marriage certificate.
“P.M.” : Re one rifle bullet going through
two men (B. 23/9/’26). At Langwarrin
Internment Camp (Vic.) in 1915, a prisoner
defied a sentry, and the latter fired to
frighten _ him. The bullet went through the
prisoner’s shoulder, entered a hut 300 yards
away, went through two overcoats hanging
on the wall, struck another German in the
heart and killed him instantly. The man
who got it through the shoulder lived to re-
turn to his farm in Gippsland.
* * * *
“Sturt”: A sticking-up drama in the
Mount Gambier district of S.A. maintained
its humorous aspect right to the end. There
was a real robbery under arms, but it was
conducted in a polite and amateurish sort
of way. A day or two later the plain-clothes
constables on search in the scrub encountered
a stranger, who professed to believe that
they were the bandits and fled from them.
Being overtaken after a long chase, he ulti-
mately confessed. His case has just been
before the Criminal Court. The Judge ex-
plained (in proper legal language) that
under the fool-of-an-Act a life sentence was
the only thing he could give. But he added
kindly that this particular offence seemed to
him worth about three years, and the Gov-
ernment would probably exercise its power
to cut the sentence down to that.
* * * *
“Kerang” : The chap who got turned down
for a beer because the Railway refreshment-
room hadn’t change for a fiver (B.
14/10/’26) reminds me of a farmer who
went into the refresh, at a Gippsland sta-
tion and put down a cheque for £5 drawn by
his neighbor. “Don’t know him,” was the curt
reply, and the cheque was pushed back
across the counter. “Well, how about this?”
said my friend, and produced his fortnight’s
cream cheque from the Melbourne Cooled
Butter Company—£23-odd. “Now that is
a cheque,” said Bung, and counted out the
change. A quarter of an hour later a bank
manager came in for a drink, and the first
thing he advised Bung—a customer of his —
was that the Melbourne Cooled Butter Co.
had gone utterly broke.
A CHERRY DRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cherry dress I am partial to—
bet Jane have pink and Joan have white,
For me there can be but one hue.
When clad therein I’d dare to do
All things I know are brave and right.
A cherry dress I’m partial to.
While white means peace, pink love-come-true,
Adventure waits on cherry bright.
Clarion about me cries this hue:
“Forswear the false, espouse the true.
Defend the weak ’gainst unjust might.”
A cherry dress I’m partial to.
So bravely clad I’ll walk. No blue
Or such weak shade shall bring delight.
For me there can be but one hue.
Summer twilight is greying through
The gold that threaded the high sunlight
As I whisper, “For me there is but one hue —
A cherry dress I am partial to.”
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


-
*d
m
V
MADE BY THE BUILDERS OF THE FAMOUS WURLITZER ORCHESTRAL ORGANS
THE
WuRUIZEI?
oeo u S OAT or* ~
PLAYER
PIANO
Quality of construction makes all the difference in a player piano. No matter
how good tone may be—if mechanical construction is poor, tone will quickly
deteriorate. The gorgeous Wurlitzer tone is permanent, because Wurlitzer
construction is of the very highest quality. Inspect the Wurlitzer at your
nearest music store.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
New South Wales : Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney, J. Goldstein, 137 Bathurst St., Sydney,
N. Samins, 705 Cullwalla Chambers, Sydney; Jas. Loneragen Ltd., Gulgong, The Australian Stores, Yass.
South Australia : The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide, Victoria : Myers Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne. West Australia : Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth. Queensland: Young 6C Whatnall,
Campbells Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives .
PARKER, BLAU & CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
“Ake”: The Maoriland Government is
putting up an interesting philatelic record in
issuing misprinted stamps. Some years ago
in the scenic series the name “Wakatipu”
was found to be wrongly printed “Wakitipu,”
and so great was the demand for the erro-
neous print that the Government obligingly
issued a fresh set with the word mis-spelt.
It will probably not be as obliging in the
present instance —every 60th. stamp of the
recent Exhibition commemorative fourpenny
issue is spelt “postagf.” There has been
a great rush for them, and, being somewhat
scarce, they will in time doubtless be of
considerable value.
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT.
R OD: “I love the way you keep your eyes
closed when I kiss you.”
CLARICE : “But that’s not half so important
as keeping your mouth closed when it’s
over.”
“Wang” : Some motor-cars don’t lose much
time in providing their owners with excite-
ment. The other afternoon a large new ’bus
was moving up Collins-street with two men
seated in it wdien a young man came rush-
ing across the street, shouting and gesticu-
lating. Simultaneously one of the car’s
occupants jumped out and disappeared hur-
riedly. The driver accelerated ; the shouting
young man sprinted harder, and, springing on
the running board, grabbed the wheel with
one hand, while he vigorously pounded the
driver with the other. The car zigzagged
about the street, narrowly escaping destruc-
tion, and eventually came to rest against a
lamp-post. A policeman hurried across, fire
in his eye and notebook in his hand, and pre-
sently he was fastening his handcuffs on the
driver’s wrists. The car had been bought
only the day before, and had disappeared
wdiile left standing outside a club.
* * * *
“Six Tooth”: Ararat (Vic.) had a sheep
show recently, and
a ram sale was
held in connection
with it. A lead-
ing grazier sent in
six rams—four for
exhibition, the
other two for auc-
tion at a reserve of
]OO guineas each.
Somehow the ani-
mals got mixed and
the instructions
mislaid, with the
result that the two
champions were
knocked down by
an innocent auc-
tioneer to two
cockies at 3 k
guineas each.
However, the inex-
pert buyers were
rot satisfied with
their bargain, and
persuaded the auc-
tioneer to cancel
the sale. Th e
cockies were still
smiling over their
escape when an
excited grazier
rushed up to the
pen, the truth came out, and two cockiesaccent puzzled me a bit, and when we got
drowned their sorrow in the usual way.
“P.M.”: Re cheque-signatures. I know a
Gippsland cocky who always > spells
“Poundes” with an “e” as a precaution. I
wrote out a cheque for him once when he
was not so well as lie ought to have been,
and it was duly “referred to drawer” before
payment.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Figuratively speaking, the
N.S.W. Congregational Union set up the
visiting evangelist as an Aunt Sally, and it
was a badly-battered object by the time the
assembled pastors had finished with it. A
committee had been appointed to consider
whether a recent mission did any really
meritorious work. To the question whether
their churches had benefited, 32 parsons
said “No” emphatically and 12 admitted
that a trickle of benefit had come through.
Of the dozen, six claimed 11 new church
members between them. The posturing mis-
sionary with his theatrical flummery and
press boosting seemed to be regarded as a
pest by many of the brethren. Nothing was
said about the illegitimate birth-rate after
an evangelising mission has swept an emo-
tional district. This is an effect that mission
promoters do not anticipate; but it is there
all the same.
* » * *
“Oran” : The lady in the flat next to us,
after an eternity of trouble with maids,
decided to engage a man, and George arrived.
He had been a steward, and was fairly handy
about the house. For a few days he seemed
a treasure; he was satisfactory with the
vegetables and the cleaning up, and didn’t
mind hanging out the washing. Then came a
dinner-party, and George’s temper, frayed
by assisting in the kitchenette, gave way
entirely. At a request for more potatoes he
appeared at the dining-room door and pro-
ceeded to hurl the vegetables with excellent
aim on to the table. While the guests
dodged, George tossed, and at the end of the
performance his nerve-wrecked mistress was
assisted from the room. After a pick-me-up
she left for her bed, and the remnant of
diners were startled by wild yells. It was
George again, this time sprawled on his
mistress’s bed with a bottle for company.
He left under escort.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The row caused in the House
of Commons by the statement of one Dr.
Salter, a Laborite, that he had seen members
of every party, including his own, the worse
for liquor in the Chamber, recalls a story
told by Henry Labouchere in his reminis-
cences. “Labby,” who could look back over
a quarter of a century as an M.P., was con-
vinced that public opinion was much less
tolerant of lapses in this direction when he
left the House than when he entered it. But
even in his early years he found that mem-
bers regarded a speech by anyone whose
sobriety was not beyond question as nothing
short of an insult to the House. On one
occasion in the early ’eighties a member, who
was highly esteemed and had held Minis-
terial rank, insisted on speaking when his
articulation was not quite as clear as it
might have been. His audience soon became
restive and then angry. There were cries
of “Go home!” and “You would be better
at home!” The slightly-sozzled lawmaker
pulled himself together with an effort, and
fixed the nearest interjector with a mildly-
reproacliful eye. “You would not say that
if you knew my wife,” he asserted. The
House was so delighted with the retort, or
the profound conviction with which it was
delivered, that the speaker ivas allowed to
finish his remarks without further comment.
* -* * *
“Getoora”: Fraternised with an ex-Digger
at Gloucester, N.S.W. North Coast. His
HER FAVORITES.
GLORIA: “She swallows any talc he brings her.”
FLORIA : “Yes —especially cocktails.”
better acquainted I asked him his nation-
ality. “I’ll tell you all I know, and if you
can tell me what I am I’ll be pleased,” he
said. “As you know, my name’s Angus
McHaggis. My grandfather’s was the same,
and he was born in Scotland; that’s as far
back as I can go. Gran’pa went to Russia
and married a Russian woman. Dad was
born in Siberia. He went to the United
States and married a native of Massa-
chusetts ; then he settled in Hawaii, where
I was born and reared. I came to Aus-
tralia and enlisted in the A.1.F., represent-
ing myself as Australian-born. By enlist-
ing in a foreign army I lost my American
nationality, and I am not a naturalised Aus-
tralian.” Angus, I learn, has further com-
plicated matters by marrying a half-caste
whose father is a German.
“Angus O’Cohen”: There
are women capable of ex-
tracting as much enjoyment
out of funerals as weddings.
Two of such arrived at the
Bromley Cemetery. Christ-
church (M.L.), the other
morning with a well-filled
basket. They had timed
their mile and a half walk
from the tram nicely and
got a good position for the
first burial of the day. After
that they strolled around for
an hour or so prior to the
second. Then came a lull
and an adjournment for
lunch, which was partaken
under the mournful pines
beside the graves. The
basket was filled with good
things, including a couple of
bottles of stout. Refreshed,
the ladies were ready for the
afternoon show, and departed
only after they had made
sure, by consulting the
gravedigger, that there were
no more items on the day’s
programme.
“Bono”: Include my next-door neighbor
Smith among the curious people who pre-
serve appendices in jars and exhibit them
with pensive pride (B. 21/10/’-.o). But it
wasn’t his own, it was his daughter’s.
Gladys, he was always assuring the world,
was the most remarkable girl in it, and he
seemed to think that a close-up view of
Gladys’s appendix would buck up anyone
and make the earth seem a brighter and
better place. I was running for the tram
the morning after Gladys’s return home,
when Smith’s shout as I passed his gate
made me pause. Cautiously he produced a
small jar with a screw top. “That’s it,”
he said; “look at it.” “Is that all?” I
asked. “All?” he said reproachfully. And
repeated “All!” By the time I got home
that night all the family had seen it, also
the charwoman, the afternoon milkman and
two men working outside on a gas main.
Next day it was viewed by our local clergy-
man, the church sewing-cii-cle (Smith lent
it to Mrs. Smith to take there to cheer up
proceedings) and most of the tram conduc-
tors and motor-men on our line. Nobody
knew when they wouldn’t see Smith beckon-
ing them from a dim corner and producing
a bottle from an inner pocket. I bad caught
the tram a week later when I beard the con-
ductor say, “Hang on, Bill; here’s the old
bloke with the pickled appendix coinin’.” A
pause, and then, “’Struth, lie’s fell down,”
and looking out I saw Smith rising. He
paused irresolutely, and looked at a collec-
tion of broken glass; then, smelling horribly
of methylated spirit, he boarded the im-
patient tram, leaving Gladys’s appendix in
the gutter, I suppose.
* * * *
“Ein Salamander” : The cable records that
ex-Ivaiser Wilhelm, since the Reich has con-
firmed him and his family in the possession
of their Prussian estates, has issued invita-
tions to a grand Schutzenfest at Romintou,
in East Prussia; the ex-Crown Prince, who
lives there nowadays, will act as host in
Dad’s unavoidable absence. These shoots
were great affairs, before the war, and an
invitation was eagerly sought. The tame,
hand-fed deer and boars were carefully
shepherded past shooting-stands in the pine
forest, while the Emperor and his guests, in
green uniform, high boots, Alpine hats with
capercailzie feathers, game-bags, etc., in-
dulged their sporting instincts to the full.
It has been said that bull’s-eye targets were
first painted on the sides of the patient game,
but this is probably an exaggeration. Eti-
quette was rigid, and if anyone had the
temerity to shoot more game than the All-'
Highest he never received another invita-
tion.
if * * *
“The Block”: Sydney has long had its
hatless squad, and now Brisbane has gone
one better with a “No-coat League,” which
has already enrolled a thousand members,
every one pledged to discard the burdensome
garment during the summer. There will be
a massed demonstration on November 15.
Unfortunately for himself, the pioneer of the
movement, who blazed the path just a gen-
eration ago, died a few months before he
could see his dream realised. A well-known
Brisbane youngster, he tried hard to estab-
lish the sensible fashion, even inventing a
special type of shirt to help his scheme along.
An enthusiast to the bone, his coatless figure
was one of the sights of Queen-street during
the summer, but his small band of disciples
gradually fell away, leaving their leader
lonely in the limelight and his shirtsleeves.
As, however, he was an astute and indefatig-
able advertising expert, probably this did not
greatly upset him.
* * * *
“McDuff” : Workmen employed in excavating
for a subway across Little Bourke-street.
Melbourne, the other day came across a section
THE PROBLEM.
“Last night I drank seven cocktails. I wonder if I
did wrong?”
“Good heavens, girl, can't you remember?”
of corduroy road about four feet below street
level. The logs, sft. long and I ft. thick, were
found to be perfectly preserved, not even the
bark having rotted. They proved to be red
box, and the soakage had turned them a
rich purple. They must have been laid down
just on 70 years ago, when that part of the
city was a quagmire. Several of the exist-
ing streets thereabouts are built on old cor-
duroy foundations.
* * * *
“Haldaco”: “Akran’s” story about the
Bapaume Town Hall and how it was blown
up ought to be true, but isn’t (B. 14/10/’26).
I was there and had the opportunity of see-
ing the mine employed and of perusing the
German instructions for its use. The mine
was similar to a large shell. It was worked
by a fuse started by the dropping of a small
hammer, the spark from which fired mealed
powder. The hammer was suspended by a
copper wire in a corrosive solution timed
to take some days to eat through.
THE IDEAL PAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,’ by Anita Loos, heads
the best-sellers of recent months.”
Her hair is shingled gold a-gleam
Or some such shade. Her limpid eyes
Reflect the blue of summer skies;
Her cheeks are daintiest rose-and-creain.
Secure of masculine esteem
In ballroom, lounge and theatre
Or in the waves, she reigns supreme,
The blonde that gentlemen prefer.
Now visualise another sort,
As deft at beauty-idol biz.
To call it anything but swart
AVould wrong that somewhat hawklike phiz.
Black, darkly flashing eyes are his ;
His hair in hue resembles stout;
A near-Othello sure he is,
The sheik that flappers rave about.
Well, fashions change. And desert lords
Of haughty mien and eagle glance
Have occupied so long the boards
’Tis time they gave the blondes a chance.
Vikings of ruddy countenance
Ale due to have a turn as pets
From maidens throbbing with romance—
And gents may yet prefer brunettes.
Meanwhile rub old impressions out
And meet the ideal him and her:
The Sheik that Flappers Rave About,
The Blonde that Gentlemen Prefer.
N.S.W.
I FORD.


yVONCf q
rw
$
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only bv
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: lienson Bros., iL.td.. 107-109
Queen's Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, I'ry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Tinipson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street., Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis. Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar. Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christctiurctt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Elasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
engineers, steel founders, forgers,
WORKS &
Foundries
f Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
] Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch
Offices
i 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
I T. & G. BTg, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :—
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £, '£ £,
Mar., 1918.. 25,256 8 p.e. = 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,ISO 8 „ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 „ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919. . 41,489 9 „ „ 22,500 18,989 352,300
Mar., 1920.. 46,696 10 „ „ 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept., 1920.. 55,230 10 ,, „ 25,000 30,230 404,225
Premiums on new shai'es, £40,000. . 444,225
Mar., 1921.. 59,194 10 p.e. = 37,500 21,694 465,919
Sept., 1921.. 58,216 10 „ ,, 37,500 20,716 486,635
Mar., 1922.. 58,722 10 „ „ 37,500 21,222 507,857
Sept., 1922.. 58,392 10 „ „ 37,500 20,892 528,749
Mar., 1923.. 60,913 10 „ „ 37,500 23,413 552.162
Sept., 1923.. 61,644 10 „ „ 37,500 24,144 576,306
Mar., 1924.. 62,196 10 „ „ 37,500 24,696 601,002
Sept., 1924.. 62,533 10 „ „ 37,500 25,033 626,035
Mar., 1925.. 63,363 10 „ „ 37,500 25,863 651,898
Sept., 1925.. 48,170 10 „ „ 37.500 10,670 662,568
Mar., 1926.. 52,968 10 „ „ 37,500 15,468 678,036
Sept., 1926.. 53,832 10 „ ,. 37,500 16,332 694,368
■ The Royal won rich profits from exchange
when rates were high. Particularly did it
reap a good harvest during the period of con-
gestion of funds in London caused by the
restrictions on the free movement of gold
and accentuated by the phenomenal yields
and prices of primary products in 1924-25.
Comparatively little of the financing of ex-
ports come in the way of the Royal—at the
time, an advantage. The pooling agreement
and, later, the return to free gold plus the dras-
tic cut in exchange rates affected earnings.
In the second half of 1925 a sharp fall in
income was disclosed, and the directors pro-
bably decided to do the thing thoroughly
while they were about it and place profits
at a very conservative level. At all events
£48,170 was the figure chosen. There was,
of course, nothing desperate in the lesser
sum, for it was £10,670 greater than was
necessary for the 10 p.e. div. In the two
half-years since, the figures have shown im-
provement, a fairly definite intimation to
shareholders that the management is satis-
fied with the quality of its advances and the
provision for contingencies. Last half-year’s
net profits were £16,332 in excess of the div.,
and reserves were lifted to within £55,623 of
paid capital (three-quarters of a million in
120,000 fully-paid £4 shares and 270,000 paid
to £1). Total visible funds have to earn
little more than 5 p.e. to maintain the pre-
sent div. rate, which has been paid since
1920. In the circumstances the div. is not
in doubt, while there should be something
better in it for shareholders later on—when,
it is difficult to say, for the management is
conservative and there isn’t an excess of
enterprise on the premises.
Pretty generally the figures have moved
upwards of late :—-
Liabilities.
Sept.,’20. Sept.,’24. Sept.,’25. Sept.,’26.
Notes .. £859 £840 £688 £688
Bills, etc... 540,023 325,881 246,849 345,364
Free de-
posits . . 2,201,745 1,940,392 1,961,688 1,891,223
Fixed de-
posits .. 2,218,549 2,875,135 2,946,636 3,266,563
Assets.
Liquid
assets .. 1,707,145 1,933,421 2,161,806 2,339,642
Advances . . 4,204,297 4,472,911 4,286,723 4,488,663
Premises, etc. 155,580 167,450 157,400 157,400
Fixed deposits increased in the 12 months
by £319,927, but a reduction in the non-
interest-bearing reduced the net gain to
£249.462. Most of it was given employment
as advances, but the bank is in a position to
do much more. At September 30 less than
£4 of the public’s money was held for each
£1 of its own. Obviously the Royal has
no present necessity for more capital, and
the contribs. are hardly likely to receive a
call for any of the balance until there is
more activity within the managing circle.
So far as the 10 p.e. is concerned, it looks
safe and set; and both shareholders and
depositors have more than a passing sus-
picion that the visible strength is supported
by something solid inside. Recent transac-
tions in the scrip were reported at £7 for the
fully-paids and 36s. for the £1 pa ids, the
return in each case being about 5.6 p.e. That
is a moderate price for a sound bank stock;
the market seems to consider that there is
little in the scrip apart from the 10 p.e.
With this latest balance-sheet the Royal
drops its half-yearly habits; henceforward
accounts will close in September and be
presented in October. The Commonwealth
is now the only Australian bank which
sticks to the half-yearly balance-sheet.
McWhirtebs, Ltd., retail drapers (Bris-
bane) :—
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925. . £65,396 10 p.c. = £55,000 £10,396 £51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ ,, 55,000 15,328 66,520
The retail trader is making more money in
Queensland than anywhere else in Australia.
If, as The Bulletin says, the Government
has for years been thoroughly bad, how is
that possible? Many Queenslanders ask
themselves that question, and, satisfied that
trade is very good, conclude that govern-
ment can’t be very bad. But trade may be
good because government is bad, just as a
busli pub may do a roaring trade because its
best customer has just put another plaster
on his farm. The trouble is that he not
only lias to pay the wretched p.n. presently,
but interest starts right away—though he
doesn’t feel that so long as he can
go on borrowing, And in Queensland it
is not merely a case of hard borrowing.
Labor has been in power a dozen years, arid
its supporters have squeezed the last possible
drop out of it. Wages have been pushed
up, and the trader has got most of them.
In some cases—-the State railways, for
example—the industry has been paying out
far more than it could afford. But even
that has been to the advantage of the trader
—for the time being. Later, of course, he
will suffer, for the deficit is a debt which he
will have to help to pay, and meantime he
will have to pay interest on it. In more
cases, perhaps, the industry is paying the
extra, wages at the expense of profits; and
that is generally to the immediate advantage
of the retail trader, because wages come to
him much more quickly than an employer’s
profits do. 1 In fact, a large proportion of
employers’ profits don’t come to him at all,
but go back into the business—or are put
into some other business. In Queensland also
a pretty large proportion drifted south. Thus
the Queensland trader is better off for the
borrowing and for the pushing up of wages
at the expense of profits; but he must pay
for it in the long run if the profits left are
not sufficient to induce investment in new
industries or the extension of old ones; and
without a doubt that is what is happening.
McWliirters’ profits disclosed are the net
earnings less taxation paid during the period ;
thus 1925 income had to bear £3983 of old
war-time profits tax. Net earnings, governed
by the factors just mentioned, have improved
steadily of recent years, but reserves are
still a weak support to paid capital of
£550,000. All the attention the directors can
give them is necessary, for the prosperity
wnicli has made profit-earning so compara-
tively simple a matter since 1923 has a far
from stable foundation. Apart from other
considerations, Australia has been remark
ably free of late years from real drought.
The recent patch in Western Queensland cost
those affected a lot of money, but threw
hardly a shadow on the general prosperity.
A dry spell wide spread would shake much
of the plaster and lath which so many delude
themselves is reinforced concrete.
The management appears to have controll-
able, expenditure well in hand, and a careful
eye is kept on stock values; and, given satis-
factory turnover, those are the chief points.
The already big establishment is to be added
it occupies one of the choicest sites in
the Valley, which threatens to become Bris-
bane’s chief shopping centre. Present pre-
mises are unencumbered, and the co. had
£18,000 of cash on hand at July 31 as a kind
of nucleus for its new building. Liabilities
galled £84,427. against which were stocks
(£248.673), book debts (£127,976) and cash
and other more or less liquid assets (£21.748).
And there were the premises, in at £330.050.
Tue directors anticipate another successful
year. The market considers 25s. 9d. a fair
offer, which shows that there isn’t very
strong confidence in a perpetual 10 p.c.
* * *
Hordern - Bros., Ltd. (Sydney), which
was registered on June 1, 1922,' and took
over the retail softgoods business of Hordern
Bros. . The deficit was made up of £51,500
goodwill and £6417 preliminary expenses:—
r~ Dividends Towards
Prefs. R e _
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves. Deficit
July £13 ’ 515 £5 ’ 079 Nil £8436 £49,480
1924*. 11,547 13,50o Nil — 51433
1925. .14,460 9,000 Nil 5460 45 973
1926..30,857 9,000 6 p.c. = £13,500 8357 S^eiO
months.
The public is interested only in the 9 p.c.
prefs. When £100,000 was sought in 1922
the prospectus mentioned £26,129 as the
average annual profit for the preceding de-
cade-. The results that followed were dis-
appointing ; but there was a reasonable
explanation—stocks had been over-valued and
had to be written down. Apparently the
board, which is mostly the Hordern family,
decided to clean up inside while it was about
it ; and so long as pref. shareholders were
assured of their divs. there was nothing to
complain of in that. Gross profit for last
year was £220,172 compared with £179,844
for the P revious term. Outgo amounted to
£169,315, an increase of £3851. That was
not much compared with the increase in
profit, but it represents a tendency which
needs to be watched. Outside liabilities are
heavy, although the year’s movement was
favorable:—
1923. 1925. 1926.
Mortgages, overdraft and
sundry creditors . . £195,693 £170,482 £117,259
Premises, plant and
fittings . . . . 192,127 216,829 213,505
Stocks 223,723 189,509 181,233
Book debts .. .. 36,788 36,968 40,156
Cash, etc 18,573 12,202 13,248
The position would be clearer if the omni-
bus liability item were split into mortgages,
overdraft and trading debt. However, credi-
tors could see plenty of cover, and there was
good support for pref. holders : net tangibles
visible at July 31 amounted to £2 17s. 5d.
for each share. Divs. for the 9 per cents,
call for only £9000, and as the reorganisation
of departments and principal structural alter-
ations have been completed and the stocks
placed on a sound basis—stocks have been
valued conservatively, says the report—ords.
should now make a regular collection. Buyers
seek the prefs. at 25s.; recent sales were at
25s. 3d.
* * * » ,
Victoria Insurance Co., Ltd.:—
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. selves. Reserves.
1924. £45,428 18.2 p.c. = £25,000 £20,428 £310,398
Transferred to capital, £37,500 .. 272,898
1925. 71,216 15.7 p.c. = 27,500 36,216'1 „ n o i n
Provident Fund, £7500 .. . .j 3ua,ii4
1926. 47,625 15.7 p.c. = 27,500 17,625 |
Provident Fund, £2500 .. . .$
The Victoria might have become the lead-
ing fire office of Australia, but it preferred
select risks, sure profits and (especially in
former days) big divs. rather than the hustle
for new business which might not show fat
surpluses. It was a rich co. in the sense
that it started off with the Millers and
Paynes and McCrackens on its books and
its share registers; and three Millers still
adorn its directorate. The co. did not escape
the unfortunate underwriting experience of
the past three years and its losses were in
excess of those of some offices whose busi-
ness is more widely gathered. Its expense
rate is low, but not remarkably low — >
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1924.. £231,317 £126,738 £84,170 54.7 p.c. 36.3p.c.
1925.. 253,984 123,475 85,411 48.6 ,, 3.3.6 ,,
1926.. 253,448 143,864 90,200 56.7 ,, 35.6,,
Moreover, the expense rate is queried, for
premiums are shown “less, reinsurances and
commissions.” Most offices show the pre-
mium income less reinsurances only. In
any case, results for the 12 months were far
from gratifying considering the richness of
the period. Gross premiums were not quite
as good as those for 1925 (£413,809 com-
pared with £415,099), and net premium was
£500-odd less, while losses and exes, bounded
up. The increase of outgo particularly, calls
for attention, in view of the smaller volume
of business won. The combination of
heavier losses and increased expenditure cut
the underwriting profit to the lowest point
for a number of years.
The co.’s substantial investments brought
in £2123 more than in 1925 (£28,241 as
against £26,118), so that the whole of the
dividend was paid out of interest earnings,
, leaving the entire underwriting surplus avail-
able for reserves. Assets are of exceptional
quality:—
Public securities .. .. .. .. £357,875
Cash and deposits .. . . . . .. 107,992
Loans on mortgage . . .. .. 3,700
Book debts, etc. . . . . . . .. 22,413
Branch balances . . . . . . .. 34,627
Premises and properties . . .. .. 83,043
Policy-holders could see most ample protec-
tion at June 30 apart from the £25,000 still
callable on 100,000 £2 shares. Shareholders
for their part could see solid reserves over
and above the necessary cover for unexpired
risks, every prospect of a continuance of
hefty divs.—and possibilities. It is not sur-
prising that few shares are loose. This
Column. has not heard of a sale for a long
time, although a buyer was pleading for the
scrip at 70s. 3d. some months ago.
* * * *
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide),
stock and station agents (goodwill, £27,000,
is not accounted an asset hereunder) :—
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1921.. £16,224 7 p.c. = £13,910 £2314 £21,558
1922.. 14,186 5 „ „ 11,985 2201 19,357
1923.. 23,399 71 „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 ., „ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added goodwill item, £3830 . . 998
Prefs.,
71 p.c. Ordinaries.
1926.. 39,777 9308 8 p.c. = 24,000 6469 7,467
To meet expansion £150,000 in 71 p.c. prefs.
was raised in 1925, and, since the close of
the accounts, a further £150,000 in 71 p.c.
cumulative “B” prefs. has been issued.
These latter will rank after existing prefs.,
as to both div. and capital. The co. has
been moving ahead rapidly—last year’s turn-
over was almost £2.500,000—and if anti-,
cipations for the current year are fulfilled
bigger figures will be registered. Exclusive
of carry-over, the co. handled 25,000 bales
of wool last season and 30,000 bales is the
office estimate of the co.’s share of the cur-
rent clip. In addition to the principal de-
partment. skins, merchandise, land and in-
surance showed healthy expansion, and pro-
gress has continued since the close of the
accounts. Disclosed profits for phenomenal
1924-25 and prosperous 1925-26 . may have
been well under the real figures, although
there is nothing in the accounts to support
the idea that much is hidden. But, of course,
the co. is young: registered in 1919, it
amalgamated the businesses of Bennett and
Fisher and Cheadle, Crase, and Co. Good-
will appeared in the first accounts at £27,000.
Subsequently it was merged with other
assets, but in the latest balance-sheet it is
again disclosed, and the figures in the intro-
ductory table are re-arranged on that basis.
To it must be added £2553 (£3830 less
£1277 written off) flotation exes, in con-
nection with the first pref. issue, so that the
amount in excess of intangibles is very
modest in comparison with the paid capital
of £450,000. By next balance issued capital
will be £600,000, and it is not only advisable
but necessary that it should be strongly sup-
ported. The new money-—the two lots of
prefs.—lias i to earn 71 p.c. net to pay its
way. It has indeed "to earn much better
than that in prosperous times to protect
business taken up during such periods, anil
provide against the inevitable slack and dry
spells; and the very solid board is not likely
to neglect the opportunity to provide to the
fullest possible extent while the going is
easy. The reduction of the ord. div. is a
good feature. No harm will be done if it is
kept there for some time. Despite the in-
crease in capital, liabilities (£349,953) were
.£43,620 greater, and the 1925 figure was
“less cash in hand.” On this occasion the
grouping of assets is somewhat clearer. Cash,
Commonwealth bonds and other investments
•are in at £15,011; freeholds, leaseholds, plant
and stocks £104,544, less £20,021 written off ;
and advances, after providing for contingen-
cies, were down at £733,011. With the new
issue pref. capital will be just half of the
total capital issued: “A” prefs. will thus
see nearly £4 Is. and “B” prefs. £3 Is. be-
hind each £1 of their investment. Assuming
that assets (apart from goodwill) are worth
20s. in the £, no more and no less, ordinaries
have 20s. 6d. in sight for each £1. Pref.
shares are worth 22s. in the market, “B”
prefs. 20s. 3d., and ordinaries 19s. 9d.; and
there doesn’t seem to be much either way in
those prices.
* * * *
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd. (Sydney):
—The public is interested only in the 9 p.c.
£1 prefs., 75,000 of which were issued when
the co. was formed to acquire from the late
John Norton’s trustees the Australian paper-
publishing business ; the Maoriland end was
not included. The business was taken over
as from September 30, 1925, and the first
accounts cover the nine months to June 30.
Profit for the period after providing for de-
preciation was £24,592. In addition to the
prefs.’ £3375, a div. at the rate of 124 p.c. was
paid on ords. for the nine months (£15,938).
Of the balance £4500 was transferred to con-
tingencies reserve, £2000 to equalisation, £670
written off flotation exes, and £3421 sent
forward. Allowing for the writing off, flota-
tion exes, will stand in the books at £3796,
and that added to goodwill of £75,000 raises
the total of intangibles to £78,796. Other
assets appear to be reasonably valued. Bris-
bane freeholds were in at £41,567; plant,
etc., at £85.367; stocks, £25,507; book
debts, etc., £38,213; cash, £20,037. Liabili-
ties were modest at £34,319. Pref. holders
at June 30 could see tangible assets to the
value of £2 6s. for each share held, with
divs. well secured. The co. is following a
very progressive policy with its publications,
and net weekly circulation is certified as
having moved from 272,108 in June, 1925,
to 318,159 last June quarter. A new site
has been purchased in Brisbane, and chair-
man Ezra Norton is in search of new print-
ing plant abroad.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :—
Trading Profit on To Re- Re-
Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 8,207 9 84 p.c. = 8,211 5 34,794
1917.. 8,865 — 9 „ ,, 8,694 171 34,965
1918.. 8.694 238 9 „ 8,694 238 35,203
1919.. 8,897 — 9 „ „ 8.694 203 35,406
1920.. 9,346 172 94,, „ 9,177 341 35,747
1921.. 9,797 1,098 10 „ „ 9,660 1,235 36,982
1922.. 9,920 197 10 „ „ 9,660 457 37,439
1923.. 10,716 24,505 10 „ „ 9,660 25,561 63,000
1924.. 11,439 — 11 „ „ 10,626 813 63,813
Reserves capitalised, £57,963 .. 5,850
1925.. 11,446 — 6.8p.c.=10,626 820 6,670
1926.. 11,380 — 6.8 „ „ 10,626 754 7,424
Shareholders got the same amount as they
drew just before the capitalisation, and it
looks as if the div. rate will remain at its
modest level for a while. It oughtn’t to
go higher, for distributions have been close
up to earnings for a long time. In the
boom days shares were £5, but half the capi-
tal had to be written off, although 30s. was
restored in 1924. Most of the amount sent
to reserves in ’23 w-as the profit on the sale
(Continued on vaae 19.)


1
HH|
| Slte£
fe,
Mi
4
!A
I
1
r 3,
imm
Psk
fjyu
«»
/
~;::,x:
rl
111
. i $&• ■■'
■ V >- : BS 1
Wf
8
V
"*‘4 i i. * J
1
«
i
i>
r M
• B
%£» ,
% «MT
K -
sM<%
,
«*■*"“
A Great Achievement
THE CONTINENT CROSSED
(Via Northern Territory, Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria)
3380 MlLES—Darwin to Melbourne—in 205 HOURS
The history of automobile achievement in Australia contains no finer performance
than that just recorded by Messrs. Birtles and Barlow in their “BEAN” shod with
The men, machine and tyres have come through a supreme test that is unparalleled
in this part of the world. Imagine what the tyres had to withstand on this
day and night drive over some of the roughest tracks in the continent. T ey
were standard covers and tubes, and the test further enhances the great reputation
Dunlops have for remarkable service and dependability. Garages stock all sizes.
♦ ★ * *
Two more Outstanding Records
were established last week on
Brisbane - Sydney Car Record reduced 72 minutes
by Messrs. Barnes &. Yewan on a Dunlop shod Oldsmobile the
643 miles being driven in 17 hours 21 minutes.
ď
World’s 100 Miles Bicycle Track Record. The
Australasian road champion —H. Opperman rode 100 miles unpaced
in the wonderful time of 4 hours 23 minutes 39 seconds, reducing
the previous record by 13 minutes—He always rides “ Dunlops”
* * *
DUNLOP SUPERIORITY ALWAYS ASSERTS ITSELF
Fit “Dunlops ” and you will be satisfied f
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd., All States and N.Z.


m
a
.
#
&■
■ ■
m
■
H
l* a
m
■
if
m
m
in
hi
w
i
m
mm
m
13
Ifl
I
■n
ijii«
■gm mm
.. --
WmW
:
v ■ * i
£ i f;
t
l
K
mHS
/ l:J
I
Before
Starting Out
Shopping, social duties and
the many calls upon modern
women are fatiguing. A little
"4711” sprinkled on the hand-
kerchief and inhaled will make you feel yourself
again.
Always ask for with the Blue and Gold
Label. It is the Eau de Cologne with an established
reputation of nearly 1 50 years, for sustained fragrance
and absolute purity.
Sole Agents for Australasia:—
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
f


Ready This Week.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for November.
An invaluable guide—Companies’
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’ has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat”
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
Under stress of modern economic conditions,
Pioneer Wood Pipe is invaluable as a low-cost
permanent conduit of the highest efficiency. Immune
from frosts and electrolysis—rusts, fungi and en-
crustations —it consistently preserves full-volume flow
throughout its practically indestructible life, and is
lighter and less expensive to buy, transport and
instal than metal pipe. For further particulars write
to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Paibnts. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth arid foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphctt Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm. — Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, bnown as
the “Ivoristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered bv Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— -Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG § JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Svvanston Streets,
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE'wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe."
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but «,he (best, in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
Q'
GUTHRIDGE,, LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN.
’Phone: L 2715,
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
of the co.’s central office. Deposits were a
little better at £22,912, and the co. s bankers
were helping only to the extent or £IBo.L.
The co. thus depends chiefly on its own
funds —compulsion more than choice, per-
haps, for deposits are hard to attract with
public borrowers offering high rates. At July
31 the co.’s total outside liabilities were
less than £1 for every £6 of its own. 1 hat
reduces the likelihood of a repetition of the
old trouble. Further, although prices of land
and suburban property are high—too high in
many cases—there is more stability these
days, thanks largely to our development of
secondary industries, as they are called. But
the difficulty in obtaining deposits limits
profits, and early improvement is unlikely.
* * * *
Mount Frome Lime, Ltd., is being floated
to take over an existing co. and carry on
the business of making and selling hydrated
and other lime, and dealing in other builders’
requisites. Capital is £150,000 in £1 shares,
53,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. participating to
10 p.c. (a further 20,000 may be issued) ;
60,000 ords., of which 20,000 have been
applied for by vendors and will be paid for
in cash provided the new co. purchases cer-
tain assets; 7500 ords. set aside for pur-
chase at par by S. J. McAuliffe during his
term of employment; 7500 set aside for pur-
chase by employees; 20,000 in reserve. The
existing co. has been at work since 1923 in
and about Sydney, and leases, plant, stocks
and equipment are to be acquired at a cost
of £25,118. Included in the latter are good-
will items amounting to £5405. The leases
are at Mount Frome, near Mudgee
(N.S.W.). A complete plant is estimated
to cost £63,188, the balance of the £95,000
going in additional equipment, assets to be
taken over, cash to vendors over shares
applied for, working capital, etc. Gross
profits are estimated at £42,497 p.a., exes,
and taxes £16,676, bonus to technical direc-
tor £1291, leaving £24,530 for distribution
or, after prefs. have been attended to,
£19,030 for ords. There has been a very
rapid growth in the demand for hydrated
lime elsewhere, and the quality and quantity
of the raw material secured by the vendors
seem to be beyond question.
Anew co., Commonwealth Life (Amal-
gamated) Assurance Ltd., has been regis-
tered with a capital of £500,000 in £1 shares
to take over, after valuation, the assets and
liabilities of the Commonwealth Life and the
Citizens and Graziers’ Life. The new co.
will issue shares for the net assets taken
over, which shares will be held by the respec
tive cos. First directors are Senator
McLachlan and General E. Drake-Brock-
man, nominated by the Commonwealth Life,
and Gen. F. G. Hughes and S. Perry,
nominated by the Citizens and Graziers.
The general manager is E. R. W. Castray of
the Commonwealth Life. Paid capital of the
Commonwealth at December 31 last was
£134,502 and of the Citizens and Graziers’
£152,593; premium income being £70,106
and £39,439 respectively. Each co. has con-
sistently expended more than it lias earned,
the consequence being that each had only
portion of its capital intact according to the
last balance sheets. The amalgamation has
first of all to surmount the legal difficulties.
To win public support it then has to prove
that, under practically unchanged manage-
ment, it can do better—it needs to be much
better.
James S. Inch on the legal aspect:—
Anew co. lias been formed to take over the assets
and liabilities of the Commonwealth Life and
Citizens and Graziers’. Perhaps a little friendly
criticism may save a lot of trouble and avoid financial
loss. While it may be possible to make such a
contract as that indicated with regard to N.S.W.
companies, it cannot be done with the same freedom
from restriction when cos., as in the present instance,
are registered and operating in other States.
The experience of General Drake-Brockman with
the now defunct Australian United Insurance Cos.
should have sufficed to keep him off Life Insurance
Boards for ever. The various Vic. Judges before
whom the many cases arising from the matter referred
to came up for hearing expressed their views and
gave their decisions most emphatically. For instance,
the proposed merger now contemplated cannot really
become effective, or binding, until it has been
approved by the Vic. Court, which will probably be
presided over by one of the Judges who handled
some of the cases in question. The Vie. Companies
Act sets out that “no company shall amalgamate
with another or transfer its business to another
unless such amalgamation or transfer is confirmed by
the Court in accordance with this section.” (Section
461.) Section 462 sets out very clearly the obliga-
tions which are imposed upon respective cos. Section
463 makes special reference to policyholders. Before
the Court will consider an application for approval
certain documents have to be sent to each policy-
holder, wherever resident, in sufficient time to allow
those policyholders to be present at the Court to
oppose the application if so desired.
Directors who may be contemplating merging any
business under their control will be well advised to
ascertain first whether it is possible to do what is
proposed, and what is involved in bringing the
matter to completion. In the present case the four
directors named to control the new (N.S.W.) company
appear to hail from Westralia (1), S. Australia (2),
and Victoria (1), and it is not easy to guess how
gentlemen so far removed from each other can come
together often enough to take care of the varied
interests which often call for instant decision.
lii some comment on recent notations and
the Vic. Companies Act (“Wild Cat,”
7/10/’26) “Melbourne Broker” mentioned
Belford Dome, Ltd. In his reply, Courtenay
Martins, g.-m. of Belford Dome, named
Taranaki Oil Fields. A. E. Broue replies:—
On the advice of Chester G. Wasliburne I took up
several areas on Belford Dome, but after referring
the matter to Frederick G. Clapp I abandoned the
areas as being not sufficiently attractive to risk the
investment of capital. At the present time my
activities are confined in N. S. Wales to the boring
of one well in the hope of striking natural gas.
The amount of issued capital in this co. is £50,000,
and myself and my associates consider this sufficient
to test that division of the Sydney basin to the
extent of knowing whether the results justify any
further expenditure. This is the accepted procedure
in the opinion of the best talent we can employ
throughout the world.
Now, as to what amount of cash and value were
received from Taranaki Oil Development Cos., Alex-
ander Wright Donald and Albert Edward Broue. These
were: (a) The report of Frederick G. Clapp, produced
and made at my personal expense; (b) six acres
of freehold in New Plymouth, with magnificent build-
ings thereon; (c) a vast quantity of equipment for
the field; (and) rights over geologised sections of
Taranaki; and (e) a splendidly-organised working
staff. These were handed over to Taranaki Oil Fields,
Ltd., on its incorporation.
Where does the eo. expect to market the coal from
Belford Dome in view of the difficulty existing cos.
have in finding markets? I know that 25 p.c.
permanent charge which the vendors receive from
Belford Dome is not accounted for in the figures of
the prospectus, i.e., it is not noted as a permanent
charge against income.
I believe that the boring of Belford Dome is
thoroughly justified, but the total cost should not
exceed £20,000.
I was informed recently that I owned the entire
block of leases abutting on the Belford Dome. This
to me is conclusive evidence that misleading state-
ments are being made, as I do not own one inch
of leases on that structure.
I should like to ask the directors of Belford Dome
whether Broken Hill Pty., Ltd., did or did not
bore this area and abandon it as not being suffi- .
ciently attractive to them as a coal proposition there
being many much more attractive areas offering in
N. S. Wales.
In conclusion I should like to say that I do not
know of any combined undertakings of oil, gas, coal
and shale anywhere. Oil and gas men particularly
are loath to interfere in a business so complicated
as coal- or shale-mining.
“Sol”: With a virtuous air Gould Mac-
dougall inquires (B. 28/10/’26) if somebody
lias challenged Malcolm Newman’s Kundang
estimates. Well, even Newman is not in-
fallible. Rawang’s 1920 prospectus quoted a
report of his wherein 74 p.c. profit was esti-
mated with tin at £3OO, and this was appa-
rently based on the hypothesis “that the pro-
perty will yield not less than 141 b. of tin
oxide per yd.” The same report gave 120
tons a month as the yield “from three units”
.—long before the extra ground and the bucket
dredge were thought of. Six years later
the 120 tons hasn’t been reached even with
the help of a liigh-power dredge. Macdougall
himself speaks of fib. ground as though that
value exceeded all forecasts, and threatens
that “the present rich run of ground” should,
within 12 months, “earn a surplus profit
equal to about 50 p.c. on the company’s
capital.” That would, indeed, be a
from the present 20 p.c. or so, but would
still be a long way below 74 p.c.
Twyford Malaya, registered last week in
Sydney, is in 10,000 20s. shares, of which
2000 fully-paids go to the parent co., Sydney
Malaya. Twyford has Joe Millican and
Charles Todman on its board, and boring by
C. J. Rowe is proceeding on 1000 acres
under option at Puket, in Siam, next door
to Tongkah Harbor’s latest find. Another
300-acre option lias been secured in Perak
(F.M.S.I from the State department. If
one or both options are exercised, holders
in Twyford will have first call on shares in
the float.
Gt. Victoria, Southern Cross (W.A.), has
decided to take out the block of ore left
as a pillar round the main shaft. When
directors feel that the time has arrived to
do this sort of thing operations may be
regarded as nearing the end.
Bullfinch Prop., seized under mortgage by
the Westralian Government, is being worked
in a half-hearted way by a Perth syndicate.
There are still some ore deposits worth
attention, and payable crushings may be
got from these, but no fortunes have been
left behind.
* * * # *
F. A. Moss, of Perth, and Gordon Lyon,
of Melbourne, with a few friends, have taken
the Sand Queen-Gladsome goldmines off the
Westralian Government’s hands, and reckon
that the small co. which they are floating
will pay divs. almost right away. A fair-
sized payable shoot is exposed in the bottom
workings, and as the co. doesn't lack capital
and lias brains to back up its efforts it aught
to succeed. Moss Bros, worked the Sand
Queen for years witli gilt-edged results. All
went well down to aboqt 600 ft., when it
pitched into the Glads’ome. Mine water is
salt almost to saturation-point, and makes a
horrible mess of things, but the gold in the
shoot is sufficient to overcome many draw-
backs.
* * * *
South Australian Oil Wells is in the lime-
light. George Gordon and fellow-director
Hobbs tripped to the bore, where Charlton
Dod has been getting the casing trim in
what are called “oil sands.” On their return
to Queen-street it was announced that they
were “perfectly satisfied with the quantity
and quality of the oil being produced during
the bailing operations, and are confident the
work will result in a payable well.” A
reasonable question is: How far can they
see down a drill-hole to tell whether it will
be payable? The market got a thrill a day
or two later when, the cementing job at the
bore having been finished, the world was
told that as bailing went on “brown crude
oil of good quality was showing in increas-
ing quantity, and sulphur gas becoming
more evident.” The news set the co.'s shares
jigging, and Latham Watson, Commonwealth
boring adviser, has been sent to Caroline
to look at the job. Perhaps w-hen Vic.
Mines Department gets through Cup Week
it will put Geologist Baragwanatli on the
trail of the good brown oil.
High prices keep Pioneer (Tas.) on the
div.-list. Twelve months ago Cecil Ryan
gave warning that the end might be close.
He couldn’t guess that tin would soar be-
yond £3OO. It has meant that he could cull
oxide from spots which had been branded
too poor to pay. Accordingly Is. 6d. was
shelled out as divs. and £4OOO left in the
cashbox; besides, there is metal on hand
valued at £7OOO. Work in the far end of
the paddock has been vexatious. Ryan is
worrying through big bands of pug, but
cemented drift on the bottom means that
explosives have to pulverise it before it can
be sluiced out of the way or made to yield
its tin contents. That carries high costs,
and a panicky feeling whenever the price of
tin wobbles. At the face a big bump in
the floor of the gutter has set all hands
guessing. Particularly was this so when
boring at the surface ahead of the dredge
showed narrow wash, with only a small
section prospecting well. Ryan’s deduction
is that the lead may have split, and that one
branch may have gone north of Avhere boring
has been done. Anyway, probing is going
on to settle the point definitely. As the
boring directly beyond the western face has
proved fresh wash, the Pioneer mine is given
another year’s life. At St. Helens the Argo-
naut is becoming beautifully less. Most of
the high ground is worked out, and what
drift remains of any value is to the south
in the creek-bed. Little is expected of it,
for the ancient digger had a go at the
drift, but with tin at £3OO everything is
worth turning over. The Pioneer record to
June 30 is dazzling when it is remembered
that it comes from a show which looked to
be the bluest of blue ducks. Here it is
Tin
Cost. Won,
Cub. Yds. Cub. Yd. Tons.
1900 to 1926.. 12,826,100 6.603 and. 8637
If the Argonaut, South Pioneer and one or
two small shows be lumped, 14,316,600 c.
yds. have yielded 9205 tons oxide at a cost
of 6.69 and. a c. yd. The average grade is
L441b.; but it is down to 0.5341 b. at the
Pioneer and 0.9131 b. at the Argonaut.
* * * *
Alan Davis is confident that the long run
of ill-luck in N.S.W. gold reefing will be
fractured by Wilkinson’s Amalgamated at
Yalwal. They are already crushing with
five-head, and another ten-licad will be dropped
into position on arrival next week. A
suction-gas engine will operate the larger
plant.
* * * *
Having come to the conclusion that an
obstacle race had been dropped in between
the mine staff and the plant at Flagstone
(N.S.W.), the board sent G. Lonsdale Smith
to report. Holders who have had their cash
tied up for over two years will, at any rate,
know the best or the worst before the month
is out.
Since its overhaul the 10-head battery at
New White Crystal, Ardletliau (N.S.W.),
has done better. It has reduced heavier ton-
nages than any other Ardlethan show, which
isn’t saying much. but. at any rate, shows a
more hustling spirit. From May 5 to August
31 over 20 tons of concentrates were won,
valued at above £3OOO, despite the heavy
over-burden with which Crosby’s Hill
is handicapped. Much of this had to
run through the battery to open up
faces. The plant is kept running con
tinuously from midnight on Sundays
till midnight on Saturdays, and from
200 sq. ft. of faces the yield is averaging
about 44 tons concentrates a fortnight from
500 tons. Mining and milling exes, are kept
down to about 18s., leaving a fair margin.
Of the 150,000 10s. shares paid to 7s. sd.
only about 50,000 are alive.
Queensland Tin, Ivoorboora (N.Q.), ran
the mill a fortnight on one shift from the
Excelsior, and got <2cwt. concentrates from
17S tons crushed. The parcel realised £650,
or £lB5 a ton. Holders of contribs. will feel
much better when Fred Brown is ready to
operate the regular tonnages forecasted by
11. I. Jensen and himself.
* * * *
Ratrut has given the brokers more com-
missions than any other liulf-djozen tin-
dredging concerns since it started out on its
boring campaign. Results from the adjoin-
ing property tackled after the original
Siamese area had been eaten out were most
unflattering, hence the decision for whole-
sale boring of options. The 150,000 shares
hung heavily about 11s. while depending on
production, but when optioneering, began
they were “chipped up” to 18s., at which
rate many were unloaded. After that it was
like a fire in thistledown, and 345. was at
last obtained. Then heavy selling set in,
and scrip was forced on the lowering market
despite tin at £320. Since then prices have
run below 305., and buyers have stuck it
well, considering the fall in the metal. They
were heartened by the news that check
boring on two areas had confirmed values,
the rich section giving 31b. to the yd. with
22ft. in depth, and, three miles bedow, 13oz.
prospects were general. “Boring,” says the
report, “is difficult owing to stones, but few
are more than 12in. in diameter, and no
dredging difficulties are anticipated.” But
it is unwise for purchasers at a high pre-
mium to wave obstacles aside too airily.
* * * *
The Anglo-Persian Oil Cos. increased the
div. on ords. from 12J to 17J p.c.; and one
bonus share is to be issued for every two
held. Ordinary share capital is £8,950,000,
while there is £7,000,000 of 8 p.c. first prefs.
and £3,500,000 9 p.c. second prefs.—a tidy
capital to feed. The co., which is largely
vested in the British Government, finds the
task simple enough, and the £1 ords. were
last week quoted at £5 11s. 3d. A subsi-
diary is the Commonwealth Oil Refining Cos.,
in which the Commonwealth Government
holds a half interest.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
d
ďf
The TOP NOTCH'ScotcM
w
V> /7 SayWfiEfi Man!!
I
•V SPECIAL 1
APPOINTMENT TO 1
HIS EXCELLENCE
£sia6[!sfted JSS3
f THE W HON, LORD KNNUW
I GOV. GEN. OF THE *
' ODMMONWEAHHofAUSTRAUA
W. Chorlcy
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Bimhesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
„ TAILOR-MADES. .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
A striking chapter in the romance of Aus-
tralian trade has been finished by the death
of Henry Jones, who started life as a very
small boy carrying tins in a Hobart jam-
factory and finished as Australia’s jam king.
His rise was rapid. He was foreman of the
factory before he was 21. A few years later,
at 28, his employer, George Peacock, want-
ing to retire, gave him and Ach Palfreyman,
his oflice mate, the chance to buy the con-
"Our defence, your Worship, is that it is a
simple case of mistaken identity.”
cern. After that the story of the business
was one of quick expansion; and, introduced
to the business by Captain Teddy Miles, he
largely increased his fortune in later years
by ventures in Malayan tin—the first pros-
pecting syndicate was named the IXL, after
Jones’s jams. In 1919 he was given the
right to tack “Sir” to his name. He was
only 61 when that enemy of middle-life,
blood-pressure, laid him low.
The Law in N. S. Wales anticipates a lot
of litigation over the latest of its solicitors
who have been asked to explain things. The
missing gent, one, Baum by name, is alleged
to have levanted in company with about
£50,000, and it looks as if his extradition
from Egypt, where he was intercepted, will
be applied for. But this is no ordinary case
of a reckless and extravagant man playing
ducks and drakes with his clients’ money.
Baum was a quiet-living man, not addicted
to any of the vices which usually lead to
peculation. In legal circles there is a feel-
ing that the lawyer has fortified himself
with a hatful of knotty points with which
to resist extradition. Some of the Crown
Law officials will be surprised if he is back
in Sydney within two years.
Those wonderful cattle-dogs of the sea,
the “killers,” must have been puzzled the
other day when they turned a humpback
whale and her calf into Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.), drove them up to the jetty, and
shepherded them there for hours without
bringing any whaleboat to the expected kill.
They couldn’t know that old George David-
son, the master-whaler of Eden, had another
and a sadder job on hand —he was dragging
the bay near the whaling-station for the body
of his son Jack. Two days earlier a whale-
boat had capsized, and, after a long struggle
to save his wife and family, Jack had been
drowned, with two of the children. The
Davidsons have been connected with whaling
at Twofold Bay since the Dark Ages; but
there hasn’t been much doing for many years
now, and this latest tragedy will just about
end the chapter. The humpback in this case
got away during the night, and the killers
lost the tongue and other titbits with which
“old George” has always been careful to
reward them.
Our S. M. Bruce has again just missed
first place. At last conference in London
he was complimented by Men’s Wear on
“taking his tailoring seriously,” but informed
that the lack of the outside coat pocket told
against him. At the same time, while miss-
ing the first prize (which wasn’t awarded),
he was a dream of loveliness compared with
the crumpled Smuts. This time the Tailor
and Cutter puts the two Canadian delegates
in the front, and Bruce a mere third by
reason of his spats. Spats have gone out.
George Swinburne, ex-Minister for Agri-
culture (Vic.), who founded the Tech.
School at Glenferrie, in the eastern suburbs
of Melbourne, with a gift of £5OOO, has
quietly slipped about twice as much more
into the school’s exchequer to enable build-
ing and plant extensions to be made. The
buildings already occupy about one-third of
a block of Hawthorn. Indirectly the Syme
family has contributed to the funds, as part
of Swinburne’s original £5OOO consisted of
damages for libel recovered from the Age
when Swinburne was Minister under Bent.
Tasmanian Premier Lyons is making good
progress towards . recovery from his July
smash. His badly-fractured leg ought to
be nearly as good as new by Christmas; but
it is not likely that he will take his place
in Parliament during the present session.
Acting-Premier Allan Guy will introduce the
Budget on November 16, and, barring acci-
dents, the shutters will be up soon after mid-
December.
Charles Ryan, the Victorian surgeon who
died the other day, was sent by Melbourne
Hospital to render first aid to the wounded
in the last act of the Kelly drama at Glen-
rowan in 1880. He brought Ned, completely
exhausted by his wounds, down to Mel-
bourne, but the immense crowd which waited
to see their arrival at Spencer-street went
home disappointed. Ryan had got his
patient off the train at North Melbourne.
About the funniest thing that happened
to the late Charlie Ryan arose out of his
exotic job as Consul for Turkey. When the
Federal Government gave a reception to
Kitchener one of the Parliamentary messen-
gers was impressed as announcer, and was
warned that he must give the official title
of each guest, but that if accompanied by a
lady the surname of the lady must be given.
All went well until “Plevna” Ryan and his
good lady hove in sight; then, after a glance
at the card which Charlie had handed in,
the announcer boomed: “The Sultan of
Turkey and Mrs. Turkey.”
The family of which William (“Oom
Bill”) Lyne was the most notable sprig
assembled to drink champagne at Swansea
(Tasmania) in honor of the hundredth anni-
versary of the arrival of the family’s fore-
bears in Australia. William Lyne, of Glou-
cestershire, arrived in Hobart by the Hugh
Crawford with his wife and five children on
October 27, 1826, and settled at Swansea.
There are over 200 descendants of those
immigrants to-day; and a hundred of them
turned up to Ansley House, which was the
original family dwelling-place. Carmichael
Lyne, now head of the clan, is president of
the Tas. Farmers, Stockowners and Orchard-
ists’ Association.
South Aus. has lost two notable pastor al-
ists. George Brooks was born at Gumeracha
in 1849, carted wood for the Burra mine and
chaff for Wallaroo, then worked up from
farming to stock-raising. He had various
stations as far north and east as the Queens-
land border, but latterly was best known as
owner of that show-place, Buckland Park,
close to Adelaide. Archie Beviss (68), like
Brooks, leaves pastoralist sons in N.S.W.
and Queensland. He was an authority on
native languages and customs, a noted judge
of sheep and cattle, and an inveterate writer
to the papers. The Register printed a long
letter from him on the day his death was
announced.
“Avon”: There was nothing of the wowser
about Maoriland’sTimiKara (James Carroll)
despite the recollection of a footballer (B.
28/10/’26) of a teetotal feast at which Timi
presided. Timi was a good Rugby player
in his youth—one of the best forwards who
ever took the field in the land that most
austerely worships the game—but he loved
horses even more than he loved football. If
he could get to a race meeting, by hook or
by crook, he got there, even if six deputa-
tions had to be told to call another day.
When the beginning of the end made its
appearance about a vear ago and Timi’s good
lady was nursing him devotedly in their Gis-
borne home, he surprised the folk who were
watching the training on the racecourse—a
good mile away from Timi’s house —by
appearing one early morning in pyjamas,
overcoat and bedroom slippers. A friend,
who knew how desperately ill Timi was, re-
monstrated, but Carroll smiled his sad sweet
smile and explained that he did want to see
the gee-gees once again.
St. Peter’s College (Adelaide) Old Boys
will have only one thing against Hugo
Lesclien, their one-time gym. instructor. One
year he got the idea that no boy could chin
the bar efficiently unless he could catalogue
all the flexors and extensors he moved in
the operation. Boys who looked forward to
the one hour a week in the gym. as a wel-
come change from sitting on a form took a
LITTLE WILLIE (to victim of scooter colli-
sion): “Sorry, Mister! Can I ride you
to the hospital?”
strenuous dislike to Leschen’s attempt to
combine intellectual with physical develop-
ment. Nor was their contentment deepened
when a noted bookworm, who couldn’t look
at a trapeze without turning pale, came top
of the gym. class, while a born acrobat who
could take three back somersaults and a
handspring while lacing up his boots came
near the bottom. Leschen, who lasted only
58 years, was son of a famous Danish
physical-culturist and was himself first Aus-
tralian president of the Esperanto Associa-
tion.
A Vic. industry that was crushed in its
youth by dumping was the salt-refining at
Horseshoe Lake, near Beeac. The man who
founded the short-lived industry, Michael
Troy, passed out at 81 the other day. He
came' from Ireland as an urchin of seven,
and made himself a place in the Beeac com-
munity as a breeder of shorthorns and
Clydesdales. The square miles of glittering
white salt bordering the lakes of the neigh-
borhood appealed to his commercial instincts,
and lie set up refining works, traces of whose
ruins still cover acres in the vicinity. What
beat Troy was the shipment of salt from
overseas as ballast. He went back to his
stock-raising and prospered.
A man recently fined for keeping a gaming
house is a B.A. and LL.B. But even as a
student he had gambled successfully, and
instead of following a profession he set him-
self up as proprietor of a billiard-room
which became a gambling resort. To-day he
is the owner of a betting business and the
proprietor of several billiard saloons. His
recent fine merely made him smile. The
amount involved hardly makes a dent in his
rent-roll —he is a big property-owner. One
of his brothers is a doctor, and two others
are clergymen.
The days of Daniel Danieliy, lawyer and
lover of literature, and employer and friend
of Henry Kendall, are recalled by the death
of Henry Huntington, who started life in
Daniel’s office. Huntington himself took to
journalism, and worked on the Empire and
the Evening News, but lie reverted to law
associations, and was a Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions in his later days. The old chap, who
lived to be 78, had a minor distinction in
being the oldest inhabitant of the Sydney
School of Arts, which he haunted in his
years of retirement.
“Hamer”: When 35 years ago W. P.
Crick and R. D. Meagher set up their legal
partnership they took a two-storey building
in Castlereagh-street, on portion of the land
where David Jones’s new building is going
up; and Brien, owner of Rampion and Pan-
theon —he had an “O” in front of his name
then —was a tenant of theirs for'half the
building. After making the basis of his
present fortune out of a money-lending busi-
ness, Brien sold out to Henry Tate, whose
advertising slogan vtas “I never refuse.”
Conditions have changed in Sydney since
that time. Crick and Meagher thought it
was rather a risk to pay 455. a week rent for
their office premises, and reckoned they were
on a good wicket when they were able to
sting their tenant for 255. of it. Dick
Meagher, retired from the fever of politics
to a legal business that pours in monetary
rewards, grins over his cigar as he remem-
bers the day of small things.
South Aus. has lost a good sportsman in
A. D. McDonald. A successful farmer and
pastoralist, he bred most of his own race-
horses, and for many years ran them success-
fully, winning the most important stakes
S.A. has to offer.
When Albert Windsor arrives at Canberra
he will be introduced to John Edward
Wright, the Federal capital’s oldest inhabi-
tant. Wright’s father, with a partner, took
up 50,000 acres of land in the vicinity of
Canberra, and Wright was born there 83
years ago. The old man, still active, wan-
ders far afield prospecting, but he promises to
be on hand for the big event.
Colonel W. J. Foster, who has been
hoisted to the command of the Second Cav-
alry Brigade in England, is a Queenslander
who started soldiering with the Permanent
Force of his own State and gained a repu-
tation for sagacity as one of the brass-hats
of the A.I.F. lie went out as aide to Bridges,
and after filling other cavalry staff jobs was
G. 5.0.1. to Barrow, and helped to engineer
some of the details of Allenby’s horse opera
in Palestine. Lately lie lias been Director of
Military Operations and Intelligence at 11. Q.,
Melbourne, and goes to Blighty as part of a
plan to make the Army Empire-conscious.
One of the old brigade of Papuan prospec-
tors, Andy Doyle, set off to peg out a claim
on the Golden Shore the other day. A little
black Irishman, he kept the northern gold-
fields smiling in days when reasons for mirth
were not too plentiful. Never wearing any-
thing but a shirt when on his claim he used
to buy a pair of slop white ducks when he
visited Tarnatn. These, always too long for
him, were allowed to fall over his bare feet.
When they had collected too much mud
Andy bought a new pair. He it was who
told off a new R.M., who blasphemously re-
fused to leave his bed at midnight to fix up
some mining matter for Andy. “Wait till
th’ marnin’ is ut?” Andy howled out of the
wet darkness. “Ye may be did be th’ marn-
in’, like tliim other s before ye; Green
doied, Shanahan doied, Armit doied, Walker
doled, Leitch doied, Parke doied, and ye’ll
doie too, ye .” But Andy, though some-
times peppery, was a fine mate, an untiring
prospector, and as tough as a lawyer-vine.
He was 72 when they found him dead.
Just out, after compiling a century, Cap-
tain Haromanus Copeland, of Auckland. He
went to sea in Dutch vessels at 14, and was
three times round the world before he was
27. Trouble on the last voyage resulted in
the captain pitching tent in Victoria in
1844, but soon the Maoriland goldfields
called. His mother lived to be 102. Her
son was born at Hanover, over which King
George IV. held sway at the time.
The message of the Arawa tribe, sent to
the widow on the death of Timi Kara (James
Carroll) the other day:—
The Arawas mourn with you the loss of father,
friend and comrade at rest.
Repose, pride of the Arawa tribe. Farewell,
guiding star of the race. Farewell, mighty totara
of the forests. Farewell, O rata tree, our shield
and protector. To Repua’s keeping we commend you.
With the illustrious, find eternal peace.
TALKATIVE BARBER : “I see there is someone
trying to talk to us from Mars
FED-VICTIM : "Yes, and I’ll let he’s a
barber!”
“Pills” : Coulter, who was hanged by the
neck till he was dead at Fremantle Gaol,
was a regular turf encyclopaedia. From
childhood he was keenly interested in horse-
racing, and his memory of past performances
was remarkably accurate. With hardly any
hesitation Coulter would tell you any placed
horse in any big race for years back, and
would probably give you the name of the
owner and jockey as well. Colors and
weights also stuck in that rat-trap mind.
Bets by miners were paid over without
further argument if Coulter had given his
judgment.
I KNOW WHAT I LIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing me a song with the lilt of youth,
Telling a lie, or telling the truth;
So long as the words and the tune agree
That’s the sort of a song for me.
Give me the smile of a kindly maid
Whether she’s skittish or whether she’s staid;
Roguish or solemn, it’s all the same
So she have eyes that are free from shame.
Show me a picture of racing seas
Shorn of their tops by a spanking breeze,
And a ship that’s plunging and running free,
With her decks awash, and the foam a-lee.
Tell me a story that grips the heart
And causes the unbid tear to start,
Or a joke as old as the Golden Calf
So long as it simply makes me laugh t
Saddle a horse T can ride all day
And whistle for company all the way ;
Fill me a pipe with a clean dry bow],
Of Honey-dew, Bird’s-eye or Bogey-roll—
Whatever you please; who cares two straws
For the name of the weed so long as it. draws!
Give me a chop and some hot new bread,
A pint of wine, either white or red,
A saddle for pillow beneath' my head,
And a. bank of sand when I want a bed.
And if Death makes sure when he comes to strike,
I’ll have had some of the things I like!
S, A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


d
Hampton Court,
Sydney,
June 25th,
1926.
Messrs. Beale and Co. Ltd.,
340 George Street,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
During my travels, I have been
enabled to hear all the great modern
pianists. Not always as frequently as
1 had desired. My professional en-
gagements often clashed with my
Wishes and limited my opportunities.
You will appreciate the extent of
my delight and astonishment, there-
fore, when I “discovered” the Beale-
Ampico. I had heard practically every
kind of reproducing piano. But this
was different —for when I sang the
“Indian Love Call” to an accompani-
ment recording played by Edgar Fair-
child on the Ampico, it Was indeed
difficult to realise that the pianist was
not there in bodily presence. Amaze-
ment at what the Beale-Ampico can
do scarcely expresses my feeling.
Yours faithfully,
{Miss) HARRIET BENNETT,
vu
*>
O
o
*,>oo oo»*
m
-> '<- ■
Gb
N K®|
r-fi
piro
)( 1L
ICZT
88-20 J
MISS HARRIET BENNETT
and the BEALE ylmpico
r- ‘ amazed at what it can do”
Miss Bennett has scored a tremendous success among Australians as
the leading lady of the “Rose Marie” Company. Her magnificent
voice, her quick responsive personality, and her very feminine and
appealing charm more than justify that success.
But Miss Bennett is also a highly
accomplished musician with an un-
usually subtle and developed taste.
That is why her opinion of the Beale-
Ampico carries very great weight-—the
more so as it is echoed by so many
eminent musicians.
Indeed, most of the world’s greatest
pianists (among them Rachmaninoff,
Moiseiwitsch, Lhevinne, Levitzski,
Hambourg, Godowsky, Teresa Carreno,
to name only a few) have allowed
their work to be preserved for future
generations on the Ampico rather than
on the ordinary player.
For the Beale-Ampico is emphatically
not a player-piano. A player in the
hands of a skilful musician is capable
of beautiful music, but it does not
pretend to give us anything comparable
to the work of the world’s masters.
That is just what the Beale-Ampico
does give us. Except in the case of the
foot-blown model, the Beale-Ampico is
not controlled by human agency at all.
It produces, and can only produce, each
shade of expression, each touch of the
personality, the very genius of the
pianist who made the original record-
ing. When you hear the Ampico for
the first time, the effect is positively
uncanny.
And, of course, the Beale-Ampico may
also be played manually—it is the New
Beale Piano with the added potenti-
alities of the Ampico.
The Beale-Ampico must be heard to be appreciated—that is the only way to realise its
remarkable power. Beautifully produced descriptive literature will be forwarded on
request, but every effort should be made to hear the instrument at one of our branches.
BEALE
ďf
COMPANY
LIMITED
Showrooms.
340 George St., Sydney
Head Office and Factories.
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lithgow, Lismore, Newcastle. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: William Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland), LTD.,
yO-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.


For CHRISTMAS and
the New Year !
The Best Gift for
Lady or Gentleman
O'
a
"Right with
the Sun.”
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
CYMA
SMART, DISTINCTIVE, GEM-SET WATCHES
in Intriguing, Odd Shapes
PRICED AMAZINGLY LOW.
Sow
't\
m m
Fashionable 18et. White Gold Watch,
ornamented with hand chasing, set with
Diamonds and four odd-shaped Sapphires.
Fitted with good reliable guaranteed-
movement, £25.
Fancy tonneau-shaped Watch of 18et.
White Gold, hand chased. Beautifully
decorated with 14 Diamonds and six
Sapphires. Fully reliable, guaranteed.
£2B.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES--CASH ONLY.
EVER-READY
, TORCHES ]
% The Worlds Best
ď
f
Uok for (he Trademark » Agents Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
‘‘Bisley’’: A few hints on searching for
water in the dry back-country. At dawn or
dusk water can be tracked by watching the
birds as they fly to and from it. In a dried-
up creek dig for water at its junction with
another watercourse. It is useless to dig
in the centre of a dried-up course. Try
near a high bank. Where the roots of a
tree show above ground or where its branches
have a tendency to spread low —that’s a good
place to sink. Never carry water in a
canvas bag in the desert-—the evaporation is
too great. Drop your camp-tire ashes in any
muddy water overnight, and it will be tit
for drinking in the morning. Tall timber,
ti-tree or paper-bark trees denote the close
proximity of water. In an extremity when
suffering from thirst, dew may be collected
off the scrubs, but this is a dangerous prac-
tice, for the dew often distils the poison of the
plants. An animal's blood will not slake
thirst for long. Tepid water effectively
quenches thirst brought on by eating salt
provisions. Always remember to carry lime-
juice tablets with you, as they are an invalu-
able part of the overlander’s kit.
“Sucre”: Talk about “Tired Tims” of the
city! 1 knew a cocky at Windorah (Q.) who
never did a yard of ploughing. He always
had a crop of corn, though. Heavy dust-storms
preceding a fall of rain are a feature of this
district. When Woop saw one coming he
used to rush to the cultivation patch and
broadcast corn all over the place. Then he
would resume his seat at the door of his
humpy, knowing that the dust-storm would
forthwith deposit about six inches of loamy soil
on thje seed. Next day or sooner down came the
rain, and a month later Woop would be
gazing over a field of tasselled, green corn-
stalks. He growled a treat at having to
pick the corn, but he never struck a way of
making nature do that for him too.
“Hecagus” : J. A. Leach in his Australian
bird-book says the rainbow-bird very rarely
touches bees. Up here (N. Q.) he is anathe-
matised by beekeepers a hundred-fold more
than any other bee-enemy. On various occa-
sions I have seen small flocks of rainbow-
birds perch beside a wild-bees’ nest and liter-
ally clean it out.
“Saaedi”: I haven’t had much experience
with stringy-bark posts, but so far as pine
and yarran are concerned, “R.K.” is wrong
when he states (B. 30/9/’2O) that cut
timber lasts best in the soil in which the
tree grows. Pine posts rot quickly in the
pine-tree’s native soil, whereas on the black-
soil plains, where the tree does not grow,
I have known fences that have been up 50
years and are still going strong.
“Pick”: On Mount Cooper station, Mon-
aro (N.S.W.), I once watched a plover
shift her hatchery. The original site was a
mound in a gutter, and the newly-chosen
position was on the bank, some yajrds dis-
tant through the
tussocks. One by
one the bird moved
her eggs by push-
in g them for-
ward with her
beak. As they
started a fast
swerving roll, the
remover displayed
great agitation,
hopping excitedly
in front and squat-
ing to stop the
momentinn with
her body. Up the
steepish bank she
chose a cattle-pad
for her passage,
gradually propel-
ling the furniture
onward, and stop-
ping it from roll-
ing back with
breast, outstretched
wings and fluffed
feathers. The job
took about two
hours. That after-
noon a thunder-
storm filled the
cuttc" to its rim
with rush i n g
waters. Spiky-wings had got a forecast
somehow.
“Dogela Borop”: I saw a wild duck shift
camp on the reeds bordering the Moira
Lakes (Vic.). I found a nest of mountain-
ii e^s and intended to secure the young
ducks when hatched. On quietly approach-
ing the next day I saw a duck scuffling
along with an egg held between the top or
shoulder curve of the wing and the neck, and
making a very good job of it, too. If you
shift some of the eggs from a good broody
lien you will see her work them back to the
nest by a similar holding grip between her
neck and forewing.
* * * *
“Toongooroo”: “Alastor” (B. 7/10/’26)
isn t likely to see English pheasants added
to the bird-life of the Darling Downs. The
old Southern Queensland Acclimatisation
Society spent a lot of money and energy a
long time ago in trying to establish English
pheasants. Californian quail and rainbow-
trout on the Downs and in its streams. The
goannas, carpet-snakes and hawks accounted
for the birds, and the fox would now help
them if the experiment were repeated; whilst
the shags and the inherited capacity of the
Downs streams to stop work wiped out the
fishes.
THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
LADY: “I ashed for a dozen oranges, and you’ve given me only eleven.”
BARROWMAN: “ That’s orright, lady. One was had, so I threw it away for yer.”
“Tempe”: At Yancannia out-station in
the early ’nineties a newchum cook was
put on for the autumn muster. The boss
was a Scotsman whose stock of working
proverbs was of the “Waste not, want not”
and “A penny saved is a penny gained” type.
One day the cook made a quantity of dough
which refused to rise, so he dug a deep hole
and poured the stuff into it, carefully cover-
ing it with sand, and smoothing it down to
look like the surrounding country. Unfortu-
nately, the boss, clad in a new pair of strides,
selected that spot for his evening meal, and
the warmth of the sand having at last caused
the reluctant dough to rise, he almost dis-
appeared in the hole, and streamers of ropy
sponge cascaded over him. Cook caught the
coach that night.
■St* •X’ * -Jfr
“AdeL”: With the coming of spring the
w'arblers and flycatchers, the leading musi-
cians of the birds’ world in the thick palms
and the undergrowth fringing the perennial
streams of the Gulf Country, construct their
variously-shaped mansions and chalets, some
of which are the tiniest homes ever built
by feathered architects. One of these musi-
cians, the species of which I have not yet
been able to determine, for it lives in eter-
nal darkness under groves of interlacing
palm-fronds, through which the sun never
penetrate.s, sends out music which sounds
like that of a steel guitar. Some years ago
Abo. contributors voted for the reed-warbler
as the best songster among our native birds;
but the controversy as to which was the
better musician among our feathered flute-
players—butcher-birds and magpies—was
never settled. I claim my guitar-player as
the champion bird-musician of the world.
“Hiawatha”: A record of another kind has
been made by a ewe of ours (B. 16/9/’26).
For the past three seasons she has given
birth to mis-shapen lambs. Her first lamb
had no nose—or rather no nostrils—and was
born dead. Next year she dropped a lamb
with six legs and no tail. The attempt at
a centipede was alive when we found it.
This year she went one better, and had two
lambs, one perfectly right, and the other
with five legs, the extra leg being joined on
to the tail. This lamb, too, was alive when
discovered.
* * * *
“White Lyon”: I am surprised by
“Rizzle’s” statement (B. 7/10/’26) that wil'd
pigs on the De Grey River have remained
nearly true to type. On the Macintyre
River (Q.) are large numbers of pigs
descended from Berkshires, which, though
retaining the original color—black, or spotted
black and white —differ very much from the
sty pig.. They* seem to have reverted to a
primitive type, exhibiting all the character-
istics of the wild pig, such as the long snout
and legs. I have seen very similar grunters
rooting about the native villages in Papua.
The Macintyre pigs are very active and
swift, and afford good sport when hunted on
horseback with a shear-blade tied to a pole.
The boars have long tusks, which they keep’
sharpened on the trunks of trees, and the
skin of their shoulders is thickened up to
nearly three inches to give protection when
fighting. A pig-catcher told me that, though
he had been dealing with wild pigs for years,
he had never seen a duel between two boars,
though lie had often found them wounded or
dying after a set-to. In recent years the
mobs have been such a pest that they have
had to be reduced by means of a scalp bonus.
■‘Saaedi” : The pigs on the De Grey River
are unusual porkers. What usually happens
when pigs go bush is an immediate deteriora-
tion. The animal loses his robust figure,
STRATEGY.
“Why d’yer alicays cut half the uppers of
your hoots away, Jackie?”
"By cripes, Boss, me cover feet all up, plurry
flics come all round my face.”
and grows long and lean. His snout and legs
lengthen exceedingly, and he achieves some
extraordinary color schemes. There are wild
pigs in the Macquarie marshes the sight of
which would make a man swear off booze.
SKITE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Coine put those tiresome lists away and let those
letters wait;
To higher thoughts and nobler deeds to-day is dedicate.
To lesser men than you or I the reins of office throw;
To-day we ride, old mates of mine, into the long
ago.
Too long have we been cramped for space, too narrow
are the ways
That we have trodden, comrades true, for many
weary days.
So let us saddle and begone where all the world is
free,
And we care not how far we go—if we get back
for tea.
1' or men were men when we were young and mates
were mates in sooth
That stuck through toils and perils quite unknown
to modern youth
(Ah me, I often wonder what those pretty boys
would do
Had they to face the hardships that we faced in
’ninety-two !).
So let us off and once again along the Castlereagh
We’ll do the deeds and sing the songs you never
hear to-day.
We’ll leave these petty things and find within the
camp-fire’s glow
The glory and the splendor of the days of long ago.
What memories will waken when we ride along the
track
To further out, and further on, to bring the old
days back!
We’ll meet the friends of other days and tell them
of our quest,
And swap the good old jokes again, the jokes that
stood the test.
“ GRIPES , MUM, I PITY THE POOR COVE WHAT HAS
TO SHEAR THEM?
So forward, gallant mates of mine, for restive grow
our steeds.
Come let us mount, and give the world the lesson
that it needs.
What matters your increase of girth, it will not
take us long
To prove that we are always right, and others always
wrong.
And yet—and yet there is a doubt; it may be, after
all,
1‘ ar better to remain at home, lest we ride for a
fall.
It may be best to merely state we’re made of
sterner stuff,
And pray whatever gods may be that no one calls
our bluff.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


d
This is the Fumo
Dust Blower.
About those
Rabbits!
Do you wish to set rid of them entirely?
You can ! It won't take long, either. When
you use Cyanogas there is no waiting for
results, no need to worry further. It kills
every rabbit in the warren.
CYANOGAS
fhe only known 100% exterminator.
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
QUEENSLAND ..
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS:
.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
.. A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
.. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
.. Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
.. Harris, Searfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
.. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
pCEWORtu
SMOKINC
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
“Nosey” : No seed in the world retains its
vitality longer than the wattle. As this is
partly due to the impermeability of the seed-
coat, it is not extraordinary that fire, instead
of destroying, stimulates germination . (B.
30/9/’26). Tests have shown that even after
A HOMGEOPATHIST.
DOCTOR : “That pain may he due to alcohol.
Cut out the whisky for a week and see
if it goes.”
PATIENT: “Would it do if I drink twice as
much to see if it gets twice as bad?”
100 years of exposure wattle seeds will ger-
minate. I know a paddock near Geelong that
was kept clear of all scrub for over 20 years
and during that time no sign of any wattle
plants was visible either in the paddock or
within several miles of the spot. One day
the paddock was burned off and received its
first touch of the plough. Within six weeks
the whole area was green with thousands of
young wattles developed from the seed that
must have been lying dormant and well
trodden on for quarter of a century at least.
* * * *
“Beenbi”: Ants are often included in the
list of insects which Australian pest-killing
products are advertised to destroy. Why the
ant, of all creatures? I’ve been badly bitten
by bull-ants, yet bear the tribe no ill-will,
having observed, on many occasions and in
remote camps, the magnificent work it car-
ries on as a bush scavenger. If it were not
for the ant this would be a perfectly foul
country to dwell in, away from the laundered
cities. The ant’s amazing strength and
activity are well known, and I have yet to
hear of a case of typhoid or cholera justly
attributed to his presence. Swat the fly,
by all means, and exterminate the mosquito,
but for the sake of the sweet-scented bush
breezes let us spare the carnivorous ant,
and thank our lucky stars that lie isn’t par-
ticular if his bit of meat is a trifle high.
THE STRING TO IT.
“’Alf a pound of butter, an' will yer put,
enough string round it to spin me top,
please, Mister?”
“Centre”: The oldest, dog I know is a
beagle whelped 26 years ago. Toothless, and
a cripple, with failing eyesight and little
sense of smell remaining, he still attempts
to bay the moon when at its full, and the
howl he gives is more like a human cry than
anything else. lie ought to be shot; but his
owner hasn’t the heart to do it.
“Elsinore”: A trapper in the St. Mary’s
(Tas.) district made a rare find in a cream-
colored opossum obtained by a wire neck-
snare. Unfortunately the little animal was
dead when discovered. The pelt has an abun-
dant growth of fur and the back line is
beautifully silver tipped. The specimen was
sent to a taxidermist to bo mounted.
it * * *
“Pick”: This is the conclusion of the
llama story (B. 2/9/’26). For breeding
purposes the animals were liberated on a
Gippsland station (Vic.) soon after landing.
Almost immediately their number was in-
increased by three lambs. This
ready attention to business led to
the herd’s undoing.. The young-
sters attracted dingoes, and after
the babies had been killed the mur-
derers made nightly attacks upon
the fighting mothers. The fence
enclosing the foreigners proved in-
adequate, and gradually the immi-
grants were scattered and driven
abush. In the course of years they
died naturally or were slaughtered.
To the end their warfare with the
yellow devils of the bush was con-
tinued. The last two, a pair of
ewes, crossed the border, and for
a long time roamed the mountains
of New Providence, near Kiandra
(N.S.W.), where eventually they fell before
the gun of an alleged sportsman.
“Billy See” : Early in the ’eighties the llamas
and vicunas referred to by “C.E.L-P.” (B.
2/9/’26) had become extinct, but the alpacas
brought in at the same time made good, inter-
bred with the local angoras, producing an
extra-hairy type of goat which was common
around Ballarat in the early ’nineties. Inci-
dentally, the Westralian Government recently
considered a proposal to import alpacas with
a view to utilising them on the semi-desert
areas.
* * * *
“Alastor”: On Alexandria station, near
Camooweal (N.-W.Q.), they are busy shoot-
ing brumbies, and upwards of 300 have
already been dispatched. It is estimated
that this station, including the surrounding
country, carries 1000 wild horses. Owing
to a scarcity of both grass and water, the
horses must go in the interests of sheep and
cattle. The brumbies are exceedingly wild
and cannot be captured and made use of, so
the gun has been called upon to conserve
the lives of the more valuable animals.
* * * *
“Aide de Camp”: lias any Abo. seen a
rat transport a potato from the storeroom?
I saw, while cleaning some harness, two
rats go over to the potatoes. One of the two
took a medium-sized potato between his four
feet and rolled over on co his back; the other
then hooked his tail on to his mate’s, and
dragged both rat and potato away.
“Emel”: “What are you doing?” he asked,
propping himself up in the doorway. “Mak-
ing apple dumplings,” I replied. “Why?”
“Oh, I just thought they might have been
dogs’ jew’s-harps,” he grinned, lighting a
cigarette. “Dogs’ what?” I demanded.
“Dogs’ jew’s-harps. Ain’t I told you about
them? It was when I was shearing out
south. The cook made what he called
doughboys one day, but no one would tackle
them, they looked so flat and heavy. Cooky
threw them to the dogs, but when the poor
brutes tried to eat them their teeth stuck
fast, and there were the dogs hitting away
with their forepaws to get rid of the dough-
boys for all the world like a fellow playing
the Jew’s-harp. We always called his dough-
boys by their new name after that.”
* * * *
“G.S.M.”: Surely
“Red Jorkins” (B.
34/10/’26) doesn’t
know much about
cattle when h e
states that they
mourn their dead.
Any drover will
tell him that a
mob always mills
around a dead
beast, no matter
how long it has
been defunct. Out
in the Never-
Never, where there
are no fences, we
make use of this
fact. We drive the
mob to a place
where there is
decent feed, drop
a crawler, and the
mob then makes it
a camping-ground
until driven to an-
other place, where
the same process is
gone through. By
these means it can
always be known
where the mob is
to be found. If a
stockman takes a
mob of cows with
calves that have
just been doctored
through a paddock
with other cattle
in it, the scent of
blood will be such
an attraction that
unless a good
horseman is in
charge a boxing-
match will cer-
tainly ensue. It
isn’t a case of
mourning, but just
the attraction that
blood and a corpse
have for cattle.
“G.8.L.”: Tell “ J.T.8.,” who asks for
some abo. names suggestive of downs, plains
or park-lands (B 14/10/’26) by which to
designate his farm, that “Barwon” means
great or wide; “Doomut” and “Tumut.” a
plain ; “Eumaralla,” valley of plenty; “Koo-
longatta,” a good view; “Ivorrumbeen,” a
pretty place; “Kyoga,” a plain surrounded
by forest; and “Warrawoona,” an undulating
grassy plain. These names are taken from
a vocabulary of N.S.W. tribal words com-
piled by J. J. Bayliss, of Wagga (N.S.W.).
“Larrapinta”: Here are a few abo. names
for “J.T.B.’s” property (B. 14/10/’2ti). I’ve
taken them from a rough dictionary I made
or tne Illuritcha dialect in Central Australia
nearly 40 years ago: “Weowanie” meaning
far. clear view; “Unarinding,” place of rocks
and trees; “Arolmarolma,” entrance to a
valley; and “Undwanda,” place of trees and
fresh water. I could forward others that
are more euphonious, but their translations
forbid.
“Jim Carew”: A few suggestions for
“J.T.8.” (B. 14/10/’2(>) who wants an
aboriginal name for his property : “Woorana,”
a nice place; “Birkalla,” a clearing;
“Yurnga,” an extensive view; “Norabeetya,”
a green place; “Panjara,” a pleasant place;
“Callemondoh,” a fine view; and “Kind-
yefra,” grassy country.
* * * *
“Narara”: Before the summer starts I
would like to broadcast this recipe for keep-
ing flies and other troublesome insects from
horses. Take one ounce of oil of penny-
royal and shake it well into one pint of
olive oil. Sponge over the horse lightly and it
will not be troubled by flies for the- next
24 hours. I have used this mixture on my-
self when working in the N.S.W. South
Coast bush, and have found it an excellent
protection against sandflies and other insect
posts.
* * * #
“Faria”: There is a remarkable sample of
wool in the possession of W. Atkin, of
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), shorn from a Lin-
coln crossbred ewe which had not been near
the shears for more than five years. The ewe
was first shorn when about 12 months old.
Next shearing she managed to get away, and
for over five years was lost to sight in rough
country. When she was mustered her wool
was dragging along on both sides. The staple
measured Ift. Tin. and the quality was excel-
lent ; there was 801 b. in the clip.
*■ * * *
“Soda”: “Jesmond” wants to know what
is the peculiar, penetrating odor, reminding
him of iodoform, which he smelt among the
bracken and ti-tree on Phillip Island. As
likely as not it waft iodoform. In many
sodden and marshy localities not far distant
from the sea this odor can be detected. These
marshes, dry or otherwise, have at one, time
A CORRECTION.
SOULFUL LADY: “Oh, the fragrance of those zephyrs!”
COW COCKY: “Them ain’t ’eifers, Miss; they’re all old milkers.”
been sea beds and contain, among other de-
cayed vegetation, seaweeds that liberate free
iodine. Disintegrating organic matter in soil
produces methane, or marsh gas, a common
product of swamp lands. lodoform is a com-
pound of iodine and methane, and possibly
the reaction is accelerated through the agency
of some natural catalyst in the soil.
CONCERTINA MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From these days of humming motors with their
steering wheels and gears
I am drifting, ever drifting, as I write,
Back to times of filing knockers, rigging drivers,
grinding shears,
As an old-time concertina plays to-night.
I can see the camp-fires gleaming where the jokes are
passing round.
And 1 hear lighthearted laughter once again ;
I see wool-bales high on waggons and the noisy horse-
bells sound
In the crowfoot and the clover on the plain.
I can see the mounted shearers riding on from shed
to shed,
And I pass a grey old swagman hero and there,
While the wilga camp-fires smoulder and their pun-
gent perfumes spread
Till you smell them in the breezes everywhere.
I am at an old-time station that I knew in past
decades
With the mates of other years along tiie floor;
I can see the snowflakes falling when they grip their
shiny blades,
And I hear the busy knockers click once more.
Sayings old and old-time voices calling “Sheep-oil!”
“Tar!” and “Wool!”
Intermingle with the tramp of noisy boots;
I can see the white sheep panting when the ringer’s
pen is full
And the finished hoggets sliding down the shoots.
Little groups of greasy shearers now are standing all
about;
Some are grinding and the others have to wait;
There is dust around the sheep-pens where the hr.: s
is counting out,
And the lively wethers bounding from the gate.
I can see a shearer seated near a table in the hut
With a concertina bent across his knee ;
Men arc playing crib and poker and I hear one say
“All but,!”
And a rouseabout is singing “Sweet Marie.”
I am scribbling a letter to a sweetheart far away
(And the slushy’s washing dishes in my light),
Though in truth she's over sixty and my hair has
turned to grey,
She’s the girl I've left behind again to-night.
N.B.W.
J. DOWLING.


Cuptime Selections
H-WCAUW*
A-T-OW^,
fytw
GWTEY
IWAIWHER
/WKHHNON
Caov-qem
Fe *smj|^e£fC
d
m :
cuvt
PAH-UEQ
M;* c PQNAU?


7VT «
CR^vJick?
df
CLWE
ItONAKP
vPAMtS
d
3£oR<aE.
Fa
FRANK''
CIARWc.
4A
EE-P.
cwvst:
ď
is.
Teehan
q.G{.,AESLOp
P fMM? H
HO5S£|U
vJ- P- ARTHUK
A-V-KEvJMEy.
"'F/VTA&ftKT:
R. KEM-/AAITLANP
l/>
z
oC
C
O
i
THE BULLETIN. 4/11/26.


Gilfillan Neutrodyne
/fodioStfs of GreatPowereHeauty
V
l/nti/'ywAawMSjweted
eAearddemonstrated tie
fadioSetj/ouAsvewt
seen tie last wont in
£lO
DEPOSIT
Balance over 12 months
Gilfillan Neutrodyne (5 valve),
complete with all accessories,
Loud Speaker, Accumulator,
Aerial, etc. £59/10/-
FEATURES!
(1) Simplicity—Matched Dial operation—
no switches or interchanging of Coils.
(2) Selectivity in any locality—no inter-
ference from other stations.
(3) Sensitivity—with great long distance
power.
(4) Pure Tone reproduction, free from
oscillation noises, static reduced to a
minimum.
We invite a comparison of the Workman-
ship a id Performance of these sets with any
others.
' r; UT THIS OUT AND POST TO-DAY __
Please send me , Post Free, illustrated Leaflet of Neultodyne.
NAME #«'
''■<#
ADDRESS
D. 4/11/'2G.
f
RADIO AND RIIOTO
WAREHOUSE,
l is
386
George Street,
Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 37 YEARS.
And at Newcastle, Katoomba, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., Auckland, N.Z.
Brisbane,
CEYLON
EGYPT
ITALY
THE RIVIERA
GIBRALTAR
These are' the countries—diverse in charac-
ter and customs, but each picturesque,
fascinating, attractive —at which the
Orient Line calls on the voyage to London.
And travelling by the Orient Line ensures
both a comfortable and an enjoyable
voyage, and a holiday that can be had
only on board the luxurious Orient Liners.
ORIENT LINE
Branches and Agenaet
throvghotit Australia
and New Zealand.
ijAßgr BRQTHER§ m
Solid Silver Cups.
8A.8461.
Solid Silver Cup, on wooden
plinth. Height of cup, 4£ inches.
Height overall, 6]- inches.
£4
8A.8464
Solid Silver Cup, on wooden
plinth. Height of Cup, 7j inches;
height, overall, 9 inches.
£lO/10/-
8A.8462.
Solid Silvor Cup, on wooden
plinth. Diameter of cup, 4J
inches. Height overall,
6 inches, £B/10/.
8A.8466.
Solid Silver Cup. on wooden plinth.
Height of cup. 6J inches;, height
overall, 8J inches. £9
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3R& C Koxt&c oP &clusivc VavcU&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
U6-M
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
(
VO
yy>
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE RAPID EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and concisely all the prin-
'eiples of drawing in the simplest and most effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all liis
work.
It Teaches You to Draw—
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr. Weston’s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
d
ďf
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
mam
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
I CHAMPAGNE
! QwrlfslleidsiecK-
I Heims
gsS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLB.
Australasian Aarents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
mm
% m « -
wmi*&s***
; '.fifcSSC.
Wentworth Cafe
The name stands tor Perfection
The Hotel The Social Rendezvous of the Southern Hemisphere.
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/- per day, or Bed and Breakfast from 15/-
per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en suite with private sitting-
room. Air-cooled in summer, steam-heated in winter.
The Cafe
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: B\Y 1361.
ďf
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
~7hp cpn/pp ofCoupons fync/s
Soc/o/ {-/fe-
gold
BRISBANE
d
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane,
Telephone, Central b'SO —10 Lines,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
STOCKINS
Lady de Chair testified her interest in
the Arts and Crafts when she dropped in
on the current exhibition on Monday because
-he hadn’t been available for the opening.
Miss Curnow and daughter Elaine accom-
panied her, and Elaine showed marked
approval of mother’s two purchases of carved
wood, a bowl by Miss Crossman and a door-
stop by Mr. Inman. Lady de Chair lingered
over the china painting and pottery, and
Wal Taylor’s tooled gift-book was greatly
admired —he did it to the order of Mrs.
Jimmie Dyer, of Melbourne.
The English-Speaking Union deputed sur-
geon MacCormick’s lady to do the welcoming
when members arranged a reception at the
Hotel Sydney in honor of Captain Woolley,
Y. 0., the serious-looking soldier who has the
care of the British schoolboys touring the
Dominions. The gracious hostess draped her
tall figure in black georgette, and wore a
shady bronze crin. hat. There were several
musical numbers, but probably the visiting
V.C. wondered why his welcome included an
address by Miss Josephine Lynch on the
social-service work of the women of America.
There _ were good points in Miss Lynch’s
address, but when she announced that a bad-
tempered mother was just as big a danger to
her family as a drunken father the members,
nine-tenths of them women, looked a trifle
incredulous.
The old principals of Kambala School,
Miss Gurney and Mdlle. Soubeiran, were
given a birthday party at the Queen’s Club
on Monday by their old pupils; the splendid
souvenir provided for the occasion was a cot
in the guests’ honor endowed in perpetuity
at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Child-
ren.
Abbotsford School, built on the site of the
cottage where Henry Lawson passed through
the sliprails, stands high and dry on a stony
ridge overlooking somewhat dingy surround-
ings. To this dead end of the city a very
small band of Henry’s old-time friends and
admirers made a sorrowful pilgrimage on
Saturday and mingled with local residents
wl:o had erected a simple stone with the
briefest of inscriptions to the memory of the
departed poet. Tom Mutch, Minister of
Education, himself a close friend of Lawson,
performed the unveiling ceremony and made
a sympathetic, knowledgeable speech. He
deprecated the idea of going outside Austra-
lia for the design of the Domain memorial
to Lawson, and raised a storm of applause
when he declared that Lawson would turn
in his grave if the name at the foot of the
statue were not that of an Australian. Rod
Quinn spoke a few simple, stirring words,
and there were others. The poet’s widow
and his daughter Bertha had seats on the
platform.
Mrs. T. R. Bavin welcomed a number of
new members to the Nationalist Club with
a smile and handclasp at a party specially
arranged to receive them. The Fuller, Cocks,
Maitland and Henley dames were promi-
nent among the titled members who flocked
to do honor to the newest recruits to the
fold. Politics were a banned topic, how-
ever ; there was only time for the exchange
of social platitudes between the musical
items arranged by Mrs. Geo. Perrins.
Ada Reeve’s greatest asset is an animated
personality which wins her many friends;
and the natural thing for friends to do to
a stage favorite being to smother her under
flowers on an opening night, the torrent of
blooms poured upon the stage of the Grand
Opera House on Saturday. Ada’s own offer-
ings were augmented by gifts for the mainly-
Sydney girls who were making, many of
them, their first appearance in a big city
show. The stream flowed through the O.P.
box, and although it was a hurried torrent
Ada felt constrained to apologise for the time
it occupied. Incidentally, Lee White and
Clay Smith, whose appearance in Melbourne
has been cancelled or postponed, were the
occupants of the box.
Shipmasters who have shore jobs rolled
up in great force to the annual smoke-oh
of the Ancient Mariners’ League. They find
varied and strange tasks ashore when the
sea turns them from her. But her song is
always in their hearts. Mere youngsters of
(6 were the eldest at the smoke-oh. Captain
Green, the president, was like a boy out of
school, because the ancients of 90 who
always turn up to the annual picnic and are
such martinets are not allowed out at night.
So, too, Captain Brownlow, the secretary,
had no one to reprove him, and Sid Phillips,
whose last command was the Aorangi,
frolicked at the piano without being called
down for playing frivolous things like ‘‘A
Wee Deoch and Doris.” Captain Johnston,
now a rigger for Dorman-Long, let his rubi-
cund face beam as he recalled the old days
on the China run ; and Captain McLeod, the
daddy of them all, kicked up his heels and
sang “In Amsterdam.” A clannish lot these
sea captains, but they know how to keep
their hearts young.
All paths at Manly led to the new baths
on Saturday, but only tlie early explorers
got into the enclosure, which was ribboned and
flagged to mark the opening of “the finest
swimming-baths in Australia,” so Mayor
Iveirle said when he fired a gun as a signal
for the first dip. This plunge was taken by
Manly champions, old and new. Boy Charl-
ton took a leisurely swim in the new pool;
and Ena Stockley, the smiling M.L. cham-
pion, with Ettie Robertson and the Meal-
ing sisters, gave exhibitions.
Jazz is responsible for a lot, but certain
wives and other feminine frills are commend-
ing it since it caused their menfolk to invite
them to the hitherto male-only annual cele-
bration of the wholesale, retail and manu-
facturing jewellers of Sydney. When the
annual dinner approached, some of the
younger members suggested a dance after-
wards, and the older members compromised on
a dinner-dance at Sargents’. A bright, color-
ful affair it proved, with exquisite frocks
gleaming, scintillating and flashing with cry-
stals, beads and diamente embroidering. Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. Coote, Mr. and Mrs. Proud
and Mr. and Mrs. S. A Walsh were among
the prominents.
Saturday afternoon gurgled with fetes.
The girls of Redlands, Neutral Bay, held a
sale to help the Children’s Hospital. About
the same hour North Sydney High School’s
Old Girls took possession of the grounds
and turned them into a fancy fair to add
to the school’s bursary fund. Some of the
artcraft here was delightful. The Hockey
Association took the basement of the Town
Hall to open a campaign so that the visit-
ing team from England next year may be
entertained in Australian style. The stalls
were so artistic and so well stocked that
there was no argument as to whether the
sports girl has also artistic qualities. And
domestic, for the members cooked the delect-
able cakes, and stocked and ran the refresh-
ment booth.
Neither Bruce nor his spider could give
many points to the lady in this picture. She
is Alice
Currie, of the
Riverina (and
occasionally of
M e 1 bourne),
and it was as
far back as
pre-war days
that she start-
ed working on
her scheme of
seaside camps
for families of
the back coun-
try. Three or
four times she
believed she
had impressed
different soei-
e t. i e s suffi-
ciently with
her idea to
induce them
to take it up,
but disappoint-
ments and delays were the only visible har-
vest of her sowing. However, her booklet
on makeshift furniture which she wrote for
the New Settlers’ League so impressed its
members that they in turn gave publicity to
her great idea. The result was an invita-
tion from the Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege for Miss Currie to outline her scheme
at its last annual conference. Now the
Agricultural Department is sponsoring the
venture, and Curl Curl has been chosen for
the site of the first camp.
Fine business acumen seems to be the pos-
session of the members of two quite distinct
committees working for the cancer research
fund. They both arranged cabarets on the
hottest day of last week, and the organisers
mopped their brows and thought of fans.
The Poppy Cabaret at the Wentworth was
a cheerful blare of golden poppies amid the
fiutterings of hundreds of fans, which sold
as quickly as the vendors could fill their
trays. About the same time a Floral Cabaret
crowded the Cocoa Tree Tearooms. Lovely
hand-made flower shoulder-sprays were on
sale, but the only way to get them looked at
was to sell the customer a fan first.'
Every nurse who could be spared from
the South Sydney Hospital was at the Went-
worth on Friday night, the occasion of the
annual dance for the auxiliary funds. Five
happy, fresh-faced probationers debbed in
frocks of white and silver, and marked the
occasion with the traditional posies, but
they were of pink blooms. The sale of lucky
balioons and fans, as well as two mysterious
lucky chairs, added to the fun, for every
one got friendly in the quest for the
specially-marked seats. Education-Minister
Tom Mutch brought a pretty niece, Grace
Mutch, in a frock of mignonette georgette
scattered over with daisies. The Minister's
services were requisitioned to present a fan
of ostrich plumes to Matron Tanner.
“Her name’s Doreen.” At least to lovers
of “The Sentimental Bloke,” and she
presents to
Sydney that
unique combi-
nation, an
A u s t r alian
actress in an
A u s t r alian
play. In real
life her name
is Dulcie
Cherry, and if
Dennis is half
the poet we
think he is,
that’s a name
lie could hymn
a song to.
i mlcie is a
M e 1 b o urne
girl, and in a
short stage
career of IS
months she
lias phay e and
Ophelia, Puck,
Ariel and Lady Teazle.
Even if you had not one drop of Irish
blood in your veins, you could not help being
stirred by Rosalie Duvalli when she twanged
a wild Irish lay on the harp of Brian Born
or the brother to the one his minstrels played
in Tara’s hall when Ireland was the home
of music and song. It happened at the
Lyceum Club on Friday, when Mrs. Norman
Thomas gave a delightful lecture on the
evolution of the harp. The cpiaint old instru-
ment from which the talented musician drew
such stirring music lost much, however, when
the big modern grand came into action and
warmed the members and their friends with
Irish melodies.
Fortunate is the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital in its helpers, and fortunate are
those helpers in their friends; so the pro-
ceeds of the ball they staged at the Went-
worth Cafd last week will go to the funds
intact. The enthusiasts are out after £1500
for the isolation ward, and they made pre-
liminary expenses before the ball. President
Mrs. R. M. Sly brought a pleased smile
and her ex-judicial husband to view the
jazzers. Secretary Mrs. Albert Littlejohn in
sunset georgette glimmering with diamente
was the radiant hostess of a party of young
people, including daughter Barbara, who
looked like an orchid in her lovely frock of
mauve chiffon with its two-tiered skirt
deeply edged in crystal. The Blue Bonnets,
as the last-formed brigade of helpers call
themselves, had a table to themselves. Mrs.
Justly Rawlings wore a striking midnight-
blue embossed georgette gown, and Mrs. A.
C. Godhard demonstrated her continued in-
terest by bringing a large party.
Sculptress Theo Cowan gathered an in-
terested band in the Adyar Hall, and with
convincing words and splendid lantern slides
took them for an hour’s walk beneath Italian
skies, mainly where the Australian artist
studied. Beautiful Florence occupied most
of the interesting 60 minutes. Mrs. II. B.
Allard added pleasure by lifting her mellow
voice, in Italian song, arid Kitty Archer
Burton fiddled from works of Italian com-
posers of the period most spoken of.
No one on the teaching staff or among the
pupils wanted to lose Miss Lilian Geer,
mistress of English at Sydney Girls’ High:
but as she had to go they gave her a send-off
that soothed the pangs of parting. Principal
Miss Florence Campbell and the teaching-
staff took Friday’s recreation hour to say
farewell over the teacups and to present a
leather suitcase and an afternoon-tea service.
Miss Geer has been moved on to the West
Maitland Girls’ School as headmistress.
Herbert Nettheim, a son of those good
souls whose hospitality at Aiuzona, Potts
Point, was well known to young folk not
so many years ago, recently took a trip to
the West to slip another ring on his fiancee’s
finger. She used to be Florence Luber, of
Mt. Lawley, Perth.
For her debut as a matron on Saturday
Jean Garland wore a frock of ivory geor-
gette encrusted with silver beads and a veil
of Limerick lace, and carried a fragrant
shower of white lilac. Her two little nieces,
Mary and Jean F’enwicke, were adorable
Kate Greenaway children as they followed
the bride up St. Thomas’, North Sydney,
where Philip Moore was waiting to get the
signal from the Rev. H. N. Baker.
The Rev. Jamieson Williams came up from
Manly to the Mosman kirk to marry Dorothy
Casper and Kirkwood Halley. The bride’s
crystal-embroidered white satin frock glist-
ened like a shower of dew in moonrays be-
neath a lovely Flemish lace veil. Her little
sister Sheila, Betty Goldston and Nessie
Wright were cyclamen clad for the role of
bridesmaids. Mr. and Mrs. It. M. Casper
entertained the guests at Dungowan before
the newly-weds left for Brisbane.
Isabel Gullett. was hostess when the Syd-
ney penwomen gave a party and a set of
coffee-cups to Sheila Bavcrstock at the Coun-
try Women’s Club rooms. Sheila inter-
rupted a journalistic career very early by
becoming engaged to Lionel Wigmore, one
of the bright young men of the Daily Tele-
graph. They are to be married about the,
middle of this month. Sheila comes from
an inky family; her mother, Florence Baver-
stock, was the daughter of David Blair, and
was one of the early conductors of this page
of The Bulletin.
It was a pity that the Conscrvatorium
dramatic class did not pick a more convinc-
ing play than “Isabel, Edward and Anne”
when some of the members set out to sIioav
their progress in the actor’s art last week.
The stilted three-act comedy by Gertrude
Jennings suggested a dramatisation of a
weak penny novelette; even professionals
could not have done much with the trio. Yet
Enid Conley made an Isabel that pleased
the eyes and soothed the cars with her well-
modulated voice, and looked more like the
big sister of Muriel Robertson, who played
the part of Anne, a most amazing flapper
who dutifully did the secretarial work of
her father, Edward Carew, a self-satisfied
Englishman (Charles Tlirosby) until she fell
in love with an impecunious artist and
brought him home from a fancy-dress ball
and lent him papa’s mauve pyjamas to sleep
in. Eleanor Ross produced the play, which
was staged better than it deserved to be.
Alfred Hill was offered some tempting
baits to call America his home, one of tfiem
being a post at the McPhail School at Min-
neapolis, where there are 12,000 students,
together with the conductorship of the
Apollo Club; but in spite of all temptations
he has returned to his work at Sydney Con-
servatorium with a renewed desire to make
this city an operatic centre and provide it
with a permanent orchestra. The trip was
not unprofitable on the financial side. The
traveller contributed to some performances,
placed several musical works, and supervised
the making of gramophone records of his
work, including several of his Maori compo-
sitions.
Grace Stafford, the ingenue of “Abie’s
Irish Rose,” has been introduced to the
delights of the surf since she arrived in Syd-
ney, and lives at Coogee to enjoy a couple
of dips daily. She doesn’t worry a bit about
the possible effect of the sun on her milk
and roses, but she does go creepy at the
frequent ringing of the shark bell.
Miss Brisbane has had a week filled with
serious purpose:—
At the annual meeting of the Rush Book Club,
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon, the secretary, was able to
quote letters from a few of the 1700 Queensland
families supplied with reading matter during the
last year. One woman wrote that she had half, a
mile to walk to a dam carrying her washing and the
baby and herding young children. Reaching home,
worn out, she found the soul-refreshment of a parcel
of books and magazines from the club and reckoned
it saved her from “letting go.” The Government
passes the club’s books free over the railways and
5000 volumes came in during the 12 months.
The Women’s Students’ Club had a garden-party at
the Uni. on a recent afternoon. Mrs. W. Bryan re-
ceived the guests in jade and white. An orchestra
played sprightly music in the porch of the common
room, and tea was on the lawn.
The Repertory Society chose Vance Palmer’s “A
Happy Family” for presentation last month. Audi-
ences were large and happy, and the cast —an Aus-
tralian play above everything needs good character
acting—-was for the most part well chosen. Amongst
the women Rhoda Felgate and Jean Trundle divided
honors.
Died suddenly, George Rowe, who had been 21
years a prominent figure amongst the Methodist
ministers of the State. He began his church work in
Adelaide and had a “circuit” at Perth in ’93. As a
Chaplain-Colonel he was on a troopship at the time
of the Big War. His widow, one son and four
daughters survive.
The newly-formed Spanish Society had a shivoo
of a new sort at the Hall of the Muses on Saturday.
Gov. Lennon was there with his daughter and a
brother and nephew from Melbourne. Luis Pares
played some charming compositions of his own, Eric
John played the piano, there were recitations in
Spanish, and —and even comic songs and Anglo-Saxon
humor. The decorations were in red and gold, the
Spanish colors, which draped a portrait of Alphonso.
The Carlton was all dressed up for the dinner
given to the Master Builders’ delegates by the W. R.
Justers and the W. Reeses. Pink gladioli and pink
roses decked the Mandarin Room. In the afternoon
Mrs. George Day motored the party to Sandgate,
and in the evening they were all taken to the
Empire Theatre for the Whirligigs Revue.
One small South Brisbane infant of eight had a
dreadful experience the other night. Her father,
I. II. Brown, a motor-body maker, was driving home
from the seaside in his ear when he was stricken
with paralysis. Ilis daughter, the only other person
in the car, knew enough to stop it. She could not
drive, however, and bad to stay in the dark, beside
her dying father, till help at last came.


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 860, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/'2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
s.n3inv ’minis
£§i|§ij®ijBS§sc:
MnmmwjMam
m»O7
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day. _
Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations.
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
'Phone 8W6329.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Derby Day this year was the filthiest —
it’s really the only adjective to fit —that
Flemington lias known. With the first race
there came a dust-storm that beat dirt into
everything and everybody; the wind blew
freezingly all the afternoon, and driving
showers —or, rather, spots of rain that stung
like hail —completed the discomfort of the
crowd. Trustful women, expecting nothing
worse than a grey and cloudy afternoon,
dressed accordingly, and became positively
blue with the cold. Fur coats and capes
were the only suitable covering. Hats were
more of a liability than an asset even so
far as the men were concerned. The white
helmets of the police were bowled playfully
about and vice-royalty periodically and
frenziedly clutched its belltopper. The tea-
parties under the elms and oaks were not
as joyous as such entertainments usually arc.
The Paynes’ four-in-hand drag, with its
beautifully-matched horses, brought with it
a savor of old times, but they are times
long dead. Thousands of motor vehicles,
closely parked and covering acres, testified
to the coming of the Petrol Age.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven and Lord
Somers and his fresh-looking lady braved the
weather. Lady Somers was a study in
begonia-red in suit and folded toque. Lady
Stonehaven and the Hon. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
were nearly alike in apparelling, wearing gold
and brown patterned coats, fur-collared and
cuffed, and small hats of beige hue. With
the G.-G.’s party were Tassie’s Governor and
his daughter. Miss O’Grady struck a cheery
note in her caped frock of geranium-red hue
and corresponding felt hat. Lady Bridges,
wearing brown velvet and a bois-de-rose hat;
Sir Evelyn Cecil, Lady Cecil and their daugh-
ter ; and some other folk from overseas were
also part of the Stonehaven entourage.
Some daring women aired the ninons,
georgette and lace and crinoline straw which
are associated with spring, but like the bulb
that put up a shoot and found the snow still
on the ground, they retired quickly to cover
up their finery with the wrappings of winter.
Mink and squirrel capes and wraps were
numerous; good ones too. Mrs. W. Winter-
Irving displayed the most luxurious of furs.
Mrs. Roy McMillan was very suitably clad
in a coat-frock of golden-brown velvet with
fox fur and small fawn hat. Margaret
Thomas, just back from Europe, wore a
smart black tailored costume with a long
white vest. Mrs. A. V. Kewney’s wide-leafed
black hat and black gown were relieved with
cream lace. Doreen Gale struck a chic note
with red buttons on her blue-flecked tweed
frock. Vera de Bavay, who was with her
mother, helped to brighten the gloom with a
sporty suit of cobalt-blue topped by a biscuit
felt hat.
Clouds hung low over the lawns and gor-
geous roses of Flemington on Cup Day, but
as at lunch-time no rain had fallen Mel-
bourne hoped for the best, and 90,000 human
beings arranged themselves around the oval
armed with food and thermos-flasks, and dug
themselves in. Dressing varied according to
the courage of the wearers in risking the
weather. Chiffons and lace gowns rubbed
shoulders with well-tailored suits and fur
stoles. The hues of such hats and frocks
as were disclosed were of the brightest. The
Empire Parliamentary delegates brought
along belltoppers and frock-coats. The pair
who govern the Commonwealth arrived in
all the time-honored glory of carriage, pos-
tilions and clattering cavalry escort. Her
Ex. wore a green hat with her lace-trimmed
biscuit georgette. Governor Somers was
accompanied by Lady Somers wearing a
periwinkle-blue caped frock and hat. Among
the Vice-Regal guests were Lady Bridges;
Governor O’Grady, of the Apple Isle, and
his daughter, a breath of spring in pale
green; and Lady Cecil and her daughter,
both in painted chiffons and coats.
The weather was just right for the
Somerses’ garden party to the Parliamen-
tary delegates on Thursday. Though
apparel was of mixed styles, there were
some outstanding features in gowns and
parasols. Stonington’s grounds are ideal for
al fresco entertainments. From the front
lawn there are stone steps to a further
expanse of lawn and the tennis court, and
a rose-bordered path leads down to a big
paddock. Here were pitched large marquees
where vittles and drink were to be found.
On the way to the refreshments visitors
glimpsed the vice-regal vegetable garden and
admired the cabbages. Beneath the shelter
of a green-and-white tent the Governor and
Lady Somers shook a seemingly unending
succession of hands. Her Ex. was simply
clothed in reseda-green georgette, with some
tucking on the skirt and a fichu-like drapery
tied on one shoulder. A wide-leafed Phndan
straw hat with a lace scarf and a plaid
sunshade completed the summery attire.
Daughter Elizabeth, a chubby four, in
daintiest of buttercup and white frocks and
a pink mushroom hat, played around with
a King Charles spaniel. The mite (the girl,
not the dog) has a particular aversion to
being photographed, and her dodging of the
cameras was an amusing - interlude. Ella
Payne and Mrs. Edwin Cato led in the con-
test for dress laurels. The first wore biscuit
georgette and filmy lace with a small hat
and feathers of the same tone; her rival also
figured in lace of soft grey tone. Her crino-
line millinery harmonised, and her parasol
was also filmy and cloud-like.
The Somerses’ second garden party was
held on Monday in showers of rain, numer-
ous guests of mixed degrees of society form-
ing a peregrinating line of colored umbrellas.
Their Exes., with the G.-G. and Lady Stone-
haven, stood bravely on the lawn and shared
the handshaking, holding umbrellas the
while. Lady Somers wore figured georgette
with a coat of stone color and a bois-de-rose
hat, and the Governor-General’s lady wore
floral ninon beneath a black satin fur-
collared coat, topped by a black hat. The
caterer misreckoned, or there were more visi-
tors than were invited, for they came down
as locusts on the afternoon tea, and sand-
wiches had to be made as they waited.
The visiting Parliamentarians were bidden
to four o’clock in a marquee at the Botanic
Gardens one day last week. They were the
guests of a committee of the Empire Parlia-
mentary Association, and the Frank Clarke
couple and Acting-Prime Minister Page and
his wife seemed to be doing moot of the hosting
and hostessing. The guests sauntered be-
neath the oak-trees and greeted folk they
knew, while the unacquainted made selec-
tions from tin; bunch, so to speak, and intro-
duced themselves. Many grey belltoppers
were sported by the travellers, but the local
politicians remained true to their Akubras.
The apparel of the ladies was nothing to
write home to mother about. Airs. Page had
a musquash coat covering a fawn gown, worn
with a black hat, and the Clarke lady agi-
tated the fashionably conscientious by wear-
ing black silk stockings with a black rever-
sible satin ensemble suit and a crinoline hat,
feather-mounted. Lady Cecil, who wants
to know what we can offer the Pommy work-
ing girl, wore a black satin picture hat, shel-
tering a full-length grey coat with tiny kilt-
ings in arabesque pattern as trimming. The
attractive Airs. Tawse Jollie favored large
millinery with blue, fawn and brown floral
adornment, and blue raiment appearing
beneath a grey coat. Airs. Jimmy Dyer
enhanced the hue of her eyes with an all-blue
frock and crin. hat and a mole cape. Sena-
tor and Airs. Pearce, Robert Garran and
his lady, Airs. Alfred Deakin, Airs. T. W.
White and the Herbert Brookes couple were
local patriots who fraternised with the over-
sea Imperialists.
This is Dorothy Scantlebury, a sister of
our newly-appointed Director of Infant Wel-
fare, Dr. Vera. After graduating an adven-
turous spirit
seized her, and
from England
she went to
Africa to visit
friends in
Kenya Colony.
The life there
fascinated Miss
Dorothy, and
after a stay of
three years she
returned t o
London to
settle affairs
and then went
back to Kenya,
securing a good
job as a Gov-
ernment official
in the Trea-
sury at Nairo-
bi. She is now
on her first
trip home on
holiday. Evidently the heat of the Equator
is over-estimated. At Nanyuki the Australian
stayed at an inn which stands right on the
line and found a fire very comforting.
The trustees of the Exhibition Buildings
have converted the big annexe to the picture
part into a dance palais, and the new ven-
ture got a fine pusli-off last week, when the
trustees showed what they could do as ball
organisers. Those who rolled up found the
architect had done his work well. The beau-
tiful floor is surrounded by Avails pictured
with scenes of old Spain, including houses
with many green window-boxes and tiny
windows. Gold, green and rose lights, foiled
by brown vine leaves, wander over trellises,
and huge petal-decked orange shades veil the
ceiling lights. The 'Waitresses fit into the
decorative schertie in trim uniforms Of scarlet
and black, and the orchestra is ail that could
be asked for. The guests at the Opening
numbered lots Of young people, as well as
many of tile more Mature dancing set. Mrs.
Cohen-, Wife of the chairman of trustees,
whose cerise gown had gold embellishment,
helped her husband extend the glad hand.
Alongside were Alderman Jeffries and his wife,
the lady in black, lit up with diamente, and
the R. H. Solly couple, she wearing draperies
of black Spanish lace. Mrs. Morell, the Mayor-
ess-to-be, wore an elaborate metal brocade
coat. Architect Frank Stapley, who is an
aiderman and maybe a baronet, too, w'as
there with his wife, -whose black velvet gown
bore gold embroidery and fur. A frock that
attracted was worn by an English
visitor, Miss Gillies. It was ankle-length;
of black georgette, with medallittns of dia-
mente,
Australia has not yet realised its iuck
in acquiring this dark-eyed lady; wlib be-
fore She came
lief e, wa S
Phyllis Lett
—“B r itain’s
Most Popular
Contralto,” as
they used to
call her on
the bills. Her
career on the
concert plat-
form included-
occasions on
which Lon-
don’s very
finest orches-
tras Wdr6
pl 4 b li d td
accompany
her. During
the Big Scrap
lots Of Digger's
heard hot
voice, and ond
of them,
xvupert de Burgh Iver, who owns enormous
quantities of land at the back of Bananaland,
liked it and its owner so much that he felt he
couldn’t live happily without having charge
of both. So Phyllis Lett changed her name
and her country. She is now spending
the summer here with her infant daughter.
A full-length portrait of the singer by Jack,
R.A., was hung at an Academy show lately.
As president of the Naval and Military
Club, General Monash was host at the ball
given in honor of the G.-G. and Lady Stone-
haven in the St. Kilda Town Hall. Her Ex.
wore black georgette with a series of tiny
frills on the front of the skirt, and she
trailed a narrow train. Crimson roses were
perched on one shoulder and a few diamonds
sparkled on a black velvet hair bandeau.
Governor O’Grady (Tas.) accompanied
them, with his daughter, whose white crepe-
de-Chine frock supported a big black velvet
bow at the back. For once in a way the
mere men wore interesting and even pictur-
esque clothes, for uniform was the order of
the day, and the red of the Army, the blue
of the Navy, and the grey of the Air Force—
the two former copiously braided—made a
splendid showing. Read-Admiral Napier
brought his dark-haired wife, who figured in
black velvet and lace. General Brand and
Mrs. Brand were there, she in a gold lace
and lame gown. Composer Edith Harrhy
was an attractive little figure, her fair shingle
topping a pale pink frock with ornamentation
in blue about the hem. General McNicol, of
Goulburn, brought his wife, whose gown was
patterned in silver. A couple of young
matrons were noted wearing short coats of
gold lame or brocade over all-frilled frocks
of georgette. Mrs. Jack McComas sported
the latest in wraps—an affair of brown
marabout, in shape and size like a small
tablecloth. Her French model frock was
apple green with a drape of gold lace and a
dash of black tulle.
Percy Grainger’s final orchestral concert
at the Auditorium on Saturday night wound
up with a bang. When the last strains of
the “Song of Democracy” had died away
the crowded house let itself go with cheers
and coo-ees. Then the blushing Percy was
handed numerous laurel wreaths, and the
choristers away up in the gallery over the
stage let their voices out in “For He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow.” Eventually Bernard Heinze
unleashed “God Save” from the organ pipes,
and the crowd to melt. But when
the multitude had faded away the hero was
recalled once more to the platform to hear
what his orchestra and choir thought about
him. Heinze interpreted their feelings, and
Percy suitably replied that the last two
months had been the happiest of his life.
On Thursday afternoon the Rupert Greens
motored from their Toorak mansion to St.
John’s and handed second daughter Sylvia
over to the care of Robert Geoffery Ritchie.
A garden of flowers, mingled with a forest, of
greenery, perfumed the church. The bride
was enfolded in ivory satin, which draped
many inches of aisle behind. Her veil of
fine Limerick lace was caught with pendants
of orange blossoms. Sisters Marie and Eliza-
beth, with Nancy Irvine, were in
eafeh in a summer cloud ctf pmk georgett .
Arthur Waltbr Butt, a well-known Mel-
bourne city man, recently married Mr..
Waller, widow of R. R. Waller, of Cal-
cutta. The tying was done at Holy 1 unity.
London.
Friends of Peggy Stone, now Mrs. Ernest
Whitehead, have been saddened by the sud-
den death of her husband at sea. He was
attached to the Navy during the war as a
paymaster-commander, and afterwards joined
one of the ships of the White Star Line on
the Trans-Atlantic run. Lady Doughty, who
was in Paris, left at once for London to be
with her sister.
Vera Trevaskis, whose coming-of-age was
celebrated with a dance, reserved the prin-
cipal itein of interest for supper-consump-
tibn, when her acceptance of a tmg trorrl
Mewett Clienei-y wa§ announced. Father,
Lieutenant TrOvaskis —-a . Cofnishman, oi
cOurse —feame to Australia in 191 L ana was
transferred to the R.A.N. in 1919.
't'h.e largest concourse the Assembly . Hall
has housed for many moons crowded in to
hear the combined recital of violinist I aula
Scherek and singer Grace Evans. Miss
Scherek wore a frock of pink and a cloak
patterned in large harmonising blossoms ; the
mezzo-soprano’s apparel was of rose tone,
with a cuirass-like bodice of glittering gold
sequins. A rich reward of petals and
applause awaited both performers.
Melbourne University finds itself in the
position of being too poor to accept a gift.
Mr. H. Flecker offered a complete X-ray
outfit, including the cost of installing;
but as structural alterations would have
to be tnade and the institution _ is horribly
short of funds, tile philanthropist has been
asked to postpone liis benefaction until the
council has had time to , count its small
change: And man is still father jffOvid of
the way he manages things ! .
The workers for the Women’s Hospital
took possession Of the big stand at Caul-
field last week, and used it for purposes m
no way connected with the HOrse religion;
Among other desecrations there was d bridge
party in the members’ refresh men t-rddrrO
while upstairs theatrical _ people and d
broadcasting orchestra —the 3LO —ran a cafe
chantant. Out on the track jockeys, wear-
ing silk and boots, tried sprinting on tlieir
own, and the best runners won whips. Tor-
cele’s miniature circus from Wirths’, some
stout lads who exchanged leathery blows,
and the inveterate wrestlers Mike Yokel
and Sam Clapham were seen in action.
Under the oaks the Fire Brigade and
Police bands Made Music for placid
folk who liked to recline. But some-
where around (lie grounds tliefe wan
a place where you could try your luck for
a shilling. The T. A. Tabart, Gedfge LHng-
ridge, A. E. Kimpton and Arthur Hitmens
matrons were the chief engineers, aided by
the executive committee of the hospital and
the auxiliaries. Proceeds are expected to
reach £lOOO. The flower stall got a £lOO
cheque from Ben Chaffey to help it along.
Lady Somers made the acquaintance of
the Travellers’ Aid Society the other day,
when she presided at the annual meeting and
said nice things about the society’s worth in
looking after women and children who arrive
in Melbourne friendless. Nest Malcolm, the
general sec., detailed the year’s accomplish-
ments, which included placing a sheltering
wing over 3000 travellers of 18 different
nationalities. The society also took a hand
in 42 weddings.
When Mrs. R. H. Woodward gets to Eng-
land she should be able to give some useful
tips to any party that is being organised to
explore wildest Papua. This adventurous
Australian paddled her own canoe more than
100 miles up the Sepik River, and brought
back a bad attack of blackwater fever
amongst other trophies. Accompanied only
by native bearers, she criss-crossed Papua
while her husband, a magistrate, stayed at
home and got on with his job. With her
husband she is now off on a trip to the Old
World.
Sister Adelaide makes the best of it: —•
This year sees an extra-big muster of South Aus-
tralians at the Cup, and locally there isn’t even an
echo of a social frivolity to wake us.
Lady Cecil and her daughter have stayed a few
days at Government House and packed an amazing
amount into their time —a day in the hills in quest
of wild flowers (Lady Cecil is a keen botanist),
visits to hostels and migration bureaus, and so on;
conferences with committees interested in migration;
morning tea at the Lyceum Club, and afternoon
ditto with the Settlers’ Welcome Committee of the
Victoria League in the Botanic Gardens, where
English trees throw their cool shade over spreading
lawns and the rosery near by fills the air with color
anU fragrance.
Meanwhile local Girl Guides were entertaining at
the river kiosk a party of Barnardo girl migrants
(all Guides) passing through in the Themistocles,
and after tea marched their guests down to join
the party at the Gardens.
Mrs. Wallace Bruce gathered the officials of the
S.P.C.A. and the executive of the recent ball
so that she might hand over the cheque that the
ball produced. It was a useful £470.


A, SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION CUTLERY CANTEEN AND SET OF
STAINLESS KNIVES IN OAK CASE.
as
A. Saunders’ Half-dozen Table or Dessert Knives,
Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles, in Oak Case,
20/-, 25/-
Larger Case, with Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Knives, £2, £2/1.0/-
iiSUtt
1
■■BB
'
A. Saunders’ “Cutlery Canteen,” containing 5-piece Carvers; Half-dozen
. each Table and Dessert Knives, Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles;
Half-dozen each Tea, Dessert and Table Spoons; Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Forks, in Oak case, £l5/10 /-. Others, £lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
my oj ugn|
incessantly
Rpicjht
82?
3Vzf:
rin
tfdfii&lL
m
\ \
‘‘TkegOelarnp
the big light"
—-the Lamp that gives a
bright, glareless light, eco-
nomically, is the one most
sought after.
Hence the reason why
“Condor” Opalite Gas-filled
lamps are in ever-increasing
demand. Specify “Condor”
Lamps and “Condor” Radio
Valves.
CONDOR
LAMPS
(Australasia) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Wellington
(N.Z.).
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 - - 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES
Book by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O, $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Special Low-rate Tours From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
COLGATE'S
CASHMERE BOUQUET TALC
After the bath a fragrant shower of
Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet Talc
will keep you fresh and dainty all
day.
Cashmere Bouquet Talc Powder is *
soft and absorbent, with qualities
that cool and refresh. It has also
soothing virtues that help to keep
the skin healthy.
You will like its delicate flower
fragrance which can also be had in
perfume, face powder and soap.
w-
A
TALC
(ashmere
j}OO‘QVCT
V


a
;
2S£SaEi
Bowlers* —
Are biased in favour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a daily pleasure.
,VELVET
SHAVING STICK
53.! 17a. J. KITCHEN a SONS PTY. LTD
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
IMI
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP ft CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A crowd estimated at 70,000 braved the
disagreeable weather and saw Rampion do what
was expected of him in the Victoria Derby. The
Sydney colt looked in perfect fettle, and was always
a warm favorite, McShortodds demanding 2 to 1
at the start of operations and 9 to 4 at the finish.
The Limerick party was fairly confident, albeit the
cracked heel had not mended, and no better than
4 to 1 was obtainable about Maoriland’s hope ; Baron,
on the strength of his second in the Moonee Valley
Cup, was at 8 to 1, but Cromwell, Epilogue and
Thracian were at 25 to 33 to 1, and Valasian was
any price. From a good start Rampion went to the
front and led out of the straight from Epilogue,
Thracian. Valasian, Cromwell and Limerick, with
Baron four lengths away. Epilogue joined the
favorite in the lead, and they turned for home
together, with Limerick just behind them. Epilogue
tried to stick to Rampion, but was shaken off, as
also was Limerick; then Thracian, sneaking up on
the inside, threw out a challenge which obliged
Cracknel! to give the favorite a few . applications of
the whip. He responded gamely, and, going away
from Heroic’s brother, who almost got on terms,
beat him by three-quarters of a length; Limerick
was third, a length and a half away, liaron another
two lengths astern, Cromwell next, and Valasian last.
Opinions were divided as to the merit of the
Rossendale—Royal Pet colt’s performance, but this
Page thought it uncommonly good. He made his
own running, beat off three challengers in the
straight, and came home against a head wind iu
2min. 32-Jsec. —better time than was ever recorded
before, except last year, when Manfred registered
2min. 31 Asec. It was Rampion’s eighth win in 10
starts, and he has been a veritable gold-mine for
J. E. and C. H. Brien, whose Derby cheque amounted
to £4418, making the total up to Saturday £25,384
10s. No other Australian thrce-year-old has earned
as much.
Everybody had been waiting for the meeting
of Manfred, Heroic and Valicare in the Melbourne
Stakes, but Kellow was afraid to risk his chestnut’s
dicky leg, and the Valicare people also declined to
take the chance of a breakdown, so there were only
five starters after all. The betting was 7 to 2 on
Manfred, 6 to 1 against Pantheon, 10 to 1 Spearfelt,
20 to 1 The Banker and 25 to 1 Royal Charter.
They all jumped away well, and _Chaffey’s champion
was leading at the nine-furlong post, but, not liking
the slow pace, Pike took Pantheon to the front.
The English horse was two lengths clear at the mile-
post, but Manfred ran up to him at the turn, and
at the distance they were together. Thereupon Man-
fred forged ahead, and, with Lewis keeping a watchful
eye on Pike, the bay won handsomely by half a
length, Pantheon beating The Banker by 21 lengths
and Spearfelt by another three lengths; the time
was 2min. Gj-sec. Manfred was not quite at his top,
but the bookmakers were so impressed with Pantheon’s
performance that they immediately made him favorite
for the Cup.
There was good class among the 13 runners for
the Maribyrnong Plate. Euston and Royal Feast
were joint favorites at 3 to 1, and they had the race
to themselves. Euston, who carried a 101 b. penalty,
was soon in front, but Royal Feast was squeezed
out and lost ground; he didn’t come on the scene
till the field entered the course proper, where he
■was noticed to be galloping strongly on the extreme
outside —a position favored at Flemington in sprints
along the straight. Euston, on the rails, was well
clear at the distance, and looked like winning
easily till Royal Feast, coming with a fine run,
caught him in the last 100 yards and defeated him
by a length ; The Wensum (7 to 1) was two lengths
away and Ann of Avon (14 to 1) fourth. The winner,
a big colt by King Oifa—Bunfeast, and therefore
a full brother to Mercian King, is owned by W. E.
J. Craig and trained by It. Sinclair. McCarten rode
him, and the time was lmin. 2fsec. —more creditable
than it looks on payer, for the wind was blowing
right down the straight.
From the spectator’s point of view, the Cantata
Stakes was the best race of the day. Nearly all
the 18 starters had backing; Sol Green put in so
solidly on Gothic that the imported stallion ended
up favorite at 9 to 2, while Amounis (5 to 1),
Cimon (the same), Metellus and Aorangi (8 to 1),
Preposterer (10 to 1) and Abdera (12 to 1) had
troops of friends. Metellus was first away and
for seven furlongs he and Cimon battled for the
lead, thereby probably cutting each other’s throats.
Half-way down the straight half a dozen horses were
lighting it out, but about 50 yards from the post
Toohey brought Amounis along with a beautifully-
run, and despite Preposterer’s strong finish,
the Epsom winner was half a length in front of
Barlow’s horse when the judge’s box was reached,
with Gothic a long neck away third. Green s horse
struck trouble on the journey, and Aorangi ran
wide when looking dangerous, but no credit should
be taken from Amounis, who proved himself a
really great miler. He succeeded with the greatest
■weight (9st. 81b.) in the history of the Cantala, and
in the fastest time, lmin. 37fsec,
Naos (3 to 1) was always favorite for the Hotham
Handicap, and Green’s substantial commission served
to make a market for Beedos, who firmed to 4 to 1,
Piastoon (12 to 1) led for most of the journey and
beat everything but Beedos, who, nearly last at the
home turn, finished so strongly that he vanquished
the Queensland horse by two lengths, while Our
Prince (8 to 1), who also came home well, was half
a head away third. Naos was last early; then,
wide out, he raced up to the leading division, only
to die away in the straight. On the other hand,
Beedos, who is a five-year-old gelding by Ivandos—
Bee Bee, travelled very kindly for Fullarton, and
Wren and his friends landed a pile. The 12 fur-
longs were covered in 2min. 33see.
Ante-post bettors got two shocks on Monday. Man-
fred was taken out of the Cup in the morning and
Heroic in the afternoon. In each case a leg filled
after the horse had done a bit of work on the
track, and the matter was decided on veterinary
advice. Both steeds had been backed singly and in
doubles (as indeed were Windbag and Pilliewinkie)
ever since the declaration of the weights, Manfred
having been absolute favorite for a fortnight, and
their eleventh-hour disappearance shows once more
what a deliriously foolish game (except for Mc-
Shortodds and a few professional punters) ante-post
gambling is. With the two topweights gone the
field numbered 21, and Pantheon—whose condition
was a credit to Williams, who has been very
patient with him—was a firm favorite, the consensus
of opinion being that he was the better of the
Briens’ pair and was well-handicapped on his Metro-
politan and Itandwick Plate form.
THE INSULT.
SECOND: “’E offered yer a tenner to lie down! No wonder you
passed ’im one —the cow!”
PUG: “My oath! I never laid down for less’n twenny quid yet.”
The English horse gave his backers a good run for
their money. Comus broke away with a lead which
he so increased that at one stage he was 15. lengths
ahead of Rampion, who was followed by Pantheon,
The Banker, Piastoon, Johnnie Jones and Spearfelt,
Kaos being one of the last lot. At the seven fur-
longs the leader was still a> dozen lengths clear, but
Pantheon went after him, and the ring’s visions
of an outsider’s success were swiftly shattered.
Pantheon led into the straight, and his victory was
tumultously proclaimed, but Spearfelt and Naos
tackled him, and an inspiriting struggle ended in
favor of Spearfelt, with Naos second (an extremely
creditable second in the circumstances) and Pantheon
third; half a length separated first and second, and
a neck second and third. Spearfelt was 10 to 1, Naos,
25 to 1 and Pantheon 5 to 2; the time, 3min.
22fsec.. equalled Windbag’s record. The retirement
of Heroic enabled Cairns to get the mount on Spear-
felt, who was third to Heroic in the ever-memorable
A.J'C. Derby of 1924 and third in the Cup (with
7st. 61b.) the same year. For a long time he
raced in the joint ownership of D. Grant and V.-
O’Neill, but O’Neill, who has always trained him,
sold out to his partner during the A.J.C. meeting,
at which Spearfelt beat Windbag in the w.f.a. Spring
Stakes. The 1926 Cup winner is a sturdily-built
brown stallion by Spearhead—Lady Champion. Spear-
head was by Spearmint, hero of the 1906 Epsom
Derby and Carbine’s greatest English-bred son. By
winning with 9st. 31b. Spearfelt proved himself a
rattling good horse, but had Pereival been able to
get Naos out a bit earlier, The Bulletin's selection
could hardly have lost.
George Price, wlio trains Whizbro, gave
the son of Bernard —-Simmerdale an outside chance in
the Metropolitan with 6st. 71b., but he finished a long
way back. With Bst., however, he won the 11-fur-
longs handicap at Canterbury Park on Saturday,
which shows how weak the opposition was. Whizbro
was ridden by the former‘’"pony-jockey R. Adams,
who was also successful on Pugnacious (6 to 1) in
a division of the Highweight Handicap. Pugnacious,
a five-year-old chestnut by Robert the Bruce —-I.a
Tango, is a rather nice cut of a horse that may win
in better company; he had Bootlegger (3 to 1) and
14 others at his mercy when half the journey—six
furlongs—had been covered. In the Ashbury Handi-
cap, 1 mile 75 yards, the Maoriland-bred Siaosi (6 to
1) compensated for many disappointments; the two
favorites, Nostalgia and Blackman, both erratic cus-
tomers, failed egregiously.
“Thormanby”: The English punter col-
lected another black eye when Insight 11, a horrible
outsider, won the Cambridgeshire at Newmarket.
The nine-furlong event is always a big betting race,
for it represents almost the last chance the punter
has to get his overcoat back from McShortodds be-
fore the winter sets in ; and this year it followed on
a disastrous Cesarewitch. The five-year-old winner
is owned by the Yankee oil king, Macomber.
The British betting tax came into opera-
tion on Monday, to the unutterable disgust of the
fielders, who hoped till the last minute for a reprieve.
An interesting sidelight was cast on the ramifications
of the bookmaking game in Britain when the com-
mittee of London Stock Exchange issued an order
prohibiting its members from taking out bookmakers’
certificates. Protests showed that a surprising num-
ber of this very exclusive body habitually made
books on big events, their clients, of course, being
their fellow-“insiders.” This can’t be done now
without licence, certificate with portrait thereon, and
elaborate returns of turnover to the Inland Revenue
Department. Members of the exchange who now
desire to vary their punting methods will have to
go outside the family, so to speak.
Though the tariff had been lowered, there
was not mueh of an attendance at the Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, and the principals were glad of
the “shower” that silvered the canvas at the end of
thsir argument. (“Snowy” Baker banned the “shower,”
but the present management welcomes it, having a
frugal mind.) Gavino de Leon (Bst. 13J1b.) and Joe
Esler (Bst. 1041 b.) were the combatants, and they cer-
tainly supplied a sparkling serai). The Filipino was
the better man all through, but the Queenslander,
though handicapped after the third round by a cut
eyebrow, the result of a bump of heads, proved as
game as they make them. The Filipino received
Wallis’s verdict after the twentieth two-minute round.
* * * *
Amateur boxing gets a useful lift in Adel-
aide from the support of Governor Bridges. His
cup for the schools was again handed by him this
year to Christian Brothers, who beat St. Peter’s
4 to 1 in a series of three-round fights that were
mostly stopped by the referee.
“Centurion”: A Sydney evening paper
struck a quaint note apropos of the alleged riotous
behavior in a cool-drink shop, the night of the
G.P.S. sports, of a number of schoolboys aged about
14. It recalled that
“similar students” used
to wreck London music-
halls on the night of
the “rowing race” be-
tween Oxford and Cam-
bridge, going on to
explain that “parents
compensated the pro-
prietors, and the
matter was hushed
up.” The young blood,
Dark or Light Blue as
to complexion, proud
beyond measure at be-
ing thrown out of some
West End music-hall
on his ear and of his
subsequent appearance
before the teak at Bow-
or Vine-street, would
shed tears of helpless
rage to see his manly
activities compared
with the antics of a
mob of nippers in
short pants. The “pro-
prietors,” too, were far
from seeking compensa-
tion for lost patronage.
Clients flocked to the
favorite halls and such
restaurants as
“Jimmy’s” simply to
see the circus. The
chuckers-out knew their job, and always gave an
appreciative public value for its money.
* * * *
At the North Shore club’s regatta on
Saturday the Mosman club, victorious in the N.S.W.
Champion Fours the previous week, was badlv beaten
in the Senior Fours by its previous victims, Leichhardt
and Sydney. The water was a bit choppy on the
last occasion, but neither that nor staleness could
have been responsible. Leichhardt won on its merits.
Sydney showed a return to the form of other days
by winning three out of five events.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Maoriland League foot-
ballers now in England have encountered trouble of
a sort that is apt to crop up in professional sport.
A. cable stated that four or five prominent players
struck, or were locked out, over a dispute about
cash allowances, and were absent from the team in
the last two matches. They added insult to injury
by going to see the Maori Union side play whii'e
their own team was engaged, a proceeding which
probably struck Maoriland League officialdom dumb
with suppressed blasphemy. Apropos, both ML.
teams came a thud in their week-end games. At
Twickenham, the Maoris were beaten, for the second
time on their tour, by the Harlequins, one of the
oldest and most famous of London clubs, and the
League side lost to St. Helen’s Recreation, a Lanca-
shire XIII.
“Past Grammar” : An announcement that
the N.S.W. ping-pong championship had been fought
to its savage finish stirred old memories. The writer,
in those days a Rugby football addict, had landed m
Sydney after a three-years’ absence from his native
land. During that time Australia had been smitten
with the first great ping-pong epidemic, but to the
traveller returned the very name was unfamiliar.
Presently he met in the street —it was in July a
band of husky youths wearing the maroon hat-band
with a white “Q,” in other days the exclusive
insignia of the Queensland Rugby Union. There
were no familiar faces in the group, but the writer
hailed the band as brethren, demanding information.
He got it too. “We're not footballers,” said the
spokesman with withering scorn. “We’re the Queens-
land inter-State ping-pong representatives.” For-
tunately there was a pub handy, and in it the
rebuffed one solaced his bruised soul.
* * * #
In Grimmett’s absence, Norman Williams,
whom he displaced from the South Australian XI,
stands right out among Adelaide bowlers. The
Port Adelaide googlie-merchant took 6 for 25 and
7 for 64 in his latest match ; he has the remarkable
figures of 22 for 144 in the two club matches so
far completed. A drawn game, Glenelg v. Sturt, had
two interesting features. For Glenelg Percy Rundell,
a prominent S.A. player away before the war, made
a beautiful 102 n.o. ; and for the other side, with
Scott and Townsend for once ineffective, Vic. Richard-
son put himself on as bowler and took 5 wickets
(out of 7 that fell) for 68. Had he shown he could
bowl last season, and shoved a grey wig over his
thatch, they could not have left him out of the
Australian XI.
N.S.W. cricketers are to have a busy
season. In addition to the extension of the Sheffield
Shield competition by the inclusion of Queensland,
a full programme has been arranged for the second
elevens, and a team is to tour Tasmania at Christ-
mas. It is a long time since N.S.W. and Tasmanian
cricketers collided, though meetings were once fairly
regular. It was in a Tas.-N.S.W. series that the
incomparable Victor Trumper first gave the public
a taste of his quality.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar” : The attitude taken by
A. E. Gilligan. skipper of the M.C.C. XI now
touring India, in jibbing at play on Sundays will
come as a surprise to the Englishman’s Australian
acquaintance, who never had any reason to suspect
him of wowserish leanings. It is not a matter of
needing a day’s rest, either, for one three-day match
a week is the extreme limit for touring teams in
India. Sunday cricket has been an institution in
Hindustan for years; Saturday, save in the morning,
when the Moslem world shuts up shop to attend
mosque, is like any other in the week. Previous
English visitors have played on Sundays without
protest.
* * * *
“Wang” : A game of cricket was in pro-
gress, and following a round of applause that greeted
a “sixer,” old George spoke up. “’E ain’t nothin’ t’
wot I was w’en I was a young feller,” he said.
“They useter call me ‘The Demon Swiper.’ One day I
was playin’ in a match, an’ there was another crowd
playin’ a quarter of a mile away. Th’ bowler sent
up a slow one, an’ I got fair on to it. Th’ ball
went outer sight! Presently we ’ears a yell from
th’ other crowd, an’ in erbout ten minutes th’ cap-
tin comes runnin’ over carryin’ our ball. It ’ad
lobbed on top of one of their stumps, an’ driven it
right inter th’ ground—outer sight. They ’ad t’
get a spade ter dig it out.” “George!” someone re-
marked. “Fair dinkum,” he said. “Another time
I was playin’ on this ’ere ground an’ I ’its a ball
clean over that ’ill there.” He pointed to a rise
about 300 feet high, at the foot of which our pitch
was situated. “Cripes!” said three of us at once.
“I’m tellin’ y’,” old George went on. “Course that
was over fifty year ago,” he explained, “an’ th’ ’ill
wasn’t so ’igh as it is now.”
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: After Tilden’s defeat by
his brother Yank Johnston it was stated that the
erstwhile lawn-tennis emperor of America had lost
his nerve. There are no signs of this in his
announcement that he does not intend to turn
“pro.” till next season, which means that he will
remain a lily-white till it suits him to change over.
Tilden’s idea is to stay amateur long enough to win
the American championship back from Lacoste, and
then to join Lenglen, Richards and other members
of Pyle’s professional stable. America’s acceptance
of the situation is not the least interesting feature
of the affair. Most British and Australian sporting
bodies would certainly take the will for the deed and
rank the intending professional as one already.
Norman Brookes, nowadays president of the Aus-
tralasian L.T.A., has arranged for an English team
to tour Australia in the summer of 1927-28. Norman
reported to the association last week that the Eng-
lish body would send a strong mixed team,
including Mrs. Godfree, Kingsley and Austin, the
Uni. crack. These and others of less note will come
on from America after playing in the U.S. cham-
pionships, and as the French association has under-
taken to send a team by the same route about
the same time Australia and M.L. should enjoy a
full measure of first-class tennis. A visit from a
Japanese combination is also probable.
“Six and Eight”: Judging by a photo-
graph, reproduced in the S. M. Herald of October 15.
which showed Opposition-leader Bavin and some
pals trout-fishing in the Cotter, there is no close
season for the rainbow fish in Federal Territory.
Any mere non-political angler found catching trout
in N.S.W. streams before November 1 would be lucky
if he escaped having to cough up a few pounds at the
nearest police-court.
* * * *
“Doggett’s Badge”: A lot of the glory and
most of the cash have departed from professional
sculling. Matters are bad enough in Australia, but
they must be a great deal worse in England, where
the game originated and flourished for centuries, for
it is cabled that there is great difficulty in finding
funds to match .11. A. Barry against Major Goodsell.
Barry is a nephew of the famous Ernest Barry, five
times world’s champion, and has been trained by his
uncle, who rates him as good as he himself ever was.
About £2OOO is wanted, and though Britain is full
of wealthy patrons of amateur rowing, to say no-
thing of backers of sports other than sculling, there
is said to be no chance of raising the brass unless
Australia assists. On recent showing, there is
Buckley’s chance of that happening, short of a
Federal subsidy.
FIXING THE DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mrs Nellie Armstrong made her debut in Sydney
in conjunction with Mr. Kruse, the violinist at the
Theatre Royal in November, 1884. It was the yeai
I saw Malua win the Melbourne Cup; on my return
I had the pleasure of hearing the marvellous singer.
—Letter to the S.M.H., designed to settle a con-
troversy as to the exact date of Melbas first appear-
ance in Sydney.
’Twas ’eighty-four —I’m right, you 11 find
When first there fell on Sydney ears
The voice that was to witch mankind
And thrill a brace of hemispheres,
To move the world for forty years
And make a louder noise than Krupp.
Indelibly the date adheres —
The year that Malua won the Cup.
I heard those glorious notes, the kind
That rise supreme and brook no peers.
How do I fix it in my mind
When other dates Time blurs anti blears,
When fickle memory halts and veers
As puzzled as a pointer pup?
Because 1 can’t forget, my dears,
The year (and month) of Malua’s Cup.
Go arguing on, if you’re inclined,
Across the teacups or the beers
How many years she’s thrown behind,
The Queen whose time for exit nears,
Since first she moved the world to tears
Or sent it forth in smiles to sup.
Take it from me, sans doubts or fears,
’Twas after Malua won the Cup.
Envoy.
I sat beneath the chandeliers
The night she woke old Sydney up....
And in my ears still rang the cheers
That rose when Malua won the Cup.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


j*ws>;
fjy
a
m
ft
r
A
~v
7&M
t
89©
«
y
:r.v
rrf
m
u
€
71
urn
J
M A
-1
tff
71
WIS
il
pi
WI!
V//, J
y o *' u x/ w
'"V '// ' (IN
p:«
\x
K
••‘iCi
-pM"*"
, /.//4>
'• Un,-,;.-
K
•• 1 - u °i P°°3.Jo SdSpnf ( ||j M
CPORTING in their de~
k -' sign and blends of color,
Bond’s Silken Plaids uphold
nevertheless, all the canons
of good form, for they are
in perfect taste, smart
without being blatant, bright
without being garish.
Their staying powers too,
commend them. Dyes
that will withstand com
Slant visits to the laundry
a silken thread construc-
tion that maintains the high
reputation gained by the name
Bond’s - these justify to the limit
public support.
4/6
Your mercer has Bond’s Silken
Plaids to show you in a full
range of colors and choice of
two qualities.
5/6
Jocnd’s
HALF-HOSE
Made in Austral a by the EMPLOYEES
All States, New Zealand and South Africa.
Underwear, dowels, Sheeting. ~ *
of GEO. A. BOND & CO LIMITED
Manufacturers of Bond s Hos'ery, Half-Hose,
- Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.


'V >
/ ilmn llrf H
*4 Ik. **// „ A
" -'ll
moijn//h
H\M’
Mlf| 1
M
1
-* i
3g?
11:
*
?m
m
m
V,
m
<M
M
**?
y
Msgs
i
as
«7\ /& ran %
) f°Purn
SHEL
Look for the Pure
Shell Disc. It is
our guarantee
and your protection.
The Call of the
Out of Doors
TT OW quickly and comfortably the car takes
you to the open spaces. That easy, confident
rhythm which comes from power well founded and
perfectly directed is one of the greatest factors
in motoring pleasure. Be good to your engine
use Pure Shell Motor Spirit and Shell Motor Oils.
Go where you willy
Shell service awaits you .
e
Motor Spirit
& Motor Oils
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD,
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
S
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
70 years of
Pipe -making
THE experience of generations of pipe makers is em-
bodied in the latest GBD pipe. From among the
faultless briars which bear the GBD Brand, the
GBD at 12/6 is the best pipe value obtainable. To dis-
tinguish it from the standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears
a smali GBD disc, inlaid in the mouthpiece.
The real point of difference however in addition to the
flush silver mount lies in the specially selected grains ;
year by year fewer of them are available.
Ask your tobacconist to show you a few and convince
yourself of the beauty of the briar. The quality which
dates from 1855 is unsurpassed.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
ďf
d
ďf
Shape No.
a/4375
d
Death to
Flies and
\ a
W
i
rs«
jJy&AKT
Ants/
CRMWM«
mtz
S<r
&*
mb
74
€ddi
uoris
FLY <& ANT,
XTERMp^TOR
s:
Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
■m AGENTS:- HH
jPUERDIN & SAIHSBURY LTD.
BH BONO STWEgT, MIIBOUHM
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particular*
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to .Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
PONWAY,
P A TTf T
„, JOHN, son of the late
PATRICK and MARY CONWAY, and
brother of BERNARD and ANNE CON-
WAY. or anyone acquainted with the said
JOHN CONWAY or his wife and family
please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY. LIMITED,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
THE INKY WAY.
“F.E.P.”: From the Adelaide Register's
account of a recent show: —
SUCCESSFUL DAY AT MAITLAND.
Dogs and Pigs.
J. Kelly & Son. had the pig pens to themselves.
R. O. White, of Brisbane Courier’s staff,
dead at the too-early age of 27, hailed from
Charters Towers, where his dad was a
mining surveyor in the gold-boom days. The
son was a 16-year-old cadet when he joined
the A.I.F. and went to France. Invalided
after three years, he never really recovered
from his disabilities,
“Emer”: The sweet young things whose
charms are employed to boost some paper’s
circulation are quite happy in the part, 1
suppose. Still I did wonder how the winner’
of the October Bride Competition felt about
this announcement:—
A generous offer has come from a Macquarie-street
physician.... “If Miss Blank wishes to accept my
professional services free. I will place them at her
disposal for two years.”
Western Newspapers Limited (N.S.W.)
has now taken over the old-established Fork's
Gazette, for many years under the guidance
of tin 1 late Norman Smith. The co. also
controls the Western Times at Bathurst
and the Mercury at Lithgow. About a
month ago the directors decided to obtain
permission to increase capital from £lO,OOO
to £30,000. The issue was so freely sought
that only about 3000 shares of the extra
20,000 were taken up by the directors who
had underwritten the issue.
Adelaide Register has lost one of its
long-distance workers, John Knox. He came
from Kirkcaldy at the beginning of 1863, at
the call of Thomas Elder, and he gave all
his working life to the newspaper, with a
special eye on the old Hansard contracts
before a Government reporting staff was in-
stituted. He retired only last year. His
term of Register service is, however, topped
by both Charles Franklin (67 years) and
Caleb Page (70 years).
Australia is to lose story-writer Mary
Grant Bruce, her soldier husband having
decided to settle down in Ireland. The lady,
who published her 20th child-hook recently,
hasn’t seen much of her native country since
1912, when she left the newspaper world of
Melbourne for a venture on the London
literary mart. She. returned to Australia
to be married, hoping that her husband would
settle; but almost immediately the war came,
and he was called up. She went, too, to be
near him in England; and some time after
the war finished they came back. But now
there are Irish properties calling for atten-
tion, and on them the family will make its
home.
“R.”: Ballarat, realising that things are
getting “quieter and quieter,” has taken a
step that is quite likely to be followed by
other country towns in a similar plight, it
has appointed a publicity officer, at £lOOO
per annum, to boost the advantages of the
place, industrial, residential and otherwise,
not only to the outside public, but to the
overseas world. One of the objects is to
place the claims of the one-time Gold City
before English manufacturers who are think-
ing of starting factories in Australia and
who might otherwise overlook a site 70 miles
from tide-water. Publicity work for private
firms has been a godsend to pressmen with
business instincts; and this opens up a new
avenue.
“Clerk”: Harold Clapp assumes official
control of the Vic. Railways Magazine
at the beginning of next year. It will then
be handed out free to the 30,000 railwaymen
in the State, instead of being restricted to
the 11,500 who are members of the Railways
Institute. Since the appearance of Roy
Gollan, who introduced the Sun-Pictorial
touch during his term of office as assistant
publicity officer, the magazine has become so
popular that Clapp has decided to provide
the extra cash for the increased circulation,
and so bring the publication into line with
similar railway-staff periodicals in the Ma
State, Maoriland, South Africa and America.
Gollan having moved up to take J. C. Boyce’s
job of Government Tourist Officer, editorial
work will fall to the lot of H. C. Fenton, also
from the Sun.
“Hamer” : At a period when John Norton
was at his crankiest he sent a command to
Truth office for the attendance of one
of his henchmen; and when young Billy
Molloy got to St. Helena, Norton’s Coogee
home, the first instruction he received was
to ring up a Randwick grocer for a dozep
bottles of assorted sherries. Molloy was
writing-up some notes when the goods
arrived; Norton himself went to the door
to take delivery before his womenfolk could
intercept the wine. Loud bellows from the
thirsty John apprised Molloy that all was
not well; and when he rushed to see what
was the matter he was met with a fusillatre
of little squashy pellets which Norton was
hurling about promiscuously. The grocer,
mistaking the ’phone order, had sent the
throat-parched man a dozen bottles of pre-
served cherries.
“Bill o’ Costs”: I was once given the job
of solving the legal problems of daily news-
paper correspondents. Hardly had I been
admitted to the profession when I was
exceedingly flattered by my appointment as
law adviser to the correspondence column of
one of the two local dailies —call them the
Slumberer and the Shouter. My fee was
one penny per day, in the form of a com-
plimentary copy of the Slumberer. Tin 1
work did not present many difficulties so
long as, in dubious cases, one gave the
answers without the facts; but over-zealous
subs., seeking to make the matter of general
interest, were liable to defeat my purpose
by giving both question and answer, and then
the latter had to stand the fire of criticism.
One day our legel coterie began discussing
the authorship of these sapient deliverances.
I, of course, lying doggo. “Well,” said
, K.C.. “whoever writes the Slumberer'*
has a reputation to keep up.” “Why?” I
asked, scenting a compliment. “Is the Slum-
berer considered very authoritative?” "I
wouldn’t exactly say that,” he replied, “but
there is a saying in the profession that the
Slumberer’s law is sometimes right, but the
Shouter’s never.”


dfd
Murdoch’s Christmas
Suiting Special
ITH a long record of splendid
values Murdoch’s have never
offered any Suiting value to
surpass this. Such worth, such
variety!—the result of a
Special Christmas Purchase of
Genuine £7/7/- Suitings at a
very favorable price for
quantity and cash.
And just in time for your
Christmas Suit!
Secure this
Remarkable Value
Now!
\ ... i
f «i
tm- -fpb.l
m
m
m
H'gaww
»3
i
v-
-sfi
,
Genuine £7/7/- Value Suit
to measure for—
V.
ATEST purchases at the Mills—favorably priced—now
make this splendid range of Suitings doubly attractive.
Stocks comprise Pure Wool Worsteds and Tweeds in
great variety, including New Greys, Blues or Browns in
attractive color harmonies and many exclusive designs,
including the New Basket Weaves, Stripes, Checks, Pencil
and Double Lines. Also the famous “Golbro” All-Wool
Fine Twill Serges and Herringbones, guaranteed Pure
Indigo Dye.
No Suiting Value could surpass
this
£5/13/9
To Your Measure.
COUPON.
DESK R,
MURDOCH'S IN PARK STREET , LTD., SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me, free of all cost, a complete range of your
Suitings, including the £5/13/1) Special Value; also simple Measurement Outfit
me under no obligation ichatevcr.
NAME
New Season's
. This places
ADDRESS
WRITE FOR FREE PATTERNS.
Send This Coupon—No Obligation!
copyright
Other “Mill-to-Wcarer” Values at
84/-, £4/18/9
and Hand-finished at
£6|lo|-,£7|lo|-,£B|lol-
The Seal of Faithful Service
is strikingly evident in this Guarantee which comes to you
with your Suit.
GUARANTEE.
This is a copy of the Guarantee sent with each Suit:
“We grarantee this Suit against any imperfec-
fections in the fit, and if not satisfactory we will
make another Suit free of charge or refund the full
purchase price.”
(Sgd.) Murdoch’s in Park St., Ltd., Sydney.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
S'IN
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


Commonwealth 51 per cent.
Cash and Conversion Loan
Applications will be received between Monday,
Ist November, and Monday, 20th December, 1926
Interest: 51 per cent. Price of issue: Par.
Loan to be repaid in 1933, 1938 or 1943, at the
option of the subscriber.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS. Amount asked for: £6,000,000.
The Loan is being raised by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the
Governments of Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and
Tasmania, and the Federal Capital Commission. The proceeds of the Loan will
be used by the States and the Federal Capital Commission for public works.
Applications for the Loan, also the deposits and instalments of the Loan,
may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank, or at any Money Order Post
Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Cash subscribed may be paid in full or by instalments.
Interest at 5-J per cent, per annum, calculated from date of lodgment of the
money to the 15tli February, 1927, will be paid on the 15th February, 1927. There-
after interest will be paid half-yearly on 15tli August and 15tli February.
Conversion Privileges.
Holders of Commonwealth 41 and 5 per cent. Inscribed Stock and Treasury
Bonds maturing on 15tli December, 1927, may convert their holdings, or any part
thereof, in multiples of £lO, into an equal amount of 51 p.c. Stock or Bonds
of this new Loan, whether they make cash subscriptions to this Loan or not.
Persons who so convert their 41 or 5 per cent. 1927 holdings will be paid
on the 15tli December, 1926, the usual half-yearly interest at those rates, which
is due on that date, and two months’ interest at the rate of 51 per cent, per
annum on the 15tli February, 1927.
After the 15th February, 1927, the Commonwealth will pay interest at the
rate of 51 per cent, per annum half-yearly on the 15tli August and the 15th
February.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth taxation, but will be FREE OF
STATE INCOME TAX.
The Bonds Mill be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO, £lOOO. Stock will be
inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Act of the several States.
The Stock and Bonds of this issue will be accepted at par, with due allow-
ance for interest accrued since the last interest payment, in satisfaction of
amounts due to the Commonwealth for Probate and Succession Duty.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury.
gfd
The Original
BOSCH HORN
Is the World’s Finest Warning Signal.
Deep, Mellow and extremely
Penetrating. Universally used on
High-class Automobiles, Omnibuses
and Motor-boats.
Price £5/19/6
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd..
256-258 Eatrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd.,
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
Crossley Motors Ltd,
&
Z?y APPOINTMENT TO.
y HM THE KING
Let a British Car c Tour Pride of Ownership
Exceptional Economy in the
Crossley Motors Ltd.
'Ey appointment to
URM ‘IHE PRINCE OF WALES
g
15/30-h.p.
Top-Gear Car
£399
Most motorists regard petrol consumption as an index of the car’s economy. From this standpoint, the 15/30-hp. Crossley
is remarkable, giving regularly more than 30 miles to the gallon of petrol under Australian conditions. Yet the Crossley
is not a “baby” car, or even a small car; it is a full-sized touring car—roomy and comfortable—carrying hve passengers
and luggage, with room to spare.
But two other items in the cost of running a car are at least equally as important as petrol consumption repairs and
depreciation.
Twenty thousand miles without repairs of any kind is no uncommon performance for a Crossley; every detail is “built
to last” with British thoroughness of workmanship and British quality of materials.
But Crossley economy covers first cost as well. Exceptional production facilities and special exporting arrangements
enable the Crossley 15/30 “Top-Gear” Car to be sold at almost English factory price, whilst the 19.6 h.p. model is priced
exactly the same as in Great Britain.
A demonstration can be arranged at your convenience, or illustrated literature and full information sent promptly on request.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD.
87 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
State Agents:
NSW : CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA • A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD., 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD,, 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


Qualify Cteakdtfa dmumd
Qualify 7nM4tikUftd tfie SxuU
Al rmu Club
lO for 9d
CIGARETTES
20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper»
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Paekin
,<SS
IF*
&
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's
Criterion ‘^. he ake „
jj OVAIj “Abie’s Irish Rose
St James “Mercenary Mary”
Fuller's Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “lvatja’
“Brown Sugar ’
King’s “Mary Rose"
ATHENJiUM “Nothing but Lies.
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou ........ Vaudeville
Mvjestic Moving Pictuics
Hoyt’s ...... Moving Pictures
New Olympia ’ Wirths’ Circus
A warm house gave greeting to Ada Reeve
when she reintroduced "Spangles ' at Sydney
Grand Opera House on Saturday night; and
when a house ready with its cheers is
packed even to the penitent form for late-
comers at the back of the d.c., its noises are
likely to be tumultuous. The advantage of
such a production as “Spangles” is that it
is hurrying on to the next item before an
opportunity is given to guess what caused
the laughter in the last; the calves are
certainly not as fatted as those to which
Sydney audiences are accustomed, but the
legs to which they belong hurry the frivolity
along. The demand on the female leg
market, with the unprecedented call made by
“Rose Marie” and the wants of “Mercenary
Mary” to be satisfied, has given an oppor-
tunity to the lighter-weight division; the
result is so good that it is almost pathetic
to consider how some of these capable ex-
tremities have been cold-shouldered in the
past in favor of meat. The greatest lack
in “Spangles” is a really first-rate comedian ;
but the comedy of several of the scenas is
so good, and the swift action so well
arranged, that the tameness of the comedy
merchants is apt to be overlooked. Harry
Gould is the chief of them, with Leslie
Austin and Grafton Williams as assistants.
A hilarious elephant, with Charles Brown
as the front legs and Gould keeping up the
rear, is the summit of the production’s
mirth; next to that, the success of Nola
Reid (whose shapely legs stand well outside
previous criticism) is the most outstanding
feature. Not only is her dancing first-class,
but she does everything else expected of
her with uncommon charm. Apart from Ada
Reeve, who unloads a varied lot of her own
songs, of which “Ain’t It Nice?” is most
effective, Nora O’Malley, showing as a heavy-
weight amongst the mostly lightly-built girls,
is the most essential of her sex. She has
a pleasing voice with an unfortunate habit qf
being indistinct now and then. The members
of the company generally lead a strenuous
life; after filling the stage with melody and
flicking legs, they pour off, and, whilst the
stage is held by some few-people comedy,
rush into new garments in order to pour a
new torrent of movement and noise into the
scene. The dressing and stage settings are
effective.
Time is ringing the changes in two Sydney
theatres next week; “Betty Lee” will be the
new visitor at the St. James on Saturday,
November 13. The co. now concerned with
the affairs of “Mercenary Mary” will be
strengthened by Sadie Gale, the bright Aus-
tralian wlio did such good ivork with Dot
Brunton in “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly,”
and deserved better than to be pushed into
vaudeville revue by importations not up to
her standard. Thursday next will be the
last opportunity to “Meet the Wife” at the
Palace, that astonishingly successful play,
which has made full houses a habit, having to
let “Is Zat So?” come in on Saturday.
“Rose Marie” goes on the way towards a
new record without any mention of last
weeks; “Abie’s Irish Rose,” with its cheer-
ful disregard of everything but heart-throbs
and laughter, has struck the fancy of Royal
audiences; and Maurice Moscovitch, in the
one show in Sydney with a really serious
intent, maintains the higher standards of
dramatic art at the Criterion with “The
Fake.” Publicity paragraphs about the
Gilbert and Sullivan comic operas hint that
the arrival of the company from M.L. is not
far off.
❖ $ •>'
Anybody who seeks dramatic thrills should
visit the Playbox Theatre of the Four Foot-
lights, in Rowe-street, Sydney, where every
Wednesday evening stage sensations are per-
formed. On the opening night last week of
“The Emperor Jones” shock succeeded shock,
and the atmosphere of eeriness became more
ghostly as the drums of Fate grew louder and
louder and more menacing. The drumming
in the forest was an orchestra that never
ceased, even in the intervals. Brutus Jones,
a big negro, who had murdered men in the
United States, found his way to an island in
the West Indies, where his astuteness made
him an emperor over his servile blacks. But
Brutus, like certain politicians, was not
holding the job for the glory of it. He had
his “get-away” cunningly planned, with liis
loot safely hidden. When the revolution
happens, this grotesque figure makes for the
forest, confident of his escape. But once
within the gloomy forest in the night his
conscience conjures up his past; he sheds
his patent-leather shoes, and gradually “goes
black.” Visions come to him of the convict
gang and the men he had murdered; and
then his ancestral memory recalls the slave-
market, the slave-ship and the witch-doctor
of the Congo. The slave-ship was the most
telling of these impressive scenes —just a
moaning body of blacks, slowly swaying lo
the ship’s roll. The utter break-up of . the
emperor’s mind is shown by his relapse into
heathendom; and in the final scene the dead
body of the grandiose emperor is brought.in.
The revolutionaries had not troubled to chase
him; they had spent the night in making a
silver bullet, which they believed was the
only missile that would kill him. . Magic
against magic! Duncan Macdougall’s pro-
duction was almost incredibly good taking
circumstances into account. Arthur Reardon
made a great figure of the emperor, and
Sylvia Gawler, as the witch-doctor, appeared
in an amazing make-up.
if =! : if *
An amazing epic of the screen, one of the
finest pictures shown in Sydney this year, is
titled “Grass.” Hollywood had nothing
to do with the taking of this authentic
transcript from life, the migration of a vast
Aryan tribe, the Baktyari, or Forgotten
People, 50,000 in number, accompanied by
their flocks and herds, near the Persian Gulf,
in search of pasture. Two camera-men and
one white woman were the first foreigners
to accompany the horde on its jour-
ney. The crossing of the swift, wide Ivarum
River is an epic in itself. It occupied days,
the women and children being carried over
by makeshift rafts and on inflated goat-skins,
while the thousands of animals were left to
swim across or drown. An even more diffi-
cult task was the crossing, on masse, of a
huge snow-covered mountain range. The
only impression left is that of thousands and
thousands of men, women with babies in the
cradles on their backs, and animals toiling
through almost incredible difficulties. In
ancient days such mass-migrations were com-
mon and imperative. In this remarkable
film there is thus a picture of the beginning
of the world. As a lesson in history and
geography it should be shown to every school-
child. It was at the Piccadilly, Sydney, last
Saturday.
The monks of St. Bernard pass with cowled
figures through a snowstorm and suddenly
burst into song as a means of saving wan-
derers who may be lost in the snow of
the Sydney Tivoli gallery. Probably the
real monks never heard those songs, but
“Excelsior” and “Lead, Kindly Light,” seem
appropriate enough; and even “Silver
Threads Amongst the Gold” gives a deeply-
impressed audience a feeling that it is shar-
ing in somebody’s devotions. Well-matched
voices make the harmony, and the act is
well staged.
“THE FAKE,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Dope-fiend Pillick (Nat Madison ) is told by
Sands (Maurice Moscovitch) that he
must commit suicide.
Eddie Moon is the new star in the Fullers’
Castlereagli-street firmament, which lias re-
turned to mixed vaudeville, with a half-time
revue. Moon’s chopping-block is Morris;
and with Nell Fleming and Alec Ivelleway
assisting, the pair head as good a light
travesty show as the Fullers have seen —a
trench-life sketch is particularly good.
Apdale’s animals and the Brocks, who whir
about on wheels of all shapes and sizes, are
the big items of the vaudeville section, with
Hal Walden providing tiny doses of humor
at the piano.
These picture-show producers are getting
too fond of rain. Tropical storms arrive
whenever there is a dull patch in the action ;
and without any need a cyclone conveniently
puts in an appearance. In the foolishly-
named “Sea Horses,” shown at Sydney
Lyceum and the Haymarket—the sea horses
being merely a dangerous reef—the producer
has made a gallant attempt to snare a
typhoon, not too well faked; and the tropi-
cal storm has no bearing on the story. A
“White Cargo” plot, set in the African Gold
Coast, shows beautiful Florence Vidor mov-
ing out to find her husband, who lias gone
to the pack. However, the drunken husband,
who has acquired a black wife and family, is
conveniently shot, leaving Jack Holt, the
stern young captain of the tramp steamer, to
marry her. The fighting has plenty of
humor, and the rascally bosses of the settle-
ment make delightful comedy. More genuine
humor is, however, provided in the situation
of Florence Vidor, the only woman on the
tramp, whose dangerous charm for every
one of the crew upsets all discipline.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS, MELBOURNE.
Miss Eileen May, who makes life brighter
for the hairy elephants.
Percy Grainger can make a respectable
uproar with a piano, but the time to hear
him is when he is properly supported. At
liis great orchestral concert at Melbourne
Auditorium last week he had, in addition to
the full force of Prof. Heinze’s University
Symphonists (more than 57 varieties), three
grand pianos, celesta, xylophone, wooden and
steel marimbas, glockenspiel, organ, tubular
bells and a soprano and tenor singing, instead
of words, nonsense syllables like “fi-fo-fum.”
Gathering all these forces —or most of them
—together, he launched them at “The
Warriors,” his own composition, written for
an imaginary ballet. The noise defied
description and made the chandeliers spring
to attention, but was rather difficult to
follow at a first hearing. Here and there a
theme or motive pushed a heap of notes out
of its eyes and struggled down the platform.
Before it had staggered half a bar, the bass
glockenspiel or the steel marimba stabbed it
in the back and the entire percussion group
jumped upon its chest. Enormous polyphonic
interweavings flapped their wings and essayed
short flights, only to be shot down in mid-
career, and shorn to feathers by the wood-
wind and the strings, assisted by the three
pianos; while subtle double-chordings were
constantly being murdered in their beds.
Above the tournament the Australian com-
poser-conductor flung impassioned hands,
darted his compelling eye and shook his
Nordic curls. It was a thoroughly exhila-
rating entertainment. The audience de-
manded a second serving of Grainger’s justly
famed “Shepherd’s Hey,” and Grieg’s Con-
certo in A minor was interpreted as never
before in Melbourne.
* * if *
“Brown Sugar,” a painstaking, if dull,
English domestic comedy by Lady Lever, is
in session at Melbourne Royal. Briefly, it
grapples, not over-energetically, with the
theme of a lowly girl’s efforts to learn the
manners of her noble husband’s circle. From
the internal evidence provided by the play,
the author’s title has been recently acquired
and her knowledge of the manners of the
British Brahmins has been gained from the
illustrated papers and the novels of Jane
Austen. All other contemporary playwrights
unite in asserting with emphasis that the
normal language of duchesses would redden
the ears of a motor-mechanic; but all the
humor of “Brown Sugar” flows from the
shocked surprise displayed by the Countess
of Knightsbridge (Margaret Darner) every
time her chorus-girl daughter-in-law emits a
damn. The surprise is displayed too fre-
quently, and at the tenth appearance loses
novelty. The bright spot in the entertain-
ment is Renee Kelly, who. as the daughter-
in-law, sweet but unrefined, combines a
flapperish vivacity with a not misplaced con-
fidence in the capacity of her legs to please.
She pigeon-toes them (applause.) ; anon
crosses them under her chair (loud
applause) ; then again negligently exposes
one nigh unto the hip (raptures). As her
nobly constant husband, Lord Sloane, George
Barraud only hovers round the foothills ol
his art. In situations where some slight
emotion would not be altogether out 01
place, he studies liis temperamental wife with
all the passionate enthusiasm a bank clerk
working back on Cup day would bestow on
a discrepancy of twopence in his ledger. As
the Earl of Kuiglitsbridge, father to George
Barraud, Jackson Wilcox portrays a gentle-
man who is only remarkable for some negative
aristocratic virtues, such as not turning Ins
trousers up at the bottoms. Emma Temple,
engaged by the Ivnightsbridge family to instil
polite language and deportment into Renee
Kelly, is, as usual, sound and sympathetic;
and Antony Holies, as _ a gay segment of
the upper circles, is amusing in a mild degree.
The first act lacks wit and the second, is
also somewhat of a moron; but the injection
into the third and final spasm of Hylton
Allen as a theatrical manager who nearly
succeeds in luring Renee Kelly back to the
stage lifts the piece into the realms oi
humorous characterisation.
** * *
“Aren’t We All?” retreats from Melbourne
King’s to-morrow night, after which the
garden will be prepared for “Mary Rose, a
mystery by Barrie, accompanied by Norman
O’Neill’s music. “Lady, Be Good!’’ fades
from the Princess to-night, and after an
apologetic interval the freshly-carpeted show-
house will dim its lights for moving pictures.
“Puss in Boots” is threatened here for Christ-
mas. The Palace is respectfully greeting two
old friends in Frank Neil and “What Hap-
pened to Jones.” At His Majesty’s Katja
and at the Athenaeum “Nothing but Lies are
proceeding until further notice. .Tim Gerald,
in “Whips and Quips,” a Cup burlesque, is
trifling with a sacred subject at the Bijou.
A lot of people who ordinarily go to bed
at 10 stayed up till midnight to attend
Henry Santrey’s “Cinderella Revel” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli. There is a natural fascina-
tion in an occasional excursion into night
life for those who pull steady loads, but the
present commentator doesn’t share it. He
made a determined effort to sip the night
life of Berlin, which begins at 3 o’clock,
and he sat fully-dressed in his hotel bedroom
surrounded by books and alarm-clocks to
wait for the witching hour. When the frau-
lein with the tea woke him up at nine next
morning, he realised he had had the finest
sleep he had enjoyed for 20 years.
There are more ways than one of enjoying
a circus. Forty children declared they had
had a lovely afternoon at Wirths’ the other
day although they only felt, smelt and
listened to the show. They belonged to the
Vic. Institute for the Blind. They knew
exactly the shape of Peggy the Bft. baby
elephant, and of Roy, the lion. Even the
wolf, which wasn’t safe to touch, didnt
escape their wonderful senses. They said
they could hear him pacing up and down,
although none of their sighted guides could
detect a footfall.
if if * *
The latest step forward in the business
of canning music for domestic use is the
panatrope. The new idea parts company with
the ordinary phonograph after the needle has
picked up the vibrations from the record.
Thereafter the radio receiving-valve takes
charge. The sound waves having been con-
verted into electrical oscillations, the valve
feeds the impulses into a loud speaker of
the free-cone type, which is stated not to
stifle sound as a horn does. The advantage,
or disadvantage, of the valve is that it can
boost the music up to any degree of deafen-
ing uproar. At a demonstration in Mel-
bourne the other day this Showman listened
to Percy Grainger strumming with Gargan-
tuan fingers on a piano .made in Brobding-
nag, and it occurred to him that if his next-
door neighbor invested in a panatrope there
would be grounds for a legal action. Never-
theless, the new invention had a tone so
pure that it was difficult to refrain from
imagining that the singers and players
weren’t caged inside the ornate piece of
furniture that harbors the device. In judi-
cious hands or large public halls the pana-
trope should prove a joy.
#* * *
The jolly “Tell Me More,”. at Adelaide
Royal, improves on a second view. It also
reveals itself as being directed, after, the
cute American trick, mainly at the feminine
half of the audience; and their joy is unre-
strained when Emmeline Orford gets a hat
trimmed to match her frock by George
surreptitiously cutting away half the frock’s
rear elevation to provide the material. In
pictures, “Irene,” at the York, retells the
familiar American story of the poor girl
who had only to wear fine clothes to get
accepted by the best—meaning the wealthiest
—people. “The Bat” is thrilling Pav. audi-
ences ; at West’s is an unusual thing, the
story of the Prodigal Son, the Bible version
being improved on with an “orgy” and other
American trimmings; and at Wondergraph
Douglas Maclean divides attention with a
jolly kid.


You’ll like
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort 1
~ Fit”
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
d
9 •
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
® 3iA
Poverty
Point
“Goldilocks” : There is not likely to be a
permanent withdrawal of the Fullers from
“serious” theatrical business. The Ward
interests in the ventures they shared with
him have been transferred to the Firm, and
this has knocked them back a bit; but
directly they can get into their stride again
the Fullers will be filling their own theatres
with their own shows —or with the enter-
prises they lure ro Australia on a partner-
ship basis. It is all good for local players.
For instance, since the Fullers have taken
charge of “Mercenary Mary,” two places
once filled by importations have gone to Aus-
tralians. The brothers arc the best Austra-
lians who were ever in the business in a big
way in Australia. Ward was one of the
worst.
“Old Magic” : Harry Iloudini, dead at 42.
deserves remembrance in Australia as some-
thing more than an entertainer, magician
and handcuff evader. In 1910 he won the
prize of the Aeronautic League as the first
successful flier in Australia. Hart, who is
now a dentist in Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
had attempted flights before, but crashed.
Iloudini, who was the son of Rabbi Dr.
Mayer Samuel, was born in Wisconsin
(U.S.A.), and made his first appearance as
a trapeze performer. Appendicitis finished
him. It seems a particularly virulent enemy
to acrobats, athletes and the like, possibly
because of the inclination of these people
to take risks with their health in order to
carry out their engagements.
“Lounge Lizard”: Although Miss Rita
Lancaster, who organised and produced
“Cavalleria Rusticana” and “Maritana”. at
Sydney Hippodrome and the ConServatorium
last month, is the first woman to conduct
grand opera in Sydney, 40 years ago Miss
Rachel Grey conducted concerts at the
Town Hall, and wielded the baton like a
Verbrugghen.
“Bisley”: E. J. Carroll is reported to
have said that Australia was backward in
film-producing merely because “we have no
writers of fiction.” What about C. J.
Dennis, Jack Maclaren, Bridges, Brady and
scores of others? The real trouble was the
bad start made by companies with insuffi-
cient finance. Not that all even of these
productions have been bad. Langford, with
very little money, has left an indelible mark
on the record of the Australian photoplay. His
“Sentimental Bloke” is ranked amongst the
foremost of productions.
“Close Up” : A P.P. par. (B. 21/10/’26)
referring to J. D. Williams is not quite in
order. The writer is correct when he says
that “J.D.” started his Sydney picture
business at Lawler’s Music Hall, but in-
correct when he says he advertised, largely
improved the hall and christened it the
Crystal Palace. The two Abrahams brothers,
of Melbourne, built the Crystal Palace for
Williams. Lawler’s Music Hall still exists
as a picture house —run by Hoyt’s.
“Hamfat”: The curtain has fallen on the
life of old Bill Renno, doyen of Australian
stage mechanists, who spent all but the
first three of his 78 years in Australasia, and
most of them on and about the stage. When
nine years old he was appearing as a juvenile
clown in pantomime; but he lacked the
voice for the acting side of stage work, and
took to the mechanical side later. Dampier,
when he staged “Robbery Under Arms,”
would have been contented with having noises
representing the coach off stage, but Renno
insisted on staging the contraption with all
its horses and glory. Renno’s greatest effect,
however, was secured when “The Prairie
King” was staged in the Alexandria, Mel-
bourne, now the New Princess. The villain,
pursued by the hero, crossed a tree-trunk
bridge over a chasm through which flowed
a river; a tank let into the stage supplied
the “practicable” part of the river. To avoid
pursuit, the villain chopped away the tree-
trunk. When the hero on horseback was
half-way across it fell and precipitated his
horse into the river, whilst the hero gripped
an overhanging ledge and hung suspended.
The splash of the horse’s fall used to rain
out into the orchestra. A new horse had to
be secured for each performance—no gee-gee
could be got on to the lofty platform for a
second time. Alf Woods secured the rights
of the play—and Bill Renno —and staged it
at Sydney Lyceum as “The Scout.” Bill had
a daughter. May, who was a very promising
soubrette, but abandoned the stage; his son
Dave, who was a mechanist also for a time,
now runs a business in Sydney.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Old Bill Renno, who
has just had a funeral, belonged to the days
when Stageland was a part of Bohemia. Con-
fident that he was more valuable as a
mechanist than most of the actors were as
anything at all, he miscalled everybody as
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
“This is the canvas I consider my masterpiece. I put my sout
into it.”
“Yes, hut still I think I like your model’s body better.”
he chose, and was particularly candid in his
criticisms, pei - sonal and theatrical. J. C.
Williamson was to him either “Jimmy” or
“Mr. Blanky Williamson” ; and Miss Fitz-
maurice Gill was always “Fizzgill.” Because
our first meeting was in my dandy youth, I
was “Horace.” The old chap was a remarkably
sharp critic; in a brief phrase he would
strike the worst fault of a performer. I
asked him once what he thought of a new and
much-boomed importation of the Firm. “Oh,
them ’ands, them Manky ’ands!” was all old
Bill exclaimed.
“Schnorrer”: One of the heart-throbs of
“Abie’s Irish Rose” is obtained from Abie’s
affectionate description of his knowledge of
the joys of Christmas- -how the kindly old
father had brought him presents, so that he
would not feel out of it when other kiddies
were getting them from Santa Claus. This
is another point which shows the authoress’s
blissful ignorance. The Jewish celebration
of Chanucah coincides closely, sometimes
exactly, with Christmas. There is as much
giving of gifts and eating of poultry on
this festival as is associated with Christ-
mas, and, so far from little Hebrews going
short of the Christmas enjoyments, they
sometimes get a double issue—the extra
one being on the principle of “when in Rome
do as Romans do.” Two years ago there
was a suggestion in Sydney Jewry that
“Chanucah trees” should be introduced to
give the kiddies one of the delights that
Christian children enjoy, with a proper
Jewish twist; but the elders of the congre-
gation objected to what they regarded as
a dangerous idolatrous innovation.
“Lud”; In Daly’s Theatre latest song-
and-dance offering—“ Yvonne,” now in the
“provinces”—a trio of artists well liked in
Australia are taking the principal parts.
Mamie Watson, the dainty “O’Brien Girl”
of the Ward-Fuller show; Joy Laurier, the
broad low-comedian of the Tivoli circuit; and
Mona Magnet, the volatile little revue lady,
are all happily placed and scoring heavily.
“E.T.”; Two old and well-nigh forgotten
favorites of the stage, “Little Mary” and
“Little Tich,” are presently to be seen again.
Barrie’s comedy has been selected by Gregan
McMahon for the next production of the
Sydney Rep. Society. Diminutive “Tich,”
still one of the biggest vaudeville stars over-
seas, will be returning to Australia to appear
under the Tivoli management. He appeared
on the same stage over a quarter of a century
ago under Harry Rickards’s management.
“Lud” : Noel Coward, popular in London
as an actor as he is as an author (perhaps
more so, for such plays as “The Vortex”
and “Easy Virtue” are not for all theatre-
goers), is appearing in a piece of which he
is not the author —a new experience for him.
In the cast of the play, an adaptation of
Margaret Kennedy’s novel “The Constant
Nymph,” is included Marie Ney. whose good
work in. Australia is not forgotten.
"Sc h no rrer” ;
The mixture of
ham and kosher in
the last act of
“Abie’s Irish Rose”
is a weird impossi-
bility ; but there is
a quaint lack of
knowledge of the
requirements of the
Jewish law even
amongst those who
try to be faithful.
At a luncheon a
Jewish actress—
who subsequently
confined herself to
fish, salads and
sweets —was talk-
ing about a great
e n terta inment
offered to her com-
pa n y elsewhere.
“Unfortunately, the
food not being
kosher, • I nearly
starve d,” she
added. She hap-
pened at the time
to be eating
oysters; all shell-
fish are trafah —
the same as pork.
Not long ago the
Londo n Jewish
Chronicle remark-
ed anent a Pales-
ti n e publication,
that “it is bad
taste, to say the
least, for a Jewish
religious journal to
publish advertise-
ments of such
things as oysters,
and veal and ham
pasties.” Inciden-
tally, a couple of
years ago an enter-
prising Syd n e y
firm took a full
page in a local
Jewish journal to advertise Christmas pre-
sents !
“Bisley” ; Stanley Mackay, actor, producer
and touring showman, has just put on the
first pantomime at the Federal capital.
There have been others, however—political
farces, knock-about foundation-stone com-
edies, weird versions of “On Our Selection,”
anti-prohibition stage luncheons, and a long
and prosperous season of comic strikes.
Mackay’s is probably the most persistent and
successful of the touring shows, in spite
of the ill-luck that has dodged him. On
a Northern Rivers tour a few years back,
baggage and effects were carried by a motor-
lorry that went down in a punt crossing the
Clarence River. Coming recently from M.L.,
his luggage was lost; but that did not deter
him from christening Canberra with a
musical show.
“Curtain Raiser” : Melbourne music-lovers
are duly grateful to the existing symphony
orchestras for their efforts to supply enter-
tainment ; but because they want better,
Ormond Professor Heinze’s project of form-
ing an orchestra of 80 professional musicians,
to be called the Musicians’ Union Concert
Orchestra, will be thankfully received. The
modern professional music-maker is a singu-
larly accomplished person. Half his time he
is apt to “rum-te-tum” at vaudeville shows,
cinema shops and jazz halls; and in the other
half he may be interpreting Beethoven’s
999th to highbrow audiences. In the jazz
school he acquires great manual dexterity
which the orthodox student seldom has the
time or necessity to master. The new organi-
sation will appear at the Athenaeum on the
afternoon of November 11.
“Bisley” : Australia also has a “Vanishing
Race.” The survivors can be seen at the
Point any day on the look-out for a “shop.”
At present very few showmen will take out
drama; and the thespians eke out a scanty
existence canvassing, spruiking and “super-
ing” at the Bondi studio. Unlike the vaude-
villain the dramatic man has but one art,
and he hangs to it hoping that soon an
“angel” will hie along with the cash to
revive drama. Soon more familiar faces
will be seen around the Sydney Criterion;
for the Show dates are about finished for this
year; and all cos. at present touring will
lay off till the next run of “dates.” George
Sorley is already back. He will probably
open in Balmain.
“Coppertop”: A novel concert entertain-
ment was recently given by ' the Barambah
aboriginal concert party at Kingaroy (Q.).
A complete aboriginal brass band played;
and its programme of over 20 items pleased
a packed audience at the local theatre.
Takings amounted to £54, for the Barambah
Mission funds.
“Stellsby” : But was Ellaline Terriss here
in “His Excellency” in the ’nineties?
“Joseph” (B. 28/10/’26) will find, I think,
that the lady’s first visit to Australia was
with her husband, Seymour Hicks, three
years ago. Also, the Claude Flemming men-
tioned by “Joseph” was, I fancy, Herbert.
Claude’s debut was in “Sweet Nell” at Mel-
bourne Princess 25 years ago.
“Wart”: The “pitchers” will be blamed
for two things which happened on the same
day in the Speck. A junior State-school
teacher was sent to cash a cheque for £!18,
the fortnightly pay of a Launceston school
staff. He was found later in a lane, appa-
rently unconscious, with a handkerchief tied
over his face and 28 pound-notes short. He
told the police that he had been dragged into
the lane, chloroformed and robbed. But as
there were no signs of a struggle and no
chloroform on the handkerchief, lie confessed.
At Waratah a collector of accounts told
the police an easily-disproved tale of the
robbery under arms of £4O by two armed
men with their faces blackened. As estimable
Tassy citizens have been filmed as members
of me convict gang, the next tale, no doubt,
will be one of 50 lashes at the triangles and
cannibalism.
From an Adelaide critic:
Adelaide Camera Club, showing at the Society of
Arts Gallery, has a display of solid all-round merit..
There are no fireworks, and there is little attempt
to make a photo masquerade as something else. Of
the two names always prominent in this Club,
Wilkinson does not compete, but shows a specially-
screened batch of landscapes; and P. H. Williams
again wins the champion award, with a cleverly
lighted study of chairs on a verandah, the title,
“The Guests Have Departed,” giving just the requisite
touch of imagination. The figure-studies are not
as good as the landscapes, but K. P. Phillips has
some good work, including a fine study of Mrs.
Wilfred Neill as Anna Christie.
Art in massed formation :• —
The 336 pictures exhibited on behalf of the London
Society of Graphic Arts at Farmer’s Gallery, Syd-
ney, have a stunning effect in their multitude; it is
a matter of impossibility to take all the big collec-
tion in, and an impression is given that a better show
could have been made if many of the minor pictures
had been left out. The society claims to exist to
foster those forms of art which do not use color for
expression; but the catalogue’s attack on color art
is rather absurd and quite unnecessary. The only
Australian represented is Sydney Long, who has four
pleasing plates of Australian landscape, containing a
touch of imagination. A pencil drawing of Cassel
by Douglas Andrews; an aquatint, “Sun and Storm in
Suffolk,” by Leonard Squirrel; a “Stormy Sky Over
St. Michael’s Mount,” by Geoffrey Gamier; and a
well-handled cathedral picture by Percy 'Westwood,
in which the masses of the religious pile are thrown
into relief by the pygmy procession marching in
through one of the doorways, are amongst the offer-
ings that hit the eye hardest.
A Melbourne Art show:—
Rupert Bunny is still throwing bombs at orthodox
art canons, and 80 of his more recent explosions are
on view at the New Gallery. His exhibition will
doubtless raise a furious controversy as it did in
Sydney 18 months ago, and the controversy will
miss the essential note of his challenge. That chal-
lenge is addressed to the school of art that goes
into the country with no particular emotions, but with
a preconceived idea of what a landscape should be
composed of. It dexterously avoids any features not
conventionally regarded as artistic; and as all its
members leave out the same things, pictures of quite
maddening similarity follow. Bunny courageously
tackles all sorts of incongruous objects, and the
products arei some truly horrible vegetable salads, as
well as many vivid and fetching impressions. No. 1
is an example of the latter as Nos. 9 and 10 are of
the former. However, if his show induces a few
local practitioners to cast a more inquisitive and
untrammelled eye on the Australian scene it will
have justified itself.
VAUDEVILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I fill the bill —make room for me I
I nightly spill Variety.
A bit of this, a bit of that—
A hit or miss ; I’m never flat.
I must be quick ; it’s touch and go;
I turn the trick or kill the show.
I get a laugh ; my joke I make —
I’m half-and-half; I’m Art and Fakel
See, when I come from out the wings,-
The rolling drum a welcome flings.
I’m on my own, and you’ll agree
The saxophone was made for me.
They shout “Hurrah!” but well I know
The orchestra is half my show.
I come, I go ; I scatter mirth;
I take my show around the earth.
I make my hit, get my critique;
And I am It—for one short week.
My work is crowned if I’m the cause
Of one good round of real applause.
The only fame I yearn for still
Is my own name big on the bill!
N.S.W.
A.H.A.


Only 7 weeks to Christmas!
Order your Suit -to- Measure Now.
All-wool Worsted
Suits-to-Measure
£6\6\-
at GO WINGS’
Because of its light weight and soft, even weave, the Worsted Suit is
recommended for Summer. It is cool, and will give exceptional service,
even under extreme conditions. The new season’s Worsteds are now
available, and there is a choice of Greys, Fawns, or Browns, and the
new art shades in a full range of stripes, checks, and overchecks. These
Suitings are all pure wool, which means that they wear well and at all
times retain their original smart appearance. Made to exacting standards
from your measurements for £6/6/-
Special Offer!
£717/- Navy Twill Serge
Suits-to-Measure
£61419
Bought at a big concession direct from the Mills by our London Buyer.
This Serge is guaranteed in colour, and is a fine Botany Twill weave.
Tailored to measure in our usual high-grade manner. Worth £7/7/-.
Now Special at £6/4/9
15/6 Aeroplane Cloth
DUST COATS
dfd
Protect your suit from dust when travelling in the train, when
motoring, or even when you are walking about the streets. These
light-weight dust coats are of dark Slate Grey Aeroplane Cloth
of extra fine texture and hard-wearing quality, and made with
Raglan shoulders, vertical pockets, and belt all round.
Usually 15/6. Special at 11/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Gowing Bros., Ltd
486 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 and 454 George-Street.
Our Extensive Range of Suitings is priced at
£5/5/-, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/15/-, £9/15/-
Post this Coupon for Patterns
Messrs. Cowing Bros., Ltd.,
486 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Please forward me, by return mail, full range of
patterns of your suits-to-measure together with tape
measure and easy self-measurement form.
Same
Address
B. —4/11/’26.


mmm
i
PH
. t .mm »
PiPsife
mnmrnm
-
mm
j§§§
jjlMlll 1 iiilllliiiilll
Head Offices for
Messrs. Huddart,
Parker, Ltd.,
Wellington, N.Z.
Architects :
Messrs. C right on ,
McKay & Haughton.
Contractors:
Messrs.
Mitchell & King.
Reinforced thro ugh -
out on the B.R.C.
System .
fddfd
ď
Not only in Australia, but in New Zealand—where conditions demand
construction of buildings that will resist earth shocks—B.R.C, Fabric is
recognised as the safest of all reinforcements.
In addition to the safety factor are its ease in handling, its accuracy of spacing
and the increased speed with which it allows constructional work to be carried
DUt.
Leading architects, constructional engineers and builders
now recognise that B.R.C. is the foremost of all concrete
reinforcements .
mmm
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861, Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Australia), Ltd,, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
nrrrrrrTrrrrrTrnr:
itrrrrrrrrrrrmnrra


Thousands are turning
to this Modern New Six
wmiiiiiiiiiiiiu
It has:
Speed between 60
and 70 honest
miles an hour.
Extraordinarily
long sustained
high speed. Power
on any hill to pass
most cars on high.
Quick as a cat-
acceleration 5 to
25 miles in 11/zl l /z
seconds. Power-
ful four-wheel me-
chanical brakes,
the last word in
safety. 54 horse-
power,long stroke
motor, rated at 20.
The tax saving is
only part of this
economy.
Startling changes are occuring in
motor cars.
Cars that have been “modern” for five
years are being swept into the dis-
card by the revolutionary efficiency
of new engineering ..
The Willys-Knight “70” Six with the
most powerful standard motor of its
size in the U. S. A. was born this year .
It embodies the most advanced —the
most efficient engineering—from
both sides of the world.
It is the fastest selling Six of its
price. Thirty thousand were sold
the past three months. Production,
twice increased, still lags behind de-
mand. Every owner tells a friend.
The story spreads.
Better and more powerful than any
motor of its size when new, it grows
smoother, more powerful, more effi-
cient with use. Steep hills, roads deep
in mud and sand are nothing to this
powerful motor,
It has no valves to grind. You never
lay it up for carbon-cleaning.
It is practically trouble-proof and
wear-proof. No Willys-Kmght
motor, so far as we know, has ever
worn out ♦. ♦ owners drive their cars
far beyond the average life of the
average car.
You will find the Willys-Knight Six to
be the most economical and continu-
ously satisfactory car you can drive.
In style and body-design it is beauti-
ful. Colors blend into a harmonious
whole. The enduring finish will last
for years.
We believe it is the most perfectly
suited car for most families.
Ride in it. Drive it. You will find
it the car you long have been
looking for.
WILLYS/i
knightO
£. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT.
WIUYB.OVBEIAN D •
FINE
. MOTOR • CARS


Dependable
GUNS
and ■
RIFLES
Attractively Priced
at
Mick Simmons’
No. 2.
No. 2—STEVEN’S “LITTLE SCOUT”
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 22-calibro,
18-in. round steel barrel, open rear
and knife-edged front sights;
weight about 2ilb
26/-
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/8; other
States 2/2.)
No
No. 5 —STEVENS “FAVOURITE”
RIFLE, 22, 25 or 2,2 calibres, R.F. or
W.R.F., round 24-in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech-block,
take-down action, open front and
sporting rear sights; weight,
4ilb ...
46-
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/9; other
States 3/2.)
No. 2G.
No. 20 REMINGTON HAMMER-
LESS REPEATING RIFLE; Model
12a, 22-cal., solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 22-in. round barrel,
handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long
rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and
open front sights
weight, 4flb
£5/5/-
(Carriage paid.)
No. 14.
No. 14—THE CERT CO.’S p.8.R.i..
GUN, 12-gauge, top-lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock;
weight about 71b.. .
£3/17/6
(Carriage paid.)
No. 25.
No. 25—8.5. A. D.B. HAMMERLESS
SHOT-GTJN. 12-gauge. 30in. barrels,
both choke, nitro proof, fluid com-
pressed steel barrels, automatic safety
pistol grip; wei
about Gifib
£l4/5/-
(Carriage paid.)
No.
No. 1 —AMERICAN SINGI <E-
BARREL BREECH - LOADING
GUN, 410-gauge, top-lever. Siemen’s
steel barrel. 28-in. solid, ease-
hardened, rebounding lock:
weight about 441 b
55/-
(Carriage paid.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Snorts
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
s-wwprrwsrv Is.
i si
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
pitsh: rubber.
MICOTINE-PROOF PIPES. Guaranteed.
1 ' The sweetest on earth. In Prime Briars,
(i/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free. Smokers
delighted; write now for copy testimonials.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
gYDNB Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: THE FAKE.
3YD NE Y’S BEST SHOWS
Direction.... Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
THEATRE ROYAL:
ABIE S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES:
MERCENARY MARY.
FU LLER S’ TIIE ATRE :
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY V \« ORVILLE.
The World's Host.
Amusements.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KATJA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
BROWN SUGAR.
KING’S THEATRE:
MARY ROSE.
A T H E N A: U M THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Prank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
Farewell to Australia —Last Nights of
HARRY GREEN
In the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIES.
Plans at Allan’s.
DIRECTION E. J. CARROLL.
H/JAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE OVERLAND LIMITED.
Thrilling romance of the iron road, featuring
MALCOLM McGREGOR, OLIVE BORDEN
and ALICE LAKE.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7750
MEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3261.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
1 1 MELBOURNE.
GEORGE O’BRIEN in
THE SILVER TREASURE.
ALSO
BEBE DANIELS in
THE SPLENDID CRIME.
Prices as usual.
XHE NEW OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE,
1 WIRTHS’ PARK.
WIRTHS’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS.
“The Greatest Show on Earth.”
New Acts specially engaged by Mr. Geo. Wirth on
his recent tour of the world.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
MOVIE BOOKS
fd
Read the complete novels from which the pictures
were made. Cloth bound. Pocket size.
FOR 2/6
POST FREE
COBRA, by Brown & Holman. Featuring Rudolph Valentino.
THE IRON HORSE, by E. C. Hill. Fox’s epic picture.
THE MAN ON THE BOX, by H. McGrath. Featuring Syd Chaplin.
II- EACH. POST FREE.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS Ltd.
107-109-111-113 Elizabeth Street Melbourne
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
' 5
i
***
9"
f 9
9*9*
vvl
iv r / ■
Pleasing m flavour and texture to people
with natural appreciation of fine quality.
/soId.EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE 6 1 CO LTD
SYDNEY
IF YOUR BOY WANTS A RIFLE
dfd
Model 02, 35/-
Model 04, 457-
Carriage Free.
he wants one that is ACCURATE, one that is RELIABLE, and one that is SAFE TO HANDLE.
The celebrated “WINCHESTER” Models 02 and 04 possess all these qualities. They shoot
either the 22 short long, long-rifle or extra-long cartridges—four different loads—with that
deadly accuracy for ’which the name “WINCHESTER” is world-famous. Their actions are so
Sin n le and strong that there is nothing to get out of order. The holt action closes right over
the head of' the cartridge and protects the shooter from any risk of blowbacks. And—these
rities are cheap.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Horton B.: Improved; but mists still hang
over the end. .. . D.T.H.: “Romance” is merely words.
The other has better quality, but it has been thrown
together... .Partnership: Mo. 2 is the more eupho-
nious. .. .J.C.G.: “Jessie” is very primitive humor.
G.D.P.: M T ot credible M. Suth: “Sentimen-
talist” very well written ; but we can’t believe the
Australian would do it. . . .Paul : “Dream” too late.
. ...S.R.M.: Good yarn poorly told. .. . V.C.W.:
What, another dream!... .L.H.C.: Of the bunch the
talkative lady is most interesting
She breathed me some beer and onions
And edged up quite like a young Belle,
Began to talk of her Bunions
And a lot more she had to tell.
. ...C.G.CC.: Your “bottle-oh!” is a dead marine.
... .Elsie S.: Such stuff as your dreams are made of
not suitable for The Bulletin. .. .G.R.P.: Thanks for
telling us we may “print it for nothing.” We like
what we print to be worth more than that. . . .C. 0.8.:
M T o need to ask where is your “Wandering Boy”
to-night. In our morgue... .Julia P.: Cumbersome;
and if you can get rhymes out of company-colony
and shadowy-westerly, we can’t... .T.A.L.: If the
rhymes had been right, the scansion less rocky, and
there had been a; little thought in it, it might have
made verse. .. .P.L.N.: “Australia cares for nothing
but pleasure.” Well, do you know any country that
has a liking for pain ?. .. . Eucal: Rhymed chronicle
of Manfred’s performances scratched.... Siv : When
designing your next story, please employ a new
spider. . . .R.W.Iv.: The verse’s last leg broke and the
whole thing fell down. . . .W.E.8.: That masquerade
isn’t probable. . . .Mavis lv. P.: Dear child, does it
not occur to you that after a man has been shot
the dancing will cease?. .. .Geo. W.: Not bad, what
there is of it; in fact, it is very nearly a story....
C.M.G.: Unsavory Con L.: Your “idol with feet
of clay” is merely a nightmare with no feet at all
—which is worse G.J.A.S.: Too long for interest;
but it has bright patches. We particularly liked
His age was hard to guess at
Say, some sixty years or more,
Though he showed some youthful vigor
When he spat upon the floor.
.... J.C.: Well, why think about them —whatever they
are?. .. .R. 8.; Has some resemblance to that master-
piece “The Wild Colonial 80y”... .Mavis P.: You’ve
got a dramatic sense, but your “Prodigal” has stepped
right out of the movies.... Coreen N.: As stiff as a
surfbather on the first Monday of the season.... J. 8.:
You started by being “I,” finished up by being
“he,” and you awoke no more interest than if you’d
been “it” Bib: More an autobiography than a
story ; should be acceptable elsewhere. ... J.M.C.: Mere
jingle... .J.R.P.: After reading 500 words without a
stop we supplied 0ne.... .S.A.L.: “The Baby Sleeps.”
No need to wake it. . . .0.L.8.: Very drab. .. .M.K.P.:
Lurid little melodrama. .. .G.L.R.: The frigid North
froze us stiff. .. .G.C.: Not of Australian interest. ...
P.E.R.: “The Chit” is not worth the paper it’s
written 0n.... Bluebush: Burning it would save you
much disappointment... .A.11.T.: Dreadful!. .. .H. 8.:
Too slight.... Roy: Would have liked to use your
defence of Ma-in-law, but it’s too commonplace.—
J.A.L.: Evidently spring is late in arriving in your
neighborhood.. ..W.C.: “Passing” fails to pass....
Reo: The billy verse doesn’t hold water.. . .M.J.T.:
The “....” is legitimate now and again ; but your MS.
is dotty enough for a lunatic asylum... .M.R.C.:
Those repeated rhymes make sounds as of unreverential
persons starting on the soup. .. .May Mac: No need
to run it to 5000 words when you settle all doubts
in 3000. .. . J.E.P.: Did you think it unnecessary to
look over your MSS. after the typist had done her
worst; or was “He left her comma left her alone
semicolon not even looking at her period” inten-
tional? J.E.C.: Not in The Bulletin's line....
P.O’F.; On second reading its honey-sweetness palls.
. ...W.J.R.: Yes, it is a puzzle. And we don’t run
competitions... .A. 8.: “To Be or Not To Be” is not
to be.... A.8.W.: So misty that they never will be
missed. .. . J.P.F.; The lady has a peck of adventures ;
but they’re too melodramatic.... L.H.: That wind
cannot cavort in these pages. .. .E.D.: It isn’t a
story... .P.M.W.: It holds an atmosphere of great
expectancy:—
Listen, listen, do I hear him coming?
The sounds of those horses’ hoofs are like buzzing
bees humming.
I stand, stare, then hold my breath.
Those sounds send thrill after thrill threw my chest.
At last it doth come nearer to me.
Y'es then I feel myself at liberty.
Those burning kisses on my cheeks
I feel as though- I could hold my belovered for weeks.
. ...A.E.W.: A bombastic outburst.... Spad : “Pups”
hasn’t a dog’s chance... .G.M.C.: The crime of your
hero is a voice crying in a wilderness of words. . . .
J.A.H.: The psychological complex-study is not a
story N.M.Bi.T.: It has the mechanical action of
a rusty lawn-mower. .. .T.F.: In a conversation be-
tween such characters the Cynic should at
least be bright and the Fool amusing. .. .P.W.K.:
Your “Call” moves us not. .. .E.J.G.: Using 50 words
to say “shave and haircut” humorously is one of the
reasons of your failure.. . .A.S.P.S.: Crude little story.
Gal. O’B.; “Tipperary” is indeed a long, long trail
a-winding. .. .M.E.T.: The train story runs on poor
lines... . J.J.R.: “Oh, let me weep upon your breast.”
The high cost of laundry-work compels us to refuse.
. ...M.8.C.: Source of inspiration obvious in the
story of Irish-Jew who knocked down the man for
mentioning pork.... Horace M.: Oh, what a falling
off was there, Horatio! R.M.T.: It was much
written about in many papers recently... .C.McE.:
“Carrots” is a good yarn spoiled by carelessness.
You’ve even been casual enough to send in your
sheets unnumbered and mixed. .. .Emer: Your trouble
is that you want to make a long article out of the
whole business, instead of making a brief par. out
of the striking or unknown incident. For instance,
there’s the scene in the receiving room—you’ve sub-
merged it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.E.C.: Listen for the postman’s whistle. They’re
coming home... .G.J.M.: Drab little scratches... .
R.T.P.: Collapse of drunk due more to flimsy legs than
drink... .C.L.: Hasn’t a redeeming feature... .R.N.:
If it is not original don’t trouble.... S.E.: Yes, we
have had worse, but not often.... 0.P.: Henry’s
exit from the mushroom patch was not swifter than
your own flight K.E.S.: Evidently you’re deter-
mined not to draw a line longer than l-16th in
H.L.: A shapeless pair of infants saying something
to an angular aunt... .G. 5.8.: The blots'and smudge
prevented us from seeing what it is all about....
A.J.M.: Baldheaded joke tagged to a lame drawing.
.... L.A.F.: A sanguinary fate awaits the next con-
tributor who attempts to pass off the old gag about
the headstone and the searfpiu.


When Good Steel
is the Best Salesman
Four years ago, about 24,000 square feet of flooT
space was sufficient to produce all the Graham
Brothers Trucks the world demanded.
To-day, 2,570,040 square feet of floor space are
required.
Such phenomenal development means, certainly,
that truck owners everywhere appreciate that
Graham Brothers Trucks are built to serve.
Springs, axles and every vital part where strain can
come are made of the highest grade Chrome Vana-
dium Steel. . . which explains why Graham Brothers
Trucks outsell all others in their class.
Good steel is the best salesman.
Graham Brothers Trucks , with Dodge Brothers l-Ton 7
/ Commercial Cars, meet 90°l o of all haulage requirements. J
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.*
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and 1 ownsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty,, Ltd ,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
Built by Truck Division of Dodge Brothers, Inc.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
4/11/26.


j;0
Ideal Huts for
/-> Shearers ex
By building accommodation quarters for
your Rural Workers completely with
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement. Sheets, you
will ensure maximum durability and fire
safety at the minimum of cost. ;
“ FIBROLITE ” is a fire retardant, white ant
proof, vermin proof and permanently durable buil-
ding material for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Supplied in big sturdy building sheets
in 36 handy stock sizes, it is easily and quickly
erected. Waste is eliminated. Labour costs are
reduced to bedrock. No painting is required.
And, “FIBROLITE” costs less than weather-
boards and lining boards.
Write for Free Catalogue “ B ”
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
Car. York <sc Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane,
v 581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. /
ASBESTOS - CEMENT SHEETS
The
Bids
for
Him
J
may not start on the right level, but they will finish
on the right basis if he is offered at Winchcombe,
Carson’s sale.
The firm’s determination as stock salesmen never
swerves from that goal. And Winchcombe, Carson
have the energy, skill and experience to constantly
reach it. For highest prices—
CONSIGN SHEEP, LAMBS AND CATTLE TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, or ICnoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
[l
BRITISH MADE
V£lRr
QUALITY PENCIL
mm-
NOW f) EACH
BLACKS. EAR « 17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . . . .. . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Anst ralasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, < Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
f
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/-- per Day.
f
School lunches
kiddies ’off to\school me set ,
cWith. lunchesi made : from/ cj^nchovette.
PECKS
ANCHOVETTE
\
C /Always [keep > a ]ar£m the pantry
Harry
a
d
f
GUARANTEED FOR TWELVE MONTHS
The
Keepdry
Oilskin
COAT
famous “Smith”
Oilskins
A thoroughly depend-
able Oilskin fv. made
double throughout of
same material. Hand-
oiled. Leather bound
button holes <v, cuffs.
Storm Collar, Cuffs and
Fronts. Black or Yellow
shades. Will last for
Years.
d
Japarra Styles ... 92/6
Japan a Styles ... 104/6
Pike Bromers
LIMITED
In Queen Street Brisbane
State *iHtight and Chest ivhen Ordering eMail to "Desk “5.8.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Prickly Jack”: “Kelby” (B 14/10/’26)
compares Australian railway services un-
favorably with European and American ones,
but the Federal railway between Port
Augusta and Kalgborlie does not deserve his
doleful disparagement. The spacious car-
riages on this best service in Australia were
built by Australian workmen of Austra-
lian timber and Australian steel, and are
fitted up with dining-saloon, lounge, first-
and second-class sleeping berths, shower
baths and piano.
# * * *
“Whrilii" : One Buchan, a French chemist,
has evolved a fresh scheme for extracting
kauri gum-cliips from the dirt of the M.Lt.
fields. One process used to be soaking the
compound in brine, in which kauri gum
floats, bat the cost was high. The new idea
is to use a benzol solvent, to wash out the
gum and then evaporate the solvent and get
undamaged gum. A small plant has been
sent from England to be erected near the
'site of old Don Buck's camp at Henderson.
If it will give a flick to the gum trade there
will be many to bless it.
* * * *
“ITermes” : “Oartot” (B. 14/10/'2O) com-
plains that the postage on fragile parcels is
double that of ordinary parcels. This is not
so; it is but 50 per cent, higher. He is fur-
ther in error when he suggests that parcels with
the “Fragile” label do not receive special care
from the officials handling them. Actually they
are not forwarded in an ordinary canvas
mail-bag, like other parcels, but are placed
in a special cane hamper. As regards com-
pensation for his smashed articles, by the
payment of an extra four pence “Cartot’s”
parcel could have been insured to the value
of £2, or up to £5 by an additional twopence
per £. -
* * * *
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : The Australian pro-
prietors of “Aspro” have come to England.
In introducting their tablets here they have
entered on a very costly scheme of adver-
tising, including a page in the Daily Mail,
which must cost over £lOO0 —the front page
is regularly fought for at £l5OO. The name
of William Morris Hughes is prominently
featured in the preliminary flutter. The price
is Is. 3d. for 25 : and since Selfridge’s, the
huge American store in Oxford-street, sell for
Is. 9d. 300 tablets (five-grain) of guaranteed
pure asprin, the Melbourne product will need
a very strong push to popularise it with the
English public.
“No, I want a more expensive collar. It’s
for my wife’s pet dog.”
“Sorry, sir, but we have nothing more expen-
sive. Do you think it would he wise to
spend more on a dog? Someone might
steal dog and all.”
“Well, what the deuce else do you think I’m
buying it for?”
“Hamer”: An agitation that dates back
to the early days of the N.S.W. Labor party,
but has somehow lost itself in the political
labyrinth, may bear fruit in the intention of
the Lang Government to compel the stamp-
ing of all furniture made in Chinese work-
shops. One of my earliest political memories
is of a Laborite who mentioned this as one
of the things Labor would do “immediately
it was given power”; heartened by the
applause he added “the vegetables grown in
the Chinese gardens ought to be stamped
also.” The Chinese shops were brought under
the Factories and Shops Act, but when in-
spectors, egged on by the complaints of the
white furniture-makers, tried to enforce the
Act, they found that all the Celestials they
caught working were partners in the busi-
ness and therefore not amenable to the law’s
provisions regarding Working hours. Lang
proposes legislation to defeat that subter-
fuge.
* * * *
“Joe Willet”: If the ghost of Simon Tap-
pertit could revisit this world he would
probably take more than passing interest in
a case which recently came before the Chief
Justice of Victoria. In June an apprentice
named Fletcher claimed in the Richmond
Court £SO which he alleged was due to him
by an engineering firm on account of
wages. This amount was the difference
between what Fletcher, aged iS| years,
received under his articles of 'apprenticeship
and the amount payable in the trade under
the award of the Engineering Union. The
local P.M. allowed the claim, with costs.
This decision so irked the firm fo which the
apprentice was bound that it applied to the
Supreme Court for an order nisi to review
the finding, and that Court subsequently
made the order absolute, with 1 -Costs, and set
the decision of the Court of Petty Sessions
aside. But of course that doesn’t end it. and
the question whether the articles of an
apprenticeship are subject to variation by
the terms of a union award will go on to the
High Court


d
f
d
d
Chinese brush Writing
—dene -with ka.tr or
fine feather brushes
A custom so time-
honored as writing
with a fine brush
could scarcely be dis-
placed by a pencil
less beautiful, well-
balanced, easy-writ
ingand mechanically
perfect than Ever-
sharp. 7 he modern
Chinese finds Ever-
sharp so convenient
that he prefers it to
his brush.
There is only one
mmsmnp
The name is on the pencil
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Sole Wholesale Distributors fot
Australia:
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd.,
Rem ington House, Liverpool Street. Sydney.
'TO USE THIS 50A«
'THE FACE ANO RUBW
'neShaving Stick
'«KUP A LATHER on
msh,using plenty
INTO
f*\w
mm
m
1
2_
Brighten to-morrow’s shave
—by using Williams Shaving Stick
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick gives a rich, thick lather
that bulks large on the face. Its wetness penetrates the
oil film on the beard so that almost instant softening takes
place. Its mild quality leaves the skin, at the end of the
shave, feeling wonderfully softened and soothed.
You will see a decided improvement the first time you shave
with Williams. It is made by shaving-soap specialists. No
wonder it gives a better shave. Buy a stick to-day.
Williams sticks are unusually long lasting and therefore
economical. Men who prefer shaving cream, be sure to
ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Wl
HisMastcr's Voice
Records
1936.
, oveniber,
Selections from
November Supplement
To hear these remarkable records is to realise the supremacy of
His Master s Voice Records. Get your copy of this new sup-
plement and choose from the many items of musical excellence.
Ask your dealer for a copy or write us direct.
Greatest Artists—New Electrical Recording—Silent Surface.
7/6
PABLO CASALS (’Cello)—lOin. Red.
DA.776 Le Cygne (The Swan) ....... Saint-Saens
Moment Musical Schubert
FRITZ lIREISLER (Violin)—lOin. Red.
DA.777 —Gavotte in F Major (Beethoven) Trans, by A. W. 7/6
Kramer.
Menuet Bach-Winternitz
TITO SCHIPA (Tenor)— 12in. Red.
D 8.873 —Liebestraum No. 3 (Dream of Love) Liszt 10/6
- With Orchestral Accompaniment.
Ave Maria Tito Schipa
VICTOR SALON ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
EA.27—Ay, ay, ay (Freire) 4/_
Eternal Secret (Enriquez).
NEAPOLITAN TRlO—lOin. Plum.
EA.44 —Herd Girl’s Dream Labitzlcy 4/.
Happy Days Strelezki
ARTHUR PRYOR’S BAND— lOin. Plum.
EA.69—National Emblem—March 47-
Lights Out —March
SYDNEY COLTHAM (Tenor)—lOin. Plum.
B.2292—Dearest, I Love the Morning Haydn Wood 4/-
The Brightest Day .... Easthope Martin
GRESHAM SINGERS (Male Quartet)—lOin. Plum.
8.2233—C0me to the Fair (“Songs of the Fair”) Easthope 4/-
Martin.
The Clock is Playing P. Blaaw
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black.
D.lOB0 —“The Twilight of the Gods” 8/.
Siegfried’s Journey to the Rhine, Parts 1 and 2.
Wagner
THE BAND OF H.M. COLDSTREAM GUARDS—I2in. Plum.
C.l2l7—Martial Moments Arr. Aubrey Winter 6/-
Parts 1 and 2.
SAVOY ORPHEANS—IOin. Plum.
8.5046—The Prisoner’s Song—Fox Trot 4/-
By the Waters of Perkiomen —Waltz.
CHALIAPIN
in the impressive
“Coronation Scene”
from
“Boris Godounov.”
A wonderful Record.
D8.900— 10/6.
His Masters Voice
“Hii s Muster’s Voice,”
Registered Trade-marie.
“Gramophone,”
Registered Trade-mark.
JACK HYLTON AND HIS ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
B. —Valentine—One Step , Christine 4/.
So Does Your Old Mandarin—Fox Trot. Henderson
JEAN GOLDKETTE AND HIS ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
EA.42—Dinah—Fox Trot H. Akst 4/-
Always—Fox Trot I. Berlin
HERBERT DAWSON (Organ)—l2in. Plum.
C. 1258—Marche Pontificale Widor 6/,
Prayer and Cradle Song Guilmant
SIR HARRY LAUDER—I2in. Black.
D. Soosie McLean Lauder 8/-
When I Meet MaclCay .... —......... Lauder
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black.
D.lo79—“The Valkyrie’’—Wotan’s Farewell and the Magic 87-
Fire Scene Wagner
IRENE SCHARRER (Pianoforte)—l2in. Black.
D.loB7—Fantaisie Impromptu Chopin 87-
Impromptu in A Flat Chopin
PETER DAWSON (Bass-Baritone) —lOin. Plum.
8.2238—5 he is Far from the Land Lambert 47-
Love, Could I Only Tell Thee Capel
JACK SMITH (Humorous) —lOin. Plum.
8.2260 —Then I’ll Be Happy Brown & Friend 4/-
What Did I Tell Ya? De Sylva & Donaldson
ROBERT RADFORD (Bass)—lOin. Black.
E.42o—Father O’Flynn C. Villiers Stanford 5/6
Glorious Devon Edward German
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and
Records with name of nearest dealer sent free on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


i SWoW7V \
Every Man Needs
ASHSCSDNAMESI
G
To Mark His Linen
Ensures easy identification, saves a
mix-up and annoyance. CASH’S
NAMES excel Marking Ink, as they
can be attached to any fabric. Any
Name woven in Fast Color.
“A few stitches and they’re on. ”
Actual Size, Style No. C.
Prices: 12 doz, 7/6, 6 doz. 5 '-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. GASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
BOY SCOUTS
Equip Yourselves
with Marble’s waterproof
match box, coat compass,
safety axe, hunt-
ing knife and Game
Getter Gun (upper
barrel shoots .22 —
lower .44 shot and
ball. Stock folds. Hol-
ster furnished.) Boy
scouts should know about
160 Outing Specialties.
Skillfully made of best
material. All are camp
necessities.
Ask for Catalog.
Marble’s famous Boy Scout
Knife—The Woodcraft —is
used by Scouts the world
over. Finest steel blade,
tapering to fine point for
sticking, right curve for
skinning, thin enough for
slicing Handle of leather
and brass washers, highly
polished. Aluminum tip.
Leather sheath. A
beauty. Guar-
anteed.
m
Representative:
DAVID MOLDEN, Box 1349, Sydney
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U. S. A.
70 be healthu-
drink .
df
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Qttct.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
—~— ■ c —
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
* HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Proudest
Gift of his
"21st”!
GIVE him the “Key of the Door”
—and give him a “ROLEX"
WATCH. He’ll appreciate the “ Rolex ”
more than the fact that he is 21. And
a “ ROLEX ” will be to him a faith-
ful, life-long friend- and always bring
him home ON TIME.
ROLEX
Wrist and Pocket
WATCHES
For Reliability—Beauty and design
AND WONDERFUL VALUE.
for- CyVLen and Women<^D
AT ALL GOOD JEWELLERS
/
m
s / w% $
A
THE WORLD'S BEST -
dY EVERY TEST.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
u
03>y
4/6
Safety first
Shun experiments with your health.
The path of safety is to drink
ENO’s “ Fruit Salt ” —half a tea-
spoonful in a glass of water (warm
or cold) first thing every morning.
The fame of ENO is common
knowledge. For fifty-odd years
its multitudes of users have freely
extolled its virtues. They know as
a positive fact that ENO keeps
them fit and well, whatever the
climate or the season.
Prepared only by J. C. Eno Ltd., London, England,
Sales Agents. —The British Harold F. Ritchie & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney N.S.W.
“Coppertop”: My war-time cobber Soapy
had just received two tenners from home.
With the help of half a dozen of us he soon
got rid of one of them. Later he confided
in me that he had hidden the other in the
heel of his right boot, having taken off some
of the leather, cut a suitable hole, and then
patched it up again. During the next few
weeks Soapy had no opportunity of break-
ing into his bank. There came a day when
he got winged and was carried off rincon-
scious, boots and all. He lay in hospital for
some weeks and meanwhile his boots had been
soled and heeled by a convalescent in the
same ward. At the first opportunity Soapy
ripped off the right heel and out fell the
tenner with no greater damage than half a
dozen nail-holes through it.
“Wancliai”: An old resident of Hobart
told me this, and that’s a good many years
ago. When he was a boy in the Speck, shortly
after Bowen and Collins had settled on the
Derwent in 1803, the Peace of Amiens was
signed between France and England. Almost
simultaneously with the receipt of the news
a French frigate put into Macquarie Harbor.
The peace was short lived, and the two
nations were again at war by this time, but,
unaware of the fact that they were cheer-
fully entertaining the King's enemies, the
settlers feted the officers and crew. Before
the French captain moved on he sold to his
hosts a quantity of seed which he declared
to be that of the tobacco plant. These were
duly planted, but to the disgust of the early-
day Tasmanians, plantations of dock-weed
resulted. My informant left it a doubtful
point whether the French captain acted
maliciously or in pure ignorance.
“E. Globulus”: Re “Larrapinta’s” par. (B,
7/10/’26) concerning the exclusive use in
Australia of imported oak for making wine
casks. They were just as conservative in
Portugal until a shortage of oak during the
war caused them to try Australian blue gum
(Eucalyptus globulus). The tree was intro-
duced into that country in the first half
of last century. It proved itself a rapid
grower, and has been very extensively
planted. It was found that casks made from
blue-gum staves were very strong, and stood
up to rough usage in transit, while the small
amount of tannic acid in the wood gave to
port wine a very slight and agreeably tonic
taste. Tannic acid, by the way, is also present
in oak wood, and in small quantities is bene-
ficial, as it helps to clarify the wine by pre-
cipitating albuminous matter. Blue-gum
staves are also used in Portugal for making
the large storage vats, but it is a timber un-
loved by coopers, being more or less twisted
in the grain and difficult to work.
“Collector”: It happened in Brisbane. A
well-known bookie of the period dined one
night at an excellent restaurant run by an
accomplished Frenchman. The fielder had
had a good day, and did himself well, top-
ping off with an omelette aux champignons ,
a specialty of the house, served on a beau-
tiful old-fashioned silver platter. On his
way out the diner stopped to tell the pro-
prietor a bookmaker’s story, and sent the
point home with a poke of the finger in his
host’s ribs. Delighted at this patronage by
so eminent a guest, the smiling restaurateur
retaliated in kind, with the result that he
nearly dislocated his thumb. A compulsory
investigation, in which the writer helped,
showed that O’Rook was wearing his host’s
silver platter under his waistcoat. “I sup-
pose you don’t let him come in here now,
Gaston?” someone asked the host a few
days later. “Ah, but yes,” was the reply;
“ ’e vairy good customaire. But —my faith,
yes!—we sairve ’im now the omelette on
the crockairy plate.”
“Larrapinta”: The captain who lifted a
cargo of wheat in a windjammer from Port
Lincoln showed me the forepeak of his ship
filled with drums of white-lead, which he told
me with pride had cost him nothing. The
previous voyage he had been in Buenos
Ayres, and one night a heavily-laden
lighter pulled alongside the ship, and
a man climbed on board who asked
if the captain would allow him and
his mates to store a few tons of white-
lead on board, as they had nowhere to put
it on shore. The captain agreed, and the
lead was soon stowed. Next day the steve-
doring agent told him that a quantity of
white-lead had been pilfered from a wharf
the night before. The captain kept his own
counsel, and when the lighter came along-
side a few nights later he ordered the men
in it to clear out. They explained that they
had only called for their lead, but the captain,
picking up a shotgun he had placed handy,
informed them that the only lead he would
part with would come out of that. After a
volley of profanity from its crew the lighter
hurriedly vanished into the darkness. The
captain reckons he has now enough white-
lead to keep his ship painted for the next 10
years.
“X.N.O.”: Several Bulletin contributors
are convinced that “diehard snobbery” lies
behind inquiries as to the parentage of can-
didates for commissions, etc. Every regular
officer, army or navy, will emphatically deny
this; experience shows that the “pukka
sahib” will almost always handle men better
than the “ranker.” I speak from the naval
aspect, and I know from lower-deck men
themselves that they prefer to have as their
officers men whose early environment and
upbringing were different from their own.
(I say “different from,” not “superior to.”)
The lower-deck likes to have officers w r hom
they can regard as being on a different plane
from themselves, no matter what their
examinational and professional qualities may
have been. They cannot see how a man who
was yesterday one of themselves can to-
day know so much more about the officer's
job as to justify his promotion. The same
thing applies in dealing with candidates for
commissions, whether from the ranks or for
entry to Woolwich, Sandhurst or the Naval
Colleges. There is less chance of a brick-
layer’s son being a good officer than, say,
a lawyer’s son. The occupation of parents
is an index to the kind of upbringing a boy
has had. Exceptions to the rule, of course,
there may be; but it is emphatically not
snobbery—it is am attempt to secure effi-
ciency along well-proved lines —that prompts
1 be. parentage inquiry.


Shipping. ___
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87951 - I‘l Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Past Modeiv, Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at llyron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
_ . BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
. Passengers’ Booking Office: .
lounst Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Briobane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co.. Ltd.
Ban king, Public Companies, etc.
1 he Australian Bank of Com inerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysagut, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D • Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: XV. G. Bull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
PERTH, IV.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairhairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYAKI)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,876,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
SIISOJ3O 53A130351
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street, Sydney. .
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by tlie
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager,
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA . . . 13,000 tons disp. NOV. 4, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 „ „ NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ DEC. 2, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ DEC. 16, for Vancouver.
♦New Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
i ' 1
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER BINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/ Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Britain
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
Sails Nov. 16 and. Dec. 28.
Solomon Islands
S.S. "MATARAM" (3500 tons),
Sails Nov. 13 and Dec. 22.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
02
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates.
No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE j
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 11,500 tons November 22
* Ulysses. .. . 14,626 „ December 7.
:|:Suevic 12,500 „ December 11.
*Anchises. . . 10,000 „ December 18
*First class only, thirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., litd.
Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire'Line
(lurnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union SS Co
ot New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker'
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine) Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen. J
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1819.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I'uiul
Reserve Liability
Directors
£6, 000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buekland, Esq,, President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq
James Burns, Esq
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. .London
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
414 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian Sta"es°?ew £? n i Th ) , ' e n < —eedle Street, _E.C. 2.
ts and Correspondents throughout the world. ’ Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreie-n r, • ,
and collected, Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the 1 world Forelgn 811 8 negotlate d
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE ana FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
CANBERRA.
(Melb. only).
KAROOLA. . .
(All Ports).
DIMBOOLA. .
(All Ports).
BOMBALA. . .
(Melb. only).
KATOOMBA.
(All Ports
inc. Albany).
. FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parked
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sj’dney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
Kor full particulars apply HUDOAIIT P/ RK It LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
I'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOR DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WAIT, SANDERSON.
I'el. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
RUPTURE.
I A FREE TRIAL.
| you are troubled with the complaint, write ut and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENJT air cushion appliance.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
hrst day s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
lt v and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published, on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly ’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


V-i
4 t
ar
iT /
*/
&
\
ftrftekVs;.,... l; , <((
» * X! :•
**
s
<3*
% ./ .i
f-tfV
-* I
f US
flGurti*
\N
p- ? r,*f)
'•»»v ;
A
W w JV
N VV,’
2*
J
\
X
\v V£
'"‘Wl
V,
5 i
v
KB 7441
*t A->w‘|Ki
Stamina for any emergency
Endurance for years of service
Rugged endurance, dependability and econ-
■ omy are assured owners of Studebaker cars
by the fine-quality of Studebaker materials and
workmanship.
You can confidently look forward to thousands
upon thousands of trouble-free miles from the
Studebaker you buy. That this is not an idle boast
is proved by the fact that over 800 Studebakers
have been reported as having been driven from
100,000 to 300,000 miles.
It is such demonstrated service which has made
Studebaker the world’s largest exporters of high-
powered cars.
If it is as good as a Studebaker you may be sure
that it costs considerably more. For Studebaker
alone builds quality cars on a One-Profit basis.
A e ba^ et
Cos tot °
tio^
o tS
aisf w
Australian and Neiv Zealand Distributors :
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at Newcastle.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
STUDEBAKER
BUILDERS OF QUALITY
fd
VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS


mw/P
iK#
I®
»fe
. «•
y
v,s
’<o
li «■
:-S f«S
=3p^ga
>
#2§gi|l
’■'^msg-J
■ - I wiS^^
- r m " -*- •
r 31 !
mm
MISS PA U LIN E
GAIiON sayl; “Rexona
Soap surely has my
hearty endorsement
REXONA 1
SOAP I
It’s
Medicated!
1/- per Tablet
Be a
Rexona
Girl!
Use only
REXONA
SOAP
for Health
and Beauty
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 32/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
dmtdtHiiiUA
* -
m
A
■ora
X
RS
7™
ma
o
162-166 Pitt StSydney ,
and Cr. George S King Sts
‘ What a lovely
Gift! ”
Night Riders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A FIERY snake, the Western Mail,
Glides nightly down the shining rail;
Her warning whistle’s hissing blast
Disturbs me in my “sleeper,” and—
With heavy eyes a darkened land
I see in shadow flying past.
And then into a traveller’s dream
I fall again. The engine’s scream,
The grinding brakes, the constant roar,
Still in sub-conscious noise go on;
But backward has my vision gone
To old Colonial days once more.
* * * *
The railhead lies at Penrith town !
To-night the Bathurst coach brings down
A steep Blue Mountainside its load ;
To-day the Sydney coach sets out
With crack of whip and speeding shout
To take the chancey Western-roaL
A driver to a grinning groom
Has whispered in the harness-room.
So rumors rise and warnings fall,
For someone got it o’er the cup:
“The escort with the mail’s stuck up—
The work of Gilbert and Ben Hall!”
A girl from Gulgong heard the news ;
And in a midnight vision views
Four gallant robbers riding through
A lonely bushland towards the west.
Each wears a waistcoat, double-breast,
Tight breeches and a poncho blue.
Their “cabbage-trees” are downward drawn ;
They will not halt before the dawn ;
With bulging wallets on they ride
Through timbers tall, with lathered reins
And flagging hoofs, across the plains
To covert by the Lachlan side.
The gayest of the gang is hers.
She rides by him with bloody spurs;
And, furtive, feels the nippled caps,
They must keep dry At half-past four
She wakes the household with a roar—
A nightmare yell: “The traps! The
traps!”
But prim Miss Paget heard foreby
The ostler’s story with a sigh ;
And though a holiday in town
With Sydney friends is passing sweet,
One did not chance, one swears, to meet
A nicer man than Trooper Brown.
Miss Paget in her night’s unease
Another band of horsemen sees,
In black peaked caps and corduroys.
Brave Trooper Brown rides well ahead
Ppon his dripping thoroughbred,
The doyen of the mounted boys.
Along their Terry rifles gleam
The glinting starlights in her dream,
With deadly Colts strapped to their sides
1 hey gallop, gallop through the dim
Bush shadows, unafraid, by him,
A tear upon her cheek, she rides!
By Lambing Flat, by Bargo Brush,
Across the creeks and through the bush
\\ ith Death, or Freedom, either hand:
two foolish hearts are beating fast
As m that restless night go past
The troopers and the ranging band !
Those Midnight Riders ne’er again
Will gallop over range and plain
stern pursuit or wild escape;
jNor will they lend to slumbers light
Ur dainty dreamers in the night, •
By Penrith Town, such anxious shapes.
r^. or Rime's impartial scythe must sweep
Jhe I ields of Life. Those riders sleep.
Aye, well or ill, they sleep away
And o er a settled land the sun
Wul nse again, when night is done,
lo bring a brighter, better day.
The girl from Gulgong in the morn
A table set, with inward scorn,
As proud Miss Paget, holding high
the envied skirts of her estate,
ame down to breakfast, somewhat late,
lo lisp her orders with a sigh.
Both bush and field with sunlight glowed
■.swaying up the Mountain road,
p . western day-coach shortly went.
>y crinoline and stove-pipe hat
Ihe squatter’s daughter, silent, sat..,
rne girl above her table bent;
With tightened lip she took her broom
tidy up the breakfast-room
Pin "? eet k° r <i»ily task once more ;
\vni as , tllo . o oa c h passed out of view,
i burning hand she fiercely threw
-v sn ver coin without the door!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Swell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. GEOFFROY DE RAMP (pro-
nounced “Rom’’) landed from the
Earl of Ditclifield early in 1817,
an to °k Sydney by storm. That is not to
n. y / lat ie was a piratical person with a
J at guardly following who came and sacked
flo tf ’ wn : Ris rather a statement of the
tint his moral ascendancy over the in-
-Btr! ant u le kittle village by the Tank,
in aeßan immediately after he set foot
lp Place. He came, lie was seen and
]eaJ° nClnereC *‘. rom the Governor to the
Svdn Bu !; tersn iPc playing on the sands of
0 ’ splendid, gracious, courtly,
rnridf™ 118 delightful gentleman out of
admirnf- t 0 3 tr ih u te of affection and
acquire l from UC i as fow mon are able to
heard of v 1 strangers. Nobody had ever
that he was ll^ii b n fore, . J b V t nobod y doubted
word and to„ aU ae said he was. His mere
froy wa a V ay ; so were sufficient. For Geof-
aneient or rnla ry rmce of Confidence Men,
termed a i, ln , those days he was
a member of the Swell Mob; but,
with a single exception, not a soul in Sydney
took him to be that.
It was very unusual, at the beginning of
the nineteenth century, for anyone who was
not a soldier or an official to land in Sydney
Cove without an escort of fixed bayonets,
so that the arrival of this elegant and re-
splendent gentleman in the naval officer’s
boat, quite unattended by redcoats, was in
itself so remarkable a circumstance as to
cause something of a sensation on the water-
front. He climbed up to the King’s Wharf,
top-liatted, tail-coated, snowy-linened and
entirely debonair, and stood for a few
moments leaning on liis gold-topped malacca
with easy grace, the while he quizzed through
his eyeglass the unfamiliar scene in which
he found himself so very obviously in the
limelight.
A quaint little place was Sydney in those
days. Its site had changed during thirty
years from a primeval forest in a valley
into something that bore the semblance of
a town. But it was as yet little more than
an English village strangely set down in
the Antipodes. There were big stone Store-
houses and Government offices, barracks and
a gaol; but that part of it in which its citi-
zens dwelt was still only the type of many
an ancient hamlet on the coasts of Devon
or Kent or Hampshire.
Mr. de Ramp sauntered elegantly up the
jetty, viewing the sunlit scene through his
tortoise-shell eyeglass with an interest that
was not too vulgarly interested. His de-
portment and manner, as he progressed with-
out hurry to the landward end of the pier,
betokened the refined point of view witli
admirable exactness.
Suddenly lie stopped dead and his mouth
fell open, whilst the eyeglass dropped to tin-
full length of the watered silk ribbon that
looped it about his satin-stocked neck, and
hung against his flowered silk waistcoat.
A little nervously he blew his nose as he
gazed at a gentleman as elegant as himself
who had just stepped out from behind the
sentry-box on the edge of the strand.
This was a young man of pleasing aspect,
who was also very tastefully tailored, and
wore his rich raiment as easily and natu-
rally as did Mr. de Ramp himself. He was
of athletic build, about six feet in height,
and was distinctly good-looking. He bowed
to the newcomer, and that gentleman, recov-
ering his self-possession, advanced a few
paces and returned the polite and friendly
salute in the same gracious spirit in which
it had been offered. The two gentlemen sur-
veyed one another for a few seconds through
their eyeglasses, much to the edification of
Private Jeremiah Monk, of PI.M. 46th Regi-
ment, who, upon his relief from sentry-go
an hour later, informed the occupants of
the main guardhouse in Grosvenor-street
concerning the incident.
“I do tell ’ee, laads, ’twere vair lovely vor
to zee ’un. Our Muster Pilkington, lie steps
roun’ tlr box, an’ ’e bends ’isself—thisaway.
Then this ’ere .Tolinny-come-laately ’e does
it, too-—an’ they stands there a-sizin’ oop
of each other like as if they was long lost
brothers or mortial enemies. There ain’t
never afoor been such a meetin’ o’ two such
swells in Sydney town, since th’ day
tli’ plaacc Avas started !”
Which latter statement was entirely true.
Mr. Pilkington, betraying in his expression
nothing but polite and friendly interest, bade
the stranger welcome.
“Good morning, tliir. I twutht that you
are well. May I pwethume to make you
Avelcome to our plathe of ecthile? You are
but jutht awwived, I take it —by the Earl
of Ditchfield ? Pway, permit me, ath an old
inhabitant of the town, to ecthtend to you
thuch thervitheth ath one gentleman may
offer to another. Pway, have you any bag-
gage in the boat, and do you need diweetion
of any thort?”
“Egad, sir, you do me honor,” replied
the other exquisite, bowing again. “I am
vastly indebted to you, sir. Yes, I am but
newly arrived from England—by the Earl
of Ditchfield. My baggage remains aboard
the ship. I have letters of introduction to
his Excellency the Governor, and to one
or two other people here. But I am a
stranger in a far country, and I would take
it, sir, as vastly obliging of you if you
Avould be so good as to recommend me to a
lodging. I am sure that I may leave myself
safely in your hands. My name, sir, is
Geoffroy de Ramp, of Midden Hall, near
Maidstone, in Kent. I am come to the
colony upon a certain mission, which I hope
to have opportunity of explaining to you
at some later time. Your hand, sir. I pro-
test that your kindness to a stranger fills
me with gratitude and—ah—high apprecia-
tion. May I request the honor of making
your acquaintance—of learning to whom I
may be indebted for so friendly and heart-
warming a greeting, so soon as I set foot
in this distant country? I would be de-
lighted. sir.”
“My dear tliir, tith a pleathure—I atthure
you. My name ith Pilkington, of the Thivil
Thervithe of thitli thettlement. Pway, will
you not take up your quarterth at my houtlie
for a few dayth—until you can look about
you? I would thuggetlit that you weturn
to the ship, pwocure your baggage and come
to my plathe. ’Twould delight me to have
opportunity of hearing the latetht newth from
Town. You will confer a favor on me, thir
—and I think I can pwomithe to make you
comfortable.”
Then ensued some of the politest of
exchanges—the stranger protesting, Mr. Pil-
kington insisting. At length, having pre-
vailed upon Mr. de Ramp to accept his hos-
pitality. Mr. Pilkington watched him depart
across the waters of the Co\ T e from the end
of the jetty.
“Mithter Geoffwoy de Worn?” he mur-
mured to himself reflectively. “I wonder
Iioav he thpellth it? Not Harry the Buck
now-—or the Honorable George Devine —or
Captain Vavathour, of the Bluetli? Well,
well! We mutht watch and wait. But.
my dear Mr. de Worn, you are well and
twuly ticketed. The pwotection of thith
young and innothent community ith in the
handth of Arthur Moorefield Pilkington. It
behoveth him not to fail. Well, well—to
be thure!”
* * * *
For a week or ten days Mr. de Ramp re-
mained the guest of Mr. Pilkington in his
(Continued on next page.)


am-Bu
SKIN TROUd
l
vy
JTi.
t
w
/<v
Make sure
you get Zam-Buk
W7HEN shopping do not overlook the re-
quirements of the family medicine chesty
which should always contain a reliable healer
for the many little home mishaps— but be
sure you get Zam-Buk.
The success of Zam-Buk during the last
quarter of a century has led to many imitations,
many of doubtful value. This was only to be
expected for Zam-Buk has become a household
word, not only in Australia and New Zealand,
but throughout the Empire.
Do not be tempted into buying something
said to be “ just as good.” Avoid untried skin
dressings; stick to the proved remedy for all
skin troubles —the most widely used ointment
in the world to-day —Zam-Buk.
Every box of Zam-Buk is a compact re-
liable little surgery —soothing, healing and
antiseptic. There is nothing so good for that
oven burn, the childrens' scraped knees, that
“tennis” wrist, or the hundred and-one minor
injuries of every-day.
It pays to kie p Zam-Buk handy. If you haven't a
box of Zam Buk in your medicine chest, get it to-day
from your nearest Chemist 1 1/6 & 3/6 per box.
SAMPLE BOX
FREE of this great
herbal skin remedy
can be had post free
from C. E. Fulford
( Aus.) Lid., Sydney.
Mention this paper
when writing.
Buk
am
THE PROVED SKIN REMEDY
vv
<2
w
*Rr3
rtwn v> rT* f *nr*i'
Ety^
**?•*.
I i[im....:S- ) !
%
The SECRET of a
Youthful
Skin/
DAINTY FREE JAR
Send name and address and 3d.
in stamps (cost of packing and
return postage) to C- E. Fulford
(Ausl.) Ltd., Sydney, for free
miniature jar-
CT7HE charm and attractiveness of a clear com-
plexion. distinguished by the soft b oom of
youth, is assured by the regular daily use of
Ven-Yusa Cream.
Whenever Ven-Yusa is applied your skin re-
ceives an invigorating oxygen bath that revives
it and imparts a new velvety softness. Besides
this, Ven Yusa offers ideal protection against
heat, dust, and sudden weather changes.
Keep a dainty jar on your dressing table,
2j-, of all chemists.
ďf
THE OXYGEN FACE CREAM.
comfortable cottage up on the Rocks, S1 1 111 ( | P"
tuously entertained, and meticulously valeted
by Mr. Pilkington’s man Larkins. It was,
indeed, a noble sight when the two exquisites
took their walks abroad or went to fet.
Philip’s Church on Sunday, or called to-
gether at Government House to take tea
with Mrs. Macquarie. But here must be
tendered as evidence of the somewhat per-
fidious conduct of Mr. Pilkington a letter
which he addressed to Ensign Patrick Calder,
of the 40th, at the time doing duty with the
detachment of his regiment stationed at the
Coal Itiver settlement, or, as it was coming
to be better known, Newcastle. The docu-
ment explains a good deal of this authentic
narrative of a peculiar incident in the lite-
story of Old Sydney. Thus it goes:—
Commissariat Stores,
Sydney, February 17, 1817.
My dear Patrick,—If you' can obtain leave from
Captain Wallis to come to Sydney for a week, J
most earnestly beg of you to do so. There arrived
here by the Earl of Ditchfield, last month, a gentle-
man of some fame in London who is at present
known as Mr. Geoffroy de Ramp. When 1 inform
vou that I have had acquaintance with him in the
Coffee Houses of the Haymarket, and St. James s,
and Fleet-street, as. in turn, Harry Costello, a
rollicking Irish blade out of Dublin, as the Hon.
George Devine, a landed proprietor in Staffordshire,
and as Captain Frederick Vavasour, lately of the
Horse Guards Blue, you will come to a conclusion
concerning him which will not be Ki to nous,
is, in fact, the most accomplished member of the
Swell Mob from whose Depredations London has ever
suffer’d. Chancing to be at the King’s Wharf upon
the business of my Department on the day he landed,
1 recognised him immediately, but am positive he
did not. know me.
Actuated mainly by that Concern for the good of
this Young Community which has ever been a Lead-
ing Principle with me since my arrival in New South
Wales, I immediately invited him to become mv
guest—as much, I don’t hesitate to confess, for the
Charm of his companionship as for a Worthier
Purpose —until he might be able to instal himself
in a lodging suitable for a gentleman in his por-
tion as the owner of Midden Hall in Kent. He
gives out that he has come to seek a Young Brothel,
transported hither under an assumed name, and
actually has in his possession a Pardon ( 1 org d)
for this Hypothetickal Personage. It is a joak you
will appreciate, when I tell you that he has had
the impudence to show the samp to Mr. Macquane,
who is quite enthusiastickallv endeavouring to find
the unfortunate Mr. John de Ramp, wickedly and
unjustly transprt’d for Forgery in Gov r Ulighs
time, and has turned ye Convict Dept, inside out. m
order to ascertain the whereabouts of this Mythacle
Fellow.
It goes without saying, of course, that my esteem’d
Friend is here in the Practice of his Profession. He
lias already cleaned out your Regimental Mess very
Compleatly at cards and dice, and has done well
in other directions, beside. I have not the Heart
to denounce the fellow to the Authorities, for, what-
ever his Faults, he is a person of Elegant Manner
who knows how to dress, and I really could not
endure to see so Fine a Gentleman who truly has
improved the tone of Sydney society, after a fashion
which I consider very Necessary and Desirable-
masquerading in a road-gang in tile hidious habilly-
ments of a Lag. The method of causing him to
leave the country which I have devised, will, I am
assured, punish him Sufficiently Well. Your brother
Officers will not, of course, be recompensed by it—
but it is no part of my Mission in Life to save
fools from their Folly.
Come down to II.Q. as soon as is possible, my
dear Patrick, and I can faithfully promise you
some Diversion. Pansy’s ship is in Port, and he
will, of course, share in the fun. Moreover, 1 require
the assistance of both of you, and feel sure that
nothing will hinder you from hastening to take
part in a truly Laudible and Publiek Spirited enter-
prise, viz.—the Deportation of one who is a Memiace
to the Community.
Your various innamortas, so far as 1 know, aie
well but Desolate. Come and cheer them up, my
Lothario. With many Blessings, my dear Patrick,
Y’rs to commd., — Arthur Pilkington.
Messrs. Calder, Wicks and Pilkington sat
about a round red-cedar table in Mr. 1 nk-
ington’s dining-room —obviously in a state
of expectancy. It was a warm evening,
and the French windows leading on to the
stone-flagged verandah were open, so that
they might enjoy the cooling effect of a
gentle nor’-easter playing across the harbor
and over the heights of the Rocks. The
strains of a fiddle came from a ship anchored
in the mouth of the Cove, and up from the
town below floated the night noises of pri-
mitive Sydney—the occasional barking nf a
dog, a snatch of raucous song from some
tavern in George-street, and the shrill cries
of children at play upon the banks of the
Tank Stream.
“Another glass of wine, my dear Pat-
wick,” said Mr. Pilkington, pushing a
decanter across the clothless table towards
the young military officer opposite. “Panthy,
I beg you to fill your glass. Our guetht ith
nearly due. Let nth dwink to hitli enjoy-
ment of the pwofitable evening’th play he
ith doubtless antithipating with gutlito.
You each, I take it, are quite tliure of the
parth you are to play in thith evening’th
entertainment of our departing guetht? Ted
me, Patwick —what are you to do?”
“Get behind the blackguard, and seize
him round the arms and body, whilst Pansy
ties him up. I know my job, Brum.”
“Eetliactly. And you, my dear Panthy.”
“Lash him securely, as Patsy says,” re-
sponded Mr. Wicks with a grin. “Here’s
his medicine —all ready for him. But what
are you going to do, Brummell?” He took
a length of rope from under his blue uniform
coat, and displayed it to his companions.
“What’s your part in the tragedy?”
“By no meantli a twagedy, my dear fellow
—a comedy. Yeth, a perfect Comedy of
Ewwors on the part of our good and ingeni-
outli fwiend, Geoffwoy de Worn. Oh, me?
Merely the part of thtage-manager —that of
one who maketh thuitable ecthortation to
a gentleman in dithtweth. ’Twill be my
part to thpeed the parting guetht with
wordth of kindneth and bonhomie. To keep
hitli spirith up. Good. We are all pwe-
pared. The thtage ith thet. And I can
hear fwom the fiddling on the foc’thle-liead
of the good thyip Heartheathe, down in the
Cove, that our worthy fwiend Captain Car-
michael ith altho weady. ’Twath a thignal
agweed upon between uth. But hark —here
cometh the licwo of the dwama!”
A cheery voice greeted the triumvirate
from the steps leading up on to the ver-
andah, and in a moment or two the elegant
figure of Mr. Geoffroy de Ramp came into
the lamplight shining out into the summer
night through the open glass doors.
“Ha ha, my bucks! Here we are, here
we are! I trust I am not late, most excel-
lent Arturio? Your servant. Mr. Calder.
Mr Wicks, my jovial son of Neptune, ’tis
delightful, I vow. to see you again. Good
evening to you all.”
A deplorable tiling, unfortunately imper-
ative, called “the-exigencies of space,” com-
pels us to forego a detailed description of
the events of the next half hour in the life
history of Mr. Geoffroy de Ramp. We may
only note briefly that, as he drank the glass
of wine proffered him by Mr. Pilkington, he
found himself suddenly seized from behind
in a pair of powerful young arms, and, very
speedily, further found himself lashed up in
a tight and secure manner. Next, with
great delicacy and many apologies, and to
his infinite surprise, Mr. Pilkington inserted
a gag in his protesting mouth. In this con-
trolled condition, hardly thirty minutes later,
lie was shoved up the side-ladder of the ship
Heartsease, Captain Gavin Carmichael, and
was solemnly and duly inspected by the light
of a lantern held aloft in the great red fist
ot’ that worthy master-mariner, awaiting the
arrival of his friend Mr. Pilkington s party
at the gangway.
"Guid Heavens above!” gasped Captain
Carmichael in a startled fashion. " Tis my
cabin passenger. In the name o’ Saint
Andrew, what may be tli‘ meaning o this,
Mr. Pilkington?”
“What did you thay he wath, Captain
asked Mr. Pilkington in an equally aston-
ished fashion. “Your cabin passenger?
Cabin? Why. tliith itli the fellow I we-
quetlited you to take ath one of your cwew.
for which thervithe, and on a condition that
you would work him hard on the voyage
home, without any pay, I have paid you the
thum of twenty-five guineatli, ecthplamyig
that he wath an undetliirable perthon who
it wath netliethawy for the colony of New
Th on tli Waleth to be well wid of. I fail
to undertlitand you, my dear Captain.
“I ken weel ye did, Mr. Pilkington, sir-r
I ken it weel. But, this man ye have a’
trussed up like a fowl for tli’ spit, lie’s paid
me twa hunner goolden guineas for tae land
him i’ Plymouth Sound, and to say naught
to anybody aboot. his leavin’ tli colony.
Now, i’ tli’ name o’ a’ that’s unjcanny, wliat s
it mean, Mr. Pilkington—what’s it mean?”
The three friends regarded one another
blankly.
“Books as though our friend had stolen
a march on us, don’t it?’ ventured Mr.
Wicks. “Supposing, Brum, we ask him what
his little game is,” he added.
“Aye, a verra guid notion,” agreed Cap-
tain Carmichael. “Come ye into me cabin,
gentlemen. We must get at the bottom o
this business.”
In the roomy great cabin of the Hearts-
ease, Mr. de Ramp was seated upon a chair,
and the gag being removed from his mouth,
was invited to make explanation. He was
a little sulky; but Mr. Pilkington was able
to overcome his disinclination to afford en-
lightenment.
“Now, look here, my good fellow,” he said,
“I wecognithed you immediately on the day
you landed. You are not Mr. Geoffroy de
Worn —but you thertainly are Peter Cum-
mings, the thwell-mobthman. Unleth you
ecthplain a thing or two, I’ll take you ashore
and thtwaight up to hith Ecthellenthy—to
Mithter Macquawie—where I’ll do a little
ecthplaining. You know what that’ll mean,
don’t you? Did you come here to clean the
thettlement out by vawiouth thwindling
methodth of your own? Were you
going to tlilip away quietly without
paying any debtli you may have incurred in
the colony? Did you awwange with Captain
Carmichael to cawwy you away when he
tliailth at daylight to-mowwow morning?
Come now.”
Mr. de Ramp grinned at the company
impudently.
“Yes, I did,” he said. “Of course, I did.
I knew you recognised me, Pilkington, and
would sooner or later give me away. But
I’ve made a bargain with the captain, and
he can’t get out of it. I sail with him at
daylight in the capacity of a cabin passenger,
as you say—so you might have saved your-
self the trouble of this d—d foolishness. I’ve
fairly beaten you—clever as you think you
are.”
Mr. Pilkington regarded him with dis-
gust for a few moments. Then he turned
to Captain Carmichael.
“Captain,” he said, “I take it you’re an
honest man.”
“Aye, Mr. Pilkington,” said the sailor,
with a touch of truculence, “ye may take
it at that. Gavin Car-rmichael’d like to
meet th’ body’d say Gavin Car-rmichael was
no’ an honest mon. I would, surely an’ for
cer-rtain.”
“Well, then, Captain, when I tell you that
thith fellow’th a well-known thwindler, who
hath come here and taken everybody in, and
that he hath wobbed, by hith cheating
devithetli, many people of far more than two
hundwed guineath—well, then, my dear Cap-
tain, I athk you, what ith to be done? What
courthe of action would you be contemplat-
ing towardth him?”
The worthy sailor ruminated for half a
minute. Then he laughed.
“Well, then, Mr. Pilkington, sir, I should
say that he ought to have a passage to Eng-
land. And that I ought to hand over the
money he’s paid me for it to you, for to he
divided amongst them he’s swindled. Oh,
yes—he’ll have his passage. I canna go
back on ma wor-rd. Ye’ll come wi’ me i’
th’ mor-rn, Mr. de Ramp.”
“You have gentlemanly feelings, sir, that
do you infinite credit,” responded the grati-
fied Mr. de Ramp, grinning at his three
captors in turn.
Captain Carmichael checked him with up-
lifted hand.
“Bide a wee, ma callant —bide a wee.
Ye’ll liae y’r passage afore th ’ masf-e- an’ by
God,” he added, slowly and impressively and
simply, “ye’ll be a better sailor than'; ye are
a rogue before Gavin Oar-rmichael’s done wi’
ye. By th’ Lor-rd, ye will! Mr. Pilking-
ton, I’ll pit th’ laddie in irons until we get
to sea —and then 1/11 gie him hell! He’ll
be anither mon be th’ time we reach th’
Channel.”
“Well, then, Geoffwoy, my dear boy,”
drawled Mr. Pilkington, “nothing wernaintli
but to wish you bon voyage. I know the
Captain, and am quite thertain he’ll keep
hith word. Good-bye, my dear fellow.
Womeinber me to Eondon town.”
He held out his hand. But Mr. de Ramp
merely) spat on his satin waistcoat.
"Darun you!” he said.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


d
WESTINGHOUSE
-Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTIHCNOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHDRCII. B
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatlierston Street, Wellin
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SJ
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ft CO., LTD.! Adelaide, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
The.
MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c. _ . .
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. . f ..
The running cost of an “ACTO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
AMwin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at-specially reduced
prices. Full stocks on hand. „ 00/ln ,. Qn -
PRICES:—Min. cutters, £47/10/; 16m., £57/10/; 22m., £B2/10/, 30in.,
£llO each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Inspect at Stand No. 72 (Opposite Station Exits), Royal Show.
REPRESENTATIVES:
W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
D.
AND
276-294
NEW
WHYSALL and BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
80
ra
-7 %
Rem Oi l
Long Life to Fine
Mechanisms!
SEWING MACHINES, bicycles, type-
writers, clocks, etc. must be treated,
regularly, with a good oil if they are
to give smooth, silent service.
REM OIL cleans, lubricates, prevents rust.
It cannot be equalled for general usefulness.
Remington guarantees its excellence.
ď
Your dealer can supply or order for you.
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Repreeentative
P.o. Box 686 E, Melbourne, Viet.
“But like rr sickness
Did 1 loathe this food."
Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Act IV. Sc. 1.
%
A
(
Appe^z^e
LacJcincf/'
Want of appetite
Is a sign of
Stomach weakness
The best remedy
BEECHAM’S PILLS
They have a corrective
And stimulating effect
On stomach, liver, bowels
They can be relied upon
To remove acidity
Constipation
Indigestion
To stimulate the liver
Cleanse and tone
The entire system
And promote
Hearty appetite.
BUY YOUR LINEN DIRECT FROM
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
THE House of Robinson & Cleaver has been making
fine linen for 55 years in Belfast —the home of Irish
Linen —and sending it to satisfied customers all over the
world. The beautifully illustrated catalogue offered below
shows you how you save by buying linen direct from this
famous old House. Send for your copy now.
This large beautifully
illustrated Catalogue
of fine Irish
Linens, together with
samples, will be sent
you free and past free
2
W-
WSmz:
Table, Bed and Household Linen
Our Damask Table Linen is well known for its good
quality, beauty of design and lovely white satin
finish. We stock it in all grades.. Table Cloths
2 yards square from 11/3 each with Napkins to
match 22 x 22 ins. 12/6 per doz. and so on up to
qualities used by Royalty.
Prices of all kinds of Linen goods are considerably
down ; for instance, we have good wearing Linen
Sheets for single beds 2x3 yards at 33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases 20 x 30 ins. from 2/11 each.
LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS
We offer only perfect goods, such as Ladies' Linen
Handkerchiefs, made of good quality pure Linen
hemstitched, measuring about 12 ins. square. Ex-
ceptional value from 4/9 per doz. In Men’s sizes
from 8/3 per doz. Ladies’ Linen Initial handker-
chiefs about 11 ins, square from 5/6 per doz Ladies’
Embroidered Linen handkerchiefs from 5/3 per doz.
Any monogram can be embroidered by hand at
short notice.
THE DELIVERY OF ALL GOODS IS
GUARANTEED. ORDERS OF OVER £lO
CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION, OR BY STEAMER
TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Irish Linen
tf
\4)-3m
-S
A
Si
S.
r \
SAO G E
//ostA/o/irorASays-
“Excellent with every
dish —cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 3/«: Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d.
Xiunclieon liy reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SOI' DAY.« 3 „ m . No. 6 JETTY, CIRCOLAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (1 lines).
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, I.td.


w
' M
: i
/
\xVv:-\
\
%
o\v i 1
v, v •
v . . \ . V.A
\ S
/
\
\
»V
■ -a
/
3r
*sy
IJ" 5
“4
1
Vv
v\. :
\
'VS o''
*6*
m
HASS*
NE
s
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT TRIUMPHANT
Triumph rightly won is glorious. It brings to mind and body a satisfying joy that gladdens
and inspires. Now and again to triumph in life is a fine stimulant and so is . . . . • • •
DEWAR’S
