

A fere s a foucf ofSunny fields
wfere ffe /fops e Barley yrow —
u IN EVERY DRINK OF
Australia’s Best”
r
55 >
<
p
1
o
k t^
$
r'
Of
S?ssS
&&&&
X
/'
r>
■>>
c
i
r~\
c
r
■sy
r
'3%
a
'/t?\wL*7!
0
1
-'
0 /?.
IS
?'
feßk
ftX'
585
v n
'• 1 /
\WO™
a
iv
l\M
o
0
<*».
•Jr
>
S'
SC
HH
m
i
I'1(3OHM I f
Sali
Au?
IB
RESCH'S*
ewrtyuiop[]
THE GENUINE LACER
ASK FORTHEM'
BYNAME i
Umm •
ST/MULA TINC
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2440.
Thursday, November 18, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
f]
When you can get
De ReszKes at
lO for ninepence-
why should you smoke anything less good? Consider
what the name DE RESZKE stands for. For
years it has been accepted without question as the
mark of cigarettes possessing the highest character,
distinction, and—to use a word that is too frequently
abused—quality.
This name has a “ goodwill ” value beyond com-
pute, and therefore any cigarette bearing it must
needs be the very best in its class. That is yout
guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias , though
costing but ninepence for ten, will always keep their
present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “DE %ES-KEY.”)
Virginias
Twenty for One-and-Six
In lO's, 20’s, 50’s and 100’s
DR 16
. MILL HOFF 6c CO. LTD., 86. PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.i
“De Reszke
—of course ”
PECKS
dPlnchovette Gelery
Beat together Anchovette, butter, pepper
and salt. Press this filling into the grooves
of the celery. Your guests will appreci-
ate this delicious summer dish.
c 57 delicious ??ish £aste
way
ewrtyuiop[]
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
'i-M:
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive' to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man. beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
(fee powder is distributed
mustdie:
non roiMNotfl powder.
THE 6RE3TU (SECT KSTKOyffi
1 Elies.
1
Boas. !
MoxwitoOk
!/•
more effectively, and w
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, o r
forward If- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. R
The Red Page
Shakspeare in the Films
The most striking poiut of the argument
of “A.H.A.” for the films (R.P. 4/11/’26)
is the courageous fashion in which he
abolishes, in his last paragraph, the silly
old fetich that the essential part of Shaks-
peare is his poetry. That ridiculous fancy
will probably still prevail amongst those
who, egotistically regarding themselves as
intellectuals, decline* to be educated up to
the matter produced for the film public —
described by a producer in “Merton of the
Movies” as “the 30,000,000 public——mostly
fools” ; but, after all, what do such hopeless
conservatives matter in an up-to-date World?
Although it needed “A.LI.A." to point it
out, it is obvious to all who give it a
moment's consideration that Shakspeare only
resorted to his interminable poetry in despair
at being able to place upon tlie crude stage
of liis time the wonderful scenic effects that
suggested themselves to him mind. The
wealth of poetry only shows the extent of
the despair. Can it be imagined for one
moment that Will would have used mere
piffling words for the mad remorse of Lady
Macbeth if he could have worked out the
whole scene with close-ups of her visions
of blood upon her hands, and glycerine for
the tear-drops of her anguish? Or would
he have been so foolish as to write - * such
things as the appeal of Claudio to Isabella
(“Measure for Measure”)— “Aye, but to go
we know not where ; to lie in cold obstruc-
tion and to rot; this sensible warm motion
to become a kneaded clod,” and so on—if,
instead of this tedious (though, within the
limits of mere words, vivid) representation
of man’s terror of death. Bill’s scenario
could have run something like this?: —-
Cut in: —Claudio pleads to Isabella that while
there’s life there’s hope, whatever happens; but
dying is stiff luck.
Action: —Claudio loses his air of indignation.
Close-up of his face as fear of death takes possession.
He sinks suddenly to his knees beside Isabella, plead-
ing with her; fade out. Claudio is shown as a corpse
awaiting interment; the funeral and burial are
shown in detail; the clods of earth fall on the coffin
shown in the grave; the worms take possession.
Close-up of worms. Rapid change to spectacle of
Hell with the spirit of Claudio blown through the
flames,*" impish spirits jeering at him. Quick change
to polar regions, Claudio haling a rough time in a
blizzard.
That would give tlie people for whom Shaks-
peare worked an opportunity to use the next
good blizzard offering; and there would be
a lot more of this, all more effective than
mere words.
“The Merchant of Venice” woyld be vastly
improved by the cutting down of the tiresome
“quality of mercy” speech to a snappy cap-
tion and tlie inclusion of more action aiid
incidental effects —such, for instance, as a
close-up of Shylock’s shoe, showing how lie
lias let-in a bit of razor-strop to assist in
sharpening his knife. A thought of liow
tlie soliloquies of Hamlet could have been
turned out of words into descriptive action
is enough to create a feeling of sorrow for
the misfortune the world suffered by the
birth of Shakspeare 300 years before his
time.
“ A.H.A. ” particularly mentions the
triumph that might have been made of “The
Tempest” by a filmatic artist, but hardly
touches on the wonders that might be worked
in—such as, instead of the bare lines of
Aeriel’s song, “Full fatliom five thy father
lies, of his bones are coral made,” an interest-
ing set-in of ocean-depths and coral insects
at work. It may be, however, something of
a reflection upon the imaginative powers of
the “filmatic artists” that they have not yet
conceived the idea of putting the masterpiece
in form for the screen.
It is almost pathetic to think of our poor
Will Shakspeare forced, owing to the crudity
of his times, to work upon the principle
that a vividly-expressed thought inspired by
a storm is a much mightier thing than the
storm itself; and that has helped to a curious
twist in our estimation of intellectual values
which has caused us to think more highly
of Shakspeare’s speech upop the hollowness
ot royal pomp, put into the mouth of Henry
V, or the epitdme of the Seven Ages of
Man, than, for instance, the quite well-
staged and realistic chariot race in “Ben
Hur.”
Most pathetic of all, howmver, is the
thought of the fame Shakspeare has lost
owing to his premature birth. He has cer-
tainly become well known; but a far wider
fame might have been his if his name were
flashed upon the world’s screens somewhere
between the announcement of the producer
and the man who designed the art titles, like
this: —
Scenario and Captions
• by
“Immortal Bill” Shakspeare,
The 50,000-dollar-a-year scenario writer.
Edited by
SILAS P. PLUGG.
After all, what do words matter compared
with action? The words may make a rich
phrase, illuminating the inner recesses of
human emotion ; but as the whole thing can
be effectively worked with the show of an
actor’s set of false teeth or a few drops of
glycerine, why worry about that?
HAMFAT.
Savage Australia Still
The last two years have seen notable
additions to the literature dealing with this
continent. First in time and importance
came the fascinating work of Dr. Herbert
Basedow, of Adelaide, on Binghi’s habits and
customs, as observed by tlie author on the spot.
After that there w’as the tentative endeavor
of Geza Roheim.-' of Budapest, to explain
those customs in terms of tlie Freudian psy-
chology. Now comes the by no means least
interesting In Ravage Australia, by Knut
Dalil, Professor of Pisciculture at the Nor-
wegian College of Agriculture, Oslo (Philip
Allan, London). This country is deeply
indebted to men of Scandinavian race. Ling,
Roth and Lumholtz occur to the mind. The
words Nansen in a foreword applies to Dahl
would fit them all: “His powers of observa-
tion are those of the born investigator, but
at the same time he has the open and won-
dering eyes of the child.” Equipped with
these qualities, Dahl, accompanied by his
taxidermist ITolm, landed at Port Darwin
and plunged at once into the interior. Here
he had adventures with wild aboriginals,
lived on fish, snakes and birds, some of which
he discovered later were unknown to science,
and, incidentally, recorded his impressions
of the country ill word-pictures of unaffected
charm. “In the stern of the'canoe a young
girl stood erect, straight as a reed, leaning
lightly on a fish-spear... . She commenced
to bale'out the canoe, an operation which she
performed standing. .With one foot she
simply kicked the water against the other
foot, making it, squirt out of the narrow boat.
The whole -view was one of a peculiar and
virgin beauty ; the still, narrow lagoon with
cerulean lilies floating on the black water;
the dusky body of the girl sharply defined
from the -long dark canoe against tin; lake,
and the spouting water glittering in the low
sun, coolly splashing on the surface, and so
turning black as the lagoon.”
Returning after a year to Port Darwin
loaded with spoil, the expedition caught a
.steamer to Singapore, in order to get to Roe-
buck Bay, in Westralia, there being no direct
communication. Few people have written
so vividly of that barbaric outpost, nor
described more precisely the, peculiar wonder
of its landscapes:—
Alolig the beach ran a huge sand-bar, an enormous
■ wave of drift sand looking almost like an Alpine
snowdrift. White and shining, this sand-bar ran
with few interruptions along the eutivo coast, a white
beach dividing it from the sea. The view from this
coast-bar was very curious. As one looked north, the
coast-bar and the white beach appeared to bisect the
landscape. To the left was the ocean, blue, limit-
less. To the right one saw a brownish forest
and g'rey plains, flat, endless as the seal. And above,
high in the whitish heavens, hung the sun. Your
own shadow fell between your feet, and the heat-
glare flickered, dancing over the desolate landscape.
In this dreadful desert scarcely' anything
moved on the surface and every living tiling
* that had the faculty or could acquire it bur-
rowed to escape the sun. A week later came
the rains, and Dahl records in vivid language
the amazing transformation that ensued.
Tlie author visited North Australia in
1898, and published his diary in Norwegian
in IS!);"). It was not till last year that, lie
decided to translate it himself into bis own
terse and vigorous English. It is one of the
tragedies of that extraordinary land that the
observations lie made 30 years ago are still
as up to date as if they had beiyj. made
yesterday. The Federal Government might
even issue copies of the work as guidebooks
to tlie three new Territory Commissioners.
M.G.S.
Classes and Quiverfuls
From time to time it is alleged that the
intelligence of the working-man is inferior
to that of what may be called the profes-
sional classes. Coupled with this, the asser-
tion has been made that, as the families of
professional folk are smaller than the fami-
lies of manual workers, the more intelligent
types are gradually dying out, while medio-
crity flourishes like a young bay-tree or some
other prosperous vegetable. In fact, some
writers have not hesitated to assume that
whenever a man or woman brings up a large
family, the parents must be naturally lack-
ing in intelligence, and their offspring neces-
sarily dull chips of stupid blocks.
Five years ago in a north-western tin-
mining town in N. S. Wales, a young couple
of little over 30 were sending to school nine
or ten beautiful children, each one not only
a pleasure to look at but a delight to teach,
while there was a residue at home looking
forward to the days when they could take
their places at the village academy. School
honors and bursaries came their way. More-
over, the general standard of intelligence in
this school was high, and the average size
of the family was largo. Broken Hill is
one of the most typical of toilers’ towns in
Australia, yet there is a well-founded belief
that the Silver-City schools can show a
higher level of intelligence than any others
in the State. In fact, if one buttonholes any
pedagogue over a social beer he will emphati-
cally tell you that there is, nothing in this
pessimistic bleat about the lower mentality
of the working-class infant or the inferiority
of the large-family child. Whether these
statements are true* of the crowded cities of
Europe and America from which the doc-
trines have come is another matter. Pro-
bably they are false even of those places ;
they are certainly misleading in Australia.
A- great many unsound conclusions have
been drawn from the results obtained by
“measuremcht-of-intelligence” operations in
recent years. Binet, who invented those
tests, never put forward for them the claims
made by his latter-day disciples. The tests
are; a boon to teachers, because they have
delivered the dominie from the unreasonable
demand, so long insisted upon, that equal
educational progress be made by all children,
no matter what their native mental endow-
ment. Such tests form, within limits, a
scientific means of arriving at a definite
result concerning a child’s intelligence when
the method of mere estimate fails because,
say, of difference of opinion. But they do
not constitute a complete test of ability in
children, much less in adults. .Certain moral
qualities, such as courage and doggedness,
are not measured at all: the temperamental
texture of tlie subject is untouched. Rapid
reactions to psychic stimuli score highly—•
a mark of ability which may be viewed with
suspicion. Life is short, but it is usually
long enough to allow the brilliant non-
stayer to be well beaten by the mediocre
plugger who keeps his head down and his
mind on the race. In America the Binet,
tests, with modifications, have been widely
applied to adults, and it lias been found that
professional classes have registered higher
intelligence quotients than the classes occu-
pied in farm, factory and mining pursuits.
From the nature of the tests tjhis is exactly
what one should expect to happen. An office
worker whose mind is occupied mainly with
( Continued, on page 3.)


it
acc
Economise Wisely on Men’s Clothing
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
V
mm
I i
ft
F \
*r >•
T 'S'l
> 2
si />is
«aw %
v & f 1
W 46
W4O
W 45
m
><w
Jaa J
1
n
1
iii
S : -
XW67
W 42
W46.—Men’s High-grade Sac Suits, cut and
finished by experts in Anthony Horderns’ own
workrooms. The Goat is designed with a two-
button front, outside breast pocket, no vent. Vest
has medium opening and four pockets. Trousers
possess side or cross and hip pockets, cuff
bottoms.
In Grey or Brown Tweeds.
Price
Other values
59/6
75/-, 957-
In Fox’s Rough Serge.
Price
90/-
In All-Wool Worsteds, Striped or Q[£/
Checked designs. Price .... */0/"
Other values . . 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-
W4o.—Men’s Two-piece Sports Suits, ready to
wear. Coats have patch pockets, stitched-down
belt at back, with or without vent. Trousers are
designed with loops for belt, side straps, side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In English or Scotch Tweeds, in
the latest effects. Price
59/6
Other values 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
XW67.—Youth’s Ready-for-Service Sac Suit.
Coat has two-button front, outside breast pocket,
no vent. Vest has medium opening and four
pockets. Trousers are designed with side or
cross and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In Grey or Brown All Wool
Tweeds. Price
Other values
57/6
65/-, 707-
In Fancy Worsteds, neat designs.
Price
7716
Other values . . 84/-, 95/-, 102/6 to 115/-
In Fox’s Rough Serge.
Price
72/6
In Fine Navy Serge,
Prices. . 84,-, 92/6,95;-, 98/6
W4s.—Men’s Tennis Blazers, in Navy, Brown,
Royal or Green Flannel, with corded or*/
edges. Price j m
With bound edges. Prices .. . 27/6, 32/6
W42.—Men’s Cream Flannel Outing Trousers,
designed with side straps, loops for belt, side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
Price OVr
In Cream Serge. Price 42/-
Save Money on
Boys’
Clothing
by purchasing
every need at
Anthony
Horderns’
“The Durham” Suit, in
All-Woel Grey Tweed, ideal
for school or best wear. The
coat has outside breast poc-
ket, two skirt pockets, with
flap, half-belt at back, pinched
into belt. No vent. All Plain
Knickers. To fit boys 8 to
10 years. 01 /
PRICE Zl/»
Others:
26/-, 28/6 to BOZ-
IN FOX’S ROUGH SERGE
Prices 42/6, 44/-
IN INDIGO-DYE FINE
SERGE—
Prices:
47/6, 50/-, 57/6
Band and Button Knickers,
2/6 extra.
“The Parisian” Suit.—
For smaller boys, up to 8
years. Coat has pleated front,
half-belt at back, open at
neck. The Knickers are
plain. In Neat, Dark Fancy
Tweeds —
Prices: \
28/6, 35/-, 40/-
IN HEAVY INDIGO
SERGE—
Prices .... 39/6, 42/-
“The Scout” Suit is very
popular, and is most service-
able. For boys up to 9 years.
Obtainable in Fancy Tweeds,
neat Grey and Brown
effects—
Prices .... 26/6, 35/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 944(T


Th
milling Performance
made this
modern Six world-famous
*ma«
-'VV
f
■ft
irrr
«5
,V
-J
Imagine, if you can, a car that will give you thrilling per-
formance of over 55 miles an hour, whenever you want it
. . . That will pick up in high gear from 5 to 40 miles an
hour in 21 seconds . . . That will climb steep hills and pull
through deep mud and sand with amazing ease . . . This
is the average performance of the Overland Six.
What to expect
Be prepared for a surprise when you take your first ride in
an Overland Six . . . It’s bound to change your whole idea
of motor car values.
Full 40-brake horsepower is delivered in a straight line from
its low-swung engine through to the rear-axle shaft. The
result is a speed capacity that is positively amazing.
It has more inside space. The seats are wider. The result
is ample comfort for 5 full-size passengers.
All features you’ll certainly appreciate when you compare
it with other cars of this price.
A car you’ll want to keep
The Overland Six is a long-life car... it has all the qualities to
make you want to keep it a long time. Its body-design is ad-
vanced in style with long, low, rakish lines... Its finish is both
beautiful and enduring... The touring has a handy compart-
ment in back of the front seat for top boot and storm curtains.
In economy this modern Six outdoes them all—oil and petrol
consumption is suprisingly small while tyre mileage is high.
By all means see this motor car. Drive it—know for your-
self why thousands are buying this car every month.
OVERLAND SIX
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT
WILLY g. OVERLAND .PINE . MOTOR ♦ CARS


THE MAN’S SHOP
V
m
f
I V
MLJV
Art.
Silk Lined Suits
tor 6^
gns.
Art. Silk is the cool lining for Summer—and then, it lasts
the suit out — ask the man who wears one. Choose your
material from over eighty patterns. Suits meticulously
tailored to order and correct in every detail. 6|gns.
A small charge of 7/6 is made for
hand finishing the edges if desired
DAVID JONES’
rapid calculations, reading and varied mental
adjustments has as much advantage over a
pick-and-shovel man pulled off the streets in
responding to those tests as a boy specially
trained for an examination has over a rival
without any training.
H. G. Wells says: “I will take a condition
of labor which is now recognised as probably
the greatest of tragedies. It is the slow decay
of the faculties of men and women, caused
by the nature of their employment the
tragedy of the unstretched faculties.... No
one can go into a factory without seeing
workers engaged in work which is far below
their capacities. Decay sets in, and the deal a
of talent and enthusiasm, the mspirer ot
creative work. As years go on, mental stupor
sets in.” But if'this be so, the mental stupor
is not passed on to the offspring of the sons
of toil. , .
History says nay to the theory that the
children of the manual worker are inferior
to those of any other worker. From Luther
to Carlyle great ghosts arise to tell us that
the sons of coal-liewers and peasants have
ranked as the intellectual peers' of earth a
61ite. And as to the modern . superstition
of inferiority attached to the individual mem-
bers of large families —Carlyle was one of
nine; O’Connell, a volcano of physical and
mental energy, came near the tail-end of a
family of a score; John Wesley was the
nineteenth chick to chip the parental egg-
shell. The list might be indefinitely multi-
plied, but enough has been said to prove
that it doesn’t matter so much if the allegedly
superior people don’t have very many child-
ren and the poorer do. If any particular
type is dying out through selfishness,, or. effete-
ness, or want of the will to live, it is just
as well to cheer out the corpse as. to make
a sad little song about it. What is.of con-
sequence is that the children the nation has,
no matter from what source recruited, be
given a decent environment, good food and
education. Retrogression is unthinkable.
P. O’FARRELL.
The Informer
Movements from within are more intense
and hypnotic studies than from without.
What one has touched, perhaps intimately,
has extraordinary fascination, done into a
book. One learns to apprehend and appre-
ciate the atmosphere of revolutionism. As
a hair divides the false and the true, so
merely a, whiff of luck separates the quali-
fied protest (chiefly in industrial struggles)
from overt law-breaking. Participation in
movements of revolt, however guardedly,
does in spirit and understanding familiarise
one with the physical-force complexes that
on a graver urge erupt in history. Novels
like “Israel Kaliscli,” by George, and “The
Bomb,” by Harris, stand out in memory as
actualities of anarchism in its working
clothes.
A novel in tliis strong company, though
on Irish Republicanism penetrating into
Revolutionary Communism, is Liam O’Fla-
herty’s The Informer, a grimly realistic
and brilliant psychological story founded on
facts, yet without truth other than in its
probabilities. Of what it means to be in-
former, of how it can happen, of the thought-
processes of one in command and one chased,
and of all that hovers passionately or fright-
eningly about the insurrectionary, O’Fla-
herty’s work is supremely talented. With a
little imagination all that is comprehended
in the modern phenomena of blackleggery
can also be seen tumultuously stripped.
Antagonistic standpoints are cheek-by-
jowl. Someone objects to an assault upon
the police. “The old lady halted and looked
at him contemptuously. .. . ‘Yerrah, d’ye
call it a crime to bate a policemap?’ she cried
in amazed indignation.” In another place
when a woman is merciful, and pleads with
her lover not to murder, she hears: “Murder,
did you say? Great Scott! Do you call it
murder to wipe out a serpent that has be-
trayed your brother? Where is your ?
Do you call yourself an Irishwoman?” And
there are emotional aches which strike fire
in all hearts that have known propaganda
for Causes. Parliamentary and other speak-
ers will feel vicariously what this one felt:
“His outburst had left him completely empty,
like a shaken sack. There was a pain at
the pit of the stomach. Mob orators know
that pain when they have spoken for over
an hour under a perfect hail of frenzied
interruptions.” No political-party organiser,
no industrial leader, but will find friends
and foes before his eyes as he reads O’Fla-
herty’s vivid characterisation of types of
revolutionists —militants and moderates, and
some neither fish, fowl nor red herring.
An early chapter on the terrors of being
in hiding, disowned by those for whom one
had committed a bloody deed —even denied
for tactics’ sake by the executive one had
served —speaks volumes of the treacherous cur-
rents in movements. There is, too, a woman
of the slums whose life-story is that of
being a devoted girl enrolled in the revolu-
tionary organisation “led by excess of feel-
ing into one pitfall after another,” and then
expelled from the organisation responsible
for her ruin. Even the informer had given
years of sacrifice and struggle and gaol, and
the terrible risks of disease and death, to
“the cause” he betrayed, lured by momentary
avarice—or cumulative longings for one real
good time —to be at the end shot, unable to
the last to view himself as other than still
a member of the organisation.
Again, there is an awful aura over the
episode of drawing lots to decide who shall
shoot the spy. The plotters find the sus-
pense getting on their nerves. As the draw-
ing proceeds their comradeship has a hiss
in it. “Their hands and legs were jerky.
They stared at one another with hatred.”
Of Fear—an all-round contagion of fear, at
the top in the counsels equally with those
tied by the system to obedience —“The In-
former” is a merciless delineator, notwith-
standing such alternating moments as thus
pictured :
Now, however, the three of them, so different in
essential characteristics, had reached a common
level of emotion. The silence of the night, the
phantom-filled cellars, the illegality and danger of
the contemplated act, the torturing uncertainty of
the choice, filled them with such delirious emotions
that they were beside themselves. They were not
afraid. They were beyond fear, on to a distant
level of emotion, where the common impulses that
agitate the hearts of men are unknown.
Change and danger are eerily everywhere
in the novel. Beginning with McPhillip at
bay in the mountains for having shot the
Farmers’ Union secretary, tired of the semi-
starvation and privations of his secret
haunts, dying with tuberculosis, and return-
ing to Dublin for a sight somehow of his
home and his folks, O’Flaherty brings again
together the outlaw and Gypo Nolan, who
had been McPliillip’s bosom companion dur-
ing the strike of farm-laborers. For 270
thrilling pages of wonderful writing, it is
Gypo Nolan who occupies the centre of the
stage. Once a policeman, dismissed under
suspicion of being in league with the Revolu-
tionary Organisation, Gypo is a man of vast
size, stupid strength and small brain. To
him making a plan is baffling, “devilish
work.” He gets £2O for encompassing the
death of McPhillip. The deed done, his
horrors begin.
Step by step Gypo gives himself away,
recklessly treating the tenement to a supper
and finishing up, like a swaggering ghoul,
in an orgy of generosity and bestiality with
the superior prostitutes hitherto - of another
world to his own. What holds hotly as with
hoops of iron is the hurtingly naked account
of the thoughts and sayings of hunted and
hunters. Kropotkin’s “wind that blows from
the streets,” meaning the mass in motion,
is before the eye as if play-acting that takes
one far away. It would be difficult to re-
call a tale more all-embracing of the doings
and emotions triumphant in political fanati-
cism.
Gallagher is the general of the organisa-
tion opposing inexorable law. The strong-
est, strangest scene in the scabrous plotting
and counter-plotting is Gypo’s horrified if
abject collapse when the long-obvious-to-
everybody-else finally crashes into his brain
and there in the shadows he sees that he is
known to be guilty and doomed. His dra-
matic escape from the cell and custody of
the tribunal takes on a note of Jean Val-
jean’s exploits—there is an epic quality in
it. The betrayal of his whereabouts, the
giving up of him at a woman’s hands, the
man’s savagery in a sensational combat, and
with the death-rattle in his throat a surg-
ing reverence as he seeks the sanctuary of
the Church to hear his last mass and be for-
given by McPhillip’s sorrowing mother is
a climax in great art. In a certain beauty
of creative craft Liam O’Flaherty is a Sean
O’Casey transcribing the uglily poetic.
R. S. ROSS.
Lay Figures from Life
Wells couldn’t resist it, after all. His
latest novel, The Life of William Glissold,
introduces prominent living people under
their own names, and by no means always
in a complimentary spirit. He did it in
“Boon,” it is true, but “Boon” is not a
novel, and it was published under a thin
disguise of pseudonymity. On the other
hand, Wells has very frequently pilloried his
eminent contemporaries under fictitious names,
as, for instance, in the case of the celebrated
“libellous” portraits of the Webbs in “The
New Machiavelli” and the stinging cari
cature of Winston Churchill in “Men Like
Gods.” Still, it must be admitted that he
has never been so merciless to others as he
was to himself as Mr. Lewisham, as Kipps
and as Wilkins the author —particularly in
his picture of Wilkins in “The Wife of Sir
Isaac Harman.” Even Mr. Polly has more
than a little of his creator in him. But this
is the first time he has brought living people
in under their own names.
Few novelists do. James Joyce is the
only other important instance that springs
to mind. He brought “AE,” John Eglinton
and many other well-known Irishmen into
his “Ulysses.” Sometimes a writer uses a
well-known person by the way, but rarely
with any seriousness. Carl Van Vechten
brings the mere names of living persons into
his novels; Anita Loos “used” the Prince
of Wales and Sigmund Freud in her “Gentle-
men Prefer Blondes”; there the count stops.
Plenty of writers, however, have used well-
known people under more or less penetrable
disguises. Gilbert Cannan’s Melian Stoke
in “Pugs and Peacocks” is, of course, Bert-
rand Russell. Shaw’s Dubedat in “The
Doctor’s Dilemma” is, on the author’s own
statement, Oscar Wilde, and, on similar evi-
dence, Lady Cecely in “Captain Brassbound’s
Conversion” is Mrs. Patrick Campbell. Aldous
Huxley is notorious for the fact that his
characters (particularly the “unpleasant”
ones) are very often widely known, if not
famous, people; the chief character in his
latest novel, “Two or Three Graces,” is
apparently based on a prominent Londoner.
Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes was based
on a certain Dr. Bell. Meredith’s Evan Har-
rington was his own father, and he used
Ferdinand Lassalle for his “Tragic Com-
edians,” George Moore’s Ulrick Dean in
“Evelyn Innes” is “AE,” and Esther Waters
and “the Mummer’s wife” are both portraits.
Moore did a more audacious thing when lie
took the name of Oliver Gogarty, a very well
known Dublin priest, for the central character
of “The Lake” —though the Father Gogarty
of the story shares nothing but his name with
the original. Moore was actually sued for
libel some years ago by a young man named
Lewis Seymour; but, as the book which con-
tains his name as part of the title was
issued originally as “A Modern Love,” before
the real Lewis Seymour was born, the action
merely gave Moore’s work a gratuitous
advertisement. This case, however, explains
why so many cautious authors append a note
to their novels explaining that the characters
are entirely imaginary. (One bright young
man —was it a Sitwell ? —‘threatened to sue
any person discovering himself in the author’s
work!) .
The classic instance of recognisable port-
raiture in novels is undoubtedly Charles
Dickens. Besides himself as David Copper-
field he gave us a certain Shaw as Squeers
in “ Nicholas Nickleby ”; the Cherryble
brothers were the brothers Grant (of Man-
chester), Hortense in “Bleak House” was
a Mrs. Manning who was hanged. Skimpolc
in the same book was obviously Leigh Hunt,
Esther Summerson was an Esther Elton,
Micawber was Dickens’s own father, and
even Tiny Tim was the child of his sister
Fanny. Probably Wells and Dickens have
availed themselves more generously of the
lives of their contemporaries than any other
English novelists. And, speaking more
generally, it is rather surprising that no one
has noticed the many striking resemblances
between these two novelists. Each sprang
from the lower middle class; each manifested
a powerful sympathy for “the common man,”
the stuff of which democracies are made
(Dickens’s Paul Dombeys pass from the mind
as easily as Wells’s Remingtons, but Uncle
Ponderevo and Mr. Polly will be as hard to
kill as Micawber or Sam Weller) ; each was
prolific and immensely popular; each was
tetchy and irritable; and each tilted against
the social abuses of his time. Perhaps, after
all, Wells will prove to be the last of the
great Victorians, born a little late, and, there-
fore, disguising under the superficial tints of
the twentieth the sturdy, democratic, optim-
istic faith of his real, the nineteenth, century.
The utilising of living people as lay figures
is, of course, a question of taste, and it seems
likely that, as a custom, it will become more
widespread among novelists —probably until
some victim turns and rends, in the law-
courts, the artist who “paints” his portrait.
This century is becoming increasingly out-
spoken, and propagandists (few novelists are
not propagandists) always find it difficult to
avoid using personalities. It is fast becoming
untrue to say (as Chesterton said once, in
effect) that, whereas eighteenth-century des-
potism meant that a man could say that
“The Earl of B—— is a rake and a profli-
gate,” twentieth-century liberty means that
we can say that “the Earl of Bedford is an
admirable family man and an ornament to the
State.” The tendency nowadays is to drape
“the Earl” with the graces of eighteenth-
century style. And style is the novelist's
raison d'etre.
WARREN GRAVES .
Hutchinson and the Sheik
W. M. Fleming in “The Novel of To-day”
(R.P. 21/l(>/'26) denounces the unhealthy
“sex stuff” that has been produced in such
quantities since the war, and lumps together
as “mental Spanish fly” “books like ‘lf
Winter Comes,’ ‘The Sheik,’ ‘The Green
llat,’ and others that have been amongst the
best-sellers.” I cannot conceive of anybody
who ever read Hutchinson’s book placing it
in this category. It has been attacked and
disparaged on many counts, and no doubt
some of the criticism is justifiable the
Coroner’s Court scene, for instance, is
hysterical and unreal—but this is the first
time, surely, that it has ever been stigmatised
as “a lewd production.” Personally, I have
read no novel published of recent years with
keener interest or gone back to it more often
for intense enjoyment. Its merits, to me, are
its vivid picturing of life in a small cathedral
city and adjacent village, its war-time psycho-
logy, its skilful limning of character, the
ability of the writer to interest one in the
most trivial things as well as in dramatic
episodes.
I am quite aware that these merits don’t
exist for others. The late Edmund Fisher,
for instance, some four years ago found Hut-
chinson merely a rather feeble imitator of
his own idol, Dickens. The “puzzleheaded-
ness” of Sabre, he decided, was borrowed
from Traddles. Where, he asked scornfully,
did one ever see a pulpit in a shop-window?
And so on. But all that is matter of opinion.
The phenomenal success ot 11 vvinim
Comes” was bound to bring it as many sneers
as bouquets. But did anyone before Mr.
Fleming ever attribute that success
wholesomeness or suggestiveness? What is
there in the book that lie deplores oui wives
should read or imagines °ur daughters would
be the worse for reading? Certmnly there
is a baby with an unwedded mother, but
there is no more than a line about t
seduction, an episode which wouhl have su -
plied a pre-war writer like, say, Eden Ihi
putts, with material for whole pages. And
Sabre but for the war, might have run
away ’with Lady Tybar instead of acquiring
her in the perfectly laudable way he did.
But even the contemplation of that narrowlj-
averted danger need hardly bring a blush to
the cheek of innocence or cause Mi. Fieming
to include “If Winter Comes among books
that have sold well because they abound m
poisonous suggestions.
IFORD.
A Satchel of Books
A Good, Man. by George F. Hummel (Geoffrey
'i'] u . author describes this novel as an
SS.pt It life interpretation.” If Mr. Hummel is
right about it, we are sorry foi Lite.
Thais, by Anatole Prance (John Lane.) An
edition de luxe of the French masters epical nor el.
The translation is by Robert R. Douglas, and it is
admirably illustrated by Frank C. 1 ape.
lllindness, by Henry Gren (Dent). This is no
medical treatise, but a psychological study in the
form of a novel. A clever lad, loving life and the
beauty of living things, is suddenly deprived of sight.
Life becomes subjective and only the fragments of
the objective world float into the introspective sea.
“A flv buzzed suddenly. Even a fly could see. He
was shut out, into himself, in the cold. me
character drawing is good and the reader feels a
genuine relief when at length light breaks through
the shuttered eyes.
The Gates of Horn, by Bernard Sleigh (Dent).
Under the guise of the proceedings of a Society
for the Investigation of Faerie Fact and Fallacy,
the author sets out a number of stories full of marvel
and with all the enchantments and often the beauty
of Fairyland. He joins with Conan Doyle in believing
that the world is on the eve of a tremendous! revul-
sion from present-day materialism, and proffers this
little offering of the fruits of fancy from the world
of the unearthly as his bit of help on the golden
way.
Irish Doric in Song and Story, by Alfred Peieeval
Graves (Fisher Unwin). Who doesn’t remember
“Father O’Flynn” with its rollicking chorus/
Recently Dublin University conferred upon its author
the degree of Doctor of Literature to mark a very
wide appreciation of his gifts, for Dr. Graves is no
“single song” writer, but has contributed very
largely to the lyric literature of his native land.
His 1 songs are “the result of many years of happy
acquaintance with the Kerry peasantry and the
beautiful country that was their home and .mine.
The present collection is the result of winnowing the
choicest grain from a large body of material, and
there is music and a homely wit in them all. Nor
do they lack in fancy. Take this verse of a
lullaby:—
“I’d put my pretty child to float
Away from me,
Within the new moon's silver boat
On Slumber Sea.
And when your starry sail is o’er
From Slumber Sea,
My precious one, you'll step to shore
On Mother’s knee.”


i\NWVVV riry vv wry i ?p t*
m
H
i
m
TTr
r r jr
t '
ill
'4
FF iw i
fi
{
r\f
m
V
m
ig
l
K8748X
STANDARD SIX
CUSTOM SEDAN
( Illustrated)
£585
Tasmania and Western
Australia, £1 0 extra.
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
Wood Disc
With Australian Bodies: Wheels. Wheels.
Folding Hood Roadster. . £398 £409
Duplex Hood Roadster . . £420 £430
Folding Hood Tourer ... £405 £415
Duplex Hood Tourer .... £425 £435
With Imported Bodies:
Duplex Hood Roadster £455
Folding Hood Sport Roadster,
specially equipped £475
Duplex Hood Tourer £485
Country Club Coupe, specially
equipped £545
Victoria, 4-pass, specially equipped £565
Custom Sedan, 5-pass., specially
equipped £585
Custom Berline, 5-pass., specially
equipped £595
120 in. WHEEL BASE BIG SIX
MODELS.
With Imported Bodies:
Duplex Hood Roadster £5BO
Folding Hood Sport Roadster, speci-
ally equipped £6lO
Folding Hood Tourer £6lO
Duplex Hood Tourer £620
Victoria, 4-pass., specially equipped £690
Custom Brougham, 5-pass., speci-
ally equipped £715
127 in. WHEEL BASE BIG SIX
MODELS.
With Imported Bodies:
Folding Holder Tourer £685
Duplex Hood Tourer £695
Brougham, 5-pass., specially
equipped £Bl5
Custom Sedan, “The President,”
7-pass., with special de Luxe
equipment £865
Custom Berline, “The President,”
7-pass., with special de Luxe
equipment £BB5
Five-tyre equipment on all models.
Tasmania and Western Australia,
£lO extra.
Custom Car Luxury
without Custom Car Cost
'pvISTINGUISHED by striking beauty of
line and colour, by unusual completeness
of appointments, by a full-vision steel body in
lustrous duotone lacquer with mohair uphol-
stery—the Studebaker Standard Six Custom
Sedan marks the new mode in motor cars.
Four-wheel brakes, disc wheels, a six-cylinder
L-head motor famed for its quiet power, plus all
the unusual features of custom design are offer-
ed without the usual prohibitive custom cost.
We invite you to see this much-talked-of
car —the latest achievement of Studebaker
One-Profit facilities.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at Newcastle.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
S T
E R
BUILDERS OF QUALITY
ewrtyuiop[]
VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS


W' :
; fgg
::
5*5
C
r
/
D
V. Jl
\\vV«
Liveliness —Zip—Pep
—you get that all the
time from an “Exide”
because it is built
into it.
Care and thought in design,
keen discrimination in the
selection of material and the
experience of thousands of
users have made
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY
Australian Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch,


AS FINE AS MONEY CAN BUILD
a
t
Everyone aspires to possess in his car the finest
performance, the greatest luxury possible.
And so we say to everyone who desires to own a car
as fine as money can build, you owe it to yourself
no matter what car you may be driving today to
know by actual experience the wonder and charm
of the Chrysler Imperial Six.
Fine motor cars will be measured henceforth by this
new Chrysler criterion, which comprehends a great
increase in power, in speed capacity and pliability, \
a new luxury of operating verve and smoothness,
new heights in every phase and detail of luxurious
road ease.
Any distributor listed below is ready to demonstrate
the entirely new interpretation which the Chrysler
Imperial Six gives to superfine motoring.
CHRYSLER IMPERIAL
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NS W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney,
Vic.; Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld : Ward Motors Limited. Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tbs.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company. 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington.


Si
MS
O
Childhood’s Lessons
Affect The Whole Life
Teach your children to use Cuti-
cura Soap daily to keep the skin
clear. Soothe and heal rashes,
eczemas and other irritations with
Cuticura Ointment. Shampoo with
Cuticura Soap to keep the scalp in
a healthy, hair-growing condition.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W/*
Hr 1 Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Death to
Fues and
ANTSjJj
d>
U.-J/
gC
Oisq^
§7w
ifomHWATC
'CdduGtis
I®
)Flt & ant
.XTERMINATOR
■k
Hi AGENTS:- ■■
DUEROIN & SAINSBURY LTD.
■OWP BTRIIT, MKi.eou«wt
Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
Ts
if)
9 v
r.:
CASH’S
WASHABLE
RIBBONS
( Brocaded )
Ideal for Linaerie
IMPARTING a Charm of
J- Daintiness and Distinc-
tion—made of Guaranteed
Fast Washing Silks with
Pretty Brocaded Effedts in
Dainty Pastel Shades —
once threaded there’s no
need to remove for Wash-
ing. 1-in. width is largely
used for Shoulder Straps.
&4sk Your'Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
). & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St., Richmond
MELBOURNE /(— ■
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . .... . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
'V
Relief from Rupture
Any sufferer will find
Denyers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and support and
is conducive to curing.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it l
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
If unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I ) tiOn®
g 'v *****
i <-**•
|>ii|i<i!<>Hu.MUi9ipf«iMMiili;
fiMtiiuji Sa^etop-*
Holds More Ink
Make Onoto your Pen —It is a great time*
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
UO Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
I Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Beautiful
but
m
4*
7(e/i steyJ(ai\ itlL fic\ tlae f
THE more beautiful a woman is the greater her dread of old age.
Woman, by her beauty alone, has ruled and ruined nations,
made and unmade kingdoms, suppressed and caused revolutions
such is the power of her beauty.
Beauty and Youth go hand in hand. As old age appears beauty
gradually fades, the skin loses its peach-like bloom, and, worst of
all, the telltale of approaching years, silvery GREY HAIRS, make
their appeax-ance. As soon as a woman sees the reflection of these
silver threads in her mirror she realises her maturing years. Her
husband, her children and her friends —they all notice it.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN is a simple, harmless liquid, and
when applied to the hair removes these telltale silver threads.
Obtainable in brown or black, it tints to any shade. It is
perfectly safe and easy to apply, and can be obtained from any
chemist or store, price 4/-, or from the Agents, Messrs. Muir & Neil,
Sydney; Lifeguard Smith, Brisbane; or Duei'din and Sainsbuiy, Ltd.,
Melbourne (by sending 4/6 in stamps or postal note).
Bun a bottle to-day and remember the name.
D 5 ALLEN’S MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
t/iICOU-S
A WS-2
If any illustration in 'THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Cigar of generous size and weight
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
Box prices:—
.10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
2-5 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 40/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. |
6d.
1
tt
il fill
a
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Collection.
Strange that men have not yet perceived a
dearth
Of scents and sounds, a vanishing away
Of all the firm realities of earth,
A gradual loss of beauty day by day.
For consciously I am collecting these,
Storing them miser-fingered in my heart:
Surely men must have missed the stones,
the trees,
Which I have hidden and locked up apart.
Colors and shapes I steal, and light and
shade,
Movements of birds, quick stirrings of the
grass,
The savor of sea air, the low sounds made
By winds that whisper secrets as they
pass.
Hard rocks to touch, rough surfaces to feel
And heavy weights to lift—l fill my store
With all things tangible and all things real
Which will live on when I collect no more.
For I desire to weld such solid things
Securely to myself, that they may keep
Some manifestation of my laborings
At the long last when I shall fall asleep.
N.S.W.
ROBERT U. FITZGERALD.
A Twilit Garden.
Peace rests within this licliened garden wall.
The may is white with blossom; soft and
light
The pink peach-petals fall
On hyacinths of white
And pink and blue;
Pale primroses peep through
The leafy green. The freesias spill
Their sweetness. It is 5ti11....50 still!
Is it too much to ask?—a little peace,
A garden such as this grey wall encloses,
Where Sorrow sinks to sleep and strivings
cease
Amid the perfume of uncounted roses!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
The Artist.
A box of crumpled tubes half-filled with
paint,
A palette stained, and brushes half a
score—
This was his wealth, but he had no complaint
For fortune’s ear, nor did he wish for
more.
He looked for no reward, nor did he care
To hear the praise his talent might have
won ;
It was enough for him that he was there,
To start anew, the old work being done.
N.S.W.
A. L. WILKINSON.
Non Omnis Moriar.
When unbent are the bonds of my bending
And the ties of my knotting arc not;
When spent is the store of my spending
And the goal of my getting is got;
When my muscles no longer are springy
And no more I can ride like Tom Mix,
And Charon shall come with his dinghy
To ferry me over the Styx—
This faith is the fruit of my learning:
I shall not be wholly deceased ;
1 believe I shall find myself turning
To some sort of a bird or a beast.
Say an eagle—for preference, a white one;
Or I don’t mind them setting me loose
As three-parts of a swan, if not quite one,
And the rest of the family goose.
This doctrine is true, you must know, sir,
For Horace has plainly averred
That a bard becomes “avis pennosa ,”
Meaning thereby a feathery bird.
So a truce to the tumult and shouting,
And I turn my face to the wall,
For my wing- and tail-feathers are sprout-
ing—
I’m off, so good-bye to you all.
N.S.W.
TOM BOWLING.
Moonlight on a Blossoming Plum-tree.
This is the warm white snow of Fairyland—
The only winter that the fairies know —
Pelting the dewy earth with petalled snow
To shape a dream that poets understand,
And seek to tether to the printed word....
But who can share one song the fairies
heard ?
And who can close within a human hand
A ray of moonshine on a blossoming bough?
I thought last night to capture it somehow
From the fast-closing gates of Fairyland.
A plum-tree in a city garden set—
I stood and watched it till my eyes were
wet!
High in the moony blue there was a star,
And Spring among the sleeping branches
woke
The feathery finials of the silky-oak,
Wherein the portents of the flowers are.
Till thought ached in my brain. “To-
morrow I
Will make a rhyme of blossoming plum and
sky!”
To-morrow is to-day! The lines unwrit
Nag at my mind, though all the while I see
A warm white moonlight on a warm white
tree;
And when I think at last, “I gather it!”
Some strange enchantment snatches from
my hand
Blossom and moonlight back to Fairyland !
QUEEN SLA NO.
M. FORREST.


ewrtyuiop[]
m
HU
ill
i
HP
W .
■
P
. ■ . ■:•
Illiil
;
|#«i!il*!rtiif^^Pi
8111 l
fe-
viHmH
H
feb
... o
§ll
:
S ;?; r:*'\
■■■
■ :
:
i
1
■
... \S
Willi
f.
.
5
7 -»
f Zmm
SPEARFELT,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup
1926.
Owner - - - - D. Grant
Trainer - - - - V. O’Neill
Jockey - - - - H. Cairns
Weight - - - - 9st 31b.
Time - - - - - 3min. 22fsec.
CHATEAU TANUNDA Hospital Brandy has become
famous throughtout the Commonwealth. As the label has
been closely imitated, please insist on getting the genuine
CHATEAU TANUNDA Brandy when you ask for it.
Proprietors: BSEPPELT6SONS,L t - d


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2440.
November 18, 1926^
-Draw near. Cuthbert; your mother and I desire to have a serious talk
with you
. "You have now turned twenty-one. and having arrived at man s estate, the
veil must be torn aside
"In fact, we deem it high time that you were made familiar with the graver
facts of life
“Those stern realities which must be confronted by all who would carry
on the burden of humanity
"So that you, in turn, on marrying, may pass on the torch of knowledge to
your children
"In short —steel yourself, dear boy-it is not Santa. Onus, but your mother-
and father who put the presents in your Christmas stocki g.
BREAKING IT TO CUTHBERT.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’rinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-IG2 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
l'osted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly!
12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. fid.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., ivhich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to bp addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Liondon is
1,. St. C. Gromiona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
Tiie Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
(lie bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.CJi.; and IF. Paw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.CJi.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1,6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The liritish
Australian and Neiv fCcalander,” 1,11,-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1 V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury.; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley : and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevards; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70),) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
51,1\ South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Bool: and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Honcs Kong. —Brewer and Co., C!)6 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — lt. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Darker. Sura: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch. 75-19 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. —J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1926.
MORE TAXES—AND A LOTTERY
LOAN.
Taxation is coming down in America and
Britain (at least it was coming down in
Britain before the coal strike), and it ought
to be coming down in Australia too. But
in four States and the Commonwealth itself
it is going up. For weeks past Lang, the
N.S.W. Premier-Treasurer, has been busy
with plans for placing new burdens on the
shoulders of “those best able to bear it.” The
Vic. income-tax was increased last year, and
would have been increased again this year
if the Government hadn’t been afraid of the
Leg. Council; as an alternative Treasurer
Peacock proposed a tax on McShortodds
which, owing to the Labor party’s tender
regard for that parasite, fell at the first
hurdle. Queensland’s McCormack Govern-
ment has come to light with a shoal of new
stamp duties and a tax on gifts. The tax
on gifts, McCormack says, is designed “to
prevent persons of wealth evading succession
duty”—“wealth,” he explained, “is a de-
stroyer of souls”—but a former Treasurer
gloomily predicted that before long no giver
would escape, not even Strerhon when he
bought Phyllis’s engagement-ring. The
S.A. L/abor Government announces a 50 p.c.
addition to the land-tax and a 10 p.c. super-
tax on incomes. Asked whether he intended
increasing railway fares and freight-rates as
well, Premier Hill said it would have to
be considered. Victoria and Queensland have
already put up their railway tariffs, and
N. S. Wales is following suit. In the two
Labor-ruled States the added charges are
essentially taxes on railway-users to secure
privileges for a favored section, being attri-
butable to the 44-liour week.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government, for its
part, has brought in a lot of Protective duties
on iron and steel, wire-netting, road-rollers,
textiles and so forth, and a revenue-producing
tax on petrol. The Protective duties were
warranted and are bringing results; but the
petrol tax admits of no defence. A Protec-
tionist Government is only justified in tack-
ing a revenue item on to its tariff when it
has a real need for the money, and in this
case there was none. Bruce and Page had
ample funds without it; but they were
anxious to meddle in the States’ business of
road construction and maintenance; so,
undertaking to furnish £2,000,000 p.a. for 10
years (the States were to borrow another
£15,000,000 on their own account), they
clapped on their petrol tax. Among the "re-
sults so far are dearer petrol, High Court
litigation with the three States which have
kept out of the scheme, and the beginnings
of another orgy of extravagance on the part
of those which have come in. And extrava-
gance is the cause of the rise in State taxa-
tion. Premier Hill has frankly admitted it
as far as S. Aus. is concerned, and his fellow-
Premiers would also acknowledge it if they
were equally candid; in his Budget speech
Hill said that “revenue had to make good
over £1,000,000 of interest on money bor-
rowed for works which are either not fully
productive or unproductive.” A determined
Federal Treasurer could have stopped this
squandering long ago. With the 255. per
head payments to argue with—since 1920 he
has been entitled to withhold them —he
could have forced the States to borrow
through the Commonwealth, vetoing all wild-
cat proposals and insisting on a sinking-
fund ; forced them likewise to agree to income
taxation being levied by the Commonwealth
and taxation on land values, entertainments
and dead men’s property by the States; and
taken over, with a view to wiping out, per-
haps 50 p.c. of the State debts. But Earle
Page and Bruce before him (Bruce was
Treasurer for 18 months) have been too
keen on being known as good fellows to
undertake hard financial reforms. They pre-
fer the easy road to the rough road; prodigal
spending to unpopular economies; plans
which will catch votes to those which may
alienate them. Nevertheless, the measures
just outlined will have to be resorted to
sooner or later. And until they are resorted
to in earnest taxation will not come down—
it is much more likely to go on rising.
* * * *
The worst of income-tax increases is that
the same minority is slugged every time.
Wage-earners are exempt, and plutocrats
have ways of evading the impost; but
for men on fixed salaries, wheat-farmers,
graziers and the like, there is no
escape. The full pound of flesh is exacted
from them. The sufferings of these victims
might, however, be alleviated—at all events
in States where prodigious sums are fooled
away in gambling on horses and ponies—
by a lottery loan for a specific purpose. For
instance, the N.S.W. Lang Government will
have to find at least a million sterling for
additions and improvements to hospitals,
besides increasing its subsidies to those in-
stitutions. If it follows the usual practice
it will borrow the million in London at 5J
p.c. or thereabouts and look to the taxpayer
to find the interest, for the hospitals certainly
won’t do it. But it might conceivably get
a cheaper million by means of a lottery loan
if it undertook to distribute 3 p.c. among
subscribers in the form of prizes (there could
be fortnightly or monthly drawings) and
set apart 1 p.c. for a sinking fund. And a
good part of the million would probably
come from punters who would otherwise
chuck it away in tax-dodgers’ startingrprice
shops. There are multitudes of people who
would welcome a fortnightly or monthly
gamble in which their stake-money would
be intact. The Bulletin has no great love
for the scheme; but such a lottery would
largely displace something a great deal worse
and do good in the process.
THE COUNTRY THAT CAN’T FORGET
IT’S DRY.
In America, as in Britain, prohibition was
applied as a war emergency measure, mainly
because munition workers, receiving tremen-
dous pay for tremendous exertion, showed
a disposition to drink so much that their
industrial efficiency was impaired. In Bri-
tain the prohibition only operated for cer-
tain hours. In America there was a com-
plete outlawry of the business of selling
intoxicants. The remedy applied to a trouble
arising out of unusual economic conditions
and a grave and unusual national emergency
proved of value in both countries. The
munition workers and others on whom the
home end of the war-effort depended gave
better service. As a result, both in Britain
and in America, the prohibitionists, never
very devoted to logic, endeavored to stam-
pede the country into permanent acceptance
of their panacea.
* * * *
In Britain, where respect for personal
liberty is intertwined with the political ideas
of all parties, the idea of applying what
was more or less a factory rule, and a war-
time rule at that, to the whole nation in
time of peace was gently laughed into obli-
vion. George V., who as head of the nation
had sat on the water-waggon for the dura-
tion of the war, gracefully climbed down as
soon as the fighting was over. It cannot
be said that any order of the community—
even the clergy—had class-consciously fol-
lowed his example. There had not been even
a hypocritical pretence of following it so far
as the great majority of Britons were con-
cerned. But in America there was a dif-
ferent national temperament—a greater capa-
city for idealism on the one hand and a
superior aptitude for political chicanery and
corruption on the other. Temporarily, at
least, a little group of influential men —some
of them practically unknown to the people,
and none in any great degree responsible
in a public sense—had their hands on the
domestic government of the United States.
Woodrow Wilson was preoccupied with
foreign affairs. When the permanent pro-
hibition law, cleverly engineered and pushed
through Congress on a wave of patriotic
sentiment, was brought to him to sign, lie
exercised his right of veto. It had to be
carried over the President’s head. And it
was a subject on which neither Congress nor
the State legislatures had been instructed
by the nation.
* * » *
The small group of powerful men who
determined to prohibit the United States
from drinking alcohol acted, it cannot be
doubted, from the very best of motives, and
the politicians who danced to the strings
they pulled probably imagined that they
were highrsouled patriots. But as events
have proved, very few of these people who
imposed a dietary stipulation upon a nation
had the slightest intention of obeying per-
sonally either the letter or the spirit of the
law they had framed. The notion seems to
have been to confer a great boon on the
common people—particularly the manual
workers—whose employers thought they
really couldn’t afford to indulge in such
luxuries as beer and rye whisky. It may
be frankly admitted that the American work-
ing classes, taken in the mass, have thrived
under prohibition. They earn higher real
wages; they save more ; they have a higher
standard of personal comfort. But it is im-
possible for any honest observer to say how
much of this blessed state is due to prohibi-
tion and how much to economic causes such
as America’s ownership of half the world’s
gold supply, the tribute of foreign interest
that flows continually into Uncle Samuel’s
coffers, and the speeding-up of production
that has come with the post-war revival of
Yankee trade. Nor can it be averred by
any but the most reckless of prohibitionists
that even the working classes in the Land of
Liberty are reconciled to the interference by
their betters with their personal tastes. They
notice that their betters frequently and flag-
rantly break the prohibition law. They
know that the quickest road to wealth in a
country where there are thousands of roads
to affluence is to help rich men to circum-
vent the Eighteenth Amendment. They
know that at almost every place where
“society” entertains itself there are recognised
and established facilities for breaking the
prohibition law. It is a national joke that
the bootleggers find their happiest hunting-
ground in the Capitol at Washington. That
aspect of the matter would be less serious
were the Americans in other respects peace-
able and law-abiding. But, as a nation, they
are not. _ Their criminality rate is enor-
mously high ; the war between law-preservers
and law-breakers seems 'to be waged each
year on more and more even terms. Crime
is a business, and a well-organised business,
and it pays huge dividends.
* * * *
In such circumstances the United States
cannot do what the prohibitionists said they
would be able to do after a few years of pro-
hibition —they capnot forget liquor. Instead
of growing weaker with the years the demand
for modification or repeal of the Volstead
enactment grows in intensity. The “drys”
say it is engineered by brewers and dis-
tillers, but as the “drys” also claim that
brewers and distillers are more prosperous
under prohibition than they were before it
came, the statement doesn’t command implicit
belief. Investigations undertaken by pre-
sumably fairly impartial investigators—the
Literary Digest’s referendum of a couple
of years ago is a case in point—have shown
that there exists a very strong body of popu-
lar opinion in favor of once more putting the
liquor trade where people can look at it and
see who’s running it. In conjunction with
the recent Congressional elections eight
States have undertaken —as they have a right
to, under their own constitutions —referenda
on the subject of the Volstead Law, and six
of them have registered majorities against
prohibition. The “drys,” who get into a
state of agitation whenever an attempt is
made to gauge public opinion as to the suc-
cess of their experiment, have ingeniously
endeavored to discount the verdict of the
States in advance by advising all who believe
prohibition has been helpful and successful
to abstain from voting on any referendum on
the subject. The “dry” view is that the
Eighteenth Amendment is as the laws of
the Medes and Persians. It cannot be re-
pealed ; it cannot be modified; it should not
be criticised, and it is impious and sacri-
legious to discuss it even. Such a mental
attitude is interesting, even instructive, but
it is not in tune with the modern tempera-
ment and probably will prove to be bad
politics.
Prohibition, in itself, of course, is bad
politics, and bad politics, like bad money,
tend to drive out good. Wherever prohibition
is made a live political issue it at last over-
shadows every other issue. Unlike most other
issues it is seemingly so simple. The pro-
hibitionist says to himself: “How splendid
it would be to prevent Smith, Brown, Jones
and Robinson from drinking alcohol, which
I don’t like, and which I am sure is bad for
them!” And Smith and Co. say to them-
selves : “Let him mind his own business. He’ll
be telling us we mustn’t smoke, or wear hats,
or eat meat, next.” And in the course of
the discussion things that matter much more
than Smith’s taste in beverages will inevi-
tably be forgotten. The United States are
just now enjoying an era of great and un-
precedented prosperity, and they can afford
to talk about prohibition to the exclusion of .
everything else. _ But unless they get liquor
off their minds in one way or another, they
will find themselves seriously hampered when
the next national emergency pops up.
CHOOSING A CAREER.
Rose Macaulay has recently been advising
the young people of England on the
choice of a career. Necessary such advice
undoubtedly is. One need only consider the
diversity and complexity of modern callings
to realise that. In our young days it was
a plain, straight issue—one decided to drive
a ’bus. Had there been no. guiding hand,
where would we potential bus - diiveis be
to-day? Lest ambition, confused with too
diverse a choice, be content to drift, let me
take the tiller.
Most people seem to be lawyers, counting,
that is. those who used to be or are going
to be; and, indeed, if you want to make a
lot of money you can’t be a better thing.
Not that lawyers make very much money by
being lawyers, but in the course ot their
studies they learn how far they can go and
still keep out of gaol; and in making any
great amount of money this is a thing you
must know. People who have not this useful
knowledge themselves must come to lawyers
for it, and so very soon if you are a lawyer
you will have a choice of get-rich-quick
schemes at your elbow. Consequently, if you
are a bright lawyer you will not remain
merely a lawyer very long, but will become
a member of Parliament, borough councillor,
company promoter or land subdivider, or
attain to some kindred honorable calling. If,
however, you decide to remain a lawyer you
will take three or four other people into
partnership, and as there are few jobs in
any law office that can't be done better by tin’
clerks than by yourself, you will take every
second or third year off, according to the
number of partners, for purposes of travel
and recuperation. And indeed these frequent
holidays are very necessary, for the state
of constantly keeping just out of gaol is a
very exacting one.
One of the safest things to be is a bank-
manager. It is very easy, too, when you get
there, though you have to do a bit of addition
on the way. All you need is to get a padded
chair and lend money to a lot of people ; then
when wool drops a penny a pound you send for
some of them (every third one, or all the A to
G’s; it doesn’t matter in the least how you
choose them—'you are sure to get some of
the right ones and some of the wrong ones
wliicheyer method you adopt) and frown
upon them, and have a heart-to-heart talk
with them, and refuse to lend them any more
money. It always seems to come right in
the end, and these talks make you feel like
a financier or a magnate, a man with a stake
in the country. You will need a good tailor,
and a taste in wines will not come amiss.
The advantage of being a plumber is that,
unless you are a gas-plumber, you are sure
to be at the top of your profession. Every
plumber takes a pride in leaving a job
exactly as he finds it, except the gas-plumber,
who leaves it a good deal worse. The latter
must extract wonderful comfort from the
knowledge that he is doing mankind a posi-
tive kindness whenever he will consent to
sit down and twiddle his thumbs.
You had better not be a parson, the odds
are so dreadfully against you being suffi-
ciently bright to prove a counter-attraction
to Sunday golf. If you feel you have gifts
of oratory which it is criminal to waste, you
can always go and sell sewing-machines.
If you like, you can be a teacher, which
is a very noble thing to be. You will then
get more holidays than anyone else except
lawyers with partners —or home-grown actors.
The danger is that you will soon have diffi-
culty in distinguishing between a child and a
grown-up person, which is not likely to add
to your popularity. Your ambition, strangely
enough, is to be mistaken for a city man:
but, perhaps because of the little bag you
always take about with you, you will never
achieve your ambition.
It must be pleasant to be an editor, and
have people tremblingly awaiting your judg-
ment. But an editor has to read not only
all the articles which appear, but all the
articles which do not appear, and that is a
drawback. You’d better not be an editor.
If you can’t think of anything else, you can
always be a public servant; but unless you
have a passion for regulations it is unlikely
that you will go very far. The public ser-
vant is swayed never by the amount of good
he can do, but always by the number of regu-
lations he can keep within. He does not
what he thinks best, but what he thinks his
seniors will think best. When he has many
seniors (and most of them have) who all
think differently (and they always do), his
life becomes a highly exciting one. His
nightly prayer is for a good epidemic, and
his dream is the speech he will make to his
chief the day after he resigns.
It is unlikely that you will have the figure
for a traffic inspector, or the savoir faire for
a haberdasher, or the brains for a bookmaker,
but you can always be a land-agent. This
does not necessarily mean that you will sell
any land; it may merely be an excuse to get
out of minding the baby. Under cover of a
sign like this you can run an art union, or
work on the tote, or smuggle opium, or write
begging letters, or witness marriages, or send
out blind men with barrel organs. The sign
will be true in any case, because in bad
times nobody sells land, in good times every-
body does.
Quite a lot of people drive, sell, grease or
petrolify motor-cars. To do this at all well
you must have a dank switch of hair dragged
back to the crown of your head, a crackling
manner of speech suggestive of American
and a rather dirty appearance as if you have
just crawled out from underneath a car. as.
in fact, you generally have. You will have
a great contempt for anyone who walks, and
will seize the first opportunity which pre-
sents itself of obliterating him. Your de-
meanor will be slightly reminiscent of large
diamonds and Birmingham. On the whole I
shall not like you if you drive, sell, grease or
petrolify motor-cars.
You may have some physical asset which
decides your calling for you. You may have
a loose elbow and become a steward, or a
bent nose and lend money, in which case you
are beyond the scope of this article.
If you are clever at drawing you will be-
come an architect, and live in a house which
gets up and shrieks at you when you
approach it. It is a pity that more archi-
tects don’t drink; though what would happen
if coming home late the architect ever saw.


two such houses side by side I shudder to
think about.
These are just a few of the callings open
to you. There are, besides, a number of
mysterious occupations—people that there
seems no reason for at all: importers,
spruikers, agents (196 varieties), sig'n-
writers, curtain-makers and teachers of the
piano and elocution.
If you have tried all these and still can t
make ends meet, you had better be a burglar:
pick your country and you will live in com-
fort then whichever way things go.
W. H. GRAHAM .
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Proposed Philanthropic Federal
Loan [?]ciety. Partially Limited.
The largo Federal projects on hand include
one for providing houses where houses are now
too thickly sown, and where the price of
land to put houses on makes the supply of
cheap yet civilised domiciles impossible. To
illustrate the situation, the unimproved value
of the 118,299 acres which constitute Sydney
and its suburbs was set down at £854 per acre
in 1923, and it has grown since. The unim-
proved value of the 117,020,835 acres of
N.S.W. municipalities and shires outside the
metropolitan area was described as 295. 2d.
per acre, though this included plenty of l&nd
which, given a railway and some cheap
harbor improvements and a consequent
chance of settlement, might be in the £854
category. The unimproved value of the other
<±o per cent, of the State was hardly worth
alluding to. This shows, if any evidence is
necessary, where the intensity of population
is, for it is crowding which makes crazy
land values. It further reveals where the risk
of loss in boom-break time is greatest. Inside
the old city and environs it is possible, on
an average, to lose £853 per acre, which
would be bad for any mortgagee. Outside,
where there are abundant chances to build
new cities, the average possible loss in a
general slump could hardly exceed £1 per
acre. The Federal Ministry, with its bound-
less capacity for attending to any job but its
own (which lies on its neglected half-million-
square-mile estate in the North), proposes to
spend £20,000,000 on its wild-cat enterprise.
It advanced an absurd amount of loan money
to State Governments to spend on soldier-
settlement schemes. The fall in value of the
settlement lands appears to be anything
from 5 to 95 per cent., but apparently
this miscalculation has in no whit mitigated
the Government’s belief that it is the right
institution to run a land-mortgage business.
The Treasurer complained that the savings
banks don’t lock up enough of their. deposi-
tors’ money, repayable on demand, in long-
distance house-building devices, with a small
margin of security and an odor of philan-
thropy ; but the managers wisely limit that
kind of business, and lend instead to Trea-
surers, whose lOU’s are at least marketable.
He also asserted that the best way to pre-
vent a man turning Bolshevik is to help
him to have a home that will be his own
when the mortgage is paid off, if ever. But
care should be taken lest a certain type of
soldier’s farm or war-service home should
make Bolsheviks, not to mention criminals
and absconders. An invariable feature of all
kind-hearted and vote-hunting projects for
supplying cheap homes, in metropolitan
areas where land is outrageously deal’, is
the reduction to a minimum of the margin
of security. Advances up to 90 and 95 and
even 100 per cent, of the value of the pro-
perty have been promised. The bankers
who broke in 1893, and who were not
entirely the fools they were taken for, made
two miscalculations. With an unfortunate
faith in the future they locked up short-
dated deposits in long-dated securities, as
Treasurer Page would have the savings
banks do. And they thought that when they
lent up to only 60 per cent, of the value
of the security (not 90 or 95 per cent.) they
were safe. Events proved that they weren’t.
♦
New Guinea Gold.
Though there has been a good deal of dis-
affection among the miners on the Bulolo
River in New Guinea, the influence of
the many old Papuan miners on the field has
kept protest within orderly bounds. The
trouble arose, as it was inevitable that it
would, from the granting of four large lease-
holds to the discoverers of Edie Creek in
April last. Rumor had come through that
these and other leases, taking up in all
some seven miles of the best “country,” had
been since subdivided into claims. The in-
stallation a few days ago of a wireless sta-
tion at Salamoa, the “port” for the Bulolo,
has now made it possible to get the facts—
from the protesting ’weightcliasers’ point of
view, at least. These are contained in a
cable transmitted by the Morobe District
Miners’ Association; and, if the statements
are correct, the Rabaul Administration has
shown an almost incredible incapacity to size
up a simple situation. To anyone with
experience of alluvial mining, and that of
New Guinea in particular, the most amazing
assertion is that, though the Bulolo lias
been going for three years and the Edie
Creek ground since April last, no gold
warden is on the field, though 150 miners and
2500 natives are “set in” there, and though
the Administration has been asked time and
again to appoint a warden for the field.
True, an officer of the Administration has
been there since September, but apparently
has not been given a gold warden’s peculiar
jurisdiction. The granting of the large
leaseholds seems to have been similarly
bungled. First reports said they were
merely the extra-large “reward claims”
usually granted to discoverers of new gold-
fields ; then they were said to have been
granted as dredging and hydraulic sluicing
areas, it having been alleged that the ground
could not be worked in any other fashion.
In spite of protests by the miners, who
showed that the ground was easily worked
by shovel, sluicebox and dish, no less than
21 other big leases were applied for; these,
however, were refused, six months after
application, but the ground was exempt from
pegging out in claims in the meantime. The
fact that leases of this nature should have
been granted, or worked, without the ground
being inspected by competent authority, is
a strong endorsement of the protest made
by the Miners’ Association. That body s
further assertion that the leaseholders and
applicants made no attempt to fulfil the
dredge and sluice conditions of their hold-
ings, but worked them with dish, box and
shovel, in the fashion they had previously
declared impracticable, is a good excuse for
the subsequent action of the Miners Asso-
ciation. This, as set out in a protest to
the Prime Minister, consisted in pegging the
whole of the field, including the leasehold
areas, into ordinary alluvial claims. These
were balloted for on October 24, and all
hands are now at work under the new con-
ditions without any violence having taken
place. The miners now ask for a Commis-
sion of Inquiry to settle their status. It,
as the protest states, the leasehold condi-
tions as to dredging and hydraulic sluicing
wore not complied with, the leases are cer-
tainly liable to forfeiture, unless exemption
was granted, and the action of the miners,
which amounts to claim-jumping, was appa-
rently good in mining law. There may be
other factors in the situation to be con-
sidered, but these should be investigated by
an independent tribunal, and not by the
involved New Guinea Administration. A
Commission, if granted, should include one
or more experienced officials from Papua,
where they understand such matters.
♦
Starvation Rewards for Inventors.
One of tlie arguments for public ownership
which captivated many Australians in other
days was that talent under the new dispen-
sation —especially in the field of mechanical
invention —would be liberated and suitably
rewarded. Clever inventors, it was said,
were the servants of a capitalist system
which, in many instances, robbed them in
cold blood; the State, extending its “econo-
mic function,” would come to their rescue.
With brains mobilised on its side, public
ownership would march from victory to vic-
tory until the “economic emancipation of
the masses” was won at last. The dream
has not come true. The “economic emanci-
pation of the masses” has been indefinitely
delayed, and, although a show is made of
encouraging inventors and innovators m
public employment, the rewards are paltry
in the extreme. Cogent evidence on that
point could be given by an ex-Digger now m
the service of the N. S. Wales Metropolitan
Water Board. An American invention, tin?
concrete gun, having come under his obser-
vation, he suggested two important improve-
ments —improvements which, Sydney Tele-
Grapll says, “will mean a saving of £920 a
vear on each of the three guns imported by
the M.W.8.” The board signified its gracious
acceptance, and awarded the ex-Digger a
bonus of £100.” A pounds for
devising methods of saving £2700 in a year
and £13,800 in five years ! Wliat an encour-
agement to a man to use his brains in the
public interest! And this is no isolated
experience. A day or two later the N. S.
Wales Minister of Railways stated that in
the course of six years rewards amounting
to £27,798 had been paid to Government rail-
waymen for 5206 inventions and suggestions
for the improvement of the service. An aver-
age of, roughly, £5 6s. per invention
and suggestion! The Commissioners men-
tion some acceptable ideas which emanated
last year from bright minds in their depart-
ment :
An improved design of junction fishplate; an
improved dray saddle; a device for the operation of
tramcar door's; an appliance for locating bends in
piston-rods; an improved type of stopper for ladles
in the, steel foundry; an altered design of tramcar
axle-box lid; a method of reconditioning jack
hammers; a device for spraying steam-roller wheels;
the conversion of pneumatic chipping hammers to
scaling hammers; a lifting device for axles; an
improved design of overwinding switch for electric
cranes and the electric furnace; the provision of an
additional crossover at Eveleigh running shed; im-
proved methods of excavation ; improvements in the
sighting of signals; improvements to train indicators;
provision of safety-guards on machinery.
Surely some of these inventions were worth
more than the pitiful sums which it is appa-
rently the rule to pay. In the 1925 report
it was complacently mentioned that the sug-
gestions accepted that year would effect “an
annual - saving of £40,413,” and that “the
cumulative savings since the, inception of the
Suggestions, Inventions and Economies
Board amount to over £600,000.” "A
falling-off in the number of sugges-
tions received” is now noted by the
Commissioners. The same thing has
occurred in Westralia, where 704 came to
hand in 1923-24. 440 in 1924-25 and 400 in
1925-26. “This,” the Westralian Commis-
sioner wrote last year, “may possibly be
attributed to general improvements made,
which reduces the scope.” It may also be
attributed ■ to the scurvy prizes doled out —
£269 for 48 ideas in 1923-24 and £468 for
109 in 1924-25; the 1925-26 average was a
shade over £9, which is a bit better. How
can these great services be raised to the
highest point of efficiency unless men who
have brains are encouraged to give the public
the benefit of them by fair rewards? To
“save’? a few pounds or a few hundreds or
a few thousands at the expense of employees
with valuable ideas for which their depart-
ment is, in most cases, the'only market, is a
very putrid sort of economy. Rather is it
an odious form of robbery disguised as
economy.
A New Training for Shepherds.
Still another man walked out of the Aus-
tralian Army the other day, with no inten-
tion of returning. He was Captain J. R.
Broadbent, of the Staff Corps. The coun-
try has spent a lot of money on Broad-
bent’s education. He graduated first-class
from the Military College at Duntroon. He
was adjutant to the First Light Horse on
Gallipoli, and was severely wounded. On
returning he spent four years studying
Japanese, considered in military circles as
a valuable addition to an Australian sol-
dier’s equipment. He was then sent to Japan
to complete his knowledge of the language
and to make a close study of Japanese con-
ditions. On his return he resumed his work
on the intelligence branch, and when the
Japanese earthquake occurred he did in-
valuable work as a member of the relief
party sent by this country to Japan. To
round off his education he has accompanied
the Australian Fleet on numerous cruises in
the Pacific as an intelligence officer, and
until recently he was instructor in Japanese,
military law and administration at Dun-
troon. Now, after 12 years’ commissioned
service, he has made the discovery that he
will probably have to wait another 12 or 15
for his promotion to major; so he is going
to take his Japanese and his military science
to a sheep farm in N. S. Wales. There
seems to be something wrong with a mili-
tary system that spends many thousands
in training its brightest members in mili-
tary science and modern languages in order
to become shepherds.
4
The Bencli Clothed in All Its Wisdom,
This was either what Judge Beeby said, or
it was the nasty, mistaken way he was
reported:—
There are certainly conflicting views in regard
to added cost of the 44-hour week. From the
unions’ point of view it is shown that the added
cost would be negligible. The other jdde says
that the added cost would be from 8 to 12 per
cent. Between these extremes the truth lies.
So the matter at issue-is whether the loss
of the services of 105,700 human workers
and about 200,000 horses (liorse-power of
machinery) for more than S per cent, of the
time will diminish the output, and, suppos-
ing it does, if reduced output without re-
duced expenses will increase the cost of the
article turned out. To put it another way,
it is a question whether Judge Beeby can
run as far in 44 seconds as in 48, and then
if lie can run as far in 40 seconds sis in 44.
The N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners
declared in their 1922 report that the appli-
cation of the 44-hour system to “‘certain
sections of the staff” had added £358,048
to the expense bill, and they didn’t lose the
use of their trains and railway stations for
four hours per week. But _wliile Judges,
with no personal experience of industry and
often very little of finance, are struggling
learnedly with the fairly obvious —inquir-
ing “why the sea is boiling hot and whether
pigs have wings”—a very important feature
is ignored. The large problem is not whether
employees can do with less work, or whether
individual employers can do with less output
and make up their individual losses by
juggling with prices and putting up the cost
of living. It is whether that very large and
wholly unconsidered entity, the Country, can
do with less production, or can even do with-
out considerably more production. Nobody
calls the Country, or even the State, as a
witness, and it isn’t represented by counsel.
Twenty years ago the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment spent £1,571,257 of loan money.
Last financial year the loan expenditure
had climbed to about £11,000,000. For this
financial year a harried Premier ordered his
officials to reconsider their estimates, because
two departments wanted £11,000,000 of loan
money between them. This certainly shows
that the State’s own production grows less
and less equal to the State’s style of living.
For the July-September quarter the merchan-
dise exported by Australia as a whole was
over £20,000,000 short of the imports they
were supposed to pay for, which indicated
a lack of local production and a reliance on
foreign production which looks like bank-
ruptcy. One witness before the Production-
Reducing Court declared that Australia had
made less attempt to provide against the
collapse of the war-prices boom than any
other country of importance; except in the
way of borrowing more, it has really made
no provision at all. The land is well supplied
with courts for raising wages and reducing
production, but it has no court for increas-
ing and cheapening production to keep pace
with wages. A sign of trouble, just when
the Beebys and their kin were inquiring
what further burdens industry could carry,
was the discharge of 400 Newcastle wire-
workers by reason of the superabundance of
imported material. Another was an inquiry
in the British House of Commons if the
Government would, for the protection of the
British investor, remove from the list of
trustee securities those of States which (like
N.S.W. and its neighbors) fail to provide
an adequate sinking fund for the repayment
of their loans. The Chancellor of the
Exchequer refused to move, for the present
anyhow, but if an unprecedented demand sets
in for loans, with which to pay for imports
not otherwise provided for, he may be driven
to action as regards new borrowings, and the
bubble of the easy life will make a shocking
burst.
4 _
King’s Evidence.
The W.A. Government lias refused to pay
any blood money to Clark, the publican,
accessory after the fact to the murder of
the two goldfields detectives and King’s evi-
dence against his two gold-stealing accom-
plices. If the claim is taken to court, the
point can be raised that the £lOOO reward
was only offered to anyone not actually con-
cerned in the crime, and Clark, on his own
showing, while not concerned in the actual
slaying, made himself liable to hang for it
the moment he heard his associates’ confes-
sion and refrained from going straight to
the police with it. Outside of the purely
legal aspect of the case —and on this the
Government is following an English pre-
cedent —the general opinion will doubtless
be that, if this particular malefactor deserved
any reward for his action, he received it in
full when proceedings against himself were
dropped after he had been committed for
trial along with the others. But there is
one other aspect of the case. Could the Gov-
ernment have secured the conviction of the
actual murderers without Clark’s con-
fession? If it is satisfied, or has good reason
to think that it could, and if no inducement
was offered to him to open his mouth except
the near-certainty that by doing so he would
save his own neck, then it owes him nothing.
Otherwise, however low he stands or crawls
on the human scale, it owes him something,
if only sufficient to take him to another part
of the world —the same obligation that the
British Government recognised in the case
of Carey after the Phoenix Park murders
of 1882. Even the most degraded and
despised of informers, if his information has
been the sole or main means of enabling jus-
tice to be done, has a certain claim to the
protection of the authority which has util-
ised his services.
The Superfluous Land-agent.
The new N. S. Wales bill designed to keep a
check upon the land-agent and to strike him
off the rolls like a gent, one when he is par-
ticularly obnoxious is a feeble effort to
control a pest that should never have been
allowed to become a pest. If the adminis-
tration of the State’s too-numerous Land
Acts had been above suspicion, the ‘ agent
who furtively haunts the corridors ot the
Lands Department and the ante-cliambers ot
the “heads” would long ago have had to seek
some other job. A few of him might have
migrated to the bush, where, before the Local
Land Boards, they might gather in an occa-
sional fiver for representing some client who
feared the sound of his own voice except
in a pub. As the agent, in formal appli-
cations, lias merely to up and mutter
"I appear for the applicant,” his assistance
is rather dear at a pound a word, and,
moreover, provided the application is on the
level, quite, unnecessary. In the House the
other day the Minister for Lands quoted a
case where an agent had charged a soldier-
settler £251) for “getting a block for him,
and a second case where another agent had
demanded £5O from each of three applicants
who had succeeded in getting blocks. No
doubt, if the latter agent hadn’t feared being
accused of aldermanic plagiarism he would
have made it “four fifties.” But if an agent
can work the confidence dodge upon mugs
and charge £250 for “getting them blocks”
that they are fully entitled to get under the
law, what sort of fee can they demand for
obtaining an improvement lease for a client
who is not legally entitled to hold it V And
let there be no doubt about it—all the queer
transactions do not belong to the dim past.
In the comparatively recent days when Gov-
ernments were busy putting returned sol-
diers on the land, unofficial land-agents had
a glorious time —which is one reason why
so many soldiers’ blocks were thrown up
and are still a burden upon the taxpayer.
There are farms which when purchased by
the Repat. had nothing on them but scrub
that had to be removed. .They had to be
fenced, netted and drained, and buildings
had to be erected thereon, at a time when
everything required for the work cost far
more than in normal times; yet the Govern-
ment now can’t get buyers for them at the
price it gave for the bare, unfenced land.
On the other hand, properties were offered
to the Repat. by owners who had no time
for go-betweens, and were turned down, and
shortly afterwards were sold to experienced
private buyers for pounds per acre more
than was asked from the Government. One
estate was offered to the Repat. at £4 per
acre —the price it was valued for probate.
The department hung it up for nearly a
year, and then, “after due consideration,”
turned it down. So soon as it was released
the executors sold portions of it for £lO
per acre, and leased the balance at 6s. per
acre with clearing conditions attached to
the lease. When offering a dud property
to the Government a “land-agent” may not
be altogether superfluous; and he has his
value when other doubtful matters are before
the department. It is because they know
this that many chairmen of Land Boards
are apt to regard with suspicion the applica-
tions that come before them through an
agent. No better friend of the genuine
settler ever presided over a Land Appeal
Court than Judge Rogers, and he always
preferred a man to conduct his own case.
On the other hand, no doubt, the services of
a legitimate land-agent may be both pro-
perly and profitably employed by a man who
lias no time to disentangle the mysteries of
our land laws, or obtain information that
can only be laboriously dug out of Bent-
street. But certainly the buccaneer who
extorts money from his dupes under the pre-
tence, spoken or winked, that it is required
to “square the heads” should be put definitely
out of business.
♦
In the Big Scheme Country.
Medical Major-General Lames has dressed
his agricultural immigration scheme in some
new clo’ and put it again on view, just when
the debris of the last great scheme —the
soldier-settlement one—is causing trouble.
Schemes, like conspiracies, have a tendency
to be too big, and they seldom run to time-
table. In broad outline, it is proposed that
each pilgrim from the Cold Country shall
put in three years learning the climate and
the rabbits and other essentials, during which
period he is expected to be of good conduct
and keep out of gaol. He is to have £1 a
week as pocket-money, and at the end of
his probation he is to receive land, a house
and £lOO. Supposing lie reaches the goal,
much will depend -on the size and quality
of the land and the house, and the railway
facilities for getting the surplus produce to
a port, and the nearness of the port, and
the ships and the prospects of the market at
the other end. If something goes badly amiss
with the plan when the first 1000 settlers
are due for their reward, and they become
that number of raging devils, the country
may get a bad name. Taking a moment or
two off from these big schemes, a matter
worth considering now and then is that the
Australian sou of the city parson or press-
man or business-man or artisan often
has a desire for country life, and is capable
of making a good farmer; but in the older
States nearly all the nom-farming classes
are in one city, and all the decent land for
a long way round is dreadfully expensive,
and the real country is so far removed from
the one city that only a' rich man has much
chance to exile his offspring there—-the poor
man’s son may have hardly seen genuine
land, though he may have heard of it. But
for these drawbacks settlers might grow
naturally on the premises without the coun-
try entering into any complications on their
account. Then a steady dribble of artisans,
brought here on no heroic plan, but just sort
of happening, might fill the vacant places
created in town life. Forced agricultural
settlement, on the other hand, is a very
doubtful proposition. In Victoria 10,700 ex-
soldiers were deposited on the land in an
amateurish way at a cost of £22,000,000.
Of these 1050 have paid some interest and
principal, while 9650 have not. Local bodies
in some soldier areas are unable to do neces-
sary works through having so many unfinan-
ciai ratepayers, and any attempt to take


ASK YOUR DENTIST
ABOUT
ewrtyuiop[]
WHICH CLEANS YOUR DENTAL PLATE WHILE YOU SLEEP
Bottles, */6, 3/6, 5/6
IF UNOBTAINABLE IN YOUR DISTRICT SEND POSTAL NOTE
TO AGENTS, MILTON LTD., BOX 502, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ewrtyuiop[]
ewrtyuiop[]
f POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
®3i4
harsh measures with these —which is a re-
pulsive idea, anyhow—generally fails for
want of any free assets for a second mort-
gagee to seize.
—♦
Whittling down the Federal authority, the
Argus has now discovered that the Com-
monwealth isn't even a sovereign State, and
that the Federal Parliament and Executive
have “only the powers contained expressly or
by implication in the Constitution” ; where-
fore, of course, the Commonwealth has no
legal right to help carry on the Oil Refinery.
Certainly its legislative powers are re-
stricted ; but if on that account it isn’t a
sovereign State, then there never has been
one in Australia and never will be one in
the Empire. If it is allowed, then, that it
is a sovereign *State, it has powers which
the Constitution doesn’t either express or
imply—it has, that is to say, powers inherent
in every sovereign State. Every day in the
year it is doing something in the exercise of
those powers. It is giving a few “literary
pensions,” for instance, though you won’t
find it anywhere expressed or implied that
it may give literary pensions. It is pro-
ducing a history of the war. It bought Mrs.
Ellis Rowan’s paintings. Heaven forbid
that it should use its powers inherent in a
sovereign State to go into trading ventures.
It is poking into too many money-spending
lines as it is. But no Federalist, no big
Australian, can stand by and see its power
to do these things snatched from it while
they remain with the States.
Cablep items about the speeches and doings
of our spatted Prime Minister accumulate.
He was the sole guest at a U.S. Cliambef of
Commerce luncheon in London, just as
Samson was the sole guest at a Philistine
lunch in Gaza. Then :
Mr. Bruce, after paying a tribute to America’s
part in the World War, went on to tell Americans
candidly that their country was hopelessly mis-
understood on the Continent, where the view was
largely held that America came into the war very
late, and had not borne her share of the burden,
but became rich on the sufferings of Europe, and
was now taking advantage of the world’s greatest
tragedy to improve her own position and hold
Europe to ransom. All must strive to remove this
misunderstanding.
But where is the misunderstanding? The
war began on July 28, 1914. The United
States, after making tons of money by Sell-
ing goods to the combatants, made its formal
declaration of war on April 5, 1917. Its first
troops arrived in France on June 26, 1917.
They fired their first shot on October 27,
1917. Their first wounded man met his
accident on November 8, 1917. The Ger-
mans gave up the military ghost on Novem-
ber 11, 1918. So the U.S. wasn’t in very
early; and it certainly has been sitting up
very late ever since agonising over the effort
to collect all that is owing to it. Even that
the world wouldn’t mind so much if the U.S.
hadn’t been in a condition of blank repudia-
tion of debts to Britain for a great number
of years. Had Bruce reminded Uncle Sam
of this fact, and advised him to square up
and put himself right with the world, he
would have been a far truer friend of his
osts than he showed himself to be.
—«
’Exul”: Re recent Bulletin references
o the comparative immunity of certain native
races to cancer, a Melbourne doctor has
established that there is a curious and strik-
ing relationship between the death-rates from
tuberculosis and cancer, the latter rising in
exactly the same ratio as the former declines.
On this he grounds the hypothesis that cancer
is a disease which occurs only in people who
nave recovered from a previous, perhaps
mild and unnoticed, attack of t.b.; and he
suggests that cancer may be really t.b.
occurring in a new form in a person partly
immunised against it by an earlier attack.
This theory would explain the fact that
cancer seldom attacks people under middle
age. Moreover, it is well known that a
disease newly introduced to a race previously
free from it is likely to cause many fatalities ;
witness measles among the Fijians. T.b. is
a comparatively new disease among native
races; it is soon fatal to the great majority
of those attacked, so that few recover to
develop cancer. It is significant that among
native races which have been in contact
with civilisation longest, and lienee have
known t.b. longest, the cancer rate is already
rising.
♦—
The Melbourne papers have begun their usual
fiy-season campaign against the municipal
councils for not seeing that citizens keep
their dustbins covered. Recent investigation:?
by an Italian, Prof. Berlese, of the Florence
Agrarian Entomological Institute, indicate,
however, that the publicists’ solution is no
more practical than that of the Chinese
emperor who mobilised his army and ordered
it to attack the pest with lance and sword.
Berlese based his findings on a study of the
insect’s breeding habits. He found that the
house-fly lays its eggs only in putrid matter,
and that, in order to hatch, the eggs must
remain undisturbed for about 14 days. As
most Australian councils collect the com-
munity s garbage once a week, the swarms
of disease-bearing pests apparently don’t
breed at the individual back door. Where
do they come to life, then? Prof. Berlese
points to the dumps where the municipalities
deposit the refuse. He set to work to free
the fashionable watering-place of Montecatini
from the plague. From April to October, the
Italian summer, all public dumps were
sprayed every five days with a mixture of
molasses and water, to attract the creatures.
plus 5 p.c. of arsenic, to kill them. Bunches
of fern or evergreen plants dipped in the
solution were hung before butchers’ shops,
stables and the abattoirs. The town, he
asserts, was completely freed of flies at a
cost of £5O, and other Italian centres are
adopting the scheme.
♦
“Nakhoda” : As one who indulges in the
old-fashioned pastime of walking I am inter-
ested 'in this country’s attitude towards
trees. In Java one almost invariably foots a
deeply-shaded avenue. There are approxi-
mately 15,000 miles of them. This large
amount in an island little bigger than Tas-
mania implies a deal of tree-planting and
calls for explanation. The explanation is
that in an earlier and rougher age the
THE VICIOUS CIRCLE.
“Cut what makes you drink so much, my poor fellow?”
“My throat gets so dry answering questions about why I drink so much.”
Government came to the conclusion that the
native lacked volition, and proceeded to in-
spire him with that virtue. It introduced
forced labor demanding up to (50 days a year
from each individual. A humanitarian home
Parliament in Holland abolished the system,
but the habit lasted, and together with it
the idea that the furniture of a road should
include the trees growing on either side. In
Australia, although forced labor on tree-
planting isn’t likely to be favored, even by
the governor-generals of the Labor party,
the benefits of tree-lined roads in our hotter
areas are so obvious that something ought
to be done. Districts that profit by the
attraction of the tourist might organise
planting bees to start the' business. But
we shall not get far until there is a law
making the destruction of road cover a
punishable offence.
4
“Old Unionist” : The “amalgamation” in
Sydney of the United Laborers’ Protective
Society with the Railway Workers and
General Laborers’ Union, which has itself
been for years a branch of the great A.W.U.,
is another interesting step in the develop-
ment of labor organisation. The United
Laborers was one of the ancients amongst
the unions, and itself had at first a bad
spin at the hands of the more aristocratic
organisations representative of skilled trades.
When such craftsmen as the engineers and the
bricklayers were at last induced to believe
that such people as ironworkers’ assistants
and bricklayers' laborers did have the right
to organise, they were encouraged to separate
themselves from the wholly unskilled laborer,
and there were wholesale breakaways from
thte U.L.P. Society to form new unions. The
roclcchoppers and sewer workers (who long
ago earned a 36-hour week in recognition
of the unhealthy nature of work amongst
rock-dust) created the next schism: and,
queerly enough, the Clerks’ Union, on its
formation, gave it another hit. Uefore the
coming of the Clerks’ Union the Laborers’
Union had been the handiest organisation for
the nondescript worker or the politician who
wanted to claim a union allegiance; its
membership included everything from a uni-
versity professor down to navvies. E. W.
O’ Sullivan was a member, too —he joined
to show his sympathy with unionism.
Arthur Vernon, the roughest diamond evei
put forward by Labor as a serious political
candidate, was secretary for a long time : and,
succeeding him, Waite, who fought a great
battle against communism in the Labor
ranks, lasted until lie was beaten a couple of
years ago. A sickness and accident fund
was a mainstay of tiie organisation, and that
fund will apparently be continued separately.
4
It is provided in the Constitution that where
a Federal and a State law come in conflict
the Federal law shall prevail, and it was
perhaps on this basis that the Federal Arbi-
tration Court prohibited the N.S.W. Con-
ciliation Committee from dealing with a
union matter which the bigger Court had
already in hand. Commissioner Piddington
got spontaneous combustion about the collar
immediately and described it on the bench as
a case of “a judicial tribunal” trying “to inter-
fere with a Legislature.” Possibly he regarded
his committee as a Legislature. The only
parallel to this, shocking episode that he knew
of was embodied in a dark secret confided
to him by the late Samuel Griffith :
"When he was Premier of Queensland he brought
forward an Act—l think the one in question was the
Pacific Laborers Act and had to do with the expelling
of Kanakas. Lord Halsbury was Lord Chancellor
at the time. He informed Mr. Griffith (as he was
then) that if he went on with that bill he would
issue an injunction against him in his capacity of
Lord Chancellor. Mr. Griffith informed Lord Hals-
bury that he would read the injunction out to the
House when he was moving the second reading ot
the bill, and would then go on with it. That was
the last that was heard of an injunction to prevent
a Legislature from legislating.
Perhaps the narrative has become blurred in
the course of 41 years. In 1885 Griffith
certainly enacted that no more Kanakas
should be brought from the Islands after the
end of 1890, so that when their engagements
expired in 1893 the semi-slave business was
to end. Nobody, however, needed to “expel
the nigger, for his restoration to his island
was part of the bond. So there was nothing
in Griffith’s action to cause llalsbury to
boil over in the absurd way described, and
he probably didn’t boil. If he had boiled
Griffith might have acted as described;
but, then, Griffith was a big chief, and not
a mere commissioner. Incidentally, after
trading on the White Queensland ticket dur-
ing a political life of 30 years, Griffith
turned pro-Kannka, no one knew why, and
it was left to the first Federal Parliament to
“expel” Tommy Tanna.
♦
“Ngaboni” : The Brisbane “No-coat League,”
said to be nearly 5000 strong, may have
results. Yet he is a brave man who would
risk the gibes alike of his womenfolk and
his office mates, as well as the boss’s dis-
pleasure, by appearing abroad in any but
conventional garments. Where woman is
eager to lead a fashion, man is very shy, Yet
it should be easy enough to adapt present-
day male dress to the needs of a warm
climate. The sac coat is the chief trouble.
This absurd garment restrains and unduly
heats the arms and shoulders of the wearer,
and leaves the warmth-requiring abdomen
exposed. Also, it involves the wearing of
a collar to protect it from a perspiring neck.
Its only advantage is in its store of pockets,
but these might be provided in more hygienic
raiment. In N. S. Wales and S.A. the
southerlies attach some risk of chill to any
adoption of a coatless rig. This could be
minimised by the adoption of a sleeveless
coat or a glorified waistcoat. The present-
day waistcoat, if made of the one material
throughout, instead of having a back of
sateen or similar cotton stuff, would best
meet the case. Such a garment ivould keep
warm the vital organs of the body, cover up
the unsightly braces (belts are hot and con-
stricting), and leave the arms and shoulders
free. Shorts and stockings are the only
tropic rig for the nether limbs, but scout-
masters of Baden-Powell’s following are
the only people with the “essential guts”
to wear them. But man is not a logical
animal; if lie were he would have long ago
adapted his clothing to his climate.
— ♦
“Derma” : Preference to returned soldiers is
ostensibly part of the Federal Government’s
policy; here is an instance of how it may
work, as disclosed at the inter-State Con-
ference of Returned Soldiers held in Mel-
bourne. A Digger returned from the war
with severe wounds in the head and thigh—
wounds, however, that have in no way pre-
cluded him from earning his living. In
1921 he was found a job as a temporary
hand in the Bureau of Commerce and Indus-
try. By dint of hard work and study lie
became a valued member of the staff, and
when the Bureau was abolished in 1925 he
was acting-secretary. On the abolition of
the Bureau he was requested to carry on as
an officer of the newly-formed Department
of Markets and Migration, where he is still
employed. A few months ago the Common-
wealth Public Service Board notified this
man that it had been decided to make him
a permanent employee, without asking him
to pass an examination, subject to his pass-
ing the medical test. This course can only
be taken under the Act when there is no
other permanent officer in the service capable
of carrying out the duties, so it was in itself
a high compliment. But the proviso about
medical examination was the stumbling-
block. In spite of the face that for a con-
siderable time this man has not missed a
day off duty, the old scars told a tale, and
he was rejected. Thus by serving his Gov-
ernment in war-time he has destroyed all
hope of permanent employment under that
same Government in peace-time!
+
“ The Listening-Insect ”: When Mars
approached his nearest to this planet the
other day a psychic medium in England
lodged a telegram for him at the G.P.0.,
and was charged Is. 6d. a wrnrd, the rate
for distant ships. As he got no reply, he can
apply for a refund after 40 days. He said
the red star’s prefix w 7 as SMS, but didn’t
divulge how he got the information. Person-
ally, I doubt whether liis friendly message
got more than 10 miles on its journey, and
it certainly didn’t travel more than 100. At
that height it w r ould encounter a gaseous
shield which is sufficiently noil-conductive
to block the wrnves of the higkest-pow 7 ered
stations man has yet set up.


■for a good
/ night's rest
lake
ewrtyuiop[]ewrtyuiop[]
il will ensure
In 4
ofall Chemists
and Stores
r goodday's
work
sizes
Oeeein&e'v
December —a wonderful month in Sydney—
and even more so at “The Australia.” This
great Hotel is replete with all those niceties
of accommodation and enjoyment that make
for a perfect holiday. Telegraph your reser-
vations to “Austraotel, Sydney.”
TKWstraM
( Paid-up Capital, £422,100 .)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
THE AERODROME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Cobham told a party of pilots that the
conditions were so ideal in Australia that they
would regard flying there as a rest-cure. In a
broadcasted speech he said that Australia was one
huge aerodrome.”— Cable.
“Go south,” the aviator cried,
“If flying comfort you’d attain,
Where earth and air alike are wide
With welcome for your questing ’plane.
Go south, young man, where paradise
For airmen opes its gate for you ;
Beneath the bright, untroubled skies
No fog-fiend lies in wait for you.
“Go south, where aye your wings are kist
Each day by the heart-warming sun,
Nor racing rain nor laggard mist
Confound the lands that ’neath you run ;
Go south, where smiling plains their soft
And friendly bosoms bare to you,
Lest, maybe, you forget aloft
That earth can still be fair to you.
“Go south ! The gracious, beckoning land,
The thousand bays that snug you home,
Behold! And here, you’ll understand,
Is one tremendous aerodrome”....
And, as that glowing message sped,
There came a certain light to me,
As though a voice, dim-heard but dread,
Had spoken from the night to me.
An aerodrome! But, Lord! I knew
How scanty are our birds to fly.
An aerodrome! Forlorn and few
The ’planes it housed, home from the skv.
Some idle talk of ways and means
I heard —and prayed, God willing, it
Might not be encmg machines
That saw at last to filling it!
VICTOIiIA.
MACESS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
They have not talked much about it in
public, probably because they were nervous
of being accused of bad form or something
of the sort; but most of the Overseas Parlia-
mentarians seem to have been hit hardest by
three discoveries in Australia: (1) the huge
proportion of the States’ debt not represented
by revenue-producing assets; (2) the heavy
losses made even by the revenue-producers ;
and (3) the absence of any sinking funds
worth mentioning. But they are bound to
talk when they get home, and nothing is
surer than that, unless we get to work and
establish sinking funds quick and lively,
we are going to pay more for every loan we
float —-conversion loans, of course, included.
We shall have to dig into our pockets for
the fund for a start; but it might just about
pay for itself in the long run.
On the motion of one O’Reilly the N. S.
Wales Labor Conference has accused the
State Governor of “reviving Crown Colony
methods,” and declared him “superfluous.”
Governor de Chair appointed 25 Labor Leg.
Councillors last year (he was led to believe
that the idea behind the business was not
to vote the Chamber out of existence,
although that was presently attempted, with
ludicrous results), and flatly refused to appoint
any more. Attorney-General McTiernan was
sent to London to persuade Dominions Sec-
retary Amery to interfere, but returned
baffled, to be, told by the elderly admiral,
“You’d better ask Amery to recall me.” The
Labor Conference resolution was a sequel to
McTiernan’s report, and a Parliamentary
resolution will follow, if Lang can bludgeon
it through. Most Australians agree that
State Governorships are “superfluous,” how-
ever estimable the occupants may be. But
the clumsy Lang crowd has introduced bad
faith and bad feeling into the business with-
out the slightest excuse for either. If it has
to go to the country on the issue of its treat-
ment of the British admiral it will get the
shock of its life.
The Full Court, by a majority, said the
other day in the Shipping case that “there
is no power which enables Parliament or the
Executive Government to set up manufac-
turing or engineering for general commercial
purposes.” Some of these days the Court
will probably say that it never meant to
affirm what the little Australians are putting
into its mouth. The Court would do a fur-
ther service to the Commonwealth if it
made an early opportunity to answer this
question: Has the Federal authority no
executive powers at all beyond those ex-
pressed or implied under the heading “Powers
of the Parliament”? Can it do nothing, in
other words, just because it is a Common-
wealth? If it can’t, then it has done a
thousand things it has no right to do—and
must do them in the future.
The 1926 Imperial Conference threatens
to last as long as an ordinary session of
Parliament. In fact, these annual meetings
of Premiers are apt to engender the belief
that they are more important than Parlia-
ment ; Bruce, for instance, has twice cut
short the proceedings of the Australian Legis
lature in order that he might go Imperial
Conferencing. Before the present delegates
began their chin-music there were unpleasant
suggestions in the newspapers that they might
form into parties, Imperialists (Bruce and
Coates) v. Colonial Nationalists (Hertzog
and Mackenzie King), with Baldwin cheer-
ing one side on and Cosgrove (of the Free
State) the other. This may not have hap-
pened, but even the mention of it as a
possibility is disturbing.
S. Aus. Premier Hill, who is his own
Treasurer, said in his first Budget speech
that the State’s public debt had gone up from
£72,481,000 on June 30, 1925, to £79,251,000
on June 30, 1926; also that “the practice of
borrowing for unproductive works had been
maintained for several years past, and the
accumulated burden of interest charges was
now becoming exceedingly heavy.” But he
did not say that the said practice was ruin-
ous and would not be continued —no Austra-
lian Treasurer ever says anything like that.
Instead, he announced a 50 p.c. increase in
the land-tax, and a 10 p.c. super-tax on
incomes, to avert a threatened deficit of
£240,000, apart from railways. On the rail-
ways £579,500 was lost last year.
N.S.W. Premier Lang scored the points
in the latest round of his fight with Lands
Minister Loughlin. By 274 votes to 4 a
special A.L.P. conference “authorised” him,
“in the event of circumstances arising which,
DEAD MEN’S SHOES.
“Despair at the slowness of promotion has driven Captain C. It. Broadbent, one of the most
brilliant young men in the Australian Army, to resign and go sheep farming, though he has had
11 years’ training for military work.”
GENERAL DUGOUT: “What, leaving the service, my hoy! Damme, sir, if you only
wait long enough your chance’ll come, and somebody'll push you about.”
in his opinion, imperil the unity of the
movement, to do all things and exercise such
powers as he deems necessary”—in effect, to
throw Loughlin, Mutch, Dunn and Fitz-
gerald out of his Ministry. Of course, he
won’t throw them out if he thinks there is
the slightest chance that they will help Bavin,
actively or passively, to throw him out, but
as far as the machine is concerned the resolu-
tion “gives him almost dictatorial powers.”
as his Labor Daily gleefully says. Pro-
bably Loughlin will end by joining the Pro-
gressives. He has attacked them so much
that he must have a sneaking regard for
them.
The Vic. redistribution-of-seats scheme
provides for five metropolitan electorates
(Dandenong, Oakleigh, Caulfield, Ivew and
Nunawading) south of the Yarra, in addi-
tion to eight already there, and for the re-
modelling of the 13 on the other side of the
river. Dalhousie, Daylesford, Glenelg,
Ovens, Ballarat East, one of the two Ben-
digos and Port Fairy have been wiped out,
and other country constituencies remodelled;
Grant, Wonthaggi, Mildura, Ouyen, Fern-
tree Gully and Portland have been con-
stituted as new entities. North Melbourne
(Prendergast), Abbotsford (Webber), Jika
Jika (Cain) and East Melbourne (Farth-
ing) have been abolished, and Coburg, Foots-
cray, Northcote and Heidelberg have arisen.
It looks as if the scheme will go through
the Assembly as it is, or with slight modi-
fications. Supposing it does, Ministerialists
(Liberals, Cockies and reformed Cockies)
think they can win 40 seats, leaving 25 to
Labor. On the other hand, Labor, which
will try to w y reck the piece of mosaic, says
it is sure of 27 electorates, if it has to put
up with the dashed thing, and will have a
fighting chance in others.
Melbourne’s municipal muddledoin gets
another bad advertisement by the conclusion
of a squabble over a bit of vacant land at
the approach to Chapel-street bridge.
Prahran Council granted a citizen permis-
sion to erect a factory on the site, which had
been reserved for residential purposes. A
long legal argument ended in the State
Executive confirming the Council’s action,
but stipulating that any factory erected shall
be well behaved and without chimneys. The
Town-Planning Commission has protested, but
protestations unbacked by force are of no
avail when small parochial councils are hard
up for cash.
The sullen hostility to Diggers which has
been shown from time to time by N.S.W.
Tammany politicians has no counterpart in
the S. Aus. Labor party. In their recently
issued report the Commissioners mentioned
that “the railways engaged, through the
Government Labor Exchange, 1245 returned
soldiers during the year, making a total of
5549 returned soldiers, other than returned
railway employees, to June 30, 1926.” The
Labor party isn’t entitled to all the credit
for this honorable record, but it is in its
third year of office and so must be entitled to
a lot of it.
The Boar( j 0 f Works Bill introduced by
the Allancock Government to give Melbourne
the bridges it stands in need of seems to be
the germ of the Greater Melbourne Council
which the city is also waiting for. The bill
proposes to invite the boai'd to build bridges,
arterial roads, tunnels and other features
having regard to the requirements of the city
as one unit. The sinews of war are to be
provided on a general rate of twopence in the
pound and from vehicle-registration fees.
The number of commissioners is to be
increased from 39 to 51, the new members
to be elected by the various councils: The
revenue promised. £284,000, isn’t much, but
if spent wisely for the general good it will
benefit the metropolis more than many times
the same amount expended by the 23 existing
councils in the old haphazard way.
From the daily growl of N.S.W.’s Premier:
When we remember that the present coal strike
in England is estimated to have cost the British
nation £500,000,000 in loss of production, etc., we
can realise what a blessing sympathetic and tactful
Labor government is to a young country like ours.
Yes, if one does meet a lion in the forest it
is good to have his assurance that he is a
sympathetic and tactful lion.
The N.S.W. Labor party outside Parlia-
ment —which bosses the party inside Par-
liament—has signed something a good deal
line a blank cheque and handed it over to
Lang. And perhaps it is right—the things it
thinks it wants done it may get done much
quicker that way. But the plan knocks
democratic government endways. It is a
plain declaration in favor of despotism. The
humorous part of the business is that the
party declares it is doing all this in the
sacred name of democracy. Mussolini isn't
such a humbug. He says plainly that demo-
cracy has come a thud.
Chief Sec. Lazzarini has introduced a bill
to check the fast-increasing drug-habit in
N. S. Wales. If passed, it may harass the
petty pedlars and the hangers-on of the
traffic, but its weakness lies in the penalties
which are prescribed. These consist mostly
of fines whose size is not likely to hurt the
big figures who stand behind the traffic.
Seeing that it is not uncommon for an ounce
of one of these drugs to be landed in Aus-
tralia for £1 and retailed for £3O to £5O,
it is not very likely that a monetary penalty
in the neighborhood of a £2O fine is going
to discourage traffickers, who will probably
regard it as,a license fee for carrying on the
devastating business.
Victoria has spent £71,161,000 of loan
money in the last decade, and J. A. Norris,
Auditor-General, calling Parliament’s atten-
tion to the position, stressed the point that
the interest bill has risen from £2,715,151
in 1915-16 to £6,369,397 in 1925-26. It is
pointed out that when loans are used for
undertakings which earn the equivalent ot
the interest paid to the State’s creditors,
the taxpayers have no extra burden laid on
them and may get benefit from wealth-
producing assets. But when the money is
lavished on services that are only partly
productive or that earn no interest, either
more taxes must be imposed, he says, or
expenditure must be reduced if the bill is
to be met. But of course it isn’t always met.
Sometimes the easier course is followed of
paying interest out of loans, too.
The Millennium seems no nearer, even in
Russia, where anti-militarism and universal
brotherhood are the breath of everyone’s
lips. The other day one Yoroshilloff, com-
missar for war in a State which professes to
aim at its extinction, made a surprising
address to 6000 newly graduated Red officers.
His adjuration to “curl their moustaches” in
readiness for war was in the ex-Kaiser's
best vein. But his parting injunction to
avoid overdoing comradeship with rankers,
as it encouraged disrespect and disobedience,
will come as a staggerer to Australian mili-
tary experts of the Garden type. Election
of officers, abolition of saluting and rank
distinctions, with other cuts, are the very
basis of the Australian army, as these people
wish to see it. To find their shining example
in Russia returning to the anciqnt but neces-
sary evil of discipline must be sharper than
a serpent’s tooth.
Profiting by the example of Queensland
and Victoria, N.S.W. is to have a horse-
breeding bill, compelling the registration and
“vetting” of stallions. Minister for Agricul-
ture Dunn is in charge of the bill, which is
sorely needed, since, as The Bulletin fore-
casted some time ago, defective stallions in
Queensland and Victoria are being sold into
this State in numbers. The Minister might
advantageously go a bit further, and devise
a measure of registration and supervision of
mares as well.
The insurance cos. pay one-third of the
cost of maintaining fire brigades in N.S.W..
and the Lang Government proposed to in-
crease this charge to one-half. The clause
was knocked out in the Upper House, where-
upon Premier Lang got into one of his ten
daily rages, and screamed that Bavin had
rallied up his “friends in the nominee House,
and his nominee Nationalist friends, being
largely insurance co. directors and share-
holders, were not slow to act.” There was
really so little effort to rally up anybody
that only 43 members voted out of a possible
98; two of the Government’s own nominees
voted against it; a third, after speaking
against it, left without voting; one National-
ist voted with the Government, and of the
22 who voted against it eight were not
Nationalist nominees. Still, when an undig-
nified person of the Lang type has screaming
fits, anything may lead to a row.


V.
V.
IS Hi 0
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only bv
J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since ISoS.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
(IUEKXSLAXI): Hoey, l'ry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, P'hilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AI'STBALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street,. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards X
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurcti.
NOBEI-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FOIIGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, STEEL FOUNDERS, FORGERS,
Works & f Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W
Foundries \ Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ) 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Offices 1 T. & G. BTg, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’l7. .136,502 64 p.c.=105,625 30,877 393,863
Mar., ’lB.. 142.641 64,, „ 105,625 37,016 430,879
Sept., ’lB. .137,816 64 „„ 105,625 32,191 403,070
Mar., ’19.. 147,611 84., „ 138,125 9,4 86 472,556
Sept., ’l9. .130,012 64 „„ 105,625 24,387 496,943
Mar., ’20..159,553 84,, „ 138,125 21,428 518,371
Sept., ’2O. .1 71,642 84 „„ 138,125 33,517 551,888
Mar., ’21..155.297 9.37 ~ 12P.875 33,422 585,310
Sept., ’2l. .206,201 9.37 „ 121,875 84,326 669,636
Mar., ’22. .245,990 124 „ ~ 162,530 83,490 753,126
Sept., ’22. .247,195 124 „ ~ 162,500 84,695 837,821
Mar,, ’23. .251,395 124 „ „ 162,500 88,895 926,716
Mar., ’24f. 673,639 10 ~ ~ 446,875 226,704 1,153,480
Sept.,’24. .324.978 10 ~,,243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar., ’25. .435,676 124 „ ~ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695
Sept.,’2s. .404,628 124 „ 304,687 99,941 1.465,636
Mar., ’26. .396,104 124 ~ ~ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
*Exelusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
fPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland
cos. in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-
sheet issued.
The fine profit isn’t dimmed by the gloom
which chairman Knox succeeded in conjur-
ing up from various places. Cheques for
tlie 124 p.c. divs. have gone out, £103,750
has been added to reserves, and shareholders
have settled back to await philosophically
the next instalment of pessimism and the
124 p.c., plus anything else which may come
along. The pessimism of a management
which has steered through troubled waters
for years and brought in rich returns in the
face of almost every conceivable difficulty
isn’t taken very seriously. And yet there
was foundation for concern in some of the
unfavorable factors which E. W. Knox
paraded: in the attempt to reduce hours
generally in the Commonwealth (the reduc-
tion already operates in part) ; in the in-
creasing impost which industry has to carry
in various shapes; in the drought in Fiji;
and in the (as yet) unsolved problem of the
increasing area under cane in Queensland.
Offsetting the half-year’s unfavorable fac-
tors was the lighter crop in Queensland —
the surplus to be exported overseas is esti-
mated at 81,000 tons against 211,000 tons
shipped last year. The loss sustained from
outside sales will thus be reduced, so the mill-
owners should get a somewhat better return
than they received in 1925, which the chair-
man says was certainly inadequate. Share-
holders apparently refuse to see any grey
in the outlook. When the 24 p.c. bonus was
added to the 10 p.c. div. the managing direc-
tor shook his head doubtfully as to the like-
lihood of a repetition. It has come along
regularly since, and the latest distribution
at that rate follows all that is troublous in
the Fijian and Australian producing centres,
plus the disastrous fire at the Adelaide
refinery in February last.
Shareholders are encouraged by the expan-
sion of reserves. Not alone do they make it
easier to earn sufficient to excuse the fine
divs., but they raise high hopes that portion
at least of tffie co.’s recent history will be
repeated. To the formal reserves shown
above must be added the £1,440,779 in the
replacement and depreciation fund (£36,604
increase in the half-year), most of which
is certainly.stored-up profits. The £2O shares
fully-paid are at a shade under £54,
wnicn gives a return of about 44 p.c. on the
basis of the 124 p.c. divs. Even at the high
price very little of the scrip i s loose. Of
last half-year’s income less than 51 p.c. was
adjudged liable to Commonwealth income-
tax, an indication of the profit in the busi-
ness outside Australia.
The South British Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) :
, „ To Re- Re-
Ang., Profits. Dividends. serves. senes.
£ £ £
1916.. 109,777 15 p.c, = 45,000 1 rr . n
Written off investments, £21,268 G01,G29
1917.. 151,779 16 p.c.= 47,500 104,279 735,908
£120,000 Reserve Fund capitalised .. 615,908
£BO,OOO other reserves capitalised.
1918.. 102.434 10 p.c.= 50,000 ) R 7
IVriiteip off premises, £25.000 \ ° i0.j,04-
1919.. 150,133 114 p.c.= 57,500 ( „ 7sn
Written off premises, £15,000 ) 780,J70
1920.. 237.618 14 p.c. = 70,000 167,018 948,593
Contingency reserve taken in .. 20,000 968,593
Unexplained additions to reserves, £85,531 1,054,124
Reserves capitalised .. £250,000 .. 804,124
1921. . 225,115 13 p.c. = 79,167 145,948 950,072
Written off investments, £20,984 .. 929.088
1922.. 100,343 11 1-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Premiums on shares .. .. 34,013 1,040,111
1923.. 170,688 11s p.c.= 90,268 86,420 1,126,531
1924.. 185,644 12} ~,, 98.865 86,779 1,213,310
1925.. 206,597 13.9 „ ~107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111,761 120,269 1,432,713
Premium income was the best yet, but losses
were heavy, and the profit, although £25,433
more than in the previous year, was a trifle
short of the record of 1920. Interest and
rents (£117,490) contributed £6399 more,
and that helped. The amount available for
appropriation was so bloated that the
cautious board, almost without hesitation,
added a penny to the div., making 2s. 2d.
for the year on the 1,031,640 £1 shares paid
to 15s. The balance, even after final appro-
priations, was in excess of the amount distri-
buted. and the additions lifted reserves to
£1,432,713 —almost twice the paid capital.
Included in the total is the necessary cover
for unexpired risks. The amount thus
reserved at August 31 was £490,000 —far in
excess of the customary 40 p.c.
Losses for the term were heavy, as they
usually are when a co. has a big marine
connection, but a comparatively low expense
rate atones for that. The next table shows
the experience for 30 years past:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penscs. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60.3,, 26.9 „
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 „ 27.7 „
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58.6 „ 28.1 ~
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4 ~ 32.3 „
1921.. 924,159 499,300 2.83,613 54.0 ~ 30.7 „
1922.. 893,340 538,289 279,638 00.3,, 31.3 „
1923.. 866,387 491,940 294,178 56.8,, 33.9 „
1924.. 879,799 489,668 308,362 55.6 ~ 35.0 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 ~ 34.6 „
1926.. 939,533 521,003 318,358 55.4 „ 33.9 „
The South British writes business in most
parts of the world, and its purchase four
years ago of control of the Eastern United
Assurance Corp. of the Straits Settlements
has brought it big business in Eastern Asia.
Policy-holders are in the comfortable position
of seeing at August 31 cash and Government
securities alone more than sufficient to meet
losses equal to those of the past three years.
Expenditure was again a shade lower. The
27 p.c. and 28 p.c. of earlier years seem
glittering, but later figures include rates and
taxes which the war pushed up to high
levels, so there is merit in the reduction
of 1.1 p.c. in the past two years. There is
comfort to policy-holders, too, in the know-
ledge that the higher dividend was more than
covered by the amount received in interest and
rents —£117,490 —leaving the whole of the
underwriting profit available to strengthen
reserves. And there is little likelihood of
unfavorable fluctuation in that income, for
the assets are of highest quality :—■
Premises £368,289 13.8
Mortgages 67,093 2.5
Deposits and cash balances .. 418,651 15.7
Stocks, debentures and shares . . 269,938 10.0
Municipal and Harbor Board debs. 180,014 6.8
Government securities .. .. 1,303,757 48.8
Book debts . . . . . . . . 63,566 2^4
The item “Stocks, debentures and shares,
£269,938” was a few thousands greater;
what is represented by the sum should be
made clearer. Mortgages, once the biggest
assets item, have been reduced to modest
proportions.
The market has a keen regard for South
British si 1 tiros, and whenever a buyer is
fortunate enough to meet a seller lie has
to bid high. Latest sales were at 59s. —for
£1 shares paid to 15s. At the price the
return is only 3.6 p.c. But of the paid
capital of £773,730 only £67,686 represents
cash put up by shareholders, and with the
whole of profits from underwriting available
for reserves the market considers that some-
thing in the way of a bonus must again
happen soon. Including the reserve for un-
expired risks the co.’s funds are equal to
445. 6d. per share, so the market is prepared
to pay about 15s. for goodwill.
George Larmer, Ltd., ham and bacon
curers, Ballarat (Vic.). The deficit of
xoT’roo which the co. began represented
£27,500 paid for goodwill and £O43S of pre-
liminary exes.:—
I Dividends.
Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
T £ £ £ £ £
June, gg ggg
1920. . 17,136 4800 10 p.c. = 4,565 1
Adjustment payment to vendors, i 2 985 30 9 >3
£4786 . . . . . . i
1921.. 17,228 4800 10 p.c. = 6,000 6,428 24 525
1922.. 21,144,4800 15 „ „ 9,000 7,344 lt’lSl
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 „ ~15,000 9,875 7’306
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 „ ~12,000 3,346 3^960
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 ~.,12,000 11,049
Assets written up, £20,000 . . . . 27’089
1926.. 27,184 4SOO 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37’473
.Since the close of the accounts the good
news has been handed to ordinary share-
holders that £30.090 is to be taken from re-
serves and one fully-paid bonus share given
for every two ords. The question now is
whether the 20 p.c. will be maintained on
the inflated capital. Recent disclosed earnings
could do it; the total amount called for. in-
cluding the prefs.’ 8 p.c.. would be £22,800.
But reserves are too modest to be neglected,
and unless dazzling profits are produced
there will probably be something in the shape
oi ci compromise. Substantial reserves are
all the more needed because of the irregu-
larity of trading results :
Expenses,
Taxes, and
Gross Profit. Depreciation.
1920 .. £29,073 £11,938
1921 .. 30,001 12,772
1922 . . 37,422 18,922
1923 .. 44,219 20,637
1924 .. 29,730 10,543
1925 .. 45,149 17,411
1926 . . 43,896 17,230
Balance-sheet movements last year were de-
cidedly pleasing, even after allowing for the
writing up of the fixed assets: —
1920. 1922. 1924. 1926.
Liabilities ..£12,144 £1,838 £9,748 £2,931
Premises .. 17,500 16,105 28,181 42,000
Plant, etc. .. 16,843 15,386 24,582 31,569
Stocks . . . . 38,698 23,928 35,313 26,550
Book debts .. 35,322 29,416 37,345 34,668
Cash, etc. . . 477 31,470 9,668 37,717
Liabilities at the close of the accounts were
covered more than six times by cash alone.
Other liquid assets included Commonwealth
stock £12,677 and deposits £6115. Fixed
assets were in at £73,569 compared with
£55,119 as at June 30. 1925, an increase of
£18,450. As “extensive alterations” were
carried out during the year sufficient to
enable the co. to double its treatment, and in
view of previous additions out of profits,
the writing up does not appear to have been
over-liberal.
The public came in in 1919; the purchase
price of the 57-year-old concern was 33,000
£1 ords. and £87,000 cash, £27,500 being for
goodwill. The public subscribed 60,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 27,000 ords. Prefs. are well
secured as to capital and divs. and ords have
had a rich time. Sales were lately made at
70s. On June 30, after allowing 20s. in the
£ for the prefs., there was 21s. 6d. left for
each of 90,000 ords.—the 60,000 old and the
30,000 new. Obviously the market has its
eye more on the earning power of the co.
than on its physical assets. Earning power
of this and similar cos. has been largely in-
creased by two things—(l) the higher pay
of the workers, which enables them to buy
more semi-luxuries; and (2) the shortage of
domestic help and the popularity of the flat,
which has vastly increased the use of cooked
foods. Both features have come to stay more
or less.
* * * *
Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd.(Syd-
ney), which began in 1913 with a deficifof
£18,067, made up of goodwill (£l6 573) and
preliminary exes.:—
To Re-
r Dividends Writ- duce
Prefs. ten De-
Aug., Profit. (8 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. ficit. Deficit.
’17..£5,774 Nil Nil £l2OO £4,674 £15,u33
'lB. . 10,650£1320* 10 p.c.=£7775 1200 ' 355 15.583
’19..13,256 560 10 „ „ 7775 2400 2,521 13,062
Reserves,
'20..25,013 560 124 „ „ 9737 1200 13,516 454
Assets written up, £54,414.. .. 54,868
Depreciation reserve ( £6000) treated
as genuine reserve .. .. .. 60,808
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £78,000 . . 17,132
Reconstruction exes., £1974.. .. 19,106
Net Pref. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinarv. Reserves.
’21.. £15,605 £5OO 10 p.c. = £15,600 £2445 £10,661
’22.. 17,566 500 10 „ „ 15,600 1406 15,255
’23.. 16,539 500 10 ~ „ 15,600 379 14,876
’24.. 9,391 500 6 „ „ 9,360 15,405
’25.. 10,149 560 6 „ „ 9,360 229 15,170
’26.. 10,283 560 6J „ „ 10,140 15,593
* Including accumulations.
Bars and office have been improved and busi-
ness is brisker. The cost, however, proved
heavier than was anticipated, and other
troubles clouded the outlook, so the interim
div. was passed. The issue of bonus shares
(one for one) six years ago looked good; but
the directors made trouble for themselves
when they recommended it. A 10 p.c. div.
or even more on the old capital could have
been comfortably maintained; but in the
struggle to pay a dividend that looks even
fairly prosperous on the watered capital the
declared profits have been twice overshot of
late. Moreover, as the amount provided for
wastage and renewals is not specified, it is
impossible to say whether the provision there
is adequate. From another angle there has
certainly been no improvement:—
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets .. £12,256 £11,748 £10,193 £10,250
Liabilities . . 31,442 36,062 34,424 36,912
Excess liabilities.. £19,186 £24,314 £24,231 £26,662
In three years the liquid position has thus
slipped £7476. In the period net additions
to property account have amounted to £10,798
and doubtless something more than that was
spent; but as against that it has to be
remembered that much of the equipment of
high-class hotels such as Usher’s depreciates
rapidly. The market isn’t enamored of the
shares; eight months ago they sold down to
13s. 6d., but for no visible adequate reason
they moved up steadily beyond 195., and are
now at 18s. The financial position is by no
means troublesome: at August 31 trade credi-
tors were more than covered by stocks and
book debts, and the £28,959 owed the bank
was modest alongside the hotel and fittings,
in at £196,608. (Some of this was, of course,
due to the writing up of 1920.) The direc-
tors report improvement, and now that the
alterations are complete (if hotel alterations
ever are complete) earnings should benefit.
Prospects are said to be bright, and consider-
ing the comparatively small total or hamii-
ties, there ought to be larger profits than
have hitherto been shown; but a policy ot
modest divs. is called for until profits have
been accumulated over and above the good-
will item, with something generous set aside
to cover contingencies. #
The Drapery and General Importing
Co., of New Zealand, Ltd., known all
through the Rickety Isles as the D.1.C.:
, —Dividends— N Bonus
Pref. Old. to Share- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. holders, serves.
1916. . £24,645 £7,500 7 = £8,177 £877 £75,860
1917.. 21,589 7,500 7 „ 902 80,860
Premiums on new shares, £373 .. 81,238
1918.. 22,884 7,500 8= 9,357 922 86,343
Premiums on new shares, £52 .. 86,395
1919.. 30,853 7,500 10= 11,708 969 97,071
Premiums on new shares, £43 .. 97,114
1920.. 37,166 7,950 10= 11,766 1126 113.438
Transferred to capital, £59.000.. 54,438
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. 54,498
Loss.
1921.. 5,314 14,784 Nil ? 34,400
Reserve additions, £lO9 .. .. 34,509
Profit.
1922.. 19,242 15,000 5 = 8,855 ? 29,896
Premiums on new shares, £ll . . 29,907
1923.. 37,755 15,000 7 =12,405 7 40,287
Reserve additions, £149 .. .. 40,436
1924.. 42,823 15,000 9 = 15,977 ? 52,282
1925.. 51,155 15,000 10 „ 17,781 7 70,656
Premiums on new shares, £6B . . 70,724
1926.. 48,982 15,000 10 = 17,802 7 86,904
It was a good year, second only to the
brilliant term which preceded it. After the
quarter-million of 6 p.c. prefs. had received
their divs. and 10 p.c. had been paid to ords.,
£lO,lBO was available for reserves. These
are moving up nicely—paid capital at August
20 was £428,036, there being 361,291 10s.
ords. (£2610 uncalled) in addition to the
prefs., and the more support to capital the
lighter the bump in times of trouble. Although
the D.I.C. did not escape the effects of the
post-war slump, it has shown a capacity to
handle its problems resolutely. Stocks stood
at an uncomfortable £330,906 at the close of
1924, and they were increased by the purchase
of two businesses at the beginning of the
following term. Not only was the new stuff
shifted by the end of the year, but a big
clearance was made of the co.’s other goods.
Another reduction (£50,088) was effected
last year:—
IQIS 1090 1Q95 1Q96
Prof, capital.. £125,000 £236,795 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital. . 116,789 117,792 177,884 178,036
Liabilities . . 29,571 215,707 143,032 93,439
Stocks . . 122,971 298,073 280,858 230,770
Book debts . . 68,492 91,801 88,222 82,178
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 155,287 134,834 248,692 239,126
Investments and
cash . . 6,225 176,115 49,080 81,606
As a result of the favorable movement in
stocks liabilities were cut down by a similar
amount. And shareholders derived further
comfort from the increase of £29,228 in
investments (chiefly Government stocks) and
of £3298 in cash. Fixed assets were in at
£9566 less than the 1925 figure, and deprecia-
tion, according to report, has generally been
on a liberal scale. Exes, last year were a
trifle lower. Shareholders received the cus-
tomary p.c. bonus on purchases—a handy
addition to their divs. —but the total amount
is not stated. The 10 p.c. divs. on ordinary
capital seem fairly secure, particularly since
the management has reduced liabilities and
stocks to more reasonable proportions. And
every increase in reserves brightens the out-
look.
The Australian Drug Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :—■
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1916. . £9.885 10 p.c. = £7,500 £2385 £16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 „ ~ 7,500 2485 18,659
Premiums on new sliares.. 170 18,829
1918.. 17,084 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ „ 10,000 2010 29,173
1920.. 13,939 10 ~ ~ 10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ „ 11,250 221 33,336
1922.. 9,438 10 „ „ 12,500 30,271
1923.. 14,010 10 „ ~12.500 1510 31,781
1924.. 12,500 10 „ „ 12,500 31,781
lVar Profits tax, £7200 .. .. 24,581
1925.. 10,209 10 p.c. = 12,500 22,350
Profit on sale of assets, £5875.. 28.225
Premiums on new shares, £2278 30,503
1926.. 14,688 10 p.c. = 13,308 1380 31,883
Divs. have generally been close up to profits,
and in two of the past five years have
exceeded net earnings, with the result that
reserves to-day are less than they were in
3921. Admittedly the tax-gatherer in that
period called for a special £7200, but that
was more than offset by the amount gained
last year from premiums on shares and profit
on the sale of the co.’s Chippendale freehold.
At latest reserves were £31.883 and paid
capital £137.225; and the latter may be
increased under authorisation from a recent
meeting. The visible support is thus thin,
especially in view of the big lump of outside
money at risk. There is. however, some
inner strength, chiefly in the low valuation
at which the co.’s city blocks appear in the
books. These are in at their original price,
and the increment in values in the area in
which they are situated has been substantial
and still continues.
The new capital is to be 74 n.c. pref. ;
the amount issued must not exceed one-third


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for November.
An invaluable guide—Companies’
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’ has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat”
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
Aside from its long life of unhampered full
delivery, Pioneer Wood Pipe is so light and so
simply constructed that it can be transported and
installed in a fraction of the time and at a fraction
of the expenditure required by metal piping. Practi-
cally indestructible when kept saturated, engineers
all over Australia are proving it to be the most
economical and efficient conduit. Write for full
particulars and interesting data to The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. —Aicvt.
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Aiivt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com. I son k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
« * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” Orie-mari
One-barrowload Tilting-type; Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm. — Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade k Co.
Ptv.. Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
EXPERIENCE IN EXECUTORSHIP
FOR THIRTY - EIGHT YEARS.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
is specially qualified by 38 years’ experience to act as your executor and trustee. It offers
definite advantages over a private executor; it cannot die, disappear or travel, and its
whole capital and assets are liable, by Act of Parliament, for the protection of its
clients’ interests.
Estates under control exceed £11,000,000.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
0. E. FRIEND.
DIRECTORS:
F. K. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
J. \Y. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN.
’Phone: L 2715.
m
of the paid-up capital; the shares have
priority rights as to capital and divs., but
do not participate beyond the p.c., and
are restricted as to voting power. Nq diffi-
culty will be found in using the new money,
for liabilities at June 30 were well in excess
of paid capital:—
1923. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £125,000 £125,000 £125,000 £137,225
Liabilities .. 62,029 123,905 210,090 205,210
Premises & plant 35,528 93,883 174,051 165,841
Stock.. .. 102,208 95,784 91,267 106,722
Book debts .. 87,370 100,265 103,367 114,109
Cash, etc. .. 6,205 4,108 1,257 955
Even if the full amount of pref. capital is
issued and used entirely in reduction of out-
side debt, the amount owing will still be
solid, though it is reasonable to assume that
a good proportion of it lias been raised on
mortgage, and costs less than 7\ p.c. On
the other side, both book debts and stocks
are rather heavy. Fixed assets were £B2lO
lighter than at the previous balance, thanks
to the sale of the suburban factory. The
co. is now well placed in the matter of pre-
mises ; one new concrete structure of seven
floors houses factory, bulk and bonded
stores, while office and warehouse are in
another of 12 floors. All letting space in
the office building lias been taken, and returns
are said to “cover interest charges on the
whole outlay.” That makes the positiou
easier, of course, and must have accounted
for some of the improvement over 1925 earn-
ings. Stocks are in at cost or, “where
necessary, reduced to current market price.”
Stocks are fully insured, and the co. is
covered by a loss of profits policy.
During the term the business of Kemp,
Campbell, Ltd., was acquired, payment being
made by an issue of shares (12,225) at a
premium amounting to £2278. Australian
Drug obtains through the purchase some
good agencies, and it will be a good thing
if it has also strengthened the executive —
in that respect the co. has been rather handi-
capped in the race with some of its old and
very well organised competitors. The margin
between profit and distribution needs to be
widened if the scrip is to improve in favor :
and the cheaper pref. capital ought to help
in that direction as the business grows. The
market views the shares a shade more favor-
ably than it did a year ago, and offers 265.
3d. The net value of the assets at book
value is 245. 9d. per share.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Loan is going off very
well; and the fact that more than one State
Treasurer is increasing his taxes will help.
The interest on this loan is free of State
taxes; so any increase in those imposts makes
the exemption more valuable. There is one
other point which the small investor may
overlook. These Commonwealth loans are
always saleable; so that money invested in
them may be said to be as promptly avail-
able as money at call—and except in the
Savings Banks, money at call rarely carries
interest at all. So the public can get 5J
p.c. for money almost as easily got at as
money left in a bank on current account,
which you actually pay the bank for keeping.
* * * *
Automatic Totalisators (France), Ltd., is
to acquire from the Australian co. the French
rights. Capital is £250,000 in £1 shares,
150,000 being prefs.. of which 100,000 are
offered to the public; 50,000 reserved;
100,000 ords. to the parent co., plus £20,000
in cash. The prefs. carry 10 p.c. cum.;
participate with the ords. to 15 p.c.; are
given the usual rights; and have their div.
guaranteed for the full term (20 years) of
the contract with the French racing body by
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd., of Australia.
Divs. will be free of both Federal and State
income tax. Profits are to be derived from
a commission of 1 p.c. on the total invest-
ments recorded through the machines at
Longchamps, and a net return of £11,600 is
estimated for the first year and £13,448 for
each of the remaining years. The estimates
seem reasonably based except that the future
course of the franc is beyond calculation.
Estimates are on earnings from Longchamps
only, but other courses are expected to follow
the lead of French racing headquarters. Two
points need to be considered: First, the pos-
sibilities of unfavorable movement in the
franc; second the ability of the parent
co. to fulfil its guarantee in the event of
a complete drought from the French course.
The Australian co.’s earnings have averaged
£9600 over the past four years, and a better
result should be shown this term.
* * •* *
Motor and Cash Orders, Ltd., is the latest
t.-p. finance proposition. Capital is
£500,000 in £1 shares —50,000 10 p.c. cum.
prefs.; 350.000 ordinaries; 100,000 ords. in
reserve. The underwriters, in addition to
their brokerage, have a five years' option
over 100,000 shares at par, and there is
mention in the prospectus of the imposition
of a premium at the discretion of the direc-
tors after 100,000 ords. have been sold. This
sounds like share-selling talk. The co.’s
title is indicative of its business intentions.
As the Wild Cat has remarked previously,
there are good profits to be made out of the
t.-p. haFit provided the management is in
expert hands and business is available.
“Definite arrangements have been made to
finance £lOO,OOO worth of highly profitable
and absolutely sound business,” says the
prospectus. Investors will need to satisfy
themselves as to the business offering, and
particularly as to whether there is more
business available than can be handled by
existing concerns. The directors are Sena-
tor Massy Greene, ex-Agent-General Edward
Lucas (S.A.), T. M. Goodall, H. C. Macfie
and P. Freeman.
A. E. Broue’s further contribution: —
I quote Chester W. Washbunie’s own words for
the benefit of Courtney Martin and his associates
and the public: “I would only advise the taking
up of Belford Dome if you cannot secure better
structures, i.e., structures with complete closure on
all four points, and without faulting.” My appli-
cations for areas on Belford Dome and all negotia-
tions conducted by me personally were before the
receipt of Washburne’s report, and 1 notified the
Mines Dept, in the usual way thatt I did not desire
to proceed with those applications. The “formal
refusal” by the Department of my application is
the accepted procedure under the Act. It might
be taken from Mr. Martin’s letter that my appli-
cation was refused in spite of protest.
I liken Belford and Loder and Sedgefield to
bottjles): Bedford, broken (the faulting) ; Loder
and Sedgefield, intact. In the circumstances the
greater likelihood, to my mind, must lie with the
latter areas.
I consider that Belford Dome should be bored,
but the cost should not exceed £20,000. But if oil or
gas, or both, are not discovered on that area, it
will not prove that they are not present in the
Sydney Basin.
With regard to the coal side of the Belford
Dome proposition, I have only to say that the
existing mines are capable of supplying any in-
creased demand of Australia for 10 years ahead,
and the prospectus should have set forth that
position clearly.
* * * *
Mararoa Co. (W.A.) is again in difficul-
ties. This time hands have been shortened
pending the testing of the sulphide zone with
the diamond drill. Meanwhile disheartened
call-paying shareholders are wondering
whether the riches reported from time to
time are ever going to be extracted.
* * * *
Years ago a small Adelaide co. acquired
the Oversight and Tara mines at Broad
Arrow (W.A.) on the assumption that there
was tons of gold left in them. The pros-
pector had done well, and shares in the
purchasing co. rose pounds on market re-
ports that the co. would do better. But it
found nothing, and soon gave up. Later on
the prospectors returned, took out some more
gold and left again. Since then the battlers
who followed them have obtained occasional
good crushings, and have just treated one
worth over £2OOO.
* * * *
Almost forgotten Menzies (W.A.) was
advertised the other day by a small but rich
crushing from the old Golden Age mine. This
show adjoins the once prosperous Lady
Shenton and was worked successfully by a
London co. which gave up at a shallow
depth. The Lady Shenton yielded over half
a million pounds’ worth of gold and paid
about £120,000 in divs. Then the shoot
petered out and the undertaker was called
in. Later on a former manager raised it
from the dead and did well for a time. _ At
present a small syndicate is in possession,
and according to local reports is getting
fairly good results at dentil.
Walsh and Pitman, the two Kalgoorlie
detectives who were murdered by stolen-gold
receivers on April 28 last, have not yet been
replaced, and no one engaged in the illicit
traffic on the Golden Mile has complained.
State Government and Chamber of Mines
can’t agree as to who should pay for the
detection of thieves and receivers, so the
latter are making money undisturbed.
* * * *
The decision of the Labor Government to
retire State Mining-Engineer Montgomery
and Geologist Gibb Maitland is not popular
in Westralia. Both officials are big men.
The Government expects to get one man to
do the two jobs at £l5OO a year, which is
less than half the screw of a first-grade
privately-employed mining man.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) has again
shut down its Ora Banda mill for want of
water. For some time past this venture
hasn’t been worth tuppence to the co.. but
years ago, when values were Letter and ore
could be picked for the battery, some profits
were made. Deeper working, lower-grade ore
and higher costs now mop up any surplus,
and occasional shortage of water makes
operations unprofitable. The co.’s Kalgoorlie
mine is still yielding a little gold, but its
life hangs by a slender thread.
* * * *
S. Aus. Oil Wells is busy explaining
things. Its shares were suspended from
quotation on Melbourne Stock Exchange be-
cause reports were not made available
promptly; Adelaide Exchange threatens to
strike the shares off the official list unless
reports of future developments are wired;
and Yic. geologist Baragwanath is annoyed
because the full reports of his department
were not made available to the Stock
Exchange by the co. And the oil which
sent the shares up turns out to be lubricat-
ing oil from the bore-casing and a mixture
of oil and paint.
* * * *
In spite of high metal prices, Junction
North (BjH.) shows a further decline in
net earnings for the September half year.
At £6999 the figure compares badly with
£12,542 of the preceding six months and
£25,591 at September, 1925. Production
(£106,234) showed a working profit of
£16,733, but out of that have to come
workmen’s compensation and other charges.
The £7OOO-odd left over was used to
reduce the p. and 1. deficit to £118,503.
Creditors have claims for £L6,726. and
£5346 is owing to the co.’s bankers. On the
other side, book debts are stated at £36,848.
Commonwealth bonds £25,278, and concen-
trates £43,826. Other book values: Plant
£83,742, mine £23,081, and leases £35,000.
But of course what those assets are worth
depends wholly upon what they can earn;
and the Wild Cat sees no brighter hopes
now than hitherto.
* * * *
Flagstone (N.S.W.) continues to dis-
appoint holders. Mackenzie reports that
594 tons crushed during October gave 9 tons
7cwt. concentrates, or about 14 p.c., or less
than half the numerous forecasts. He speaks
of No. 1 open-cut as patchy and requiring
handpicking “owing to a number of large
boulders intruding into the ore channel.”
This is the place which was to “average
from 4 to 5 p.c.” That and No. 2 open-cut
were to keep the mill going full capacity
on “high-grade ore.” Electric light just
now installed along the truck line will give a
second shift trucking and a third in the
battery. Why this wasn’t done three months
ago isn’t explained, and meantime the bat-
tery has been going only 10 shifts a week.
The board has had reports from C. Lonsdale
Smith, and also Waddell, of Irvinebank
(Q.), who helped Jack Reid to make the
Vulcan famous. Smith gives the show his
blessing, and Waddell believes that it should
have many more stamps at work.
Four tin-dredging claims have been taken
up near the mouth of the Annum River,
Cooktown district (N.Q.), by J. H. Hart
and G. Goodman, of Brisbane. The Upper
Annam yielded much tin when Cooktown
was a prosperous centre for the fields in its
hinterland, and the idea is dawning that the
flats near the sea got a lot of the fine tin
during their formation. The claims are
being sampled, and will be bored later. There
are the germs of a big flotation here.
* * * *
Ratrut borings have kept the market lifting,
prices rallying round. 335. Check boring
on the main area in West Siam gives 13oz.
over 100 acres, with an average depth of
30ft., and with further acreage being bored.
The adjoining area has completed its check-
ing, and 200 acres are certified to average
290 z. down to 18ft. Bottomed holes average
370 z.
* * * *
The rush for tin-bearing properties on
Pukat, four miles n.-w. of Tongkah Harbor.
Siam, continues. Burma-Malay has mothered
the latest float, the Katu, in 160,000 20s.
shares, of which 150,000 are being issued
to 8.-M. holders —two for one. That is for
the holders; but the parent will get, in its
corporate capacity. 30,000 fully-paids and
£40,000 in cash—it seems a big figure—as
solatium for parting with the leases. The
usual annual profits are forecasted with a
125.000 yd. bucket dredge operating on 33ft.
of wash, going just under a pound to the
yd. over 21.000,000yd5. But nobody guar-
antees the tin market.
Austral Malay has been obliged to delay
its Pungkah float; the Siamese Government
is very slow in dealing with land titles. The
capital has been fixed at £350,000 in 20s.
shares to furnish three dredges, and two-
thirds of the scrip will go at par. to holders
of the 100,000 Austral Malay shares, while
the remaining third will be at the option of
officials and privileged outsiders. The latter
provision has riled holders, because kerb
brokers have been offering 15s. premium.
* * * *
New Guinea Oil’s latest report features
an analysis of gas samples from the bore,
gasoline yield of 24 gallons per thou-
sand cubic feet of gas being esti-
mated. For the rest the entry of salt
water and silt has made it impossible to
carry on boring without casing. Some
1500 ft. of lOin. casing will be needed, and
it will take some time to get this to the
field. In view of the gasoline, the co. is
considering the question of erecting a distil-
ling plant on the ground.
“Old Hand” (from Malaya) : Still they
come, the crusaders from the land of the
Southern Cross, to wrest from the wily
Chinaman, Siamese. Malay, Burmese, Eura-
sian or brother white man an “area” for
flotation on the Australian market. A
crusader is a man who has held a job on or
about a tinmine in Australia or Malaya and
has walked along Collins-street or Pitt-street
announcing the fact in sharebrokers’ offices.
He may never have had any scientific train-
ing and his qualifications as a mine valuer
may be nil. The wily native likes the cru-
sader who has money to burn, and tells him
of lots of areas, all very rich, and the
crusader covers the well-trodden tracks in-
specting blocks that have been bored so
often that they resemble colanders. Prices
have soared and the option-vendor cheer-
fully demands and gets large sums as option
money before boring commences. Probably
most of the 40 or 50 prospecting companies
or syndicates will float off one or more pro-
perties before the boom bursts, and probably
—so wonderful is this country—a third of
the floats will be good payable propositions.
The latest reports from the Bulolo River
goldfield, New Guinea, give a more definite
idea of the situation. The Administration
seems to have matters tvell in hand, as is
shown by the fact that the holders of the
earlier alluvial claims have been compelled
to consent to a reduction of their large
areas, and no further leases will be granted.
The field has been thoroughly proved, and the
largest area that can be taken up now by
one miner’s right is 200 x 100 feet—the old
Papuan claim. As working conditions are
fairly easy, with little or no overburden to
take off, and a good head of water almost
everywhere, that should be good enough for
anyone but a glutton. Certainly, the value
of the gold is not high—about £2 10s. per oz.
—but as 2400 z. is one officially reported day’s
clean up for 50 men, there are compensations.
Careful supervision is being exercised over
those bound for the field, and medical examin-
ation at Rabaul is compulsory. The Admin-
istration also insists on a capital of £5OO
at least. Many are hung up on the coast,
waiting for native carriers. The recruiters
are charging £3O a head for these; before
the rush the fee was £4. The higher figure
is ridiculous, and, if the report is correct,
there would seem to be a good case for
intervention by the authorities here also.


THE RIVALS.


. v aoNs
V 5 t^t e^press
$
553
CIGARETTES
20 forl'6
were sold upon their
introduction
to English
Smokers.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
SWAPPING SECRETS.
“But do you allow your husband to have a latchkey—so soon?”
“Oh, he likes to show his friends how independent he is; but—
listen, my dear girl—it doesn’t fit the door.”
“Wealsman”: As only about five per cent,
of the Tatt. sweep money is contributed by
Tas. investors, it is not surprising that few
of the big prizes remain in Tasmania. But
nine Hobart youths drew Manfred in the
Caulfield Cup and pouched something over
£5OO apiece—probably more money than any
of the youngsters had seen in their lives.
In a small town, where everybody knows
everybody, so to speak, it is fairly easy
for an interested stickybeak to find out
piecisely how the lucky ones were affected
by their windfall. Enough to say that not
oiie of the nine has gone on the razzle, or
turned crazy, or thrown down his tools and
told the boss to do it his blanky self. To
my personal knowledge, one of the youths,
the 19-year-old son of a near neighbor,
calmly handed £250 to his mother and a
tenner apiece to his younger brother and
sister. Another treated his sweetheart to
a front seat at the pictures, bought himself
a working hat and banked the balance —all
except £l2 10s. This latter was the amount
whicn each of the nine had decided to sling
to an older cobber who had formerly belonged
to the shilling-a-week combination of work-
mates, but had recently dropped out because
of a recurrence of war illness. So even the
tenth man, though disqualified as a share-
holder, received a handy £ll2 10s. to help
him through his spell in the Repat. Hospital.
These casual young devils of Australians
often make you want to shake them; but
you often feel you’ve just got to cheer them
too.
* * * *
“Derwentsider”: Chinaman’s luck again.
A gentleman with a name sounding some-
thing like the Ming dynasty falling into an
800-gallon iron tank drew three prizes (£lOO,
£4O and £10) with one ticket (31888) in a
recent Tatt.’s.
* * * *
“Erua” : I happened to be hanging round
the casualty-room of Sydney I lospital when
the one-legged Digger who plays the banjo
at the top of our street was brought in. lie
was minus his cap and besprinkled with
gore, and had the air of one who had drunk
long and deep. The orderly greeted him
as an old friend. “Ha, you here again!”
said the official —“pension-day. I s’pose?”
“It was,” sighed the victim. “Now it’s just
Toosday again.”
“Leadswing”: Touching the late Charlie
Ryan’s promise (B. 28/10/’26) > that any
Digger who could put up an original tale to
him about his ailments would get a trip to
Australia, I know one who decided to give
it a go. Ryan had the habit of burying
himself in a soldier’s medical history-sheet
before asking any questions, and sometimes
one would stand in front of him some
minutes before he would look up from the
paper. “Well, my man,” said Ryan on this
occasion, still reading through his papers,
“what’s the matter with you?” “Cot hit
in the guts with a dud, sir,” says the Digger.
Ryan woke up promptly. “You’re mad.
man—you’re mad!” he shouted. “Righto,”
rejoined the Digger softly; “put it down at
that, I’m not particular.” But he went up
the line all the same.
* * * *
“Emer”: The men who hurry the cables
on from Cocos Island don’t get many thrills
during a 12-
months’ exile, and
they make the most
of it when a
steamer stops to
drop them a cask
of fresh meat,
vegetables, maga-
zines and other
amenities of civil-
isation. I recall
one crew of a 12-
footer who got all
the excitement they
wanted on one
occasion. They
had taken their
craft right up
against the stern
of an Orient stea-
mer. Two or three
yachts had gone
out at the same
time, and while
the others were
attending to the
business of ship-
ping the cask, the
opportunists were
chatting to some
fair Adelaide voy-
agers right aft.
They didn ? t hear
the bridge officer
shout a warning
valediction, or see
their comrades pull
away, but just
jumped in time as
their craft was
drawn around and
under by the start-
ing screw. One of
them asserted that
the last remark he heard before going
under was “Oh, do be careful!” in cooing,
pleading tones.
“Wang” : The- Chinese herbalist’s methods
of diagnosing an elusive complaint are per-
haps not greatly different from those of
many Caucasian practitioners. A friend of
mine who decided to give Wuu Hung a
turn was subjected to the following cross-
examination about his habits: “Do you dlink
—beer, whisky, blandy, wine, eh?” “No,
scarcely touch it; I'm practically a tee-
totaller." “Hi yah! P’laps you stoppee
out late nights dance, tleater, picture-
show, eh?” “No, never go to ’em.” “Um-
ali ! You play game, eh —clicket, footeeball,
tennis, eh?” “No, never played a game in
my life.” “Oh! Then p’laps you spendee
money on plitty lady, eh?” “I don’t—-that
sort of business is no good t’ me.” The
slant-eyed medico seemed puzzled, and as
plainly aggrieved. “You wanter live long
touching tug spot.
"My husband is very patient. Docs it take much to upset yours?"
"Yes, a good drop."
time?” he asked. “Too true I do,” said his
patient. Thereupon the baffled healer closed
the consultation. “Wliaffor?” lie asked.
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: Three young clerks from the
head office of a Sydney bank pooled their re-
sources for their annual three weeks’ holiday
and for £45 bought a second-hand Ford. In
this they toured the whole of the South
Coast and Gippsland. In a few days under
the three weeks “Lizzie” carried them over
2500 miles without even giving them the
trouble of mending a puncture. On their
return trip they stopped for a night at a
town about 80 miles away from Sydney,
and instead of camping in the car put up at
a hotel. Here they met a farmer and before
they left the next morning he was the owner
of “Lizzie” and they of £BO. The £35 profit
the clerks made on the deal paid all the
expenses of their trip.
“The Rumpus” : Apropos of “Paul C.’s”
yarn (B. 21/10/’26) about an angered bush-
man carrying live snakes into an editor's
den, I can recall a Westralian goldfields
identity, one Dutchy, who had a bodyguard
oi wrigglers. Somewhere in the pre-war
years Dutchy was travelling from Kalgoorlie
to Leonora by train. A number of alleged
sports invaded the compartment and annoyed
him by importunate requests that he should
take a hand at poker. vVlien lie refused
they became insulting, and lie was made the
target of ribald jokes. At Broad Arrow
Dutchy’s patience ran out. Casually drag-
ging out a sugar-bag from under the seat,
he carefully untied its mouth, lifted it by the
bottom and shook out five healtliy-looking
snakes. There was a combined howl and
a mad rush to get out before the train left
the station. Two frenzied sports got
jambed in one door, another clambered
through a window and fell on his face out-
side. But Dutchv had the compartment to
himself for the rest of the journey.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: The incapacity in these
horseless days of the average bystander to
deal with a frightened horse in the street
reminds me of Dakin. Horse and the manage-
ment of it were his whole gospel, and the
call for first aid to the sick, injured or frac-
tious animal drew him like a magnet. That
is, it did until It happened this way.
One day he saw a crowd gather in a city
street and scented a prize. Sure enough
there was a dray-horse down. Dakin barged
in promptly and took charge authoritatively:
“Stand back, please! Allow me. I know
something about this.” The driver and the
crowd, as is usual in such cases, took the
director of ceremonies at his own valuation
and quietly acquiesced. The fallen beast
gave a convulsive kick or two, but otherwise
took Dakin’s treatment calmly. “Now I’ll
sit on his head —the only way to keep him
quiet. Whoa, Laddie!” But Laddie made
no remonstrance when Dakin squatted on
Ills brainbox and delivered orders. “Stand
back there, or you may set kicked ! Unhook
the traces —back the dray away now —
gather up the reins. Now everyone stand
back, because he’ll plunge a bit in trying
to rise. Look out! Now, then, up, Laddie!"
But Laddie didn’t respond. He was still
taking the interference calmly. In fact he
couldn’t do otherwise. lie was stone dead.
The crowd, gaining courage, pushed in again,
tentatively applying individual methods of
resuscitation, or post-mortem tests, without
protest from horse or man. A minute or
so later the driver was observed thoughtfully
scratching his ear as be remarked to the
policeman in charge, “Now, I wonder
whether that bloke’s sittin’ on ’is ’ead’ ad
anything to do with it? Where is ’e, any-
way?” But Dakin had slipped away un-
obtrusively into an office building. He has
since specialised in motor-car collisions.
“Eureka”: A Kensington (N.S.W.) pair
had just reached their home after a night at
the pictures when they were startled to hear
voices inside. The householder sent his wife
quietly to awaken the next-doors and borrow
a revolver which he knew them to possess.
To make sure the burglars would not escape
he himself sought the aid of other neighbors
until the house was completely surrounded by
pyjama-clad and wrappered amateur police.
THE REAL SUFFERER.
“She seems to have got over her first hus-
band’s death all right."
“Yes. —but her second husband hasn’t!”
Revolver in hand the leader carefully un-
latched the door, furtively entered the hall
and —switched on the electric light in the
dining-room. Then they found that the
loud-speaker of the radio set had been left on.
THE NORTHERLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God may be in Heaven, the morning’s at nine,
But something’s gone wrong with the world,
For the wind’s coming up with a shriek and a roar.
As if all the devils
Were holding their revels
With Satan himself shouting, “Bravo! Encore!”
A termagant wind with a furious lust
For flicking up, kicking up, picking up dust,
A wind most malicious,
Aggressive and vicious—
A regular northerly gale.
The clothing of passers about them is curled
And twisted and twirled
Till they stagger along like umbrellas half-furled,
While their hats feel a surge
Of that oft-mentioned urge
For an untrammelled life in the wide, open spaces,
And start with a jump.
It gives one the hump
This swaggering, blustering,
Kuffling and flustering,
Reprobate northerly gale.
Respectable journals are rising to heights
One never could dream they’d attain ;
Conservative papers
All cutting mad capers,
Arising and spreading themselves out in flights,
And staying up,
Playing up deuce’s delights.
So much for the preaching,
The Bolshevist teaching
Of a dissolute northerly gale.
The washing is standing on end on the line
And struggling to tear itself free,
The blinds are all flapping,
The windows clip-clapping,
Rapping and' slapping,
While boisterous gusts full of sweepings and glee
Are flinging black rain
Upon pclish and pane.
Oh, hurry and muster
Mop, chamois and duster,
The northerly’s blowing again!
victoku.
STD. C.


SAFETY FIRST.
“The N.S.W. Labor Cmicus has decided chat one of the Railway Commissioners snall he a direct rep[?]ese[?]ve of the employees.”
THE ACCUSED: “No good tolling me these 12 gents, are impartial and will give me a fair go. What I want is a few friei[?]ls on
the jury that I can depend on."
‘Geoloin”: Joe told me the story. He
! s c °untry traveller for a Queensland tailor-
ing firm, and on his rounds struck a thriving
settlement at show- and race-time. He had
Kood luck at the races and poker-school fol-
lowing, and retired to his room in the pub
with a well-filled wallet. Before he had
undressed there was a knock at the door, and
the publican appeared with a complete
stranger and a request that the latter should
allowed to occupy the second bed. There
uasnt, it appeared, another vacant one in
the house. The stranger was a tough-look-
ing customer, but Joe could do nothing but
shrug his shoulders and consent. Yet his
brain worked quickly, and while Bung and
the new guest were having a final spot he
went over to the second bed, and, lifting
the mattress, put his precious wallet under-
neath it. Joe slept well, and was up bright
and early; and as his room-mate seemed still
wrapped in slumber, he went over, put his
hand under the mattress and retrieved his
Property. A resentful, “Gorstruth, is that
where it was?” followed him to the door.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Remarkable stories about
land-agents and land transactions are almost
*nre to be told when two or three N. S.
'Vales graziers are gathered together.
Gere’s my stock yarn —and I know it’s true.
Gn one occasion a man, for private reasons,
panted a block he had taken up forfeited to
rhe Crown, so he ceased to pay his rent on
«• Generally the department was not slow
about forfeiting land for non-payment of
re nt; but on this occasion it asserted its
nsual cussedness by merely issuing threats
to forfeit, and that went on for about two
years. At length, much to the holder’s relief,
block was gazetted forfeited. A few
bays after the gazette notice appeared the
ate owner received a letter from a private
land-agent in Sydney offering to get
forfeiture waived for a certain fee. The
grazier replied that he didn’t require
the agent’s services in that business;
but as he appeared to have “pull”
enough to get a legal forfeiture annulled, he
might quote his price for reversing the de
cision of a Judge who had recently sentenced
a relative to three years for horse stealing.
But apparently the agent’s pull didn’t ex-
tend beyond the Lands Department; any-
way, correspondence ended there.
* * * »
“Chloe”: Mrs. J. It. Ross, of Warwick
(Q.), can look back a long way into the
past. She was born in O’Connell-street,
Sydney, in 1840, and remembers that when
she was very little “The Sydney Laundry,”
managed by Mary McGrath, occupied the
spot where the S. M. Herald now is. There
were grass plots round the wash-house, and
a big drying-yard, and Mary was kept busy
driving off intruders in the way of stray
cows and goats. The water came from a
well in the back yard, but in times of drought
Mary had to have the soft water she, needed
for her job brought in a big barrel on a sled.
Mai-y McGrath was the aristocrat of her
profession, only taking in the clothes of per-
sons in the Government or military service,
and even from these she refused any which
came too late for her “grand wash,” as she
called the big bi-weekly event.
* * * *
“Bendee”: I confess to a certain sym-
pathy for the people who treasure surgically-
removed portions of themselves (B.
21/10/’26). I remember my own grief on
coming out of the anaesthetic, as a lad of
14, and finding that the sawbones had not
kept the toe from which he had just sepa-
rated me. However, it was afterwards re-
covered and duly bottled. During the war
it became necessary for me to part with
another toe, as the result of frostbite, and
again in stupid half-consciousness I insisted
that the exhibit was my lawful property.
This time I slipped, however —the nurse
solemnly assured me that the cat had got
it. Afterwards she confessed to me that she
had had to invent that cat 50 times at least.
From which I conclude that most people
have this queer ache to preserve the dis-
membered portions of themselves.
* * * #
“T.W.”: One superstition, at any rate,
seems to be generally accepted; anyway,
there are few people who will take chances
that way. Of 10,419 marriages in Maori-
land last year only 436 happened on a
Friday. On figures, Wednesday is reckoned
an easy first among lucky wedding-days. But
on the divorce figures one begins to doubt
whether there is any lucky day.
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: The vegetable John when
ordering a waggon frequently leaves the
choice of a name to the painter. Hence,
presumably, these efforts seen in the Vic-
toria and South Melbourne markets: Look
On, Sun Up, Ah Why and Hop On. Billy
Hughes, the latest addition to the circle, was
advised to change his name, so his waggon
now flaunts in gaudy letters: “Go Hon !”
* * * *
“Sucre”: My dear old white-whiskered
father-in-law came down from Woebegone on
a short visit. At the end of four months
he was still with us. and the wife and I
discussed the advisability of giving him a
quiet hint that he was outstaying his welcome.
“Leave it to me, dear,” she said, and I
cheerfully undertook to do so. Her hint
came that night at dinner. “Don’t you think,
Dad,” she began very sweetly, “that mother
is beginning to miss you'/” “’Strath!”
countered the old man, “I never thought of
that. I’ll send her a wire to come down at
once.”
* * * *
“Canar”: The claim is frequently made
that Australia possesses the longest continu-
ous length of railway in the world, from
Dajarra, in Northern Queensland, to Meeka-
tharra, in Westralia, a distance of 5540
miles. But this is easily beaten by the line
from St. John, in Nova Scotia, to New York
and thence to Mexico City, a total distance of
GBOO miles. Moreover, the Australian trip
involves three breaks of gauge, with waits
in some places, and occupies 15 days, while
the American journey takes only nine days
and is over the one gauge.
* * * *
“Herodot” : An even more grisly surgical
relic than that mentioned by “McDuff” (B.
21/10/’26) was carried for years by a well-
known Sydney building contractor. After
suffering severely for some time from gall-
stones, he was operated on and the stones
removed, his last words before the anaes-
thetic was administered being a request to
the surgeon to preserve them. He had the
relics bored and threaded, and, until his
death, 12 years later, he wore them suspended
from his watch-chain. Whenever anybody
remarked on the curious objects lie would
give their history with immense gusto.
“Borom”: Most of the Chinese bones
returned to China from Australia have been
in the ground for a good deal longer than
10 years (B. 11/11/’26). In few cemeteries
is that period sufficient for the complete
decomposition of a body, leaving only the
skeleton. When the old Devonshire-street
cemetery in Sydney was being moved to
make way for the new Central Railway
Station, bodies which had been buried for
more than 50 years were exhumed, and the
features of some were still recognisable. A
good dry soil, and especially one with a
fair amount of lime in it, is the most likely
to retard the processes of decomposition.
“Innisfailure”: It happened on a small
N.Q. goldfield. I don’t know why he
decided to depart, but he did the act after
he had bottomed a duffer at a depth of 7ft.
He. cut a stick, and made a cleft in the end
of it. In this he fixed a ten-pound note and
a leaf from his notebook, and stuck the stick
in the heap of dirt he had taken from the
shaft. He then descended the hole and shot
himself. On the piece of paper was written:
“The finder can have the tenner if he fills
the hole.”
“Deamington”: In the spring a young
man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of
grey suits, so Defence headquarters merely
grinned when it noticed that one of its very
junior clerks had chosen the very same
assertive pattern as General Hawhaw for his
Cup-time raiment. Young Pennib’s labors
consisted mainly of sorting and distributing
the correspondence of his particular branch,
and_ one morning when the amazing grey
suiting was fussing over the table, Inkpot, a
brother clerklet, entered, and in one of those
bursts of playfulness that help to relieve the
monotony of life smacked the most prominent
portion of the stooping form with a ruler
that he was carrying. The absence of the
expected spring somewhat deadened the joke
for Inkpot, and by the time the grey-clothed
figure had straightened and turned, thereby
revealing the crimson countenance of Haw-
haw, the humorist was the sickest-looking
man in the building. No word was spoken,
and an awful silence stole over the room as
the general strode out. In the short space
of time that it takes these things to travel
through the department long odds were laid
on the dismissal of Inkpot. However, the
re-adjustment of certain civilian positions,
which left him in another section and in
another building, was sufficient to allow the
outraged Hawhaw to recover his dignity and,
incidentally, show that he was a sport.
“W.H.”: Visitors to London are perpetu-
ally being advised to view the city from the
top of a ’bus. I tried it during the general
strike last May, cheerfully mounting one
of the first of these vehicles manned by
volunteers. After travelling about 25
minutes, the ’bus stopped, and the driver
came up on top with an assistant. A map
of London was produced, and three heads
bent over it. Wondering at the delay, I
asked what was the matter. “Lost the
way,” vouchsafed the conductor grumpily.
“Country Ped.”: It isn’t always the
patient who is responsible. In the morning
when I was able to take notice after my
recent operation, the sister came into the
room with a small medicine-bottle contain-
ing something floating in water. This she
carefully wrapped up in paper and handed
to my wife. “There,” she said cheer-
fully, “is your husband’s appendix.” My
wife accepted the proffered parcel gingerly.
“You know,” went on the nurse, “you are
very lucky to get it. Now if this had been
a public hospital, it would have gone into
the incinerator.” I felt too shaky just then
to say I wished it had; but when, a few days
ago, I discovered the bottle still holding its
gruesome contents I flung the thing as far
as I could into the bush paddock. I needed
no reminder of the misery and money it had
cost me.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I was returning home in the
’bus with Blank some days ago, when talk
turned to the Sydney City Council. “Did
you hear about the latest scandal?” I
observed. “No,” replied Blank; “what
have they been up to now?” “It relates to
the removal of spoil,” I responded. “What!”
cried Blank. “Have the blighters been caught
red-handed at last?”
IN ARCADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The days were dreams of pulchritude,
When hearts beat high and blood ran free;
The nights were every bit. as good,
And even Sunday's lost for me
Their native gloom in A ready.
By Avon bank or Wessex lea,
By Cotswold lane or Devon wood,
In Arcady, in Arcady—
Those magic words of minstrelsy
As by the poets understood!
In Arcady, in Arcady!
Those scenes, are gone, those days are fled;
Yet still they live in memory.
We cared not what might lie ahead ;
The past was well and truly dead.
The future all unguessed, unread,
By Irish Lords or Orchardleigh,
At Cora Lynn or Bradley’s Head,
When you and I our way would thread
Through Arcady, through Arcady !
Elusive spot! Ambiguous phrase !
Content and sweet simplicity
It breathes, the dictionary says.
And wheresoever these may be
Be sure is someone’s Arcady.
In city streets, by crowded quay
Ko less than in untrodden ways
A man may find his A ready.
But keep it on the map? Not. he.
It needs must fade with youthful days.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
AMMUNITION (1826).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I’m in love I don’t sing or dream;
i buy a new rouge and a new face-cream,
A box of powder, and a fresh lip-stick
That won’t come off no matter how you lick.
I’ve got a silk dress with flares and frills
And a little brown hat with crimson quills ;
I’ve got a new sunshade, I've got a new cane,
And a rubv-red macintosh to wear in the rain.
I brush my hair till it shines like silk,
And I doctor my skin till it’s roses and milk
(It may be chemic but it looks quite true),
And I’ve cut my bob in a style that’s new.
I’ve a shingle plait and two new side-curls,
And a heart that keeps doing Pavlova whirls,
I’ve bought a new rug and a cushion that’s yellow—
I’ve got a new fellow!
N.S.W,
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


Showing one of the twenty-two die-cast
metal units which house the entire eighty-
eight valves in the Wurlitzer metal action.
beg us Oat or*
The metal action in the
PLAYER
PIANO
is of unusual interest to all purchasers of Player Pianos.
Wurlitzer offers a perfect player action, in which the most delicately sensitive parts are made from
a special non-corrosive metal alloy—thus dispensing with the use of wood, which ordinarily is too
susceptible to the varying degrees of humidity and aridity of our climate.
Write for full particulars, or inspect the Wurlitzer at any of these music stores: —
Nert South Wales: Royai Player Piano Co., 685 a Gorge Street. Sydney; J. Goldstein, 187 Bathurst Street, Sydney;
cy .7 Samms, C ulwulla Chambers, Sydney; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
south Australia: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide
Victoria: Myers Emporium Ltd. Melbourne. West Australia: Musgroves, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
Queensland: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in securing a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives:
PARKER, BLAU & CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
“Bouragi” : The preparations made by the
New Guinea Administration to arrest the
native murderers of a white prospecting
party will bring a grin to the faces of old-
NOT AN UNMIXED EVIL.
PARSON (fishing for compliment ) : “And do you hear my sermons?”
DEAF OLD LADY : “Well, my ’earin’ ain’t good—but I don’t miss much.”
timers in Papua. One commander, a second-
in-command, two administrative officials,
one medical officer, 57 native police and a
machine-gun section! Sir William Mac-
gregor, yho did more fighting with savages
than any other man in Papua, would have
thought himself overmanned with 20 native
police. He wiped out the dreaded Tugeri
raiders from Dutch territory, chasing them
up a river, and attacking some hundreds of
them drawn up on the bank, with less than
30 police. And the were stout bow-
men. C. A. W. Monckton rarely had more
than 30 men, other than carriers, and in his
famous scrap at Paiwa he had less than that.
Papua has been crisscrossed by official expe-
ditions like that of Humphries with an
escort of from six to a dozen native police.
I will wager that the severest task of the
present ponderous expedition will be to avoid
falling over itself. Tucker alone for a horde
like that will require a transport train of
at least three carriers to each member of
the invading army, and it will be unable to
keep the field for long. And ability to keep
the field is all important in a job of this
sort. I know of one old-time Papuan R.M.,
in search of a white man’s murderer, who
sat down in a mountain village for three
months, living on native food, till he got
his man. His party numbered a dozen at
most.
“Feng-S.”: A young couple in Melbourne
have been charged with perjury because, hav-
ing been married twice in the same day at
different churches, they declared themselves
at the second ceremony to be still bachelor
and spinster. This recalls my own experi-
ence. After inviting my best girl to come
and marry me in a foreign seaport, I learned
that the British Consul would not make us
man and wife until we had both been resident
in the place for three weeks. The church
had no scruples, and was prepared to join
us on the spot. We accepted the church’s
offer and were duly wed. The Consul then
informed us that his Government did not
recognise the church’s ceremony as Sufficient,
and that, in effect, as far as his instructions
went, we were living in sin; if my wife
died she would be legally a spinster, and any
children born in the interim would be illegiti-
mate. Considering these appalling possibili-
ties, it was surprising how comfortably we
passed those 21 days.
* * * *
“The Praste” : Eleven passengers—that’s
no record for a taxi (B. 4/Tl/’26). When
the cab we engaged on Armistice Day de-
posited us at Circular Quay at about mid-
night, 15 of us disembarked from different
parts of the vehicle, including one who in-
sisted on riding straddle-legged on the bonnet.
None of us were midgets either.
“Leamington” : When the shark-alarm bell
rings out on the ocean beaches of Sydney,
there is generally some foolhardy bather
who plays to the gallery by remaining in
the water. He is liable to pay for his pos-
turing afterwards when outspoken people tell
him what they think of him. A grim varia-
tion of this silly stunt was recently staged
at Bondi. Some hundreds of bathers were
sporting in the water, when the ominous
clang was heard, and the surf was imme-
diately deserted save for one lone man who
continued his joyful diving through the
breakers. The onlookers’ intolerance of his
apparent flashness showed itself in many
caustic shouts, but a thrill of horror silenced
all when a shark-fin showed itself not 20
yards from the bather. Still unheeding, he
dived through another wave; then in re-
covering himself lie gazed sliorewards. Obvi-
ously he was amazed at the excited shouts
and gesticulations of the crowd, and in a
trice he was out on the sands. It was not
till then that the relieved crowd realised
that he was stone deaf.
A VERY SERIOUS OPERATION.
“The doctor ordered her a trip to New Zealand, so now they're holding a consultation."
“Surgeons?”
“Oh no, much more expensive—dressmakers."
“ Jim Grahame”: Some years ago I lived
on a Western N.S.W. station where it was
the rule to kill for home consumption all
sheep and cattle—the lame, halt and blind
—rejected for faults from flocks or herds
that were to be sold. Many of these animals
had cancerous growths and callosities. Dur-
ing the five years I was there, the owner
of the station, his wife, her companion, a
female housekeeper, a book-keeper’s wife
and an old hut cook died from the same
cause, and that was cancer.
* * * *
‘‘Percy Pawnticket”: The “Queen com-
petitions”—at least three are raging in my
suburb at the present time—have given a
new excuse for breaking in the infants to
the cadging business. They even canvass
no / from door to door. One youngster who
collected sixpence and my half-dozen votes
for a girl I had never heard of told me in
exchange that he was “working for Mr.
Howlit” ; Mr. Howlit is a potential political
candidate. Following this up, I found that in
an inspired moment Howlit had undertaken
to guarantee 5000 votes for the local candi-
date. The offer was not the financially
noble one it appeared, however, for Howlit
promptly got a platoon of small boys out,
on a promise of a good commission, to induce
other people (I was sixpenn’ortli of the
other people) to pay for liis large promise.
If Howlit turns in £2l worth of votes
(which will be approximately 5000), he will
pay a little over £2 himself for an excellent
advertisement, that being the amount of the
promised commission. It seems pretty mean,
but Howlit, as I have said, has hopes of
becoming a politician.
* * # *
“Bildad”: I see that another Australian, or
another group of Australian families, is com-
ing into another huge mysterious fortune. At
least it is positively stated that an Irish
immigrant piled up £37,000,000 at Chicago,
and died “nearly 60 years ago,” say in 1868.
“He left his money to the wife of his brother,
Cornelius O’Rourke, who settled at Quean -
beyan (N.S.W.), but it was only recently
that relatives of the lady heard of the will.”
Chicago was a smaller town than Adelaide
or Brisbane, and a town of wooden shacks,
when the Irish immigrant was there accumu-
lating what was then the biggest private for-
tune in the world. At least 1 suppose it was
the biggest. The first Vanderbilt kept accu-
mulating till 49 years ago, and Jay Gould till
34 years ago, and they worked in a far wider
sphere than old Chicago, and in better times
than the hungry years immediately round
the Civil War, yet they left only about
£20,000,000 apiece. The first Astor left
about £5.000,000 and the second one about
£12,000,000. Despite their comparative
poverty the world rang with their names,
and their wills were not mislaid for 60 years,
nor even 60 minutes. Of all the race of
Australian claimants I remember only one
who stuck to the business so that his record
could be traced to the end. He left Wagga
(N.S.W.) about 1867 to take up an English
estate worth some £40,000 per annum. After
doing 14 years’ hard labor for perjury he
died on All Fools’ Day, 1898, having previ-
ously raised a trifle by selling his full con-
fession to a minor newspaper. So far as I
know his wife was a N.S.W. girl. She had
no responsibility for the fiasco, but it spoiled
her life. She died the other day after
spending 30 years in an English workhouse,
and the name of “Mary Tichborne” was put
on her coffin. That was at least a finished
story.
* * * *
“Emel”: Gippsland still breeds strong
men. A motorist driving a well-known make
of “baby” car had the ill-luck to be bogged
on a Ivoo-wee-rup road. He went to the
nearest farm, where two hefty young Aus-
tralians of Scandinavian parentage were at
work, and asked for horses to pull out his
car. “You don’t want horses,” said the
elder brother; “let’s see your car.” When
they reached it he motioned his brother to
take hold of the back, he took a grip in
front, and with one heave they had the thing
clear. Either of these young men is capable
of lifting seven hundredweight.
“Narara”: What is the most valuable
pearl ever found in Australian waters? I
remember one being brought up by a Binghi
skin-diver from shallow water near Broome
(W.A.) that was sold for £16,000. The
freak pearl, the famous Southern Cross, was
found off Cossack (W.A.) in 1874. It
brought £lO,OOO even in those days; it would
be worth double that now. The Southern
Cross is a queer conglomeration of nine
pearls, with two of them fixed laterally to
form the arms of the Cross. Another valu-
able pearl, the Eacott, found more recently
by a diver from ,T. Eacott’s luggers, real-
ised enough to buy the finder a good-sized
station.
THE HUMIDITY OF CANBERRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Coates, hon. sec. of the N.S.W. Liquor Reform
Association, declares that the ‘dryness’ of Canberra,
recently emphasised by Minister Flatten, is nothing
but a mirage. The track of the bootlegger is over
the territory, and the number of empty bottles col-
lected weekly is staggering.’’
Dry as a bone or batten
This Queen of Cities stands,
A theme whereon our Pratten
Delightedly expands.
No brewery there nor pub is.
No beer in vat or tub is—
A thing to make him rub his
Appreciative hands.
“Crowned with calm leaves,” he sees her
(Thanks, Swinburne, for the line!),
A dame austere, a freezer,
Our City Palatine.
Her garlands and her posies
Are -waratahs and roses.
Not hops that redden noses
Or leg-entangling vine.
No sign o’er any portals
In legal phrase denotes
That parched and thirsty mortal:;
Within may slake their throats.
Of drouth such proof obtrusive
To Pratten seems conclusive,
But utterly delusive
To more experienced Coates.
lie sees a cup and platter
With but the outside clean.
What though no cheerful clatter
Attests to Bung’s routine
When through each civic sector
Stalks, like some haunting spectre,
The raucous-voiced collector
Who swipes the dead marine!
A scorn serene of shicker
Is in her queenly pose,
But do her eyelids flicker
From time to time? Who knows?
Must be some well-oiled throttles
When ev’ry dawn shows bottles
Among the gums and wattles
In rows and rows and rows.
Hill-borne, above the torrent
That foams, by Cotter’s brink,
Sits Canberra abhorrent
Of any stronger drink.
Thus Pratten’s noble vision;
But Coates unloads derision
Thereon. With such a scission
What is a man to think ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
MOON MADNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say the moon’s a crazy sort of thing,
A frozen earth, devoid of life and laughter,
That makes the soft still softer, that may bring
All sorts of ills to those exposed, thereafter.
But I know this: though they speak not in fun,
Small notice do I take of all they’re saying,
For if we had no moon, then in the sun
There wouldn't be so many children playing.
N.S.W.
J. D. WHITELAW.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
You’ll like
Guaranteed.
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort!
ewrtyuiop[]
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
**2 THE RTHON.LORDDENMAW
APPdNTMENT TO °° V - OF THE
HIS EXCELLENCY PTHu!/ 03MM0NWUUIHrfAUSTRAaA
Ss£a6Cisfted JBB3
W. Chorlcy
§ Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Br22ch?smakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
, TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Allan, who was regarded as a stop-
gap when he took office as Vic. Premier, com-
pleted two years in his job to-day (Nov. 18).
The Tariff' Board loses its chairman,
George Ernest Hudson, who would have been
64 had he lived until November 28. Hudson,
wfien he joined the N.S.W. Customs service
at the age of 29, brought in a knowledge of
the smuggling tricks of those who went down
to the sea in ships. He picked it up as an
observant officer of the A.S.N. Co. In 1921
he was made Collector of Customs in Queens-
land, and did so well there that the next
year he was given the higher job of Collector
in Victoria, became Deputy-Controller a year
later, and in July, 1923, was made chairman
of the Tariff Board.
In Alderman S. J. Morell, who now Lord
Mayors it in Melbourne, pub frequenters of
an earlier generation will recognise one
of the city’s most assiduous and respectable
bungs. With his brother, Morell at one
time or another owned various flourishing
taverns, including the Bull and Mouth in
Bourke-street, the Royal Mail and the
L. C. HUNKIN, M.P. secretaril of the
Public Service Association of South
Australia.
Orient. One of his greatest purchases was
Young and Jackson’s, on the Flinders-
Swanston-street. corner, with its celebrated
gallery of more-or-less masters. Of late
years the new danker of the mayoral chains
has devoted himself to the adding of acre to
acre and the cultivation of pasture.
Sunday, Nov. 21, will be the 70th birth-
day of the Vic. Parliament under respon-
sible government. Of the members who
helped to celebrate the jubilee 20 years ago
11 are left in the Assembly and three in
the Council. Sternberg, Payne and Edgar
are the Uppah Chambah three, and Edgar
has not been there all the time; the Assem-
bly 11 are A. A. Billson (who has been ill
for months), Bowser (Speaker), Carlisle,
Downward (Minister for Lands), Lawson
(ex-Premier), Lemmon (Labor sec.), Oman.
Peacock (Treasurer), Prendergast (ex-
Premier), Solly and Toutcher. Watt,
Anstey and McGrath, three of the Assembly
68 of ’O6, are now in the Reps. Peacock,
with close on 38 years, is the long-distance
man of the Assembly, and Sternberg, with
35 years, of the Dreary House.
Five V.C.’s living in and about Sydney
threw in their weight to make Poppy Day
a success for the Returned Soldiers’ fund.
At Villers-Bretonneux Sergeant W. E.
Brown (20th Batt.) made a haul single-
handed of a dozen German prisoners, after
knocking down one of them with his fist.
Corporal “Snowy” Howell won his decora-
tion with the Ist Batt. when on his lonesome
he bombed an enemy flanking party out of
action at Pozieres. Corporal T. J. Kenny
(2nd Batt.) rushed a machine-gun that was
holding up an advance, capturing the gun
and the crew. Private W. M. Currey (53rd
Batt.), in the attack on Peronhe in 1918.
captured an enemy 77mm. gun without help.
Private G. Cartwright (33rd Batt.), the
day before that exploit, killed three men in
a machine-gun nest, made nine others pri-
soners, and forced them to carry the machine-
gun—now in the War Museum—back with
them.
Quite a number of men are walking about
in Australia with broken necks, mainly per-
sons who dove into water not deep enough
to dive into. The first casualty of the kind
caused by aerial diving happened to Flying-
Officer Leslie Sutherland, now a cheerful
inmate of Sydney’s P. A. Hospital. lie had
made a flight to Iluntroon, and was on his
way back to Richmond when a forced bind-
ing’ had to be made, and an unseen wire in
a field caused his machine to somersault and
pitched him on his head. The vertebra;
snapped cleanly without severing the spinal
cord; and now, while the break knits,
Sutherland lies on his back and looks for-
ward to many another flight.
Rear-Admiral Glossop, who commanded
the Sydney when she smashed the Emden,
has just moved up from rear- to vice-admiral.
Glossop had the luck that day. Captain
Silver, of the flagship Melbourne, got the
wireless warning first, and he had swung
his ship round; then lie regretfully remem-
bered that he had an Australian convoy
under his protection, so he passed the word
on to the Sydney. In the meantime the
commander of the Japanese Ibuki had
scented, the quarry and made a clamorous
request to be allowed to go. But by that
time the Sydney was well on the way. It
would have been a curious business' if a
Japanese ship had fought Australia’s first
naval battle.
The small boys of the nation lost a friend
in Frederick Garnett, who turned liis
humorous and pathetic visage to the wall in
Melbourne the other day. Garnett, who was
brought to Australia by Wirth, was an
instant and thunderous success as this con-
tinent’s first dummy clown. To-day a circus
without a dummy would be like a tart
without jam.
Rupertswood, the one-time home of the
Clarke family at Sun bury (Vic.), later
bought by “Sunshine” McKay, went under
the hammer the other day in Melbourne, but
was called in after the bidding had mounted
to £98,000. The ancestral seat was squatted
on by William Clarke, father of tfie
first baronet, who came over from the Speck
with 2000 ewes. His flocks multiplied apace,
and within 14 years were earning for their
owner £20,000 a year. To-day there are
12 fine farms on the estate, which covers
8261 acres within 23 miles of Melbourne.
Bought his last horse, Napoleon Callistus
Eeclcston —“Nap” for short to everyone on
the Monaro (N.S.W.). Born at Campbell-
town, he went to Coonghoongbula station,
near Dalgety, as a baby, and remained there
until three years ago. He was one of the
biggest horse-dealers in the State. At one
time he owned Woodlark, winner of a V.R.C.
Derby, and he bred Dalgety.
The purple patch in the life of 11. P.
Richardson, lately dead at Mildura (Vic.),
was the time he helped Wreford, of Moorara
station, on the Darling, to drive 11,090
sneep down to the Chirnsides’ place at Wer-
nbee Park in Victoria and land the lot
in good condition and without loss. He was
born at Avoca (Tas.) in 1843, came over to
me mainland as a young man, and spent all
his life on stations.
Captain G. W. Finnis, who brought the
vehicle-ferry Karakara from Scotland to
Sydney, started as a ship-deliverer to ports
anywhere in the wide world, because the con-
versation of steamer passengers bored him
and because he likes a job that needs a lot
of attention. His unhappiest moments are
when he is returning home saloon. In 48
years of sea life he has not aged a bit.
lie looks about 45, though a grandfather.
The Karakara is Finnis’s 45th job of the
sort. His only other visit to Sydney was
when he brought in the coaster Fitzroy,
which met with a bad end a couple of years
ago. If Australia had more horse-sense it
would build its own horse-ferries, and Cap-
tain Finnis would ply his risky trade in
other waters.
An Australasian who has found great
honor abroad is E. G. Guthrie, a Congrega-
tional parson who graduated at Otago Uni-
versity. Going to America, Guthrie for 12
years shepherded in Boston, where he
became president of a united church associa-
tion representing 600 churches. When Victor
Lawson, editor of the Chicago Daily News,
died, leaving eleven million dollars in trust
for Chicago Congregational churches, Guthrie
was named as trustee and director. Before
taking over his new duties he paid his native
Maoriland a visit.
Painter RUPERT RUNNY, returned to
Australia after 16 years’ painting in
France.
Specialism has l invaded even the ecclesias-
tical profession. The Rev. R. O. Todd is
resigning from the rectorship of St. Stephen's,
Lidcombe (N.S.W.), to devote his attention
to burials. His Lidcombe living carried with
it the chaplaincy of Rookwood Cemetery, and
the interment business has grown so remark-
ably with the closing of burial grounds else-
where that the services of a whole-time
chaplain are necessary. Todd has read the
service over 12,000 times.
Oscar Schrieber, who moved at the special
Eabor conference empowering Lang to meat-
axe his enemies, became secretary of the
N.S.W. Furniture Trades Union when Teddy
Cutler, who deserved better treatment after
long years of good service, was thrown over-
board as the result of a well-engineered
revolution. Schrieber is a self-confident,
alert person who is not likely to suffer the
fate of Cutler. When Repat. started the
vocational training of ex-Diggers the Fur-
niture Trades Union agreed to co-operate;
but Schrieber regarded the scheme as a
plot of the employers, and gave Repat. no
end of trouble.
Peter Felix is dead. It was only
by accident of girth that Peter was ever a
pugilist. He was a clever boxer; but no
lover of fighting. When he was booked to
meet his brother Ethiopian Jack Johnson,
at the old Gaiety, his backers had to search
Sydney for hours before they could find him.
Johnson disposed of Peter’s championship
pretensions in half a round. Yet Peter
made a good deal of money in the ring, and
spent most of ii on gorgeous raiment.
Engagements on the stage kept the wolf from
his door in recent years, and he had the
happiest time of his life with Oscar Asche
as part of the stage props, of “Cairo.” But
lie ended with only a couple of shillings in
his pockets.
The last faint echo of the Tichborne case
died away when Mary, widow of Arthur
Orton, the claimant from Australia, passed
away. If she ever had any doubts about
Orton she convinced herself out of them,
and for years she was a thorn in the side
of the Tichborne family, who several times
—the latest as recently as two years ago—
took legal proceedings to restrain the per-
sistent woman from making claims upon
them or assertions about the robbery of her
rights. For 36 years she had lived in the
workhouse at Southampton.
The Queensland Rhodes scholar for 1927
is Franz Konrad Hirschfeld, son of Dr.
Hirschfeld, German consul in Queensland in
1914, who was interned and then expelled
from the Commonwealth. Dr. Hirschfeld,
who was recently readmitted, reared a
family here; and his son’s fine record has
done much to pacify people who opposed the
father’s return.
What an aviary of singing birds Aus-
tralia is! There may be no poet of the
very front rank now in this country (there
isn’t in England either), but there is an
extraordinary number of very agreeable
verse-writers. The Christmas Bulletin
tries to offer something characteristic of
every worth-while writer in Australia and
Maoriland, and this year it finds the list
of its verse-writers has swelled to this
length:—
Adams, A. H. Henry, J. T.
Adamson, Bartlett Ingleby, Bernard
“Black Bonnet.” Lawson, Will
Boundy, Rex Maurice, Furnley
Brady, E. J. Morris, Myra
Cole, Elsie MoAuliffe. Nora
“Darius.” Mc-Crae, Hugh
Duggan, Eileen McEwen, C.
England, K. M. McKav, Lilia
Forrest, M. Ogilvie, Will
Gilmore, Mary Quinn, Rod
Gornall, Lola Russell, McOowan
Grahame, Jim Souter, 0. H.
“Ilamer ” Syd. 0.
“Ilasen ” Thomas, W. J.
Harris, Dick Wright, David McKee.
Of course some of the poems are short; but
there are two or three longer pieces, full of
humor, that are going to be recited in a
hundred huts within the next 12 months.
The number will be published on Dec. 11.
Wilfred Flowers, whose, death is cabled,
was one of that astonishing cricket team that
Nottingham, had in the ’eighties. An Eng-
land XI might have included eight of them:
Shrewsbury, William Gunn, Alfred Shaw,
Scotton, Sherwin, Attewell, Barnes and
Flowers. This last-named was not one of
the sensational sort, but he was a match-
winner.
Hats went into the air at St. Aloysius’s,
North Sydney, when the boys were told that
this year’s N.S.W. Rhodes scholar is V. J.
Flynn, an inveterate prize-winner both in
sports and on the scholastic side. He is the
first lad from the college to benefit by
Rhodes’s bequest.
C. Jennings, Chief Stipendiary Magis-
trate in N.S.W., has stepped down after 48
years’ connection with police courts, begin-
ning as a junior deposition clerk. Part of
that service was under “Rolf Boldrewood”
Browne, then P.M. at Albury, who was
shocked when Jennings brought a typewriter
into court; Browne insisted that evidence in
the more importanl cases should be taken
down with a pen.
“Nakhoda”: That heroic Chinaman (B.
11/11/’26) who is drawing a pension from
the British Government for leading the
Emden’s landing-party astray on Cocos
Island so that the wireless operator could
get away his warning message must be indeed
a wily Chow. In point of fact the Sydney
had the message just as soon as the white
watchers on shore could distinguish the
raider’s dummy funnel, and the Australian
cruiser was on the trail before the landing-
party set a hoof on shore. With one im-
portant exception, pretty well all the cable
staff was waiting on the beach when Von
Miigge and his crowd arrived. The one
exception was the electrician, who, lest he
might be asked too-pointed questions about
buried spare instruments and cables that
were only dummies, took off his clothes and
went for a long swim.
“When we reach the hotel, let’s try to look
so that people won’t think we’re on our
honeymoon.”
“Don’t worry, old girl. These times people
at places like this are too busy telling
one another that you never had a honey-
moon.”
Fifty-one years ago James Furlong, of
All Hallows’ College, accompanied Cardinal
Moran to Australia. His most strenuous
job after they landed was being adminis-
trator at St. Benedict’s, Sydney. So tact-
fully did Furlong do his work that when Dr.
Kelly came into his own he made his pre-
decessor’s old friend an archdeacon and a
member of the Diocesan Council. He was
73 at the end.
THU REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oil. the king was on his office throne,
And lie said to his typiste fair,
“Pray come for a spin to the ocean beach,
For J long for the cool night air.”
But. the maiden blushed f’tis a fairy tale),
And she shook her curly hair;
For the king was bold as a king should be,
And she knew that she shouldn’t dare.
Now the king was wise but as men are wise,
And he swore a mighty swear:
“By the thousand virgins of Darlinghurst,
No harm shall hap you there.”
But the maid refused with the poor excuse
That she “hadn’t a thing to wear.”
But I think the reason she didn’t go
Was —entirely her own affair.
N.S.W.
J. D. WHITELAW.


they must be
OVAL HEAVY WEIGHT
CIGARETTES


Good, reliable, fully-jewelled lever watch, in gold
case of fancy design, £7/10/-
To see this
DAINTY LITTLE WATCH
is to desire it. It is of solid gold on a fashionable moire ribbon, with snap and
catch of gold.
Mechanically, too, it is worthy of its distinguished case, for though small it has a
completely reliable movement. It is a strong fifteen-jewelled lever watch guaran-
teed for fifteen years. It will be kept in order free of charge for twelve months
(actual breakages excepted). It is difficult to believe that a watch so smart
and reliable can be obtained at such moderate cost.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
Use this and
get rid of the
rabbits.
sN| ni>t
9 M ’ .
Why sit and a onder whether it really is possible to kill every rabbit, or how much
it would cost? Get proof. Write for Leaflet L2l, and you wall receive, free of
all cost, full information about Cyanogas, its simplicity and efficiency. Rabbits
won t worry you much longer then.
CYANOGAS
“It’s the gas that kills
them.”
Any of the following will
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
QUEENSLAND
WEST AUSTRALIA ..
TASMANIA
gladly give you free advice :
. . Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
.. A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
.. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
.. Buzacott’s (Q'land), Ltd., Brisbane.
.. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
.. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
“G.8.L.”: 1 doubt if “Older” (B.
28/10/’2G) is correct when he says that
“yarra yarra” meant “very muddy.” The
river was named by Wedge in 1835. Desirous
of hearing the native name of the stream,
he pointed out to a native boy the current
that shot over a rocky ledge and the boy
exclaimed “Yarra yarra,” meaning, so
Wedge believed, “It is flowing! It is flow-
ing!” The word “yarra” among Upper
Murray tribes meant “gum-tree.” Words
containing “yar” mean “water” or “creek”
among many tribes. “Older” says “wagga
wagga” meant “very foggy,” whereas James
.T. Bayliss, who lived at Wagga for many
years, believes “wagga” means “a crow,” so
that the doubled term would denote many
crows.
* * * *
“Erua”: The confidence that wild birds
show in a game sanctuary (B. 2S/10/’2(>) is
very marked in Maoriland about the open-
ing of the shooting
season. Alleged
sports who antici-
pate the date on
their licenses warn
the birds of im-
pending slaughter
some time before
the first of May,
and by that date
the sanctuaries are
full of unusual
callers, some of
the ordinarily well-
stocked lakes out-
side their limits
being blank sheets
of water. The
lakes in Rotorua
reserves receive
hundreds of wild
ducks and swans,
and other birds be-
take themselves to
inaccessible fast-
nesses until danger
is over. Even the
Auckland Domain
is sought out by
alarmed feathered
things, and re-
cently the hearts
of bird-lovers were
rejoiced one early
morning by the
sight of a magni-
fi ce n t pheasant
calmly viewing a
passing train
crowded with
sportsmen and
tlieir equipment,
bound for tin:
shooting grounds,
none of whom
dared take a shot
fit the bird that had sought and received
sanctuary.
* * * »
“Geoloin”: The discussion was on intelli-
gent animals we had known. ‘ Old George
Washington took his pipe from between his
teeth and started: “I bet there never wus
a intelligenter animal born than a pet bullock
I wunst had. I wus mendin’ the roof of me
humpy, which wus miles away from any
neighbor’s, w’en I slips an’ fell, breakin’ me
thigh. I don’t know ’ow long I lay there,
but w’en I come round I wus nearly starvin’
with ’unger. Lucky I’d fell near the bench
w’ere me saddle-bags wus, and I managed to
get a mixin’ of flour an’ soda I alwus carried
in them in case I wanted to cook a johnny-
cake w’en travellin’, an’ I mixed it with
water from me water-bottle on the saddle.
I wus just thinkin’ of eatin’ it raw w’en
I sees that bullock lookin’ at me like a ’uman
being. He goes an’ blows on the banked-up
ashes on the galley-fire an’ finds there is
live coals there, so he sticks his horn in
the johnny-cake, puts it on the coals, turns
it over when it wus cooked on one side, an’
w’en it wus done picks it up with ’is ’orn
an’ puts it down in fronter me.” Old
George refilled his pipe and added: “I forgot
to tell yer w’en he ’ad put the johnny-cake
down in fronter me ho turns round an’ flicks
the dust an’ ashes off with ’is tail.” Any-
one got a more intelligenter animal than that?
WELL WORTH LISTENING TO.
HIS WIFE ( sternly) : “Augustus John, don’t tell me any more of your old lies.”
AUGUSTUS JOHN (hopefully) : “But, m’dear, thish ish perfec'ly new one"
“Max” : “James B.'s” cure for leaf-curl (B.
28/10/’2O) is one of the remedies surviving
in the older orchard districts of N.S.W. which
embitter the lives of fruit inspectors and
dishearten the Agricultural Department. A
man with dandruff might just as well keep
soda under his bed for ail the good it is.
Leaf-curl is a parasitic fungus (Exoascus
deformans) affecting stone-fruit trees, and
follows the simple life-history and spore
distribution of all fungoid diseases. Bor-
deaux, or lime sulphur, is the proper remedy,
applied at winter strength just before the
blooms open. When I brought my present
home the garden contained a fine late Italian
peach which was badly affected with curl, and
lime sulphur cleaned it easily. Affected
leaves do not recover from their scars, but
the spray kills the parasite and saves new
leaves from infection.
* * * *
“Fez”: Most farmers recognise the value
of our insect-eating birds, yet they are rutli-
lessly destroyed by
the unthinking sons
of the farmers.
Catapult and
stones account for
only a few com-
pared with the
number lost each
year through the
collection of eggs.
The s e eggs are
taken home and
hoarded during the
nesting perio d—-
and then broken or
forgotten. Only a
few days ago,
knowing the boys’
fondness for col-
lecting, I extracted
a promise from
them that they
would confine their
harvest to one egg
per nest and take
one specimen only
of each variety.
The very next day
I saw one lad with
a lark’s egg, and
inquiry led to the
information that
lie and three other
boys had each col-
lected one egg from the nest. The promise
had been kept, but that whole brood of insect-
gleaners was lost.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Re “Old Mac” (B.
28/10/'26) and his theory of the food and
animal idiosyncrasies of man. When I was
a small boy I would fly from a brother armed
with a piece of cheese. As I grew to man-
hood I would not accept invitations to dine
for fear of meeting my pet abomination. To
me the appearance of cheese on the table
was as loathsome as a dish of disgusting
offal. But when I started on my travels i
overcame rny disgust at the sight and smell
of it to a small extent —I had to. let to
this day I keep as far away from it as
possible, and if some hog at a bush puD uses
the one knife to gouge the cheese and butter
I curse him bitterly when he offers to pass
the butter. But my antipathy to cheese has
its humorous side —to others. On one occa-
sion, when travelling in a drought, I camped
at a wayside pub. Next morning I asked
Bung to pack me some lunch. At the
midday camp I hungrily opened the parcel,
and discovered that the idiot had put up
nothing but bread and cheese. Of course, I
had to do a perish, as I couldn’t touch even
contaminated bread. I don’t know how Old
Mac” would solve my case; but my impres-
sion is that when an infant in arms my
nurse took me too close to a ripe old gor-
gonzola.
* * * »
“Geoloin” : An old swaggie with the curse
o’ God on his shoulders called at our place
and asked for a bit of tucker. As he was
nearly blind with sandy blight, my wife
took him in hand, doctored his eyes and fed
him up. The old chap was very grateful,
and showed it by doing all manner of jobs
NOT IF SHE KNEW IT.
BILL: "Hey, Mum, ’erc’s the Hoke come ter take the Christmas
turkeys in ’is motor-car.”
MUM : “Well, ’c ain’t goin ’ to do it. I won’t ’ave none o’ my
turkeys rulin' in one of them dangerous things!”
for her. He was very handy with carpenters’
tools, and made her knife-boxes, bread-boards,
and so on. He had taken away a big packing-
case, and I saw that he was busy dressing
and .planing the boards. One day on my
return from work he met me and, taking me
out to the shed, said: “Mister, I made a lot
of things for the Missus in return for her
kindness to me, and I thought I oughter
make something for you too. There it is.
Slap a couple o’ coats of varnish on, get a
pair o’ handles, and you have as good a
coffin as money can buy.”
THE RULE OF THUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the extreme north of India, amongst the
glaciers of Karakoram and the Hindoo Khoosh
Mountains, is the little State of Hunza. Three passes
lead on to the Pamirs and down to Turkestan and
the cities of Yarkand, Bokhara and Samarkand. The
hereditary chief, known as the Mir or Thum, had
absolute "authority over his subjects, and to secure
the throne murdered his two brothers and his father
—the father having earlier murdered his father to
secure power and the Castle of Baltit, which has
been the seat of government for 1500 years.”
No general elections
For Hunza’s Government;
No political defections
To the Opposition tent;
No caucus meets there ever,
And the Opposition’s dumb,
Before the swift and clever
Fixed and changeless rule of Thum.
No debates and no division: ,
In Baltit’s Parliament,
Recommittals nor revisions,
No critics nor dissent;
No Reform nor Country party,
Or, if there be, they’re mum ;
Defiance is not hearty
To the simple rule of Thum.
There’s no Opposition raving
’Gainst the Heaven-sent and Anointed;
For no politician’s craving
To be quartered or disjointed;
No stonewall and no gagging
To Hunza ever come;
In fear of the unflagging,
Ever-ready rule of Thum.
KEEPING HIS OWN COUNSEL.
BILL POLGLASE: “I see Cap’n’s house was broke into las’ week, and
some gold specimens stole. I wanner who ’twos?”
GRAN’IIAD NUTE: “Well, I ain’t namin’ no names, Billy booay;
but look you, Tommy Tuddenham be the man all right.”
’Twixt glaciered Karakoram
And the everlasting hills,
There’s no politician’s forum,
There’s no long debates on bills!
For the Thum has swift decision
On all questions as they come;
And he murders with precision
By the simple rule of Thum.
No first nor second readings,
No decisions backed by May;
No knotty points nor pleadings
And no Orders of the Day ;
The trembling Opposition
Sits in silence and is glum,
Knowing well its vain condition
In the simple rule of Thum.
In' Baltit’s House none utters
Untruth nor insult dire;
No Opposition mutters
IVhen faced with steel and fire;
All Parties love each other,
Or, at the worst, are dumb
’Fore him who killed his brother,
And rules by rule of Thum.
No journals twist his speeches,
Nor journalists misquote;
No leader-writer leaches
The truth from that he wrote;
No Hansard- dare convict him
By telling half the sum;
No papers contradict him,
Who rules by rule of Tluim.
If rivals rise agin him,
Contesting plebiscites,
With all the force that’s in him
He blows out all their lights;
There’s never an election,
For no man dare the fate
Of leading insurrection
• By being a candidate.
Who’d try for domination,
And face election strife,
When, with his nomination,
He must deposit—life?
In Hunza’s no ambition,
And Oratory’s dumb;
No rivals has Position
Under the rule of Thum.
QU KENS LAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


<lke
IMPROVED PAGKARD-SIX
/
1
PACKARD SINGLE.SIX FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN IS ILLUSTRATED
THE RESTFUL CAR
PERFECT performance, ease of control and luxurious comfort, even at
high speeds are the gauges whereby a car is judged. Packard has long
excelled in all these attributes and now offers still greater refinements in the
improved Packard-Six. Greater power, giving speeds far in excess of ordin-
ary requirements, adds a degree of reliability and reassurance that means a
great deal to the man at the wheel.
We can assure you that a trial spin in one of these improved models would
be the greatest experience in your motoring life and we cordially invite you
to ride in and drive the improved Packard-Six whether you intend to buy
one or not. Ring BW ijij for demonstration.
The price of the Improved Packard Single-Six Five-Passenger Sedan has not
been increased and to the man who desires to own a fine car at a moderate
outlay this car is ideal.
IMPROVED PACKARD-SIX
FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN
ewrtyuiop[]
IRA L. 6c A. C. BERK (Packard) LID
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell St., Melbourne.
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie's Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd.,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide.
H. C. Heathorn & -Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Denny Bros. Ltd.,
439-447 Murray St., Perth
PACKARD
kJ! s k h e OW a n ho Owns O


For CHRISTMAS and
the New Year !
The Best Gift for
Lady or Gentleman
* c
O
\ 8
! Right with
the Sun.’
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
ewrtyuiop[]
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining S5O, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in Loudon costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines uefore 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
“Bullwliar.ger”: The story of the Island
boy who trotted out a set of stainless cutlery
to lend to the “missus” when visitors arrived
does not surprise me. In a schooner I once
worked on we had no end of a job to keep
cutlery, especially spoons. The coon crew-
used to help themselves to the table-geai
after the Chow cook had washed up and
whilst it was lying on the table in the
galley. But I never saw boys use plates.
They generally sit around the rice-pot, and
all hands, except a few whose taboos don t
allow of this, dip in their paws. The exclu-
sive ones generally get their issue ot nee
and “bullamacow” in a half cocoanut-shcll.
The old hands amongst our crew looked
on spoons and forks with scorn, and one
hefty Malaita man regularly used the galley
“chopper” in place of the usual eating irons.
* * * *
“Sunset”: You can best teach parrots to
talk by covering the cage in the evening
and then repeating slowly and distinctly the
words you desire them to learn. They should
not be kept in places where they may hear
disagreeable noises, such as street-cries and
the shouts of boys at play, for they will
imitate them and become too noisy to be
tolerated. A friend of mine had a parrot,
which was left hanging in a cage near the
back steps. One day (or it may have been
oftener) the milkman liad occasion to call
several times before being attended to. A
few hours later, when the parrot had been
allowed inside, a friend brought in a
respected lady visitor. To the host’s dismay
the parrot exclaimed : “Milk —o ! you -—s ;
shake it up, can’t yer!” lie died that night.
* * * *
“Roma”: “Can birds ‘sense’ wireless” (B.
2.‘1/!)/’26) ? No. I have a five-valve set
which lias worked overtime since April last,
and my aerial-pole consists of a 12ft. stick
lashed to a peperina-tree —and the top of
the stick to which the wire is attached
just clears the tree. On a branch under the
aerial is a peewees’ nest containing two
young ones, just learning to fly, and almost
immediately under that again is a willy-
wagtails’ nest, containing three eggs. Since
reading “Bill Sikes's” par. I have watched
the birds. Whilst the peewees usually perch
on toji of the pole or on the insulator, Willy
seems to take a delight in balancing on the
aerial, and whether the set is working or
not makes no difference to the birds.
“A.H.S.”: I agree with “Narara” that
wireless aerials attached to pine-trees will
promote growth (B. 21/10/’26). I have
a pinus insignus at the back of my house
which was apparently dead. Since having
an aerial attached to a limb it has revived,
and is apparently as healthy as ever it was.
“Hop Scrub”: “Jesmond’s” observations
(B. 21/10/’26) on the gentle stimulus to
THE ABSENT-MINDED AIRMAN.
“Gripes, I’ve forgotten the parachute!”
vegetation of wireless have probably a sound
scientific basis. At any rate the latest
venture in electroculture makes use of a com-
bination of wireless waves and terrestrial
magnetism, and, according to its French pro-
ponent, will cause the stony places of the
earth to make the Nile Valley look like a
macadamised highway.
GILDED MEALS, TOO.
CITY POET : “I am writing a — cr —poem entitled ‘Golden.’ All about the-cr-golden .
wattle, the golden sunset,'and the golden corn”
ROUSEABOUT : “And don’t ferget the flamin’ golden syrup. They Hanky well give it to
us at this joint every meal.”
“Tamornie” : When the saw-fish supply
(B. 2S/10/’2G) becomes low at Manly we
can supply them in any quantities in. the
Muschu Islands, of n.-w. New Guinea,
where the coons harpoon them. The fish
account for more natives in a year than
sharks do, as they attack small canoes and
inflict fatal injuries on the occupants. A
specimen captured near Madang measured
15ft. and weighed 23cwt. Incidentally, there
seems to be some difference of opinion as to
their correct designation. I was taught to
call them “saw-fish” to distinguish them from
the sword-fish, which has a plain, rounded
weapon, as against the other chap’s broad
blade inset with ivory teeth, up to 2in. long,
on both edges.
“L.A.M.” : I know of one
lot of ambergris (B.
21/IQ/’26) weighing 261 b.
found by a fisherman on the
Queensland coast. It was
not of good quality, but
nevertheless realised £1 per
ounce on the London market
and netted the toiler of the
sea over £4OO. Ambergris
is judged by the connoisseur
on general appearance and
odor. Good white to grey
ambergris is quoted at £4 to
£4 15s. per ounce. It is a
biliary secretion in the intes-
tines of the sperm whale, and
has been found in the whale
itself. It takes the form of
lumps, of irregular shape,
varying in weight from a few
ounces to 2001 b. Most of the
world’s supply comes from
the Indian Ocean. The
south equatorial current
might easily carry lumps to
Australian waters. It varies
in color from whitish-grey
to black. The sample I
have of that found on the
Queensland coast is brown-
isli-black in - color, with
patches of greyish-white
coating. It has a resinous,
waxy appearance, and soft-
ens on warming with the
hand. When I first obtained
it the odor was a combina-
tion of musty wood and de-
composed animal matter. It burns like
sealing-wax, with an odor suggesting rubber.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I don’t think the season has
anything to do with determining the sex of
grazing stock’s progeny (B. 2S/10/’26).
Years ago I heard the proposition advanced
that heavy feeding produced a majority of
females, and light feeding a majority of
males. If there were anything in this theory
it ought to be particularly noticeable on
sheep-stations, where large numbers of ani-
mals may be observed and where droughty
seasons occur fairly frequently. For some
years I took note of the number of ewes
and wethers in each year’s increase on
several runs. The results indicated that
no law could be laid down in reference to
the seasonal effect on the sex of lambs,
any variations in the proportionate num-
bers that occurred being apparently acci-
dental.
* * * *
“Pelorus”: Perhaps one of the following
native words would suit “J.T.8.” (B.
14/10/’2G) : Maneroo, a plain; Yallambee,
to dwell or stay ; Wirrelyerna, level ground ;•
Nunkumbil, the morning star; Koyuga, a
plain amidst forest; Elouera, a pleasant
place; Pimble, country or district; Mycum-
bene, a place in which to sit down; Miram-
bena, we; Kungella, good; Woonwaren, ver-
dant ; Gwandalan, peace; Eleebana, beauty;
or Beelarong, shining. These words have
been taken from a little book on the subject
by the Rev. E. I. Watkin. When I resided
in Gippsland, a good many years ago, John
King, a son of Governor King, owned a mag-
nificent station property, adjacent to the
Latrobe River, known as Nambrok, which is
the name of the southern blacks for great
plains.
* * * *
“Sucre”: I wish to be head of the queue at
the “early doors” in answer to “P.A.G.” (B.
21/10/’2G) re ’roo “leppers.” I was once
dairying at Barri, in the Dalby district
(Q.), and one morning found a roo in the
milking paddock, which had a 7ft. Gin. fence.
The “old man” was 12ft. away from the
fence, but without blinking an eye he
put 3ft. of daylight between his stomach
and the top rail, making the actual leap
I Oft. Gin., with a 12ft. take-off. The African
springbok is a liobbled-liorse compared with
an old-man Australian kangaroo.
“J.D.C.” : The distance covered by the ’roo
is generally exaggerated .or estimated wrongly.
’Roo “drives” were common on the Lachlan
in my kid days, and I had plenty of opportu-
nity of seeing what the hoppers could do.
The killing pen never exceeded Oft. in height,
and the “wings” about 7ft. or Bft. Although
we yarded and killed thousands, I remember
only one going over the killing pen ; that
one was a medium-sized doe, which just
managed to scramble over. Odd ones tackled
the wings during the drive, and as these
were only brush, often crashed through the
top to safety. The longest jump on level
ground that I have seen measured was 27ft.
3in., but this may have been exceeded down
a slope. The average leap when “flat out”
on levei country is about 18ft. to -1 •>
when travelling at ordinary pace is °niy
about sft. to 6ft. The longest jumper is not
necessarily the fastest traveller.
"blue flier” clear 23ft. and a 4ft 6m split
fence jit one bound, but even that co
keep her ahead of the dogs. The red, blue
and black “plains” type is faster, on the
whole, than the grey “forester, found mostly
in timbered country, and doesnt need to ae-
pend so much on pace. I don t know
the springbok’s capabilities are, but, should
think that while lie’s beating the 10< >
“lopping” he won’t be doing anything else
The limit for the average roo would be
about: Height, 7ft. to Bft.; distance when
racing, 24ft.; and ordinary pace, olt.^
“ W errimee” : Old Jack was sewing patches
on the knees of his pants, though the cloth
was quite sound. “The pair I had, for
interviewin’ in ’as got beyond the limit,
explained, “an’ I’ve got to hx these up to
suit. A man always w r ants two pairs on
the track —ration pants and Sunday pants.
Sunday’s the day I’m in town. Doesn t
matter if it’s Monday or Saturday; it s.
Sunday,-pants day, anyway. The other one s
for the track. Doesn’t do to look prosperous
when you ask for rations, an’ no man looks
prosperous with patches on his knees.
“Black Tracker”: A lighthouse-keeper on
the south coast of South Aus. tells a tale oi
the bravery of a collie slut. She followed him
to a rocky ledge overlooking deep water, and
she in turn was followed by her three pup-
pies. When playing near the edge one of
the pups fell overboard. While the man
was attempting to rescue it with a boathook,
a sliarij hove in view and made straight for
the mong. The mother, who up to then had
merely watched proceedings, immediately
sprang at the shark and landed on top of it.
As slie fell heavily with a great splash the
shark was.scared, and both dogs were safely
brought to shore.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: If only we knew the
secret of how the little black ant does it, our
empty spaces might be filled to overflowing.
Across hard-as-iron stretches of flat country
in the nor’-west of Groperland, where never
a blade of grass shows a green tip or a
tree-seed finds its way, there are countless
colonies of black ants, guaranteed to clean
your bones in a day if you decide to dodge
the undertaker there. What do the smelly
little beasts live on ?
* •!< * *
“Sylvester” : The ant described by “Harry
J.” (B. 14/l(>/’26) corresponds in every
detail with the one known in Bananalanrl
as the liansom-cab, a vehicle it resembles
when carrying its posterior on its back. If
“H.J.” left his sugar or jam uncovered over-
REFLECTIONS.
PASSENGER (after a night out) : “Steward,
bring me a looking-glass; I leant to sec
who I am.”
niglit he would not know his fi'iend in the
morning, as the posterior would be then so
distended that it could no longer be folded
over. It would also be marked with white
bands where creases had been stretched out.
These ants are wonderfully strong. I once
witnessed a battle between one and a mem-
ber of the dreaded jumper clan. The cab
kept well away from the jumper’s rear end,
and after a lot of sparring stretched his long
feelers over the enemy’s head, and, gripping
him around the chest, levered him back with
his long legs. Then, dragging the jumper off
his feet, he lifted him over his head and
started on the homeward track. The jumper
meanwhile made ineffectual attempts to
reach his adversary with his deadly barb.
How the cab got rid of his dangerous burden,
and what use he put him to, I did not wait
to see.


Wk
sm
■ s ss
> ■"
Sk,
m
< ■ ;
;
m
1
>r k
:
-
B
31
■
Ml
w
W
■
M
;
:iS
■
' m s
mm?
m
I l£m
Before
Starting Out
Shopping, social duties and
the many calls upon modern
women are fatiguing. A little
” sprinkled on the hand-
kerchief and inhaled will make you feel yourself
again.
Always ask for with the Blue and Gold
Label. It is the Eau de Cologne with an established
reputation of nearly 1 50 years, for sustained fragrance
and absolute purity.
Sole Agents for Australasia: —
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
mi
O
Eaude
oloPne


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE 1
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAOHt
u ttiieslleidsie&
Reims
“"uoe, E IJ)
SgnM
PELLISSO
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Ajrents
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
mm-s,**:,
(2^e
"WntuioptfiCafe
The name stands for Perfection
2he Hotel The Social Rendezvous of the Southern Hemisphen
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/- per day, or Bed and Breakfast from 15/-
pei cay. Room* with or without bath, or en suite with private sitting--
room. Air-cooled in summer, steam-heated in winter.
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
'■The Cafe
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
The centre of Queens/onc/s
' ct/stingu/shec/ Soc/cr/ Life.
WM
■° BRISBANE
ewrtyuiop[]
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Pans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
A girl with ,n Dasimi <>l poppies crimson
against her wind-tossed white —for thou-
sands on Thursday she fypified Time: an-
other year ticked off since that first Armis-
tice Day when mothers and fathers and
sweethearts over all Australia were sud-
denly conscious that the end of the war
meant no home-coming for their boy. He lay
in Flanders or Gallipoli, and the poppies
blowing above him were the brighter red
for the heart beneath. Now for two minutes
in every year Australia pauses in her work
and in her play, and, unlieedful of the quick,
is mindful only of the dead. Two minutes!
It is not very long, yet long enough for
the stricken to know their Giethsemane.
Then fathers and mothers and sweethearts
take up their cross again. It is grooved into
place now, and for another year it will be
worn as unobtrusively'as of old ; but another
poppy is added to _ the pile that marks the
stations where millions have paused to weep
nr)u pray. Sydney held its chief memorial
service in Martin-place, which was packed
solid with humans from end to end. Here
came the Governor attended by Army and
Navy; and here the bugles called the Last
1 ost. I hen came the Reveille, and the
poppy-sellers commerced their trading anew.
I lie poppies were sold for the Returned Sol-
dier funds, and there was scarcely a man
or woman along the city ways who did not
wear the seal of the great kinship. Never
was there such a blooming; and not only
in some sections of the city but in many
country towns the supply, based on former
tide andS ’ WaS exliausted before the noon-
Wliat is the stuff heroines are made of?
leach-like cheeks, sparkling eyes, white
throat and arms and a shy smile help to
make up one gallant girl. She is Florrie
Hodges, just 16, who on Victoria’s “Black
V - m- y l aved bor three little sisters by
shielding them with her own body till relief
came, llie injuries to the brave youngster’s
own back were serious and the pain excru-
ciating, yet she was never once heard to
complain. Perhaps there is a firmer line
than is usual to 16 about the red lips, and
he decided eyebrows of the imaginative arch
. Ue i ey , GS - 1 , or tlle rest the young Gipps-
landei looks a happy, everyday-youngster.
She was terribly embarrassed at the civh-
reception in the Sydney Town Hall last
week when Gaud Mayor Stokes told her that
she had lived up to the best traditions of
the Australian race; and she kept on bury-
ing herself m her teacup wliile 0. Barrett
who ns secretary of the testimonial fund
which is being raised to secure her an income
o £2 a week, told how the little heroine of
ast year had dipped into her own offerings
rm . le ~ a little heroine of many years ago
1 his other was Jane Duff, and how she
saved her small brothers and sisters from
death in the bush near Horsham is another
Australian epic. Learning that Jane Duff’s
pensmn had ceased, Florrie begged that the
100 pounds from her Melbourne concert
heart! SIVC ” t 0 the old lady - A treat
With little Miss Hodges came her father,
Mr. Barrett and “Billy” Maloney, M.H.R.
the dear little doctor whose mellow voice
has been raised on behalf of Melbourne city
or nearly 40 years. Fifteen hundred pounds
has already been contributed to the testi-
i-idZ!’ w h °i USi }" d ° f ' , i( l, y 50,000 school
kiddies of Westralia and Victoria.
Mrs. Maybanke Anderson, who took her
professor off yesterday for a trip to Europe,
has been the centre of a tealeaf cyclone for
the past tew weeks. The biggest rally in
Training 0 1’ i?* at the Kindergarten
1 raining College m Waver!ey, when kinder-
gartens and welfare centres sent ambassa-
to honor this first president of the
of N. S. Wales. For
o\ ei oO years Mrs. Andersen lias been tuck-
S T, lle l in , to tlle by oB of little kiddies, and
lom the back street in Woolloomooloo which
first ba^y 'happiness school she
has seen the movement she loves spread into
every, congested part of the city.
Midway through last week a mild sens*
Hon was. caused i„ Martin-place bv the
anival of a baud of troubadours clad in
horizon -blue uniforms frogged with o n l,i
b r a field-marshal whose’ hat tore
a cockade as plumey as a feather-duster
bflssi niUSt i re i S i- V l,Corked Col ' nets and double-
let loose a flood of music. Queen
Victoria on her pedestal Avasn’t the only
flapper Avho stood at gaze throughout the
performance. Never a girl in the lunch-hour
promenade but cast a glance at the pretty
uniforms and found from the signs thereon
they were worn by Bond’s Hosiery Band.
The music was the prelude to the civic
welcome-home of the Great White Train,
that steel and steam ambassador of “Made
in Australia’ manufactures. The train has
travelled 4500 miles since it first drew out
of Sydney station, and Australian Made Pre
ference Leaguers recounted its odyssey with
pride to the passing hundreds and Chief Sec-
retary Lazzarini.
The five Digger V.C.’s who gave a help-
ing hand to the Poppy Day collections had
an invitation to enjoy the evening which
led them to a box in the Grand Opera
House. The uniforms, with their chevrons and
medals, brought a reminiscence of the war
period. During the evening one of the five,
in an ecstasy of appreciation, tossed his V.C.
on to the stage at the feet of Ada Reeve.
She is probably the only performer in the
world avlio has received that sort of tribute.
The Society of Women Writers sped the
younger daughter of its president, Mrs. Baver-
stock, along the track to matrimony with
a nice swag of kitchen utensils one after-
noon last Aveek. Sheila, in a swirl of white
voile flounces that here and there looked
as though they had been caught in a shower
of colored confetti, being splashed in the
most inconsequent way with diamonds and
triangles of blues and greens, reds and
yellows, unwrapped a small mountain of
colanders, flour-sifters, brushes, casseroles,
baking dishes and fascinating novelties that
are never seen except in the kitchens of the
newest brides.
Justice Pike led daughter Marie up the
aisle of St. Alban’s Church, Lindfield, one
night last week, and the young man
in waiting was Albert Hellstrom, of
Mosman, a subaltern in the R.A.G.A,
at George’s Heights. An accessory was
Padre A. Killworth, and three attrac-
tive attendants flew the blues and pinks
that color the sky-line at the end of
the perfect day. The principal lady clothed
herself in Avhite satin and tulle and ivory
lace, and. carried a sheaf of Madonna-lilies
and lily of the valley as a finishing touch.
The bride’s father and mother flung open
their Killara home to a host of well-wishers.
Here is a maker of Maoriland’s songs.
She is Mrs. Laird Cooke, and as Marieda
Batten h a s
written some
pretty lyrics
in The Bul-
letin, besides
a good deal of
verse for the
New Nation
and the Auck-
l a n i) Star
and other
papers a n d
mag a zines.
Her first book
of “Maori Love
Legend s,”
written in
verse form,
has sustained
the fi r e of
many ama-
teur recitals,
and emerged
still a thing of
beauty; and
Uio knighted Maui Pomare lias endorsed the
legends as reproducing the atmosphere of his
romantic race. Mrs. Laird Cooke, who was
the guest of the Society of Women Writers
Inst week, is a vice-president of the League
ot M.L. Peuwomen.
Jean Lindsay, artist Lionel’s attractive
daughter, travelled all the way from the
North Shore line to London to meet her
romance. lie is Bob Charley, the third
"J" ? f Ma J°r and Mrs. Philip Charley,
ot Belmont Park (N.S.W.). Madras is the
label that will go on Jean’s luggage when
she leaves Australia early next year to -join
lnm. J
The big event in the Uni. calendar last
week was Wesley College’s birthday celebra-
tion. Searchlights and electrics made the
college a glittersome pile to which represen-
tatives mf every other educational house with-
in the Uni. bent their steps. Old students as
well as present ones turned up to the glory
ot their college, and Principal Bennett, his
lady and Mr. Francis were a happy-looking
tn° as they welcomed their guests' against
the vivid background of the royal blue and
black of W esley s banner.
The spreading trees of Ascham were the
Mecca of all who went to the garden party
held by the Uni. Women Graduates’ Asso-
ciation on Saturday. There was tea and
tennis, and a swords display on the green
lawns. Also there was a jacaranda in bloom
and everywhere a blaze of flowers and a
rhythm of color. For the season’s brightest
and most diaphanous fabrics were worn bv
the frilly sex. The ex-Chief Justice Cullen
couple were the important people of the
afternoon, but the knightly Robert Ander-
sous and Federal Treasurer Earle Page and
liis wife ran them very close. Every educa-
tional personage of Sydney browsed along
the paths, and was aroused to enthusiasm
by the duelling of Frank Stuart and Miss
I'orest, and by the dancing of the green-clad
elfs and dryads led by Rachel Fewer. Miss
M. A. Bailey, in the absence of Miss Wil-
liams, the principal of the Women’s College,
did the honors, aided by Miss Fidler and
Professor Muscio’s popular little widow.
The man in the Judith Fletcher picture
is not a squire of Somerset, but an artist of
N. S. Wales.
In fact, lie is
Sydney Ure
Smith, presi-
dent of the
Society of
Artists, and
his is the
name you see
pencilled a t
the foot of
delicate etch-
ings and pen
sketches of
bits of the old
Sydney that is
so swiftly van-
ishing. Sculp-
tor Bertram
M a c k e nnal
opened a show
of the artist’s
work yester-
da y i n the
Macqn a r 1 e
Galleries—the first one-man exhibition Mr.
Smith lias ever found time to hold. It is
the forerunner of a visit to Europe early in
the New Year, which will be his first journey
beyond Maoriland. He is the son of the mail
who was for so many years manager of the
Hotel Australia that he was known as
Daddy” Smith in half the ports of the
world. The son is one of the directors of the
Art in Australia publications.
From Brewarrina comes, shriller than
usual, the Cry of the Babies. Present con-
ditions. are so bad there that the rate of
mortality «imong infants is appalling, and
Dr. Morris, the Government Inspector, has
appealed to the Country Women’s Associa-
tion to help him to establish a baby health
centre. The younger set of the Cumberland
branch of the C.W.A., headed by Elaine de
Chair, is taking the matter up, and is put-
ting a great deal of energy and thought into
a Harvest Moon Ball at the Wentworth on
the 30tli.
Stewart Dawson is again going to be
bather Christmas to hundreds of poor
kiddies. The party is dated for December
10, and will be at the Ambassadors. Sur-
geon Maitland’s widow and Mrs ,T A
Wilson are the organisers, the Yellow Cabs
are the chariots which will transport the
little guests to the delights, Brays are pro-
viding a monster cake, and Australasian
hums will show an appropriate movie.
c °mmitt e e of the Women’s Country
Club decked a long board with Dorothy
lerkms roses last Friday, and induced
Sydney presswomen to thrust their pencils
through their jazz garters and take up a
knife and fork instead. Strangely enough
they all seemed quite at home with the
change of implements, and a lunch of dis-
tinction was got through with dispatch and
accuracy. Many kind words were served
to the guests with the claret-cup, and Miss
Marley returned thanks for all in a neat
little speech.
l_he slim and studious Major Berryman
,‘ s man, on the science side),
of tim Staff Corps, Sydney, takes his young
wife to England this month. Two years at
( amberley Military College will follow.
I he man-operated cables are buzzing with
indignation over the lady who cost her hus-
band a thousand pounds a month for clothes
•ii V' f" ss t 0 mako • She got hats, dresses’
silk stockings and a mountain of what-nots
in return for Ms money. But Eve’s one fig-
leaf cost Adam the Garden of Eden.
1 be people of Rydo and the green hills
beyond had their first big Armistice Night
Ball in the local Town Hall. Flags and
pennons waved and motors whirled the Syd-
ney contingent of dancers from the station—a
modern appendix to the distant village which
once travelled to town by the river.
The Clerical Women War Workers, now
r?« 1 >r > u rS T>° ' 1 a - n 5 . P a ymg fortnightly
\ sits to Randwick, ask just a little of your
plenty to keep their funds going These
young women give not only out of their pay-
envelopes but out of their week-ends that
lift i SOldierS ;, ma y feel their time
V' ” , little less wearily. During this year
they have helped 25 soldier families over
hard times, and they want to make their
Chiistmas party at the soldier huts brighter
and better than ever. Help can be sent to
I. It. Huxley, 92b Pitt-street.
Lute Drummond, the Sydney girl was
engaged as accompanist for the rehearsals of
Dove Adrift, the npw comedy opera at the
Gaiety, London—it is by Poldini, a Hungarian
composer. The translation into English had
been done by a Greek, and the London pro-
ducer was an Austrian, Mora, from Salzburg,
who spoke only German. For some days
Lute helped the conductor, Hubert Foss, as
she had been engaged to do, by playing for
the soloists and the big chorus. Then, just
when stage business had to be rehearsed, the
translator, who had to be daily at the theatre
to interpret, developed an illness. For five
minutes the Gaiety seethed. Then Mora re-
membered the Australian girl who spoke
German so well. So for five weeks, until the
first performance, Lute became the pro-
ducer’s mouthpiece. No small achievement,
for Mora is one of the big men of the theatre.
He produced Strauss’s new work, “Inter-
mezzo,” in Dresden; also the modernised
version of “La Forza del Destino,” and was
responsible for the Mozart “Cosi fan tutte”
at the Salzburg Festival this year.
Two Australians in the production of
“Love Adrift” were Melbourne’s well-known
bass, Collier, and pretty Kathleen Lafia, of
Brisbane.
In a quaint little circular calling atten-
tion to the emptiness of its coffers, the No. 1
Mosman troop of Boy Scouts explains that
old age has in no way impaired its vitality;
in spite of having been formed as far back as
1908, and therefore being now in the sere
and yellow, it carried off the Fairfax banner
at the recent State competitions. Now in the
twilight of its days (so to speak) the com-
pany desires a hall in which its scarred
veterans can live its campaigns over again.
“The Barn,” the old whaling station and the
oldest building in Mosman, has been secured,
and the troop looks to its friends to do the
rest, though many of them would much rather
see the youngsters housed in more modern
and sanitary quarters.
The Players’ Club is rehearsing “To Have
the Honour,” one of Milne’s witty comedies,
all sugar and cream and easily digested. It
w; s recently performed by Melbourne Rep.,
and will brighten up St. James’s Hall
oil November 25 and 2(i. Madge Titheradge's
old part will be played by Wynne Wheat
Roberts, and Clive Coppard will have the
Gerald du Maurier role of Prince Michael.
Miss Brisbane speaks of some importations:
Brudenell White has been here arranging for the
visit of Royalty to Bananaland. Having talked it
over with L. H. Pike and Premier McCormack, he
has planned a tour to extend from April 6 to 14.
The Duke wants to meet as many Queenslanders as
he can, and everybody concerned has been warned
that speeches must be cut very short.
The pink-cheeked English public-school boys
pervade the town. Mrs. Herring had a dance for
the youths, to flutter the hearts of Brisbane’s
society flappers, at Jolimont in a setting of pink
gladioli and carnations, with a supper table gay
with Dorothy Perkins and a background of palms.
Motor trips to Mount Coot-ha, a reception at the
town Hall and another at Government House have
been part of the programme, with early bathing,
tennis parties and sightseeing expeditions.
Southport had an Armistice Ball under the guard-
ing wing of a sub-branch of the league. Nile
green and amber decorated, while a rose-petalled
Peace ’ bell was overhead. Tree ferns, fir-trees,
the flag of Australia and the Union Jack also did
their bit. There was a grand march of fancy froek-
ings, and lilies and gladioli dressed the supper
room. Gwen Napper, as Nursery Rhymes, took
first prize for girls under 15, and for boys under 10
Cyril Theodore won as the King of Spades. Pauline
Theodore scored a prize as Autumn.
On the 20th Charlie Chauvel’s new picture.
“Greenhide,” comes on to the screen at His Majesty’s.
Several of Brisbane’s nicest girls take part, in-
cluding Irma Dearden, and there is a real dingo
howling. Attractive ELsie Sylvaney takes the lead.
Stuaithome looked like a fairy palace on the
hill on Saturday night, all dressed up for the fete
to aid the Bursary Fund. The fund needed £3OO
to make up £lOOO. Pretty things from Italy,
1 aris and Japan had been sent out to help the
stalls. Archbishop Duhig opened, and ex-Premier
Theodore moved the vote of thanks.
lor the more ungodly, Ascot races were a lure.
The Lieut.-Governor decorated the winner, and the
orchestra played enthusiastically. Mrs. J. H. ft.
Barnes, Mrs. Isaac Moore and Pat O’Shea gave tea-
parties on the committee verandah. Mrs. Barnes wore
flame-color and ninon, and her daughter, Mrs. B. M.
Bell, was in ivory, with a pink-rose pattern. Mrs.
Isaac Moore was in parchment colors with brown hat,
and Miss O’Shea in cedar-wood shade. Airs. A. F.
Ruthning wore powder-blue, Airs. Duckett AVliite
peach, Airs. Cade]]-Garrick floral ninon, Airs. Sligo
ivory, and Mrs, Percy Reay smoke-grey. Mabel
Cowlishaw was in blue and pink, with black hat.
The I rench ship Cephee was wreathed in flags and
jewelled with electric lights for a dance to help the
Seamen s Institute. The R.A.N. Band played, and
amidst roses and gerberas supper was supped in the
dining-saloon. Commander and Airs. Mutton and the
R. E. Nixon-Smiths gave the glad hand to the guests,
amongst whom were the Lennons, with Captain Plant
attending. Mrs. Lennon was in black charmante,
Airs. Alutton in black silk-cashmere with a fuchsia
posy, and Airs. Nixon-Smith in black velvet.
Brisbane is proudly claiming that its new City
Hall will rise higher than any other in Australia.
The tower will rear its head 305 ft. above the
pavement. The building is costing a trifle under a
million, and will take another three years to
complete; but the Council Chamber is expected to
be sufficiently advanced for the Duke of York’s
"eception.


ijARJDY ETp_
Inexpensive Table Appointments
A. 8545.
Hardy’s Silver-plate Oval Entree Dish, with
end handles. Lid forms separate dish.
Length, lOin. £3/10/-
c
A. 8550.
Hardy’s Silver-plate Chop or
Muffin Dish, with removable
ftot-water compartment. Dia-
meter, 7\ inches. £l/16/-
t* • '■’
m
A. 8543.
Hardy’s Silver-plate Entree Dish, with
end handles. Lid forms separate Dish.
Length, 9 Jin. £5/5/-
A. 8548.
Hardy’s Silver-plate Muffin or
Chop Dish. with removable
lining, which forms hot-water
compartment.. Diameter, 7in.
£l/14/-
A. 8547.
Hardy’s Silver-plate Entire Dish, with
end handles. Lid forms separate dish.
Length, lOfin. £4/18/-
Five per cent, discount allowed on all
Cash Purchases.
Selections will be sent to any address
on approval.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent 3 post free, to any address.
H A RDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
( 3lve c J-fo\i&c op QnchbStOG UeioelUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
1 16-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
-r 3
gr^-%
f
Your Beach Snaps
If you want every Snapshot you take
to yield the best possible print—
Let
HARRINGTONS
Develop and Print Them.
THE DUPLEX PERMANENCE PROCESS is a new and exclusive
feature of our SAME-DAY SERVICE, which ensures prints of
the greatest possible permanence at no extra cost to you.
Make sure that
this imprint is
on all your prints.
k by a
It is the
Hall-mark
of Quality.
Your best negatives are worth ENLARGING.
We will make beautiful pictures of them at a minimum cost.
ewrtyuiop[]
I IS
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
Established 37 Years.
386 George Street, Sydney.
Also at Katoomba, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z.,
Auckland, N.Z.
There are many Investments, hut few that
are Tax-free Guaranteed Ten Per Cent.
Write or call immediately for your copy of the Prospectus of—
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS
(FRANCE)
LIMITED
The Company is issuing 100,000 Cumulative Ten per cent. £1 Preference Shares.
And to the Australian public knowing the efficiency and worth of Premier Totalisators installed throughout Australasia and British India
the directors look for a ready response.
EDWARD H. BUCHANAN, Architect, 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
FREDERICK W. MARKS, Consulting
Accountant, 178 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
FREDERICK A. THORPE, Company
Manager, 330 Kent Street, Sydney.
GEORGE A. JULIUS. Consulting Engineer,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AND one to be elected by tlie holders of
Preference Shares at the first meeting
of the Company.
Consulting Engineers:
George A. Julius. B.Sc., 8.E., M.l.Mech.E.,
M.l.E.Aust., 67 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Solicitors:
Messrs. Braund and Watt, 26 O’Connell St.,
Sydney.
Bankers:
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., 342
George Street, Sydney.
Auditors (pro tern.) :
Messrs. McDonald. Ross and Co., 60
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Secretary (pro tern.) :
L. L. Raymond, 1.1. A., Manager and Secre-
tary, Automatic Totalisators, Ltd., 60
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Object of the Company
Is to replace the monopoly of the cumbersome, expensive
and out-of-date Pari-mutuel system with the speedy and
mechanically perfect Totalisator.
Automatic Totalisators (France), Ltd., will purchase
from Automatic Totalisators, Ltd., their French patent
rights and the right to instal machines on the famous
Longchamps racecourso, which, with two other big
courses, is controlled by the Society for the Betterment
of French Racing. Among the honorary members of
this exclusive society are his Majesty our own King and
the Prince of Wales, with Viscount Harcourt as president
and Baron de Rothschild on the finance committee.
Consider the following points and then get the
prospectus.
(1) Automatic Totalisators, Ltd., guarantees all divi-
dends on the share issue of Automatic Totalisators
(France), Ltd., during the 20 years’ currency of the
Longchamps agreement.
(2) This guaranteed dividend takes effect from the
date of the allotment of the shares.
(3) Wherever installed in France, and commencing
with Longchamps, the totalisator will have a monopoly
of betting, as there are no bookmakers.
(4) Totalisators in these circumstances must be wel-
comed by the French public, as under the pari-mutuel
system an army of accountants, running from booth to
booth, is necessary, and as long as 45 minutes elapses
after a race before the declaration of dividend.
(5) In addition to Longchamps there are eight other
racecourses in.
(6) The Company will commence to earn profits when
its machines start to operate in the racing season next
year, and all future installations Will be. accomplished
without fresh capital.
(7) In addition to the guaranteed dividend of 10 per
cent, holders of preference shares will have the right to
participate in profits after the payment of 10 per cent,
on the ordinary shares.
As this is a Tax-Free Guaranteed Ten Per Cent. Investment, write or telephone to or call at the office of
Automatic Totalisators Limited
NINTH FLOOR, KEMBLA BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
And a detailed copy of the Prospectus will be available.


Swuiowt Adieu's
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
Sr
9m.
m
* .
I ID NO
WLIUIT
» yn
*****
mini
m
i
s -Him
8606
“Top Hole”—
is an expression with a wealth of mean-
ing, and yet, more than anything else,
it means SATISFACTION.
The Jfo tkWuxdbcil
Spring Street, Melbourne,
assures real satisfaction for all guests, for in its
combination of convenient location,, quiet sur-
roundings, sumptuous comfort and par excellence
cuisine it affords unrivalled service.
The “Windsor” is indeed Melbourne’s most select
hotel.
It is always advisable to book your accommodation
early.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6
(inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 15/-
'Phcne: Cent. 92fi0.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
mm
Melbourne
Chatter
Our new Mayoress, Mrs. Morell, began
her duties by attending the matinee produc-
tion of “The Torch Bearers” by the Theatre
Association, which shared profits with the
Q.V. Hospital. The comedy had some original
streaks and there was arresting frocking.
The hospital committee fattened its end of
the receipts by sales of sweets and flowers,
sundry raffles, and the auctioning of, dolls
representing film players in popular roles.
Marie Burke, with a tall crimson iiat topping
a red-belted striped frock, was C. McClellan’s
right hand in finding purchasers. Robert
Best’s lady was president of the army oi
workers, in whose ranks were Mrs. W. M.
Robins, senior v.p.of the institution ; represen-
tatives of the Q. V. Hospital auxiliaries, in-
cluding Mrs. Henry Rooks; and several
upholders of the Theatre Association. The
ladies of the comedy cast carried home loads
of fragrant rewards, and were thanked more
articulately at a party at the Embassy in
the evening, when Mrs. E. Lazarus, presi-
dent of the Theatre Association, feted them.
The hostess’s gown of pink, with touches oi
black and gold embroidery, was worn with
a chenille embossed cloak of deep lemon-
hue. E. Mason Wood, who staged the piece,
and George G. Arnoldt, who was responsible
for the production, were guests.
Melbourne’s Armistice Day silence was a
thorough one. Even in busy Collins-street
the only accompaniment to the sounding of
thp Last Post was the wind stirring the
leaves of the green elms. At Parliament
House there were bands and uniforms, yet
the ceremony was hardly so impressive as
•that in the centre of the city. The Com-
monwealth and State Governors took part.
Never before were so many poppies worn.
The sellers' task was quite a light one, and
the various soldiers’ funds will benefit
greatly. The unveiling of the memorial to
Edith Cavel] was done in the afternoon by
General Cliauvel. The marble bust of the
famous nurse is by Margaret Baskerville,
and adorns St. Kilda-road opposite; the
King’s statue. Archbishop Lees dedicated
the memorial, custodianship of which was
then handed over to the Mayor. In the big
crowd of onlookers the crimson cape of the
military nurse was remarkable by its absence.
The A.A.A. exhibition at the Athenaeum
was accorded a vice-regal kick-off. John
Longstaff, as president, nervously introduced
Lord Somers to the painters and patrons
assembled. Lady Somers, who was froeked
in navy blue with a black hat, received a
presentation posy of crimson roses and yellow
lilies from George Bell’s wife. Visitors had
chances of comparing portraits and sitters,
since there was a good roll-up of pictured
patrons. Esther Paterson, beneath a pink
feathered hat, studied Mclnnes's canvas of
herself in her wedding gown of white taf-
feta. May Butler George was an interested
gazer, and Dora Wilson discovered with joy
that two of her pictures had even thus early
accumulated red spots.
The Melbourne Music Club held out a
glad hand to pianist Backliaus and his wife
on Armistice night, and Fritz Hart said
beautiful words, the pianist merely smiling
his thanks owing to a troublesome throat.
Mrs. Backliaus was in pale grey, with a
filmy black lace scarf. The Melba Conser-
vatorium ladies’ choir sang Fritz Hart’s
“O _ Gloriosa Domina,” and Rita Coonan.
radiant in blue and silver, gave a number
of French songs. The guest of the evening
renewed acquaintance with a fellow-artist,
Mrs. R. de Burgh Iver, formerly an orna-
ment of the English concert platform. Mrs.
Pitt Rivers, Mrs. G. Thirkell and Mrs.
Walter Cass were among those who took
part in the reception, others being the presi-
dent of the Lyceum Club. Mrs. T. a’Beekett,
and artist Rupert Bunny.
Nothing is perfect, but the weather at
Caulfield on Saturday was so near it that
the difference didn’t matter. To make up for
it, the horses that people backed held them-
selves back with great persistence and unan-
imity. Society was not to the fore, and
there was little to reward an observant eye
in the matter of frocks or millinery. Those
who came in lace and filmy apparel found
it necessary to add the popular full-length
cape or coat of black or navy georgette,
with an occasional excursion into taffetas.
White hats were favored by some of the
smart-frockers, and there was also a hint
that spotted materials would have a good
run this season. In the committee’s box
the most noticeable apparition was June
Baillieu in biscuit georgette with narrow
aceordeon-pleated frills. Mrs. Barry Thom-
son featured a frock of Wedgwood-blue
spotted in white in harmony with her wide-
leafed hat. Mim Staughton’s apple-green
satin covering with white cuffs and collar
was topped with white millinery. Iris Con-
nolly’s ensemble or blue and white included a
white hat, and Kathleen Rogers Thomson,
who flitted about in lemon hue, was also snow-
crowned. Elaine Linton, who was with her
aunt Mrs. Richard Linton, had a shady lid
above a gown that was a confection of beige
and pink. Mrs. Fred Scarlett and daughter
Nancy, Mrs. R. G. Baldock (Bananaland),
the Weston Petts, the Rogers Thomson
couple, Harry Green and his wife, Mrs. Edgar
Warwick, and Mrs. Starr and her daughter
Eileen were others who captured eyes on the
lawn.
Gowns of the Neglige order, worn in a
sitting-room that has pink blinds and fur-
nishings of delf blue, are to the fore in
"Meet the Wife,” staged at the Athenaeum.
One confection is of faint green with feather
trimming sprouting wherever an edge appears
to attacli it to; and a frock of blue grey is
tasselled down the front witli beads and has
a regular cataract of cyclamen brocade with
cuffs and collar of white fur. A coral-pink
evening gown with accordeon-pleated frills
also catches the eye. Helen Audiffred, as
"the wife’s” daughter, wears figured voile
and later a trim navy suit prinked up with
red and gold' and topped by a red hat. One
of the interested spectators in the d.c. was
Mrs. Jimmie Osborne, loved of old by theatre-
goers as Maud Jeffries. She is a very charm-
ing matron now, and was accompanied by her
quite grown-up son Bedford. Leslie Merrick.
John Longstaff, the Louis Nelken couple, and
Mrs. E. A. MacDevitt were first-nighters.
Lady Somers put on her Girl Guide togs
on Saturday and journeyed to Geelong to
attend her first Guide rally since she reached
these shore. She was County Commissioner
for Herefordshire, back in the Old Dart, and
her transplantation has bucked up the local
Guides no end.
An enterprise which deserves support is
the. Musicians’ Union Concert Orchestra,
which, if it is sufficiently encouraged,
will give a fortnightly symphony concert
in Melbourne. Conducted by Bernard
Heinze, it presented a sample of its wares
at the Athenaeum one afternoon last week
and the sample was good. The “Tann-
haxiser” overture was treated with re-
spect, being perhaps a trifle large and
unwieldy compared with the jazz trifles
1 lie professional music-maker handles in
the course of his daily toil ; but real
beauty was in the rendering of Schu-
bert’s Unfinished Symphony, a piece which
suggests not so much an incomplete work
of art as one off which some Goth has
knocked an exquisite limb or two. Two
Morris dances by Percy Grainger were popu-
lar events, and Elsie Davies sang. Melbourne
has always maintained a brisk export trade
in musicians; here is an opportunity for her
to keep some of them at home.
Mrs. Austin Enabling rang down the
curtain on the Spring meeting with straw-
berries and cream at the Alexandra Club,
where about 150 friends assembled. The
hostess wore black crepe de Chine with a
brightening of sapphire-blue and black lace,
and millinery in tune.
The lady with the waved hair and the
placid expression is the wife of our new
Mayor, Alderman Morel I. who lately took
over the chains
and keys and
things. Having
just returned
with her Hus-
band and fam-
ily from a
world tour,
Mrs. Mo r ell
faces her
social task
wit h confi-
dence, the more
so because she
kno w s her
dark- eyed
daug h t c r
Sheila can
give a helping
hand that is
"ortli having.
Next year’s
Royal visit, of
course, will be
a big anxiety.
but one can’t gather roses—even the roses of
York—without having a thorn or two to
contend with. The first entertainment of
the Morells was a theatre-party, follotved by
supper at the Windsor. A Lafayette camera
clicked this picture of Melbourne’s leading
eitizeness.
An art-craft show that bristled with helpful
hints for Christmas-present hunters was
staged by Mrs. Edith Smart at the Institute
of Arts and Literature. May Yale Gilfillan
was represented by enamelled jewellery and
quaint articles in wrought copper. Joan
Cobb’s contribution included woven raffia.
done into work-baskets, wallets and mats, all
of very tine workmanship and moderately
priced. A. Romayne Walker’s wares were
of wood, with poker-scorched or painted
designs—powder-boxes, jars and such, with
Australian birds, beasts and flowers inscribed.
The lady also showed some batik shawls,
and there was a silk woven shawl deeply
bordered in a Paisley design—a recent arrival
from Italy—that had many envious glances
cast upon it.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer will open the Women’s
Art Show at the Athenamm Gallery on the
first of next month.
Social writers of the press were the pivot
around which the Austral Salon’s latest
Monday-afternoon gathering revolved. Mrs.
G. Johnson, whose daughter Gertrude has
gone abroad to seek fame as a soprano, and
Mrs. C. Thompson were also special guests.
Posies and favors that featured fat lead-
pencils were given to the journalists, who
also shared a cake fashioned in book form.
Mrs. May Quinnell, the secretary, said
pleasant things about the scribes, and Maisie
Maxwell murmured their thanks. Mrs. J.
Henderson, bound for Canada with her hus-
band, was wished God-speed. The afternoon’s
hostesses were Mrs. 0. B. Moore, who had
her daughter Doris to lend a hand, and Mrs.
Albert Cherry. The Merrymakers’ orchestra
played, and the burlesque “Engaging a
Chorus” was the bright offering of the Salon
Six and some other amateurs.
When Fritz Hart put on his one-act opera
“Dierdre in Exile,” the other day, he found
an ideal heroine in one of his Conservatorium
students, Lil-
iiin Cri s p.
B roothorn
slio w s here
how the
maiden looked
in the role. She
hails from
Westralia, and
her soprano
voice was
heard in many
an amateur
comic - opera
production in
Perth before
sh e came to
Melbourne to
study under
Mary Campbell
two years ago.
She won a
scholarship in
li e r first 12
months, ai d
now if there’s any theatrical entrepreneur
who can appreciate a beautiful Australian
voice, combined with brains and good looks
—well, here's his chance.
The Children’s Convalescent Home at
Brighton benefited when the Old Ruytonians'
Dramatic Club presented “The Lilies of the
Field” at the Playhouse the other evening
under the direction of Eileen O’Keefe. The
comedy provided parts for Lois Blake, Kitty
Cook, Russell Gourla.v, Philip Shappere and
other young people. Carden Blake and Freda
Davies had the principal flapper roles, and
wore Early Victorian crinolines and curls with
charm. The dressing as a whole was a bit
above amateur standard. Melbourne Gram-
mar School orchestra burst into jazz between
the acts. Mrs. Charlie Mitchell, just elected
president of the Old Ruytonians. was in a
front seat with her husband.'Mrs. J. K.
Merritt was accompanied by her two daugh-
ters, and the head-mistress, Miss Hilda
Daniel], also smiled approval.
Alister Clark, whose interests include
geegees, but whose chief love is roses, took
ar k hour or so off on Thursday afternoon to
tell members of the Victoria League some
of the secrets of thleir cultivation. He
Drought along what he called “a few seed-
lings” from the garden of Glenara, and the
masses of pinks, reds and creams glorified
the reception-room of the Windsor. The very
latest varieties were featured, and a discus-
sion of their virtues and vices was part of
the disquisition. The heads of the Rose
.Society and one or two other folk had a
word or two to say when the lecturer had
finished, and nice old Admiral Creswell's
laay. in seconding the thanks, put in a plea
for the roses of yesteryear. She longed, she said,
for a sight and a whiff of a Gloire de Dijon.
Nancy Weddell has listened with a con-
senting smile to the matrimonial project of
Leonard Fell, whose family live at Gipps-
land Lakes. Nancy is a Bendigo lass.
The Philip Russells have left the Western
district to try city life for a spell. Mrs.
Philip, whose health has been uncertain
since the loss of her only daughter, has
again been ill, and a change of scene has
been ordered.
Lots of people will miss the Lane Pooles
when they return to England in March. The
captain, who is at present living at the
Melbourne Club, has just returned from an
inter-Stato search for suitable cadets for the
Jervis Bay College.
When Dion Boucicault returns to England
early m the New Year he expects to find a
new home ready in Berkshire, His wife
Irene Vanbrugh, confesses herself more
thrilled over the creation of this. new home
than over the creation of a big part m
Sutro's new play to be produced by Sir Barrj
Jackson in the West End about Christmas.
Monty Grover, the Sun's old editor, has
come home to Brighton Beach, where he
pretends to surf, after an investigation of
the United States. He visited every State
and met everybody who was anybody, from
film magnates upwards. And everywhere he
made a nuisance of himself by boosting Aus-
tralia. He even insisted on making a speech
lauding the A.J.A., an institution that
America sadly lacks. The flat rate there
for reporters and sub-editors is no more than
£8 a week, he declares.
A line from Agnes Murphy:—
It now seems a pity that Gladys Moncrieff did
not accept the offer of the leading role in “Yvonne"
at Daly’s Theatre, London, which in its revived
form and with the addition of Gene Gerrard is now
quite a good show and drawing large audiences.
Gladys has been making a wide search for plays that
would do for Australia; but the constant changes
at the London theatres show that it is not easy
to spot a winner.
The most astonishing entertainment in London at
present, in view of quite recent solemn pledges of
eternal ostracism, is the Brandenburg Choir of
German students, engaged on a mission of song in
the great churches. The singers, youths and maidens,
number 20, and in their programme of mainly
xeligious music from the German composers of the
fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth cen-
turies they have given the London public choral sing-
ing which has never been excelled in the city. Mar-
vellous purity of tone and impeccable technique mark
all their efforts, and in the interpretation of Bach,
whose name is indissolubly associated with their
native town, they reveal a spirit of profound
sympathy and understanding.
The will of the Duke of Orleans, whose name and
doings were familiar to many Australians, has occa-
sioned little surprise. The bitter differences between
this Bourbon prince and his wife, the Archduchess
Marie Dorothea, were known even outside the circle
of their friends. Mrs. Jarrott, wife of the racing
motorist Colonel Charles Jarrott, to whom the Duke
has left £6OOO a year and some superb jewellery,
was formerly Countess of Rosslyn, and is the mother
of Lord Loughborough. During one long period of
poor health the Duke was cared for at the home of
the Jarrotts on Wimbledon Common. Lord Rosslyn
divorced Mrs. Jarrott in 1902 on the ground of
desertion, one of the many divorce incidents in
the family. Lady Loughborough (formerly Miss
Chisholm, of Sydney) has not allowed her own
divorce proceedings to cast any gloom over her
social doings; passing by the incident as one of
trifling concern, she continues to be exceedingly
popular among the Bright Young People.
Sister Adelaide remembers the Empire
Parliamentarians:—
The visiting Parliamentarians, poor souls, have
been whizzed from luncheons to country tours and
back again to luncheons, with speeches (often by
the same speakers) as the chief items of the menu,
and with scarcely a pause to open their letters or
exchange a word or two with a private chop. There
were lunches with the Commonwealth Club, the
Chamber of Commerce and the League of Nations
Union, a reception by the English-Speaking Union,
addresses to the Victoria and other leagues, and
inspections of everything from the school-children at
Colonel Light Gardens to the crops at the Waite
Research Institute. And as if that wasn’t enough,
Lord Salisbury dashed north 12 or 15 miles to
look at our Salisbury and see what manner of
tov 7 n bore his name.
Women’s societies swooped, of course, on Mrs.
Jollie, who spoke of S’Africa at a special session
of the Women’s Non-party Association, and was
booked, too, to meet the Lyceum Club. The latter
engagement was cancelled, to the woe of the members.
The indefatigable lady found that even she couldn’t
squeeze So hours into 24.
The only purely social frivol was the Mayoral
Bruces.’ garden party, for which a morning of
raging wind and smothering dust mercifully gave
way to an afternoon of reasonable summer, -with a
shower or two between to lay the dust. How-de-do’s,
xn which Lord Salisbury shared, took the best part
of an hour and embraced most of the delegation
and any one who in anyone in Adelaide. Georgette
held pride of place in dressing—flowered for frocks;
self-colored for coats—and the Mayoress’s own slim
garment was of black georgette, flaring into a
skirt whereon roses of every shade of rose and
beige and pink rioted, and green leaves struck a
note of coolness. Her daughter was in georgette,
too pale apricot, with a hat a tone or tw’o lighter;
and there were silver embroideries on Mrs. Tawse
.Jollie’s cinnamon cr6pe de Chine.
Ada Wordie, one of the most generous of our
singers when any charity concert is afoot, was herself
the subject of a benefit w’hereat not only w r as the
T own Hall crammed to bursting point but enough
were, turned away to have made a respectable sized
audience for an overflow entertainment. There was
thunderous applause to greet the singer when she
came on to the platform, and at the end of the
first number such an offering of flowers as is
seldom seen in this staid village.
The Bridges, bound for Robe and its Show, broke
their journey at Wellington Lodge, where they
stayed with, the Alan MacFarlanes. Thence onward
the trip w'as made by air, with their daughter and
Major Clowes to accompany them.


A. SAUNDERS’ UNIQUE
CHRISTMAS
GIFTS.
Something
for
Every
Home.
\. Saunders’) Flower or Fruit Basket, Pure Silver-
plated Al Quality, Highly Burnished, Pierced
design, 75/-
We
Invite
Your
Inspection.
All Mail Orders
receive the
same care and
attention as if
you called
personally.
'Z&.»?n3K sn:an *>&lf3*a>>
'-'«v
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, Pure Silver-plated
A 1 Quality, 50/-
Write for
FREE
Christmas
Catalogue.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS
W atchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED
PASSAGES
f
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
1841 - 165 BRANCHES.
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR AUSTRALIAN TRAVELLERS
TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Low-rate Escorted Tours, From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
*erm
*
w
Ifour Christinas Presents
£2OOO in Prizes
New Studebaker given away free/
FIRST PRlZE.—Standard
Studebaker Coach, value £540.
Similar prize in last St. Mar-
garet’s Art Union was con-
verted by Mr. Brack, of the
Mataram, into cash as easily as
War Bonds.
Big Bridal Bouquets.
Treasure Trousseau from McCathie’s,
value £l5O. Glory Box from Grace
Bros, valued at £lOO. Linen from Mark
Foy’s and Grace Bros, each valued at
£lOO. Furniture from Bebarfald’s
costing £lOO.
100 Other Perfect Prizes.
Each is valued at more than £5. Each
ticket stands an equal chance —why not yours?
Give yourself an opportunity by purchasing
tickets now! They are 1/- each. Yours
may be worth from £5 to £5OO.
St. Margaret’s
Christmas Box
Art Union closes
Christmas Eve.
Now is time to act!
St. Margaret’s keeps faith
So successful has this Art Union been that St. Margaret’s
Hospital has increased the prize list by £5OO. The
Hospital has already given away over £lO,OOO in prizes
and now this Christmas Box Art Union offers more than
1 00 prizes in which you have every chance of participating
if you act now.
If you have received books of tickets through the post, please return
those unsold, together with the butts and cash of the sold tickets.
Please attend to this at once. Let St. Margaret’s see that its fair play
will be returned.
To Father Christmas,
St. Margaret's Hospital,
Box 2116 G.P.0., Sydney.
Enclosed is postal note for shilling
Christmas Cards ( tickets ) in your big Christmas Box
Art Union. Please also tell me:
(a) llow Mrs. P. Orchard, of Randicick,
received a cash prise of £5 without
selling tickets.
(b) llow may I win a prize whether I
draw a lucky number or not.
(c) Please send me a shilling tube of
Vanillo FREE.
□BP
Name
No. . . . Street
Town
State
Cheek squares as required
iu pencil.


147 miles per hour!
This stupendous speed—the highest ever attained by a
car on the road—was reached by Major H. O. D. Segrave,
4-litre Sunbeam, at the Boulogne Speed Trials, using-
WAKEFIELD
Reed
0
-i-.kU
MOTOR OIL
Major Segrave’s average speed over four miles was
1 40.1 64 m.p.h.
Further International “Castrol” Triumphs.
Boulogne Grand Prix.
1 1 00c.c. Class: Ist and 2nd.
Ulster Grand Prix.
Ist, 2nd and 3rd in every class.
Arpajon Speed Trials.
5010—250c.c., 350c.c.
Side Car—3soc.c., 600c.c.
Winners in each class.
Italian Grand Prix.
Ist in both events.
200 Miles’ Race.
(Brooklands).
Out of 3 Events—3 First, 3
Seconds, 2 Thirds.
Grand Prix of Nations.
(Moior-cydex.)
Out of 4 Events—4 First, 4
Seconds, 3 Thirds.
International Six Days’ Trial.
69 out of 76 Gold Medals.
World’s 24 Hours’ Record.
By 350c.c. F.N. at Monza, Italy, August 1 1-12.
Including 1 7 World Records in Class B—from 500 to
2500 kms., and from 4 to 24 hours.
Eight New World’s Records.
August 14 to 17 on Brooklands.
Obtainable ;'rom Leading Garages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm.
Head Office for Australasia: Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
m
m
m
m
k;
vm
WORLD’S
Pigeon Shooting
CHAMPIONSHIP
(1926)
Won by Users of
NOBEL’S BALLISTITE
Cartridges
(Loaded in Nobel’s Australian Factory).
lAlec Campbell
st (Tamworth)
C. J. Lee
nd (Tied) (Tooloom)
Both Shooters Used “NOBEL” Cartridges
World’s Greatest Handicap (£5000)
5 of’ 8 Finalists
(W. G. Downie, C. Morgan, Alec Campbell, ** Spinner ** and E. S» Rymill)
Used “NOBEL’S” BALLISTITE and
SMOKELESS DIAMOND Cartridges
(Loaded in Australia)
You Can Always Pin Your Faith On
NOBEL-ELEY & KYYOCH CARTRIDGES.
Obtainable Ail Dealers
Send for Our Interesting Brochure, Entitled
“Modern Cartridge-making,”
POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
-.Wholesale Only
Ammunition (Nobel) Proprietary, Ltd.,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne;
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand : L. H. Labone, 17 Resolution
Street, Nyall Bay, Wellington.
OBEL
ewrtyuiop[]
Home—There’s No Place Like It—Now!
I
0
3 5
« L<3
This is the considered verdict of thousands of
satisfied Delco-Light users.
Numbers of our customers have told us that no
single purchase for their home has brought more
general or lasting satisfaction than Delco-Light, and
the fact that in many instances individual buyers have
purchased two or more plants for different properties
proves that these statements are not mere words.
Your home may be one hundred miles from a town, but with
Delco-Light installed you can have every convenience of the city—the
use of household labor-saving devices, electric irons, vacuum cleaners,
washing-machines, etc. No matter how large or how small your home,
there is a Delco-Light plant to meet your needs. The plant occupies
but small space and requires little attention.
Delco-Light is so economical that it soon pays for itself
/ i \
rw
-j
WRITE FOR BOOKLET B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 307 Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Warburton, Franki (Melb.), Ltd.,
Rourke Street, Mebourne, Vic.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
m
WRITE FOR BOOKLET B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Warburton, Franki (Bris.), Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
W. J. Airey & Co., Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Launceston,
Tasmania.
ewrtyuiop[]
ewrtyuiop[]


ewrtyuiop[]
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
tm
»
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP Sc CO.. LTD.. Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole -Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
SPORTUNG
NOTIONS
In Melbourne nowadays there is always
big money for. Cairns’s mounts, and when it was
known he was to ride Valamita in the Armadale
Handicap at Caulfield on Saturday, a rush set in for
that good but unlucky Sydney horse, who closed at
3 to 1. Eridanus was at 11 to 2, Bard of Avon
at 8 to 1, All Sunshine at 10 to 1, Comus at 12
to 1, Llanthony, Abdera, Mountain Prince and
Lyeurgides at 14 to 1 and Bonaparte at 15 to 1.
Llanthony, as usual, went to the front, and five
furlongs from home was still in the van, with
Lyeurgides, Comus and All Sunshine nearest of
the others. The old Land of Song gelding led
lound the home turn from Valamita, Eridanus and
' 'T Uf > . *• the distance it was Comus, Valamita
and Eridanus, Llanthony being settled. Bonaparte
joined in the argument on the outside and got the
hest of a most exciting finish; Comus was a head
behind him and Valamita half a head away; Eri-
danus and Beedos led the unplaced lot. The Godby
clan was very much in the money, for Cecil Godby
trains the winner for old-timer Jack Brewer, in his
day the greatest of riders over ’urdles, as well as
owning Comus, who was ridden by Cecil’s son.
Bonaparte (Boniform —Desmine) put up a good
performance, as he came from a long way back to
cover the 11 furlongs in 2min. 191. 5ee., equal to
the course record. Valamita also impressed. What
a good thing he would have been for the 1925
Caulfield Cup with Bst. 21b., had his owner handed
him over to a capable professional instead of training
the horse himself and running the hide off him!
The distance (2 miles) of the Tara. Steeplechase
was supposed to be too short for old Gereldery (10
to 1), who had won well at Flemington, but he
heat a poor lot very easily. Norman Falkiner’s black
horse Sailing Home, a 3-to-l favorite for the Ormond
Stakes, was never dangerous; Little Millie (5 to 1)
a good one for her inches, just touched off Valamita’s
stable-companion, King Val (8 to 1) ; Horoscope
(7 to 1), who proved too much of a handful for
the youngster on top, was only a neck away. With
a stronger lad in the saddle he will make’amends
presently The Cyklon—Xena Bell mare Postscript,
well backed at 6 to 1, was a little too good for
that quick beginner Greenie (5 to 1) in the Ross-
town Plate, the six furlongs of which were left
behind in lmin. 12Jsec. Backers voted it a putrid
* * * *
A succ efs at w.f.a. in the Prince of Wales
fiate, 11 furlongs, sent Mick Ryan’s Centrifugal
f four-year-old mare by Seremond—Fuglebury, to
the head of the quotations for the Queensland’ Cup.
bh e won, pulling up, by five lengths in the first-
.s?, tl me 2min. 18sec., and was backed so
spiritedly thereafter that when the Cup bettino-
closed she was at 5 to 2. Th° former Svdnev mnre
Bernesk was second favorite at 7 to 2; Cheviotdale
—fourth in the Prince of Wales Plate—receded to
8 to 1, while Bright Grain (50 to 1) was the
outsider of the party. Amid the triumphant shouts
of the bagmen the outsider bobbed up ; joining the
pacemaking Polardee (25 to 1) half a mile from
home, Bright Grain led into the straight and came
on to win by a length from the fast-finishing
Cheviotdale, with Polardee a poor third and Polyzoa
and Bernesk next; the time was 3min. 26 jsec.
Bright Grain, who is owned by J. Kelly and was
ridden by Foley, had run a close fourth in
the Toowong- Handicap, 10 furlongs, on the Wednes-
day, but the three placed horses (Astrid, Gulmond
and Albius) passed him in the straight, so he
was hastily concluded to be a non-stayer. He is
a four-year-old son of Buckwheat, a sire who hasn’t
earned distinction in Australia, although he got
some good performers in England.
“Ascot”: Kitty Paddington, the Queensland Derby-
winner (B. 11/11/’26), has had a rapid rise to
fame. Earlier in the season she was running in third
divisions at Breakfast Creek. On Guineas Day she
gave the big race a miss in order to pick up a trial
handicap. The Derby was a gift to her, as only
one of the other three-year-olds showed any signs
of staying ability.
Because the elderly Eaton Boy (Eaton
Bad—-Last Piece) had shown no form for nearly
12 months, he was allowed to go out at 20 to i
for the Moorefield Handicap at the Sydney course
of that name on Saturday. Punters groaned when
the unfancied ancient, after sailing into the straight
on even terms with Confusion, beat that unlucky
animal to the box by a head; the Gadabout mare
Silver Gad, who should take out one of the suburban
handicaps presently, was a good third. Several
other shocks were administered to the public during
the day, but a few profited when Translator (6),
who hasn’t been vanquished in his last six starts,
dead-heated with Fortsilk (10 to 1) in the Flying
Handicap; when Translator Is half-sister Nineveh
(he is by Linacre, she by Sarchedon, out of Malt
Lassie) won another sprint at 5 to 1; and, above
all, when consistent Prince Colugo (5 to 2) over-
came a lot of welterweights in the Hurstville
THE EXPERT.
KIND LADY : “Why aren't you enjoying yourself with the other little hoys?”
WILLO : “Aw, 'cause they wouldn’ play the game I'm a nexpert at.”
KIND LADY : “And what game are you an expert at?”
W ILLO: “Two-up.”
Mile. The Prince is by Colugo—Daya, and is
useful in his class.
One meeting at Randwick is worth half a dozen
at Moorefield or Canterbury Park, so turfy people
will turn with relief to the premier course next
Saturday. Horses that may show up are the three-
year-olds Aeneid (Bsit.) and Seaplane (7st. 101 b.)
in the Flying Handicap, Stony (9st. 121 b.) or St.
Eaton] (9st. lib.) in the Highweight, and Real Mackay
(7st. 41b.) or Bacchus (7st. 121 b.) in the November
Handicap, a 12-furlong race. Real Mackay put in a
fast run at the end of a long-distance race at the
October round, and is worth bearing in mind. But
weights are almost due for the Christmas handicaps,
and fields, if not form, may be affected thereby.
* * * *
Harry Gardiner, who rode Newliaven in
the 1896 Melbourne Cup, is dead at Mowbray (Tas.),
where of late years he had been a trainer. He
wasn’t a great horseman, but he didn’t need to be
on the occasion which gave him celebrity, for New-
haven could have won that Cup with a 1121 b. bag
of flour on his back. After going a few furlongs
he pulled his way to the front, with Gardiner
hanging on and nearly every other horse under
the whip, and after that the race was a procession.
Taken to England, Newhaven won the City and
Suburban with 9st. Melbourne is now crazy about
Manfred, whom it pronounces “the horse of the cen-
tury,’’ but Manfred was well and truly beaten in
his attempt on the Cup, aid it is doubtful if he
could win a City and Suburban with Bst., let
alone 9st.
* * * *
“8.M.” : My recollections of the late Peter
Velix "ci back to a time when he was a wool-lumper,
famed among stevedores for his enormous strength.
During the Peter Jackson boom of 1890-92 it was sug-
gested that lie was wasting his time on the wharves,
anci should break into the Game where glory awaited
mm.- Break into it he did as “Peter Jackson’s
cousin, though they were not related. Almost his
first feat was to nearly knock himself out in a
preliminary bout at the old Masonic Hall, York-
street, with a tremendous full-arm right swing that
went over the head of his stocky opponent and
finished up on his own jaw. Though never a cham-
pion, he lived to fight numerous battles with the
Dooleys, Dohertys and Ryans of that epoch, and none
who saw his match with Yankee Jim Scanlan
at the National Sporting Club (now Pullers’)
Castlereagh-street, will forget Jim’s efforts to bite
the coon into submission, since he couldn’t knock
him out. That was Felix’s last important engage-
ment, though he stood up for half a round against
Jack Johnson (here on spec, and penniless, before
Mclntosh brought him .out again in 1908 to fight
Burns) at the old Gaiety in 1906. He trained
McVea (who predeceased him) when the McVea-
Langford troupe toured this country.
“AVodgil”: Felix’s most famous fight was fougnt
at Kalgoorlie in 1900; Bill Doherty was the other
man in the ring. Doherty was a hot favorite, having
beaten the black before, but on this occasion Petali
banged him so severely that in the eighth round
William was on the floor dead to the world. “One,
two, three,” the timekeeper counted, though his
words were drowned by shouts of “Get up, Bill!’
“Four, five, six,” the count went on. At that precise
moment darkness descended upon the hall. A
Doherty supporter—Hogan, it was conjectured, or it
might have been Flaherty or Finucane—had, it trans-
pired, rushed to the main switch and got away
with a fuse. There was no more biff that night,
but they boxed the other 12 rounds later in the
week, and the referee gave it a draw.
* * * *
Laffineur, the best of the visiting French
bruisers, stopped the clever Victorian Gordon Kiely
at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night at the
outset of the sixteentli round. It was a case of a
neat boxer with very little power behind his punches
being worried and banged into a state of helplessnes-
by a fellow of little science but great endurance and
a wallop like the kick of a Clydesdale stallion. Riely
has a skilful left jab, but the Frenchy’s head is as
hard as that of the late Jim Burge, who explained,
upon making Sam Baxter take off the gloves
after 22 rounds, “I was givin’ ’im me face to punch
so’s he’d bust ’is ’ands.” Riely could score, but he
couldn’t damage to any extent; still, he is well
worth persevering with on the chance that he may
develop a punch, as so many light, hitters have done
with old-timers to teach them the knack. It was a
night of terrific heat that reacted on the attendance.
Weights': Laffineur, lOst. 121 b.; Riely, lOst. 91b.
* # * *
It wasn’t much of a crowd that watched
Ansel! Bell (Bst. 13|1b.) and Teddy Murton (9st.
21b.) perform at Melbourne Stadium, but the pair
provided a pretty scrap till near the conclusion of
the ninth round. Then the coon ripped in a low
left, and though he tried hard to look innocent., he
was disqualified. Teddy is the neatest boxer Britain
has sent us for years. In the very first round he
showed his quality, and the coon’s face was soon
streaked with crimson. Bell tried for a kill, but
was met punch for punch by the little poker-faced
Briton, and forced to retreat. Rounds three, five and
eight were bad ones for the black, and his foul
blow probably saved him from a knockout.
!< * .. * * *
“Tuart”: Good Labor-man Simon Hickey
asked these questions in the N.S.W. Leg. Council
recently
(1) “Has the Vice-President of the Executive
Council noticed that young men are still losing their
lives through boxing contests at the Stadium, and
will he now reconsider his former opposition to the
application of the Workers’ Compensation Act to
such places, as is done in the sport of horse-racing?
(2) Seeing these fatalities are contributed to by the
sheer exhaustion of the fighters, will he consider the
advisability of limiting the contests to, say, 12
rounds ?”
The Minister’s reply was that the matters would
be “considered.” Presently, in answer to a pro-
Stadium shriek from J. M. Minahan, he said: “The
percentage of fatalities at boxing contests is very low.”
It is not “very low,” as Willis should be well aware.
Keg Morphy and George Mendies have been punched
to death at Sydney, Jack Dunstan at Melbourne,
Soady at Brisbane and Arthur Smith at Newcastle,
all in the last two or three years. Others have died
from the effects of ring injuries, after lingering for
months; for others benefits have been arranged owing
to their having been incapacitated for long periods
(incidentally, the Stadium dance in aid of poor
Morphy’s parents has been postponed, so indifferent
has been the support) ; and others again have had
to be taken to the lunatic asylum. The Labor Gov-
ernment boasts that its Workers’ Compensation Act
is so far-reaching that landowners are compelled
to insure their share-farmers, sawmillers their con-
tractors, golf clubs their caddies, and so on. It
cuts a wretched figure when it tries to find excuses
for exempting rich Labor sympathisers who hire
working-class lads to box, in many cases for small
rewards, and for permitting the continuance of
the brutal and dangerous 20-rounder, which has been
outlawed in America.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.” : The appointment of 1 >ick
Eve, who won the Olympic diving championship at
Paris, to the managership of Manly (N.S.W.) baths
has awakened the decayed old “amateur status”
anomaly. Because Eve draws a salary as a bath-
manager, though he may never try to earn a bob
by diving or swimming, he automatically becomes a
professional. Golfers who make or sell clubs or balls
are also pros., but lawn-tennis players who draw
big sums under the lap for writing stuff about their
specialty, or lending their names to makers of
racquets or balls, are not. Also, Australian cricketers
who get so much a. day for their services, with a
bonus thrown in for an English tour, are lilywhites.
Help!
* * * *
Although Collins, Macartney, Everett,
Mailey and Andrews returned home on Friday, the
N.S.W. selectors didn’t wait to see whether any of
them would go to Brisbane for the first Sheffield Shield
match against Queensland, beginning on Nov. 20.
They selected a team of young fellows, for the most
part, with Allan Kippax as skipper. It is a strong
batting side, though it would be stronger were
Mullarkey a member—the exclusion of this fine
left hander, who made top score in the Probables
v. Possibles match, is hard to understand. Two
youthful players of whom much is hoped are A.
Jackson, the dashing 17-year-old batsman from
Balmain, and G. Amos, the Marrickville medium-
pace bowler. Both did well in the Probables v.
Possibles affair, and Jackson followed up his achieve-
ment with a delightful 158 (in 148 minutes) for
his club v. Mosman. He is the best colt this Page
has seen since Macartney was a lad. N. Campbell,
a googly bowler who has come on surprisingly this
season, is another who should do well.
“Pill”: Kippax will find Brisbane Exhibition a
greatly-improved ground when he renews his
acquaintance with it. So far the additions have
cost £12,000, and the scheme includes a scoring-
board in the latest style. Over a thousand new
members have been enrolled. With Oxenham, Ben-
sted, Rowe and Thompson in form with the bat, the
Queenslanders expect to hold their own in that
department, but the selectors are frankly worried
about the bowling. It was very so-so last season,
and doesn’t seem to have improved.
* * * *
“W. G. Melchisidech” : Tlie return of
the bulk of the Australian XI has revived the pro-
posal that 0. G. Macartney, who must now have
reached the zenith of his powers, should be tendered
a benefit on the grand scale. The match suggested
was Australia v. The Rest, and the N.S.W.C.A. has
decided to stage it at Sydney in February.
The question of Mac.’s equality with Tmmper
as a brilliant batsman will always be argued,
but at the worst he was little inferior. He did not
burst into sudden fame as a Test batsman, as did
bis great predecessor, for it was not till his fourth
Test season that he reached the three-figure mark,
though he made 99 in 1912. Trumper began with
135 in his first season, and, in all, scored 6 centuries
to Macartney’s 5, averaging 32.79 for 74 innings, as
against Mac’s 43.15 for 42 innings. In his period,
beginning in 1899, Trumper had to face bowlers
beyond argument better than any the “Governor-
General” has met in his later and more successful
seasons. Nevertheless, Mac hag proved a worthy
successor to Victor, while his bowling has been an
asset which the other lacked.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Cricket-bats are made in Aus-
tralia (B. 11/11/’26). From the common weeping-
willow Jack Jeffery, a Bombala (N.S.W.) player,
has for many summers manufactured the bats for
cricket clubs along the Bombala railway line —-jolly
good bats, too, and cheaper than those imported.
And along the Wollondilly alone there grow enough
willows for a serviceable industry.
“Past Grammar” : Frank Burge, the most
brilliant “outside” forward the N.S.W. Rugby League
has produced, has arranged to transfer from Glebe
to St. George as a playing coach for a fee of £2OO.
It is a lot of money for a man who broke a leg
last season, but Burge is a great coach. Payments
of the kind have been common enough in the N.S.W.
country districts and Queensland. This is, however,
the first open transfer fee recorded in Sydney. In
English professional Soccer and Northern Union
football the transfer system has long been taken
under the wing of the governing authorities. There
the transfer fee is paid by one club to another, and
the transferee gets only 10 per cent., as well as the
salary agreed on. Matters haven’t reached that
height in N.S.W. or Q. yet, but some measure of
control by the Leagues will probably be introduced.
* * * *
Maoriland footballers in England were
brothers in affliction last week. The re-united
League XIII came the anticipated crash in the second
Test, losing by 21 —11 in pouring rain, and before
a scanty attendance for so important a game. The
Maori Union players are slipping, too, for after
being beaten 6—o by Gloucester in the mid-week
game, they went down 3—o to Llanelly. The
latter club, otherwise known as the “Sosspan Fach”
by its followers in the saucepan-making town, is
notoriously hard to beat on its own midden.
UMPIRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bavin said that the Governor was an
umpire appointed to interpret our Constitution. Mr.
Lang’s charges of tyranny and partisanship against Sir
Dudley de Chair were about as sensible as would be
the complaint of a cricketing side that the umpire
had no right to interpret the rules.”
The batsman who obstructs his stumps and hears
the “How’s That ?” shout,
And sees the umpire’s hand upraised for sign that
he is out,
May have his own opinion if ’twas actually so
But none the less pavilionwards he knows that he
must go.
To argue and vituperate, to wrangle, curse and
snort
Would stamp him as a man unfit for any decent
sport.
But in politics, in politics, the player still we
brook
Who blames it on the umpire, who vilifies the
umpire,
\\ ho howls about the umpire and damns him for
a crook.
The runnier, when the stumps go down, home may
have safely got,
But clearly someone must decide whether he has
or not.
Was that a catch low down in slips or did it skim
the ground?
On this and fifty other points will difference he
found.
No arbiter’s infallible, ’(.would easy be to show,
But when both sides have put him there, well,
what he says must; go
In cricket; but a , captain in politics, may bawl
Aspersions on the umpire, gross insults at the
umpire,
May execrate the umpire and yell for his recall.
If there were only umpires resolved through thick
and thin
To give no rulings adverse to the batsmen who
were in,
I'o say “Not Out” to all appeals, from wicket-keep
or slips,
What record scores we’d see amassed, what stubborn
partnerships!
if Premier Lang should flannels don and amble in
to bat,
He’d have no time presumably for any sort but that.
His one ideal umpire, I’d like to bet a jim,
His one trustworthy umpire, his only pattern
umpire
Would be the chap who never gave a ruling against
him.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


'l* '*\ t\\\
, w ■ ■
\K + ' ( <s -
■
k 'V*)v
Darwin
22nd October
Melbourne
30th October
3,300 Miles
The BEAN CAR driven across
Australia by Messrs. Birtles and
Barlow has arrived from Darwin.
On this tearing trip over the
roughest of outback tracks and
across miles of creek beds, sand-
hills and scrub—SHELL MOTOR
SPIRIT once more demonstrated
its persistent pulling power
under every possible condition.
Follow the men who know —
Pat your trust in Shell
“ The Spirit that keeps faith.”
VUE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED
Throughout Australia and New Zealand
Missing 1 Friends. __
STAWELL ATHLETIC CLUB.
Jubilee Celebrations.
FOR the purpose of compiling a history of
the Athletic Club in connection with the
Jubilee celebrations next Easter, tin' com-
mittee is anxious to hear immediately from
past winners of the Stawell Gift, and those
who comprised the original committee when
the club was first formed.
H. HENDERSON, Secretary,
Stawell Athletic Club.
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing anything of the pre-
** sent whereabouts of PHILIP HENRY
SKELTON, a retired Hotelkeeper, formerly
licensee of the Royal Hotel, Richmond,
N.S.W., and last heard of at 191 William
Street, Darlinghurst, in September, 1914
(then aged 56 years), is requested to give
information thereof to Messrs. W. .1. Enright
and Skilton, Solicitors, 467 High Street,
West Maitland.
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing
sent whereabouts
anything of the pre-
of JAMES DUKE,
formerly a bootmaker, residing in East Mait-
land, New South Wales, and last heard of
at Madeline Street, Enfield, in September,
1922 (then aged 60 years), is requested to
give information thereof to Messrs. W. J.
Enright and Skilton, Solicitors, 467 High
Street, West Maitland.
am -m
W
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fair Hair
AMAMI
Shampoos
Amami Shampoos will keep
your hair shining with
radiant health. You will be
delighted with the mystic
fragrance they leave light
as the touch of fairy fingers.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
<?> i
ewrtyuiop[]
if any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, ivrite to the Manager, who will
Quote you price lor _the_origiDah^^^_^^^^J
INDIGESTION.
Indigestion affects the whole system
and is responsible for headaches,
flatulence, acidity, constipation and
many other ills. To strengthen the
stomach and thus enable it to perform
its digestive functions, there is no prep-
aration to equal Chamberlain’s Tablets.
“ There*s a Smile in every Tablet,**
6
9t. 3
=?,kj'AV
)B4
n
- Jfi
rC
mm
-/■'■
to mHXMK
THE INKY WAY.
The Akg us proprietors might have made
a nice pile of unearned increment out of
their Elizabeth-street property. Connibere
Bros, paid £175 a foot for the land, anjl
sold it to the newspaper people for £l-<o.
Now the Argus building is nearly finished,
the land adjoining is being offered at £GU()
a foot.
“Bris”: frank Burke, editor of Brisbane
Truth, has cut loose after 12 years’ service.
He was the last survivor of the old hands
who had worked with John Norton. Burke
cherishes political ambitions, and intends to
have another shot for the Brisbane Federal
seat. He made a good showing at his last
attempt four years ago.
Gordon Stronach, who died at rive o’clock
the other morning after subbing his last lot
of cables for the West Australian, had put
in 4(1 years of his 73 in newspaper offices.
Only once did he get away from journalism,
and that was when W.A. Premier Eeake
made him secretary of a civil service com-
mission a quarter of a century ago.
The energetic little Sydney co. which
runs Art in Australia —Syd Ure Smith is
its managing director —has bought the Triad
and hopes to save its life by halving its
price and making other changes. Woolacott,
the editor, who had visions of carrying the
thing through on his own account, had the
bad luck to strike a period of high produc-
tion costs. But he has better luck than some
—he will at least retain his editorial job.
“Tuart” : Another hideous word coined to
save expense in cabling has crept into the
papers. A London artist who is adapting
seventeenth-century Japanese costumes for a
production of “The Mikado” is made to say
that he is “giving a different design to each
choruser.” I suppose the dreadful term
will stick, like “tributed” for paid a tribute
to (“the Prime Minister tributed the Prince
of Wales”). Cable editors have a lot to
answer for.
The time is almost forgotten when the
S. M. Herald owned a little brother, the
Echo, which expired in the ’nineties; among
its editors in its latter days was Gordon
B. Stronach, who has just died at the
age of 73 in Perth, where he was cable
editor of the West Australian. He held
in his time many editorial and sub-editorial
jobs in Brisbane, Sydney and Perth, and once
sat in the chair of the now extinct Town
and Country Journal. He was a methodical
Scot who kept a library of scrap-books, from
which he was able to dig information upon
almost any subject. John Norton once gave
him charge of the W.A. Truth, but he didn’t
fit into that at all comfortably.
“Harold Hardupp” : Ever since Melbourne
Herald swallowed the Sun, as it has done
all previous rivals in the evening-paper line,
there have been whispers of new opposition ;
there are some who jocularly assert that it
might be worth while to start an evening paper
in order to be bought out. For a time there
was talk of converting the Morning Post.
and both Age and Argus have been accused
of plans to challenge the Herald’s supre-
macy. So far the rumors have come to no-
thing ; but it was significant that at the
annual meeting of the Herald’s sharehold-
ers, chairman Theodore Fink remarked that
it was necessary to build up reserves against
“competition in the evening-newspaper field."
Certainly the Herald’s return to old ways
directly the opposition was collared dis-
gruntled many of its readers.
“Fitz”: I’ve just come across a copy of
the Christmas Bulletin of 1887, and I
found even more interesting than “The
Wreck of the Derry Castle,” told in verse
by Henry Lawson, the introduction given to
the verse by the then editor. It reads as
follows: “In publishing the subjoined verses,
we take pleasure in stating that the writer
thereof is a boy of 17 years, a young Aus-
tralian, who has as yet had an imperfect
education, and is earning his living under
some difficulties as a house-painter—a youth
whose poetic genius here speaks eloquently
for itself.” Lawson has penned his last
verse; this must have been one of his very
first. In the same Christmas issue he had
another piece, “Golden Gully”—verse that
is calculated to stir up memories of the
olden golden days in the minds of those who
have rocked a cradle or stirred a tub on any
of the old goldfields in N. S. Wales.
“Bill O’C.”: The fact, as reported by the
S.A. Register (B. 4/11/’2O), that at a local
show “Kelly and Son had the pig-pen to
themselves,” revives a memory of another old
time literary anti-climax. The perpetrator was
Fuedrich Eduard Heinrich Wulff Krichauff,
a worthy old German S.A. Parliamentarian.
His specialty was the encouragement of agri-
culture, and by Avay of advancing the good
work he camouflaged some sage advice in
the form of a serial romance, contributed to
the local Garden and Field, edited by an-
other enthusiast. Albert Molyneux. The
story dealt with the trials and triumphs of
a supposititious young settler, and chapter
vi, or thereabouts, led off with : “Our hero
thought of getting married, but then he
remembered that he wanted to keep pigs-
Krichauff, Molyneux and the Garden and
Field have long since gone to the last earthly
garden, but their literary fragrance remains.
“O. Blither”: In spite of an obviously
bear market, as the Stock Exchange people
have it, a section of Sydney’s daily press still
persists in its exploitation of the youthful
female of the species. This particularly
applies to the News and Guardian, which
are matching the October Bride and Miss
Australia, respectively, in bitter rivalry.
With Miss Australia on the high seas, the
News, having a clear run, took advantage
of its rival by sending its Bride to the Cup.
After she had divided the columns of the
News with Spearfelt and the ruinous losses
of the bookies, the Bride’s itinerary was
diverted to Tasmania. Thereupon the
Guardian hastily disembarked its young
female and rushed her off to Tasmania too.
The News is said to be merely waiting to
spring yet another surprise on us; but if the
Guardian could but get in early and pub-
lish the engagement of its own advertising
medium to an American millionaire the
reptile contemporary would be stymied.


Tenders.
FOR the purpose of winding up a partner-
ship, tenders are invited, and will be
received at the office of the undersigned
until February 1, 1927, for the purchase
of THE VALUABLE DEVELOPMENT
PROPERTY KNOWN AS THE LEAD-
VILLE MINES, including
The Mount Stewart Mine,
The Grosvenor Mine,
The Extended Mine.
The property consists of one hundred and
ten acres, comprised in two Amalgamated
Mineral Leases under the Mining Act of
1906 (not subject to royalties).
Development work consists of two thou-
sand five hundred (2500) feet of shafts, nine
thousand three hundred (9300) feet rises,
winzes, drives and crosscuts. In all twenty
(20) prospecting shafts have been sunk, each
disclosing ore bodies. Nine mineral lodes
opened up, the chief metals being
Galena-Silver
Lead Carbonates-Silver
Copper
Zinc Sulphides
High-grade Sulphide of Iron (Pyrites),
carrying silver and gold.
NO TRANSPORT DIFFICULTIES
RAILWAY STATION ADJOINS THE
PROPERTY. Distance from Sydney, two
hundred and forty (240) miles. The assets
for sale include the plant and machinery
in and about the mine, an inventory whereof
may be inspected at the office of the under-
signed.
All tenders must be made on the special
form of tender and subject to the conditions
set out therein and must be accompanied by
a deposit of two and one-half per centum
(25%) of the amount tendered. Such forms
and full particulars will be supplied to any
bona fide applicant by the undersigned.
Leases are available for inspection by
arrangement.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
R. D. BOGAN. F.1.C.A.,
Bogan and Collard, Public Accountants.
SS Pitt-street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 SOUTH WALES.
IN EQUITY.
No. 2024 of A.n. 1925.
IN THE MATTER of the Companies
(Amendment) Act 1906.
AND IN THE MATTER of the Federal
Mutual Insurance Company of Australia
Limited.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Petition
has been presented to the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion by the abovenamed Company to con-
firm an alteration of the said Company’s
objects proposed to be effected by the Special
Resolution of the said Company passed and
confirmed at Extraordinary General Meetings
of the said Company held on the Twenty-
ninth day of August One thousand nine hun-
dred and twenty-one and the Twentieth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-one particulars of which were pub-
lished in The Bulletin on the Twenty-ninth
day of April One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-six.
A list _of the persons admitted to have
been creditors of the Company on the Thirti-
eth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six being the date fixed by the
Order made herein on the Twenty-third day
of March last as at which the list of persons
who are creditors of the Company is to be
made out has been prepared and may be in-
spected at the Registered Office of the Com-
pany 129 Pitt Street Sydney. IF any person
whose name is entered as a creditor in the
said list, claims to have been on the said
Thirtieth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-six a creditor to a larger
amount than is stated in such list he must
on or. before the 31st day of December 1926
send in the particulars of his claim and the
name and address of his Solicitor (if any)
to the undersigned at the address mentioned
below and in default of his so doing the
entry in the above mentioned list of credi-
tors in respect of that creditor’s debt will in
all the proceedings under the above applica-
tion to alter the objects of the Company be
treated as correct.
ANY person who claims to have been on
the said Thirtieth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-six and still to be
a creditor of the said Company must on or
before the Thirty-first day of December One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-six send
his name and address and also the particu-
lars of his claim and the name and address
of his Solicitor (if any) to the undersigned
at the address mentioned below or in default
thereof he will be precluded from objecting to
the proposed alteration of objects.
Dated this Fourth day of November a.d.
1926.
SLY & RUSSELL.
Solicitors for the abovenamed Company,
369 George Street, Sydney.
JO WILLIAM FRANCIS CLEMENS.
formerly of Albany, Victoria, in Aus-
tralia, son of Edward Williams Clemens, and
to all the children (if any) of the said
V illiam Francis Clemens, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Ist October, 1926, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist January. 1927. your claims to
the estate of Edward Williams Clemens, who
died on 17th November, 1905. failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of
October, 1926.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand
By Appointment to
ewrtyuiop[]
H.M. King George V a
-v\
Vi'\.
UVE-
nefS
The Main Ley land Factory—Ley land, Lancashire, England,
The Resources
behind
Leyland Quality
Leyland Motors, Ltd., is an Empire-wide organisation with
financial stability and manufacturing resources unexcelled by
any British lorry manufacturer.
Commencing from the vast factories with an annual output of
more than three million pounds’ worth of motor vehicles, Leyland
lorries are distributed through direct factory branches in every
corner of the British Empire. In Australia three large assembly
plants are maintained—a tremendous advantage to the Aus-
tralian buyer, from both the standpoint of price and of service.
Every vital portion of Leyland lorries—frames, engines, gears,
axles, is Leyland built, and is therefore of guaranteed Leyland
quality.
The purchaser of a Leyland lorry is assured of lasting satisfac-
tion from “The Best British Lorry Built.’*
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2- £720
3- £B5O
4- £1075
5- £llB5
ENGLAND
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR SI
*• SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
10 for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1 775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
A
I
■
CORK-
TIPPED
and PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Fake”
Palace “Is Zat So?”
Royal “Abie’s Irish Rose”
;-’ f . James “Betty Lee”
luller’s Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Katja”
Royal “Brown Sugar”
King’s “Mary Rose”
Athen/eum “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Ruoc Vaudeville
Majestic ; Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
New Olympia Wirths’ Circus
"Is Zat So?” staged at Sydney Balace on
Saturday, is built on the foundation of the
old melodrama at which we moderns sniff
superiorly. It is furnished with a villain,
one Robert Barker, who is as thorough-paced
a scoundrel as “bellow” ever produced ; the
dirty dog does not even try to gloss liis
villainy with a smile. Having scared Susan
Blackburn into a marriage with hint by
threats of besmirching the reputation of a
dead soldier-brother, he lives in the ancestral
Fifth-avenue home which is hers and her
brother’s, making illicit love to his typists
and ducks and drakes of the family money.
The girl’s brother, Clinton, hitherto an arni-
aole drunk, introduces to the household. a
light-weight boxer and his trainer, both broke
to the world, with the idea that, in return
for being staked in a new boxing venture,
they will train him until lie is fit to deal
with his brother-in-law. Baxter’s behavior
having caused the ordinary menials to desert,
the pugs are fitted into the menage as an
altogether impossible but highly amusing
butler and footman. The play finishes on the
thuds off-stage which indicate that the villain
is getting what is due to him.
* * * *
A realistic atmosphere is created by the
principals. _ The slow-brained stousih-mer-
chant “Chick” Cowan is a believable and
likeable character as played by Richard
Taber, who is also one of the part-authors ;
and the “Hup” Hurley of Hale Norcross is
a type, too, of the honest sport who may be
met almost anywhere. These are the back-
bone of the play. But Barrie Livesay
makes a very human young man of Clint
Blackburn ; Claude Saunders, who was with
Allan Wilkie, lets the villainy of Baxter
sit upon him like a heavy black cloak; Sibyl
Jane bears the sorrows of Susan in a digni-
fied spirit, and Mary Hanlon as a nursemaid,
Florrie, rises to very charming comedy in her
passages with “Chick” Cowan. A remark-
able child, Bruce Walker, has a good many
lines as Master Jimmy Baxter, and speaks
on his cues like a veteran. Amongst the
others the most remarkable feature of the
cast is the nose of Sammy Green, who is
John Duffy, a pug-cliauffeur. Sammy is a
real pug, but he gave his lines like an actor;
if he didn’t, this Showman doesn’t know
that he would say so.
Sydney was introduced to the cowgirl by
"Betty Lee’ at the St. James on Saturday;
(here were quite a lot of her, and her pre :
valence in Southern California helps to make
that place a popular resort. The cowgirl is
a tuneful creature who will be one of the
chief recommendations of the new frivolity.
But it has others. One is a slightly better
plot than is usually fitted to a musical
comedy. It appears that in Southern Cali-
fornia the cowboy population takes its ath-
letes very seriously, and Wally Speed (Jack
Morrison), having posed as a champion to
win the favor of Betty Lee (Madge White),
finds himself matched to meet the champion
of another estate, one Skinner. The serious-
ness of the situation develops when the cow-
boys, having become suspicious after putting
their socks and shirts on their champion,
threaten to shoot him and his trainer if he
doesn’t win. It is a slight motive, perhaps
but complications are so amusingly contrived
that the audience is kept guessing. The
music is very light, but there are a few
catchy airs, with likeable “Betty Lee” as a
main theme; the comedy is good, and the
dancing helps the story through.
Jack Morrison is not a particularly lively
comedian, but in the situations caused by his
imposture he had a better opportunity than
iii “Mercenary -Mary.” The broader comedy
tell upon Bertie Wright as Larry Glass, the
\alet of Speed, wlio is forced by circum-
stances to pose as his trainer. As a rule.
Bertie W right works so hard to be amusing
you go in dread of apoplexy; in “Betty
Lee the deliberate toil was only noticeable
in the earlier stages. There was some excel-
lent work in an interpolated bullfight scena
with feadie Gale, who as a Mexican girl did
very well after she had left off taking herself
too seriously. Madge White, who helps a
thin voice by a good dramatic sense and a
merry manner, was Betty Lee; and Florence
Hunter, whose voice, though also on the
light side, is sweet and clear-dictioned, looked
and sang gracefully as Jeanne Chopin.
George Willoughby was well suited as a deep-
voiced cowboy of a rotund variety; Harry
Burgess was tall and impressive as the dandy
Mexican; Tony O’Brien provided some light
comedy villainy, and Edith Barstow did some
amazing and Edna Hardmon some strikingly
graceful dancing.
* * *
On Saturday “Rose Marie” will eclipse
“Sally’s” record, and she' still keeps Sydney
Majesty’s packed to the doors; but the im-
pending arrival of “Tell Me More,” which is
to be the Christmas bill, puts a definite limit
to the run. Moscovitcli is convincing in
“The Fake” at the Criterion ; the bill there
will be changed to “Trilby” on Saturday
week. “Abie’s Irish Rose” serves a mixed
pudding with a sauce of laughter at the
Royal; and “Spangles” continues to glitter
at the Grand Opera House.
Don Alfonso Zelaya, who wears a waist-
band many sizes larger than the ordinary
citizen calls for, introduced himself to the
Sydney Tivoli audience with a flow of humor-
ous conversation and some good piano-play-
ing ; he is really a most amusing gentleman,
whose flippancy could be borne for much
longer than his turn lasts. Another new
arrival is Mazeppa, the posing horse, who,
under the direction of a dominating young
woman, helps to make living statuary. By
not as much as a quiver of a nostril does
the well-trained animal betray that he is
alive. The Southern Revue, back again, is
moderately amusing; but there is more fun
in Jerry and Co.
At Fuller’s New Theatre (Sydney) the
Moon-Morrises have abandoned the idea of
giving something like a plot to their half of
the programme ; but the comedy doesn’t suffer
on that account. One of Moon and Morris’s
own dances is a remarkable mirth provoker;
and Nell Fleming has a few good song num-
bers. The first half is still mainly Apdale’s
circus; but a colored turn is one of those
annoyances the vaudeville attendant is bound
to meet at times.
sk =k sk >k
By far the funniest picture seen for a
decade in Sydney is one that was first
produced 20 years ago. At the Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday a genuine film belonging
to the Flicker Age, preserved in celluloid,
was reproduced with all its faults thick upon
it. The pathetic story of a young man
released from gaol who persists in saying
“Thank God, I’m going straight!” was
screened with all the delays and accidents
that happened to the flickers 20 years ago—
reels put on upside-down, pictures that
jumped up and down, intervals during which
slides informed the audience that it would
have to wait “till the operator put on reel
3.” or informed Mr. Jones that his baby was
sick. The old-time orchestra was com-
posed of a pianist and a violinist who played
tremolo throughout. The captions were
as ridiculous as the incidents. The hero
“SPANGLES, 1926,” AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
A hard-up johnny (Harry Gould) touches
the heart of Liza, the flower-seller (Ada
Reeve), with an appeal for flowers for
his mothah.
was King Baggot, and the “support”
was Mary Bickford a Mary Bickford
looking twice as old as she appears in films
to-day, owing to the lack of proper make-up.
She was a sad and dreary Salvation lassie
who never was permitted a “close-up,” and
who in the last scene buried her head in the
sentimental hero’s breast, her back to the
camera. Mary Pickford knows better now,
but she was then merely “support” to the
impossible King Baggot. Even more ridicu-
lous was the picture of the first screen vamp.
But it is still too early to put on airs;
another 20 years and “The Sheik” may be
received with the same shrieks of delight as
the Lyceum patrons uttered last Saturday.
“Meet the Wife,” the new comedy or bur-
lesque at Melbourne Athenaeum, is the sort
of enterprise in which an average plot, trite
situations and a jejune view of life are
glorified beyond their manifest desserts by
the meretricious sparkle of the American
idiom. Hence a continuous cackle of mirth
follows in the wake of those characters who
“MARY ROSE,” AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Cameron , the boatman, gives Mary Rose the
local rumors anent the Island that
Likes to he Visited (Norman Macowan
and Angela Baddeley).
speak this tongue; while those who utter
similar profundities in a dialect approximat-
ing to the language Shakspeare wrote are
rewarded with merely polite attention. In
the art and craft of making the most of this
device, Gertrude Lennox, the “wife” of the
piece, is a master. To do her justice, she is
also the master of a very direct and plausible
style of stage narration. She undresses the
character of a vulgar but vigorous-minded
twentieth-century Cleopatra before a crowded
house, with, apparently, all the unconscious-
ness of a maiden disrobing behind locked
doors for a bath. In most companies this
spontaneous quality is the sacred perquisite
of the star alone, whose realistic performance
is thus thrown into high relief by the
wooden artificialities of her supports. In
the present company the gift is more or less
evenly divided, and is even shared in a
high degree by the parlor-maid. The theme
concerns the marital misadventures of
Marian Lord, who believes her first husband
to have perished in the San Francisco earth-
quake, and marries again.' The complica-
tions created by the return of No. 1, who
actually ran away from a real-estate busi-
ness to become an’ author, are the main
affair of the evening, which, with the
assistance of the American language as afore-
said, the' Charles Chaplin pleasantries of
Robert Adams’s feet, the exotic charm of
Helen Audiffred’s penetrating voice and the
English elegance and moral beauty of J. B.
Rowe, is brought to a conclusion satisfac-
tory to the seeker of mild theatrical emol-
lients.
In the unpretentious manner of a flapper
putting on another jazz record, Backhaus
slipped into Beethoven’s Waldstein sonata
on Friday night at Melbourne Auditorium,
and immediately had liis large audience in
the grip of feeling, which one enthusiastic
local critic, doubtless assisted by the com-
positor, described as costive emotions. Actu-
ally, the thoughts aroused by that thrilling,
melodious and infinitely varied work will
differ according to the experience and tem-
perament of the listener; a small boy sit-
ting next to this Showman fell asleep in the
course of the slow second movement as a
tribute to its deep mesmeric power. This
sonata shows Beethoven in all his simple
strength, turning over and tasting on the
palate some trumpery tune whistled by a
passing cowherd or the morning butcher-
boy; Backhaus’s exquisite rendering was in
the same limpid mood. Another composer
who has cqme into his own during the pre-
sent season is Franz Peter Schubert. Back-
haus succeeds in transforming this neglected
genius into something quite different from
the _ana?mic figure in “Lilac Time.” The
pianist who failed to pay due homage to
the concert-goer’s idol, Chopin, would run
a risk of being torn to pieces; and on Tues-
day the distinguished visitor devoted a whole
evening to him.
They planted “Mary Rose”; the fee
A guinea for a soul’s repose.
Her Digger son came o’er the sea
And Mary rose.
The lady above mentioned will haunt Mel-
bourne King’s for positively eight more
nights only, after which the Boucicault com-
pany will depart, shaking Australia’s dust
into their purses. “Brown Sugar,” at the
Royal, is, as its name implies, a second-
rate commodity, and, although of modern
manufacture, shows no improvement on such
forerunners as “What Happened to Jones,"
which is being smiled over at the Palace.
“Katja’s” last nights, but not Marie Burke’s,
are looming at His Majesty’s, where “Wild-
flower” is at last well above the horizon.
Jim Gerald is inviting his patrons to “Step
This Way,” the Bijou Theatre being in the
direction indicated, and a mystery girl who is
filming and singing herself round the world
for a wager is creating mild speculation at
the same playhouse.
** * *
The humor of Nellie Wallace, the new Eng-
lish comedienne at Melbourne Tivoli, isn’t
the sort that is wheeled on in a bath-chair
and massaged into activity. It arrives with
a bang and on its own agile feet. Jean
Barrios, on the other hand, is a dilatory laugh
who describes himself as the fashion-plate of
vaudeville. The name of Smith which attaches
to a troupe of aerial artists doesn’t imply
anything common or Smithious about the
things they do. This Showman doesn’t know
a single other Smith who can fly 40ft. through
the air, even when pursued by a revengeful
snail or Brown.
>J; :|c $
That unusual bird, an all-Australian pic-
ture, is a visitor to the Majestic in Mel-
bourne. “Tall Timbers” —it would sound
more euphonious in the singular—is its title ;
its story is quite plausible; its natural back-
ground (as always) striking; its Australian
interpreters more conversant with film con-
ventions than some earlier attempters. At
Hoyt’s the result is a trifle mixed. In
“Volcano” the vivacious Bebe Daniels is an
eruption of primitive passion who impresses;
but “It’s the Old Army Game” turns out
not to be two-up, and thus and in other ways
fails to come up to expectations.
** * *
George Palmer (17), of Melbourne, is
Australia’s and probably the world’s
youngest moving-picture manufacturer, and
his second film, “The Northbound Limited,”
privately screened in Melbourne the other
day, reveals all the merits, as well as some
of the faults, of sanguine youth. The plot
is one large, _ long and hilarious improb-
ability, the action is as furious and congested
as the Plinders-street intersection at six
o’clock, and the love-interest is as sketchy as
a railway-station kiss. Nevertheless, the
piece unwinds with a satisfactory whirl;
there is much excellent photography around
a sawmill in N. S. Wales; no villain stains
the atmosphere ; the actor-producer runs
ring" h. a motor-car round the Sydney-
Moioourne express, stoushes a signalman,
leaps from a bridge on to the speeding train,
stuns the man in charge to avoid delay in
explanations, and learns all about the way
to stop an engine just in time to save all
hands.
The person who buys for charity expects
to get something harmless but useful, like
home-made jam. Of this nature was “The
Torch-Bearers,” a “satirical comedy” by-
George Kelly, presented for the first time by
the Theatre Association at Melbourne Palace
last week. A dull first act gave place to
some amusement in the second, when a
satire on amateur theatricals was introduced ;
but the cast of willing workers, professional
and lay, deserved a stronger play. E. Mason
Wood, producer, distinguished himself by
forgetting his lines oftener than anybody
else.
A first-rate Melbourne show:—
A unique desire to please the public first and
oblige the painters afterwards seems to animate the
selectors of the Australian Artists’ Association. Its
latest show at the Athenaeum is the most generally
meritorious mixture seen for a long time in Mel-
bourne. There is little that calls for more than
sedate applause, but on the other hand there is
nothing that invites the ribald egg or the scornful
tomato.
Chief among the long array of portraits is
Charles Wheeler’s likeness of a lady’s back, reflecting
the cold blue light from a passing iceberg. This
is a highly satisfactory piece of flesh, and in the
domain of pure realism could hardly be carried
further. John Longstaff has painted in rather a
woolly manner a lady who nevertheless exudes a
dewy charm. The eye stands respectfully at atten-
tion before W. B. Mclnnes’s highly-finished picture
of Lewis Luxton ( plus a rather clayey-looking dog-),
but lights up with appreciation before his well-
balanced and vivacious study of artist Hither
I’aterson. The eye also wanders hopefully up the
vast expanse of choicely-handled satin in which H.
B. Harrison has decked a somewhat stiffly-posed
dancer. The rather trivial incident recorded was
(Continued on page 36.)


ewrtyuiop[]
ewrtyuiop[]
I OO
NEW EDISON
Delight in
its marvellous realism
all through the year
New Edison music is truly satisfying
to your inmost self; you feel that the
voice of life breathes in every record
you play. It is true music at last !
Put on an Organ record —the majestic gamut of tones leaves
you gasping. Piano —Soprano —Chorus Bands Orchestras
there is a beauty in reproduction that others are still seek-
ing but Edison has achieved.
To show our belief in the New Edison we will willingly
let you hear it in your own home, for side-by-side com-
parison with any other instrument on the market. Choose
your Christmas phonograph at heme —write us to-day 1
eJS.W
z
mm
iiSfifi
Demonstrations
and
Catalogues from
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagli Street.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
86-8 S Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—S. A. Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
MELBOURNE —The Edison Shop, 238 Collins Street.
PERTH—Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison I )ealer:
Wholesale only:
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Crossley Motors Ltd
2?y APPOINTMENT TO.
HM THE KING
Let a British Car C l(eflect Tour Prtde of Ownership
BRITISH RELIABILITY—
with stamina for Australia in the
Crossley Motors Ltd.
By APPOINTMENT TO
\UR.H THE PRINCE OF WALES
ewrtyuiop[]
15/30-h.p.
Top-Gear Car
£399
Your first ride in a Crossley will give you an entirely new conception of touring comfort; every detail, from the smooth,
vibrationless, perfectly-balanced engine to the luxurious antique leather upholstery is designed for the comfort of passengers
and driver.
But after ten, twenty or thirty thousand miles of driving you will appreciate in addition what the sound thorough quality
of British materials and workmanship mean to the Crossley owner. Owners of Crossleys expect freedom from trouble
of any kind; and they are never disappointed.
Minor adjustments to wearing parts such as brakes are made in a few moments; there is no temptation to neglect them, for every part of the
Crossley is easily accessible.
Crossley cars ore not boilt tor excessive speed yet fifty miles an hour can be obtained mid^ maintained with,rut effort. The, are not designed „ninurily
for low petrol consumption, yet under Australian conditions this averages over thirty miles to the „allon.
Sold at almost English factory price, it is Australia’s greatest motor-car value.
A demonstration can be arranged at your convenience, or illustrated literature and full information sent promptly on request.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD.
$7 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
State Agents:
NSW.: CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD., 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD., 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
nyp’S’T AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street. Perth.


m t
7 £
VELVET
SMAS/INO STICK
IESSiI
FoolbalLa’f—
P ass it on that there is no
ner feeling of exhilara-
ting well being” than
after a clean, close shave
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
ewrtyewrtyuiop[]uiop[]
The TOP-NOTCH’Scotch
V 4-, -SayWHEIf Man/rli I' J
S±
1 •
? /Ai
I
ar.
Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine, tiounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or tcire for reservations.
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
Phone 8W6329.
hardly worth the quantity of paint. The spirited
Fritz Hut has been caught in a dull moment by
A. D. Colqulioun; but George Bell found his wife
thoroughly attractive in No. 41.
A great variety of admirable landscapes decorate
the show. W. D. Knox’s big oil depicting a team
of horses dragging a picturesque covered waggon, “Up
from the Murray Flats,” is an exhilarating thing,
full of shaky light. John D. Moore has painted a
passing cloud which shall be allowed to pass in
silence, but his large study of a blowy day on a
crowded N. S. Wales foreshore, in which the surf
and. the figures in it are all properly in motion,
merits applause. Victor Zelman has been looking
with an honest eye upon the bush, and J. S. Mac-
Donald has been equally frank with a wattle-covered
hillside. Out of a scarlet gum at the Metropolitan
Golf Dinks the same artist-critic has made a very
striking piece of decoration, but he might have
given roots to his tree. Murray Griffin’s “Cloud”
looms very tangibly over a dim landscape that has
mystery ip it, and F. V. Lahey (Brisbane), in
quite another mood, has painted “Ardent Summer”
with a very unctuous brush. Robert Johnson inspires
respect. His landscape is as meaty as a piece of
steak and he lays on his warm color with lavishness
but ease. Miss Bale’s sitter has eaten too many
pears, but those remaining on the plate are painted
with this artist’s usual skill. Norman Mac George
has gums, a rosy cloud and a couple of good milkers
viewed from a new and attractive angle. The
committee was unfair to Daryl Lindsay and Geo.
Benson in hanging their sound but sober water-colors
alongside the lyric rhapsodies of Blamire Young.
Harold Herbert has a humorous and delightfully
clean glimpse of the city’s pavements from his
studio window, and his view of Fez, Morocco, is
full of light and heat. B. E. Minns has also
painted hot weather in No. 99, and a ’busload of
picnickers are suffering from it.
The outstanding picture in the show and the
solitary exhibit. of its class is the large cartoon,
“Peace After Victory,” by Napier Waller, an artist
who lost his painting arm at the war and has since
trained the other to do even better. The stately
picture of the bull wreathed round by men and
maidens is to decorate the National Gallery.
The principal tunes from “No, No, Nan-
ette” had arrived in Adelaide months ahead
of it, but they seem to go as well as ever
on the stage. Elsie Prince makes a popular
first appearance. Jimmy Godden and May
Beatty are really funny, and there is a lot
of dancing, vigorous and even athletic. Busi-
ness is big.
“Peter Pan”: The lucky Melbourne
Atlienseum has thus far hardly known a fail-
ure, though shows of all types have held the
boards there. Kicking off successfully with
a company of Hawaiian entertainers, it fol-
lowed up with a show with a big element of
risk and about which there was much specu-
lation- —“Gappy Ricks,” with the late Ward
Lyons; but “Gappy’s” run of 100 nights is
well remembered. “Give and Take,” the
Jewish comedy, also touched the century
there. The Athenaeum was about the only
place in which “Kangaroo Flat” had any-
thing like a run. “The Sport of Kings” did
about 10 weeks there, though only two in
Sydney. Then came “The Best People,”
which also passed the century. Tim
Hawaiians blew in again, with much sue
cess; and “Nothing but Lies” has been
nothing but capacity for a good run. The
only low-temperature shows have been
Hanna’s Diggers and John D. O’Hara.
“Flaming Youth”: Gisborne. which
“Modestine” (B. 11/11/’26) now declares to
be an actors’ grave, used to be one of the best
“show” towns in M.L.—that is, if the show
was good enough for Barrington Miller to
talk terms with it. Miller was grabbed by
the expanding Fullers as a manager, and left
them to become a big light in pictures; but
in those days he had a tobacconist’s business,
with sundry adjuncts, in Gisborne, and when
his services were engaged as local booster his
seat-bookings and day sales were a delight
to the managerial heart. There’s a good
chance in practically every town for local
men with energy and popularity to do the
same sort of business.
“Bislcy”: Circus performers on the Point
are eagerly looking for the angelic smile
of Les Barton. Following his brother’s
footsteps, he is forming a circus for an
out-back tour. It will make the 14th tour-
ing Australia at present. Ashton’s and
Eroni’s are in the north; Perry’s in W.A.;
Gill’s, Lloyd’s and Kadama’s in the south ;
Lennon’s, Leonard’s, Clinton’s and Mackay’s
are out west; Fisher’s, Green’s and Ridge-
way’s are in the N.-West. The circus game
must be booming!
“S.T.S.”: Probably most of us thought
with “Goldilocks” (B. 2/9/’26) that the
world-wide fuss about Rudolph Valentino’s
death was mostly just the film trade’s “pub-
licity stuff.” But one thinks again when a
woman who never saw him except on the
screen takes the trouble to write to an
Adelaide daily to say what a different place
the world feels now 7 that he is gone. And
she signs her name.
Poverty
Point
“Yarra Ben”: The Williamson firm lias
decided to build an “intimate” theatre in
Melbourne, in Exhibition-street, diredtly
opposite His Majesty’s. The success of the
Boucicault pieces—of “Mary Rose” in par-
ticular —has shown that there is a public for
the better-class stuff. The new house will
stage productions of a delicate and light
type which are never seen or heard to advan-
tage in the large and, truth to tell, old-
fashioned buildings wherein Melbourne now-
takes its theatrical entertainment. Reper-
tory companies under Gregan McMahon will
occupy the theatre for three months every
year; and the best work of Barrie, Arnold
Bennett, Galsworthy, Milne, Shaw, O’Neill,
Ibsen and other “literary” dramatists is
promised. It is hoped to have the theatre
finished in nine months. Bouicault and Irene
Vanbrugh (who are bringing a series of
new modern comedies) will provide the open-
ing bill.
“Curtain Raiser” : With the amalgamation
of the Hoyt’s group and the J.C.W. collec-
tion the biggest merger in Australian movie
history has arrived. More than 80 theatres
in the various capitals are included, and only
one important fane in Melbourne, the Capi-
tol, will stand outside. Another big show-
house is immediately to be added on the
site of the old Argus office and 3LO in
Collins-street. There are the usual assur-
ances, of course, that only the very highest
THE NASTY WAY OF PUTTING IT.
FIRST CRITIC : “He has a very delicate
touch.”
SECOND CRITIC: “Hm! I call it sickly!”
grade of picture will be shown, and that the
poor old British and Australian industry is
to receive preference—if possible.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Since his arrival in
London, Allan Wilkie has been giving
enthusiastic accounts of Australia’s taste in
drama. His story of close on 3000 consecu-
tive performances of Shakspeare has made
London sit up, while the details of a six
weeks’ Shakspearean season in a town of
50,000 inhabitants has caused astonishment.
So that the lighter side of Australian stage
doings might not be entirely ignored, Wilkie
has not forgotten to tell of the Queensland
town where a man-eating crocodile caused a
little melodramatic diversion by gambolling
among the properties at the back of the
theatre and causing a panic in the wings.
“Nero” : Bilanderson, doyen of melodrama
producers, has just successfully closed his
fifth stock season at Adelaide Prince of
Wales Theatre. In the 38 weeks he has
been playing this year lie has put -on 35
pieces. He has had a good working company
of Australian mummers, headed by Guy
Hastings and Bessie Barraclough. Bill’s
great ambition is to run simultaneously four
stock companies in Brisbane, Sydney, Mel-
DAMME, SIR, ALMOST AN INSULT!
ACTOR: “The first night I played there, sir, the town
stormed the ticket-office!”
CYNIC: “Rotten luck! And. of course, you had to give
’em their money hack?”
bourne and Adelaide, and to change them
round every three months. The stumbling-
block is the impossibility of securing theatres
in Melbourne and Sydney for any length
of time.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Jean Forbes
Robertson, who spent her novitiate on the
Australian stage, gets great praise from the
West End critics in the reviews of “Berke-
ley Square,” by John Balderston and J. C.
Squire, produced at St. Martin’s Theatre,
Oct. 6. They credit her with the qualities
that lead to greatness. The Morning Rost,
starring this “actress’s triumph,” said : “This
young actress has many times been praised
by the critics, and never undeservedly. She
has extraordinary powers of repose, and she
compels the audience to observe her, without
seeming to make any effort. Alone of the
company she brought a sense of unearthly
happenings into the play.” The house gave
the new piece a great reception. It is based
on Henry James’s unfinished story, “The
Sense of the Past,” and is on quite unusual
lines.
“Tar-boy”: Cecil de Mille, the big Ameri-
can producer, is to make a picture dealing
with the Australian wool industry. The
star will be Rod la Rocque; but "exterior”
scenes are to be shot in Australia. First
National Pictures are looking for an Aus-
tralian girl to take a leading part when the
picture is built up—at Hollywood. The
notion of having half an Australian picture
done in this country and the balance in an-
other rather confuses the claim that this is
to be considered as the establishment of the
film industry in Australia.
“Evaclar” (S’Africa) : The Guy Bates
Post co. is having a big success in Maritz-
burg, Natal, with “The Climax.” A three
w r eeks’ season in Durban is to follow, after
which Johannesburg will be the destination
of the co. until Christmas. Dorothy Brun-
ton formally opened Durban’s big flower-
show, and made a pretty little speech.
“R.K.D.N.”: Though American song-
writers continue to pour out an endless
stream of ditties to be set to the same old
jazz tunes, some of the Bowery lyric poets
are not neglecting the sob-stuff for which
their country has long been famed. Songs
of mushy sentiment over the deaths of popu-
lar people are still published and presum-
ably sung. Soon after Caruso died a ballad
made its appearance with the title, They
Needed a Song-bird in Heaven, so -they
Took Caruso Up There.” That sublime
effort has been bettered. The latest hit m the
sentimental line is “There’s Another Star 111
Heaven To-night —Rudolph Valentino .
“Hamfat” : Althea Glasby, now in Sydney
in a plain skirt and a coat fashioned on the
lines of a male person's dinner-jacket, lately
for two years played leads at the Uld \ ic.
in London, whither she went five years ago
to seek the opportunity she could not hnd
at home. Work at the Old Vic. was pre-
ceded by a long, toilsome engagement with
a touring Shakspearean co. Ihe lady
has a few plays with her, and hopes to get
a chance in Australia with. them. lheir
author is Paul Furniss, now in Sydney, too.
Althea Glasby is a Mosman girl, who did
good amateur work before she adopted the
professional stage.
“S.T.S.”: Quaint is the fixed idea of
musical-comedy artists that they must dis-
tinguish their work from
mere Variety by “introduc-
ing” each song. Maud Fane
goes near to the limit in
-Tell Me More.” The girls
are all talking about last
night’s ball. “Was it wet?”
they ask —meaning, no doubt,
“Was the liquid part of the
supper adequate?” “Wet!”
says she, tersely. _ “It re-
minded one of paddlin’ Made-
lin home”; and an utterly
irrelevant canoeing song with
that title is then in order.
But the record is still held
by au artist of years ago.
Two men were disputing
loudly in her presence when,
it being time for song, dance
and curtain, the chorus
rushed in with “What’s the
quarrel about?” “There is
no quarrel,” she calmly told
them ; “we Avere just rehears-
ing ‘Lulu, my Zulu Queen.’ ”
Then she and they began a
song of that name.
“.Curtain Raiser”: The
. objectionable xierson who
habitually arriyes late at
theatres got the surprise of
his life at the first night of
“Mary Rose” at Melbourne
King’s. Dion Boucicault
had given orders that late-
comers should be excluded
until the end of the act. An-
other class of interrupter
was, however, already inside
—the enthusiasts who insist
on applauding their favorites on their
entrance. It is human, of course, but as
destructive of atmosphere as a hoof put
through an oil-painting.
“H. 5.8.”: In writing of the late Bill
Ilenno, “Hamfat” (B. 4/11/’26) says Alf
Woods produced “The Prairie King” under
the title of “The Scout” at the then Lyceum.
Alfred Woods presented it at Sydney
Majesty’s as “The Prairie King.” King
Hedley played the hero, and my old pal
Harry Overton had the |>art of Rattlesnake
Joe, the highly-colored villain who chopped
the tree-trunk through.
“First Old Man”: Stated that when the
new Sydney Empire Theatre gets going it
will provide plenty of work for local mum-
mers. I wonder? Ernest Rolls, acting for
the directorate as “booking manager and pro-
ducer,” told the press when he arrived in
England recently, “I am here to buy plays
and to engage artists. We hope to send out
40 or 50 actors or actresses, and specialty
turns, each year.”
“Lud”: Evidently John Bull, like Aus-
tralia, has bis troubles in collecting income-
tax on American profits in theatrical and
other entertainments. In the House of Com-
mons, Colonel Day recently asked the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer if he was aware
that two musical plays during the last 12
months had paid royalties to the American
holders of the rights amounting to £lOO,OOO.
He wanted to know what income is paid on
these royalties, and suggested the introduc-
tion of legislation to tax in future these huge
amounts at their source. The two plays
were “Rose Marie” and “No, No, Nanette.
“Hamfat”: Basil Dean, jwho up to two
years ago was one of the joint managing-
directors of Drury-lane, must know some-
thing of the feelings of the man who sees
a 100-to-l chance romp home unbacked.
After inspecting the production in America,
he declared “Rose Marie” unsuitable for
Drury-lane; but Sir Alfred Butt staged it
there in March of last year. The £20.000
spent on the production all came back in
three months; in 18 months a net profit of
£66,596 lias been made. For the previous
six years Drury-lane brought in only an
average of £BOOO p.a. in profit; “Rose
Marie” has equalled the total of that whole
period in 12 months.
LET IT BE DARK!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No place was there left in the city
For lovers who wished to embark
On romance, till the pictures took pity
And provided a place that was dark.
A clerk from his office is missing,
A girl from the Shore is in town;
The two at the pictures are kissing,
With nobody near them to frown.
The seats in the circle secluded -
Left plenty of room for the pair.
If any new couple intruded
They groped for a far distant lair.
What care they what picture is showing?
No glances they give to the screen.
The heroine’s kisses are glowing,
But longer those kisses unseen!
Oh thanks to the pictures providing
These afternoons darker than nights !
Away from the world they are hiding
Till —dash it all! —up go the lights !
N.S.NV.
A. H. A.


An Opportunity for Investors
to participate in
Established Big' Demand.
Combination of Motor Agencies that has no precedent here—
ONE CAPITAL! ONE OVERHEAD!!
ONE PROFIT DIVISION!!!
CONSOLIDATED MOTORS Ltd.
INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, N.S.W.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
Divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
50,000 Ten per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each are now being offered for public subscription, payable
10/- per share on application and 10/- per share on allotment.
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each are now being offered for public subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment, and 2/6 per share one month from date of allotment, 2/6 per share two months
from date of allotment, and the balance as may be required in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at interva s
of not less than three months. ,
16,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each will be allotted to the Vendors or their Nominees as iully paid up, for the consider-
ation hereinafter set out.
284,000 Shares of £l each are to be held in reserve for future issue.
£50,000
150,000
16,000
284,000
£500,000
(' "• •
500,000
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Roland C. Clark, Merchant, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Managing Director.
E. P. Andreas, Investor, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
F. M. Beck, J.P., Company Manager, 36 Carrington Road,
Waver ley.
W. J. Curtis, K.C., Barrister-at-law, 167 Phillip Street, Sydney.
T. M. Goodali, Financial Director, Kembla Building, Margaret
Street, Sydney.
R. Morgan Shaw, Company Manager, 244 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney.
Showrooms:
Castlereagh and William
Streets, Sydney.
Bankers:
The Australian Bank of Com-
merce, Ltd., Sydney.
Solicitors:
Sly and Russell, 369 George
Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
H. B. Allard, Way and Hardie.
Public Accountants,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Brokers:
F. 0. Furrier and Co.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Members of Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Secretaries:
Stinsrin and Beck, Public
Accountants, T. and G.
Building, 201 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE: T. and G. Building, 201 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Agencies and Territory.
The Company proposes to acquire the following Agencies for New South
Wales: F.I.A.T. Cars and Trucks, manufactured in Italy.
Chandler Cars, manufactured in U.S.A. ; Peugeot Cars, manufactured in
France. The F.I.A.T. and Peugeot Agencies are each for a term of three years.
The Chandler Agency is the usual American contract, made from year to year.
In addition to the above, the Company will acquire from Roland C. Clark his
rights in connection with the Jowett Agency for New South Wales.
The territory for which the F.I.A.T. and Peugeot Agencies has been secure,'
embraces the whole of the State of New South Wales except part of the Riverina
and Broken Hill. The Chandler Agency covers the whole of the State of New
South Wales. , , t ... , .
Prospects are not merely assumed —they are based on established demand,
accumulated experience and profitable existing agencies.
It is only logical to assume that the success of such a Company will be rapid
and complete. You cun be a participant in its prosperity by acting without delay.
Management and Organisation.
The value of a highly-trained and efficient staff has been one of the main
features upon which the Directors have concentrated their attention. Mr. Roland
C. Clark, Managing Director, has been associated with the motor trade in Aus-
tralia for the past seven years. During the greater part of that time lie was
closely connected with the motor-car business of Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., m a
managerial capacity, and last year visited America for the purpose of studying
conditions and matters generally at the American factories. _
It is intended to form a subsidiary organisation for F.1.A.1. Cars under the
personal control of Mr. Fred. M. Beck, who has relinquished tin? position of
general manager of Garratts, Ltd., for this purpose. Prior to joiniiig Garratts,
Ltd., his eminently successful career as sales-manager for Williams Bros., Ltd.,
and John McGrath, Ltd., provided him with the widest possible experience.
Mr. R. Morgan Shaw, who will be the General Manager for the Chandler
and Peugeot divisions, has for the past two years been acting in a similar position
in the sale of Chandler and Cleveland Cars in New South Wales.
In addition to the above, arrangements have been made whereby the Company
will obtain the services of many of the principal persons who have been acting
hitherto in connection with the marketing of these cars and trucks, thus assuring
that continuity of personnel which assures success.
Calls on Ordinary Shares.
The directors are of opinion that the amount of 10/- per Ordinary Share,
payable on application, allotment, and by instalments as above set out, will be all
that is required, and that it will not be necessary to call up the balance of 10/- per
Ordinary Share.
Capital Underwritten.
50.000 Ordinary Shares of the capital now being offered to the public have
been underwritten by Mr. R. C. Clark as one of the terms of his contract of sale
hereinafter referred to, and without any further charge than the consideration
appearing under such contract. Mr. Clark bears any sub-underwriting cliaiges.
A copy of full Prospectus may be had on applica-
tion to British-Australian Underwriters (AmaL),
Limited, Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
F.I.A.T. Facts.
The F.I.A.T. factory lias recently acquired the famous S.P.A. Works, and
with these added facilities a wonderful range of F.LA.T. trucks will be marketed.
F.I.A.T. trucks have never been placed seriously on the New South Wales market.
No less than 841 (eight hundred and forty-one) F.I.A.T. cars and trucks
were delivered by Garratts, Ltd., for the year ended October 10. 1926. The
majority of these sales were at considerably higher prices than those of the
present day.
Realise the full significance of this. Every year F.I.A.T. sales soar higher and
higher. The range provides models for every type of buyer. The army of users
grows—goodwill spreads—more people buy cars every year" —more people will buy
F.I.A.T. than before —many more !
CONSOLIDATED MOTORS HAVE THE ADVANTAGES OF NEW
MODELS, WIDER TERRITORY AND LOWER SELLING PRICES.
“Chandler ” -“Cleveland” Amalgamation.
By a closer amalgamation of the “Chandler” and “Cleveland” manufacturing
interests, the “Cleveland” Car will now be known and sold under the famous name
of “Chandler,” giving “Chandler” a greater range under the one name, and permit-
ting of bigger publicity and exploitation at less cost.
No cai’ offers greater possibilities for the future than tin; “Chandler. It
has been an expanding business in the past, but now there are features to double
or treble present figures with the aid of facilities, improved organisation and a
EVERY” “CIIAN’ )LER” NOW HAS THE TREMENDOUS SELLING
FEATURE OF “ONE-SHOT CHASSIS LUBRICATION.”
“The Peugeot.”
A French car with a wonderful record, the fame of which is already known
here. Each of the Peugeot models will sell well when properly handled, and Con-
solidated Motors. Ltd., will set out seriously with this agency for N.S.\\. Aus-
tralia's greatest motor market.
CONSOLIDATED MOTORS, LTD.
Nominal Capital, £500,000.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR ORDINARY SHARES.
To the Directors ,
Consolidated Motors, Limited,
C/o llritish-Australian Underwriters ( Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
I hereby make application for Ordinary Shares in the capital of Consolidated Motors, ;
Limited, in terms of the Company’s prospectus and authorise you to have my name placed on the ;
Register of the Company for the number of shares mentioned for any less number that may be
allotted to me) , . ~ , ~ „„ i;
Enclosed herewith please find cheque for £ being application money of */6 pel share ■
and I agree to pay a further 2/6 per share upon allotment, 2/6 per share one month from date !,
of allotment. 2i6 per share two months from date of allotment, and the balance as and when
required in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months.
I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 102
Name in full
(Mr., Mrs.. Miss.)
Occupation Address
All cheques to be made payable to «
“CONSOLIDATED MOTORS, LIMITED”
and crossed “Not Negotiable.”
Please add Exchange. Signature . . • ■ •• •


.
-
« m
■
*
i
i
■
n
R: I
■
?/&; §L
• . ■ ' ■■■
W
■ 1
m*
A-r.:
:
■ -V ; ■ ■•'
M
- I
-* , %
■| l
■ K*
m
■ JHH
.
■
\ moon
bMII3IHV<3LS
K
.
7 ©Mira*rv<x> |
feteivuL
1 rngmsm' mam Mil as m
: t. ''- >.; Sf J -3» 1
.: ; 7
.
*
■
I.*: i
i
:,A. %; * #
■■ m
m
>r,->'
- ■'
mm
■•''•••./•. -Vv:;.':.'v.; c
7 * :
m
* m
.. ..■■ v.' -
ftwW-
«
I (
I
bi
1
.' ' ' •■ :■ • :'■
.
HP
■
■MM
■
■
m «JP m m
i
: .
-
v
• ....
mm
..........
;, :\ ;' ■ ■ ■
.
' ' ' '' »
■ :
MS
■. ; ■ - ■ ;
7
Wmmwmmm
■
Vo:Wk'':< :
■
m
m
mm t
P- •.
• '■•. : .
HH'"
‘
,
j
3
&
£ti
H
Hi
lIS
11111111
:7; 7
,i ; ■.-
PHfBHEHHI
i y ■, ■ .
7
!■?
'
* SI
• S\
:
.
~ .-
• ;
WMmmmm
WSmlmßm
*1
7"
.
v A * < ’W
■»? * ■ M, *. > . ]
m
■7 ' : •
'
■
-7'H
; ;
-.
§mm
. .
,
i
often wonder wdiaitkc
Dwa
i
Waßßm
mm
m
H ill
i m
mm
m
I ; 11
m
i
4
ft
■n
V
mi.
a
■
Mi
: :
1
'With. Their Spffcial Gold Label
>e> result of T'L& vears of mine
imm **mm*m*rn*


Legal Notice.
"TO PETER BROWN, formely. of Dunedin,
1 New Zealand, but late of Hay, in Austra-
lia, son of Robert Brown, deceased, and to
the issue (if any) of the said PETER
BROWN, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an order made on the Ist
day of October, 1926, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of April,
1927, your claims to the estate of Robert
Brown, who died on the 27th day of March,
1864, failing which the said estate will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto,
disregarding your claim.
DATED at Wellington this sth day of
Xovember, 1926.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudo.i
**■ should read the British Australians
and New Zealander, (Id. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Dawson Valley
Irrigation Area
Queensland
(7,000 FARMS FOR 7,000 FARMERS)
• • •
Opened for Selection—November 1, 1926
THE first sections, compris-
ing 373 Irrigated and
attached Dry Farms, are
now ready for occupation.
These include fine irrigated
alluvial areas, and, in com-
bination with the high-level
farms, offer facilities for mixed
farming under advantageous
conditions
Applications Close January 31, 1927
• • •
For General Information Apply
Irrigation and Water
Supply Commission
{Land Settlement Branch)
BRISBANE .. . QUEENSLAND
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
w
Old Ways Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
into skin
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
* New Way:
Smear lighil *
I* it not strange that for hundreds of years
man has been scrubbing his face with soaps
containing soda, and has never reasoned that
under such treatment the skin may suffer ? Noth-
ing is more ugly than a face that looks raw.
Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda. But
now we have discovered SHAVEX, the natural
method, where no brush and soaps . containing
soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE !
One can shave with Shavex in half the time anti
you will get a smoother and closer shave than
you have ever had, and shaving will become
a pleasure. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will
look twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a skin
food as well.
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube
(double quantity), 2/6.
A I' ree Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co.. Lon,ion Eng.
Recently drafted by Pius XI. into the
very carefully selected flock that is allowed
to wear the cross of St. Gregory is
Sydney solicitor Tom Purcell. Just-returned
Apostolic-Delegate Cattaneo fished the gaud
out of his satchel.
If the new Vie. Assembly seats scheme
goes through, George Prendergast, formerly
Premier and Labor-Opposition leader, will
get the premier seat (Melbourne). It will
be a soft snap for him, but will mean the
shunting of Hayes, the present member, who
may have to fall back on his newsagency.
The translation of the Gospels into the
language of the Arunta tribe of abos. is a
memorial to the life-work of C. F. T. Streh-
low, a Lutheran pastor who spent 28 years
in Central Australia misliing with Binghi.
He made a close study of the abo. speech,
and his work has made it possible to repro-
duce the sounds phonetically in print.
The death of Mrs. A. D. Hart at St.
Kilda (Vic.) breaks a link with the history-
making period of Victorian politics. Her
father, Edward Cohen, was Minister for
Customs under MacPherson and Francis,
and a Mayor of Melbourne. At the end 74,
she was in her spring-time when dad was
cutting liis political dash.
Another “primary industry'’ has struck
bad luck, the greater part of Victoria’s fruit
crop having been destroyed. Not a single
case will come out of some of the apple-
orchards near Melbourne. Thrip is respon-
sible; and no antidote is known. Even de-
termined individuals who applied seven
sprays to their trees are suffering along with
the rest.
The keen commercial spirit exhibited by
Queen Marie of Roumania, who is touring
America as a sort of royalty show on a
handsome salary, is an interesting example
of hereditary traits. The lady is a daughter
of the Duke of Edinburgh, second son of
Queen Victoria, who chucked his British
birthright in 1893 to become a minor Hun
potentate. He is remembered in Australia
to this day for his extraordinary canniness
in matters financial during his visit in the
’sixties.
Constance Le Plastrier is a woman who
has worn herself out thinking about the
future of other people’s children. For 25
years she has kept in close touch with R.C.
colleges and convents throughout Australia
and Maoriland, pushing them up to date in
their educational methods. Now the doctors
say she needs a long sea trip. Archgaiters
Kelly gave 25 guineas towards the cost, and
his example doesn’t lack followers. Every
college and convent school is digging into its
pouch.
A BO ME STIC DIFFICULTY.
ENGLISHMAN : “Things any better between
yourself and madume ?”
FRENCHMAN: “Par-rdon! I do not under-
stand?”
ENGLISHMAN : “ Didn’t you tell me you
couldn’t get on at home ?”
FRENCHMAN : “La, la! It was ze telephone,
not ze madame.”
F. J. Kirby, whose name is often met in
Industrial Court proceedings these days, had
a lot to ,do with the administration of
Maoriland’s pioneer Arbitration Act in
the ’nineties, and was imported by Wade to
he the first inspector under the N.S.W. In-
dustrial Disputes Act of 19US. Kirby left
the State’s employ to look after the affairs
of sundry employers, and is now the indus-
trial representative of the J. C. Williamson
firm.
“M.C.”: It is true that Houdini won the
prize of the Aeronautic League as the first
successful flier in Australia (B. 4/11/’26).
Nevertheless he was not the first to fly in
this country. That honor belongs to George
A. Taylor, who flew at Narrabeen, Sydney,
on December 6, 1909, whereas Houdini first
flew in Victoria in 1910. Houdini was the
first to fly in a heavy propelled aeroplane,
using a Voisin; Taylor’s aeroplane was a
motorless affair, depending on breeze for
action.
One of the tenderest-hearted men in Aus-
tralia is John Fraser, but fate compels him
to commit fin average of 400 murders a
month. He lures his victims into a concrete
chamber, locks the door on them and gasses
them to death, sometimes in batches of 50
at a time.. He is the superintendent of the
Lost Dogs’ Home in Melbourne, which since
it was opened in 1913 has disposed, in one
way and another, of over 60,000 canine waifs
and strays—only the valueless and the hope-
lessly diseased are destroyed.
l ance Marshall, the writer-socialist who
once struck trouble in Sydney while advo-
cating the cause of Paul Freeman, was
again before the beak the other day, this
time in London. Charged with blocking the
footway by selling eucalyptus-oil, Vance pro-
ved a letter from Joe Cook stating that
the offender was a Justice of the Peace for
Queensland. The beak remarked dryly that,
as obstruction of the sort was usually the
misfeasance of coster-mongers, he must really
celebrate the occasion of a J.P. .doing it by
fining him 10s. instead of the usual 2s.
Windsor”: Add this to the collection of
queer notices. It hangs in a handsome frame
over the desk of a well-known Melbourne
business man, and reads: “Please don’t
swear in the office. I don't care a damn,
but it sounds rotten in front of the typists.”
“George Borndry”: On New Year’s Eve
40 public-houses will close for ever in Vic-
toria, and the various holders of the extin-
guished licenses will divide £55,000 compen-
sation. The old Bowling Green Hotel,
.Chapel-street, Windsor, will receive the
highest award, £2lOO, and the Bush Inn at
Navigators, an ancient diggers’ pub, the
lowest, £3OO.
Genial Patrick Joseph Clune, who arch-
bishes at Perth, is given good advertisement
in Pierce Beasley’s book “Michael Collins
and the Making of the New Ireland.” He
acted as intermediary between Lloyd George
and the Itevolutionaries, and, Avith Michael
Collins, sketched out the details of the truce.
It wasn’t his fault that the first efforts were
! abortive; but what was done was a stepping
stone to the ultimate settlement.
Now that the metropolitan district can
definitely out-vote the rest of N.S.W., there
was no doubt about where to go for the 1
new railway revenue. When the rest of the
State had a decisive voting supremacy it
might by combination have had railways
built to some neglected ports, and the rising
of neiv tOAvns would have prevented such
tremendous concentration of voting power.
Having played skittles with its opportunity,
it must now take what it is given, and that
is mostly a bill for something or other.
“Nakhoda” : The progress of democracy in
Oriental lands has picturesque features.
According to the cableman, Indian home-rule
politicians, unable owing to the laws regard-
ing the seclusion of women to approach their
feminine constituents personally when elec-
tioneering, tied their propaganda to the tails
of rockets which fell on the flat roofs of the
houses and were snapped up by the waiting
ladies. The possibility of being knocked in-
sensible by your own. party’s arguments must
give politics in India a charm unknown to
Western lands.
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission had a
yarn recently with a Murrumbidgee cow-
keeper. He said he had 560 acres and made
a bare living certainly nothing to pay
income-tax on. Five other cow-farmers to
his knowledge averaged £6O a year. He was
going out of cows and into wheat. Yet the
N.S.W. Statistician estimated that the wheat
farmer with 250 acres has averaged no more
than £B3 6s. Bd. per annum for three con-
secutive years. As the basic wage is to be
applied all over the State, and railway
freights are to go up again, and prices of
produce have gone down 31 per cent, since
1020, while markets have come no nearer,
the outlook is only medium.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Mrs. Pankliurst is
noAV very busy as a recruit to the Conserva-
tive party. Christabel, the eldest daughter of
the gifted family, is busy in evangelistic work j
and Avill be the principal speaker at the
Advent Testimony meetings to be held in
Dublin during October. The Metropolitan
Hall is just opposite the Abbey Theatre:
Christabel’s former activities and talent
would at one time seem to have suggested the
stage rather than the pulpit. AnyAvay, it is
clear that between her mother’s titled friends
and her sister’s clerical bodyguard there is
no place for Mrs. Tom Walsh in the bosom
of her versatile family.
Joseph Carruthers, formerly of the Million
Farms scheme, has turned up brightly with
another idea. He has been at the Hawaiian
Islands —formerly called the SandAvich Islands
OAving to the native habit of eating the mis-
sionary between two slices of bread—and he
says they “teach the world a lesson in how
to blend Eastern races without lowering the
standard of living.” By last census there
were in IJaAvaii 128,068 Japanese, 49,335
Filipinos, 27,470 Portuguese subjects, 24,851
Chinese, 6352 Porto Ricans, 5956 Koreans,
21,145 unblended aborigines and some sun-
dries. If all these really blend and become
one hash, what a steAV it will be!
CresAvick (Vic.), which has been back-
for-a-weeking, has contributed some nota-
bilities to the public and official life of Aus-
tralia. In addition to the ever-green Alec
Peacock, thrice Premier, there are Mcßae,
chief inspector, and Leach, assistant-chief
inspector, of Vic. Education Department;
Justice Starke, of the High Court; and
responsible men in all sorts of businesses in
the six States. But, of course, it wasn’t
always the quiet little village it is to-day.
It was once so important a mining town that
it was practically the Australian headquar-
ters of the A.M.A.; anyway, it was the head-
quarters of the old general secretary, W. G.
Spence, and there Avas a time when he was
most of that great parent union.
“Lao-dah”: The art of topiary—trimming-
trees and shrubs into fantastic shapes : —is
on the decline in England, Hampton Court
being one of the few show-places where it
survives; but there is one spot in Australia
where it flourishes. That is in the neAv sub
urbs springing up along the shores of Port
Phillip, betAveen Melbourne and Mornington.
This area Avas once densely covered with ti-
tree; instead of clearing the brush away,
many householders have trimmed it into
hedges, arbors, peacocks, Etruscan vases and
such like. The effect is much more engaging
than it sounds. A new development is for
residents to combine to clip the trees grow-
ing in the street outside their fences, and
some streets have already had a lot of com-
munal labor lavished on them.
“Sir Sol”: In Federal politics, S.A. has
a Avay of doing things in doubles. The
Speaker in each Chamber in the first Par-
liament was a South Australian—R. C. Baker
and F. W. Holder. The only two ex-parsons
to sit simultaneously in the House, Foster
and Gabb, came from the City of Churches.
The present Parliament’s two smallest men,
Senator Hoare and Parsons, M.H.R., belong
to the Wheat State, which also boasts of
having sent to Parliament the largest men,
ex-Senators Playford and Shannon, who ever
sat there. Two of her representatives
(Batchelor and Hutchinson) left Adelaide
in apparently good health, and returned
corpses. The only two members to die
“within the precincts” Avere Fred Holder and
Alf Roberts, both of Adelaide, and each was
struck down whilst participating in debate,
and never spoke again.
“M.R.C.”: During the past week our
suburb has been tooth-combed by a peri-
patetic infliction from Seattle, who is under
the usual obligations to neither beg, borrow
nor steal during his trip around the globe,
but offers the badgered housewife a card
in the hope of thereby securing contributions
towards his upkeep. Mrs. Flannagan, across
the road, put the case in a nutshell for the
women. “Walking, is ut?” said she. “Walk-
ing ! Haven’t I ten children by the grace
of God and Tim Flannagan that gives me-
self all the walking Oi can pay for?” Can-
not legislation be introduced to make these
travelling freaks and pests and cadgers con-
fine their activities to business areas, where
they would have to deal with other folk than
the tired and exasperated housewife?
“Amity”: The story of the captain who
retained the white-lead that thieves had
placed with him for protection recalls the
case of a Maoriland clerk who managed to
get away with some thousands in hard cash.
When he knew his game was up he went to
a solicitor friend and confessed all to him,
telling him where the money was, and asking
him, for a consideration, to look after it for
him during his enforced absence. When he
emerged from four years’ retirement he went
at top speed to look up the solicitor, whom
he found living in a fashionable street. Six-
enate assured the agitated caller that he had
no recollection of his visitor, and pronounced
liis tale of the buried treasure pure imagina-
tion. It was not a case for police assistance,
and the clerk had to look round for work.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
——w
:
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
PITMR RUBBER
\IICOTINE-PROOF PIPES, Guaranteed.
IN The sweetest on earth. In Prime Briars,
6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free. Smokers
delighted; write now for copy testimonials.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, odU
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
gYDNB Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: THE FAKE.
PALACE: IS ZAT SO?
gYD N E Y’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction.... Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
THEATRE ROYAL:
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: BETTY LEE,
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
** Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNR and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
I C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
U " MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KATJA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
BROWN SUGAR.
KING’S THEATRE:
M VllY ROSE.
A THEN U M THE ATR E,
** MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A PICTURE EVERYONE SHOULD SEE.
AN EXAMPLE TO MOTHERS.
LAW AND ORDER UPHELD
in
BROKEN LAWS.
Magnificently played by
Mrs. WALLACE REID and MR. PERCY MARMONT.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7750.
■VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and S.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
■* MELBOURNE.
BEBE DANIELS and RICARDO CORTEZ in
VOLCANO.
ALSO
W. C. FIELDS in
IT’S THE OLD ARMY GAME.
Prices as usual.
THE NEW OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE,
1 WIRTHS’ PARK.
WIRTHS’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS.
“The Greatest Show on Earth.”
New Acts specially engaged by Mr. Geo. Wirth on
his recent tour of the world.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Legal Notice.
D/v MARY JANE ELIZABETH DAY,
-ft late of Yelarbon, in the State of Queens-
land, deceased: housewife. Notice is hereby
given that JAMES WILLIAM DAY,
widower of the abovenamed MARY JANE
ELIZABETH DAY, late of Yelarbon, in the
State of Queensland, deceased, who died on
or about the fifth day of December, a.d. 1915,
at Goondiwindi, in the said State, is hereby
required to forward proof of his relationship to
the Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before the
thirty-first day of May, 1927. And that after
the expiration of the last-mentioned date the
Public Curator will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the
parties entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have
had notice.
DATED this tenth day of November, 1926.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
JDE ESTATE OF HENRY JOHN CORK,
■TV Deceased.
HENRY J. CORK, father of the above-
named, is requested to communicate with
the Public Trustee, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Commonwealth Cash
and Conversion Loan
A safe investment —
a good interest return!
There is no investment safer than
Commonwealth Loan securities.
The interest on this Loan is 5j per
cent, per annum, and is payable half-
yearly on 1 sth February and 1 sth August.
The interest is free of State In?
come Tax, and will remain so up to the
end of the period for which the money
is lent. Investors may lend their money for
6, 11, or 16 years.
Interest commences from the day the
money is lodged. Money lying idle is
costly to the owner.
All persons having holdings in the M
per cent, and 5 per cent. Loans maturing
on 15th December, 1927, may convert
into this new Loan. As conversion will be
effected as from 1 sth December, 1926,
holders have the opportunity of gaining the
higher interest rate of S', per cent, twelve
months before their present securities
mature.
Conversion may be made of these
securities without lodging any cash sub-
scription, and cash subscriptions may be
lodged without making any conversions.
Cash subscriptions and conversion
applications are now being received. Full
particulars may be obtained from and
applications lodged with any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office
or member of a recognised Stock Ex-
change.
EARLE PAGE. Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury.
Answers to Correspondents,
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.S.: Too melodramatic ; and the pattern
is worn out Alphonse R.: The theme is good, but
the telling is tame.... Paul 0.: “Rats” has a capital
idea. Put the cultivator over it again W.M.L.:
Matter already dealt with Te B.: Nearly six
months late A.A.: Too vague; and you don’t
offer any evidence to back up any of your charges....
Cam: It’s our first encounter with the purely medicinal
kiss; frankly, we don’t like it Raphus: Why is
death particularly horrible to minds “untuned to
Earth’s dread sighing winds” ? Because you wanted
the rhyme? C.M.L.: You do make your hero a tall
fellow. He’s “six feet four of manhood”; “his
longing showed in his eyes” ; even “his breath came
in long pants”. .. .H.1.A.: Likeable; rambles a bit
too much M.L.C.: Repeatedly you force an inflec-
tion on a syllable that shrieks to Heaven at your
cruelty G.H. (Avondale): Poor stuff T.R.8.:
Your Yarra is a drain on the imagination. .. .A.V.D.:
The gate verse is shut out. .. .M.S.M.: Story of how
a counterfeiter took your aunt’s furnished cottage
coins no interest. .. .Mavis P.: The embezzling bank-
clerk who runs a private safe and a butler amused us.
But we didn’t believe he was true Ripponlea: One
stirring incident pushes in:—
With raucous dictation
And squeamish explaining
He was pulled from th’ station,
Struggling and straining.
Cumbrous, tenacious,
He clang to a picket,
And whined, “Goodness gracious,
Gimme time! Where’s me ticket?”
“You’ll get time!” snarled the copper,
With annoyance most arrant,
As they both came a cropper,
Did he grunt, “Where’s your warrant?”
Then they rolled round the asphalt,
And the crowd heard him mutter
“Though it isn’t my dash fault,
I’m now in th’ gutter!”
C.M.G.: The racing story is over the odds. .. .
D.0.T.: Dirge about the joys of beer is as mournful as
an undertakers’ picnic P. Rains: Quite uninterested
in the love affair of the young man who was a
creation of The Tailor and Cutter and the young
woman built on Ladies’ Home Journal lines. .. .
L. : So light, it blew itself out of the window.
. ... W.T.W.: Verse amusing. Afraid we can’t print
answers to Answers. Somebody must have the last
word C.A.T.: Strongly suspect that your stars
are specks before the eyes... .L.L.: An idea does not
need to be made grotesque to be original. .. .J.G.F.:
“Touching” fails to bite us M.C.: But why pick
on such a dull place?. . . .Geo. F.: Simply absurd. .. .
M. : Very sketchy.... A.McM.: Verse has a sort
of commonplace elegance, but no idea... .M.L.F.:
Your poppy tribute shows the wires too badly....
A.C. (Korumburra) : “Sands” got into your poetic
engine W.J.T.: Read it. For one thing the man
who tells how “Jesus passed them one” doesn’t keep
his character Sylvia D.: The floral offering shows
improved treatment, but still too many thorns. ...
Cord G.: You “wrote it for a lark,” but as literature
it’s less than a sparrow T.P.W.: You might make
money selling that yarn as a sleep-producer -Joe
M. : Interesting to learn that the scoundrel was
“sentenced to be imprisoned on account of the debt
he owed the storekeeper.” Where did this happen?
P.R.C.: As far as this office is concerned, “The
Fisherman” has slung his h00k.... Stella G.: ‘ The
imneheon Party” was burnt at the steak C.A.M.:
The damp tears of it have produced mildew in the
rhyme P.M.T.: Good story, but because it came
to a bad end it has come to a bad end.. . . J.W.V.:
“The Dam” is just r0t.... Jack M.: ’Orrible —
with a capital Ho G.M.R.: Is your genius an
infinite capacity for taking Barry Pain’s?... .Col. G.:
All you have done is to put two fine lines of Shaks-
peare into 30 lines of doggerel.... D.P.D.: Written
with all the blase cynicism of an old man of eighteen.
Cas. L. R.: “Appendix” is cut 0ut.... Lucy M.:
Strange how the feminine writer entertains an affection
for the hero who (before he meets her heroine) has
had “a strange aversion for women” ! Actually, that
sort of person —different from the man with the mere
indifference —is usually an utter undesirable....
C.M.G: “The Boomerang” is making its return flight.
....Dolly G.: It’s a pathetic little sketch:—
Yes, yes, she is a sinner, and sneer at her as you will;
But she does more for her mother than her brother
Bill.
She gives the dear old lady two sovereigns a week.
And so she lives in comfort, though painted is her
cheek. ,
The grey-haired soul doth know not that she has
sin to thank ; ~
She thinks the money proper because she gets it
from the bank.
. L.H.C.: What you consider “the right chord
is a load of wooden verse. . . .E.F.: Given the excuse
of drink, the weird thing might have a chance....
F.G. J.: The anecdotes of Ah Choom are not particu-
larly interesting. .. .W.H.S.: Good par. lost in poor
story A.H.M.: Vividly told; but the “then he
woke up” business is tiresome... .8.N.: Blowing back
to you J.F.: Meet her again if you will, but
not in that metre... .N.D.F.: Its basic principle
seems to be two jolts and a bang E.E.H.: Pat-
riotic splurge in very poor verse. Patriotic spluiges
usually are A.McA.: With some oil on its joints
it might do Steve McC.: Doesn’t get us, Steve.
Pat S.: Re “Why”; why?. .. ,H. 11.: Sincere
effort slaughtered amongst a whole batch of Armis-
tice Day reveries... .A.H.Y.: Glad your albatross
showed “no signs of tire.” Otherwise it might
have been a motor-car... .C.G.C.: Rhymed inventory
of Australian produce. .. .Innis: Both ideas could be
made useable; too rough in present form. ... J.Iv.L.:
Tale of the over-efficient parent has been told
before; you labor the introduction, anyway
W.W.A.: Unfortunately a mere commonplace of
politics.... E.A.F.: Stiff verse... .P.S.R.: There's
something impressive about the caps:—
With deep Woe seized she Wept apart;
Within the Tomb was all her Glee;
’Twas He stained Sin upon her Heart
So she committed Tragedy.
. V.G.W.: One may do; the rest resembles a cross-
cut saw in an unoiled mood.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.A.D.: Outlandish figures and exhumed joke....
A.8.D.: A scarecrow would be ashamed to wear
the rags you put on the debutante and her chaperon.
C.R.C.: Whoever pronounced you as “fit to
sketch for any paper in Australia” must ha\ e a
poor opinion of artistic requirements T.C.M.:
Have re-christened “A Study in Oil ’ “An Ogre
in Axle-grease”. .. . E.P.; Any lion would go on a
hunger strike rather than touch that neddy
S.N.W.: Doll’s-house furniture supporting a party of
11-stoners is fault No. 1....M.8.: Cross-hatching
suggests a coffee-strainer full of beetles.


Surfing
Time
is
Rexona
Time!
, h-Kj&L* *** * - • : -i <■ * **< S
fc a <t * ir n.f.Mv: v Sf#s M* Jt£ *r i 1.., -I #Jk, ...4R&, i i l .# *si*
■
$
•':' • • ••;
S4S-a
L%' jtt
*.- . ->./ *. -J1 ..... ... .. “■"*■
-•■ i”' .", ■•■■'■ .
■ . A
• %■•*- “ 0 - £.***■*' .
Hi '’"' .’ th
1 1 v
SMSfcw
IS*®!**!,,... ■
as*»*s;
- -
* •' ’■
■
■ •’• '-*■
US
i
m
■ .■:<•■<
¥
4d?
,* .
Ms
m
■
||§
.
M
s®®
*ss
’W*-
;V
- V '
Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty
The Call of the Surf-
Calls for REXONA!
To all lovers of outdoor sports, a dip in the roaring breakers on a
summer's day is indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands
and scarlet face are painful realities. suffer such distress and disfigure-
ment from sunburn when it can easily be avoided by always using Rexona
Soap when you have your shower and then applying a little Rexona Ointment,
the cooling, soothing and healing balm?
If you want to make doubly sure of avoiding sunburn, apply the
Rexona Ointment to the exposed parts before going into the surf. This
prevents both the action of the salt water and the sun on the most delicate
skin.
If this is done there will be no after-effects from exposure to the sun,
no regrets after a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the wonderful influence
of Rexona the Rapid Healer, will quickly regain its normal temperature
and comfortable coolness.
You will find Rexona Skin and Facial Soap ideal as a shampoo for the
hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona the Rapid Healer, in its dainty pot, should
stand on the toilet table of all who indulge in outdoor sports.
Ill'
m.
TTi',
m
X
rH'
%1
m
&
////
m.
X*-
\0"~’
F»\=
vC\£
£>*>
p\>* x
Rexona-the Rapid
Healer, 1/6 & 3/-.
Rexona Soap,
1/- per tablet.
It’s
Medicated!
ifeif
Miss EVE MADDEN, a charming
Rexona Girl, of 53 Mitchell Road,
Alexandria, N.S.W., and winner of the
£5O prize in Clay’s “Siren of the
Surf” Competition, writes: —“l find
Rexona Soap unsurpassed for the skin
and hair.”


Ideal Huts for
xo Shearers
By building accommodation quarters for
your Rural Workers completely with
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets, you
will ensure maximum durability and fire
safety at the minimum of cost.
“ FIBROLITE ” is a fire retardant, white ant
proof, vermin proof and permanently durable buil-
ding material for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Supplied in big sturdy building sheets
in 36 handy stock sizes, it is easily and quickly
erected. Waste is eliminated. Labour costs are
reduced to bedrock. No painting is required.
And, “FIBROLITE” costs less than weather-
boards and lining boards.
Write for Free Catalogue “ B ”
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd*
Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
\A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS
jOKSM
pi§»
Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are live, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission only. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
13
BRITISH MADE
imr
UALITY PENCIL
V
E
N
H
-> S,
S
■
H
m
NOW £> EACH
GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALLSTATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Cotituifts
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THE
oat.tehy
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and, Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
2*
'ey
Just what
Jbr.
J 4
Qnd it's a Bolex 7
JAe best watch money can buy -
fDETTER than anything you could select as a fitting symbol
of a life-long friendship-a "ROLEX is the Gift
Supreme. It’s the watch "for life’ -mechanically
ALWAYS TRUE TO TIME, and exact to taste in its beauty
and Distinction of Design.
AT ALL GOOD JEWELLERS
PQJs-EX
WRIST & WggT POCKET
WATCHES
Tif PLUM
ra
m
it
fk
RAIG andMTKEN
_654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
c
is
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin. . _ , _ .
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 10/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . • • . 21 /“
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay
Black
PJLUM Razor Sets:—
85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and- Kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Cartot”: Railways have quaint ideas
about the relative value of life and property.
Not long ago a ganger employed on the mam
Western N.S.W. line discovered that a
wooden bridge at Store Creek had caught lire
and been burned through. He succeeded
in stopping a mail train when it was only
a few yards away from the burned bridge,
thereby averting a catastrophe which might
have cost many lives. For this he was
awarded a bonus of £lO, with a nicely-typed
letter of thanks. Just before that an in-
former was paid £2O for information which
led to the recovery of some stolen goods.
“Borom”: The action of the Maoriland
Government in reprinting some wrongly-
printed stamps for the benefit of collectors
(B. 4/11/’26) recalls an incident in the early
days of the military occupation of former
German New Guinea. When the troops took
possession of Rabaul, ordinary postage
stamps were surcharged for use there, and in
one of the first of these issues an error was
made in the printing, which led to the small
number being snapped up by collectors. It
was not long before the lot was exhausted,
but this was remedied by some of the troops,
who privately printed some more. These were
sent to Sydney and easily disposed of, but
soon the supply reduced the price and shortly
afterwards philatelists woke up. The sol-
diers concerned were transferred to the gar-
rison, and put in the rest of their time doing-
guard duty and similar work.
“The Traveller”: “Clerk” (B. 21/9/’26)
approvingly quotes Clapp’s recent pronounce-
ment that “as each 11-ton truck is retired
a 16-ton truck will be marked as available
for use as required as an 11-ton truck, at
the rate and under the conditions applicable
to an 11-ton truck.” It reads fair enough.
But if the “marked” truck is wanted at Nhill
and is lying idle at Sale, it will not help
much. The whole matter of lots
of goods, “nominated loading days” and
other pests to country customers needs re-
viewing. It is here that the motor traffic
is cutting into the railway revenue. People
at small roadside stations, wanting, say, a
ton of merchandise, have had to wait a week
or more till their “nominated” loading day
comes around. They are not waiting now.
They get their little lots by motor-lorry.
“G.8.L.” : The first orange-grower in Aus-
tralia was the Rev. Richard Johnson, but
until quite recent years the wrong place got
the credit. Heaton’s “Dictionary of Dates”
says Johnson’s orchard was at Kissing Point
Ryde). Dean Kenny repeats this informa-
ion in his “Catholicity in Australia,” and
many other writers have been content to
accept Heaton’s statement unquestioningly.
Writing on the history of Ryde in 1914
Walter Hibble said he had been told by old
residents of trees growing to an enormous
size in “the parson’s orangery.’ Unfor-
tunately for this yarn, the parson never had
a grant of land at or near Ryde. But he
had a grant at what is now Canterbury, and
there he grew not only oranges, but grapes,
nectarines, peaches and apricots. He re-
BROWM (inquiring after friend’s family):
“And how’s young Eric? He’s the
doctor-fellow, isn’t he?”
SMITH: “Oh, Eric’s getting on wonderfully
well. He can already cure VERY little
children.”
turned to England in 1802, having made a
considerable fortune out of his fruit-growing.
•‘The first orange-trees to bear in Australia
were grown near where the Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office now stands, in Sydney, by the
Rev. R. Johnson,” who then occupied a resi-
dence there. This statement was made by
the Quarterly Journal, of 1828, and is
corroborated by Dean Cowper’s “Reminis-
cences.”
“Kriz”: Not since the darkest days of the
war has the Broome (W.A.) pearler been
so near broke. Many one-lugger men were
forced out last year by the poor price for
shell and the big “lay” for divers, and it seems
as if companies will soon take the place of
individual owners. The latest move -of the
Pearlers’ Association may mend the situation
a bit. It is proposed to form a pool to be
operated in Broome, where all the shell will
be classed, packed and exported. The pool,
which will be the means of turning the
industry from a gamble to a business, will
control the output of shell. Another scheme
is to reduce the wages of lugger crews. All
pearlers agree that the man who risks his
life to win shell is entitled to liberal wages
and “lay,” but when the crew without such
special risks starts demanding higher wages
every year pearlers must take a stand. An
agreement has been signed by 99 per cent,
of the pearlers whereby they agree to pay
certain just wages, so that instead of pearlers
keeping going merely for the benefit of their
crew, they will get a profitable return on
outlay. These far-reaching changes in wages
will operate next season, when re-signing
time comes along. Pearlers have unani-
mously decided that, sooner than keep going
at a loss, they will lay up their boats.


'll
/' i
\
* \
r
j*
£
1
e
Rubber cases and jars used in
Willard Batteries are tested elec-
trically— at 18,000 volts. Only
perfect cases and jars can pass
this test.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
ewrtyuiop[]
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A.


ewrtyuiop[]
The
New
Mexican’
Riding
Boot
Our own Patent.
Has two-fold Strap
Buckle Tops. Fits
anv size instep. Gus-
setted sides prevent
sand or grass seeds
entering Boot.
Standard screwed
Soles. Black or Tan.
Mention size.
29/6
Pair
Mail to Desk
“SB”
PIKE
brothers ltd.
In Queen St., Brisbane
X
the Scarlet Tanagtf
1
Rivals the beauty of
I'Kihu
ntrn
Rich Black and
Qold or Black-
tipped Lacquer-
red Barrel
handsome to
own, hard to
mislay.
The Non-Stop
Writer
With the
25-Year Point
—a point guaranteed, if
not misused, for 25 years
and good for fifty
111 cjII
ifttosdho
fasft wd
"DARKER Duofold is the
■*“ pen you can lend with-
out fear, for its point yields
to any style of writing, yet
retains its original shape.
Only the Parker has the
Duofold Point a point
that gives you both life-long
endurance and highest
writing excellence. The skill
to combine these two in a
single point has made Parker
Duofold the largest selling
pen in the world regardless
of price. Sold by Stationers,
Booksellers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores where
pens are stocked.
Agents
SLADE, ALLAN 8 COMPANY
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
"Parker
Duofold
WITH UJCKY CURVE TEED 25 YEAR POINT
Duofold Jr. 25/- Lady Duofold 25/-
Intermediate size With ring for chatelaine
ewrtyuiop[]
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
H. Hart, Esq.;
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; w.
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the ? 6
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest a
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
m
Thirst-quenching, healthful drinks
- made in a moment!
Just fill the Sparklet
Syphon up to the red line
with cold water
4
4
Screw down the bulb and
shake while gas is being
admitted into the syphon
The soda water is ready
immediately for making
the most delicious fruit
drinks , squashes, etc.
/r T home, on the tennis court, at
(2/ jI picnics, ashore or afloat —with
a Sparklet Syphon and Bulbs
you can have delicious soda fountain
drinks anywhere, in unlimited quantities.
The Sparklet Syphon is easy to use.
It is strongly made—finished in electro-
plate. It produces the cheapest of all
aerated drinks —twelve large syphons
of soda water for 3/9.
SVPHONS & BULBS
“C” SYPHONS—the popular quart size—price 10/6 each
Bulbs 3/9 per box of twelve. ::: Country prices are higher owing So freight chargeU
Sparklet products are sold at all leading stores, chemists and hardware merchants Trade enquiries
to the Australian Agents, Commonwealth Oxygen and Accessories Ltd., Foy St., Balmain, tV.S.W.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particular!
of tliis Modeiii Invention. Light, cool and com
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS’ GUYATT & CO-J e st . 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuk.
if you have
Wool & Skins
w to Se "-
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
70 years of
Pipemaking
THE experience of generations of pipe makers is em-
bodied in the latest GBD pipe. From among the
faultless briars which bear the GBD Brand, the
GBD at 12/6 is the best pipe value obtainable. To dis-
tinguish it from the standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears
a small GBD disc, inlaid in the mouthpiece.
The real point of difference however in addition to the
flush silver mount lies in the specially selected grains;
year by year fewer of them are available.
Ask your tobacconist to show you a
yourself of the beauty of the briar,
dates from 1855 is unsurpassed.
few and convince
The quality which
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
52
'£
©
Shape No.
2/4404
A Court of Potty Sessions was opened at
Cawdor (N.S.W.) in 1825, Major H. C.
Antill being Police Magistrate and Coroner.
To-day, 100 years later, It. 11. Antill, J.P.,
as Coroner sits in his forefather’s chair.
It is now a quarter of a century since
Senator Staniforth Smith (W.A.) fulmin-
ated thus: “It will be a disgrace to our
nationhood if we appoint as High Commis-
sioner anyone not Australian-born.” Up to
the present the disgrace has been chronic.
“T. 0.1.” : The magnificent Fisher Library
of the Sydney University stands on leather —
the original 'benefactor, Thomas Fisher, was
a boot and shoe dealer in a large way in
Pitt-street, near King-street. But he had a
good deal of house property in Woolloomooloo
too.
Pewsey Vale (S.A.), the home of the
William Gilbert family from the State’s be-
ginning till 1923, has been cut up by the
Mcßrides, the recent owners. The 8700 acres
make over 20 holdings, and most of them
have been sold; but not the homestead, wool-
shed and wine-cellars—“P.V.” claret has long-
been locally famous.
Death has been busy among the Loane
family of late —three have gone west m a
month. The most picturesque of the trio
was Rowland, friend and co-toiler with Har-
graves of gold-finding fame. Son of Dr.
Loane, of Parramatta, he finished up on the
Turon in time to help shift Ah Fat out of
Lambing Flat. He was 87 at the end.
Noah’s record was broken by a Dubbo man,
John Smith, who has seen 101 years go by.
He kept out of the hands of the police right
up till a recent morning, when he was pre-
sented at court on a charge of plain drunk
The Bench was sympathetic, and discharged
him, but there are those who think three
cheers, a cash donation and a bottle of
whisky wouldn’t have been out of the way.
“Exile” : Buying and selling of hotels in
Melbourne is a lively trade just now. One
hotel-broker reports selling 17 city and lo
country pubs for a total of £500,P ( 0, city
houses averaging £22,931 each, and country
£7716. The highest price paid for a city
hotel was £41,750, and for two in the coun-
try £12,000 each was realised. All within
the last 12 months.
“Pick” : A man who wants watching when
there is a crush pushes in front of him a
suitcase or hamper. Usually he is regarded
by those he jostles as somebody hastening
to duty, especially if lie wears some semb-
lance of uniform, and is cheerfully suffered
to bore his way onward. But under the
receptacle that he uses ostensibly to force a
passage a hand is busily employed exploring
the pockets of the unwary.
“Ex-D.”: Nowadays the careful motorist
takes the precaution of having somewhere
about his car a private mark. Sometimes
when a car is stolen it is recovered in such
a changed condition that the real owner can-
not swear that it is his property. It is at
such times that a private mark, such as
initials cut in the metal in a place where
they are unlikely to be observed, come m
handy.
A padre who bore a striking resemblance
to the traditional notions of Francis of
Assisi was Maurice Kelly. The son of
Nugent Kelly, a Victorian parson, at first
he had no desire to wear his collar back
to front, and went to the Dookie (Vic.)
agricultural college to learn to be a farmer.
He was good at it, too, and became Dookie’s
gold-medallist. Then came the Great Scrap;
but prior to thatlvelly had turned his collar,
though he took it off in England to
join the Yorkshire Buffs. A taste of gas
invalided him to Australia, where he entered
an Anglican religious order at Goulburn.
T.B bowled a good Australian out in his
early forties.
“Mabyn”: All big firms know that cus-
tomers wear goods sent out on appro, and
then hand them back, and in most cases it
isn’t worth while to protest. But recently
one firm which received back a several-
guinea hat considerably crushed made a
fuss, particularly as some of the firm’s em-
ployees had noticed that lid in a tight scrim-
mage at Randwick. But the appro, mania
isn’t confined to clothes and hats. The
wonderful mechanical toys that passed
the afternoon so delightfully at a recent
children’s party were returned next day. One
firm did jib, though, about taking back a
pram which was returned with a damaged
wheel. It had been used to convey an infant
to a family gathering, and had had an acci-
dent getting home. The parents reluctantly
paid up.
WEATHER PERMITTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie present Federal programme contemplates a
short session in February, a very brief sitting at
the opening ceremonies at Canberra in May, and a
business session when the weather improves about
next August or September.”
In August or September
It may be you will see
On Canberra each member
Move with alacrity.
And like birds of a feather
They’ll mingle there together....
But only if the weather
Improves sufficiently.
As statesmen staid and sober
This question they’ll decide;
So it may be October
lire they commence their ride.
For if the grey clouds close in
You will not see our chosen
Wet through and damn-near frozen
By swift Molonglo’s side.
They are- not built for seizing
The tide while it’s at flood,
hi or will you hear them sneezing
Or coughing in the mud.
But danger bravely spurning
They’ll keep the home fires burning
Until the spring returning
Has taught the twigs to bud.
And though dissatisfaction
Its mean appearance makes,
Their masterly inaction
My admiration wakes.
Their taste discriminating
I’ve long been emulating
For I—l too am waiting
Until the weather breaks.
W. A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra— V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87931 - IS. Bridge Street, Sydney.
MHSBTNE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Moder., Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Pylon Bay, 350 miles north ot Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA-—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
duo Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, J/TD,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co.. Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
1 he Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mauk Siieldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
C7rie/ Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HFAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney'.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS Z
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS /;
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected on all classes ot
—————— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks oa Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per clay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
The Manages.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 tons disp. NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ DEC. 2, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ „ DEC. 16, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 „ „ DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
♦New Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usin"
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
.--•W
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER BINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
{Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weelcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain- S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
ill 11(1111 ■ Sails December 28 and six-weekly thereafter.
fdan/1?- s s “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Vjv 1 v III V II Idltlliud i Sails December 22 and six-weekly thereafter.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ewrtyuiop[]
ewrtyuiop[]
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
iu.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tTliemistocles 11,500 tons November 22
* Ulysses. .. . 14,626 „ December 7.
sSuevic 12,500 „ December 11.
*Anchises. . . 10,000 „ December 18
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
|“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
lilackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish' Shire ‘ Line
(TurnbuH, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line S-in
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union ss nV
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parke?*
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine) Mel
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Port
Addaide Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane Ma??-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen. J
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1819,
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull.
Robert W. Gillespie
Esq.,
Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
General Manager; OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street Fro'
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand Fiii Panni t«i '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. na ' * iji, i apua and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Enreio-n Rni„ j
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world! negotiated
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParltcrL!M>
Magnificent
Past Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports ami vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa ns per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers,
lor full particulars apply HUDUAItT PARKER LIMITED,
Codins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BAURABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINIS .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
808 DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write u« and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbeisome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use, . It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queer} Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


ifttl
Cjreat battles are
first won on paper.
Is your tomorrow's plan
of action carefully
thought out? Is every
move on record ?
Better not trust it t*
memory.
Put it on Paper!
V V
Success waits on the man
who keeps in line with
his thinking, that first
friend of an active brain
EVERSHARP
the name is on the pencil
Made in styles and at
prices to suit all tastes
and all purses
V,
a r
art
por sale at leading shops
everywhere
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for
Australia
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
people have
confidence in ENO
Our greatest asset is the public's confidence
in ENO’s “Fruit Salt” To try other lax-
atives is to discover anew how much better
ENO is—pleasanter, gentler, safer, surer.
ENO acts in an entirely natural way to
keep you clean within. It contains ncth-
ing to harm you —no purgative mineral
salts, no sugar, no flavouring matter.
Doctors know how fine ENO is for the
many ailments that arise from intent nal
sluggishness, they use it and prescribe it.
Sales Agents : The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co.
Ltd,. Sydney N.S.W.
The words ‘*Fruit Salt and
ENO. and the label shown on
the package, are registered
trade marks■
Si
n
e
2S>
as
<s
'»
\
ms
>HO^-°
I**-
®v*>
c.cjM®.'** l :
»
\*N X
-rVv-^W
St
v> v
4'
«i*\.v«.
*
*
*V^ V
&
I
2^i
s Voice
His Master
Records
=s^
1926
mber
fe
Selections from
December Supplement
Released November 19.
From such a wonderful list of beautiful records you will find
musical excellence of the highest standard. Every item is a gem
emphasising the supremacy of “His Master s Voice.
Ask your dealer for a copy or write us direct.
Greatest Artists—New Electrical Recording—Silent Surface.
MARCEL JOURNET (Bass)—l2in. Red.
DB 921—“ II Barbiere di Siviglia’ —La Calunma e un
Ventieello (Slander Is a Whispering Zephyr)
(In Italian.) Rossini
“Faust” —-Vous qui faites l’endormie (While You
Play at Sleeping). (In French.) Gounod
THE REVELLERS (Male Voice Quartet) —lOin. Plum
B. Dinah Harry Akst
I’m Gonna Charleston Back to Charleston.
L. Handman
C. WHIT AKER-WILSON (Grand Organ)—l2in. Plum.
C. Largo Handel
GATTY SELLARS (Grand Organ)—
The Lost Chord Sullivan
LEONARD GOWINGS (Tenor) —lOin. Plum. . .
8.2300 —Songs My Mother Taught Me Diorak
So Fair a Flower Ix>hr
HOWARD JACOBS (Saxophone)— lOin. Plum.
8.2302 —Chaconne, Op. 62 Durand
HOWARD JACOBS (Saxophone) with pianoforte
accompaniment played by Carrol Gibbons -
Berceuse de Jocelyn Godard
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black. .
D 1088 —“The Valkyrie”—The Ride of the 1 alkynes.
Wagner
“The Rhinegold” Prelude Wagner
ARTHUR DE GREEF (Piano)— 12in. Black
D. —Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 12, Parts I and . H
ROYAL ALBERT HALL ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black
D.llO2 —Pomp and Circumstance March (No.
1 in D)
Edward Elgar
Pomp and Circumstance March (No. 2 in A Minor)
Edward Elgar
SIR HARRY LAUDER (Humorous) —12i
D.IIO0 —It’s Nicer to Be in Bed .
I’ve Loved Her Ever
n. Black.
H. Lauder
Since She Was a Baby
H. Lauder
HARRY DEARTH (Bass) —lOin. Black.
E. 429 —Ben Backstay
Dorothv’s a Buxom Lass .
Arr, Howard Carr
Arr. Howard Carr
OLIVE KLTNE & ELSIE BAKER—IOin. Plum.
EA.45 —Whispering Hope
Abide AVith Me
Hawthorne
Lyte-Monk
10/6
4/-
6/-
4/-
4/-
8/-
'B/-
8/-
8/-
5/6
4/-
Marvellous
CHALIAPIN
Records
(with orchestral accompani-
ment conducted by Vincenzo
Bellazza).
Recorded during the actual
performance at the Royal
Opera House. Covent Garden,
31st May, 1926.
For the first time in history
commercial records were made
during the actual performance
of Opera in the presence of a
great audience. The protago-
nist was the greatest of all
“Mefistofele” —Theodor Chalia-
pin—and this was his first
appearance at the Royal Opera
House, Covent Garden. Thus,
there will be found in these
records the artist’s singing
under the magnetic influence
of an audience.
12in. Double-sided Red Label,
10/6.
DB.94o—Prologue —Ist Record.
Chorus and Orchestra
Ave Signor! 2nd
Record.
Theodor Chaliapin
12 in. Double-sided Black Label,
8 /-
ED.l —Prologue—3rd Record.
Chorus and Orchestra
Prologue—4th Record.
Chorus and Orchestra
12iu. Double-sided Red Label,
10/6.
D 8.942 —“Mefistofele” —Son lo
spirito che nega.
Theodor Chaliapin
“Mefistofele” —Ridda
e fuga infemale (In-
fernal Orgy). (With
Chorus).
Theodor Chaliapin
SALON ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum. , ..
8.2169 —Nola F - Arndt
The Glow-worm Idyll P- Lincke
AMELITA GALLI-CURCI (Soprano)— 12in. Red.
DB.927—“Hamlet” Mad Scene—First Part Thomas
“Hamlet” Mad Scene —Second Part Thomas
WILHELM BACKHAUS (Pianoforte)—l2in. Red.
D 8.926 —Liebestraum, No. 3 Liszt
Naila Waltz Delibes-Dohnanyi
KIRILLOFF’S BALALAIKA ORCHESTRA—IOin. Plum.
EA.48 —Song of the Volga Boatmen.
Shining Moon (Russian Folk Song).
JACK SMITH (Whispering Baritone) —lOin. Plum.
EA.S9 —Poor Papa.
Don’t Be a Fool —You Fool.
HAPPINESS BOYS—lOin. Plum.
EA.S0 —The Village Blacksmith Owns the Village Now
IVhat! No Women?
INTERNATIONAL NOVELTY ORCHESTRA —lOin. Plum.
E A. 5s —Fox-trot.
Pretty Little Baby—Fox-trot.
GEORGE OLSEN AND HIS MUSIC —lOin. Plum.
EA.S5 —She Was Just a Sailor’s Sweetheart —Fox-trot
TED WEEMS AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
The Day That I Met You —Fox-trot.
IIE GROOT & THE PICCADILLY ORCHESTRA —lOin. Plum.
8.2298 —The Blue Danube —Waltz Strauss
Vienna 8100d —Waltz Strauss
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and
with name of nearest dealer sent free on request.
4/-
10/0
10/6
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
Records
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice,”
Registered Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,”
Registered Trade-mark.
“His Master's Voice"


k.
I
“Plaza Tooth
Paste is un-
doubtedly tli e
best for the teeth,
that 1 have ever
eo m e across.
It not only
cleanses, but it
makes the teeth
pearly. -4 s a
preservative i t
has no rival on
the marked.”
Miss WINNIE
T RE VAIL,
'/// Premier St.,
M arrickville,
N.B.W.
Plaza
Tooth Paste—
Made with Milk of Magnesia—
a Dental Luxury!
Larae Tubes, 1(6.
1..:'"
r
m
mm p'v ■
DADDY 5
HOME !
m
m*m
i'
*ss&&■
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
I’ost Free to any address in
Australia.
£jfu>St Hiliui
162-166 Pitt Street; also
Corner George & King Streets,
Sydney.
The Dream Breaker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BECAUSE the day was chaste and
mild—
A day when every Jeaf was still—
And tenderly the soft sun smiled
Through silver mists across the hill
I sought the places where my feet
Had wandered far with things that seem;
And memory with fingers sweet
Touched every, scented page of dream.
Far from the prison wall the days
Build up to close the small life in,
I wandered through the happy maze
Of flowers that neither toil nor spin,
Nor feel the wind, nor kiss the dew,
Nor fade with summer from the land —
Old flowers a gracious fancy grew
To richly hide the gardener’s hand.
In Arcady, o’er velvet lawns,
Great trees with limbs of arching brown
Are sweetened through ton thousand dawns
By violet shadows creeping down
To shepherd music faintly blown.
The reeds were at my magic lip
And all the ancient w T oods had known
In wine of sound I seemed to sip.
Now in a columned place apart,
Lit by a bold Egyptian sun,
1 heard papyrus whispers start
From brown rolls opened one by one
la search of truth’s most ancient keys.
Strange worlds were round me as 1 read
The book of life upon my knees
That told of the forgotten dead.
Horns blew along the Severn bank
Beyond the hills of yellowing corn.
The high-wheeled cars in even rank
Went clattering up the early morn;
Sun glinted on the harness gold.
I saw young Caradoc go by;
His steeds that scarce a rein could hold
Were like blown fire against the sky!
The Golden Hind is home to-day.
Float down from Richmond, shapely barge !
Slim-waisted girls, in plumage gay.
Know that the world that seemed so large
Is narrowed to a silver ring
Before the roving will of Drake.
Tune up, musicians! One must sing
This still, green waterway awake!
But I was in a lane of Kent
In fair spring days, when Anne was queen,
And over me the low trees bent
Branches of bloom and tender green,
When.... roaring through the spacious sky—
Most real of all real things—
I saw the man-made wonder fly,
Conquering the continents with wings!
N.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
“Once Upon a Time.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f I HE lazy father of the industrious Cleg-
liorn family had put his indolence to
use—he had re-discovered his “nerfs.”
The store account was swollen by purchases
of nerve tonics and Toodey’s Elixir; and
Denny Deneen, reading his literature of the
day-book and the ledger, smiled bitterly as
he recognised the hopelessness of Cleghorn
senior.
In Jimmy Cleghorn and ‘his sister Milly
the father’s laziness had snapped the last
thread of affection; they ministered to him
now only for duty. So that when Cleghorn
discovered that he must go to Brisbane for
medical advice on his mysterious disease,
they not only consented quickly, but sped
him on his way, though that included giving
him the last few pounds in the bank for his
fare and occasions. He wrote home once in
tjie first month of absence, and thereafter
was silent for two. At the end of that time
.Timmy discovered that his highly-disre-
spected father had drawn the farm account
with the city commission agent into debit.
Jimmy said “Damn him,” and went back
to work his head lower than his 25 years
provided for. But he did not tell Milly; and
in the afternoon he rode to town and told
Denny Deneen that the store account would
have to stand over.
“Ah, Jimmy,” said he, “ye’ll never learn
sense! Bad childer I’ve known atin’ the
fathers and the mothers to the bone; an’
bad fathers and mothers I’ve known atin'
their children and suckin’ their blood. There’s
good people in the worrld. ask nothin’ and
are asked little; an’ then there’s good givers,
an’ where there’s one good, warm-hearted
giver there’s ten cold-blooded takers, always
with the beggar’s hand out in front of them
an’ always with a mouthful of ‘gimme.’ Your
father is a hawk, Jimmy, atin’ you an’ Milly
and swoopin’ to take the bread out of the
mouths of childer.”
“He’s my father, Mister Deneen.”
“ ’Tis the only good thing he ever did, and
it was accident; and he didn’t know it then.
Why, luk at ye, a fine felly uv twinty-five
an’ no wife to you !”
“Must stick to the kids.”
“Ay! Shtick to the kids, but let them
be your own.”
“Two of the boys will soon leave school.”
“And ye left school whin? At fourteen or
so? Up to a lamb’s knee ; no more were ye.
’Tis married ye should be and find yourself.
Marriage is a great inshtitution, even if ye
fight like brothers over a rich father’s will
later on. For Nature will have it so—-’tis
marriage takes away the restlessness of
youth, and gives him a taste in the mout’
beyond ashes and drouth. Marriage, even if
it only lasts a year—’tis part of a man’s
schoolin’, no less. And Tanny Morell
waitin’; but she can’t wait for long.”
“Why?”
“Nature won’t have it —there’ll be another
man inquirin’ of her. She loves her poor
ould lad in the granite, but Nature will have
her way, an’ soon Tanny will lishten to her
frien’s that call her a fool for wastin’ a year
uv Sundays for you, an’ she’ll get hot and
call them liars, and be glad in her heart
they’ve told her just what Nature is tryin’
to make her think.”
“What can I do? The old man and Milly
and the kids?”
“If you did your duty maybe you’d show
Milly her duty to herself and Bringalily.
An’ you might shtartle that ould loafer (no
offince, as lie is your father) into dacincy.
If he saw you gone, maybe he’d turn to
and work for the kids ; but never while the
ould cuckoo can find ’nightingales to teed
his misfortunate young. God send they
haven't his dirty loafin’ nature, the ould
buzzard!” ,
“It’s all right, Mr. Deneen —I 11 think
over it.”
“Do you that, and don’t worry about the
bill —or money help either.”
“I wouldn’t do that, Mr. Deneen. bo
long!”
“So long, Jimmy—an remember you re
notgivin’ mairely work to another man s
duty; you’re givin’ yout’ an’ happiness; an
Tanny Morell, be the hokey, too!"
Jimmy sought Bringalily.
“It's cruel, Jim,” said he. “My orchard is
coming to bearing; and I’ve got the paper
and thought all my troubles would be over ;
but how could they be when I see Milly
slaving there day in and day out?"
“And the orchard in your father’s name:
said Bringalily. “And you've made it, every
inch and every tree! Go out and get a
place of your own before you're too old. And
then go to Toowoomba and bring back Tanny
even if it’s only to a bark hut.”
“I couldn’t do that; and that wouldnt
bring Milly any nearer to you. Bill. Milly's
like mother was—-made a bad bargain and
sticks to it, and cuts it out stiff-lipped to
Dead Finish. If we had money we could
put the bigger kids to boarding-school and
keep the little chaps. But it’s no good
dreaming, Bill, though it listens well.^
Jimmy did think of it, and thought of it
more when a week later came a letter from
his father to send £4O, to borrow it some-
where, but in any case to send it, as Cleg'-
liorn, senior, must have it or die. Shame-
facedly, Jimmy took the letter to Denny
Deneen. . ~
“I’m ashamed of myself and of him, too,
said Jim. “But you’re the only man I
know.” „
“Maybe it’s the best thing we can do,
said Denny. “Send him the money and let
him have one great burst on a 400-gallon
tank full of Toodey’s Elixir.”
“All right, Mr. Deneen, even if I know
lie’ll waste it, I must send it. I’ll be respon-
sible.”
“Ye will not. I’ll put it on the bill, money
advanced at his request; and I’ll keep his
letter for me warrant; an’ then I’ll have
shecurity on the place ye made, and that s
in his name, if I have to get judgmint ag in
him.”
“That’s fair ; thank yon, Mr. Deneen.
“Shoftly ! Shoftly ! Only on wan condi-
tion. That the advance is £5O, an’ that ye
take £lO uv it, an’ two-t’ree days off to see
Tanny Morell, an’ give her heart, ag’in the
time her people and her friends will tell her
she’s a fool for shtickin’ to Jimmy-in-the-
Granite.” , ,
“But I couldn’t go : there’s Milly and the
place.”
“Whist! Didn’t I see the light m your
eye when I said ‘Tanny Morell’? Aise your
conscience be takin’ Milly a little washin
frock, and a ribbon to be gay for Bringalily ;
an’ let the farm account take care of that,
too ; an’ ye.’ll wire Tanny ye’re on your way.
An’ show yourself prosperous by travellin
fhurrst-class, so she can see you when you
get to Toowoomba. An’ if you thank me
ag’in, Jimmy, I’ll —I’ll go wit’ you and
slipark Tanny meself.”
So the absent egoist got the £4O to assuage
his new attack of “nerfs” ; and Jimmy de-
parted to visit Tanny Morell.
But his conscience would not permit him
to carry out all of Deneen’s programme. He
carried the washing frock and ribbons to
Milly; and then he took stock of his own
suit, and saw that it was good enough; and
then he insisted on leaving three of the ten
pounds with Milly for herself and the child-
ren. He squared that by travelling first-
class only to the first station beyond Quart-
pot, but thence to Toowoomba he travelled
second. Love is love, and money is money,
and he had plenty of love and little money.
Anyhow, he did not know anything of the
journey, for his mind distanced the train,
and he flew to Tanny and Toowoomba.
All that Tanny told him increased Jimmy’s
respect for the Deneen judgment.
There were already friends saying “Fool
to wait for Jimmy-in-tlie-Granite”; and
there was a new man-visitor at the Morell
household, hanging up his hat to Tanny.
Jimmy returned to Quartpot with his head
held higher, and at once interviewed Denny,
Quartpot’s king.
“You were right, Mister Deneen. I ve got
to do something quick—get a place of my
own, no matter how small the beginnings,
Tanny says.”
“All the work ye’ve done at your farm is
your father’s. Now I back you. Find a
place to hack out of the granite and the
pine-threes for yourself. Find the place. 111
find the money.”
. “It will be hard on Milly.”
“ ’Twill be good for Milly—’twill bring
her Bringalily. Oh, Uncle’s not the only
poet in the Granite. Get Bringalily to help
you find a place.”
But it was not for a week that they found
a place—3oo acres of poor pasture and
poorer agricultural land, on a wide and
sprawling creek whose flats and beaches had
been turned over by alluvial miners in the
hunt for tin. Their work stood as gashes
where the later tin-dredge had not _ covered
them with tailings. Over that again were
the spread drifts of many floods; but on the
slopes to the creek there was a neglected
orchard, not too far gone but that the genius
of hard work could recover it.
“It looks good enough, Mr. Deneen. But
I won’t risk vour money till I'm sure.”
“You’re right, Jimmy, and there’s another
place offered up in Granite Valley, four mile
from this one. An’ this felly that owns it
is just another shifty man like the little
city scut owns the place ye looked at. So
I’ve got an option for a month on each of
them,” paid a pound each deposit.”
* * * *
At dawn Jimmy rode to Bringalily’s place
and found Bringalily standing at the slip-
rails. They mounted, and they rode between
gums in the sandy granite soil, and then past
pine-trees where the granite still lived.
“Glad you’re getting a place of your own.
Jim.”
(Continued on next page.)


“I had begun to think there was no hope
of a cure,” says Mr. t. d. kyle.
80 years of age, yet ZAM-BUK brings relief from
Severe Eczema of 30 years’ standing.
This letter, from a well-known identity
of the Newcastle (N.S.W.) district, demon-
strates once more the wonderful healing
power of Zam-Buk. It is one of many
thousands received from all parts of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, proving beyond
doubt that Zam-Buk is recognised as
“The One All-Round Healer and Skin
Cure.”
Writing from “Cathay,” Belmont Road,
Charlestown, Mr. Thos. D. Kyle says:—
“I have great pleasure in relating my
experience of Zam-Buk, which is rather
remarkable seeing that I am now 80 years
of age.
“For the last 30 years 1 have suffered
from an acute form of eczema, which broke
out repeatedly in the same place on my left
leg, from the instep nearly up the knee.
“During this time I have spent a small
fortune on ointments, dressings and liquid
medicines, but it has all been wasted. In
addition I have stayed three months in a
hospital, but this also did me no good.
“Owing to my age I had begun to think
that there was no hope of a cure, but event-
ually I tried Zam-Buk, having just read of
a similar cure in one of the Newcastle papers.
I decided to try the complete Zam-Buk treat-
ment, buying in addition to the balm the
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, and I carefully
followed the directions given.
“It was a hard fight for a month, then
I began to see an improvement. Continued
treatment eventually healed up the old sores
completely, and to my great relief and
delight new skin grew over the place. 1
have hesitated about letting you know of
this, as I w'anted to be quite sure that the
cure was lasting, but I have no doubt at all
now as it is seven months since the place
healed, and for the first time in over 30
years I am rid of this awful complaint.
Mr. Thos. D. Kyle.
“The frightful irritation, the money
wasted and the inconvenience I had to
contend with might all have been saved
had I given your combined treatment a
good trial earlier. It is entirely for the
benefit of sufferers from a similar com-
plaint that I give you full permission to
make use of this statement.”
-Buk
Medicinal Soap. 1/- per tablet.
HEALING BALM &
MEDICINAL SOAP
“I promised Tanny I would; but slie
knows I can’t leave Milly till she makes a
break, too.”
They splashed through a creek of running
crystal, twinkling over its riffles in the
living rock, and then through coarse granite
sand, the horses’ feet making a pleasant
noise, as of ladies walking in silk. Beside
them the solemn gums, their side-hung leaves
sun-gilded, the Noah’s Ark pine-trees, and
in every tenth pine a magpie; and before
them the great! mountains of granite,
weathered, as granite ever does, into curves,
bold, rounded masses, boulders of a hundred
tons, and tors of a thousand; and at the
greatest height above the valley a bald rock
worn into a curved precipice and weathering
off its skins like a peeled onion ; but, in this
case, the onion was six hundred feet high
and half a mile long. And the onion peel-
ings were six feet thick.
They drew rein, for the scene was too
majestic to gallop in.
“Must have taken a few million years to
weather the mountains like this, Jim. And
what streams they must have been to move
these boulders as if they were sand!”
“It isn’t the water does it all, Bill.
There’s chemical action something like
sweating going on in the rocks —and then
water. Tin doesn’t travel far- —not here,
anyhow. You see, Bill, granite is only two-
and-a-half times heavier than water, but
tin is seven times heavier. So the water
would take away the sand and leave the
tin.”
“Pity it didn’t leave some for us. Tin’s
up.”
“Well, the chaps who found it rich are
nearly all dead, and we’re alive and on good
horses —and the day’s bonzer.”
After two hours they summed it up and
turned it down. “Too much clearing, too
many big rocks, and no roads; and the other
place is flatter and nearer transport.”
By ten o’clock they had breakfasted and
were on the wide and sprawling creek whose
course and banks had been turned over by
diggers and whose tailings had been re-treated
by dredges and turned again. The creek
described a long, flattened “S” through the
land, but the gently-rising ground on either
side showed no boulders ; clearing would be
light. Its soil was as good as Cleghorn’s
for fruit and catch-crops, and as they
travelled the mates came to a flat of fifty
acres or so covered with spoil, and a pool
at its western end held by a granite bar.
“Not too bad, Jim.”
Bringalily repeated the Australian form
of warm commendation, and saw that
Jimmy’s thoughts were far away.
“What’s the matter, Jim?”
“Thinking.”
“What about?”
“Nothing much. Just thinking that when
there was tin here that granite bar would
have held a lot this side.”
“But it’s all gone.”
“Yes; the old hands would see that bar
and get a search-warrant for everything.”
“And then the dredge.”
“I don’t think the old stuff was dredged
over again. That stuff we thought was
dredge-spoil is spread too even, and I think
most of it was spread by floods.”
“What would that mean?”
“Why, that the spoil came from farther
up, and the old diggings are below."
“Let’s have a look at it, then.’
They circled the flat, with sticks scraping
back the soil where it was thinnest, and in
a dozen places they uncovered the over-
burden that covered wash.
“We can do nothing without shovels and
a dish. Let’s go back to Mr. Deneen and
get its history.”
Denny Deneen knew the history of the
block only by hearsay.
“ ’Twas on the rich run of the ould wash ;
and I think the ould hands put that flat
through a sieve. Go ye to the Mines Office
and get its history from Aloysius McShane.
The mates came back to Deneen with a
glorious story of a great Has Been the
fragmentary records of its time showed that
the creek had been very rich for three miles
above the farm offered to Jimmy, and not
so rich for four miles below the granite bar.
With prospecting equipment the mates,
directed by Denny, whose local tin-dredging
knowledge was just the thing they lacked,
holed through the spoil and washed the
results of a dozen trial bores. The average
of tin content was three pounds to the cubic
yard.
“An’ half a million yards she is —maybe
t’ree-quarters.”
“I’ll cut the pegs.”
“Ye’ll want no pegs, Jimmy. ’Tis an
ould mineral freehold wit’ the tin reserved
to the holder; and thank God he. was a
greedy man an’ wouldn’t work it since the
diggers left, an’ wouldn’t let any others work
it, and then died and left it to another
greedy man who never see it and wouldn’t
know' tin unless it shurrounded sardines. No
peggin’, Jimmy! exercliise the option, an’
it’s yours!”
“And Bringalily’s.”
“That’s right, then.”
“And yours, Mr. Deneen.”
“I’ve got an ould dredge killin’ time on
twice-worked ground. I’ll bring the dredge
for me share.”
“I’m off to town.”
“To the posht office to write to Tanny
Morell?”
“You’ve said it. You coming, Bill?”
“Well —y’ see,” said Bringalily slowly, “I
thought of going home.”
“To tell the tale to Milly, Bringalily, was
it, then?”
“Partly right, Mister Deneen.”
So, for that night at least, the Golden Age
returned to them through the precious and
more useful medium of tin.
Two days later, the option exercised and
the dredge dismantling, Jimmy Cleghorn had
a letter from Toowoomba, wherein Tanny
Morell had written: “it’s so wonderful to
happen just when we wanted it that it sounds
like a fairy story—you know the kind that
began ‘Once upon a time.’ ”
That night Mickey Cleghorn brought to
Jimmy Cleghorn a news cutting that told
them that romance was active for others
than himself. But it made Jimmy Cleghorn
ashamed, because it said that his father lied
robustly:—
An interesting wedding was solemnised at the
Baptist Church, Wvnnum, yesterday, the bride being
Mrs. J. Hauberk, widow of the late James Hauberk. -
of Cooparoo, and the bridegroom Mr. James Cleg-
horn, senior, a well-known and most successful farmer
and pioneer of the Granite Mountain district. After
the honeymoon the happy pair will reside on Mr.
Cleghorn’s country estate.
He showed it to Denny Deneen.
“Never you mind, Jimmy, me lad. ’Tis well
for you; and what's the new poor womans
loss is Milly's gain. That’s what he wanted
the forty pound for—to have his life an’ kill
a widder. An’ he told the reporther man he
was a successful farmer an’ a pioneer! That's
proof that his ‘nerfs’ are right agin. Maybe
the new slitepmother will not be a complica-
tion to you—meself, I think she comes as
welkim as the Relief of Lucknow. Go you,
and break the glad news to Milly!”
So persuaded that no new cloud ascended
the sky, Jimmy rode back to the orchard in
the granite, thinking of the tin in the creek
on his new holding, and of the future un-
attended by the wolves of poverty; but
mostly of Tanny Morell, and of her placing
of their chronology in the period known to
the fairies as “Once upon a time.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Bill Jewett’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 'Y7CT E ’ VE got a r( ‘K' lar beauty next
\/ \ door, Mum,” said the warder of
* ’ the gaol one Sunday, as if he
were describing an interesting specimen of
natural history. “He’s in for burglary. Got
seven years. Jewett’s his name.”
Mrs. Potter, a staunch member of the Pri-
soners’ Aid Society, found that Bill Jewett
was a tough-looking customer, but that did
not disconcert her at all. She knew how to
manage men, and she soon had Bill telling
her his story.
“I got what you’d call a knock, Mum,”
he said, “a dirty, ’ard left-’ander. Every-
tliink looked rosy at the time. I ’adn’t bin
in gaol for more’n year, and I’d built up a
tidy little business in burglin’. If t hi tigs
’ad kep’ on right I’d ’ave taken on an appren-
tice, but those ’appy dreams was soon to be
tore up by the roots.”
Bill sighed deeply and brushed a rough
hand across his eyes.
“Livin’ down our way was an old bloke
named Muldoone. ’E said as ’e ’ad once
been to a university until ’e was kicked out
for pinehin’. ’E was a respectable ol’ gentle-
man, an’ we got to like ’im. F'or a time ’e
contented ’imself makin’ brummy two-bobs;
and it’s a pity ’e didn’t keep at it. But later
on ’e said that science was callin’ ’im ; an’
we ’ardly saw any think of ’im for six
months. We knoo ’e was tryin’ to invent
somethink, and we was all wonderin’ what
it was. In the end ’e come to me and said
’e ’ad made a wunnerful discovery. ’E’d
found out a way to do away with sound
not altogether, mind; but e could delay it
for an ’ell of a time, beggin’ your pardon.
“We all made fun of ’im, and said e was
o-oin’ off ’is onion. ’E said e d show us
what a lot of fools we was. To prove it e
brought over ’is ‘silencer’ ’an set it goni in
my kitchin. Then e took a plate and
smashed it, and busted a chair, an Dumped
up an’ down in the room, but we didn t ear
nothink ’E would 'ave gone on smasluu
all the rest of the furniture if my ol woman
’adn’t interfered with the broom We tried
to tell ’im ’is fortune was made, but we
couldn’t make a sound.
“Then blow me! ’Arf a nour later all
the noises burst out at once, an nearly
scared my ol' woman out of er wits.
“Now this ol’ bloke ’ad taken a partic’lar
fancy to me. an’ e said I was to live the
honor of tryin’ out ’is invention. I blushed
with pleasure when ’e said tins, for it was
always a weakness of mine to try to be
famous Besides, I didn’t see ’ow it could
do me any ’arm. So I took the silencer'
with me on me next little job.
“The very first winder I tried opened up
better'll a tin of sardines, so I stepped into
a passage, an’ got the machine goin. I
tlimi knoo I was safe, an I was tickled to
death knowin’ I could knock things about as
much as I liked without a sound bein’ ’card
till I was on me way ’omc to bed.
“I goes along the passage, explorin’ and
knockin’ over things. Oh, you ve got no
idea ’ow ’appy I was ! Me luck held good
all the time; for, strike me, if I didn’t come
across a bonza lot of silver spoons.
“But it was just 'ere me bad luck began.
A john seen me gettin’ through the winder,
so ’e whistles up a couple of ’is cobbers.
They fullered me in an’ sneaked along the
passage after me.
“There was me adminn the motters on
the spoons when they grabbed me; an’ they
’ad the bracelets on me before you could
whistle ‘God Save the King.’
“The garjint opened ’is mouth to say
somethink, an’ you ought to ’ave seen ’is
face when ’e found ’e couldn’t make a
bloomin’ sound. Them johns was so flabber-
gasted that they sat down to ’arf a bottle of
whisky to get their voices back. ”
Bill glanced at the warder to see how he
enjoyed the reflection on the force. But the
warder maintained a stony silence.
“Now. there was me flunkin' as ’ard as I
could all the time. Ol’ Muldoone ’ad made
me promise that if anyth ink ’appened I
wasn’t to let the ‘silencer’ be took along
with meself. So I watched me cliarnce, and
when they wasn’t lookin’ I brought me foot
down on the machine and squashed it.
“Now this is where the ’ard part of it
all came in; an’ I’m sure you’ll agree with
me, Mum, that it was enough to make a
ban gel grizzle. When the machine was
smashed, you know, it let out all the noises.
I ’eard meself climbin’ in through that
winder and knockin’ over all the furniture
in the passage. But worst of all, I ’eard
the johns sneakin’ after me, ’arf a bleedin’
hour after I ’ad been arrested!”
LEONARD C. MURRAY.


ewrtyuiop[]
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLAllSS & CIILKCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—*99 Queen Street, 'Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIPBR, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
21TCO
motor mower
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
ewrtyuiop[]
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and howling clubs, proprietors of estates of an a,gre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c.
It is fitted with a 23-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ACTO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture. .
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
prices. Full stocks on hand. ....
PRICES: — I4-in. cutters, £47/10/; 16in., £57/10/; 22m., £B2/10/; 30m. f
£llO each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Inspect at Stand No. 72 (Opposite Station Exits), Royal Show.
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL and BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Remington.
Model 17
ewrtyuiop[]
Repeating
Shotgun
ewrtyuiop[]
20 bore
5 shots
ALIGHT GUN makes wild fowl shooting doubly enjoyable.
This modern Remington weighs less than 6 pounds and its
smooth working action and hard hitting qualities are unequalled.
With 5 repeating shots it is fast and effective for duck, snipe and
all small game, particularly so when you shoot our 2-3/4 inch
case loaded with one ounce of shot.
If you prefer a 12 bore repeater —
ask for the Remington <s%Codel /0.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
-
ns
■
II
ewrtyuiop[]
Melbourne, Viet
woman
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty Is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
> Health suffers
? So does beauty
{ BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health.
X.
- \
• ; - <; i;. N
,
- • •
'
zm.m
" iM 's£mm ' $
\ , -•' ? >V .•
Worth a Guinea a Box.
Sold in Boxes, t/- and 2/6*
i
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW:—
Delivery, of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over £lO
(Carriage Paid Ev
Parcels Post to
destination, or. by
Steamer to port of
landing.
mm.
3W
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world.
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2 x 3 yards, at
33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- per dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, 22 x 24
inches, from 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen.
Gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Irish Linen
-'.'S
"V 17
>=»,
\
RO O KS
-y
UCE
ays-
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper—Ahi! What a
delightful bouquet; what
an appetising zest.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. asid 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children, ]/- and 6d
Buneheon I»y reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


si
f
m
w^'~.
“U :
£&!$& I
vVT \
>IT*
Bfc'M
<r&3*
t*
"S:
yIJL-ix*. »
ft
©J
i:>A
4
*
4r5
*&
•*• -v
m
t\
V
as
\% j.
/TV*^'
l\.+£‘
’•’V.
Sf
X
•t”A
*5
S +*?rf
that “Johnnie Walker” is
“Scotch,” but then there are
Johnnie Walker
ike certain—of
maturity and purity in every drop.
O
o
U\
t
Bottled only by ourselves in Bond, under
Government supervision, and guaranteed
the same quality throughout the world.
BORN 1820— STILL GOING STRONG!
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
